

McEWAN’S
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
R. G. WATKINS & CO..
10*7 Kent Street, Sydney, -
. —FOR—
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS* and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
4. ' ;
Over 2700 Hydro-lSxtraetors Sold and at work
WINE!
WINE l
WINE !
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST WiNE^>
AUSTRALIA.
S£T Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
85 Pitt Street
3ENTS
BROADBENTS
DIRECT
DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS,
machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying
Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE P
aomals and full particulars.
Laundried Goods, Sugar
STOCKED. Send foi
THORNE’S
I
That’s All!
NOW READY. NOW READY.
A POLICY FOR THECOMMONWEALTH.
A Reprint of articles from The Bulletin.
Price SX^E : »3E33XrOjES==I 3 »o3fco«aL, Sd..
Sole Wholesale Agents: EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
..t.
ft
liLg
sf
HOBART.
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WTMPOLR’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation iri Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
reserve extra. reserve special. reserve extra special. supreme.
SANDEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
24=1 FZTT STR3SBT, SYDKTEY.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising’ Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance-:(a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Pish (gives the definition of
vour character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed). .
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
dsf
H. L. HUTCHINSON Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWIGI & SON, LTD.,
11 *7 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches: —P- Frankel & Co., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.;
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
Co., Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E, Porter & Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
“Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
Fair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
* WILFLEY TABLE.
The Best Ore Concentrator in the World.
N. CUTHRIDCE LTD., Agents, 71 Clarence-st., Sydney; Melbourne, Fremantle and Kalgoorlle.
S. FREEMAN * SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES i
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN'S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNTABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
DARK TOBACCO.
THERE IS ONLY ONE BEST TOBACCO AND THAT TOBACCO IS
“WEALTH OF NATIONS”
Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business' entrusted to him.
Public and Watered for Banquets and
Private Bails Terms nable Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANC9NG FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
XSdiswan - Lamp.
sdf
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
the EDiii a s m
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch • 16 Carrington-street,
WYWYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Dppot—Central Buildin s Edward-st., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Vol. 22—No. 1098.]
[Saturday, March 2, 1901.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper. I


The Bulletin publications.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with. Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait ; ss.
post free. *** A charming presentation
volume.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dorhington (“ Alba Dorion ”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated ; price 4s. 6d. post free.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). With
about eighty illustrations by Mahony,
Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher and
Fullwood ; 6s. post-free. *** “ The jolliest
book yet printed in Australia.”
A Hose of Regret:
Verses by James Hebblhthwaite ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 9d. post free.
The Circling Hearths:
By Roderic Quinn.. No. 11l of The
Bulletin Booklets, Enveloped, Is. 9d.
post free. ’
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top ; 55.,
post free. %* Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. *** The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
The Golden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Verse, by Bulletin Writers ; Is. 3d.
post free.
Tales of the Convict System:
By “Price Warung.” Paper covers, 193
pp. ; 6d., post free.
The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp.; 6d. post
free.
itSTSupplied direct from The Bulletin Office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any
Australasian province), postal notes, or P. 0.0.
for amounts stated.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
Edwards, Dunlop & Op., Limited, Sydney and Brisbanb.
*
o
=
(0
1
<0
3
s
O
£
£.
&
CD
(0
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
'ivTiu&Vcu
=VevOV
mm
a
IN TINS, Is. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE.
Ausfertile?
SOME contributors write in reply to “ Onlys’ ”
article on this page (16/2/’l) :
That the greater portion of the Australian inte-
rior is drought-stricken cannot be denied, but who
is to say that it is useless ? Science has discovered many
ways of overcoming natural difficulties ; and to obtain
water from above or beneath is the task that confronts
the Australian of the future. The fact that the soil has
produced only mammals of the lowest orders shows
that Australia, left to herself, has remained at a primitive
evolutionary stage ; but it does not prove that a high
order of manhood, already produced in other circum-
stances, will not thrive under Australian conditions.
Trae that the national literature so far is largely pessi-
mistic in tone ; but is not our British stock pessimistic?
When confronted by the vast and awe-inspiring, is it not
natural to suppose that the pessimism contracted in a
chess-board country like England will be deepened here ?
Pessimism is not necessarily a sign of national decadence ;
on the contrary, it generally accompanies sturdiness of
character. The volatile Frenchman or Italian will not
always compare for strength of moral fibre with the
Englishman who “takes his pleasures sadly,” or with
the grim, dour Scotsman who thinks it almost a sin to
laugh.
The Imperialistic Jingo sentiment is no gauge of the
possibilities of Australian patriotism, nor is it the result
of the barrenness of our land ; for the Mgorilander, living
in a country thrice-blessed by Nature, has exceeded even
the Australian in his blatant Jingoism.
The backblocks man is not truly painted by “ Onlys.”
My experience convinces me that the Australian bush-
worker is the finest type of physical humanity that has
been seen within our shores. Take the average prospec-
tor, for instance. Often gigantic in stature, always wiry
and sinewy, these are better men than the average
of Britishers who visit these parts. Does the record of
Australian athleticism look like physical deterioration ?
The miserable selection, the bush-hut and the hollow-
cheeked woman, are incidentals of pioneering ; and the
ghastly sketches depicted by “Onlys” are only the
tragedies, not the real life of the bush. The “ bush-
whacker ” furnishes Bulletin readers with a lot of humour
every week, anyhow. When the resources of the in-
terior are scientifically exploited, an entirely different
set of conditions may prevail. The decreasing birth-
rate has nothing to do with Australian conditions ; for it
is yet more apparent in Maoriland, France, and other
countries, where the natural conditions conduce to rich
vitality. Increasing illegitimacy may point to a
laxity of social observance ; but is possibly in favour of a
high physical standard. What about the illegitimacy-
rate of Scotland, that land of brain and brawn ? Also,
the “ breathless desire to crowd into cities, heavy na-
tional debts, and the pitiful need for old age pensions,”
are purely the results of political and economic mis-
management.
The climate of Australia is mild rather than oppressive,
and in the hottest parts produces a race more wiry than
the British, if not so ruddy and fleshy. What Australia
wants is a statesman to decentralise population, to
grapple with the “ interior ” problem, and to finance
without running hopelessly into debt. — John A. Adey.
f jZ jZ
The pictures “Onlys” has so vividly painted are true
to the life —we who live in the west know how ghastly
true ; but has he rightly spelled out their meaning ? Last
month I rode out west to my work ; and early on a hot
Saturday morning came across tw r o old men “cradling”
in the bed of the Cudgegong at Yamble, They were
threescore, and probably ten too. Their canvas and
bark domicile was hard by. They wore patched
trousers and flannel shirts—and hats (?) and were pegging
patiently away—“knocking out just better than tucker”
they told me. “ Rain must come soon and wash down
payable.” And I noted the hopeful endurance of the
wrinkled toilers—a bush characteristic and a sign of
vitality.
This month, outside Dubbo, on a small selector’s block,
dry as the bone of the adage, and hard as the nether
millstone, I saw skinny, sinewy horses and a very anti-
quated plough. The owner was getting ready for rain !
and hoping for an improbable crop. Dogged, sanguine
persistence again !
The wives of these men ? Gaunt, haggard, hard-work-
ing ; but kindly, cheerful, sympathetic. Cooking, wash-
ing, mending all day for a dozen young hopefuls ; and,
often riding miles through lonely bush at night, to watch
by a dying neighbour’s bed.
The said young “hopefuls"? My daily labour lies
among them—and what find I ? Hardy, brainy, cheerful,
courteous youngsters—chockful of practical, everyday in-
formation ; with a due conception of the reality of life,
and a keen sense of its comicalities. Such the men and
women and children of Ausfertile. What is excellent in
them the very rigour of climate and sternness of struggle
have helped to develop. But need the struggle be for
ever so stern ? Cannot the adverse physiographieal con-
ditions be largely remedied? When Time and Necessity
have combined to bring sound political sense there will
be thought-out an extensive and practicable scheme for
conserving the more-than-sufficient rainfall of the Centre.
And imagination can easily picture the total and pleasant
alteration that would come of irrigated blacksoil. Surely
this change must in process of social evolution come
about.— Pialla.
JZ JZ
Are we knockkneed, in-breasted degenerates? This
jibe against the “ blawsted colonials ” is thirty years old
to my knowledge, and, hearing it, the mind leaps to the
corollary—the physical and moral magnificence of the
Briton. Yet Australians, man for man, have not shown
themselves inferior brutes when competing with born
and bred Britishers in the Boer war.
The assumption that enormously productive oountries,
lands which have only to be moved by prayer to blossom
with beneficence, turn out the finest races, physically
and mentally, is founded on fallacy. Proofs of the con-
trary date back to Eden. When Nature is too generous
man ceases to importune her; he hangs up the shovel
and the hoe, takes to luxurious living, and becomes an
unwholesome animal with weak hams and objectionable
vices. It is when man has to wrestle mightily with
Nature for his bread and fat, when he has to gouge a
perch for himself on the rocks or. out of the wilderness,
and-flghfe the old lady for every ooncession, that Nature
loves him best, and rewards him with a big head, a broad
back and a full chest, and floods his veins with good red
blood.
“ What does it matter if yer heart’s all right?” Aus-
tralia’s heart may not be aH right, but “ Onlys” casuSlly
concedes a “ fertile fringe a “ fringe,” by the way, upon
which you could deposit half-a-dozen European nations,
and keep them in fatness. We might string three Eng-
lands lengthways upon the Murrumbidgee alone, and
still have a bit to spare. North Africa has something of
a desert at her heart too, and yet North Africa produced
nations in her day. The Moors seem to have impressed
the world, and left considerable footprints on the sands of
time. The animal theory won’t work out in Maoriland,
where mountains brietle’through the length.of the nation
and there are plenteous rivers that never run dry. The
emu has survived the moa ; and for the rest M.L. monsters,
like our own, are things of tradition. Nor is the Aus-
tralian aboriginal always a degraded animal with no
aspirations above worms—he was often a splendid man
before white contact spoiled him.
Young Australia still echoes the patriotic ravings of his
fathers what of it? Sins are visited unto the
seventh generation, and we are not yet two removes.
Anyhow, we are all. in a measure in the hands of our
makers, creatures of our education; and our teachers
are still Imperialists, toad-eaters, quadrupeds before
royalty, craving for labels and collars and chains. There
was a time when young America had its Imperialistic
leaders, and whooped loyally, and yearned soulfully to
spill blood for the King; but “Hail Columbia” has
arrived. As for the selected representatives of Austra-
lian literature, two of them came to Australia as men,
bringing their temperaments with them, and finding in
this country echoes of those temperaments, as they would
have found them between Dan and Beersheba; —and Boake
is given Kendall’s place because Kendall’s Australian note
was often buoyant and beautiful. The grimness in Aus-
tralian story is merely the whisper of the great loneli-
ness of all vast new lands.— Edson.
JZ jZ
Nations are not built in a day. Was Rome? What is a
century in the life and history of a nation ? Australia is
only born to-day, with the prenatal influence of a hundred
years. Adventure, courage, crime and grit have fathered
her—the cursing blood of daring pioneers, resolute and
determined men. Her travail was great. Her constitu-
tion was equal to the strain. She lives ; she will flourish.
Is a particular soil alone responsible for the evolution
of man ? No. The right man has to tempt the soil that
tempts him. The Red Indian was the product of his soil,
and where is he to day ? The U.S.A. are a nation for all
that. The Red Indian will fill in a gap in evolution. So
will the Australian savage. He will join the icthyosaurus
and the missing link.
Whence the exports from Australia since the whites
took possession? Products from the soil and from the
bowels of the earth. A tidy sum. Did the “ bright
eyes,” the cities of Australia, ogle them out of the Royal
Mint.
What of a desert! Take the British Isles, Germany and
France, and they are easily spread over Australia’s coastal
strips and water-sheds ; and Australia will ask for more.
What ails hpr ? Her eyes are bigger than her stomach.
There is room for a hundred millions in habitable coun-
try, as good or better than the average, quite enough for
a nation to start on, and elbow room to spare. Don’t let
us worry about the desert. Let it stew in its own sand-
bath !
The fatal soil ? Did the Jews’ sojourn in the desert kill
their vitality as a race ? It cradled their genius. Hard
graft and hard fare. France has the richest agricultural
soil on earth, acre for man. Yet she has a decreasing
birthrate. Have not other nations evils ?—“ illegitimacy,
degenerating physical stamina, breathless desire to crowd
into cities, heavy national debts” ; aye, and climates to
chill the marrow of your bones, and deserts and torrid
zones, and drought; and famine, and flood and pestilence ?
Germany has had for years an old-age pensions law and
provision for her poor. Surely not a sign of an empty
breast for her peopl e ?
Australia has the good and the bad of most coun-
tries. Her average may be better than the majority’s
average. She will have the measles of national growfji.
She may have an eruptive fever, to throw off some of her
early vice. She may sweat yet, and be parched and
thirsty. The fever will run its course. Her line of life is
broad and strong. She will grow as nations grow,—fight,
build churches, civilise and kill. She will rise on the
tide of evolution. The destiny of nations will crown her.
Then swamp her with the rest! —Sciinabelawopski.
jZ
“ Onlys” questions whether Australia can ever become
the mother of a great nation, and conjures up a rare lot
of spooks to support his contentions. The droughty in-
terior is the sole substantial spook. That is bad enough •;
but need not cause such gloomy doubts of the future.
We haven’t the mountain chain and the consequent
river-system, with all the benefits it would bring; but
rivers of sorts we have, and these we shall learn to con-
serve as Egypt did long ago. Water for transport we
have none ; there is plenty for irrigation if we would only
save it.
“ Onlys ” frets because bush settlement doesn’t present
the appearance of much comfort or prosperity. Yet
there are homesteads and farms on the “ fringe ” that fill
the eye and satisfy every sense. And this “ fringe ”is a
deep one and a long one. In these matters, too,
appearances are deceptive. The explanation of the
wretchedness of the settlers’ surroundings is simply that
the pioneer, wherever you find him, is too much occupied
to spare time in providing the niceties of life. Often he
and his womenfolk don’t feel the need of them.
“ Australia incapable of supporting vigorous animal
existence ! ” Horses, sheep, cattle, and men are a refuta-
tion of that absurdity. Scarce a species which has been
acclimatised, animal or vegetable, but has waxed and
flourished to a degree unknown in other lands. As to the
physique of our young people, it is at least of the sort
that English military experts reckon more valuable in
war than that of the British professional soldier. This
talk of “ Australian degeneracy ” ill tallies with British
War-office demand for Australians at ss. a day, when Is,
2d. is offered to the Britisher. And what about our
athletes—cricketers, scullers, pugilists—all of world-wide
fame ?
That our best writers so far have mostly been melan-
cholics is rather an accident than anything else.
“ Onlys ” mentions a mere handful; and of these Clarke,
though his magnum opus, deals with a gloomy subject,
has written other good things which show that he was
anything but a dull dog all the time. And we have our
humorists, too.
This oountry is a good one, and capable of rearing and
maintaining sound, sane men and women—lots of them,
too. But government must be better than it is. “ Bor-
row abroad to spend in the cities ” is the one policy which
past governments in all the different States have persis-
tently worked for all it was worth—fo them. It isn’t
worth anything to the country. When that and other
follies go by the board, Australians'way-back will have a
fair show, and they’ll do as well as any people yet.
&
“Australia has no geographical heart.” There’s no
need! It’s all heart. Like a healthy man’s, its heart is
hollow, with a tough- outside. Is it decaying or childish ?
No ! It is waking into life—a sturdy infant.
Hard conditions breed hard men. Struggling
strengthens ! Long .may we struggle and grow, as we
promise, into strong national manhood, fit to march side
by side with the best of men on larger and more glorious
fields than that of battle.—E.K.
Only out of conflict comes strength. The development
of a nation, or of an individual, proves it. Given, with-
out effort, an character, or an ideal land, and, you
may look for rapid in both the individual
and the nation.
We may imagine “ a vain nation out of t mere',Bucalyp-
tus and Sentiment.” Or we may earn the right to call
ourselves Australians by wresting from the soil food for
heart and brain and pulse. Until the child calls there is
no fullness in the mother’s breasts. If we come into the
world as negations, believing, because some of the land
looks grey and barren and listless, that it has no hidden
possibilities for us to waken into full-blooded life, then
will we go back into the womb of time the same sexless,
fruitless negations, without having cared to realise our
own birthright.
Grant (if we can) that the physiography of Australia,
standing alone, negatives progress ! Bring the positive
element to bear, and we need place no limit to its pro-
ductive capacity. We have the science of historic ages .at
our disposal. Nature, for all her forbidding aspect, is
waiting to feel our hand at her heart-strings. If man
loses his individuality in affirming negation, what can he
expect ?—That the weird pictures (only partly true) drawn
by “ Onlys ” wiil stand as truth to the end of the tale !
Let man be positive enough in the face of climate,
of reluctant Nature, of the despair and hopeless-
ness of those hundreds, perhaps thousands, who have been
sacrificed in paving the way for our nationhood ! Let him
plant his feet firmly on the soil, and demand his birth-
right, rising in strength above the snobbery of our cities,
and the so-called desolation of our bush ! Let him husband
his fighting qualities for the present great struggle here —
at home—in Australia ! He has none to waste elsewhere.
What if the thought (which moulds our action, be it
remembered) of the past hundred years or so has resulted
only in pessimism ? A hundred years is not the Lifetime
of a Nation. We wait for our Prophet ! —One who will
not follow, but lead ; one who will not let his own
struggle smother with grim despair the forward battle-
cry of a young race ! Is it not a reproach to our writers,
to whom be all honour due, that they have done this.
Some of them have accepted Nature’s apparent malignity
instead of awakening her vast potentialities, and sound-
ing the note of a brave, clear-eyed optimism.
Statesmen, Artists, Writers, Workers, Men and
Women of Australia, ye can have a strong, tender,
nourishing Mother- if ye will! — Alice Eyton.
Other letters acknowledged from Roughrider;
E.S. ; A.G. ; W.P. ; Via Media; E.A.Y.; J.J.O.
“Uloola,” a familiar contributor, reprints his
Bulletin verses and others in a little volume pub-
lished by the Cumberland Times, Parramatta,
N.S.W., under the title of “ A Fable, with Other
Verses,” dedicated to that well-known N.S.W.
pressman, John Ferguson. Says the introductory
“ Author’s Note ” :
These verses are not published in book form because of
their value (which is questionable), but simply because
the author, having become possessed of the idea, and
finding a complaisant printer, chose that they should be.
Of genuine Poetry the book is probably as devoid as some
of the verses in it are of Jingo “ loyalty "—that frothy
and unstable sentiment now considerably abated in Aus-
tralia. As no one is forced to buy the book, the author
makes no apology for offering it to the public.
Given this discount, criticism is easy. “ Uloola’s ”
are sensible, manly verses, with no high poetic
pretension, but with sufficient merit on the homely
plane to make them often printable and readable.
Pictures like those of “The Quarryman ” and
“The Charcoal-Burner” have human and Aus-
tralian value, because painted vigorously, with
truth. The book can be had from The Cumberland
Times office, Parramatta, N.S.W., for half-a-
crown.
G. C. Whitney protests
Where originated that ridiculous and inapt phrase—
“ second childhood ” ? How can childhood be justly com-
pared with a period of decay ? Dotage is the word. To
compare the joyous freshness of childhood and its brilliant
future—that looking from a peak in Darien—with the men-
tal decay of dotage, would be ludicrous were it not so*
common. Does one compare early Spring to late Winter?
Look at the delightful literature that Kenneth Grahame,
Mrs. Meynell, R. L. Stevenson and others have written
about the wonderful period called childhood ? Who has
ever glorified senility ? Where is “ The Golden Dotage ” ?
Arthur Adams, the author of “Maoriland, and
Other Verses,” who went away as Chinese war-
correspondent for a syndicate of M.L. papers,
writes from Cheefoo, China, on Dec. 26, 1900 —
I have been in bed (sitting up now) for the last six
weeks, ill with enteric fever, with malaria added. It is
rather dreary—room in hotel (second-rate, but best herb).
Chinese “ boy ” for nurse, and nobody I know in this
hole. And the fever sticks to me. Expect another three
weeks before I can get away.
While I was living in the open air, riding and marching
all day, and roughing it on campaign, I was in the very-
best of health. Soon as ever I got back to Tientsin from
our month’s march to Paoting-fu and back, I succumbed
to illness—the almost universal fate of war-correspondents
up here. If they don't get dysentery they get fever. I
got out of Tientsin before we closed the river, but had to
come ashore here and go to bed. Miserable ending to my
trip.
Have seen no fighting, but plenty of manslaughter—so
it looks ; but really the Boxers melt away before a big
column, and have to be punished when we are sure of
their guilt (? patriotism).
On Paoting-fu trip messed with the Victorians, though
I had my own cart, stores, and servant. The last stole
most of the middle. We marched to Paoting-fu—and
came back. That was all. We burned and looted and
blew down town-walls on our way. Full of China—don’t
want to stay here longer than I can help. Will come
straight back as soon as doctor lets me.
The editor of N.S.W. Agricultural Gazette is an
able and enthusiastic young Australian who takes
pride and pleasure in his work —standing in
agreeable contrast with the dullards of routine
and formula who have made “the Government
stroke ” famous ; and the Gazette's Commonwealth
commemoration number has special value as an
exposition of the deeds and aims of N.S.W.
Agricultural Department. W. S. Campbell’s
historical sketch of local agricultural progress has
been written with brains and pains. The book
(for it is a book in bulk) should have been supplied
with an index; and there is no good reason for
public time and money to have been wasted
at the Govt. Printing Office in engraving the
dozens of portraits of politicians and officials with
which the pages are garnished.
The people who can’t understand Kipling’s
limitations, and perpetually crave “something
big, something better,” will be disappointed with
“Kim,” now appearing serially in McClure's
Maga. It is an elongated short story of the
“ Captains Courageous ” type, good-enough read-
ing, but with no dominating motive behind its
episodes, and with some loss of vigour in the
handling so far.
The reference and illustration in last issue give
occasion for reprinting
JOLLY GOOD ALE AND OLD.
I cannot eat but little meat,
My stomach is not good;
But sure I think that I can drink
With him that wears a hood.
Though I go bare, take ye no care
I nothing am a-cold ;
I stuff my skin so full within
Of jolly good ale and old.
Back and side go bare, go bare;
Both foot and hand go cold ;
But, belly, God send thee good ale enough,
Whether it be new or old.
I love no roast but a nut-brown toast,
And a crab laid in the fire ;
And little bread shall do me stead ;
Aluch bread I nought desire.
No frost, no snow, no wind, I trow,
Can hurt me if I wold,
I am so wrapped and thoroughly lappe^
Of jolly good ale and old.
Back and side, &c.
And Tib, my wife, that as her life
Loveth well good ale to seek,
Full oft drinks she, till ye may see
The tears run down her cheek :
Then doth she troul to me the bowl,
Even as a maltworm should,
And saith, “ Sweetheart, I took my part
Of this jolly good ale and old."
Back and side, &c.
Now let them drink till they nod and wink,
Even as good fellows should do ;
They shall not miss to have the bliss
Good ale doth bring men to.
And all poor souls that have scoured bowls,
Or have them lustily trouled,
God save the lives of them and their wives,
Whether they be young or old.
Back and side, &c.
Accredited to JOHN STILL (1643-1607.) .


Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
fVool and Produce Brokers.
Consolidated Charge!
for Selling Wool /
2i per cent.
f Includes all Charges excepting
{cartage from steamer’s wharl.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin. Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
PRICES
FOR
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN
OBTAINED BY CONSIGNING TO
Goldsbrough, Mort*Co.
Circular Quay, Sydney,
Who render PROMPT RETURNS and safeguard your
Proceeds by their TRUST ACCOUNT System.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
A
B
5801)
B
5aoo
(<iK.
5607
\
Guaranteed not Jo or bora
CERTIFICA TE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
application. Thousands Selling Daily.
'CBB>
BRIAR
mien simoions
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST
Of TRICKS, PUZZLES, Etc.,
Etc., FREE.
sdf
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
EXTRA SPECIAL CATALOGUE
OF BOOKS FREE. .
STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTES OF ANY COLONY TAKEN.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE,
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
NEWMAN’S
For Removing
Superfluous Hair.
SPECIAL
By post—2s. 6d. a packet.
C. E. NEWMAN, Chemist,
52 King; Street, Sydney.
DEPILATORY.
ERASMIC
PEERLESS
CQAP
a —<«•—a—* -*■——«*■—■
Unequalled as a Preserver and
Beautifier of the Complexion. It diffuses an exquisite
odor, and imparts a stimulating and refreshing influence.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
*O-
-
&
&
V
#<9'
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED CHARGES ON
COMMISSION ...
WAREHOUSING- (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charges will be
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ...
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under
WAY BILES sent on application.
WOOL:
| per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
WHEAT.
Unrivalled
SALES last season show an increase of 25 per cent, as compared with previous years,
accommodation. Three months’ free storage. , , ■ ,
CIRCULAR giving fullest particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired. f
CONSIGNORS are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association oi
this Company.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell's Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
WOOL. WOOL. WOOL
Winchcombe 9 Carson & Co• Ltd.
Selling Agents only —^
Reduced Wool
Commission
21 per cent.
on all lots.
Large or Smalls
WRITE AND CONSULT THEM ABOUT SALE OF YOUR PRESENT CLIP.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 O'CONNELL STREET. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, to the Growers.
BONUS f PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge \d. per lb. to the Buyers.
u
11
Regd.
“ UAWRUS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS & STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
U
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
4THGDALE & DUFFUS. Finks Buildings, Corner of Elizabeth & Flinders Sts.,
Melbourne; and 422 George St., Sydney.
X3r. Clarkson’s Electric seix
Will fill vour Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years study and
pvnerinients. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
X> r - Clarkson’s He-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
Vig °To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
Darts the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON'S RE-INVIGORATOR , . .
will bring happiness and health. The influence of to* two agents on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CALL OR WRITE— OWL
„ C “ T T E dktjg store,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
sd
fsd
uV'
rT
III!
I ,
'Oi'rn
>*yj\
vVhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL: APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
! LONGER. ' The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
1 Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., eto.
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility oi
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 8 8 0
Jiadies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Car© GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
EOSEHILL 0. March 23.
50,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me. shares in the
above.
Name
£
Address
DONCASTER H. April 6.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me— shares in the
above.
Name
£
Address
Sydney C. April 8.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
N ame_
Address
City Tattersall’s H. April 20.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above
Name.
Address.
For full particulars read
Address “ Tatter sail,” care
our Printed Circular
Geo. Adams, Hobart.


MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
~N n C A W mills. circular saw mills.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on Bolter System
md Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Tmnerial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways o
procurable only at 24 Olarence-st.> > ( ney ‘
t€y
The morning of life is the time of
abundance, profusion, strength, vigor,
growth. When the sun begins to sink,
when the midday of life is past, then
the hair begins to fade and the silvery
gray tells of approaching age.
Sunrise or sunset ? Which shall
your mirror say ? If the former, then
it is rich and dark hair, long and heavy
hair; if the latter, it is short and fall-
ing hair, thin and gray hair.
The choice is yours, —for
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
always restores color to gray hair,
stops falling of the hair, and makes
the hair grow long and heavy.
This is something you have been
looking for, isn’t it ? And it is some-
thing you can have confidence in, for
it is no experiment; people have been
using it for half a century. We do not
claim it will do everything, but we do
claim it: is the best hair preparation
ever made.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
‘D(VWKIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
Publications.
nnm
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
d Henderson, SYDNEY.
Publishers: Turner on
LADIES-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
DDRM8 —fc.D.I.» 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
SHIRTS.
V or Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalassk and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
3 3j „ e r Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land
AGstraliai? MOtOal Pr<Wid€i?t Society
MONET TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers thp privilege of repaying not
more than 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine. _
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
Head Office :87 Pitt-street, Sydney. - ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
fds
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s-
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY,
jtgf Send for a
Catalogue.
fsd
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Beat and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works :MELBOURNK-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
YORKSHIRE
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
RELISH
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
BEWARE OK SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs In
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kiuds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Emit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
d Propribtors: —GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiaco, Perth, W.A.&6S, King St.,Melbourne
Paris exhibition, 1900-British Awards
The Only
Grand
Prix
\
highest yTward
ever made!
SOLELY FOR TOILET SOAP
HAS BEEN AWARDED TO
(Established 1789.)
il£7o
BRITT RtC r D
BP
fltwointmera
to
a imp \
fm.
fier ißajestp Che Queen fi.R.B. Che Prince ol Wales.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1900 inclusive.
3ST.S.W. Carriage
Note our New Address:
& Sacldlery Mianf-
-193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern,
Company
SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do -you Want a
STTLKY BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY 1 If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spnng Sulkies, £7 ,
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
nrmhle Busies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and everv description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catafoeue and Price List. NOTICE. -Do not be
misled by any Arms who say they wUI deliver for less
than we can. They oannot do so, and you pay 16 per
oent more for your requirements.
to Redfern Railway Station).
(close
OUR SPECIAL >O. 2
£8 18/6
fsd
Delirered at any Wharf «r
Tf.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
“ One of the Boer convoys captured by
Australian Bushmen was driven by women.”
How many were killed ? But ’twas a glorious
victoree!
Touching Queen V ictoria’s coronation-oath,
which involved some disrespectful references to the
R 0 Mass, the irrepressible J. F. Hogan informs
Melb. Argus that “millions of devout Anglicans
now believe in the mass, the Real Presence, &c.
The word mass, in fact, is now a commonplace of
Anglican terminology.” As long as there are
devout Hogans who persistently publish this class
of fiction the average Prodistan will continue to
denounce Irish Roman Catholicism as a hereditary
disease rather than a religion. In the first place
there are probably not two millions of “de-
vout Anglicans” in England. And the High
Church enthusiasts, all told, can’t amount to more
than about 40,000, of whom about 39,000 are
merely playing at religion.
A Courtesan’s Confession.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A woman has two natures which revolve—
One for her sex, the other for you men.
You see us through a glamour, fools you are,
Attribute all the purity you love,
The glory you conceive the saints possess,
To us poor struggling wretches who work hard
To keep the cheat up that preserves the sex.
A woman has three growths —why do you smile ?
I feel your thoughts ; we think not with our brains
But with our hearts, and they deceive us never.
A woman is a kitten till she loves,
The world a toy with which she plays withal.
She loves and 10, she loses half herself,
And vainly struggles to retain the other ;
And is possessed by one strong keen desire .
That fills her with alarm, yet thrills her too,
To multiply his image and control
The destiny of something like himself,
And through it bind his lordship to herself.
Torture or death —each is the same to her :
Mellows her soul with sorrow ; she knows all.
But when she loves and falls —that puzzles you
Who shrewdly see the sacrifice she makes
But not the rapturous knowledge that she gains.
Our object till we women really love
Is to conceal the true bent of ourselves
Beneath the adjuncts which will best support
The winning glamour men invest us with.
Your dreams are peopled witli such lovely forms,
Such bright existences your souls create,
That we weak piebald creatures must deceive.
What you create we counterfeit at once
And laugh in secret that you are so gulled.
Bine silks and satins, jewels, puff and rouge,
Sham hips and breasts, soft laughter, music, style
And dignity of carriage, scents and flowers,
And gestures tutored by the looking-glass,
Religious discourse and the cant of Art,
And —everything that builds the bogey up :
These are the tools by which we live and win.
We hate the counterfeit, but love the means.
You tempt the counterfeit that piques you on,
To vanish when the silly woman falls;
Hence your disgust and woman’s wild despair ;
Hence all the madness of our after-life
If you reject the wild, sad, trusting heart :
The counterfeit destroyed—what use the means ?
You now are the ideal, and she grieves
But little if the glamour still survives
And she can nestle somewhere in your heart.
If you are brutal—cast her off, I mean,
The magnet of her nature is removed,
And all its wild discordant elements
Without a centre to repose upon
Like dislocated atoms jarring whirl;
And ’mid their mad disturbance her dazed soul
Goes staggering to its doom scarce knowing it.
But ever and anon it rights itself
And clearly sees the sequence of its act,
And yearns—oh, how it yearns !—for an ideal.
How hideous then the laughter and the wine,
The music and the dancing and the gems,
The fair, false cheapness of your dear delights,
The base pollution of the white warm limbs.
And all the black damnation of our life !
You talk of hell—l tell you this is hell ;
These vivid glimpses which we sometimes get
Of what we are and what we might have been,
And what must be if we don’t leave the life;
What must be—God ! it pushes itself home
Although we strive to wink our eyes at it
And dream that someone—how we picture him !
His eyes, his hair, and what he’ll say to us
When he has found he loves us for ourselves,
And all the proofs we’ll give him we are true.
And so we hope, or sometimes think we hope,
Well knowing all the time it cannot be ;
And seeing naught ahead, no, naught indeed
But sumptuous dressing up of cankerous lies,
j With a torn heart still whimpering pain ! pain !
pain !
And if by sheer bad luck that is our fate,
We’re not killed in a quarrel—we get old,
And whining work for drink —I shudder now ;
Until a blear eyed, toothless, ragged hag
We’re dragged like carrion to the pauper’s ward
And hurry into death, screaming of hell.
And yet we once were children —think of that,
And choke your scorn back, for your mother’s
sake.
N.s.w.
ARTHUR A. D. BAYLDON.


T** e Australian Widows’ Fund £ife Assurance^ocietyT Ctd.
T MitelSSspeSl'Xlictaf JSSS^ :,0r '’" 01 A '"‘ r * ~Cr '<►'» ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
"• a ™’ h ■— '■> —»
Board of Directors :
no., ra
4 ‘ nhm **~ '*''•*Annual Income e „ eM
OfficGSs 263 OEOR6E STREET Qvnwpv
BONUS YEAR, 1901. A AM.*.! .SYDNEY.
GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
NOW READY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being a reprint of a large number of articles from
The Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia. 1 J
Price 6d; Posted Bd.
DIAMOND SONG BOOK,
fiOO SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO , Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other East Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing.
Postage
Free.
ART JEWELLERS, 90 KING ST.,
SYDNEY.
Postage
Free.
NEW ZEALAND GREENSTONE Gold
Mounted BROOCH, 17s 6d.
NEW
ZEALAND
GREEN-
STONE.
NEW ZEALAND GREENSTONE Gold Mounted
BROOCH, 15s 6d- 10 Different Patterns.
NOTE.—Kindly cut out
this advertisement and
forward when ordering 1
NEW ZEALAND GREENSTONE, Gold and
Pearl Set, 20a. 6 Similar Patterns.
Please send for our
Illustrated Slips of
NOVELTIES.
tt
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
f
©
CO
a>
LU
<
Il&ltlj
/j
%
A. BOWMAN’S
. . . You Can Have . . .
dsf
English Boots at
14/6 per pair.
Tan Boots at
16/6 per pair.
Porpoise Hide at
17/6 per pair
Best Style.
Best Quality.
No
Better
Made.
We do One Line —Gentlemen’s Boots—only.
That one we do Well.
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St.,
also 145 KING ST., opp. Theatre Royal.
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique
providing: nourishment suited to the growing: digestive powers of YOUNQ INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The «
The ‘
* AHenburys”
* Allenburys ”
Milk Food No. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of Hie.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
The “ AHenburys” Malted Food no. 3
For Infants over six months of age.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that—“No Better Food Exists.”
PIMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 484, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
YANKEE DOODLE
Is well in front in New South Wales, and forging ahead in
the other Australian States.
The Free Voice of the People is the Strongest Proof possible.
Customs figures show the Yearly Increase in the Sales of DIXSON’S TOBACCO
in NEW SOUTH WALES ALONE to be
1898 INCREASE - - 109,397 IT3S.
1899 IKTCREASE - - 173,332 lfc> s
1900 INCREASE - - 228,263 Itos.
Over 100 TONS more Last Year than during 1899.
YANKEE DOODLE (LIGHT and DARK) The^Great^lil^Smoke
AND IS THE TOBACCO OF THE DAY"!
CONQUEROR: Dark, Rich, Good — For Smoking and Chewing.
CHAMPION Gold Leaf, Plug and Cut— Choicest Natural Flavor—CUT, in Hermetically Sealed Patent
Pins. Champion Blended Stock Yankee Doodle.
BONANZA CIGARS— 4 for 6d. in packets. Best value of any cigar.
JVIOINIOPOLE The ORIGINAL ROTHSCHILD, and above all Imitations.
AND TOBACCO WARE OP ALIi immg
DIXSON & SONS LTD., PARK STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 22.—N0. 1098.
SATURDAY, MARCH 2, 1901.
Pbiob Grw
" WHY CERT’NLY !
“ Several of the Australian Parliaments, and that of Maoriland are now opened with prayer The,
British Parliament has observed this pious and-salutary custom for centuries , and the Senate and Congress of
the United States have from the beginning followed the good example of the mother country in this matter.
We earnestly hope that the influence of the electorates of N.S.W. will be exerted in the direction of securing
the recognition of the Divine Head of the Nation at the opening of the daily sessions of its Parliament.
F.S. JT r . Erawjelical Council. •
THE OPENING PRAYER.
Chaplain (with a hasty, despairing glance round among the
assembled Senators) : “Oh! Gawd, have mercy upon this unhappy i
Commonwealth. Give unto these Thy servants wisdom, if A
possible,” &c., &c., &c.
BLACK AND WHITE ONCE MORE
George Reid’s attitude towards Black L"bui
I Yemen's' 0 /
,J///fJ/ wJk
Trades U/Jimm
7tAT&s
7>/ s ffof>
ThA 5./ J||
. ‘ T , he ineptitude which the State Pre-\
jtmer has shown throughout his efforts to
enforce the closing on Sundays of refresh-
ments shops was maintained in his reply
l wf P^ tio ? from, religious bodies
which, the other day, interviewed him oh
the subject.
Yes, the Sunday Banana sits heavily
f s ci ! cst > a nd at last he has /
decided to resign the State Premier v /
The State Premiers object to the propo-
sal to send an officer to Australia to re-
cruit 1000 policemen for S. Africa
The Sydney cabmen have
formed a Union which may
1 hit a particular Bishop
\ rather hard.
Tiie Lion . “ But why object /
to sending police after
'cP* your * splendid offer ’of
troops 1 ”
The Kangaroo :• “Well, you see there
ain’t no fat billets hangingjo this ! ’
PARSON (to small boy who has just been caught red-handed eating a Sunday
pippin) : “ Oh, wicked child ; the thought that the penny spent for that apple
might have saved a heathen soul should turn it to gall and bitterness in your
depraved stummick ! ”
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the AustraliansS’
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £lO 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly " ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia, and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition ofVffi. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage — l Id. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with pottage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The ivhole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
" Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in JilacJc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
■ — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
suffh artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — 8.. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
SATURDAY, MARCH 2, 1901.
The Bloated Protected Manufacturer.
The largest and most useful bogey of tbe
Importers’ Party in Australia is the Bloated
Protected Manufacturer. He is the indi-
vidual for whose sole benefit Protection is
said to exist, and it is alleged that the object
of the National Policy is to enable him to
charge the people exorbitant prices for their
clothes and boots and food, and grow rich
beyond all dreams of affluence on the pro-
ceeds. The large, rich, bloated importer of
the M‘Millan school almost weeps on public
platforms and other high places about how
Protection taxes the multitude for the benefit
of a handful of manufacturers, and takes the
hard-earned money out of the pockets of the
many for the benefit of the few (the few being
the manufacturers). Also, he laments about
how prices in his sample Protected State (Vic-
toria) are 20 to 40 per cent, higher than in
N.S.W., and how the surplus goes into the
pockets of the protected manufacturer.
Also about how wages are lower there than
in N.S.W., and the difference is annexed by
the great bloated manufacturer. And the
rich importer implores the public, almost
with tears, not to be led away by the
allegedly rich manufacturer, and not to let
him prey on the community, seeing that he
(the rich importer) is quite equal to all the
preying there is to do.
* * * *
The Bulletin has been looking for that
great, rich, bloated manufacturer who makes
so much money by charging high prices
under the Protective system. If there is
anything in the importer’s lie about his high
prices, and low wages, and his persistent
battening on the substance of the people,
and so forth, then his wealth should make
him visible to the naked eye. He should be
especially visible in Victoria, which has
followed Protection longer than any other
Australian State. When the manufacturer
is a private individual it is, of course, prac-
tically impossible to say what he makes, but
in a good many cases he is a joint-stock com-
pany whose huge profits, torn from the
suffering and deluded people (to quote the
language of the rich importer) are fully per-
ceptible in the balance-sheet. So the writer
has taken the trouble to go through the In-
surance and Banking Record and the
Joint Stock Companies Year Book for
1900, and see exactly what profits the pro-
tected manufacturer sweats out of the
public.
* * * »
Here is the list, covering every protected
Victorian manufacturing co. for which in-
formation is available, and the profits which
it earns in proportion to the shareholders’
funds :
Denton Hat Co., 11 p.c.
Swallow & Ariell, 4 „
Carlton Brewery, 56
per cent, on writ-
ten-down capital,
or about 4 per cent,
on original capital.
D. Stratton & Co., 61 „
Castlemaine Brew-
ery, 4 „
Colonial Sugar Co., 10 ~
Fitzgerald’s Brew-
ery. 121 „
Fresh Food Co., 51 „
New Northcote Brick
o°., 61 „
Northcote Brick Co., 8 ~
M'Cracken’s Brewery, Loss
Ballarat Woollen Co.
(about) 15 p.c.
Castlemaine Woollen
Co, (about) 5 p.c.
Clunes Butter 00.
(about) 5 ~
Dunlop Tyre Co. 71 „
Apollo Candle Co. 1 ~
Kickham Flour Mill
Co. (about) 1J ~
Shepparton Butter
Co. 6 „
Ballarat Brewing Co.
(about) 6 ~
Victoria Brewery 10 ~
Hoffmann Brick Co.
(about) 10 ~
Rutherglen Wine Co. Nil
Shamrock Brewery
(about) 71 „
The industries included in the above list are,
of course, only a very obscure fraction com-
pared to those owned by firms or private
companies, the accounts of which are not
available to the public. Still there is no
visible reason to suppose that they are not a
fair sample of the lot. This is bringing the
shadowy Bloated Manufacturer, who heaps
up wealth by charging exorbitant prices
under a protective tariff, down to plain
detail. The alleged huge monopolist who
levies toll on the whole community
materialises into a person whose profits
average about a very moderate 8 or 9 per
cent., and if, as the rich Freetrade importer
alleges, manufactured goods are dearer in
Victoria than in N.S.W., it is dead certain
that it isn’t the exorbitant profits of the
protected manufacturer that causes the
increase. The inference is, therefore, that
it is the higher wages paid to the work-
people.
* * * *
And how does the Freetrade importer
compare in this matter ? The Freetrade
importer of the M'Millan class poses as a
shocked philanthropist who is all broken up
in his soul at the rapacity of the protected
manufacturer across the border, and at the
riches the latter cormorant gathers in by
grinding the faces of the poor. About half-
a-dozen big importing firms doing business
in Sydney are run on the joint-stock com-
pany plan, and information is available
concerning them. Here are some samples :
Farmer and 00. (London) : Regular dividend, 12J per
cent.
Henry Bull and 00. (London): Last year’s profits,
about 8J per cent.
Paterson, Laing, and Bruce (London) : Last year’s pro-
fits, about 9 per cent.
Robert Reid and 00. (London): Last year’s profits,
about 12J per cent.
M'Artiiur and Co. (ex-Treasurer M'Millan’s concern,
controlled in London): Latest dividend, 10 per
cent. Profits unknown.
E. Rich and 00. (London) : Latest profits, about 11 per
cent.
These few available samples are also only
a fraction out of the great multitude of
British-owned importing firms in N.S.W.,
but it is probable that they are also fairly
representative of their kind. And it must
be remembered that these are extra profits—
profits levied in addition to those already
charged by the manufacturer in Europe or
elsewhere. Yet even by themselves they
are liberal enough. And when a comparison
is made between the profits which a gang of
hungry and rapacious manufacturers drag
from an oppressed people in protected Vic-
toria, and the profits which a gang of hungry
and rapacious importers extort from an
oppressed people in allegedly Freetrade
N.S.W,, it certainly appears that the rapa-
cious importer is on the average about 1 or
2 per cent, the more rapacious of the pair.
Another difference is that the rapacious
manufacturer spends his dividends in this
country, while most of the bigger divi-
dends of the more rapacious importer go to
England, and remain there.
*** _ *
But the utterly disgusting feature of the
case is the bitter and professedly disinter-
ested grief of the Freetrade importer (who
takes, on the average, 11 per cent, profit
from the people) at the way the public is
fleeced by the protected manufacturer (who
doesn’t plunder the public on the average
beyond about 9 per cent.). That middle-
man’s tears have flowed on a hundred plat-
forms about how the public is plundered in
Protectionist states to bloat with unnatural
affluence the rich manufacturer, and not a
word has been said about his own bloating.
It is a case of the rvolf shedding tears over
the flesh-eating tendencies of the sheep, and
the fat woman in the circus all shattered
with grief at the unnatural rotundity of the
living skeleton.
* » • *
The protected Australian manufacturer in
Australia wants to create manufacturing in-
dustries here for his own benefit. The
Freetrade English importer in Australia
wants to destroy manufacturing industries
here for his own benefit. As a rule, the
manufacturer deals in one line of goods
only ; the importer in a multitude. When
a new industry starts under Freetrade con-
ditions the importers’ policy is simply to cut
down prices in that one line until the new’ in-
dustry is killed, and live on the profits of other
lines in the meantime. There is probably
no high-toned patriotism or philanthropy
about either of them, and quite probably one
is willing to be as great a cormorant as the
other. But the importer is the more suc-
cessful cormorant. He squeezes the people
on a larger scale and screws bigger profits
out of them than the manufacturer
contrives to do. And he is an extra or
superfluous cormorant, whose profit comes
on top of a manufacturer’s profit. His loot
mostly goes to Britain while that of the
manufacturer is spent here, for the manu-
facturer is a local man—not merely the agent
of a syndicate in London. Also, the
manufacturer employs far more labor ;
it takes 2600 men to construct and
place in the hands of the retailer the three
million pairs of boots made annually in
New South Wales, while the same number
of imported boots could be placed in the re-
tailer’s hands with the aid of perhaps 100
men. Also the manufacturer has never
quite soared to the gorgeous heights of
hypocrisy attained by the importing gentle-
man who, with his 11 per cent, average
profits in the pocket of his imported
clothes, is undermined with sorrow at the
nefarious system prevailing in the adjacent
State whereby the manufacturing man. is
permitted to plunder the people to the
extent of about 9 per cent, all-round. And
the importer’s purely disinterested desire to
abolish that system, so that he can bleed
the people a lot more for their own good, is
the most pathetic thing going since the
burning of Ckanmer or thereabouts.
* * • •
We have the evidence of that reliable and
unbiassed public authority, N.S.W. Statis-
tician Coghlan, that living (equally good
living, he asserts) is cheaper on the average
in the Protectionist States of Australasia
than in the one partially Freetrade State.
The figures cover food, clothes, rent—in
fact, all necessaries, and are set forth on
pages 419 and 420 of Coghlan’s “Seven
Colonies ” for 1899-1900. The great export
of manufactured goods from Victoria to
N.S.W. is a further proof that production is
cheaper in the former State ; the public
doesn’t buy in the dearest market as a
general thing. In addition, there is good
evidence that wages are higher on the
average in Victoria, at all events, than
in N.S.W. ; the highest and lowest
wages paid in all trades are carefully set
forth in the N.S.W. “Statistical Register ”
and the “Victorian Year Book” respec-
tively, and the lists supply a highly inter-
esting study. The fact that the protected
State supplies more work—legitimate work,
that is ; not artificial jobs at building unpro-
fitable public works with borrowed money—
for its people than the allegedly Freetrade
one is beyond all question ; Victoria
musters 60,070 factory employes to N.S.W.’s
55,646 ; whereas the latter State, with
its four times larger area, and its 50
years’ start, should be able to show
something like 240,000 against Victoria’s
60,000. In fact, the whole story about
low wages and high prices in the pro-
tected State rests on the alleged huge profits
extorted from an oppressed people by a
gang of unprincipled manufacturers, and
when it proves that the manufacturer, upon
the whole, doesn’t extort such huge profits as
theimporter, thenarrativecoliapses likeasplit
balloon. But, meanwhile, the only moisture
there is in this dry land is supplied by the
tears of the importing middleman (mostly
representing some British absentee), who
makes 11 per cent, profit for himself on top
of the European manufacturer’s profit, and
who is damp with disinterested grief at the
oppression of the people by the local manu-
facturer who charges 9 or 10 per cent profit,
with no importing middleman to pay on the
top of that. Also, the thought of the extor-
tion which the people will suffer if that local
manufacturer isn’t suppressed makes it really
impossible for the foreign manufacturer’s
agent and dummy to sleep at night. And
the papers which live so largely on this use-
less middleman’s advertisements, and the
politicians who live on the support of these
papers, can’t sleep either. And the Impor-
ters’ Government floats the biggest loans in
Australia in order to supply work and keep
up the influx of population, so that the great
importing policy may not be discredited.
And the great Importers' Conspiracy booms
along gaily, and the bloated middleman—
drummer for the British trading absentee—
points to himself as the real secret of Aus-
tralia’s greatness, and asks how the country
could possibly get on without him.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Freetrade Party’s Latest.
The Foreign-trade party—the party, that is, of
the importers who want to destroy all local manu-
factures that get in the way of their import busi-
ness—has suddenly taken over The Bulletin’s
love for Michael Mulhall as a statistical autho-
rity. This is Pulsford on the subject, last
Friday night, in Sydney :
Mulhall, the greatest statistician of the time, esti-
mated that, by the action of the Protective tariff in
America, the value of manufactures was raised by
£488,000,000. And what wa» the amount which the
American Treasury collected from Customs and excise
duties? The total amount was about £70,000,000. In
order that the Government might collect £70,000,000, ac-
cording to Mulhall, a total of £558,000,000 was being-
paid by the American people.
The Bulletin has quoted from Mulhall hun-
dreds of times in defence of its Protectionist
faith, but with this difference : it always gave the
name of the book quoted from, and the exact
page of the book quoted from, so that anybody
could look up the work at the nearest public
library and satisfy himself that the quota-
tion was true to the letter. And not one
Foreign - trade speaker or paper has been
able to show that one of the fiscal sta-
tistics which this paper quoted was not repro-
duced accurately. But Pulsford doesn’t give the
name of the alleged book he finds his alleged facts
in, nor the page he finds his alleged figures on ; in
which respect he and Reid and Max Hirsch are
mostly in the same boat. It is impossible under
such circumstances to verify his statement, and he
might as well say wildly that the Apostle Paul,
in his lost Epistle to the Shoemakers, declares that
Freetrade increases the price of boots from 3s. (i|d.
to 17s. 4fd. Pulsford belongs to a party which
is so much giving to quoting imaginary statistics
from imaginary books that it ought always to give
the volume and page of its authority when it has
one. Meanwhile here are some of the things that
Mulhall actually docs say about the relative pro-
gress of the Protectionist United States and
Freetrade Britain, with the authority given in
each case :
U.S. commerce (external and internal) £3,311,000,000
per annum. Britain’s commerce £1,884,000,000 per annum.
(Mulhall’s “Industries and Wealth of Nations,” page 388).
U.S. wealth per inhabitant in 1840, £46 ; in 1896, £234.
Increase in 56 years of Protection, £lBB per inhabitant,
or an increase of 3 7s. 2d. per inhabitant per annum.
British wealth in 1840 (at the end of its Protective period),
£154 per inhabitant ; in 1896, £302 per inhabitant. In-
crease in 56 years of Freetrade, £l4B per inhabitant, or
£2 12s. 10d." per inhabitant per annum. (Mulhall’s
“ Dictionary of Statistics,” pages 589, 593 and 818).
United States total wealth, £16,350,000,000. Britain’s
total wealth, £11,806,000,000. (Same work, page 818.)
Earnings of the people : United States (in 1894),
£3,116,000,000 per annum, or about £47 per inhabitant.
Britain (in 1895), £1,423,000,000, or about £36 per inhabi-
tant. (Mulhall’s “Industries and Wealth of Nations,”
pages 95 and 307.)
Value of manufactured goods : United States,
£1,980,000,000 (£3O per inhabitant) per annum ; Britain,
£876,000,000 (£22 per inhabitant) per annum. (“ Diction-
ary of Statistics,” page 765.)
Minerals raised (in 1896): United States £101,000,000;
Britain £69,000,000 (“ Dictionary of Statistics,” page 773).
Stock of coin in the country : United States,
£271,100,000; Britain, £147,000,000. (Same work, page
777.)
Savings Bank deposits : United States £446,000,000
(about £7 per inhabitant); Britain, £154,800,000 (about
£4 per inhabitant). (Same book, page 643).
Value of agricultural products (1896): United States
£772,000,000 (about £l2 per inhabitant) : Britain
£230,000,000 (about £6 per inhabitant). (Same book, page
615).
Taxes : United States, £2 10s. per head per annum;
Britain £3 2s. per head per annum (“ Industries and
Wealth of Nations,” page 393),
Average earnings per day per inhabitant : United
States 2s. sd. less 4Jd. for food, leaving a surplus of 2s.
OJd. per day per inhabitant. Britain (which in every case
includes Ireland) earnings Is. llfd. per inhabitant
daily, less 6Jd. for food, leaving a surplus of Is. s£d
(Mulhall’s “Industries and Wealth of Nations,” page
66). Therefore the protected man gets higher wages
and cheaper food.
Quantity of food consumed, everything being reduced
to its equivalent in grain : United States, 117,200,000
tons, or nearly two tons annually per inhabitant; Bri-
tain, 42,900,000, or a little over one ton annually per in-
habitant, i.e., the protected American gets far more food
for less money (Mulhall’s “Dictionary of Statistics,”
page 715).
These are the sort of things that Mulhall,
guaranteed by Pulsford to be the “ greatest
statistician of the time,” says about the re-
lative progress of the Protectionist United
States and Freetrade Britain when the
person quoting him sticks to facts and gives the
exact page of the quotation every time. If he
also says, when the public isn’t looking, in some
work accessible to Pulsford but not generally
known and the name of which Pulsford doesn’t
divulge, that the people of the United States,
owing to Protection, pay £488,000,000 per annum
(£7 per head) more for their necessaries than they
need do, it possibly doesn’t matter much. As
compared with Britain they appear to have about
£ll more per head per annum to pay it with, and
the policy that gives you £ll and then robs you of
£7 is a pretty good policy, after all.
■ ♦
The Bitter Cry of Bacon.
Mr. Francis Bacon, an opulent N.S.W. squatter,
has lately started to blast the Freetrade cause
with his disastrous support in the columns of
Sydney Telegraph. Mr. Bacon says that
“ moderate protective duties to assist the develop-
ment of manufactures will mostly go into the
pockets of the men who loudly cry for Protection ”
—which, considering how very much money has
gone into the pockets of the F. Bacon who cries
loudly for Freetrade, shows a painfully grudging
spirit. When a man has put so very much in his
own pocket by Freetrade, his rage at the prospect
of some one else putting a little in his pocket by
Protection, looks rather grasping. And then
the Freetrade Bacon goes on in this wise :
There is no doubt that, on the figures given by Mr. G.
H. Reid and Mr. William M’Millan, an £8,000,000 revenue
can be raised by duties from 10 per cent, to 15 per cent,
on articles other than intoxicants and narcotics. A
revenue of £2 6s. per head was raised by the Jenninos-
Dibbs Government at this scale of duties. Australia, as
a whole, is much more prosperous now than then, so that
we could do, at least, as well; this would bring in, on
4,000,000 of people, £9,200,000, so that, even allowing for
all the goods that have been brought into New South
Wales in anticipation of higher duties, the amount,
£8,000,000, could easily be realised. The only Protection
we want is : (1) Freedom to produce and export our
material in our own way, and no Legislative interference
with rates of labor. (2) Cheap and expeditious carriage
to the nearest and best markets in Australia. (3) Mode-
rate customs duties, which, while not unnecessarily
raising the cost of articles used in production, will give
sufficient revenue to carry on the affairs of the Common-
wealth and the State Governments.
Isn’t there even one rich Freetrade monopolist-
one M’Millan or Bacon —who will stand by
Freetrade ? Bacon theoretically believes with all
his heart in Freetrade, and Australia can get
Freetrade in the same degree as Britain by the
same process which enables Britain to have it—by
levying about five times as much direct taxation
(local and national) on Bacon and his kind as
Bacon pays already. But Bacon, the rich Free-
trader, doesn’t propose to have Freetrade on the
only possible conditions, much as he believes in it.
He would, apparently, rather sacrifice his political
principles than pay up. So he proposes, like
Freetraders Reid and M’Millan, that £8,000,000
be raised by customs duties. Customs duties, he
holds, increase prices, but apparently BACONisquite
willing to increase prices by a bad policy which
ruins the country rather than pay extra direct tax-
ation for the sake of a good one which makes the
country rich. The only stipulation appears to
be that the duties (which save Bacon from direct
taxation) must be so adjusted that they won’t
help to create any new industries that might
furnish people with employment and wages (and
thereby diminish Bacon’s supply of cheap labour),
and that they won’t enrich any manufacturers,
nobody except squatter Bacon and importer
M’Millan and their kind having any right to be
rich in N.S.W. Also rich Bacon, in addition to
saving himself and his class of wealthy men, the
heavy direct taxation which is essential to the
policy he believes in, and taxing the people
i 0 or 15 per cent, on everything they
use ; and by his own theory thereby
raising the price of all their daily necessaries:
and making dead sure that they will get no coun-
terbalancing advantages in the shape of extra
work and wages through the creation of new in


dustries—in addition to all this he wants other
things. He wants cheap railway freights (they
are already so cheap that the people are taxed to
make up the loss incurred by carrying rich
Bacon’s goods below cost), and no interference
with his right to pay the lowest possible wages,
and to employ any kind of cheap nigger or other
labour that he can find. The wealthy Freetrader
wants a good deal, but he always points out that
he is grabbing everything out of pure unselfish-
ness and an intense desire to do good to his
fellow men.
4
A Lovely Importing Bing.
The most awful exposure that has struck any per-
son or gang for a long while is that with which
Melb. Age last week staggered the Reaper and
Binder Manufacturers’ Association. Syme’s organ
quoted figures and price-lists, and proved up to
the hilt that the Iron Moulders’ Association of
Brantford, Canada, and other American manufac-
turers build their reapers-and-binders at a cost of
£lO ; that they sell them to agencies at £l4 to £l5
wholesale; and that the latter supply them to the
American farmers at £lB each, complete. Last
year one firm alone of those forming this Associa-
tion sold 10,500 such machines at that price.
Railway and ocean freight to Australia would
bring the retail price up to £2l or £22, and vet
the Victorian farmer (there being Freetrade in
reapers-and-binders) has to pay £55 for every
such machine he buys. The importers, being
taxed with this rapacious extortion, replied that
the extra charge was to cover the cost of
repairs. To which the farmer replies “Bun-
kum ! ” Even if the machines were repaired
gratis until they became a mass of string and
rust —which they certainly are not —the cost
would not amount to three times the price of the
article as landed on the wharf. The Age further
charged that certain members of the Victorian
ring, who in a weak moment had sold a machine
under the fixed price (£55) and had supplied free
sets of new parts, were fined for so doing, and so
far nobody has arisen in a state of indignation to
deny this. Reapers and binders are admitted
to Victoria duty free, and when that State’s
present tariff was fixed up a few years ago, the
Argus barracked loudly for such easement, “in
the interests of the poor farmer.” It barracks the
same way to-day and will continue to do so until
the “poor farmer” turns round and smites it in
the eye by asking for a heavy duty on these
machines, so that the local manufacturer—the real
manufacturer, not the mere importer and putter-
together of parts—may build and sell him the
machines he wants at a fair price without
fear of being ruined by the machinations of a
close corporation of fleecers. Of course if
the local man tried to make them as things are
now, the importing ring, with all its accumulated
wealth behind it, would cut prices until he was
ruined. Then it would put prices up again and
recoup its temporary losses. The importing ring
always works little devices like that. Freetrade
in reapers-and-binders has merely served to make
them about the most ruinously expensive iron-
mongery going, and the farmer is so thankful for
the consideration shown him by the Freetrade
Argus in this matter that he would like to fall
upon its neck and break the same in three places.
No wonder the Freetrade importer is about the
richest brigand in Australia, and no wonder he is
anxious, even with tears, lest the country should
adopt Protection, whereby the local manufacturer,
against whom he solemnly warns the public,
would break up his fat monopoly.
♦
Trial by Newspaper.
Edwin Nash, who shot his wife awhile back in
Richmond (Melb.), was duly convicted, and now
awaits the hangman. There was no doubt as to
the murder, and the only possible plea in defence
was that of insanity. It was shewn that accused
had years ago been injured by a blow on the head
to such, an extent as to impair his reason, also to
make it unsafe for him to touch liquor ; and that
he had subsequently attempted suicide ; also that
he had no quarrel with his wife and had no
apparent reason for killing her—the only sugges-
tion on this point being his own, viz., that he
intended to burn her hat, but thinking that that
would be poor spite, shot her. The fool jury
evidenced its bias before it retired to consider the
verdict by coolly asking Judge Williams if there
were not some story that accused had shot his
wife owing to her refusal to give him money. His
Honor promptly squelched this unwarrantable
suggestion, and. straightly charged the twelve to
find their verdict on the evidence only, adding
that if there were any ground for such accusation
the prosecution would have brought it forward.
But His Honor said no word about this shameless
and dishonest prejudicing of the case against the
accused by every local paper immediately the man
was arrested, to which action was doubtless due
the jury’s bias and its consequent inability to
give a conscientious verdict.
4
An Ideal Capital or a Blot.
This item went casually round the Australian
dailies, a week or two ago, and attracted far less
attention than it deserved:
THE NATION’S CAPITAL.
Washington has just been holding a celebration of its
one hundredth anniversary as the nation’s capital. When
in 1800 President Adams took up his residence in the un-
finished White House, Washington was an undeveloped
tract of farm land, with not more than two really com-
fortable habitations within its bounds. It was long
derisively called the “ city of magnificent distances,”
because of its vacant lots and -vast unfinished and
unsettled streets. It is to-day, however, one of the
handsomest cities of the world, and its ambitious plan
and magnificent distances are fully justified. Many of
our cities which grew up haphazard would now be glad if
some large intelligence hod from the beginning directed
their growth The lesson of Washington should be of
especial interest to Australia, with its problem of found-
ing a new Federal city. In such an enterprise there is
less danger of planning too largely than of finding, after a
few years, that the Government reservations are too
small. Washington is still raw, and its architectural
possibilities are still enormous, but enough has been done
to call for the enlargement of the original scheme even
now.
This is the idea The Bulletin bad in its mind
long ago when it urged that the Federal territory,
instead of being limited to the minimum of 100
square miles mentioned in the Commonwealth
Constitution, should be expanded (the Constitu-
tion allows of indefinite expansion) to at least
5000 square miles. Also, it is the reason why it
urged that the Commonwealth should be sole
ground landlord of this territory for ever, and
that there should be laid out in the centre of
it an ideal city with space enough to accommodate
a million or two or more of people when the time
comes. The time will come right enough, though
it may be long in coming. The transient Fat
Man of to-day says, after the manner of his kind,
that the amount of rental to be gained by keeping
the territory Government property isn’t enough
to be worth talking about, and the land might as
well be sold to the enterprising private landlord
at whatever it will fetch. And he is right in this
sense, that the rental will be nothing worth
speaking of at first—though it will .almost cer-
tainly be a million or two per annum in the course
of years, which is certainly worth talking ot.
Also, the proposal to spread the Federal territory
to an area of 70 miles by 70, or 80 miles by 80, so
that the unearned increment will all be reserved
for the people, and won’t slop over the borders on
to the private landlord’s property outside, looks
extravagant enough to those who have no eye to
anything beyond to-morrow. At first the intant
capital isn’t likely to much enhance the value of
land more than three miles from the front door or
Parliament House. But a time will come when it
will be a great city, and the land for 35 miles
around will be multiplied in value many times
through that city’s existence; and for that reason
The Bulletin wants the Commonwealth to annex,
and hold on for ever to, every inch of land for 35
or 40 miles in each direction from the door of Par-
liament House. If it doesn’t it will be so much
the greater loss to the people hereafter. During
the Federal campaign George Dibbs scoffed with
a large foolish scoff at the idea of building a new
capital, and expecting it to grow into a city;
and quoted as evidence the case of lonesome
Ottawa, which has been 30 years the political
centre of Canada, and has only, risen from noth-
ing to a population of 45,000. Similarly otherpeople
like Dibbs sneered two or three generations ago
at the absurdity of laying out a great city where
Washington now stands. Washington has grown
up and filled the original plan, and the descen-
dants of the people who sneered at it as a city of
great empty spaces now ask why on earth, their
ancestors didn’t see further ahead, and lay it out
on a still larger scale. Sydney was left to grow
as it pleased because the short-sighted dullards of
100 years ago couldn’t understand that it would
ever be any more than a village, and as a conse-
quence it is a slovenly city of crooks and angles
and alleys, with hardly a presentable street in its
whole area. And now people look back and ask
why their thick-headed progenitors lacked the
sense to devise a big city on a rational plan
where the N.S.W. capital stands, and why they
were such incapables as not to see that a great
population might collect there in course . of
years. Yet many of these same people, being
just like their dull forbears, ask what is
the use of planning out a great Federal city when
there will never be a great population to
fill it, or reserving 5000 square miles . of
territory that will mostly never be anything
but prairie. They look on their capital as
the ancient blue-painted unforeseeing Briton
did on London, wherefore London was allowed to
grow up as it pleased with awful consequences.
The Bulletin’s theory is that the Federal city
should be laid out with wide streets and squares
and parks on a scale to accommodate a population
of 2,000,000. If it is so planned out and the mil-
lions don’t come, the only loss will be a few hun-
dred pounds spent in pegging out a few more
streets than are wanted. If it isn’t so planned
out and the millions do come, it will probably
grow to be another shapeless blot like Sydney.
Australia doesn’t want two blots.
♦
The Lyne Government’s Financial
Derangement.
The news was sprung on Australia last Monday
that that astounding association of incapables,
the Lyne Government of N.S.W., has floated a
£1,000,000 loan in London at 4J per cent. In
other words, it has sold at £99 £1,000,000 worth
of 4 per cent. Treasury Bills having a currency of
four years. Now the money could almost cer-
tainly have been obtained twice over in Australia
at 3J per cent. It could certainly have been ob-
tained ten times over at 4 per cent. The Lyne
Government has floated two batches of Treasury
bills in England. The first time it offered 4 per
cent, interest, and was willing to sell each £lOO
bill for £99 10s. No Australian investor was
allowed a chance to take up this highly-
profitable stock. John See, the foolish
potato - merchant from somewhere down
Darling Harbour way, explained that the
very high price of 4 per cent, was offered in
England because the Lyne-See Government didn’t
think Australia would supply the money at so
lowa rate. Then the Government gave the lie
direct to its own thin excuse by offering 3| per
cent. Treasury bills in N. S. W. at £lOO, and they
were taken up enthusiastically. It reserved its
4 per cent, security for the favored and coddled
British investor, and told its own countrymen —
the people who maintain this strange herd of
incapables and unaccountables, and pay their
salaries—that 3g per cent, securities were good
enough for a poor mean lot like them. Since then
it has floated two more batches of Treasury bills
(£500,000 each) in Australia-at 3J percent., and
the public rushed them each time. The very latest
issue was made two weeks ago, when the Lyne-
See Government asked N.S.W. for a 3| per cent,
loan of £500,000, and was offered £617,900 —and
this despite the fact that a City of Melbourne loan
of £350,000 at 31 per cent, was on the market the
same week. (The City of Melbourne was offered
£565,500, so Australia was ready to find £1,183,400
at 3J per cent, at the shortest notice). And there
is still so much money in the country that the
Queensland Government, whose credit is far worse
than that of N.S.W., is this very week confidently
asking for the loan of £1,000,000 in the local
market at 3J per cent. The local market has lent
every penny that was asked of it, and every 31
per cent, loan yet offered has been more than sub-
scribed. There is even now £23,000,000 of coin
available in the Australasian banks —over a
million more than there was a year ago, despite
the heavy local flotations in the interim. And
the awful Lyne-See Government, with all this
abundance of coin available locally, pays the Eng-
lish investor 4j- per cent. It again follows its old
policy of offering low interest to the poor,
mean, no-account Australian, and high interest to
the lofty and important Britisher. It lets the
Australian have the per cent, loans, and strictly
reserves the 4| per cent, one for the Englishman.
On this one deal it deliberately and needlessly
throws away about £6OOO a year. The most
kindly theory is that the transaction is incredible
foolishness, bordering on the lunatic asylum, and
that the Lyne-See Government doesn’t know
enough finance to run a banana-cart. The other
possible interpretation is well, the Daily
Chronicle’s complaint, cabled from London, that
the loan was floated in a “ hole-and-corner” fashion
will doubtless lend some extra energy to the in-
vestigation which assuredly looms in the near dis-
tance.
4
Barton’s Great Mistake.
It becomes more and more evident that Federal
Premier Barton is making a huge mistake in not
standing for the Senate. There is no possible
reason why the Premier should not be in the
Senate. It is as democratic and as thoroughly
representative a Chamber as the House of Reps.,
and except in the matter of finance it is fully as
powerful. In the Senate Barton would be' the
man who represents a whole State, and that the
most populous State in the Commonwealth—not
one twenty-fifth part of a State. He would be
the man who was returned by the biggest vote in
Australia. He would represent more people than
any other politician in Australia. And his candi-
dature ought to do an immense amount of good
in the way of raising the status of Federal Upper
House candidates. The people have grown
accustomed to assume that an Upper House is a
useless unavoidable evil, to which mildewed
human fossils gravitate by a natural pro-
cess of decay and a natural accumulation of
barnacles. Up to now they have certainly failed
to realise that the Federal Senate is as democratic,
as popular, and almost as powerful as the other
Federal Chamber. Everybody is rushing to
secure good men for the various seats in the
House of Representatives, while strange old dead-
and-gone wrecks, fools, cranks, rogues, adventur-
ers, incapables, political bounders, advertising
nonenties, fossils and curios, ghosts, spectres and
banshees constitute almost the whole crowd of
Senatorial candidates up to date. It appears just
possible that three-fourths of the Senate will con-
sist of this awful mass of incapacity through sheer
lack of decent applicants. And if it does,
Australia will suddenly realise that these derelicts,
who have got in by default, have as much power
as the Representatives. The result is likely to be
surprising as well as disastrous. If a few men of
Barton’s calibre would stand for the Senate it
might then gradually dawn on the public mind
that the Senate is a thoroughly democratic
Chamber, and a place that the biggest statesmen
should be proud to get into—not a Benevolent
Asylum, or a Political Soup Kitchen, or a Home
for Parliamentary Incurables.
4
That Filthy, Beautiful Harbor.
The; plague was due in Sydney on 24th January,
and with hospitable intent Sydney makes every
preparation for its expected guest. Blackwattle,
Rozelle and Johnston’s Bays have now attained
malodorous fame, and the metropolitan suburbs
of Annandale, Balmain West, Glebe, Glebe
Island, Pyrmont and Drummoyne are nightly
asphyxiated rather than wooed by Nature’s
balmy sleep. The water in the neighbourhood of
these harbour districts is strangely discoloured,
and thousands of dead fish fester on the fore-
shores. The poison in the water, moreover,
makes yellow the white-lead in the paint used on
the steamers’ hulls, and turns black the copper
sheathing. One resident declares that he has had
to release from their work several employes who
had become ill through breathing the tainted air.
He states also that there are several sewers dis-
charging into Rozelle Bay above Glebe Island
bridge, and that the qrea of the inlet could not
possibly be flushed out by the tides, as the con-
struction of the new bridge completely blocked it.
Therefore the eventual silting up of the bays re-
ferred to by the filth carried into them through the
sewers is inevitable. Along the foreshores rats
are more numerous than ever. A captain of a
timber barque believes he would have died had he
been compelled to sleep aboard his craft. When
he entered the Bay his vessel was white with'
fresh paint, but it rapidly became slate-coloured;
also the foul air penetrated into the cabins,
and blackened the paint-work. In the vici-
nity of the bay typhoid rages, and the re-
sidents tremble with reminiscences of Plague.
One of them drew up from the bay a bucket of
water, subjected it to analysis, and found in it a
considerable quantity of blood. Same complainant
states that putrid offal often floats on the harbour-
water near his yard. Armed with these unpleasant
tales, the residents besought the authorities. to
send down a health-officer to inspect the locality.
He came, saw, and said that “ the discolouration
of the water was due to the increased growth of
infusorial organisms,” which, in the mass, is of a
reddish colour, and, therefore, thought by the
unscientific to be blood from Glebe Island abat-
toirs. But “ infusorial organisms ”. do not emit a
stench that discolours white paint-work, and
makes men vomit. Neither do they collect in any
shape undistinguishable from reeking offal. The
fact is that the continuance of Glebe Island as the
slaughtering site of much of the city’s meat is a
disgrace that howls to Heaven night and day..
But, then, the Plague must be prepared for, and
it is an ill host that grudges his guest bed and
board.
4 •
“ Drawing the Line.”
Re the proposed sending of people here to recruit
for Barnum Powell’s S’African police. Sydney
Morning Herald grandiloquises :
In times of peril to the Empire all other considerations
are forgotten, and Australia is proud to contribute men
and money towards the defence of less fortunate mem-
bers of the Empire. But the limit must be clearly fixed
somewhere, and the proper line of demarcation would
assuredly be when it is proposed that the rulers of the
Australian States should help Sir Alfred Milner, or
General Baden Powell, or anybody else, to attract our
young men elsewhere. We are not disposed to denude
ourselves of the best part of our population.
Quite so ! —but the distinction drawn by the S.M.
Herald is without a difference, except that, in
the case of the contingents the Australian Govern-
ments themselves acted as recruiting-sergeants,
and were able to give their particular personal
friends billets as officers, whereas the police will
have their own recruiters, and no officers will be
wanted. As for “ peril to the Empire,” the peril
at this moment is possibly greater than it was
when the first contingents sailed. Then the
British held practically all Cape Colony, and
.Natal to the Tugela. Now it is a question
whether they hold a square mile in S’Africa
outside their outpost-lines. Also, the supply of
recruits in the United Kingdom is falling off just
as it did at the end of the Crimean war. Great
Britain has never before tried to keep an all-
British army of 200,000 men or more in the field,
and it is a question whether the population can
stand the strain of providing some 20,000 recruits
every three months. The rule is that no European
country can give more than 1 per cent, of its able-
bodied males to the war-Moloch in any one year
without serious industrial disturbance. France
found that out in 1793 and 1813.
. 4
Bits from Kingston.
C. C. Kingston, Federal Minister for Customs,
got a reception at Sydney Temperance Hall such
as few public men ever receive or deserve. A few
items from his forceful speech
Great Britain had Protection for a couple of hundred
years, and had established her manufacturing industries
beyond the possibility of injury by foreign assault before
she threw her gates open to the foreigner. To say that
Australia should imitate England seemed to him to sug-
gest what was utterly futile and worthless. Turkey, he
believed, was the only other Freetrade country. He
would throw in Turkey, and he thought it would be
found that there was just as much parallel between the
condition of Turkey and Australia as there was between
Australia and Great Britain when Great Britain adopted
Freetrade. . . .
If he recollected rightly, Mr. Reid, the present leader of
the Opposition, was in favor of preferential treatment
being given to Great Britain. (Cheers.) But what did
that mean? It meant Protection to British manufac-
tures, and if we were going to give Protection to British
manufactures why should we not give it to our own
people? (Cheers.) A Swiss patriot, when speaking about
his duty towards his canton and the Federation, said his
skin was nearer and dearer to him than his shirt.
(Laughter.) It seemed to him that the Governmentand the
people of Australia should be nearer and dearer to Aus-
tralians than the people of any other country.
But as regards N.S.W. Freetrade tariff, whether it was
framed by Mr. Reid, the leader of freetraders, or anybody
masquerading under the name of Freetrader, it was a
Protectionist tariff. (Laughter and applause.) It re-
minded him of the story of the man who, having taken
the pledge, was found soon after dead drunk. To this
supposed convert the minister said, on seeing his cheerful
condition, “ I thought you took the pledge, and became
a teetotaller.” “ Yes,” the convert replied, with a marked
hiccough, “ I did, but you see I’m not a bigoted teeto-
taller.” (Laughter and cheers.) Now the man who
framed this Freetrade tariff was, it was quite evident, not
a bigoted freetrader. (Laughter.) Did Mr. Reid mean to
tell him that in framing a tariff for the Commonwealth
he would put a duty of £7 per ton on sugar, and at the
same time an excise of £7 ? (Applause.) He would not
dare to do it.
“ Radical ” expostulates
Ed. Bulletin.—l note with some surprise that when-
ever you refer to Federal P.M.G. Drake you assume that
he flung his democratic principles into the sea when he
entered the Philp Govt. He did nothing of the kind.
Drake did not somersault with the Q. Govt., the Q.
Govt, somersaulted over to Drake. Premier Philp’s
platform is the most advanced programme ever submitted
to the Q. electors, and Piiilp is acknowledged one of the
straightest and whitest men in a crooked and piebald
crowd. Besides, show me the man who has stuck to the
self-righteous and mud-brained Labor Party as Drake
stuck to them. He acted the part of political school-
master to the Parliamentary party, and when they had
acquired a little dangerous knowledge their bumptious-
ness and superciliousness became intolerable. Drake
battled for 12 years to re-establish the old Liberal party.
He wrecked a growing practice at the bar ; bled his pocket
to feed democratic papers and pressmen ; wrote, spouted,
and organised—and failed. He no sooner got a creditable
batch of front rankers to face the music against the Coali-
tion crowd, then the other side politically bought them up
and Drake was left lamenting. Moroan (present Assembly
Speaker) and Powers (present Crown Solicitor) ratted on
Drake. When the muddle took place at the end of ’99
Drake stuck to his guns, and was willing to shoulder the
responsibility of his action in assisting to defeat Dickson ;
but the Labor men, being in a majority, insisted upon a
majority of portfolios. This the Ministerial malcontents
wouldn’t stand, and refused to support Dawson. Drake
saw the case was hopeless and threw it up. Then Philp
offered him a portfolio, without stipulating any con- •
ditions, and he took it. He would have been the biggest
ass in Australia had he refused. Drake owes the Labor
party nothing ; the Labor men owe Drake much. They
should try to repay their debt at the coming Federal
elections.
4
Some bloodthirsty lunatic writes thus in the lead-
ing columns of Hobart Mercury :
There are many things in connection with the war in
S’Africa which have yet to be straightened out, and
which would have been made plain long ago but for the
foolishness of the British in refusing to accept the maxim
a la guerre a la guerre.
We stated some time ago the way in which the Germans
acted towards certain franc-tireurs and the village that
sent them forth, as showing what the usages of war allow.
They shot those whom they captured, and they fined the
village that sent them forth a very large sum. No one
said that this was brutal; no one denounced the Germans,
least of all the French, who, themselves, were prepared
to do the same thing if they had the chance. Curiously
enough, we have before us a number of Le Petit Journal,
a paper which has the largest circulation in France,
which contains an account of the attack of the
Germans on the town of Ohateaudun in 1870.
This was an open town, which could not be
successfully defended, but a number of franc-tireurs
and others threw up barricades, and resisted the
attacks of the Germans, who were in overwhelming force,
for some time. The defence was pure madness, and
brought the inhabitants under that rule of war which
allows the slaughter of those who defend a position which
is clearly untenable, and so cause a useless loss of life.
The Germans shot all the franc-tireurs they got hold of,
and then proceeded to burn down the town. Over 200
houses are said to have been destroyed, many old and in-
firm persons were burned in their beds, and a large num-
ber of women who assisted in the defence were slain. . . .
It appears to be quite certain that the British will have to
enforce these rules in South Africa, for the Boers are a
people who do not understand forbearance of any kind.
In another part of the Mercury is given an
account of how 27 British troopers at Klipplaat
encountered a large body of Boers, against whom
they gallantly held the small hills until at sunset,
under cover of heavy fire from the main body, 200
Boers charged the kopjes and overpowered the
defenders. The Boers stripped them of their arms,
and after complimenting them on their bravery, re-
leased them. According to the “ usages of war,”
as defined by the Mercury, that plucky handful
of Britishers should have been all shot when cap-
tured, for, says the bloodthirsty Mercury, “The
rule of war allows the slaughter of those who
defend a position which is clearly untenable, and
so cause a useless loss of life.” But, perhaps, the
Vandemonian rag’s “usages of war” are only for
Boers. By the way, will Chamberlain kindly
send along a knighthood to the Mercury office.
It is indeed terrible to watch the struggles of a
strong bauble-hunter in his Jingo agony.
4
“ N.Q.” to The Bulletin
The latest wriggle of the Q. piebald press is to moan
that the miasmatic climate of the northern tropical
sugar-country is so deadly that nought but Kanaka labor
will stand the strain. Seeing that the Islanders’
death-rate climbs up to 80 per 1000 per annum in
the fever season this is a poor sort of Dry
Dog argument with a boomerang-twist. Whilst
they are boosting the claims of Tommy Tanna and
00. how can they dodge the hard fact that 400 miners
have been working for years on Towalla goldfield, within
25 miles of Geraldtown, N.Q. ? This district enjoys the
toughest climate on the eastern coast. The yearly rain-
fall is about 170 in., and in the wet season the daily fall is
caught in a bucket and measured with a carpenter’s rule.
Also, at the Proserpine (Bowen-Mackay district) the
majority of the sugar-holdings are from 48 to 160 acres
each. Ninety per cent, of these are worked profitably by
white men with here and there a time-expired nig. There
the cane is cut by the “square head” and his merry
men. I write from experience on the spot. The cedar-
cutters and settlers on the Daintree and Mossman, Port
Douglas district are mostly Australians, not black-and-
tan. These “ hireling scribes ” write to order, knowing
well that if the big estates are burst up into workable
holdings with a central mill, the shibboleth of “ Give us
Kanakas or we die ” would be soon knocked out. Even
if sugar costs a quarter of a farthing per lb. more isn’t
the white Australian game worth the candle ?
4
Melbourne Argus became greatly grieved the
other day about how Protection would raise the
price of the Holy Scripture, and considering how
badly the Argus needs the Holy Scripture any
increase in the cost of that volume would cer-
tainly be a serious matter to it. So it got some-
body to write to it after this fashion :
In America I found I could not buy a Bible without
paying 25 per cent, as protectionist duty, so that a poor
man who could not afford to pay the higher price could
not obtain salvation under Protection. He was taxed for
trying to save his soul.
The Preetrade man’s idea is that nothing is pro-
duced anywhere, but must always, of necessity,
be imported from somewhere else, wherefore a
duty on it must needs raise the price. Yet the
. 'United States has issued the cheapest Bible on
earth— price one halfpenny. And in Freetrade
Britain it is illegal to print a Bible unless the
universities of Oxford and Cambridge are paid for
the privilege. And the cheap American Bible
has before now been refused admission to Aus-
tralia, on the ground that it was an interference
with the monopoly of the two English univer-
sities, and with the sale of their much dearer
article !!! You can only get to Heaven through
the J. Bull toll-gate.


BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.
376 George Street, SYDNEY j
BO Queen Street, BRISBANE;
On Your Holidays
USE A
PREMO CAMERA.
Your Outfit is not complete without it.
PBIOJ 25/. TO £2O
Illustrated Catalogues
Post Free.
Note Our Addresses :
A
260 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
66 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE.
HEUDON SPA WATER
A NATURAL
MINERAL WATER
/A
B/y"
Sulphide Corporation
** LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead,
and
or
Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Large Parcels or
’Regular Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek
A E. SAVAGE,
Manager.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & 00.,
Agents for Australia
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “ Convict Martyr.”
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Lyceum “ The Ladder of Life.”
Palace “Tom, Dick and Harry,” and
“ A Highland Legacy.”
Her Majesty’s “ Trilby.”
Theatre Royal “ The Scarlet Feather.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Barabbas.”
Her Majesty’s ........ “ Florodora.”
Theatre Royal “ The Great Ruby.”
Bijou “ Puss in Boots."
AthenjEUM Hall Williamson’s Bio-Tableau.
Town Hall “ Newbury-Spada Concert (Satur-
day Evening).
Masonic Hall O. M. Rodney.
As much of Sydney as the Theatre Royal
could well hold gathered to view the “ Scarlet
Feather,” with Australia’s long-lost and much-
lamented Nellie Stewart as the Princess who is
disguised as a boy for urgent State reasons. It
was more than pleased with Nellie Stewart, but
its opinion re the “ Scarlet Feather ” is in doubt.
That opera is of French origin, but has been so
grievously repaired in English by one Greenbank
that it has become a weak proceeding and of small
account. The Society of the Scarlet Feather
originally consisted of 12 rich young men of
Monaco, who pledged themselves, somewhere
about the beginning of this century, not to enter
into the honorable but oft-times rather shapeless
estate of matrimony. The penalty of marriage
was assassination and the division of the de-
ceased’s property among the brotherhood. By
the time ten red-feathered brethren had married,
and died, and been confiscated, the two survivors
had grown very rich and very lonely, so they both
wedded in secret while still proudly wearing the red
plume of a single and immoral existence. The
prince disguises his wife as a page, and the
chevalier passes off his bride as the wife of a
doctor who is already married to a fat woman
that desires explanations. The doctor isn’t con-
sulted ; he is just rushed into the billet. These
doings lead up to some perfectly tame complica-
tions that will feed out of the hand.
* • * *
All the same there are reasons why the
“Scarlet Feather ” should be a reasonable success.
Nellie Stewart, in boy’s clothes, is one of these.
Miss Stewart’s face is still young and fair to look
upon, and her voice was rich and sweet the night
this scribe listened to her, whether it is always
that way or not. Also her figure makes a dainty
page ; and she throws herself into her part with a
vim that would brighten up the father of all dead
operas—and the “Feather,” despite its draw-
backs, isn’t quite so dead an operatic parent as all
that. Miss Elise Cook and Miss Emmie
Owen take turns at the character of Renee,
the bride of the other Scarlet Featherist. The
writer hasn’t yet seen Miss Owen in the part, but
if she is as good as Miss Cook she is very good,
indeed. Joseph Tapley is also in fine form ; ditto
Mrs. Stanislaus Calhaem as the doctor’s fatted and
bitter wife. On the other hand, Avery Belvwa is
only moderately effective; his Prince of Monaco
looks small, and his voice seems rather small, and
he rules his principality in a small, undecided sort
of way. Possibly a frail little principality of that
size would break in two if ruled with too much
energy. Charles Seguin’s doctor only sets one
thinking sadly how Lauri would have played the
part. Fred. Ellis, as a Marquis with a violent
cold, is remarkable for a loud and rather novel
nose-blow, and has a certain amount of restrained
humour in moderation ; and Charles Berkeley,
who has great capacity as a humorist, and seldom
gets a chance to show it, is lost in a small part as
a publican.
* * * •
The Dartos make their first Sydney ap-
pearance in the “Scarlet Feather.” They have
nothing on earth to do with the story, but they
will probably do more to keep it going than all
the rest of the co. put together. There is a lady
Darto and a gentleman Darto, and they dance
like no other two people that Sydney has ever
seen. It is all ball-room dancing (of a kind), and
there is no reason why the maidens who thud on
the floors of Potts Point when the dance is on in
Potts Point’s gilded halls should not study them,
and learn to do it just like that. A few of them
would probably break their backs the first time
they tried to dance like the lady Darto, but those
who survived and learned the art would lend a
new grace and flavour to existence.
** * *
“Tom, Dick, and Harry,” which has suc-
ceeded the long-enduring “Message from Mars,”
at Sydney Palace, is a knockabout kind of farcical
comedy, which is better than its name. Also, the
authoress is a Mrs. Pacheco, and it is notable as
being the second comedy written by a lady which
this paper remembers having met with. The
other one was “ A Mother of Three,” produced
long ago by the Broughs, when Mrs. Brough was
disguised in pants and a tail-coat for serious
family reasons, and was consequently suspected
by her husband, just returned from Peru, of being
the man who had seduced herself. “ Tom, Dick,
and Harry ” is a case of mistaken identity,
aggravated by three red-headed men being
exactly alike. As a rule, the perfect similarity of
two red-headed men is bad, and when a third
absolutely identical red-headed man is added
things become chaotic. Two of them are identical
because they can’t help it, and the third is exactly
the same as both of them by fell purpose
and premeditated malice. Dick is a married
man and the husband of a damp woman. Harry
is his twin brother, and is engaged to the girl
with the ungreased cart-wheel laugh. They are
alike by nature, and presumably they dress alike
because they get their clothes cheaper by the job
lot. And Tom is disguised because, owing to his
infuriated father, he finds he can make love to his
best girl much more safely that way. He dis-
guises himself like the other two merely because
he finds Dick’s photo., and thinks Dick looks like
a man that he can live up to. He doesn’t disguise
himself to look like Oliver Cromwell because he
doesn’t feel equal to the character.
* * * •
So it comes to pass that three red-headed
men of great similarity get into one hotel. And
as each has an attached female, and as the females
don’t know each other, and each female knows her
own red-headed man only and is unaware of the
other two, each man is hugged as a regular thing
by three females, and each red-headed man is
accused by two other red-headed men of hugging
two females that he oughtn’t to. And the in-
furiated father aforementioned flies to a lunatic
asylum, and asks the doctor to give him something
that will prevent him seeing three red-headed
hallucinations. Alsoone red-headed man isarrested
for lunacy owing to his language, and the asylum
attendants, finding a similar man passing the door
immediately afterwards, become quite violent
with him for breaking out. When they capture a
third one their rage at him for breaking out again
is very bad indeed, and when the first one
breaks away and is recaptured their fury at
the constant breaking out of the red-headed
man is beyond all words. Things get sorted out
somehow towards 11 p.m., but it is a trying time
while it lasts. Hawtrey, as the embittered father,
is a mere side issue in the confusion, but he is a
real artist and does his part well so far as it goes.
The three red-headed men are of varying degrees
of efficiency, Herbert Ross being the best, while
Phillip Lytton comes second, and O. P. Heggie
brings up the rear. Stephenson, who used to be
the serious, good, brown man from Mars, is a long
and lank and impressive doctor, who spends most
of his time nervously seeking a bottle which is
supposed to have something good for red-headed
men in it. The four ladies, Misses Ruby Ray,
Roxy Barton, Lilian Bethell, and Madge Hope,
are so satisfactory all round that it is difficult to
make a selection, but an effort has been made to
put them in the order of merit. If they are dis-
satisfied with the arrangement it can be altered,
provided the four can agree as to how they want
it altered.
* • • *
“A Highland Legacy,” which precedes
Thomas, Richard, and Henry, has already been
favourably mentioned. The only visible change
is that the knees of the large Scotchman who is
bequeathed by a rich dying uncle to an im-
poverished nephew, to be fed and clothed by the
latter in token of forgiveness, are rather less
glaring than they were.
** * *
“ Brought to Justice,” which has replaced
Charles Reade’s masterpiece with the long pro-
verb-name at Sydney Criterion, is a play that
begins with hens and smock-frocks and an upright
agriculturist with a bad accent and an honest
heart. There is also a young gentleman in diffi-
culties, and a haughty heiress who owns the
estates to which the heroine is rightfully entitled.
Afterwards the play circulates round several
documents; firstly, a blue foolscap envelope con-
taining the proofs of the heroine’s claim ; secondly,
the heroine’s own marriage certificate which is
never brought bodily on the stage, but which,
being Scotch, is understood to be the only one of
its kind, and, therefore, the only satisfactory
evidence that the lady in question is not a person
of Sin. The habit which the otherwise methodical
Scotch nation once had of marrying in a casual
and off-hand manner by the couple merely remark-
ing on a piece of paper that they were married,
is a splendid one for the playright. Said play-
right makes no trouble about giving an English
certificate this characteristic also when it suits him,
though it is only the Scotch one that ever was a
lone and solitary document. Sometimes the
Scotch certificate never even amounted to a docu-
ment, but merely consisted of a statement that they
were married, made by the parties most concerned,
in the presence of witnesses. The married couple
had to keep these witnesses in whisky all the rest
of their lives, for if they weren’t pacified with
sufficient drink they refused to remember anything
about it and the family became illegitimate.
The wanderings of the other documents—the ones
in the blue foolscap envelope—-are various until
they are finally snatched by the heroine from
behind a Punch and Judy Show, when they cease
to trouble. A minute or two later the husband
dies in a sudden fashion, kindly leaving his
dubious wife along with his other assets to the
honest farmer, who has gone to sea during the
trouble, and on his own statement has returned
considerably damaged in brains through being
shipwrecked.
* * * *
There is less pistol shooting in this drama
than in most of its kind, and only one man falls
down anything (in this case a mine). Lily Dam-
Eier takes the part of the heroine who celebrates
er Scotch honeymoon by wearing hideous even-
ing sleeves, the sort of sleeves that only the wife
who possesses an extra strong English marriage
certificate can afford to annoy her husband with.
Forde and Buller act up to their usual standard,
Alfred Dampier remaining modestly in the green-
room all night.
** * *
“ Trilby ” is to be revived for a brief
season at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, beginning on
Saturday. Miss Edith Crane takes her old part
as the lady with the bare white feet, and Tyrone
Power will be the unclean, long-haired genius who
made ze music for ze pig-dog.
** * *
No change of bill has transpired at
Sydney Lyceum. The “ Ladder of Life ” howls
in its incoherent kilt with all the vigour herein-
before alluded to, and the Incriminating Docu-
ment blights everybody’s life, the same as usual.
** * *
Years ago—a g?od many years ago—
Colonel Fred Hiscocks was one of the best-known
of Australian showmen. His Federal Minstrels
were an institution, till the newer and more
various style of varidty-entertainment killed them
dead. They belonged to that old-time class of
show wherein the “ first part ” consisted of 10 or
12 burnt-cork gentlemen in painfully-accurate
evening dress sitting in a semi-circle, with a bones
at one end and a tambo at the other. There was
also the man in the centre who asked the burnt-
cork gentlemen to sing, which they did. with
intense seriousness. Between the song that was
just finished and the one that hadn’t commenced
the bones or the tambo invariably asked this
middle person two conundrums, in a thick voice,
about Mr. Johnsing and a dog, or some such
matter. When the curtain rose on the first
part the long row of black gentlemen were always
found standing up, each by his own chair, and the
middle-person—the one who was told the story
about Mr. Johnsing and the dog—would then say
in a deep voice : “ Gentlemen, be seated.” Fora
dozen years or so the gentlemen were immediately
seated every night. The bones and tambo sat
down frivolously with a horse laugh, but the
others did it as gravely as if they were putting
themselves on fixed deposit in a sound, old-
established bank. Horace Bent and Johnny
Cowan and many other temporary Ethiopians
made money for Hiscocks at the dingy Academy
of Music in those days, and Hiscocks’ belltopper
used to gleam like the Jasper Sea in the front
doorway. All that is dead and gone now.
Providence only knows what lias become of most
of the colored gentlemen who used to tell
in a thick voice about Johnsing’s dog and
things are not so good as they were with the
veteran manager. Wherefore a very large benefit
performance is to be held on Colonel Fred His-
cocks’ behalf at Sydney Tivoli next Thursday
afternoon. All the companies now in Sydney are
bearing a hand, and it is hoped the public will do
likewise.
** * *
Among many old favorites at Sydney
Tivoli, where the curtain advises one to smoke
only Hooligan’s Long Cut and drink nothing else
but Somebody’s pure beer, the “yaller girl,” Ida
May, is far and away the most picturesque and
best-draped, and her negro refrain deserves the
encore it receives. There are other people who sing,
and some who wheeze. Jalvan spins a top down
the edge of a sabre and juggles with three blocks
to the air of “ Cornin’ thro’ the Rye,” and does
other things more or less interesting. Lizzie
Kirk, with the voice of Irene Franklin and
a naivete of her own, comes along as a
good little Salvarmy girl who used to be
a dancer, and tries to reform the audience. Just
as the whole house is about to rise and
don red jerseys and poke bonnets, an old dance
tune comes stealing in, and the little Salvarmy
girl goes back into the comfortable, greasy paths
of sin, and throws her nether limbs about and dis-
plays her lingerie. Madame Bobe shows great
wrist ability on an instrument that is evidently
the sort of piano that Noah rescued from the
deluge. She also gets good effects out of the
violin, which is not intended to infer that the late
Poussard’s reputation has fallen in any way. The
most deplorable circumstance that has struck the
Tivoli lately is Mr. Geo. D’Albert, late of the
Alhambra, Empire, and London Pavilion. His
stock-in-trade seems to consist of a stride, a snig-
ger, and a desolation of copy-book trivialities and
the cheapest of all cheap moralities. Why
Rickards troubles his audience with D’Albert and
the curtain with the beer advertisement on it are
two things beyond comprehension.
** * *
“Barabbas” which made a very pictur-
esque appearance at Melb. Princess’s on Saturday,
is intended only for those who know the New
Testament. Also, it expects them to have read
Marie Corelli’s novel, from which the four-act
melodrama was adapted by Miss Maud William-
son, and this seems a lot to expect of the theatre-
going world in general. “On its own,” Barabbas
is an incomprehensible show steeped in gore, and
stuffed with vague allusions to matters that are
understood to have happened off the stage—a
canting, ranting spectacle with earthquake effects
at the end of the second act. Considered as a
fiction founded upon the Gospel according to St.
Luke, it is less entertaining and salacious
than Wilson Barrett’s memorable “Sign of
the Cross.” The dialogue is largely Corelli.
All the characters (with the exception of
an inebriated Pagan who hankers after
“ scrumptiosity ” in womankind) seem to talk on
stilts at the outset of their speeches. The third
line brings them to grief. They fall off their stilts
and finish the sentences in the lamest manner.
“ Barabbas ” doesn’t appeal with irresistible force
to anybody in particular. It is too gloomy and un-
convincing for the more intelligent, yet not suffi-
ciently preposterous for the disciples of Dan
Barry. As for the people who might have been
fetched by its title, they will hardly snuffle the
praises of a play which slates St. Peter whilst
glorifying such pet aversions as Judas Iscariot,
and the old-established Robber. The idea of
heaping scorn upon Peter strikes The Bulletin
as being most unbusinesslike.
* * * *
In the Woods-Williamson drama Barabbas
is a Juggins of pious tendencies. He maintains a
firm and wearisome faith in the “honor” of
Judas Iscariot’s sister, Judith, and he suffers
much on that account. Although- the drama is
not quite explicit re Miss Judith’s virtue, it seems
that she is a sassiety girl of widely-amorous sym-
pathies, addicted to impropriety with all her ad-
mirers save Barabbas the Juggins. An influential
Pharisee—probably the same Pharisee who prayed
louder than the hotel-keeper—brags of his success
with the lady ; also High Priest Caiaphas (all
these people are thinly disguised under aliases, so
that Kerristian feeling may not be shocked) is in-
cluded in her list of best boys. Everybody except
poor Barab. gets practical signs of her apprecia-
tion. Barab. knifes the Pharisee in the
first act for casting aspersions on Judith’s
moral character. Then a vociferous villain
named Amath sticks a false charge of robbery
and murder into the estimable hero, with the re-
sult that he languishes in gaol until a small
mob clamours for Pontius Pilate, alias Tiberius,
to set him free. Judith meets her infatuated
adorer at the local Government House, where he
is left to roam at large after Pontius has par-
doned him. At first she snubs the grimy ex-
prisoner on account of his dirtiness, and because
he needs a shave, but presently Barab. saves
Judith from the earthquake, so she graciously
strings him on again. Then they go hunting to-
gether for the missing Judas.- When Judas
arrives in a dead condition with a lot of stage
blood on his neck, where the cord had cut him,
Judith goes mad, after which she stabs the High
Priest, and dies at the feet of Barabbas. There
is no mention of Christ or Christianity. Nothing
that could serve to explain the meaning of the
yarn to an uninstructed heathen, is stated during
the play. All the same, the audience detected
symptoms of Belief in Judith, Barabbas,
Mrs. Pontius P., and all the other survivors.
The only prominent unbelievers didn’t survive at
all. They were murdered for their sins.
• * • *
“ Barabbas ” contains much talk and many
situations of the kind beloved by actors. In its
unrealistic way it is well constructed, and if the
two principals, Miss Williamson and Alfred
Woods, can induce themselves to sacrifice several
bits .of “fat” and gleams of limelight, the play
will no longer be tedious. Woods is strong and
Kyrle Bellewish in the name part, although he is
always too loud, and Miss Williamson’s Judith
holds the house even when the house is not carried
away by the scene. Miss Williamson, in fact,
displays some fine acting at times, without being
able to make the character of Judith appear
reasonable. Fifteen other people have parts in
“Barabbas.” Only one of these parts is very
badly acted ; some of them are valuable items as
far as they go. The scenery is good, and the
performers, as a rule, carry their clothes with
dignity. Collet Dobson, of the Julius Caesar
countenance, is a pleasing Pilate, and George
Majeroni makes gentle Judas look like the em-
bodiment of a prayer.
** * *
Rickards’s show at the Bijou is accepted
as a well-meaning, hard-working pantomime, in
which several comedians get fair chances to
comediate; the dancing is good all round, and the
principal boy is a more competent youth than the
average p.b. “ Puss-in-Boots” attempts nothing
that the company can’t perform pretty admirably.
The acrobatic turn of the De Wynne Bros, is an
entertainment in itself worth a shilling, and the
two legs of the thin Haytor have a swinging
capacity that has never been equalled in this
country since the first high kicker kicked its
shores.
#* # *
At Melbourne Royal they are now work-
ing the Balloon scene for all, or nearly all, it is
worth. The aerial theft of the Great Ruby by
the brown prince, and the subsequent dropping of
Albert Norman from the balloon car, will be con-
tinued for another week or two, anyhow.
** * *
“Florodora” in its eleventh week an-
nounces the approaching Last Nights, with evi-
dent uncertainty as to the nearness or otherwise
of their approach. On Monday there was to be a
new comedian introduced with a new song from
the second edition of “ Florodora” in London.
*# * *
Snazelle takes “Our Navy” away from
the Athenaeum Hall this week, and J. C. William-
son’s Bio-Tableau —the ’Graph with the Bull-
Fight pictures—will resume operations at the old
home on Saturday. Phil. Newbury and his Con-
cert Co. are to put in a second appearance at the
Town Hall on the same evening, by which time
the news of mellifluous Philip’s return to Mel-
bourne will have soaked into the public mind.
Clever Una Bourne gave a brilliant pianoforte
solo at the first concert.
** # *
Higher up Collins-street, at the somewhat
forgotten Masonic Hall, an entertainer from
South Africa—to wit, C. M. Rodney—will draw
upon an Extensive Repertoire, &c., for a
Sparkling Programme. The evening appointed
for Rodney’s first sparkle is Saturday, March 2nd,
and The Bulletin has some reason for believing
that the stranger in a strange hall will turn out to
be a bright and genial showman with a lot of tune
in his composition. Anyhow, the Rhodesian
press has credited Rodney with New Jokes. It
tells truth occasionally in matters where its war
feelings are not concerned.
** * *
Brisbane is to have what will be practically
a new leading theatre, under the management of
Harold Ashton, who continues his business con-
nection with the mighty J.C.W. The old Opera
House, reconstructed inside, refurnished and
sliding-roofed, will take the name of His Majesty’s,
and open its new doors to a perspiring populace
on March 23rd. Said that £3OOO is to be spent in
alterations and improvements, planned by archi-
tect Billy Pitt, M.L.C., of Melb., and these will
need to be worked at night and day for the next
three weeks. The shows booked for production at
His Majesty’s begin with Nance O’Neil. “Djin
Djin,” for the first time in Brisbane, comes along
at Easter, then “A Message from Mars,” fol-
lowed by “ Florodora ” and other Williamson co.
operas. Probably a season of Musgrove’s grand
opera will happen anon, and for four weeks, be-
ginning in October, the Broughs are definitely
booked. After all; the most practical of Aus-
tralian federationists are the showmen, headed by
Melb. Cup manager, Byron Moore.


The Financier and Bullionist of 2nd August,
1900, writes re the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited : “ Considering the world wide operations of the
Society, it is astounding that, with all its gigantic
ramifications and temptations to accept new business of a
risky nature, it has passed through the ordeal not only
scathless but with almost unparalleled progress.*
* * * *
There appears to be no abatement in the
number of contracts for dredging plants required. The
Austral Otis Eng. Co., South Melbourne, have completed
a large number of plants, and have still a great number
of contracts in hand for New Zealand and Victoria, in-
cluding a bucket dredging plant for the Ovens Valley
Gold Dredging Co., whose manager is Mr. Walter Hardie,
Pitt-street, Sydney.*
* * » »
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Since the start of the Broken Hill Proprietary’s
new 5000-ton mill, most of the Barrier mines have been
engaged in remodelling their concentrating plants on up-
to-date lines, and wisely show a preference for machines
which have proved most successful on the difficult fines
and slimes. The machines that can claim this distinction
are the “Luhrig” Vanners, as supplied by Messrs. W. &
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne. The South’s new mill will
include a dozen or so, and the Junction Co. has also de-
cided to erect a number of Luhrig Vanners as an impor-
tant adjunct to its large plant. Other mines would do
well to follow this good example.*
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
Mr. Mepban Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
“ENfiLANP’S FAVORITE.”
PLAYER’S
NAVY C
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
•2*
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
93/100%
Zinc Shaving’s, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasltrsjj Charges.
Hy. Markviald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st.., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; V Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NX.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of alt kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium {93/100 per cent,
pure), Bleaching Powder, Mining Requisites,
Candles, eto.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The astounding news that the N.S.W. Govern-
ment has just borrowed £1,000,000 in London for 4 years
at 4i per cent.—when expenses are allowed for it will
probably run to £4 7s. 6d. per cent. —sets the public
wondering if the Lyne Ministry is out of its mind, or if
it has got one. Here is its recent borrowing record :
(1) In February, 1899, the Lyne Government borrowed
£1,000,000 in London at 4 per cent. The loan was sold at
a discount, so the charge was a good deal over 4 per cent.
It was explained that this exorbitant transaction was
done because the money couldn’t have been obtained
locally at the price. No Australian investor was allowed
a chance to purchase these securities. One of the chief
reasons advanced why the A.M.P. Society (of Sydney)
should open a London office was that it might be on the
spot to invest Australian money (sent from Sydney) when
the N.S.W. fool-Government (located in Sydney) sold
high-priced loans like this in London, and wouldn’t give
the Society a chance to buy them in Sydney.
(2) In May, 1900, the same awful Government showed
that the money could have been obtained locally if asked
for, by selling £500,000 of 3J per cent, securities in Syd-
ney. The loan was rushed, and fetched a premium, so
that the interest was only about £3 9s. 6d.
(3) In September, 1900, it sold another 31 per cent, loan
of £500,000 in Sydney and was again rushed. The money
cost about £3 9s. 6d.
(4) About two weeks ago it floated a third £500,000 loan
in Sydney, and got the money at about £3 12s. It was
offered much more than it asked for, though a City of
Melbourne loan (also over-subscribed) was on the market
at the same time.
(5) Now it floats a loan in London at about £4 7s. 6d.
per cent., and again it refuses the Australian investor a
chance to buy the high-priced security. That is reserved
exclusively for the pampered British capitalist. The
reason ascribed is that the disastrous Lyne Ministry has
been thinking again, as it did this time last year, and
that it thinks more borrowing here might denude the
market of money and make the interest rate go up. This
explanation is about as foolish as the busted explanation
given for the costly London loan of a year ago. Look at
these facts: (a) There is £23,200,000 cash in Australasian
banks; £1,400,000 more than there was a year ago,
despite the large local borrowing (almost every State and
many local bodies have been borrowing locally) during
the past 12 months; (b) Interest is going down on the
whole ; not going up. The earnings of the various life
assurance societies prove this ; (c) Money is abundantly
available. Since Lyne’s ruinous British loan was floated
the Melbourne Board of Works, whose credit is miles
below that of N.S.W., has borrowed at £3 11s. per cent,
in Melbourne—about 16s. 6d. per cent, below the price
N.S.W. pays in London and where it asked for
£300,000 it was offered nearly £600,000. And the Queens-
land Government, whose credit isn’t within gunshot
of N.S.W., is even now offering a £1,000,000 3J per cent,
loan locally with every prospect of success. (and) And if the
floating of the £1,000,000 loan locally did send up interest
rates a little, isn’t that just what Australia has been
praying for ever since 1893? (e) Lastly, the Lyne Govern-
ment is accused by a London paper of selling the loan on
needlessly bad terms in a “ hole and corner ” fashion, to
“favoured individuals”—at least the cablegram appears
to say so most distinctly. And N.S.W. wants to know
all about this very badly indeed.
• * m •
The Queensland Government already owes
£33,081,805, equal to £67 16s. 9d. per inhabitant—the
biggest debt per head on earth. Of this about
£22,500,000 is partially productive—only partially. The
ether £10,407,275 is wholly unproductive. This unpro-
ductive debt, the interest on which has to be paid
wholly out of taxation, is equal to £2l 6s. 6d. per
inhabitant, which is more than the total debt per head of
either Germany, Russia, Austria, Italy, Spain, Sweden,
Norway, Denmark, Belgium, Switzerland, Greece, United
States, or Canada. It is also more than the total average
debt (£ls per head) in all Europe, and a considerable
amount of the European debt is represented by railways
and other profitable works, while Queensland’s £2l 6s. 6d.
per head is only the part of its debt which has no pro-
ductive assets whatever against it. And Queensland is
now asking for another £1,000,000. Certainly most of it
is to go in railways—but then Queensland is already
almost the most railwayed country on earth in proportion
to population, and its existing lines pay very badly.
Unless these States establish substantial sinking funds
for the reduction of their overwhelming liabilities some-
thing very interesting will happen some day.
• * * *
The Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria shows a
further improvement for the half-year ended 31st Decem-
ber, 1900. That is to say, it still fails to make ends meet,
but the loss on the ordinary business has been decreasing
for some time, and may possibly, in course of time, turn
into a profit. The L.M.B.’s recent record is :
t- Total
Reserves.
Dec., 1893 .. 1,952 .. .. £117,900
June, 1894 .. 261 .. .. 118,161
Loss on Losses on Pro-
Business. perty and Re-
Dec., 1894 .. 6,038 arrangement 112,123
Expenses. Total Deficit.
June, 1895 .. 6,617 .. £127,500 .. 21,994
Dec., 1895 .. 8,848 .. .. 30,842
June, 1896 .. 9,697 .. .. 40,539
Dec., 1896 .. 10,494 .. .. 51,033
(Interest on £900,000 debentures reduced from
4J to 3£ per cent.
Apparent Profit on
Loss on repurchase of
Business. depreciated
debentures.
June, 1897 .. £14,425 .. £16,513 .. 48,945
Dec., 1897 .. 4,398 .. 21,681 .. 31,662
June, 1898 .. 4,230 .. 2,556 .. 33,336
Loss on
Property.
Dec., 1898 .. 3,916 .. 1,782 .. 39,034
June, 1899 .. 4,198 .. 839 .. 44,071
Dec., 1899 .. 3,650 .. 4,033 .. 51,754
June, 1900 .. 3,244 .. 5,562 .. 60,560
Dec., 1900 .. 2,289 .. 114,711 .. 177,560
In addition to these visible losses £106,406 of
capital has been forfeited for unpaid calls, and this also
appears to have gone into the great gulf of depreciation,
making about £442,000 that has disappeared since 1893.
The Land Mortgage Bank has now a nominal paid-up
capital of £322,610, of which. £177,560 is lost, leaving
£145,050 intact (on paper, at all events). By making
heavy calls, which have realised comparatively little, and
selling property at a great loss, the debenture liability
has been reduced from £900,000 to £692,605, which is
still a very heavy load for a co. with so small a capital to
carry. The reduction of debenture interest to 3 b per
cent, was for five years only, and by the terms of the
agreement the rate reverts to 4£ per cent, at the end of
this year. If the English debenture-holders will continue
the 3b per cent, (all attempts to get a further
reduction have failed, and even the proposal of a
continuance of the present rate has been received none
too kindly), then it is possible, by calling up more capital,
and through the gradual improvement of business, the
Land Mortgage Bank may pull through. That is to say,
it may at last make its income cover its outgoings, which
it hasn’t done since December, 1894. If the debenture-
holders want their full 4£ per cent., however, the L.M.B.
may about as well close up. Whether the sums now
written off for depreciation are sufficient it is difficult to
say When a co. can’t earn enough to pay even 31 per cent,
interest on its debentures the natural inference appears
to be that its capital, on present property values, has
vanished entirely.
• * * •
The Australian Widows’ Fund issues its 29th
balance-sheet, covering the year to 31st October, 1900.
Some results in recent years are as under :
Added
Premiums. Interest ' Income. Ex P enße9 'Assurance
1893 £165,285 £55,799 £221,084 £36,233 £IOO-733
ISQI iff 442 57,729 215,171 36,908
1895
1896 155 080 58,799 213,879 37,(47 08,392
Investment Fluctuation Fund (3503), and £121,475 of As-
surance Fund written off to cover losses.
1897 150,602 58,446 209,048 38,060 49,005
1898 155,539 58,881 214,420 41,936 63,710
1899 161 603 60,853 222,456 48,951 57,866
1900 171,740 62,050 23 3 ;790 52 079 59,524
After allowing' for the large sum written off for deprecia-
tion in 1897, the assurance fund thus shows a net increase
of £422,681 in eight years, and now stands at ii,428,294.
In addition some of the foreclosed properties written
down in 1897 proved to be written down further than was
actually necessary, and have since sold for more than the
value set against them. These profits have been wisely
set aside to form anew Depreciation Fund, which now
stands at £7265. With the great improvement in pro-
perty values in Melbourne, where most of the losses were,
a good deal more of the big loss of 1897 may gradually
come back.
* * • *
The worst feature about the Australian Widows’
Fund is, and long has been, the heavy expense rate. Said
rate has varied in this fashion :
Expenses as Compared with Total Income.
1890 .. £l9 10 7 per cent. 1896 .. £l7 13 0 per cent.
1891 .. 18 6 0 „ 1897 .. 18 4 0 „
1892 .. 18 4 0 „ 1898 .. 19 11 1 >■
1893 .. 16 7 8 „ 1899 .. 22 0 1 „
1894 .. 17 3 0 ~ 1900 .. 22 5 6 „
1895 .. 19 15 8
These calculations are based on the total current income
from premiums and interest on investments ; the amounts
recovered from the large sum written off in 1897 are not
current income, and cannot be fairly included. The re-
sults are rather serious. The expenses are nearly £6 per
cent, higher than they were in 1893. The total income
for 1900 is £12,706 more than that for 1893, but the ex-
penses for 1900 are actually £15,846 more than those for
1893. The whole increase of revenue and £3140 more has
gone in expenses. This is a most costly method of buying
new business, and at the price it is highly probable the
society would be better without it. And in another
point, too, things look none too favorable. While expenses
are increasing the rate of interest earned on the
average total funds is diminishing. This is inevitable,
of course, owing to the steady fall in interest rates ; but
the interest earnings of the Widows’ Fund are below
those of most large mutual offices, which makes the
prospects for the policy-holders, as far as bonuses are
concerned, so much the worse. In 1897 the society
earned £4 15s. 7d. per cent. In 1898 the interest rate was
£4 12s. per cent. It fell again to £4 10s. 9d. per cent, in
1899, and now it is down to £4 Bs. Bd. per cent. The
society bases its estimates on the assumption that it will
earn £3 10s. per cent., so there is a good safe margin even
now, hut with the interest earnings rather below the
average, and still falling, and the expense rate distinctly
above the average, and still rising, the prospects are not
especially attractive.
* * * *
The simple explanation of the high expense
rate in most Australian offices is that there are more
offices than the business warrants. Therefore, they have
to hustle with extra vigour to get business, on account of
the competition, and the hustling process is very costly.
And much of the business lasts a very short time when it
is got; the individual who insures because he wants to
insure, generally stays with the office, but the one who in-
sures for peace sake because he is worried into it by an
expensive agent, generally drops his policy again very
suddenly. And because he drops it there is necessity to
hustle again with extra vigor for some more new business
to take" his place, because it doesn’t look well for the
business to be decreasing. And that means more expense.
New business is always costly, and new business that
doesn’t stay is especially so.
Apart from these few remarks there is no cause
to take exception to the Widows’ Fund. It appears to be
a perfectly sound office with good assets. Its chief mis-
fortune is that it is one among too many offices, and it
isn’t the most fortunate of the crowd by a long way.
* * * *
The Equity Trustees, Executors, and Agency
Cos., Melbourne : Total
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
Dec , 1893 .. £99 £1,493
June, 1894.. 361 1,854
Dec., 1894 .. 663 5 per cent. = £625 1,892
June, 1895 .. 555 5 ~ = 625 1,822
Dec., 1895 .. 465 5 „ = 625 1,662
June, 1896 826 5 „ = 625 1,863
Dec , 1896 796 5 „ = 625 2,034
June, 1897 759 5 „ = 625 2,168
Dec., 1897 .. 486 5 „ = 625 2.029
June, 1898.. 1,006 5 625 2,410
Dec., 1898 .. 2,769 7£ „ = 937£ 4,242
June, 1899 .. 1,176 71 „ = 937| 4,480
Dec., 1899.. 997 7.| „ = 9371 4,540
June, 1900 .. 833 71 „ = 9371 M 35
Dec., 1900.. 1,091 7£ „ = 9371 4,589
The reserves, despite the increase in recent years, are
still lamentably inadequate. They consist of reserve
fund, £1250, and undivided profit balance, £3339. It
would at least give a greater appearance of stability if
the fixed reserve was increased to £4OOO ; the present
method of doing things suggests that the management is
keeping a large sum lying loose with the idea of in-
creasing the dividend, or paying a big bonus, or
something. The paid-up capital is only £25,000,
so all the shareholders’ funds that the Equity
Trustees, Executors and Agency Cos. offers as security for
its clients are £29,589—an exceedingly small amount.
Assets consist mostly of State securities, £IO,OOO, office
premises, £14,377, and £2977 lent on mortgage. But for
the undue haste shown in increasing the dividend to 71
per cent., the Equity Trustees might be building up a
solid reserve fund, but the policy of this co. has always
rather been to pay the largest possible dividends, and let
the reserve slide.
* * * *
That very affluent private railway monopoly,,
the Silverton Tramway Cos. (Broken Hill, N.S.W.) did
remarkably well in 1900. In fact this energetic and
exorbitant co. always seems to do well. Away back in
the year 1889 (to go no further into antiquity) this co.
had a paid-up capital of £122,105, and if this is taken as
the starting point things have gone as follows with the
happy shareholders: Total
Reserves
Profits. Dividends, &c. (Goodwill not
reckoned as
an asset.)
1890 £96,049 56J per cent. = £68,683 £27,070
1891 128,690
1892 79,701 48i „ = 59,341 93,701
1893 115,478 {written off 46^000} 93,179
(89. 108,383
1895 106,954 69 percent. = 84,067 121,429
1896 111,896 80 „ = 93,903 134,422
1897 88,246 77 „ = 93,958 128,710
1898 86,574 64J „ = 79,122 136,162
1899 95,592 64£ „ = 79,122 152,632
1900 89,412 {S* ilte ” off *l®
The Silverton Tramway Cos. has, to some extent, dis-
guised the enormous dimensions of its profits by trans-
ferring, during the last 11 years, £75,701 out of its
reserves to capital, therefore it only shows reserves of
£78,472. The same process has made the dividends look
smaller than they really are ; the dividend that looks out
of all reason when it is called 80 per cent, on £122,105
doesn’t look quite so astounding when it is described as
about 50 per cent, on £197,806. But, despite all disguises,
the fact that the Silverton Tramway Cos. is a very rich
monopoly, and a painful example of the ways of private
railway enterprise, sticks out conspicuously all the time.
• • * *
The Carlton Brewery, Limited (Melbourne),
still struggles with great difficulties, and the peculiarities
of its position become more peculiar as time goes on.
The original concern, the Carlton and West End
Breweries, struck such enormous losses through trying in
the boom days to own all the hotels in Victoria, that when
the co. wtis reorganised, even after writing the capital
down to about £26,000, there was a deficit in visible assets
as compared to liabilities of £411,302. It was made to
look as if it was only £261,302 by the inclusion of a bogus
or paper asset, “ Goodwill, £150,000,” but the real deficit
was as mentioned above. It was in 1896 that the Carlton
Brewery found itself in this state, and since then it has
progressed thus :
Total Deficit
Profits. (Goodwill not Reckoned
an Asset).
1890 .... £411,302
1897 .. .. £3,550 .. 407,752
1898 .. .. 6,647 .. 402,105
1899 .. .. 15,524 .. 386,581
1900 .. .. 15,533 .. 371,048
The profits are equal to about 56 per cent, per annum on
the very much written-down capital, which, on paper, are
certainly the best brewery profits in Australasia. The
balance-sheet, as at 31st December, 1900, may be sum-
marised as follows :
Liabilities.
Capital paid-up .. £27,608
Mortgages, &c. .. 468,683
Debentures .. 316,770
Small Debts .. 39,853
£852,914
Assets.
Cash, Property,
Plant, Stock,
Book Debts, &c. ..£481,866
Deficit .. .. 371,048
£852,914
This makes up a very remarkable situation.
The Carlton Brewery has lost all its paid-up capital and
£343,440 besides. Its total visible assets are only equal,
even if they realised the full values set against them, to
paying its creditors about 11s. 6d. in the £. Yet, while
meeting the interest on all its liabilities, it has reduced
the deficit in four years by £40,254, and at the present
rate of progress the shortage would be wholly paid off in
some such period as 24 years. The chances are that a re-
vival in the value of real estate would put things straight
much sooner. If the debentures were not due till 1925
the chances are that all would be well. Unfortunately
they fall due next year, and though the Carlton Brewery
Cos. has talked feelingly to the holders for four years
about a renewal, they are adamant. In the absence of
tangible security it is impossible to borrow £316,770 any-
where else. If the unpaid capital (£68,740) were called up
it would do a little to improve matters, though not
enough to be worth speaking of, and in any case the
management shows no inclination to call anything up.
Also, if the shareholders would put up £300,000 of new
capital and pay off the debentures, they might easily save
their brewery. The present profits and the debenture
interest saved, should make it easy to pay 5 per cent,
dividends on this new capital, and still leave a good sum
with which to write off the deficit, so the expedient looks
as if it would be a decidedly profitable one. But nothing
is being done, and it looks as if the Carlton Breweiy
would bump up against something very hardjiext year.
Queensland exports for 1900 show a drop of a
round two millions. The exports amounted to £9,072,675
against £11,033,803 in 1899. The difference in imports
was by no means so striking—last year giving £7,052,212
against £6,631,978 for 1899. The worst fall is, of course,
in wool, which shows a decline to £2,208,419 against
£3,390,779 in 1899. The gold output for 1900 was about
£IOO,OOO less than for the previous year; but the sugar
export fell from £1,163,010 in 1899 to £664,058 in 1900.
Therefore the falling-off is mainly in pastoral products
and sugar. Naturally the railway receipts are going
downhill fast.
* » » *
The London lead-market has been very erratic
lately ; and the weekly press-cabled quotations seem to
have been more or less of a blind shot at the bull’s eye.
On the recent day when the newspaper cable said £lslos.
a ton the private advices of the B.H. Prop., the biggest
Australian producer, said £l4 7s. 6d. Which accounts
for some share market movements that are a mystery to
those who have only the papers to guide them.
• * ♦ *
B.H. South’s last half-year gave a profit of
£31,000; but shareholders can’t expect any more of that
in view of the metal-market slump. The directors say
they averaged £l7 6s. 3d. for their lead and 2s. 7Jd. for
their silver (fine) ; present approximate prices are £ls 10s.
for lead and 2s. s£d. for silver (fine). The mine gave
6750 tons lead and 218,3000 z. silver : but as this was con-
tained in concentrates, most of it carrying about 9 per
cent zinc, the co. would probably not get paid for more
than from 80 to 90 per cent, of silver and lead. More than
a third and nearly a half of the profit thus falls off with a
dull, sickening thud. Certainly the co. may recover in
other ways. It profited by the lead boom to thoroughly
explore its mine, and has thus exposed enormous
ore reserves; it has added, and is still adding,
very extensively to its milling and other plant;
and freights and other costs are cheaper than
they have been. All these things will not, however, com-
pensate for the lower metal-values. The mine is well
developed ; and that and the regularity of the ore-bodies
keep mining costs low, notwithstanding that the stuff is
in most places exceedingly hard. A few years ago the
cost per ton of ore was 16s. 7d. ; it sticks now at about
12s. 2d. Milling costs amount to about 4s. 7d per ton.
The stuff averages 19'88 per cent, lead, 8'920z. silver, and
18'5 per cent. zinc. When the co. started concentrating,
about six years ago, it worked ore averaging 27 per cent,
lead and 7oz. silver, and much easier to mine and mill.
It does not seem as if the metal-value of the ore is going
to keep on declining at this rate, for development work
has for some time past allowed of a fair
admixture of ore. Present efforts at this mill, as
at most others, are being mainly directed to
working up the second and third grade product into first-
grade concentrates, by passing it over tables, through
vanners, &c., for the purpose of getting out more of the
zinc—the mineral whose presence is chiefly responsible
for the failure to smelt the Barrier sulphides outright.
To make its profit of £31,000 the co. treated 49,007 tons
of ore. Of the lead in the crude ore the mill and its
adjuncts recovered 69'22 per cent., and of the silver,
49'83 per cent. Thus nearly one-third of the lead and
more than one-half of the silver still remain unrecovered.
And of this the valuable first concentrates contained
61'81 per cent, of the total lead, and 43'22 per cent, of the
total silver, leaving the other 7 per cent, of lead and
61 per cent, of the silver contained in the low-value
“seconds.”
* * * *
The South adopts the safe plan of steadily
writing-off for depreciation ; this half-year £2,909 is thus
treated, and in the half before that £3,062 —£5,971 for the
year. The plant now stands in the books at £72,157 ; it
stood at £58,183 at the beginning of the half ; the
writing-off is at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum,
which, considering the heavy wear-and-tear, is none too
much. The co. is also building up a reserve, or at least
in the good times has been building it; it ought to have
£7,500 in the stocking now, but the balance-sheet doesn’t
seem to indicate that more than £5,000 is actually there
—perhaps the slump came a little too suddenly. How-
ever, there was at the end of the year more than the
missing £2,500 in cash ; while the total excess of liquid
assets over liabilities was £190,040.
•* * » *
Another B.H. co. which had a good time last
year and won’t have such a good one this is the Water
Supply. It is not the slump in lead that has hit this co. ;
it is the rain, which has filled the mines' and other private
tanks and dams—that and the concession which the B.H.
Prop’s heavy-weight squeezed out of it. In the first half
of last year the consumption was 112,966,510 gallons,
and the profit £19,556 ; in the latter half, when the con-
cession to the big consumer got to work, the consump-
tion was 129,278,160 gallons, but the profit was brought
down to £18,554. Total profit for the year, £38,110 —on
an original outlay of £186,000, £25,000 of which went in
“ water rights, leases, Parliamentary bills, &c,” the “&c.”
covering a multitude of sins. It is a thumping return,
especially to those who bought their shares at
six or seven shillings, as tens of thousands were bought;
but the gingerbread seems to change its color a bit when
the thought comes along that in 17| years the co. walks
out and the State walks in without any money passing.
And then there is the constant dread of opposition ; for
it is beyond question now that the Broken Hill mines
must have a supplementary supply, though it seems most
likely that, instead of recommending the building of new
works, the Works Committee will advise Parliament
to lend the co. (say) £25,000 at 3 per cent, (or whatever it
may cost) to extend the present scheme, on the condition
that the cost of water is lowered to the ordinary con-
sumer from ss. per lOOOgal. to 3s. or 3s. 6d.
* • 3 •
North Cobar Copper Cos. : Another general
meeting of shareholders, another written statement
submitted, another year passed without a stroke of work
on the mine, another director re-elected, with nothing to
direct, and another auditor re-appointed, with nothing to
audit. About time the N.CJ. Cos. either did some work or
enabled other people to do it for them. In any other
part of Australia this ground would have been vigorously
prospected years ago, simply on account of its proximity
to one of the world’s biggest copper mines.
* * » *
The Great Cobar Copper co. is about to let
another tribute—this time to the lawyers. All on account
of the £40,000 paid for the cancellation of the new tribute
coming out of the purchase-money of half-a-million. As
the old tributors har e to pay about three-fourths of it
there is only about £IO,OOO in dispute, and it can be
easily imagined how much of that will have vanished be-
fore the question is settled, for several other matters will
have to be determined: The right of the co. to let a
tribute so far ahead, and on such terms; what entitled
the new tributors, who had practically no responsibility,
to £40,000 for doing nothing, and several other things
which are bound to crop up during the proceedings.
Better let well alone 1
* * * *
Jembaicumbene dredge, near Braidwood, N.S.
Wales : 102ioz. for the first run of a fortnight. Pour
years ago writer regarded this as an ideal piece of ground
for dredging. The Federal having made some serious
initial mistakes will probably not follow the example of
its neighbor. The gold-bearing area is of great width,
the bottom is excellent, and much of it was unworked in
the early digging days. Water not as abundant as
timber.
**• . *
North Nymagee, N.S.W. : 322 tons, the pro-
duction of six months, netted £959 ; the directors say
there is much ore that would pay to smelt but for dis-
tance of mine from railway. Intention of the Board to
get expert advice to determine the question of local
treatment. A wise course. It takes much money to
equip a copper-mine, and there is a heavy coke and matte
haulage under the best of circumstances.
(Continued on page 25.)


Complete
Outfits.
AN ORIENT BOOT
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT^-
63/-
TO MEASURE
ALL CLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE ..
“Orient To measure” Clothing
.. AT ..
PRICES^
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
PAVIP JOHCS & COMPANY,
fitorgg 8, Barrack Sts., Sydijey
NOT PREMIER .
Popular “ PREMO D.’
The Popular “ Premo D ” is reduced to
£2 10s. for a limited time only.
Is the name of the Famous American CAMERA
which has now become Popular in Australia.
33
A Full Stocle of Every GRADE, SIZE and STYLE
• . open for inspection at . .
HARRINGTON’S
PHOTOGRAPHIC
SHOWROOM >
These are suitable for LADIES or GENTLEMEN, and may
be used either as Hand or Stand Camera,
prices from 25s to £25.
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD.,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Queensland Branch—U Queen-street, Brisbane. Melbourne Agents— Craven & Co. 179 Collins-street
Branches or Agencies in every colony. ’’
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjoyment of
HOME CIGARETTES
Society
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
Sydney is to be the third port of call for
the Duke of York. Brisbane is second because
Bord Hopetoun cannot manage to reach Sydney
in time to complete local arrangements if the
royalties come direct from Melbourne. The fact
that much less can he reach Brisbane does not
trouble anyone apparently. The person to score
most over this is Lord Lamington, Governor for the
State of Q. He will be top-dog at the reception
in Brisbane while Governors Madden and Darley
will have the Governor-General as a buffer be-
tween themselves and the Duke.
* * * *
March 11 has been fixed for there-hearing
of the Coningham divorce case, and if the trial
takes over a fortnight, as did the first one, the
verdict will be announced perilously near to
.A'. 11 . 0 . 1 tJ ' e date of the Federal elections.
nch coincic.ence will affect the chances of some
of the candidates, as sectarian feeling will run
high whichever way the verdict goes.
* * * *
A ludicrous grovel was performed in Bal-
larat during the recent mourning ceremonies,
oome vulgar-souled official conceived the idea of
putting crape round the left arms of the statues
ot Moore and Burns m Sturt-st., and as the pedes-
tals are high, and the statues consequently ele-
vated, it looked to passers-by as if blobs of tar
had been stuck on to said arms. Peter Lalor
higher up the street, was left severely alone (on
account of Eureka Stockade ?). * Considering the
hatred Burns had for the Hanoverian Family, and
the scathing lines (penned, however, long before
the accession of the late Queen) he wrote about
them it was a severe revenge on his statue
to put it on a level with the police, civil servants
&c., who wore crape. The Ballarat evening
paper, referring to the matter, ingenuously an-
nounced that “ Crape has been placed round the
arms of the statues of Burns and Moore, who now'
are participating in the general mourning,” &c.
ONLY TO BE EXPECTED.
MOTHER (who has discovered a raid on the jam).
“ Oh, you bad little boy! After all I've told
you! Just as bad as ever!. Oh, you bad,
bad boy!"
FRANKIE (apologetically): “ Well, mother, you
know what I am.”
In the opinion of the daily newspaper a
“White Australia” means an Australia for*J.
Bull only. Sydney D.T.. in a “personal” re-
ferring to the new N.S.W. Deputy-Postmaster-
General, Mr. James Dalgarno, gratuitously re-
“His father was a Scotchman, and not
an Italian, as some people have assumed.” Ye
gods ! What if they did ? And what if Mr. Dal-
garno’s father were an Italian ? Surely, in a State
possessing Italian citizens, like (say) Dr. Fiaschi,
this explanatory note concerning the nationality
oi the Deputy-Postmaster-General’s father borders
on the unnecessarily insolent.
Melbourne’s ex-Mayor M‘Eacharn had
something wise to say to the Akgus lately re the
enlistment of Victorian “Scotsmen” in the un-
satisfactory lullibardine Horse Brigade. Speak-
ing as a cit., and a Scotty, and a Jingo, with a
representative desire to see the Boer “ rebellion ”
nicely “ stamped out,” Mac. protested that kharki
emissaries from this country should do their
stamping through the “regular channels,” and
not be “ encouraged to volunteer to isolated regi-
ments, where they will lose their identity as
Australians.” The couple of hundred men who
sailed the other day have certainly sold their
identity to the noble Marquis. When they get to
S Africa they will find themselves incorporated
with a job lot of Donalds and MacTavishes under
the heading of “ Tullibardine’s Own,” or some-
thing. Commercially speaking Tully does own
em. But The Bulletin finds no cause for regret
in the fact that this latest gang of hired farm-
burners does not leave this country for blood-
soaked S’Africa waving the Australian flag.
* * * *
At the first Melb. meeting re the Queen
Victoria Statue, shortly after the fatal cable, only
a handful turned up, though the big Town Hall
had been prepared. Mayor Gillottadjourned to the
small Council Chamber upstairs so that the
audience wouldn’t look so like one small boy in
the middle of Sahara.
* * • •
The crowd was carefully fenced off from
the two contingents who ambled through Mel-
bourne the other day, wooden balustrades having
been erected along the streets, and then fairly
stuffed with policemen. As it happened, the
crowd stayed away, and only the ordinary city
push leaned up against the barriers. The one
semblance of interest betrayed by the people
within ear-range of present scribe was conveyed in
the words of a tired “ beat ” who, addressing a
very superior officah, and indicating the barrier,
asked with feeling : “Say, mister, was yer afraid
we d bite ver ? ”
* * * £
The other day a returned N.S.W. officer
told the Sydney dailies that few Boer homesteads
were being burnt —he had only seen five thus
treated. This, from a M.L. contingenter’s letter,
will interest those who still believe that the British
authorities in S’Afriea only commit arson under
extreme provocation :
Ottoshoop, which has proved too unhealthy to justify
the retention of a garrison, was destroyed to-day, and
this evening a long string of Boer residents and refugees,
who were cleared out before the place was blown up,
passed through on their way to the “ refugee ” camp. It
was rather a mournful sight to see the Boer women and
their children of all ages, from infants at the breast to
yonng maidens, clinging tenaciously to the last vestige of
their homes. Several of these ladies, with children sick
with measles, put in an appearance at the Field Hospital
and demanded to be admitted ; but, owing to the infec-
tious nature of this disease, and the crowded state of each
ward, they could not be admitted.
* * » .
When news of the Queen’s death reached
Wellington, M.L., the bell-ringer at the G.P.O.
immediately tolled the bell. He afterwards
solemnly told a reporter that a coal-black pigeon
flew into the belfry, and allowed itself to be caught
and stroked. It was then released, flew away
and was seen no more.
* * * *
. ■J* Lyne, through his folly in staying
m N.S.W. politics when he might have got out,
has again been overtaken and bitten by the Sun-
day banana, dhat passionate vegetable is always
making trouble. The Premier who doesn’t sup-
press it rouses the anger of the pious brigade of
monkey-shave men, and the one who suppresses it
makes an enemy of most of the rest of the com-
munity. Lyne tried to please one' crowd by order-
ing the police to fall heavily with discrimination
on the Sunday banana and to put it down with
unflinching but temperate severity, and he kept
straight with the other by not being aware that
the police took no notice of his instructions. A
wiser and shorter man would have thrown up the
State Premiership and fled from the banana to
? a^er Job °f Federal Minister for Internal
Affairs—Minister for Public Entrails, to put it
briefly—but Lyne stayed on in both billets, and
last week he was fallen upon by a great stack of
persons who demanded that the Sabbath banana
should be utterly crushed. He diplomatised with
all the activity and easy grace of a boiled lion, but
it was a difficult, situation, and it wasn’t much of a
reward for all his trouble in hanging on to two
jobs at only one salary.
* * • *
One of the parsons who last week assailed
N.S.W. Premier Lyne on the eternal subject of
closing Sydney fruit-shops on Sunday, declared
that the shops were - nearly all in the hands of the
aliens and their Sabbath trade was done chiefly
with childien who were spending money which pro-
perly belonged to the Sunday Schools. In a word
the youth of Sydney were being seduced from
righteousness by the ungodly Sabbath banana. It
was a sad story. But we must all live—the
Sunday-banana fiend and the poor parson
included.
• * *
Rarely does anyone advertise that he or
she is in gaol. From Sydney D.T.
WISHING my friends, the public, to know that mv
Shop is Closed for 48 hours, as I am sent to
prison for that period for serving the public on Sun-
'“•Vs - Constable Hogg serving the summons, and Con-
■ Y, rown ma king the arrest at 7 p.m., 19th Feb.,
1901. Mrs. , Glebe.
Poor, unsophisticated woman ! She had sold a
packet of cigarettes!
A POTENTIALITY.
BACKBLGOK THEATRIGAL MANAGER (to beginner):
“ Well, I can offer you, say, k4."
BEGINNER: " Per week?” M. : “ No-o-o-o.”
B.: “ Per month?” M.: “No-o-o-o.”
B.: “Per what, then?” M.: “ Per-haps.”
Politicians of the M‘Gowen-Lyne pattern
talk bravely about keeping Sunday a Day of
Rest on which all small shops shall be closed.
Now, if there be clear law against any sales on
Sunday it is against the sale of newspapers.
M‘Gowen and Lyne and the rest of that class
are hereby invited, if their convictions are any-
thing but sham, to put the law in motion against
the sale of Sunday papers. If they’re not game
for this—and they are not—then they ought to
leave the little Sunday sellers of fruit and soft
drinks alone (they don’t dare to seriously enforce
the law against Sunday grog-selling). As it is,
they appear to be simply crawling after an un-
reasoning Sabbatarian vote.
* * ¥ *
The suburbs of Sydney are being streaked
with roads named after obscure politicians, whoowe
such petty fame as they can thusgettothatastound-
ingly energetic person, Works Minister O’Sullivan.
A little while ago he opened “Dacey Avenue,” in
the squalid, sandy wastes of Alexandria; and now
Sydney is to have “ Neild Avenue.” Underneath
Neild Avenue is a common sewer running into
Rushcutters’ Bay, and it is bordered by swamp
and Chinamen’s gardens. Surely Jawbone Neild’s
moustachios will scorn such unsavoriness 1
The most recent addition to
the furniture of N.S.W. Parlia-
ment Houses is a set of billiard-
tables. It is alleged that the most
ardent devotees of the game are
the Labor members. Why
shouldn’t they? As they work
harder they probably need more
relaxation than others. But
many of them belonged to the
old Puritan Labor-party which
denounced the first Labor crowd
because, for one thing, it per-
mitted Dibbs to build a suite of
Ministers’ rooms near the Cham-
ber. All the same, the billiard-
room is a cause of social amenities
which lead to better-humored, if
not better, legislation. It was
in the old days—the ante-domino,
ante-billiard days—when there
was no relaxation but rough
practical jokes (such as
spitting tobacco-juice in-
to a member’s hat) that
all the historical fights
took place which gave
N.S.W. Parliament a
rowdy pre-eminence.
. * *
A Bulletin cor-
respondent asserts that
in the candle-room of
a certain big N.S.W.
soap-and-candle factory
are married men who do
al3 hours’ night shift
(15 hours at the works)
for 3s. 6d. a shift. 78
hours a week for 21s. !
“ The long arm of coincidence.” A navvy
named Holmes, who narrowly escaped death in
Fairfield Park (Vic.) railway accident on 9th Aug.
last, fell from a railway embankment at Colling-
wood a month or two afterwards and was killed.
And now the driver (Jose) and fireman (Ryan) of
the same train have died within a week of each
other. Jose was buried on 10th and Ryan on 17th
inst. (Feb.).
* * * *
Child begging in Sydney is to be stopped.
Under the existing law any child caught soliciting
alms can be committed either to the Industrial
Schools or to the State Children’s Board. A start
to enforce this was made last week, when some
children from outside the Theatre Royal were pro-
ceeded against. The culprits were let off with a
scare, each one producing a fond parent who
swore that this was the first time his offspring had
been on the streets. But the authorities are said
to be in earnest, and the next batch of offenders
is to be effectively dealt with.
• * * *
Concerning a glaring Sydney street-
scandal :
Editor Bulletin. — Have you ever seen the “babies on
our Block,” from Bathurst-st. to Druitt-street, past Town
Hall and St. Andrew’s Cathedral ? Here you have dozens
of short-frocked, hard-faced girls plying an ancient trade
every evening ? At lunch-hour, a preacher and several
females hold evangelistic services against Sin. They
ought to come there about 8.30 p.m. I suggest that some
of the returned Chinese missionaries might save a few
souls nearer home —outside the Anglican Cathedral, to
wit.—P.P.
* * * *
From S.M. Herald, 25th Jan., 1901 :
TTJANTED, young Lady, 23-25, as sociable Com-
'' panion, once week, 12s. Apply P.J., P. 0.,
Parramatta.
Isn’t this a bit “ steep ” for a clerically-conducted
paper? It is rarely that anything of this sort
sneaks into the Herald.
* * * *
Melbourne Artist Summers occupies a
large space in the Age advocating a dreadfully
vague proposal re the monument to the late
Queen. Summers wants a large square to be laid
out (and christened Victoria Square, of course)
somewhere near the Exhibition Gardens, and
facing Parliament House. In the centre he wants
a marble pavilion, with a marble statue of H.M.,
and groups of sculpture around. Strewn about he
would have fountains, statues and busts of ex-
plorers, governors, and prominent English and
Australian statesmen. Then he wants the rest of
the square laid out as a continental garden and
provided with concerts and chairs. Finally, he
wants Spring-st. re-named York-st. Altogether
it is a fine, large scheme, and would provide work
for the local sculptors for a long time to come.
* * * %
Sydney D.T. re the recent N.S.W. rail-
way disaster : “In the event of engine-driver-
Doyle not being well enough to attend at the-
inquest on Tuesday, 26th Feb., the Coroner wilh
probably make another postponement.” Now,
Doyle had both legs and some ribs broken ; also,
he badly hurt his skull. And yet the D.T. con-
templates the possibility of his turning up at an
inquest (not his own inquest) within a week.
Who is the D.T.’s doctor?
* * * *
Among Victoria’s Old Age pensioners is a
man who, a few years ago, bought a brewery for
=640,000 ; now he gets a poor Bs. a week. Another
is a man who settled his savings—£3ooo—and his
house on his wife, who subsequently “left with a
handsomer man,” taking the cash, but leaving the
family cottage, and as that happens to be worth
about 10s. a week the old man doesn’t get any
pension. Which is rubbing it in with a vengeance!
HIS FIRST OFFENCE.
MRS. YOUNGWIFE : " Oh, George, you’re the very
last person I expected to ”
MR. YOUNGWIFE : “ Qui’ right, m’ dear, too late'r
expect anybody else. L’k out, y’r droppin'
something! ”
Penny postage commenced in Maoriland
on Ist Jan., 1901. In the back blocks of Otago
where everyone is a Presbyterian, there were
practically no letters posted during I 'ecember.
Ihe wary Scot accumulated his correspondence on
the mantelpiece till the old year was out. On
Jan. 1 quite a Caledonian procession was to be
seen on the way to each P.O. There were no
corresponding Chinese processions. The Chow
isn’t canny enough to see points like that.


FRESH AS A ROSE!
dsf
ADD A LITTLE
CONDY’S FLUID
to your Bath or Foot-Bath.
The Cooling, Invigorating
and Health-giving
Effects are Simply
Magical.
Of all Chemists & Store*
Insist on having “CoHDY’B FLUID.
The name Condy & Mitchell, of London, England,
should be at foot of Label.
Beware of Inferior Australian Substitutes.
J.D.K.Z. (ID.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only —largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16'5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
Eor Youh
FEET’S SAKE!
A
LADY’S
COM FORT
SHOE.
For the sake of your feet, Ladies, just try one pair of our French Glace
Kid Lace Shoes. They have low vamps, single flexible soles, and broad
heels. Very nice and comfortable —15s. 6d. a pair.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 George St., Sydney.
OX-TAIL ITEM.
COOK: “ Please, mum , the butcher sez he’ll have
a tail to-morrow, but no brains.”
PRECOCIOUS INFANT (studying pictorial alphabet):
“Is he going to turn into a monkey ,
muvver?”
One of the Imperial troops “billeted ” at
Dunedin, related his experience to Wellington
Evening Post :
I was put up with a middle-aged couple and their two
big sons. The dad says : “ I must tell you that this is a
Prohibition house, and we have no strong drink on the
premises.” I bore up and said it was all right. After tea
the dad asked me if I’d like to look over the house. I
went, and as soon as we were in a quiet corner the dad
pulls out a bottle and asks me to have a nip; but he told
me not to mention it to mother and the boys. We went
back and mother said she’d show me my room. When
we got in the passage, mother whispered, “ Don’t let dad
and the boys know, but I’ve got a wee drappie put by for
you, and you can have a nip whenever you want it.” After
a short yarn-with the family again, the boys said,
“ Perhaps you’d like to have a look at our workshop in
the yard.” “I would that,” says I, and out we goes.
Blest if the boys didn’t sneak me into their room, make
me swear I wouldn’t tell dad or mother, and then I had
another one !
* * * *
Writes “ Cora Lynn ” from Dunedin ;
The projected arrival of the Imperial Tommies in Dune-
din has excited Sandy considerably. He has responded
1 lyall.v to the Mayor’s wish to billet Atkins in private
houses, and the Sandy who has only four small rooms and
a goat-house, with six children and various other animals
already occupying these two edifices, is the most loyal of
all. Four parsons have offered their homes bodily. In
t'le scattered districts rendezvous have been arranged ;
the hosts are to stand at special corners and as the pro-
cession goes past each is to grab his appointed amount of
Tommy Atkins. Afterwards he is to examine his. victim,
when he will find in his pocket a card containing the
name and regiment of the Tommy and the name and
address of that particular Tommy’s appointed host. Then
the grabber is requested to convey the Tommy to the
right owner thereof, and get his own appointed Tommy
from some other appointed local resident. By nightfall
it is hoped all will be duly sorted out and each Imperial
Tommy lodged in his bedroom, or goat-house, or on three
chairs before the kitchen fire, whichever it may be.
* * * ♦
The utter indifference of the great mass of
the Brisbane ratepayers to all matters of muni-
cipal concern received fresh illustration at the
aldermanic elections. One successful candidate
(democratic Higgs) polled 554 votes out of a total
of 2224, and others showed even a worse propor-
tion. No wonder all Brisbane city concerns of
any profit are in private hands; no wonder they
were paying £lB,OOO per annum a short time ago
for a sanitary service now efficiently performed
for about £6OOO.
* « * *
Adelaide is to have a crematorium at last.
Govt, has granted a site near the West Terrace
Cemetery, and a company is about to build a
modest furnace. Also, Sydney is to have an
active cremation society forthwith.
* * *
A novel note was brought out in the hear-
ing of a Ballarat divorce case, wife y. husband (an
ex-policeman), the living wife’s sister being the
third party. The sister bore a child, of which
respondent was the father, and the wife, to keep
up appearances, accepted the child as her own,
declaring herself the mother “in the eyes of the
world.” Discovering, however, that she was
likely to be Called upon to mother a large family
on the same unsatisfactory lines, she applied for a
divorce. Decree nisi. Deceased wife s. sister’is a
very minor problem beside that of the sister of the
wife who is alive—and kicking.
* » * *
A queer bigamy case was tried in Mel-
bourne lately. Wife No. 2 declared on oath that
she knew the man was married when she went
through the ceremony with him —knew his wife
was living. In fact, the man was living with his
wife and continued to live with her, and No. 2
knew that likewise. The real wife was also aware
of the arrangement, and only used her knowledge
when she wished to extort a new hat or a few
pounds from the bigamist. Accused got six
months, and if lie didn’t bigamise in the hope of
getting two years, one would like to know why,
in the name of horse sense, he entered into so
unprofitable and uncalled-for a complication ?
At the scene of the
Sydenham (Sydney) rail-
way accident, alongside
and within a few feet of
that wrecked railway
engine that slaughtered
nine people and almost
annihilated a cottage, is a
small, unpretending notice
nailed to a tree in the
garden —“ Beware of the
dog.” The engine stopped
there. It is the first time
the familiar dog-board lias
stopped anything.
A new development in Bible Christian
picnics has cropped up in a Melb. suburban court
case. Moonee Ponds Bible Christian Church
choir picnicked on a bad man’s paddock. The
unregenerate landowner objected, and there were
arguments, followed by a free fight, in which the
proprietor’s agent took a hand. The choir was not
evicted till heads were cracked and blood and
love-locks littered the battlefield. The battered
choir “pulled” the battered agent, and. the
parties fought their vigorous scrum over again in
.court. Case dismissed. This is probably the
most innocent incident yet recorded in connection
with a Bible Christian picnic.
* * * *
Yic. Solicitor-General Wynne, in declining
to make any move at present for the release of
Mrs. Geclie Andersen (she has served seven, not
12, years in gaol) seems to have come to the hard
and fast conclusion that the poor woman was
guilty of a “ premeditated and deliberate murder.”
But if Mrs. A. really planned the destruction of
the man, she also intended to kill herself after-
wards, and a woman who feels herself so much
injured that she would rather die than let the
other person live is clearly not quite responsible
for her actions.
A Maoriland correspondent to The Bul-
letin :
Re the statement in a recent issue of The Bulletin
that in M.L. census papers filled in “Freethinker” are
altered to “ objects to state religion,” will you let me say
that your information is incorrect, and, having been the
means of stopping the system referred to, I may claim to
know something about the matter. In the early ’Bo’s my
census paper was objected to by the policeman who acted
as sub-enumerator, and he desired me to cross out the ob-
jectionable word. On my refusing, he did it himself, and in
blue pencil inserted the other word. My protest took
the form of wires to Stout and Ballance, respectively
President and Vice-president of the M.L. Freethought
Association, and they in turn took the matter up, with
the result that the 001. Secretary gave instructions that
all papers so filled in were to be accepted, and in my own
case the constable was directed to bring the document
back in order that I might cross out his interpolation and
initial my own filling-in. Since then I have twice filled in
papers as an “ atheist,” and there has been no trouble about
them, and at the last Census, being employed in the
Registrar-General’s department, I had plenty of chances
of observing whether such alterations were made in the
“ religion ” column. In not a single instance, of the hun-
dreds of papers that passed through my own hands, had
there been any interference; nor did I ever hear of a
case.
The remains of several of the dead now
being shifted to Randwick, Rookwood and else-
where from Devonshire-st. cemetery, to make
room for the new Sydney railway-station, were
years ago removed from the George-st. cemetery
to make room for the Town Hall. This move-on
business should plead eloquently with those who
think that burying in the ground is more respect-
ful to the dead than cremation.
* * * *
Melbourne morgue - statistics for 1900
show that that city had 37 suicides last year, of
whom three departed per gun, eight per poison,
ten per drowning, seven per rope, six per knife,
two per railway-train, and one per charcoal
fumes.
* * * •
Two humanitarian measures of the new
Sydney City Corporation : (1) A vote of £BO to
widen the cups of the horse-trouglis, which only
tantalise heavy draught-horses ; and( 2). a proposal
to establish a “dogs’home,” on the Battersea
principle, where a lethal chamber will be substi-
tuted for the present method of “scragging”
mongrels at the back of the Town Hall, and
valuable stray dogs sorted out and sold. These
measures were impossible under the “old
brigade.”
One Melbourne man will, probably, in
future avoid the camera like a pestilence. He
was just about to leave with the last contingent
when the police persuaded him to come back with
them “on a little matter about a baby.” The
lady concerned had had no notion he was going
till she recognised his photo, in the papers, where-
upon she wasted no time upon lamentations but
promptly got a warrant and yanked the swain up
at the Collingwood Court, where he had to give
security for 4s. a week. As excuse for the lady’s
apparently mercenary attitude it was. explained
that she was no confiding young thing, but a
seasoned veteran, so to speak, as she had already
had three “ misfortunes ” by three different
fathers.
* * * *
Lord Roberts, in his despatches, talking of
the departure of Price’s Contingent from S’Africa,
expressed deep regret, as it “had impaired the
mobility and general efficiency of the Army. It
was, however, impossible to disregard the urgency
of the reasons for the return of the soldiers to
their respective countries.” Now what urgent
reason was there for the men to return except that
they were on the home-sick list and desired to
strut vaingloriously in the eyes of all Melbourne
and its aunt in the country ?
Be the
wreck of the
Loch Ard (B.
2/2/’9l) and
the rescue of
the long and
s u b s t antial
Miss Carmi-
chael by Mid-
shipman
Pearce. The
modern hero-
kissing mania
sprang out of
that episode
—it thus be-
gan in Aus-
tralia and not
in America.
In Sydney Lis
admirers pre-
sented Pearce
with a set of
nautical in- •
struments.
Thepresenta-
tion took
place in the
old Exhibi-
tion and the
platform was
crowded by
ladies, who,
after the
meeting, fell
upon Pearce
and kissed
him all round
with gusto.
This was re-
peated else-
where in
A u s t r a 1 ia.
The nautical
ins truments
are about all
Pearce has to
remind him
of the inci-
dent. As to
Hobson, he is
said to be suf-
fering now
from paraly-
sis .of the
facial and
osc u 1 at ory
muscles.
Anyhow, ours
was the first
glory of the
kissie - kissie
mania.
A week or two ago, in a Victorian town,
13 boys were brought forward as candidates for a
juvenile benefit-lodge. Eleven of them were
rejected, through injury from cigarettes.
* * * *
The action of the Queanbeyan (N.S.W.)
Jaypees who outweighed the P.M. and acquitted
the local “Chinese Doctor,” prosecuted under
the Anti-quackery Act, shows clearly what an ass
the ordinary J.P. is. The P.M. was for a con-
viction, but the J.’sP., regarding the Chow as a
sort of public benefactor, and disregarding the
legal aspect of the case and the intention of Par-
liament to uproot quackery of this sort, acquitted
him. However, if Queanbeyan wants quack
doctors, let her have them, but, for Heaven’s
sake, give us intelligent administration of the
plainly-set-out law. The honorary J.P. system is,
all over Australia, a fool-and-rogue system in the
main, corrupt right down to the ground; and the
summary administration of justice will not even
begin to be decent until all cases are heard by
Police-Magistrates, which latter officers must be
placed in as independent a position as that occu-
pied by the minor Judges.
* * * *
A year ago N.S.W. Justice G. B. Simpson
said from the Bench that divorce proceedings in
forma pauperis should entail no charge on the
petitioner, and intimated that he would insist that
this should be so when he presided. Yet the old
game goes merrily on. The Prothonotary told the
Full Court last week that it was customary to
allow solicitors £2 or so in such cases, but the C. J.
remarked that the trouble was extremely slight
and that the advertisement gained by appearing in
Court paid a solicitor sufficiently. That may or
may not be so, but if the judges really mean a
petition in forma pauperis to be what the term
signifies they ought to appoint some court official
to prepare the necessary documents for the Court.
“To write half a sheet of paper and fill up a few
printed words,” the Chief Justice described as the
whole business, but if so there is all the more
reason why a permanent eburt official should be
appointed to the duty.
• * * •
An effort was made during last week to
get up a big petition demanding that District Court
Judge Heydon’s recommendation re the dismissal
of Dr. Bernstein, J.P., of Lismore, N.S.W., should
be carried out. It may be remembered that
the benevolent and respected Dr. Bernstein, who is
local Govt. Medical Officer, used, when excited, some
pro-Boerish language and Judge Heydon, after
investigation, recommended his dismissal from all
Govt, billets. The doctor is there still, hence the
petition. But effusive, gushing Jingoism is not
now what it was last year, and the Heydon peti-
tion-mongers will have to suck their thumbs.
* * * *
Westratia’s judicial system is wonderfully
constructed. An illustration : Lately, at Kal-
goorlie, Senior-Magistrate Finnerty and a J.P.
tried a man for gold-receiving, and convicted him.
That was at the police-court. He appealed ;
whereupon Finnerty’s junior, at the next town,
sat with two J’s.P., both untrained new-chums,
to hear the appeal, which was dismissed. That
was the Quarter Sessions. “Honor thy father ! ”
is not a bad maxim even in law.
THE REASON WHY.
SHE: “ Why do so many of these palmists call themselves Spanish, I wonder?”
HE: “ Oh, I suppose its because all palmistry's Andelusian.”
“ LOVE MADE ONE.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(Tune, “ Rock of Ages.")
v.
When the last dread trumpet’s knell
Vibrates shrill through heaven and hel.
When each grave is opened
And the ocean yields its dead;
Then from out the awful gloom
Of some immemorial tomb,
Where in regal splendour lie
All my seven wives and 1,
I shall wake, and yawn, and try
If my bones be whole or dry ;
How they’ve stood the wear and tear
Of this many a thousand year.
Then, as in politeness bound,
I shall rise and look around,
Where my spouses, disarrayed,
Vainly wait their lady’s maid.
Next my Hannah’s lovely head
Unto Jane’s fine neck I’ll wed,
Mary’s sloping shoulders place
To the rounded arms of Grace ;
With sweet Celia’s fairy feet,
Helen’s slender limbs complete,
And her waist so small and warm
Graft on Laura’s generous form.
Thus I’ll take from each fond wife
All that I best loved in life ;
Whom I loved on earth as sbven,
Love once more, made one, in heaven.
Amen 1
HARRY (THE EIGHTH).
ALSO TIRED.
(To the lady who teas tired in
a recent issue.)
I am tired, dog, dog tired,
Tired of failure, tired more when I win,
I am tired, tired, tired,
Tired of virtue, even tired of sin.
When will this weary languor leave me
And the thrill of life once more begin ?
The moment eomes. lam no longer tired ;
Our little Willie’s jabbed me with a pin.
ANOTHER EXHAUSTED FEMALE.


“He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’S success is a. Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY’B.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun of the thing t
.ZZIH MARK FOy, SYDNEY.
Sams prloes and attaatlaa as If you bought amongst the daily crowds at tho counters.
1
mjvw
m
&
0
£s*
IN Itte
All Drapers Everywhere.
Mil TIBS have WO Equal
Atcherley & Dawson, 284 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMANS LETTER.
Mi Dm. MT M .- S?d “ y - i ' ebruaty2,i ' liMt
Latest advices from “the East” give glowing
accounts of the Broughs’ success in Calcutta, &c.
Mrs. Brough as as popular in Calcutta society as
sne is m bydney. There is some slight uncertainty
as to their future movements.
Considerable agitation in Society over the report
ot its very tip-top society girl’s engagement to a
long, callow-looking Earl, who favored a battered
sailor hat and was thought to be looking Mel-
bournewards last year. It’s the same
travelling youth, by the way, as the one that
went to a Blue Ticket ball on a plain White
Invitation, whereas he was the most exalted
personage in the whole of Govt. House really—
nobody excepted.
Another engagement is that of pretty Maud
Gowlland who marries a naval man named Chance
shortly.
Vice-regal doings are so tame that you’ll pardon
me, 1 hope, for mentioning that Lady Hopetoun
went hat-buying last week, accompanied by her
lady-in-waiting. Women who were lucky enough to
be turning over bargains downstairs immediately
hastened to take a deep interest in the millinery,
but there was nothing for them up there except
Mrs. Corbett’s meek way of saying “Your
Excellency” at every comma, and the Countess’s
evident determination to get what she wanted and
take nothing else instead, the milliners and lady-
in-waiting notwithstanding.
Society fluttered brightly at the tea given by
Mrs. Barton and Mrs. W. M‘Millan at the Society
of Artists’ rooms last Friday. The hostesses were
both in black. Mrs. Barton wore a black toque,
and a bunch of violets in her black frock; her
pretty colleague was charmingly gowned, and
wore a big black picture-hat with a veil tied under
her chin. So very “Society” was the tea that
nearly everyone was in black. Mrs. MacQuade
was about the smartest figure there, in a lovely
black lace gown, made up over white silk.
Two men’s garbing was more interesting than
any women’s. ’Specially when they got side by
side, and you saw little Sid. Long in a long frock-
coat to his heels, leaning up near George Reid, in
the same short coat he had been all over the elector-
ates in. Georgie apologised for his get-up. He
had only half an hour to spare, and he couldn’t
resist a chance to see pretty women. So he just
strolled in as he was, out of the dust. By the way,
Georgie never remembers the pretty women after-
wards, unless they pull him by the coat-sleeve or
bow right up against his eye-glass.
Another Art Society function was the S.O.A.’s
conversazione on Tuesday. Mrs. Pauli and Sid
Long received, and lots of people seized the chance
of meeting in midsummer. Pretty Miss Madge
Hellmrich sang a couple of ballads, Signor Poden-
zana played the’cello, Harry Lestonrecited, and in
the pauses one looked at the pictures—or, that
other show, the dresses. Why—but it’s a sad
problem, and I won’t weary you with asking why
Art should be made an excuse for brown dressing-
gowns, and so on. A bride in white was trailed
over with lilies of the valley ; Miss Bose Scott
was there making plaintive allusions to her late
“defeat,” and looked irresistible j among the crowd
I also noticed Mrs. J. C. Williamson in a rose-
coloured bolero and black frock ; Mr. Henry Gul-
lett_ and his two daughters (who, by the way, are
anxious to have it known that they haven’t gone
and are not going to England as announced in
Melbourne lately); Mr. and Mrs. Tom Rolin,
Mrs. Broomfield and Mrs. Salmon, Mrs, Thea.
Proctor, Mrs. Baynton and others.
The Society of Artists’ “Federal Art Union” is
going bravely. It promises to become an impor-
tant institution. This is the fac-simile of the
letter from the Federal Premier that goes out with
the art-union tickets (half-a-guinea each):
Every well-wisher of United Australia must look upon
the Art Societies throughout this continent as potent
factors in the enlightenment of the people.
The effort of the Society of Artists to create a national
love of art by means of their inaugural annual “ Art
Union of Australia,” has my full sympathy and sup-
port. I hope that, like the Art Union' of London, it will
have a lasting and successful career and that Art patrons
throughout Federated Australia will give the movement
active and practical support.
11th Jany., 1901. Edmund Barton.
Our Nellie’s back again ! That was the senti-
ment that shook the Royal to its boots on Satur-
day, when the “ Scarlet Feather ” made its first
flutter. Nellie got a great reception. Bouquets
were tossed at her feet, she was thundered at and
bravoed and welcomed tumultuously. She threw
kisses left and right, but stuffed the flowers out of
sight in her page’s doublet, not forgetting, in the
excitement of meeting Sydney again, that bouquets
would be out of place in a servant’s outfit.
Nellie’s just Nellie still: same dimple, same
bangle, same big yellow baby fringe, same round,
bewitching smile, same delicious voice, more
throat and chin, and perhaps a little more hold
on the city’s faithful heart.
The crowded dress-circle was quite remarkable
for the unanimity into which it suddenly gave up
black and broke out into something as far removed
from mourning as possible. It was a much-
dressed circle, too.
All the boxes were full. In one box pretty Mrs.
Alf. Marks, in black, with purple flowers in her
yellow hair, chaperoned the latest engagement, a
pretty society boy and his fiancee. In another
was a lady literally laden with diamonds. In the
circle I noticed Mr. and Mrs. Lachlan Beaton and
Miss Adams in a chic little jewelled bolero; Miss
Francis Campbell, who is spending the summer at
the Alex. Oliver’s, and the dark, Spanish-looking
beauty, with her two pretty daughters, who is
about the most unfailing theatre-goer in Sydney.
Great sensation over the Dartos. “The
Dartos ! ” cries Nellie Stewart, towards the end
of tho second act. On they fly, a short, dark,
smiling man, and a girl with a waist like a wasp’s
and an adorable mouth. They just take the house
by its wool, and shake it and agitate it and thrill
it, and leave it palpitating, breathless, and wild
for more, more Dartos.
Even Nellie grows a bit tame after these elec-
trifying creatures. There is only one fault to find
with them—they go so quickly. A dazzle of legs
and exquisitely revolving skirts, a dark face smil-
ing as she waltzes, bends backwards, lies along the
floor and smiles from the very boards themselves,
but waltzes all the time, waltzes, waltzes, with
her eyes and her hair and every bone in her body
and every fold of her frock.
One morning, lately, I went to see these same
Dartos, Monsieur and Madame. It was about 11
o’clock as I entered “ The Australia,” and on the
doormat I met a short, thickset man, in a straw
hat, just going out. “Is Madame to be seen?”
His dark, deep-set eyes and long flexible mouth
broke into smiles. “Oh, yaiss,” says he, without
a second’s hesitation, “come.” He leads the way
up, up to the fourth storey, knocks at a door, and
—no hesitation, no. ‘ ‘ wait-a-minute, ”no English
fauses and trepidations and delays—goes in, and
follow, announced by a wave of the hand, and
find the celebrated danseuse who is driving every-
body wild curling her hair in the most fragile of
morning deshabille. Their bed-sitting-room is
crowded with photographs and dresses. It was as
deshabille as she, but nobody takes any notice.
She throws all over me that languorous, sweet,
smile that fills the pauses of her dances, asks
Darto to reach her a wrapper, and gets gracefully
into the palest and thinnest of pink silk tea-gowns.
I just have time to see that, in petticoat and
camisole, she is less of the egg-boiler figure than
in her dancing frocks, and that her waist, though
slim, isn’t quite the breakable thing it looks on
the stage with all those voluminous umbrella
skirts flowing out below it. She wears corsets ?
Oh, yes, alwize. Though how she bends back-
ward in the waltz till her head touches the floor is
a marvel. She twitters away in broken English,
and the hair goes on getting curled. It is a pretty
little black head, and the hair-dressing, when
finished, makes you think the hair is short, it is so
curled under and tucked away, and puffed and
patted that nobody is to know what is become of
the dark locks hanging over her slim shoulders
a minute ago. That’s the head that has such a
way of its own of acknowledging applause. She
bends it low, holds out her hands, and shakes it
violently and merrily for 60 seconds.
All the while Monsieur sits by and watches, and
breaks in now and then with little notes of
admiration for Madame. You see, they have
been married just’one year, tree months. They
are not Viennese. They are French, she born in
Nice —where the flowers come—he at Marseilles.
Musgrove saw them dancing at Vienna. That
was where he engaged them. And he—Darto—
was a singer (“he has a lofely voice!” says Ma-
dame), then a dancer. He met the little', dark,
French girl m her teens; he persuaded her to go
on the stage ; he taught her dancing, and she ap-
peared after six weeks’ lessons from Monsieur.
(“I could see all along,” says Monsieur.) They
bubble over with adoration of each other It may
be business, but it looks genuine. Especially as
the bored«eye, common to one artist while another
is talking about himself, never suggests itself
even. But to Madame is all the glory, take it or
leave it, or press it on her husband, as she will.
She s the attraction, he’s the background. As
she talked about her dances she tapped her brow.
That, then, is where they come from. The head
gets them first, then the wonderful, supple, flower-
like body. I sink about them—we are alwize
sink about them, how to do somesing differen’.”
Then she tells how through sinking so much to
find somesing differen’ she went to sleep and
dreamed, and in her dream she saw a new dance,
something unique, just what she had been
trying to sink of, and couldn’t. .As
she talks she slips out of her wrapper and
puts on a pale pink muslin walking frock—very
French, with a neck so low, oh, ever so low, the
very Frenchiest of French necks. Then a big
white hat and a white veil, and this creator of a
new sort of grace is dressed for rehearsal—a little,
slim, dark, flower-like creature, with an expres-
sion of such melting sweetness, and a manner so
charming, so gay, simple, quick, unconscious that
the story about her being daughter to a Countess
positively may not be true. Not only in dancing
is she an artist. Her frocks bear further witness
to her genius. “Hike best the Tyelor-made,”
says she. I was surprised, she looks so very very
far removed from tailor-mades. But she pulls out
a coat and skirt, and what do you think ! It’s
brightest scarlet, lined with gold, and trimmed
with gold braid. That way I can imagine, her
tailor-made, but not our way.
. Hawtrey’s new play, >“ Tom, Dick and Harry,’’
is remarkably well-dressed. Miss Ruby Ray
wears a red wig and a charming almond-brown
voile with a black velvet waisting, and later on a
long brown coat to her heels, lined with turquoise
blue, and a little blue toque. Even prettier is
her leaf-green canvas—copied from a Violet Van-
brugh frock, with fine stitchings on the bodice, a
wide guipure collar, and a bunch of violets at the
waist-belt. Miss Lilian Bethell, who plays an
elderly crying lady, wears a grey, princess-shaped
robe lined with black and opening over a petti-
coat of white silk. Miss Roxy Barton lets out a
laugh like the chimes of St. Mark’s, in a cream
frock and big, black, beef-eater velvet hat. Miss
Madge Hope is the wealthy heiress in dull pink
foulard toned down with fine black lace, and a
black picture hat with a couple of pink feathers
in it. Tom, Dick and Harry all wear red beards,
and are strangely like a well-known Sydney jour-
nalist, who, by the way, walked into the theatre
in the second act and wondered what on earth
everybody was staring at.
Have you noticed how many young girls—mere
children—sit in the d.c. nowadays, decollete and
demure?” This Young Person, as we see her,
isn’t in the least like the legendary Y.P.— the one
who was created just to have things kept away
from her. This local edition is pretty and quiet,
and has a lovely complexion and conscious, dewy
lips, and a pigtail; but she doesn’t look young,
and she does look at the house, and she always
knows when anybody looks at her, and she res-
ponds to an eyeglass on her with the stiffening
serenity of a belle of 30; and neither papa on one
hand and mamma on the other, nor married sister
and bearded brother, nor all her party can give
her the air of being a child which ought to be hers
by rights and isn’t. How can anyone expect it,
after a course of everything that goes on at a
theatre, from “Tess” to “Tanqueray”! She
never misses a first-night. Her face is known
long, long before she is “out,” and she knows every-
body. But this is the favored Australian method
of teaching the young idea how to shoot —I nearly
said itself; and, positively, the nastier the play
the greater crowd of girls and pigtails fills the
theatre and drinks in the nastinesses.
A benefit concert that deserves hearty patron-
age is that of the charming bird-like soprano,
Miss Amy Simpson. The concert comes off at
the Centenary Hall on Saturday, March 2nd.
By the way, Donald Macdonald lectures in the
same hall on Friday night, March Ist, and leaves
for London a few days later, accompanied by Mrs.
Mac., Miss Elaine, and his manager, Edwin
Geach. Another coming event is Burns-Walker’s
vocal recital at the Y.M.C.A. Hall, on March
6th, to introduce two 8.-W. pupils, Miss Carlotta
Young (soprano) and Mr. C. Montagu dhapman
(baritone).
At an “At Home” given lately by a Sydney
woman, they played the game of drawing the best
pig blindfold, and 49 pork-eating women were
beaten hollow by the only one fair bacon-hater
present, who drew her pig with a spirit and real-
ism worthy of another cause—say the Presby-
terian.
Miss.Darchy, late of Sydney Telegraph, lec-
turing in London, told a story—it is polite to call
it a story—about an “old-man” kangaroo. He
and his wife were brought to Germany, to a Zoo.
Some Australian visitors presented him with a
biscuit, but, before eating it, he broke it in two,
handing one-half to his mate. Politeness, Miss
Darchy called it!
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Secretary Wallington—valuable man—has
fixed up all in Melbourne—as to where the Yorks
are to sleep, eat, bathe, comb their hair, &c. He
has inspected Government House, and, on his
Wallingtonian oath, pronounces the arrangements
good. Everything has been thought of, down to
the bit of scented soap and the clean towels in the
bathroom.
‘ ‘ Receptions, private dinners at Govt. House,
and school-children’s jamborees are the functions
sanctioned by the Powers that Be, as depressed
enough to suit the mourning Duke and his
Missus. The Cornwalls, of course, regret their
grandmother’s loss, but I’ve an inkling that, when
they learn that balls, garden parties and race-
meetings have been officially erased from their
black-edged programme of Australian corrobborees
they’ll perk-up and begin to pick a bit for the first
time since their bereavement.
“According to Wallington, the Cornwalls and
Hopetouns will share Govt. House during the
Royal visit. Wally surmises that the Royalties
will ‘ breakfast in their own suite but lunch and
dine with the Gov.-General and house party.’
Meanwhile the diminished Maddens will continue
to flutter between Menzies’ Hotel and Macedon—
though while the Cornwall and Hopetoun planets
are blazing in local skies the Macedon vice-regal
cottage may be scooped into their orbits, crowding
out the Lieut.-Governor’s lesser luminary to
twinkle unnoticed upon the crowded Federal
horizon.
“At social functions, says Wally, the Duke
takes precedence— i. e. , he will lead Lady Hope-
toun into the room first, while the Gov.-General,
following with Her Royal Highness, will frisk
conversationally, for all he is worth, in a frenzied
attempt to avert the frost threatened by the chill,
wordless advance of the linked tombstones ahead.
“ Victoria feels too much in the ‘ hurry-up-
or-else-you’ll-be-too-late, for-Princes-never-wait ’
mood, to start building a special railway con-
veyance for the visitors. But Commissioner
Matheson he is leaving Victoria shortly for a
gilded English railway appointment—who is
trimming up the vice-regal car and frilling a
couple of new corridor carriages to string on,
promises to serve up something distinctly
resembling a ‘Royal train.’
“ The Big People seem to be holding back their
donations to the Queen’s statue, till the Duke
comes. The simple little Argus wants to have
all the money in before then, so as to save un-
seemly discussion of ways and means in his hear-
ing. But what’s the fun of jumping into the
water to show respect to the memory of the visi-
tor’s relative unless he’s standing on the bank to
mark your mighty splash and inwardly count it
unto you for righteousness ?
“ The Times correspondent, Donald Mackenzie
Wallace, who is coming out on board ship with
the Yorks, is a fine old man with very charming
manners. He is also a great linguist and travel-
ler, and one with most keenly-observant eyes in
his head. There are few more delightful books
about foreign countries than Wallace’s ‘ Russia.’
He relates that even in Imperial Russia decora-
tions and titles are sold, just as they are, to all
intents and purposes, in England. A rich merchant
subscribed to a society of which a grand-duchess
was president, on the distinct understanding
that he should get a St. Vladimir Cross. But in-
stead of that he only got a St. Stanislaus Cross—
like a knight bachelorship instead of a K.C.M.G.
—an inferior order. Then he demanded his
money back, and, what is more, got it; but
as an Imperial gift cannot be retracted he kept
the Cross. If some of our knights could get back
the money they subscribed before they got their
titles how well-off they would be !
“ When Mackennal’s bronze statue of Circe was
exhibited at the Royal Academy the pedestal was
draped. That is why nearly all the men who go
to look at the statue —it is now in Yic. National
gallery—examine the pedestal in detail. Upon it
the sculptor has represented the swinishness of
the men Circe had degraded. The figures—male
and female—are interwreathed in a decorative
scheme very powerfully worked out.
“ The loveliness of Circe’s figure is undeniable,
and the melting softness of the lines draws the
eye from every aspect. Placed cunningly under a
roof-window in the Stawell gallery, the light falls
upon bust, neck, and shoulders, varnishing the
prominent parts of the anatomy as with silver.
The snakes in the hair rise on either side the fore-
head into a little curl. These curls match each
other so exactly that they seem painfully formal,
as though Circe had just come from the hair-
dresser’s, or had had her snakes in curl papers the
night before. But notice the hawklike clutch of
the outstretched hands, so strangely —and pur-
posely—out of harmony, if not out of proportion,
with the beautiful feet. The face is exquisite, but
expressionless. The sculptor has not allowed
himself so much as a mocking turn of the lips, or
an alluring glance of the eye. It is an inscrutable
face —that aof a Sphinx in feminine form. Look
at it hard and long, and you get no idea of cha-
racter from it, only a hard, cold beauty, perfect
in feature, but incapable (you would say) of an
emotion. Mackennal probably went for his idea
of Circe, not to Homer, but to William Morris’s
Jason, book 13.
“Crowds stream out daily to gape at the colos-
sal mausoleum in Kew Cemetery on which
sculptors, architects, classic dons and poets have
been engaged to do honor to the memory of a
well-known doctor’s late wife. The remarks dropped
by the gapers are occasionally worth recording.
One member of the faculty declared, after making
a tour of the various inscriptions, ‘Yes, I fancy
he has forgotten only one item.’ ‘ What’s that ? ’
remarked a cleric. ‘His consulting-hours,’ was
the response.
“Mrs. Agar Wynne who presided in all her
diamonds at the only shivoo of the Postal Con-
ference in Melb., is a conservative in the matter
of waists and still brings hers up to hour-glass
proportions, though the line of the divine demarca-
tion is widening all over the place. Hips are the
great factor in frocking now-a-days, and if nature
is niggardly in this direction, art supplies the
deficiency, and so cunningly that all wobbling
and übiquitous and unwarranted rising to the
occasion is triumphed over. At the shivoo in
question, which took the form of a theatre and
supper-party, magpie coloring predominated, but
the sombreness of the black was dispelled entirely
by those diamonds. The only other illumination
was the occasional glimmering of Charles Todd’s
wit, which is over 70 and over done.
“Mrs. Lawson figures at the races and abroad
these times in black and white diagonal striped
frocks which suit her figure very fetchingly. At
Caulfield the other day, she had Grace Palotta in
picturesque black, in charge, and S’Rupert did the
honors by a turn or two on the terrace with the
pair. By the way, Grace bore affectionate
memories of the Ormuz and did not forget all the
kindnesses of the dear Captain, for she sent
flowers down to the boat, and paid a visit herself
to the decks before the liner regretfully put about
for Adelaide. Captain Coad, of the Ormuz, is one
of the dandiest and most popular skippers—with
the women, anyhow.
“The most stunning frock at Caulfield races
on Saturday was the grey voile and black-battle-
mented confection sported by a returned globe-
trotter—Mrs. Charles O’Malley—whose husband,
a captain in the Middlesex Regiment, has just
received notification of the D.S.O. honor for ser-
vice at Ashanti. This mourning grey, accom-
panied by black head-gear, led by an easy distance
on the Terrace, the white-frilled frock and violet
sash of Mrs. Lawson coming a far-off second.
“ Men doing Collins-street one afternoon lately
nearly twisted their necks in taking full stock of
one of a couple of tall girls dressed all in black.
It was a warm day, and, presumably as ventilators,
there were let into her ‘ body’ four wide strips of
very open-pattern lace. These began at the top
of the shoulder-blades—somewhere where the yoke
is supposed to be —and continued over the shoul-
ders down to where a very decollete dress would
begin, seductively showing, against the black, a
beautifully clear skin and the swelling outlines of
a generous bust. As a study in the nude it was a
gaudy success.
“ The report that S’Rupert Clarke intended to
be a Melb. candidate for the Federal House of
Reps, may have had some truth in it. As a
matter of fact the festive owner of La Carabine
told S’Malcolm M’Eacharn that he would oppose
him so as to split the vote in the interests of the
radical candidate, little Dr. Maloney. Nobody
seems to know whether this was meant as a serious
threat or as a splitting joke, but anyhow there is
much humour in the idea of a hereditary title-
holder proclaiming beforehand his scheme to
defeat his own party that way. The Bart.,
it seems, is not going to remain in Victoria
for the Federal Elections ; his wife is coming from
England to represent him during his absence.
( Continued on page 25.)


Citizens’ Company [imited.
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
Existing Policylaolders exceed 216,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Absolute Security. Annual Bonuses.
Moore and Castlereagh Streets,
Sydney.
JOHN FARRELL,
Resident Secbetaby.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, Ac.
The VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS" says:-
“ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity.”
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with u
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
• ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Excepting Henry Clarke, F. B. Suttor is
the oldest member (as member) of N.S.W.
Assembly.
G. H. Reid joined N.S.W. Public Service
37 years ago. Before that he polished up the
handle of a Wvnyard-square importer’s door.
Westralia’s senior Judge, who will be-
come Chief Justice Stone in a few weeks, was
born alongside Perth. He was Acting-C.J. so
long ago as 1880. A Puisne J udge’s salary in the
golden West is only £l4OO ; the Chief gets £3OO
more.
The alleged fact that one of the recent
appointees of the Lyne Cabinet is a brother-in-
law, or something of the sort, to a member of the
State Ministry, is alleged to be one of the reasons
of the rumpus in connection with the appoint-
ment.
S.M. Hekald, reporting the Sydney rail-
way disaster, said “the motor made an evolu-
tion,” “ a double evolution.” Sydney Telegraph
said “ the engine turned a double somersault.” All
the difference between those papers is in that
difference.
Two. of the present N.S.W. Supreme
Court Judges—G. B. Simpson and Cohen —after
a political career accepted appointment to the
D.C. Bench, and later on returns, to politics and
earned seats on the S.C. Bench. Justice Innes,
of old, did the same.
Ebenezer Ward, ex-actor, explorer, poet,
newspaper proprietor and, until lately, A .L.C.,
is now reporter for a S.A. Royal Commissid..i. As
far back as 1864 Ward was second in command to
Finniss on the latter’s first expedition to the
Northern Territory.
There is talk of removing the remains of
the Dailey family from Devonshire-street ceme-
tery to the plot at Waverley now occupied by the
Pnvy. Councillor and his son. Dailey’s father
and mother lie in Devonshire-street. His wife is
buried in Randwiclr.
A Radical member of the Commons pub-
licly accuses Chamberlain of having grossly de-
ceived the Queen concerning the war, and thereby
caused her death. Chamberlain denies it, but
his denial is futile, in face of the fact that he so
grossly deceived himself.
B. R. Wise, K.C., sympathises with
Minister O’Sullivan’s 75.-a-day minimum wage.
B.R. himself worked for 7s. a day for several
weeks. -On a wild-goose' chase to America, after
his Oxford days, he got stranded, and helped in a
blacksmith’s shop for 7s. a day for funds to take
him back to England.
The severest comment on Drake’s Federal
promotion came from the pen of the scribe who
scribbles “Random Notes” in Drake’s own paper,
Progress. Thus:
The inclusion of Mr. Drake in the Federal Ministry is of
good omen to women who desire political advancement.
It was kindly meant but it sounded queer.
Mr. James Dalgarno, the new N.S.W.
Deputy Postmaster-General, had in his 40 years’
postal service one period of “ great times.” That
was when he accompanied Saul Samuel to Europe
and America to establish the Pacific Mail. Saul
and Dalgarno were like father and son, and the
trip was a royal one. Saul got its C.M.G. for the
performance.
AN EXPECTATION.
THEIR REVERNCES' HOUSEKEEPER: “And Pm
heari n' ye've been drinkin ' agin."
TERENCE, THE SUPPDIANT : "Excusin' yer pri-
scnce, Aliss Mulholland, it's a black loi them
'av bin tell in' yez, it is. Oi never touch th'
drink 'ceptin' I take a drop to tone me cohon-
shitushan token I've 'ad a glass or two too
much. And when I haven’t 'ad a glass or
two too much, Miss Mulholkand, if I DO take
them to remedy the evil—well, there's an ind
of it, Miss Mulhotland. T’ank God I alius
did know when to lave off!"
Fame ! Dickson (eldest son of the late
Federal Minister of Defence) wooed the Bulimba
(O ) electors, basing his claims on the fact that tie
was the son of his father. The electors responded
so feebly that he loses his deposit.
Salomons, K.C., of N.S.W. Bar, boasts
an unrivalled record in Demurrers those artful
motions which bristle with legal subtleties
and scientifically exclude questions of fact.
Whether retained for or against the de-
murrer he has, it is said, never yet gone
under.
Federal P.M.G. Drake was a re-
porter on Melb. Arcus 20 years ago. But
that didn’t prevent him—speaking under
Barton’s banner, at Melbourne Town
Hall—from rejoicing at being placed
at the head of a Department in
which “ the superiority of collec-
tivism over private enterprise”
is daily illustrated. The
Argus was so sad that a
man who had worked on
its staff should say such
a thing that it refrained
from reporting the re-
mark probably, like
Sterne’s Recording An-
gel, blotting it out with
a tear.
When George Turner
handed over the Victorian '
State Premier’s office to Pea-
cock he decided to establish a
Federal Treasurer’s office in
an empty room in the same
building, once occupied by
J. B. Patterson. Two ex-
cited officials spent a whole day
drawing up specifications, esti-
mates, measurements, and trian-
gular surveys of the apartment.
Next day they came back to sub-
mit their furnishing arrange-
ments to Turner, and found him
already in possession. Plain brown
George, aided by the office rouseabout,
had carried in an old disused table and
a cane chair, and got to work in the great
barren apartment at running the Com-
monwealth finances, with his papers
heaped on the floor. He hadn’t even time
to look at the elaborate furniture scheme.
It is alleged that almost the first official
minute penned by the new Federal Trea-
surer was addressed to the new State
Premier, imploring him not to laugh
so loudly in the next room, as his yell
disarranged the Federal finances.
Victoria and Albert being cousins
will account for their family not being
up to their physical calibre.
No one is considered to be really dead in
S’Australia until Brother Caldwell, M.P., has
written an ode about him. Caldwell’s muse, in
her lachrymose moods, comprehends both the
Queen and his latest deceased constituent, and the
quality of the tears is about the same m each
instance.
Mr. “ Seppy ” Stephen, ex-N.S. Wales
M.L.C., who has been allowed to use the title
“Hon.” for the rest of his life, was always an
ineffective sort of person, of extreme “loyalty.”
“ Whatever affects England affects Australia,”
was his fixed idea. He conveyed lately to a
London audience that N.S.W. had received
responsible government a—haw —generation be-
fore the; proper time.
War’s ethics have ever been,
“Spoils to the victor.” In olden times
war was a trade entered upon for indi-
vidual profit. It is still a trade ; but it
is now a trade run by a syndicate. In the
past the individual rewards were enorm-
ous. The war-lord, albeit a brigand,
aimed at nothing less than a kingdom,
an empire. With the advance of civilisa-
tion he had to be content with dukedoms.
John Churchill achieved one of these
prizes, parliamentary grants galore, and
an establishment like Blenheim House.
Nowadays the successful battler, like
Roberts, has to be content with an earl-
dom—but “nothing beats an earl ” said
Beaconsfield. Arthur Wellesley was for-
tunate in belonging to a prior genera-
tion. His fighting life extended from
1794 to 1815 (21 years); Roberts lias ex-
tended from 1851, and he is still at the
wickets (half-a-centur.y to date). At 46
Wellington fought Waterloo; on the
verge of three score and ten Roberts
conducted the S’African campaign. Wel-
lesley received by way of reward : Titles
—Baron Douro of Wellesley and Vis-
count Wellington of Talavera and Somer-
set (1809); successively Marquis and Duke
of Wellington; created a Field-Marshal.
Grants —For the capture of Oporto and
the victory of Talavera (1809) £20,000
annual pension for two generations;
defeat of Soult at Orthez and Toulouse,
£lOO,OOO (for the purchase of an estate);
Waterloo, the estate of Strathfieldsaye
(cost £263,000) and £60,000 as his share
of prize-money—total for military ser-
vices, £1,903,000. So far Roberts’ only
pecuniary rewards have been his pay and
a grant of £12,500.
The Melbourne Bar, which hasn’t done
too well of late years, is pleased to learn that a
healthy disagreement has sprung up among t .e
heirs and executors of one-time Bendigo mil-
lionaire Watson. Twelve years’ accounts may
possibly be overhauled, and the Bar hopes to put
a good part of the estate in its own pocket in the
course of the struggle.
James Tom, who figures in the Hargreaves
notices of gold-finding in N.S.W., was uncle of
Fergus Jago Smith, M.L.C., and other Smiths of
the out-back. John Smith, who owned most of
Molong, married Tom’s sister, a daughter of the
redoubtable Parson Tom of the early days. Smith
left £135,000 behind him, though he arrived in
Australia with naught but a pair of hands and a
nose for money-making.
In re the death of Queen Victoria,
“Zadkiel’s” prophecy (8., p. 15, 17/6/’99) was not
far out. It will be in-
teresting to note
whether Edwarjd
YII. dodges “Zad-
kiel’s ” decree by
the allotted 9 years.
A GAY DECEIVER .
FRIEND : “I see you've put your stomach into
mourning."
THE LOYAL SUBJECT: “ Well— outwardly.”
What becomes of Wax. Madden’s state-
ment to Quick that “Her Majesty knew best”
what title the latter deserved, when the latest in-
formation shows beyond doubt that, at the time
of John’s ennobblement, the late Queen’s mind was
wandering ? The humbug of it all!
It is not generally known that Queen Vic-
toria was the head of two churches.. Her Majesty
was the Anglican church’s Fidei Defensor, and
also legal head of the Presbyterian Church of
Scotland. The late Queen possessed two chap-
lains —one Anglican, one Presbyterian.
Gossiped in Adelaide that Symon, K.C.,
may be the first Chief Justice of the Common-
wealth. Would present C. J.’s be chagrined ?
They shouldn’t be, for Way, Madden, Griffith, and
Darley were all appointed to their present billets
without having previously been Judges.
Ex-Mayor M‘Eacharn’s Federal election
posters exhibit the word “ Sir ” in letters much
bigger than the candidate’s name: Which is only
in accord with the beliefs of the Melbourne
magnates supporting him. The knighthood is the
first consideration, the man the second.
How many now recall that superline Jingo
Justice-Minister Wood get first elected to N.S. W.
Parliament on the Labor ticket ? By the way, the
Labor bunch that made such a splash those few
years ago are now mostly dandy billet-holders,
scraggy wobblers, or walking the pavement.
Dr. Quick, replying- to congratulations on
receipt of his bauble, said he “ thought a mistake
had been made, and that some lower title would
be sufficient, &c.”
Great Dickens limned a wormy man,
Whose ’umble ways make readers ;
Nor yet is numbered with the dead
Because Uriah Heap is .
The first person who supplies the missing words
will receive a gross insult in “Answers to Corre-
spondents.”
Jocelyn Hodgson, whose death is reported
from England, was grandson of Arthur Hodgson,
the pioneer of the Queensland Darling Downs
district. His father founded Eton Vale. Arthur
Hodgson, when he had shaped things a little on
his wild run, returned to Sydney, married Miss
Dowling, daughter of the Chief-Justice, then
residing in Woolloomooloo, and took her with
him. Thus Woolloomooloo contributed the first
white woman to the squatting element of
Queensland.
When the Imperial troops passed through
Maoriland, ex-Minister “Jock” McKenzie, worn
out in the service of his country, was stretched
on a sick-bed at Heathfield. On arriving at the
railway station nearest his home, the Seaforths,
the McKenzie regiment, were landed and marched
up to the chronic invalid’s house, so that he could
see them and shake hands with them all. A
pretty little incident, creditable alike to J. G.
Ward, who conceived it, and Col. Wyndham, who
tarried it out.
R. S. Bradley, the old and much-respected
local school-master who ran a close second to
“ Billy” Williams for St. Kilda (Melb.) election,
ame out with a unique advt. after the contest :
To My “ OLD BOYS.”
My Dear Lads, —I tender you my most heartfelt
thanks for the enthusiastic work you did for me
during the election. Nothing could exceed your
affectionate loyalty. My thanks are especially due
to those who did not forget me although they were
busily employed in the camp at Langwarrin. With
my sincere wishes for the happiness and success of
every one of you, I am affectionately yours,
ROBERT S. BRADLEY.
Mrs. A. C. Macdonald, recently deceased
at Prahran (Vic.), was born in Tasmania in 1826,
being the daughter of Gilbert Robertson, jour-
nalist. She was one of the last survivors of those
who went on board the Erebus and Terror to
welcome Sir James Ross when he went to Hobart
in ’43 on his return from the Antarctic. In the
following year, she accompanied her father to
Norfolk Island, where he held the position of
Inspector of Agriculture under Captain Price.
Pier early married life was spent in Geelong, and
she was noted for her assistance to the cause of
charity.
P. O. Fysh, the long-headed and long-
winded Tasmanian, who is to take Premier
Lewis’s place in the Federal Ministry, completes
his 66th year March Ist. He has just returned to
the Flyspeak to quench the voice of the O’Malley
and to set up his own Ofyshal beacon for the
guidance of the electors. Interviewed at Ade-
laide Fysh remarked, in response to an in-
quiry as to whether he intended to join the Barton
Cabinet, that he did not “ understand these un-
paid Ministerial positions.” He has generally
held the other sort, which he understands very
well indeed.
Money M‘Eacharn is spending heaps in
Melbourne to advertise his candidature for the
Federal House of Reps., and vast posters are hung
upon the outward walls that the electors may be
constantly reminded of the existence of S’Malkum,
who, since losing the lift the Mayoral chair gave
him, has a decided tendency to sink out of sight.
M'Eacharn’s idea is that posters can make a
politician as they do a pantomime, but if he gives
more rein to his weakness for stencilling his name
over the earth and on the face of heaven, the
electors will knock it off their voting tickets from
sheer eye-weariness.
Died lately, prospecting in the Centralian
desert, J. Meech, finder of the Day Dream, the
first mine in Broken Hill district to build a
smelter. For some time, until the late W. R.
Wilson got hold of it for his Association, it was
known as “ Meech’s Blow ” ; and occasionally one
strikes an old hand who calls it that still. The
first 1200 or 1500 tons of Broken Hill ore ever
treated was carted over to the Day Dream; but tk.
furnace has long since been dismantled.
sold out of his own Barrier shows too early, and
got into others too late—the prospectors’ com-
monest experience.
Some well-meaning enemies have been
urging old George Dibbs to come forth from his
comfortable £l3OO-a-year billet inN.S.W. Savings
Bank and fight importer M'Millan at Wentworth,
but the ancient gentleman, after some hesitation,
declined. Everybody has a kindly feeling for
Dibbs, but his political principles are about as
fixed as a streak of lightning, and if he started on
a political campaign he probably wouldn’t be able
to remember which side he was on for two nights
running. Still, if this was a time for frivolity it
would be interesting to hear Dibbs damning both
sides with beautiful impartiality.
About Vosper. “ Perthite ”to The Bul-
letin :
In your issue of 2/2/T re Vosper, M.P., and his turning
from Agnostic to R.O. before he died : I happen to know
that Vosper had “found grace” some time before his
illness. Even when he was a pronounced Agnostic I have
heard him say that he did not believe in any Christian
dogma, but if there was anything in any faith the one
that came nearest to his ideal was the R.O. Vosper made
a tremendous onslaught in his paper against ex-priest
Slattery and at the same time he and R.C, priest Father
Duff were very great friends, the latter being a constant
visitor to Vosper’s sanctum. Of late Vosper attended
most R.C. social functions—and was “ going strong ” as a
coming candidate for R.C. honors when death carried
him off. Why didn’t he join the Church before he
became ill unto death ? Why didn’t he insure his life
before ? He had all the documents for the assurance filled
in and had arranged to be medically examined within a
few days of his sudden illness. Give Vosper his due. He
was a courageous, outspoken, fearless man, who single-
handed fought many a desperate battle for the workers
and was never known as a man “ with a bundle.” Had
he been a Atneist when he fell ill, the fear of death would
never have changed him while he retained possession or
his faculties.
Good old Englishman George Jacob
Holyoake, the veteran Chartist and agitator, is
deeply hurt that his life-long friend, the late
Henry Parltes the seas divided them for
50 years or they wouldn’t have been such
friends —was not more emphatically recognised
during the recent Commonwealth celebra-
tions as the grey, great-grandfather of Australian
Federation. Holyoake and Parkes were towns-
men together in the old reform days. Holyoake,
by the way, is mainly remembered as a survival
of the. trades-qnionism of the ultra-antediluvian
type. But the ancient G.J.H. need worry him-
self little. Parkes never originated anything—he
was merely the boss assimilator of other men’s
ideas. Much of the alleged democratic legislation
he placed on the Statute book was a by-product of
old Jack Robertson’s overflowing brain. For his
education system he was indebted to Greenwood,
and he owes his Australian Federation enthusiasm
to D. H. Deniehy (a man who died of Nervous
Ability, and did not live long enough to do any-
thing superlatively big), and still more, perhaps,
to old David Blair.


For
that
Tired
Feeling
Itake
SCHNAPPS.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Aboriginalities.
If you want to cheer yourself up and shake
• off the doldrums, just tramp down a Western
river-bed this season. Bones, horns, hides, and
sand; then sand, hides, horns and bones. The
whole course as dry as the Sahara. After a few
miles of this you come to a station-notice sticking
in the sand—“ No fishing here ! ” You then grin
and trudge wearily homewards.
* * * *
“ Zip ” on the drought in Queensland :
The last authentic compilation. of the Queensland
drought-losses for the past 12 months gives some para-
lysing figures. Here is an abbreviated list of a few of
them in the Gregory district: —No. 1, lost 750 C cattle,
36,000 sheep, and 319 horses ; No. 2, 1857 cattle, 116
horses; No. 3, 8944 cattle and 174 horses ; No. 4, 4500
cattle, 35,633 sheep, and 310 horses ; No. 5, 13,847 cattle
and 473 horses ; No. 6, 6226 cattle and 146 horses ; No. 7,
6380 cattle, 22,250 sheep, 200 horses ; No. 8, 14,500 cattle ;
No. 9, 27,987 cattle, and so on ad infinitum. 1200 miles
at a stretch and not a mouthful of feed on the whole
route. Bikes are everywhere used for travelling, and
camels for loading* Chaff, scrub, and spinifex are being
fed to the remaining stock at enormous expense, but the
losses are daily mounting, mounting. At one station
(Mt. Margaret) the wool was loaded in Sept., 1899, and it
is still there in the sheds. All the horses and bullocks
being dead, it is impossible to get it away. And still the
hard-visaged pastoralist hangs on—in most instances, of
course, because he must, but in some few instances be-
cause his belief in things “ taking a change ” is not hope-
lessly shattered even yet.
*»■ * •
A horrible death overtook a man who the
other day tramped from Melbourne to a billet
at Carrum. He suffered badly from kidney-
disease, and on a day when the glass stood
above the 100 deg. he tramped through the busli
from Cheltenham and got within a quarter-mile of
Carrum station when he succumbed. He lay
beside that bush track for just a week, when the
local trooper, noticing a buzzing of flies as he rode
by, investigated and managed to get the poor
wretch to the Melb. Hospital before he died.
When found the man was emaciated and sun-
blistered, his only covering being shirt and socks.
The exposed parts of his body and inside his
mouth were oovered with living residts of partial
decomposition, though singular to say, he had not
been attacked by ants. Seven days in mid-
summer without food or water !
• * * *
The “ Faithful Animal ” again ! In War-
wick district of S. Q. was camped an old fossicker,
wiio was kept in tucker by a cattle-man, for whom
he was working. One Saturday, the boss took
out the rations, and, not seeing the old man about,
left them in the tent. Next Saturday he went
out again, and saw the last lot of rations un-
touched ; and when he went out again on the
third Saturday, and still found the things intact,
he grew alarmed, and got up a search-party.
They found the old man —or what was left of him
AN AMBIGUITY.
(At railway-station , Granville, N.S.W.).
WIRE-FENCE : “ When'll I get a train fur
Nevertire?”
PORTER : " You should have taken the one that
has just gone.”
WIRE-FENCE: “’Ow was I to know it wouldn’t
take me to Vicee Versee?”
—lying about 300yds. away, close to a water-hole.
The head was gone and nearly all the limbs, and
the flesh was eaten nearly clean away from the
body. When they went back to camp to get a
blanket to wrap the remains in, the dead man’s
dog came out of his kennel and barked at them.
They examined, and found that the brute had
dragged thither the limbs and head of the corpse,
and picked them clean. The affectionate little ■
bow-wow was as fat as a pig.
* * * *
Canterbury (M.L.) Acclimatisation Society
proposes importing chamois next season. Accord-
ing to a letter from Hagenbach, of Hamburg,
chamois are now so scarce as to be worth £5O to
£6O per pair. European ibex aren’t procurable at
any price ; but Siberian ibex may be had for from
£5O to £6O each males, and from; £75 to £lOO
females.
* * *. *
“W.S.”: At the break-up of the 1900
season on the Murray and Darling all the squat-
ters and cookies lost sheep, with the first spring of
herbage, mostly on the box flats. One English
genius ran a plough furrow around the supposed
affected area, and was quite surprised when the
“ silly things ” walked over it.
“Neerdoweel” on a calm, cool and col-
lected man :
I was dozing, one afternoon, on the verandah of a
Uentral Queensland bush pub., when two bush-larri-
kms rode up, leading a spare horse, at which I
n °.V.?ed “he publican look very hard. “ Nice sort of a
cuddy,” he said. “Orter be; cost me 15 quid,” was
the reply, and the strangers let their horses go, dumped
saddles, bridles and swags on to the verandah, and went
inside. The house was full of men—a neighboring shed
having just cut out—and that night the fun was fast and
furious. My two flash friends were in the thick of it, and
I heard them make wager after wager with the half-
drunken shearers that none of them could ride a certain
horse. Next morning the led horse of the previous day
was brought round, saddled and bridled, but the shearers,
their over-night liquor dead in them, after seeing a couple
of spills (for the horse certainly was an artist), evinced no
eagerness to win their wagers, one and all desiring to
defer their contest to a later date. Of course, there was
the usual talk of what they could and would do, and more
wagers were made. Liquor began to flow again, tongues
to loosen, and blow and skite were at their height, when
a small man rode up on a good-looking brown mare.
“ Here’s Mr. Sefton,” said the publican, “ I’ll back him to
ride the horse. Mr. Sefton, they’re laying fivers that no
one can ride this horse. I’ll back you, if you’re willing?”
Mr. Sefton seemed a man of few words ; he nodded. The
flash pair, who had suddenly become singularly quiet, put
up the money, and the newcomer whipped the saddle off
his mare and asked for a halter. “ There’s a bridle on the
horse,” said someone. “ Always use my own tackling,” was
the reply, and, the halter being produced, he put it on the
mare, and fixed his own saddle and bridle on the horse.
Then, slipping the reins over the horse’s head, he was in the
saddle like a flash and rode off leading the mare. The
whole performance hardly occupied five minutes from the
time of his arrival. Everyone looked to see him slung,
but he cantered quietly and steadily away along the track
by which he had come. “ Lor lumme ! ” said a shearer,
“he’s took your ’orse. You’d best take after him.”
“ Dry up, you cursed idiot,” came from one of the bush
larrikins from under the flap of the saddle he was rapidly
girthing or> to his horse. “’E’s the cove wot. owns the
’orse,” and in a very few minutes he and his mate were
disappearing rapidly in the opposite direction. The pub-
lican told me he recognised the horse as soon as they rode
up, and that he guessed it was stolen, also that Sefton,
having recovered the horse, would take no further pro-
ceedings and would send back the halter in the morning.
• * * »
Writes “ Dunnarg ” on in-breeding in the
back-blocks :
Inter-marrying is deplorably prevalent in some of the
sparsely-populated districts of N.S.W. Writer knows one
locality in which the results of this are very patent.
Wholelfamilies are either deaf or partly dumb, and morals
are mournfully loose. The other day a female member of
these families visited a doctor for advice, but after the
patient had been half-an-hour trying to explain her symp-
toms the mystified medico had to “ give it up ” and dis-
miss„her with a bottle of strictly “ non-committal medi-
cine. Very few of these people can read or write, while
others are not even quite sure as to which sex they
belong to.
* • * *
“ Dave ” : Have for years had a cockatoo,
which, about six months ago, began to moult, and
is now as absurdly naked as the palm of your
hand, though otherwise healthy and cheerful.
Can any bird-sage suggest remedial treatment?
[Can anyone put natural hair on the bald ?—Ed.
B.]
Ed. Bulletin. —Re bombard
ing the clouds for rain. How terri
ble to think of all the loss o>
property through the many
years of drought experienced
throughout Australia, while
all the time there has been a
simple remedy at hand. I
have for years been writing
our Col. Sec., and offering to
stake my life on the success-
ful results, if the experi-
ments were conducted in-
telligently. Then I had no
data to go upon, but now
the thing is being success-
fully done in Italy, Aus-
tria, and Switzerland.
Surely it is worth, trying
here also, especially as
N.S.W. Govt, could easily
obtain particulars from
Europe . Mackay Pro-
gress.
* *
“Heinsdal”: H. J.
M‘Cooey (B. 13/10/’0), re
intestinal worms. The
•‘bears” here (Glen Alice)
suffer from tapeworm. Some
eight years ago these animals
died off wholesale, and everyone I
saw shot" about that time was full of
these parasites. Last year the bears
began to die off again, and all I’ve seen
dead since are as poor as wood and full of
worms. ’Possums seem fairly free from intestinal
worms.
* * * *
“Yarrum” : The other day a man rode
into our township (N.S.W. South Coast) with his
whiskers full of tuberculosis ! He had ridden
gast a pig-killing establishment, and the stuff
ad blown up from the road, to which it had been
carried with other refuse from the “factory.”
Almost 50 per cent, of the pigs killed there have
’losis, and those who have seen ’em fed don’t won-
der why. No doubt the whiskered gent took the
disease home to his wife and family. Any man
living within four miles of a piggery should have
it “all off,” as a hairy man runs risks.
* * * *
“ R.8.T.” : Just out of Springwood (Blue
Mountains* N.S.W.) lives Old Blackjack. This
. aborigine, anxious to participate in the Com-
monwealth celebrations, went to Sydney six
weeks beforehand, leaving an old pair of trousers
hanging from a hook in his hut, and forgetting to
close the door after him. In his absence a tom-tit,
hard-pushed for a nesting-place, made use of
Black Jack’s trousers and laid therein three eggs,
which it would have hatched but for the untimely
return of the owner before the period of incuba-
tion had expired.
* * * *
“D. H.R.” : Re longevity of galahs (8.,
5/l/’01). I recently, in Barraba, N.S.W., saw
one which the owner said was 27 years old. It
was in good health and was a splendid talker. I
also saw one on the Macquarie which was credited
with 20 years. Sir John Lubbock, in “ The
Beauties of Nature,” writes that parrots are said
to attain 100 years, but he mentions no special
kind.
WHISKY AND
RIVER.
BUNG : “ This your first trip on
the Darling? ”
TRAVELLER: “’Tis that.”
BUNG: “How do you like her?”
TRAVELLER : “ Wid a little dhrop
uv whisky, thank yer.”
“Yarrum”: Train-travelling recently to
Sydney, had the misfortune to get into same car-
riage with a young mother and her baby. She
talked of that youngster to an elderly lady nearly
all the way, making out what an extraordinary
kid it was. At last in a corner a testy-looking
old fellow put his newspaper down, coughed a
time or two, wiped his spectacles, and said:
“Madam! I presume that is your first” She
assured him it was. “Then,” said he, “ there is
some excuse for you. My wife talked the same
drivel about her first, second, third and every
subsequent child up to the eighteenth. Then,
however, she weakened and we had peace. Also,”
he added, “ the neighbors had peace.” Then he
went on with his reading, just as if he hadn’t said
anything disagreeable.
* * * *
Re “Bushman’s” recent query. A mob
of 14,000 sheep and two men perished on the road
between Bunda Bunda and Tooleybuc stations
(N.Q.) some four or five years ago. The sheep, we
are told, were the property of Mr. Wills-Alien,
Gunnible, Gunnedah, N.S.W., with whom
“ Bushman ” might communicate.
* * * *
Clement Wragge comes back from Austria
and Upper Italy with the news that two cannon,
if fired at the right moment, will project three
acres of ground from hailstorms. At this rate it
seems that two hundred million cannon will pro-
tect Queensland from hailstorms* How often do
they have hailstorms in Queensland, by the way ?
* * * *
The A. W.U., the bush-workers’ union of
the three S.E. States, which was just about
knocked out by past strike catastrophes,- is
making rapid recovery. Adelaide branch num-
bers 2150 members ; the Vic. (Creswick) branch,
2850; the Bourke branch, 4900; and the Central
(N.S.W.), 2900. Others bring up the total to
13,000. Feeling its feet again, correspondence is
renewed with the Pastoralists’ Union over shear-
ing and shed rates, and the tone of the letters on
either side doesn’t sound too pacific.
* * * *
A dismally humorous book-agent visited
Murdering Gully and made the acquaintance of a
“hatter,” who was a crank on the Bible. The
hatter came home at dusk one evening, and read
in raddle on the slip-rails—“ This night thy soul
is required of thee.” He looked nervously behind
and around, but approached the hut. There, on
the door, he found—“ Prepare to meet thy God.”
He stepped back, and his hair began to stand on
end, while from within, in deep, sonorous tones,
came—“l am the resurrection .” Then the
hatter turned, ran, flew, and—well, there is an-
other abandoned selection at Murdering Gully,
for that flying man never came back.
* * * *
A Brisbane Chow, Ah Chin—who had a
case coming on in the Police Court against a
countryman, Ah Foo, for the recovery of a horse
—rushed into his lawyer’s office on the morning
of the trial. “All li,” he jabbered—“case all li.
Got em flen on bench. Him flen Ah Chin. All
li, by Cli.” But when the case came on, the sup-
posed friendly beak went hammer and tongs for
the other Chow, and the Bench asked Ah Chin to
pay several “pong.” “What the devil did you
mean,”- said Chin’s lawyer afterwards, “ by telling
me that was your friend ? ” “ Chah l ” the
Chow hissed disgustedly. “Him foo’; no tellee
diffelent Chinaman ! Him tlink allee time Ah
Foo been Ah Chin. Chah ! —him foo’ ! ”
• * * *
“Jimdick”: Harvesting this season,
killed a 4ft. carpet snake amongst the hay. Put
deceased on an ant-bed and found, a few days
later, nothing left but the skeleton with, within
the slender ribs, the clean-picked skeletons of four
mice. I also once found, on the Darling River, a
trapped rabbit followed by a carpet snake as far
as the trap would allow.
♦ * * *
Pahiatua (M.L.) police recently destroyed
a heifer which, when a calf, had had placed round
its neck an iron ring. As as the animal grew, the
ringcut into the neck until it severed the windpipe,
the beast afterwards breathing through the aper-
ture thus made.
* * * *
“ S.R.” : Put in a glorious night at a
selector’s on the Condamine once. After turning
in heard strange noises in the front room. The
family called out “’possums!” and the old man
and the sons crawled over the cart-harness in
their shirts and began pelting boots and tin-plates
and things up into the rafters. I had to get under
the mattress to avoid the bluchers that came over
the partition. “I’ll shift them,” I heard the old
man say at last; then “ bang I ” went a gun and
one ’possum fell dead oh the floor. The other also
fell with fright, but promptly raced up the old
man’s legs and took refuge under his shirt
There ivas a circus before they could divorce that
’possum from Dad’s hide.
**- * *
“ Yarrum ” : Re snakes climbing. Not
long ago I fired at ‘ 1 flock ” pigeons on top of a
40ft. cabbage-tree, and a much-riddled black
snake fell out. Surely the reptile must have
climbed there. Also I once found a brown snake
in the spouting round a brick house. [There is no
doubt that snakes do climb trees. Present writer
once (in N.Q.) saw a 17ft. carpet-snake coming
down a tree —tail-first.]
* * ♦ »
“Presence of mind is a grand tiling.”
For instance, old miner, falling down 300 ft. shaft
and within a fathom of bottom, was heard by
mates to mutter as he passed, “ Now for a blanky
bump ! ” Then he bumped fatally.
* * * *
Re Rodier plan of rabbit destruction : In
the N.E. district of Victoria the ratio of buck rab-
bits to does trapped during past season is stated
by the men in the business to be as sto 1. Well
known among trappers that males take the baits
much more greedily than females.
* * * •
“G.T.”: Quite true that some bush
horses are equipped with jope-shoes (green hide).
I have myself shod a horse with strips of hide
about 2in. wide, where I could get no shoes and
travelling without them was out of the question.
Also to “W.T.” (8., 2/10/’00.) Two joeys on
teats are common to scalpers who notice things,
but I know a scalper with 5000 to his credit who
couldn’t tell me how many teeth a ’roo has.


The Bulletin’s pamphlet, “ A Policy
for the Commonwealth, ” is selling like hot cakes.
Post free from Bulletin office to any Australian
address Bd. in stamps of any State.
The Bulletin’s new motto for families,
specially recommended to young couples :
“ What is home without a Lodger?”
ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
For the Skin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling a*nd soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLANDS
ESSENCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland’s articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
sd
MAPPIN & WEBB
(The Great London Manufac-
turing Silversmiths)
FORKS & SPOONS.
The}' manufacture them by the million.
They make the most heavily plated Spoons m England.
They are guaranteed for 25 years hard wear.
They only plate on white, hard nickel-silver bases.
The Goods wear like Solid Silver.
They are sold in Sydney at London Cash Prices.
They engrave like Solid Silver.
They can be seen in immense quantities at their Agents—
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Vice-Regal
Jewellers,
HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
We Stock Solid Silver Spoons and Forks
A Complete Cabinet of 6 each Forks, Spoons and Knives, with Fish Carvers, £ll 13s. 2d. A Cabinet of 12
of everything, £l7 6s. 4d. We supply a Single Spoon or Fork at proportionate prices.
Franz Josef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . . .
Order
SCHWEPPE’S
DRY GINGER ALE
“P.J.Mac.” : How is this for a
long tramp? Worked at Kanowna,
W.A., in ’96 with an old German, who
had walked from the Diamantina, N.Q.,
to Port Lincoln, S. A., and thence to Cool-
gardie. lie seemed to think but little
of the matter, except as regarded the
loss of his swag, which he was com-
pelled to throw away going round the
Bight, and the suicide of his mate upon
the dry stage between Eucla and Lind-
say’s Turn-Off.
» * * •
One Lum Sing, of Townsville,
was recently butted over an embankment
by a passing train. On being picked up
by certain commiserating Europeans he-
cried out indignantly, so local libellers
affirm, “ Me no gottem plague ! ” Efforts
were made to rehabilitate him, but all
was unsuccessful until the ambulance
litter approached, at sight of which Lum
Sing rose and ran his hardest. The
Chinese have some queer notions about
the ways of European surgeons when they
lay hands on a Cnow victim.
* « * *
“E.V.C.”: Was once pulling an
old darkie armed with a bottle of rum
across the Clarence River, when the
bottle got broken. Whereupon the
nig. grabbed the baler and in record
time baled the boat dry, transferring
the whole of the available liquid (fish
soup with rum sauce) to his bingie, and
remarking as he spat out a mouthful of
fish-scales : “My wud, cobbon budgeree
pfella that ! ”
* ik t
“Boko”: “M.L.R.” (8., 16/2/’0l) no-
tices the birth of red-headed offspring to Ml"
blooded Kanaka parents. Writer knows nothing
about Kanaka vagaries, but has noticed how very
commonly red hair occurs in dark families. Isot
the familiar bright “carrots” or “ginger,’ but a
deep, rich copper colour. It will be noticed
amongst Jews often, even when both parents are
dark-skinned and black-haired. These red-haired,
dark Jews are quite a different type from the com-
mon, fair German sort. Have noticed it also
among the dark Irish. A Patlian here with the
Indian Contingent had a red beard, which 1
understand is fairly common. The “ Ambus-
cade” in Sydney Art Gallery shows several red
men amongst the tribesmen lying in wait. Have
seen red-bearded Indians, but believe that in their
case the hair was stained.
* * * *
The Southern press recently mentioned as
very curious the case of a man who was suddenly
struck dumb at a wayback town. The explanation
is that the man ran up a fair “ score ” at two of the
hotels, then became ill, wouldn’t eat, and sud-
denly lost power of speech; and the public
stepped in like lambs and began collecting for the
patient. The local sawbones, however, investi-
gated with a needle in a soft place, but man
merely jumped and went a little yellower. Then
the medico gave dummy a whiff of chloroform and
said “Now tell me what’s the matter.” I can t
speak ! ” gurgled the dumb man ; but directly
afterwards he was 0.K., and explained that some-
thing must have burst in his throat. Then the
local Hooligan came in and gave him notice to
quit or be run in for “false mishrepresentation.’’
* * * *
Ed. Bulletin. — I am acquainted with an
effective and cheap mode of preserving telegraph-
poles from white ants —a method that been
successful in N. Queensland and Northern Terri-
tory, and answers well for wooden piles and
building-timber generally. I shall be glad to give
all particulars —for a consideration. —R. Cohen,
Thursday Island, N.Q.
• • » *
“R.W.S.”: The picture referred to by
“ Geebung ” (8., 27/10/’0) does not show the
diamond snake to have “nearly swallowed”
the hare —which is but little more than half-
way down; and the snake would probably
not have managed the balance. Snakes,
like some humans, have occasionally
“ eyes bigger than their bellies,” and it
is not very uncommon to see them in
the fix illustrated.
“ J.A.C.” : A sheep-dog had been
brought from a station into a small non-
pastoral baekblox township, and one
day not a child was to be seen about
the place, and the township became
alarmed. Search was made, and the
juveniles were found crowded in the
corner of a paddock, whither the dog
had rounded them up. He had no
sheep to look after, so he took the chil-
dren. I guarantee this lie as a fact.
“ Steele ” : A line-repairer dropped a
screw-wrench from the top of a telegraph-
post 0:1 the Great Divide, and before the
tool touched earth it was snapped up, car-
ried a distance, and dropped again by a
jackass that had perceived its descent from
an adjacent tree.
Dear Bulletin. I am a pretty fair
boomerang-thrower, except with the “returner.”
Can any reader inform me as to how Westralian
“comebacks” (kylies) are thrown, and describe
their flight. Have tried to throw them as the
Coranderrk (Vic.) blacks throw theirs—by hold-
ing loosely in right hand, above shoulder, convex
edge forward, and propelling straight ahead with
a vertical rotation —but to no purpose.-
WONGUIM.
* *. * *
A correspondent writes that. Nature pro-
vides a local remedy for the W.Q. fly-pest in the
shape of the penny-royal which grows abundantly
about the water-holes. A handful rubbed on the
face, it is alleged, will effectually keep off flies
while the scent lasts.
“ Serp ” : Does everybody know that
venomous marine snakes are found off the coasts of
M.L. as well as in the South Seas? While none
of .the land serpents of the Pacific Islands are
poisonous, the sea serpents, of which there are
some 70 species, are all fanged, and provided with
glands that secret virulent poison. The species
belonging to MX. are all yellow-banded, the
Fijian black-banded, and those of Australia grey-
banded. They are often found asleep on the
surface of the water, and are easily captured.
They are abundant in the coral islands, where
they are eaten by the natives, who first carefully
cut off their heads.
“Silurian” : “ Suffold ” (B., 26/1/01)
writes about human and canine footprints in
carboniferous sandstone. In the Primary geolo-
gical Age (to which the Carboniferous Period
belongs) there were no living oreatures more
advanced than fishes. The Secondary Age was
A BRIEF
DELIGHT.
COCKIE HOBBES:
“ Ten of us
done him up in two
ticks. That’s the worst o’ them torfs —they
ain’t got no bloomin’ staminer.”
that of reptiles, and mammals did not appear on
the earth until countless ages later —in the Ter-
tiary Age ; man not being reached in the develop-
mental series until about the middle (Pliocene)
period of the Tertiary.
BALLADE OF OLD RACERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ho ! for a ballade of favorite horses!
Where are the thorougbreds fancied of yore.
Think how we greeted them once on the courses,
Backed them, and joined in the triumphing roar,
You who are learnedly versed in turf lore,
Steeped in the pedigrees, cultured in paces,
Knew all the jockeys, whose colors they wore—
Where are the horses of yesterday's races f
Merit of some of them Britain endorses,
Merman the Lily has come to adore,
Carbine is strengthening ducal resources,
Yet there are other steeds, sound to the core,
Worshipped— you know it—in days heretofore;
Think how ive plunged on them, picked them for
places,
v.
Swore by them, winning, and losing swore morc-
Where are the horses of yesterday’s races ?
Sheep, we were shorn by the Books of the bourses,
Graining one dollar and dropping a score ;
Golden the winnings?—as golden the losses!
Sport that we’ve paid for is nought to deplore;
Equine equations were ever a bore.
Rather we’d think of their paces and graces,
Sheen-shimmer, taut muscle—yes, but (encore)
Where are the horses of yesterday’s races?
Envoi
Pegasus, list on thy constellar shore
Some at the stud, perhaps some in the traces,
Dragging four-wheelers, ah! glory is o’er;
There are the horses of yesterday’s races!
D. BOUVERIE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no ease will MS. be returned un -
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
J.C.Y. : Depends on what kind of journalism
you mean. The ideal reporter is the man with the brain
of the imaginary detective in the fid. novel and the out-
ward aspect of an idiot to throw people off their guard.
And the ideal editor is Solomon, only without the harem
and not so tired Enix : “If thou shouldst prove not
spotless clean,” saith your poem to Her, “ I’d give thee
fuller, better love.” Bad doctrine. What did Goethe cry
on his death-bed? “More soap!” Meso : Your
'riend’s letter to the paper in question states that The
Bulletin made certain statements, which you set forth.
The Bulletin never in all its life made such statements.
We challenge you to give the date of such Bulletin state-
ments, and if you can do so we will print your letter in
big type for our own confusion. In making such allega-
tions, always give details Charles H. W. (Winton):
Can’t contract to read such scrawly MS. It would take
an hour to get through, and then the time might be
wasted.... A. W. Mac: Some people seem to think that
the more hideous the scrawl of a MS. the more an editor
is impressed and the better he likes it. They never made
a bigger mistake J.J. : But, after all, the police-court
offences enumerated are nothing to the crime that any
Australian commits in enlisting in such a venal and
ignoble enterprise... .Old. : “ Father’s Story ” looks very
much like a Yankee that we read lately. Or do we dream?
L. Porton : J. Liddell Kelly isn’t a “Fenian Irish-
man.” He is a Scotsman who talks broad Scotch ;
also he happens to be a Protestant. So there!
Bush Biblist: It is walloping the father of all dead horses
to start to prove that religious people have done most of
the world’s cruelties. Almost all the persecutors were
intensely religious W.D.F. : Many years ago Parkes
spoke of “the Australian Commonwealth.” “ Yarra-
matta,” as the name of the Federal capital, would be a
ridiculous effort to propitiate the meanest kind of pro-
vincialism From ’5l : Turner should at least have
known enough to keep the administration of his Old Age
Pension Act out of the hands of chump J’s.P. Nobody
expects good administration from honorary magistrates
—especially honorary magistrates in Melbourne
“ Back from the War” : The yarn of the returned contin-
genter whose admirers divest him of his trousers in
order to view his wounds, is becoming grey-headed....
L.S. (Kanowna): “ Illusions” would be too long even if
well-written —and it is not well-written H.D.L :
“ Home to Boost ” only the nominative of a story, with-
out the predicate. Try again....D. C. Barker (Mon-
treal) : If you would give some evidence instead of all
these ungrammatical assertions it would be better. It is
easy to say “ in 1888 a certain refiner put a million dollars
in his pocket”—just as easy as to say that Oom Paul
Kruger is the,lost grave of Moses.... 5.8.: Brother Jojin’s
kindness in appointing Bro. Alick’s little boy, aged 17, to
command grown men in W. A. contingent already n ted...
H.B. : “ There cannot be the slightest doubt in the mind
of any man living that God will draw a line of demarca-
tion between Dr. Lang and the rest of our Australian
pioneers.” Next, please !... .A.A.W. : The piteous Vic.
yowl to head-quarters when it became suspected that the
Duke of York was first going to visit Sydney
was quite aa grotesque as the frantic N.S.W. official
grab at the sick Governor-General, who was dragged all
the way round the coast from Adelaide to Sydney merely
to prevent him from first shedding the lustre of his lordly
presence on the hated city of Smellborno.. ..A.O. : The
title Prince of Wales is a creation dependent on the ipse
dixit of the monarch or the minister. George 111. was
P. of W., though he was grandson, not son of the then
king. Henry VIII. wasn’t even an eldest son, but he
wag P. of W. If George 11. wag made P. of W. because
his father was “reigning monarch” at date of his
birth, then he was a remarkably fine infant, say
sft. Bin. and stout in proportion, with all his teeth, and
growling out broken English G. Windier: Bulletin
doesn’t want mere formal records of theatrical entertain-
ments. It doesn’t wish to hear that the Jabvosky
Brothers and Miss Rosina de Montmorency opened to an
enthusiastic audience at Oow Flat. But if you have any
interesting news or comment send it along E.R.N. :
Looks like cheerful lunacy. We like cheerful lunatics ;
there are so many dull sane people... .S.R.T.: Parkes
might have written it J.A.O. (No. 2): The other man
sent us the account of a remarkable occurrence —you fol-
low up with a mere humorless 1ie.... A.C.H. : A thunder-
storm works up against the wind because it has behind it
a cfuwig'e of wind. Yes, moving objects are often light-
ning-struck Yarrum : Don’t “ quote-mark ” every
mortal sentence. Also, leave italics to us. You empha-
size about twenty times too mnch, and mostly in the
wrong place. If people would study their s.uff as printed
they’d save a world of trouble in these respects ...
Fraulien : An lift. 4in. black snake 35 years ago won’t go
down. You should have made your serpent either shorter
or more recent. ..F.R. (0. Towers): Re compensation and
insurance in Germany, contribution no additional value...
Schist: Will print Billy Krusb : Thanks
H.E.C. : Much obliged for occasional news of your pro-
mising little goldfield... .E.P. : Anyhow, Kingston re-
signed his modest membership of S.A. Leg. Council the
day he was made Federal Minister, and both Turner
and Forrest have stepped out of their State offices. ....
O.S. : Hobson (whose “War in S. Africa” everyone
should read) is a well-known English financial writer who
spent a considerable time in the country about whose
affairs he now so convincingly writes. (2) There is un-
doubtedly an overwhelming preponderance of opinion in
the civilized world against the S’African war. The
British public now knows that it was deceived, and that
the war is utterly unrighteous, but of course it
now has to pursue the thing to the bitter end,
no matter what crimes may be committed......
Billy Cann : Another par. to same effect already printed.
... .S.P. : Bulletin only publishes in book-form matter
which it considers worthy of book-form.... Cremendo
(Tas.): Long yarns in scratchy, Careless MS. haven t
“ Buckley's show ”of even being read in this office. You
must either type, or write legibly with plenty space
between lines And. S. : Sorry none of those three have
force enough... .Kiwi: Terrible copy. Can’t you type-
write it?... .Billabong : An old Yankee yarn.. ..R.D. :
Isn’t that shipwreck joke rather aged?.... Alice O.: No-
thing violently special about “Washing Day.”.... H.P. :
Second-rate comedians dealing with third-rate stuff. The
fact is, they were not reckoned of much consequence.
The show was expected to boom by virtue of its mere
magnificence... .B.S. : As here stated at the time, the
objection to the marriage was not a sectarian one .
Imray : “ Yammagee Jacky ” has points, but is woefully
tedious... ,R.M. : Considering “ A Victim of Science.’....
E.S. : Send more Carnis : Not at all. The U.S.A.
Govt, affixes to every side of beef exported the “ U.S.A.’
metal tag, to show that the meat has been examined and
passed as sound. Maqriland is only imitating this neces-
sary guarantee to the oversea customer. . O.P: “Mixed
Drinks Harmony ” much too mixed for sober comprehen-
sion Saio Nara: “Kangaroo Flat School” is the old
story, re-hashed, of the new school-teacher who turned
out'to be an amateur pug Carmine: No; dull-1 rown
verse Thos. A. Lane : Too long-winded. Boil it
down! M.A. : “Flame” unusable J.A.B. : Not
enough force or novelty.. .F.R. : Thanks for letter which,
however, casts no new light on subject...-Quilp N..
Returned items don’t bite hard enough.... Couple of
A M B.’s : Just ask your uncle what he thinks of your
rivalry J. Regan': Thanks, but the point of the story
was given and that’s all we had in view Grass-tree .
Please send name and address... Constant Reader: Off
our beat Matchbox : Of course you know those
“ good stories ” are unprintable P.E.R. :We do not
vouch for the accuracy of it ; we printed it as from a
correspondent, and as a matter of public interest....
0. W.J. : We get much over 1000 communications weekly.
How can we be expected to read such MS. ? Sfogato :
Par covers a 40-acre paddock. It would occupy a paper
of the superficial contents of the Commonwealth....
G.B. : Chow’s address to the jibbing horse very old gag.
Wairarapa : Fire-making subject finally hung up
Eli : Lacks vitality. Your characters are mere names....
APR.: Thanks. Onlv one usable Vril : Leave more
line-interval... .L. M‘D. (Vic.) : Starts out lustily, but
“slumps” grievously at end....J.W. : Aimless kind of
whoop.. ..J.S.G. : Some graphic power. Promising on
the whole Yulcan : The six-digit question is done with.
Pipe : Scotch yarn a variant on a well-known wheeze.
Other may d 0... .Red Cross : You’re on. the wrong ’bus.
Copy held for you... .Geo. G. : Doesn’t ring truly....
Eiffa : “Thermometer” annotated and returned
0.A.8. : Good sketch; but too slight for B Bal:
Don’t know any.... Leo: Poetic; wants force....
A.D.B. : Don’t care much for “ Tolstoy ’ or
“Lady” Eidsvold : Not significance enough
Camo : No chance for any outsider on the Federal Han-
sard staff, which will and must consist of veteran ex-
perts F.O. : Whv not condense ? “ Six o’clock in the
morning ! ” Why not “ 6 a.m. ? ”... Banbury : Perhaps
a little improvement; not yet good enough Pepys
D. : We endorse the D Abandoned: Wreck.....
A.J.M. : “ The Sun of Glory’s rising ! ” Well, let it rise.
..Old Australia: Don’t write “poetry;” bust!....
Nil: “Irish” mar do G.R.H. : Your exhaustive ver-
sified brief in the case of the landing of Yorks in Mel-
bourne bas been passed on to the Prothonotary for taxa-
tion. ...Hart Ray: “ Araluen Bill” drearier than a
collier’s bill-of-lading Dash: “Banshee or Bunyip,”
not up His Mate : “Brown, the Monopolist,” point-
less AVild Wanderer: Not negotiable R.A.K.
“The Cumberlands,” much too long, and not very in-
teresting. The incident in “ Luck ” too thin for such ex-
pansive treatment.


G.H.R. (log.): “I AM GETTING QUITE A FOLLOWING.”
"My advocacy o f Federal subjects will bring me into the following of Mr. Reid.... I am a firm believer in the absolute unchangeable necessity for the
retention or kanaka labor in the sugar industry.” —Dr. AHEARN, Queensland nigger-employing-planters’ nominee for the Senate.


r Li|i !
THE SERVANT QUESTION.
LADIES IN CONFERENCE.
AN ABORTIVE MEETING.
“What shall «e do to get servants;” la
the question just now agitating the minds
of most Australian matrons and heads of
.families. ; It was with the idea of ven-
tilating that matter that a meeting of em-
ployers was held yesterday at Buxton s Art
Gdllery, Collins-street, the gathering being
attended* by 41 ladies and one gentleman, j
exclusive of press representatives.
Mrs. Sadleir-Foj’ster presided, and ex-
plained that she «was acting for Miss Dun-
bar, a lady who has been carrying on a ser-
vants’ registry office for some time, and
’ who was desirous of acquainting employers
with a proposed remedy for the ever-in- !
creasing stringency in the domestic service
mkrket„ Many people had said that
they would never again get good servants i
in any appreciable number, as there were | ,
not sufficient in the Australian States, and ’
really it looked very much like it,
**" It was no use going to England or
Scotland or Ireland tor girls;, tilings
were just as bad there, It was still
(more hopeless to look to the United States,
for there the? Were a great deal worse off.
They would have to find some new source o S
supply* (Applause.) A lady friend in San
Francisco .haa told ner that m despair 09
obtaining a female servant she had at last
advertised for a respectable, clean, trust-
worthy young man—(laughter)—and to her
i immense astonishment, received a large
V number of replies, where - 6he had expected,
uot pne. (Applause,)/*
SOMBER WEATHER.
HAS THE CLIMATE CHANGED?
TO THE EDITOR OF THE ARCUS.
, Sir,—A few days ago the Government!
iasfcronomer stated that the present season
•.was normal, at any rate, as compared with
(those .immediately preceding 1894.
fr But there has been a great change during'
1 jthc last 20 years. It used to be the rule
lor the north wind to last for three days,
•whereas it is now an unusual occurrence.
I hoar,.the reasons for this constantly dis*
cussed in private circles, and >6 would bo of
interest to the public if Mr. Baracchi would
\kindly give an explanation.-*-* Yours, &0..
Feb. 13. OBSERVER.
Qitjgtr icK J?eo\J of
dej>ufb^oty); Now
twister *3 Vac Ky ,
ycK
?
\> ik K]i site 5 ei rS^
cy 7 I aJIoW follower 5.
'• —
l° \
go fijet'
g Ouse -for
OLD-AGE PENSIONS.
Another “dodge” being worked by some
of the old-oge pensioners is one that, ac- I
cording to the Treasurer, indicates wonder-
.ful business acumen. It seems that instruc;
*tions were given to.the superintendents of
the Benevolent Asylums that as soon as
any of the inmates became pensioners they
should cease to stay at the asylums. It *
now turns out that several old fellows who
.have been living at the asylums quietly
applied for pensions and said nothing to
ithe superintendents about the step they
had taken. Between the date of applica-
tion and the date on which thfese pensions
were granted there was perhaps a couple
of nionthq. The successful applicants are
,entitled t to receive their pensions .as from
the date of application, 60 that these en-
terprising old fellows are able to leave the
asylums with a considerable sum of money.
In other words, they have been living on
the asylums free of charge during the
time covered by their pensions. Where it-
is proved that this has been done, Mr. Pea-
cock intends ’to charge the pensioners for
board and lodging at the asylums
ST. KILDA-ROAD DECORaTIOS
TO THE EDITOR OP THE A«E-
Sir,— Your timely reference in Saturday s
issue to the backwardness of preparation*
for the Royal visit and the opening ot th»
first Australian Parliament is to bo tom-
s mended. It appears to me that the present
l\ St. Kilda-road should be one o? the main
fj Jeatures of the show. /v
‘ procession of 2000 bicyclists, with colored
lanterns and fantastic costumes, uitght
\ take place one night on the uew
]) drive, and a great pyrotechnic djs-
// ■play another nighty boat races. &c.
& ' . ’ Mafeking dzty
' ‘roust have shown to many of us what bon-
homie, light heartedness the new race is
fast showing itself to possess. I have had
a considerable experience in.the direction
of % decorations such as will* shortly be re-
quired here, and know that the work
; should be commenced at once..— Yours,
-Urc.. JAMES T BUXTON.
187 Collins-street.
rf
h <( a
h
"y° |
v/e Vo W 'l
”'"' i
9?4JiiK> - S«!»»S-^« I&*■ 1 &*■
■]tr _ - : . s<we i•L« si i 9 ir:
# c b*vs* W -
2 ”" S,C P d 2 &s£&' »r*fr‘>) •
THE ROYAL VISIT.
GOVERN M ENT PR EP A RATIONS.
The hpad
ojnstcrs ol State have *»<■«£*
Sleet pupils t.„ take part m a eluldreuji.de
monstrntion,
jPjPitS^C '’ <4
'!, W**.»
VJ ' )15 i K
ve w -t-U c 7 50 ° sfe^
MELBOURNIANA.


A POLICY
for the
COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d.—posted Bd.
tSB* Supplied direct from The Bulletin office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any Aus-
tralasian province).
Sole Wholesale Agents:
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LIMITED,
Sydney and Brisbane.
Watch Repairs by Post
WATCHES Thoroughly Cleaned, 2s. 6d. ; best English
Mainspring, 2s. 6d. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
355, Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send for catalogue.
D. S. MAIR,
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
684 George-st. (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.
0
0
SCOTCH
WHISKY
& “ Old & Mellow”
?>\
A:/
£
"0.C.L.” Scotch Whisky
is a delicious and finely
blended whisky of excel-
lent flavour, which while
maintaining all the due
stimulating properties of
the spirit, has been
mellowed by age into a
perfectly wholesome and
mild beverage. The large
scale upon which the dis-
tilling and blending of
“D.C.L.” is carried out
guarantees regularity in
quality—a great advan-
tage, which whisky'drin-
kers often miss in other
brands-
Proprietors - - •
Tfie Distillers Co.fid.,
Edinburgh,
London,.and Oublin.
BEWARE
OF
IMITATIONS.
SEE
THAT
the sigket
& PERRINS’
IS ON EVERY BOTTLE.
Agents VIRGOE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
SAUCE
Publications. __
ALLAH’S AUSTRALIAN
MUSIC pOOKS
flre
Favorites
Everywhere
Price 1/-,
or
Posted 1/2.
3 —Good
1*
Obtainable at
• All Musicsellers
f Throughout Australia.
Ndnjb^rs—3
No. 46.—Favorite Pianoforte Pieces.
Donauwellen, Waltz
I. Ivanovici:
Corcoran Cadets, March
Sousa
Courmacher, Schottische
Bowman
“ Minnehaha ” ; or, Laugh-
ing Water Polka,
Francis H. Brown
The Witches Plight, Galop
Russell
Frolic of the Fairies Sudds
Mpsic Among the Pines
Wyman
Tripping through the
Daisies ) Sudds
The Fairies’ Wedding, Valse
Turner
The Thunderer, March
J. Ph. Sousa
Les Chasseurs R. A. Horne
No. 47.—Twelve Selected Song's.
La Serenata, Ldgende
Valaque G. Braga
Sdrdnade, Berceuse
Ch. Gounod
I Love Thee (Ich Liebe
Dich) Edv. Grieg
Solveig’s Song (From Peer
Gyht) Greig
Good Night! Good Night!
Beloved ! M. W. Balfe
After 11. Millard
Those Evening- Bells
Henry Ketten
Shall I Wasting in Despair
G. Barker
In Winter E. Nevin
Proposal F. H. Brackett
O 1 Hush Thee My Baby
A. H. Pease
The Auld House
Scottish Melody
No. 48.—Pianoforte Album of Concert and
Drawing-Room Pieces.
Narcissus Nevin
Wiegenlied Kjerulf
Prelude Rachmaninoff
M6lodie Rachmaninoff
Feuillet d’Album
Tschaikowsky
Impromptu in Ab Schubert
Des Abends Schumann
Duetto from the Lieder
ohne * Worte
Nocture, op. 48 Chopin
The Arietta Qreig
Humoresque Greig
Write for Full List to the Publishers
ALLAN 8t CO. Propy. Ltd,
276 AND 278 COLLINS ST.,
ME LBOURNE.
A PHONETIC COMPANION
to PERIER’S FRENCH METHOD.
The Guide is indispensable to Teachers, Students, and
all who wish to knowhow French must be pronounced.
Mr. Perier’s French Phonetic Notation, based on English
Alphabetical Sounds, be mastered within an hour.
All booksellers, price Is. 3d.
Copies may be obtained, post free, by sending postage
stamps.
A. 0. GAERTNER, Sole Agent,
32 Norwich-chambers, Hunter-street, Sydney.
Medical
Will Develop or Reduce
any part of the Body.
A PERFECT COMPLEXION .
BEAUTIFIER and
Remover of Wrinkles.
Dr. JOHN WILSON GIBBS'
THE ONLY
Electric
Massage
Roller
(Patented
United States,
Europe,
Canada.
fsdf
“Its work is
not confined to
the face alone,
but will do good
to any pa”t of the
body to which it is
applied, developing or
reducing as desirgd. It
is a very pretty addition
to the toilet table.”
—Chicago Tribune.
“ This delicate Electric Beatlti-
fier removes all facial blemishes.
It is the only positive remover of
wrinkles and crow's feet. It never
fails to perform all that is expected.”
—Chicago Times Herald
“The Electric Roller is certainly productive of good
results. I believe it the best of any appliances. It is safe
and effective.”—Harriet Hubbard Ayer, New York World.
For Massage and Curative Purposes
An Electric Roller is all the term implies. The invention
of a physician and electrician known throughout America
and Europe. A perfect complexion beautifier. Will re-
move wrinkles, “crow’s feet” (premature or from age),
and all facial blemishes. Whenever electricity is to be
used for massaging or curative purposes, it has no equal.
No charging. Always ready for use on all parts of the
body, for all diseases. For Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neural-
gia, Nervous and Circulatory Diseases, a specific.
Price—Gold, 21/- ; Silver, 16/- PAMPHLETS FREE.
Sole Agent tor Australasia—
J. CHALMERS,
229 Col I ins-street,
Melbourne.
Sore Eyes! Blight!
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails. Restores Eyelashes.
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
HOW TO
SAFELY
CURE THE
LIQUOR
HABIT.
A PAMPHLET with thousands
of Testimonials from Clergymen,
Physicians, Merchants, and ail
classes des-
criptive of
Eucrasy
will be
sent
gratis and post free. This is the
only remedy which can be used
SECRETLY at home with cer-
tainty of success. Address—The
FUCRASYCO., 62 HUNTER ST„ SYDNEY
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.
sd
With: Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues. Par-
ticulars, dkc.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Maker*
281 CEORCE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
Granville,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hard by tins Station, small and drear,
I waited for a comrade dear,
Upontho bridge above I stood,
And lingered for that comrade good.
The village roared around me then—
One largo policeman, and ft hen.
The trains came reeling, rooking in—
Each with its load of special sin.
Small brigands of the shops who made
A sacrifice of soul to trade.
Pale olerks who did from there to town
Go up and down, and up and down.
And yet 1 saw not midst that crew
The speoial buccaneer I knew.
Upon the bridge above I stood,
And cursed that comrade true and good.
The trains came rocking, reeling in—
But none brought my small load of sin.
I thought, while I was cursing free,
‘ This scene in Hell must often be.’
I think I hear the roar and hum ;
I see the Demon-Drivers come !
They need no lamps ; their dreadful eyes
Are gig-lamps of terrific size.
They wear no hats on ear oblique—
Each simply wears a horn for peak.
The Dragon Train just opes its side,
And spills its passengers outside :
And friends upon the station wait,
With tail in cheek —ablaze, elate.
The trains come rocking, reeling in,
And each its cargo brings of sin :
And Satan on the platform stands
And wrings his hot and helpless hands,
And says : “ Down here I lose my clutch—•
The place is advertised too much.”
Hard by the station small and drear
I waited for a comrade' dear
And thought: “ ’Tis good ; ’tis very well —
I need not wait so long in Hell.
N.S.W.
CREEVE ROE.
From Manila, 16/1 /’l :
I write to register a kickbecause I have only received
one Bulletin since Get., notwithstanding there are three
or four mails a month from 3yd ley to here. When mail-
ing kindly double the paper in two crosswise, then roll it
and place the cover with my address the whole
length of the paper, so that people can’t see the red
cover and steal it. I believe that is how I lose mv copy,
us I have received on two occasions only the addressed
envelope of your paper, while a Sydney weekly of no
particular interest arrives all right. There is little moving
here to interest Australians bar mining, and as we
still live under Spanish arrangements there are no mining
laws. There are about 200 prospectors out and I have
been out myself. I have found native copper, and
big gold deposits on one island ; but the gold would not
pan-out tucker ; the copper and coal will he O.K. in the
dim and distant future. From the gold I have seen on all
the Islands except Mindanao I think very little of it; the
latter island shows up well, but is inhabited by
hostile persons who are Mahometans and liable to run
amok any time. We are still un ler martial
law and now the Yanks have a 1 opted the plan
of sending the leaders of the insurrection to the island of
Guam, minus their women folk and their fighting-cocks.
This may have a better effect on the natives than the
former treatment, which was to take prisoners, keep
them in gaol till fat, and then make them swear allegiance
to Uncle Sam and turn ’em loose. They immediately
went back to their different p -ovinces, dug up th ir guns
and took on the revolution bus ness again. I expect to
see the country in a disturbed state for the next 23 years.
The people are lazy, treacherous, and ignorant, and so
long as they have a peso and a fighting-cock they care
little for the morrow: Until mining laws are framed and
put in force, so that we can record our finds, all pro-
Speetors arg trespassing: There are dozens of people
here with wild-cats ready to let ioose as soon as the above
materialises: Be sure and buck-up your mail-carrier,
find see lie covers the paper as desired for postal pur-
poses, otherwise someohe is sure to annex it in transit.—
F.J.D,
There is no better-stolen paper on earth than
The Bulletin.
At the Anglican General Synod at Napier,
the M.L. Primate uttered some solid sense about
Chinese missions. He was opposed to sending
single women as missionaries to foreign lands. If
they wanted missionary work there was ample
room for their energies in raising Maori women in
Maori land.
A medico talks to The Bulletin re the
cabled discovery by a Dr. .Taz, of Vienna, of an
alleged specific serum against typhoid :
Theoretically the thing is possible enough, but in
science so many theories have been weighed and found
wanting. There has always been a species of scientist
who seeks the bubble advertisement at any cost, and it is
from his kind that we hear most of these wonderful dis-
coveries which are to regenerate the world. The typhoid
bacillus is an organism of which the existing powers are
accurately knownit attacks certain definite and clearly
limited portions of the intestines. Were it possible
to get at it directly with certain apti-septics or
serum we would be able to cut short an attack
at once, but the field of operations lies iu a position inac-
cessible to such procedure. To reach it by ordinary
means it is necessary that the remedial agent should
be able to stand the powerful resolvent action of the
alimentary secretions, that it should be in some
form not capable of absorption by the mucous membrane,
and further that it should exercise no deleterious action
on the delicate parts with which it comes in contact.
These factors render the problem almost too complicated
for present solution. Another method might be pro-
posed in which the agent used should be saved from the
digestive action by being absorbed directly into the blood
and allowed to attack the bacilli from there, hut this
again contains too many elements of failure to he im-
plicitly relied on in an already-existing attack. Jaz’s
serum, we are told, is taken by the mouth and belongs to
the former class with all its concurrent disadvantages, and
present scribe has a profound disbelief in its efficacy.
The ordinary anti-typhoid serum, which is injected hypo-
dermically, has given moderate results on trial, but
possesses the disadvantage of causing most unpleasant
constitutional reaction. It is used as a prophylactic (t.e.,
preventive), and appears to have answered fairly, hut still
requires much perfecting. Little is known of its powers
in cutting short an already existing attack, but experi-
ments are being made in S’Africa and elsewhere, which
may bring to light some definite results.
“Mane ” discourses to The Bulletin con-
cerning remittance-men :
When English mail-day is announced by flag from the
Post Office, the army of Sydney remittance-men flock in
holey boots (and, consequently, by all the back streets)
to that haven, whence, re-issuing, they make bee-tracks
for the clothier, shoemaker, etc. A day or two later the
same army walks proudly in the principal streets in a
state of radiant if temporary glossiness, and invite other
temporarily glossed beings in for drinks. The means by
which a remittance-man attempts to keep himself in
check re the expenditure of coin are various. One
specimen of writer’s acquaintance long ago spent a
whole quarter’s allowance on numerous suits of
clothes, pairs of boots, etc. He never wore one-sixth of
these articles, hut merely deposited them in his room,
and weak by week put them in pawn to supply his daily
needs. He pieces his suits and boots out to last with
mathematical exactness to the last day of the quarter.
Then, cash in hand, he speeds forth to uncle, gets them
all out in a bundle, and begins the pawning business over
again. But at last the custom of pawning so grew on
him, that he took to leaving his landlady’s cruets with
Solomon as well as his own belongings. He always owned-
up, and always rescued the cruets from Solomon when next
remittance arrived, but the landlady was a religious
woman and was troubled for the soul of the pawning one.
At last the difficulty was solved by the appearance of that
dame at the mid-day dinner in a new grey dress with lilac
ribbons, while the hoarder with the pawning propensities
shyly took his new place at the head of the hash-house
table. “ I’ve married him,” she said to the assembled
establishment, "so that when he takes my things and
pawns them he won't be risking his eternal soul.” Then
the remittance man went out with the dinner-gong and
the silver-mounted umbrella he had given her that
morning and raised a loan on them without sin.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, whioh is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
Writes “ Monte ” :
A recent Bulletin par. to the effect that the Jews
have only doubled their numbers in 15 centuries,
makes one wonder what has become of the rest.
The average Jewish family is much bigger than
that of the average Gentile, and the Jew usually lives
a longer life. Even after allowing for the massacres
of the Middle Ages, there is a lot to be explained away.
The most likely theory is that there has always been the
same proportion of intermarriage as that which leads
orthodox old Hebrews to tear their hair to-day. Also,
when the Jews were a subservient race, it was a foregone
conclusion that every pretty Jewess was taken out of
the Ghetto by a good Christian knight with an eye for the
dark eyes and rounded bosoms of the daughters of Judah.
The Austrians of to-day are strongly Semitic in features,
though their ostensible evolution has nothing to suggest
it. The modern Greeks, a proportion of the Italians, and
a still larger number of French people are also very Jewish
in appearance. How many Frenchwomen does one take for
Jewesses at the first meeting ? And how many Viennese
women are regarded as anything else ? Who, for instance,
would think Madame Darto anything but one of the
Chosen, or even the fair Palotta herself, not knowing her
to be a foreigner?


YOUR Wedding Presents can be Supplied by A SAUNDERS,
The
Reliable
Jeweller & Silversmith.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT.—FIoraI China, real
Silver-plated Mounts, 20s.
Similar designs, 16s, 265, 30s. Very
pretty and acceptable present.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER.— Beautifully Chased and Orna-
mented pure Silver, Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, 15s 6d. Large size, 20s.
Four o’clock TEA SET with Covers, pure Silver h.ectro-plated on White
Metal, first-class English Make, £2 10s.
Similar Styles, £2, £2 15s, £3, £3los, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUETS, pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, beautifully
Chased, 30s, 36b, £2, and £2 10s.
Cheaper Style, 20b and 25b.
Handsome and Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERB.
4-bottle Lunch or Dinner CRUET, pure
Silver Electro-plated on hard White
Metal, 21s. Similar Styles, 255, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ FRIEND.— Pure Solid Silver
Mounts, 18s 6d.
Very useful and acceptable presents.
Ladies kindly cali and see our Beautifully-stocked Showrooms.
A. BAUNDERB.
OAKE DISHES.—The very best finished pure
Silver Electro-plate, in various patterns.
20s, 22s fid, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS,
a nv'tk'iTEA SPOONS and TONGS in Silk-Lined Case
* Emossed 12s 6d. Extra Quality, 15s, 20s, 25s.
Th<* Svor-Dlate we guarantee do give every satisfaction
6 Spoons only 25s, with Tongs
80s, 36s, £2, £2 10*.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOLDING BISCUITS.— Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, £3, £3 10s, £4.
Can be used for Cake or Sandwiches.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK BISCUIT —Silver-
plated Rims and Lids, with
Enamelled Lining, 15s 6d ;
with Ornamented Fluted
Rims, 20b; Plain, with Shield
only, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALAD BOWL and SERVERS, with Silver-
plated Mounts and Handles, 308.
Similar, 20s and 255.
Pretty Floral China, 255, 30s, £2 and £2 10s.
SB
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SETS.—Pure Solid Silver, Chased
Mounts, 15s ; larger sizes, 20s, 255, and 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS.—Pure' Silver Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, nicely Chased with pretty Red
Class 12s 6d ; with Fluted Edges, 15s 6d ;
Double Jam, 255.
Syu
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE.—Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, 16s 6d ; Chased as
above* 20s, 255, and 30s. Post free.
tP?P
KkmKh
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER. —Pure Silver Electro-plated on
White Metal, nicely chased, 8s 6d. Round, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALTS. —Silver-plated Stand, Colored Glass,
with Spoons, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s pair.
i imiihi,inn
wpWPwniiiiinrnwwßaMßß
ww^HlifliliHllliliHlMm
Old Plate
Made
Equal
To New.
HUM*
fflfSWmuHimiiwiinuitrti!-
“Just What I Want!” SPOONS AND FORKS. A. SAUNDERS can fill that want with a First-Class, Reliable Article.
EXTRA STRONG. Guaranteed to give you every satisfaction.
A 1 QUALITY is the very Highest Standard. Pure Silver Electro-plated on Hard White Metal DINNER Spoons or Forks, 17s 6d
dozen ; DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 12s 6d half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, 7s 6d Forks 12s 6d half-dozen ;
B QUALITY is a Second Quality. Pure Silver Electro-plated on Hard White Metal. DINNER Spoons o ,
DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 10s half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, 5s half-dozen. Article DINNER
SOLID WHITE NICKEL SILVER, Wear White throughout. A Splendid Knockabout Spoon to save the Better Artie .
Spoons or Forks, 4s half-dozen ; DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 3s half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, Is 6d halt dozen.
Packed and Sent post free to all parts of the World. Kindly send your Orders to A. SAUNDERS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Small Size BUTTER. -A.! Metal, Pure
Silver-plated, beautifully chased, 20s.
Extra ornamented, 255.
Call and See our
Displayed Showrooms!
WHISKY FLASK.
Silver-plated Bot-
tom and Patent
Top, 10s 6d, 12s
6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
A Warming Friend.
SERVIETTE RINGS, Pure
Silver-plated, 3s 6d. Simi-
lar Patterns, 2s 6d and 3s.
Wish Bone Design, 4s 6d,
5s 6d, and 6s 6d. Solid
Silver, similar to Pattern,
7s 6d, 10s, and 12s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, Makes Two Dishes, Pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, 355. A Useful and Acceptable
1 Present SHALL WE SEND YOU ONE ?
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTES KNIVES.—Two Silver-plated, with Pearl
Handles, in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d. Other styles, 7s 6d,
10s 6d, and 12s 6d, in cases. JAM SPOONS.—Same
price ; without case, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d and
6s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
CRUET (Breakfast).— Pure
Silver Electro-plated on White
Metal, 10s 6d ; with 4 Bottles,
15s 6d and 17s 6d.
Makes a very nice present.
CO
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK.—Pure Silver Electro-plated
on Hard White Metal, 12s 6d. Other styles,
similar, 8s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA POTS.—Pure Silver Electro-plated, on White
Metal, as pattern, 25s and 30s.
Different Pattern, 355, £2, £2 10s.
(SPS
ttfr
S 3
wtt
Ss
III!
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUETS.—First-class Pure Silver on
Hard White Metal, as pattern, with Shield,
£2 10s ; extra quality, £3, £3 10s, and £4.
Other patterns without Shields, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS.— Fiord China, Pretty Design, with pure
Silver Electro-plated Stand, 15s 6d ; double, 255.
Latest Designs.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND,
can be used as a Teapot.—Pure Silver-
plated on White Metal, Beautifully
Chased and Ornamented, 355.
Embossed and Extra Chased, £2, £2
LOs. Other Styles, £3 and £3 10s.
Handsome and Useful Article.
fsd
Jeweller & silversmith,
A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PRESENTS.
™ 815 (eorge Street
Nearly
Opposite
Railway
Station,
Sydney
Send. Your Addre
Ofltimatea Given. CIX.D PLATE MAOE EQUAL TO
NEW.


The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
GEO.
ROE & CO.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
m
before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing List with map’
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Co!lins-st., Melbourne; 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
sd
<3-0 I*o HELL-
« IGOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
-5; lists'gratis.
HATS. HATS. hats.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes litted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
OR. MACKENZIE S
ARSENICAL SOAP
for a pearly skin and brilliant
Complexion. Chemises sell it.
NOTHING ELSE LIKE IT.
Used by the Elite of English
Society. S. Harvey, Limtd..
London Bridge S.E.
DR. MACKENZIES
ARSENICAL SOAP
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLCy # CO.,
f urniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
82S?” Sales Held at the A tuition Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sala.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-sfc
HIGH-GRADE
FARSVI
m
.
Massey-Karris Co. Ltd.
35 BROADWAY,
Georg-e-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Now we are Six States in One, cannot the
miscellaneous laws of the Six be thrown into a
single code? That is an ideal to work for any-
way.
Tac championship by S. M. Herald of
Laborite W. M. Hughes as Federal candidate for
West Sydney is a rich specimen of the whirligig
of fortune.
The Sydney Freetrade dailies carefully say
nothing about the splendid reception given to
Kingston at East Sydney the other night— at an
open, unticketed meeting, by-the-way.
Q. Labor party decided not to run a can-
didate for Bulimba. Small wonder, seeing that
“ comer allotments ” control the electorate. Out
of a total of 2000 votes, there are over 800 “ Pro-
putty.”
Possible that National Treasurer George
Turner turned sick on Minister of War Forrest
urging that Australia should contribute two mil-
lions sterling yearly to the English Navy instead
of a paltry £126,000.
A man is known by the company he
keeps. All the pro-Kanaka Q. candidates for the
f ederal Parliament promise in their election
addresses to follow G. H. Reid. Real Freetrade
ot course, includes Free Niggers.
It appears that both Barton and Reid will
be returned unopposed for the Federal Parlia-
ment. This will disappoint the “sports” who
look for a good election campaign, with the usual
slanging ” and excitement.
Cabled that £200,000 has been subscribed
—chiefly by black princes, &c.—towards the cost
of erecting a memorial to Queen Victoria at Cal-
cutta. What obsequious creatures these treache-
rous nigger must be—if there really is a famine in
their country!
It is prophesied that, when the Boer
trouble is over, Britain will go to war with France
over the never-ending Newfoundland lobster
quarrel. Then Australia can send a contingent
against New Caledonia, and divert her S’African
troops to fight the Frenchmen in Madagascar.
Melb. Argus is evidently ‘ ‘ getting grace.”
It now advocates 15 per cent, tariff all round, ex-
cepting on luxuries, narcotics, and spirits, which
may be taxed to any figure. But what is a luxury ’
Some people regard soap, boiled shirts, and Max
Hirsch as luxuries. Still, the Tory organ is pro-
gressing.
W. D. Flinn writes to The Bulletin,
suggesting “ Australopolis” as the name of the
Commonwealth’s capital. “It is,” he remarks
“ a name self-explanatory, dignified, and unique’
and its rejection would seem to call for some
explanation from those responsible for its non-
acceptance.” All the same it is hereby rejected
without any need of explanation.
Wallace Nelson, the Federal Labor candi-
date for Capricornia, calmly advises Edward VII
to “ throw in his lot with Democracy and Radi-
calism, and prove his sympathy'with the great
cause of labor, and so win even a greater name
than his illustrious mother. Let him come for-
ward and say boldly, ‘ I refuse to be a mere
figurehead. ’ Just fancy advising a man to chuck
up a good regular billet in the King business to go
gunchmg and chopping wood ! This is genuine
cotch humour.
“Watch This Space” in regard to the
Age’s selection of candidates for the Federal
Senate m Victoria. David
Syme’s pal Simon Fraser has
made sureQjf the support of
the Syme organ and will
get it. Yet Fraser is
one of the most stub-
bornly Tory of the
Legislative Council
members who have
persistently block-
ed Liberal re-
forms, and every
vote given for
him is a vote
for an obstruc-
tionist Senate.
If the Liberals
of Victoria
swallow Fraser
at the dicta-
tion of Syrne,
it will be a
clear sign that
they are afflicted
with the N.Q ? . dirt-
eating disease.
There was general joy among Northern
Democrats at Barton’s anti-alien pronouncement
Many of them voted Federal simply because they
were perfectly convinced that there was no hope
of the Queensland Parliament ever dealing
effectively with the Piebald Plague. If Barton
sticks to his guns on this question alone he will
make warm friends of hosts of Northern Liberals
and Kadicals.
How is it that none of the Anglican
clergy mostly a weak-kneed lot—denounce the
carrying-on of the Boer War ? Many clergymen
in the ranks of the Presbyterians, Weslevans, &c.,
have done so, and still do it. The apparent agree-
ment of opinion as to the justice of the war
amongst the ministers of the C. of E. is truly
astounding. The British Trinity—Jingoism,
loryism, Anglicanism !
The Australian State Premiers have de-
clined to permit the recruiting of S’African
policemen in these lands, and Chamberlain and
J. Bull may be expected to feel hurt. It would
have been interesting, though, to have known at
what stage that bright pair would have concluded
they had got enough out of Australia. Give once
and you confer a benefit; give three times and
you establish a right.
D. M. Charleston and R. Wood, the two
Ms.P. who deserted S.A. Labor-party awhile ago,
are now travelling S.A., pushing the" interests of
I reetrade. Singularly enough, Wood represents
a - district which includes the immense railway-
shops at Islington, where S.A. Govt, now employs
hundreds of mechanics in constructing locomotives
in preference to importing them from England,
• America and Germany.
J-he fact that the Barton Govt, has so
many good offices to give away may have some-
thing to do with the retention of the good offices
of certain S.A. candidates. Freetrader Chaffev
Baker, M.L.C., for instance, would like the Presi-
dency _of the Senate, and Freetrader Symon,
,'G> is suspected of eyeing a Federal Judgeship,
while Freetrader Premier Holder would, it is
believed, like anything remunerative that is going.
Brisbane Courier—mournfully :
Both gentleman (Reid and Barton) are afraid of the
Democratic vote. ... It will be seen that Mr. Barton has
formed a Cabinet which has studied the so-called Demo-
cratic vote.
If this be so it behoves every Queensland Demo-
crat to see that men are elected who will be the
very antipodes of the Courier’s predilection-
men who will back up the Bartonian Cabinet in
its Democratic aspirations.
S.A. Premier Holder is fast building up a
reputation as a tired politician. Laborites attri-
bute their recent Central District defeat to
Holder s dead silence at a time when Kingston,
had he been Premier, would have been battling
day and night. Now Holder announces that,
as a Jb ederal candidate, he will only address electors
at about half-a-dozen principal centres. As a con-
trast, Opposition-leader Solomon has been in the
held over a month and speaks everywhere.
Last week the Australian Star strongly
urged that the Federal capital should be* 3 at
Orange (where Sydney would get all the trade),
because that site—so it alleged—would be espe-
cially pleasing to Queensland. This is presumably
f, rc ‘ V r^ a joke of the Sydney importers
that Orange is especially suitable to the Queens-
landers because “it is half-way between Brisbane
and Adelaide —the theory apparently being that
\ j , lre °, f evei T Queenslander is to get to
Adelaide, though why he should want to get there
heaven only knows. What Queensland really
wants is a capital on the northern tableland about
half-way between Sydney and Brisbane with a
leaning towards Brisbane if possible. Brisbane
people feel just as joyful about the prospect of
having the capital at Orange, half-way to Ade-
laide, as the Sydney people did when someone
suggested a Federal city at Ballarat so as to be
half-way between them and Hobart.
N.S.W. Government is easily champion
under-estimator of any public work undertaken.
W orks-Minister O’Sullivan, in rc the removals
and reburials of bodies from Oevonshire-street
(Sydney) cemetery, says that it
was at first “sup-
posed” that £lO,OOO
would meet all ex-
penses; but at the rate
accounts were coming
in more like £50,000
would be needed. The
Govt, milch-cow !
THE OLD-AGE PENSION GAME.
THE VALIANT PEACOOK (to pensioner, lifting up
thimble and disclosing nothing underneath):
“Ha, ha, ha! You thought -you’d got it,
didn’t you?"
THE BIG THING IN CHINA.
“ Sir Robert Hart says the Boxer movement imperils the
world’s future.”
And this is the way the Powers set to work:—
“ It’s just a scene from an eventful expedition in which
one of th° Australians took part, an expedition which,
although it laded to achieve its object, still did good
work. Loot was the only factor in its organisation.
The object of the expedition, which is to leave on
January 3, is to carry fire and sword into the enemy’s
country, and to carry loot out of it—chiefly the latter.”—
News Items.
S.A. Premier Holder comes out as an
advocate of a revenue tariff, ingeniously declaring
that protection must he accepted as “ inevitable.’'
This has greatly grieved S.A. Freetraders, who
fondly hoped recent events would drive the elas-
tic Holder to the camp of the Reidites. The
S.A. Premier has, however, been “ accepting the
inevitable ” for seven years as a member of Pro-
tectionist Ministries, and, in this latest case, the
“ inevitable ” means enlisting under the same
banner as the powerful Kingston instead of fol-
lowing the profitless example of Baker, Glynn,
Symon, and other Tory-Freetraders.
About S.A.’s Federal Labor candidates :
S.A. Labor Party is running two candidates for each
federal Chamber, and all four are present Parliament-
arians. M‘Gregor and Kirkpatrick are going for the
Senate, and Batchelor and Price, past and present leaders
of the Party, for the House of Reps. Probably the ablest
of the quartette is M‘Gregor, although almost blind
through a blasting accident when a young man. Like
Price, M'Gregor is self-educated. Kirkpatrick is by trade
a printer, and one of the veteran Unionists of Adelaide
Batchelor is regarded as certain to be elected owing to
his position as Education Minister in Holder’s Ministry
and Price's personal popularity will probably put him in.
Under the local Council franchise the Senate candidates
would stand no chance, but, with adult suffrage, M‘Gregor
and “ Kirk ” will poll strongly, and the Laborites have a
splendid chance of getting all four in.
Apparently that tired feeling had some-
thing to do with Tory Parsons’ victory in the
Central District (S.A.) election. Out of 17,345
voters only 7401 went to the poll. If voting was
compulsory, as it should be, the result might have
been very different. At the same time compul-
sory voting is impossible on any logical ground,
unless a negative vote is allowed. The man who
didn t vote because he loathed both Robinson and
Parsons couldn’t fairly be compelled to support
either of them. But he might be allowed t<s vote
against both of them, and if the negative vote was
the largest then the Central District could do
without a member for a month or two till some
new candidates were found.
Writes “R.F.D.” from Adelaide
The Bullemn mustyxocpt the South Australian Labor
I arty from its sweeping condemnation [which sweeping
condemnation ?—Ed. B.J of horny-handed candidates.
Membership of the above is not confined to wage-earners
as some people imagine. Whilst the vast majority of its
members are of the class referred to it is worthy of note
that there are men who are in business for theipselves as
well as a retired gentleman in its ranks. Indeed the con-
stitution of the party is so broad as to admit to member-
ship anybody who subscribes to the platform and pays Is.
annually as sustentation fee, either as a member of an
affiliated organisation or district committee ; and any
member, whether he be a wage-earner or not, is eligible
for selection on a plebiscite to contest a Parliamentary
election as a Labor candidate.
R- E. O’Connor on Reid :
When Mr. Reid brought his Customs Bill down in 1895,
*??. he determined to sweep away all these duties, what
j*o hnd . That these duties had producedlindustries,
and they could not be taken off without throwing a num-
ber of people homeless into the streets. He decided that
a large number should not come off for a year and a half
that others should not come off for two years, and others
gradually extending over four years and a half. But
when he went to that part of the country where the
sugar was grown, ano’ saw what the industry was, and
the flesh and blood that it was keeping, his heart failed
him. He honored Mr. Reid because his heart failed him.
In other words, ’he found his own policy too brutal
to be lived up to, and he weakened on it because
lie wasn t quite so heartless as he thought he was.
And .those other Freetrade Treasurers and Pre-
miers Parkes, M‘Millan, Bruce Smith, Car-
ruthers and co.—all weakened in like fashion.
Out of power they were relentless Freetraders,
>ut \vhen they got into office and had a close view
of their own ideal they were shocked at its ugli-
ness, and told the dreadful thing to get away.
Even J ohn Forrest, of Westralia,
who has always been regarded as a Tory,
claims to have a better democratic record
than George Reid. He says: “I passed
one-man-one-vote, one-woman-one-vote,
established a State Land Bank, intro-
duced payment of members, abolished
the truck-system, restricted alien immi-
gration, passed an Industrial Arbitration
law, and abolished the property-qualifi-
cation for members of both Houses.
What has Mr. Reid done to compare
with this?” And when you come to
think of it, Reid has hardly one demo-
cratic measure to his credit. About
half his admirers, when pressed to state
what their funny man ever did, say
desperately, “Well, he gave us one-
man-one-vote anyhow.” How the little
fat man got such general credit for
Dibbs’s One-Man-One-Vote Act no one
knows, but almost every second R cidite •
would throw things at you if you told him
that Reid had nothing on earth to do
with it.
Brisbane Courier comes out more
and more strongly to the effect that
Queensland must fight the Federal elec-
tions on the one issue of preserving nigger
labor. May it continue in that blessed
frame of mind ! The nigger question is
just the question on which the Barton
Govermnent can sweep Queensland from
end to end, and every time the Courier
advertises with a fresh damn that Barton
is for a White Australia, and lets the
continent know that all the niggerphiles
are going to support Reid, it means more votes
for the good cause.
The Dailey Federal electorate is about the
saddest circumstanced in N.S.W. Of the three
candidates, the two first, Law and Wilks, are
conspicuous for being lodge-gods, noodles and
Freetraders, and the third, pro-Bartonian Pro-
tectionist, is the deplorable I. R. Cohen, ex-
usurer, absurd litterateur, and consummate adver-
tiser of own windy existence. Thousands in the
electorate don’t think it worth while to collect
their “rights.”
The latest yarn of the N.S.W. importers
is that Protection really helps the importer, and
that in Victoria the importing firms are able to
charge prices and obtain profits impossible in
N.S.W. So it seems that M'Millan and his crowd
are really fighting against Protection because they
don’t want to have their profits increased. This
is truly disinterested of them, but it would be
mean to take advantage of their magnanimitv.
and The Bulletin moves that we have Protection
if only in order to increase the profits of M'Millan
and the other disinterested, patriotic, self-sacri-
ficing importers. Such nobly unselfish persons
deserve to have their profits enlarged.
Brisbane is another Australian city which
is dirty, neglected, loaded with debt, and cut up
into many municipalities which can never achieve
any big work through their inability to agree on
any subject. There is a general impression that
the first step towards improvement lies in con-
solidating the city under one municipal Govern-
ment, after the fashion of Glasgow, Birmingham,
Liverpool, Manchester, Paris, and all other pro-
gressive European cities. A meeting of aldermen
was lately called to deal with the subject, and so
wild and universal was the enthusiasm that three
people turned up.
An interesting incident of the elections is
the choosing of Ferguson, Laborite M.P. for one
of the Broken Hill seats in N.S.W. Assembly, to
run as Labor candidate for Kalgoorlie (Westralia)
seat in the House of Representatives. It comes
about in this way : Ferguson was leader of the
B.H. miners’strike of’92, and was gaoled for it.
Hundreds of the most ardent unionists never got
work at Broken Hill , again, and Westralia, just
then starting to boom, absorbed them ; and at
once they took the lead in Labor politics there.
To them, Ferguson—a man of grit, a bright and
witty debater—is still a martyr, to be rewarded
accordingly.
The pinch is being felt at last. Victorian
farmers complain that they can’t get men to work
on their farms “owing to the Govt, carrying on
relief-works.” But Govt, says it isn’t carrying
on relief-works, and that the scarcity of men is
due to so many having gone to S’Africa. In fact,
the Victorian, like every other Australian Govt.,
has for a year past been violating the economic
law—that no community can send more than 1 per
cent, of its able-bodied male population abroad
without serious damage to its industrial welfare.
Out of Victoria’s 250,000 able-bodied males she
could spare, according to the law aforesaid, only
2500, and she has sent more to S’Africa. The
Govt.j " therefore, gave the true reason of the
trouble.
Laborite Brown, who is being run by the
Reid party against Wise for Canoblas, cut a poor
figure at the meeting held by Reid himself to ad-
vocate his (Brown’s) candidature at Orange.
Reid opened with what was easy to construe as an
apology to the electors for running such a candi-
date as Brown, which naturally annoyed Brown
very much. To allay his ruflled feelings, Reid
put Brown up to move a vote of thanks to him
(Reid). The secretary than explained that State
M.L.A. Newman was to move the thanks vote.
Brown, thereupon announced that he was second- •
ing the motion. But a local magnate held a
promise to be seoonder. “Anyway,” broke in
Brown desperately, “ I support it; ” then he sat
down much flustered. Brown reckons to run the
rest of the campaign “on his own.”


“WE ARE NOT SATISFIED UNLESS YOU ARE”
IS PALING’S MOTTO
T> t
MARK,
LEiARKT
and engrave upon your memory that we,
PALING & CO.
are HEADQUARTERS for EVERYTHING known in MUSIC.
WE ARE the OLDEST FIRM (established 50 years).
WE ARE the LARGEST FIRM. We do the BIGGEST PIANO and MUSIC BUSINESS in Australasia.
WE ARE the MOST RELIABLE. We aee not satisfied unless you abe.
WE HAVE the FIRST CHOICE of the World’s Manufactures.
WE HAVE the Sole Control of the Very Best Pianos and Musical Instruments.
Being the Largest Purchasers, we can buy at Lower Prices than others.
Intending Purchasers would do well to call
and inspect our Large and Varied Stocks
at our Showrooms, 338 George St., Sydney.
fs
OUR PIANOS AND ORGANS
Remember Our Motto :
“We are Not Satisfied Unless
You are.”
Are Perfection, Musically and Mechanically .
Are Up-to-Date , contain dll the most Modern Improvements.
Are Specially Built to suit this Climate.
Are Phenomenal Productions for the Price.
Are all that could be desired as to Tone, Touch , Durability, and Design.
OUR TIME PAYMENT SYSTEM makes the purchase of any instruments to you an easy matter, and is a perfectly equitable and always satisfactory arrangement to purchasers.
OUR PRICES are printed and published, and cannot be altered or mistaken. WE HAVE ONLY ONE PRICE.
WE ALLOW PULL VALUE for Old Instruments as part payment. WE EMPLOY ONLY HIGHLY COMPETENT TUNERS.
PALING M CO.
are Sole Agents for Besson, Boosey, and Couesnon Brass Instruments,
stock all kinds of Musical Instruments, all first-class and reliable,
stock all kinds of Strings and Fittings.
have a very Large Stock of Sheet and Book MUSIC, and receive Fresh Supplies by
Every Mail.
W. H. PALING $ CO., Ltd.
338 (Sicorgg St., Sydpgy
BRISBANE.
NEWCASTLE.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
VITADATIO
The Great Herbal
Blood Remedy.
SEVENTY YEARS OF AGE, AND ADDED
TEN YEARS TO HER LIFE.
FRIENDS OF ALL AGES, THINK OF IT.
VITADATIO is establishing a most
Magnanimous, Noble Record.
ALL THE COLONIES FEDERATING IN THEIR
PRAISE OF IT.
A WEST AUSTRALIAN RECORD.
Mrs. F. L. Von Bibra, of Perth, W.A., a lady well
known in that city, came to Tasmania three years ago in
a very bad state of health, and at the time felt within
herself that she could not live long. She writes : “My
nervous system was so shattered that I was unable to help
myself at the table, or, in fact, to handle anything that
required a steady hand. It was not safe for me to touch
any vessel which contained anything hot, lest I should
scald myself. Then, too, my indigestion was so severe I
literally had to half-starve myself to get any ease from
that trouble. In this state of bad health I began to use
WEBBER’S VITADATIO, and in about three weeks my
nervous system was restored to its normal condition. I
was able to supply all my wants at the table, and about
the house generally. I can truly say, so far as I. can
judge by my own case, that VITADATIO is the best
medicine I have ever tried or heard of. lam now 70 years
of age, and I quite believe that VITADATIO has added 10
years to my life. And I feel devoutly thankful that such
a valuable remedy is now obtainable. Many of my
friends in W.A. may see this, and I sincerely hope who-
ever of them may need this great and good medicine they
will believe all I say and give VITADATIO a fair trial.”
Mrs. F. L. VON BIBRA.
22nd March, 1899.
“ I began the use of this medicine about 18 months ago,
and I enjoy the best of health now.”
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
df
R Vast Difference
v is made in the running of a cycle by fitting
sdf
The Resiliency, Durability, Ease of Detach-
ment and Repair of these popular tyres making
them perfect for Road and Track riding.
TWAPC
Bewara of Imitations. Dunlops are
only genuine when they bear this
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. of Aust. Ltd.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane & Christchurch, N.Z.
sf
X
X
TYRES
CHEAP
AND
DURABLE
a
ill
NOT as Good as
Dunlops,” but better
than all others.
WE CAN CONFIDENTLY RECOMMEND
Oceanic Tyres
to all cyclists who desire a good wearing tyre at a low
figure. These tyres are well made and will give
GOQD RESULTS.
Obtainable -from all Cycle Agents.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aust. Ltd..
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane,
Christchurch, N.Z.
N.S.W. Depot: 150 Clarence St., Sydney.
“ Lady ” Munro’s latest public appearance
was at Carlton, Melbourne. After rebuking the
sergeant , for not ushering her in with becoming
respect, she airily informed the Bench, in reply
to the usual charge of insulting behaviour, that
she had merely “had a drop of *cataractive ’
poison—that is, beer; and this gentleman (an
equally harmless irresponsible, similarly charged)
knelt at my feet and wanted to be created Duke
of York. I could not do so, as I had no sword at
the time.” The lady paid the fine, with the cus-
tomary stately curtsey.
The fruit crop is very good this year, and
the prudent housekeeper is busy looking after the
year’s supply of preserves and filling up shortages
in Jam Jars. There is but little satisfaction in
using a common, badly-fitting, badly-made jar,
which, moreover, is liable to break when the fruit
is poured in. Some new patterns have been intro-
duced this year by M'Lean Bros, and Rigg, Ltd.,
Melb. and Sydney. Notably the Gilchrist —this is
a large-mouthed jar, with porcelain immerser;
and t he Canton jar, a clear, white glass, with easy-
fitting spring top showing the contents to the best
advantage.*
The Sydney cabmen kick against a new
regulation prohibiting them from waiting in Pitt,
George, or King-street for afare whom they have set
down there—the edict is that instead of standing
they must keep moving. Which is rough on the
cabman, as it will turn many a half-sovereign
shopping-job into eighteen pence, for the cabber
certainly won’t walk round town in search of the
perambulating jarvey by whom he or she has been
driven into town. The devices to which Sydney
is being driven to avoid widening its streets are
many and lamentable.
Patents for Inventions —Arthur Griffith,
International Patent Agent and Consulting
Engineer, University Chambers, . Phillip-street,
Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights,
obtained throughout the world.
SORE EYES.
The remedy— Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment
—is acknowledged the only certain remedy ; never
failsto give instant relief. Refuse all others, and
get the genuine. Pots, 2s. Sold everywhere.
The Australian Star turned on one of
its young lions to write an article on “ the Seven
Edwards ” for its supplement of 23rd Feb., and
that animal roared promiscuously in the wilder-
ness of letters. He omitted the three Saxon
Edwards altogether. He told how Edward I.
won the battle of “Eveshaw,” and took part in
the lirst crusade—which happened about 150 years
before he was born. He fixed the battle of Ban-
nockburn in the time of Edward 111. ; turned the
famous Brewer of Ghent into one “Arteville,”
and introduced Du Guesclin as “Gucoclin ” ; also
he made Oliver de Clisson the friend and colleague
of “Gucoclin.” Next he explained that Edward
IV. was the oldest son of old Henry VI., and
after wading through some rather mixed history
he climbed out on to comparatively firm ground
with the statement that Edward VII. is the son
of Victoria “ whose death occurred a few weeks
ago, and is now mourned by the whole world.”
Whence it may be inferred that Iceland and
Bokhara and Timbuctoo haven’t really enjoyed
their victuals since Victoria’s decease.
Q. Govt, has got another rich man’s
estate to pick at —that of Wesley Hall, late of
Mt. Morgan.
Sydney City Council has now held many
meetings at night, and it is complained that
although officials have to be in attendance, thus
tacking from four to five hours on to their day’s
work, no remuneration, not even tea-money, has
yet been made to them.


Companies, &o.
Upon - all -
Security. -
LOWEST INTEREST.
easy terms.
WE
3#
*S*
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED-
3xr.s,-w-.
Iflont deplete j).s |.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., *7<±
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
4- Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
~~ari isHED 1879. Manager.
115 —.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
_ Resident Secretary :A. Ross Mili.br.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600 assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
tLIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £1,800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital £3,216,885 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman ; J. C. Syme
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ; '
Hon, N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nieol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopsqate Street Within
corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.l
Bankers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NCW SOUTH wales:
SYDMOy - 273 GUORGE STREET.
acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Uaymarket, Gosford ("with agency at Wyong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, ’ South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
flew Zealand Insurance Qo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT, _ .
Manager. 81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Established 1879.
THE ______________
United Australian mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices:
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital .. 251,260
Paid-up Capital .. 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Webstbb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
United lijSGraocc Co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Bates very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
Shipping.
THE HOWART smith line.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., March 2, 12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, March 9, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninvong, Tues., March 19, 6 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., March 19, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Saturday, March 2,12 Noon.
Bunvah, Tuesday, March 5, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., March 9,12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, March 2, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., March 9, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
OAIIINS, &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked throua-h.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
£150,000 0 0
£90,000 0 0
£150,000 0 0
£8312 0 0
Trustees, €xcc<itorS,
AND
fIgSiKV Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY ...
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business)
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1900 ... £6,326,343 0 0
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
® B< F> C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. :
O. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.O.
JAMES BORIiOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New “Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. ~ 2 000 000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders SOojoOO
Total Capital
£2,500,00 6
T HE SAVINGS BANK IN VICTORIA
1 HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on Citv
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria
FOR FIVE YEARS, ’
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Queensland Smelting (Jompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TSUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New South Wales.
ESTABLISHED 1817.
Head Office- GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. - 1,250,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. 2,000,000 0 0
0 0
Tota l 5,250,000
Directors :
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Bi.ynie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.O.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.LC
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors :
F. W. Utiier, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom '
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects’for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain • under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business. J
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East. ’
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ...
Reserve Fund ...
Reserve Liability
£1,000,000 0 0
1,010,000 0 0
1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS;
G. J. COHEN, Esq. ... . Chairman
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. ..’ Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses M L C
E. W. Knox, Esq.
Auditors :
W. L. Docker and E. S. Cape.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A j’
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie’,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G: F. H
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.’
Littleton. Manager, Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
Pe Bank of Herth Queensland
limited.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esa
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd )
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £7OO 000
Capital Paia-up ... ...£109,000 ’ ’
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250.000 ... £350,000,
Shipping
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetoivn and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Lalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
TO GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE,
via AMERICA.
A. AND A. LINE.
TO ENGLAND IN 30 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE,
BY THREE MAGNIFICENT NEW TWIN-SCREW
STEAMSHIPS,
EACH OF 6000 TONS AND 8000 HORSE-POWER.
BUILT EXPRESSLY FOR THE SERVICE BY THE
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF
SAN FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line leave Sydney and Auckland for
Tutuila (Samoa), Honolulu, and San Francisco every
three weeks, as under: —
Passengers booked to all the principal parts of
EUROPE, UNITED STATES and CANADA
AT LOWEST FARES.
Passengers are booked through to San Francisco, Liver-
pool, London and chief cities of the Continent of Europe,
with special advantages, and have choice of the unrivalled
Atlantic Steamship Lines of the American, Ounard, In-
man, White Star, and other Companies, according to fare.
Full particulars, Illustrated Guide Maps, etc., gratis on
application to
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.,
Equitable Building, George-street, nextG.P.O.
N. ID. L. ””
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEEI.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754; Ho. se-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000; Over 3f million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
Leaving Melbourne Tuesday after Sydney.
TO BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW. BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, YAP, SHANGHAI, and HIOGO or
YOKOHAMA.
Steamer
Tons
Commander
I Leave
| Sydney
Destina-
tion
MUNOHEN | 4636 |H. Krebs ... | April 3 | Japan.
And regularly thereafter every six weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN &CO., 7and 9Bridge-st., Sydney.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. ltd. of London.
I The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M‘Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks,
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W."
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., 0. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,00Q.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Medical.
MASON’S EXTRACT
OF HERBS.
NO OTHER EXTRACT MAKES
BEER
LIKE IT.
The Best of all
Beverages and
the Cheapest.
NON-
INTOXICATING,
DELICIOUS,
WHOLESOME.
ƒs
GOLLIN
Agents :
CO., Sydney and Melbourne.
NEWBALL & MASON,
NOTTINGHAM,
ENGLAND.
„ SUpping. '
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Adelaide, Friday,
March 8.
S.S. Bullarra, Saturday,
March 9. (Without
Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
[_S.S. Adelaide, Friday,
March 15.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
°“ n Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
nrst Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
a “ erS ° f th . e , A 'U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
, ' Fi° r Adelaide and VV. A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
——^ _Afrits, 6 b kidge street, Sydney.
A. U. s. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
mw r moiTn r a B' n ‘ fi° ei 1 t Steam ships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
ctw™ LLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
AND ROCKHAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane TownsviHe, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
fvTWWv NE^, r CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
I™S A -™°URNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly. ’
Passene/er A ceotninodation, Attendance and
Cuisin e unvivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
firstportbetvveen Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
m£w de aid s?.' S ' Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
I’m- f, 0111 ' 1 * 1 ? 118 be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only,
sirp .f ß s' S i PHILE f n,t CO , Ltd., Age'n ts, Id Bridge-
all Australasian Ports
P. AND O. COMPANY!
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows •
F °R Marseilles and London,
touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
_ With Permission to call at Brindisi.
wM-wiuy o-u xiuuan.
„ . steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s lo £77
t, . , Ditto Return £7l 10s to 1121
KiGtuin Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial noros
are available for Return by Orient and Mari-
times’ Stealners havi ng room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
Steamer
AUSTRALIEN
V. DELA OIOTAT
POLYNESIEN
Com-
mander.
Yerron ..
Fiaschi ..
Chevalier
Sydney,
Noon.
March 18
April 15
May 13
Mel-
bourne,
1 p.m.
March 21
April 18
May 16
Ade-
laide,
1 p. in.
March 23
April 20
May 18
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including- table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
Principal Agent.
Huddart, parker $ Co’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Current Bates.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Commander.
Steamer.
GUTHRIE
EASTERN
AIItLIE
AUSTRALIAN
iTns.
12500 VV. G. M‘Arthur
3600, Winthrop Ellis
. 2500 St. John George
3000 P. T. Helms
Leave Sydney
March
April
May
May
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S?S. CO. LD.’
rrM-HMMMii 3 7 PiG-Btreet, Sydney.
IDlluiraith, f|)*Eacharn&^o7
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OE STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd,
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
.... ~ Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.


Herr RASSIYIUSSEN’S ALFALINE BAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
GENUINE REMEDIES
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc.
ALF ALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure 01 a
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine ana
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous **
no matter how caused or of how long standing. ’
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want; of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, “ ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthaning the NERVES, and are especially effectual
lor all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN ;
AWAjrmEE. ;
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful patrons7~
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the
of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
’ — w*^*».ws**** 1 1
HERR RASSMUSSEIM,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
■ ■ ■ WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
'Alfaline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH’’ which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassiniissen>
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head u nsem „ci eo r.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to HanS RaSSIXIUSSen.
APVKC FREE.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. od.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder-Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure ana
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, is;
posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure- really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectua
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same tuns
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Hans peter Hassmussen
Head
Office
47 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Bit ISBA NE : 300 Queen-streei~( near Creek-street),
m ,:W11: 150 Bourke-street Eastern Markets) .
ADELAIDE : 154 Bundle-street (near York Hotel),
WELLINGTON : 01 Lambton Quay .
PERTH: TBl Hay-street.
~KALCOORLIE : Hannan-street (neoct Lindell’s).
BOULDER CITY : Piesse-street.
PR EM A NTLE \ Henry-street.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
•with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
■press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
.never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same With the ankles, round which the skin
■may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your ease is hopeless, or
■ advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
• CUKE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBEKT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Lege,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Parringdon-street, London, Eugland.
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look foi the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
igreen label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
dfd
fringes,
tfbtuMl Curly, from SA) east
PLAITS and TAILS,
jOln. long, fi/u. all real halts
CUTTINGS * COUBLNO*
•OrUed up, i/6 per or.
Vvo are tlio cbcape&io A«0»
Italia far all Bair IVsrk.
Send Color of Bair,'
W.|H/Wigz«H,
110 Wiluau Street.
corner of Palmer-street,
6YDNEV.
Co Wo Tram viU stop at Door
Send stamps for full Prios UsL
frsjppt atteptfoagiven to CounUjr Ordsta
sfs
Medical,
Dr. Boxwell’s PILLS.
AT ON-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEO-
1M XIVE. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere Price,
5/6 per box. JE® 1 " Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert —Dr.
Boxwell having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
all leading Wholesale Druggists in Australia or Pill
Manufacturing Co., 539 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
< COMMON SENS E EAR DR TJM.
rmr>
[DEAF
VIEAB>
COMPLETELY restore ihe
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
dfds
Is a restorative and physical regenerator of
magic power. A broken-down or weakened
system rejuvenated. Vytol acts on the
nerves, brain and blood, quickly and perman-
ently restoring to the sufferer the lost vim,
energy, strength and vigor of youth. Price posted 7/6.
A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street, North Melbourne.
Pamphlet, Testimonials, &c., sent Free.
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 per Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1/6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Go., Manchester.
Medical.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
CHLOROPYHE
Caution.—Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGrHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEOHCHITIS,
DIAEEHCEA, &c.j bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlohodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
fds
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
A TELIA N CES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,>e prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
G-erman Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
dsg
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Boole of Treatment., Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound lnhalent, and 1 tin
Nasal Ointment, only
10-
Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible remedy.
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R-C-S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G* L. ROBERTS, M.D.
n '
Born 1766, Died 1834.
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
INVENTOR OF Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c.
use d p . ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. i£d. and 2s. 9d. each of all Drug
Stores.
Sole Makers: BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd.
BRIDPORT, England.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
tpHESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posted, ss. 6d. per
box. Write to A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street North,
Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-street, Prahran,
Melb. says : “Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
diate relief, although I had during two months previous
tried all sorts of remedies without success.”
ĝd
DEAF
Km
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
•how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address —L.D.I., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Strange that nearly every returned con-
tingenter firmly believes that men on active
service, suffering from certain contagious com-
plaints, are taken out and shot as a pro-
tection to the rest. All the men have fre-
quently heard of this being done, but none can
be found who actually saw any such occurrence.
The explanation probably is that the authorities
circulate these rumors for the express purpose of
making the men careful about their behavior.
“Lightning” discourses on the Marconi
system. .
Lately cabled that Marconi’s system of wireless tele-
graphy had been a comparative failure when tried in
S’Africa over a distance. In writer s humble opinion this
will always be the result in any country blessed, or
cursed, with a dry climate and a very small rainfall, for
cogent reasons. Briefly, an ordinary telegraph-line is
worked by a captive current of electricity circulating
through a metallic substance such as iron wire. In its
path ’twixt terminals a certain percentage escapes, vary-
ing (in dry weather) from 5 to 20 per cent., and in wet
weather from 15 to 75 per cent, according to insulation
The “ captive ” is called the primary current, and the
escaped or induced current is known as the secondary.
It is the “ secondary ” current, enhanced by mechanical
means, that does the trick for Marconi. Hence the
greater amount of induced current, asm uniformly moist
climates, the more current is available for the Italian s
invention. (Note the great success it is said to have
been in the recent fogs and rains in the German Ocean.)
Contrawise, dry air being a first-class non-conductor, the
primary current is held captive, all but an insigni-
ficant percentage, and the secondary current is neces-
sarily weak, the pulsations feeble and easily attracted
bv earth magnetism. Therefore, until Marconi does
some more inventing his great idea will not shme brightly
in the interior of this or any other sparsely-watered
country As a sample of what can be done with a dry
climate, an experiment was tried some 5 years ago to see
how far a single circuit would work. One Sunday m May
Cape York was switched on successively with Bowen,
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, and finally to Israelite Bay
in W.A. Total distance some 5900 miles of wire, the
signal's were clear and averaged about 14 words per minute
between terminals. This feat has never been approached
elsewhere as far as can be ascertained and probably never
will be in a moist climate. At sea, along the coast, or in
wet weather, Marconi will score heavily. In dry weather
inside the range (present drought for instance) his show is
a poor one. The modest heliograph or flash would wm
every time. _____


H. S. Tucker, at the Sydney Wheelmens’ Car-
nival just completed, secured the final of the Armidale
Stakes, U mile, and the Sydney Two-Mile Wheel Race on
his Massey-Harris. A total prize money of £105.*
According to De Wet, “ French is the only
Boer general in the British army.”
The proposal to land the Yorks at Sydney
evidently came from Chamberlain. Brummagem
Joe loves not Melbourne. The loudest protest
against the appointment of Lyne as Prime Minis-
ter, obviously instigated by Chamberlain, came
from the south, and right on top of this was the
surprising action of Vic. Assembly in throwing
out what he had practically instructed Australia
to accept—the increase of the Governor-General’s
salary. Had it not been for the outbreak of the
war Judas would be the man best hated by Aus-
tralia to-day.
Piles and their Cure.— The pamphlet
b y Albert Sharp of Sydney, entitled, “ Piles, and
the Way to Cure Them,” without operation, sent
free, on application to the Dep6t, 259 George-
street, Sydney, or Frank Buckhurst, chemist,
Melbourne.*
Ever Had Indigestion ?
THIS MAN HAD IT AND RHEUMATISM-DR.
MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS BANISH
HIS AILMENTS.
Such is the valuable testimony of Mr. John
Chase, No. 3 King-street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
“It is with pleasure that I recommend Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. Some twelve months
ago I suffered with rheumatism and indigestion.
I tried several remedies, but of no avail. I last
gave your Pills a trial, and am glad to state, after
taking about two bottles, rheumatism and indi-
gestion have both gone. I am by occupation a
sea-faring man, and constantly getting wet, but
ever since using the Pills I have not had
rheumatism. I keep the Pills by me, occa-
sionally taking a couple, which keep me pro-
perly regulated. You may use this in any way
you think proper.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills positively cure biliousness, indigestion,
constipation, dyspepsia, headaches, liver and
kidney complaints, pimples, and blotches. Sold
by chemists and storekeepers, price Is.
per bottle or six bottles 6s. 6d. Sole proprietors,
The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd. (Australasian
Depot), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney. Packed in
amber bottles, and the full name blown thereon.*
Just published by Bear (Park-st., Sydney)
a 94-page pamphlet containing a full account of
what is called on the cover “ The most celebrated
divorce-case of the 19th century”—to wit the
Coningham-0 Haran trial, a second version of
which is pending.*
THEE FEDERAL t.tct,
BEAUCHAMP (Tas.), WALNE (Q.), TUCKER (N.S.W
ADERS
.), MATHIAS (S.A.)
r 'frjc” _
-ft
TO LIVE THEY MUST RACE ON THE FINEST MOUNT PROCURABLE tupma
to suit the tourist and the racing- man. rrwoutfAßLE. THE MASSEY is THE BICYCLE
SYp Mgy DEPOT; 385 GEORGE STRPFT
gƒdg
dg
IT IS NOT REASONABLE TO SUPPOSE
That Bill Martin would win on any but a
RED BIRD BICYCLE
In the A.N.A. You ask Why?
Best Bicycle he could get. I:
BRANCHES IN EVERY STATE.
Well, Bill wanted to win the 1901 A.N.A. and the BED BIBD was the
: you buy any other than a RED BIBD you’ll kick yourself afterwards.
__G’OOLD_BICYCIiE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney.
The
Original
JOHN JAMESON WHISKY
Agents:
J. Barre Johnston & Co.,
Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
J I. 6 is ‘ :
SSSSsf
carr P v in dy ? r Fulminate, with 9st, lOlbs. to
stran<r er th 18 another specially interesting
aiiT' V Recent performances of the Scobie and St
Uvefv for .t* Gal * lfield > promise to make things
snort is a^iinhio k? a ? yhow - P enfc y of material for good
v » n lB f a Jus t now, Md it only remains for the
,R.O. stewards to see that “ unaccountable reversals of
pun%. are not Perpetrated th « Punters ;Th^im-
The Isewmarket Handicap is anybody’s race of
course, but it looks as though the equine aLbodv ’wHl
have to be a somebody of importance this yea/ Preset
scribe has no fancy for the outsiders-i./ assured out
siders of the day-other than Man of Honour and Com-
mandcr He would include these with The Watch Dog
the field ’ An?v, C ’ Fffiminate and Malster in a lot to belt
the field. All things considered, The Watch Dog seems
to be the most reasonable selection. The son of G?braltar
won the race with ease last year as a 4-year-old since
when he has started in only two races—unbacked by his
patient owner. Watch Dog l will carrv 221h<? mnrl r*r»
Saturday than the weight which didn’t "trouble him last
year, but in the meantime he has thickened surprisingly
and seeing that Mr. Forrester thinks the horse a wonder
ssxisa.**- i2ita ' -«* *»««££
Thb Watch Doa .. j
Advance .. .. m 2
Commander .. “ 3
Wakeful.. .. 4
The St. Leiger will give punters a fair idea of
Finland s chance to win the Australian Cup next Tues-
da-v - , , U P now Finland hasn’t run likea stayer nor
does his breeding indicate stamina. In the Leger he wis
probably meet Kmglike, and if either of them can down
the other easily, the winner will be worth backing for the
2J mile handicap. Present scribe prefers Kinglike.
The Australian Cup is open to ten or twelve of
them, not to mention possible “ turn-mis.” Sav Paul
Pry, Advance, Malster, Finland, Gosport, andJDreamland.
Thp Se pr/« n be thmks f;|o h |y Of Gosport for various reasons.
The Portsea horse will, bar accidents, go every yard of
the long course. He has a light weight a comnefent
jockey (W. Minter), and a very good recent performance
to recommend him. One or more of the 3-year-olds mav
beat Gosport ; old Dreamland meets him on better terms
than when they fimshed close together three weeks a<“
Advance will perhaps “smother” all the Australians
Certainl y Sa-turday’s results will affect the Cup market
considerably and one of those results may be a win for
Gosport in the Brunswick Stakes. This scribe has to
make a very early gueSs. Here it is—
Gosport
Dreamland.
**■ * •
Newmarket acceptances appeared Tuesday
morning-. Though entrants originally totalled 116 onlv
24 were left in. If all line-up at the barrier the field wilt
’S9 the sma lest for years. Biggest muster was in
82 when 37 faced the flag. Wakeful’s stable mates—
Aurous and Revenue—have been struck out, leaving her
al ‘ l °. t ! ) avorlte at 4t ° h Scobie’s stable has Malster and
Paul Pry going. Most important eliminations are Tar-
quin, Sequence, Dandy, Massinissa, Hymettus, George
Frederick, Nitre, Fides, Sagacity, Debenture, Veloce
Duke of Portland, Revenue, The Idler, Silvermoor’
Grizzle Captain Towse, Andorra, and Aurous. Paul Prv
tops the list with the steadier of 10.7, conceding his
penalty (lOlbs.) to the M.L. flier Advance, and lllbs. to
£f-r te - to the race through
Vic., M.L., N.S.W., W.A., and Q., being* represented.
* * * *
Boreas (9yrs. old), over from M.L. with Ad-
vance, has had five seasons’ racing, and in 50 starts won
18 times, was second on 10 occasions, and third thrice
totting up £4430 in stake-money. ’
« * • * .
, .Tunter : Looks as if Vocalist will prove best
of Mother-State nags in Australian Cup. Another that
promises well is San I ran, against whom 100 to 1 was
offered in Sydney a little while back ; now the nag’s
down to twelves. Royal Purple’s running in the Anniver-
sary Handicap seems to put her out of reckoning, but she
belongs to a cute owner who’d hardly pay exes, to Mel-
bourne unless he thought the investment good. Barba-
rossa s second to Paul Pry on Saturday will make him
much more marketable than he might otherwise have
been, and there is just a slight probability that he mav
well hi B n ° Se m fr ° nt at thC r ' sht time > after doing so
* * * *
Oniy consolation N.S.W. has over last day
(Saturday) of Caulfield meet is that a couple of the suc-
cessful nags (California and Paul Pry) were bred in the
mother State. Sydney nag Barbarossa’s second to Paail
Pry surprised most people, and will probably be taken as
an indication that the Medallion—Algerine colt’s track-
form may be repeated in future engagements.
* * » «
Paul Pry’s win of Bond Cup, at Caulfield, on
Saturday showed anything but deteriorated form
Humping!). and winning easily, he got over the mile
and a-half in 2.3 Ba—a top-notch feat that shows S’Rupert’s
old wonder to be quite as good as ever. 1
* * * *
V.A.T.C. reports a loss of £2OOO (double the
sum dropped last year) over its Autumn meet, iust
elosed. P irst day s attendance was below last year’s, but
other two were up to average. Falling off of revenue is:
attributed mostly to sums for acceptances and forfeits
being less than previously, and reductions in payments;
generally. Futurity Stakes showed the greatest shortage.
On the first Saturday of the recent Caulfield
u ee } U ! g \Z n 0 of J he winning nags was twice hit across the
head by the whip of the jockey who was riding a des-
perate finish on the runner-up. The stewards suggested
to the owner of said winner that he should lodge a com-
plaint against the other jock, whereupon he told them
R was their business to make an inquiry into the matter
The interference had not affected the result of the race!
He was not a sufferer. The duty of maintaining the rule
of fair play at their meeting rested with the stewards
They saw the offending whip at work, and they ought to-
take action. But the stewards shirked their duty
possibly because the rider in question (who may have-
had a good defence to offer) represented the powerful
Scobie stable, and was riding Rupert Clarke’s horse
* * * *
Vol. XI. of Miller’s Australian Racing
Chronicle, includes particulars of 762 race meetings held
in Australia from August- Ist, 1900, to January 31st of
this year. In one respect Yol. XI. is more useful than
any previous Chronicles. It gives information as to the-
state of “going” at principal meetings, and thereby
throws light on the time-test, which is apt to be a.
delusion and a snare when quoted for purposes of com-
parison without regard to weather conditions.
* * • *
From programme of sports at Sutherland
(N.S.W.) Old Buffers’ Race (handicap), for residents
over 40 years, 75 yards.—lst prize. 1 bag Circular Head
potatoes ; 2nd prize, 1 tin of condition-powder.
&> s , ter announces that he has
deposited £lOO with the local Sportsman to be covered bv
to tin who wiU back himself for that amount
R^tho er * than , any other fellow for the V.R.C.
the othe'r fori ? l of „ advt chia - « establishes
Pwiwhn f 1 *? ‘champion” for an indefinite period,
necauarv cornin'' lm P e °unious rivals can rafse the
Tn„°r ai 7 ? ov f r ,, mon * y > * nd anyhow nobody would be
fraternn rpnsed , th# ch »Henger if one of the tipping
BvthTwJ* re t °/f 1 u k £l rS° 0n ® uch a rid iculous gamble.
Py , 8 waj, aren t these Turf Advisers subsidised by the
bookmakers? They ought to be. oy tne
* » » ,
»,£ h ® Arson’s Weekly proprietors were fined
ooi?nnn= w t | h if i o iJ l^er day for lssuin £ football competition
mo.l t f heir P a P ers - And still the publication of
racing market prices and bookmakers’ advts. by the
„°" d ° n P, ress is permitted as usual. When will the
gambling laws be honestly constructed and enforced ?
• * • *
Old nmn Thompson (Solomon properly), father
“ . b °?hm a kers “Barney" and “Joe," long in England,
ami Phin recently deceased, died in Sydney ’tother
day, aged 87. The ancient was a marvel. He disdained
SUCK and glasses, and, sometimes twice daily, walked
straight as a rush in and out of town from Paddington at
a good swing. Writer has seen the old man at Tatt’s
Ulub room often sit down in uncertain light and write to
Barney or “ Joe,” or both, sans spectacles. Twas a
e i tTe f at i. O , y s rn • wit , h him about old-time sport and
sports, for he had mixed among them a lot, and owned a
remarkable memory. Another son was big good-natured
Jack Thompson, who died a while ago, and, in his
tame, had few superiors with the gloves. Jack beat
Christie once for Victorian supremacy, and, in company
with the two big stars of their days, Jem Mace and L.
holey, did a deal of boxing before huge houses
• * , *
On Saturday last at Farmer’s Domain Baths,
Sydney, boy Dick Cavill capped all his previous perform-
ances by winning the 300 yds. State supremacy 5 4-ssec.
inside world’s record, which stood at 3min. 463-ssec. and
was put up by Fred Lane over same course two years ago.
ine pace was at high pressure from pistol-shot. The
Balmain lad (Craig) hung on as if the result meant life or
death to him, and several times rounded simultaneously
with the ultimate winner. Last lap (30 yds.) was a revela-
tion. Each had every ounce on, straining to the highest
tension, while hundreds watching swayed and roared with
excitement. Twice it looked as if Cavill would weaken
and let his much bigger and more powerful rival get up,
but the Farm Cove boy won “ all out ”by 2ft. Craig also
beat the previous world’s best, and third man, G. Read
(the only other starter), finished 8 yds. away well within
standard time—4mm. The English best (1 l-ssec. slower
than the figures Cavill upset) belongs to Australian Lane.
• * * *
The vast improvement in pace made by crack
Sydney swmmer Craig within 10 days was remarkable.
mJ; S i V V Ur ‘ on £ supremacy (Feb. 13) at Redfern he
finished 10 yds. behind Cavill, who was clocked to do
-m. 41 l-ssec. Saturday last, though the journey was
yd f- longer, there was never clear water between
Cavill s heels and Craig’s head from beginning to end.
The judge saw a difference of only 2ft. (the reach of one
arm, perhaps) between first and second. Lane’s world’s
record was knocked endways by seconds, and reliable
watches timed Craig’s furlong at slightly better than the
Australasian speediest (2m. 38 l-ssec.) or 3sec. faster than
the time in which Craig was beaten by 10 yds. ten days
previously. Improvement may in part be explained by
tne tact that at Redfern the water was fresh, while latest
event took place in the briny. Craig, being harder and
more solid than Cavill, wouldn’t be nearly so well served
an fresh water, for he’d float heavier and consequently
have greater labor in getting through than the softer and
lighter boy opposed to him.
* * * *
Contention of M.L. sporting scribes that the
c°ld water of that country materially affected speed
of M.L. swimmers, and that they do infinitely better in
the warmer water of Vic., N.S.W., and S.A., has been
badly knocked on the head. M.L. top-notcher Champion
in the recent Australasian premierships swam right up to
his home form and then did no better than before he left
for Victoria. Fact of champions from Australia not
making exceptional time when in M.L. is an argument
freely used in evidence that M.L. water is unfavorable to
fast work, but ’tis wrong, for Australians did all needed—
they won and extraordinary pace was not called for
Besides the visits were holiday jaunts and were in most
instances treated as such.
* * * .
N.S.W. sculler, Geo. Towns (champion of Eng )
writes that he hasn’t cornered Jake Gaudaur yet, though
■offering to race for £250 a-side and leave all details to the
Canadian. ’Tis plain Jake doesn’t want any more of the
game. Towns should therefore assume the world’s
supremacy ; he has wasted months and offered heaps of
inducement without avail. Word comes that M L Tom
Sullivan and Towns have arranged to double-scull to-
gether in Yankeeland six or seven months hence. They’ll
want all that time to get into each other’s methods
which is the secret of success at this branch. Besides’
they’ll be differently boated as compared with single-
sculling, and that also needs some getting into.
Vic., N.S.W., Q. and S.A. will be represented
an coming inter-State 8-oar race for which suggested date
is May 11.
* * * *
latest from “down under” re Shoalhaven
tt q i sculler Wray is that he left late in Jan. for the
u.b. to prepare a crack Yankee amateur for Henley
Diamond Sculls. Following this Wray takes up an
engagement in Nova Scotia, and hopes subsequently to
fix matters with Ed. Durnan (Ned Hanlan’s nephew) or
■ex-amateur Rogers. Wray hadn’t too good a time at
Ome. Speedy enough, especially for a short distance, he
almost invariably struck someone just a little better.
English North Country sports dropped him like a hot
potato after he went underdo Towns.
* * * *
Capt. Douglas H. M c Lean, of the British
Yeomanry, recently reported dead at Johannesburg
( A.), is an Australian and native of He rowed
for Oxford against Cambridge five years consecutively
from 83, and (with his brother) won the pairs at Oxford
in 85 and 86 and the Silver Goblets at Henley in ’B5. In
powerf 1 ca Pk a * n scaled 13st. and was exceptionally
* * * »
. Saturday, Mr. J. O. Fairfax’s Maggie got away
with the final of three events for Sydney P.A.Y.C.’s 30ft.
■class competition. Maggie won all, and thus gets Vice-
Commodore Marks’ trophy and 30gs. Light weather
favored the ultimate winner on each occasion ; she is un-
approachable under such conditions. Remarkable that
though nor -easters are prevalent this time of the year
not once did a good one blow. Had it been otherwise the
result might have been different.
* * * *
Cycling at Sydney Cricket Ground was again,
sparsely patronised on Saturday and Monday ; this time
the alleged big counter-attraction of racing at Randwick
was absent. Mile Handicap on Saturday supplied some
fine fe a ts. Beauchamp won his heat in 2.0 2-ssec, while
M Donald s figures were 1.59. 2min. hadn’t previously
been broken for a mile competition in Sydney. The final
took the cake and set spectators beside'themselves.
Beauchamp finished ahead of Yankee Chapman in
record’ WhlC “’ lfc 18 thou £ ht > is a world’s competition
* * * «
„ lna l evenfc of inter-nation contest at Sydney
Gyelmg Carnival on Saturday, wher; in Green andMegson
(Britain) were opposed to Martin and Lawson (US)
resulted in a big surprise. The Yankees had 15V points’
with t other pair 4 behind and wanting to fill first and
second places to win. Judges looked upon the money as
sure for Martin and his chum, but in the last lap, when
matters were at white heat, Lawson fell, and the great
old plugger, though hard at it to the end, was badlv
beaten.
* * • *
The action of Sydney Cycling League re Eng-
lishman Green’s protest against plugger Martin for bor-
ing is indeed a puzzle. Race was first ordered to be re-
run, which in itself was a peculiar proceeding, for Martin
either bored or he didn’t. If he did, Green’s kick should
have been upheld ; if he didn’t, then the thing was done
with. Later (Tuesday last week), three days after the
race had been re-run and Green had won,'the Racing
Board met and suspended Martin for a month—yet he
was among the competitors on Saturday. To the uniniti-
ated the whole business is mystifying. The running of
the race over again, and Martin being allowed to start
after an offence had admittedly been committed, his sub-
sequent suspension for a sin that had apparently been
forgiven, and then allowing him to compete when he was
under the ban of suspension. This contradictory state of
matters will take a lot of explaining.
. Luck, as tandem riders, of Mutton and Vaughan
m Sydney t’other day, was remarkable. In their pre-
liminary heat they looked badly beaten, when the chain
of the tandem in front broke, and Mutton and Vaughan got
home by a foot. Just as things were beginning to wax
Wa J l ?» ll lj! ihe Me S son an <i Gordon’s chain came off,
and Mutton and Vaughan won anyhow.
* * * *
At the Melbourne B.C. inquiry into the so-
called ‘‘leakage of heats” for the Austral Wheel Race
one of the witnesses stated that if he had known the
names of the riders on Tuesday evening he could have
saved £7OO. But these bike-racing sports talk a good
deal bigger than their bets as a rule.
* * * *
In 7th round (Sat.) of Sydney first-grade cricket,
Sullivan (for Leichhardt-Balmain against Paddington) put
up a great performance. His analysis: 14 overs 4
maidens, 20 runs, 5 wkts. Sid Gregory sustained his
good batting form this year by making 72 not out for
Waverley against Burwood, who only scored 93, of which
Barbour put up 46. Finish between Redfern and Central
Cumberland was exciting. Former made 132. Latter
opened their second innings just 75 min. before time, and
won by 8 wickets, Farquhar notching 81 not out.
* * * *
“ S - A.”: Suggestions for the best all-Australian
team . S.A. nominates Hill and Jarvis, claiming the latter
to | )e “ present the best keeper in the country ; hut is
not otherwise ambitious. Say Trumpet, Noble, Gregory
and Iredale ; Hill and Jarvis; Trumble, MLeod, Arm-
strong, Stuckey, and Saunders. Four good bowlers and
two good changes, and the strongest possible batting side.
Travers might replace Stuckey, if desired.
* » * «
P eor £>® Griffen, the most conspicuous failure of
this season’s inter-State cricket, has not played in Ade-
laide club matches for the last two months.
B- Hansen (winner of Vic. bowling supremacy
t other day) is an undeniable champion. In the final he
met L. Waxman, who on the first day accounted for pre-
vious year’s top-notcher, J. Pullar. Two-thirds of the
match was an eye-opener as a contest to onlookers. Both
players ran neck and neck for 14 ends, when the board
showed 11 all.” After this Hansen played brilliantly,
and won by nine. Hansen held the honor before, and in
93 was just pipped by the present president of the
V - • , a , lso owns this season’s “ champion of cham-
pions laurels, and previously indicated what might be
expected of him by exceptionally good play as skipper of
a rink in the Wood Trophy Tourney.
* * * *
In two events at Golden Gate A.C., Sydney, on
Saturday night, a white was opposed to a colored
bruiser The blacks (Thomal and “ the Kaffir ”) are both
from Africa. Thomal had no hope with the Pyrmont
17-year-old pug—R. Turner—who won easily in thie sixth
round. The Kaffir ’ set ancient “Doss” Patterson a
merry clip for four rounds, when the white sank helpless.
Patterson shaped at Foley’s White Horse gymn., in
George-st. (Sydney) when writer was very much in his
teens, so tis time he drifted into the inevitable pub or
some similar not too physically-exacting occupation.
* • * *
moment of writing, it looks as if Australian
featherweight-champion Tim Hegarty will not go to Eng-
land after all—at least, not just yet. He is in W A now
and was to have fought Jack Oullen, Wednesday, this
week. The cable has been worked to get a fresh date for
his projected match with Yankee Terry M‘Govern, and if
that is managed, Hegarty will leave Sydney for ’Frisco’in
March. N. S. W. pugs Regan (“John's”) and Stoneham
went U.S.-wards Tuesday, per Sonoma.
* * * *
Billy Edwards, who owned the weird title of
sewerage champion ” when in Melbourne, and subse-
quently did well in S’Africa and England, but struck bad
times after crossing the Atlantic, had a great go in New
York recently. Mick Donovan opposed him. Right
through 20 fast and clever rounds they fought like
demons. Both were well primed with vim and vigor in
• 3min. Edwards did good work till Donovan
jabbed a pile-driving right over the heart, dazing his
man. and finished him with a sinful hook on the point.
* • * •
Last Yankee mail tells that the colored boxer
from these parts—Jerry Marshall—was in sorry plight
from tuberculosis and had little chance of surviving.
Jerry’s last big battle in Sydney was with Griffo at
Darlmghurst Hall, long since razed. Place was packed
and excitement at fever heat. Marshall seemed to have
a good chance until the crowd poured over front chairs
and into the ring, leaving barely enough space for the
men to move. Steve O’Donnell, now in U.S., was referee
and quite lost his head. Whole thing ended in something
like a riot. Furniture was badly broken and pugilism
got a set-back that it didn’t recover from for a long time.
In America, Jerry failed to live up to his showing on the
occasion referred to.
* * * *
Said that Sydney Fry, amateur billiard cham-
pion of England and a top-notch golfist, is coming out to
Australia with the intention of staying for good. Is
Sydney a son of bookmaker Fry, or a brother of cricketer
Pry, or one of the cocoa Frys, or what ?
“ Pro-Bill ” to The Bulletin :
The Preetrade Party and Press have always forgiven
Wise his well-known inconstancy until the present
moment. Strange that he should be accused of ratting
now, the only occasion upon which he has been really
staunch and faithful to principle right through from the
start of the fight, and in respect of the only question he
has ever stuck to for any length of time without tiring.
His adherence to Federation and Barton when he might
have come in out of the wet with Bruce Smith and
M’Millan is on a par with his staunch support of Parkes
when the old man was fighting a despairing and
a losing battle in 1895. These were the two
bright moments in the political life of this brilliant
but inconstant native-born politician. Bruce Smith and
M'Millan are the real “ rats,” and without doubt
struggled for a long time against the influences of the
Reid-H.T. crowd. They were terrorised, and eventually
succumbed. They are now associated with Reid, whom
they detest and despise, dragged at his chariot-wheels—
or rather at his cart-tail. M'Miluan proved Reid a finan-
cial charlatan early in the latter’s political career, and
exposed his devious methods of public finance. Bruce
Smith once threatened Reid with exposure for attempt-
ing to secure a political pledge from B.S. as a condition of
appointing him to the Upper House. Reid helped the
mediocre Hogue in the Glebe against Bruce Smith in 1898
when B.S. was fighting under Barton’s banner. Yet these
men are now received with wild huzzas by the “ Liberal ”
Freetrade crowd, which is only the M‘Laurin-cw?ti-Nor-
ton-cm?»-Pilciier-cm™-Haynes party in disguise. All the
real Federalists who voted for the Bill will support Wise
as one of those who fought against narrow provincial
prejudice and stupidity with all the great powers of his
mind to make the Commonwealth a going concern.
The little road-and-culvert eminence of the nonen-
tity Brown was used against the Constitution Bill,
and in favour of the undemocratic “ bilk ” by which
a clumsy Parliament imposed a minimum condition upon
the will of the people of Australia. Yet the amiable
nobody is elevated by the Reid-D.T. -party into a person-
age who is to walk over Wise’s body into a Common-
wealth Parliament where he won’t be able to give one
sensible opinion, and which he did his darndest (however
little that was) to prevent being created at all. I wish
the Liberal Freetrade party joy of their candidate, and
the candidate joy of his leaders.
♦
“ J. A.W.” thinks things are going to the dogs:
Hear B.—There’s going to be a nice howl from the
N.S.W. public very shortly over electoral rights and the
Federal elections. Here we are getting on for the end of
February, and thousands of electors are still unsupplied,
while hundreds more have been missed by the police, and
if the elections take place at the end of March or be-
ginning of April, their chances of being enrolled are slim
indeed. Went last week to see about getting my own
name on the supplementary roll for my district, being
one of the “ missed,” and was told to call again this week,
as the Govt. Printer had not sent along the necessary
rights—but not to leave it later than Wednesday,
or I might be too late to have my name put
through the necessary Revision Court formalities.
Inquired then as to the issue of a Federal
right, and was told there were to be none issued. A
special roll would be prepared for each Federal electorate
and the production of the State right would be sufficient
if my name was on that roll. Apart from the difficulty
of composing correct lists where three or four State rolls
have to be dissected, the boundaries of the electorates
leading to confusion, there is the ignorance and muddle-
headedness of the average voter to take into considera-
tion. His State electoral right gives him a vote for a
certain electorate, and his inability to understand that it
also (without making the least mention of the fact) gives
him a right to vote in a Federal electorate of quite a
different name is pathetic.
4
Reid says that Wise “has reached the
lowest depth of political infamy.” How can that
be? Wise hasn’t yet joined Reid !
Lieut. Grainger, son of Grainger M.P. of
S. Australia, has been offered an Imperial com-
mission, but “ isn’t taking any. ” He saw service
in S’Africa and writes vitriolically of the Imperial
officer. He is in Australia now, but returns soon
to his alluvial claims in British Columbia.
J. W. Kirwan, about the livest man in
W.A. journalism, for whom the Kalgoorlie seat in
the House of Representatives seemed a soft snap,
has struck an unexpected snag in N.S.W. Labor
member Ferguson, who has been nominated by
the Boulder unionists (though it is uncertain at
time of writing whether he will not finally decide
to stand for a N.S.W. Federal constituency).
And Bigjohn, in whose side Kirwan has been the
sharpest thorn, smiles inwardly—though, by the
way, Bigjohn’s smiles are always smiled inwardly.
The reappearance of Gen. French as a
leading man in S’African warfare suggests that
Kitchener has given the word for “stringent
measures.” French is “ a devil of a find fellow,
with no scruples to speak of,” and for some
months before Roberts resigned the command the
dashing cavalry officer was suffering from suppres-
sion. The story goes that French winked at
some awful doings of the contingent troops—Aus-
tralians and Canadians in particular. Roberts,
on hearing of these irregular barbarities (ghastly
stories are told against the Australians) took
French off the hunting job and gave him milder
work to do. At latest dates French was back
making things very warm for Louis Botha.


fgd
A GOOD LINE.”
DERBY
T©lbffl©£<D)o
Others cannot even tie it
in popularity.
DERBY WINS
RESPECT.
The Modern Art Jewellery Co.
187 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone 3490.
Gold and Silver
Nellie Stewart Bangles
in All Sizes.
The New Gold Nellie Stewart
Bangle, without any joint or
snap, and to slip over the hand,
price 21/-
Nellie Stewart Bangle, jointless,
15-carat, price 37/6
9-carat Gold Nellie Stewart
Bangle, with snap and joint,
prices 50/- and 65/-
fgd
15-carat Gold Nellie Stewart
Bangle, 75/-, £5, £6/10/-
Gold Bamboo Bangles, 22/6;
others, 37/6 to 65/-
Silver Nellie Stewart Bangles, 6/-;
child’s sizes, 4/6
Silver Nellie Stewart Bangles,
with Shakespearian Quotation,
12/6.
Write for Illustrated Souvenir Catalogue.
Sent Post Free.
Notice* —Open all day Wednesday till 6 p.m.
Saturdays from 6 p.m. till 9.30 p.m.
Fairfax & Roberts, 8K, s c “JSSf
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
(Opticians by Special Appointment to his Excellency
the late Sir Robert Duff, G.O.M.G. ; his Excellency
Admiral Bridge ; the Walker Hospital, etc., etc.)
SIGHT TESTED DAILY (GRATUITOUSLY)
By a Thoroughly Qualified Ophthalmic Optician.
SPECTACLES
At Lowest London Cash Prices.
Doctors’ Prescriptions at One-Half Ordinary Sydney
Prices.
Qgy~The Celebrated Uniaxial Spectacles, 10/6.
FOB the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 60 KING STREET, and near the General Post
°® oe Proprietor • • GKO. W. KLLIS
Mt. David a. M. Cos., N.S.W.: “Chairmaii
expressed the coiifldent opinion that further sinking
would lead them on to striking a continuation of the rich
Iran of stone that had given such fine returns in the early
days of the property.” Obtained to date £40,600 worth
of gold from 19,000 tons of stone. But nothing is said of
the cost of getting it.
*** - *
Inverell Diamonds: Mr. Elliott has been
offered 265. per carat for a parcel of diamonds held by
him. The stones average two carats each. Two carats 1
Then, by Jingo, there is a lot of hope for the N.S.W. dia-
mond industry, for a diamond that will cut even one
carat may be worth a lot of money.
* * * *
Associated Mines : More nice things predicted
as the result of Hewitson’s management. No doubt if
there is any gold left in the Associated, Hewitson is the
man to find it. Already bored 2500 ft. with diamond-
drills, and proposes to bore thousands of feet more.
“ The boring has already disclosed some very good ore,
but writer notices that values and tonnage are not dis-
closed. Main shaft to go down another 200 ft., and the
re-modelling of the plant is proceeding. Finally— And
if good management and determination to thoroughly
open up the mine count for anything, the Associateds
will not be long in regaining lost laurels.” Lovely, it it
could be forgotten that the mine, which has a market
value of over a million, has been working for over a year
at a great loss ; that it will cost a huge sum of money to
put its plant right, and that so far the developments in
the mine are not big enough to warrant that. But for tens
of thousands of oversold shares in this mine, it would not
have half its present market price.
* . * •
Brownhill (W.A.) : Last month’s output,
29560Z5. Just about half the usual production. What it
will be when it gets to work in a few weeks’ time with the
Diehl process is hard to forecast. Well-known and ad-
mitted that the oxidised zone is exhausted, and that the
sulphide region, though rich in places, is limited in ex-
tent. Shares less than one-third the price they have been
and probably now double the price they will be this time
next year.
m • * *
Hannan’s Central Extended : Worked by tribu-
tors, who recently crushed 200 tons for 6920z5., and ex-
pect to have another such crushing this month. Many
of the Hannan’s mines are likely to be worked on tribute
ere long. There are a number outside the Golden Mile
that might pay to be “ gouged ” by tnbutors, but are too
much of the here-to-day-and-gone-to-morrow kind to be
worked profitably by John Bull co’s.
* * * *
The way in which “Moses Moss,” the financial
man of London Truth, booms certain Westralian interests
has long been sickeningly transparent. Twenty-four hours
before the L.Y. and London Globe collapse, he wrote . A
powerful syndicate has put up a million sterling to sup-
port Lake Views, and thus the London and Ca ob « has
received indirect support. Lake Views should be held,
especially in the view of the y® r .V favorable cables from
the mine.” But next week, after the awful collapse he
Unblushingly bobbed up again, saying that the promised
assistance from the “ ratting syndicate was not forth-
coming. The Week before it was a “ powerful syndicate
which had put up a million sterling.
* * * * ,
“Moses” has written reams of lies about the
Lake View mine, advising his readers to buy when they
were £ls, as they were going much higher, and now that
they are down to less than half he is cheeky enough to
attribute the collapse to unscrupulous bearing.
M.M. says he has inquired carefully, and is satisfied that
the Diehl process is going to be a great success, that the
mine is looking better than ever, and therefore he ad-
vises people to stick to their scrip—quite oblivious of the
fact that he gave the same advice when they were more
than double present price. This mistake, if it stood
alone, might be overlooked by some people, but Moses
mistakes have gone all round. For months he tipped Peak
Hills as good buying when they were three times their
present price ; also he said Brownhills at £l2 were good
buying, and no excuse was given when they fell to £4
in a few weeks.
• • * *
Chillagoe Railway and Mines : News received
of the segregation of the Mangana Group in London. The
new co. consists of 500,000 shares at ss. each. No public
subscription and all stock not applied for to be under-
written. Extent of parent co.’s participation not quite
clear That it is not much is shown by the market, which
only advanced 6d. From N.Q. a correspondent writes :
“It is interesting to hear the comments mad® about
Chillagoe ; for every man who is impressed with it there
are two the other way.” He thinks it a very open ques-
tion if smelting such ores with N.Q. conditions of climate,
labor, and prices will pay. •
• * * *
N.Q. copper-mining: From a well-known and
able mining man: “The difficulties one has to labor
un( j er —high wages, unskilful labor, slow communication,
poor business people, high prices for stores, &c.—are
enough to break a man’s heart. N.Q. is the back-wash of
all Australia. The bulk of the men we get here are of
the most unsatisfactory type ; there are few tradesmen
amongst them. Chillagoe rates on some things are very
sweet Take a ton of dynamite. The Govt, charges 50
per cent, on third-class rates, which is £3los. for the first
50 miles. From Cairns to Mareeba is about that distance.
The Chiilagoe people take the £3 10s. as being the Govt,
rate, and charge £3 10s. plus 50 per cent, for the next 50
miles, so that the first 100 miles costs- Govt, charge, £3
10s • Chillagoe, £5 ss. ; and £1 15s. 6d. for the last 23
miles. Total, £lO 10s. 6d.— to bring dynamite 123 miles I
This is but a sample of a few charges that have to be
paid. ‘ Take no care or any responsibility,’ seems to be
the motto of the railway so far. When the stuff arrives,
out it is thrown, anywhere or anyhow so long as it is
shoved off the waggons. This sort of thing may cease
later on, but it is what people down south wouldn t
tolerate. The Chillagoe line is a very good one. Some
of the bridges are quite imposing— e.g., the one over the
Walsh. Passenger rates on the line, which is not yet
under Govt, control, are a bit steep —ss. for single jour-
ney from Lappa to the 73-mile, a distance of 18 miles, is
what they charged me.” m
It seems as if the Chillagoe cos. are going to
make, or have made, just the same mistake that most of
the Broken Hill cos. did ; because the big co., that had first
grab at the field, can possibly, by reason of its great
variety of ores, make a success of smelting, they, too,
rush to build furnaces—and then in a few months shut
them down. Ore-mixture is the “secret” of successful
smelting ; and not one mine in 10,000 has the requisites
for a good charge. , , ,
Mt. Garnet Freehold: Sufficient ore bedded
(whatever that may mean) to resume smelting. The con-
veyance of copper matte produced at Mt. Garnet will be
a tough problem if they smelt, as estimated, 200 tons a
day. 150 tons of 7 per cent, ore would produce roughly
20 tons of 50 per cent, matte a day, or 140 tons weekly.
In the wet season waggons cannot take more than three
tons at a load, which means that, say, 46 waggons are re-
quired every week to take the matte away. It will take
a waggon 10 days to make the round trip, so that, say, 70
waggons will be wanted to deal with the matte alone —
and they mmt send it away to the coast to get money to
cover the heavy expenses entailed by a smelter running.
The railway can’t be finished for a year, and the starting
of the Mt. Garnet furnaces with such heavy road-haul-
age, in the middle of a wet season, is regarded by some
people as a dodge to raise the market. For some months
the smelter could not start for want of water, and now
the roads are almost impassable. Why not wait for the
railway ?
* ¥ • *
Mt. Reid Cos., Tas., has decided to accept the
Ellershausen Co.’s proposal to erect smelting works to
treat its zinciferous ores ; capacity of the plant to start
with, 700 tons weekly. It is somewhat uncertain whether
the Mt. Reid is really a mine, and it is still quite doubt-
ful if the Ellershausen is a successful process.
* * * *
N.S.W. Mines Minister, in throwing open some
Crown lands in Albury district for alluvial gold-working
purposes, has decided that before a lease is granted it
must be proved to his satisfaction that the successful ten-
derer is possessed of working capital of not less than
£SOOO. This condition may or may not suit the circum-
stances of this particular case, but what would be the
effect if it had an all-round application ? It would cer-
tainly prevent a lot of useless pegging ; and the Crown
would lose much rent.
Zeb. Lane, of course, was interviewed o:l his
arrival in Perth, the other day, by the West Australian,
which a few days before republished an interview from
the Rialto, a London weekly. Lane took strong exceptiqn
to the thing, called it a “ concoction,” said he haa.no
responsibility whatever in connection with the Rouiaei
Perseverance sulphide plant. The manager designed it
and was wholly responsible. But that was not the im-
portant part of the interview, it seemed to the wnter.
There were certain expressions used in that interview as
coming from Lane in re the sale of shares, the hnanciai
position of Prank Gardner, the support he had given to
the market, and other matters to which Lane makes no
allusion.
* * • *
That literacy bull-pup, Henry Hess, cannot be
dragged off Labouchere, of London Truth, whom heap-
cuses of taking bribes from the Transvaal £»ovt.
the mail left, Labouchere had gone to the Continent foi
a month. Labouchere surely cannot continue to sitm
silence much longer, considering that not only is tne
Critic devoting about a page a week to the business, but
paragraphs and leading-articles are appearing about n in
other newspapers, and JubY has a cartoon representi g
Labby on the platform pointing, with one hand, to cer-
tain moral sentiments and, with the other, receiving fro
Kruger a cheque for £3OOO.
• * * *
Collie coalfield, Westralia, where something
variously called a strike and a lock-out has been in pro-
gress, was virgin ground a very few years ago , ye
last year 150,000 tons was raised, and when the men
brought out their tools there were between 500 and bOO
hands locally employed. The Govt, is the biggest cus-
tomer —contracted for 90,000 tons a year from one mine,
at 9s. 7d. a ton. And just that contract has most to do
with the trouble ; for while the Govt, was getting this
coal at 9s. 7d. it had to pay up to 275. lOd.
coal at Fremantle 1 When the men went out (they asked
for 6d. more than they had been getting, and the cos.
offered 6d. less) Bigjohn was so ashamed of the bargain
that was strangling a promising industry that he ottered
to pay 6d. more if the men won an award at arbitration.
♦ * * *
Blayney, N.S.W.: The inhabitants have pro-
tested at a public meeting against the threatened
stoppage of smelting by squatters on account of fumes
allegedly poisoning sheep, and it is declared that tne
mine is looking “ better than ever.” Dont believe it.
The shareholders are all very sick, and that never happens
when a mine is looking well. Apart from that question
the other is a serious one. Actions are now threatened
against Oobar smelting people at Lithgow, and it is
within the bounds of probability that many hundreds of
men will be thrown out of employment pending the
settlement of the point whether the fumes escaping from
copper furnaces are destructive to animal life. At
Blayney it is admitted that nothing is affected but sheep.
Should these actions be won by the squatters the copper
industry of N.S.W. will be paralysed. N.S.W. Chamber
of Mines might do worse than give the subject its atten-
tion. .
* * *
In view of the new English Companies Act
coming into force on Ist Jan. there was a great rush of
embryo mining co’s registered a few days before so as to
avoid some of its provisions, a fact that cannot be re-
garded as a recommendation for said cos. Alreadj
two are reported as belonging to N.S.W. The
Alluvial Gold Trust, capitalised at a million, to
work a gold-saving machine and a lot of ground on
Shoalhaven River—into which stream more gold has
been dropped than was ever raised from it. Also
the Turquoise Mining Syndicate, a modest little thing
compared with the other ; capital £SOOO, with which it
proposes to acquire and work any mines supposed to con-
tain turquoise or other gems and minerals. So the co.
has a wide field for its small capital. It’s a bit of a stag-
gerer to know that N.S.W has a turquoise-mine. It once
had an emerald mine which was short-lived for the want
of emeralds.
* * • *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buciiu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
Barrister Sam Leon was twice fooled in
the recent St. Kilda election. Originally chosen
as the Liberal League candidate, he had an excel-
lent chance, but the election operators induced
him to submit to further arbitration by Smiler
Peacock, who chose the juvenile Billy Williams.
It is well known that the latter intended
to retire after his rejection by the League,
but, having nothing to lose, he readily consented
to the further arbitration. Leon announced his
withdrawal only to find that it was too late to save
his deposit. He had to stand, so he got what
advt. he could for his £SO by exhorting everybody
to vote for Williams instead of himself. A lawyer
ought at least to know the Electoral Act. Leon’s
inadvertent sacrifice of 50 of the very best added
further point to the joke of Williams’s election.
In the Long Run.
In one of her earlier poems, Ella Wheeler
Wilcox says:—“In the long run fame finds
deserving men.” It is true, and equally true that
time is the final test by which men and their work
are measured. It approves or disproves of ideas,
inventions and methods. Eraud and chicanery
may flourish for a day, but true merit endures,
and ever widening blessings follow in its train.
This line of thought is suggested in calling to
mind the discovery in 1878, after long months of
experimenting, of a scientific treatment ■ for
Bright’s Disease of the kidneys. Previous to this
time the world’s greatest physicians and scientists
had publicly stated that there was no known cure
for Bright’s Disease, but to-day, thanks to
Warners Safe Cure, and greater liberty of thought
and treatment, Bright’s Disease in its first and
second stages is no longer considered incurable.
Warner’s Safe Cure has found its way around the
globe, and can be found in every civilised country.
Think you, if it had not possessed exceptional
merits it could have stood the test ? Call to
mind the medicines in vogue a quarter of a
century ago, and how few remain.
Warner’s Safe Cure has been weighed in the
balance of public opinion and found exactly as
represented, and this slight testimonial to its
worth is gladly and freely given.
Mr. Joh n Meyers, bridge carpenter, of the Ayr
tramway, North (Queensland, says: “I was suffer-
ing for a long time from kidney trouble and cramp
in the stomach. I could get no relief from any
medicine until I gave Warner’s Safe Cure a trial.
I got relief from the first bottle. I only used five
bottles altogether, and am now quite cured. I
feel a different man. I may state that my uncle
was cured of dropsy by taking Warner’s Safe
Cure after the doctors gave him up- and said he
must die.”
“P.M.G. Gurr has distributed packets of all
stamps, cards, wrappers, postal-notes, &c., &c.,
in use in Victoria during the reign of the late
Queen to a number of leading officials. This is a
very precious packet, and considered by the for-
tunates who got them to be one of the best things
the new P.M.G. has done during his tenure of
the office. Certainly one of the best things for
them. But what has the Philatelic Society to
say about such cheap generosity ?
“ A curious incident marked the dinner given
by Premier George Turner to his Ministry a few
days before he fell ill. When all the invited took
their seats in the Grand it was found that one out
of the 14 guests was missing. It was Orator
Deakin. “I’ll give him five minutes,” said the
Premier. Some one remarked there were just 13
present. One or two began to look squeamish.
Two minutes had passed, when a certain Tas-
manian looked round the table uneasily, then
quietly rose from his seat and left the room. Two
minutes latter the tardy Mr. Deakin arrived.
“There is still someone missing,” remarked the
host, “ ,” replied one of the guests, “he’s
just left the room.” It was added that he’d be
back in a few minutes. “Not at all,” put in
Deakin, “I met him in Collins-st. rushing back
to town.” So the host gave the signal, and the
dinner proceeded without the Raspberry lander,
and went off with gusto, although the party con-
sisted of the fatal 13. But some of the members
have since had disturbing qualms.
“ ‘ Try, try, try again.’ This is apparently the
motto of a returned high-stepper, who told her
chums when she left Australia to settle in Eng-
land that she had set her heart on three things : (1)
Diamonds worthy of her position ; (2) Opera-box
near that of the (then) Prince of Wales; (3) A
pleasant little camaraderie with the august ladies
man in the Royal Command box. Ere long she
came back with only two of her ambitions realised,
but though she returned to the lists one never
heard that she got chummy enough to call her
hero ‘ Tummy ’or pour beer down his back. Now
she’s with us again. Has she lost heart because
the Prince of the Past has become a King, and
‘ there’s a divinity doth hedge a king ’ —which
means that a crown makes its wearer beastly
starched ?
“The up-to-date Victorienne who went
home to England when her boy in kharki was
ordered South, remained there having as good a
time as the Big Smoke permitted, while her sweet-
heart swore and cursed under shot and shell, and
later under the woes of enteric in Africa. When
at length the faithful hero was invalided home,
his smart charmer took the precaution to inquire
by cable as to whether all of him had returned in
an undamaged state ere she booked her passage.
Some folks are spiteful enough to suggest that had
a limb or even a toe been missing she would have
asked for at least six months to ‘ look into her
heart ’ ere re-crossing the briny. And others say
a young country needs such girls to put a check
on Jingoism, which is already casting an awful
gloom over the marriage-market.
‘“Puss in Boots,’ Rickards’ Bijou show, is
really bright and funny, though the juvenile
peasants’ clothes look work-a-day and motley after
the Cinderella wardrobe. Harry Shine’s Dame
Durden is a breezy, likeable old body, who de-
scribes her bridal home and various husbands to
the life. Her house-keeping start With two egg-
cups and an almanac ’ is not unprecedented in tact.
A little Frenchman of scribe’s acquaintance likes
to sum up his own long-past matrimonial plunge
by saying, ‘We Were two fools. We married
without furniture except two hair-brushes and a
tooth-brush—yet here we are. Not so bad after
all! ’ Hearers always want to suggest that one
hair-brush atid two of th© other kind would have
been better.
“The charming black-and-white dresses worn
by the six pretty maidens of ‘ Florodora, which
excite the admiration of people who usually take
little notice of such things, were designed by Crace
Palotta. Were she not an actress and a beauty,
the fair Viennese would be a first-class dress-
costume designer, for she is responsible for all the
marvellous dresses that adorn her shapely form.
“ While the cat’s away the mice will play, and
the chorus-girls in the ‘Florodora’ island-perfect
posies of the Essence of Love — have fine old jinks
these nights with the oglers below the footlights.
This sort of thing is annoying, not to say abomin-
able, to the ordinary theatre-goer who takes his or
her pleasures gravely. The other night one of
the beauties carried on conversations with some
delighted Johnnies in the stalls.
“ Strange that two of the Princess chorus-girls
—once inseparable chums —have made the best
financial matches of the season. No wonder the
daughters of Toorak hanker after the flesh-tights
of comic-opera ! The two recent bridegrooms are
hot mere callow youths who might be excused for
risking matrimony in the heat of the moment,
but thoroughly-seasoned men-about-town.
“ A certain domestic forecast now circulating in
Melbourne, points to the contentedness and
domestication with which some retired actresses
can settle down to the boons of fireside life.
“Janet Lady Clarke’s sister, Miss Snodgrass.
So dreadfully injured in a tram accident some
time ago, is to be married next month.
“ A very circumspect black and white party
went up to Werribee last Saturday week (16th),
for the christening of the Percy Chimsides’second
hope. The smartest of the smart contingent was
Miss Alice Fisken, in black voile, brought back
from cypress grief by a few hopeful dashes of
white. The second christening event paled in
glory beside the first—that’s the worst of getting
used to things.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
The case of Donald Mackintosh, M.L.A.,
charged with forging signatures to applications to
have n ames inserted in Cambooya (Q.) electoral rolls
has been quietly dropped. Despite very positive
swearing to the alleged forgeries the Crown has
decided not to go on with the case. And in this
the Crown has done exactly (The Bulletin makes
no insinuations as to the merits of the case, which,
as it involved the reputation of aM.P., should
have been brought to trial) what every person
who knew the Crown expected the Crown would
do. The Crown, in its capacity as grand juror,
can acquit all its friends without trial, no matter
with what they are charged or on what evidence.
It simply decides not to proceed, and the subject
drops in an unfinished and unsatisfactory way.
In Victoria, about ’94 and ’95, the Crown
was taken very bad this way, and the drop-
ping without trial of the cases against in-
fluential boomsters was like a thick shower of
hail or a great downpour of grasshoppers.
The statement that the Federal Govt,
contemplate imposing an excise-duty on coal,
is a cold-blooded electioneering lie, deliberately
manufactured for the purpose of enabling certain
political impostors to get votes in Newcastle and
other mining districts.
News has been cabled of the death, at' the
age of 46, of Mr. D. M. Angus, of the well-known
Sydney book-firm of, Angus and Robertson, who
last year left Sydney for Scotland in quest of
health. For many years he had gallantly strug-
gled against the ravages of phthisis. Mr. Angus
and his partner, Mr. Robertson, had built up a
great business from small beginnings, and the suc-
cess of the firm, probably unexampled in the Aus-
tralian book-trade, was in no small degree owing
to the trade experience and personal popularity of
the deceased gentleman—a man of sterling charac-
ter whose untimely decease will be widely re-
gretted.


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue *
Missing Friends.
JAMES GALWAY,
SON of RICHARD GALWAY and MAR-
GARET RILEY, who was born while his
parents were living on a farm belonging to a
MRS. LYNDON, situated about fifty miles from
GOULBIJRN, NEW SOUTH WALES, is
requested to communicate at once with the
undersigned from whom he will hear of something
greatly to his advantage.
ANYONE giving information to the under-
signed as to the whereabouts of the above-named
JAMES GALWAY will be rewarded.
STRINGER & CRESSWELL,
Barristers and Solicitors,
A.M.P. Buildings,
Cathedral Square,
Christchurch, NEW ZEALAND.
fgdf
V.DODGB>/
sput* PULUES
Guaranteed to transmit from 25
to 60 per cent, more power than
any iron pulley made with same
tension of belt.
70 per cent. Lighter than cast
iron.
4-0 )) n wrought
iron or steel.
No Key Seat to cut.
No Set Screw to twist off.
No Shaft to take down.
Perfect Balance.
Perfect Shaft Fastening.
Write for Prices and Particulars to Sole Agents
for Australasia—
PJIRKE HBCy Co. [td.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
The Royal Agricultural Society of H.S.IU.
FIRST
Commonwealth Show
3rd to 10th APRIL, 1901.
——
;£3OQQ prizes £3QQf)
ENTRIES in the various sections close as follows:
THURSDAY, 28th FEBRUARY
SATURDAY, 9th MARCH ...
TUESDAY, 12th
SATURDAY, 16th
MONDAY, 18th
WINE.
HORSES, PONIES, CATTLE, PIGS.
POULTRY, PIGEONS, CAGE BIRDS, DOGS.
FARM PRODUCE, BUTTER, &o.; FOODS, &o.:
HONEY.
MACHINERY, COMMON AND LIBERAL ARTS,
COACHBUILDING, &o. ; FERMENTED DRINKS.
EXCURSION TRAINS to Show from all parts
of Australia.
SPECIAL RATES -for Exhibits by Rail or Steamer,
PRIZE SCHEDULES and FORMS OF ENTRY may be obtained on application to-
F. WEBSTER,
TATTERSALL S [BUILDINGS, SECRETARY
Hunter Street, Sydney,
ENOS
HEALTH GIVING,
COOLING,
FRUIT
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
SALT.’
MOIR’S
KIPPER PASTE.
In Tins about 2 ozs. and 4 ozs.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON ABERDEEN & SEVILLE.
Head Office 9 & 10, Gt. Tower Street, London E.C.
Visitors to the old country
SOUTH
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
KENSINGTON
gfgd
HOTEL
CONSIDERABLY ENLARGED. NOTED
FOR ITS COMFORT & CONVENIENCE.
QUEEN’S GATE TERRACE.
LONDON. S.W.
MOST FASHIONABLE
HOTELS IN LONDON.
Business Announcements.
ABOUT
SUITS
MADE TO ORDER.
You see a well-dressed man and you involun
tarily remark, “ There is a lucky, prosperous
fellow.” Good Clothes are the hall-mark of
Prosperity. They help you in life in every way.
SUITS TO ORDER
for 455.
Picture to yourself a Perfect Suit—one that in
every way meets your idea of what is correct,
and you see
HORDERN’S IN PITT-STREET
455. SUIT TO ORDER.
If you want a neat, nice, fashionable and in-
expensive Suit, call in and see these or write for
SAMPLES,
SELF-MEASURE FORMS
and TAPE MEASURE.
Posted Free to any Town, in N.S. I Yales.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL TAILORS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
6oo(l Tailoripg.
SUMMER.
Light Weight Tweeds
AND
Worsteds.
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
LIGHT AND TROPICAL WEIGHTS
TO STAND THE SUN.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &C.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free. ■
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Bole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
• •
THE WORD
FOX
is a guarantee of soundness of
Material and Quality of Dye of all
Worsted I
Coatings,
SergessTweek
on which it is stamped.
fox’s pure Mgo.
As the result of many years of ex-
perience, FOX’S PURE INDIGO
DYE is recognised as the best
in the Market.
All Fox’s standard cloths are
stamped every two yards on the
back ....
FOX'S PURE INDIGO,
and without this stamp are not
genuine.
fox Brothers & Co., £ts.,
Wellington, Somerset, Eng.
Makers of Worsted Coatings, Vicunas,
Serges, Tweeds, Tennis and Costume
Cloths. Contractors to the English
Admiralty, War Office, India Office, Crown
Colonies, and Metropolitan Police.
THEIR MILLS are capable of an
annual production of 2,000,000 yards of
material, and find emyloyment for 1,200
hands. Reliable records show that the
business at Wellington was founded
early in the eighteenth century, and the
present Company have in their posses-
sion a balance sheet dated 1733.
O
These celebrated Serges can be obtained
from the leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Australian Colonies.
O
Australian Agents for the Wholesale
Trade only :—
STOGDALE & DUFFUS,
Finks Buildings, Corner of Eliza- I
beth & Flinders Sts., Melbourne, I
.. AND ..
422 George St., Sydney.
u
The Last of Six”:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By
Ernest Eavenc. Paper covers, 141 pp.; 6d.
post free.
More Deaths from Chloroform.
Puyyaka ” returns to an old subject:—
More chloroform deaths continue to make retiring little
pars, in the dailies, but they are now too common to
cause any stir. The scare-headings which were dealt out
liberally to such events in the days when old Dr. Youll
threatened to commit for trial the next ansesthetist who
had a chloroform-death at Melb. Hospital, are now all re-
quired for the latest news about Dublin newsboys who
devote their last penny to valedictory bunches of violets
lor the dead Queen, and the chloroform-liend goes on his
way unchecked. The total annual deaths would make a
showing in the bills of mortality, and whether by reason of
the prevalence of adulterated chloroform or the increased
cock-sureness of youthful hospital administrators the toll
increases rapidly. As the writer has pointed out more
than once in Tub Bulletin, Chloroform has been definitely
proved to be 12 times more liable to produce a fatal re-
sult than is Ether. For its safe administration in its
purest form great skill and powers of observation are re-
quired at every stage, the amount of the drug in the
blood at any particular time must be estimated, and the
means of combatting a collapse require to be within
actual reach and ready for immediate use. This is princi-
ple. The practice is to look upon the administration of the
drug as the simplest and easiest of tasks for the medical
tyro to perform. Placing a tongue-forceps in his breast
pocket, because it is supposed to be the proper thing to do,
the average and unskilled administrator proceeds to give
an unmeasured dose of a drug of whose purity he has no
notion beyond the label on the bottle, which states it to
be “ absolutely pure.” The fact that bottles which
‘ sweat down ” on the passage out are often filled up with
cheap German chloroform bv unscrupulous druggists, is
either unknown to or unheeded by him. In private cases
it is not uncommon for the “ chloroformist ” to step into
the nearest chemist’s shop and proffer his dropping bottle
to be filled from whatever is in stock. A hypodermic
syringe is occasionally brought along, but less often it is
placed filled and ready for immediate use. The electric
battery, nitrite of amyl capsules, and other precautionary
measures without which no skilled administrator of ana;s-
thetics will give chloroform, are perhaps somewhere about
the place if the administration takes place in a hospital,
but seldom close handy. One administrator, never heeding
that the fear of the pending operation will send the heart-
power down to zero in a nervous subject, proceeds to give
a “ whiff ” of the most cardiac-depressant of anesthetics,
and, before consciousness is abolished, has the patient
carried into the operating - theatre. On the way the
wretched subject, paralysed from resistance by the early
action of the drug, but retaining-, most of his mental
p 'Wers, imagines that the operation will be proceeded
with at once, and that he will suffer all the dreadful pain
of it without hope of being able to acquaint the operator
that he is not “off.” There are a few seconds of an agony
of terror, the doubly-depressed heart is literally paralysed,
and we get another death from chloroform to read about
in the morning paper. The statement by any
qualified surgeon that he has administered a “ whiff of.
chloroform” to any human being should be considered as
a confession of wilful criminal negligence to be punished
accordingly. Chloroform must be either pushed to the
stage of mental anaesthesia or not given at all. Tme
agony and terror of an animal on the vivisecting table in
the old days are inflicted on the human being who has
had sensation but not consciousness abolished by chloro-
form, and if he or she dies of the fright the responsible
person should, be held accountable for the death. The
slightly superior convenience of chloroform in some
cases, and its powerful championing by Sir James
Simpson (who, however, was a properly-skilled adminis-
trator even when judged by the most severe standards),
have caused it to outweigh ether in popular
estimation, but the sooner the general public
realises its many dangers, the better will it be for those
who require anaesthetics. A medico, writing in The Bul-
letin of Feb. 9, 1901, suggests that the patient should be
asked what his particular anaesthetic “vanity” happens
to be, but present scribe begs to differ in favour of such
legislation as would make a fatal ending to an adminis-
tration the subject of searching inquiry by properly-
qualified authorities. Ether is at present the sole fairly
safe anaesthetic we possess for lengthy surgical opera-
tions, and were such legislative measures to eventuate,
the administration of chloroform would be a compara-
tively rare event. Ether is by no means the ideal
drug, and it is not quite so convenient as chloro-
form. There is also a curious popular idea that
it is merely momentary in its anaesthetic action like
laughing-gas, an idea most probably arising from some
medico who did not know how to use it. Champions of
chloroform made a deal of capital out of certain “ diffi-
culties of administration ” which they pretended to have
noticed when using, ether. With a proper Clover’s
inhaler the writer has never exceeded smin. in inducing
deep anaesthesia in the most refractory patients—a period
which is not appreciably greater than the average of
chloroform. Increased struggling before abolition of
consciousness is also quoted against it, but this scribe has
never noticed anything extraordinary of the kind, and in
any case the struggling is not dangerous to life as in the
case of chloroform. Ether stimulates the heart, chloro-
form depresses it. The theory of insufficient anaesthesia
is mere absurdity ; the writer has seen almost
every operation of surgery—some lasting for several
hours—performed under ether without the faintest
return to consciousness during their course. The
bogey of subsequent bronchitis is made much of,
but even in aged people and infants this is rare,
and in any case is far outweighed by the immediate and
much more certain lethal complications of chloroform. '
Except perhaps in the case of healthy, parturient women
—whose hearts are physiologically hypertrophied during
pregnancy—there is always imminent danger in the ad-
ministration of chloroform, a danger which is not recog-
nised by the ordinary practitioner, who gives it indis-
criminately. And the advice of this scribe to those who
need anaesthetics and can exercise a voice in the matter
is to insist upon ether every time. The A.O.E. mixture
whose praises are often sung is an uncertain affair,
and often consists of chloroform alone owing to the
speedier evaporative powers of the alcohol and ether which
form its other two components. Its action is also mainly
that of chloroform for the same reason—evaporation from
the face-mask before proper absorption can occur, leave
the less volatile drug to be diffused through. The least
skilled of anaesthetists can do comparatively little harm
with ether, the best may have a fatal accident with
chloroform. The dangerous symptoms of ether compli-
cations give definite warning, and are simple to overcome ;
those of chloroform eventuate suddenly, and require in-
stant and energetic treatment when the few seconds
needed to realise the danger may turn the scale in favor
of death.


I
i<c>
&YU
[fnsores a
‘flabby i
Oldfye.
CUi-LED FROM THE KINDLY FRUITS OF THE EARTH.
It is a revelation in regard to the marvellous instinct of benevolence that anpnates an all-wise
providence Scientists have for years been endeavouring to discover some really natural method of
healing, ie\ after the teaching of nature. “ Sanoalmus "is this remedy, being nothing more nor less
than an extraction from
FLOWERS, FRUIT, HERBS AND SEAWEED.
Although the discoverers of ‘ San 6almus 1 ' do not profess to have found thereby the secret of perpe ua
life, they have certainly provided the means of perfect health. An elixir of health has been
established. W , RELESS TELEGRAPHY TEN YEARS AGO
would have been scoffed at as the suggestion of a lunatic, or perhaps regarded in the light of being a
CHAMPION FIRST-CLASS UP-TO-DATE LIE.
To-day we are astounded at the simplicity of its system of working. “ Sanoalmus” is equally simple,
taken from the natural produce of earth and sea, that we in our hitherto blind ignorance
HAVE BEEN TRAMPLING UNDER OUR FEET.
If you suffer with your Nerves, Liver, or Kidneys, ” Sanoalmus” will put such troubles right. For
Anemia Blushin«- Weakness and Debility, it is a certain cure, in fact it puts such tone into the
THE WORLD |N THE FACE „
and fear no man. Its influence on the blood is extraordinary. Two or three bottles of “Sanoalmus”
will do more in a case of impure blood than two years* treatment by oidinafy methods.
CONSUMPTIVES REJOICE
unless in a very advanced stage “Sanoalmus” will cure you—under any circumstances it will
considerably prolong life. Taking “ Sanoalmus *’ at regular intervals not alone cures but protects
from such everyday Ills as Indigestion, Flatulence, Bad Breath, Headache, Ear-ache, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throat, Neuralo-ia, Giddiness, Influenza, &c In Rheumatism and Sciatica it is most beneficial,
and will accom!>lish'’wonderful results. It conquers Backache when all other treatment has failed
For Constipation its action is simply perfect, and renders a healthy .and regular working to the
functions of the bowels. Last but not least “Sanoalmus” must be welcomed as a divine blessing
for the reason that if persevered with regularly for a brief period it will entirely destroy
THAT HORRID BLOOD POISONING MICROBE,
the recognised curse of humanity. Here you will assuredly realise the far-reaching effects of
this “ Simple Discovery,” and also the forethought which recognising an evil furnishes the
antidote “ Sanoalmus” (as before stated) renders the blood perfect; consequently it ensures a
lovely complexion, does away entirely with all pimples, blushing, blotches, or red, rough skin; a
peach-like bloom attends the use of “ Sanoalmus.”
THE UNTUTORED SAVAGE WOUNDED BY POISONOUS SNAKE
or spear, turns instinctively to certain herbs that not only relieve the pain but save his life.
“ Sanoalmus” contains all the properties of these herbs. It is nature’s own remedy.
MOTHERS TAKE HEED.
When baby is teething, a half teaspoonful of “ Sanoalmus ”in milk will soothe, strengthen, and
comfort your little darling. Remember, it is absolutely harmless to the smallest mite. If it so please
vou it is within your power to bask in the heavenly sunshine of perfect health, no longer need you
LANGUISH IN THE GLOOM OF SICKNESS AND DESPONDENCY
To be obtained from all chemists, price 3/6 per bottle, or direct from the proprietors,
Wells, Strong & Coy., 10 Barrack Street, opposite Savings Bank of New South Wales, Sydney.
THE
‘PLUM’
the
THE
‘PLUM’
r ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price -j
f Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
\ Single Razoi, in Ivory Handle, 15s ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
per Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents: CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
I’ll Try It:
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s, 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
■
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair a.nd
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers &. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
|W° Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of* Australasia-
CRAIG & AITKEN^
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
THOMSON’S
MEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING ’’
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World-Renowned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long waist.
m
r
m
•urn
Thom
ons
THE MOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST
N.B. —Old Model Corsets always in stock.
“LA. KTOI3LBBSEI ”
A New and Elegant Series of Corsets. Ask to see them.
TO BE HAD OF ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs-W- S- Thomson & 00-, LcU London-
Missing Friends.
McKIM, deceased. Information required of where-
abouts of John McKim, brother of William
McKim deceased, late of Talbot, Victoria, carter.
E. S. HERRING, Solicitor,
Talbot, Victoria.
The Most Refreshing Drink in Australia. '
MONTSERRAT
(TRADE MARK)
LIME FRUIT JUICE
AND CORDIALS.
S'
“MONTSERRAT"LIME-FRUIT JUICE
either with water or Aerated Water is
a delightful thirst-quencher.
The LANCET says:—“We counsel the public
to drink Lime-Fruit Juice whenever and wherever
they list. It is a far more wholesome drink than
any form of Alcohol.”
N.B.—Used in the British Navy. The Sirdar (Lord
Kitchener) obtained supplies for the troops in the
Soudan; and the American Government for the troops
in Cuba.
Sole Consignees:
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON ;
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL,
Agrents s
SYDNEY—Elliott Bros., Ltd.; D. Mitchell & Co.;
| E. Rowlands; Jules Renard & Co.
I NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.
t:h:_e
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This is the only Medical
Institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all contracts.
Elgctro-ftMkal apd
SOrgical IfyStitOte—-
IN AN AGE which is so remarkable for its progress in all departments of Art, Philosophy, Manufacture an
111 “"un# Science it is surprising to find the practice of Medicine so deplorably in the rear, w| me _
of practitioners in the healing art prefer to remain in the conventional groove of their predecessors, ine
and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise superior to the false code of etme
tyrannically bind the medical profession, and announce to the public that upon all special complaints tney
tinue to be consulted by the afflicted at their old address, Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
;
■
If
f&m
•«4$
Mi
ff^ae
t#
\ jsr
'
1 i
V\ *,• '•' ifl
#■ ; •
~ *k-
U it. ■•• '•> ; ■ IP /••'!•
*>v.-, ~ •». .till w ~.,1
Mf o
r- i#
Fl#
«***» &j£ J^
MM
w
EXPERTS FREEMAN AND WALLACE.
The Specialists who conduct the largest practise in Australasia.
SPECIAL HOTICE.
No one should hesitate to consult us, as consultations either by letter or in
person are given FREE OF CHARGE, and Strictest Privacy is always assured.
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
Everv Farmer. Miner, Mariner, Station-hand, Book-keeper, and other Toilers should send for a copy of this
Useful Memorandum Book. POST FREE ON APPLICATION —ALL COLONIES.
400-PAGE MEDICAL WORK (Illustrated, containing 80 Engravings, Many IJseful Prescriptions,
Hints on Sick Room, Accidents and Emergency) Price 6d. (POST FREE) ON APPLICATION.
Heart Kidney, Liver Affections. Gravel, Bladder and Spinal Affections.
Nerve’ and Brain Complications. Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
Rupture and Piles Cured without Operation. Blood and Skin Diseases.
m
WHY WEnVERTISE!
Because Advertising is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people
to acquaint each other with their avocations and wants. If a man has a
Speciality, and has devoted years of his life and expended large sums of money in studying that Speciality and in
purchasing the necessary appliances, etc., for treating certain diseases, it would be absurd for him not to announce
the fact, and disseminate tne knowledge universally. We have no apology to offer for informing the world through
this advertisement and otherwise of the means of relief we can afford to sufferers who need our help. Therefore,
however opposed to your own preconceived ideas and to those of your medical advisers, our method of treatment may
be the fact still remains that it is successful, and this is verified by the thousands of testimonials received from
grateful patients. We make no secret of our mode of practice. We only claim to have utilised in a common-sense
wav the result of scientific research and long experience. If you listen to the counsel of your sceptical friends and
jealous physician you may omit consulting us, but remember if you allow the disease to run riot in your system, you
are guilty of culpable neglect, and are alone responsible for your future pitiful condition.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government
Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia,
Great Britain and America Open to Inspection.
Late Consulting Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne;
Late Medical Staff, British Army.
HOME TREATMENT-
-If you live out of town and cannot visit us, this need not deprive you
of the benefits of our wonderful treatment, because in the new system
of combining' medicine and electricity a complete Electro-Medical home treatment is provided for. Scarcely a day
passes that the news does not reach us of some wonderful home cure of a person living so far away that a personal
visit could not be made. Write a plain statement of your condition, explaining your feelings and symptoms as clearly
as possible, and from it we will be able to accurately diagnose your case. It only costs you the trouble of writing,
and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia’s Leading Specialists.
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS
When there are ed many quacks and impudent pretenders in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to them-
selves the monstrosity of giving counsel and advice in matters of which they are profoundly ignorant, and who
have nothing to recommend them but their audacity, sufferers cannot be too careful whom they consult.
Although liberty of choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessary. In consulting THE FREEMAN AND
WALLACE ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shall
receive the advice of those fitted by superior skill and education, the result of special study. Our reputation and
unparalleled success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of the World—
CONTENTS FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
Sydosy
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs. F. & W.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
N.B.—QUEENSLANDERS are hereby informed that a person advertising: as Dr. Wallace
in Brisbane is in no way connected with the Institute.


ESTABLISHED
years.
SALE.
Galvanised 3-strand wire, suitable for fencing, 4, 6 10
gauge, 12s cwt.
Roofing Felt, 75ft. x 32in., 8s roll; Tar Paper, 4s per roll.
500 tons Bolts and Nuts up to 36in. long.
Soft Soap, for Wool-washing, 14s per cwt.
Tar, in 6-gallon drums, 3s per drum.
Good Quality Hand Pumps, from 6s each.
Galvanised Gutter, Ridgecap, Downpipe, sliirhtlv
touched, 9d 6ft.-lengths.
Black, Galvanised Steampipe, \ to Bin. diameter.
Milk Dishes, 20in. 13s 6d, 22in. 15s doz. ; Blueware Dish-
covers 16s doz.
Black, Green, Slate, Blue Paint, 18s per cwt.
Slightly-damaged Wire Nails, from 1£ to 6in. 9s. per cwt.
Copper Boilers up to 120 gallons.
Copper Boilers, 25 gallons, 35s each.
Bullock Leading, Drag, and Back Chains, 2d per lb.
Bullock Bows, Id lb. : long-linked f Chain, 12s cwt.
Good Quality Fuze, in cases 600 coils, 4Ad per coil.
Navvy and Road Picks, 18s doz. ; Shovels, 18s doz.
Utica Washing Compound, 9s per cwt.
Wooden Split Pullies, 20in. x 3 x 3£ face, 5s each.
Fruit Press, 1,4 s 6d; 2,8 s 6d. Williams’s Salting Pumps
35s each. v '
Hay Knives, 3s 6d each ; American Axes, 3s 6d ; Snaring
Wire, 3d lb. 6
Sheeps hear Comb Plates, 2s 6d per doz. for machines.
V.R.L. Ploughshares, 10s. doz. ; E 2. Slides, 7s 6d each.
Beater Plates for machines, 3s 6d pair.
Slightly-touched Steel Mattress Wire, 19 to 22 gauge 10s
cwt. ’
Crosscut Saws, 6ft., 6s ; Pitt Saws, 7s 6d each ; Rabbit
Traps, 9s doz.
Cut Lath Nails, £lO ton ; 3in. Patent Nails, £lO per ton
lin. Octogan Steel, £2O ton.
Importers, Builders, Contractors, Engineers, Plumbers
Gasfitters, Cabinet-makers’, and General Ironmongerv
and Painters’ Materials. s J
JOHN MACINTOSH AND SONS,
Wholesale and Retail Ironmongers ,
307, 321, 276, 278 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Amusements.
pRINCESS’B THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
IMMEDIATE TRIUMPH of the EMINENTLY
SUCCESSFUL
WOODS-WILLIAMSON COMPANY
in one of the Most Remarkable Plays of the * Age,
BARABBAS.
Founded on Marie Correlli’s World-famed Book.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
JOWN H ALL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. .. Philip Newbury.
NEXT SATURDAY EVENING at 8,
MARCH 2,
NEWBURY-SPADA CO.
Popular Programmes. Popular Prices.
ARCH. NEWBURY, Manager.
ATHENAUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. H. Ashton. Treas., Mr. G. Matheson.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 2.
Every Afternoon, at 3. Every Evening, at 8.
Return for Limited Season of the
MARVELLOUS 810-TABLEAU
of the SOUTH AFRICAN WAR, and
Other Interesting Subjects.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Pox Plan at Allan’s.
(joal Poster Competition.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS Proprietary Ltd.
pOMPETITIVE DESIGNS are invited for a POSTER
suitable to the coal business of Wm. Howard Smith
and Sons Proprietary Ltd., for which a first prize will be
given of 20 guineas, second of 3 guineas, and a third of 2
guineas.
CONDITIONS :
Sketch is not to be larger than 40in. by 30in., so that it
can be enlarged for a lithographed poster 80in. by 60in.,
and to be of such colors that the number shall not exceed
six. The preference will be given to such designs as can
be reproduced so as to give the best effect with the least
number of printings.
Lettering must include the following words :—“ A. A.
Coal, any quantity, delivered anywhere, direct from
steamers.” “ Wm. Howard Smith and Sons Proprietary
Limited.” Note.— These sentences to be intact, but may
be distributed over the poster.
The three successful designs to be the property of Wm
Howard Smith and Sons Proprietary Ltd.
Unsuccessful designs will be returned as far as prac
ticable, but no responsibility will be taken.
Designs to be delivered to Wm. Howard Smith and Sons
Proprietary Ltd., Market-st., Melbourne, not later than
March 12, 1901. They will he carried free of freight both
ways without responsibility from any port out of which
the company has vessels running. The managing-director
of Wm. Howard Smith and Sons Proprietary Ltd. to be
the sole judge as to which are the successful designs.
TVEAR SIR, —I have been cured of Weakness and De-
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope to Mr.
W. KELLOGG, Melb. Chambers, Pitt-street, Sydney.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
(S DOORS FROM
STRAND ARCADE).
Camden Buildings, 420 George St., Sydney.
Write for our 80-Paged Illustrated Catalogue—POST FREE.
A
SAVING
OF
25
PER
CENT.
Charles Read & Co.
5-Stone Diamond Ring,
£5.
Charles Read & Co.
Solid Silver Teaspoons, 6 in Case,
16s; 6in Case and Tongs, 225.
Charles Read & Co.
Silver-plated Teapot, holds
4 Half-Pints, 20s.
A
BAVINC
OF
25
PER
CENT.
QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT
Issue of £1,000,000 Debentures
Being part of a sum of £2,374,213 authorised to he raised by the QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT
LOAN ACT, 64 Viet. No 24, 1900
To be in addition to, and to rank pari passu with QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT LOANS already existing.
Repayable at Par, Ist January, 1951.
but may be redeemed on or after Ist JANUARY, 1926, upon twelve months’ notice being given.
Interest being: at the Rate of £3£ per Centum per Annum,
payable from Ist January, 1901.
THE TREASURER of the STATE of QUEENSLAND invites tenders for £1,000,000 QUEENSLAND COVFWxr
MENT DEBENTURES bearing interest at the rate of £3l per cent, per annum! repayable at par on thf
JANUARY, 1951, but which may be paid off at par on or after the Ist JANUARY, 1926, upon twelve months’ noH™
being given by notice in the Government Gazette and in the principal newspapers circulating in Australia
These Debentures will be in addition to, and will rank pari passu with the Queensland Government Loans already
The Loan is secured upon the Consolidated Revenue of Queensland and is part of a loan of £2,374,213 required
.. £1,624,393
Electric Telegraphs
Defence of the Colony
Buildings ..
Marine Department
Water Supply
Loans to local bodies
Sugar Works Guarantee Acts
13,211
88,249
324,352
59,000
25,323
189,685
50,000
£2,374,213
The Debentures will be issued free of Stamp Duty, and will be made out payable to the holder
The Dividends on the Debentures will be payable half-yearly, on the Ist JANUARY and Ist JULY. A full six
months’ interest calculated upon the nominal amount of Debentures will be payable on the Ist JULY 1901 Di vidpnrl -
Adelaide’ 5 *' 1 ' ° f eXChange ’ by the Bankin & Agents of the Government at Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne! or
Tend'ersmay be for the whole or any part of the Debentures in multiples of £lOO. No tender must be for less
than £lOO. Each tender must state what amount of money will be given for every £lOO of Debentures AH Tons™
must be at prices which are multiples of sixpence. ' uers
Tenders must be addressed to the Treasurer and delivered at the Treasury, Brisbane before 2 o’clock on TITFtj
DAY, the 19th MARCH. J ’ ’ - 0 cloc * on J-UEB-
- TreaSxrer retains the right of accepting or rejecting any Tender.
A deposit of £5 per cent, on the amount of Debentures tendered for must be paid at the time of the delivery of the
Tender, but the deposit must not be enclosed in the Tender. Where no allotment is made the deposit will be returned
and in case of partial allotment the balance of the deposit will be applied towards the first instalment ’
The dates at which the further payments on account of the Loan will be required are as follows
On Thursday, 28th March, 1901, | so mu f h of H le , a l no i! nt tendered for each Hundred Pounds of Debentures as,
On Thursday, 26th April, 1901, p.r »« •
On Monday, 27th May, 1901, £3O per cent.;
On Thursday, 27th June, 1901, £2O per cent.;
but the instalments may be paid in full on or after the 28th March, 1901, under discount at the rate of £2 per cent
per annum. In the case of default in the payment of any instalment at its proper date, the deposit and
previously paid will be liable to forfeiture.
No further issue of this Loan will be made within the Commonwealth until after twelve months from this date
Brokerage of ££ per cent, on the face value of the Debentures will be allowed upon accepted Tenders to member"
of recognised Stock Exchanges of Australia.
, » T Th ® onl y Boans authorised and floated in Queensland by Local Authorities are those issued by the Municipalities
of North and South Brisbane amounting* in all to £490,000. All other Loans to Local Authorities, including* those for
the construction of Waterworks and for Harbour Improvements, are made by the Government and are included in
the general debt of Queensland. There is no floating debt represented by Treasury Bills.
Applications must be made upon the printed forms which may be obtained at the Treasury, Brisbane • the
Queensland National Bank, Limited, Sydney ; the National Bank of Australasia, Limited, Melbourne and Adelaide.
THE TREASURY,
Brisbane, 21st February, 1901.
Amusements. _
ER MAJESTY’B THEATRE, SYDNEY,
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
i Every Evening, at 7.45. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
POSITIVELY LAST 2 NIGHTS
of the Greatest of all Spectacular Pieces*
DJIN DJIN.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 2—“ TRILBY."
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, George-street. Prices as usual.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee .. .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
A REMARKABLE SUCCESS.
TN€ SCARLCT F€ATN€R,
a Comic Opera, by Lecocq, with additional num-
bers by other composers.
MISS NELLIE STEWART, MR. JOSEPH TAPLEY,
BETTER THAN EVER.
THE DARTROS CREATED A SENSATION.
PRICES OF ADMISSION—Dress Circle and Reserved
•Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Familv Circle (7.15 to 7.45), 2s. ;
family Circle after 7.45, ONE" SHILLING.
BOX OFFICE at the Theatre (Dress Circle Entrance),
'0 to 5. Seats Booked Six Days in Advance.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
*
gsee and Manager Alfred Dampier.
ALFRED DAMPIER,
MISS LILY DAMPIER,
vnd the Ladies and Gentlemen associated with him.
EVERY EVENING.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee Mr. W. F. Hawtret.
HAWTREY COMEDY COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING,
A Farcical Comedy, in Three Acts, entitled,
TOM, DICK, and HARRY.
Preceded at 7.45 by
“A HIGHLAND LEGACY.'
MATINEE, WEDNESDAY NEXT, at 2.30 p.m.
Private Boxes, £2 2s. and £1 10s. ; Dress Circle and
Reserved Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Upper Circle, 2s. ;
Gallery, Is. Doors Open at 7.15. Commences at 7.45 p.m.
Box Plan at Paling’s, 338 George-street.
Business Manager, Mr. E. F. BRADLEY.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
FOURTH WEEK AND STILL BOOMING.
TO-NIGHT, at 7.60,
THE LADDER OF LIFE.
The Greatest Acrobatic Sensation of the Age,
THE HUMAN LADDER.
DRAMATIC PRICES—3s, 2s and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
piCKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance of MDME. OELINA BOBE, The
Great Parisian Musician.
JOHNSTONE, RIANO & BENTLEY,
MR. GEORGE D’ALBERT,
London’s Idol, LOTTIE jCOLLINS.
Frank Leon, Lizzie Kirk, Jalvan, Billy M'Clain, Chas.
W. Walker, Millie Herbert, Madame Cordelia, Della
Ross, Florrie and Stella Ranger, Clarence Sisters, &c.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturday & Wednesday.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
° Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
One of the Most Brilliant Successes ever known in
Melbourne, Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’ BRILLIANT
PANTOMIME,
Written by that great London Author, Victor Stevens,
PUSS IN BOOTS.
A Gigantic and Unparalleled Cast of Characters.
New Scenery, New Costumes, New Music, New Artists.
In fact, everything new and up-to-date. Plan at Paling’s.
Matinees Saturday and Wednesday.
■TTHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
FIFTH WEEK of Bland Holt’s Superior Drury Lane
Melo-dramatic Production,
THE GREAT RUBY,
A Picturesque and Stirring Dramatic Story of Modern Life.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 2s, Is. and 6d. Box Plan
at Allan’s. CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
HALL, MELBOURNE.
FRIDAY, MARCH 1, LAST NIGHT in Melb. of
SNAZELLE
in the Moat Delightful Entertainment Extant,
OUR NAVY,
And Commonwealth Pictures, Every Evening.
Manager for Messrs. West and Sons, CAPTAIN F.
EDWARDS, R.N.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
*■ Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
TWELFTH WEEK and LAST NIGHTS of
FLORODORA.
All Records Eclipsed.
Another Attraction for “ Florodora.” Engagement of Mr.
Fred. Graham, comedian, from Gaiety Theatre, Lond.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
“YORK, YOU’RE WANTED.”
Mr. C. M.
RODNEY,
THE POPULAR SOCIETY ENTERTAINER,
will Open at
MASONIC HALL,
Collins Street, Melbourne,
on ’
Saturday , March 2,
IN A NEW AND SPARKLING ENTERTAINMENT
of
SONGS, SAYINGS and MIMICRY, interspersed
with Witty Local Allusions.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Allan’s.
Accompanist Mr. T. W. HENDERSON.
<(
ROUND THE BLOCK.”
At Poverty Point.
~ T^ < r ;? ndon correspondent of a Maoriland paper thinks
1 1 it Regina Nagel has a voice of finer quality than Ada
Urossley s, but wm never be the artist that the latter is.
Miss Nagel conies on to the stage like a somnambulist
and sings without any trace of feeling, as if she were re-
peating a lesson in a trance. She gives one the impression
0 u half-hearted.” But this is the criticism of one
who didn’t know the absurdly timid Regina of five years
ago. Since then she has gained some confidence and
style, and the chances are that she will begin to feel at
home on the platform presently. As for her singing
without feeling, the complaint can only apply to her lack
of platform manner. The feeling is there. It was born
in her voice, and if the singer herself seems cold it is
because she is painfully nervous at present. Nothing in
human nature is more misunderstood than timidity or
shyness. The effects are ascribed to stupidity, want of
heart, or natural hauteur as the case may be. Anything
but the truly artistic lack of self-assurance.
Twenty-two of the best singers in Melbourne were
heard at the Barker Memorial Concert last week, and the
best of the. 22— i.e., the singer whose voice gave most
pleasure by its full, sweet quality and the way in which
the artist produced it—was old Armes Beaumont. The
top notes have gone, of course, but the main body of
Beaumont’s warble is still beautiful on occasion. New-
bury, whose name was the principal attraction in the
programme, sent an apology for non-appearance on the
ground of ill-health.
Months ago Tub Bulletin stated that there was next to
no chance of the sharks getting their teeth into the
vv llhamson - Musgrove dispute. Wealthy theatrical
managers don’t care to provide expensive shows for the
Law Courts. They know too much, or they wouldn’t be
wealthy. The agreement between Musgrove and William-
son liberates £30,000 of banked partnership money.
“Sfogato”; In answer to “E,” the venal press I
alluded to (8., 9/2/’01) is mainly American, and it was its
unwarrantable bolstering up of Blanche Marchesi during
an American tour which provoked from Marcel the severe
criticism quoted by me. Similar criticisms, couched in
more moderate terms, appeared in L’Echo dk Paris and
Lb Journal. As to Mme. Marchesi’s methods—she
usually teaches in classes, of two hours’ duration, con-
taining from eight to 10 pupils, who, most Of them, attend
three times a week. They have, therefore, from 12 to 16
minutes practical tuition at each lesson, or, at the out-
side, f-hour per week. Of course, they are supposed to
profit by the efforts of their fellow-students, and, equally
of course, they do not. For all this care bestowed they
pay 350 fr. (£l4) per month, and 60fr. per month for the
accompanist. There are, besides, “ extras ” —music,
lessons in French, and what she is pleased to term
“ diction.” A pupil must spend at least £2O a month on
lessons alone. Should the pupil be an unmarried girl,
without proper chaperon, she must live at a pension,
which will cost from 200 to 250 fr. per month. Altogether
the “system” must cost a Marchesi pupil, exclusive of
expenditure for dress, not less than £350 per annum.
Theatrical people are no longer able to delude Aus-
tralian audiences with a pretence of entertaining them
by commonplace remarks about “ Bobs,” and Kitchener
and John Bull, and casual references to the popular
illusion that Britons, never, never, never, shall be slaves
but it was a long soft, snap, and they still try. The
patriotic gags of Rickards’s panto, “Puss in Boots,” have
fallen into Melb. audiences with a muffled plunk, like a
fat toad tumbling into mud at midnight, and the people
who a few months back went slavering mad over similar
commonplaces, now gape in fearful measure. Thank
Heaven, Jingo fever, like many other plagues, is epidemic
and not endemic here.
Dear Bulletin.— Your “ Poverty Point ” par. of 16/2/’Ol
re Frank Fillis and his claim to 22 years of S’African ex-
perience, is decidedly rough on that clever circus man.
Fillis is an old S’African identity, and probably all the
m en—Kruger, Steyn, Cronje, &c.—whom he mentions as
celebrities he has met, were on speaking terms with him
at one time or other. It was from S’Africa that Fillis
came to Australia. He returned there, and only a few
months ago Tom Fitzgerald met him at Capetown. When
he advertises that he is the “ Originator and Inventor of
S’Africa” he refers to his show entitled “S’Africa ” which
is more or less on the lines of Buffalo Bill’s “ Wild West ”
—E.F.
Banjo Paterson started lecturing five months ago ; and,
although he followed Macdonald, he has made more than
he or R. S. Smythe expected. He is still in Queensland,
and has not yet touched Victoria or Westralia.
Ada Ward is preaching in England.
Williamson s bio-tableau starts a second innings at
Melb. Athenaeum Hall on March 2nd.
Musgrove’s opening night in Adelaide was attended by
a chapter of accidents. Through a mishap, a struck con-
taining opera dresses and scenery was left behind at
Tailem Bend (75 miles from Adelaide). To enable the
play to be staged that evening, a special engine was
despatched for the missing properties. Two railway men
were hurrying home to Murray Bridge on a tricycle, and
the loco, was upon them before they heard it. They just
had time to jump from the tricycle when the engine
dashed into it, and smashed it to splinters. As it was
the missing articles arrived very late, and instead of Miss
Lorraine appearing in her gorgeous robes, she had to be
content with two hurriedly-made costumes, hastily put
together that day, while the scenery for the second act
only arrived after the opera had begun, and there was
just time to get the settings for the ravine scene when
the curtain went up.
The whirligig of Time! Tommy Hudson, who for
years ran a nigger-minstrel show in Adelaide, is now
lessee of the theatre in which grand opera is being per-
formed. He has washed off the last vestiges of burnt
cork and has now started to learn Italian. All the same
he still runs the Waxworks in the Holy City.
One of the M.L. swaddies began lecturing on his ex-
periences as soon as he returned. His posters represented
him in the act of saving a comrade under heavy fire. As
he came on the stage his orchestra struck up “ See the
Conquering Hero Comes ! ” A brave man, that! Also,
bravery runs in all sorts of shapes.
Another little Australienne is running away to seek her
fortune on the English Opera stage—Miss Clare Carr, of
Sydney. Besides a pair of sparkling eyes and a slim
young figure Miss Carr takes with her a good mezzo-
soprano voice broken into harness by Mr. Burns Walker.
Hudson and Pollock make their first serious venture in
Adelaide Royal (which they have held since Oct.) with
the opera. The S.A. public has rolled up solid in support,
as it always does when anything big is offered—getting
level by severely ignoring all the other things meanwhile.
This is the reason why, according to Wybert Reeve,
Adelaide is the most maddening place in'Australia to’
cater for. You can’t keep the theatre closed, and you
lose over a small co. all that you have just made over a
big one.
Tenor Tapley fills in his time when not warbling by
attending political meetings. A great Radical is Joseph,
and his pet aversion is the other Joseph, surnamed
Chamberlain. Tapley has a good grip of English poli-
tics, has heard all the leading politicians in the old coun
try, and when there, spends many nights in the House
of Commons Gallery. If he ever saves money enough he
will enter Parliament, where his flutey voice will be heard
to good effect, and he will help to make his country reach
“ upper O ” in advanced legislation.
Phyllis Rankin, conspicuous on the burlesque stage in
London, is the daughter of “Mickie” Rankin, Nance
O’Neil’s large, round manager.
George Willoughby, the “ portly ’’-voiced comedian of
Arnold’s co., talks of returning to England to get a co.
of his own for an Australian tour. But then so many
visiting actors talk like that until they are back in Lon-
don and begin to think over the matter. Hawtrey was
the exception who proves the rule, and Hawtrey had a
managerial brother to go to.
It came out in evidence lately in London that one
Hartmont, who found £BOO to put “ Charley’s Aunt” on
the stage, has since ’92 received some £28,000 as his half-
share of the profits. Further, that actor-manager Penley
was then so hard-up that he offered to the lady who
should introduce said capitalist a part in the play at £lO
a week, as well as a fifth of his (Penley’s) haif of the
profits.
The chief comedian in a theatrical co. claims the exclu-
sive right of being funny, and regards the attempts of
other members to raise a laugh as an outrage. One
comedian who takes a very high hand in the Australian
co. he adorns, has a playful little habit of dancing with all
nis meat—and it bulks large—upon the toes of venture-
some pros, who try to beguile the audience into smiling
with little gags of their own.
Mrs. Pat. Campbell presented Forbes Robertson, on his
marriage to Miss Elliot, with the copyright of the play of
“The Sacrament of Judas.” Occult meaning ?
• r * Fre *-. has issued to the electors
?!r j iv ’^i or ? (Sydney) a circular which shows
•ii u- ' ~ as 1 to be extremely well-satisfied
With himself He says, amongst other things,
i that he intends to succeed G-. H. Reid as member
; for the division in the State Parliament.
Premier Lyne’s emphatic assurance that
there is no dissension in his State Cabinet is as
emphatically disbelieved outside. The Sydney
Harbor Trust appointments are pretty well known
to have brought about a Ministerial inferno.
Ihe names Hickson, Beaton and Waller—were
given to the press in the Premier’s absence at
Oootamundra, and on his return he announced
that no one had been finally appointed. A Sab-
bath paper reported this with glee as a “scoop,”
a -i m 6 Monda y daily papers were advised that
the 1 rust would be appointed at Tuesday’s Cabi-
net meeting. This meeting lasted over five
hours and adjourned without making a selection.
At least, Lyne said so, and also that the Ministry
had several names under consideration, which
were not yet mentioned.” On Wednesday night
the Cabinet met again, and formally chose Hick-
son, Waller and Beaton, the very men who had
been authoritatively announced eight days before.


Another Bad Liver
CALLED
BACK TO DUTY.
fhe Case of IV3r. T. GLEESON.
(For the “ Suburban Times”)
The destiny of great issues at stake de-
pends greatly upon the ability with which
they are handled. All audiences contain a
percentage of listeners who require plain
language to produce a comprehensive ap-
preciation of the matters under debate,
their perception not being sufficiently keen
to understand the purport of a brilliant
array of high-class words and phrases.
Learned men sometimes experience diffi-
culty in finding words to express uncom-
mon impressions, and Mr. Thomas Gieeson,
of No. 45 Turner-street, Redfern, acknow-
ledged himself similarly situated when re-
cently seen by a reporter.
“ Whenever I talk about it I can hardly
find words strong enough to express my
surprise and gratitude,” said Mr. Gieeson.
“ 1 was very ill for fully six months.”
“ What was your sickness like ? ”
** I suffered from a severe attack cf indi-
which nearly took my life. The
many complaints which arose from my dis-
ordered system made life not worth living.
To begin with I had a feeling of distention
or weight in my bowels, which were very
inactive, although I d.d everything that I
thought likely to give relief, without
success. Much annoyance was caused
through wind in the stomach, which made
a rumbling sound, and caused no end of
pain. I felt restless, and discontented with
everything. Things that used to interest
and entertain me I now looked at with dis-
like. Every little trifle that did not appeal
quite favourable to me I magnified into a
great trouble, making myself feel constantly
miserable. I could not help worrying my-
self with an unnecessary watchfulness for
some evil I expected to happen, whilst at
other times I was afflicted with a great
drowsy weariness, which made me unable
to move. I also had wandering pains in
various parts of the body, whilst other pains
remained fixed for months.”
“ Where were they most severe?”
“ The agony I felt through a sharp,
pricking pain between the shoulders was
quite enough in itself; but I also had a heavy,
stifling sensation in the chest. Wearisome
aches in the head never left me, and my
limbs were as tired as if I had been walking
without a rest for a week. Impure wind,
causing a nauseous taste in my mouth, arose
from the stomach, and my tongue was
covered with a thick coating. I changed to
a deadly colour, my lips being almost white,
and dark lines appeared under my eyes. The
act of stooping caused an unnatural rush of
blood to my head, and the giddiness which I
felt on straightening myself up nearly made
me reel to the ground. I was obliged to
hold on to something to save myself from
falling. A profuse perspiration broke out
all over me whenever I got a start, which it
took little to produce, and my heart beat
rapidly with nervous excitement when my
state of lethargy was suddenly disturbed.
It was a case of farewell to my appetite
from the start of my sickness. I had not the
least inclination to eat anything, and became
so weak that I was compelled to leave mv
work. T stuck to it as long as possible, but
when I found that every ounce of flesh had
left my worn-out frame I thought my case
was too serious to continue without laying
up.”
“ Could you sleep fairly well ?”
“ My mind was too troubled and irritable
to allow me any sleep, and when I got up in
the mornings I was like a dead man. I had
lost my strength and vigor, and always felt
languid and fatigued. I was so uneasy in
mind and body that I could not rest any-
where long. A sudden feeling of sleepiness
used to come on during the day, and then I
laid down, only to get up in a couple of
minutes andwanderahout like one demented.
Everything was a trouble to me, and my
painful afflictions became more numerous
and violent as time went on. I despaired of
a recovery, and gave way to despondency.^
“ I suppose you were taking medicine ?
“ Yes. I tried an endless variety of
medicines and pills, but not one of them did
me any good. The only effect they had
upon me was to make me sick and increase
my misery. It was this bitter experience
which drove me to desperation. My sickness
seemed unconquerable.” .
“ How were your sufferings overcome ?
“ By using Clements Tonic regularly till
it cleared the disease from my system. A
member of my family had reaped inestimable
benefits from Clements Tonic before I was
taken ill, and yet it did not occur to me till
now that it was the only medicine I could
expect to cure me. I made a start with
Clements Tonic, and it picked me up won-
derfully, reaching my weak parts at once.
The knowledge that I was ranid’y sinking
from exhaustion through excessive pain and
loss of appetite was dispelled by a few
doses of Clements Tonic, which made me eat
without feeling any bad after-effeets. Con-
stipation troubled me no more, and my head-
aches were driven away. My eyesight,
which had been very poor during my long
sickness, was soon restored, and the melan-
choly languor gave way to renewed vivacity.
I never slept better in all my life than I did
after a dose or two of Clements Tonic, and
my limbs no longer ached with weariness in
the mornings. Once more I grew contented
and happy when I discovered that Clements
Tonic was working wonders with my debili-
tated constitution, and I was glad to be able
to go to work with a will. Every day im-
proved my general appearance, as my colour
came back and my emaciated frame got
stouter and more robust. The unhealthy
sensitiveness of my nerves was banished by
the stimulating and restorative effects of
Clements Tonic, which I continued to take
until it accomplished a thorough defeat, of
my disease, not a single ailment of which
has troubled me since.’
“ Are you satisfied the cure is permanent?”
“Perfectly. Nearly three years have
elapsed since my health was restored by
Clements Tonic, and I have felt grand all the
time. It is for that reason I desire to pub-
licly express my gratitude, which you are
at liberty to do in any way you think best.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Thomas Glbbsok, of 45 Turner street, Redfern.
Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting of three
folios, and consecutively numbered from one to three,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any way
my statements —which I give voluntarily, without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn de-
claration comoientiously believing the same to be
true and by virtue of the provisions of an Act made
and passed in the ninth year of Ihe reign of her pre-
sent Majesty, intituled " An Act, for the more effectual
abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken and made
in the various Departments of the Government of
New South Wales, and to substitute Declarations in
lieu thereof, and for the suppression of voluntary
and Extra-judicial Oathsand Affidavits
OVk
Declared at Redfern, this Bth day of Ocober, one
thousand nine hundred, before me,
PETER GORNALL, J P.
HIGHEST AWARD-GOLD MEDAL—PARIS EXHIBITION, 1900,
REJOINS
For INFANTS
and INVALIDS
FOOD
MELLIN’S FOOD yields a complete diet for the youngest
infants, in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD retains its properties for any length of
time and is adapted for use in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD when dissolved in milk, makes a simple
nutritions diet for growing children.
Samples etc., may be obtained of GOLLIN & Co., 172, Clarence Street, Sydney, 562 4, Bourke
Street, Melbourne, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, and Wellington.
Mellin’s Food Company tor Australia and New Zealand Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, London.
MELLIN'S EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS,
and BRONCHITIS.
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIM & CO., 172 Clarence Street, Bydney.
Business Announcements.
Are probably aware of the
fact—although many peo-
ple obviously never give it a thought—
that there is a strong and intimate affinity
between your feet and the state of your
health. This remark is not made in any
personal manner, but simply with a view
to drawing your attention to the necessity
of exercising care in the choice of foot-
wear. Poor shoes do not keep out damp,
and many a fatal illness has had its
origin in wet feet.
COMMON-SENSE URGES
You to dispense with cheap and ill-made
shoes. They are positively dearer in the
end, and, for your health’s sake, should be
avoided.
The ‘ HERZ ’ Shoe
Is the shoe you ought to wear, because it
is as near perfection as a shoe can be.
LEATHER. The finest quality pro-
curable.
SHAPE . . Elegant and permanent.
PRICE . . Just right for high-class
goods.
You
Sold by HUNTER’S everywhere
Medical.
fgd
Reader, why not he able to nee the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can b arn
to Hypnotize In a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
that are possible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hypnotism you con cure disease
conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I hare
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explain*
the mysteries aud secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the hind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all -who apply.
Remember this costs you noth*
in T . A postal card will bring it.
Order to-day and learn to Hyp-
notize. It is a chance of a
life-time. Address—
fgd
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NOTICE <
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism,Sciatica, <
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or |
Limbs. »
The Old Reliable English Remedy, j
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS. <
Prepared by Poingdkstrk & Tkuman, of <
71 Old Kent Road, London. j
Renowned for over a century for quick j
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all .
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists \
in the Australian Colonies. <
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
i
l
<
A Vapor Bath Cabinet
fdgfgd
Is a Necessity in Every Home.
BUY a
Batb Cabinet
(Best American Imported),
and enjoy the luxury of a
TURKISH, VAPOR, or MEDI-
CATED VAPOR BATH at
home, instead of at public
institutions, and save money.
Cures Rheumatism,
Sleeplessness, Obesity,
Kidney and Skin Diseases.
Price only 25/“, including- Heater, and Prescriptions
for Medicated Baths.
Head and Face Steaming Attachment, 3/6 extra.
Cabinet folds flat to 1 inch thickness, when not in use.
Call and Inspect. Pamphlets Free.
J. CHALMERS,
Premier Buildings, 229-231 Collins St., Melbourne.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRA7AIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
bling tlic constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and interesting
preparation
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-'Mtftai all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth."
SOI.D BY CHEMISTS ATX THE WORI.D OVER.
WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia.
•” LINCOLN, STUART&CO.
1 PROPRIETARY LIMIT' D,
262 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
fdg
fd
Our Suit to order at 425. is
marvellous value; made from
all-wool Tweeds. Vicuna", or fast
color Serges ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class cf material. £3 3» To
measure, capital Trousers, >ery
good patterns, 12s. 6d.
Dress Suits, to measure. i£7#
Clerical Suits, to measure. £s*
Riding Breaches, 255.
Riding Habits. <fcc.
We supply ready made. Men’s
capital Tweed Suits 21s. & 255.
I Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye,2ss.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergerette Suits, 365.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss, lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests, 19» 6d.
Men’s Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19s. «d. White Drill
Sacs and Trousers, 10«- 6d.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, 12s 6d.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sacs,
68.9(1. White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9d., 4s 9d., ss. Od.
Travelling Trunks, and
Rugs in great variety
Men’s White Shiits, colored
front and cuffs, 2s. 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. tid.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket, 3s. 6 d *
So t Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d*. all
colors.
Hard Hats. 4“. 6d. Caps, Is,
Merino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d, 3 ,
Neckties,allshapes and colors.
Is.
Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
White Phirts to measure.
fis 9d Os lid.
We like to write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for any
Information. Our book, "The Philosophy of Press ” and
patterns of ail kinds and self-measurement forms posted free.
Write for them.
HOLIDAY
PHOTOCRAPHY
No holiday is perfect without a means of
photographing interesting places and
incidents. Kodak Cameras are light,
compact, and eminently suited for all
holiday-makers, ladies, cyclists, &c.
Kodaks are mastered in a few minutes,
and require no dark room for changing
the films. Kodaks from SS. to £7 15S.
Send for illustrated price list and mention
this paper.
Of all Photographic Dealers, or of —
KODAK, Limited,
The Block,
284 Collins Street,
Melbourne
THERE IS NO KODAK BUT .
THE EASTMAN KODAK.
y GOUT v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
EHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pkout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold hy all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
USE
SPOOLERS
fdg
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
I? late Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, eta


Tell your Tailor M
clothes must be made with
Belwarp Clotb
and see for yourself that the TRADE MARK is stamped on the back of every
yard. It is a guarantee that the cloth is made from Pure Wool,
unshrinkable, and that the colour will never fade. Insist on
seeing your tailor is not deceived by spurious imitations of this range of cloths,
in no way equal to the original goods which come from the famous Mills of . .
Sip Titas Salt, Baft., Sons & Co., Ltd., Saltaire.
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.
BEL WARPS ” can only be obtained from Messrs. LUCCOCK, LUPTON & Co., Bradford;
and their Agents, Messrs, Metcalfe & Barnard, Melbourne, Sydney, & Brisbane.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Core.
THE! FA.MOUS REME3DY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain ot
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OIF" COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED B V ONE BOTTLE OF HE ARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTEBESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“ Mr. Hearne. —
“ Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ■,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself v.hat an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully,
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“ Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS
“I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending- for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkev. via
Quinndi, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydnev.”
■ My wife is 82 years old, and lam 79, and lam glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, St
Victoria.”
Strath Creek, via Broadford,
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me. —(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“ Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to evervbodv —S
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” •
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of mv brief trial.—JOHN o’
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well —H HOOD
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
•
“Please send me.half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from vou have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
•
_ “The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.— CHAS. WHYBROW, En >ch's
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“ Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
. “ PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
PROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
“THOMASON, CI-lATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF I'HE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure. "-ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
BRA " CH ." Jir Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d, Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f ° r
Infants
9
BENQER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
~ but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD ia sold in Tins by Chemists, Sc., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by a
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.
Holland, th© crank, or jnurderous philan-
thropist, or benevolent homicide, who pawned his'
boots to buy food for his landlady’s children and,
when his means ran out, killed his favorite young-
ster to save him from feeling hungry any more,
Was tried the other day in Melbourne and
adjudged a lunatio. It was probably about as
near as the Court could get to it, yet Holland
hadn’t the ear-marks of the common or barn-yard
lunatic. He seems rather to have been a weak
sane man, driven out of the ordinary track by a
huge, exaggerated bump of human sympathy.
Given a man with no money and no prospect of
any, and such a powerful affection for a child that
its troubles wouldn’t let him rest, and anything is
possible. Any number of kindly people know
somebody or other who, they believe, would be
much better out of this world of care, and a lot of
these people would put that person out of the world
with the best intentions if they were disinterested
enough not to mind being hanged for trying to act
for the best. Mrs. Geach’s very unusual lodger,
it would seem, was so far beyond the average that
lie didn’t mind being hanged for doing what he
thought was for the best. A man of such practical
benevolence couldn’t be left at large; the public
can’t have good done to it with an axe after this
off-hand fashion. He would probably have been
hanged if the jurymen could have realised that he
was really trying to do good. As it was they
struck an average—the same old handy average.


FOR ALL SUMMER AILMENTS
TJLKE
lie
eans
iliousness
2
v
SUMMER SORROWS
T
I HAT feeling, so prevalent in the hot weather,
which makes men tired of life and work, is be-
coming more common every year. Many
attribute this to the climate; and, m fact, the
climate is responsible-very slightly, however. If you
feel weary and lack energy, you may rest assiired tbat
your blood is thin, weak, or impure ; if it were rich and
pure, it would impart vitality and energy to every
nerve and organ in the body, and the whole system
woTd be robust and healthy. When the system is run
down from weakness of the blood, you become tired and
worn out, and are only able to dp a very slight amount
of work without feeling great fatigue. You ha V^ a con-
stant desire to lie down, and at the end of the day tee
utterly worn out and dispirited. You may, by force of
will (fveroome that worn out feeling for a tune, but this
course acts on the nerves, and results eventually in
prostration. ” The blood only becomes impure
when the stomach, liver, and bowels are not m good
. . riu i: v „ r fops fo perform its functions m cleansing
working order, and the digestion is poor. ihe pver uus 1
the blood, and the system becomes ‘‘run dom sort They enable the stomach to
Bile Beans are the best remedy f ° r co ™ p \ a ; tse if an d do away with constipation
do its work quickly and thoroughly, help the bve p of’red, pure blood flowing through
and indigestion. Rich blood is the result, and ™a- strea™ ™ w o{ the past . For a
your veins you will be free from disease, and lack o g -d f or Biliousness. They put
general toning up of the system there is nothing l e> Bean.s i tc > r ou
things in order so that Nature can do her work, which is all that is required.
«/>
au
O
w
m
UUI
tt a Aliments, Inver Troubles, Costiveness, Piles,
Biliousness, Headachy ABments and
KS or 6 di^“f~rn tK?trSrSpot, 39 HHM Sjdn.y. Price 13Jd. per
large box ; or six boxes for 6s. 6d.
A PENNY SAVED
IS A PENNY GAINED
And the same applies to the many Pounds that the
NATIONAL^
CASH REGISTERS
Would Save for You.
i
fgďf
Built Like a Watch
and accurately adjusted in every
detail is the . . .
NATIONAL
CASH
REGISTER
which carries with it a 2 Years’
Guarantee, ' showing we have
faith in the workmanship of our
machines.
national CaSb R?gist?r C°
335 Pitt Street, Sydney.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
Backster and Co.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My friend Baekster once created a »ch»me to
supply Melbourne with fresh kangaroo meat.
During a varied and precarious existence he ha
been the parent of some of the most magnificent
plans ever imagined by man. Unfortunately for
his bleeding country, his creations all died young.
Baekster informed me that, on account of our long
intimacy, he would take me into the business as
junior partner. I shall never forget this great
kindness on Backster’s part.
Want of capital, as usual, was our drawback.
Everything else connected with the enterprise
was in splendid going order. However, we had
cash in hand for a modest beginning. So it was
arranged that Baekster should proceed up-country
somewhere with a gun, and when he had slaught-
ered a sufficient number of ’roos for a preliminary
consignment, he was to wire down to me to send
up crates wherein to pack the carcases. The
simplicity of the arrangement was a feature of
the undertaking. Baekster reckoned on shooting
twenty ’roos per day, at least. Putting them at
Bs. per ’roo, this meant £4B per week, or, taking
half for expenses, £24 per week clear profit!
Jumping Moses ! £24 per week ! £1248 per year !
Why, there’s money in it — big money. The public
mightn’t like kangaroo ? We’ll make ’em like it.
We’ll educate ’em up to it. The man who de-
clines ’roo isn’t a Christian.
It was a dazzling dream. We bought an aged
moke from a milkman for £5. It had one eye and
a tail like a water-rat, but was very docile. Back-
ster called it Lord Nelson. We also procured a
Winchester rifle and a quantity of ammunition
from a second-hand dealer, and a small supply of
provisions from a trustful grocer. This left barely
enough for crate-hire and beer-money for the co.
in Melbourne.
Early one morning we brought Lord Nelson
round to our diggings and loaded him up. The pro-
visions, billy, pannikin, and so on, we put into bags
and slung them round the warrior’s neck. On the
top we strapped Backster’s rug, rifle, and neces-
saries. I consented to accompany the vast
caravan on the road as far as was consistent with
the health of my boots. Lord Nelson stepped
off in great style, until something rattled
against the tin-ware in the bags, when
he immediately stopped and went to sleep.
No sort of persuasion prevailed. Baekster
swore so long and loudly that he had to dismount
and sit on the side of the street to recover. When
he remounted, Lord Nelson awoke and pro-
ceeded cheerfully up the road. But the instant
he heard the rattle of the billy he halted and re-
fused to go. One of us merely had to walk on to
the pavement and back to start the procession,
but it was weary going.
Baekster, who was a born inventor, suggested
that I should carry the billy for a while. This
was all right until Lord Nelson imagined some-
one wanted milk, or until a door opened ; on
these occasions he drew up near the sidewalk and
slumbered till Baekster banged him over the head
with a rope. In this way we cleared the houses.
At the last building Nelson walked into the yard
and put his head into the back window. Someone
struck him on the nose with a mug or something.
He reared up and fell back on Baekster
and the swag, whereupon Baekster used some
shocking language. We got going again until
Lord Nelson stopped, turned round and started
back towards Melbourne at a merry pace. Baekster
checked him by sheer force. Then he asked me to
cut him out of the hedge the heaviest and toughest
club I could find. I managed to pull out a stick like
a young tree. This Baekster grasped firmly in his
hand, and, after bidding me a sad good-bye, pro-
ceeded to urge Lord Nelson forward. For some
minutes the hero of a hundred battles stood.it
like a martyr. Then he uttered a snort of dis-
gust and disappeared round a corner with Back-
ster and the swag, accompanied by a sound like
the beating of a regimental drum. I arrived in
Melbourne some time in the night, foot-sore and
weary, and as dry as the inside of a salt-bag.
About five days after Backster’s departure I
received a wire from him at a place with a name
like Bunganburst. It was a simple message :
“Send up one crate.” I sent it up, and anxiously
awaited results. After waiting three days I went
to Spencer-street station and enquired for any
goods for Baekster and Go. I was immediately
surrounded by about 14 porters and several bosses.
They told me that a crate had arrived from Bun-
ganburst for Baekster and Co., and that if
that firm didn’t at once remove the goods
from the yard the department would sue it
for committing a nuisance. I went and
inspected the crate. None of the officials ap-
proached within 40 yards of it. It was stuffed
with some kind of grass, and the smell was some-
thing that will never leave my memory. I hired
a man with a refuse-dray to cart the whole away
and shoot it into the Yarra. It wouldn’t make
any material difference to that sweet stream. It
cost me half-a-crown. I also had to pay for the
crate and a wire to Baekster : “ Send them down
fresher.” Altogether, I was out about half a sov.
on the first consignment.
A week later, I received another wire from
Baekster: “ Must have been thunder. Send me
very large crate.” I hired the largest crate to.be
found in the city. It was like a small villa
residence, and filled up a two-horse float. It cost
a ruinous freight up to Bunganburst, and I prayed
fervently that it might return full, whatever the
damage. Two days afterwards I received this
wire from Baekster: “Crate packed and for-
warded. Goods fresh.” I procured a tram-car and
went to the station. Found the large crate there
all right. Hired a float and had it conveyed to a
dealer with whom I had made previous
arrangements. We unloaded it in his back-
yard, and proceeded to unpack the ’roos.
An extraordinary quantity of grass and straw
was stuffed around the meat. I was startled
by an unholy exclamation from the dealer, who
was leaning over the edge pulling at the grass.
“Why, the blanky things are shod ! ”
“ W-what d’yer mean ?” I gasped.
“ What do I mean ? Come ’n’ look for yerself.
If that ain’t a hoof an’ a shoe I’ll go to the Devil
on wings.”
I gave one glance, and nearly died on the spot.
I had paid for the carriage of Lord Nelson’s re-
mains ! That infernal Baekster had played a little
joke. I was too grieved to swear. “Mr. Rolls,”
I said, “ I have been put upon by a villain. When
I have seen you cleared of this accursed carcase I
shall proceed up country and kill him without the
slightest compunction.” I settled amicably with
Rolls. The whole business had skinned me down
to about a sov.
Next day I got a letter from Baekster. He
apologised for the delay in sending ’roos, but he
hadn’t seen one since he left. The half-dozen he
forwarded he bought off a selector. He killed
Lord Nelson “because he scoffed all the tucker.”
Thought I should like to see the body once more
before he was committed to the sod. Would be
some hundreds of miles off when I received this.
Begged me not to grieve too much at his absence.
The last I heard of Backster he was a mission-
ary in the Northern Territory, selling bibles and
straw hats to the niggers. You couldn’t kill a
man of Sackster’s cast-iron cheek with a
meat-axe.
C. H. READ.
To the Beyond.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is so often the case; family-pride over-riding,
in the long run, all questions of sentiment and
feeling on the part of the interested party, and
impelling to the worldly choice. Mamma and the
rest of the clan long to bathe in the reflected glory
of the “good match,” and there is no peace for
the recalcitrant.
Letty Price had permitted, after a bitter strug-
gle, her power of selection to be usurped, and, in
the end, married Anthony Coleridge, M.D. The
other fellow was only an embryo chemist, with
everything ahead of him—except his salary.
Rumor had always credited the bridegroom with
bibulous proclivities, but, with his wife, it soon
ceased to be rumor and became ghastly fact. A
rigid materialist—there was not a semblance
of romance in his composition. He soon
wedded ill-usage to neglect, seeking reprisals,
thousandfold, for his wife’s ante-nuptial opposi-
tion to his suit. She bore his brutality for four
years, with that misplaced heroism not readily
understandable by the male human; mamma
preaching, the while, from the obsolete text “The
divine right of husbands.” Perhaps she would
have continued in the same groove until she had
died in a few short years of despair and misery.
But the return of Clay, the other one, on vacation
from Melbourne, where he had attained to the
control of a decent drug-business, was the turning-
point. He insulted and thrashed the medico in the
open street upon a thin pretext; and when he and
the white-faced, little Mrs. Coleridge disappeared
together, nobody wondered much. Nor was there
aught of sympathy for mamma, engaged in con-
cealing her diminished head.
* • • •
Three years slipped away and left Coleridge
dead of apoplexy and Clay married to his relict.
Two more passed, and Letty lay coughing out her
life in galloping-consumption, the aftermath of
the years of voluntary starvation and the ill-usage
of Coleridge, M.D. She was patient enough m
her affliction, but, when she eventually became too
weak to leave her bed, and the conviction of her
approaching end was borne in upon her, she was
beset by a perpetual, haunting, dread —not _of
Death—not of the Unknown, but of the grim,
heart-sickening possibility of meeting her former
husband “ beyond the bourne.” She often spoke
of her fear to the grieving Clay, and no words of
his served to reassure her. She did not believe in
the dogmatic distribution of spirits good and evil,
between the Christian Heaven and Hell. She
dreaded a hereafter, which, in its preponderance
of sorrow over joy, and shadow over light, would
be a replica of her earthly life.
“Ah! Bred,” she would cry, despairingly,
“ while he lived, and I had you, I did not fear.
You swore, ever, to stand between us, and you
did. But when I meet him ‘over there,’ I shall
be all alone again, and I dread him so much.”
Clay sought to rescue from the wreckage of his
early teaching, which had gone to pieces on the
rocks of maturer thought, some text or word of
hope, to extend to the poor, quailing, shrinking
soul. .
“You’re not going to die, Letty, dear. Dont
fear! When you do go, I shall follow soon
after.” . ~
“Oh but you would fail me. You would
forget your ,vord. You would fear the step, at
last. And, if you waited long, he might hide me
away, where you would never find me.”
And she would burst into violent sobbing, until
he comforted her with complete promises that
he would ascend her pyre, and go, through the
flames, to the Shades, after her.
Each outburst fretted away the frail life, until
the end was nearly reached. No one knew so
well as she, and she clung to Clay, and struggled,
with all her feeble strength, against it. He was
moved beyond support! He, romantically fond,
had never denied her any comfort that money
could furnish or ingenuity devise. And he, at
last, hearkened to her importunities.
One day, he left the house, and on reaching her
room again, where she lay, straining to catch his
first returning footfall, he sent away the nurse,
and locked the door. Removing his coat, he lay
down by her side on the bed. She passed her poor
wasted arms around his neck and drew his head
on to her bosom.
“Letty,” he whispered, “would you be happy
if'l came with you, as you wished, dear? You
would not fear, then ? ”
“No, Fred, you always took care of me,” she
said. .
“ Then kiss me, dearest. A long kiss ! Mean
it—every nerve—every fibre ! A last kiss ’. ”
“A last? You are not going away—to leave
me ! ” she gasped. _ ...
“ Never —to leave you again ! ” he said, quietly.
He kissed her passionately, and after gazing
lovingly into her eyes that lighted up so strangely
her wan face, he took something from his side-
pocket and drew a little cork with his teeth. She
heard him murmur “Come soon, dear!” ere he
tossed the fluid down his throat; and, compre-
hending too late his intention, she made an inef-
fectual clutch at his hand.
It was doubtless the shock that killed her at
once, but when they found her by his side, dead,
there was a peaceful smile on her face.
GEORGE R. HYAM.
A man waa summoned to a Melb. suburban
court t’other day for a really original expression
in the way of insulting language. He had called
prosecutor a “speckled-faced prawn.”
“ N.” : I tip that the late Queen leaves the
bulk of her money to the Bung. It would not
surprise me to find him frankly stating how much
it is. There is no other way in which this can
become known. He will be moved to candor by
grossly-exaggerated reports about the amount,
which may he prejudicial to his claims on the
State.
A Towers Chinaman gashed his throat
horribly t’other day with a razor. His country-
men came along, lifted him up and sent for the
police. Interrogated by a bystander as to the
cause of the attempted suicide, an obliging Chow
remarked: “O, him blanky fool!” How the
heathen do grip our vigorous abbreviations!


gd
I
1W
33*
'
FOETHS
Pnder Royal
Patronage.
KOKO for the Hair Is a tonic, cleansing, invigorat-
ing and delightfully cooling preparation, causes the
hair to grow luxuriantly, keeps it soft and pliant,
eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling and
turning grey, promotes growth, contains no dye or
greasy substance, is the most cleanly of all hair
preparations, and is perfectly harmless. The unique
testimonials received prove it to be undoubtedly
the best dressing for the hair. 1/-, 2/6, and 4/6, of
all Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Australian Depot: Koko-Maricopas Co#, Ld<,
14, Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W. .
fg
CAUTION.
See that this registered Trade
Mark is on every bottle. ,
dfg
ELECTRIC
MINING
MACHINERY
OP EVERY DESCRIPTION.
KRUPP BALL MILLS
NOVES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; and 15 Queen-st, MELBOURNE.
Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED),
(Xin.lt e Illawarra.), noar sYiDWEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODXJCBRa
OF
FINE SILVER.
< * t
MAKERS OP
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILL AW AREA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
I‘urenaser of all cl,»es of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, eta, apply to E. A. Wamaaaa, Manager, Tile Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.; or Martin Place, SYDNEY.
Oblivion.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Waitress ! canst thou from out thy store
Bring to me, where I dream,
Some charmed cup and fill it up
From out the Lethean stream ?
A cup wherein regret may drown,
And memory pay no debt—
Where love is sped in waters dread,
And brain learns to forget.
Hast thou, too, taught the varied kind
Of men who sit and feast
The lesson old that love grows cold
When it hath cause the least ?
That man to grief is still beguiled,
As Adam was of yore,
And to deceive, as mother Eve,
Is chief of woman’s lore.
Nay, girl, let no mist dim your eyes,
Some paths are always steep;
Few here are born to ’scape Life’s scorn—
Our grain in tares we reap.
Who sets his heart upon a quest
That leaves him desolate,
Finds small avail at Fate to rail
When wisdom comes too late.
Waitress ! the Day and Night enlace
Dim fingers now without;
Yet through the gloom within your room
■ One woman’s face looks out.
O, choose for me a beaker rare,
From ripe, rich vintage won,
That hath the power for but an hour
To grant Oblivion !
N - s -W.
F. W. HULME.
Mrs. Kestren's Rival.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mrs. Kestren was a woman with a grievance.
She was born for the rough-and-tumble of life—
and her husband refused to rough-and-tumble.
He was a mildly-negative man who never opposed
his wife, and exercised a perennial obedience that
made her yearn to throw plates at him. She had
no children to distract her mind, and the passive-
ness of her husband’s temper was very wearing on
her nerves. In trying to beat-up rows she learnt
bitterly that it takes two to make a quarrel.
Other wives had the spicy satisfaction of talking
over their husband’s delinquencies, but Mrs.
Kestren had to be content with saying, with an
affectation of pride: “Dear James, you know,
never gives me the slightest anxiety—he is quite
devoted to roe.” She felt keenly the hollowness
of the boast, and treasured the thought of one
day catching dear James tripping. How she
would make him pay for all those long weary
years of dullness !
Mrs. Kestren, being naturally suspicious, theor-
ised that her husband’s lamentable indifference to
other women arose from a secret attachment. She
used to watch his manner towards the women-
customers of the shop, but not the flicker of an
eyelid rewarded her with the chance of singling
out a particular charmer. The verbal traps she
laid for him utterly failed to unearth a blush or
the faintest suspicion of guilt. But the thought
of one day succeeding buoyed her up on the sea
of monotony.
At tea one evening Mr. Kestren announced his
intention of going out alone that night. This in
itself would have afforded a grateful opportunity
for a row had not Mrs. Kestren sniffed something
of greater importance behind it. She graciously
gave her consent, with the secret hope that at last
James s long career of innocence was drawing to
an end.
He brushed his black coat, put on his best tie,
and bade her good-night with suspicious uneasi-
n®ss - The door had hardly closed behind him
when she had thrown on her bonnet and slipped
into the street. It was easy to follow his long
shambling figure, and there was little danger of
being seen, lie was so shortsighted.
After half-an-hour’s walking he stopped at a
suburban hall, and, glancing furtively to right
and left, dived into the doorway. Mrs. Kestren
read a big sign over the doorway : “Spiritualism
... Mrs. Emily Hickson. . . . To-night. . .
Spiritual Manifestation. Public Welcome; Is.”
She sniffed contemptuously, for she had once
heard her husband speak to a man about this fad
and had laughed at him. Probably he had chosen
this place for a clandestine meeting, knowing
that she would not be likely to go there. It was
quite m keeping with his years of mean-spirited-
ness, and Mrs. Kestren exulted at the vision of
the coming battle.
She paid her shilling and quietly crept into the
nalJ. A stout American lady was expatiating on
Spiritualism, comparing it to the once-persecuted
sciences, and calling on all sceptics to sit at her
feet and absorb wisdom. Mrs. Kestren’s emi-
nently material mind had long ago decided that
Spiritualism was humbug, so she was able to
devote her whole attention to scouring the hall
for her husband’s lady-love. Kestren was sitting
listening intently to the lecture, and his wife
sought m vain for symptoms of love towards any
temale member of the audience.
After her peroration the lecturess called on her
friends to sing a hymn together. This homage
having been paid to Christianity, she asked them
to write the names of some departed loved-ones
on pieces of paper. These slips were then col-
lected and placed in a heap before her. Relaps-
ing into an ecstatic expression, and after a
dramatic silence, she spoke—“ The spirit of Wil-
iA,i7iir^ r^^arn j° nes is present,” she cried;
Who wanted to speak to him ? ” A thin-voiced
woman claimed the honor, and asked if the spirit
was happy. “Yes, he says he is happy. Ah !
Here is the spirit of Alice Little. Who asked for
her ? ”
Mrs. Kestren started. She remembered Alice
Little as a consumptive girl who had died years
ago. She saw Kestren suddenly stand up. His
eyes were shining and his face illuminated, and a
queer feeling that this quivering, animated man
was not her husband took hold of her. . . . “ I
called for Alice Little,” he said m a low ringing
voice ; “Tell her I always feel her spirit with me,
and ask her if she is happy.”
“Yes. She is always beside you. She Bent
you here to-night. She is as happy in her new
life as it is possible to be.”
Mrs. Kestren was stunned—overwhelmed.
Her husband was in love . . . but with a ghost, a
spirit—something she knew to be a delusion. All
hope of warfare and a life of interest vanished—
for how could she be jealous of a thing that did
not exist! How could she talk to the neighbours
about it, or taunt that fool of a husband with
loving a ghost !
She blundered out of the hall, sick with the
emptiness of life. “If Jim was only in love with
a real live, warm woman, how happy I could be ! ”
she sobbed with real human misery.
ONLYS.
Commonwealth Day.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“J.A.C.”: Re statement (8., 2/2/’l)
that a certain Montenegrin boy can see moons
of Jupiter with the naked eye. Why, anybody
not absolutely blind can see Jupiter’s moons by
simply looking at the reflection of the planet in,
say, a hand-mirror. I have seen them myself,
and I am short-sighted.
Re the visibleness of Jupiter’s satellites a well-
instructed correspondent writes :
Jupiter's satellites are hard to see with the naked eye
only because of the close proximity of their brilliant
primary. Were they alone in space no difficulty would
be experienced in detecting them without optical aid.
The reason why, if they were seen with the aid of a
mirror, would be because the effect of the reflection from
the glass would be to lesson the glare of the planet, thus
enabling the tiny moons (tiny by comparison) to be
separated. This result would be more easily at-
tained when the satellites were at their greatest
distance from Jupiter. But this “ trick ” to enable one
to see the satellites, is not seeing them with the naked
eye. The test is to discern the little points of light while
still in the glare of Jupiter himself. Dispel this glare,
and of course they can be seen. To state that a boy in
Montenegro can see Jupiter’s moons without assistance
would mean that he can distinguish them easily and often
without effort. Otherwise the fact, though denoting
keenness of vision, is not so ultra-extraordinary. Given
a clear atmosphere, a satellite at its elongation (or more
than two of the four in a straight line), and the
knowledge inhere to look for them —an all-important
thing —it is quite possible for a keen eye to
detect them. The first discovery made by Gali-
leo with his wonderful invention, the telescope, was
that Jupiter had four moons, and a nice row the publica-
tion of the discovery made. If they could be seen easily
this announcement would have been expected. But to
see them as a general thing— i.e., to look up and announce
the various positions of the members of the Jovian sys-
tem—would denote the possession of a wonderful develop-
ment of the faculty of vision. As regards the “30 dia-
meters,” a magnifying power less than this should show
these objects, provided that the opera-glass is a good one
and the atmosphere is clear. Note.—The above only re-
fers to the outer two moons of the system. The inner-
most one is never seen except with the aid of the largest
telescopes of the world. The other two must always be
difficult to detect without a telescope under Jin. diameter
object-glass.
R.P.
Red Dust Flat slumbered under the sun. Com-
monwealth Day made no difference to Red Dust
Flat. The heat covered the land like a blanket,
rumpled occasionally by spiteful little gasps of
wind that made the roads spit out mouthfuls of
dust. A vast hush—the silence of heat-faint
Nature —held all.
Bill Hopkins, farmer, sat on his fence, tired
and dimly conscious of the slowly-creeping life in
his veins. He had a little switch in his hand, and
every now and then he playfully killed an ant. A
thin stream of these busy insects crossed the rail
in easy reach of his hand and he took a lazy
pleasure in seeing the line broken by death, and
the frantic scurryings of the black specks that
survived. A couple of hours back he had come to
mend the fence, but the fascination of the ants
possessed his being. A daring fly would now and
then settle on his moist face, and crawl into the
corner of an eye. Bill with a long forefinger
would capture it and throw on to a hill of skip-
jack ants. Interest would flicker in his eyes as he
saw the ants fasten on the creature and carry it to
their stores.
* * * *
Bill was placid, and the sound of wheels only
roused faint curiosity. Jim Evans pulled-up
when lie saw the man on the fence.
“ ’Elio ! ” he said.
“ ’Elio ! ” said Bill, smilingly pinning a fly with
his forefinger. “ It’s—a—devil of a day, isn’t it ? ”
“My word!” returned Jim, with inflamed
emphasis.
“There’ll be great doin’s in Sydney to-day,”
said Bill; “now they’ve got this ’ere'Common-
wealth.”
“ I dessay,” remarked Jim, uninterestedly.
“ An’ a ’ell of a country, too. Jackson, the store-
keeper, ses ’e’ll stop my credit,”
“ Stopped mine a week ago,” said Bill cheer-
fully, watching the ants dispose of his captured
fly-
“ Tryin’ to raise another mortgage. If the rain
don’t come in a week I’m bust-up.”
“I’ve raised every cent on my turnout. If it
come down in bucketfuls, wouldn’t do me no good.
Missus and the kids ain’t got no clothes. Bin
liven on pertaters and treacle.” Bill indicated
his homestead with a negligent wave of the hand.
It was a tumble-down shanty attached to a
straggling procession of stable, cowshed, and out-
houses. Mrs. Bill, a red-faced, big-boned woman,
was chopping wood and shouting at a horde of
bare-footed children who scrambled about the
yard.
“ I’m fair sick of it,” said Evans, viciously eye-
ing his string-repaired harness. ■“ One of me kids
has got the sandy-blight.”
“ Yes,” assented Bill, smilingly, admiring
the panic his switch had created in the thin black
line of ants. “ Ye-es. Two of mine—Bill and Susie
—’as got it real bad. Got a touch of it meself.”
“’S’down at Moroney’s ’arf-an-’our ago,” said
Evans, gloomily. “ Called for a beer. Put down
threepence. ‘ Beer’s fourpence,’ ses ’e. ‘Me and
Ryan, of Burnt Creek, and Jones, of Smith’s
Gully, ’as riz it—fourpence.’ My oath, I ’ad to
part, too ! ”
Bill had stepped down from the fence. His
small eyes dilated and a fly crawled unmolested
over his cheek. “My Gawd !” he gasped, stiffen-
ing with horror, and shaking a threatening fist to-
wards Moroney’s. “It’s a cursed life, this ! ”
Vic.


Cures all Diseases of the Ski n
Eczema, Salt-rheum, Tetter, Rashes, Pimples,
Blackheads?Boll*, Ulcers - AU Due to Impure Bleed.
Bead how tMs young girl was cured with.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
wMSk
Mrs. May Watson, 9 Rose Road, Surry Hills, Sydney, New So. Wales, sends
us the above photograph of her daughter, together with th« following testi-
monial :
“My daughter was suffering terribly from eczema on both her hands and feet.
I had tried many remedies without success. Remembering I had received great
help from Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla myself, I began to give it to my daughter.
Soon she showed signs of improvement, and after taking a few bottles the sores
disappeared and she is now free from the slightest symptom of the ©ld complaint.
She is as fresh and healthy as any girl could wish to be. This makes me strongly
recommend this wonderful medicine to any one needing a good blood-purifier.”
Such cures always follow the use of
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Tou cannot feel well unless your blood is pure, and it must be rich, too. Dr.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will give you both of these, pure blood, rich blood. That
is what you need and what you can quickly have if you will only give this old,
reliable remedy a good trial. Get your blood right and you will no longer suffer
with depression, nervousness, general debility, or some form of skin disease.
AYER’S 8 arsapari lla
Brings Comfort and Good Cheer.
Is vour toiunie coated? Are your bowels constipated? AYER’S Hill
ft POLICY FOR TH€
COMMONWEALTH.
Beio? a series of articles reprinted
from “Tbe Bulletin,” Witb an
appendix dealing witb tb« Fiscal
Question-
PRICE 6(1.; posted, Bd.
dfg
PLAIN HOP|€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
JO Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FBEE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post is.
Love and Parentage, Bci posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Tel'ising Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. . Is 6<i post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chbvasse’s Advice to a Mother, Ss 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Xs 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
"fevERY Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.— SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE. BOOKS hitherto advertised
bv him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any m particu-
lar Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhera
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PILL
T7OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the S tom ach, S ick a . ,
F Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling ’after Meals Dizziness and
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath Bio h FIRST DOSE
BELIBF ?
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged
PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system, for a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon jp(jtite> and
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ,bnn„ g q£ the human frame. These
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole d one 0 f the best guarantees to the
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and of any Patent Medieine in
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest bale oj any
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENOLANJJ
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9|d, Is I|<L and 2s 9d each.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
*x»o DEFY COMFBTITIOIff.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
Sc
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS,
SPIRITS.
CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery,
SYDNEY.
«STEELE RUDD’S” BOOK—
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post F roe).
MAORILANP : aijd Other Verses.
By ART FT UR H. ADAMS.
The Best Book of Verses Maoriland has produced. Price, Five Shilling’s (post free).
“THE BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., LTD., 214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Wholesale Agents : Edwards, Dunlop, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
df
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Kheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most g-entle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
gfd
Sold Throughout the W oriel.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
o
S'
<©N
gd
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
IRISRMuSS
fg
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


SYDNEY
Rubber Works
MANUFACTURERS OF
Sheet Rubber,
Washers,
Valves,
Gas Tubing 1 ,
Rubber Rings,
Rollers,
Buffers,
and Every Description of
Mechanical Rubber Goods.
Works :
CAREY STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
City Office :
PERDRIAU and CO.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
CONTRACTORS.
AND
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n;brocatioo
l Ol* C /ll ts oi n o Dlll_ - _ , •
or , Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
S 5“ A f ™ ffne ? s of . Joints ir. MAN and
UR,AbI. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n?brocatioi).
T
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND
IS THE ORIGINAI
DUPLEX PUMP.
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON
TRADE
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney,
dfg
dfg
d
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
gd
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs.. SHEFFIELD
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“tub block:”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
gd
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w_ c. ZEULIDiraiIDGrIE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from ail the colonies promptly
attended to.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
GEORGE & MARKET STREETS.
Board and Residence, Bs. per
UNCHEON
12 o’clock till 2.30.
DINNER, TEA
5.30 till 7.30.
ONE SHILLING UPWARDS.
Perfect Cuisine and First-class Attendance.
Special FISH LUNCHEON and DINNER on FRIDAYS
fgd
TO WAY-BACK RESIDENTS.
CHRISTMAS and COMMONWEALTH FESTIVITIES.
YOU CAN OBTAIN FROM THE
N.S.W. Fresh Food & Ice Co. Ltd.
. h y Rail or Parcels Post, the very Finest Christmas Cakes and Puddings, Pastry, &c.
Poultry, Fish and Game forwarded in a frozen condition to all parts of the Colony.
Butter— “ Golden Star” and “ Berry” Brands, of Splendid Keeping Quality—sent by Parcels Post, packed in tins.
ICE, ICE, ICE—Pure Crystal Ice— packed in Special Transport Boxes, and consigned (freight paid) to any Railway Station inNSW.
= HARBOUR ST.. SYDNEY. for oar j> rice H . PATESON> Manager .
fg
MINING SCREENS.
Double Crimped Wire Cloth.
A Large Stock of all Sizes ....
Write for Samples and Particulars .
fdg
LIMITED
dfg
MINING ENGINEERS
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
AGENTS for Knowles Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors,
Gates Rockbreakers, Nagle Engines and Boilers, Buffalo
Blowers and Exhaust Fans, etc-, etc.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
!,«SS,B «S 5 E ,0,8,E £ r
; » » K.8./B.'B ».B tS S S B B E S T ;
■pile e>B a a as iMB tfc a ••.
■ a * w-is £;'ij a k k k s t c'.s b b r;
I; B f S 3 H tt; *? fct B fi-B EE EB M E-'
I Sfß DiJB S-B S ft M.;B S B-C-B R'B
H tt B, *5 .8? 8 »■ *£«. fl B
f,ti a »■• ss *>%.»,,« aii * b e E< 5s b. a ii
f* a/* ae £ *.;»* ss.s b -
(,B II S; SS H;Ss Sirs B Bvii ft li 8; f'- v
V® k,® e? sHfee ri s wtwts-q a's .
H. P. GREGORY & CO.
74 Clarence St., SYDNEY; 435 Bourke St., MELBOURNE,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS
1 ' ' ■«> nQ«n 1 1 I ii
BLAKE’S STEAM PUMPS (Single and Duplex)
| FAY’S WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
STEAM ENGINES (Horizontal and Vertical)
ENGINEERS’ TURNING LATHES.
DRILLING MACHINES. PLANERS.
STEEL PULLEYS SHAFTING, PLUMMER-BLOCKS
EMPIRE LAUNDRY CO’S LAUNDRY MACHINERY
STURTEVANT’S FANS and PORTABLE FORGES.
fdg
fdg
fdg
