

MeE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC
BEAVER STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
s®. <3-. SC, CO.,
107 Kent Street:, Sydney,
. . —FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
McLAREN’S Compound
Traction Steam Engine^
WINE !
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST
'SSAIN AUSTRALIA.
<3T Send for Samples and Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. limited,
203 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE &C # 85 P 1„ Slrw ». SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for J. & H. McLaren, Leeds, England, Makers of Steam Ploughing Taokle, Traction Engines for Haulage, General and Special Work.
We Stook and have to arrive McLaren’s Compound Traction Engines; HUSTON’S Portable Horizontal and Vertical Steam Engines;
BROADBENT’S Hydro Extractors; KIRCHNER’S Saw Mill and Wood-Working Machinery.
COMPOUND TRACTION STEAM ENGINES.-^>*
S.’SSmUL IT
TOOTH
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
& 00. Ltd., Agents,
Sydney
m3
RACKAROCK
'//
HOBART.
;
Hadley s Orient fiote!.
JJOTICE TO MEIiBOtTRN’E VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME
AN DEM AN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
241 PITX STREET, SYDMJBIY.
PETTY’S HOTEL
IS UNSURPASSED
by that of any other in Sydney for
Comfort, Privacy, Convenience and
Healthy Situation.
The Sanitary Arrangements are of the
most perfect description.
The Hotel is under the Direct Management and
Supervision of
MRS. WILLIAM GANNON, Proprietress,
Telephone 274 Church Hill, Sydney.
10s. per Day or £3 3s per week.
SPECIAL TERMS CAN BE ARRANGED FOR
FAMILIES AND PRIVATE APARTMENTS.
sdfsd
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING 1 *
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C, LUDOWIOI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches:—P. Frankel & Co.. Edward-sb., Brisbane, Q. ;
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ;H. K. Fysh and
Co., Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Oashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
Pair gtrls and gray horsks
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
JOHN JAHESON
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents : J. BAEBE JOHNSTON & CO., lioffcus Street, Sydney.
EMPIRE HOTEL, SYDNEY
MOST CEUTBALL? SITUATED.
OTARD-DUPUY
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
m
PROOF
Cf'W s '”'
Office
10 BUCK ST., SYDNEY
What Price WATERBURY Watches ?
LOW PRICE.
What Quality WATERBURY Watches ?
HIGH QUALITY.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone 21 To. IOhS.
Mr. Skmnerhas a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
0-*
'*r.
Lamp.
EDI SWA
a
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDISOn STAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-straet.
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot-Central Buildin 3 Edward-st., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
VoJ 22. —No. 1120.1
[Saturday, September 14, 1901.
jP postered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For
COUGHS, GOLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
(REGISTERED).
o'G-
m TINS, Is. 6d
The Grew
Antiseptic JU«tnedj
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE.
TheGuelf faction of Sydney “artists” (i.e.,
Students of painting) is m turmoil because N.S. W
Art Gal ery trustees have bought a £2OO picture
(poor value) from the Ghibelline exhibition. There
are two Ghibellines on the board of trustees : and
presently to prove their impartiality absolute,
they will buy £2OO-worth cf pictures (poor value)
from the Guelf exhibition. Then the Ghibellines
will simmer in contempt. The community’s cash
drawn and quartered between the two factions is.
a middle term in the argument, arid is distributed
so ignobly that one would sympathise with the
community if the community were not such an
ass.
What the community gets for its cash in the
present instance is a picture of half-a-dozen cows
being driven home through a pink-and-purple
haze. In the present writer’s opinion the
picture is not remarkably well painted: it
is not remarkably interesting ; it disengages no
remarkable emotion ; it is as unremarkable as most
of the other paintings which hang in the Australian
court of N.S.W. Gallery. There seems to have
been no particular reason for buying it (for £200)
unless it be that the Gallery trustees consider
themselves bound to subsidise local painters
worthy or unworthy, and that it was (in the con-
venient vernacular) “up to” Mahony to have a
picture bought. This is not riieant as disparage-
ment to Mahony; but discussion centres naturally
in him because he has sold the picture. MAhonv
was a promising painter ten years ago ; lie is a less
promising painter now, because ten years have,
fled without turning his promise into definite
or valuable performance ; arid t>e point is : If the
£2OO was paid as “encouragement” and not for
value received, then the, Gallery trustees should
see that the purchase ’ ,/s the community per the
painter the return which it does not pay per the
picture. In other words, the subsidy system is
rotten; the money should be spent in founding
travelling scholarships, with the picture-a-year
condition. Then the Gallery would probably get
better pictures, and the painters would possibly
get the training 1 which they so badly need.
Mahony’s picture hangs in the “ Art Society’s”
annual show—which is the usual exhibition of
framed futilities. There are, possibly, lialf-a-
dozen items hung which are more or less worth
looking at; there is nothing very good ; and the
mass is students’ sketch-work—varying little in
character, nothing in value, from that which we
saw last year, and the year before, and the year
"A Native Hunting Scene."
(Artist Unknown.)
be^. that,—or from that which we are apparently
destined to see next year, and the year
after, and the year after that—World without
end, Art without beginning, Amen. Lister’s
large canvas, “Mount Keira,” is well and truly
painted : it is a solid artistic document, and who-
ever would deny its statement would deny the
Athanasian creed through all the territories of
Perdition. C. W. Blackman’s work should be men-
tioned ; there is a little capacity in A. Dattilo
Rubbo’s ; the last miniature of the late Mary Stod-
dard is a charming subject, charmingly painted ;
there is an effective decorative design in black-
and-white by J. S. Watkins; —and there are
nearly three hundred phases of Mediocrity lost in
a wilderness of paint. These people all want
power : their little performances are pleasant
enough, but there is no vital force in their brains,
and few of them have so mastered technique that
they can begin to express themselves.
The N.S. W. Art Society, like the Society of
Artists, is in receipt of a Government dole; and
it is time the public got better value for its'money.
The way to do it is to put all the money available
into a really good School of Painting, and send
apt students travelling when they have learnt
thoroughly the rudiments of their business. To
continue supporting the Guelfs and Ghibellines,
and buying their products for “ encouragement,”
is profitable neither to Art nor to pocket.
Dear Boo'cfellow,— With your kind permission, I
announce that I have coimpenced business as Symbolic
Poet, and shall be prepared to supply my lines in large or
small quantities, as may he required. Editors waited on
for orders. I trust that by strict attention, to symbols I
shall secure that cash which iCwill ever be my study to
despise.
I annex a specimen of my stock which may serve as a
testimonial : I can spin like a spider, and my internal
store is inexhaustible. The following is drawn through a
Mexican cigar, but I can just as readily draw through ice.
A title is really an excrescence ; since a poem, like a poet,
is born perfect, without tag or label, but 1 will give titles
for the present (without extra charge) as a concession to
popular ignorance. You will find the title about the,
middle of the poem : this being one of the special eccen-
tricities by which 1 desire to be distinguished. Without
further preface, then :
the matin stroke inaudible expires
It occurs to me that, with this introductory piece* I
should explain my method. I purpose writing poems to
all appearance intelligent, if not intelligible, and spreading
an obvious significance in decorative, language, much as a
peacock spreads his tail. But behind this exoteric mean-
ing I shall conceal an esoteric meaning which adepts will
discover, and which is the real justification of the poem.
The mob will see me, as it were, fishing for trout in a
peculiar river (to use a Shakespearean symbol literally),
but the elect will recognise that I am catching the Secret
of Life jn the abyss of the Universe, it will always be
open to discussion how much of the Secret I catch,
”9? each of my readers, even among the elect, will
• I khat portion of my message which
fitted to receive. But this remainder of doubt is a
ul , of inadequate means of expression
Pj"- V language, and is not necessarily to be depre-
• if Symbolic Poet, I find that I can pose most
emently as a Veiled Mokanna ; since, if I be at times
“"W have a preliminary presumption that
e taint lies with minds too gross to pierce my decent
ystery. I shall endeavour, when possible, to begin with
an easy line, thus :
the matin stroke inaudible expireS
l) ave entered upon an explanation, I may as
wen arid that my first piece apparently represents the
attitude and emotions of a man who stands under a
snower-bath and soaps himself all over before he discovers
tnat the water has been turned off. This symbolises to
me the dream of an idealist who has swathed his life in
aspirations toward the divine purity of Heaven, and who
wakens in the grave to the sensation of worms crawling
upon him, and the realisation that he is beginning a
career in Purgatory. In this way I leap from the
individual to the general, according to the accepted
doctrine of Art, leaving to my disciples (when I gain
to hhnself Uty ° f each the moral particular
the matin stroke inaudible expires
“winging to caverns mark’d of silent sounD :
steals sinister the cohort of desireS
where prison'd in voluptuous profou/nD
slumbrous obscurities (0 whitherflY,
ye shapes august !) I vision’d overturN
yawning the daisied coverlet awr Y
Till victor in the aeon-strife I burN
with vast resolve jetted from starry heights
You perceive I am working on two planes or platforms
at once. On the lower platform I have set-off the alarm
clock in the same phrase by which (on the - higher
platform) I have blown Gabriel’s trump. My ob-
vious subject has turned over in bed in a line
which contains plain hints of resurrection-morning. I
may lie pardoned for asking attention to more subtle
touches—especial ly to those which 3 f ou cannot see.—My
next verse is more difficult: it is unwise to make the
Symbolic path too easy, for the egotism of disciples who
have overcome all obstacles is apt to lead them to fancy
themselves as great as the Master—a contingency care-
fully to be avoided.
with vast resolve jetted from starry heights
whose white magnificence derides the duN
inchoate melancholy anchoriteS
brood in Diogenes’ dark malisoN
I will not spoil your pleasure further than by hinting
(on the lower platform) that Diogenes lived in an empty
tub : into your hands, O Bookfellows, 1 commit my
Beauty.
from labyrinthine chrysalis the cluE
spars alabaster lorithing in reversE
THE SOUL OF THE SEER,
of cold lustration : saponaceous gluE
adheres that choral heaven can abstersE.
I admit that this verse is not up to my Symbolic level :
it is too simple : the next verse atones. It is my object
to show you, not poetry in the making, but Poetry in the
matrix, purged of grosser particles,
but sudden tivining anguished tentacleS
seize loath despairing sinuosit Y :
drouth-banished, dephlegmated pinnacleS
Stand starkly -arefied monstrosit Y.
the mast’s firm, delicate assault to skieS
ah, shipwreck-shattered ! fails not more than hE
whose shivering soul resigns the high emprisE,
shrouded a-squirm in crackling agonY.
What do you think of it ? Is it not sublime ? The
more you study it, the more you will see in it: it will
take you years to understand it fully, and then you will
not he sure. So— oinne ignotum —do you not think it
will win me a disciple ? I would like a disciple. Terms
(moderate) expressed in fumables and potables on appli-
cation to
Yours Symbolically,
B.C.
(About 4000 years or so).
—
That strange beast, the kangaroo, has suffered
many indignities from artists of many lands who
did not know what to do with his tail; • but he
never appeared in stranger guise than that in
which he is shown by the. illustrator of Married
and Didn’t Know It —a 56 pp. booklet published
at Philadelphia in 1895 for the benefit of the
simple Yankees. The author is Charles Ridgway,
author also of “ Joe Pete ; or, a Terrible Retribu-
tion,” “Snatched from the Jaws of Death,” etc.,
etc. Ridgway, it appears, was lost in “the wild
bush of Australia ’’—somewhere in Queensland,
and was captured and domesticated by a tribe of
aboriginals, with whom he lived a long time.
Being young and having had long experience of bush,
life, I could almost compete with most of them in climbing
trees—which is done by cutting notches with a tomahawk
then grasping the tree with one hand and placing my big
toe in the notch, 1 then cut another notch on the other
side, and then thrust my other big toe into it, and
grasping the tree with the other hand would continue
repeating the process until the top is reached. I could
throw the spear and nella-nella and the wada-wadr
fairly well. Butin throwing the boomerang I was very
deficient.
It is a missile weapon invented and used by the natives
of Australia. It is a curved stick, round on one side and
fiat on ttie other, and sharp on each end, about three feet
long, two inches wide, and three-quarters of an inch thick
on the curved edge, but on the concave edge it tapers to
a sharp edge like a sickle.
In using it, it is grasped
at one end and thrown
sickle - wise either
upward into the
air or downward so
as to strike the
ground at some
distance from the
thrower. In the
first case it flies
in a rotary mo-
tion, as its shape
would indicate,
and after as-
cending to a
great height in
the air it sud-
denly returns in
an elliptic orbit
to a spot near
its starting
point. On
throwing it
downwards to
the ground it
rebounds in a
straight line,
pursuing a
ricochet motion
until it strikes
the object at
which it is
thrown. The
most singular
curve described
by it is when
it is projected
upward at an
angle of about
45°, when its
flight is always
backward, and the
native who throws
it stands with his
back to the object
he intends to hit.
But Ridgway is most in-
teresting when authorita-
tively describing the method of nunting the
kangaroo, as shown in the drawing reproduced on
this page—
The hunting of the kangaroo as practiced by the natives
has also excited a great amount of criticism and argument
and even doubt by those who have not had the pleasure
of seeing the reality. But I, who have not only seen but
actually taken part in the hunt, can most emphatically
lay aside all such criticism, doubt and argument.
The mode of procedure is as follows : The savages, upon
observing a kangaroo at a great distance, will take up a
position in single line facing the animal, brandishing a
weapon in each hand, will commence to bellow at regular
intervals, at the same time stamping one of their
feet down upon the ground with great force. The
kangaroo upon seeing them will at once commence
to leap, slow at first, but will gradually increase
his speed in a line parallel to that of the savages,
whilst they, continuing their bellowing, will gradually
wheel round so as to face the animal. When it has
gained a position opposite to where it started, it appears
to.hesitafce a few minutes ; then it will commence to
approach the hunters, but when within a few yards of
them it would seem by its actions that it had been
actuated by a delusion, but realising its peril and unable
to recede, it makes one terrific bound, for the purpose of
escaping from its enemies, by leaping over their heads.
Then is the time for the savages to show their agility by
seizing it by.the hind legs and despatching it with their
weapons.
Ridgeway omits to say that, before being des-
patched, the kangaroo is invariably given time to
sing his death-ohant called “The Wild Colonial
Boy,” as it has been found that, lacking this grace,
the roast flesh tastes too strongly of extract of
eucalyptus, which appears to be perspired by the
kangaroo while singing. Otherwise the descrip-
tion of the hunting is perfectly accurate,
George Cruikshank’s kangaroos are in another
category. They occur in George Cruikshank’s
Omnibus, a magazine published by the industrious
artist in 1869. The drawings shown on this page
illustrate a short story by Capt. Marryat—“ First
Discovery of Van Demons’ Land.” which repre-
sents Vanderdecken in The Flying Dutchman
as blown out of his course, and sighting a strange
land with queer people.
I can’t make them out at all ” [said Jansen]. “ I see
them put their heads down close to the ground, and then
they stand up again ; they wear their breeches very low,
and yet they jump remarkably well—Hundred tousend
tyfels ! ’’ continued he, as he looked through the telescope
again ; “ there’s one.of them six feet high at least, and he
has jumped twenty yards. It can’t be a woman -if she
is, what a springy partner she would make in a dance ! ”
“ We’ll take the fiddle and schnapps on shore, and have
a dance with the natives,” cried the,boatswain.
And Cruikshank pictures the dance of Dutchmen
and kangaroos with almost diabolical ingenuity
and vigour. Finally the Dutchmen mount on the
backs of their partners, and the tailpiece to the
story shows the fiddler in a wild career of jumps
of “nearly forty yards.”
A new volume of sketches by Henry Lawson,
Joe Wilson and His Mates, is announced for pub-
lication by Angus and Robertson before Christ-
mas. It includes some of Lawson’s contributions
to English magazines, and will be eagerly read in
this country. No one has written so vigorously
as Lawson the aspect of Australia which he sees ;
and, although his literary limits seem to be
fixed, he has on\/ to maintain his standard of
work in order to be sure of the warmest welcome.
By George Cruikshank.
Dance of Dutchmen and Kangaroos.
By George Cruikshank.
“ Gram.” defends “ the Duke’s English” against
S. A. Rosa (Aug. 24). As to
Dear Lord Hopetoun,—The time has now arrived when
we must take leave—
he'says—
There is nothing wrong with the we. When a party of
guests visits a place, one always acts as a leader, and on
leaving that leader does any speechifying there is to be
done for the whole crowd. Did the critic want each
member of the party to write a letter, or did he want the
Duke to spin out the names of all the people with him?
If H.R.H. had said “ I,” the critic would have been the
first to exclaim “ how conceited !” Surely the Duke was
not here on his own, and he ought to have the manners to
mention someone besides himself. I consider that he
was quite right. He wanted to thank the Commonwealth
for its kindness to all his party, and he said “ we ” without
drawing any attention personally to himself or anyone
else, thus putting all his friends on an equal footing with
himself.
Strictly speaking, the Duke and “ Gram ” are
wrong. The Subject of we should have been
antecedently expressed, not subsequently under-
stood. But, considering the license of epistolary
form, the point was not worth stressing. Inci-
dentally, “Gram ” is as bad as the Duke.
Speechifying and on his own are gross vulgarisms;
and “ought to have the manners” should have
been written “ought to have had the manners.”
“Gram” continues—
The sentence, “ The time has now arrived when we
must bid,” &P-, is perfectly correct, being a use of the
present or simple perfect, in connection with a present
action— i.e., the bidding farewell—“when” or “herein
which ” contains a concealed relative pronoun.
No matter whether the action endures or has
ended, now is surplusage ; and “ Gram ”is wrong
again—so obviously wrong that if he were not a
journalist space would not be. wasted in telling
him. - . ' ’ ,
C. Gamble, Adelaide, publishes an Bpp.
pamphlet, relating “ Ah'"lmaginary Scene” when
Christ unexpectedly came to Bishop Ibarmer
during the consecration of St. Peter’s Cathedral
nave in the presence of the Duke of York on July
14, 1901 and this sentence could be further
lengthened if the pamphlet was worth it.
THE ’FELLOW.
OLD PINTPOTS.
What do they think, amid the sots
That crowd the many city bars :
What are their thoughts, those old Pintpots?
Dream they of sweet, ice-paven grots,
Or malten heavens amid the stars :
What do they think, amid the sots ?
Love they the ancient dwelling-spots
Wherein they won their dints and scars :
What are their thoughts, those Old Pintpots?
Note they the quav’ring human blots
That drink like fathomless, vast jars :
What do they think, amid the sots ?
Watch they the merry, joking knots
Of men that come in cabs and cars :
What are their thoughts, those old Pintpots ?
Nod they and beam, betwixt the tots,
At salt brigades of thirsty tars :
What do they think, amid the sots ?
Are they contented with their lots,
’Mongst barmaid-smiles and barmaid-spars :
What are their thoughts, those old Pintpots ?
Tire they of Life’s old weary plots,
Its dudes, policemen, sons of Mars :
What do they think, amid the sots?
What are their thoughts, those old Pintpots?
V;
FRINT BAR


M‘DOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
M'DOUGALL BROS., 8 Spring 1 Street, Sydney^
Agents: 3XT.Z. L. Jtz. 3VT. A. Co., Ltd.. LOCAL AGENTS EVERYWHERE
WOOL
TO
SEND
YOUR
WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
lf you want to get the best possible results.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED CHARGES ON
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING' (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over Gd. per lb.,
the charges will be
On Wools realising Gd. and over 4d. per lb.
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under
WAY BILLS sent on application.
WOOL:
| per Cent).
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. Gd. per Bale.
Is. Gd. per Bale.
WHEAT.
•ccomtSon.* P<Sr ° en ‘- « 00 ”'<’* r6d *“> Unrivalled
POATqVn i ivrYua Ving Particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired,
this Company arG a ®®°^ P r °t ec ted under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of
fl^alessr
Sole Agents in New South v,. for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Buncle & Sons’ Chaffcutters.
Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
AGENTS FOR McPOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
THE MICA LUBRICANT CO., SOUTH SHIELDS, ENG.
Lubricants and Packings for all purposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 90%, in cost of lubrication, and keeps
bearings perfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice as long as ordinary, and are 25% lighter. They do
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate.
Sole Agent for Australasia : R. A. HE RVE Y. Depot, 171 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S. W.
HAVE THE
BEST.
fs
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operate!, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are two-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Steel Pickets
securely interwoven at any desired distance apart, forming a perfect Web Fence which wild hold
securely all kinds of Stock.
FOB CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS
“ CYCLONE ” WOVEN WIRE FENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
NEITHER CRACK
5806
CBB
SBO7
5803
NOR BORN.
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE.— Should any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Burn a
New One will be Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, Is. 2d.
Mick Simmons, haymarket, Sydney.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge s 3 E*er Cent, -fco the Growers.
BONUS | PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
“On Our Selection.” By “ Steele Rudd.”
A LETTER FROM A MINING ENGINEER.
“ Ontario,” Nicholson Street,
Burwood, N.S.W.,
March 8,1900.
Gentlemen, —
“On the Ist Sept., 1898, I became over-heated,
then suddenly exposed to a piercing cold wind, I
caught a chill, the result being that I was deprived
of robust health, and for about seven months my
life was despaired of. During this time I had been
through the hands of eight medical men in private
and public hospitals. The majority of them held
out no hope, some of them declaring that I had
kidney, liver, heart and lung troubles. In the last
Hospital, my medical attendant said 1 had Bright’s
Disease of the kidneys, that he could do nothing
for me, and that I had better be taken home, as I
could not recover. Rather a dark prospect this,
considering that, in addition to the troubles
enumerated above, I had dropsy to a fearful extent.
I had been tapped in the lower part of the abdomen
five times, several gallons of water being drawn off,
but all to no good purpose. In a few days after
being tapped, I swelled up in my legs, abdomen,
and stomach, larger than before. The dropsy
began to make its appearance in my hands and face.
My body swelled to that degree that I sickened to
look at myself, and many times wished I could die.
Friends who visited me sympathised and bid me,
as they believed, a last farewell. But an angel of
mercy came in the shape of Warner’s Safe Cure.
A lady friend strongly recommended me to give up
hospitals, doctors and medicines, and take only
Warner’s Safe Cure. On the 3rd April, 1899, I
began to take W arner’s Safe Cure. As soon as I
began to take this medicine my appetite began to
return. At the end of four weeks, when I had
drank four bottles of Safe. Cure, the water began to
come away. I reduced in circumference around
the abdomen from 54J inches to 41| inches, and my
legs reduced in proportion. I felt like a new man.
My spirits returned. I began to get regular sleep,
still reducing in size until not a vestige of lung,
kidney, liver or dropsy trouble could be seen or
felt. lam now in the best of health, and am firmly
convinced that Warner’s Safe Cure has, in God’s
hand, been the means of restoring my lost health
and strength. I would gladly write, talk, or sing
the praises of Warner’s Safe Cure, but will con-
clude by stating that I shall be only too happy to
answer any questions, either by letter or otherwise.
I feel I owe a duty to the world at large in making
known the almost miraculous cure effected in my
ease by Warner’s Safe Cure. I also feel a deep
debt of gratitude to the discoverer of Warner’s Safe
Cure, and trust this humble, unsolicited testimonial
may be made public for the benefit of suffering
humanity. lam well-known all over the Australian
Colonies, and my old mining contemporaries will
rejoice to learn of my restoration to health.”
S. E. RICHARDS,
Mining Engineer.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne, Vic.
WHEN YOU HAVE
READ THIS LETTER
yon will see that even Bright’s Disease
of the Kidneys can be cured by taking
■ ■■
■ ■
Warner’s Safe Cure is the only medi-
cine known to science which will CURE
Bright’s Disease, and not only does it
cure this most fatal of kidney diseases,
but it is a remedy for
Ull Kidney & Liver Diseases
and for all complaints arising from any
disability of the kidneys and liver to
properly perform their allotted task of
extracting from the blood the urinary
and biliary poisons, which, retained in
the system, are the cause of so much
suffering.
The following complaints all arise
from the retention in the system
of urinary and biliary poisons:
Rheumatism
General Debility
Bright’s Disease
Bladder Diseases
Blood Disorders
Sick Headache
Biliousness
Indigestion
Dyspepsia
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Lumbago
Anaemia
Gout
Gravel
WARNER’S
SAFE
CURE
Cures all these by restoring the kidneys
and liver to health when the causative
poisons are removed in a natural
manner.


TATTERSALL’S
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hotoart.
Demonstration H. October 1,
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
Caulfield C. Oct. 19.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
r —— l '«
To TATTERS ALL
Please allot me, in the above.
N ame
£
Address.
t
Caulfield C. (Special)
(DRAWN MORNING OF RACE)
?0 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name :
Address
±0 O,
£
t
:
Melbourne C. Nov. 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL,
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
A
Kame
Address.
»
Melbourne 0. (Special)
(DRAWN MORNING OF RACE)
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
s
MELBOURNE 0. November 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me_ shares in the
above.
Name
|| >. - ' ,
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circular
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
>:' S *


/angiekX
Detroleuim
/
EMULSION
y
WITH KYPCPHBSPHITES
FOR
DELICATE
CHILDREN.
CHILDREN all like Angier’s Emulsion
and take it readily when they cannot
be induced to take Cod-Liver Oil.
Bland, soothing, creamy, and a splendid
tonic, it is just what the little ones need,
and it is really marvellous in many cases
to note the rapid improvement in weight,
strength, and colour. Give it to the
children if they have a cough or a cold;
if they are pale and thin; if they are
scrofulous or ricketty; if their food does
not digest or their bowels are out of order.
The medical profession prescribe it largely
in such cases, and it is used in children’s
hospitals.
A FREE SAMPLE
On receipt of 4d. for postage.
Mention Sydney Bulletin.
Do not accept inferior imitations made with
ordinary Petroleum.
BE SURE TO GET ANGIER’S.
Of all Chemists & Drug Stores.
THE ANGIER CHE’ ICAL CO., LTD., SYDNEY, N.B.W.
WL
Losing your hair ? Do you bring out
b combful each morning ? Has it lost
its natural brightness ? Is it beginning
to look faded and dead?
Do you like this condition of things ?
Certainly not. Then stop this falling of
the hair at once. Stop it before your hair
is thin, short, and lifeless. Make your
hair beautiful, glossy, silky, abundant.
Ayer's Hair Vigor
Is a Hair Food.
When your hair is well nourished it
does not come out. ’Tis weak hair,
starved hair, that falls. It’s just so
with thin hair, short hair, rough hair.
Such hair needs feeding. This is why
Ayer’s Hair Vigor stops falling of the
hair.
If your hair is gray, and you don’t
care to look at thirty as if you were
sixty, then you should use Ayer’s Hair
Vigor. It always restores color to gray
hair, all the dark, rich, beautiful color
It had when you were young.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A
PurOlUtt'
cs u>lati j //s v
3fV»NS Wound?
COO6MS (pLPS «c
OF” ■'*
IMITATIONS 1
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
,1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Address —L. D.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirt-*
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
Australia!) WtGal ProVidcijt Society
MONET TO LEND
On securitj
curitv of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PBOJ 3 "[7 E S
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any tine.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HMAUfeSV,
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 IOSr
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
03T Send for a
Catalogue.
df
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest
H. HILLIEK. 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
WORLD
PLAYER’S
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
IP
WHOLESALE
Distributing; Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & CO. i
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Go.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Co. Ld.,
Brisbane
Burns, Phllp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand —
D. Benjamin & Co.,
Dunedin and Wellington
MOIRS
SEVILLE ORANGE
MARMALADE
In 1 lb. Rotnad Flat Tins.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
THE
‘PLUM’
sd
THE
‘PLUM’
pi ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
VjT ijk e a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
ede-e that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a 6d.
“ RAZOLEB ” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Priob
f Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a
si n g] e Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful oase, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
'Til Try It.”
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
gapillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Ourly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern ot Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers a. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
ffW* Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia
CRAIG & AITKEIVN:
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
tsT.S.'W. Carriage & Saddlery Mla,nf Compaaj-
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Rodforn, SYDNEY
When In town, pav us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, 01; any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, A 5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptio nof vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS knd SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not bo
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
(olose to Itedfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
fs
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.B.W. Railways, Station
£lO toy-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Spring: Rococo.
Here’s Spring from over the hills away !
Through a rift in the clouds the sunrise glows,
Where the Morning has lifted her skirt of grey
To give you a glimpse of dessous of rose.
)h, list to the waves with their soft lap-lap !
Oh, smell how the wattle-buds scent the air !
That’s Spring ! sweet Spring ! —’tis the giddy tap
Of her pavement-shoe—the scent in her hair.
She is floating up from the under-world
In a nimbus of tulles and mousselines sweet;
She treads on a cloud all spangled and pearled,
And milliner’s flowers spring under her feet.
A gentle wind from the Northern lands
Has frilled the waves, and, O merrily!
They beckon to her like little white hands
Over the shining, sequined sea.
’Tis Proserpine, in a sweet coiffure,
A modish gown, and a faultless glove ;
She has left her Lord of the dark allure,
To rejuvenate dress in the land of her love.
TAS.
ANDYS.
Leaf-Time.
Come out! Come out! the call is in the air,
The green is on the trees, and the winter rains are
over:
Come out! Come out! O lads and lasses fair !
To every tree its leaves, to every lass a lover.
The seal is off our blood, and the light is in our
eyes;
There’s sunshine on the hill, and there’s shadow in
the hollow,
And the call is on the air, and we cannot choose
but rise,
And the call goes on before us, and we cannot
choose but follow.
Now one man takes his canvas, for the woods are
full of charm;
And one his fishing-rod, and one a book of verses ;
But the best man of them all takes his girl upon
his arm,
And he may be right or wrong, but a pleasant
dream he nurses.
Come out! Come out! the air is sweet and new,
And two-score-years-and-ten to-day are one-and-
twenty;
Come out! Come out! the skies are clear and
blue,
And all the land is rich with gold in tropic
plenty.
Now one may seek his desk, hollow-cheeked and
leaden-eyed;
And one man store his hive, though not with
golden honey;
But the best man of them all throws the world’s
demands aside,
And he feels (he may be wrong) rich beyond the
power of money.
The spirit yearns for life, and the city gives it
death,
With hucksters everywhere, and shallow cynics
carping ;
But the woods are fresh and green, with good
balsams on their breath,
And all the land’s a harp—have ye never heard it
harping ?
Come out! Come out! the call is in the air,
The green is on the trees, and the winter rains
are over:
Come out! Come out! O lads and lasses fair !
To every tree its leaves, to every lass a lover.
N.S.W,
RODERIC QUINN.
Writes “ Stony B.’' :
Sydney publicans seek to bring about an agreement
with the object of abolishing counter-lunches, allegedly
to do away with unfair competition with boarding-houses,
&c. Real reason, of course, expense. Apropos, writer
saw man enter a Pitt-st. saloon t’other day ; he handed
over a bottle, which was filled with beer for 3d. Then he
walked over to side-table, took half a large loaf of bread
and a hunk of cheese. Putting the lot in a Gladstone-
bag, he walked out, manifestly pleased with himself.
Reputedly, he is worth a good deal of money, and cer-
tainly he is that sort of a man. My troubles, however,
if he had been worth a million so long as he had left me
the cheese. I had calculated on getting that, and was
wondering if it would go into my coat-pocket when it
vanished into the bag. As it was, I had to be content
with the half-loaf which the greedy scoundrel could not
take away with him.
A writer in the Australasian Medical
Gazette for Aug. deals with “ the Australian
Natives’ Association ”
He is sorry to find that a few N.S.W. medical men are
so foolish as to have anything to do with it. “Ifit is not
nipped in the bud in N.S.W. the profession will become
simply one joint in the tail of this many-jointed mon-
strosity, as it has done in Victoria. There it is simply a
curse to the medical profession. . . In Fitzroy they pay
the paltry sum of 12s. 6d. per annum ; while Foresters, at
whom they turn up their superior noses, pay 15s. . .
Not long ago this interesting combination of economy
and alleged patriotism offered highly-trained medical
women a whole eighteen-pence for attendance on all the
female members of their family for one year. The medical
women did what N.S.W. doctors ought to do—treated
them with the contempt they deserved. This society is
particularly objectionable—(l) because it is a-fraud, pre-
tending to be a great national and patriotic association,
whereas its real aim is to get a doctor’s services for a
shilling a visit and medicine at sixpence a bottle—teeth-
extractions being thrown in ; (2) as a Medical Aid Asso-
ciation is is the most objectionable in Australia.—(a)
because it systematically touts and canvasses for people
who are ordinarily private patients ; (b) because of the
intolerable bumptiousness and patronising airs of its
members. The efforts of the frog to pose as an ox were
not half so ridiculous as are the bastard attempts of this
medical sweating institution—our worst enemy in Aus-
tralia—to pose as a great national and patriotic institu-
tion. From all such ‘ patriotism,’ good Lord, deliver us.”


STRENGTH
FOR
THE
WEAK.
Dr. JAMES WILSON writes: “ I have thoroughly examined and tested Hale’s
nevrTatent Electric Belt, and I am satisfield that not only is it a genuine article, but
it generates an electric current capable of overcoming the resistance of the body. I
consider it a valuable agent, especially for ladies and gentlemen of tender skin, as no
metal substances come in contact with the body, and I am only too pleased to recom-
mend a genuine electric appliance.”
“ Dr. FOWLER presents his compliments to Messrs. Arthur Hale and Son, and
has much pleasure in stating that he has carefully examined their new improved
Electric Belt, and finds that it is perfectly genuine as to electric properties.”
Dr. DEWAR writes : “ I have examined Hale’s new Electric Belt, and find that
it is capable of generating a powerful electric current, although no metal substances
come in contact with the skin. I consider this a great improvement, as it prevents
the irritation so often caused by other appliances.”
PERCY NEWELL, L.R.0.5., L.R.C.P., writes: “There is no doubt about the
Electricity, as my patients constantly feel the current.”
“ THE MEDICAL MONTHLY,” August, 1893, says : “ The firm of Arthur Hale
and Son, of 105 Regent Street, London, W., has distinguished itself in the develop-
ment of electrical science as a medical agent. By an entirely new method of applica-
tion they have succeeded in producing an Electric Body Belt, which for comfort,
efficacy, and genuineness, is unquestionably far superior to any previous invention.
m
y
Hale & Son’s Improved and Patented Electro-Galvanic Belts and Appliances are
Nature’s Chief Restorers. Our Plain Belt, our Special Belt and Suspcnsor for Gentlemen,
and our Abdominal Belt for ladies are guaranteed to be the most Scientific and Genuine
Electric Appliances vet produced. They will speedily relieve and Cure Nervous Exhaus-
tion. Rheumatism, Pain and Weakness in the Back, impart tone and vigor to the whole nervous
svstem and make life a pleasure. We invite all sufferers, no matter what the disease or ailment may be,
to call or send for our Free Book, entitled, “Modern Treatment of Disease by Electricity.”
Consultation Free.
. n.■! TQKT ■ Irw '■■■■■' - ■■■■
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
105 Regent St., London, W.? and 44 OASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
Please mention this paper.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
Price 3d.
df
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSED
Bv Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic, Is 6d, post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
posted.
Ohini (Uy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevassf.’s Advice to a Motheb, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy. Is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man H s Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d posted.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, Is 3d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
I Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illns. My price, leather bound, 15s post paid.
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gust&ve Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Metal Working, Brazing, etc., Is 3d.
Send for my illustrated Big- Book
Catalogue oust free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydnev.
Hearae’s Bronchitis Core.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain <>i
Soreness in the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
fortinff in allavine irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption his
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficie.il-,
and a Complete Cure is certain. ... , _ ... m
El -RIFLES OIF 1 COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO GOLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED
BY ONE BOTTLE OF HE ARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE
“Orange, N.S.W.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portioir of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me. .
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was. -Yours’faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above:—
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. X suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
X was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Rearne’s. Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and?rapWv- ?necesBful under circumstances which
undoubtedly proveits distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty »rtine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
«*i used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but I am sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M‘DONALD, Trinkey, via
Qdirindi, N.S.W."
“Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine. -A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-sb., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
« My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that yeur Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
©
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
©
•• I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine. —JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
©
" I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.” _
9 ©
“I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous. —F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
•
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
“Kindly forward another bottle of.your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.-(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
©
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria."
9
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” 9
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD,
Brook! ands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
« please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
•
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
•• The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
*' Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequentlx
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s BronchitU
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recoin
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. Wo enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
" Wholesale Chemists."
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food for
Infants
9
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
. AND
THE AGED.


AUCTION S AIiSS.
The Imperial Hotel
. . AT . .
Victoria,
The CENTRE for TOURISTS to THE CAVES and THE
MANY ATTRACTIVE BEAUTY-SPOTS ON THE BLUE
MOUNTAINS.
TO BE SOLD AS A GOING CONCERN, with all the
Furniture, Plant, Vehicles, Horses, Windmill, &c., &c.
THE DEEDS are free from any mortgage or encumbrance,
and the property will be sold on easy terms at 5 per
cent., or for cash.
THE IMPERIAL HOTEL occupies an elevated and well-
chosen position, close to Mount Victoria Railway
Station, at an ALTITUDE of 3424 ft., 77 miles by rail
from Sydney.
THE BUILDING is of brick, 2 stories high, with hand-
some elevation, and has the necessary accommodation
for a large and lucrative business.
the ACCOMMODATION is as follows: — GROUND
FLOOR : Wide verandahs, vestibule entrance and
hall, large drawing-room, large dining-room, 10
good bedrooms, smoking-room, billiard-room, bar,
manager’s room, servants’ quarters, large kitchen, &c.
FIRST FLOOR : Balcony, private sitting-room, 11
bedrooms, linen-room, 2 bathrooms, and w.c.
Detached are large stone Stables (30 horses), Carriage-
house, coachman’s quarters, 5 closets, 2 men’s bath-
rooms, &c., &c.
THE IMPERIAL HOTEL is well furnished and equipped
throughout. EVERYTHING IN GOOD ORDER and
up-to-date. ELEVEN CONVEYANCES (Drag,
Sociable, Buggies, Sulky) are included in the sale,
and about 25 HORSES, Harness, &c., &c.
THE LAND, under Torrens Title, has an area of over
twelve (12) acres, with extensive frontages to
STATION-STREET, the MAIN BATHURST-ROAD,
and the RAILWAY.
AISU,
The Property known as the HALFWAY HOUSE, 18 miles
from the Imperial, on the road to the CAV. S, about
180 acres of C.P. Land, with COTTAGE of 5 bed-
rooms, 1 dining-room, bar, kitchen, and stables. This
Property is used in connection with the large direct
TOURIST TRAFFIC to the CAVES, which attracts
so many visitors staying here for lunch and changing
horses.
UARDIE AND GORMAN have received instructions
■ ■ from Mrs. Beaumont to sell by auction at their
Rooms, 133 Pitt-street, Sydney, at 11.30 o’clock on
Wednesday, 23rd October, 1901.
THE IMPERIAL HOTEL and THE HALFWAY HOUSE
Properties, as before described, IN ONE LOT.
FULL PARTICULARS and orders to inspect on appli-
cation to the Auctioneers.
It is not necessary to enlarge on the business possi-
bilities of the Imperial under the control of a smart
business man, as the property is well known throughout
the States and abroad.
Business Announcements.
I—rctTv;1 —rctTv;
SPOONER’S
u
m
SPOONERS
C4>*
V ?©'
INTENT LEATHER SOOT'S
iCLAZEO RIOS &?
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream,
For Cleaning' and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottlt), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc
sd
Tail g. Plaits.
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS and PLAITS,
20in. long, 5/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6 ; 21in.,
10/6 ; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address”:— W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLIAM-ST., Corner of Palmer-st.,
Sydney. Cable trams ivill stop at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
try orders. Wigs made on shortest notice.
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY
THERAPIOIM. Jm
popular remedy, as employed in the Continental Hospi-
tals by Ricord, Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others,
combines all the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of
the kind, and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1 maintains its world-renowned
and well-merited reputation for derangements of the
kidneys, pains in the back, and kindred ailments, afford-
ing prompt relief where other well-tried remedies have
been powerless.
THERAPION No. 2, for impurity of the blood,
scurvy, pimples, spots, blotches, pains and swellings of
the joints, gout, rheumatism, and all diseases for which
it has been too much a fashion to employ mercury, sarsa-
parilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’ teeth and ruin
of health. This preparation purifies the whole system
through the blood, and thoroughly eliminates every
poisonous matter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3, for exhaustion, sleeplessness,
and all the distressing consequences of dissipation, worry,
overwork, etc. It possesses surprising power in restoring
strength and vigor to those suffering from the enervating
influences of long residences in hot, unhealthy climates.
|i p n ADI A| ma y t> e procured of the
I ■■ E> ITi principal Chemists and
Merchants throughout the world. Price in England, 2s. 9d.
and 4s. 6d. In ordering state which of the three numbers
is required, and observe that the word “ Therapion ”
appears on the British Government Stamp (in white
letters on a red ground) affixed to every genuine package
by order of His Majesty’s Hon. Commissioners, and with-
out which it is a forgery.
GEIMTS.^*
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— L.D.l-i 300 Collins Bt., Melbourne
usiness Announcements.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character), That Hideous
Dancing Skeleton (turns himself inside out), Mafeking
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Spider and the Fly
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X7lB George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
PHOSFERINE
The Greatest of all Tonics.
/
SPF
3^
Phosferine is the most powerful Nerve and Recuperative
Tonic known. It removes Mental Depression, want of Tone and
Nerve Power. It has remarkable Health-giving, Strength-giving,
Energising, and Rejuvenating properties.
No other Medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions, and
in giving back to the prematurely aged New Life and Energy.
It is an unfailing remedy for Neuralgia, Nervous Dys-
pepsia, Anaemia, Brain-Fag, Depression, Impoverished Blood,
Rheumatism, Sleeplessness, Indigestion, Influenza, Nervous
Headaches, Debility, and all disorders consequent upon a
reduced state of the nervous system.
ROYAL COMMANDS.
Pkosferine enjoys the distinguished honour of having been supplied by commands to
MEMBERS OF THE BRITISH ROYAL FAMILY.
HH HH
R W H H H
.I.M. the Empress of Russia.
.M. the King of Greece.
.M. the Queen of Roumania.
.I.M. the Dowager Empress of Russia
. S. H. the Hereditary Princess oiLeiningen
HHMHM
W H H H HH
I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of Russia.
R.H. the Crown Princess of Roumania.
I.H. the Grand Duchess Serge of Russia.
R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse.
I. H. the Grand Duchess Xenia of Russia.
And the principal Royalty and Aristocracy throughout the World.
No other Medicine has been awarded this unique distinction of Royal favor,
and it speaks volumes for the wonderful restorative properties of Fhosferine.
CURES
Neuralgia,
Sciatica,
Lumbago,
Gout,
Rheumatism,
Impaired
Vitality,
Debility,
Brain Fag,
Weakness,
Nervous
Exhaustion,
Melancholia,
Impaired
Digestion, etc.
w
v
A
Vitalizing*
Tonic,
Imparting
New Life
and
Energy
to the
Entire
System.
CAUTION.
GENUINE PHOSFERINL
Ashton & Parsons, Ld., 17 Farringdon Road, London,
the original and only genuine makers of PHOSFERINE find it necessary to
put the public on their guard against mendacious imitations of their well-known
medicine that are being offered for the sake of extra profit.
It is necessary, when purchasing Phosferine, to see that it bears the name of
the genuine makers, viz. :
Ashton & Parsons, Ltd., 17 Farringdon Road, London
Price in Great Britain, Bottles, 1/H, 2/9 and 4/6«
!PP~ The 2/9 size contains nearly four times the 1/1£ size.
The Genuine Phosferine can be obtained from Washington H.
Soul & Co., Pitt Street, Sydney, and all respectable Chemists.
Wholesale Agents: SAYERS, ALLPORT & CO., SYDNEY.
C. BRANDAUER & Go.’s)
Circular-Pointed Pens. '
Seven Prize Medals Awarded
Neither scratch nor spurt, the
points being rounded by a new
process.
Attention is also
drawn to their
new
“GRADUATED
SERIES Of PENS.”
Each pattern being made in four degrees
of flexibility and Faints.
fs
1
isk your Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either series. Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
THE
Louis’ Velveteen.
NOTE WELL! —Each Yard of Genuine “ LOUIS ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L"0“U"l"S an d in no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
Treasurer Butler, of S.A., in framing hia
estimates, calculated on the basis of a 7-bushel
harvest. Four years ago it got down to under
two bushels. Since then there has been every
year an improvement, chiefly due to the freer use
of artificial fertilisers. This year 750,000 acres
have been treated more or less scientifically with
phosphates.
Unless the census figures lie, it is untrue—•
despite all the loose talk and writing—that the
“poor farmer” is being dried out of the Far
North of S. A., and is gradually trekking South.
On the contrary, there was in the la-t 1U years a
bigger increase in area under cultivation in the
upper North than in any other except-one of the
dust-province’s five, divisions. Present total cul-
tivated area for all S.A. is 3,279,,i87ac., against
2,649,098 ac. 10 years back.
At a recent meeting of .fruit-growers at
Dural, N.S.W., Mr. Donnelly Fisher said that
jam in the State was largely made from turnips
and pumpkins, with a little fruit for flavoring pur-
poses. The manager of the big Sydney firm of
Taylor Bros, accordingly writes to the press :
“I challenge Mr. Fisher to prove that there is
adulteration in any form in the 30 or so varieties
of jams and preserves that we now have on the
market.” This is no uncertain sound ; but it will
be interesting to observe how many jam-manufac-
turers ivon’t follow the example of challenging in-
vestigation.
Robert Douglas, sentenced to “life”
in Maoriland, confessed afterwards to the pre-
vious murder of a Mrs. Pain, in Wairarapa.
He happened to have been the last person seen in
her company. They had gone fishing together,
and Douglas returned alone, saying the woman
had gone to a relative’s. A search discovered the
body in a few feet of water in a gully. The
woman was subject to fits, and the presumption
was that when seized she rolled into the pool. At
his trial on this charge Douglas, despite his pre-
vious confession, pleaded not guilty and was
defended. Close examination of the incidental
circumstances showed that he hadn’t killed the
woman, and the jury found accordingly. The
trial was expensive to the Crown, but it was a
gleam of sunshine in the prisoner’s monotonous
life. He had apparently at first wanted to get
roped, but thought better of it. Apropos, a cer-
tain nice young man, under arrest in Sydney on
various charges, once confessed to the murder of
one Hawkins at Kaiwarra (M.L.) —the crime for
which the subsequently-released Louis Chemis
was then confined—but on investigation his cir-
cumstantial story was found to be all flam.
The other day a Maoriland police-inspec-
tor actually defended a prisoner against the accu-
sation of a hysterical woman. Prosecutrix
charged a poor old tramp with being the man
about whom she had related many fairy tales—the
man who was addicted to burning her barn, jump-
ing wire fences and ditches, running away like a
deer when he had done his evil deeds, and grossly
abusing her. Finally she charged him with break-
ing open a box and stealing jewellery (this she had
seen herself). She again identified him in gaol.
Inspector Kiely then opened out on her,
bringing witnesses to prove the man’s state-
ment that he was -many miles away when these
alleged horrors didn’t happen, and he also
led accused out of the dock and walked the poor,
old, shambling, unkempt wreck around the court.
“This is the hurdle - racer and steeplechase-
jumper,” he said, “ and we’ve had four constables
and 50 civilians hunting for him for weeks past.”
He asked the Court to dismiss the charge, which
was done. Kiely won’t do well as a prosecutor, for
he bailed-up everyone in court, including magis-
trate, for something “ to buy oats for the lepper,”
and sent him away happy. But still there are no
signs of any perjury-prosecution. To females of
that sort the Law gives a “ heads-I-win-tails-you-
lose ” ticket.
Re b tat cabled proposal to abolish 30 of
the Irish seats in the House, of Commons. Ireland
is certainly over-represented in the Commons, and
England and Scotland under-represented, and the
English papers rub in this fact with great vigor.
But in the whole Parliament Ireland is shame-
fully under-represented. This is how things are
arranged:— Every English peer has a seat in
Parliament, together with 26 English bishops and
archbishops ; 16 elected Scotch and 28 Irish peers
have seats in the same more or less august body.
A number of Scotch and Irish peers get in as peers
of the United Kingdom, but while the English
nobility gets there en masse , 18 Scotch and 62 Irish
peers are shut out. If Ireland ever gets a fair
deal it will have more representatives in the whole
Parliament instead of less. Meanwhile, England
has the best end of the bargain, and does all the
lamentation.
Constance Clyde writes on a woman-suf-
frage matter:
There were a fair number of women at Mr. Gandon’s
anti-woman-suffrage diatribe in Sydney School of Arts
t’other day, and most of them said wrathful things in
low tones (one of them remarked “Rats!”) when the
lecturer reverted to that good old “ bosom of the family”
that is going to be disturbed by the political serpent, and
said that women were already represented in Parliament.
Whereat several women observed that “no man was
representing them.” The ridiculous Franchise argument
that women are entitled to the vote because Victoria
governed well was met by the equally ridiculous counter
objection that when the Prince Consort died, the Queen
confessed to someone that she felt “ utterly desolate ”
thus proving that she could not stand alone. If Victoria
had declared that she didn’t mind the Prince dying,
Mr. G. would doubtless have said that politics had hard-
ened her, and would have got his argument in that way.
The lecturer then airily alluded to the alleged wrongs of
women as being merely relics of old feudalism that would
soon be swept away, after which he smote the women-
suffragists of America, because, in a generation or so,
they had secured a vote in only four States. Apparently,
in the other 41 States, man is struggling pretty hard to
prevent the relics of feudalism being swept away any
earlier than can be avoided. The lecturer then made the
usual observations on political power resting on physical
force, but did not propose to put the weak men off the
rolls or the unusually strong women on. He also remarked
that, if they won their rights, they would lose their privi-
leges, upon which some of the feminine part of the audi-
ence said they hadn’t any as it was. Mr. Gandon is an
interesting lecturer and speaks well, but, as an anti-
suffragist, he is not to be taken seriously. Another of
his arguments against the vote was the fact that he had
noticed, with great pain, that “ women occasionally
sneered at one another.” Mr. Gandon is evidently a man
of observation.


GALKIN CUPEL MACHINES.
Calkin’s Automatic Cupel Machine.
Will make 600 cupels of uniform size
and density in an hour.
The only absolutely satisfactory machine
made.
Made in three designs—Automatic, Table
and Wall.
The automatic machines will make five sizes.
The table and wall machines from one to
three sizes, depending on dies furnished.
Machines for one size only at propor-
tionately less price.
Write for full particulars to
SOLE AGENTS-
pirke s cues campnny etd.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
Importers of modern appliances for Assayers—Furnaces,
Blowers, Sampling Machines, Ore Crushers, etc., etc.
df
Richly Engraved Cases (20 Designs).
Extra Btrong Keyless Watches.
Oct. Gold. 14ct. 18ct. Silver.
£3/10/. £4/10/. £5/10/. £l/15/
The G. & 8. A.
Ladies’ Keyless
WATCHES
ARE ACCURATE
) TIMEKEEPERS.
We keep them in
order (breakages
excepted) for 3
years, and guaran
tee them for 25
years.
ART
Jewellers;
he.
90 Kmc ST
Sydney.
svd
Richly Engraved Cases (20 Designs).
Cenuine Waltham Watches.
lOct. Gold. 14ct. 18cfc. Silver.
£5/10/. £7/10/. £9/10/. £3.
it
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
“Dodge” Standard
[jjood Split pulleys
All Sizes kept in Stock*
SOLE AGENTS:
N. (SUTHRIP(S€ Ltd.,
71 Clarence St., Sydney.
SEND FOR CATALOG.-** l
Sore Eyes! Blight!
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails. Restores Eyelashes .
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS*
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STA
BR
A
Federal
Spirit
that
will
build
up
a
Splendid
Constitution.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
fs
E TTES.
HIGHEST AWARD-GOLD MEDAL—PARIS EXHIBITION, 1900,
3,4
For INFANTS
and INVALIDS!”
MELLIN’S FOOD yields a complete diet for the youngest
infants, in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD retains its properties for any length of
time and is adapted for use in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD when dissolved in milk, makes a simple
nutritious diet for growing children.
Samples etc., may be obtained of GOUIN & Co., 172, Clarence Street, Sydney, 562-4, Bourke
Street, Melbourne, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, and Wellington.
Mellin’s Food Company for Australia and New Zealand Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, London.
MELLIN'S EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS,
and BRONCHITIS.
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & CO., 172 Clarence Street, Sydney.
dfs
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, £3 3s. per week
or apartments may be secured separately by the
day from 355. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and
all Particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
PRIZE MEDAL DRESSING.
HAUTHAWAY’S
PEERLESS GLOSS
takes first prize medals at Boston, Vienna, London, Phila-
delphia, Melbourne, and all other leading cities, for pro-
ducing the finest possible polish, and absolute freedom
from all substances injurious to the leather.
It is the favorite dressing of the world for
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
shoes, as it is easily applied, retains its brilliancy, and will
not rub off and soil garments. Try it once and yo.u will
use it always. Sold nearly everywhere. Made only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS,
BOSTON, MASS.
U. S. A.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES m Best onlv 01 SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vot. 22.—N0. 1126.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1001.
Price 6d.
HE DAREN’T REFUSE.
The Woman Suffrage Bill, passed by the Assembly, is now before N.S.W Leg Council
THE MAN UNDER THE BED : “OURS, MY DEAR WOMAN, BY ALL MEANS!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Maoleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly .7. ... ... U b b
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Mao rit and.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
■SI, with 2s. 2d. adtied for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lid. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with pottage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., andgfl Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to 3. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this pager are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in lilack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion -only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1901.
A Nigger-State Politician’s Extraordi-
nary Yearning for a White Australia.
Tub immigration into the Commonwealth of the persons
described in any rf the following paragraphs of this
sec.ion (hereinafter called “prohibited immigrants”) is
prohibited, namely ( a) Any person who, WHEN
ASKED TO DO SO BY AN OFFICER, fails to write out
and sign in the presence of the officer a passage of fifty
words in length in the English language dictated by the
officer. —Immigration Restriction Bill, Clause 4.
Last week Premier Philp, of Queensland,
lodged his formal protest and objection
agiinst the above clause—which is practi-
cally the only debatable clause—in the
Federal Immigration Restriction Bill.
Philp, this time, is not ostensibly wailing
about his prospectively-lost nigger. It is
the white immigrant that he professes to be
troubled about, and the wail of Philp (who
is a crude and tangled person and puts about
117 words in a single sentence) is as follows :
Had such a test been in application here at an earlier
period a large number of those who have contributed
most to the industrial progress of Queensland would have
been excluded from admission to her territory. I refer
especially to our German and Scandinavian settlers,
whose utility as colonists has been such as to render it
very desirable that the introduction of immigrants from
Germany, Scandinavia, and other European countries,
should not only not be checked, but should in every way
be encouraged. That the proposed test will operate to
the discouragement, and even to the virtual cessation of
immigration from those countries to this part of the
world is too obvious to require argument, and this
Government would all the more strongly object to the
imposition of a test, which, while it excluded a class of
settlers who woul 1 be a great acquisition to the com-
munity, would, at the same time, admit numbers of
individuals belonging to less civilised races, whose sole
qualification would be theirj ability to pass a certain
s iperficial language examination, but who would be
devoid of the very qualities which would render those
other “prohibited immigrants” a valuable factor in the
development of our industries.
I would, therefore, anxiously commend to your con-
sideration the desirableness of either withdrawing the
sub-section referred to, or of modifying it in such a way
as will prevent it operating to the exclusion of European
immigrants, against whom no objection can be made,
except their ignorance, on arrival, of the language of the
country.
* * * *
All over Australia, just now, the Black and
Yellow Labor advocates are travelling on the
same thin and silly pretence which Philp em-
bodies in the above letter. Some of them
are interested knaves who, to their own full
knowledge, are trying to mislead the people
by informing them that the Immigration
Restriction Bill contains provisions which
are not in it, and which no sane or sober
individual ever dreamt of putting in it.
Some other of the objectors are just fools,
on whom the English language is wasted.
The rest are dull and imitative persons, who
write frantically to the papers on hearsay,
and without personal investigation. It is
one of the misfortunes of this country
that it has to give a vote to persons like
Philp, wliose lack of an ordinary capacity
for comprehending large print is thinly dis-
guised by a black coat and a tall hat and a
certain social status. This is assuming that
Piiilp’s objection is an honest one—which is
a highly improbable assumption.
* * ♦ •
When clause 4 of the Immigration Re-
striction Bill was drafted, the Commonwealth
Government was in a difficult situation.
What it and the party it represented really
desired was to insert a clause somewhat to
this effect :
The black, yellow, or brown person from Africa, Asia,
or Polynesia shall not be allowed to enter the Common-
wealth on any terms whatever.
Unfortunately, however, Australia is not
a free country. It is part of an Empire, the
population of which is something like 90 per
cent, nigger. It is a section of the greatest
nigger State in the world, and the policy of
Britain is largely dictated by its nigger
interests and by nigger considerations. And
the British Government has broadly intim-
ated that no such clause as the above would
receive the royal sanction. It insists on
keeping up the pretence that the Anglo-
Saxon type isn’t worth preserving, and that
nobody wants to preserve it ; that the
Anglo-Saxon traditions don’t amount to any-
thing, and that it isn’t worth while to be
white. But it has intimated that the black
man may be kept out obliquely, by an edu-
cational test, provided the test doesn’t pro-
fess to be aimed at him directly and exclu-
sively. It explained this matter to Natal
years ago, and it explains the same matter
to Australia now. So the educational test
was devised as a necessary concession to the
prejudices of a race which denies its colored
subjects all semblance of self-governing
powers because they are inferior, and yet
professes to be shocked at any suggestion of
their inferiority. Of course, as a matter of
strict honesty, Clause 4 should have read
somewhat after this fashion :
The immigration into the Commonwealth of the per-
sons described in any of the following paragraphs of this
section (hereinafter called “prohibited immigrants”) is
prohibited namely :
(a) Any person who, when asked to do so by an officer,
fails to write out and sign in the presence of the officer a
passage of fifty words in length in the English language
dictated by the officer.
(b) The immigrant has only to write out the passage
when asked to do so by an officer. The officer will be con-
fidentially instructed as to when he is to ask and when he
isn’t. He will not ask the desirable European immigrant
on any account. But the Asiatic and African will be met
with a passage of such complexity and erudition and with
such large polysyllables in it that he will go down every
time.
* • * •
The addition of sub-section b would have
brought the matter within even Premier
Philp’s comprehension, supposing Premier
Philp is the simple, gushing child of Nature
that he professes to be. But, unhappily, it
would also have made the clause just the
kind of clause which the nigger-loving
British Government has declared to be inad-
missible. It would have burst up the pious
hypocrisy about treating the black man as an
equal and a brother. It would have un-
covered the fact which Joseph Chamberlain
insists on veiling with the cloak of snuffle and
the thin rag of concealment—that Australia
wants to remain white, and that it has just
the same objection to seeing its people
intermarry with Asiatics as the British royal
family has to intermarriage with the Jap.
royal family, or as Chamberlain himself
would have to seeing his daughter wedded to
a negro. The clause as it stands is a
purely permissive one, which allows a test to
be applied, but doesn’t order that it shall be
applied indiscriminately. If Premier Philp
and his fellow nigger advocates can’t under-
stand such a simple thing so simply
expressed, then their mental condition is
barren in the extreme. It is nearly certain,
however, that they do understand it, and their
affected grief about shutting out the desirable
German, Scandinavian, Frenchman, Italian
or Spaniard who is not going to be shut out
is only a dull hypocrisy. It has been broadly
intimated to this country that legislation
professing to exclude the Asiatic, simply as
an Asiatic, will be vetoed in England, and
nobody knows that fact better than Philp.
To propose an educational test, and then
openly exclude European races from the
test as Philp demands, would acknowledge
the measure as one for the exclusion of
Asiatics, and destroy its chance of gaining
the royal assent, and of that fact also Philp
is aware. And it is impossible for the
Federal Parliament to give Philp an open
and public and definite assurance that the
Act won’t be applied to Europeans without
publicly branding it as an Act for the exclu-
sion of Asiatics and other niggers, merely be-
cause they are Asiatics and other niggers, and
that public intimation would probably bring
the royal veto down on the measure. Philp is
also aware of this, or, if he isn’t, he is such a
painfully clumsy and ignorant person that his
existence as a public character is a calamity.
Under these circumstances, Philp stands
f( r h as a person who holds a brief for the
Chinaman, but hasn’t the courage to say so—
with the reservation that he may, as an act
of charity, be alternatively regarded as a
person of limited understanding.
» * * *
Premier Philp is not troubled, so far as
concerns the Immigration Restriction Bill,
about his Kanaka, said to be essential to
the Queensland sugar industry, for the Bill
does not apply to the Kanaka; that
undesirable islander is to be sepa-
rately dealt with. Neither is he troubled,
as he pretends, about the desirable European
immigrant, unless lie is the boss ignoramus
among the six State Premiers. The
other States are equally interested in admit-
ting the desirable European, but recognising
that he will come in just as before, and
having no Chinese interests in the back-
ground, they are content. The solitary dis-
sentient is Philp. the friend of the Hindoo,
the Chow, the Japanese, Maui la-man, and
every other cheap and objectionable colored
alien. And Philp, in his alleged anxiety
about the desirable white immigrant whose
exclusion has never been contemplated,
wants the measure put in a shape which, as
Australia has already been informed, would
ensure its rejection in England. Where-
upon Philp’s beloved Asiatic would continue
to arrive in shoals, without Philp being
responsible for his arrival. While Philp’s
black man poured in Philp would pose as
the man who was more anxious than all
other politicians to let in lots of desirable
white men, and to usp them as materials
to build up a White Australia, and out of his
alleged intense anxiety fora White Australia
his beloved Black Australia and Piebald
Australia would boom greatly. When the
boss of the great Black Labor State becomes
so anxious to let in the white man (whom
nobody proposed to obstruct) that he can’t
bear to take the only immediately available
means of keeping the black man out, it isn’t
good to take nigger-loving politicians too
seriously.
Tuberculosis—and its Friends.
Editor Bulletin.— ln the Argus of July 29 Dr.
Duncan Turner, of Melbourne, medical officer and
general panjandrum to the sanatorium for con.su rnp-
tives, made a statement containing more potential-
ity for mischief than a whole year’s prattle from an
irresponsible layman. Dr. Turner is supposed to
speak as an expert on tuberculosis, and ex officio
should certainly be able to do so. Nevertheless,
in reply to a protest from the residents of Echuca
against the dangerous habit of promiscuous ex-
pectoration by consumptives from his institution
he made the extraordinary assertion that “there
is no evidence in existence which proves that con-
sumption is propagated by the dried expectora-
tion of patients.” This remarkable declaration
from one who is supposed to know what he is
talking about has set back by years the efforts of
those working against the tubercle fiend, and it is
no exaggeration to say that if the medical gentle-
man in question had loosed off a Maxim gun in
Collins-street at noon the butcher’s bill would
have been a mere trifle in comparison
to the effect of his pen in possibly
leading to neglect of proper disinfection of the
expectoration of tubercular patients.
• * * *
With a tubercular death-rate as high as that of
present-day Australia, the subject cannot be dis-
missed by any such unsupported assertions. Dr.
Turner has not thought fit to bring forward any
evidence against the doctrine of transihissibility
by such means (a windy pamphlet issued some
years back cannot be regarded from a serious
scientific standpoint), nor has he replied to the
sharp denial of his assertion by Dr. Gresswell,
the leading Australian authority, in Public
Health. In one or other of its protean forms
tubercle kills one in every jive Australians, and a
leading European authority has stated that it is
the only factor now evident which threatens the
extinction of the entire human race. Not, of
course, by “consumption” alone. There is a
widely-spread popular idea that tuberculosis
always means tubercle of the lungs or throat, but
it cannot be too often repeated that tubercle may
affect any portion of the body. Consumption alone
is annually responsible for more deaths in Australia
than are claimed by typhoid, scarlet-fever, diphthe-
ria and measles combined, and when to it are added
tubercular meningitis (tubercle of the brain-mem-
branes), tubercular peritonitis, scrofula, tubercu-
lar joints (white swelling), and the creeping horror
of lupus, the dreadful importance of the thing
becomes more apparent. Spinal disease, whence
came the crooked dwarfs and cripples with twisted
backs, is another manifestation, and the list could
stretch to a score more of horrible and hopeless
maladies all directly due to the same cause.
¥ * * *
Into this turmoil of sick and suffering humanity
over which hundreds of scientists have been work-
ing for 40 years, there comes Dr. Turner with his
cheerful statement of non-infectivity, and his utter
disregard of the abundant proof of the doctrine he
so airily negatives. A few instances drawn at
random from the enormous mass of evidence prov-
ing such infectivity may be of interest. One
classic experimenter on the subject found that
dust from wards containing consumptive patients
who used precautions against the dissemination
of tubercle, when injected into animals produced
no effect, but the injections of similar dust from
wards where no such precautions were adopted re-
sulted in tubercular disease and death. Instances
of actual infection of relatives by consumptive
patients are known to almost every practising
medical man from his own experience, and
there is no need to dwell upon them, One
remakable case which may be related here is
recorded bv Cornet, wherein a soldier, invalided
home for consumption, was accustomed to expec-
torate about a yard where a number of fowls were
kept. The matter was eaten by the fowls, and
after his death the birds were bought by a woman
living some distance away. She killed and ate
them, undercooked, as was proved by several
observers, and, although previously a healthy
woman, died in two years from consumption. The
awful records of the Catholic nursing orders of
Prussia, where the nuns occupied rooms which
had been infected and reinfected for years, forms
an instance in point. Three-fourths of the deaths
among these women were due to tuberculosis, and
the general death-rate was between four and five
times that of the State in general. Although re-
quired to possess a certificate of first-class health
on joining the order (the average age at entry
being 25), the average age at death was 36’27
years. In other words, the expectation of life of
a healthy woman of 25 on entering this haunt of
tubercle was a fraction over 11 years, as compared
to SSI years outside—thus placing her on a leve
with an ordinary healthy woman of 64 !
* * • •
Note the difference at the present day. Within
three years the careful observation of cleanliness
with regard to expectoration, and the thorough
disinfection of buildings and fittings, so reduced
the tubercular death-rate that it at present
corresponds with that of nurses in general, a
fraction above the outside population. The in-
fection of animals by dust containing tubercle
bacilli, whether by inhalation, injection, or feed-
ing is now the commonest of laboratory experi-
ments, and the virulence of dried sputum can be
demonstrated by the crudest experimenter. It is
scarcely conceivable that so common-sense a pro-
cess can be reasonably denied, capable as it is of
being proved anew at any time in any bacterio-
logical laboratory.
• * * *
Unluckily, the Turner manifesto has arrived
coincidently with the probably-g übled cable
reports of certain apparently revolutionary state-
ments made by Professor Koch against the trans-
missibility of tuberculosis by food. Pending
fuller reports no judgment can be formed as to
the nature of Koch’s experiments ; but the public,
ever ready to swallow any sensational asseveration
of the cable-liar, has got a dim idea that “the
best doctors say consumption isn’t catching,” a
notion capable of doing unspeakable harm. The
extreme freedom of Jews from tubercular disease
has been proved to have a definite connection
with their rigorous system of meat-inspec-
tion, and of annual house-cleaning. Not
only is the house cleansed in Western
fashion, but even the books are opened, dusted
and shaken at least once a year in all strictly-con-
forming Hebrew households. The sanitary import-
ance of such a procedure cannot be overrated,
and it is a curious fact that those Jews who are
lax in their observances supply the great majority
of tubercular Hebrews. The extreme rarity of
twisted spines and scrofula among Jewish children
is well known, and during an inquiry some years
ago in N.S. Wales by Dr. MaoLauiun, he found
that out of over 4000 Jews only one had died of
consumption in three years. It has been esti-
mated by Dr. Heron that fully 4 per cent, of
animals indiscriminately slaughtered for food are
infected with tubercle ; and that other animals can
be infected by the ingestion of such food lias been
demonstrated over and over again in a hundred
laboratories. The revelations of a few days at
any abattoirs will be sufficient to dower any
doubting layman with some remarkably vivid
ideas on the subject, and a marked distaste for
all but properly-inspected meat.
* * * *
It so happens that tubercle is an eminently
curable disease. There are few adults of 40 and
over, whose lungs will not show, on close examina-
tion, the scars of one or more suppressed invasions
of tubercle; and these can only represent a few
of the potential invasions to which the individual
has been subjected. The only common-sense way
of combating such a foe is to diminish its num-
bers, and upon this is based the only hopeful
plan for the ultimate stamping-out of tubercle.
The present available means are as follows
(1) All dairy cattle to be tested with tuberculin, and all
meat inspected after killing by a skilled official. Diseased
cattle or meat to be at once destroyed.
(2) Promiscuous expectoration to be made a legal
offence.
(3) All cases of tubercle to be notified to the central
health Eiuthorities, and all precautions against dissemina-
tion of the disease (disinfection of handkerchiefs, use of
spittoons, &c.) to be enforced.
(4) Tubercular mothers or wetnurses not to be allowed
to suckle children.
(5) Erection of proper sanatoria by the authorities for
the reception of consumptives, and’ notification of ship-
ping companies and hotels when such patients are
travelling.
With such legislation to serve as a basis from
which to deal with the disease, Australia may
someday come to be looked upon as a civilised
progressive, country. Under the present system
of parochialism in health affairs she is fast becom-
ing a breeding-bed for variegated disease. —
PuYYAKA.
Queensland Pastoral Leases.
A Queenslander writes on this burning question :
Referring further to the extension of these—the leases
under review were granted under the 1884 Act and its
amending Act of two years later. Portions of all runs,
varying from one-fourth to one-half, have since hec-n
resumed by Government. For the remainder, 21-years’
title was granted, subject to the Government resumption
of a fourth at the end of 15 years—compensation for
improvements to be paid by the man who secured the
resumed portion. All leases would have fallen due
approximately in 1908, but the Extension Act of 1892
gave a further seven years to lessees who enclosed their
runs with rabbit-proof fencing. Practically all the runs to
the south of the Central Railway were brought under this
Act by the lessees. The Extension Act leases fall in in
1915, and all other leases in 1908. But the resumption
of a fourth of ALL leases can be made in 1902. The
desired extension, therefore, affects three-fourths the
area of all existing leases. As they stand at present, 25
per cent, of every lease will have to be surrendered next
year, and the remaining portions in seven or fourteen
years, the latter term applying, of course, to the Exten-
sion Act Leases. The pastoralists ask that the shorter
leases be extended, so that 25 per cent, of the area may
be resumed next year ; 18 per cent, in 1908, 19 per cent,
in 1915, 19 per cent, in 1922, and 19 per cent, in 1929.
For the Extension Act leases which fall in in 14 years’
time they ask for the resumption of 25 per cent, next
year as agreed upon, 18 per cent, in 1915, 19 per cent, in
1922, 19 per cent, in 1929, and 19 per cent, in 1936. So
that they propose to surrender 25 per cent, of their lease-
hold area in 1902, and 18 per cent, (instead of the
remaining 75 per cent, as agreed upon) at the end
of the present leases. The average extension they
ask for, therefore, is 14 years for 57 per cent,
of their leases. (The only cause for surprise
is that they didn’t ask for the balance of the century rent
free.) It needs some cool consideration before one can
grasp the full length and breadth of a request of this sort,
where a body of mostly absentee pastoralists beseech a
Benevolent Government for succour and then calmly tell
that Benevolent Government that the required succour
must take the form of locking up all the best lands of tne
State for 28 and 35 years ahead respectively. It is hard
to decide which item is the more worthy of enthusiastic
admiration—the unblushing “ neck ” of the absentee cor-
porations in preferring the request, or the outrageous
effrontery of their Parliamentary nominees who have
advocated the granting of it.
* * » •
The necessity and advantage to the State of fostering
legitimate grazing farming by local owners, as against the
holding of immense, often ill-managed and practically
unpopulated areas by mostly absentee pastoral lessees,
cannot be too strongly emphasised. If the figures and
experience of the past 10 years are taken as a guide—and
the comparison is a very fair one—then we have an
assured certainty that practically all the land comprised
in the present leases will be required for that most
desirable form of settlement, the grazing farm, within the
next 20 years. In fact the scarcity of ground at present
for this purpose would have forced the question into a
more prominent position than it occupies had not the
drought descended to the aid of the pastoralist and pro-
vided him with a shield behind which he has since
sheltered himself. All the available ground for legitimate
grazing farming is occupied. There is not sufficient
on hand to nearly meet the requirements of the honest
grazing farmer. Then how much more keen must
the grazing-farm demand become when the drought
depression is removed, and the increase of popu-
lation flows in with the growth of the State ? To lock up
these lands so securely for so long a period is an utterly
unjustifiable act entirely against the interests of f'e
coming generation ; and although the question of st


jng an expected population has not so far troubled
Kanakaland’s Ministry or Parliament, still, two wrongs
won’t make a right. The pastoraiists recognise the
growth of grazing farming in their petition, and
graciously admit that they have no desire to block its
spread, and they pass on to tell a credulous public that
the 18 per cent, out of the balance of their country which
they propose to surrender at the end of their leases in
eight and fifteen years will be ample to cope with the
demand. They actually give the assurance that they are
so intimately acquainted with the industry as to be able
to see very clearly for 35 years ahead, and they recom-
mend Government to enter into leases extending over
that period. Yet aim Ist in the same paragraph of their
petition they give a further assurance that, could they
have foreseen the present position of the industry 15
years ago, when they entered into the leases, they would
never have “signed on.” The people who say they
couldn’t see how their own interests lay for 15 years
ahead profess, in the same breath, to be able to prophesy
reliably for the whole country for 35 years ahead.
* * * *
An extension of some sort is fair and only to be ex-
pected. An examination of most of the schemes put
forward, however, does not disclose any particular
brilliancy. A seemingly equitable idea is to resume one
fourth of all leases next year, as agreed upon, and to
resume the other 75 per cent, in three equal instalments
at intervals of 7, 14 and 21 years. This is equivalent to
an extension for 10J years for 50 per cent, of the lease-
holds, as against the lessees’ request for 14 years’ exten-
sion on 57 per cent. To make it plainer, the idea gives
something equal to 5( where the pastoraiists want some-
thing equal to eight. This suggestion carries forward the
leases up to 1922, but even 21 years is fair compared to
the 28 and 35 years modestly demanded by the lessees.
If, at the end of the 21 years, it is found that the growth
of legitimate grazing-farming has not been so satisfactory'
as was anticipated, then a further extension can be
granted. But it does not require the foresight of the
prophet Elmar to decide that the giving of a 35 years’
lease (which can only be broken on payment of a ruinous
compensation) is a proceeding which would deserve to
rank with some of the most smellful land-grab swindles of
the good old Kanakaland Continuous Government.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Treatment of Westralian Blacks.
Editor Bulletin.—l was for some time a special
warder employed by the Public Works Dept, to
supervise native labor lent by the Gaol depart-
ment to construct a cattle-road into Wyndham.
Myself and another warder (armed with rifles) had
charge of about 25 blacks, chained in gangs of
three or four from neck to neck, about 2ft. to
2ft. 6in. apart. Work hours 7 to 12, 2 to 5. The
miserable wretches were confined at night in a
galvanised iron dwelling, about 40ft. by 12ft, with
no windows—only air-holes about 9ft. up. They
were chained by the leg at night to ring-bolts in
the floor, the neck-chains being left on. In this
black-hole they had to eat their food alongside
their own excrement in broken buckets in which
it was impossible to put disinfectant. Their
blankets were full of vermin, and the only wash
theygot was when, on a Saturday, they were carted
down in their chains to the sea and bathed
there in a batch—just a walk in and out.
There was no medical officer at the time in
Wyndham, and if they were sick they had to trust
to their luck whether their gaoler believed them
or not. When these blacks used to empty their
buckets on the seashore, after incarceration —from
5.15 p.m. to 5.45 a.ra., on nights when the ther-
mometer would register 103 deg. to 105 deg. in an
airy sleeping-place the stench was incredible.
They were mostly cattle - killers, doing from
six months to two years. The local gaoler
does all in his power to keep the place
clean, but the Perth authorities turn a deaf ear to
his repeated requisitions for better accommoda-
tion. — Warder, Wyndham, W.A., 3rd Aug., ’Ol.
[And yet, one of the main reasons why Westralia
went to war in S’Africa was that the Boers were
so unkind to the niggers. Ye gods ! —Ed. B.]
The Unanimity of Beer.
So far there is a beautiful, and wonderful, and
almost incredible unanimity about all the wit-
nesses before N.S.W. Parliamentary Commission
on “tied” hotels. It is a very long time since
The Bulletin saw so much public and ostensible
unanimity on any subject. The publican-witnesses
say as one man that they want the “ tied ’’-hotel
system abolished because it is a monstrous engine
of iniquity. They say. the brewer charges exor-
bitant prices to his “ tied” public-house serf, and
sends him his spoiled and inferior and adulterated
liquor into the bargain, and that the serf has to
take it at the price, because if he objects he is
bailiffed, ejected, and probably ruined under the
far-reaching bond. It is also alleged that the
“tied” publican is charged exorbitant interest;
that he has to sign bonds for double his real
liability; that the good tenant has the bad
debts of previous bad tenants added to his
debt when he takes the place over; that the
publican has to submit to this sort of thing,
in Sydney at all events, because almost all hotels
are tied now, and the man whose only trade is
running a public-house has to take one the only
way he can get it; that he has to trade on Sundays
and out of hours, and sub-let bars to immoral
women, to supply the exorbitant demands of the
brewer-harpy ; and that the whole system is
slavery and villainy. And the brewer-witnesses,
so far, have all said (even if they didn’t say it with
enthusiasm), that they were quite willing to have
the system abolished because it really didn’t pay
them. Even when the publican, by their tremen-
dous agreement, is absolutely at their mercy, and
must buy from them at any price and under any
conditions, they are too noble to take advantage
of him. They charge him no more than they
charge the man who can change his brewer any
day if dissatisfied. They allow him the same
discount. If they have a brew on hand
which, by accident, is not the best, they
would no more think of sending it to the
enslaved tied publican who would have to take
it, than they would of sending it to the free and
independent publican who would return it with
contumely. They frequently make heavy losses .
by the system, for often a large part of the debt
on the hotel is irrecoverable. Every brewer, so
far, objects to the principle of “ tied’’-hotels, and
was only driven to practise it in self-defence
because another man started it. As none of the
brewers who have spoken so far—and they seem
to include all the well-known beer-manufacturers
of Sydney—is the nefarious person who drove the
others into the practice, but all were themselves
driven by the nefarious person, it is evident that
the original author of the iniquity—the person
who compelled all these good brewers to take to
-evil practices against their will—has not been
(Called yet. And all these brewery people,
AS they say they make no extra profit,
Rut often make losses, by the “ tied
Rouse system, and don’t approve of it, and
have only been driven into it by the regrettable
-conduct of some party or parties not yet clearly
.specified, can’t do otherwise than say that they
have no desire to continue the practice. There-
fore, both parties being agreeable, there is no
possible semblance of a reason why the Bill for
£he abolition of “ tied houses in N.S.W. should
not be passed at once, with the most frenzied
-enthusiasm. Apparently, this is one of the rare
.ijns w!,c:j can give p’casure to
everybody concerned without any expense. The
only expense which might possibly occur is an
extraneous item. Parliament might consider it
advisable to offer a reward of £5O for the dis-
covery of the individual who commenced the evil,
and thereby compelled so many honorable, not to
say benevolent, brewery people to do things that
none of them wanted to do. As all the large
brewers seem to be accounted for, the nefarious
one is probably a very small man, or else he is
dead ; still, some information about him would be
useful.
Naval Defence.
That the Admiral commanding the British fleet
in Australian waters should recommend, as the
true solution of the problem of Australian naval
defence, an increase, at Australian expense, of
the British fleet under his command, might be
taken as a foregone conclusion. Wliy he was
asked to report on the subject when his position
co npelled him to report only in one way it is,
indeed, hard to understand. It is a pity the in-
vestigation was not carried further. He might
have been asked also to say what amount Canada
or S’Africa contributes to the support of the
British fleet, and when the inevitable reply was,
“Nothing,” he might have been further asked
what reason there was why Australia, which
has not cost the British taxpayer a penny
in the way of war expenditure, should contribute
large sums annually to the support of the British
navy, when Canada and the Cape, whose wars
have been costly to the British taxpayer, pay
nothing. He might then have been asked: “Is
it a fact that the British Government maintains,
wholly at its own cost, fleets in South African and
Canadian waters? and, if so, why this should not
be done also in Australian waters, especially
seeing that the object in each case is the same
the protection of British commerce ? ” Lastly,
the British Admiral might have bpen asked
whether it would not be better for Australia to
pay a little more for a squadron entirely owned
and manned by its own people, available for its
own defence, than for one which is owned and
controlled in Great Britain, and which, in case of
any British emergency, could, and doubtless would,
be withdrawn for Imperial purposes, with or
without the Commonwealth’s consent —any agree-
ment to the contrary, notwithstanding. Agree-
ments in case of military or naval emergency are
like wet blotting-paper. And seeing that the
Imperial Admiral, in obedience to his superiors’
orders, could at any time take the ships we pay
for away in spite of any protests from our Govern-
ment, wherein is the so-called Australian fleet
different from the North American or
China or South African fleet ? We pay for a
name which is nothing more than a name.
Australia needs a fleet—its . own fleet.
When England had a population of but five mil-
lions it had a navy able to encounter the Great
Armada, and at the present day Argentina and
Chili, with populations very similar to that of the
Commonwealth, have fleets that command the
respect of adjacent nations. So it is with Den-
mark and Sweden. Then why not so with Aus-
tralia ? If the Commonwealth is ever to be a
nation it will not be whilst it pays Great Britain
to defend it. The country that pays another to
defend it never amounts to very much.
The Righteous Indignation of M Millan.
The Barton Government’s anti-cheap-nigger
policy is raising up dangerous friends in various
quarters. Particularly last week it raised up
Bruce Smith and M ‘Millan— especially M‘Mil-
LAN. That honorable and indignant soft-goods-
man arose with all his might, in the House of
Representatives, to denounce “in a ringing
speech,” according to Sydney Telegraph, Bar-
ton’s idea of excluding undesirable immigrants
by an educational test. This, as Australia has
been very distinctly informed, is the only mode of
exclusion that the British Government will sanc-
tion. M ‘Millan, however, demanded that the
Barton Government should be honest and frank
and courageous, and full of other good qualities.
Instead of keeping out the nigger by profes-
sing to apply an educational test to all immi-
grants, yet only applying it to the one that
we want to exclude, MMillan urged that
the Immigration Restriction Bill should
simply say that, for the Asiatic- and African,
whether British subjects or not, there is no admit-
tance. Which would be a highly desirable thing
to do—if it could be done.. A good many years
ago the old Parices party, which M‘Millan con-
sistently supported, shut out the Chinese China-
man with a £lOO poll-tax, but the British Govern-
ment declined to let the British Chinaman or the
British Hindoo be shut out, and MMillan’s old
party didn’t fight just let them come
in as fast as they pleased. It admitted the Jap
also, and the Malay, the Manila-man, the Javanese
and other sundries. In 1896 the Reid Govern-
ment (with which M‘Millan wasn’t on speaking
terms) endeavoured to shut out all Asiatics,
British subjects included, and its measure was
promptly vetoed by the Crown. N.S.W. finally
adopted the only remedy which could be obtained,
and met the miscellaneous Asiatic with an educa-
tional test. The British Government is now even
more emphatic than it was in 1896 in its declarations
that it will not allow the direct exclusion of Asiatics
and Africans, and that the sidelong method of
shutting them out on pretence of an insufficient
acquaintance with the British language and
literature is the only one which will be tolerated.
Therefore, when M ‘Millan, the,cheap-labor man,
makes a “ringing speech” demanding, in the
name of honor and honesty, that the Barton
Government shall put certain clauses in the Bill
which will ensure its rejection, the two most
probable inferences are that M‘Millan would
gladly see the anti-nigger Bill rejected, and that
he would gladly see the Barton Government
make a bad mistake and come to serious grief.
And when M ‘Millan, the Imperialist, and the
man who has just accepted a British title, hints
that it may even be necessary to sever the
British connection and drop the empire overboard
before this matter is finished, The Bulletin has
still greater doubts of his sincerity. If Barton
perseveres with his educational test Australia will'
see the Asiatic shut out —on a side issue, cer-
tainly, but shut out all the same. If Barton
takes the lofty advice of the men who are waiting
for his billet it is 1000 chances to one that
the Asiatic won’t be shut out at all, and
even the blessing of M‘Millan’s approval
will be insufficient compensation. New South
Wales has already tried the honest, straight-
forward course which M ‘Millan recom-
mends, and the result was dead failure. Now
Barton is cordially advised by his political
enemy to take the honest course, whereby he may
fail likewise, and get all the discredit of failure.
Also, his political enemy, with his new Imperial
Decoration gleaming on his chest, offers Barton,
in a sort of way, the job of throwing the empire
overboard in a good cause. Considering that
M‘Millan has never done much to keep out the
Asiatic, and has never done anything to keep out
his products—that he has always been a cheap
labor man and an Imperialist—his advice looks a
very good tiling to avoid just now. Especially so
when, in his anxiety to help the democratic cause,
he urges the democratic party to take the road
which has already proved to be a cul de sac.
♦
Another Aspect of Melbourne Tramway
Company.
A Melbourne man writes as follows :
The latest caper of the Melbourne Tramway mono-
polists—backed by private-enterprise-loving' Age— in their
endeavor to get an extension of their lease is to thrust
before the public the opinions of certain mayors and
councillors, mostly of outside municipalities, that if penny -
sections were granted and certain much-wanted lines
constructed a 10 years’ renewal would be a fair quid pro
quo. The quid is there all right, but the quo is not easily
discernible ; for any such new lines would be built, as the
old ones were, with money borrowed by the combined
municipalities on the guarantee of their rates, and all the
company need do would be to run the cars and reap the
profits. And as certain unspeakable councillors avow
themselves willing to perpetrate this awful piece of
foolishness I propose to show those gentry how the com-
pany has not only persistently plundered its employees
and made huge profits out of the public, but has also de-
liberately plundered those very councillors themselves —in
their public capacity. The company has all along defrauded
its men by working them 60 hours per week, when sec.
62 of the Act under which it holds its concession distinctly
states, “ the days of labor shall be eight hours.” Further the
co. is milking the public to this very day, as shown bv its
balance-sheets, which prove that its average dividend for
the last 13 years has been 16| per cent, on its real paid-up
capital ; also that, in one year (’B9), its net profits were
£238,909, on a capital of £250,000 ; all this despite the
fact that the public has had the right for some years to
revise the fares without any compensation to the co. (the
co. taking the lease on this understanding). But, beyond
all this organised spoliation of Melbourne citizens, the
unspeakable company has, year after year, deliberately
broken its agreement with the contracting councils, and
the suburban grocery-person seems to have been too lazy
or too thriftless to give any heed to the circumstance.
Sec. 42 of Melbourne Tramways Act, No. 765, 47 Vic. —
which section has never been repealed or modified in any
wiy—provides that: “ Whenever the profits derived from
the traffic on the tramways shall in any year exceed ten
per centum on the actual cost of the tramways rolling-
stock and property of the company used for the purposes
of such tramways, then of such profits over and above
ten per centum one-third shall be paid to the local
authorities in proportion to the mileage of tramway
within the limits of each local authority.”
That is plain enough. Now, according to the latest
balance-sheet the assets of the co. were—
Rolling-stock, buildings, and all plant used
for tramway purposes £425,474
Securities, cash, and investments .. .. 443,669
£869,143
Therefore, by the terms of the agreement, whenever the
year’s profits exceed £42,548, one-third of the surplus is
payable to the municipalities. During the last 13 years
the profits have exceeded that amount every year save
one only. And even by the co.’s own methods of compu-
tation (by which methods a great amount of profit derived
from interest on investments is carried direct to reserves
and doesn’t appear in the profit balance at all) the admitted
net earnings have very often exceeded the 10 per cent,
limit. In 1889 the Melbourne Tramway Co. admitted to
a profit of over £186,000 ; in 1890, to £146,000 ; in 1891,
to £98,000 ; and so on. Also, last year the admitted pro-
fits were £69,069, and the year before they were £57,000.
Now, when has anybody heard of the municipalities
receiving a single penny under this clause of the agree-
ment? I haven’t, and I don’t think anyone else has, and
the accounts of the co. don’t show the payment of one
solitary copper. The Melbourne Tramway Co. is appar-
ently above the law, and it breaks with absolute impunity
every item of its agreement that it suits it to break. And
instead of making it keep to its contract (i.e., making it
reduce its fares, work its men only eight hours, and pay
a percentage of its profits above 10 per cent, to the muni-
cipalities) it is proposed to let it go on breaking its
contract with impunity, and to give it large further
concessions!
♦
“Childers” to The Bulletin :
To “ Dr. Maxwell’s Report ” far too much weight has
been attached. Dr. M.’s opinion on cane culture is pro-
bably valuable —allowing for his comparative unfamiliarity
with Q. conditions ; his opinion on colored labor v. white
is worth no more than the next man’s. But as far as it
goes it assists the argument for a “ White Australia.”
The pro-aliens’ stand at present is that white men can’t
work in Queensland north of Bundaherg owing to the
alleged excessive heat, but they admit that around Bun-
daberg it is possible for whites to work amongst cane.
Of course the “ terrible N.Q. climate” theory is ridiculed
by those who live there, and now Dr. Maxwell’s figures
explode the above “theory” thus : Average temp, for
four years at Bundaberg in the south, 83 - 4 ; Cairns (in
the extreme north of the sugar-growing areas), 83'3 ; and
Mackay (in the middle of the cane districts), 79'8. Dr.
Maxwell sums up the evidence that supports the charge
of “ instability ” against white labor, by saying that “ it
is thus seen that employment is not permanent and the
class of laborers required for the season’s work are not
permanent, and in that sense they are not stable, and
instability amongst that class becomes a part of their
conditions.” That is, intermittent employment means an
intermittent supply of labor —naturally.
Another alien argument damaged by Dr. M.’s report is
that colored races flourish in the North, and that the
poor, degenerate white person languishes, &c. So it is
rather awkward for this “argument” to find that “the
Kanakas lose six weeks through sickness during their
first year,” and around Cairns the Kanaka sick-list is at
the rate of 13 per cent., the Chinese 101- per cent., and
the Hindoo 13 per cent. Dr. M. has also discovered that
“ the Kanaka is off more days by sickness than the per-
manent white man,” and also that “ 2610 cane-growers in
the State of Q. are the hardest performers of g'iven kinds
of work in the field, and by their labor they have already,
to a very notable extent, modified the exclusive employ-
ment of subject labor, and in localities where hitherto the
white laborer had hardly been found.” Then follows a
table showing that these “ 2610 cane-growers ” have dis-
placed a large number of Kanakas, yet the production
of sugar doubled notwithstanding.
The report also shows clearly the depths of degradation
in store for future White Australians unless strong legis-
lative action is immediately forthcoming. The white
laborer in the Q. sugar industry gets at present 6|d. per
hour for a working day of 9£ hours, and he is competing
with a lower class civilisation whose members accept 3d.
per hour. And the rate of wages tends always to the
lowest wage.
4
Touching the ins-and-outs of the little legal fra-
ternity in Groperland, a Melbourne solicitor
writes to The Bulletin :
A client of mine being threatened with litigation in
Westralia, I instructed Attorney-General Pennefatiier to
act.as my agent. An action duly eventuated, and Mr.
Harney appeared at the trial with Mr. Pennefatiier.
Judgment went against us, subject to certain inquiries
to be made before the Master, and we gave notice of
appeal. This was in August, 1900—a year ago. Chief
Justice Onslow soon afterwards left on a trip to Europe,
and work in the Courts being thus congested, Mr.
Pennefatiier was appointed Acting-Puisne Judge. The
Full Court did not sit until May last, when
my client was placed in this predicament : Mr.
Pennefatiier could no longer appear as counsel, nor
could he help to constitute a Full Court, owing to having
formerly been an advocate in the case, and Mr. Harney
couldn't wait for the sitting of a Special Court, for he had
just been elected a senator, and was off to Melbourne to
attend the Federal Parliament opening. Mr. S. H.
Parker, K.C., was at last, with difficulty, prevailed upon
to accept the brief. I might add that no one had suc-
ceeded to Mr. Pennefatiier’s practice, so another firm of
solicitors had to be instructed afresh in the matter. At
last, the appeal was heard by a Full Court, consisting of
Justice Stone (whose judgment, by the way, was being
appealed against) and Justice Hensman. They reserved
their judgment. Some weeks later, Mr. Parker, K.C., was
notified that the Court would like to hear him argue at
its next sitting as to his opinion re a certain conclusion
of fact. But then came the Duke and Duchess of York !
Legal business was paralysed by the advent of the D. and
D. No Full Court has been constituted since then,
though Mr. Parker was ready to express his views as
invited by the Court, and my client has been awaiting
some sort of finality. The other morning a cable
message came through : “ The Chief Justice of W.A.
(Onslow) has resigned. The Cabinet has appointed Mr.
Justice Stone to the Chief-Justiceship and Mr. Parker,
K.C., to be Puisne Judge. Mr. Pennefatiier will there-
fore retire from the Bench.” So we have lost the services
of Mr. Parker, K.C., who was prepared to argue our
point, and the presence of Judge Parker is also denied
us because bis Honor cannot adjudicate upon a case in
which he formerly held a brief. Mr. Pennefather is
again at liberty to appear for my client, but meanwhile
another solicitor has been instructed, and who can tell
what more difficulties are in store for us ?
A pew interested M’s.P. are trying to make
trouble for the Peacock Government over the
denaturation of a large quantity of wine contain-
ing a heavy percentage of salicylic acid. This
wine belonged to a Bendigo vigneron. Altogether
about 1.3,000 gallons were denaturated under the
Health Act and the Wines Adulteration Act.
Ever since 1891 it has been illegal under the
Health Act to put salicylic acid in wine, hut as
that portion of the Act was administered to a
certain extent by the municipal councils, wine-
makers were, of course, allowed to go on poisoning
the community with adulterated wines. About
two years ago an analytical chemist (Percy
Wilkinson) laid the people of Victoria. under a
debt of gratitude to him. He analysed wines, and
found a large number of them heavily doctored
with salicylic acid. An Act was then passed,
handing the whole matter of the adulteration of
wines over to the Board of Public Health. One
of the livest health-men in the continent happens
to be at the head of that body in the person of
Dr. G russ well, and he set about taking in the
slack of years. The Bendigo man in question
was told that he was subject to a prosecution for
having salicylic acid in his wines, and was given
the option of taking the risk of heavy fines or of
having the wine denaturated. He deliberately
chose the latter, and an officer went and doused
his wine with salt. At once there was a howl
that he should be compensated by Govt. It was
argued at first that it was monstrous to make the
Adulteration Act retrospective. That was
bowled over by the answer that it had been
illegal to put salicylic acid in wine since 1891.
Next it was urged that the vigneron did not know
salicylic acid was forbidden. As he is an up-to-
date wine-maker and hailed originally from
France, where salicylic acid has been barred for
years, this argument looks a bit thin. Peacock
is solid on the point that the vigneron shall get no
compensation, and points out that any other course
would lead to wine-makers adulterating bad wine
in order to strike the Government for com-
pensation.
4
Mayor Gillott and ex-Mayor M'Eacharn are
leading Melbourne municipal opposition to the
suggested renewal of the Tramway Co’s lease
(which has 14 years longer to run) or purchase
of the monopoly in the meantime. Also they
can neither of them see why the train system
should not be divided into penny sections.
M'Eacharn speaks as a shareholder in Brisbane
Tramway Co., which has found penny sections
profitable, but he doesn’t know how the Brisbane
experience would apply in the Melbourne case.
A few of the suburban municipalities would
probably be willing to renew the monopoly’s
lease for evermore, and sacrifice all their future
profits, for the sake of immediate provincial con-
veniences in the way of new lines or improved
tramway service, but if the metropolitan council
sticks tight to the policy of patience the tram-
ways will be public property 14 years hence.
♦
The bad logic of Chief Justice Madden is ap-
parently contagious. Last week, in Melbourne
divorce court, a young wife was petitioning before
kindly, good-natured old Justice a’Beckett, fora
divorce on the ground of desertion against one
Cannaway, very properly described by the judge
as a dissolute scoundrel. Cannaway had married
the girl, pretending to be in a good billet, had
lived on her parents for three weeks, and had then
left her, telling her she could do for herself. He
subsequently told her that he would provide the
admissions necessary to enable her to secure a
divorce for adultery, if she would pay the costs ;
but she refused and, waiting until the ex-
piration of the needful three years, took
action for desertion. Justice a’Beckett, in
granting the divorce, soundly denounced this law.
It was an instance, he said, of the state of things
which the C. J. had frequently referred to —it put
into the hands of a licentious man the power to
accomplish his desires, and then obtain the free-
dom necessary to go and ruin another woman.
This is the same sort of absurd flapdoodle that
Judge Madden has been giving the public about
once a week. The judicial mind fails utterly to
see that Cannaway would have accomplished his
desires to exactly the same extent had the Shiels
law never been in existence, and would have
abandoned his wife just as brutally. The only
difference is that Mrs. Cannaway is now per-
mitted to be relieved of the burden of a particu-
larly offensive blackguard, and will be free to marry
some decent fellow who will punch Mr. Cannaway
hard if he ever attempts to force his presence on
her. But for the Shiels Act the injured wife would
have been practically forced to live with a lazy
ruffian whenever he could find no other woman,
and she would have been debarred from marrying
any other man who might be a suitable and agree-
able husband. That is what the Shiels Act re-
lieves the woman from, but anyhow Justice
a’Beckett’s remarks in the present instance do
not apply in the slightest, considering that the
girl had other sufficient grounds of divorce, which
existed prior to the passing of the Act in question.
♦
In N.S.W. Legislative Council, the other day,
Dr. Nash called attention to the imminent danger
to public health arising from the deplorable
arrangements of Liverpool Asylum, where so
many consumptives are located. The close
proximity of the hospital to the railway station, it
was pointed out, leads probably to the abundant
dissemination of phthisis-germs per medium of
railway passengers, as well as by means of the
wood sent far and near from the railway wood-
yard, which Dr. Nash considers an ideal nursing-
ground for germs. It is an unspeakably horrible
system that lumps together cancerous and con-
sumptive patients with those who are merely
suffering from old age and poverty; and though
attention has been more particularly called to the
Liverpool establishment, the Newington and Par-
ramatta hospitals equally cry out for thorough
reform.
4.
“ One crying evil of the atrocious and ever-
extending N.S.W. Jaypee system,” writes
“Waddy” to The Bulletin, “is that many
of these Solons have never left the district
they reside in, and know every local resi-
dent intimately, the result being" that, unless
a culprit is caught in the act, they will not
convict. “Why,” they say, “should we make
enemies for ourselves ? ” Such men have been
usually placed on the Bench at the instance of the
local member—in fact, the “dignity” has come to
be little more than a cheap election-decoration,
and although the Crown now goes to some trouble
to train Police Magistrates, a couple of ignorant
dunderheads of this stamp can actually out vote a


BAKER & BOUSE PBOFBIETABY. LIMITED,
m
Have JUST LANDED the Celebrated
No. 15 Popy Pr€n)o
This is a Ga/mera we can thoroughly recommend,
and can safely say that no Amateur should bi
without one.
Send for Catalogue. - Price £4.
375 <s*orge St., Sydney,
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, and Brisbane,
“ALLIS” MILLING MACHINERY.
UNIVERSAL BOLTERS, &c. ; BAND SAW-MILLS ;
AUTOMATIC CIRCULAR MILLS, for Sleeper-
Cutting ; SAW-MILL and FLOUR-MILL ENGINES and
BOILERS ; TRACTION ENGINES, &c., &c.
WILLIAM FLEMING
24 Clarence-St.,
SYDNEY.
Antiuric removes all impurities from the
blood in man, woman or child. It is the one
simple, cheap, and certain cure for rheumatism.
Sent post paid to any part of Australasia, ss.
Antiuric Co., Box 842, G.P.0., Sydney.*
Sulphide fjorporation
LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W,
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, V Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought-^*
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Targe Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A E. SAVAGE,
Manacmb.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia
man whose profession is to sift evidence. I know
of a town where an outsider never wins a case
against a local man if the J.’sP. can help it, and
where also it is practically impossible to convict
any moderately well-placed resident. I give you
the name of one town in which the Bench is
always packed in such cases. There is a mere
count of magisterial noses as to the decision
(when one section of the J.’sP. doesn’t love the
accused)—the P.M. being a mere cipher, and the
justice of the case being left entirely out of the
question.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “LadyHuntworth’sExperiment.”
Lyceum “ Arrah-na-Pogue.”
Criterion “ The World Against Her."
Her Majesty’s Italian Opera.
Empire Fuller Co.
Palace “ World’s Entertainers.”
Tivoli. Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Nadjezda.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Christian King.”
Euou “A Message from Mars'”
Theatre Royal “ Riding to Win.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Somewhere in the Scripture there is an
allusion to certain people who move two places
not necessary to specify in order to make one
proselyte, with the result that he is more definitely
the child of a person who need not be particu-
larised than he was before. Somehow, this writer
thought about these painfully earnest people on
Saturday night, while viewing “Lady Hunt-
worth’s Experiment,” at Sydney Royal—thought
of them mainly because they presented such a con-
trast-to Carton’s newest comedy. It doesn’t seek
to convince anybody about anything. It is a
pleasant little play, and one of the least purpose-
ful this paper ever came across. Almost the only
touch of moral emphasis in it is where Lord Hunt-
worth is gathered up from his drinky slumbers
under the kitchen sink by his wife’s intended
second husband, and thrown into a ditch. Lord
Huntworth, before the story opens, has drunk all
his own money and his wife’s—drunk it in a
low, doggy manner, in a cheap check suit
and a hang dog countenance; and has divorced
his wife on false evidence, but with the lady’s
whole-souled concurrence, in the hope of wedding
a fat woman with money. And Lady
being penniless, becomes cook, under a false
name, to a peaceful old parson and his sister. She
is no ordinary cook. The parson’s low-spirited
man-servant proposes to her; likewise the parson
himself ; also the young man who is engaged to
the parson’s niece and is saved from marriage
with her by her timely elopement with the curate.
These people propose surreptitiously, in the
kitchen, under difficulties. Also Lord Hunt-
worth, hearing that a relative has left the lady a
second fortune, comes round to the back-door in
his check suit, and his muddy hat, and the
remains of a fit of horrors, and proposes to her
also. It is after this that he falls asleep under
the sink. Next morning he comes back, still more
or less in the horrors and somewhat frayed by
sleeping in the incumbent’s ditch, and after care-
fully brushing the snakes off the incumbent’s
family he exposes his wife as a lady who is cooking
under false pretences. After that the play flows
pleasantly and peacefully to its conclusion without
anything very definite happening.
* * * •
The principal moral lesson' - *of Carton’s
comedy appears to be contained in the back view
of the small, muddy, penniless nobleman in cheap
tight clothes, trying to find the door, after he has
urged his wife’s employer to sack her immediately.
As a lesson on the evils of drink and the aspects
of the British aristocraoy when it has been found
in the sink and has slept out with its clothes on,
the spectacle is of value. Leslie Victor makes the
peer a mean, galvanic little man of the kind who lurks
round a corner, and without offering any opinion
as to the scientific accuracy of his jim-jams and his
jumps he is a most interesting study. Two other
people who get a chance to be amusing and make
good use of it are the lugubrious serving-man of
Percy Walshe, _ and the servant-girl Keziah.
Servant-girl Keziah is represented by Miss Gillies
Brown, who appears to be a new member of the
co. ; and that gushing cockney child with her
large ’at, and her dog-eared London Jernil, and
her “h” that is lost past all possibility of re-
covery, even by advertisement in the stray horse
column, is an amusing episode in a small way.
No wild comedy falls to the lot of the other
characters, but Mrs. Brough’s cook, and Brough’s
mild and ancient pastor, and the pastor’s weighty
and moral sister as represented by Miss Susie
Vaughan, and Cecil Ward as a rather nondescript
young man with the best intentions and a thick
utterance, are as good as circumstances will admit.
Years ago, in the days before “ Pink Dominoes ”
had faded a dull brown, the comedian’s highest
inspiration was to conceal three people in three
rooms unknown to each other, and when Carton
rings in this old device again, it is like our grand-
mother’s unexpected resurrection.
mm # m
Verdi’s “ Otello,” a magnificent dish put
before an excited, hungry audience on Saturday
night, at Her Majesty’s, is staged with an old
Venetian glow of color. It is full of tempest and
fine fury and trumpet-blare and revenge, and
dominated by the fiery Moor who was ‘‘ in the
tented field” since the time he was seven,
up to some nine moons before he eloped
with Desdemona. These months he reckoned
wasted, so he must have been a Tommy to
be reckoned with. Boito, the librettist who
condensed Shakespeare’s tragedy for composer
Verdi, has kept the story perfectly. coherent.
The opera opens reminiscently of “The Flying
Dutchman.” A storm-tossed vessel is laboring
into harbor at the island of Cyprus, to the accom-
paniment of stormy music and a heaving sea.
Heavy clouds lower on the sky-line. The town of
Cyprus is empty, and its people stand watching
the Moor’s craft being “ruffianed ” by winds and
wav ® 3 -. T hey have Mghted a fire, and flutter
about in hope and fear for the vessel’s safety.
« I vf m ®’ B I>n 1 > n a PV ft y er > a heavy dramatic wail, as
m,“ e barque s freight were doomed to drowning.
Ihen all in shining armour, with standard-bearers
and a swagger staff of officers, the coffee-colored
Venetian general fronts the audience.
* * » *
Commendatore Larizza, as Otello, has one
o the heaviest parts written in modern opera. It
1S f V. * w ould soon wear the finer notes
ot the tenor s voice. Larizza has very little
cooing to do, as the action of the opera begins
so much later than that of the play. His strenuous
dramatic work begins almost from the jump
—a crescendo of suspicion, doubt and certainty,
culminating in paroxysms of jealous fury. He
climaxes, and explodes magnificently into mur-
* * a6 18 a terrible warning to husbands
not to nourish suspicions against a sweet wife
with two long fair plaits. One tender scene Otello
has. with Desdemona (Bassich) just before lago
bepns to poison his mind after the drunken brawl
between Cassio and Roderigo. He who had such
poor brains for drinking that he had to craftily
qualify his liquor is hustled out with the rest of
the brawlers. Then the orchestra gets a pretty
chance with flutes and violins, and the Italian
Otello sings to Desdemona the equivalent of what
bhakespeares Othello told her when he fears “his
soul hath lifer content so absolute that not another
bliss like this succeeds in unknown fate. ” In the
■ sangue ! ” cry and the revenge duet
Wl . ■ b lago, Signor Larizza stirred the audience so
mightily that he could scarcely proceed with his
heavy musical contract. The last act of the opera-
tragedy shows Desdemona in her bed-chamber,
preparing for what will be her last sleep. It is a
room decorated in old gold and dull crimson ;
before an altar of the Virgin swings a burning
lamp. Desdemona Bassich, in a dressing-robe of
lace, ribbons, and dull white silk, is singing sadly,
wearily, like one in a dream, the Willow Ballad,
one sings whilst Einelia re-ties the long plaits.
Ihen, left alone, she sheds the outer sheath of
silk and lace, and stands in a night-robe of lawn,
and, still singing (Ave Maria, now), sits on the
her bed to take the slippers off her pink
silk feet. Presently from sleep the Moor’s kiss
awakes her. The violins are played with muted
strings. The murder-scene follows, and Desde-
mona s vitality is shown by her singing after she
has been smothered. Baritone Cattadore took
the part of “ Onesto lago ’’—and took, as well,
much applause for the fine scene where, Otello fal-
ling senseless from the fury of his jealousy, lago
plants ms foot on the veteran’s breast and jeers at
the Lion of Venice. ” Signor Larizza dresses his
part superbly. lago, Cassio, and the rest of his
officers have legs of contrasting colours, white or
to kme or crimson—an old Venetian custom.
Ihe Bonfire. Chorus is a wonderful piece of musical
mosaiac—a jerking, harmonious jumping of flutes
and violins. Signorina Bassich’s pure soprano
voice was at its best in the Willow Ballad and
the closing hymn. But the music of the opera
wl " become popular. It does not wrap one
round. It has no haunting memories.
** * *
A play with a large-sounding title “The
World Against Her,” was produced at Sydney
Criterion last Saturday. Why any one woman
should think herself so important as to have the
whole world troubling itself to go against her
when there are so many other people to go against,
is a mystery. Anyway, the blot falls upon Ida
Crresham s name through her going to another
man s office to ask the othesr man to spy upon her
husband, which is a curioufrthing for a wife to do.
She tells two massive lies on the matter, and
is divorced mainly on the incident above referred
to. She can clear herself by implicating another
woman, and as the other woman is obviously and
openly lost already, a wise heroine would have
split ” or else put advertisements in the morning
paper asking the other woman to come forward and
make things clear. This is too business-like,
however, for the average wailing heroine, so she
foes away to London somewhere with the blot.
lere the snow falls upon her, and the villain
in the black shiny hat pursues her, and she loses
her child off and on, but she remembers that her
husband loves her still. Sometimes she meets
him, and cheers herself with the cold glare of his
eye, and his moral voice, and other signs of affec-
tion, before she returns to her garret, and the
snow, and the frequently-lost child. Towards the
end of the play, she hears that the infant is inside
a comer’s den, and, instead of getting a police-
man or two, or something in the athletic line, she
wanders to the den herself, and is knocked about
considerably. She is only rescued by the appear-
ance of J. O’Neill, whose stout and unmuscular
anatomy does havoc among all the tall lithe
villains. Generally, three of these fall to one blow,
though maybe they really succumb to the
effects of O’Neill’s smile, which is large and
healthy. The really Lost Girl is cleverly played
by Miss Helene Burdette, who tells the villain
to inform her frankly if he is tired of
her, and when he does inform her frankly, gets
very angry. At other times she asks for a kind
word, and, when she gets it, smacks him hard.
She is a very natural woman, and has other bright
little ways, .so that when the drama drops her
without giving her a genuine wedding-ring it
seems hard. In the last act the heroine makes
enough by dressmaking to acquire, in a few
months or so, a nice rustic cottage with a railed-in
garden, and to wear a white dress with a blue bow
straggling up one side of her face as a vine trails
up a verandah-post. Here she shows her dress-
making ability by sewing navy-blue cloth with
white cotton, and presently the villain and the
hero come in, wearing tall black hats, which they
both raise while the villain swears the heroine is
innocent. Then the husband kindly takes the
wife back, and she promises not to go and consult
other men about him any more.
* * » .
Miss Kathleen Raleigh—billed as a first
appearance—has a pretty face and some go, but is
decidedly amateurish as yet; while Rose Hollo-
way, as the coiner’s wife, is a slight improvement
on her previous performances. 'Miss Holloway
makes an impression of improving so slowly and
80 steadily that in a hundred years or so she might
become a very great actress. The humor,
which is more terrible than usual, is supplied by
Miss Roland Watts-Phillips and John P. O’Neill.
Also a rather bad word must be said for Kingstone
as the stiff father of the girl that Ida Gresham’s
husband graciously decides not to marry after she
has distinctly and decidedly married the other
man.
** * *
“ Struck Oil ” has so struck the well of
human sympathy in the Sydney Lyceum audience
that the management decided to let Maggie
prance heavily round her unlettered German pa
for some few nights longer. The audience still
weeps softly at the pathetic touches. The fact
that Pa probably went to the war and lost his few
wits owing to the perpetual pranks of his beloved
child does not seem to strike that audience at all.
It is an audience that comes to weep and not to be
struck by anything—at least not till Saturday,
when it will be struck by “ Arrah-na-Pogue.”
** * *
“The World’s Entertainers” at Sydney
Palace, having advertised an entire change of
programme, changed some of their items, mostly
for the worse. The “Emperor of Coins” does
his old tricks, and refers to the emptiness of his
head in the good old way, adding nothing much
that is new, save a disappearing egg. The Slusical
Burglar is very much as he burgled before. Also,
the lady that illustrates pictures with her voice
gives two new ditties. Tin auditorium is still
covered before and after curtain-rise by a rush of
excited attendants showing the public, sometimes
to the right seats and sometimes to the wrong
ones, which latter circumstance leads to much
explanation afterwards!
*# * *
The programme at Sydney Empire this
week is described as the best yet presented. To
the outward view it looks very much like a number
of previous programmes, but as the management
admits that it is the best it may be allowed to
pass at that. The management ought to know.
** * *
Some names that this country is accus-
tomed to treat with respect are on the Sydney
Tivoli bill this week. Among them are those of
Austin Rudd and Zobedie, and the brief, sawn-off
cognomen of Little Gulliver. It is some time
since Sydney has seen Gulliver, but he hasn’t
grown at all in the interval.
** * *
All things considered, George Coppin’s
re-appearance on the stage (at Melb. Princess’s),
after an absence of 20 years, was a wonderful as
well as an interesting event. A lean, shrivelled
actor of 83, who takes a fair amount of walking
exercise, is considered a “marvel ” if he oan come
on and speak a small part in a quavering voice.
Coppin was handicapped with a bulky body and
gouty legs, yet he managed to get through the
Eart of Mr. Mould in “Not Such a Fool as he
looks,” a part that kept him considerably in evi-
dence for an hour-and-a-half. After which he
came before the curtain and made a capital
speech in full, fruity tones. Not a superfluous
word or tiresome pause in the octogenarian’s
oration. He had his points carefully prepared,
and he made them for all they were worth, finish-
ing on “Farewell,” with a fine persuasive half-
sob. Coppin, in his time, has spoken a good many
“Farewells,” but the old comedian—Artful
Dodger of long ago—can never have struck the
right note more artistically than this time.
Jfc * * *
“Nadjezda,” at Melb. Princess’s, is
described as ‘ ‘ Maurice Barrymore’s famous play, ”
and a list of American newspaper notices has
been issued as evidence that the best of the
modern French dramatists became comparatively
small potatoes when Barrymore started on the
job. But the truth of the matter seems to be that
Barrymore was a literary bounder. With Sardou’s
“Fedora” and “La Tosca”in front of him, he
devised a foolishly pretentious imitation of those
clever works. “Fedora” is a tragedy without a
villain in it, so Barrymore borrowed Baron
Scarpia from “ La Tosca, ” and converted him into
an elderly Minister of R.issian Police, and made
the old reprobate the object of a long, dreary
hatred, which involves many murders behind the
scenes and much conversation on the stage before
poetic justice lays him low. “Nadjezda,” like
“Fedora,” has a "prologue and three acts.
Prince Zabouroff ( alias Scarpia) is heard of
in the prologue, but not seen. Among his
numerous sins are the seduction of a Polish
revolutionary agent’s wife. The offspring of their
unlawful union subsequently becomes a young
Englishman, unknown to his father. Zabouroff
possesses unlimited means of knowing everything,
yet lie doesn't know that. Also, the omnipotent
profligate purchases one short hour of bliss with
another married lady named Nadjezda, under-
taking to release her husband from prison in
consideration of the favor. The husband, how-
ever, is restored to his family in a dead state with
a satirical message pinned to his bleeding breast.
Whereat the dishonored Nad. hugs her little
daughter and goes mad, whilst the revolutionary
agent, still nursing his own particular ancient
grudge against Zabouroff ( alias Scarpia), decides
that his new crime deserves a really high-class
vengeance in the hereafter.
* * * *
The vengeance arrives by a circuitous
route. Fifteen years after the prologue ’Gustus
Glover, the agent aforesaid, appears to be the
proprietor of a Secret Brotherhood Gambling
Saloon, where young men take strange oaths and
lose their money, and fall in love with' the
daughter of bygone Nadjezda. Miss Edith Crane
plays both ladies, mother and daughter, but the
maternal character is dead before the fair spinster
appears among the baccarat brethren. All these
15 years Zabouroff has been nearing his doom.
Glover, the agent for liberty and equality, is
hanging on to his fell purpose and putting in a
real good time at the saloon. Casually, lie
reminds Miss Crane that none of her admirers
have been murdered in the cause of humanity
when tiieir funds were exhausted. The Brother-
hood has abandoned its idea of emancipating
Poland, but it persists in slaughtering played-out
Johnnies who have broken the Oath, or some-
thing. Considering how many murders they
commit with impunity the brethren, seemingly,
could shift Zab at any moment, but Glover’s far-
seeing vengeance demands that either Miss Crane
or her best boy shall do the deed. Glover is not
particular. The best boy happens to be Zabouroff’s
son, and Miss Crane, of course, has an hereditary
right to the gory privilege—though she doesn’t
know it. Moreover, Zabouroff doesn’t know any-
thing about Miss Crane, except that he wants
her for a mistress. The old gentleman’s
amorous tendencies towards the daughter of
the previous Miss Crane bring him to grief.
Glover and the precious Brotherhood get tilings
into such a tangle that Miss Crane stabs Zabouroff
to save herself, or to preserve her nice young
lover, after which she hides the corpse under a
sofa until her lover explains his filial relationship
to the murdered party, and when the lady has
herself expired the curtain comes down. Of this
tragedy the Boston journal said—“ ‘ Nadjezda’ is
infinitely superior to ‘Fedora,’ not only in its
motif but in its anima.” Present scribe reckons it
a piece of highly inflated nonsense. A waste of
dialogue, an arrangement of false stagey situations
to tempt actor-managers and manageresses into a
vain expenditure of time and money.
* * * *
Miss Edith Crane, in the wordy, lurid
characters of Nadjezda and her daughter Nadine,
is overweighted from the start. Her hard, metallic
elocution grows wearisome, but her appearance in
a series of handsome costumes helps to relieve the
monotony of her acting. Augustus Glover is for-
cible at times as a loud, melodramatic revolu-
tionary agent; and Charles Hammond, a Tas-
manian amateur, plays the nice young man in a
suitable manner until the plot thickens around
him and he is fairly in the tragic soup. Then
he ceases to act up to the requirements of
the part, although he continues to be a pro-
mising Hammond. Tyrone Power gives a
clever character sketcli of Prince Zabouroff.
His voice lends itself to old-men parts, and
this old man is an interesting first cousin to
Thackeray’s Marquis of Steyne and Lord Pet-
worth in “ Sowing the Wind.” Miss Eloise Juno
and several other people either assist the long-
winded tragedy to make itself somewhat intelli-
gible, or come on and talk promiscuously. One of
them is believed to be a plotter, with secrets up
his sleeve, but his intentions are vague, and his
nose lacks sincerity. The scenery (by Coleman),
the dresses, and general fixings of “Nadjezda”
are expensive things. Also the floral presenta-
tions on the first night were an irepressive sight.
* -* * *
Barring a slight alteration in the identity
of the brown man who disturbs Horace Parker’s
slumber, all things are as they were in “A
Mes; age from Mars ” at Melbourne Bijou. The
new messenger is very like his predecessor, blithe
speaks without a lisp and seems to have a some-
what less sluggish liver. Most people prefer this
brown man to the previous dyspeptic ; neverthe-
less there was something to be said infavor of our
more gloomy brother, now departed. Coming
from a planet where human impulse is put down
as much as possible by Act of Parliament, his deep
melancholy seemed excusable. In last issue The
Bulletin stated that Miss Ray takes off her
engagement ring and gives it back to Parker
with the remark that the gold had begun to burn
her finger. Last week’s statement was absurdly
incorrect. Miss Ray returns the ring because “all
the gold seems to have gone out of it,” which is
an ample explanation, anyhow. A true-hearted
girl would be capable of restoring a diamond tiara
to the most affectionate Horace in the world, if
she had got it into her dear little head that the
diamonds had gone out of it.
* Mf * *
Bland Holt’s dawg and bicycle drama at
Melbourne Royal appears to supply a want.
Much can be forgiven for the sake of the splendid
spirit with which a bogus Baker forges ahead of a
fictitious Albert Norman in the final lap of the
£2OO handicap. The back-cloth and the railing on
the near-side of the track rush past the winner at
exactly the same rate as they leave the other
competitors pedalling on their respective planks,
but with the connivance of the stage-
manager, Baker gets home by half a
length. Sometimes the railings continue
their mad career after the race has terminated and
the back-cloth is at rest, but, as a rule, the illusion
is a Holtian triumph. The dog that ought to
drag Miss Florence Seymour out of the Yarra is a
less trustworthy sensation. He is apt to stop
suddenly on the margin of the tank, and decline'
the contract, but on the rare occasions when he
grabs Miss S. by the sleeve and licks the water
from her face the roar of applause is an entertain-
ment in itself.
*
“Quo Vadis,” which was due at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.), last Tuesday night, will pre-
sumably end on Friday (13th) as per advertise-
ment. “Quo Vadis” is another “Sign of the
Cross ” in its general bearings, so Melbourne has
begun to wonder whether Wilson Barrett’s nextser-
mon will include afew extracts from the Psalms and
a collection to be taken up at the doors. “The
Christian King,” otherwise “Alfred of Engle-
land,” with a heavy educational stress on the
“ Engle,” is the subject chosen for Rev. Barrett’s
forthcoming discourse. It will be delivered for
the first time on Saturday, unless Providence
otherwise ordains.
** * *
Marie Lloyd and Hurley are back again at
the Opera House for a few nights. Also, J. C.
Bain, the painful humorist, who perpetrated a
false announcement of De Wet’s capture some time
ago, is once more confronting the public whom he
wronged. Other ingredients of the Rickards
mixture are about the same as before.


stocks Kept m
RAND ROOK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
BY THE SOLE AGENTS—
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ; WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
214 HIGH STREET, FREMANTLE ; KALCOORLIE.
df
TRAMWAYS. XRA.3VEWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
|D*“ Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p. TRi
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World, upon
application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
About the best brand for sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich & Co.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * *
Financial Standard, London, 23rd July,
1901 : “ For years past we have noted the gratifying
reports of the Colonial Mutual Life, and cannot otherwise
than feel the liveliest sense of admiration of the successful
work of the society.”*
* * * *
The Hecla mine, Lake Superior, U.S.A., have
recently given an order for 80 Wilfley concentrators i'
one lot. They have decided, after trying every knowi.
concentrating machine, that the Wilfley table is by far
the best. The Wilfley concentrating machines continue
to gain in favor in these States. The sole manufacturers,
The Austral Otis Co., South Melbourne, inform us they
are kept fully employed in turning out these machines,
and have sold a very large number. *
* * » *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* * * »
John W. H. Piper, C.E., M.A.1.M.E.,
M.Am.I.M.E., &c., Australian representative of Cutten
Bros., Dunedin, mining and dredging engineers, is leaving
for London about the end of August to establish a Home
Office for the firm, the increase of foreign business
necessitating this action. Mr. Piper will be pleased ,to
undertake any commissions that may be entrusted to him.
Equitable Buildings, George-street, Sydney.*
• * » •
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
» * * *
If further proof is needed that Luhrig Yanners
are the best and most economical machines for dressing
fines and slimes, it will be found in the fact that the Tas-
mania gold mine, Beacon sfield, Tasmania, has decided to
increase the number of these machines in the extension
of the present mill and reduction works. When com-
pleted it will have over 100 head of stampers at work, and
60 Luhrig Yanners, including the additional 24 of the
large type. Before finally adopting plans the Tasmania
board sent its manager to inspect the chief reduction
works in other States. Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, of
Melbourne, are the Sole Agents for the Luhrig appli-
ances.*
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne. *
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andall sorts of iron-work.*
* » * •
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Bucuu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Einasleigh Freehold Co. is making a permanent
survey of the branch railway from Chillagoe line. Lode
cut in crosscut at 170 ft. level worth 11 p.c. copper, and
was 15ft. wide and without a wall where writer saw it.
About 2500 tons, worth 17 p.c., already won from open
cut, and from underground development 300 tons, worth
lOf p.c. Ore in open cut a very soft, black sulphide
carrying up to 50 p.c. copper, with veinings of native
copper. This is still standing in both endsof the cut,
which is being extended both ways. It is now 90ft. long,
50 wide, and about 25 deep. Average width of lode at
No. 1 level, 20ft. Between No. 1 level and surface of the
cut, about 10,000 tons worth 10 p.c. proved. Lode
cropping in river bed and a sulphide body being opened
up by a day level on eastern side of river. Smelter ready
and coke on way to mine. On completion of railway
poorer ore will be concentrated and despatched with the
rich ore to Ohiljagoe smelters. Pending railway com-
pletion the rich ore will be smelted on the ground. Main
shaft is to be deepened at once to 270 ft.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges,
Ny. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-si., Adel.; 127 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
WILD CAT” BRIAR PIPES Wild
8
D.
ea.
IN A DOZEN DIFFERENT SHAPES.
Posted, 10d.; 6s. per Dozen—posted, 6s. Bd.; 725. per Gross— ts~ Carriage Free to any
Railway Station in New South Wales.
8
D.
ea.
Cat
WOOLF Sb 00., 376 Q-eorgo-etreet (next GhP.O.>, SirOKrErST.
m
#
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Revenues for August, 1901:
Increase as
Revenue. compared with
August, 1900.
Westralia ... .. £291,663 .. £48,829
Victoria .. 617,956 .. 38,041
N.S. Wales ... .. 733,095 ..
Tasmania .. .. 69,236 .. 20,971
Queensland .. .. 230,003 .. 77,856
And for the financial year, so far as it has gone (eight
months in Tasmania, and two months in Queensland,
N.S.W., Victoria, and Westralia—no S.A. returns are yet
available), results are as follow. That is to say, they are
as nearly as follows as the divergent systems of State
book-keeping will admit: —
Increases as
compared with
Revenue to 31st corresponding
August, 1901. period of 1900.
Victoria (2 months) .. £1,315,573 .. £127,090
Westralia ( „ ) .. 515,000 .. 68,565
Decreases.
N.S.W. ( „ ) ... 1,451,831 .. 64,601
Queensland ( „ ) .. 521,812 .. 126,232
Tasmania (8 months) ... 518,471 .. 167,137
These figures, unfortunately, are less valuable
than they used to be. Even on such a small matter as a
uniform system of State accountancy, the different Trea-
surers can’t agree. The increases for Victoria and West-
ralia are genuine ; these States include both State and
Federal revenues in their returns, so things now are com-
pared with an exactly similar state of affairs a year ago.
The other States don’t include all the Federal revenues—
only the portion returned to each State after payment of
its share of the Federal expenses. Therefore their position
is better than it seems. Against this, however, N.S.W.
still treats certain trust funds (the rents received for the
property it has taken over but not yet paid for in the
resumed area of Sydney) as ordinary revenue, which
again helps to make things worse than they seem. It is
a pity that Victoria and Westralia don’t follow the
methods of the other States, and show net State revenue
only.
As regards two of the States, however —the two
whose monthly expenditure accounts are available—it is
possible to size up the situation reasonably well. This is
the position as regards N.S.W. :
July and July and
August, 1900. August, 1901.
N.S.W. Revenue .. £1,516,432 £1,451,831
„ Expenditure .. 1,501,885 1,790,083
Surplus .. £14,547
Deficiency .. £338,252
This means that, on the first two months of the financial
year, things are £352,799 worse in N.S.W. than they were
at 31st August, 1900. This is a woeful beginning, for with
old age pensions to pay, and two years’ interest on the
purchase price of the resumed area as against nothing
paid last year, and an interest bill that is about £90,000
heavier, this year’s outgoings are likely to be much larger
than last year’s. Yet last year closed with a deficit of
£130,000 ; and but for the barefaced appropriation of
other people’s rents as revenue it would have been at least
£300,000.
And this is the situation as regards Queens-
land :
July and July and
August, 1900. August, 1901.
Queensland Revenu» .. £648,044 £521,812
~ Expenditure.. 517,347 411,495
Surplus £130,697 £110,317
Queensland always accumulates a large surplus, which
disappears in December, when a half-year’s interest on its
public debt falls due ; and another, which similarly dis-
appears in June. The result for the first two months is
that things are £20,380 worse than at the same date last
year. And last year ended with a deficit of £528,188.
As regards Tasmania, £115,445 of its apparent
decrease is merely owing to the fact that certain revenues
formerly collected by the State are now collected by the
Commonwealth, which has relieved the State of a corres-
ponding expenditure. This is not a real falling off.
But, on the other hand, £51,692 of the decline
arises from a general dropping away in the re-
ceipts, and at this rate something bad is likely to strike
Tasmania, in common with N.S.W. and Queensland. Yet
all three States are doing nothing in particular to meet
the trouble save hoping, and floating loans, and putting
their faith in “ the great resources of the country.”
Probably, if the necessary expenditure information was
available, the other States would mostly prove to be in a
similar bad situation.
» * • *
New South Wales is putting on the London
market a £4,000,000 3 per cent, loan, issued at a minimum
price of £94. The loan has been underwritten, which
will cost something, and, allowing for expenses, stamp-
duty, &c., it is quite possible that N.S.W. may only get
about £9l or £92 or £93.. At that rate, the State will
receive about £3,650,000 or £3,700,000 for its liability of
£4,000,000. In such a case, the interest will really be
about£3 ss. or £3 ss. 6d. percent., and the loss on renewal
will probably make the real interest about £3 10s. per
cent. The money is said to be wanted to pay the cost, or
part of the cost, of buying up the resumed area of Sydney.
Under these circumstances, it is a fair thing to ask these
two questions :
(1) Will the arrears of interest (those accumulated
between the date of resumption and the date when the
property is paid for) be paid out of this loan-money or
out of revenue ? The Lyne-See Government collected the
rents of the properties (properties which were not theirs,
inasmuch as they weren’t paid for) and used them as
revenue instead of setting them aside as a trust fund with
which to pay interest. Are they going to disgorge these
rents to pay back interest with, or not ? If they don’t,
then they are using loan moneys as revenue, and their
finance is, for the several dozenth time, a political swindle
and three-card-trick of the worst order.
(2) Seeing that N.S.W.’s credit is evidently just about
good enough to enable it to borrow at £3 10s. per cent.,
and the interest is only reduced by adding a considerable
sum to the principal of the debt, which is only another
way of paying part of the interest out of loans, will the
See Government establish a sinking fund sufficient to
cover the amount lost in discount by floating the loan at
an unjustifiably low rate of interest ?
There ought to be a fine big boom coming in
New South Wales. A large proportion of the property to
be paid for is locally-owned, so when the transaction is
finished, not only will the property and the rents still be
here, but the best part of £4,000,000 of borrowed money
will be here also. The influx of money, no matter how it
is got, makes things hum while it lasts, and this
£4,000,000, in addition to the regular ordinary borrowings
of something like £3,000,000 per annum, should make a
real good time in N.S.W. for a year or two—which good
time will be alluded to as arising out of “ the legitimate
development of the great natural resources of the
country.” Meanwhile, the immediate result is that
£4,000,000 worth of Australian property which used
to be mostly owned in Australia will now be
owned in England, and the foreign mortgage on this
burdened land grows that much larger. Just by way of
giving one mortgage a chance to lift, will the See Govern-
ment enact that a separate account be kept of this new
State property, and that, whenever it commences to
yield a profit, said profit will be applied to reduce the
debt upon it, instead of being used as ordinary revenue ?
It would certainly be a staggering thing to do, for paying
off any public debt is regarded as something akin to a
crime in Australia 1 Some day, in this country, a states-
man will be run-in on suspicion of intending to pay off
some of the country’s liabilities.
* * * *
The United Australian Mutual Fire Insurance
00. (Melbourne) publishes another disastrous balance-
sheet :
Profits. Dividends. Deficit.
Dec. 1890 £1979 6 per cent. = £lBB4 £253
Reserves.
„ 1891 3173 6 „ „ 1884 1036
„ 1892 4275 (written off ” 1000 } 2427
» 4393 2422 " W 2405
„ 1894 1348 6 per cent. „ 1884 1929
„ 1895 3089 {written off ” *B9B} 2236
1896 2850 / 6 Per cent. „ 1884 1 2 416
„ 1896 2850 | Written off 786 f
Loss.
„ 1897 1508 Nil. 908
Deficit.
June 1899 4579 Nil. 3671
Reserves.
(£3672 added to paper value of properties) 1
Profit.
„ 1900 1038 Nil. 1039
Loss.
„ 1901 746 Nil. _ 293
No dividend for 4£ years, and during that period the net
losses have been £5795. During the time of the great
slump in properties the United Australian Mutual wrote
£3184 off the paper value of its securities. Then it added
on £3672 in a very bad year, so it deliberately asks the
public to believe that its properties increased in value by
£4BB during the period of the great downfall. This is
somewhat of a strain on the public credulity. The in-
crease of £3672 “on re-valuation ” was just sufficient to
cover the losses (on paper) and leave a nominal reserve of
£1 3s. lid., which was, to say the lease, a remarkable co-
incidence. It was in 1892 —just before the bottom fell
out of the boom—that the co. bought its Sydney and
Melbourne office properties for something like £40,000,
with a £30,000 mortgage on them, and if they haven’t
depreciated considerably since then they are more
fortunate than most properties.
The business appears, on the whole, to be a slightly
diminishing quantity ; gross premiums, in 1890, were
£23,109 ; they are now only £17,657. Total income last
year was £20,328, and net income, after paying re-
insurances, was £17,705. Losses were only £7604, and
yet, so extraordinary was the expense account, that there
was a loss. The United Australian Mutual has what
ought to be an excellent business ; its troubles seem to lie
in too many branches, too much expenses, a huge load of
property bought in the boom time, and interest to pay on
£20,000 which still remains of the mortgage. The paid-
up capital is only £40,929, and the co. has t’47,381 worth
(nominal) of bricks and mortar. In other words, it has
sunk more than its whole capital in property. It never
had a reserve fund, for it started paying 6 per cent,
dividends before the preliminary expenses were cleared
off, and even sums received as premium on new shares
went in dividends, &c. What it wants now is to write off its
£7402 of forfeited capital, and apply it in reduction of its
paper property values, which must surely want a very
large writing-down after the bloating-out process they
underwent in 1899 ; to write off all further losses in one
act, and let them appear, if necessary, as a debit balance ;
to greatly cut down expenses ; to pay no more than 4 per
cent, until every penny of the £20,000 mortgage is cleared
off ; and hereafter to do no more property-dealing but
stick to business.
As a proof of what is really wrong consider these
figures from page 722 of the Year Book of Australia for
1901 :
Spent out of every £lOO premiums.
In Expenses. In Losses. Total.
Victoria Fire .. .. £23 7 7 £56 810 £79 16 5
Victoria General .. 25 5 10 56 8 0 81 13 10
Derwent and Tamar.. 26 10 5 60 6 2 86 16 7
South British .. .. 26 17 0 60 6 5 87 3 5
North Queensland .. 27 5 5 58 10 0 85 15 5
Australian Alliance .. 27 510 53 2 2 80 8 0
New Zealand .. .. 27 9 5 61 13 5 89 210
Standard .. .. 29 12 2 56 12 5 86 4 7
National .. .. 30 5 7 53 15 5 84 1 0
Colonial Mutual .. 33 14 2 51 11 0 85 5 2
United 36 0 2 54 10 5 90 10 7
City Mutual .. .. 40 2 0 48 2 7 88 4 7
Australian Mutual .. 40 12 5 23 19 9 64 12 2
Mutual (Tasmania) .. 44 15 7 37 1 5 81 17 0
Mercantile Mutual .. 49 13 2 24 7 0 74 0 2
United Australian .. 65 1 2 32 15 7 97 16 9
The United Australian Mutual had a smaller proportion
of losses than any office save two, and its losses were not
much more than half the average. This speaks well for
the quality of its business. But it had far the highest
expense rate of all —more than double the average—and
this leaves it with the smallest margin among all the 16
offices. (These are the figures to June, 1900 ; this year,
as already shown, there is no margin.) At June, 1899,
when there was a loss of £4579, the co. had also had a
reasonably good year as regards fire losses, but expenses
were close on 70 per cent, of premiums, and no office can
pay under those ridiculous circumstances. If the busi-
ness was run on the same expense rate as the very worst
of the other 15 offices quoted the United Australian
Mutual should be an excellent investment.
• * • •
For the second year in succession the Australia
Hotel Co. (Sydney), pays no dividend. A lawsuit cost the
co. £1354, and net profits were thereby reduced to £651 —
equal to £2 12s. Id. per cent, per annum on the paid up
capital of £25,000. If there had been no lawsuit the
profit would have been £2005, equal to about 8 per cent.
The total reserves are £16,988. The big caravanserai
totters under a huge mortgage of £125,000, and as it pays
8 per cent, dividends in good years, and makes no serious
attempt to heap up wealth for the removal of the incubus,
it would seem that the board regards it as too heavy to
be lifted.
* • * *
The Farmers’ Co-operative Fire and Marine
Insurance Association, of Canterbury (Maoriland), which
is run on the mutual principle, dividing its profits
between policy-holders and shareholders, shows these
results since its inception :
Deficit.
Preliminary Expenses -• £404
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
Dec., 1891 £2,509 Shareholderss p.c. =£1,320 £785
„ 1892 3,751 {p. cyh oid era 10 ”} ” 2 ’ 743 1>793
~ 1893 1,341 Shareholders 4,, „ 1,280 1,854
„ 1894 1,138 { Fcyhci " d „„ ;; };; mb w
„ 1895 4,885 {“K™, 9 ” } ” 3,401 3,805
„ ism 5,622 ;;} s - ,m 4 ' 341
„ Mi 5,072 {s;,i d “’io 6 ;: *■«»
June, 1899 5,707 taj£fl§ ”1 Z 4 '«’ l «'*»
moo 4,943 ««
„ mi 5,032 {| h c ”a'.™ r iS::} 3 ’ iSS 9 ' 950
The Farmers’ 00-operative has a paid-up capital of
£49,474, and its whole premium income last year was
only £10,573. This means an enormous amount of security
for policy-holders, but at the same time It is a large con-
tract for a small new co. to pay 6 per cent, dividends on
a capital of such size. The pile seems to be carefully
invested, however, returning about 5 per cent. Also,
the Farmers’ 00-operative is a cheaply-managed office —
the most cheaply-managed in Australasia—only 20 per
cent, of the premiums going in expenses.
* * * *
The Excelsior Land, Investment and Building
00. and Bank (Sydney) :
(Ordinary Interest paid to Depositors.)
Loss on Loss on Total
Business. Property. Deficit
July, 1893 £5,365
„ 1894 .. £3,409 8,774
„ 1895 .. 5,189 13,963
(No Interest paid to Depositors.)
Profit.
„ 1896 .. 1,375 £13,937 26,525
„ 1897 .. 3,833 10,240 32,932
(2£ per cent. Interest paid to Depositors.)
„ 1898 .. 449 32,483
Loss.
„ 1899 .. 1,939 34,422
„ 1900 .. 1,987 65,208 101,617
„ 1901 .. 342 101,959
Since 1895 some £13,600 of new capital has been called up,
but even with this additional earning power, and with its
deposits carrying a very low rate of interest, the Excel-
sior Land Investment and Building 00. and Bank hasn’t
yet contrived to make ends meet. Out of £110,986 paid-
up capital only £9027 still exists, even on paper, and con-
sidering the unpayable character of the assets even at
their present written-down value, it is questionable if any
capital survives at all. Deposits, which stood at £136,055
in 1895, are now down to £53,527. Among the unlucky
land banks of this country the Excelsior take 3 a high
place. Excelsior means “ ever upward,” and unless the
upwardness refers to the shortage, or to the indignation
of the shareholders, it is a sadly misplaced name.
• * * *
Mort’s Dock and Engineering 00. (Sydney)
shows a diminished profit by reason of the strike, and
the dividend on ordinary shares is reduced from 6 to 5
per cent. The remarkable feature about this co.’s
accounts are that while large sums are carried to the re-
serves small ones disappear out of them without any ex-
planation—possibly for depreciation, though there is a
separate allowance for that which makes the matter all
the less explicable. At other times the reserves in-
crease by a far larger amount than that nominally carried
to them, which is equally unaccountable. The record of
late is thus set forth in the balance-sheets :
Reserves
Profit, as shown
less Dividends. in Balance-
Depreciation. sheet.
Dec., 1899.. £8894 6 per cent. =£5872 £22,637
June, 1900.. 7503 6 = 6000 24,364
Dec., 1900.. 8493 6 = 6000 28,671
June, 1901.. 5354 {j ££ 3750} 27 ’ 726
The co. appears to be doing well, but its balance-sheet is
an unaccountable document, where the increase or de-
crease of the visible total reserves has no apparent bearing
on the sums which profess to remain after providing for
depreciation and dividends.
• * * *
Melbourne Hydraulic Power Co.:—
Profits, T . ,
less Dividends.
Depreciation. Reserves.
June, 1893.. £10,039 10 per cent.=£7soo £4,290
„ 1894.. 10,667 10 „ „ 8186 6,771
„ 1895.. 11,380 10 „ „ 9000 9,151
„ 1896.. 8,935 10 „ „ 9000 9,086
„ 1897.. 11,029 10 „ „ 9000 11,115
„ 1898.. 11,886 10 „ „ 9000 14,001
„ 1899.. 12,262 10 „ „ 9000 17,263
„ 1900.. 12,381 10 „ „ 9000 20,644
„ 1901.. 12,356 10 „ „ 9000 24,000
The reserves consist of reserve for depreciation and
renewals, £12,081; sinking fund, £10,740 ; and undivided
profit, £1179.
* * • *
Another strike on the tapis in the Lithgow
(N.S.W.) district coal-mines—though the difference
between the men’s and the employers’ idea as to hewing-
rate was at the end of their haggle only a penny per ton.
* * * *
N.S.W. gold-dredgingreturns:—AraluenValley
Consolidated, 250 z. for 124 hours ; Araluen Proprietary,
30oz. for 124 hours ; Araluen Central, 240 z. 17dwt. 15gr.
for 198 hours ; Macquarie No. 2,28 oz. I7dwt. for 9 days ;
Turon River No. 1,230 z. for 130 hours ; Turon River No.
2,140 z. for 121 hours ; Ovens Valley, 260 z. for 218 hours ;
Kiandra, 320 z. for 130 hours.
• * *
Several shafts sunk by a leaseholder at Calcifer
(Q.), on the sites selected by a divining-rod crank, have
developed splendid bodies of—lime.
* » » »
Of the 1,000,000 shares into which the Chillagoe
R. and M. Co. is divided, 480,000 shares, paid up to £l,
were issued and divided pro rata among shareholders of
the Chillagoe Proprietary Limited, as the consideration
of the purchase of the whole of the assets of that com-
pany ; 100,000 shares were issued to the Chillagoe Pro-
prietary Limited, at £1 per share ; 298,867 reserved for
debenture-holders ; 36,750 issued to underwriters ; 11,000
were sold at £1 per share ; 45,000 sold at 255. per share ;
25,000 sold at 275. 6d. per share; and 1136 were issued
and'sold at 30s. per share. Total, 997,753 shares. The
C.R. and M. directors hold 100,000 shares in the Mungana
co. as part consideration for the sale of the Mungana
properties. As so many of the C.R. and M. shares were
disposed of without the immediate knowledge of the
shareholders, the 100,000 Mungana shares, which are
already an asset of great value, and of much greater pro-
spective value, should be cut up among shareholders pro
rata and with as little delay as possible.
An optimistic correspondent writes from the
spot:—Main workings on the Garnet Freehold, so far,
have proved an ore-lens 300 ft. long and 70ft. wide. The
body widens as it dips, and is much wider at the 64ft.
level than at the tunnel floor. The cross-cut at the 150 ft.
will cut the ore body in about 70ft. from the present face
or 140 ft. from the shaft. New shaft being sunk 500 ft.
north of tunnel, on site of old No. 3. Cartage of silica to
furnaces from outside stopped, as No. 1 South shaft is
now supplying a silicious ore worth 7 per cent, copper
and soz. silver. An enormous body showing in open cut,
which will be carried down to tunnel-level. 900 ft. N. of
main workings and on E. side of ore-channel the old
prospectors’ shaft has been deepened, proving a lode 25ft.
wide, worth 20 per. cent, lead, 4 per cent, copper and
2oz. silver. Zinc giving no trouble. Occurs in patches—
a great quantity of the sulphides carrying none. Furnace
running a 10 per cent, zinc sulphide and producing a clean
matte, averaging 45 per cent copper and 70oz. silver in one
operation. One furnace now treating 850 toq| a week —
second furnace of equal capacity will be blown-in in a few
days. Reverberatories are being erected, and should be
ready long before railway is through. Contractor Wilcox
expects to be through to 18-Mile —half-way—by mid-Nov.,
and to run trains into Garnet by beginning of May. Car-
riage of matte and coke is made on camel-hack—now costs
£2 10s. per ton —equal to between 6s. and 7s. per ton of
ore difference between camel and railway charges. Co.
should be making a profit of at least £2 per ton now—
with reverberatories and consequent clean-metal, and
railway transit, this should be increased to a profit of
£3 ss. per ton of ore. On a treatment of 80,000 tons per
annum there is actually proved over two-and-a-half
years’ work, averaging 6 per cent, copper and 12oz. silver.
Thus, in under two years, the capital should be returned,
leaving mine and railway for nothing. The figures of
profits under the present and future sets of circumstances,
viz., £2 and £3 ss. per ton, seem to writer to be fairly
estimated, although Gen. Manager Ashcroft puts £hem
much lower. Cost of production includes, for future
development, 7s. on every' ton of ore won. 41 percent, of
coke, and 9 per cent, charcoal used, totalling 131 per cent,
of fuel on the charge. The newly-developed silicious
body in No. 1 South shaft means a brighter prospect for
the Garnet South Show.
(Covtinued on page 82.)


ATTERS
Gent’s
Black
Semi-Stiff
gd
High Grade
Selected
Fur Felt
8/6 10/6 _ 12/6 14/6
In ordering, please state size or number of inches round head, also chest measurement.
PAVIP JONES & COMPANY,
SEORSE t BARRACK STREETS ■
Opposite G.P.0., SYDIM EY.
SPECTACLES
will be found satisfactory
if fitted by
WOOD,
“ The Optician,”
who has a reputation for Testing and Fi ting the
Eyes correctly. No charge for examination.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
95 Elizabeth St., Melbourne,
and 299 George-St., Sydney (opp. Hunter-St.)
N.B.—Our New Self-Testing Chart posted free, with
full instructions, to any country address. Write for
particulars.
fg
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjcynfent of
HOME CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
LIQUEUR
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
The shooting of President M'Kinley at
Buffalo Exhibition is a terrible answer to
the pompous official who was remonstrated
with by a visiting Continental diplomat,
on the occasion of President M'Kinley’s in-
auguration last year. The visitor expressed sur-
prise at the President walking about, and talking
to all and sundry, unprotected, and without any
pretence at a guard. “Sir,” was the grandilo-
quent reproof, “ he has 70,000,000 guards. Every-
one of Ins loving people : ”
• • * »
After all the fuss about a Federal flag, the
calling for designs, the offering of rewards, &c ,
the poor old Southern Cross has come out on top
as per usual. No doubt there were dozens of
better and more striking designs sent in, but
nothing except the Southern Cross was likely to
have a show. That battered, tenth-rate constella-
tion, which isn’t a cross, but looks rather like five
nails in the square top of a boot-trunk, has become
a habit in Australia, so, as might be expected, it
and the Union Jack are the principal components
of our new banner. The other inhabitant is a
shapeless blob supposed to be a six-pointed star.
The Southern Cross is an object which we share
with South America, our bleeding victim South
Africa, Maoriland and Polynesia, and the first
two had a lien on it long before this country was
settled. Still, they seem inclined to let us have
it; no serious competition has appeared so far.
There is little variety about flags in a general
way. The Turkish crescent, the elephant of
Siam, the old sunburst banner of Ireland, the
blacksmith’s apron which used to be the standard
of Persia, and the rattlesnake flag of South
Carolina with the motto “Don’t Tread on ME”
were rather original efforts, but original ideas in
the flag business are rather rare. The crocodile
of North Queensland might have been worked in ;
he is an animal that hasn’t been worn threadbare
on banners and the like ; or a high rock to stand
for good old Cape Leeuwin would have had a
suggestion of novelty about it. But, apparently,
this country can’t escape from its dim, bow-legged
and slinking old constellation.
* * * *
Stated that Pedro has been quietly shipped
off to, Africa by S.A. Govt. This is the sailor
who was concerned with the Russian, Andersen,
in a drunken brawl, at Port Adelaide, that ended
in manslaughter. Pedro was quite arguably the
less guilty of the two, but, not having a Czar to
intervene for him, he remained in prison after the
other had been released, and right up to the time
of the Parliamentary agitation on the latter ques-
tion.
* * * *
The eternal Coningham case duly appeared
in N.S.W. Leg. Assembly in the shape of a
motion by Affleck, M.L. A., for a select committee
to inquire into the interception of certain letters
and telegrams. Affleck’s chief card is that he
wrote a letter to somebody about the case, which
appeared in a certain ‘ ‘ history ” of the case.
Naturally he would like to know how and why.
The sectarian business obtruded itself straight
away in the Assembly proceedings. Affleck
nominated Kidd as the Minister to act on his
committee, instead of Crick, who, as a matter of
etiquette, should have been asked, as the inquiry was
in the P.O. of which Crick was then Ministerial head.
Kidd is the L.O.L. man of the Cabinet, while Crick
is, of course, a R.C. John Norton was also in-
cluded, to further embarrass Crick—who took the
unusual course of refusing to sit on the same com-
mittee with Norton. This was awkward, for if a
man is selected by his constituency to a seat in
Parliament it is an injury to it fora Minister to in-
sult its representative by declining to recognise his
rights. But the House accepted the situation.
As a matter of fact, the House accepts anything
Crick tells it to do. His own name was substi-
tuted for Kidd’s, the words “ Coningham case”
were deleted from the motion, and Affleck got
his committee. And a lot of satisfaction he will
get out of it.
• • • •
Sydney Harbor Trust is indeed a corpora-
tion militant. First of all, it collided violently
with the Ferry co.’s on the question of affording
protection to passengers in the event of accident.
Next, it quarrelled with the s.s. co.’s. Its recent
dispute over wharf dues on bulk kerosene has
already been the subject of an attack on the
Ministry. By interfering with the great Standard
Oil Trust in its conflict with the rival Shell Trad-
ing Co. on said kerosene question, it has raised
the point of charging dues on private wharves.
Now it is taking a fall out of the Australian Gas-
light monopoly by charging it with wharfage on
coal. It seems probable that prior to the forma-
tion of the Harbor Trust, various persons “had a
long loan of” the public on mat rs generally
affecting wharfage rates.
* * * *
Adelaide is another place where they don’t
spell it Paytriotism. The ladies of the local
National Memorial (dead-cohentingenter) Com-
mittee have actually the gall to ask J. C. William-
son to give a matinee of “Florodora” for the
benefit of the fund. They revel in the gush and
glory of the thing, but have no intention of paying
for their own tombstone. It would be just as
reasonable to request one of the big drapery estab-
lishments to hold a special sale on some holiday
and give them all the profits. The project hangs
fire wofully, and the ladies evidently want J. C. W.
to come along and save the pockets of their
husbands.
According to a letter to a Sydney re-
sident from Middleburg, S’Africa, dated
July 23, there were 7000 or 8000 Boers,
chiefly women and children, in the local
concentration camp. “ The death-rate
is very high among them at present.
Just imagine—the men who were making coffins
for the dead refugees struck work ! Some ghastly
things have happened; poor beggars, they do
suffer.”
• * * *
N.S.W. public servants are not to get the
Court of Appeal to which they were to carry
their cases from the decisions of the Public Service
Board. So says Attorney-General Wise, whose
argument is that such a Court would practically
only be another P.S. Board, and that it would be
chary of differing from the first decision and thus
really censuring the Board. Instead of this Govt,
propose to allow an appellant to have the right of
access to all papers and reports on which the
Board has arrived at any decision concerning him.
This is quite right so far as it goes, and will afford
the public servant the very necessary protection
from the chief of his department who meets him
with a smiling face and stabs him in the dark
down at the Board’s office. But while the service
will welcome the privilege, the knowledge that the
Court of Appeal is not to come will be a dis-
appointment to many.
* * ♦ m
Editor Bulletin. —Let me say a few words
about the horrible state of things in Rookwood
(N.S.W.) Asylum. It is sickening to walk
through the hospital wards and see the helpless
old men—and even those who can walk about—
fairly crawling with vermin. Some of them have
not had a change of underclothing for seven or
eight weeks. Also, the dirty clothes that go to
the laundry are merely dipped in water and sent
back to the wards, still crawling with vermin.
The nurses engaged in thesb wards are helpless to
remedy the evil. Repeated complaints have been
made to the matron superintendent—but so far
in vain. Again, the way the food as cooked
and dished to the poor old men quite drives away
what little appetite they may have left ; and, on
the whole, very severe blame attaches to either
the officials of the institutions or to the Govern-
ment. — Cabolus.
" When a merry maiden marries.” —A music-hall sketch.
Some queer yarns are current re demands
for N.S.W. Old-Age Pensions. A married couple
living together cannot receive as much as if apart,
therefore couples apparently separate in order to
obtain the greater amount.
• * * *
“ Quad”: There is, in Sydney, a tramway
union, said to have a roll of over 1000 members, yet
I have never met a tram-conductor or driver on any
of the lines who admits membership. The Depart-
ment has been accused of espionage; appa-
rently the employees think there is something in
the charge, for publicly, at any rate, they are
willing to class the Union as conducted by
‘ agitators,’ whatever their private opinions may
be.
* * • *
Memory of that awful crime, the Gatton
(Q.) tragedy, is revived by the publication of a
paragraph which says that “No useful purpose
could be served by proceeding with the matter
further. The why and the wherefore need not
be published. A sequel of the horror is the in-
sanity of a certain person, who has been in an
asylum for some time. The fact was charitably
kept from the knowledge of the general public.
It is, however, reassuring to know that the per-
petrator of the triple murder is a lunatic.” Which
is all pure invention : the Q. authorities being now
IN THE STALLS.
SHE: “So you don’t like the hat just in front
of us! How would you like it trimmed? ”
HE (savagely): “With a lawn-mower.”
no wiser re the Gatton affair than they were three
months after its occurrence.
* * * *
Last session there was introduced to
Maoriland Parliament a Bill for the removal of
all disabilities from women, and to throw open to
them every political, civil, and military position.
One member thereupon said “he dreaded the day
when his wife, having become commander of
‘ Seddon’s Horse,’ would come home from the club
and forget to take her spurs off before getting into
bed.”
♦ m * #
“Rex”: Related that when a certain
red-hot Victorian parson had, in one of
his brimstone discourses thundered forth—“On
the day of judgment, English, Irish and Scotch,
French and Germans, will stand side by side; but
where, I ask, will the drunkards be ?” —an old dame
at the back of the church cheerfully observed :
“ Oh, they'll be in hell all right, Mr. ;
no doubt about that /” The parson glared; and
then, apprehending further interruption, said
hastily: “Five minutes more and I shall have
finished.” Then the old lady arose, and with
clasped, beseeching hands, ejaculated: “Oh, my
darling preacher, may you never have finished !”
The proceedings then hurriedly terminated in
much snigger.
“ T.D.” : lie Ambrose Pratt’s
highly-spiced Blackwood larrikin
yarn. I, myself, when a bullet-
headed boy, on a Balmain weekly,
was on talking terms with most of
the dreadful “Liver Push,” whose
malicious instincts generally found
their worst vent in a playful dis-
tribution of pigs’ innards over the
habiliments of casual visitors to
Glebe Island abattoirs. They con-
sulted me on points of law. Once,
a lumbering hoodlum asked what I
did in the courts. Others ex-
plained, and then the light of a
great intelligence suffused his
countenance. “ Trainin’ ter be
a trap, ain’t yer ? ” he asked, yet
made no attempt to stousli the
embryo minion. As for “push-
books,” kings, or any other for-
mulas, everyone who knows pushism
can giye dozens of instances of
men drawing out of the lively
street-corner gangs and hoisting
the white flag of a blameless life.
* * *
“S.S.”: An acquaintance in
a Melbourne suburb has a peculiarly-
afflicted son about seven years old.
The youngster was born with an
insatiable paper hunger. He eats
all the paper lie can lay his hands
on, printed paper for choice, and
on this account has to be carefully
watched. He has a goatish greed
for posters, and lias been found
browsing off hoardings and raven-
ously consuming the morning paper.
Each paper feed is followed by a
nasty fit. It is necessary to con-
fine the kiddy in an unpapered
room, and the faculty is now
endeavoring to amend his ap-
petite.
The M.L. Government is “ favorably con-
sidering ” a proposal to start a training-ship for
sailors. About time, considering that the whole
crew, barring officers, of the new Govt, schooner
Countess of Ranfurly consists of Polynesians.
• * * «
The victim of one of the latest Melbourne
murders at time of writing, Reg. Hill, a pushite,
was extremely hard to kill. After having his
skull knocked in with a stone and fractured in two
places with an iron bar, he got out of bed, dressed
himself, walked to his cousin’s house about a
quarter-of-a-mile off, and then, accompanied by
his relative, walked all the way from North Mel-
bourne to the City Hospital, where he died next
night. Writer recalls the case of a braceman in
Ballarat district who had his skull hideously
smashed through the breaking of a pulley-wheel,
and walked across to the manager’s house to report
the accident, carrying with him the lump of iron,
weighing nearly a hundred-weight, as a guarantee
of good faith presumably, for the poor fellow never
lived to explain verbally.
A Melb. fourpenny restaurant has
just had a piano put in the feeding-room,
, and it is banged vigorously during meals. By
inflating the brain the steak looks bigger than the
inside of a ham-sandwich at a Scotch picnic.
• * * *
The fiery Australian courage, in a tight
place, didn’t shine to much advantage in the
sticking-up of the White Cliffs’ mail-coach. The
coach’ was loaded with opal and other treasure,
said to be worth £BOOO, and when a masked man
appeared from behind a gate-post and shot one
of the passengers through the fore-arm, the rest
quietly put up their hands. The man in the mask
then lined the three men up against the fence and
told them, if they moved, the results would be
fatal. Next, he quietly began ripping up the
Joseph Jones
S- RK, SAID
3r red,- 6
UIVIR, 0
Tewhi^ue.Tones,
YR°n SORE WERT ARTIST, GORE AND DEAD."
O 4
It MAYBE J°SRf>H J°NES ISKKWT,
But 'F HE IS, —0, 'WHEN HE -DIES, f
God SfARE. lAE fROfl ft
020 The Avf ul s\qht
Of one of Joseph J°nes's skies !
Ticket-Taker
A P. AND O.A.B.
He carries to these Austral Seas
An Eastern flavor
Of Temple-bells and tropic breeze—
Stand further off— to leeward, please ;
Grant me this favor !
“ A fellow subject of the Queen "
Sounds nice in telling-,
But ’gainst that odor in between
I am rebelling.
Keep thou the distance I desire—
Thy Eastern aspect I admire.
TAHUNE LINAIL.


JbO.KiZb GlNa
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
hut absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16‘5u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
ME Whisky of The Wise
■ L
The PUREST WHISKFY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.
A ustralasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Harper’s
“STAR”
Oatmeal
Always Pure and Fresh
Sold in 71b. Bags.
mailbags and opening tne crates in search of opal
and registered letters, and, while he was hard at
it, a cyclist rode up behind him and asked him
what he was doing. The brigand suppressed him
with violent threats, and, turning round, fossicked
about for his revolver, which was lying among the
plunder—nobody rushed him while his attention
was thus distracted—and then the cyclist joined
the party at the fence, and four men looked on
while the work proceeded. If they had all rushed
him, one, or even two, might have been shot, but
it’s a certainty the other two would have secured
him. Most likely, no one would have been shot,
especially if the rush had taken place while the
cyclist was making his little diversion: But the
four men just leaned up against the fence.
• * * •
The Bulletin wishes to call the attention
of funeral floral-tributers in general to an educa-
tional advt. published in Melb. Argus last week,
under the Deaths heading :
BRENNAN.—Oh Ist Sept., at his residence, The
Lodge, Melbourne General Cemetery, Michael Bren-
nan, 27 years caretaker, native of co. West Meath,
Ireland, aged 60 years. By request, no flowers.
R.I.P.
“By request no flowers.” For 27 years Michael
Brennan had been, in his business capacity, a
student of funeral ceremonial and a critic of grief
display. He knew how much value to attach to
those marks of respect for the dead which are
bought at the florists’ and placed < upon the
coffin—the wreaths and crosses and things which
remain above ground after the “interment” and
are, in a good many cases, stolen and transferred
to other graves, or taken out of the cemetery by
needy larcenists for re-sale. Michael Brennan
had seen thousands of wreaths sacrificed on the
altar of conventionality by “mourners” who
mourned nothing so much as the expense of the
grief-token they had felt themselves called upon
to contribute. Michael knew that a heap of
costly blossoms on a new grave is not even a
guarantee that anybody will ever devote six-
pence to its decoration or care-taking in the
future. Probably the sight of wreaths and
A TEST OF INTELLIGENCE.
FOND MAMMA: “He's such a smart child, you
know—knows the pussy, and 'the horse, and
his breakfast, and his bath. Oh, you simply
wouldn't beuieve it! ”
FOOLISH YOUTH: “ Ah, very likely; does he—
ah—know his fathah ? ”
things had become abhorrent to the man who
lived and worked on cemetery ground for 27
years. Anyhow he stipulated for a flowerless
funeral.
* * • *
In a recent District-court case at Grafton
(N.S.W.) a witness stated that he had been in the
police for nine years. “He was a senior-constable,
and because he expressed Liberal opinions in
regard to the Boer war, he was first disrated and
then dismissed. He had merely said that it was
a capitalistic war, and if it had not been a ques-
tion of £ s. d. there would have been no fighting. ”
The Bulletin would like to hear details of this
case.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.— What’s the matter with
“Craw” for the name of a person who is astute
enough to fill his own craw at the expense of
snobs ? Say there were 400 distinguished guests
at the Commonwealth opening; 300 of these,
presumably, will order, say, 20 copies each of
Craw’s contemplated work at 2s. 6d.=£2 10s.
Then £2 10s. x 300=£750 !—G.A.P.
* * * *
The pietists who are at the head of
the present Sydney agitation against the employ-
ment of barmaids may be confidently relied on
to do nothing towards helping to provide
deceitly-remunerative work for any Hebes whom
they may succeed in depriving of employment.
The anti-barmaid movement is chiefly in the
hands of certain posturing stipendiary philan-
thropists, who, so long as they are enabled to feed
their faces on the proceeds of holy jaw, don’t
worry about other people’s troubles. Perhaps it
would be a good thing to see barmaids abolished,
but it would be sad to see them wiped out at the
instance of such an odious gang of canting hum-
bugs.
Considering that the cost of meat in Mel-
bourne is now nearly double what it wa3 six
months ago, the Customs Dept, ought to be
seriously “approached” on the subject of the
kerosene trick which it perpetrates in the interests
of trade. Hundreds of bullocks and sheep
from the other States are brought to the
South Melbourne abattoirs every month, in bond,
and are there slaughtered for export as frozen
meat. The heads of the beasts are not included
in the shipment, so the Customs officer who
watches over the killing and dressing of the car-
cases is required to pour kerosene over the heads
(after which they are burnt in the dessicating
works) lest they should provide meals for the
masses to the injury of retail butchers in the dis-
trict ! A suggestion that the heads might be
given to the hospitals or other charitable institu-
tions was met with the objection that it would be
unfair to the butchers.
* * * *
“ C.M.G.” : Like Clarke, M.H.R., I have
been interviewed by a young lady, wearing a
religious hat and the chastened expression of a
Christian martyr (vide oil paintings), who wanted
me to sign a petition. She said it was to put
down gambling and evil practices, and I discovered
that it was merely a pious effort to oust “ Tatter-
sail’s ’’ sweeps. Told her I was opposed to evil
practices and gambling on the Stock Exchange.
“ Oh,” she said, “it will stop that, too.” “And
the Chinese lotteries?” “Yes, indeed.” I also
gathered that this particular petition was an
infallible cure for card-playing in the Melbourne
Club, two-up schools. Sabbath desecration, bad
language, Sunday-trading, billiards, barmaids,
and bookmaking, and would have a tendency to
prevent the deplorable spread of impiety amongst
politicians ; but when I wanted an assurance that
it would abolish smoky chimneys, a coldness
sprang up between us, and we parted with mutual
satisfaction.
* * * *
The best monument commemorating a
dead civil servant in Australia is the Eddy
Orphanage Fund.
Compare it with
stained - glass win-
dows, and statues
bagged at the knees,
and the general run of
similar things to keep
a prominent man’s
memory green ! And
it is to Mrs. Eddy,
widow of the late
Chief Commissioner,
that the idea is due.
* * *
A man brought
an Engl sh letter to
this office, last week,
bearing the address :
“The Superinten-
dent, Ivan hoe Gold
Mining Co., Victoria,
New South Wales,
West Australia.” If
you address a letter to
everywhere it is al-
most bound to reach
somewhere sometime
or other.
* * *
“Quad”: A
Chinese was fined £4
(with heavy costs), or
two months, t’other
day, at Sydney Cen-
tral Police Court, for
a breach of traffic regu-
lations—galloping a horse and cart along George-
street. Same week a white man was fined 20s.
and costs for “stoushing” his wife. Justice for
the white and for the yellow !
» » * *
Victoria is afflicted just now with an epi-
demic of teetotal mayors. Ballarat, Bendigo and
half-a-dozen other places possess mayors who have
“sworn off,” and whose little corner cupboards
are bare of whisky.
* * *
“ Hermes ” predicts trouble :
Some time ago a tram bolted in Sydney. It was a
cable-car and dummy, and it refused to let go the rope at
the bottom of King-st., and careered up the hill at full
speed. It crossed two other lines of trams, abandoned by
everybody but the driver, conductor, and three fat ladies
who could Hot flop off anyhow. Strange to say, it got
through without giving anyone even a bad scare, barring
those who were on it, and by doing so used up all the
good luck to the credit of that particular line. I prophesy
that the next accident on the cable-line will be something
different. The back car is always crowded about meal-
times. People ride on the steps, and it isn't uncommon
to see a small boy riding on the back buffer. Well, some
day the couplings (which are none too massive) between
the car and the dummy will snap, and the crowd of pas-
sengers on the platform will prevent the hand-brake
being used till the helter-skelter is fairly started, and
then it won’t act, and the whole load will rush back down
the hill, and the next heavily-loaded tram will be coming
up ; and the shock that ensues will bury half the passen-
gers in the ruins, and throw the other half through the
window of Price’s pants-emporium.
* » » *
Seems that, a larger proportion of the
married than the unmarried Victorian cohentin-
genters expressed a wish to remain in S’Africa,
“ and these were informed that they should make
some provision for their wives and families left
behind.” But who is going to enforce payment
from the married cohentingenter, who has possibly
formed other-and-blacker-ties in the far-off land ?
* * * *
Australian Old Age Pension schemes have
suddenly given “the old man” a status and a
value. Ten-bob-a-week in the present or the
future is a wonderful stimulus to filial affection;
and ancient paupers in State asylums, forgotten
for years, have been surprised by visits and mis-
sives from long-lost sons and daughters whose
blood warms to the talismanic touch of “ ’arf-a-
thick-’un.”
* * * *
“ Can you imagine a graver wrong than a
CONTROVERSY AT OUR BOARDING-HO USE.
“Do not,” said the piously-inclined shop-walker,
“ sneer at religion because of the diversity of
creeds. Remember that the spires of the
churches all point Heavenward!”
Yes,” assented the comic artist's undersecretary, “and so do the c[?]imncys of the. breweries and
boiling-down factories.”
patient recovering from some acutecurable disease,
say pneumonia or typhoid fever, with his resisting
power reduced to a minimum, being in bed next
to a consumptive patient in the late stage of the
disease —one whose sputum teems with tubercle
bacilli ? And yet, this obtains in all our Sydney
hospitals to-day, and I might say every day.”—Dr.
Cecil Purser, late medical superintendent of
Sydney Alfred hospital.
» * * *
Some boys have no luck. At Merino
(Vic,), recently, .Jas. Elston, aged 11, broke his
leg for the fifth time during the last two years.
He had only been out of Hamilton hospital about
two months.
* ♦ * *
Albury (N.S. W.) Bench has decided that
calling a policeman a “copper” is neither insult-
ing nor abusive. It discharged a man accused of
the offence.
* * * *
An Oddfellows’ Lodge in Newtown
(Sydney) has dismissed its doctors because the
latter refused to sign an agreement binding them
(said doctors) to pay expenses of travelling to
night-visits. Oddfellows usually pay 3d. or 4d. a
week to their medicoes for attendance on the
whole family ; and when little Billy suddenly
developes croup or convulsions at midnight, his
beloved father (who hears so much of the brother-
hood of man at the lodge-meeting) frequently
grudges paying for the cab that brings the doctor
in time to save Billy’s life.
* * * •
The prisoners in Invercargill (M.L.) gaol
were employed to build a bridge over a chocolate-
colored stream that flows through the town. On
its completion the local authorities enthusiasti-
cally caused two granite tablets to be erected, on
which were set forth the facts of the case, and the
names of the mayor, town-councillors, town-clerk,
and warder in ciiarge of the prisoners. A few
days after the bridge-opening, a party of tourists
passed that way, and asked whether the names
were those of the prisoners who had been em-
ployed on the job. Now the councillors are
infuriated at the idea of going down to posterity
as persons who were doing twelve months’ hard,
and it was unanimously resolved to efface the
obnoxious inscription.
* * • *
“> White A> mhr alia !” The names of 107
. Chinese laundries are
given in Melbourne
Directory for 1901.
Many others have sprung
into existence during
the past few months in
city and suburbs.
A WAY OUT OF IT.
OLD GENT: “Say dog, my hoy, not dorg!"
NIPPER: “Dorg."
O.G.: “No; not dorg, hut d-og.”
NIPPER (seeing a way out of it): “I can't say
dorg, hut I can say purp.”
From Sydney D.T. agony-column :
Q SAYS, “ I want the Federal Divorce Law more
humane.” The Priest says, “ I want the Federal
Divorce Law more divine.” Which ?
• * * •
Thus a Maoriland contemporary :
The good work done by the Salvation Army received
exemplification at the City Police Court on the 6th, when
a rather fine-looking girl, only 18 years of age, was
brought up on a charge of vagrancy. The Army officer
in court agreed to take charge of the girl for three
months, whereupon the police withdrew’ the charge.
Thus the Army’s intervention gives the girl a chance of
becoming an honest, respectable woman, instead of being
branded as a criminal for life.
This writer has watched the operations of the
Salvarmy’s “Prison-gate Brigade” rather care-
fully, and ventures to prophesy that when the
Booth crowd has finished with that girl she will
be beyond reformation. To begin with, her soul
will be sweated out of her, and she will have lost
her belief in the sincerity of anything. She will
see a greedy commercialism masquerading as a
Christian organisation, and grabbing cheap labor
under the pretence of saving lost souls. How often
has anybody seen the Army officer “in court ” take
the slightest interest in any man, woman, or child
who was not robust and capable of doing a good
day’s work ?
* * * *
A colored nun, “generally handy,” asks
12s. a week, per medium of a Sydney daily paper
advt., while in next advt. a white man, “ generally
handy,” asks 10s. Farther up the column a Ger-
man or Cingalese “generally handy” is offered
16s. Commercialism doesn’t trouble about a white
Australia.
• ' * *
In Maoriland tbey are making an interest-
ing experiment. First-offence p’i.soners whose
misdeeds are not of a brutal nature are sent to a
new prison in the Hot Lakes district and set to
tree-planting. So far the results are encouraging.
The men are free from contamination by hardened
and experienced criminals, and the healthy
nature of the work in the open air seems to have
good moral as well as physical effect. The Aus-
tralian States all have vast areas of country where
tree-planting would be profitable work, and
prisoners could do more good for the country by
planting trees in the desert than by rotting in
Berrima and other maniac-making institutions.
* * • *
The other day when a deputation of blind
men waited on N.S.W. Premier See (of all names)
to ask for relief it was stated that 36 blind people
solicited alms on the streets of Sydney. Some of
these unfortunates must make a fair living.
Writer, who had occasion to wait near one of them
on a recent Saturday night for a quarter-of-an-
hour, during that time saw 15 people voluntarily
drop coins into his box. There is a widely-pre-
valent and not unadmirable superstition that it is
unlucky to “ pass” a blind beggar.
* * * *
“G.A.P.”: Be that hair-tonic challenge
(8., 24/8/T): It’s long odds that donation won’t be
donated. Cos, why? What’s to prevent a well-
thatched dead-beat, for valuable consideration,
posing as a bona-fide baldy by having his poll
shaved, and then, with subsequent luxuriant locks,
demonstrating alleged efficacy of nostrum ?
* m * *
Arcades Ambo. {They meet in a (jiltled hall
of impropriety.) Father-in-law: “What the
devil are you doing here, sir ? I’ll tell your wife! ”
Son-in law : “ And what the devil are you doing
here, sir ? I’ll tell your daughter 1 ”
It costs 12s. a week to feed the cats kept
in Sydney G.P.O. to make war on the rats. The
washing of the office-towels costs £2 ss. 10s. per
week, and the sweeping of the premises is done by
19 women at £1 each per week.
Westralia’s newspapers of all sorts have
multiplied from 14 in ’9l to 50 now, an increase
of nine in 12 months, though that only just coun-
terbalances the deaths there were in ’9B. Miner
has elbowed out Times, and News, and Adver-
tiser, and Herald— there are seven Miners to
five of anything else.
• • * «
In a N.S.W. country town a new bailiff
was recently appointed, and the first house of which
he had to “ take possession ” was his own —seized
to satisfy a verdict for debt. Grim joke—he sat
on his own chair, forcibly preventing himself
from removing it. Still it isn’t every man who is
paid for sitting on his own chair.
IN ABSENCE.
I am tired of passionate kisses
(Given in paper and ink),
I am weary of loving worship
(Of which I can only think).
I have had enough of caresses
(Across long leagues of sea),
And love words (sent by postage)
Have lost their charm for me.
There’s not much warmth in embraces
That travel first by boat;
And the feel of a paper envelope
Is not so soft as a coat.
Distance increases fondness,
Some ancient fool did boast,
But there’s little use in a lover
Who only loves by post.
N.S.W.
FAYRE.


s
Jhe Charm of MARK FOY’S is the Price.
One of the keynotes of Mark Foy’s success is the working
up of the Men’s and Boys’ Outfitting Trade. __
To young, gentlemen in offices, students, apprentices, and others
who wish to present a good appearance', we call special attention to
MARK FOY’S SMART SUITS FOR BUSINESS YOUTHS.
dressed oU but°V^t irig U& busines i career sires to be smartly
aressed, but the stern necessity of rigid economy with small
salaries necessitates care in spending the coin.
MARK FOY’S NAVY SEROE YOUTHS’ SUITS (Ready-Made )
GUARANTEED PURE INDIGO DYED ALL-WOOL WORSTED SERGES
"* per/ect • iu *
CHARLES
HEIDSIECK
Original Brand CHAMPAGNE
AS SUPPLIED TO
MOST EUROPEAN COURTS
THE BRITISH ADMIRALTY and WAR OFFICE
ALL LEADING CLUBS and HOSPITALS, &0., &o.
Australian Representatives —
SWIFT & CO., 7 Spring St., Sydney
Arthur Griffith and Allen, 169 Phillip-
street, Sydney, Patent Agents and Consulting
Engineers. Patents, Trade Marks and Copyrights
protected throughout the world.*
The American invasion of England goes
on. Latest is that a Yankee match co. in Liver-
pool has, in a few years, got such a hold on the
trade that the great English firm of Bryant and
May, lately the world’s biggest concern of its
kind, has been glad to make terms for the
surrender of its business to the new invader. The
name will remain, but Britain will hereafter be
dependent for its pipe-light on the coming
Yank.
Mr. J. A. Wilkinson, of the Coolalta vine-
yards, has purchased the old and famous Dalwood
vineyard. Dalwood is one of the largest as well
as one of the oldest vineyards in New South
Wales, and is situated on the Hunter River
It formerly belonged to the late Mr. John
Wyndham.*
I rom a Scottish Highland newspaper:
Lund J’> Bridge of Oich, Fort Augustus,
BF. EWE, young ; marked back and fore bit far
lug and fore bit near lug. To be claimed within 14
days, paying expenses. Rodk. Maclennan.
YiAME to Inchcape, Rogart, two years ago, a now
, 5-year-old Horny CROSS WETHER. Back and
fore bit right ear, fork lett ear, with natural black
spot on right rib. Unless claimed within 14 days from
this date, will be sold to pay expenses. Apply,
William Gunn, Inchcape, Rogart.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
.Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
c^TUREj
All Drapers Everywhere.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
~ _ Sydney, September 10, 1901.
My Dear Arini,—
T h is is week out of all the fiftv-two-the
e ou k t°if th dnm' J ?? ring Meeti ng-in which the
SvHnov T] m 0 f tIC llfe seems leaat apparent in
Sydney Theatres are crowded. A charity-ball
this week spells success. A beneficiary’s concert this
week means that she can go to Fogtown on the
proceeds (perhaps m a White Star craft). Most of
the men one meets wear patent-leather boots and
smoke good cigars. Women have new frocks and
French millinery (bought in Oxford-st.). Horses
have pedjgrees, not cabs, behind them. At
Saturday s big race-meeting the horses were much
finer than the dresses. There were scores of very
pretty frocks, but nothing remarkably beautiful,
remarkably ugly ones there were, and the
fiats were, with few exceptions, frantic.
You can t speak of this race festival in the same
respiration as the Melbourne November carnival.
ifieA.J.O. hasn t got a Flemington, any more
than it has a Byron Moore. Rasping economy
in many things is practised by the A.J.C. B.M
knows where to be lavish—and see how his show
pans out! WcTnder how long he would stand the
weird fluid, miscalled “tea,” that is provided at
Randwick. Tea ! It’s an insult to India, China
and Ceylon. Mr. Clibborn is hereby advised to
sample the wash ” personally. But doubtless he
doesnt care so long as “Black and White” is
provided for the committee and stewards’ refresh-
ment. '
A la,rge number of Melbourne visitors are with
us, but they haven’t paid us the compliment of
wearing anything worth writing about. You’d
think most of them had dressed for a Milparinka
race-meeting Yet these same dames will be real'
dazzlers for Cupping in their own capital. Lady
Clarke looked nice in a floral voile and sane toque,
trimmed with pink roses and blue rosettes. Her
tall slender figure has well-defined hips that are
confessedly her own. Many women followed
the fashion of I ranee, and wore figures that were
confessedly not their own, save by right of pur-
chase. It is a terrible fashion—especially when
you get excited (oyer backing a dead-bird) and
your contortions bring on a disillusion of partner-
ships. The Maddens—the maternal Ladybird
and married daughters, Osborne and Vallange—
brought along their sixth-best frocks, matchless
complexions, and calm, sweet faces. There was
, b , ,rd a,S °’ ‘? nd 1 think the whole
quartette had blue somewhere or somehow about
their headgear ; and the Miss wore an able-bodied
posy of small white roses at the back of her neck.
Chiffon ruffles and boas were plenty, some being
trimmed with tiny buds or violets. Bead neck-
laces were retired in favor of the long, slender
gold chains, with appendage of greenstone heart
or oxidised silver trinket or a loved one’s
miniature.
Some of the chiffon dress-wearers looked like
Bernhardt m her portraits as Zaza—very snake-
like, tight to the knees, then the cascade of frills
and train. Pale blue overbalanced the color-
scheme Every seventh dress was a blue, with a
sunshade to match And the saddling-paddock
looked its best when the many-colored parasols
were unfurled. But the hats—oh, the hats >
Borne were like> covers over refreshment-booths
W °A r6n i * hke r an / fchin ff uglier than them-
selves. And some of the most trying were worn
by women whose faces were hard enough for a
chicken-run. One tall thin dame, with a com-
plexion the color of an old saddle, wore a great
platter of purply-pink chiffon, loaded with colored
berries. A candid friend remonstrated with her
and was told one must be consistent. Which
means, I suppose, that one must be fashionable.
Consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds.”
1 hat looks a copy-book headline, but a great man
lathered it, and you needn’t believe in it unless
Another lady’s burnt-straw toque was
spitted through the front of the brim with a big
quill the writing end of which came fair over one
eye down to her cheekbone. Many of the hats
carried great masses of flowers, a pretty vogue
vu 0 ! 1 - 1 ? ° f tle most ■’harming toques was heaped
with lilac sprays.
As for the weather—the spring days were opal-
colored, and a bitter-sweet air blew over the
course. Sometimes there was seaweed in it, and
sometimes pittosporum blossom. It blew into the
nostrils of the shining horses, and as they snuffed
it they said, Ha, ha—let us win this race.” And
the race went to the swift, and now his brows
are laurelled—l mean his neck is blue-ribboned.
Rupert Clarke and his brumbies were much
missed at the races this year. He is returning to
Australia next month, then probably his step-
mother, the dowager Clarke, will go to Europe, for
according tq the terms of the late baronet’s will
ills widow and his successor may not both be out of
Australia at the same time.
Pretty well everyone who had been at Satur-
days races appeared again at “Otello” or
Lady Huntworth’s Experiment.” The audi-
?u Ces , iooked tired, but acted as if
they had backed the winners. At the
grand opera the vice-regal box was full of comely
inhabitants. Miss Darley, in black, when she
put off her long brocade coat. Lady Madden,
also m black, and glittering with sequins and
diamonds, loops of pastel blue velvet in her brown
hair, and a band of the same round her throat—a
trying color but the Madden complexion, even
when grandmotherly, can stand being tried. Mrs.
Vallange, more black, with a diamond coronet in
her hair and a huge pearl heart on her thorax
and a mighty mass of tea-roses from breast to
waist. Her sister, Mrs. Osborne, wore a big red
rose above her dimpled face, and showed her fine
Triceps below thevelvet straps of her twine-colored
gown. Mr. Le Hunte, a benevolent-looking hair-
n’-^e,reJro“ his governorship of a place
called British New Guinea, was also in the box
with several other men whose clothes fitted them.
Mrs. J. 0. Williamson, in her husband’s box,
was accompanied by Madame de Yere Sapio!
1 e American soprano’s pile of wonderful, very
dark-red hair shows no trace of the burning
accident. Her ivory shoulders and scintillating
black gown were outlined against the curtains of
the box. In the opposite box Lord Richard
■Neville and a party must have fancied the Sapio
picture, for they fed their fancy through their
opera-glasses whenever the light gave them a
chance. Everyone wore his or her favorite flowers,
i here was a tiger-lily or two—Lady Mary
.. s recent portrait shows her wearing tiger-
lillies. By the way, Duchess May addresses Lady
Mary as “ Bridget.” Perhaps from a Teck sense
o humor, for it s not one of the amiable, capacious-
foreheaded lady s names. Perhaps Duchess May
objects to call anyone by her own royal name, for
she is really Mary. Signorina Bassich, as Desde-
mona, was almost unrecognisable in her fair make-
up, and played exquisitely the “maiden, never
52“’,,“ s P lrlts still and quiet,” who “saw
Othello s visage in his mind.” The soprano
resses the part beautifully, but the reception
dress (when the Venetian Envoy is received) is a
ravishing arrangement of blue and pale-gold
brocade over cloth of silver embroidered with
crimson. High on her left arm was embroidered
the arms of her house. The net of pearls (her
lady-in-waiting wears one of gold beads) covering
the top of the head ought to be revived as a
fashion for to-day, for it’s a most attractive one.
It s all vicarage and fascinating cook in the
Broughs new play. The vicarage garden crammed
with hollyhocks, and a great longing on the
vicar s part for fish instead of kidneys for break-
fast—the vicarage kitchen and the vicarage
library. A cavalry officer, the vicar and the man-
servant are all in love with the cook, and even her
sweep of a divorced husband says his arms are
open to her; yet on cook’s own confession she’s
forty. Balzac has, in fiction, immortalised the
o arm of a woman of thirty, but ten more mile-
stones along the road ! Yet the lovers seem
to love her for her own sake and not for her
Mayonnaise and fruit salads. Miss Gillies Brown,
•as Keziah, wears a “Rocks” hat and a “push”
frock, and is so amusing that one wishes the cook
■Ulan t send her to bed so soon.
Miss Hetty Holroyd, whose benefit-concert
comes off to-day (Saturday, Sept. 14), was enter-
tained at a tea, at Jean’s, last week, by a number
of her girl-friends. All the givers of the tea
looked pretty and fresh in their Spring frocks,
and all were pupils of Signor Steffani, so, for the
time-bemg Jean’s was an aviary. Signora
Steffani and Mrs. Holroyd were present. Miss
Nellie Cook, on behalf of the other girls, presented
, ff Holroyd with a silver-mounted bag and
clothes-brush.
Talking of voices, how evergreen Maggie Moore
Keeps as regards voice and complexion, yet it is
years since she first played “ Struck Oil ” on
our continent. She has now grown to the dignity
of pinafores and short frocks, whereas most
women have slipped down to grannies’ caps and
Great excitement in Sydney over the elopement
of a well-known tradesman’s daughter, wno was
on the stage, and a diamond-studded society
young man, whose brother is married to the
•daughter of a deceased local magnate. Also, a
gilded youth, whose sense of humor used to bring
inm to breakfast (in the jasper-roofed hotel where
lie resided) dressed in evening clothes and crush
hat, is reported to have gone off with a damsel
from a comic opera co.
How the wolf is made manifest in the dog at
, e ? j, baby playing outside its home was
playfully knocked over by a young mastiff. The
dog then went on after its master, who was taking
it for a run, but probably an ancestor who used to
prey on human food with his pack, a million years
ago, cropped up and said, “Kill the quarry, even
it you don t eat it! ” So the dog rushed back and
proceeded to scalp the child. Its owner had
m forcing its jaws apart with his hands.
Mastiffs and St. Bernards are not to be trusted •
the wolf m them is not eliminated as it is in the
Gordon setter.
The wife of Mr. Octavius Beale is another of
the victims of influenza. She died at her Burwood
dome last Saturday, after a short illness. Mrs
Beaie who is much regretted in a wide circle, was
only 45, and leaves a large family. Ten of her
children were at her funeral.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
It turns out that Regina Nagel was the un-
known singer whose glorious voice made a
sensation at a recent London gathering of the
Musical Naicest. Since then Sarah Bernhardt
has seized the Victorian by both hands and blessed
her for a born artist, and old Ganz, the composer,
has been spellbound by her singing in somebody’s
drawing-room. Also Melba has mentioned to
an earl who sat next to her at a dinner table
where Regina also was a guest: ‘ I feel that
with her voice and temperament she is bound to
win the highest honors.’ All of which means that
Melba is doing her level best to push the richly-
gifted but strangely nervous Miss Nagel in front
Ada Crossley GSS not at all diffident
“ These society triumphs of the new contralto
are evidence that she is at last singing her best in
semi-public. Thusfar she has never been able
osing with ease and confidence before a great
audience; hence the critical references to her
want of soul and dazed manner. Nagel’s class-
mates at Marchesi’s school were enchanted by
her voice in its ordinary way of practice-singing,
but one of them who heard her sing in public
a while ago reported that it wasn’t Reggie’s real
voice at all.
“ Miss Portia Geach, who did a clever portrait
sketch of Donald Macdonald a while ago, has
painted a striking picture of Senator Dr. Quick,
which she sends to Bendigo Exhibition. Quick,
with his light, steely eyes and small moustache,
now turning white, is a good portrait subject, and
the artist has achieved an effective head against a
deep maroon background. The figure seated on a
chair, with a book in the hands, wears his black
and red LL.D. gown. The red-velvet collar is a
particularly successful bit, and though the hands
are not what they might be, the picture, as a
whole, is a strong, artistic thing. Miss Geach
herself, in spite of her theatrical front name, is a
shrewd, forcible Melbournienne, with no nonsense
about her, and her personality marks her work.
“A terrible adventure of a friend of mine
prompts me to write this. Sooner or later, the
savage big dpg will have to be abolished by law,
as was done with the man-trap and spring-gun.
On two successive days, last week, in this city,
two persons, inoffensive and bona-fide callers,
were attacked by large dogs, which broke from
chains. One of the victims, a woman, appears to
have had a narrow escape of being mangled to
death, to say nothing of the shock. If there were
anything in the argument for keeping a savage
dog, then every household should have one, as
every householder puts a lock on his front door.
“ The keeping of the large savage dog is an
individual caprice, and runs entirely with the
innate ferocity of disposition that, a century ago,
found outlet in the setting of man-traps and
spring-guns. There might be some justification for
the fierce, large dog if burglars had his exclusive
patronage, but the burglar, bent on business, calls
in the aid of prussic acid, and gives him no
chance. It is always the visiting friend of the
dog’s owner, or other bona-fide caller, ■ who pro-
vides fang-practice, just as, in nine cases out of
ten, the innocent fall victims to the man-trap or
spring-gun. The savage large dog (the
terrier is of infinitely more value as a watch-dog)
has as much right to be suppressed by law as the
private citizen carrying a full-loaded revolver, the
one being as dangerous to society as the other.
The wrong man invariably suffers, should the
large dog or the small gun explode.
“ A pending divorce-suit may possibly be the
end of a marriage which was the talk of the town
and the subject of interesting litigation a dozen
years ago. The fair petitioner is applying for her
liberty on various grounds, one ground being
unusually delicate. She was the daughter of a
very rich mining man, and the trustees of her
deceased father’s estate did all they could to break
off the match by pleading insanity in the bride-
groom s family, but the law decided against them,
and the lady had her way.
“A sawbones, who lately secured a divorce
from a faithless partner, again negotiated Hymen’s
hurdle the other day, the bride of the occasion
being a nurse from one of the Melb. hospitals.
lalking of hospitals, a medical student has
seriously blocked his career by a very well-played
practical joke. The student in question dressed
himself up in feminine (markedly feminine) attire
and presented himself at a certain institution on
the stroke of midnight. The case was considered
extremely urgent, and the poor creature was ad-
mitted. She (?) was conducted to the examina-
tion-ward, and there the imposition was dis-
covered. Ihe student went off into convulsions
of laughter, but the matron went for the resi-
dent officer of the hospital, and thereby hangs a
disastrous tale.
. “ \ recent Bulletin paragraph was not written
in vain. I notice that the usher of our Leg.
Council now recognises that a man cannot suc-
cessfully ush with thin calves, and has made an
endeavor to correct the fault by wearing long
pants with his comic-opera-looking coat. The
innovation hides the former deficiency, but it
strikes at the very root of the ‘ upper ’ branch of
Parliament. A Leg. Council with its officers in
trousers is an anomaly that calls for a convention
at the very least.
“Eirst sample of ‘ Nadjezda ’ drew a big crowd
(Sept. 7th). The new rooms at the Princess’s got
a cheery house-warming, and should help to pass
away long, dreary intervals. If some manager
would wipe out waits altogether he might find it
profitable. Busy people, bound to get to work
bright and early next morning, hate not to reacli
the beds before midnight. See how they flock
to entertainments which are over by 10!
“Edith Crane, as the Polish heroine, is most
decorative, tall, blue-eyed and sunny-haired. Her
gorgeous gowns recall Nance O’Neil’s ‘Fedora’
frocks, also made in Melbourne. There’s too
much stuff and trimming in them for my fancy.
Their massiveness, which made Nance look
blowsy and barbaric, seems to overweight
Miss Crane’s physical strength. The worst
offender is a pale-blue satin, embroidered with
huge flowers of pearl and turquoise, a hanging
girdle to match, and forget-me-nots in wearer’s
hair. Simpler and more girlish is a pale-
green afternoon toilette, all wide flounces of
white muslin and real lace, sash of faint-green
tulle. A tea-gown of red accordeon-pleated silk
(come to think of it, it’s a skirt-dance suit, not a
tea-gown) has flounces, partially veiling wearer’s
bare arms, and massy frills all over. There are
two pelisses—one of blue velvet and brown fur,
t’other fawn cloth —both of which overload
Najezda, fine woman though she is.
“First night foreigners didn’t seem to relish
the Nihilistic plot over-much. It seems a bit
unfair, making the bad characters so non-British.
The only two Englishmen on view (described as
‘sparks ’) seemed harmless, but painfully cubbish.
One reason why we felt slightly depressed by the
play’s conspiracy atmosphere was that President
M'Kmley’s misfortune was in our minds. When
Nadine, in Zabouroff’s room, encountered her
dead mother’s dagger, it made one think of the
American actor, Edwin Booth, whose brother had
assassinated .Lincoln. Edwin discovered among
some curios in a friend’s cabinet the plaster-cast
of a man’3 hand, and eagerly asked whose it was.
His host put him off, but Booth persisted, till,
just when all other guests were listening, the
answer came : ‘lt is the hand of Lincoln.’ Poor
Booth put down the model and escaped without a
word.
“Charles Hammond, the ex-Tasmanian ama-
teur, seemed a very nice fellow as Paul Devereux,
but not enough of a stormy petrel for such troubled
waters. Whether he’ll grow stormier with age is a
moot ( question. He’s been 12 years connected
with ihe Muffs,’ a Launceston Dramatic Club,
so he s not over-young to try top notes—if lie’s
got any.
“Lady Hopetoun, in seal cloak and pale-blue
hat, sat out most of the matinee in aid of the
Old Colonists Homes plus ‘ Dramatic Musical
Association.’ The self-contained Countess, who
had apparently enjoyed herself fairly well up to
then ieft just before promoter Coppin’s speech.
Maybe she rather dreaded the old actor’s ‘ fare-
well. Most ancient mummers are so tearful and
tremulous that their good-bye appearances are
quite gruesome. No wonder old stage-folk incline
to be lachrymose, for, even in the hey-day of
youth and prosperity, they’re emotional creatures.
At that matinee, buxom, breezy Mrs. Bland Holt
kln< ? w °nian that she is!— shimmering in
spangled white, shed sympathetic tears at the
applause fnend Co PP in scooping valedictory
“TheCoppin ‘farewell’ speech, not (tome) a
scrap doleful, came as an agreeable surprise
treating, as it did, not of the speaker’s past youth!
but of the homes present needs. Money
has been bequeathed to build more cottages for
. a P a Coppin s ancient pets, but unless extra land
is annexed these new homes will crowd up the
settlement and destroy its beauty as a garden
village. The Stage-ancient’s aspect of good cheer
preached a sermon on the text-that there’s
nothing like some outside, unselfish hobbv for
warding off old age. Women last far longer than
men thanks to their devotion to grandchildren or
chantabie fads As for missionary-meetings—
God help old ladies when the last heathen gets
converted ! "
t u 6 r ma , tin e®> Dai sy Coppin, heroine of
< ivr a f ° ol as , l ? e looks ’ ( in which Pa played
Mould ), wore white muslin, with transparent
yoke and sleeves. Later she eloped in the same
plumage, plus sable cape, with bridal lining of
quilled white satin.
“Same afternoon when the ‘Message from
Mars Co. contributed a ‘Highland Legacy’
Hawtrey was a kilted piper with ginger-bread-
colored legs, while Winifred Austin, m bright-blue
Lton suit, had for stage father, O. P. Heggie
Adelaides ex-amateur, who ran his testy old-
man s part pretty much on the lines laid down of
t V ™ eshe Victor, in the ‘ Manoeuvres of
iw He^ie > formerly a Union Bank
clerk (Adelaide), is also well known over there in
rowing-circles. Recently, when the Hawtrey Co.
i9nn Ck * the Clty . of Churches, a theatre-party,
1200 strong, engineered by Associated Banks,
Rowing Club, and St. John’s Dramatic Club,
rolled up to greet their stickit banker.
“ In the d.c. at the matinee were Mr. and Mrs
Mars Buckley, the latter, thanks to staid coiffure’
millinery and mantle, providing a touch of
novelty in a landscape of woolly widows, dressy
dowagers, and girly grandmothers.
“ Alice Crawford, grown handsome and smart
since foot-hghting it with the tragic muse, loomed
large and bright at the ‘ Silver King ’ matinee last
week. She was m a purple rig-out inlet with
loamy lace, while a large back-kicking felt hat
broke into violet-beds round the border. With
her was Mrs. Doubleday, whose boom in voices a
year or two back has left her prosperous and
purposeful. The smart widow has an eye full of
speculation and sweetness. In the vicinity were
many of the Barrett back-numbers arrayed
norally. Two minor stars, who attracted
particular notice, wore blue and elderly pink (you
know the sobered-down tone) respectively, and
similar hats of the flimsiest paste-puff quality
with a gay cavalcade of stiff, red cherries marching
over the tricky brims. Very incongruous, but
cheekily effective.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


fitiZSni’Pepsuranee Company [imited.
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
policies inxr force exceed 216,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Absolute Security. Annual Bonuses.
Moore and Castlcreagh Streets,
Sydney.
Resident Secretary,
W. J. BLOOMFIELB. 8.A., LL.B.
| FACILE PRINCEPS. 1
j SEMPER IDEM."]
BUCHANAN WHISKY
LiCHtEST Wines in Australia,
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
W. J. Lyne, it is averred, has his gaze
concentrated on the chairmanship of the Inter-
State Commission.
Who would have thought that the ponder-
ous Toby Barton of to-day once rowed in a Univer-
sity crew at nine stone ?
“The intolerable vulgarity of accidental
wealth.”— Dan. O’Connor. Ah, what phrases
might not Dan. have got off had he been caught
young !
A witness, named Patrick O’Callaghan,
entered the witness-box at Darlinghurst Sessions,
recently, and took the Jewish form of oath ! Jews
run in all shapes.
A grave scandal, allegedly implicating a
very high official and having reference to at-
tempted favoritism at examinations, is brewing at
a Southern university.
J. Scully, one of the first gold-discoverers
in N.S.W., and the man who laid the first rail of
the Maitland-Newcastle line, died recently, aged
80. At one time, he owned several vessels
trading to the Hunter.
“X. 0.”: I heard Judge Windeyer sum
up in Mt. Rennie and Dean cases. I heard (Q.)
Judge Cooper sum up in the Ricardo libel case;
and I want to know whether Cooper i 3 new
creation or reincarnation.
An ancestor of President M‘Kinley and
an ancestor of Cardinal Moran stood together one
morning in 1798 in a line of rebels in Ireland, every
tenth man of whom was to be shot. M‘Kinley
and Moran were skipped.
“ Banjo ” Patterson gets some natural-
justice ideas into his S.M. Herald letters. His
dislike of colored labor is thrown out without a
lolly in his mouth. But the Herald will pro-
bably “edit” him presently.
While Peacock is doing his best to abolish
his awful cachinnations, Keast, M.L. A., has made
a point of picking up the habit. Whenever the
horse-laugh is heard in Vic. Assembly nowadays,
it is 10 to 1 that Keast is guilty.
Me the present Carnegie gift-boom. Mark
Twain has written to the millionaire asking for
Idol. 50cts. to replace a hymn-book (the gift of
his—Mark’s—mother in his youth), which, from
constant use, had become worn-out. “ I believe, ”
writes Mark, “that in making me this donation
you will be carrying on the spirit of your work ” ;
and then comes a P.S.—“ Don’t send the hymn-
book ; send the 1.50.”
Garotting having become very prevalent, an old
idea is revived for the benefit of Federal Senators
and others whose business gives them an excuse
for staying out late.
Sydney Unitarians have had four spiritual
heads to date—Smith, Pillars, Stanley, and
George Walters. Smith had the greatest social
influence, but Pillars the finest intellect. Pillars
fell off the South Head cliff, and was killed.
Probably the oldest propagandist of Pro-
tectionism in Australia is David Reid, ex-M.L.A.
and pioneer squatter, banqueted at Albury last
week. He advocated Protection in 1838, and has
consistently adhered to the doctrine since. He
is now 81.
Journalist Stead queries in London section
of Review op Reviews “Shall I slay my brother
Boer?” Journalist Fitchett answers the query in
the Australian section of same magazine: “ Yes,
knock the stuffing out of him ! ” The good Janus-
Samaritan’s balm of vitriol!
Donald Macdonald is doing for the war-
like Melb. Aiigus some day-after-the-fair copy on
the Boer war. He jokes wi’ deefeculty now, and
actually dares to tell, as original to S’Africa, the
time-honored yarn of the sundowner who killed
sheep in “ self-defence,” as they threatened to bite
him.
Every N.S.W. Premier since “Charley”
Cowper, except John See, has had to bear the
Parliamentary nickname of “ Wriggler.” Robert
Lowe applied it to Cowper, and it seems to
descend with the office. Some night soon some
bright original on the Opposition benches may be
expected to make known that Premier See is also
a “wriggler.”
According to Sydney D.T.’sLondon corres-
pondent, the Chronicle says that the York
official utterances in Australasia “bear internal
evidence of having emanated, in the first instance,
from the pen of the Duke’s private secretary,
Sir Mackenzie Wallace,” whose peculiar style
it is added—a trifle ponderous and Johnsonian—
may be inferred from his books.
Robert Bruugli is evidently the evil genius
of Sydney Daily Telegraph. During the
Federal elections the D.T. office was confronted
by Brough’s shingle, “The Liars.” In last elec-
tion, when the D.T.’s nominee, Lee, went under,
Brough’s placard read, “ The Second in Com-
mand.”
S. W. Goode, who this year gets a first
class in the Cambridge classical tripos, is a S.
Australian —probably the first of them to get up
there. A country boy, like many of the best of
the battlers; son of an up-north storekeeper;
and with his eye on an Indian civil service ap-
pointment.
“Jack” Murray, M.P., the saved Vic.
politician, has started out as a teetotal propa-
gandist, and announced, *at Bradfort the other
night, after abusing the Drink Fiend for two hours,
that he intended starting a non-shouting society.
They now call him “River Murray” and “Old
Irrigation.”
John Norton goes to Maoriland for a rest
—or, possibly, with the merciful intention of giving
N.S.W. a rest. As things stand, we approach
the time when people will fear to tread a city
footpath lest they should slip on gore which has
oozed from one or other of John’s countless
vendettas.
Hon. J. Kerr, M.L.0., who died lately in
M.L., was one of the proprietary of Melb. Age
before the advent of the Symes. When Otago
(M.L.) gold-rush set in he crossed over and joined
Dunedin Daily Times, and in ’65 he, with three
others, established the Grey River Argus at
Greymouth.
Years ago, Cecil Rhodes found time to
write chatty letters to a personal friend, who
temporarily edited Bourke (N.S.W.) Central
Australian. Much of the correspondence ap-
peared in the wayback weekly under the headings,
“Our South African Letter” and “From our
own correspondent, Cecil Rhodes.”
A Parisian paper :
Politicians generally will be surprised to learn that
Henry George, the once-famous Single-tax advocate and
author of “ Progress and Poverty,” has become a legislator
in one of the State Parliaments of Australia. For some
years past Mr. George has led a somewhat secluded life in
New South Wales, unostentatiously pursuing the avoca-
tion of a photographer. His future in Australian politics,
as a follower of Sir John See, will be watched with in-
terest.
Up till now rich miller John Darling has
always told his party in S. A. Assembly that busi-
ness would not allow him to take office, even if
the Jenkins Govt, could be overturned. Now he
is intriguing earnestly to displace Homburg,
Opposition leader, and then to capture the
Treasury benches. He is anxious, it is said, to be
Premier when the Coronation invitations come.
In N.S.W. Assembly last week Harry
Levien utterly routed a political foe, a dapper
ex-Minister, by sarcastically demanding that he
should “go and put his stays on.” In the same
debate Minister Crick told member Storey that
“ he took no more notice of him than he would of
a dead bug.” From which it will be plain that
all the fun is not monopolised by the Federal
Parliament.
Sydney pressman, T. L. Pratt, just back
from China, had an unpleasant six months, as
Reuter’s correspondent, in Shanghai. He and
another man got fooling round on drift-ice some-
where along the coast. The other man was lost,
and Pratt very nearly so. Pratt also sickened of
small-pox at Foochoo, on his way home, and, on
the whole, concluded that China was a good place
to be permanently out of.
Cardinal Moran (who intimates that he
hopes to return to Sydney) says he anticipates no
personal pleasure in his trip to Rome. Age and
state of health are both handicaps. His prede-
cessor, Archbishop Vaughan, died in England,
On his way to Rome. His predecessor, a further
step removed, Archbishop Polding, set out for
Rome, but was taken so ill at Aden that he had to
return, and died in Sydney.
In the N.S.W. Parliament, Lands Secre-
tary Crick seems to be first lieutenant to Premier
See. When See is not sitting in the leader’s chair,
Crick is there combing his black hair with his
fingers. Although far and away the ablest
authority on parliamentary practice in the As-
sembly, Crick invariably mentions a member’s
name instead of his constituency, and occasionally
he calls him “Jack ” or “ Jim ” or “ Bill.”
“T.D.”: The Senate reporters may have
been innocent enough in scattering ink on the
heads of the dismal freetraders just below, but
your par. recalls a Brisbane gallery incident, when
a well kuown copy-monger wantonly dropped an
ink-pot on Speaker Cowley’s head, and got
“ fired ” from the press gallery. Same pressman
once rejoiced Tasmanian hearts by heading the
cable news of a royal miscarriage “Love’s Labor
Lost. ”
Vic. Premier Peacock went to Pentridge
prison, the other day, where his democratic ideals
were much shocked at the guard turning out, and
the prisoners being compelled to stand at atten-
tion before him. Before deprecating the ordinary
routine of prison discipline and toadying to the
susceptibilities of a lot of convicts, who doubtless
found him an amusing incident, Peacock might as
well suppress some of the foolish flummery of the
State Parliament.
The alleged transmutation of the woman,
De Lacy Evans, who died lately in the Immigrants’
Home, Melbourne, into a male and back again
into a female, gave an Australian evening news-
paper of 22 years ago the chance to display a
physiological knowledge which kept surgeons
laughing for a month. The newspaper account
of how it was possible for her to be the father of
several children was treasured by the woman her-
self till it fell to pieces with age.
A Melb. weekly announced the other
week that there was no truth in the rumor of
Anglican Bishop Goe being about to resign the
Melbourne see. “ Dr. Goe is convinced that his
duty lies here, and he has also a perfect horror of
IS THE AGE OF CHIVALRY
PAST?
MRS. WADDLE (who has been having a row with
another lydy): “I was never so insulted in
all my life . And if YOU was a gentleman
you'd go and stoush 'er in the for!”
the sea, being a most acute sufferer from nausea
on the slightest motion of the vessel.” The poor
old Bishop, however, would be under no spiritual
obligation to get sea-sick if he resigned his billet.
He might still remain in Australia.
Paddy Glynn, M.H.R., was lately defend-
ing a libel case, in Adelaide Criminal Court. It
was a military case, and the term “retreat ” was
frequently used. Addressing the jury, Glynn re-
peatedly referred to the sounding of the “last
post,” when Way, C.J., corrected him. “ This is
confusing, Mr. Glynn. We have been calling it
‘ the retreat,’ not ‘the last post.’” “Well, your
honor,” said Glynn, “we Irishmen always call it
‘ the last post.’ We don’t know the word ‘ retreat
in Ireland ! ”
The production of “La Bolt erne ’’ by
Williamson’s opera co. recalls the fact that the
best-known English translation of Murger’s “Vie
de Boheme” was put into English by H. H.
Champion, now of Melb. Age, although the credit
for his original free translation went to another
man, who edited it. That was when Champion
was a devil-may-care young lieutenant, hovering
between literature and soldiering, and before he
became the white-haired boy of the W.C.T.TT. and
other ascetic institutions.
Queensland will shortly see a remarkable
apparition, if a certain agreement arrived at in
the House of Reps, is carried out.
Page, of Queensland, has chal-
lenged Knox, of Victoria, to
hump his swag along with him
through the nigger-infested
districts of Queensland, and
see the evils of nigger im-
migration from inside—not
lie back in a chair in a
planter’s drawing-room
with a cool drink and a
big cigar, and hear
about the case. Knox
has promised to come, so
about the hottest season
of the year a rather stout,
good-humored-looking gen-
tleman, with a tall hat and
a swag, and a frock-coat,
and a wonderful hat, should para-
lyse the scrub country.
Ebenezer Vickery is claimed
to be the richest man in N.S.W. Leg.
Council.
S. A. Stephen, M.L.C., who lately died
in England, was one of the “nine little heads”
referred to in the following, written by Alfred
Stephen in 1859, during a long speech by counsel
on the trial of a squatting action which lasted
four days
The late Bob O’Toole, of
Melb. Herald, was a rather
“touchy” R.C., as pressmen
go, and some of his heretio
acquaintances used to play upon
his weakness what time the
precious Slatterys were tickling
the Yellow Pup in Melbourne.
If Bob’s persecutors happened
to catch him at the barber’s one
of them would pretend to have
been deeply impressed by Slat-
tery’s “revelations ” on the pre-
vious evening, and then poor
Bob, trying to appear unex-
cited, would say “Of course,
you know, old chap, he never
wa-a-s a priest.” Whereupon
another “old chap” would chip
into the game with some pro-
fessions of admiration for Mrs.
Slattery, and Bob would begin
to boil. After which the con-
spirators waited until the victim
was fairly lathered and the razor
was at his throat, then they would
praise Slattery to one another behind
Bob’s back. The anguish fo the listener
could be detected in the twitching of
his ears. It is an awful thing for a
helpless believer to have borak poked at
his belief whilst he is getting shaved.
One “Groan” has discovered a
reason why the Chief Justice of an
Australian State is the most undesirable
of citizens for the position of Lian-
tenant-Governor. It isn’t that his posi-
tion as society figurehead puts him on
too-friendly terms with too many
people, but that his faulty legal deci-
sions, as in the case of Waxellency
Madden, expose him per-
sonally to the contempt of
the general public, and so
tend to lessen loyal rever-
ence for the Crown. The
Bulletin makes note of the
point, and will begin to re-
gard His Wax. as an unconscious
incentive to Republican prin-
ciples.
Island-skipper Pere Rouillac beat up all
sorts of influence to induce N.S.W. Marine Board
to license him to sail his little vessel back to the
Solomons. But the Board was obdurate, and a
lay captain had to be employed. The Board was
unquestionably right. The adventurous priest’s
safe arrival with his little crew of youngsters in
Sydney harbor was the consummation of luck.
To test luck a second time, especially where
skilled labor was available, would have almost
rendered the Board, in the event of disaster,
liable to be tried for manslaughter.
A Victorian scribe to The Bulletin .
Little Bob O’Toole, of Melb. Herald, lately deceased,
has been much paragraphed, without being appraised at
quite his full worth. His was a creditable career. He
was once the player of a brass instrument in a circus
band. From a literary point of view he was nil, but there
are many other elements in newspaper writing. O’Toole’s
forte was to go out and feel the pulse of the town. He
might not know much about Delane, but he had the same
idea, of giving the city itself back. He knew everybody,
and everybody knew him. So if there was any Marconi
going about, he would get it. This business is not the
healthiest, but it is better than pom-pominga euphonium.
A very kindly, unselfish, excellent fellow'.
Premier Peacock earned the gratitude of
all sane Parliamentary reporters by his method of
delivering the Victorian budget. In the first
place, he went to the trouble of having the very
full notes which he had made typewritten in dupli-
cate. Copies of his actual notes were distributed
among the gallery-men. From these, the reporters
SMALL PROFIDS.
YOUNG ISENSTEIN: “ Fader! Fader I Here vas
a man who wants to buy that 50s. suit, and
he vas only got 7s. 6d. Vat shall Ido?”
IKENSTEIN: “ Do? Vy take it, of course! In
dese pad times ve must be gontent mit small
profids and kervic returns.”
could check not only their note of the figures used,
but also the arguments, &c. Then Peacock took
care to keep close to his notes, and to speak with
wonderful deliberation for Peacock. Every-
where budget speeches are nightmares even to the
best shorthand reporters, simply because of the
Niagara of figures. Figues tie up the fastest note-
takers, and then they are generally worse than
Greek to the average newspaper man when he has
them on his notes. Treasurers who wish to be
accurately reported should adopt Peacock’3
methods.
TWICE NINE.
Of children this “ knight ” had no less than eighteen—
Twice nine little heads, with a marriage between ;
He had nine when a barrister, nine when a judge,
And of “ sex ” —thus to Nature he owed not a grudge—
Nine exactly were girls—the other half boys,
An equal division ’twixt quiet and noise ;
While, if by marriage the number be reckoned,
There were nine of the first and nine of the second.
Nine in Tasmania, nine New South Wales,
Then (to show with what justice he still held the scales),
Since nine, it was clear, he could not divide
(A third sex yet never having been tried),
Five sons and four daughters in Hobart were born,
Four sons, five daughters might Sydney adorn.
Twin daughters, twin sons, complete the strange story
Of this patron of “ Wigs,” though constant old Tory.


DAVID STORED, & SONS’
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
Is the Only Absolutely
cnee woo!-
vftrk Maying
or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker. BRANDING OIL.
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
WATSON’S
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. In the ease of ethnological and
natural-history items , etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations ivill have scientific value.
“W.S.T.” : Remarkable that none of our
practical gardeners have attempted to improve
some of the indigenous fruits. N.S.W. alone pos-
sesses half-a-dozen, which should be susceptible of
cultivation, the chief, perhaps, being the red
lillypilly, or brush cherry, and the less agreeably-
flavored white variety. The wild tamarind, too,
is very pleasant eating, and has valuable medicinal
qualities, but would have to be dwarfed, as it
normally grows 40ft. to 60ft. high— too great an
altitude for a fruit tree. The quandong also might
be improved, and needs it, for it is about the most
over-rated of all our native products, probably
because it is almost the only edible backblock
fruit. The native currant has an exquisite flavor,
despite its tartness ; while the black apple or wild
plum (our largest fruit) errs in the opposite direc-
tion, for it is as sweet as a custard-apple, and lacks
any marked characteristic but mawkishness.
* * * *
“ G.P.S.” to Thb Bulletin :
Recently visited the Old Colonists’ Home at Clifton
Hill, Melbourne, and learned there the true meaning of
the words, “ irony of Fate.” Visiting an old friend, and
indeed an old master, I found one of the once-most-
prosperous squatters in the Western district of Victoria
an inmate. He had been one of the first to endow the
fund with the solid sum of £lOOO. Further, he built a
cottage with five rooms, designed for the habitation of
two individuals ; his name is inscribed on the foundation-
stone. This happened about 30 years ago. Now the
donor occupies two rooms of the cottage he built, and
enjoys the 10s. per week which the association gives to
those who live on the premises.
* * * *
Pleasing passages during a recent Jeril-
derie (N.S.W.) Council meeting :
The Mayor: “My answer to that is—that the pro-
poser and seconder can go to h , and the whole Council
with them.”
Aid. Ghrystal moved, Aid. Kennedy seconded—“ That
the Mayor withdraw those words and apologise before
the rising of the Council.”
The Mayor : “ I move an amendment that a wire be
sent to Dr. Macknight to come down and examine Aid.
Ohrystal to see if he is of sound mind.”
Aid. Ohrystal: “ That is no amendment.”
The Mayor : “Well, I’ll move that the Mayor does not
withdraw the words, as he considers these men are erratic
and have rats very bad.”
THE SAME THING.
NEIGHBOR : “ Great schnakes!
your fader ish ash mad
ash plazes!”
SON: “No ’e ain’t. ’E’s only been
tryin’ some of mother’s painless corn-cure.”
The White Cliffs sticking-up affair appears
to be yet another illustration of the influence of
printer’s ink. It was evidently suggested by an
article which appeared a few weeks ago in a Syd-
ney evening paper. Said article gave a graphic
account of the great profits attained by Califor-
nian highwaymen in robbing the overland stage
coaches to San Francisco in the good old days ;
and one of the most prominent characters men-
tioned was a certain “lone” desperado who
proved by his many exploits and his long immu-
nity from capture that it was quite simple to stick-
up and rob stage-coaches single-handed. After
making a haul, this gentleman, instead of retreat-
ing to the usual mountain fastness, adopted the
original plan of making straight for San Francisco,
where he had an office in a quiet street.
*• * * *
Ed. Bulletin, “ Trotter’s ” statement
(B. 17/8/’01) about £1 a head for ewes is all bosh.
No one station in C.Q. has purchased 100,000
ewes. Best sale of ewes for 12 months was Peak
Downs— ssoo at Us.— Monte Christo.
* * * *
Re Australian casualness : There being
neither bank nor assayer at Coen and Ebagoola
(Q.), most of the gold is sent to Cooktown per
mailman, or, practically, per anyone who will take
it. The mailman recently lost a 20oz. bar, and ex-
plained that he was carrying it in his tucker-bag,
and on ooming into camp after dark found that
the tucker had got all smashed up together,
whereupon—quite forgetting about the gold—he
emptied the lot into some bushes. And his story
is thoroughly believed too.
* * .« *
More Christian humanity : —“A half-caste
Kanaka, under no agreement, but working for
and under Europeans, to whom she had been
given by police. Ran away from her employer,
who forced her to come back. Satisfied mySelf
that she had been cruelly treated, sworn at, beaten
and kicked ; she showed' me a scar that she
ascribed to her late employer’s boot; she appar-
ently had no blanket, and certainly received no
wages—the poor thing had proved a hard-worked
willing slave. I considered her only about 15
years old ; notwithstanding that, she had had a
baby (now dead) a good twelvemonth before.” —
Dr. Roth’s report to Q. Govt. How those Boers do
ill-treat the natives !
* * * *
The Grafton (N.S. W.) railway-sleeper-
getters held a meeting lately to consider the
formation of a union, but the proceedings
gradually got so tangled that one wise man
arose and moved adjournment for a month,
“ next meeting to bj in the bush, where there are
no pubs.” This ray of horse-sense nearly cost the
innovator a biffing, but he stuck to his guns and
carried his point.
* * * *
A champion cedar was felled a few weeks
ago in the Barron valley (N.Q.) between the
Herberton range and Atherton. At 6ft. from the
ground the girth was 35ft. ; at 45ft. from the
ground, 28ft; distance from ground to first limb,
90ft. The tree produced 28,000 super, feet of
cedar, and one log weighed 22 tons. With cedar
at 325. per 1000 ft., in flitches, the tree is worth
£4OO.
» * * *
“Geo. T.” re bush hospitality :
Dear Bulletin,— “ D. 8.” (8., 12/l/’l) says I can’t have
travelled much. Well, although I never “ called at over
60 stations inside six months,” I have been travelling the
West for the last 15 years, and I maintain that the Wes-
terner is one of the most hospitable of beings, and (with
the miner) the most independent toiler in Australia. Of
course, there are exceptions ; but you’ll find them any-
where. Also, the man who visits over 60 stations inside
six months generally does it in a buggy-and-pair, with a
stiff shirt and white helmet—takes his hat off to the
manager, and puts up in the “ quarters.” What he is
likely to know about the “ bloke” in the hut isn’t much.
Let “ D. 8.” sling the buggy and carry his samples or his
insurance literature in his swag, and then I fancy he’ll
alter his tune.
* * * *
A small party of Australians travelling in
Italy recently, on the way ’Ome, chummed with
four ’Murkans and enjoyed a pyrotechnic display,
when the following dialogue took place: First
American: “I guess you can’t lick those fire-
works in your parts.” First Australian : “No
fear.” Second American: “You bet.” Second
Australian : “My oath.’ Third American : “It
was real nice.” Third Australian: “I bleeve
yer.” Fourth American: “It was just elegant.”
Fourth Australian: “First chop.” When the
Australians got back to their hotel, the fifth
member of their party remarked severely : “I
wish that when Americans go abroad they would
discontinue those slangy habits of speech which
enable even foreigners to fix their nationality.”
* * * *
A murder no less horrible than the
Gatton tragedy, though it attracted little atten-
tion, occurred m an up-country
M.L. town some three years back.
The perpetrator was an elderly
farmer, a religionist of marked
piety. His wife had been dead
some years. He was supposed to
have improper relations with his
own daughter. One day the sons
came home from work and found
their sister nearly decapitated,
with a carving-knife beside her.
The father was nowhere to be
seen, but next day he was found in
the well, with a crowbar round his
neck. If one could but know the
thoughts passing through that
man’s mind during the 10 minutes
that probably elapsed between his
taking the knife in his hand and
his jumping down the well, one
would have a good idea of what
Sheol is like.
* » * *
A matter the Federal Postal
and Telegraphic Department should
keep its eye on is town-naming.
In U.S.A. are 13 Londons, 30
Berlins, 23 Paris’s, and 21 Ham-
burgs. The evil would be much
greater with us, as we have no 30 odd
States to guide us, and a little trouble
now would save much confusion later on.
Gould not the Federal P.M.-General bring in a
short Bill giving himself power to name all
new towns, or (better still) to veto such names as
are already in use within the Commonwealth ?
• » * *
“ Ironbark ” on a serious question :—
Maoriland Govt, has recently let farther large con-
tracts for hardwood timber to be supplied from the
N.S.W. North Coast. N.S. Wales’ forests are being
depleted at a rate that must soon lead to shortage of
supply for her own requirements. The area of useful
hardwood timber country is confined to the North Coast
and a strip north of Dubbo. On the coast, within 20
miles of navigable water, almost every stick of young
ironbark or other timber suitable for piles or girders has
been cut. The Forestry Department is making feeble
efforts at conservation by charging royalties, giving
permits within certain areas, and forbidding the cutting
of timber under a prescribed size. But the foresters, who
have large districts to attend to, cannot watch all the
reserves, and the timber is sneaked off these in ship-loads
by cutters camped upon and ostensibly working the adja-
cent country. All such precautions are futile, and the re-
venue derived from the forests is nearly all swallowed up in
administration. The best way of conserving the forests
or giving the Government a return for its valuable
timber-assets, would be to put an export-tax on piles and
girders. This could be easily collected at the ship’s side,
and would save the expense and trouble of the present
complicated system. If Maoriland and Victoria must
have N.S.W. timber, they would have to pay the export-
tax, and, if they can do without it, so much the better
for N.S.W. The young timber will be left on N.S.W.’s
hands, and will increase in value from year to year. It
does not matter so much about the matured timber, such
as is used for railway-sleepers ; it is the cutting of the
young trees for piles and girders that is leading to the
timber-famine of the near future.
• * * *
“Shaker”: Re decadence of blacks
(“Monyah,” B., 3/8/’01), it could nob have been
the difficulty of obtaining presentable specimens
that made Meston gather his mob of 60 from all
over Australia. Ten times as many could have
been easily got in Cape York Peninsula, and
splendid physical specimens at that ; in fact, in
the Far North it is the exception to see a male
nigger who is not a model of muscular symmetry.
The real trouble was, probably, the difficulty of
keeping 60 wild, or even semi-wild, blacks in
hand amongst crowds and in the strange sur-
roundings of a city.
♦ * * #
“ Tafa ” : Unless there is a fall in the
price of meat Australia will soon have to take to
THE SPIRIT OF
THE THING.
M' NAB: “Thrup-
pence worth o'
guid whusky.”
LANDLADY: "We ALWAYS keep good whisky"
M'NAB : “ Aye, I hae nae doot ye kEEP it, for ye
dinna sell 't.”
“bear” and ’possum. The poorer cockies, who
have used up all their own stock and can’t afford
current meat prices, are rapidly assuming a
hungry vegetarian look, and when one of them
buys a cow his place is promptly inundated with
would-be borrowers, who have to go empty away
because he generally owes it all elsewhere. If the
Government doesn’t arise and preserve kangaroo
and co , the Great Australian Thirst will have to
give way to the G.A. Flesh Famine,
* • * *
“Viking”: At Watson’s Bay, Sydney,
was recently caught a “ grey-nurse ” shark about
10ft. long, which was found to contain 24 young
ones, ranging in length from 12in. to 15in., and
enclosed in two bags, one holding 13 and the other
11. Teat-like projections were noticed in the
bags. Have often seen sharks’ eggs ; some con-
taining a yolk, some a partially-developed shark,
and one with the young shark fully developed.
These eggs were attached to sea-weed. Now,
surely the young sharks above-mentioned could
not have been hatched externally and then taken
in by the mother. [Some species of sharks are
viviparous—some not. — Ed. B.]
* * * *
A Sydney softgoods firm received, per
post, an order from a country storekeeper. Before
filling said order they wrote to a local agent for
particulars as to applicant’s financial basis, and
were rewarded with the following :
Dear Sirs, —As regards this Man I do not know But
very Little about him But as far as I do I have Not heard
Any Thing about him in the country But as regards any-
thing Else I dont know nothing about him.
Your obedient servant.
Victorian papers have just reported a
curious case of seeming sagacity in dogs—one of
the kind frequently found in popular fiction of the
Chatterbox, and Good Words order. A boy
went shooting near Bayswater, taking three dogs
with him, and did not return. After some time
his relations organised a search. Later one dog
came home, and led several people to a spot some
miles distant where they found the dead body of
the lad under the guardianship of the other two
dogs. The boy had shot himself scrambling over
a log. If this is not an instance of absolute
reasoning power in the lower animals it is a
remarkably good imitation.
“Vril”: "J.S.D.” (B„ 16/3/’01) re
wallaby-traps <m tracks. Wire as a slip-noose is
not too good. Sewing-twine plaited four, with
a fine brass or copper wire interwoven to stiffen
the string, is the thing, but even that is not
too effective, because it’s only even money
that the ’by will poke his head through. If
he strikes, the thing is done for. “ J.S.D.”
would be badly advised to go and try and
make a fiver a week at the game, unless
wallaby flesh was selling at famine prices.
A northern scribe tells of an interest-
ing Papuan tradition. If a Papuan has
died during the day natives, however
thirsty, will not replenish their water-
bottles at the spring that day, out of fear
of evil spirits who come to wash their
hands of the black deed of murder.
(Every death is ascribed to the malignance
of demons.) A similar superstition exists
among certain negro tribes in Central
Africa.
* » * *
“ Wat Tell ” : Some fresh-water fish
can live an astonishing time out of water.
Recently, after a flood I found two perch
that had been left high and dry on the bank
entangled in long grass. They must have
been there for several hours, and part of the
time in the sun, yet when put back into
the creek they swam off quite lively.
* * * •
“F.G.A.”: Re snake’s swallowing per-
formance (“P.H.C., B. 19/1/’01). My brother
and myself were burning off brush in ’96, at
Bucca Creek, near Orara River. The brush was
well alight, and my brother, passing a dry bush,
heard leaves cracking. He looked, and discovered
a carpet snake, which he helped out with a stick
and killed. We opened the greatly-distended
body, expecting to find one of our fowls or a
’possum, but, to our amazement, we turned out a
large tame tabby cat. I should like to have seen
that cat fight for life when first grabbed.
* * * *
“Wallaroo”: Know a “competent
general ” whose voluntary extras are: Driving
stock to and from market, killing and cleaning
sheep (for sale and homo consumption), lulling
spuds, cleaning corn and working harvester, etc.
—in all of which functions her boss loudly pro-
claims her equality with the best of the trousered
sex. Also, a young bride hereabouts spent the
honeymoon dropping corn for hubby and larking
with a bunch of jovial sisters-in-law similarly
engaged in an adjacent paddock. Another woman
(single) is reputed the best stack-builder in the
district.
• » * *
“Yarrum” : Riding once from Bungen-
dore to Hosking town, I hailed a “ploughman”
to direct me as to route. Someone came up to
the fence, in Wellington boots and jumper, and I
was astonished to find a woman- -and a del icate-
looking one at that. Her husband was laid up,
and “the crop had to be got in somehow.”
Didn’t say much for the neighbors, I thought.
• • ' • *
“ Murrumbidgee jam” consists of brown
sugar muddled up with cold tea. When spread
on damper, and dropped jam-side down in the
sand, it doesn’t taste so well as when not dropped
jam-side down in the sand. It is also called
Whaler’s Delight.
DRY FACTS .
BRIDE (first sight of her new home): “ What are
those things dotted about on the sand over
yonder?”
Husband : “ That's the dairy herd.”
BRIDE: “ Why, they're all dead!”
H USBAND: “ Well, I said that they were all dry.”
From N.S.W. country newspaper’s notice
of a local concert: —
Bank-clerk J fancies he can siriy— a misapprehen-
sion, however, which he shares with the laughing-
jackass.
Result—Jenkins with a greenhide on the war-
path, and editor gone severely a-fishing.
THE LITTLE QUEENSLAND TOWNS.
Blue eyes and golden tresses !
Oh, girls of long ago,
On whom we showered caresses
The while we whispered low
The rovers’ rough love story,
That chased away your frowns.
Oh, the days of gold, with the girls of old,
In the little Queensland towns !
Oondamine, Calcifer, Oamoweal, Carmilla,
Cootharaba, Cunnamulla, Oharleville, Chinchilla,
Calliope, Coonburra, Carina, and Cabarlah,
Oolinton, Oastlevale, Clarendon, Carara.
Black eyes afire with passion,
Brown eyes of the forest dove ;
Gray orbs in the old true fashion,
Oh, ye looked back love to love ;
And the rover’s days were golden,
When, arrayed in your simple gowns,
By his side ye walked while of love ye talked,
Sweet girls of the old bush towns.
Ballendean, Balleroo, Bierbeerum, Bedourie,
Biggeden, Boolhoonda, Bromiton, Balgowrie,
Boulia, Brandon, Bowen, Bailor, Banana, Bourke,
B irara,
Bogantungan, Baroren, Bouldercombe, Bengara.
But ever the wild west calling,
. It shortened the rover’s stay,
And ’mid tears from blue eyes falling,
He saddled and rode away, /
Far out where the sun was setting,
On the rim of the rolling downs,
For the bush is the bride of the men who ride
Through the little Queensland towns.
Danderoo, Dalgangal, Doalbi, Dulbydilla,
Mitchell, Milbong, Moraree, Milora, Marmadilla,
Diamantina, Dugandan, Durenja, Doongmabulla,
Mangalore, Marlborough, May town, Mogrugulla.
AUSTIN DODD.


for
Colds
WOLFES
T ’ scn/iAPPs,
Hot with
Lemon
at
Bedtime.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM.
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University
“ Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.
Average Dose. — A wineglassful before breakfast , either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.-'
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
■ ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
“Burglars,” said the old man
from the Big Scrub, meditatively, “ I’ve
heard o’ them often, but only met ’em
once as I knows on. It kem about like
this: I was in Sydney at the time, seein’
the bloke wot comes from York to opm
ther Parlymint. I was stoppin’ out near
Moore Park, an’ useter lie awake o’
nights a-listenin’ ter ther lions down at
ther Zoo a-howlin’. Dingoes is nothing
ter them blokes. They can howl, my
oath ! Well, it wuz a windy night, an I
couldn’t sleep for the crabs wot I’d had
for supper; so I gits up an’ makes up
me mind ter go down ther street an’ see
if ther were a whisky-mill open anywhere
about. I thought a whisky or two might
keep them ther crabs quiet. So I gits
up, an’ puts me clothes on—yer always
takes yer pants off ter go ter bed in Syd-
ney, yer know. I didn’t want ter wake
anybody up, or have ’em arstin’ me
where I had been all night at ther break-
fast-table, next mornin’, so I jist takes
me boots under me arm an’makes off
down ther stairs nice an’ quietly. I’d
jist got ter ther last landin’ when I feels
ther cat under me foot. ’Twuz lucky
I wuzn’t goin’ down quickly, or I d ha
broken his back. It wuz no place fer a cat
ter sleep on ther stairs, so I jist picks him
up u ider me other arm, and carries him
down with me. I was just about half-
way down, when, s’help me, the front
door opens quiet-like without a sound,
an’ a glint o’ light flashes down ther ’all,
an’ a bloke an’ a cove comes in an’ shuts
the door behind ’em nice and polite like.
My oath, thinks I, they’s burglars orl-
right. They comes down the nail, and
sends a flash o’ light up the stairs, but I
was behind the shadow of the curtain.
Just then the cat sticks his claws inter
me leg, an’ the burglar bloke was stand-
ing just the other side of the curtain,
wonderin’ what ther devil that thumping
noise was. It was me ’eart thumping
iiuioo wa-o. au - it-
agin’ me ribs. Just then Tom stuck his claws
inter me leg some more. ‘ Drat the beast,’ thinks
I, and I heaved him right at the cove’s head. He
missed him an’ struck the bloke, an’, by cnpes,
he stuck. They climbed over one another out of
the front door, the bloke an’ the cove an’ the cat.
I was sorry I hadn’t four or five more cats about
me. I followed them otlt inter the street, an
went ter look fer some swanky. It took mean
hour ter find a place, but I got some at a boardin -
’ouse, where the lydies danced on ther table ter
amuse ther boarders. It was an orlright place,
an’ I never kem ’ome till ther mornin’. I met the
cat just outside the gate washin’ hisself an’lookm
as though he’ud’ad a night out, too. If ever
you’re troubled with burglars, just throw plenty
of cats at ’em.”
* * * *
Wentworth, where the Murray and the
Darling mix their mud, though on the N.S.W. side
and the centre of a vast pastoral country, has
lately been supplied with beef killed in Melb. .
And yet there are hundreds of Victorians who
IN THE BACKBLOCES.
The Pope's representative and the other man . Now , which is the Pope's representative ?
think that Peacock has only to abolish the stock-
tax, and it wouldn’t be safe to wear a red rag on
any road leading from the N.S.W. border for the
next six months.
« * » *
Apropos the curlew-cry of the ruined
squatter, S.A. Lands Minister O’Loughlin, while
proposing still more liberal legislation, told of
four boundary-riders who had taken up an aban-
doned Northern run a few years ago. Amongst
them they raked up about £2OOO. Two of them
have since bought the other two out for £3OOO ;
and their “useless country” is now carrying
14,000 sheep.
• * * » *
A Yea (Vic.) cow has just produced a
curious freak in the shape of twin calves joined
into one, after the manner of the Siamese twins,
the ligature being along the vertebrae. The
articulation is double right through, and there
are four legs, although the inner legs are contained
in one skin to the knee, where they branch and
This is what Miss Smith, President of the New Woman Anti-Female Society climbed the fence
for the other day.
give the united animals eight normal hoofs. Un-
fortunately the twins did not live to be the sensa-
tion of the agricultural show, but they were on
view in a stuffed state.
• • * *
Snowy River Mail tells that Mr. S. J.
Lynn, of Orbost, has six cross breds which this
year produced 18 lambs, all born alive. One
sheep gave birth to six lambs, and another to four.
* • • *
Bendigo correspondent of Melbourne Age
tells how a horse, harnessed to a buggy, bolted,
with the breeching-straps hanging loose, and how
“ a big dog clung on with might and mam, trying
to get it to stop. The faithful animal never let
go its hold until the horse was secured.
* * * •
How the Afghan monopolises the buslL
road with his oamels ! The camel is a dour beast,
and does not care to move off his track, and
when he’s 50 strong in a line it’s a hard job to
shift him. The Afghan driver is also a now
beast, and likes budging as little as his camels-
Writer saw a pretty smash t’other day between a
horse-team that claimed the track and a camel-
team that claimed it also. The horses went down.
* * * *
From Braidwood and Araluen (N.S. W.)
Express, 30/8/’l: —
Snowball, which has its own race club, possesses 10 men
(miners). Three received the old age pension, three obtain
aid for sinking on a reef, another has sent in a claim for
the pension, another is mailman and postmaster. Ad-
vance Snowball, and we will stick to you.
* * * *
The dog that doesn’t know its place gets
short shrift in Pitcairn Island. A Sydneyite
took a dog over there lately, and learning the
character of the local laws he put a pair of hand-
cuffs round its neck and dropped it into the
sea. Pitcairn law ordains that if a dog be found
eating eggs it must be killed. If a dog chases
goats or fowls, it must be killed. If a dog chases
a cat, the owner of the dog must chase the dog and
rescue th e cat, or the dog must be killed.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS: be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Pil: Send that financial problem to the Ancient
and Temporary Building Society, or the New Holland
Loan and Crocodile Agency Co W.B. : VVeak remi-
niscence of “Clancy of the Overflow.”... .Toiler (Tas.):
He isn’t supposed to have the power, according to the
strict letter of the law, but he would probably do it.
The U.S. Govt, doesit anyhow L.E. (Petersham) : You
can tell a little story ; why not tell one worth printing?
The narrative of the much-dressed lady and the white
paper flag has no ginger in it W.S.J. : Please don t
send long letters about copy ; we have no time to reply
md argue things. The copy must speak for itself....
Eizzel Drack (or something of the sort) : Oa,n t read a line
of it—can’t even read your name for certain. The type-
writer is your only remedy. We never even try to read
“manifold” copy.... Aetkins’Son: Four pages to tell a
4-line story—a chestnut at that ! M. : Mere man,
as a rule, does well to abstain from fur, astrachan, velvet,
&c. The same money, sunk in superior tailoring, yields
better dividends in the shape of outside admiration....
00100 : The original story was that Major Eddy received
his death bullet whilst standing up, but not whilst
“ leading his men.” They were then endeavoring to
makea retreat under cove/... Occy : But Kipling seems,
in the case mentioned, to have intentionally written dog
gerel. The advisability of doing so is another question.
.. .. itan : You ask : “ Ought not a J.P. be called upon to
return his commission when he becomes a State-aid pen-
sioner ? On one of the northern rivers a J.P. and his
wife have been granted the pension.” No—why on earth
should a man forfeit his status as a magistrate simply
because of his pension (which he gets of right, and not as
charity) ? The man who gets a big civil-service pension
is not struck off the J.P. roll . .Engineer :We wouldnt
insure in that co. ourselves, at any rate. (2) Don t take
out an industrial policy in any co. (3) No, it is not honest.
(4) Don’t think so. (5) The statements you allude to
are mostly true, but then very similar statements could
be made about many other concerns of the same kind
X.O. : You are painfully literal. The contributors re-
ferred to called “ boyangs” a “ badge ” only in the sense
of being more usually worn by certain classes of workers.
Ourio : Hardlv worth record F.J.F. : Returned, as
you “wish to submit it to some intellectual journalist.
'.... Vulcanite : But there are-many “ Irish-natives who
have only here and there a small touch of the parental
brogue.... .J.P. S. : The executors couldn t legally pay
over the bequest until the church had undertaken in
writing to comply with the condition. Can t now recall
the yarn inquired about. Sketch laboriously humorous.
....Maskee : Couldn’t well print it k.C.B. . varn
separated from letter. What was the name of it.....
HA.C. : Afraid it wouldn’t pay. (2) Minns is a man, of
course Orroroo : Had an account of that already....
H.D.L. : Not well enough done. Things of that kind need
to be screechingly funny Alone : Don t care for
theology—even in decent verse G.H.W. : Only woith
about 20 lines.... A.Z.F. : Rather flat m the telling .
lima : Lacks life, vigor—everything that would differen-
tiate it from a police-court report.... Jim D. . Muen
improved, but still hardly up .. . .F.J.H. : You are men or
—he never was at Kidderminster in hisliie.... I PP •
Nothing to justify your assumption that the other
fellow’s religious, or irreligious, opinions lost him tne
billet. Nobody ever looks for godliness in professional
musicians.. . .C.R.J. (Mackay) :No need to go up-country
for ridiculous criticisms of great singers. Local talent s
the natural enemy of the visiting artist in bigger towns
than Mackay. .F.F.T. : Not up. .G. 8.: One honest laugh is
worth all your moralisings... .F.L.O. rWereadyou back-
wards. .. Nil : “ Mummer” in type... .South A. . Thanks ,
noted Mac. J. : Scathing verses ; make good liniment
if boiled down....Duam : We spell lfc the old way
JN. : Unreal and rather insipid... .H.G.W. . You re
not Burns, and if you were it would be •• • \
A.D.B. : “ Spring” better—too many flaws.. Awakimo .
Uninteresting... .Casabianca : Thought we blew you up
long ago.... Alfred W. : It will probably d0....5.8. .
Faithless? Did you show her your poetry ?... ■B? r0^ a *
Too slight... .Moth : Singed... .Ron : Not good-and a
bit late . E.F.L.: No force Ah Tap : Glad to hear
Liverpool Asylum’s well managed in your opinion....
J.D. : Unusable K.R. : You have ideas, but can t
write them yet.... Esmeralda : “ There is no time to
wash? we’sh? waste? If its waste, you re nght.
Exit J. J. O’C. : Good suggestion... .F. J. (Burwood).
Your question too indefinite. Tell us exactly what j o
want to know Y.H.G. (M.L.) : Will print... .E.W.S..
Jullbtin doesn’t record the “engagement” of anybody
less than a Toorak marquis or Potts Point duke. Ben
the news of your joy to Melb. P ™ OH ‘^NoWmite
crude, but we may possibly use it. .. .P.H.O Not qu^e
up, but you have got dramatic effect into it, and it is the
best you have yet sent Mac.: The lines, which co
cerned patients and their doctors, are—
“ God and the doctor they alike adore,
Just in the hour of danger, and no more.
The danger past, both are alike requited ,
God is forgotten, and the doctor slighted.
Ohas. Davis: TTAot a chestnut that lunatic story is
Actus : Good idea; but too 1ame....W.F.M.. Pars too
vague; want details of date and jmrson.yy. . -;
Unusable M.A.R.: Too stiff... ...G.G.M..
wants interest,.. ..Mark M. : Possibly.....N.
You write well in a formal way, butyou dont
get anv life-force into your work.... ..Tyro. Should
have made it a paronly... -W.L.E. : Pretty good, though
too long-drawn. Will consider.. ..R.A.K. . Fate of on
doubtful. Other returned Wretched •
Diogenes MVyoiuJ'stool : Noted and
returned, PP .Andys: Promising; learn to rhyme better.
“Spring” may d0....0ar0: Poetical; not quite stall
enough .. .Maude(N.T.) : Considering A.D.B. . Why
are you so patchy? That “without assistance is
monstrous... LF.: A little sentiment, not very well
Expressed De Wet: Thanks... ...Ma: Good
verses ; are they your own?... .I^slie. Thanks.• •
Not funny... .Bard : Don't care for ... J-P K - • Thanks ,
but we can’t print much of that kind of thing.. ••"•*“***,;
Considering. ..Glenara: Won’t do . R.A.K Man
too light-weight.... Synesius: Don t improve
us remain sinful and happy.... Roland : Song ( doesnt
B ing John Pat: Sorry can’t accede to your Cry lor
Solitude.” But you have the hoighth of company.. ..
Maori: Doesn’t matter; but you re right to be punctilious.
.. ..Luke D. : Some wiU do ; you tell him were sorry
Fate has got him down, and when you collect the cash
try and improve the quality of his tobacco.. . •"i"* • •
Not usably put....G.M.8. : Not up....P.8. : Pretty
Bad'” ..Spring: Your unlucky manner savours of
invention.... W.R.: Vigorous, but too obscure... Alex.
Not enough in it.. ..Papoose: Seems fairly good, but
we’ve no use for a 12,000-word yarn Inezam . Humor-
less and silly Quad : That would be in time. By the
way, please don’t be so telegraphic in style..... K.a. .
“ Call ” has some good lines, but not enough of them....
Grant: Kendall died at 41 T.L. : Can’t embrace your
Kaffir belle . .H.L.8.: On euch subjects we want bright
paragraphs, not long articles. Your MS is only fit for an
evenmgpaper Penelope : Very tame little story....
Q.N. (M.L.): Flyer and Cape T. Both for print, but that
metre grows wearisome... .P.R. :“ As Would H i;PP el *>.
for print... .G.A.P. : Alligator story will do . -Edward
H F (H.): Sorry, no chance here Gadfly . For mus,
tration.. ..Gibo: Unprocurable.... Paul M.: ‘ Marguente,
for illustration.... Pleader: Now it’s our turn Fowr
turn was when the Jingoes were drunk with blood ... .
W.T.G.: He takes the high 0 with a full chest note. His
salary is his own business. Probably he will get bigger
money five years hence. There are more considerations
than the voice and the appearance in an o Pf, r f' sln Ser 8
market value... .D.F.H.: “Blushing Ballad is a very
old tale in very poor verse... .T.M. (Kalgoorlie): Many
thanks Boggabri: The peacock-egg joke is the old, ori-
ginal seed jest of this earth.... Harry F. : Had he lost any-
thing else besides the singlet ?..... J. O Connor- Have no
recollection of the item W. (Adelaide): Thanks for
letter.. ..Traveller : Thanks, but that is a daily-paper
matter ...Reginald G.M. : Hardly worth print. If we
acknowledged pars, by letter (or otherwise) we d have no
time for aught else.. R.W.H. : Idea good, execution feeble.
A D iPad.) : No room for translations —and yours is vile.
..". .Killaloe : No capacity... .R.C.: Weak A« en ®y-
RH • Thanks Tombstone: Thanks, but mostly
covered by previous paragraphs... .Waddy : Will use....
Margaret D. : You don’t mention name of story .. -Theo
W : One returned; will consider other.. .t. 0.8. . JNot
well enough handled... .S.T. (Q.) :No narrative-gift ...
Frank: Goes pretty well, but doesn t explain itself
enough ..Tom F. : Not uptomuch. ...Sexia : Inclined to
be dull.'.. .T.K.S. : An umpire story needs to be funnier
than that to get space m this paper.... A.W. . What has
The Bulletin ever done to deserve your conundrum .
Which town in Victoria did the Princess May like the
best ? —Dookie.... J.G.S. (M.L.) : Either give each item a
separate slip, or do your own cutting and pasting.
Barkly H. : Don’t care for either, though they re not
without merit of a sort... 0.M.: Brightly told, but slack
of interest.... St. Leger : Not ill-written, but rather vague
and unsatisfactory....A. O’B. : Hardly worth print
Alone: One bad, and t’other not very good ...J.O.H. .
Badly tangled.... M. Gintar : Sorry you cant bit it....
G.F.: That dog-yarn would need more precise date and
place.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
T O’B : Not coherent enough Mary M. : May do for
a paragraph. Not worth a picture- unless possibly in
the shipe of a photo... .W.T.G. : Too irreverent, useless
to print as an invention ; it might be all right if given as
an P actual fact.... Mac B. : Good little drawing, bar
the impossible Chinaman.. ..A. C. Mac. : Some of those
suggestions will be used. But you should seize on very
live current topics... Frank : One may possibly serve.
Wm Nelson (W.A.): Will use Unavailable. Chas. D.
(Ito B H . Snaps, H.T., W. Irwin, 8.G.5., R. Glynn, W.
Nolte, L.A.M.
Dear Bulletin,— i?e par. (B. 19/8/’01),
stating that the name “Sobraon” is an unlucky
one, and instancing the present training-ship as
having on one voyage had an unprecedented
number of deaths, a fire and a mutiny. It must
be remembered that the Sobraon was particularly
favored by invalids, invariably carried 200 passen-
gers and always had several who made the voyage
in a last attempt to prolong existence. But as to
the fire and the mutiny, I never heard of them,
though from ’67 to ’9l (when she was sold to this
State) the Sobraon was under the command of my
father, and you (Bulletin), in commenting at the
time upon his retirement, remarked upon his
having been “25 years in one ship without
the loss of a spar or a man.’ My brother was 11
years in the ship, and I myself was four. L. 1.
Elmslie, Sydney. <
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their ad vantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
A Melb. girl back from America tells how
she took shelter from a rain-storm in the door
way of a N. Y. drug-store, and waited for a cab to
pass. As one didn’t, she entered the shop and
asked, “Is there any chance of getting a cab
here?” “No, ma’am,” was the answer; ‘ but
I’ll mix you a ‘ horse’s neck ’ if you like.”


SPfcACOCK : “ I think with a little squeezing-in at the waist about dinner-tim $
you could manage to live on 7s. 6d. a week, and then you and I
between us will pull the country through.”
THE ROYAL CELEBRATIONS.
Hon. members will see that while the House
voted £lOO,OOO towards the celebrations in connec-
tion with the visit of their Royal Highnesses, the
total net cost was £80,965.
Old- Age Pensioner (to York ) ; “ Have I got you
to thank for that?”
GETTING HIM DOWN TO THE LAST STRAW.
A DISTINCTION WITH A
DIFFERENCE.
The two kinds of Pensioners. , , , , ,
a , ?! our small revenue w.e pay annually nearly £400,000 in pensions
of life an V ° Sto P rotect t^oso w ho have been unfortunate in the battle
ciuaea tor years in the State pensions ?
Mr 6 J!? aSUrer ' r£ de tate made contracts with those people.
Mr. They are dying ofi now. (Laughter.) 1
p M * y ABOE : The y never die. (Renewed laughter.)
No ;Xm afraid to touch the other chap—he looks so comfortable.
This chap must pay.”
> THE Salv . a TlON of the country.
eion T frL V fn 0 Xr t eas 7 urer proposes to reduce the maximum pen-
It ~ 0 P er and the rest in proportion.
most neceStous hat filSt pinch of st raitened finances the
itous part of the community is to be the first to suffer.
Halj-a-crown a iveek off l Os. is not taxation !
KA Governmen^°h»r ) : ' * am . Pleased t 0 b « able to say that the
(Hear hear ) PaT TaM r° f P ro Posi ng any new taxation..
T& ddgeyser ' Can lOot * all *• P«*f
AN OLD AGE PENSION MATTES.


THE CRUTCH? PUSH.
This org«nlsation*r*{or it actually appears
to be ..dependent upoo same kind of u sys-
tem by which its adherents are graded In
order of merit—lB n standing menace to the
safety of the society of the district which It
infests.
The “Crutchy Push” Is so named from the
tact that half a dozen of its most reputable
memlters arc furnished with one leg apiece
and a solid heavy erntch. with which latter
they dealt out assault and battery when oc-
casion offers. The “crutchy" members arg
proportionately more dangerous, us their
range of destruction is extensive.
The Itev. Or. Marshall moved that tho
presbytery reoommeod the general assembly
to proceed with the appointment of o pro*.
feasor- to the vacant chair. 0e said chief
iniotloxr would exclude ttto. proposal t&at the.
duties of the Chair should be divided,
amongst the two other professon*. so that*
the third professorship aright be suspended,;,
k This oroposu! . M-ntotif fn»rropte^
S . TUe RW. ?«**&* raci prevlon."
-£'22X32-'**
Ss&SSsff'
L«s?
< t^<i> e .^&®'V t 'u*»' Ax?-
• #s&s«|
wsoy^m
r
P u^>b
do*' 7
Mon. 4
J °/J> s,
\
f
iSiii
CW«' n 7*n 'fc £W>K O f >/idot'll is
?>U Witt U cW '*# H C,e ;t 7
co^k^ J aisMr,; /N» f 07
Jo.Jne.lfc service, s.®7 *V"<*
W«% * to % W.VC3S
»*r« °f .^ 5 t
4*<"W (h) • D° ?
w swe^r<Hb^-
loyaJ * W ~
ity S»I C 7 - /
/ / /
Juds>£ Hood • *
■'fr e wild «w$
<W» S**i«7*r ■- *’ TJeo c°^ e ,^,^a
rve^^
An.
j i tc
s<*4
rvrKrftb
* “^t^Axx ”o *>®?A\>B' ~rf* oO« p
o°jSt»« 'SV 01 **.
t 0
&* "
:— (oor'
l fee* you w 4 * liitle,
"iffis "twre, Ve *
n7«*f See wt*T. v/a cv? do
we*r yea^
MELBOURNIANA.


THAT NAME,
A. SAUNDERS,
IS A GUARANTEE YOU HAVE A RELIABLE ARTICLE.
ON A WATCH
Trump,
10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
WATERBURY WATCHES.
New Shortwind, 10b : Guard, 12s 6d ; Series J. 16b
6d ; Railway, 18b 6d ; New Model Gent.’a, 2Os ;
Silver, 35s ; Gold, £2 15s and iJ3.
All the above Watches are Specially Regulated
and Oiled.
Series J,
16s 6d*
20s.
A SAUNDERS
M UNRIVALLED ” NON-MAGNETIC LEVER.
Strong, Reliable, Perfeot Timekeeper, Screw Cases,
Dust and Water Tight, 20s ; Solid Silver Cases,
85s ; Hunters, £2. A Written Certificate with the
“ Unrivalled.”
The KNOCKABOUT LEVER, 15s,
The MARVEL, 8s 6d.
20s.
Nickel,
255.
A. SAUNDERS.
“LONDON LEVER.”
Extra Finished, J-Lever, Full Chronometer Balance,
Dust and Water Tight Screw Cases, 25s ; Silver,
£2 2a ; Silver Hunting Cases, £2 10s and .£3.
4. Written Certificate for 2 and 8 Years.
Silver,
£2 2s.
Nickel,
355.
A. SAUNDERS.
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Special Direet Agents.
Silverloid O.F. Keyless, S Works with Chronometer
Balance, 35s ; Hunters, £2 ; Pure Solid Silver
Hunting Cases, Extra Quality Movements, £2 l(;s,
£23, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ; Gold Patent Cases Wal-
thams, £4 4s, £5 ss.
Solid
Silver,
£2 10s.
20s
20s,
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES' WATCH.
Black or Niokel Silver, Keyless, Reliable Works,
20s | Pure Silver, 85s ;
Solid Gold, £2 10s, £8 10s.
For a Cheap, Reliable Wafcoh these are
Recommended.
£6 10s.
drg
£6 10s.
A. SAUNDEBS.
LADTES’ WALTHAM SOLID GOLD KEYLESS.
J -Movement, Chronometer Balance, Jewelled, Per-
eot Timekeeper, Extra Strong Cases. Full Size, £6
10s ; Small Size, £5 10s. Pure Solid Silver, Same
Works, £2 10s and £B.
Guarantee 4 Years to keep in Thorough Bepair.
| Send
for
Illustrated
Book,
Post
Free.
Bct. Gold,
£5 10s.
sd
18ct. Gold,
£5 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ot. Solid Gold, Full Jewelled J-Watch, Most
Reliable Timekeeper, £5 10b ; Large Size, £6. In
Solid Silver, £2 ; Large Size, £2 10s.
These Watches are Beautifully Chased, and
Guaranteed for 8 Tears.
14ct.
Gold. i
&8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ot. Solid Gold Keyless WALTHAM LEVER,
Full Jewelled Works, Patent Action, New Model,
£lO, £l2 10s.
Ton Can’t Get a Better Watch.
14ct. Solid Gold, £8 10b.
18ct.
Gold,
m.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN and MINERS.
BOTHERHAM SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH LEVERS,
Full Cap, Hand Finished, Extra Jewelled Works, Perfect
Timekeeper, with Pure Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight,
£8 10s. Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance, £4 10s,
£5, £5 10s, £6.
A written certificate for 8,4, and 5 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
A. SAUNDERS.
WALTHAM RAILWAY KEYLESS LEVERS.
LARGE SIZE, as supplied to all the Railways in Australia, with Screw
Dust-tight Cases. The Works are Strong, with full Chronometer Balance. £2,
£2 10s, £3 ; Solid Silver, £4, £5, £6, £7, £B. Price of these Watches areaccord-
ing to the grade of works.
SWi
■m
o3w
WMvt
A. SAUNDERS.
SPECIAL MADE “ ROTHERHAM ” KEYLESS
ENGLISH LEVERS.
The Most Reliable and Best Finished Watches made. Guarau
teed to give the utmost satisfaction. Pure Solid Silver Hunting
Cases, Extra Finished Works, £5. Extra Quality, i 5 10s ;
Superior Quality, £6, £7 ; Aome, £B.
These Watches are made especially for A. Saunders only.
Guaranteed for 5 and 6 Years.
Solid
Gold,
£7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESENTATION GOLD WATCHES.
SPECIALLY MADE SOLID GOLD KEYLESS
WALTHAMS,
i Works, Extra Jewelled Actions, Chronometer Balance,
7 10s. 14ct. Solid Gold, £lO ; 18ct. Solid Gold, £l2 10s,
£l5, ''2o. Guaranteed for 3,4, 5, and 6 Years.
14ct. Solid
Gold,
£lO.
Guarantee
Satis-
faction.
A written certificate for 2,8, 4,5, and 6 years
Thousands in wear give untold satisfaction.
>9
ms
“X
ft®
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESENTATION SOLID GOLD ROTHERHAMS i-PLATE
KEYLESS LEVERS,
Full Chronometer Balance, 19 Jewels action, Hand Finished, with Dust-tight
Cases, JEIO 10s and £l2 10s. 18ct. Solid Gold, £l5, £2O.
4,5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
Inscription for Presentation Engraved Free.
Send for
1901
Price List.
Silver,
£5.
v \\\ U>*. tt| U lll .«H lit,
-PS.
Jm'mtW-nM*
Silver,
£6.
“FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS.”
These we have at Every Price and Style. In Solid NiokeJ ot
Black, 30s ; Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s j Split Seconds, £3 10a.
Pure Solid Silver, £5, £6, £7, £8, and £10 ; Solid Gold, £15, £20,
£25, and £30. A written certificate for 2, 8, 4, 5, and 6 years,
TRY ONE.
NEAKLY
ear a. saunders. watchmaker, sis george-street,
OPPOSITE
STATION,
RAILWAY
SYDNEY,


; You Can’t Get Away
From the Fact
C that the
C FEDERAL CLOTHING (READY-MADE)
is the
r VERY BEST MANUFACTURED IN THESE
t STATES.
r THE KIND OF CLOTHES
f GENTLEMEN APPRECIATE.
\ We have the IDEAL SUMMER SUIT for City
£ Wear, for the Country, for the Office, for the
f Seashore, for Comfort and Coolness —anywhere.
c Pitt Nordcro’S
£ Don’t put their name on anything unless it will
£ reflect credit on them, and you will find their
£ name on every Garment we sell.
£ There is no man, be he ever so particular, be
£ he tall or short, slim or stout, that can come to
£ us for a Suit of Clothes and go out without
£ getting that full satisfaction that goes with
£ correct fit, stylish cut, honest work, and artistic
finish. •
£ Tha Prices are Moderate—Always So.
p Come in when you are passing our way, and
; see what we are selling.
NO ONE PRESSED TO BUY.
I horderim”brothers,
t SYDNEY’S LEADERS OF FASHIONS,
£ 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT 8T„ SYDNEY-
t (If you cannot come out Shopping, please order
C by letter.)
She Naturally Thought So.
Mrs. Hicken says she supposes the doctor knew
what was the matter with Lizzie.
Maybe he did, and maybe he didn’t. Now, let
me have your ear for a quarter of a minute, as
though you were a telephone, while I talk a
suggestive truth into it.
Read any big medical book, intelligently and
honestly written, and you will be astonished to
find what a lot of diseases therein described are
said to be “ of unknown origin .”
Therefore, the doctor might not have under-
stood what ailed Lizzie Hicken, and no blame to
him. As it was, he worked away at the symp-
tons (the outside presentments, you know) and
trusted to luck for results. And he might have
struck it right, but he did not, unfortunately ;
and it came to pass what Mrs. Hicken is going to
tell us about.
It was in 1896 that the young girl began to
suffer terribly with pains which, as she put it,
“ran right through” her, particularly across
the stomach and under the shoulder blades. A
continuance of this so prostrated her that she
would sometimes be laid up for a month or six
weeks. “We fancied it was rheumatism, yet it
did not act quite like that complaint.
“ She was also greatly troubled with a nasty
cough that completely took the power out of her.
I called upon the doctor with my daughter, and
told him now she had been handled ; and I suppose
he knew what was the matter with her, but, at
all events, I am certain his medicines did her no
good.
“Then I bought her all sorts of cough medi-
cines, but they had no more effect than if she
had used so much water.
“By this time the poor girl could neither eat
nor sleep, and you may be sure we were in great
worriment and perplexity to know what to do.
“However, I saw one of the Mother Seigel’s
Syrup advertisements, and sent to the chemist
for a bottle, and before she finished it I could see
she was better. So we kept on giving her this
remedy until she was completely cured.
I nave used the Syrup myself for indigestion,
and it cured, after I had worn out a deal of other
medicines to no purpose.
“I want to say, so strongly that there can be
no d-oubt of my meaning, that the entire credit
for Lizzie’s recovery is due to Mother Seigel’s
Syrup, and also for my own.
“We both swear by it, and are seldom without
a bottle in the house. I commend it to every-
body.”—Mrs. J. Hicken, Graham-street, Auburn,
N.S.W., Nov. 27th, 1899.*
rg
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia—PEßßY & CO., York Cham-
bers, 47 Queen St., Melbourne; Agents for'New
South Wales—W. H. SOUL & CO., Pitt St., Sydney.
-9
e>
s
y/M
*ip
OLD w-
SUNBtJ
RN S,| V
FWO,’/
HA
C?
"v
&.C
O/yr
S
N
Y
n
,
ARE YOU BALD?
The proprietor of Capilla will forfeit to
Sydney Hospital £25 if his famous remedy
will not cure actual Baldness, providing
there is a slight down on the scalp. Write
or call for testimonials from well-known
Sydney solicitors, intercolonial cricketers
and footballers, and other well-known
gentlemen.
CUPULA
HAIR
TONIC.
The greatest Hair Restorer on earth.
Capilla Hair Tonic will increase the length
of ladies’ hair by from 1 to 2 inches per
month. It is not a dye, contains no oil or
injurious ingredients. Obtainable at all
Chemists and Storekeepers, 2s. 6d. per
bottle. If not obtainable locally, we will
forward one bottle post free for 3s. 2d. W.
Richards, 168 Pitt-street, Sydney, sole
Proprietor. Write for Testimonials.
Victorian Gold Jubilee Exhibition.
1851 l9Ol
To be Opened at Market Square, Bendigo,
In NOVEMBER Next following Easter, 1902.
To Co xr r o snoM
Under the Auspices of the GOVERNMENT OF VICTORIA, and the patronage of Sir JOHN
MADDEN, K.C.M.G., LL.D., Lijutenant-Governor of the State of Victoria.
PRESIDENT :
Councillor S. H. M'Gowan, J.P.
VICE-PRESIDENTS :
Councillor S. Ey.n, J.P., M.yo, ol TEBASUEEB . Bi ' J » h ”
W Davis, Esq., J.P., Manager Colonial Bank, Bendigo.
HON. CONSULTING ARCHITECT :
W. Beebe, Esq., J.P.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE :
Councillor S. H. M'Gowan, J.P., Chairman.
K. 8., LL.D., M.P.
Sir John Quick, K. 8., LL.D.
Or. S. Ryan, Mayor of Bendigo.
Cr. J. R. Hoskins, J.P.
A. Bayne, Esq., J.P.
Geo. Mackay, Esq.
L. A. Samuels, Esq.
Taylor Horsfield, Esq.
J. H. Curnow, Esq.
W. H. Cundy, Esq.
W. Honeybone, Esq., Town Olerk, Bendigo.
J. G. Edwards, Esq.
W. K. M'Kenzie, Esq.
Hon. J. Sternberg, M.L.O.
Or. 0. B. Lazarus, M.L.A,
Or. H. M. Marks.
J. R. Qoodisson, Esq.
J. Sarvaas, Esq.
O. Morgan, Esq.
A. G. Daymond, Esq.
W. Davis, Esq.
J. Hemming, Esq.
A. Grigg, Esq.
Jacob Cohn, Esq.
W. Beebe, Esq.
J. B. Young, Esq.
President London Committee: Lieut.-Colonel Sir Andrew Clarke. _ H°n. Secretary: J. Stirling, Esq.
President Melbourne Committee: The Hon. R. Reid, M.L.C. Vice-President : Geo. M. Bruce, Esq.
Hon. Secretary: H. W. C. Smith, Secretary Chamber of Manufactures, 30 Queen Stieet.
The Exhibition will be interstate and international in scope and character, and will comprise a vast exposition of
the world’s progress in the arts, sciences, manufactures, products, inventions, discoveries, and industries. Fitting
prondnencewm be given to the gold-mining and other mineral resources, and phases of mining in Victoria and the
other States, Great Britain, Canada, America, and all parts of the old world, from their earliest stages to the present
time, while special courts will be erected for the display of manufactures and industries, wool, agriculture, dairjing,
and HAg BEEN gET ApART FO r AWARDS IN THE VARIOUS DIVISIONS.
THE SCHEDULES.
A special gold medal will be awarded for an essay on the discovery of gold, the rise and progress of mining in
Australasia. edai will be awarded for an essay on the Bendigo Goldfield. _ , . ■ ,
DIVISION I.—Mining, its Phases and Resources—Early Mining and Mining Methods—Mining Products, Raw and
Prepared Mining Systems and Engineering —Prime Movers and Mining Machinery-Ore Reduction and Dressing
Machinery—Mining Tools and Appliances—Fuels—Blasting Appliances and Inventions—Lubricators and Lubricants
Mineral and other Oils, &c. — System of Lighting and Ventilating—Sciences Applied to Mining.
DIVISION II. —General Resources, Industries, and Possibilities of Production Other than Mining Raw and
Natural Products—Pastoral Resources—Agricultural Resources—lnventions—Discoveries—Viticultural Resources and
ana reiegrapnic Apparatus —jpuui/gcu a X ° ~ * *
SignaUingiApjparatus—S^earch-hgh^andUHeliograp_h^ k oan collecfciong from Melbourne, Sydney Adelaide, and
other centres. Sub-section 2 Oil paintings, water-color paintings, and various drawings, sculpture, and die-
sinking, other than those specified in the foregoing. Sub-section 3—Engravings, etchings, hthographs, and other
classes of tone and line-work. Sub-section 4—Architectural drawings. Sub-section s—Photography . (a) amateur,
(b) professional. Sub-section 6-An Old Curiosity Shop, showing old colonial prints, newspapers, documents, early-
day photographs, proclamations, early publications, and all kinds of objects weapons and other things of colonial
historic interest. Sub-section 7—A gallery of applied art, (a) of colonial manufacture, and (b) of foreign manufacture,
such as Mosaics, carvings in ivory, bone, tortoiseshell, &c., woodwork, furniture, &c. ; metal works, coins and medals,
arms and armour, silversmith’s work, jewellery, and goldsmith’s work, enamels on metal earthenware and stoneware,
; painted and stained glass, leather work, bookbinding, &c. ; textile fabrics and em-
broidery, lace, &c. A NATIO NAL GALLERY PICTURE.
An award of a special gold medal will be given for the best picture in oils exhibited. Judges will be selected
from the art galleries of Melbourne, Adelaide and Sydney. ...... ...... .
NOTE.—The committee of the Bendigo Art Gallery are prepared to purchase a suitable picture exhibited m
this competition of which they approve, up to £lOOO.
THE EXHIBITION ART UNION.
A e-enuine Art Union will be conducted by the Exhibition Commission for the distribution of £lOOO worth of
picture! The prizes wdl be pictures of the value of-lst, £350 ; 2nd. £250 ; 3rd, £l5O ; 4th, £lOO ; sth, £5O ; 6th
£25 ■ 7th, £25 ; Bth, £l5 ; 9th, £lO ; 10th, £10; 11th, £lO ; 12th, £5. The winners of the various prizes must select
pictures to the value of the prize, and the committee will be responsible to the exhibitors for payment. The tickets
for thtf art union, in which there is no equivalent, are issued at ONE SHILLING each.
COMPETITIVE AMATEUR ART SECTION.
Prize of 20 guineas and diploma for the best set of three paintings in oils—(a) figure composition ; (b) nude figure
from life, not less than 30in. one way of canvas ; (c) head from life, life size. Second prize, £2 2s.
Prize of 20 guineas and diploma for the best set of three models in clay, wax, or metal (a) decorative figure,
subject to be stated ; (6) figure in relief, or bust from life, or the antique ; (c) a decorative foliated panel, to be
stated. Second prize, £2 2s. . . ~ , , ~ ... , .
Prize of 20 guineas and diploma for the best landscape or maritime view in oils, not less than 60m. one way (sub-
ject to be selected in the States). Second prize, £2 2s.
Prize of 15 guineas and diploma for the best painting in water-colors, any subject. Second prize, £2 2s.
Prize of 5 guineas and diploma for best set of three studies of still life (in which flowers may be introduced) in
oils. Second prize, £2 2s.
Prize of 3 guineas and diploma for the best chalk drawing or monochrome of head or figure from'life or from the
antique. Second prize, £1 Is. ... .. , , . . ..
Prize of £2 2s. and diploma for the best set of six pen-and-ink or wash drawings, suitable for reproduction.
THE WOMAN’S COURT.
A Woman’s Court, showing the progress in Women’s Work during the past century, with Competitive Sections
in all classes of work. DIVISION V.—EDUCATION AND INSTRUCTION.
The primarv education of children in the Public schools ; organisation, methods, and appliances for superior in-
struction ■ exhibits of school work, maps, plans, drawings, &c. ; technical education in all its branches, as carried out
at the Victorian Working Men’s College ; printing, books, &c. ; stationery, bookbinding, painting, and drawing
material ; musical instruments; exhibits of work done at the Deaf, Dumb, and Blind Institutes ; curios, novelties,
jewellery, &c. ; philately ; domestic appliances ; toys, children’s games, &c. ; ladies’ fancy and needle work.
THE EXHIBITION CATALOGUE AND GUIDE BOOK.
A Picturesque Catalogue and Guide Book of Australia, of an attractive description, will be issued by the com-
mittee and advertisements will be received by, and all information may be obtained from, Mr. W. S. Calvert, Little
Collins’-street Melbourne; Reuter’s Telegram Company, in Sydney, Brisbane, and Melbourne; Mr. Powell, in Ade-
laide ; Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, in New Zealand and West Australia ; or Mr. G. V. Allen, Exhibition Offices,
Bendigo. THE SPECIAL EXHIBITS and ATTRACTIONS will Include
The largest collection of Pictures, Statuary, Art Work, and Applied Art ever seen in Australia since the Centen-
nial Exhibition. . . • . , , .
The Government dairy plant in daily work, with lectures on the dairy industry, fruit-preserving, and the freezing
of ghown manu f ac turing flannels and blankets, from Messrs. Collins Rros.’ Union Mills, Geelong.
The latest mirror maze, brought especially from America. . , ■
An electric railway, carrying passengers round the gardens, through the various courts, over a route of 2500 ft »
erected by G. Weymouth Propy., Ltd. ...
An Eiffel Tower, 150 ft. high, carrying passengers on an electric elevator to a look-out at the top, from which a
search-light will be shown at night, constructed by Messrs. Dorman, Long, and Co.
A Woman’s Court, showing the progress made in women’s work during the past century.
A golden Pyramid, illustrative of the era of the golden fifties, and representing 20,000,0000 z. of gold.
Underground workings, showing a saddle reef; quartz - mining and. crushing. A shaft will be sunk in the
grounds, and a patent-safety cage will carry visitors to inspect the various drives, &c.
An armament court, with all the latest appliances of war.
South African war trophy, with special court exhibits of war material, captured by English and colonial
troops in the Transvaal, Free State, Natal, and Cape Colony.
Two band rotundas, in which military and string bands will play every afternoon and evening.
Fountain, rockeries, and waterfalls.
Gardens and pleasure-grounds.
Fern promenades and palm groves and grottoes.
Steam and electric motive-power, driving novelties. .
An extensive dairy show will be held in the Exhibition-building on specified dates.
A special flower show will be held in the Exhibition-building on specified dates. _
There will be organised a special regatta, under the auspices of the Exhibition C'"-■mission.
A special fruit and vegetable show will be held in the season.
A special wool show will be held, showing the best fleeces of all the various States.
Special marine and railway excursions will be organised for all the States. ■
A series of first-class concerts and musical carnivals will be arranged during the course of the Exhibition.
A bit of picturesque Old England, in which Shakespeare’s house will be shown. .
An Australian scene, showing a bush camp and surroundings, will be exhibited in the grounds, under the control
of “ Scotty the Wrinkler,” of The Bulletin.
A butter trophy will be exhibited in connection with the dairy show.
There will be an ice trophy of frozen products. , . .
Trophies of New South Wales and Victorian coal-black and brown—along with the products of brown coal sent
from Germany by Mr. J. Stirling. .... ~. T . ,
A collection of native weapons from the interior of Australia and the Islands.
There will be an inter-State band contest on a large scale.
One of the most interesting features of the Exhibition will be an up-to-date Chinese Court and stand of arms,
captured by the Victorian Naval Brigade during the recent war in China.
A diamond drill at work.
Models of warships and the maritime navy will be exhibited.
A grain elevator will be worked in the produce section. _
The printing press—old and new —at work in the machinery court.
A working laboratory from the Bendigo School of Mines, showing the latest scientific methods in the chemistry
Every known system of electric power and lighting will be practically illustrated.
A mono-rail railway will be shown by Messrs. Bennie, Teare, and 00., similar to that now being constructed at
Birmingham, at a cost of £2,500,000. , , , ~ ~
At night the gardens and grounds and cool palm walks will be brilliantly lighted in colours by electricity, oil,
gas, and acetylene gas, to display the merits of various lighting powers. .
There will be the most marvellous collection of machinery in motion ever seen together in the Commonwealth.
Early application should be made by intending exhibitors for space, to allow of proper provision being made in
the buildings, the arrangements in connection with which are now being carried out.
GEO. V. ALLEN, General Secretary.
Exhibition Offices, Market-square, Bendigo ; or Office of Melbourne Commission, Chamber of Manufactures, 30
Queen-street, Melbourne.
At Poverty Point.
During President and Mrs. M'Kinley’s tour across
America the lady was to be presented, at San Jose, with
a bouquet 100 ft. in circumference and weighing two tons.
What a splendid thing to let drive from a top-gallery at
some of our amateur vocalists 1
A popular tenor, now on his way to London to get
patched up by the surgeon, was pestered when he first
arrived in Sydney to sing for nothing at all manner of
alleged charity shows. The self-advertising woman got
so badly on to his nerves at last that he horrified a
fashionable hen-committee by pointing out that his voice
was worth three guineas a time, and offered that amount
as a donation if the ladies could show him that they were
each subscribing one guinea. The tenor was not troubled
further by that committee.
J. 0. Williamson’s engagement of H. H. Vincent to
stage-manage his forthcoming dramatic companies is a
guarantee of first-rate work. Vincent had been “right
through the mill” before his first visit to Australia (in 1885,
or thereabouts) when he promptly established himself as
a disciplinarian behind the scenes. For the old firm of
Williamson, Garner and Musgrove he licked into shape
scores of heavy shows —pantos and dramas —at Melb.
Royal and the Princess’s. He was a good robust actor,
too. Usually cast for villain parts in melodrama, Vincent
could play Sir Peter Teazle or serious old men of modern
type. He was the gloomy Dr. Rank in Ibsen’s “ Doll’s
House.” He supported Charles Warner at both theatres,
playing comedy characters such as Sir Harcourt Courtly
in “ London Assurance,” and old Dorn ton in “ Road to
Ruin.” After 10 years experience of “ latest fashions ”in
stage work at George Alexander’s theatre the middle-aged
veteran, with his practical knowledge of the Australian
market, must be absolutely the best man whom Williamson
could have booked.
Wilson Barrett is rather suggestive of a scholastic
autocrat conducting a school with the assistance of two
or three under-masters and one lady pupil-teacher.
Donald Macdonald’s agent, Edwin Geach, wrote of
theatrical things in London what time they were
notifying its inhabitants that “ the English can
conquer everything but Death.” Said Geach: “ I
was particularly taken with the charm of the
average West End actress. lam afraid we see nothing
like it down-under. ‘ The Wilderness,’ as played by Geo.
Alexander, is a top-notcher, a sister of Decima Moore
being the great attraction. But though the comedy-
women are every way effective, I fancy that we in Aus-
tralia have an inflated idea of the London star-actor,
many, to my idea, being only so-so. Williamson’s Oomic
Opera co. is absolutely miles ahead of the present Gaiety
co.and J.O.W. ought to do great business with * San
Toy,’ for his cast will be more than equal to that at Daly’s
Theatre, where the opera is still running. ‘ San Toy ’ is
a greater boom than ‘ Florodora.’”
“ Cove ” : Why not Italian comic-opera ? “ The Barber
of Seville ” is surely not too antiquated for a change.
Rossini is not much beaten, even by the great Puccini.
“Don Giovanni” is comic enough, with the stone
Commandant supping with Don Juan. I saw a
cast of it propounded for Musgrove’s co., and a
stronger cast could be raised from Williamson’s forces.
The opera of “Martha” would be a delicious relief,
although the Italian treatment of the English characters
strikes us as being out-of-date burlesque. The English
milord still wears long “ Dundreary ” whiskers on the
French and Italian stage.
“ Rick ” : “ Billy ” Heffernan (long dead) of the Sham-
rock Hotel, Bendigo, ran St. James’ Hall, and afterwards
built the Princess Theatre in that city. In the early ’7o’s
Billy was induced to cancel the engagement of that
weli-known entertainer, Thatcher—who was drawing
crowded houses—and stage “ The Tempest.” Mr. and
Mrs. Robert Heir were engaged for the occasion. The
first night there was not .610 in the house ; and during
the interval Billy said to Heir, “ Who wrote this tommy-
rot ? ” “ Shakespeare,” replied Heir. “ Shakespeare ? ”
said Billy, mournfully—“ well, I wish to God I had
Thatcher back ? ” Billy had a tumor on his forehead,
which gave him a monkeyish appearance. Nothing could
offend him more than any allusion to this resemblance,
and as he was “ white ” inside and out, few ever hinted at
it. A drummer named L was staying at the Sham-
rock. He had been playing up in Bendigo for all
he was worth, had nothing left, and owed Bill
£4O. While he leant on the bar-counter, in utter
dejection, Heffernan, who partly guessed what was
wrong, asked him kindly what was the trouble. “Well,”
said L , looking up at him, “ I was just thinking,
Billy, if I’d go and buy you sixpenn’orth of nuts.” The
remainder of his stay in Bendigo L spent in hospital.
Dr. Beaney, of Melbourne, being at the Shamrock one
night after arrival in Bendigo, jestingly said that if Billy
would only give him 10 minutes he would shift the
tumor aforesaid. Billy took him up in earnest, went with
him into a private room, and soon returned with his head
bound up. Billy would willingly have written a cheque
for £lOO, but Beaney refused to take a stiver, on the
ground that it wasn’t a professional job.
A Yankee is now negotiating with the Trans-Atlantic
s.s. co.’s to give theatrical performances on the big liners
every evening—weather permitting.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
We learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attached to every bottle of Condy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
ouring most of the ailments and accidents
affecting Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry,
and Birds of all kinds.
Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses.—Scab, Foot Rot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Rinderpest, Hoove, Foul in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle. —Distemper
Mange, Canker, and Eczema in Dogs.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of substitutes, all are
inferior Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
sj§jj|cjj£jcxilKtl
wSSEw
G-O TO HCBLL-
-4 [GOLAN]) for Pretty Starnpß, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
lOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lis gratis.
HATS . HATS m MmXmm
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention. „
Catalojue to B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Stkeet, BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALT6R BRAPL6Y * CO.,
furniture and, f ine Art A uctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made .Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
VW Sales Held at the Auction llooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
It is the most reliable and the best
preparation for the hair, you can obtain,
no years success proves this. It
PRESERVES THE HAIR:
restores it when thin or withered, cures
baldness, eradicates scurf, is specially
adapted for Ladies'and Childrens’ Hair ft
and is also sold in a
GOLDEN COLOUR
for fair or grey hair, which does nob
stain or darken the hair, or linen.
Sold by Stores or Chemists. Ask for
Rowlands ,67, Hatton Garden, London.
HIGH-GRADE
FARM--*
JJWMsEi
wM&®ik
;
«
&r- £>.
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd
35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Q. Ministerial policy: “Aliens and
Alienation—Hurrah !”
The “ Austi'alian flag ” is an entirely new
as.-,et. Pawn it ! Pawn it in London—everything
else is pawned.
Sydney D.T. goes bald-headed for Orange
as the Federal capital. But S. M. Herald stays
on the fence, as usual.
Opinion grows that the Senate will force
the Federal Parliament to the country on the
fiscal question. Then will come the tug of war,
with the final flattening-out of Calico-Jimmy.
The Federal flag committee—following the
Ministerial motto of “crawl” — has naturally
selected a design both vulgar and ugly. Well, it
can be altered some day—whenever we want to’.
Re the absence of Ministers from debates
in the Federal as well as in the State Parliaments,
a couple of members propose to initiate a new
ride adjournmg every such debate until one-half
the Ministers are in their seats.
Will Premier See dare to olfer N.S.W.
Parliament a Bill to make well-to-do children
support aged and indigent parents? Parkes
talked of it, Reid talked of it, Dibbs and Lyne
talked of it, but it was only talk.
N.S.W. Premier See won’t be sorry if the
Leg. Council throws out the Woman Suffrage
Bill. That would enable him to prorogue for a
week, and so stuff the Council as to make sure of
the passing of the Compulsorv Arbitration Bill,
on which so much depends.
S.M. Herald roundaboutly hints in a
leading article that the current outbreak of Aus-
tralian crimes of violence, especially those in
which firearms are used, may have something to
do with the S’African war. “Patriotism ” coming
home to roost, with a vengeance !
Sydney Morning Herald of 2nd Sept,
reported that a strong agitation was arising among
the ill-paid Sydney bootmakers to have their
wages raised to the Victorian and S.A. level. The
ironworkers, who recently struck at Mort’s Dock,
put forward a claim for the Victorian wage rate
also. If the Freetrade dailies can’t keep news of
this kind out of their own columns it is time the
well-worn statement about the uselessness of
Protection and a Minimum Wage Law to improve
the worker’s condition had a good long rest.
Sydney Evening News recently ,
expounded at great length that
Woman’s Suffrage was passed
in Maoriland House of Re-
presentatives as a huge joke,
m the full and certain belief
that the less humorous Leg.
Council would reject it later
on. But the Council, still
sore about Ballance’s new
appointments, divi-
ded equally on
the question, as
most of the old
hands wanted
to let the
other House’s
joke recoil on
its own head,
and the Chair-
man gave his
casting vote
i n favor o f
the measure
in the hope
that the Gov-
ernor would
refuse the
royal assent.
Glasgow, as it
happened, was
angry about his
recent quarrel with
Ballance, and in
revenge he gaily
signed the Act and
let it loose on a startled
community. All sheer
rats! The Bill was carried by the solid support
of the Conservative party, in the desperate hope
that the woman vote might save it. The Tories
argued that all women were at hearts aristocrats
and fetish-worshippers. But the women turned
out to be more radical than the men, and Maori-
land Toryism hasn’t got over the shock to this day.
The influx of miners to Cook and Woo-
tLallata (Q.) electoral districts (now both repre-
sented by Ministerialists) —caused by the copper
boom and the gold rushes at the Tate and
Ebagoola—may turn the tables at next election.
The Continuous Ministry cannot command 4 per
cent, of the votes of working miners in the State.
John Haynes again presents to N.S.W.
Assembly his Bill for abolishing hanging for all
offences except wilful murder, and leaving it to the
jury to say, not merely whether a man is guilty or
not, but if guilty, how guilty he is. The proposed
chanp would be strongly in the public interest.
-Lhe law as it stands asks too much, and often gets
nothing at all.
Q. Ministry’s Electoral Reform Bill is a
shameless political dodge. It proposes to give
two votes to the male parent of two lawful chil-
dren, but abolishes the old plural property vote.
The new “ residence ” definition disfranchises the
Western nomadic voters ; so the Labor-party will
have to fight the Bill. Then either Govt, may
withdraw, and make an election cry of Electoral
Reform which the Labor-party blocked, or guillo-
tine the measure through as it stands.
The nine Labor members of S.A. Assembly
have decided to vote for any no-confidence motion
directed against the Jenkins Govt. Opposition
leader Horn burg declines to table such a motion
unless Price and his colleagues agree to support
his Ministry. This would be practically a coalition
between the Labor and Ass. parties, and Jenkins
cutely threatens a dissolution if his Ministry is
defeated. Meantime, parties are so mixed in
S.A. Assembly that no work is being done.
The proposal of Carruthers, M.L.A.,
to appoint a Board—presumably at a good
salary—to select day-labor men to do pick-
and-shovel work on N.S.W. Govt, contracts is
almost the reductio ad absurdum of the Board
foolishness. As things are, unsuitable men
get pick-and-shovel jobs through interviewing
their member—which is corruption. Under
the proposed system other men of the same
kind would get work because they knew the
Board, or some friend of the Board’s, or
somebody belonging to its church or secret
society, or some politician who voted to put
it in, or who was going to vote to put it in
again, or who was going to vote to have its
salary raised, or who drank with it at the
same club. It isn’t possible to make three
incompetent old party hacks competent, or
honest either, by calling them a Board. It
only makes them bumptious and expensive.
“Job”: Australia is simply nlaying
weak imitation of England in the row it
raises over the saeredness of what it calls
postal matter. On the Continent of Europe
a reasonable suspicion that, even a private
letter contains matter opposed to public
policy justifies its being opened. In the
U.S. inspectors regularly open suspected
letters as they pass through the post. In
England a considerable amount of letter-open-
ing is done sub rosa without any special legal
authority—though the fact is denied by people
who take it for granted that such a thing couldn’t
happen because it is “ un-English.” Take it this
way : If a man can be arrested on suspicion, why
may not his letter be arrested ?
The stirrer-up of strife in S.A. Assembly
is Ben Rounsevell, an ex-Treasurer, who thinks
that none but he can properly control the State
finances. He has always got a No-Confidence up
his sleeve. He was out of the Assembly from
1893 to ’99, and during that period the Kingston
Govt, reigned unchallenged, but in the latter year
there were three attempts to eject them
A PERSONAL ITEM.
BUTCHER HOGCHOPS (candidate for the ’Ouse):
“ Yes, and I advocated a law making it com-
pulsory to state on the outside of every patent
medicine bottle the ingredients it contains.”
SOMEONE AT THE BACK : “ Are you in favor of
extending the measure to sausages?”
A recent and most surprising instance of
the Long Arm of Coincidence is the fact that, of
the five employees’ representatives on the Vic.
Wages Board for the jam trade, the four who
voted for a minimum of 355. a week have since
been sacked for various irrelevant reasons, while
the fifth—who gave his voice for a 30s. minimum
—still holds his billet. Talk about pure coin-
cidence ! The Act’s chief opponent is a large jam
and biscuit maker.
The difference
between a Demo-
cracy and a Trust
is that the Demo-
cracy always
grudges the chief
worker his hire,
and the Trust
doesn’t, when it
pays not to grudge
it. Australia ex-
pects to get a
general manager
to run the affairs
of the whole con-
tinent successfully,
all for a paltry
£l5OO or £l7OO a
year. Carnegie is
said to have paid his
manager, Schwab, $200,000 per annum. Carnegie
has made his fortune ; Australia is making very
little save debts.
THE FEDERAL FLAG.
THE COMMONWEALTH SEAL.
The secret documents in the Andersen
(S.A.) case, which has caused such a sensation in
Adelaide, are of a character, it is said, to make
Australia tremble for its independence. Cham-
berlain practically directed that the prisoner
should be released, and the Governor was in a
blue funk at Kingston’s firmness. Holder, how-
ever, proved more pliable.
Mr. Hugh Pollock, N.S. W. Solicitor-
General, is not, according to Premier See, a
Minister of the Crown. According to Principal
Under-Secretary Walker (in the Parliamentary
Handbook) he is a Minister. There can be columns
written on the point, but probably both are in
different ways right. Charles Cowper, ex-Sheriff,
was a Minister 40 years ago, but had not a seat in
the Cabinet.
It will be interesting to watch how
William Knox, of the House of Reps., votes on
the Kanaka question. Knox told a Cairns (Q.)
interviewer that he intended to stay a day or so to
“properly understand ” the local conditions of the
sugar industry and the Kanaka labor question.
Then William drove out to Hambledon plantation
for an hour or so, and saw the cheap nig. with his
company-manners on.
The Country caucus, consisting of 32
members out of the 54 in 8. A. Assembly, has
fixed a scheme of Parliamentary reduction under
which Adelaide, with 60,000 electors, will have 11
members, and the country, with 90,000 voters,
will have 30 members. They consider, too, that
they have been very liberal to the metropolis.
“ Does a man become a rogue directly he makes
up his mind to live in the capital rather than in
the country ?” demanded Labor-leader Price.
Darling Downs Commonwealth electors
have a poor choice between Groom and Bell.
Both men stand as “ the sons of their fathers ”
and the breed has plainly degenerated. Groom
is an amiable "weakling. Bell is a spurious
Britisher, with all the defects of a Cambridge
education, and none of the good qualities—a
type of young Tory squire. The Labor party,
which would have had a good show for the seat,
runs no candidate; it trades its support for the
powerful Groom influence at next State election
for Toowoomba.
The Peacock Government daily loses
ground, and now exists only on sufferance. The
weak, prosy Irvine boasts that he could turn it
out straight away if he cared to avail himself of
the support of the Labor Party. Irvine is play-
ing a waiting game, and the rats are coming to
him out of the sinking ship. Peacock’s threat of
a dissolution is only bluff, as he cannot possibly
get one. After the Labor Party has helped to
kill Peacock, it is avowedly willing to slay Irvine
in turn, and thus avenge itself for the constitu-
tional outrage perpetrated on ex-member Findley.
The Federal Parliament has decided that
Australia will make mail contracts only with
shipping companies which employ white labor
exclusively. A supremely silly attempt was made
by Crouch, of Victoria, to enact that the majority
of the seamen employed in each vessel must be
British subjects, which would not only shut out
French and German mail-boats, but also British
vessels. The British seamen comes so largely
nowadays from places up Bergen and Copenhagen
way that it is difficult to man a large vessel with
British subjects without taking in our black
brother.
The Tramway-
Committee of Ade-
laide City Council
reports that it is
possible to furnish
Adelaide with &.
complete up-to-date
electric tramway
system for £962,000
(including £300,000
for compensation to
existing co.’s), and
that such a system
will easily yield
£lO,OOO a year profit
towards paying off
the debt incurred
in its construction.
So things narrow-
down to the quea-
tion : “Does the corporation feel as if it would
like to have £lO,OOO a year, or would it prefer
to let some company of absentees have it ? ”
The most humorous development of the
Victorian anti-Factories Act agitation was the>
sudden way that the tanners dropped out of sight,
after shrieking that they were being compelled to-
close down their businesses by reason of the
Minimum Wage. The men, being informed that
they were going to be sacked, set to work to start
a co-operative tannery of their own, which bade-
fair to be a great success, and the bosses promptly
decided, with great unanimity, to go on with
their works just as usual. One gentleman, who-
complained in the daily press that he had been
compelled to dismiss “ the whole ” of his curriers,,
now turns out to have never employed more than
one currier at a time, and the last man voluntarily-
abandoned his job some weeks ago.
The one-rail electric railway (already
working in Belgium and one or two other places,
and in course of construction in England) has-
made it possible to travel at 110 miles an hour,
and with further improvements 150 or 200 miles-
seem quite feasible. Australia has two great
transcontinental lines to build, and if they can be-
constructed on the mono-rail principle it means
making it possible to cross Australia either way
in a day and a night. For this land of huge dis-
tances, with both water and coal lacking for hun-
dreds of miles at a stretch, su_ch an invention is
of incalculable importance. It would be a pro-
foundly solemn thing for us if the last great line-
built on the old principle, before the old variety of
railway went into the world’s scrap-heap, was our-
transcontinental.
“ Melb.” : A while back the Commonwealth
Govt, advertised a £75 prize for a design for a,
national flag and a seal. As a result it got about
£75,000 worth in some 30,000 designs. They were-
duly hung in the Exhibition Building, and the-
Naieest were invited to cast their eyes over the show
—afterwards the common person was admitted at-
6d. a head. The show is a monotonous study in.
Jacks, an all-pervading symphony in ensigns,
with variants of stars, bars or stripes. . Occasion-
ally a competitor strikes something original—such
as the affair with an up-ended corrugated-iron tank:
with the eternal Jack on its bottom ; or the-
picture of an over-fed kangaroo potting the-
Southern Cross with an ancient flintlock gun ; or
the life-like presentation of a string of leg-irons; or
thevivid snapshot of a couple of emus galloping at a-
-1000 miles an hour gait towards the North Pole,
while a jackass screeches in the rear, and a.
scraggy kangaroo balances himself and an ensign
on a winged globe in the middle distance, as it,
were. One industrious competitor (hailing either-
from Yarra Bend or Callan Park) forwarded a
series of six folio plates, with 28 different figures,
accompanied by 18 foolscap pages of type-written)
dissertation on the correctly-drawn, but utterly
incomprehensible, geometrical designs on the»
plates, these embracing (according to the said dis-
sertation) Urim and Thummirn, the Tonic Solf.u
System, the Procession of the Equinoxes, and the-
quite irrelevant information that “a barrel is.
3601 b. water standard.”


i
«
US
LTD.
A FEW
SPECIALITIES
SCHOOL VIOLIN
sdr
Student’s Model (complete)
Orchestral Vio'in „
Stradwarius Mo.lel „
£1 11 6
2 2 0
3 3 0
Higher Grades at Various Prices
21/-
6 1! ItißM
m
m
Q*
LEADS THE WORLD
' ' SrtllK ' **" lu *
• • •
Use only
Sarasate Violin Strings
3s. per Boz.
STRINGS and FITTINGS
FOE
EVERY INSTRUMENT
At LOWEST PRICES.
All
Paling’s
Musical
Instruments
are
Guaranteed
Highest Quality
.. at . .
-.owest Prices.
gs
WASHBURN”
MafydoliQS, 6(iitarS, DaojoS
are
UNEQUALLED
for
ifi
TONE
QUALITY
CHEAPNESS
PIANOS
ORGANS
an:*
AH
Other
Musical
Instruments
Violins
Banjos
Guitars
Auto-Harps
Concertinas
Cornets
’Cellos
Accordeons
etc., etc.
Illustrated Catalogues Free by Post.
. . THE . .
MIDGET®^
ACCORDEON
Post Free to cmy Town in
New South Wales.
Bs. 6d.
W. H. Paling & Co. Ltd*! 338 Goorsfo-st.. Svdnov
TTTTTTVV»W(
BRISBANE BRANCH :
57 Queen-st., Brisbane.
A Bill to establish the Referendum in
M.L. was carried in the Lower House, but rejected
in the Upper by 29 to 1, only the Government
representative being in its favor. It was a Govt,
measure, too, and King Richard seldom tolerates
any appeal against his decisions. The infusion of
Govt, nominees, who hold their seats for a few
years only, gives the Ministry a strong hold on
the Leg. Council, and many people reckon that
the House had a very clear understanding that
Seddon wanted the Bill rejected before it ventured
to cast it out with such extraordinary force and
contumely.
N.S. W. Public Service Board member
Wilson goes on another vacation, being seriously
ill. As member Barling is also absent this leaves
but one of that triumvirate proper on duty, and
there are at least 1000 appeals from aggrieved
public servants waiting decision. The places are
filled temporarily by officers selected from the
service. It is manifestly impossible to appoint
laymen for a term of a few months, as in so short
a time they could hardly'manage to “learn the 1
ropes.” Yet the frequent need of appointing first
one man from one of the departments, and then ■
another from another department, to a position
on the Board is not satisfactory. The temporary I
man must sit on cases from his own department,
for if he does not the matters are not decided by 1
a Board of three, as provided for by the Act ?
The practice, too, of raising men to rule for a few
weeks where they are accustomed to serve must
be very unsettling. The attitude of the Board
is also belittled when it is composed of men who
are on it to-day and back in their departments to-
morrow.
•Jl SA
m
i mm
CotiQtry Readers
In Need of GLASSES for FAILING or
IMPAIRED VISION should write for my
PARCEL OF SPECTACLES
. . CONTAINING . *
6 PAIRS ASSORTED SIGHTS
and an ILLUSTRATED SHEET of INSTRUCTIONS
to aid you in selecting the right power, at prices from
3/6 s 5/6, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 21/- per pair,
case included.
Forward me the PRICE OF ONE PAIR and I will
send you the six Spectacles to select from, money returned
if you are not suited.
H. A. BARRAGLOUCH,
CONSULTING OPTICIAN,
371 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
Next door A.J.S. Bank (King & George Sts.).
And at 232 Collins Street, Melbourne. 1
Road What
VITADATIO
.Is Doing.
“ Wydah,” 114 Punt-road, Windsor,
February 25, 1899.
S. A. Palmer, Esq., Vitadatio Institute, Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
Dear Sir,—l am indeed glad and grateful to let you
know my case and the result of taking VITADATIO.
For the last 12 years I have been suffering from constant
attacks of asthma and chest complaints, and at times so
bad that I almost wished for death to relieve me, gasping
for breath, and to all appearance at death’s door. I have
at various times consulted at least five different medical
men, and for five years was attended by our family
doctor, who relieved, but did not cure me. I was induced
by a relative to try your medicine, and from the start
received great benefit in my general health, more than
anything else I ever took for my trouble. I have taken
six large bottles, and am happy to say I have no fear of
my enemy, asthma, because I feel so well and free from it.
I was really in terror from the frequency and suddenness
of the attacks. Words cannot express how grateful I am,
and will explain my case to any you may choose to send.
Yours faithfully,
MRS. WILLIAM ST7THF.RT.ANT>
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
the stew
EDISON TALKING MACHINES.
&
The Bijou. Phonograph.'
With Complete Outfit, including 0
Assorted Records, £2.
The Standard Phonograph
With Complete Outfit, including'24
(2 dozen) Assorted Re,
cords, 2 Blanks, £5 10s.
Undoubtedly the Best
Value ever offered.
> Extra Edison Records,
208. per dozen ; 12s. per
half-dozen. Concert (5 J
inch) Records, 6s. each,
■ 60s. dozen.
Send for Catalogues con*,
taining 3000 selections. 1
REEVES &. CO. I ADELAIDE and BROKEN HILL
FOREIGN STAMPS.
rWE STERN
m
r
sr*:
pHEAP SETS.—4O Japan, Is 6d ;
47 Spain, 2s ; 10 Bulgaria, 6d ;
16 Heligoland, Ip : 8 Egypt, 6d ; 30
French, 9d ; 12 Indian Telegraghs,
6d ; 9 Labuan Pictorial, 2s 6d; 11
Canada, 6d; 9 Canada Duty, 6d; 6
Bolivia,4d. Packets 50, Is ;100,256d.
Stamps Purchased. New Catalogue
of Stamps, Albums, etc., Gratis.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins-st., Melbourne.
Castro’s Last Sacrament
By ALBERT DORRINGTON. 4s 6d.
6
Owners of
Vehicles
should please note that
we have secured the
Australasian Agency
for the famous
/
/
r,
//>
>»*>
vVV»
SPRINGFIELD
CARRIAGE
TYRE.
This solid Rubber Vehicle Tyre is most popular in England, Europe and America
where no vehicle is considered complete or up-to-date unless fitted with these noiseless
and vibrationless Tyres.
They Save all Noise and Vibration.
They Double the Life of your Vehicle.
They Lighten the Draught of the Vehicle fully 59°, „ and
They Last Four to Five Years on a private vehicle.
If you are interested in this subject send
containing prices, sectional drawings, &c.
or call for a copy of our Artistic Booklet,
, posted Gratis upon application.
4t
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus. Ltd.
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.z.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
cs*
BILLS
discounted.
IKr.S.^W'.
iete j).51.60.,CM.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
CASTLEHEAGH ST., 174.
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
'-TIIIS-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robbrts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miuuf.r.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 —assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
• Head Office :
419 & 421 COI.LINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
file Bank of flortb Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq,
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burris, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... £109,000 '
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 100 ... £350,000
Queensland gnealting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
T3UYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap. ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
|jeiu Zealand jnsuranse go.
FIRE and BIARINE.
CAPITAL £1,009,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Larf/est Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager. ol r!lt St«,
IN Trustees, €*€^GtorS,
AND
AgSOCy Conjpasjy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Es p ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROW.MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
No. 412 Collins-strcet, Melbourne.
Royal Bank of Queensland
JjIMITKD. j
CAPITAL PAID-UP £385,187
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS . 245,119
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 55,000
£685,306
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Ass. Mngr., W, B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Ocean
A ccident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
(The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks.
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq. Wellington : H.
Beauchamp, Esq.
Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M‘Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson; Perth, A. W.
Karquiiar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Established 1879.
THE
United Jjustralian Ulataai fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital .. £500,000
Subscribed Capital .. 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance.
aGENTS REQUIRED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
Alfred Webster, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
A Rose of Regret:
Verses by James Hebblethwaite ; being
No. 11. of The 'Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 9d. post free.
Forwarded by return mail from The Bulletin
office in exchange for postal notes or stamps of
any Australasian State or Province.
Shipping.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
-A. JXr D
A
LI3VE
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., ETD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts., SYDNEY.
TIME TABLE.
THRHE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 14,12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tu'ds., Sept. 17, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Sept. 21, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAItOO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early
ALBANY
FJtKMANTLE
Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDAHERG
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 14,12 Noon.
► Gabo, Tuesday,'Sept. 17, 5 p.ni.
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 21,12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MAGKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 14, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 21,12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Lass o’ Qowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest. Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Pickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of Kimr-street.
THE “ALL RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LOHDOH.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OF TIIE
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
Under contract with the Governments ot New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leaTe-Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 days; and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world—over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada an.d the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equi able Building’s, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount, of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000
THE SAVINGS BANK IN VICTORIA
■ HAS MONEY To LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria ’
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Hank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office- GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 2,000,000 0
Reserve Fund 1,250,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,250,000 0 0
Directors :
Hon. Ciias. K. Mackbllar, M.L.0., President.
Senator Jambs Thomas Walker.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. llknrv Normand MacLaiirin, M.L.C.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
Auditors :
F. W. Utiibr, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office Old Broad Street.
With Brandies in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the Unit ed States, Hamburg- and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects' for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes tire agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
Publications.
‘FAUST.”
H-RAND SELECTION from Gounod’s popular Opera
arranged for Pianoforte by Warwick Williams.
Published at 4s.
Also,
The celebrated WALTZ and stirring SOLDIERS’ CHORUS
MARCH from the same Opera.
Of all Music Sellers.
W. PAXTON & CO., London & Melbourne.
Catalogues Free.
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. -
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to Sail about 21st SEPTEMBER,
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
AFRIO, SUEVIC, PERSIC, and RUNIC.
The attention of the travelling public and .shippers
general y is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class oidy, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout.
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA.
nxr. jd. l.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
‘Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to HONGKONG,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA and YAP.
G.M.S. NUEN TUNG, 1341 Tons,
Captain Schoenberg,
LEAVING SYDNEY, 27th SEPTEMBER NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent j
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply j
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Publications.
THE BALLET GIRL
df
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza, -
BOX 913, G-P.0., SYDNEY.
TRicocoey
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, By Dr.
ALFRED NEALE. Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
AND THEIR TREATMENT.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers :
Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY,
gsd
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Chie; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque on London.
English, French, and German Rare Books.
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R- GENN ERT,
B9c Faubourg St., Martin, Paris, France.
CCCKC
a
Jhe
asical
sun
Colli
Sh
ns
A POLICY FOR THE No J^
Price (id. :
Posted, Bd.
COMMON WefiLTH<
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
p ort pirie
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transliippiijgat Freman tie
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Rockton, Friday,
September 13.
S.S Marloo, Saturday,
September 21.
BRISBANE
MAGIi A V
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns
S.S. Cinfcra, Friday,
September 13.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
tirst Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A. U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and VV.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. 00. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
'»• W. WOY. I— TD.
royal mail coastal service.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatoh their Magnificent Steamships as under.
'MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE —Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
.TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly
fS>NEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Norinanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
fortnightly.
Pussent/er A ccotnniodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first, port, between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
o* the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
, r Adelaide and W. Aus ralia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 111 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
wm.—Tfvj. -a™
P AND O. COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
. or ' subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Steamer.
HIMALAYA
CHINA
ARCADIA
INDIA
OCEANA .
Commander.
Sydney,
Noon
6398 W. L. Broun, R.N.R. . 'Sept.
7912 T. S. Angus . . . loot.
6663 A. C. Loggin .. ;Oct.
7911 W. D. G. VVorcester, R.N.R. Oct.
6613 C. Gadd .. Inov.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £7llos to £l2l
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific, and
Messageries Maritimes Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MEEBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,’
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them t,o Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER 1)E THUY, Principal Agent.
- . lihß—<—> C Ma———
MELBOIJUN IC, HOBA I IT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUT’S-
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“e. Imp a.” linE
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers wer>- specially built for tire Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company. (
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
n‘|lHraithJ|‘Eaeharn
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALGOOBLIE, 4500 tons,
COOLGABDIE, 3500 tons,
SAIL J'OHT NIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Pakcnjer Accommodation Umvrpttxsed. Liberal Cuisine.
SVUILWRASTH, MEACHARN AND CO,,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHSLP & CO. Ltd.


The Antarctic ship Discovery, now on her
way Australiawards, has no iron or steel work
above or below decks for a space of 30ft, the idea
being to get accurate magnetic observations, but
the clever people who are bringing her out
promptly stored a big stock of tinned provender
in that very spot. Australians with a scientific
grip should have a good show of joining the
Antarctic expedition, which has now lost every
one of the scientists originally attached.
Vindictive inscription—dated June 25th,
1825 —upon a tombstone in the old Devonshire-
street cemetery, Sydney:—
“ The wicked Byron who shot me
The Almighty Judge will shortly see.
And I, the witness, will be there
The truth against him to declare.
That righteous Judge will hear my case,
And doom him to his own hot place.”
And so on, with a complacent conviction that
Botany Bay law obtained equally Up Above, and
that the Great Judge would be as promptly
savage as the little ones. As this old and lengthy
inscription, though on a sandstone tablet, is one
of the best-preserved in all the cemetery, it seems
likely that deceased’s clan “ kept it up ” for many
years. But they seem to have died out, for the
headstone and remains are among the unclaimed.
YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
mav be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/ljd. per b »x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPyHE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, & c., bears on
tlie Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS o!
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
i*>K!
We grant every purchaser
of our
HLKCTRIC
UK LI'S and
AJ‘I'Ll A N CIVS
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Bells give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
#
ail
HOTELKEEPERS!
MAKE YOUR QWM
DERATED WATERS.
rpHE “AUSTRAL” DERATED WATER MACHINE occu-
pies only Four Feet Square, will produce 150 Dozen per day of
Finest Waters (LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, SODAWATER, &c.)
at a Cost below Fourpence per Dozen. This machine
supersedes all others for SIMPLICITY and USEFULNESS, as it
requires no skilled labor to work it.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Agent: WM. JOHNSON, 343 Queen-street, Brisbanb
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214-216 Queen-st, MELBOURNE.
Evil Effects of
Some Soaps on
the Complexion.
PREMIER VINOLIA SOAP is not colored with
poisons, rendered transparent with Chemi-
cals, or semi-transparent with resin and
sugar, nor does it turn yellow in spots,
revealing putrid fats. It is not charged
with powerful penetrating perfumes that
gratify the sense of smell to the detriment
and injury of the skin. VINOLIA is purest,
safest and best. Laundry soaps should
never be used on the skin.
Five Kinds .* Sold Evevywheve.
:Dr - Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
mu* Rdl . l l l K hy < i ondlt ; on - and F lve * vou new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ studv and
experiments It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for without anv
expense for renewals or repairs. y * wl&nouc an y
■ Dr ' Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves wifh
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the & gladness of youthM
,T° Nailing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory Dvs
pephc, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vifn!
parts the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-IN VIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the n •. ,
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC ’ organs 13 trul * y wonderful,
f nc«-ELEOTR,C BELT, 10., ; BE-INVIQORATOR, M o, Thr«, BoUle. , or 4
CALL OR WRITE-
OWL r c a u t t e DRUG STOtjtpi
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.''"** *"“*“* :
fgs
dfg
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers frc m Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia, iEnemia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands. and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
iIfUSJM^SfcKS
HWUNEa
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed llem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS CHIEF LABORATORY,
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Affections, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Cour.-e, 28/6
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases. Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALIME UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
JLnemia, Wa ting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Cos'iveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOA ES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum- Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free. posted, 35., 65., 12s. and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—
This Susp nder imparts Strength and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Electric Belts —Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents, unequalled as a
cure for all Spinal and Kidney Affections ;
425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addi esses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his H ead
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Correspondence held confidential.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/«
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/*
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3, ■ and 6/*
CORN CURE, I/-.
OINTMENT, I/-.
ft •*
mm.
HERR RAS
HERBAL AIfAUHIR
EMMSS
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and hla
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke-st.
BRISBANE —309 Queen-st.
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney-st.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W. A.—PERTH, 481 Hay-st.
KALGOORLIE —Hannan-st.
BOULDER ClTY—Piesse-st.
FREMANTLE —Henry-st.
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALE ALINE REMEDIES.


As
a Corrective
and Safeguard
of HEALTH.
THE BEST REMEDY TO-DAY IN THE MARKET IS
REUTER’S LITTLE PILLS
FOR THE LIVER.
A HOUSEHOLD NECESSITY.
“Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled “ Piles and the Wav to
Cure Them,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.*
Mr. Walter Bradley has now on view
upstairs in his large and well-lighted premises in
George-street, Sydney, a very interesting collec-
tion of pictures, chiefly water-colors—many of
them shown at the recent exhibition of the British
Royal Watercolor Society—which will strongly
appeal to the attention of art-lovers. The collec-
tion is varied in style, and contains several items
for which, even in so poor a picture-market as
Sydney, it is easy to predict sharp competition
when the day of auction comes.
It costs £120,000 a year to maintain the
“ Australian Auxiliary Squadron,” and the seven
States contribute £12(3,000 a year, so they pay the
whole charge of maintenance and a little towards
interest on cost. Considering that they haven’t
the slightest control over the fleet, or any
semblance of a guarantee that it will remain here
to defend Australasia when it is wanted, and
further considering that it spends much of its time
looking after purely British interests in remote
islands, the bargain looks about as bad a one as
could be imagined.
Canon M'Coll, an Anglican, thus logically
pulverises the coronation oath :
There is nothing in it to forbid the King to change his
mind. To make any sense in the meaning of the pro-
posers he ought to be made to declare that he believes he
neyer will believe in Transubstantiation. Yet, even so,
what is to follow him if, after all, he does change his
mind? He does not promise to abdicate, or even to
reveal his change of mind. What, then, is the use of a
Declaration which secures nothing, and is entirely futile ?
A Roman Catholic is already excluded from the throne
by statute. The Declaration, therefore, can only be
intended to exclude a crypto-Papist, and it entirely fails
to do so. Against an honest man it is unnecessary.
Against a dishonest man it is ineffective.
Consider the lordly finance of the
Sydney swankey-builder. Before the Tied-Houses
Commission, the other day, the principal traveller
for one brewing-firm—the big house of Tooth,
Ltd., capital, £900,000 —deposed that he alone did
business to the extent of 40,000 barrels a year, and
that his incidental expenses ran to £BOO a month
—say, £lO,OOO per annum. Certainly a liquor-
drummer enjoys unusual opportunities for dis-
bursing “wheel-greasers.” A Tatt.’s ticket for
Bung, a silk dress for Mrs. Bung, gloves and
ribbons for Flossie behind the bar, tips here and
tips there, and drinks and smokes for all and
sundry. But £lO,OOO a year expenses ! Why,
the Governor-General “ isn’t in it ” with Bung’s
ambassador!
Why should not medical men, great and
eminent in their profession, advertise their worth
to a world of suffering humanity? Suffering
demands the adoption of this course by which
medical aid can be assured and medical knowledge
diffused throughout the land. The alleviation of
agony in humanity is one of the greatest and
grandest of professions. This is ensured by means
of a wide but instructive system of advertisement,
by which ignorance is lifted from the brain of the
world and wisdom is laid at the feet of thousands.
Good advertising is a virtue, and bringeth its own
reward. This has been earned by the Freeman
and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical
Institute, Bathurst and Elizabeth Streets, Sydney.
This widely-known Institute is represented on
page 29 of this issue.*
“ Hit from where your hand is.” —Pugilist
Fitzsi mmons.
A rash Melbourne-South suburban house-
father has got himself into trouble. The stout
reputable citizen in question lives in a pleasant
villa facing a public garden, and is much worried
by the unfilial conduct of his lovely daughter,
who has fallen in love with the elegant young
man living next door on the left, and is warmly
encouraged in her folly and her contempt for
constituted authority by the confounded upstart.
1 he rapturous couple meet and assemble after hours
m the gardens opposite, where the old man hunts
them in the dark of the moon. The other night
papa, having heard that his daughter was canood-
ling with the enemy under the greenwood tree,
stole out filled with bitterness and evil resolution,
wormed his way into the enclosure through the
loose paling reserved for the convenience of lovers,
and presently came upon the happy pair
unawares. Letting his feelings as a father get the
fr e^® r °f him, he immediately fell upon the youth,
and belted him with great vigor considering his
age and his aggravated fatty degeneration. He
pounded, and kicked, and poured-out uncomplim-
entary language till the other party to the out-
ra R e grew weary of the one-sidedness of the
argument and responded in kind. In the next
lOsec. papa picked up a pair of bonny black eyes
and a nose-slope that will remain with him to his
dying day. But worse remained behind. The
girl’s complaints had brought a policeman on the
scene, and the distracted parent discovered, when
he was up to his neck in charge, that he had
dealt with a total stranger, and pounded the
head of the sweetheart of a young girl in whom
he had no earthly interest.
Oiling' Up.”
cT
L.
Just a little oil on the
engine at the right time
may mean the difference
between life and death to
the passengers and crew.
That oil is to the friction
of the delicate parts of the
engine what Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are to
the delicate organs of the
body, they ease their
labor, prevent the loss of
power, the waste of
energy, caused by friction.
Many a man who is all
run down, whose limbs
ached when he walked,
whose back ached when
he laydown, who breathed
with difficulty, and
coughed constantly, has
been perfectly cured by
the use of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. They
purify the blood and
strengthen the stomach.
Mr. J. Kennedy, 389 Vic-
torian Parade, East Mel-
bourne, has a few words
to say about Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. He
writes: —“Owing to irre-
gular hours of work and irregular meals, to which
I was subjected, I have suffered for the past two
years from sluggish liver. On arising in the
morning I would feel more tired and stiff than
when 1 went to bed at night. I was advised to
take Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, but was loth
to do so, as I had no faith in those sort of things.
But at last I decided to give them a trial, and
after taking a few doses, was so astonished to
find the good effect produced that I continued
taking them ; and now I am pleased to say
that I feel as well as I ever did. You
have my full permission to use this state-
ment, as it may be the means of others
obtaining benefit from these wonderful pills.”
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood
purifier and a positive cure for biliousness, indiges-
tion, constipation, headaches, sallow complexion,
liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils,
blotches, and female ailments. Sold by chemists
and storekeepers, Is Dd per bottle, or six bottles
6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the full
name blown thereon.*
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
W. W. GREENER’S NEW RIFLE
s
Made expressly for Cadet Corps.
An entirely New <t Exclusive Design.
The new Rifle has been produced
solely to supply the wants of Cadet
Corps for a REALLY RELIABLE
and ACCURATE RIFLE at a low
price, £3 3s. ~«11
Ten Shots in 3 inch Square at 100 yards.
GENUINE ENGLISH MANUFACTURE THROUGHOUT
Every Rifle guaranteed and named
W. GREENER, Birmingham, England.
On Hand—Greener Guns from 9 to 30 Guineas ; Martini
Sporting Rifles, take 44 Winchester Cartridges, very
accurate; Lee Enfield and Metford Rifles. “ Sharpshooting
for Sport ANDWAR,”postedl/2. Stamps from other States
not accepted. BSfT All Rifle Shots should read this Book.
CliaLS. A7V. Bucki and.,
Representing W. W. GREENER,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
drg
ds
A Severe Test
At the Melbourne Bicycle Club’s hill-climbing contest,
Don Walker on a . . . .
RED BIRD BICYCLE
Won the contest easily. This is another proof of the strength, rigidity, and easy running
qualities of the Red Bird. B3T BUYERS SHOULD NOTE THIS.
Branches in Every State.
Red Bird Bicycle Department —
64 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
17 meet i n S (Saturday) opened with a
startedani l's H? ut ™llers, flrsfc favorite for the Derby,
t C I V t 8 °i fe , red - fbex was the only withdrawal,
through a bruised heel. Seven started, and Caravel
swung into the straight first; when Hautvillers came with
llkfSh ™shand the two thundered along neck and
„nH k tw the ba’f'd'Stance. Close behind toiled Grasspan,
uHJLuI. Hautvillers drew away, and finished about U
lengths ahead, with Grasspan half a neck behind Caravel.
ls a Derby record for Australasia,
next best being Indent's 2min. 3Ssec. in A.J.C. Derby,
and Seahorse s 2min. 38sec. in Maoriland. It is also llsee.
faster than y -R.O. best blue riband. Caravel ran well
and promises well. Solitary was the only other to show
Derby form. Three first were bred in N.S.W., though
Hautvillers is owned by Wm. Bailey, of Ballarat.
» • * *
. was hred by Mr. Sam Hordern
at Wilton Park (N.S.W.), by imp. St. Simon horse Haut
Brion from Brockley’s sister, Narara, by Goldsbrough
from Ethel, by Yattendon. Bailey bought him at yearling
s ales for43ogs. At two years he won Y.A.T.O. Alma Stakes
and the gilded V.R.C. Ascot Vale Stakes. Caravel was bred
3 owner White, now in England; by Impetus (imp.)
from lelucca (imp.), by Hazelhateh from Galleon, by
Sterling out of Typolite, who was by Toxopholite.
A.J.C. Epson was another solemn warning of
the truth that there is nothing, or less, in paper form.
Twenty-eight lined up for the mile race, and among them
were a dozen whose chances looked equally good—on
paper. All were more or less heavity backed, but heaps of
wealth went on Sequence and brought him from
tens to fours. The night before Abington and Kenlev
were favorites, and at the last moment Allinga was backed
At the five furlong post Sequence, humping
9.4 (top weight) with Frank Kuhn up, broke clean away
from everything else. At the Leger post the field behind
was scattered and beaten, and at the winning post,
Allinga, the second horse, was a good dozen lengths
behind, with Essington another half a length in the rear.
Heavily backed Caledonia, Beauclerc and the Victorian
mare Cretonne never had a look in. Time, 1.38}, forms a
fresh best for the mile. Previous was Diin Djin’s—a
second slower. Before Djin Djin, Bungebah in ’9O and
Dare Devil in *92 had done it in 1.40. The time would
have been written impossible a year or two ago, but at
Lingfield, in England, Caiman did it in 1.33 J, Sir Hercules
in 1.34 2-5, while the Yankee horse Salvator, opposed to
time, in 1.35 J at Monmouth Park (U.S.)
* • * *
Sequence was bred by W. A. Long, from Con-
sequence by the imported Far Niente, and was bought by
J. Mayo for 45gs. when a yearling. Far Niente was by
Halliard, and Consequence by Gang Forward from Haidee,
by Talk o the Hills from Hebe by Lucifer. As a two-
year-old, Sequence won the Flying Welter and Shorts at
Newcastle. Next season he snapped the A.J.C. Duff
Memorial Stakes, Rosehill Shorts, and A.J.C. all aged.
Last year he did nothing, and this season he barely went
under to Grasspan at Rosehill, and a week later he
couldn’t get a “drum” in Tatt.’s Hampden Stakes so
easily won by Sir Leonard. Apparently, owner Mayo
knew what he was about, as he is understood to have
refused £2OOO for Sequence a very little while ago.
* * * *
If the A.J.C. doesn’t provide better entrance
facilities to the Leger, it will have a big bill to pay one
day. There are only two turnstiles, approached by a
narrow, fenced-in race, and if some unfortunate happens
to get his ribs against the corner post just when there’s a
big pressure on, nothing can save him from an ugly
smashing. On Derby Day, there were at least 500 peopie
all trying to crush through those two miserable little
holes in the wall at one time.
* * * •
The random shot isn’t a circumstance beside the
random horse. San Fran annexed Spring Stakes at
A. J.C. meet, Saturday, absolutely unbacked by the stable
through unsatisfactory track-work. On Monday he
won the gilded Metrop., but never a bet for owner Smith,
who usually knows his good things and plays high. Said
that he would have been scratched but for a bejewell.ed
Mo. approaching Mr. Smith with an offer Of £4OO to do so,
which caused that indignant party to send him out, with
r rank Kuhn up, to do his best—and his best was too good
for anything else.
>• * * • *
Metrop. winner, San Fran, was bred at Tucka
Tucka (N.S.W.) by his present owner, by Gozo from Pro-
cella, dam of Frisco and Woodlark, by Grand Flaneur
from the Auk, by Marquis (imp.) from Seagull, by Fisher-
man (imp.) from Omen (imp.) from Melbourne. San
Fran’s first win was last Sydney Cup. The field was the
same as previous biggest—Reviver’s last year, and San
Fran (four-year-old) got home in 2.35, humping 8.8,
exactly four-year-old Survivor’s burden and record time
when he won in ’97. The Barb (9.10), Goldsbrough (9.2),
Sir Modred (8.10), Abercorn (9.7), and Paris (9.2) carried
the heaviest loads this time.
**; * •
Jockey Frank Kuhn is doing well. Up to
Metrop. he had won Epsom Handicap, Spring, Shorts.
Metrop. and New Stakes.
* * * *
It has long been the custom to present a
specially-made whip to the rider of the winner of Mel-
bourne Cup, and it is now proposed annually to confer a
similar compliment upon the winning rider of the Sydney
Metropolitan Stakes. A very elaborate whip for that
purpose has accordingly heen made by Mr. Geo. Eland,
maker of the York presentation stockwhip.
•*. * •
Australia’s champion pony, for his weight, is
three-year-old colt Matalgia, by Nordenfeldt—Cambria.
At Kensington with 10.2 he got over 4fur. in 54| in the 14
hands handicap, in a canter.
• * * *
Hottest finish seen at Rand wick for a long time
was in Kensington Handicap (25 horses) Saturday.
Ancient M.L. steed Whakawatea won by a head from
northern district filly Huasca, who beat Australian
similarly.
» * * *
Racing has had a better year at Broken Hill
than ever since the 12-year-old days of fizz and fill-’em-up-
again. The three clubs confine themselves to one meet-
ing each a year—all in a bunch at midwinter. The senior
cl ub turned over this year £1365, just half going in stakes,
most of the rest in permanent improvements. For the
rest, Broken Hill has to be as satisfied as it can be with a
monthly “ unregistered.”
*** * •
The Deputy Commissioner of Vic. railways has
casually mentioned that there is no probability of the
extortionate fares to Flemington raceground being re-
duced before Melbourne Cup. Also he volunteered the
opinion that “a trifling reduction in fares would not
increase the number of passengers carried,” which is in-
teresting as showing how the Deputy Chief Commissioner
regards the question of this bloated monopoly. A first-
class passenger to and from Flemington on a race day is
charged 3s. for a 7Jd. journey. If he treats himself "to 12
days’ racing per annum, he is practically taxed 28s. on his
dissipation. The Government that sees no injustice in
these Flemington fares is open to provide special race
trains to other places at low rates to catch the public.
It is a hard, plundering monopolist on the one hand, and
a liberal concessionist on the other. Its object, of course,
is always the same—to get as much money as possible out
of the race-train service—but why should Cup visitors pay
so dearly'for their determination to attend the races at
any cost? They are robbed each time because they
quietly endured the robbery on the previous occasion.
If they kicked against the charges and stopped away
from Flemington the fares would come down to tempting
rates. The individual traveller by rail to the Cup is
under no obligation to assist in making an enormous
profit for the Vic. Govt.
* * * *
A Brisbane jockey some time ago so injured his
spine by a fall that he completely lost the use of his legs.
LJpset out of his invalid’s carriage lately, he hit his back
on the kerbstone in such a way that the pressure on his
spinal cord was removed, and he is now almost as good as
new.
* • • •
During last season 57 dividends of £2O and up-
wards were paid on the tote in Maoriland. Highest,
£124. There were twelve over £5O, and eight over £3O.
* • * *
A Christchurch (M.L.) resident is responsible
for a totalisator which throws out a ticket to the investor
while registering his pound on the total. Invention has
been patented all over Australasia. N.S.W. Registrar of
Patents wouldn’t admit the word “ totalisator”—he
described it as “ a calculating machine.”
* * • *
S.A. Jockey Club has asked the police to tell
it whether it can, under the Totalisator Act, adopt
a suggested innovation of paying a div. also on the
second horse, instead of dividing all money machined
among backers of the winner?
* * * *
Boulder City (W.A.) race meet last August
seemed to have been organised for the benefit of the
Bolger family. Their Kilt won 600 sovs. in the Boulder
Cup ; Sunbrown, 100 in the Brush Steeple ; Once More,
90 in the Electric Handicap; Sunbrown, 80 in the Ladies’
Bracelet. Besides these were a crowd of seconds and
thirds. Out of the ten starters for the Boulder Cup,
P. Bolger had no less than four running, and Kilt, who
won, was unbacked.
* * * *
The Americans' have put in 40 entries for the
English Derby of 1903, making a record entry-list of over
300. The King entered six, all by Persimmon.
• * * •
A racing record (of a kind) has been put up by
De Reszke, the great operatic tenor, in Russia. With a
string of 14 horses he started in 40 races in a fortnight,
and won 30 of them. They were all ridden by Tod Sloan’s
brother, who at one time had 19 consecutive wins.
» * • «
Tom Mitchell, the bronze Adonis of Sydney,
who beat Melbourne’s best, Jacky M'Gowan, ere starting
for ’Frisco, is returning without having secured a match
in the U.S. The prejudice against coons does not diminish
in Yankeeland, and the “ colored brudder ” who has had
a few years’ Australian experience is soon disgusted
with “ over thar,” finding himself tripping over the color-
line whichever way he turns.
* * • •
Jock MTvor, the Vic. lightweight who whipped
Tod Higgins so easily that he looked good enough for
anything offering, has backed out of the match with
Johns, the Sydney-sider—a contest that would have
drawn bags of money in Melbourne. M‘lvor is a
woodener, and looks good enough for a front place when
he gets going ; it’3 a pity he seems to be developing a
tail.
* • * *
Tut Ryan and Bill Doherty bruised for the
heavy-weight pug. supremacy of Australia at Perth
(W.A.), arid Doherty won in the seventh round.
Doherty is lucky in this respect: he usually goes under
in the first match ; he did it when he fought Ryan
before, also Dooley and Felix. Still, he always “saves
his face” and explains that it was all due to “lack of
condition,” “ sheer hard luck,” or a “fluke punch ” from
the other fellow, and demands a “ return match.”
Result : a full house and a win for Doherty.
When he fought Felix, the elongated black
wandered off without giving the return “ go,” and
Doherty and his backers chased the tall, dark man to -
Sydney where, after putting up £l5O, they cleaned out
the darkey’s backer and made a surgical exhibit of him-
self. Ryan explains Doherty’s victory was due to his
(Ryan’s) late attack of influenza and Doherty’s excep-
tional condition. This indicates a return match, which
will assuredly produce good fighting—from Doherty,
anyhow.
• * * *
The squelching of Joe Goddard : The blustering
Jeffords had the ex-Australian “ all chewed-up ” in the
sixth round, in U.S. lately. Joe’s pub. and bruising-shop
have apparently gone where all his other possessions
went—up the gargoyle.
* * * *
N.S.W.’s most disastrous Rugby invasion of
Maoriland ended on Saturday, when Auckland won by 24
to 9. The Cornstalks’ solitary victory was over Wanganui
by 9to 8. They were to have played combined Taranaki
and Wanganui, but Taranaki withdrew, else the visitors
had been eaten right up. M.L. forwards far outclassed
N.S.W.’s; also their backs, but not so utterly. Corn-
stalks scored 10 tries, one of which was conveited by See.
M.L. had 25, and converted 8. Wickham scored 3 goals—
one from a mark and two from penalty kicks. Try-getters
were Lindsay with three, C. Shortland with two, Short-
land, Wickham, Conlon, See, and Judd one each. Maori-
landers played with more grit and tenacity. N.S.W. always
passed at the first threat. Maorilanriers charged the
tackier, and only passed when fairly stopped. M.L.
system is bad for the tacklers.
*■♦ • *
Biggest crowd seen at a football-match for years
watched the Vic. Premiership accidentally fall to Essen-
don. Present system of running things doesn’t neces-
sarily ensure best club winning, but it makes a. good
“ gate ”up till the very last match. In semi-final Fitzroy
beat Essendon, but a goal-umpire’s mistake gave latter a
lead of one point, while Collingwood beat. Geelong,
though latter had far the best season’s record.' The final
game was shorn of all interest through Essendon’s getting
a 3-goal lead in the first quarter—which lead was never
recovered. Two or three willing goes among spectators
livened up matters, and one excited barracker peeled off
coat and vest, jumped the fence and started across the
ground, rolling up his shirt-sleeves as he went, to rebuke
the umpire ; an interfering constable, however, hustled
him away, and a pleasing interlude was interrupted
“ Gate ” totalled £639.
• * * *
S.A. Cricket Association is making a big effort
to induce Joe Darling to play in inter-State and inter-
national matches during the coming season. N.S.W. and
Victoria are expected to raise no objection, but so far
nothing has been heard from Darling himself, who has
been on his Tas. station since last Jan. Awhile ago
Darling intimated that he hoped to have a go at M’Laren
and co. with a Tas. team.
* * * •
„ ‘‘ A -W. ” : A recent Bulletin par. opines that
MacLaren’s team will never get Hill, Trumper and co
out, unless something in the shape of a “ find” turns up
before Xmas. Australia will be in a similar fix with re-
gard to Hayward, Tyldesley, etc. Our bowling is pain-
mlly w ea k : Marsh, the only promising man in N.S.W.
is liable to be no-balled by Phillips. Saunders (Vic ) is’
after all, no great shakes, and Jones (of S.A.) is a doubt-
ful quantity, to put it mildly.
'* * * *
Now that Towns has squelched Gaudaur sculling
may revive in Australia. Towns is coming home through
England, and it is whispered that Jim Stanbury may take
to the water again. A match on the Parramatta between
the ex-champion of Australia and England and the vic-
torious Towns would rouse considerable enthusiasm.
Towns is a boat-builder by trade, 31 years of age, weighs
11.4, stands sft. 10m. high, deep chested and strongly
made. He struck the public eye by finishing third on the
Parramatta nine years ago. Various challenges are al-
ready talked of—among them Tressider, of Newcastle •
Worboys of Wallsend ; Bugen, of Richmond RiVcrfand
young Clifford, of Dapto. Towns is not a Beach or a
apossib'le any means ’ and 11116 y° lm S ones have more than
*_ * » *
East Brisbane Harriers have again won Q
cross country supremacy. Distance was estimated at
three miles over rough country. Charlie Saunderson
went to the front early and stayed there till he finished a
yard ahead of Mahoney in 16i mins. This is the fifth
F? u ? a n C -°K teSt ’ an j third , win of team premiership by
Saunderso>k ane an<l ln dividual championship by
x ”* * * *
Amateur bikist Smyth (17st.) lowered his own
Australian record for the unpaced quarter-mile bv
1 l-ssec. to 27 3-ssec. World’s best by Eng. amateur
Read is 26 3-ssec. Smyth intends, during next thrt«
weeks, to attack all track-records, flying and standing
starts, on a 122£in. machine with 7fin. cranks.
• * * •
N.S.W. (really Australasian) pigeon-murdering
supremacy fell to “ Locksley” last week. Conditions were
30yds. rise and 21 birds, with a boundary reduced from
60 to 40 yards. Four, including ex-champion A. B.
Smith, shaped for Victoria, but failed to set Sydney
a-flre. Round 21 saw “ Locksley ” and Smith even with
one miss each. Both were beaten in the 33rd. round, but
in round 35 Smith went to pieces, and “ Locksley ” killed
and won. N.S.W. champions have been Faithfull, ’97 ;
M‘lntosh, ’9B ;0. Massey, ’99; and “ Bobby ” last year.
* • • *
At Adelaide Show Cycling Carnival, held on
the 2nd inst., G. Sutherland, the Maorilander, secured the
chief event, the two-mile wheel race, on his Massey-
Harris, in the Australian record-time of 4mins. 4 2-ssecs.
E. Wilksch, another Massey pedaller, followed him across
the line.*
In the Balance!
The reoent shooting of U. S. A. President M ‘Kinley
has hardly given the world the shock it would have
felt but for the comparative recentness of the slay-
ing of French President Carnot, the Empress of
Austria, and the Kfng of Italy. And, even in the
U.S., M‘Kinley is the third President to fall by
the assassin’s bullet. To fall—but, as the third
time is proverbially lucky—soon, The Bulletin
sincerely hopes, to rise again.
The accounts of the wounded man’s state are,
at time of writing, as hopeful as is possible in the
circumstances, there being so far no sign of the
peritonitis, which so often fatally follows upon a
case of perforated stomach. The intestines, it has
been ascertained by special operation, are unin-
jured, and Mr. MKinley’s physical vigor and
mental fortitude help to render probable the
failure of the attempt at what would have been
among the most foolish and most purposeless
of assassinations. The President of the U.S.A.
is elected on a sufficiently liberal basis to provide
for the great mass of the people exactly the sort
of ruler they deserve. M‘Kinley was possibly
rather better than the people deserved ; but,
whatever he was, they made him. He
was absolutely their own creation ; in
honoring him, they honored themselves and
upon no possible construction could even the
frantic cult of Anarchism expect any ultimate
benefit to mankind from the killing of the incum-
bent of such an office. The crime, however,
appears to have been the outcome of virtual mental
irresponsibility. Czolgosz, a weak-bodied and
weak-brained young Pole, calls himself an Anar-
chist, but doesn’t seem to have any clear ideas
upon that point or upon any other. He
may be regarded as practically a “crank,” who,
if the President survive, would be more properly
confined in a lunatic-asylum for the rest of his
days than in a gaol for the 10 years which make
the maximum U.S. penalty for an unsuccessful
attempt at murder. In this latter respect the
laws of Australia differ widely from those of the
U.S. The men who recently stuck up a N.S.W.
bank and wounded the manager, and the man who
lately, before robbing the White Cliffs coach, shot
a: passenger through the arm, have by law forfeited
their lives, though no life has actually been taken
by their respective crimes.


SHAKESPEARE
SAYS :
“Ho who steals my Purse steals trash ”
Tills WILL NOT BB TRUE IF YOU CARRY ONE OF OUR
S/6
SILVER-MOUNTED CROCODILE COMBINED PURSE
AND CARD-CASES.
We ALSO STOCK A Large Selection OF SILVER-MOUNTED
LEATHER PURSES in—
LIZARD, CROCODILE, MOROCCO AND RUSSIAN,
LEATHER CHATELAINE BAGS,
LEATHER WAIST BELTS,
A
0)0)0)
3 3 3
01 lOC
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY CO.
187 PITT-ST., SYDNEY
(Next Shadier’s Cafi.)
Fcr P easant Cyclios
You must have a Bicycle of the Best Quality Material,
Proved Stability and Ease of Running.
i. 'Ty'-jv
Massey -liar TlolSx c ycle
Being: constructed on scientific principles by experts in a factory replete with every modern facility is a
machine that will withstand the hardest usage and carry the heaviest rider with absolute safety.
You can buy on gradual payment terms.
West Austra.lia.ti Depots: Hay Street, Perth; and Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie.
throughout N.S.W., Victoria, South Australia, Queensland, New Zealand. ~3K!
GLOBE TEAS have NO Equal
Selected and Imported by men who understand their business. Blended by men who have
studied the public taste for just on Twenty Years, and know what the great majority of
people require, and make it their pride to produce the Best.
BOUGHT FOR CASH.
SOLD FOR CASH.
No Canvasser’s Commission to pay.
No Huge Staff of Clerks to keep Books.
No Bad Debts to provide for.
.... After all, is it any wonder that Globe Teas have NO equal? ....
The Best in Australia. <s> The Cheapest in Australia.
SEND FOR THE N.S. PRICE LIST.
ATCHERLEY & DAWSON,
merchants^
284 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Frank Farnell, M.L.A., at a Ryde
banquet: —,
Well, now, not only had he been able to satisfy his con-
science that he did right in voting for the Government,
but he had the additional satisfaction to know that since
the vote of censure he had been able to obtain many
things which had been left in abeyance, and he hoped to
be able to get many more things which this district was
entitled to.
Local Government! Local Government! To
obscurity with department-trotting politicians !
Writes “ Veteran ” to The Bulletin :
“Ex-Trooper” (8., 31/8/’l) gives us two of the items of
what he calls “Kitchener’s field-punishment”—“To do
all camp-fatigues fora month,” and “to mount guard
or picquet every day for a month.” What rubbish! A
man can’t do sweeping and cleaning-up when he is on
sentry, and he can’t be on sentry when he is cleaning-up.
Kitchener’s a cleverer fellow than even his belauders
think him if he can put a man in two places at once.
The Kitchener legend is by degrees converting a man of
mediocre brain, strong will, and imperfect moral sense
into a demigod or a demon, according to the point of
view.
Some years since, when a dog cart was a
novelty in a certain Australian metropolis, a well-
known “Cousin-Jack ” brewer started one of
these vehicles, with a poor relation as his “tiger.'”
His reckless driving became a proverb, and after
a capsize or two the “cousin” behind got
nervous ; and at last, as the hair-breadth escapes
continued, spoke up to his employer: “ Cousin
John, I resign from the position. Ibe a very
brave man, but I see no sense in being driven into
’tarni.ty starn-first ! ”,
There was Macgillycuddy himself, Mrs.
Macgillycuddy, and six little “ Macgullykiddies,”
and when the influenza began to rampage around
in bis house, Mac. laid down what he called his
“ influenza plant ’’—which he was right in calling
a good spec. Though not a taster, he laid in a
small stock of whiskey, an extra supply of
blankets, and a Turkish bath. His cure was to
sweat it out, and the cure worked every time. A
Turkish bath, hot grog (or gruel for the young
ones) and plenty of blankets—that was his pre-
scription, and he had every victim up and about
again in double quick time. A Turkish bath is
always handy in a house, and they’re cheap—con-
sidering they last a life-time. Mac. got his for
£5 from M‘Lean Bros. andßiggLtd., Melbourne.
You can get Vapor Baths there, too, for 30s.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
ft The Arcadian Nights.”*
N.S.W. Minister for Works is remodelling
the Labor Bureau, known for years as a glaring’
political scandal. The affair was, to all ap-
pearances, started to give Joey Greer a billet, and
kept going to keep Joey going. And Joey did
“go.” He put on the airs of Emperor William
and insisted on applicants for work treating him
with “proper respect.” The Bureau grew to be a
colossal burden. A superintendent wanted a
secretary, the secretary wanted clerks, the clerks
wanted relieving officers, the relieving officers
wanted caretakers, and all wanted railway passes.
Then there were commissioners. And all of them
together did not do as much work as the Labor
leaders who voluntarily, during a bad period,
helped the unemployed to occupations. The
Bureau gang cost the country thousands of pounds
in that period ; the Labor leaders spent only £l3
sterling.
From a Maoriland paper :
The horrors of war are vividly depicted in a letter
received at Gore from a member of the Sixth Contingent.
He relates that during a skirmish outside Pietersburg
in which some Australians were engaged, a Boer dressed
ln Australian's uniform, was concealed behind an
anthill. When the Australians rose up to lire a volley
he stood up among them and picked off a man each
time. In this manner he killed two lieutenants, one
trooper, and five horses. Eventually, he was discovered,
and begged for mercy. Instead, he was riddled with
bullets and the men tore his arms and legs off. The
Australians are evidently inclined to be too lenient.
They should have pulled his arms and legs off first.
This is the invention of about the least ingenious
ghoul up to date. The idea of the Australians
standing up conspicuously every time to “fire a
volley ” was evidently taken from the colored
oleograph where the soldier always forms himself
into a bright red conspicuous row and shoots
simultaneously. And the Boer stood up along
with them and fired at them eight times
before his extraordinary conduct was noticed.
And then, though four, horses can drag a man to
pieces, it would be mighty difficult for all the
men who could get a hold on the body to do it.
How many infuriated Australians could get a
purchase on each leg—even supposing they wanted
to . The man who invented the story may have
only intended to be humorous; he was pulling
!) i e P> of the live public instead of that of the
dead Boer. But the vampire-editor who believed
the yarn and expressed his approval of the alleged
proceedings is a nice ornament to any civilised
country.
The “Fx U” Watch
“ THE MOST
EXTRAORDINARY WATCH
OF THE ACE ”^
The movements are on the f-plate Lever
principle.
They have BrequOt : overcoil balance
springs.
They are jewelled in 10 holes.
They have compensated and adjusted
balances.
They have jewel ruby rollers.
They are dust proof and watertight.
The cases screw together.
They are specially made to stand rough
riding and knocking about, and go
with profound accuracy.
They are guaranteed for 15 years and
kept in order (breakages excepted)
for two years.
They are stem-winders and have enamel
dials.
In Gent’s Open-face Steel or Nickel Oases, 25/6
In Gent’s ~ Silver Cases 427-
In Gent’s Silver Hunting Oases 50/-
In Gent’s Metal Hunting Oases 35/-
In Gent’s Metal Half-Hunting Cases 42/-
In Gent’s Silver Half-Hunting Cases 55/-
'W
I I*''iV
1
mm
1 lli
n
i
SILVER,
555.
180 GOLD
£1212s
In heavy solid 18ct. Gold Case, £lO 10s., Open Face.
£ll 11s., Hunter.
£l2 125., Half-Hunter.
FAIRFAX A ROBERTS,
. VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS,
23 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY
Honest Wear
In Every Pair.
'v-S
A: ■
.•Ff . *
Our Boots can be
EXCHANGED if not
correct,as we wish
DISTANT customers
to be as pleased as
those In town.
Your money RETURNED If you
are not satisfied with the
Boots.
Tb«
Callagbai)
Boot
This Boot is
a Photograph
from STOCK.
Fine French Calf Button, full' goloshed, calf-kid legs, 22/6; post paid, 23/6
. ■> u liAOB, , r ~ ~ 21/-; ~ 22/-
All sizes and fittings.
Your orders curt filled
the same sax' as received,.
■CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 George St., Sydney
At Poverty Point.
(Continued.)
A well-known fasting-man now in Maoriland (he at pre-
sent weighs 13st.) wrote offering to give a 30 days’ show
at Bendigo Exhibition for £75. Also he was prepared
with other feats, such as submarine performances in
the lake and tight-rope walking over the water. As a
trump card he offered to take the part of a condemned
criminal in a mock execution, using a genuine hangman’s
knot and doing a drop of 7£ft. : salary for all perfor-
mances, £lOO a month. But the committee, while appre-
ciative of the educational value of the varied feats, had
reluctantly to decline.
Thus savagely “ S.S.": Can’t understand any of the
critics having patience with the Wilson Barrett version of
“ The Silver King,” so elderly, so mannered, with its
little pause before every situation to compose face and
figure and draw upon the actor’s inwardness for the next
effect. It is less an impersonation than a series of sudden
jerks. The Silver King was always absurdly dressed.
W.B.’s monarch is more outrageous than all the rest,
wearing three coats evidently, a large, black kerchief
knotted below the midriff, and a small, elaborately-
tucked-in black hat sunk in a profusion of grey hair.
There is no need to make comparisons. Had we never
seen another Silver King this hard, methodical, elocuting
returned American must have displeased anybody capable
of distinguishing between pathos and bathos. Barrett is
a whale for sentiment, and he seems to use his boots as
reservoirs.
The West Australian Fremantle correspondent stated
that the local inhabitants took it as a special compliment
that Nance O’Neil had “ chosen ” to make her last ap-
pearance in their cultured midst before sailing for S’Africa.
Big Nance didn’t quit these shores in an absolute blaze of
glory, nevertheless she ought to derive a life-long happi-
ness from perusing, in spare moments, her little book of
Australian press notices. The predictions of her future
greatness, which will never be fulfilled. The tributes to
her “versatility”—Ye gods! The sweet drivel of the
“critics’’who judged her sledge-hammer methods and
her huge unconvincing figure on her own self-
confident valuation. The only serious rivalry that Nance
O’Neil had to endure was from Alice Crawford in
“ Peg Woffington,” and more particularly in Ibsen’s play
of “ Lady Inger.” Miss Crawford was only an amateur,
but she was a tall, fine girl, and she improved rapidly.
Result, Miss 0. remained in Australia. The management
had originally engaged her to go to S’Africa, bub when it
came to a question of signing a reasonable contract the
management refused, and the Bendigo girl was dropped
out of the co. There wasn’t room for a big, powerful
leading man, or a clever young second lady in the Nance
O’Neil combination. Not much ! By the way, why is
Miss Crawford appearing in Wilson Barrett’s shows under
another name ?
It certainly looks as though Melba will be coming here
under engagement to J. C. Williamson next year. A big
photo of the prima donna, effusively autographed to
J.0.W.,n0w hangs on the wall of the dress circle entrance
at Her Majesty’s, Melbourne. Goes without saying, that
yours sincerely, Nellie Melba, will make her first appear-
ance in Melbourne when she at last favors this country
with her much-rumoured visit.
Albert Whelan went quietly off to London t’other week,
armed with letters of introduction from Manager
Williamson. So in a few weeks time, when he has
localised his talent, we may hear of the versatile Whelan
making a hit as a mimic in London. By the way,
Whelan’s reproduction of Wilson Barrett is excruciatingly
funny. He never gave it in public in Australia. When
the Cockneys get the revelation they will roar—if they
are sufficiently acquainted with Barrett to know what
Whelan is driving at.
The theatre-hat question is settling itself in Maoriland,
where reform is coming fast in an impromptu fashion.
The masses settled it themselves by tacit agreement that
no woman should wear any structure high enough to
obstruct the view of those behind. The lydy who adorns
herself with a cupola of felt, feathers, and back hair is
disrespectfully requested to take it off, as if she was a
mere man. If she doesn’t, the militant pittites throw
things, and make the burden too great to bear.
“ Jay Jay ” : Apropos “ Poverty Point,” 24/8/’Ol. Surely
your writer is at sea in stating that “ Lonnen ” never ap-
peared in the same firmament as Leslie and Nellie Farfen.
What about Villefort, in “Monte Christo Junior” (the
part done here by Danby), wherein he started Martin’s
series of Irish songs with “ Bally hooley.” Then, later
(1887), the Vampire in “ Frankenstein,” with Nellie Farren
in the name part and Leslie as the Monster. [The previous
par. stated that Lonnen never “ starred in the same
firmament” with the brighter Leslie and Farren. “He
ranked as a first-class burlesque artist in his time, but it
was mostly the time when the original travelling Gaiety
crowd were away from I .oik ion. Why invent a mis-
statement in order to correct it?—Ed. B.]
The failing point of Barrett’s “ Manxman ” is near the
finish, when it takes an ancient Bible-puncher and a slim
young woman to hold back the murderously-inclined
Pete while the naughty young-old seducer blabs on him-
self—after which Peter remarks something about the
blood-lust having petered out. The appearance of an im-
pulse to “ go-for ” his successful rival is too long sus-
tained. It ought to seem to die in an instant. But
Barrett’s besetting sin is the desire to dwell on his
dramatic effects.
Ellen Terry is the first to “ cry a go.” It is announced
that the next time Irving revives “ Faust ” and “ Olivia ”
the heroine will be Miss Fay Davis instead of the lady
who has turned 50. Irving himself is too old for Mephi-
stopheles, but as the Vicar of Wakefield in “Olivia” he
plays with time in his favor. Great thing to have Time
for your friend on the stage. Atholwood, who is still a
youngish actor, promises to develop into the invaluable
old man of the Australian stage by virtue of long training
in elderly characters. He grows up to his speciality what
time the gallant young hero-performer is slowly ceasing
to look the part, and struggling hopelessly to keep his
voice young. The contrast between Wilson Barrett, as
Wilfrid Denver, and Atholwood, as the antique Mr. Par-
kinson, clerk of the parish of Gaddesden, is a case in
point. The one fails to persuade his audience that he is
much younger than he looks, whilst the other succeeds
in an attempt to appear about 35 years older than he was
last birthday. Atholwood makes Mr. Parkinson a decayed
geezer, with very bent legs.
“ J.F.” : That sweet warbler and pretty girl, Lucia
Deegan, of Melbourne, is not a daughter of Deegan, the
Shaliespeare-society man, new member of Vic. State
Parliament for E. Melb. (B. 3/8/’01.) In fact, they are
quite unrelated. Songstress Lucia is the sister of Her-
bert Deegan, of the literary staff of the Tasmanian News,
Hobart. Herbert and his sister are now connected by
marriage with Billy Elton, the comedian, whose son, the
other day, married a Melbourne girl. The junior Elton’s
wife (maiden name Florrie Norcott) is the daughter of the
deceased Helen and Arthur Vivian. The Norcott who
married Ida Osborne was Arthur Vivian’s nephew, and he
adopted Miss Florrie in her childhood. So old friend
Billy E, is considerably connected, through his offspring,
with the Australian stage and concert platform.
Twice in “Lady Huntworth’s Experiment” Parson
Brough nearly mentions to his stomach, but pulls up just
in time. He alludes to his “ stom ,” and then remem-
bers and coughs hard. Now why, in these loyal times,
should the stomach of a British citizen be regarded as a
disgraceful and opprobrious organ ?
Emily Soldene relates that when Herv6 acted his own
Chilperic, in London, he had at rehearsal a dispute with
an actress, distinguished for her beauty. He tapped her
on the magnificent bust, and said, “ Dis can be bought,
but not dis,” tapping his own brain-box.
“ Adelaide ” : I have been wondering lately how many
fine actresses are lost to the regular stage through having
a voice and being diverted into ‘ variety.” Lottie Col-
lins, in her recent tour, stood out prominently as a
possible successor to Mrs. John Wood, in any part such
as that of George Tid. in “ Dandy Dick.” And here is
Lizzie Kirk, who has no voice to speak of, and whose
usual effects consist of a kick and a wink. She has a
Salvarmy song in which she is completely transformed.
A commonplace verse or two about having formerly been
a dancer, but now being “ good ” (and she looks it).
Then the band plays a waltz. She listens, turns,
brightens up, crushes down the temptation ; her feet do
a step or two on their own account, and she frowns them
down. Then she lets herself go, and cavorts all over the
place. Suddenly voices are heard “ off,” chanting the
refrain of her pious song, and she visibly shrivels up
(after one moment’s glorious uncertainty), and goes off
with head hanging and hands outstretched—back to the
old life of tambourine-thumping and copper-collecting.
A wonderful piece of acting, with nothing in her ordinary
music-hall business to prepare one for it.


British casualty-returns now all say, to
save repetition and space, “ from enteric where
not otherwise stated.”
About 30 years ago a Royal Conamis-
± that bh‘£ la nd contained about
. t 47 ’. 00 3 000 ’ OC ! 0 tons of coal » tut it is now held
97nnn nL^ lmate was to ° high by a trifle of
27,000,000 000 tons. There is a good deal of
guess-work about the matter, but authorities
seem t° agree that the present rate of production
would exhaust the supply in less than 200 years.
Right-angle ” : Between Mulgrave and
Windsor, N.S.W., is a railway viaduct, over South
Greek, which has for years been the dread of
nei vous travellers. A well-known local astronomer
won t face it. He crosses South Creek by bridge
and boards the train at Mulgrave. It only needs
tlie fool-train to make a miss, and there will
follow a drop of about 00ft. into, say, 10ft. of mud.
itven as it is, when a train is crossing, the
crazy old structure wheezes and shakes in a terri-
fying manner. Some weeks ago, a passenger-train
did actually get partly off the rails within a few
feet of this death-trap.
London Daily News publishes a letter
which it received from Mrs. Christian de Wet,
wife of the Boer leader, dated Johannesburg,
April 24. In it she states :
After our farm had been devastated by H.M. troops,
and all our other possessions destroyed and taken, I
roamed about with our children for some months in order
not to fall into the hands of the enemy of our nation, up
to November, 20, 1900. When I was taken a prisoner and
conveyed to Johannesburg in a cattle-truck, notwith-
standing they were well aware of the fact that I was the
wife of General De Wet. Seeing that I was captured and
conveyed hither against my wish and will after having
been robbed of everything, I demanded from the military
authorities here sufficient food and of good quality. First
this was promised me, but a few days later I was informed
in writing that I would only be supplied with food in case
I signed a document, and therein declared “ That I was
without means of subsistence, and was entirely depend-
ent on Her Majesty’s Government.” (The Queen of Eng-
land was then still living.) The authorities further re-
served to themselves the right to publish such document.
To have done this would have been very humiliating to
me, and I could not expose myself to it, especially not to
the enemy of our nation. From the English I receive
nothing, and do not want anything from them. What I
require I hope to receive through the intervention of
humane friends, not from the English.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR.
A great proportion of all Australians have Catarrh in either the first stage or
chrome form. Probably 20 percent, of all the people we meat have but one goo'l
nostril the other is clogged with catarrhal deposits, or by some weakness whoa
parent was a neglected cold. This forces them, perhaps unconsciously, tobreat.!.
through the mouth, and, unless attended to, will result in a life-long annoyance
and serious trouble. Home treatment with our Medicator will restore the organ
to its natural condition, and enable it to perform its functions properly and
healthfully. It relieves and cures Catarrh, Hay Fever, Cold in the Head, and all
-Nasal inflammations. It soothes, cleanses, heals; contains no injurious drugs.
I amphlets Free on request—a postcard will do.
Medicatsr, -with Complete Treatment, post free, 10/-
CATARRH CURE CO.,
229-231 Collins Sti eet, Melbourne.
gsd
Medicatob.
THE NEWEST OF THE NEW.
If you Buy it from us it s all right.
No. F27B7.—New Twin Heart and Ar
Brooch, 9c. Gold, 8s Cd.
No. E 8739. —Pine Dia-
mond atid 18c. Gold
King, £l los.
No. F2254.—15c. Gold Brooch, Ruby
Centre, £ 1 10s.
No. F37o4.—New Lucky Bell and Leaf
• Brooch, 9c. Gold, 11s 6d.
Magnificent Diamond
and Opal Cluster Ring,
£l7 10s.
&
so
No. F593.—Fine Pearl New Moon and Spray
Brooch, 15c. Gold, £5.
No. F4546.—Fi
Quality Pearl and 15c. Gold Spray
Brooch, £9 10s.
No. F4299.—15c. Gold Gird and Leaf
Brooch, £1 ss.
No. F 4540 —3 sc. Gold
and Pearl Pendant,
£2, 10a.
No. E 5629. —New Bar and Bell Brooch.
9c. Gold, 10s 6d.
No. F269l.—Strong Bar Brooch, New Design
9c. Gold, 13s 6d.
No. F976.—Fine Pearl Scroll Brooch, 15c. Gold,
£1 15s.
No. F4Bsl.—Fine Pearl and 15c. Gold
Brooch, £3 15s.
No. ES6oo.—Pair of 9c.
Gold Tie Clips, 5s Cel.
Heavy Make, 10s Gd.
Shamrock Brooch, £l lss.
Illustrated Catalogue
Free to all.
STEWART DAWSON & GO.,
412 GEORGE ST. and
STRAND, SYDNEY
jasaa*®* ssm
ROBCRTS’
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS :
BEDROOM (Single) 3s. PER DAY.
BEDROOM (Double) .. 6s. PER DAY.
TERMS:
Cash in Advance. No Booking-
Meals Paid For when Obtained.
Letters and Telegrams addressed to
“THE MANAGER"
will receive prompt attention.
STEAM
ENGINES
FKOM 5 HP. TO 100 H.P.
DYNAMOS
MOTORS
FROM 1H P. TO 60 h.p.
CAN BE SUPPLIED PROMPTLY
FROM STOCK.
NOVES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; 17 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible Remedy,
Within the rea h of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C-S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
ERTINAS
£QLAS
Estd.
mo.
Unsurpassed for
TONE and . .
WORKMANSHIP.
Manufactured and Guaranteed by
WHEATSTONE,& Go.
(Original
Inventors 4
Patentees),
20, Conduit Street, LONDON, W., England.
Of all Dealers ; or send direct for Price List-'.
(LI M IT HD),
llawarra), Hear S'YX>MS*Y'<
13A.PTO (La.lse
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OB'
fine silver.
'** :
. -
-
y'f
■■■>.
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILL AW ARRA”
.. Bit AND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers o i *ll classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULL I
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, eto., apply to P, S. Mouse, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S. W.


OCir Co n)n)oo wealth Piary Post Fres to ai>y Part of Australasia.
3HX 11¥ NVHX
«nO jo
ID
aN
OJ.
w
CQ2
dvi
; V
&
0*
*A L
m
%
k
°n$
«cfe
°o.
View of HYdE' FAIRK from our Corner
- CHARGES MODf^
privacy auwavs
2>
in AUSTRALIA with a bona fide capita!
that stands behind guarantee as evidence of>
faithful performance of all contracts. r j(
_ —. Special NoticE/>
one should hesitate to consult
Consultations either by letter or person
always given FREE OF CHARGE. ./p,
i ' j
\ • 4& *
Switel» '!»••• >La " .!
«
&Z&' £?A? <? 41;’'
■■
*^4’
■i-t.ms
.
• . ' 4*
Uili.lrt
m
The Founder of the Institute
CD ■.-»■ - ,
cV ■ LIJ.. ■. j
% , II *f-
s&Csr
■E\?P'
OWL DR
SECTION OF WAITING ROOM.
tsnsexe
eras
registered by the ftS.S.W Pharmacy B oarc *-
Hi
'
mJm
f.
1
■
F'
m
Fnf /‘nT'TSH! W>: The well Known Corner opposite Hyde xaY & x £ WSm
■^%aSr^J YDNE^'sw ,
- ° e <" aM Bafhursl Streets °w-
e 0
a p>
A?e
%
e tf/.
m
I
l
\
h
<iM
Wallace
«TS
isagp. j
fes
ftp ?
Domi
\
■ c
fi6r>of J3i|.;; c .,
VE both.persorailyahd m respect
his professional aKainraer
( f Foh> Dominic Corrigan, y g [ o
\ F^° mSorrQ 'Cep/,r
] % ofes
IM , Ji strotW
Ifj by Medico! Boqrdsof ,f? ./J*
11 New South Woies.Victories.South
England & America
IS*
Which is so remarkable for its progress in
all departments of Art, Philosophy, Mann*
faoture and Science, it is surprising to find the
practice of Medicine so deplorably in the rear,
while thousands of practitioners in the healing art
prefer to remain in the professional groove of their
predecessors. The Freeman and Wallace Electro-
Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise
N superior to the false code of ethics, which tyrannic*
ally bind the medical profession, and announce
to the public that upon all special oomplaints
they still continue to be consulted by the
afflicted at their old address. Cor. XSlin-
*',vS. both and Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
&pcciafttlc& :
Heart, Kidney, Liver Affections.
Gravel, Bladder and Spinal Affections.
Nerve and Brain Complications.
Rheumatism, Sciatioa, Epilepsy, Qouti
Rupture and Piles Cured without Operation.
Blood and Skin Diseases.
Epilepsy, Paralysis, Consumption,
Diabetes, Dropsy, and
. Neurasthenia. Jk,
ISK' !
imtmm
mi
? /sc^
last
111■
I
i i
TMMWMM',
H
pWiljtUP
m
0m
Ml
»
: ■ ! *
Hi
Corner in the Typewriters Department - We have be&T com-
pelled to add to this department several Smith Premier' 1 machines.
CoQSCiftatioQ ai)d Advice of Charge.


The Atlantic record has come down again,
the Hamburg-American s.s. Deutschland having
done the N.Y. to Plymouth run in 5 days llhr.
smin. The average speed was 23’51 knots (26
miles) per hour, and the biggest day’s run, 557
knots (642 miles).
Young man Robinson of Yic. Assembly
went down badly over his first Bill, a little one
practically compelling Government to limit
general Holidays at the dictation of back-blocks
fatmen. Had it passed, country workers would
have been robbed of Eight Hours and Agricul-
tural Show Days. They have already been de-
prived of Cup Day by the Govt, restriction of this
year’s holiday to a metropolitan 20-mile radius—
but Peacock and Co. will weep when they see the
effect on the railway receipts.
“ Dicky” Speight’s friends this side reckon
he made a bad mistake in accepting membership
of the Board to inquire into the charges against
Gen.-manager Davies, of the Westralian rail-
ways. Speight, having got on his feet again, was
freely tipped for the leadership of Westralian
railways when the inevitable retirement of W.
Davies arrived; but now, if Speight finds for
Davies, he will give the latter a new lease of life,
and if he finds against Davies, it would be practi-
cally impossible for him to take Davies’ place.
But the thing may not be worth arguing, for
late accounts represent poor Speight as dying
from organic trouble.
N ervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
25 of this issue *
Amusements.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manairer, Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S ITALIAN OPERA COMPANY.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, RICOLETTO.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, UN BALLO IN MASCHERA.
SATURDAY, SEPT. 14, LUCIA Dl LAMMERMOOR.
Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Stalls, 3s. ;
Family Circle, 25.; Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
pALACE THEATRE, BYDNEY.
THE BIG NEW PROGRAMME
by the
THE WORLD’S ENTERTAINERS
(POLITE VAUDEVILLE)
HAS MADE AN IMMENSE HIT.
&T REMEMBER ! ! !
EVERY NIGHT and at the
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30 p.m.
No Extra Charge for Reserved Seats.
PRICES—Is., 2s. and 3s.
Seats at Elvy’s and Theatre.
m pTre theatre, sydn e y.
CROWDED HOUSES STILL CONTINUE !! !
PULL KIPS KM Kilt K SPECIALTY CO.,
Every Evening at 8. Saturdays, 2.30.
Big Success of Our New Artists,
FRANK—BEVERLEY and DANVERS—EDITH,
Sketch Artists of Extraordinary Ability.
MiS3 BEATTIE SMITH mimics “ Irene Franklin."
LAST TWO NIGHTS of CHAS. FANINC.
HIS FAREWELL NIGHT TO-MORROW (FRIDAY).
Brilliant Programme This Week given by Our Full Co.
Prices —25., Is., and 6d.
amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Management of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative .. .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
THE BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY.
COMPLETE SUCCESS of
Lady Huntworth’s Experiment,
An Original Comedy in Three Acts,
by R. C. CARTON.
Box Plan at Elvy’s, George-st. Prices as Usual.
|_YCHUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole' Lessee and Manager .. .. William Andbrson.
The MACCIE MOORE BOOM.
TO-NIGHT AND ONE MORE NIGHT ONLY,
STRUCK OIL.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 14, for positively
6 Nights Only, Grand Revival of the Late Dion Bouci-
cault’s Famous Masterpiece, ARRAH-NA-POGUE.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
RITERIO N THEATRE, SY DNE Y.
Under the Direction of Mr. Charles Holloway.
LAST THREE NIGHTS of Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
POPULAR COTERIE OF PLAYERS in the
Great Emotional Drama,
THE WORLD AGAINST HER,
The Season Positively Closes on Saturday, Sept. 14.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.’s.
ERNEST BLACKSTONE, Business Manager.
A R ITERION THEATRE, SY DN EY.
Under the Patronage and in the Presence of His Excel-
lency the Lieutenant-Governor Sir F. W. Darley,
G.C.M.G.
Mr. F. M. ALEXANDER’S
SECOND SHAKESPEARIAN SEASON,
Commencing TUESDAY, 24th SEPTEMBER.
Hamlet & The Merchant of Venice.
Mr. ALEXANDER as HAMLET and SHYLOCK.
Rickards’ tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mb. Harry Rickards.
Gigantic Success of ZOBEDIE, the Marvellous.
Mr. AUSTIN RUDD. Mr. EDGAR GRANVILLE.
Mr. TEDDY BOX. Miss DAISY HARCOURT.
THE POCKET COMEDIAN. LITTLE GULLIVER.
THE DIAMOND DUO. Miss IVY SCOTT.
LENNON, HYMAN and LENNON, FLORRIE RANGER,
STELLA RANGER, &c., &c., including
THE AMERICAN BIOSCOPE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturdays & Wednesdays.
Too U THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Sub-Lessee .. .. Mr. W. F. Hawtrey.
Business Manager .. Mr. E. F. Bradley.
4th WEEK. EVERY EVENING, 4th WEEK.
THE CELEBRATED HAWTREY COMEDY CO.,
In Richard Ganthony’s Play of the Century,
A MESSAGE FROM MARS.
PRICES —Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 3s ; Stalls,
3s. ; Family Circle, 2s. ; Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY
COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday) and 7 MORE NIGHTS ONLY,
MARIE LLOYD and ALEC HURLEY.
PROFESSOR DE WYNNE, the Great Shadowgraphist
and Court Juggler.
JOHN COLEMAN, the Most Popular and Entertaining
Comedian in Australia, and all Our Great Co.
“ The Bist A ustralian Boole of Sea and Sailor Verse.”
The Ways of Many Waters
By E. J. BRA\)Y.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. E. J. Tait.
THE WILSON BARRETT SEASON.
FRIDAY, SEPT. 13, LAST NIGHT of QUO VADIS.
SATURDAY, SEPT. 14, Unique Dramatic Event,
The Christian King, or Alfred of England,
For the First Time on Any Stage.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING.
SECOND WEEK of the Intensely Interesting Melodrama,
RIPIN6 TO WIN.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Under the Direction of Mr. Tyrone Power.
A Memorable Reception Accorded THE CRANE-
POWER CO. in the Remarkable Play,
W .A. D JBZD -A,
By Maurice Barrymore.
Miss EDITH CRANE as THE COUNTESS NADJEZDA.
Mr. TYRONE POWER as PRINCE ZABOUROFF.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager, FRANK MUSGROVE.
O R. B D’S FA I
Exhibition Building,
Melbourne.
Opening Day: SATURDAY, OCT. 12, 1901,
TO BE CONTINUED FOR 4 WEEKS.
GRAND PROGRAMME OF AMUSEMENTS.
£lOOO
To be Given for CYCLING, ATHLETICS and
TUC-O’-WAR, &c., &c.
Also :
A Ft X UNION.
VALUE:
£lOOO l UXT PRIZES.
TICKETS, 18.,
Admit to Fair and Give Chance in Art Union.
P. J. O’CONNOR, Hon Sec.,
Modern Chambers, Melbourne.
F ederalnet
Suits
In
All-Wool
Colonial
or
Imported
Tweed,
Navy
Serge,
Blue or
Black
Vicuna
Your money
back if not
satisfied
rg
Well-Cut
and
Trimmed,
Properly
' Tailored
and
Thor-
oughly
Depend-
able
Patterns
and Self-
Measure-
ment Forms
postedfrea
To Measure
Extra Pair of TROUSERS
GIVEN WITH EVERY SUIT
40f>
Great Value! Our Famous Ready-Made
Federal Sac Suit
Iu Good Colonial or Imported Tweeds
all-wool Navy Serge or Black Vicuna.
Any size from 3 Ofi/,
toy, Special Tailor ™”/
made.fitted with Italian
Cloth inings
Padded Shoul-
ders, in and out
breast and ticket
pockets, etc.
Carriage paid to any address in the Australian
Commonwealth or New Zealand*
DON Cash Trading Co.
173 a to 214 Johnston Street
Collingwood, Melbourne
ordering give this number, No. 0123 j
CHARLES READ & CO.,
BUSHMAN WATCH.
OU'f< FAITHFUL j,
i TIMEKEEPER
ICf GLN METAL V v.. N
10/6 • CASE
Will ruo for 20y£ars-"
Camden Buildings,
420 George St., Sydney.
Three Doors from
Strand Arcade.
A Saving of
25 per cent.
JEWELLERY,
SOLID SILVER GOODS,
SILVER-PLATED WARE
Write for 80- Paged Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
Tell your Tailor
that your clothes must be made with
“Belwarp Clotb
and see for yourself that the TRADE MARK is stamped on the back of every
yard. It is a guarantee that the cloth is made from Pure Wool,
unshrinkable, and that the colour will never fade. Insist on
seeing your tailor is not deceived by spurious imitations of this range of cloths,
in no way equal to the original goods which come from the famous Mills of . .
Sir Titus Salt, Bapt., Sons & Co., Ltd., Saltaire.
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.
BELWARPS” can only be obtained from Messrs* LUGGOCK, LUPTON & Co., Bradford;
and their Agents, Messrs, Metcalfe & Barnard, Melbourne, Sydney, & Brisbane.
R
PHYSICIAN
Registered by the
Medical Board
of N.S.W.
SURGEON
HAVING had 30 years experience in all parts of the world, and also having lately made an extended trip through Europe and America, he
is in a position to treat every case submitted to him according to the methods of the most recent and eminent Specialists of the
whole world.
Every Case treated on its own Merits.
Sufferers at a distance, unable to describe their cases to their own satisfaction, should write for Dr. Watson’s
“ Guide to Diagnosis,”
which will allow them to give exact and full particulars, so as to * enable him to report fully as to the disease and its radical and rational
method of treatment.
COKTSULTATION FREE (Personally, or by Letter).
The publication of crowds of symptoms, testimonials and puffs of one’s skill and attainments savours too much of self-praise ; so the public
should look with a doubtful eye upon all those who “ doth protest too much.”
Dr. Watson does not pretend to say that “ One Pound is sufficient to send,” as stated in certain advertisements, for he considers that the
public are quite satisfied to pay a fair price for fair and legitimate treatment.
Write for small
“ Guide to Health,”
and Method for Self-Diagnosis.
iPlease mention this paper when writing.)
NOSJMSHaQ
137 Elizabeth-St
SYDNEY.
sd


Erroneous Diagnosis.
PHYSICIANS AT FAULT.
Proof that None Can Deny*
The Case of Mr C. L BAKER.
(BY our reporter.)
There lives within the municipality of
Port Adelaide Mr. Charles Leopold Baker,
whose home is in Glanville-road, Sema-
phore. The incidents of his early career
■are, without doubt, of a most extraordinary
nature, in relating which Mr. Baker said :
“ When I was quite a youth I happened
to be 1 mining along a footpath one day, and
I accidentally struck my knee against a
lamp post. For some time previous to this
I had been in very indifferent health, but
did not think there was anything so seri-
ously wrong with me as afterwards turned
out to be the case. The accident I had sus-
tained was simply the means by which I
was brought face to face with all my mis-
fortunes, as the day following the pains
were so intense that I was sent to the hos-
pital, where I was kept for three days,
suffering the most excruciating tor lures all
the lime. On the third day I was told that
1 was as well as I would ever be, and with
that consoling information I was sent home.
As it was visiting day at the hospital my
mother had gone down to see me ; but, on
arriving there, to her great surprise, she
found that I had vacated my bed. The
reason why I was sent from the hospital
was because they thought I was incurable ;
and when I came home and a doctor had
been sent for, the statements made by him
were no more encouraging. After carefully
examining me, the doctor said that I had
vaLular heart disease, and that I could not
j ossibly live very long. He also said I was
suffering from ansemia My mother has
since mentioned to me that the doctor told
her that I would nob give much trouble, as
I would lie down on my bed one night and
never get up till someone came to remove
my corpse. I was under one doctor’s treat-
ment for three years, and was just as bad
at the end of that time as 1 was at the com-
mencement. Then another medical man
was called in, and after that I managed to
jet into the hospital again ; hut they said
that they could not do anything for me
Altogether I was treated * y four leading
physicians, irrespective of those by whom
I had been attended in the hospital, and
diey all agreed that I was a hop less case.”
‘‘ Besides the pains in the legs, what
other symptoms did you have ? ” asked the
reporter.
■‘l was trouh’ed very much with diar
rhoea, the we;ikei ing effects of which took
every ounce of strength out of me, making
me so feeble that I could scarcely crawl
about the house, besides having attacks of
; d iuess which made everything seem to
dance efore my vision. These dizzy sensa
lions came on so suddenly that when I was
standing quite still I have often had to
stretch my hands out to catch hold of some
thing to save myself from falling But the
terrible pains in the small of my back nearly
crippled me altogether, for when I bent
down I could nob straighten myself up
again, and, to make me more helpless still,
my loins had acute pains right across them.
The lightest of diet was just as difficult for
me to digest as leather would be, and it was
really astonishing how all my food seemed
lo go sour in my stomach, which used to be
distended with wind to such a painful de
gi t e that I could not hear anything to touch
me. A suffocating sensation in my chett
was oue of my worst tioubles, although I
was greatly worried and anxious about my
heart, which was given to taking such
dreadful palpitations that I often feared
that death was nigh My lips and face were
fearfully pale, and to look at me you would
have said there was not a drop of blood in
my body, and I suffered from a sense of laa-
guid dreariness which made my life insup-
portable A strange twitching between the
shoulders and constant headaches added
greatly to my distress; but I believe the
worst feature of all my illness wa a that I
developed a very bad temper. I was always
impatient and irritable, and if anybody
spoke to me I felt upset and cross because
they did so. The coating over my tongue,
combined with the bitter taste in my mouth,
made everything eatable obnoxious to the
pa ! ate ; but my appetite had died away to
nothing, and as I scarcely ever obtained any
sleep I gradually wore away to a shadow.
My nervous system broke down under this
great strain, and it was quite a common
occurrence to contract a tit of trembling
without knowing the cause of it. I was
laid up and in a very bad way when a young
friend who works in the railway department
called in and said, “ Why not try some
Clements Tonic? It made a man of me,
and lam sure it will do you good.” I was
so low down that I thought I could not be
made any worse no matter what I took, so
I had a bottle of Clements Tonic there and
then, and in a few days I felt that- I waß
getting considerably relieved by it. Ihe
second bottle did me even more good than
the first, for there was no doubt at all that
my head was much clearer, and I could eat
a lot better than I had been able to for
months. All the medicines that 1 had
taken before this had no effect whatever
on my digestive organs, but Clements Tonic
had a splendid influence over me in this re-
spect, for I never felt uncomfortable after
my meals now. There was no further
accumulation of wind in my stomach, and
the quick beating of my heart was reduced
to a normal and healthy pulsation. The
miserable feelings which had so long
weighed me down were replaced .by a
sense of hope and joy, for the pains in my
chest and back were not to be noticed after
using Clements Tonic a little longer, and I
felt more restful at night, and got plenty
of sleep 1 made a quick march of pro-
gieas towards the recovery of my health,
and the stimulating effect that Clements
Tonic had on my nervous system helped me
greatly. The exasperating pains in my
legs gradually lost their intensity, so that
I was able to go about with the same
amount of energy and activity, as most
people, and as iny face and lips acquired
a good, bright colour there was ample evi-
dence that my blood was reaping the
benefits to be obtained through taken
Clements Tonic- To say that the altera-
tion which took place in me was wonderful
is to convey but a faint impression of what
actually occurred, for I changed from
a hopeless wreck of humanity to a sound
and vigorous young man- My wasted frame
regained all its lost flesh, and the vitality
and strength with which I became possessed
could not possibly have been improved
upon, and if there is anybody suffering as
I did 1 hope they may learn in lime for
their own benefit that I conscientiously
believe that Clements Tonic saved my
life.”
“ Are you sure that you were thoroughly
cured?” .
“lam positi e, because I have not had
the slightest ailment of any kind since
Clements Tonic stumped out my diseases ;
and in token of that fact you are at liberty
to publish my remarks in any way you
deem fit.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
t, Charlks Lhopold Baker, of G lan v dle-road,
Semaphore Adelaide, in the State of South Australia,
do solemnly and sine lely declare that I have care-
fully read .he annexed document, consisting of three
folio*, and consecutively numbered from'one to three,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements lonic; and also
contain' my full permission to publish in any manner
my statements- which ! give voluntarily, and without
receiving any p vmeut; and 1 make this solemn
declaration conscientiou-ly believing the same to be
true and by virtue o the provisions of an act made
and passed in the ixth year of the reign of his late
Maie-ty King William the Fourth, intituled “an act
to repeal an act of this present, Session of Parliament,
intituled ‘ an act for the moie effectual abolition of
oaihs and affirmations taken and irde in various
departments of the State, and to substitute declara-
tions in lieu thereof, and for the more entire suppres-
sion of voluntary and extra judicial oaths and
affidavits, and to make other i revisions for 'he aboli-
tion ol unnecessary oaihs
Declared and subscribed at Semaphore, in the
State of South Australia, this eighth day of July, one
thousand nine hundred at d one, befoie me,
THOS. TODD, Juhk.. J.P.
Lilli
g
Qothing Succeeds like Appearance.
UP-TO-DATE STYLE FOR UP-TO-DATE PEOPLE.
The Suit •
To Order
42s
With
Extra Trousers
Holds the Commonwealth’s Record
.... FOR ....
STYLE, FIT and FINISH.
Send for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms to our only address—
OPP. 0.P.0., BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
Business Announcements.
(aood Tailoring.
SPRING.
New Neat Designs in Worsteds
and Tweeds .
PURE INDIGO SERGES.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &C.
Patterns arid Self-Measure Charts Post tree.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Mercers,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UMDERWEAR
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
ANEW
KODAK.
The No. 2 Plico Kodak.
For Pictures 3£ x 3£ inches.
PricB
21/- on| y
Loaded and Unloaded In Daylight.
Send for Illustrated Leaflet and mention
this Paper.
KODAKS ALL PRICES, FROM ss. TO B 7 15s.
Now on Sale by all Photographic Dealert.
KODAK Ltd.
“THE BLOCK,” 284 Collins St M
Melbourne.
Medical.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdustrk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizics, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdicstrk & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
POWELL’S BALSAM
Qg
tv
OF ANISEED
WILL CURE YOUR CL UGH
All the world over, it has b en the recognised
Cough Remedy for the past 7i years, and is
to-day the Safe and Reliable Cure for
Goughs, Colds, Asthma. Bronchitis.
Influenza, and all Lung Troubles.
Loosens the Phlegm immediately, and re-
moves the tickling sensation in the 'ihroat,
which deprives so many of rest curing the
night. It strengthens the Voice.
WARNING When purchasing
Powell's Balsam of Aniseed
see the above Trade Mark on each wrapper
and beware of Imitations.
Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers through-
out the world. Prepared only by Thomas
Powell, Ld., Blackfriars, London, S.E.
T)EAR SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness and De
- L/ bllity by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
Bi PARKHURBT, Pltt-street, Sydney,
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THEBE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Be-d,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia.
STUART&rO.
PHOPMKTAHT LIMITED,
262 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
$
Our Suit to order at 42a. la
marvellous value; made from
all-wool Tweeds.Vicunas, or fast
color Series; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class c f material, £3 3». To
measure, capital Trousers, very
good patterns, 12s. Od.
Dress Suits, to measure, £s #
Clerical Suits, to measure. £s*
Biding Breeches, 255.
Biding Habits, &c.
We supply ready made. Men**
capital Tweed Suits. 21s. A 255.
I Fam< us Ballarat Ser-je Suits,
Indigo dye, 255.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergei ette Suits, 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss. lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs an d Yes ts. 19s Od.
Men’s Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19s. Od. White Drill
Sacs and Trousers, 10s. Od,
Khaki Suits/ shrunk, 12s Od.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sacs,
Os. 9d. White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9d., 4s 9d., ss. Od.
Travelling Trunks, and
Bugs in great variety.
Men’s White Shirts, colored
front and cuffs. 2s. 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. Od.
White Matle Shirts, collar and
pocket. 3s. Od*
So t Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d.. all
colors.
Hard Hats, 4s. Od* Caps. Is,
Merino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d.
Neck ties, all shapes and colors.
White Shirts to measure. Gents* splendid Balmoral Boots,
6«* 9d . 9s. od.
We like to write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for any
Information. Our book, “The Philosophy of -Dress*' and
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement forms posted free.
Write for them.
«o>VAl#jv
M3K>UT V
PILLS.
F°R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent theii
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
€V€RY MAN
Should send for a VALUABLE PAMPHLET explaining
how all NERVOUS and ORGANIC derangements may be
SUCCESSFULLY TREATED by a NEW METHOD. It is
EASY and PLEASANT, and will effect a PERFECT and
PERMANENT CURE. Sent post FREE. Address—
THE BOTANIC INSTITUTE, VICTORIA CHAMBERS,
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
IthTl
IEAF,
MEAE I
by using W Ison's Com-
mon ense Ear Drums.
Wonderful Results obtained in
cases considered beyond any
treatment. Soft, comfortable,
and invisible when in use.
Head Noises Relieved.
Pamphlets and Australian
Testimonials Free.
J. CHALMERS, Sole Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
■ Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■how lo: g standing. Arethesame
r to the ear-- as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo-n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free, sj
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
dsfg
With I'atent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole A merits for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, &c.
DENYER BROS. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEOR3E ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
‘iiiSb--
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor L ath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne
Is your Hus-
band, Son,
Brother, or
Father a
PRUNKARP
If so, send us your Name and Address, with 4d. to cover
postage, and we will send you in a plain envelope our
Booklet giving full particulars how to give EUCRASY
secretly in Tea. Coffee, Food, etc. It is odorless and
tasteless, and will cure this dreadful habit quietly and
permanently without the Patient’s knowledge or consent.
GOOD FOR BOTH SEXES.
Write THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney.
NOW READY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being a reprint of a large number of articles from
Tub Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and democratic polio?
for Federated Australia.
Price 6d; Posted Bd<


i
fi
A
1
1111
m
II!!!
Ii
ill
in
III!
m
,
m
-mh
m
i
SSBfcg
m
e*s
31
*9
E§^sl
Wr-%
--K.
WS}
tmt,
. :
\fc u. ’-A* ■* t 1
>
SYDNEY SHOWROOMS.
THOS. WHITELAW & CO., Wall Paper Merchants >l|
SYDNEY : 391 Ceorge Street.
MELBOURNE: 226 Flinders Street.
ADELAIDE : 7 King William Street.
MESSRS. THOS. WHITELAW & OO.’S new Wall Paper Salon, 391 George Street, Sydney, although not appearing in the guide books under the heading of places
worth visiting, possesses none the less merit by reason of the omission. As in London, so now in the Australian States, the visitor of artistic disposition and
cultured taste may for hours revel amid a lavish profusion of high art designs and almost indescribable colorings.
Side by side may be viewed the chef d’ouvres of English, American and Continental designers in Wall Paper Printing and in the manufacture of decorative
materials. Even the Storehouses of the East add their treasures to this impressive display, and in an Artistic sense it may be truly said the Messrs. Whitelaw
are uniting the bonds of the Empire—bringing all the richest productions of the Old World to join with the cultured requirements of the New.
The means whereby Whitelaw’s have completely revolutionised this branch of trade is the constant maintenance of high ideals —they recognise that “ Designs are
like leaves some wither every l’ear and a younger race succeeds.” ... .... .. , , _,,
The day of ugly Wall Papers is surely past. Rude contrasts in coloring, painful developments of form, have been superseded in Whitelaw s Collection by sound
principles of design-'every thing is instinct with a delightful feeling of novelty. . . . . , , . t ...... TT . ,
1 1 Whitelaw’s exhibitions, now on view in the leading capitals of Australia, are eloquently complimentary to their talented Australian principal, Mr. H. A. Whitelaw,
whose Continental and Eastern journeyings gather such rich productions for the cultured and artistic clientele for whose particular use they are primarily intended.
His French collection comprises the crime de la crime of the Trocadero exhibits direct from the Exhibition, of great diversity of effect, representing the distinct and
characteristic achievements of the Gallic Genius in Decorative Art. They manifest a refreshing novelty of conception combined with artistic excellence of execution of a
vptv advanced order The Tapestry Papers, in particular, are strikingly realistic. There are, in addition, a profusion of silk effects—a private series in Salamander,
Anairlvnta Flocks Cheviot Ingrains, Hand Printed Stencil Goods ; in fact, to describe in detail the various designs now on view at the Showrooms (some 2500) would in
itself constitute a pamphlet of no mean proportions. Be it said, however, while these goods lay just claim to such high artistic ment, the visitor is more than
convinced that they are offered at purely commercial rates. The Firm’s motto is—" Always Artistic, yet Inexpensive.
The squeezing of the Bears by the Bulls in the
Duke of York ” case was a pleasant thing for holders of
contributing shares in the mine. Every small unprofes-
sional buyer is a bull at heart. Short-sighted public
sympathy is with the speculator whose successful bulling
enables the public to make a big profit on its investment.
But if the managers of the “Duke of York” market had
been playing a bear character to the grief and woe of the
public, what an awful moral outciy the Press would have
raised ! Who were the triumphant gamblers in this case?
Why, two “books” whom the V.R.O. warned off the
racecourse on account of a glaring scandal some years ago.
The Ikeys whom the racing club rejected, the same have
become the head of the “ corner ” on Melb. Stock Ex-
change. And the “ corner ” didn’t even make a pretence
of genuine mining business, seeing that they refused to
take delivery of fully -paid-up Duke of York shares in
place of contributing ditto. What could be more essen-
tially dishonest than the Exchange law which denies a
broker, when required to deliver a certain number of
shares in a certain co., the right to discharge any out-
standing liability on those shares before he delivers them
to the purchaser ? That is what the “bear” practically
does when he makes the offer of fully-paids in lieu of con-
tributing. If the threatened law-suit over this question
of the bull’s right of refusal should come to pass, the
guileless outside public will get an improving lesson in
stock and share business.
* * * •
S. Australia has its Govt, smelting furnace all
ready at Port Augusta. But it isn’t in a hurry to blow it
in ; in fact, it is rather sorry the thing was built at all.
When it was sanctioned S.A. had one of its periodical
copper-booms ; but there remains nothing of that except
a little scrip. And as for silver-lead shows one only
mentions them to one’s enemy. The total quantity of ail
ores stacked at the works is 300 tons, against which the
Govt, has made a 50 per cent, advance. State batteries
have succeeded ; but State batteries are one thing and
State furnaces another. You can’t blow a furnace in or
run it down at a few minutes’ notice ; to succeed it must
have a fairly well assured, constant, and uniform supply.
It is because few single mines, even when moderately de-
veloped, can give the supply that, on a low estimate, four
out of every fivu smelting plants that are built are
failures.
» * * »
Chillagoe Railway and Mines (Q.) : Stewart, in
resigning as consulting engineer, wrote a strongly-worded
protest against what has been done in his absence. He
claims that the circular issued to the shareholders cast
unjust reflections upon him as general manager, which
reflections were clearly opposed to their interests, and
useless for all practical purposes, unless the circular Was
issued with some ulterior motive not quite apparent to
him. Naturally this has made the directors sit up, and
they have replied accepting Stewart’s resignation, re-
gretting his continued ill-health, and trusting for a
speedy recovery. But that is not all; for, while they are
glad to have his reiterated assurance of the correctness of
his estimates and values of ore they are desirous of having
them confirmed. Meanwhile they considered it their
duty to give to the shareholders the result of their visit
to the mine. They also regret the personal tone of the
letter and would like to know what Stewart means by
“ an ulterior motive ” —in fact, he will be expected to ex-
plain as soon as his health (he is suffering from sunstroke)
is sufficiently recovered to enable him to deal with busi-
ness. Shares 125., a little more than a fourth of what
they once were, less than a third of what they were for
many months, and less than one-half the price they were
a little while ago. What a gigantic market fizzle 1
» * * •
Mt. Garnet (Q.) : “The smelter is doing good
work, the output being equal to 45 tons of copper and
55000 z. silver per week. This gives a nice profit, and the
co.’s revenue will be materially increased shortly, as another
furnace is to be blown-in.” This is one version. Another
version is that the mine is smelting at a loss and that
much money would be saved by stacking the ore and
waiting for the railway. What says the management ?
* * * *
Queensland Menzies: Another important dis-
covery has been made in this mine, which has given
shares a spurt.
* • * *
Bank of England, Kalgoorlie : What a name
for such a minet “It has been closed down pending
reconstruction, and six months’ exemption will be applied
for.” Worked for the last six years without intermission.
Occasionally got a little gold, but the difference between
the gold got out of it and that put in is represented by
£75,000. The surface equipments are reported to be in
splendid order. “And so far as developments are con-
cerned the mine is in a better and more satisfactory con-
dition to-day than ever.” Something nice is always said
about a mine when shareholders are about to be asked to
put up more money.
* * * *
Associated (W.A.) : Meeting ot shareholders
held in London. Chairman: “ We have spent £440,000 odd
on so-called plant. I can assure you that if we had taken a
bank-note for £440,000 and burnt it we should have been
much better off. Had the Board any idea of the time it
would take to alter even half the machinery they would
have shut down the mill. Anyhow', it has produced some
50,000 tons of tailings, which might now be worked at a
profit of some £50,000.” Over £6O, 0j j has had to be
written-off as depreciation of certain iuvestnieiios held by
the co. What are these ? 3110 shares had to be given
away because of irregularities in the transfer-office.
Decided not to prosecute ex-officials of the mine, as it
would be wasting a very large amount of money. Esti-
mated that it would cost £30,000 to follow up such a
prosecution. The co. has still £200,000 invested in Con-
sols, but has had to borrow £25,000 to go on with. A
great deal of development work has been done in the
mine during the last year, and it is anticipated that by
the time the second half of the mill has been remodelled
the output will be brought up to 8000 oz. per month.
Shares, 50s.—a rise of 12s. during the last few weeks, and
the present price represents a valuation of a million and a
quarter.
* » * *
N.S.W. State Treasurer Waddell has just stated
that he is not prepared to introduce a Bill obliging banks
to pay over to the Government balances unclaimed for
two years. Members should not rest until unclaimed
balances of a certain age are made the property of
Government instead of remaining with the banks. The
term may be 2, or 10, or 20 years as Parliament thinks fit,
but the final home of unclaimed balances must be the
public purse. In no equitable sense do they belong to
directors, shareholders or bank customers. It would be
worth while for some member to put a direct motion to
the House to this effect, and insist on a division.
* * * *
“Waiu”: Sample of Maoriland company-promo-
tion. A dredging co. was floated by a Dunedin firm along
with half-a-dozen similar “cats.” Nominal capital, £8000;
of which £2OOO represented paid-up promoters’ shares.
Fifteen months after flotation the application-money was
owing on 250 shares, and the allotment-money on 1250.
The promoters (who also acted as brokers in the matter)
received 2£ per cent, on the moneys obtained from the
genuine contributories. One promoter was elected a
director, and obtained 20 guineas for attending one
meeting. £B7 10s. was paid to an employee of the pro-
moters to act as secretary. One member of the promoting
firm, who recently went out of the business, underwrote
500 contributing shares at the time of flotation, and has
since successfully- defended an action in the courts for
the payment of his allotment-money, on the ground of
misrepresentation on the flotation by his late partner !
No attempt was made to put a dredge on the claim, and
a large portion of the capital has been eaten up .n
expenses incurred in keeping the co. alive up to date.
Liquidation is now proceeding.
A big fight looms in Queensland over the
exemption clauses of the mining laws. An enormous
percentage of the best mineral country is held under
exemption, said leases being surrendered at expiration
only to allow of another shepherd taking them up and
getting exemption. The boodle plea is “giving time to
obtain capital to develop the country.”
• * * *
Remembering that he had hardly anything in
the way of prospecting works to help him, Geological
Surveyor Jaquet’s report on N.S.W. iron-ore deposits is
one of the most important and valuable, as it is one of the
most substantial, publications of the Mines Department.
Neglecting deposits, too far from coal or coast to possibly
pay, lie inspected 200, and regards 16 as worth cata-
loguing. Mostly there was little to aid in fixing
quantities ; but he puts the total at 69,317,000 tons
which doesn’t look much alongside the 14 million tons
turned out every year by the Lake Superior (U.S.) mines
alone, or the 250,000,000 tons of high-grade ore ex-
posed in one Minnesota deposit. Mr. Jaquet’s figures
are, however, not to be taken too seriously ; for, though
he can only be sure of 39,000,000 tons in the Cadia beds
(the most important, he thinks, in N.S.W.), he says that
“ they probably contain an almost inexhaustible amount
of ore within a few hundred feet of the surface.” This
Cadia deposit is about 15 miles from the next most
important—Coombing Park, near Carcoar. From Cadia
to the Western railway is 12 miles ; thence to Lithgow,
85 miles. Cost of breaking and carting to coal should not
exceed 10s. per ton. As to quality, the oxidised portion
(much the smaller) is excellent ; the unoxidised has
rather too much copper and sulphur, yet not so much as a
great deal that is used elsewhere. The oxidised ores contain
from 57 to 65per cent, iron, from sto 10 per cent, silica, and
from 'Ol3 to "051 per cent, phosphorus ; the unoxidised is
irregular. The iron in the American ores runs from 50 to 63
per cent. ; the rich Spanish ores, of which nearly five
million tons go every year to Great Britain, run from 56
to 48 per cent. ; whiie most of the German iron and steel
are produced from ores of under 40 per cent. Mr. Jaquet
estimates the cost of producing a ton of pig-iron at
Lithgow from these ores at £2 7s. 7d., exclusive of interest
on outlay ; this includes 2J tons of ore (18s. 7d.), 1 ton
coke (155.), and labor (6s).
* * * •
Westralian Grovt. follows up its successful State
gold-batteries policy by erecting a tin-dressing plant— at
Greenbushes, of course. Apropos, one of the suggestions
for absorbing the out-of-work miners at Broken Hill was
that Govt, should assist in developing the Waukaroo or
Euriowie tinfields in that district, where J. S. Reid and
others dropped thousands a few years back.
* * * *
The Westralian coal industry makes fair pro-
gress. Total for first half of this year, 58,088 tons, which
is just more than the total for all ’99 ; but the advance
during last year has not been maintained, and it is
doubtful if the ’OO figures will be quite reached. Three
mines are at work.
* * * *
Rumored that the old Copperfield mine on Peak
Downs —a show that did well when copper was copper in
the ’7o’s- is to be re-opened by a S.A. syndicate. If
copper doesn’t pay a dividend or two in Q. very soon the
man who tries to float a copper show in Australia will
have to travel from stock-exchange to stock-exchange in
an armoured van.
• * * *
The gilded and mainly-absentee South Austra-
lian Company, notwithstanding steady realisation (the
“blight” of the progressive land-tax is upon S. Aus.),
still values its property at £964,278, of which £321,945 is
in the city. The only crumb of consolation for those
who are not shareholders is that its returns are not very
fat ; last year’s rent-roll totted up £31,899.
* » * *
East Murchison United : A correspondent from
Lawlers, W.A., writes that this is not an amalgamation
of anything, although worked originally as the Great
Eastern'; that it is not over capitalised, unless The
Bulletin considers 180,000 £1 shares too much for a mine
with 40 stamps and cyanide turning over 3000 oz. per
month, with costs comparing well with shows much
better situated. He adds that it has paid several divs.,
although it is 150 miles from a railway, and its firewood
costs about 30s. per cord.
* » * •
The manager’s official estimate of ore in the
Great Boulder down to the 1000 ft. is now 143,800 tons,
containing 211,3240 z. It is not generally realised, per-
haps, what use this co. has made of the diamond-drill in
prospecting. During the past year 6977 ft. were bored ;
previous years, 6052 ft. and 6977 ft.
• * » *
A recent number of Engineering, after passing
severely disparaging remarks on Australian coal, draws
the Admiralty’s attention to the anthracitic beds at
M’Kenzie R., near Rockhampton (Q.), as giving Britain
a tremendous pull in the Pacific and East, if a time
should arise when war-ships will have to depend chiefly
upon “pacemaking.”
Larger assays of recent Peak Downs find (Mt.
Leo) have been disappointing ; about 19grs. per ton being
average return of gold over the 7-mile lead. But pro-
spectors do not yet despair, and intend sinking for a final
settlement.
* * • •
Westralian miners’ union (the A.W.A.) has two
or three troubles on hand, the most awkward being a
determined wage-cut on the Murchison.
* • * •
G olden Link (W. A.): Has just begun to open out
at the 1100 ft. level, but some time must necessarily elapse
before any developments can take place. This is another
mine that has spent over £lOO,OOO in prospecting. It is
supposed to have an extension of the Lake View run of
gold in its lower levels, but as far as the upper levels are
concerned—in fact, down nearly to 1000 ft. —it has estab-
lished the fact that within the so-called Golden Mile there
are large areas of almost barren ground. It has another
lease away to the north known as the Eclipse, in which
little or nothing has been found. Capital, £550,000;
348,000 shares issued: At one time had a big working
capital, most of which must have gone.
* * * •
Cosmopolitan, W.A. : £17,545 made last year
and big things predicted when the new 50-head of stamps
get to work. Present equipment, a dilapidated 30-head
mill which has done service in other parts of Australia.
At the beginning of the year the average monthly output
was 12000 z., which has been increased to 1700 oz. by
cyaniding tailings. Expected that by the time the big
mill begins work the reserves of ore will amount to
100,000 tons. This mine was found some six years ago by
W. A. Miller and his mate, who worked it under great dis-
abilities. One or two deposits were put up and forfeited.
Niagara was not a fashionable district, and the formation
(granite) was not liked. The lodes, of which there are
several, have lived down, and they are biggest and best in
the lowest levels. The property consists of a number of
leases aggregating 450 acre's, and, if the new mill can keep
up the average of the old, regular dividends are a cer-
tainty. Capital, £400,000 ; 360,000 shares issued. Pre-
sent market price 275., and likely to go considerably
higher if the 50-head mill fulfils all the brilliant promises
made. The chairman: “We have secured 50 head of
stamps, and have arranged that the whole of the expenses
of sending out this machinery and erecting it should be
borne by others, without a penny-piece of expense to
you.” What does this mean? Certainly not that some
philanthropic firm is building a 50-head mill for nothing.
Perhaps it signifies that the machinery-men have arranged
to erect the mill for a lot of shares. That is not an
uncommon practice, and the mill-providers generally get
the best of the deal.
• * * *
Oroya (W.A.): Boz. ore having been pierced by
a diamond drill, of course big things are now predictedfor
this mine, which is supposed to have a continuation of
the Northern Associated’s run of gold. Shares have
doubled in value within the last two months ; present
price, 355. Share capital, £250,000, with some 20,000
shares in reserve. On a diamond-drill prospect shares
are too high. It may only be a narrow streak of rich
ore ; the oxidised zone of the Oroya has nothing to recom-
mend it. The co. paid one div. in ’99 ; cannot have much
money, has no sulphide plant, and will probably have to
issue more shares to find funds.
» » * •
North Kalgurli (W.A.): “A parcel of oxidised
ore put through the N. Boulder battery, the clean-
up resulting in a very good profit.” This is pro-
bably said to help along the amalgamation scheme
with Brookman’s Boulder, of which it was recently
told that a trial crushing of the new reef struck
in a deep level could not be put through the
battery because the plates had been stolen. As far as the
market is concerned neither of these mines has much
value, and ere they can work together, or separately,
shareholders will be called upon to put up more
money. £lOO,OOO would not represent the amount ex-
pended in the development of both mines, and in any
other Australian field both would have been abandoned
as duffers long ago. They are both just outside the
Golden Mile, and, if results count for anything, they
might as well be a mile away.
Brownhill (W. A.): Last monthly return just over
5000 oz. Mine said to have more ore than was expected in
the Cygnet lease on its southern boundary; but it is
generally admitted that the days of the Brownhill are
numbered. The new Westralian Governor inspected the
mine last week, and much cable-correspondence must
have ensued before even that personage was allowed to
descend.
• • * •
Ironstone rush near Capella, Q., is still attracting
attention. Stone in bulk is to be sent to some of the
large reduction-works, and if the results approach those
of local fire-assay Q. has another reefing field to fall
back on.
From the letter of a M.L. contingenter :
“The captured sheep have also been a source of
inconvenience, and sometimes a few thousand
have simply had their throats cut and been left on
the veldt.”
Builders in U.S.A., having “licked crea-
tion ” in the way of sky-scrapers, are now bur-
rowing into the earth. Amongst others, the
Mutual Life Co. of New York is having a build-
ing erected 100 ft. of which will be below the pave-
ment.
“ One of Them ” discourseth to The Bul-
letin concerning N.S.W. Clerks of Petty
Sessions :
No position in the N.S.W. Public Service demands such
varied qualifications as that of the country O.P.S. He
holds more appointments than he can remember, and his
office is an olla podrida of births and deaths, depositions,
leases, warrants, indictments, ca. sa’s. , selectors, squat-
ters, outraged females, lurid language, “rights,” licenses,
unregistered dogs, old-age pensioners, prisoners, police-
men, piggeries, dairies, stock brands, probates, intestate
estates, &c., &c. At one moment the O.P.S. is an auc-
tioneer selling lands ; at the next, he is disposing cf
rabbit-traps and billycans, left by some friendless intes-
tate. Then he is a bookseller, and a pass of the hand
transforms him into Registrar of Deaths and consoler-
general to the community. Hty ! Presto ! and he wears
a merry smile and unites some hurried couple in the
bonds of matrimony ; or he tells a J.P. how to determine
a case (being careful to leave in that magnate’s mind the
complacent impression that said magnate knew every-
thing himself from the start) ; or he is presiding at some
tedious bankruptcy examination; or bluffing an unduly
curious attorney ; or telling Brown how to recover his
cow. Then he places himself in delicious danger of some
naughty contretemps, or in jeopardy of blackmail, by
closeting himself promiscuously with maidens iii distress.
Soon he is unravelling the mysteries of the Land Act, the
Mining Act, the Electoral Act, or any other Act; and
withal collects every year from £5OOO to £50,000 for the
public revenue as a trifling incident not worth mention.
Yet about all this the Public Service Board knows little,
and cares less. If the C.P.S. is paid by the Department of
Justice all may be well ; if by the Department of
Lands, nothing will. For the latter will recognise
only his capacity as land-agent, and not always that,
while the former will notice not,king unless incapacity as
a O.P.S. The multitudinous other departments to which
he owes allegiance don’t care a dump whether he is a
mummy or a tight-rope-walker so long as their work is
not left undone. At their own expense, and before the
Board was thought of, nine out of ten C’s.P.S. were
appointed commissioners for affidavits. But when the
Board came along and found an occasional 2s. find-
ing its way into the O.P.S’. pocket, it ukased—“ Fork out
those two bobs, or clear.” Now the local solicitors receive
those fees ; the public is saved nothing ; but the Board
is satisfied. For this little dog-in-the-manger trick is in
accordance with the fundamental policy of the Board—
“ That (chairmen and a few others excepted) every officer
shall be paid less than any other.” And, as for the Board’s
recent grading : on what basis was it made— Men or
Places ? Last time it was Men or Places, according to
the person being dealt with. In other words, it was
Men. The Act says, in effect, Places. But as this is in-
fernal impudence on the part of the Act, comment would
be flat blasphemy.


THE UHION BANK OF AUSTRALIA
• LIMITED •
BALANCE-SHEET, 28th FEBRUARY, 1901.
LIABILITIES.
Capital £4,500,000
Less : Reserve liability .. 3,000,000
Paid up.. .. .‘.
Reserve fund (invested as per contra
Contingent account
Circulation
Deposits (including inscribed st
deposits)
Bills payable and other liabilities (inolud
*ing reserves held against doubtful
debts).. .. .. ..
Balance of undivided profits .. ..
1,929,240 10 11
108,818 0 7
£20,270,829 8 11
ASSETS.
Specie on hand and cash balances ..£2,741,987 9 6
Bullion on hand and in transitu .. .. 88,491 6 8
Money at call and short notice in London 370,000 0 0
Investments—
Consols, and other stocks
of, or guaranteed by, the
Imperial Government ..£145,208 11 0
Indian Government Ster-
ling Stocks and Indian
Railway Guaranteed
Stocks 314,453 12 8
British Municipal and
Colonial and Foreign
Government stocks and
debentures .. .. 181,407 9 9
£641,069 13 3
Reserve Fund-
Consols, £500,000 ; local
loans (Imperial Govern-
ment stock), £176,000 ;
National War Loan,
£150,000 825,000 0 0
— 1,466,069 13 3
Bills Receivable, loans, and other
securities at London office .. .. 2,642,397 6 9
Bills discounted, bills receivable, loans,
and other securities at the branches .. 12,232,202 11 2
Bank premises and property in the
colonies 601,011 2 7
London leasehold pre-
mises £142,304 19 4
Reserve against same,
£13,400 10s. 2d. ; six
months’ interest there-
on at 3£ per cent.,
£234105. 2d 13,635 0 4
128,669 19 0
£20,270,829 8 11
STATEMENT OF PROFITS, 28th FEBRUARY, 1901,
Balance of undivided profits at 31st August, 1900 .. .. .. £99,689 13 8
Less : Amount applied in reduction of contingent account in terms of last report 25,000 0 0
£74,689 13 8
Out of which a dividend was declared of .. .. .. .. ... 52,500 0 0
Leaving a balance of £22,189 13 8
Profits of the past half-year, after making provision in respect of bad and
doubtful debts .. .. .. .. .. ..£203,130 5 2
Less —
Remuneration to the local directors, and salaries and
allowances to the colonial staff .. .. .. £71,600 17 2
General expenses in the colonies, including rent,
taxes, stationery, &c.- .. .. .. .. .. 28,048 14 4
Remuneration to the board of directors and auditors,
salaries of London office staff, rent, taxes,
stationery, and general expenses 15,292 17 3
Income tax .. ... .. 1,559 3 6
116,501 12 3
86,628 12 11
Balance of undivided profits at this date
,£lOB,BlB 6 7
London, 11th August , 1901.
ARTHUR FLOWER
0. A. GALTON
W. O. GILCHRIST
-Directors.
W. E. CARBERY, Manager.
T. O. C. SAUNDERS, Accountant.
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE AND REPORT.
In accordance with the provisions of “ The Companies Act, 1900,” we certify that all our requirements as auditors
have been complied with.
We report that we have verified the cash, investments, bills of exchange, and other assets in London, and have
had access to the accounts sent to London from the various branches in the colonies, and having examined the same,
and the books and accounts of the London office, we are of opinion that the above balance-sheet is a full and fair
balance-sheet, properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true' and correct view of the state of the company’s affairs as
shown by the books of the company.
WHINNEY, SMITH, and WHINNEY \
Chartered Accountants J
■Auditors.
FALIERE’S PHOSPHATINE
PKOSPHATJKE
FAtil ERES
The Only
Food
containing
Phosphate
of Lime .
For INFANTS and
INVALIDS.
AN ESSENTIAL REQUISITE IN THIS COUNTRY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS °r osuo
French’s Acting Edition.
St
Rare Rooks
French Novels
Books tLe Married
Extaim GataUax/jii.e
Eiualem: JFvee.
SCamps or Postal Notes at any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE . „ .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
UNDER DISTINGUISHED
M-
ROYAL PATRONAGE.
m
i!
8s
I
1
mm
■M
Hi
m
Mg
LSkH
From H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHEMLOHE.
(The German Ambassador’s Daughter.)
•• • KOKO ’ for the Hair is the BEST Dressing I
know, it keeps the head cool, promotes growth,
and is in EVERY way excellent.
Pbincess HOHENLOHE.
Recommended and Used by H.M. 'X'no
Queen (of Greece). Princess Victoria
(ot Schaumburg Lippe), Princess
Hohenlohe. Princess Marie
(of Greece), Princess Henry Feucs,
Rear-Admiral Tinkiar. 3tc.. &c.
KOKO FOR THE HAIR
l|i is a tonic, cleansing, invigorating preparation, causes the hair to grow, keeps it soft and pliant, i mparts
to it the lustre and freshness of youth, eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling, is the most
ill cleanly of all hair preparations, and is perfectly harmless.
OLD PEOPLE LIKE ITT
111 l for its wonderful power to invigorate decayed hair, and induce an entire new growth when that is possible.
MIDDLE 4GEP PEOPLE IJKE IT,
iHi because it keeps dandriff away, and makes the hair grow thick and strong.
YOUKG SADIES I,IKE IX
ill as a dressing, because it gives the hair a beautiful glossy lustre, and enables them to dress it in what-
||l ever form they wish, where it will remain.
CHILDREN LIKE IT,
111 because it keeps the hair and scalp cool and clean, allays irritation, and keeps the hair in whatever
*l* position desired.
THEY ALL UKE IT. 9
I l because it is pure as crystal perfectly colourless, contains no poisonous substances, dye. sugar of
I lead, sulphur, nitrate of silver, or grease, does not soil or colour the scalp, face, or the most delicate
fabric in clothing, produces a wonderful, pleasant and cooling effect on the bead, and no other dressing
is needed to give the hair the most elegant appearance possible. Try it once, and you will i' r c no other.
Is., 2s. 6d., and 4s. 6d., of all Chemists, Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
Australian Depot: Koko-Maricopas Co., Ld., 19, Castlereagh St., Sydney,N.S.W.
CAUTION.—See that this Registered Trade Mark is on every bctt'e.
sdf
gs
Latest Novelty in Corsets ..
THOMSONS
‘GRACIOSA’
Unbreakable Waist. Natural Hinge.
Extract from Madame Schlld’s
Fashion Journals tor March.
“A New Corset. —This novelty is a very clever arrangement of
the nature of a hinge at the waist, so that the wearer does not break
the steels when stooping. This new Corset is called ‘The Graciosa,’
is extremelv comfortable to wear even from the first, it fits the body
at once, and is as easy as a glove. It is boned with RUSTLESS
‘SILVIDE,’ and the bones cannot push through.
Made in Colors, White, French Grey, and Black. M
Makers: W. S. THOMSON & Co., Ld,, 112, Fore St., Eng.
Makers of the Celebrated New Model ‘ Glove-Fitting,’ & • La Noblesse ’ Corsets.
Of all dealers throughout the World.
[Patented and
Registered.]
si
$
0 bo
LV?
4
•Qf/rr
vVhen
writing
please
mention
Thb
BcUiKTIN-
dfg
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING i
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
- ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
> Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Dernon-
|strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
= CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
! THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
iDO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
2 LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life call
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnie,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
‘Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
4 They impart vigor and potency to every function,
'brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL GUftE YOU-
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 3 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to—
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
u on Our Selection.” By “ Steele liudd.”
“At least the Government might have
made some effort to provide those soldiers who
were Wounded in defence of the Empire with
billets that would not make excessive demands
upon their enfeebled constitutions.”—Wail of a
vie. cohentingenter, disgusted at being compelled
to take his chances with the ordinary unem-
ployed >. —
The wounded hero wants a job
That will not try his strength to fill it.
With satisfaction hearts will throb
When every bullet has its billet!
The “North-Western Steamship Line,”
which lately started to load up with grain on
Lake Superior, and steam down through innu-
merable rivers, lakes, canals, and locks, to the St.
Lawrence and thence across the Atlantic, has
made an interesting experiment. The ordinary,
unlettered shellback was somewhat scarce, while
the penniless college graduate, briefless solicitor,
doctor without practice, &c., were abundant
enough. ' So the'eo. arranged that the crew were
to-dine with the captain and engineers, and have
pillows and blankets and kapok mattresses. Also,
the fo’e’s’le was provided with a library, and only
men of education were engaged. They proved
abundant enough; but when one of the old school
of sea-dog captains went on board he nearly fell
down dead with shock at the sight of an oiler who
was off duty sitting in a deck-chair reading a
Saturday Review. The Bulletin has this story
on the worst authority.
Kimberley goldfield put up a new record
last year. Its ‘ ‘ population and vital statistics ”
for’oo read like this: “Total births, 1; illegiti-
mate births, 1; percentage of illegimate to total
births, 100.” Broome, the Thursday Island of the
North-West, came a good second with 62'5 per
cent. —five out of eight. Perth owned to 104, or
just one in ten.
A German mercantile shipping conference
proposes the abolition of the practice of ordering
a ship’s helm to port in order to send her head to
starboard, and vice versa. Steering orders in
future on German ships are to be simply—“To
the left,” or “To the right.” It is evidence of the
strong conservatism of sea usage that the change
was not made years ago. [The term “ helm ”in
this connection refers to the tiller, which turns the
opposite way to wheel, rudder, and vessel.]
Justice Hood, of Victoria, to a 19-yeav-old
youth, who had pleaded guilty to setting a church
on fire :
You deliberately went to work to set this place on fire.
No motive for the crime is suggested, and it is to your
credit that you confessed your guilt. There were circum-
stances in the case that led me to doubt your mental
capacity, and the doctor who examined you seemed to
think that you might possibly be suffering from pyro-
mania. If that is so, you will be as well in gaol as any-
where else. You are sentenced to 12 months’ imprison-
ment, with hard labor.
So S’onah thinks a person suffering from mental
disease is “ as well in gaol as anywhere else ! ”


*riQk
3!sS*3S?BS
IT TALKS!
IT SINGS!!
IT PLAYS!!!
A WONDERFUL OFFER!!
150 PHONOGRAPHS^*
a GUINEA each.
The Great Depot for
Eoisans SEnuißE him
THE NEW MODELS HAVE JUST ARRIVED.
The “ New Gem,” with Recorder
and Reproducer £2 10s. complete
The “Standard,” with Recorder
and Reproducer £4 10s. complete
The “ Home,” with Recorder and
Reproducer £6 10s. complete
o
Also in stock —
Edison's Concert Grand Machines,
With Polyphone Attachments for same.
o
EdiSoi) ai)d ColCmjbia Records.
No house should be without one. Life is never dull if you have a Phonograph.
We offer a Phonograph, exactly as illustrated, and guarantee it, for £1 Is.
Records for it are 2s. each, or 21 S. by the dozen; you can either select
them yourself from our list of thousands, or leave the choice to us and we will
send you some really good ones. We have Comic Songs, Sentimental Songs,
Trios, Quartettes, Eanjo, Trombone, Cornet, Violin Solos, &c., and Band Selec-
tions by the best bands. All One Price —2s. each; 21s. dozen.
NOT A TOY, but a ... .
First-class Little Instrument
that plays any instrument splendidly, talks like a
member of Parliament, and sings beautifully. It is
simple to use and only needs winding-up. Nothing can
be more amusing and entertaining than a Phonograph.
Please send your Order at once , as the number we have
is so limited. We have the largest stock of all classes
of Phonographs and Records in Australia, and shall
be glad to send a Catalogue to anyone wishing it.
vyj-i
i
OSBORN & JERDAN,
OPTICIANS, . . .
ELECTRICIANS, &c.
PHONOGRAPH DEPOT: 393 George Street, Sydney
UNDER THE ROYAL PATRONAGE OF
H.R.H. THE QUEEN OF GREECE.
H.R.H. PRmr MARIE OF GREECE.
H.R.H. THE DUKE OF SPARTA.
sdf
H.R.H. THE DUCHESS OF SPARTA.
H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHENLOHE.
H.R.H. PRINCE GEORGE OF GREECE.
(High Commissioner o) Crete, &c., &c.)
EDWARDS’
gs
FOR
THE
m
Photo d specially for the " Harlene” Co., by Langlier, Bond St., W.
Haymarket Theatre, London,
Miss JULIA NEILSON
■writes —
“ I am at present trying your ‘ Harlene 'for my
hair, and I find it one of the best Hair Tonics and
Restorers I have ever used, and I have tried many.
Will you kindly send me two more bottles''
THE GREAT HAIR
PRODUCER and RESTORER.
THE FINEST DRESSINC SPECIALLY PREPARED AND
DELICATELY PERFUMED.
A LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EVERY MODERN TOILET
“ Harlene” Produces Luxuriant Hair. Prevent its Falling Off and Turning
Grey. Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the Beard and Moustache.
The World Renowned Remedy for Baldness. For Preserving, Strengthening?
and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft, for Removing Scurf Dandruff, &c.,
'also for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour.
"
Orown Princes Palace, Athens.
H.R.H. PRINCFSS MARIE OF GREECE
writes-" Messrs. Edwards’ Preparation, ‘Harlene’ for the Hair, has given entire
satisfaction. M.K.H. wishes six more bottles of ‘ Harlene ’ sent as soon as possible. ’’
Kitegyhaza, County Bikis, Hungary.
COUNTESS DENIS ALMASY
t orward me three more bottles of‘Harlene, 1 as I am particularly satisfied
witn tne two bottles sent me to Switzerland, and have been using it ever since.”
Full Description and Directions for use in Twenty Languages supplied with every
Bottle. 1/-, 2/6, and (three times 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle, from Druggists, &c.,
all over the World.
Vm/JpA
r#
Photo’d specially lor the '‘Harlene Co., by Langfier, Bond St., W.
Ganick Theatre, London.
Miss VIOLET VANBRUGH
wt ites —
“/ am very pleased to testify to the excellent
qualities of 'Harlene,' it is most refreshing and
invigorating and / have found it very Stimulating
to the Growth o 1 my Hair.
" P.S.—I hope fate will never take me to any
quarter of the globe where I should be unable
to procure ‘ Harlene.' "
EDWARDS “ HARLENE * Co., 95 & 98, High Holborn, London, W-O.


Tafa PIANOLA
“ I L , is astonishing to see
this little device at work
executing the masterpieces
of pianoforte literature
with a dexterity, clearness,
and velocity which no
pla er, however grett, can
approach Every one who
wishes to hear absolutely
faultless, free from any
kind of nervou ness; piano-
playing should buy a Pi-
anola. It is perfection
I. J. Paderewski.
lias arrested the attention of in 3
musical world. Its claims have been
investigated and verified by the great
pianists themselves.
This verification of its claims makes them interesting and
worthy of attention.
dfg
HE PIANOLA is an instrument by means of which any one
can play the Piano.
This is accomplished by simply rolling the Pianola in
front of any piano, allowing the felt-covered fingers to rest
upon the keys of the piano, then inserting a roll of perforated paper
into the sockets, and operating the pedals. Playing-directions appear
upon the roll as the music unwinds.
Thus the Pianola provides a substitute for the human fingers and
a correct technique for any piece.
The artistic effects and vivifying personality are given to the ren-
dition by the player, who controls the expression. It is entirely subject
to his will. He may vary the touch from the most delicate pianissimo
to the “ lion’s touch of Rubinstein.”
This human element is the distinctive feature of the Pianola, and
removes it from the ranks of purely mechanical musical instruments. It
taxes the credulity of all who have not heard it, but is substantiated by
the fact that the Pianola
is the only Piano=Player
endorsed by musicians
of note.
tag in. Bint & Be.,
Sole Agents for Australasia.
823 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Send for Catalogue containing
Illustrations and i ull parti-
culars. -
The Pianola is sold at no other
address in Sydney.
1
mg
U *'■’■
___
Paris exhibition, 1900,-British Awards
The Only
Grand
Prix
She
highest jffwarh
ever maDe!
FOR TOILET SOAP
HAS BEEN AWARDED TO
(Established 1789.)
'if'v c -a
BRITT REC F
Bp
Appointment
to
m
Diene \
w
Ber majesty Cite Queen and b.R.b. zu Prince of Wales
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1900 inclusive.
Reminiscences.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
The passengers inside the omnibus readily made
room for the well-dressed lady and gentleman. Even
the rather fragile, invalid-looking girl (the tired
type-writer, returning home aft ,r her day’s labor)
withdrew farther into the corner as the gentleman,
by a curious ill-fortune, unconsciously took his seat
next-her—next her, of all people in the world !
She saw who it was directly he entered, but he
didn’t observe her, until he noticed that the other
passengers were regarding her, and doubtless
wondering why she shrank so, and, after flushing
to her temples, became paler than before. Then
he turned and looked, and quickly lowered his
affrighted eyes, while his florid color vanished,
and his gaze furtively searched for some means of
escape. “ Cursed chance !” he muttered ; “of all
the thousand vehicles in Sydney, to choose this ! ”
And then a Voice seemed to arise from the brief
space that separated them, and to speak to his
soul—and she heard it, too.
No ! there is no escape ! You must go to your
journey’s end (think where hers may end !) for if
you interrupt it here—which you are craving to
do—you must invent some excuse to offer to the
other —your wife; but your brain is too bewil-
dered, and cursing Fate will not help you ! Fate
will sometimes place two souls in such conjoined
and unwilling prisonment that they could shriek
for release, and rage the more when the environ-
ment w liich holds them is paltry—like this. And
of those twain the one that has sinned against the
other must suffer transcending torture, and that is
why your brow is clammy, and your mind in futile
revolt at a rush of thought which is overwhelming
you !
Traitor ! do you think you shall go always un-
punished ? Is it nothing to have broken her life,
devastated her heart—yes! for she loved you /—and
to have extinguished the light in her soul which
burned for you, so that all now is dark and drear !
Is she to go for ever wandering through the dim
arches of Time, echoing to her always the choking
voices of Despair and Misery, and strewn with
the recollections of a thousand incidents conse-
crated by a passion which—at your touch—blos-
somed and flowered for you, and now lies at her
feet as the petals of yesterday !
Have you forgotten the old when she was
accounted by the world wealthy, and you were a
welcome guest at her home—where you pleased by
your insinuating manners, handsome presence,
and fine voice, and laid every snare to captivate
her—sympathising with all her pursuits, and
measuring your respect and boldness to a hair’s-
breadth ? Do you remember that you ventured to
press her hand at the theatre that evening during
1 a moment of supreme emotion ? And how, at the
concert, you touched with your perfumed ’ker-
; chief the"tear she could not stop during the play-
ing of the symphony because she felt in a world
as beautiful as that which was being unfolded to
1 her, but which to you was meaningless ?
Have you forgotten how you read to her the
“Ode to Constancy” on the rocks by the cliff-
side, while she worked, and the gentle lapping of
the water, and your voice, were all that broke the
silence ? And the day when you rowed her up the
still reaches of the river, and carried her when you
landed— you didn’t know, with all your calcula-
tions, how she trembled—over the shallows in the
rocks, so that her feet should not touch the water,
and how you talked to her—while she tried to
sketch, but could not —of the mysticism of soul
companionship—how it could be renewed, here-
after, ’mid scenes dazzling to the sight and souls
jf all the painters of all the ages, where the hearing
was filled with sounds melting to wonder and
festasy the imaginations of the musicians of all
ime, and the inspiration of the very air was Love,
Joy, and Contentment ?
And the dance afterwards, in the evening, when
you again clasped her waist, and could not avoid
Duelling her ear with your lips as you whispered
co her, while her mind was whirling with the
motion, the music, and you —bah !
And then that momentous evening of all, when
you had sung “For Ever and For Ever,” and
made that effective point, at one passage, with the
little break—half sob, half sigh—which you had
copied from a great singer (but she didn’t know) !
And how she then played for you her favorite
Chopin Nocturne —the one you had made yours—
and which, though you couldn’t hear it—you said
was like the yearning of a soul dying to utter its
love, and became faint before she could finish it,
and how, being now sure of her, you led her to
the seat in the garden under the orange trees,
where the air was languorous with perfume, and
told her, with simulated passion, of your love, and
how she then wept for very joy in your arms, and
lived for a few short weeks the life of the blest
already in Heaven !
Finally, how —when, at a stroke, her fortune
disappeared—you cast her away. Having played
for her, upon every string of her soul, the melody
of life, you left her to listen to the mournful song
of the wind tuning itself through the twisted
strands of her life, while you married money else-
where, and
• * * *
“ Stop, for God’s sake ! ” suddenly cried the
man, jerking himself from his seat in a paroxysm
of frenzy, while the perspiration rolled down his
ashen face, and —■ —
But quickly the attention of the other passengers
was directed to the girl in the corner. “ Poor
thing ! ” said the lady in company with the man—
“ she’s fainted !” Then an elderly gentleman in
gold-rimmed spectacles, who took something from
his pocket, leant over the girl for a few moments.
He shook his head gravely and put the article
“Gone ! ” he said ... “Probably heart!”
T. GINMAR.
Another gallant exploit casually mentioned
ip a Vic. cohentingenter’s letter :
The Boer women look a bit sour when we are going
after their fowls, pigs, &c. We found an oven one day
with two old women guarding it with sticks. We soon
bested them and got the bread.
It was a famous victory !
The Bulletin has received from R. C.
Backhouse, of Sydney, a paper (read before the
N.S.W. Institute of Architects) in which he sets
forth that the existence of so many death-trap
buildings in Sydney is due, not to the ignorance
of architects, but to the commercial craze for a
front that shall be all window—“ practically a
front of glkss and iron supported upon cast-iron
columns and steel stanchions.” The point Mr.
Backhouse chiefly insists on is that—though, given
sufficient heat, no building can be fire-proof—it is
quite possible, and more economical in the long
run, to have structures which will yield so slowly
to fire as to give our fire-fighters the chance they
are at present so often deprived of.
Our New Selection.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
THE SURPRISE PARTY.
Changed circumstances made a new girl of Sarah.
She had abundance of leisure time now, and
revelled in reading the Family Herald, and other
intellectual papers; took a keen interest in
fashions ; studied etiquette hard, and wherever
she visited took stock and learned things ; while
Norah, teaching in town, supplied her with up-to-
date information.
Sarah was never done inflicting new ideas upon
us. She would doll mother up and parade her
round in things that made the good old soul blush
the whole time she was in them. And such inno-
vations ! She scrawled “Ruddville ”on some tin
and nailed it to the front gate, checked Dad for
stirring his tea with a knife, and quarrelled with
Joe if he swigged milk from a jug or grabbed
up the bread and pitched it to her when
she asked him nicely to pass the plate.
The table, too, was never twice laid the same way,
while pieces of furniture constantly swapped
corners. Enter the rooms in the dark and ap-
proach the corner where, in the morning, you saw
the couch, and the chances were you would wreck
the whatnot or tramp on a toy dog or something.
Had Sarah been able to slew the house round, she
would have made it face the East one day and the
backyard the next.
* ♦ m *
One New Year’s Eve we had visitors. Farrell’s
wife was at our place (Farrell, who was the school-
master, frequently handed her over to us while he
went to town to enjoy himself). Miss Mason, a
young lady from town, was spending the week
with Sarah. And the Rev. Peter Macfarlane
dropped in—but only for dinner.
Sarah called Joe and Bill into the kitchen.
“ Have some manners to-day,” she said to Joe,
“ and don’t act as though you had never seen any-
one before. And you ” —to Bill—“you great
gawk, be careful and don’t make a fool of your-
self.”
“We’ll be most p-p -lite,” Joe said (he only
stuttered occasionally now, and often carried
pebbles in his mouth to cure himself of the im-
pediment). And Joe bowed low to the kitchen-wall,
and inquired how it “did,” and would it oblige
by “ p-p-passing th’ s-s-spuds ? ” But Bill blushed
to the ears. He anticipated a bad time. Like
Dave, Bill abhorred company. Dave was sullen
over the matter. Bill was fidgety and flurried,
and his large, lake-like eyes would roll in their
watery sockets.
We were restless. Dinner was very late ; but
when we were called we forgave Sarah everything,
for the table was most inviting. It would have
attracted a painter, or a pig, or even a cockatoo—
there was so much variety. Ferns, flowers, corn-
cobs, wattle - blossoms, corn - stalks and things
waved all over it, and a large, healthy piece of
pumpkin-vine sheltered the butter. Sarah stood
by, smiling, her hands clasped on her apron,
waiting the effect.
Joe was first to enter. He stood, stared, guf-
fawed rudely, and would have run back only the
others were on his heels.
“Dear me, girl!” said Dad, “ what’s all
this?”
Sarah smiled. Everyone sat down. The visi-
tors talked cheerfully, and in turn admired the
piece of pumpkin-vine.
Dave was solemn and silent and indifferent
to it all as a tombstone. Dave had no taste, no
eye for art. Joe passed him a corncob, and he
grinned in his weird way, but, recollecting there
was company, composed himself, and was silent
again. Dave was never boisterous long at a time.
He looked along his nose and waited.
Dad rattled a knife on the steel and began to
carve.
A short interval of silence.
Mrs. Farrell looked at Dave and asked him had
he seen the lovely corn Mullins had. As if she
couldn’t have asked someone else ! Dave started,
fumbled his fingers, lifted his eyes and dropped
them again, but couldn’t think of a word to say.
Joe rescued him. Joe had seen Mullins’s corn.
Dave was very unhappy. He thought every-
body must be staring at him, and sat in dread of
Mrs. Farrell asking more things.
“A very, very small helping of fowl—if you
please,” the parson said, in answer to Dad.
Bill’s eyes and mouth moved rapidly. He
seemed to be repeating poetry or a prayer to him-
self.
“ ’N what’s fer you, Bill ? ”
“Er—a very, very small helping of fowl—if
you please,” he said rapidly.
Joe made an ugly spluttering noise in his throat
which disconcerted Bill. He changed color.
Sarah tried to frown at Bill, but his eyes were
on the parson.
Mrs. Farrell smiled.
The parson stirred his tea, took up his knife and
fork, and began.
Bill did these things, too.
Dave was getting on well. The others talked
about music and concerts.
“ Do you sing, Mr. Rudd ? ” Miss Mason asked,
fixing her lovely big eyes fair on Dave. Poor old
chap ! His fork fell right out of his fingers, and
he did look sheepish.
“He won’t sing !” —Sarah chimed in; “we can
never get him to try, Miss Mason.”
It was good of Sarah to help Dave out.
Joe grinned. He always did when he was
going to say something useless.
“He t-t -ried one night,” he said; “th’ night
th’ s-s-st -allion broke out.”
There was a lot of tittering. Everyone seemed
to enjoy it but Bill and Dad — and Dave.
Bill was studying the parson, and Dad had
failed to hear what Joe said.
Joe lifted his voice.
“I say D-Dave s -sang orright th’ night he
f-f-W-tened th’ s-s-st -allion.”
Dad looked at Dave and “ hoo-hooed.” Every-
one looked at Dave. Dave could feel them. He
stared stolidly and stubbornly into his plate,
wishing to Heaven an earthquake or something
would shatter the house.
Dinner continued, but Dave couldn’t eat another
mouthful, and puddings and fruits and things on
the table, too ! He sat for a while, then, as if he
had had a real good dinner, rose and left. Out-
side he kicked the dog for nothing at all, and
went across to the thresher’s tent and threw him-
self on a bunk.
M‘Phee, the boss-thresher, produced a bottle
from the head of his bed and asked Dave if he’d
have a drop. Dave smiled and took two or three
drops, and stayed all the afternoon.
At tea-time—“ Call Dave! ” mother said to Bill.
Bill found it hard to make Dave hear. But he
came at last—came singing—“Poorsh honish pa-
rensh —born in Cashl (hie) maine.” Everyone
listened.


ile«—
eans for
iliQusness.
CURE CHANGE OF SEASON AILMENTS.
£
m
T certain seasons of the year the human system needs
strengthening and toning up. This is one. Winter
leaves the blood charged with impurities, the bowels
clogged, and the liver sluggish. One feels tired, lan-
guid, and weak, and it is with great difficulty that
work of any kind can be done. This state applies
most particularly to women, who are not too robust.
A panacea to remedy all this, put new life and blood
into one, drive out all impurities, tone up the system,
and make one fit and strong, will be found in BILE
BEANS FOR BILIOUSNESS. For debility, lack of
energy, and change of season ailments, they are
unequalled.
Such symptoms as boils, pimples, blotches, sores,
irruptions, rashes, tetter, and nearly all skin diseases
are proof that the blood is impure, and if not cleansed,
these troubles may be followed by severe symptoms,
such as ulcers, tumors, abscesses, old sores, scrofula, and cancerous
affections. In BILE BEANS FOR BILIOUSNESS we have a remedy that
has cured the severest forms of Bad Blood, from a common pimple, to the
worst scrofula sore, and they are a purely vegetable preparation, so that
the user, while certain of benefit, has no fear of any harm resulting
through the presence of any deleterious substance in their composition,
which, unfortunately, are only too frequently found in many other so-
called blood purifiers. Bile Beans are obtainable from all chemists and
storekeepers, price 13|d. per large box; or direct from the Australian
Depot, Bile Bean Manufacturing Co., 39 Fitt Street, Sydney.
A. SLUG&ISH LIVER CURED.
“Bile Beans acted wonderfully,” says Mrs. Williams.
Mrs. May Williams, of 350 Pitzroy Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne, says “ For years past I have suffered
much from a sluggish liver. Five months ago, in consequence of hearing some of my acquaintances speak
highly of Bile Beans, I decided to try them. They acted in a wonderful manner, 'in three days I felt a
decided change for the better, the distressing symptoms disappeared, the sallowness left my face, and the
hue of health returned. lam sure that if the virtues were fully recognised not a house in Australia would
he without a box of Bile Beans.”
,
QUALITY IS HIGHER HERE
Arad the Prices are as Low as elsewhere for humdrum
Styles. That is one of the advantages of buying: from us.
No. W 7. Silver-Plated Hair-Pin
Box, 8s 6d.
No. W 9. Silver-Plated Jewel-Case,
Satin-lined, £1 Is.
No. W 24. Embossed and Silver-
Plated Hair-Pin Box, 10s 6d-
No. F5173A. Silver-
Plated Spectacle
Case, 10s 6d.
No. F 839. Silver-Plated Butter Dish,
with Knife, 9s 6d.
e$
No. W2OlB. Egg-Shape Satin lined
Jewel-Case, best Silver-Plated, £1 is.
No. F 4457. Silver-Plated Ink-
Stand, 18s 6d.
No. W 36. Best Silver-Plated
Shaving Mug, £1 2s 6d.
No. F 4587. Leather
Spectacle Case,
Plated Mounts,
7s Cd.
No. F 4707. Carved Ivory Handle Bread Fork, 11s 6d.
No. F 4588. Silver Glove Button-Hook, 2s.
No. E 9070. Combination Eger Frame and
Cruet, Cut Glass and Best Silver-Plate,
£1 15b.
No. F 4709. Carved Pearl
Handle Bread Fork, 13/6.
No. F 4849. Silver-Plated Fern Pot,
Height, 8 inches, £3.
Write for our Illustrated! Catalogue.
Stewart Dawson & Co.
£l2 GEORGE STREET and STRAND, SYDNEY.
“No stransher he (hie) didsh fear ’’—and in the
door Dave walked, looking happy. He sat at the
table close to Miss Mason, and smiled
Bill began to giggle. Mother and Sarah stared
at each other.
Wheresh parshun?” Dave said, looking about
the room. _ Joe took the giggles too.
Dave grinned and closed one eye, and said to
Joe : “ C’n you (hie) shing, Mish Rudd? ”
Mrs. Farrell leaned back, and shrieked, and held
her sides.
“ Where’ve you been ? ” Dad said, looking
across at Dave like a Chief-Justice.
“ Been ? Shup there ” and Dave spread
himself out and took possession of the table ; and
how he did eat !
Dad finished and left abruptly, and went
straight to the threshers’ tent.
Mother became anxious, and went to the veran-
dah. She was afraid of a quarrel, and stood
watching. The tall green corn rustled and rasped
its tangled leaves as jt tossed and bent in the
breeze that was springing up.
Mother gave a nervous start. Dad’s voice,
strong and loud, floated on the air.
“You dud.”
“I deed -anti”
“You dud ! d—n you man, you dud.”
But the row ceased suddenly. MTliee, who
was a good judge of character, resorted to persua-
sion. He spoke softly to Dad, and patted him on
the back.
“ I’m frae Dumfries,” he said. (So was dad.)
“ Ye’er haun’,” said McPhee.
Dad gave it, and they shook like brothers and
peered affectionately into each other’s eyes. Then
McPhee sprung the bottle on Dad. Dad wouldn’t
take very much—he took about an inch.
They talked of Scotland—at least McPhee did ;
Dad didn’t know anything about it.
“ No—no more,” Dad said, and shook his head.
“Beh! ye’er nae frae Dumfries.”
“Wull—just a drop, then.” And Dad took
some more, and smacked his lips, and said it was
good stuff.
Mother remained on the verandah; but as it
got dark Dad came along, and with him MoPhee,
the thresher.
* * • ,
The night was bright as day, and a cool breeze
blowing. Mother and Sarah and Joe and the
visitors sat on the verandah listening to Cook’s
boys, about a mile down, putting their calves in.
Curlews and mopokes were about, and we could
hear the ’possums round the corn at the seven-
teen-acres. Dad was inside entertaining M‘Phee.
Dave came out and leaned against a verandah-
post. “ Cansh make up dansh ?” he said.
“ Make up a dance —make up your bed ! ” Sarah
answered, and Mrs. Farrell shrieked again.
‘‘ D—dance, y’_ want ? ” Joe said. “ Well, come
on ” — an d he seized Dave round the waist and
proceeded to pull him about. They were tumbling
and sprawling on the verandah like two bears
when the dogs rushed out and barked. The tramp
and rattle of horse-hoofs, the clinking of bits and
irons blended with voices, came from the rear.
Next moment quite an army of mounted men and
women were crowding and clamouring at the
front. They yelled all sorts of friendly greetings.
One, to attract attention, spurred his horse into
the paling fence, and swore because the animal
couldn’t shake an old kerosene-tin off its foot.
Sarah ran down the steps, and hugged and kissed
everything that dismounted in a riding-habit.
Dave stood on the brink of the verandah and
called out “Night!” and raised one hand, as
though he would address them, but he slipped, and
fell on top of a pack of snarling dogs, and sent one
veiling round the house, and made Jim Black’s
horse pull back, and rear, and mix itself up with
other horses.
Dad came out and wanted to know what the
devil all the row was about. Then the mob, which
was a surprise-party, fastened its horses to the
palings and proceeded to load the verandah with
provender. All were armed with provisions. Some
carried them in baskets, some in bags, some in
paper. Wild Dick Saunders—a rough, hairy
man with a harsh, aggressive voice, who carried
his in a red handkerchief—volunteered to stand
guard over the pile and keep the dogs away.
Such a crowd ! and so tall and sombre-looking
at night ! They tramped clumsily on the verandah
and seethed and shoved like scrub cattle yarded
in the moonlight.
Dad and mother were ever so long shaking
hands before they got round the lot. Long Jerry
Johnson was the last, but he couldn’t shake hands
at all—his arms were full. He carried their baby,
six weeks old, and concealed in a shawl and a long
dress. There the great elf stood like a dead tree,
holding his offspring out from him as though it
were a wet dog.
“Ullol wot’ve yer here?” Dad said; “more
grub?”
“No —tn 6a-by,” said Jerry, meekly.
'‘A baby? Wull, keep it, keep it; we don’t
want none o’ them— do we, ol’ woman? (tomother)
we’ve had plenty. Wot wer’ it, ol’ gal—sixteen ? ”
“ Go along,” Mother said.
“ Sixteen o’ ’em, Jerry ! But let’s see if it’s
like y’.” And Dad grabbed the ohild and pushed
his way in with it.
Joe grinned, and whispered in Jerry’s ear:
‘ I W-watch if the ol’ m-man don’t d-d-rop it—he’s a
bit m -merry.”
Jerry jumped as if he had been struck with
something. “Look out!” he said, and went
through the crowd at the door like a racehorse.
He asked Dad to give back the baby, but Mrs.
Johnson came, and took the mite, and put it on a
bed in a back room where no one would hear it
squeal if anyone sat on it, or if it fell out.
The surprise-party took possession of the house
—bundled the tables out —hunted round for chairs
and gin-cases, and set the concertina going. Then
they proceeded to play “ games.” They arranged
chairs and gin-cases in a line down the room and
half-way to the kitchen, and while the musician
strained and jerked out a jig they pranced round
until the music shut up suddenly, when they
yelled and squealed and rushed headlong
at the same chair, and fell on it until it
collapsed and went to pieces. After that the con-
certina broke out again, and they picked each
other out of the dust and puffed and prepared to
prance more.
Wild Saunders, left in charge of the provisions,
appeared at the door. “Jerry Johnson!” he
shouted, “come out here an’mind this ham-bone
o’ yours or the dogs ’ll have it, bag and all! ”
“Oh, dear!” some said; others went “Shi
sh ! ” and Miss Mason, sitting near the door,
covered her ears with her hands.
But Saunders didn’t apologise; he simply
added : “It’s a good job y’ didn’t leave th’
picaninny in th’ bag ! ”
Dave sauntered in and looked round. Prompted
by new-born feelings of hospitality, he went
silently through the company, and, in a broad
smile and no collar, shook hands with everyone,
including Joe and Sarah. Then he raised himself
in triumph against the wall, and struck his head
hard against the shelf, and shook down the clock,
and a cob of corn, and a bottle of murky-looking
water in which Bill, a year before, had corked a
snake. The clock didn’t break much, nor the oob
°£ c ? rl J’ *'^ l6 bottle containing the snake did.
And the crash was hardly over when a panic set
u 1 * uj°b a soramble! to see them getting out
both doors ! and to hear them choking when they
got out!
wer ’ in th’ bottle?” said old Andrew
O JJay, in an injured tone.
Joe explained, and Andrew spat more.
“ 4- deed horse is naething t’ it,” said M'Phee,
walking towards his tent. And they all assem-
blsd at the foot of the steps and laughed. Inside,
the bottle lay silently on the floor, and the snake
cast its robust fragrance into the atmosphere and
infected the provisions.
They collected the provender, and, making use
of the kitchen, invited Dad, and mother, and the
lot of us to supper. Then all went out again and
danced on the grass. And as midnight ap-
proached, and the old year went and the new
crept, in, in the shade of the sinking moon and
the light of a million stars they joined hands in
hearty grip, and filled the cornfields and hollows
with dragging echoes of “ For Auld Lang Syne.”
Q.
SREELDE RUDD.
The Population Racket.
Editor Bulletin, —I see that the doctors are
adding their wail to the cry about the reduced
birth-rate of Australia. That interests me; for
it is those very doctors and their concomitant
nurses who are a grand obstacle in the way of in-
creasing the birth-rate.
• * * *
I am prepared to admit that doctors and nurses
are a painful necessity at this day—when the
middle class woman of civilisation is so degen-
erated that child-birth has become an artificial
terror instead of a natural function. I don’t ex-
pect civilised Australian women to make as little
fuss as the black gin—whom I have seen
drop out of the line of march for a
couple of hours, and catch up to camp
at nightfall with a lusty bambino on her
back —having received (as I understand) little
other obstetrical assistance than that afforded by
the overhanging limb of a tree. Other times,
other manners; and lam ready to bear my share
of the white man’s burden.
• * * •
But when the doctors cry out “ More babies ! ”
I retort “ Cheaper babies ! ” I suppose the
minimum medical charge per baby is £5 ss., —
which the doctor looks to increase by subsequent
visitations. My own plain, ordinary lot cost me
from £lO 10s. to £lB 18s. apiece—and the doctors
did nothing. They stood by in case of accidents
—that was all. Every sensible doctor realises
that it is his business to do nothing, as long as
Nature can perform the work satisfactorily—as
she will, if given a fair chance. I don’t grudge
the money ; I paid it with a good heart. The
responsibility was worth it.
• • • *
But a friend of mine was less fortunate. You
have to remember that, as a leading Sydney
medico told me, “ Most of the quacks are inside
the profession.” My friend fell into the hands of
a quack with a beautiful bedside manner—he
excited the nurse’s admiration because he was
such a nice, private man! ” —and the quack
omitted just one little essential thing. Result on
next occasion : abortion, subsequent operation,
and a bill of expenses for something like £l2O
spread over two years. Possibly permanent ill-
health for my friend’s wife as well.
* * • *
Then there is the nurse. The doctor of to-day
“prefers a trained nurse.” That means, inmost
cases, he prefers a chit of a girl who hasn’t been
through the maternal mill herself, and knows
nothing about it. But she has possibly had six
months’ hospital “training,” has half-assimilated
a couple of text-books, and has then been turned
loose, under medical patronage, to experiment on
patients. I admit that a good “trained nurse” is
a good thing; I would even admit that a bad
“ trained nurse ” is better than an ignorant mid-
wife—since she has usually learnt to obey doctor’s
orders; —but how few good “trained nurses-” are
there ! Nowadays nearly every large family of
girls endeavors to make a nurse of one of them.
Nursing is a “profession.” And im 90> cases out
of 100 the girl is unfit to be a nurse by tempera-
ment, and misfit by training.
* • * *
The old-fashioned midwife of the better class
was really a nurse. That is to say, she was an
experienced matron; she had seen childbirth go
on, she had felt it go on, and she knew all about
it. She was a cook, who could tempt a precarious
appetite. She could manage a baby, because she
had managed hundreds of babies. She did not
disdain to help with sewing, and she knew how to
clean a room and keep it tidy. She was not too proud
to wash and iron for her patient. And even if she
grew stout, after Sairey Gamp’s pattern, she was
a cheerful presence in the house.
* • * *
But the “ trained nurse ” of to-day is usually a
quarter-fledged medical student, aping the dignity
of a physician. She can’t cook; she won’t sew ;
“she wants everything done for her.” She did
her best to kill one of my youngsters—strictly ac-
cording to her misreading of her text-book. And
her charge is £2 2s. a week for doing (in my ex-
perience) as little as possible.
* « • •
Now, you can estimate the cost of a baby.
Doctor—say £lO 10s. Nurse (with food—and
she’s particular about her food), another £lO 10s.
(If all goes well, that is. If things go ill —add any
amount more you please.) Prime cost of baby, in
ordinary middle-class household, £2l, plus another
£2l for clothes, drugs and appliances—total, £42.
That is cash outlay, and incidental expenses of
wife’s convalescence make to-day’s middle-class
baby in Australia fair value for £50 —and no acci-
dents charged.
*** - *
Well, a middle-class income can’t always afford
£5O for a new baby. Remember that the other
children are growing up, and costing from £25 to
£5O per annum apiece ; and that their future musk
be somehow provided for, though the middle-
class income doesn’t often increase with the years.
In the country, where youngsters can run wild
without being the worse for it, you can still
have the desiderated 12 or 14 in a family. But in
the city, when doctors and nurses raise the initial
cost to £5O per head, the thing’s out of the ques-
tion, unless you resign yourself to a family life of
stinting and scraping. But if the doctors are
really patriotic, and not moved by self-interest, I
suggest that they reduce their fees on a sliding-
scale according to number of children. And I
think that the average nurse, at 30s. per week and
tucker, would be very well paid. Anyway, she
should drop her absurd “ professional status,” and
become what she essentially is—a superior ser-
vant. —Yours, for Wife and Self, A Father in
Israel.
Several Mahommedans have deposits iix
N.S.W. savings banks, but on no occasion do
they accept interest. They plead a mandate of
the Koran.


Cures all Diseases of the Skin
Eczema, Salt-rheum, Tetter, Rashes, Pimples,
Blackheads, Boils, Ulcers All Due to Impure Blood.
Bead how this young girl was cured with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
fC
z
Mm
Mrs. May Watson, 9 Bose Boad, Surry Hills, Sydney, New So. Wales, sends
us the above photograph of her daughter, together with the following testi-
monial :
“ My daughter was suffering terribly from eczema on both her hands and feet.
I had tried many remedies without success. Bemembering I had received great
help from Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla myself, I began to give it to my daughter.
Soon she showed signs of improvement, and after taking a few bottles the sores
disappeared and she is now free from the slightest symptom of the old complaint,
feaie is as fresh and healthy as any girl could wish to be. This makes me strongly
recommend this wonderful medicine to any one needing a good blood-purifier.”
Such cures always follow the use of
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Tou cannot feel well unless your blood is pure, and it must be rich, too. Dr.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will give you both of these, pure blood, rich blood. That
is what you need and what you can quickly have if you will only give this old,
reliable remedy a good trial. Get your blood right and you will no longer suffer
with depression, nervousness, general debility, or some form of skin disease.
AYER’S Sarsapari lla
Brings Comfort and Good Cheer.
Is your tongue coated? Are your bowels constipated? AYER’S PILLS.
20
YEARS’ SUCCESS
AS THE
UNIVERSAL REMEDY
FOB
Coughs, Colds,
f Asthma, Bronchitis,
influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Consumption,
HAS MADE
junglomc
AH ABSOLUTE NECESSITY IN THE HOME
OR KIT OF EVERY COLONIAL.
It saves many Lives.
There is no difficulty in obtaining it , so
when you ash for Owbridge’s Lung
Tonic , insist upon havhvg it , as
other so-called remedies are
often substituted.
Prepared by
W.T. OWBRIDOE, i.P.S. , Chemist, Hull,
Sold in bottles, at Is lAd., 9<1.4s 6(i, &
by all Colonial Medicine Vendors.
COPYRIGHT.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEWsMS
IiOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
I Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on thtr Skin, Dis-
turbed Sloe]), and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE b IKS I DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF TN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will he acknowledged to he VilOßiH A
ttUIN.VA A BOX.” * _
BEECH AM ’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud or Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecliams Pills have the hardest Sale of any Patent Mediemein
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywl) ere, in Boxes, Is and 2s Od each.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
S. FREEMAN * SONS V-^
Millers, Manu acturers, and Importers.
BATHOS BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRA Of OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WTNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
A POLICY FOR THE
COMMONWEALTH.
Bcipg a series of articles repripted
froip “Tbe BCillctio^ 99 v/itb ap
appepdix dealipg with tb* Fiscal
Q6e&tiop.
PRICE 6d.; posted, Bd.
s vtsZmvZ
Tlie Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate 2?e-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of tne Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigrestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
.A-?:
DINNEFORDSi
MAGNESIA]
if
A
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
sd
o
fg
sdf
■—■—————
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
jpssss*
MB
IS
rj»H> o
5 (S*
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


SITDNBIT
Rubber Works
MANUFACTURERS OR
Sheet Rubber,
Washers,
Valves,
Gas Tubing,
Rubber Rings,
Rollers,
Buffers,
and Every Description of
Mechanical Rubber Goods.
Works :
CAREY STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
City Office :
PERDRIAU and CO.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
60
•sfflciavi fflHi sos
ojsiajia sa?ai
W. C. rEJIiIDrRIIDOKE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STlUiin; l\ SYDNI3V
(Qpp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by pout from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBiNS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
EOW READY.
A POLICY
FOR THE
COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d; posted, Bd.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
©
•V -
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Worthington Pumps
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Catalogue.
IMDa/ain.-yrg
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
<SHE Abbot
J. & J. MAX FI ELD, Proprs.. SHEFFIELD.
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also all
“ TUB BLOCK,"
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
NEWMAN’S
ANTISEPTIC
NEWMAN’S
in King: St.
1/- a. b O3E
THROAT PASTILLES.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS'S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COG O A
BREAKFAST SUPPER.
ERASMIC
PEERLESS
- - SOAP
Unequalled as a Preserver and
Beautifier of the Complexion. It diffuses an exquisite
odor, and imparts a stimulating and refreshing influence.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
'’7?' 'A'-s,■■■■■
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
can
OBTAIN
IT
USING
0
*
V
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- 4. 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
i'ELTON, GrIMWADE & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
COMPRESSORS.
gsd
Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors hold the highest
average records throughout the world. They have met and defeated in fair competition
every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain their reputation for
doing the most work at the least expense. Write for Catalogue to
The Representatives in Australia of
ROCK
DRILLS
“ New Ingrersoll.”
3HI
.
o' j*
OH
&
>-P
O*
-J
IF. GHEGOBY &z. CO
74 Clarence Street SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
“3
435 Bourke Street
-VS:
eers and General Machinery Merchants.
II ;
PRINCIPAL
Blake Steam Pumps
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery
Tanite Emery Wheels
Sturtevant’s Fans and Forges
Pickering Governors
Ludlow Valves
Schuttes’ Korting Injectors
“Champion” Lubricating Oils
Hoyts’ Leather Belting
Genuine “ Atlas ” Metal
Empire Laundry Machinery
Stratton’s Steam Separators
American Tool Co’s Lathes
Goubert’s Eeed Water Heaters
TO'JIWCiiKSG
- CO
eiHjrtNN'tri
