

McE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid’s London Draught Stout.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
R. 6. WATK-IMS dC CO.,
107 Kent street;, Sydney,
—FOB —
M ining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. _
śďs
Send for
Prices and
Particulars.
•
Descriptive
Catalogues
on
Appiication.
Most
Up-to-Date
Machines.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
1-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
NOW READY.
A POLICY
FOR THE
COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d; posted, Bd.
» u
Sawing & Woodworking
Vertical & Horizontal Band Mills,
(3-rau.d. JPrix,” Paris, 3 000.
(HIGHEST POSSIBLE AWARD.)
SOLE AGENTS;
HOLD THE WORLD’S RECORD
tM
85 Pitt Street,
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
HELIDON SPA.
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH & GO. LtdL., Agents, Sydney.
*#et
ttobart.
— zm. —-
Radley s Orient hotel.
jjgOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hote
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF fo
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME
SANDEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
24:1 PITT STREET, SYOKTEY.
PETTY’S HOTEL
IS UNSURPASSED
by that of any other in Sydney for
Comfort, Privacy, Convenience and
Healthy Situation.
The Sanitary Arrangements are of the
most perfect description.
The Hotel is under the Direct Management and
Supervision of
MRS. WILLIAM GANftON, Proprietress,
Telephone 274. Church Hill, Sydney.
10s. per Day or £3 3s. per week.
SPECIAL TERMS CAN BE ARRANGED FOR
FAMILIES AND PRIVATE APARTMENTS.
PIONEER
g
LEATHER
ONiJ-isa
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUOOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches:—P. Frankel & Co., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q. ;
H Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
Co Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
F
air girls
2nd Edition.
AND GRAY
Price 4/6.
HORSES
JOHN JAMESON
“ THREE-STAR ” WHISKEY.
Agents : J. BABRE JOHNSTOJT & CO., Loftns Street, Sydney.
EMPIRE HOTEL, SYDNEY
JVCOST OS3SrTI&.A,XJMZr J^Ej^XT-A-TEX).
OTAR9-DUPUT
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
PROOF.>
sjfsrlS#
USE
Head Office:
10 BUCK ST., SYDNEY
, : I .
AT THE CLUB, IN THE HOME,
FOR THE SICK AND THE SOUND,
EVERYWHERE, AND FOR EVERYBODY,
BOOMERANG BRANDY
THE BEST
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10&3. CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s CtybrocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatiofy.
KAY EYE AR EYE EM
LAGER
The Bulletin
Vol 22 No/ 1129. j
[Saturday, October 5, 1901.
P postered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THJt
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
a
A. The Larynx, or organ o 1
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C • The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered),
. Contain, NO cocaine or other poisonous dru<j
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, In Tins, Is 6d; from the Proprietor. G HUDSON PhAmiof i no „,; Al , n i j
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE. ’ Ipswich, Queensland—post
THE MED PAGE.
A Miscarriage of History.
TE History of the Australian Colonies ”
compiled by Joseph Finney, B.A
printed by W. A. Gulliek, Govt. Printer
1901 )’ - and “published by
authority, has been received for re : ew This
M«w erS 4°,° d be that “ History ” for which
Education Dept, paid £450 to H. H
Lusk then a Sydney barrister, in 1800 ; and which
the Department has been revising and altering
and improving ever since. The book is stated to
Sing h Offic b e een W*¥
Printing Office while the tinkering went on
Some time ago the total cost before print-
£loo0 Wa a nd re pa rt r d tC> Parliament as about
matter Parliamentary remarks about the
matter seem to have stirred the Edu-
activitv Dt For tm ft nt • t 0 ® omewh . at reckless
after Kei i •°tj sadly evident that,
after being hidden m the official womb for only
eleven years, the official “ History ” is bo™
prematurely. The Education Dept. Should have
that kdls - r?memb f ing that lfc is th e pace
t iat kills and in another generation or so the
ns s of birth might have been safely encountered.
Errors of type and misprints abound. On p.
r f re ad first; p. xi., for Somoa read
Sanwa, and for Reponsibilities read Responsibili-
rl«d pom' nea r , ead near ’ P- 18, for Phillips’
read Phillips; p. 12, for La Perouse read La
Perouse; p. 26, for begun read began; p. 39, for
e/om read efforts ; p. 102,, for Howell read Novell ;
L, ;L T read t aGt; P‘ 156 > for read
less, p. 159, for months read months; p. 185,
Parliaments of the Colony” should be “Par-
liaments of the Colonies;” p. 270 Bavlv’s
be Mj,',. On p P 3 IO We K
° f i>/ocms of New Zealand, and on
p. 330 of the Deoemirs ” of Rome. These
examples by no means exhaust the list of errors
noted. Capt. Macarthur’s name is persistently
misspelled \ McArthur. A Dutch navigator’s name
k spelied both Vlamingh (pp. 7, 10) and Vlaming
The book is illustrated by several maps in the
rext, and by some score beyond the text, litho-
graphed in colour. Of these latter, many are ill
conceived and ill plotted. Some skill is required
in drawuig and printing a map for reproduction
so that the relative importance of geographical
names shall be preserved, and the map shall not
oe obscure ; and this skill has been wanting to the
book under consideration. There is no list of
maps in the table of contents. The map which
faces the title is apparently designed to represent
Australia at the present day; but as there is no
explanatory title, and indeed no title at all, this
opnnon may be erroneous. There is a note
of reference to explorers’ tracks, but the tracks
are barely decipherable-which is possibly
rather an advantage than otherwise, seeing that
they are incomplete and inaccurate. The only
record of exploration in Westralia, for example, is
given by a track which represents a hitherto-
unknown journey made by Leichhardt from
Albany to the Swan river. It does not appear
that Australia has ever been traversed from east
to west. No railways are shown ; no overland
telegraph-line. Port Jackson i 3 named, but not
Port Phillip. Wollongong and Bowen are shown,
but not Toowoomba and Ballarat. In other ways
this map has curious interest for geographers.
Facing p. 1 hj a map of New South Wales, show-
ing railway lines. The trunk lines N. and S.
apparently end at Tenterfield and Albury respec-
tively. There is no railway communication
between Tamworth and Manilla, Byron Bay and
Lismore or Murwillumbah, Culcairn and Corowa,
Parkes and Forbes. The Clarence and Macleay
rivers are named, but not the Richmond. The
Clarence River branches in several new directions,
possibly following the coach-tracks. In other
particulars this map will repay careful study.
A map facing p. 72, and apparently designed to
show the extent of early coastal exploration of
Australia, has no title.
The maps of other States, and the map of
Maoriland, offer material for comment similar to
that offered by the map of N.S. Wales. In some
respects the most remarkable map in the book is
that of Queensland, here reduced in fac-simile
of line.
Observe that Cairns is omitted, and the fail-
ways from Cooktown to Laura, and Cairns to
luareeba, are joined in one remarkable line—“bv
authrjrity ” of N.S.W. Education Dept. ! Note
that the extension of the railway from Charleville
to Ounnamulla has been tacked on to the Central
hne, and goes south from Longreach, ending
somewhere near Adavale ! ! -Note all the other
points for comment !!!
Were the book otherwise perfect, it would be
condemned mechanically. It is printed on
glossy paper from light-face type ; and only bold-
tace type, and paper without glaring reflections,
should be used for school-books. And it is badly
printed. In the copy under notice the formes
have rarely • received sufficient ink, and the
impression is so unsatisfactory that many letters
do not print clearly {e.g., p. 238). As the book
stands, it is a menace to one’s eyesight ; and
the eyesight of our children is very premous. To
f “ of
well-iul« d / up riX"Sed7pe b r°“-“ 8
FLORENTINE PAINTING OF
THE FOURTEENTH
CENTURY
mHE art of the Trecento is overshadowed by the genius of
otto - , He had discovered a style so perfecUy moulded
to the ideas of his time and the genius of the Italian people,
that for nearly a hundred years artists were engrossed the
work of applying that style to the recital of all the legends of
Christum mythology. Thus it comes about that the art of this
po-iod has the effect of an anti-climax. It is tob like Giotto’s
art in its aim not to be instantly compared with that, and too
unhke m its accomplishment not to suffer by the comparison.
Adhmng strenuously to the high and heroic notion of art
which Giotto had established, it left no room for the .mf.Hin.
o slighter talents, for the indulgence of trivial but genuine
interests. With the comparative lowering of the imaginative
arms Of art m the fifteenth century, such minor painters
attained to their complete development; and we often pass by
a G.ottesque fresco in which the principles of the grandTtyle
are stuchously upheld, m order to admire the genial trifling of
some fifteenth century cassone painter who scarcely regarded
himself as more than a craftsman, but who had the good
fortune to be able to work unreservedly, on the level of hia
own temperament |lt was not always thus. When Italian art
" Studled more for Ch-stinn sentiment than for •>,
here is (refJuced) page of the Education
Dept. s _ h,story,” printed from light-face type,
upon bright-surfaced paper :
HISTORY OP AUSTHAMA.
ci *P- Id The Gold Era. [i Kl
remained triumphantly in possession of the fielt). Having-
thus taken a decisive step, they proceeded to organise them-
selves as a military force under chosen leaders, and, having
arms, erected a stockade and hoistod a flag representing the
Republic of \ ictoria, which was duly proclaimed within the
new entrenchment. The,force of soldiers on the field was
small, consisting of only about 200 men, while the insurgents
were numerous, although badly armed and without disci-
pline. The remainder of the regiment (the fl!)th) had been
hastily dispatched from Melbourne to reinforce tho troops
already on tho Beene, and the diggers, never dreaming of
their approach, betrayed the carelessness of undiaciplinod
men.
The officer in command of the troops at Ballarat.eager to
distinguish himself before the arrival of his superiors, seized
The Eureka the opportunity thus offered, and at day-
Stockade. break on the morning of Sunday, the 3rd of
December, surprised the “Eureka Stockade,” which, after
a short struggle, he took by storm. A good many insurgents
were cither killed or wouuded, and 125 taken prisoners.
Amongst the latter was Mr. Peter Lalor, who had boen the
most prominent of the leaders. Having, been accidentally
concealed by the falling timber of the stockade, Mr. Lalor
escaped to the ranges, where he obtained concealment.and
I medical attendance. A reward, of £5OO offered
capture hv the Government produced no result; and tho
ringleader of the Ballarat insurrection lived to preside for
many years as Speaker over the Victorian Assembly, al-
though with the loss of an arm to recall this etching event
in hia career
The essentials of comparison are maintained :
and it cannot be questioned which page is the
easier to read without fatiguing the.eyes. N.S.W
Education Dept-, in its hurry to issue its “ His-
tory, appears not to havq, considered the vital
point of legibility.
We might presume it is the foundation of the
Commonwealth that has brought the Education
Dept, to bed before due time. The foundation of
the Commonwealth sets indeed a convenient
period to early Australian history. This is the
fitting time to survey the record of tin? past, and
to place m the hands of Australian school-children
a, book which relates how the diverse paths of the
Australian colonies reached the high-road of
National Union. But, singularly enough, the
Education Dept, s history gives no such relation
It never reaches its natural close. It is published
m September, 1901, and it leaves the “History of
the Australian Colonies ” floundering in the dis-
-ISQS 6 °4 1899 J Th u e - refer to 1897 and
1898. The stage which the Federation movement
has reached is told on p. 188—thus:
of T ! BQa r , eq ?L 3ifce , pr ° visi u on /or the submission of the Bill
of 1899 to the electors having been made, in June it was
accepted by New South Wales, and shortly after by Vic-
toria, South Australia, Tasmania, and Queensland. The
Parliaments of these colonies have since sent addresses to
the Queen, pray mg that the Constitution may be passed
into law by the Imperial Parliament. p
That is as far as the native caution of N.S.W
Education Dept, will permit it to affirm, so
the reference to its reckless activity must be
taken relatively only. The Department’s warm
espousal of the tradition that Queen Anne
is dead cannot be attributed to mechanical
reasons, for there are half-a-dozen printing firms
m Sydney that would undertake to complete 5000
copies of the History ” m three months and the
resources of N.S.W. Govt. Printing Office4re
piobably greater than any two of those firms can
command. No - the Department’s ignorance of
events since 1899 is attributable purely to its
native caution. It distrusts the stability of
these new-fangled constitutions. So that the
Departmental miscarriage of history cannot
after all, be ascribed to any natural desire
to commemorate the foundation of the Common-
wealth ; and the unseemly haste in publication
remains entirely to be deplored.
It is doubtless the Department’s mad dream
that a school hi story-of 350 pages can be prepared
for issue m only eleven years that is responsible
a f , • ie a PP e arance of a historical monstrosity
U times even a sheep is dangerous; and when
Kea-lape grows revolutionary, anything is pos-
ioni V * th jdepartment’s struggle to publish in
LJOI tacts and figures of as recent date as 1897-8
it is plain that too severe a strain has been placed
jy°“ t" 6 . compiler—“ Joseph Finney, B.A.
I raser Scholar), Lecturer, Public Training Col-
lege; Master of the Practising School, Fort-
street, Sydney.” In justice to Mr. Finney the
Department should have hastened slowly, mind-
ful that the greatest zeal is only creditable when
rightly directed. Caught in the furious whirlwind
of Departmental energy, Mr. Finney evidently has
been hurried along atapace which made proper con-
sideration of his work impossible. So the History
is not only feeble and inadequate as a whole ; but
it contains many pages written in awkward and
plebeian sty'e, many blunders of syntax,
and not a ew gross misprints. The task
°u * ood sh ° rt histor y of Australia that
.shall be at once correct and inspiring,—a river of
full and lucid statement that is never lost in the
desert of facts and dates, —is by no means an easy
one. Yet it is a task not beyond the powers of a
practised writer gifted with a clear head, a little
imagination, and the capacity of taking pains
The authorities are easily accessible, and easily to
be mastered. One would think that almost any
head-teacher employed by N.S.W. Education
Dept, should be able to survey the data and write
an accurate and adequate sketch of a history. To
write the History it is plain that one should
command an English style always elevated, clear,
any strong. By the insane haste of the Education
Uept. Mr. Finney has been spurred into a style
which is often no style at all—so mean, obscure,
and cumbersome does it become. The first 150
pages, or so, of the History are satisfactory, and
often good; but when the Department’s pace
begins to tell the language flounders all over the
course. Even the commended pages are some-
times faulty. Thus, on p. 43, we read of Capt.
King that
he was intelligent in his objects and persevering and
patient in their attainment.
Capt. King s intelligence could not be in objects
beyond it; it might be in his aims or in his choice
or objects. He could not be patient in the
attainment of objects, since it is meant that, his
patience preceded attainment—that he was patient
in the pursuit or prosecution of his objects, or
persevering to their attainment. ( Their is not
admirable). It is a pity that Departmental hurry
did not permit of relative words being intelligent
in their antecedents and persevering and patient
m their attainment : throughout the book
(e.g., p. 75; p. 122, 1. 10; p. 143, 1. 20; p. 174,
1. 7 ; p. ISO, 1. 22; et al.) the relative’s pursuit of
the antecedent would disappoint Capt. King.
And even when the antecedent is caught one does
not always get pleasure from the attainment.
E.g., p, 169
The British India Steam Navigation Company has sup-
nntf a „ s . ervice between Australia, India, and China ; the
Union Steamship Company of New Zealand one between
the latter place and the continental colonies : while
these themselves there is daily communication
by railroad and by splendid fleets of steamships owned by
various companies. J
This cheap journalese style makes the last half of
the History execrable; and the example given is
by no means the worst. The misuse of such words
as centres, meaning “oentres of population ” ;
of products ; and of similar words dear to the
heart of the evening newspaper reporter, sets
one s teeth on edge. On p. 173, we read—
I, Jbe districts of Tamworth, New England, and Mudgee,
of iii-ii'ze ° me flne centre8 ’ Producing the very best quality
Lower down, on the same page—
• . . mills have been erected in the principal centres.
At top of next page—
*v.Tht'di«stric.ts surr ounding the metropolis have become
lemon' 6 * C6ntreS f ° F the cultivation of the orange and
On p. 92 the “centre” acquires unusual pro-
perties— * *
th e strife between the Emancipists and Exclusives,
which centred around both these matters .
The Education Dept, having determined to
move quickly, even “stagnation” becomes an
active force.—On p. 265 “the stagnation .. . was
creeping over the young settlement.” On p. 266
p e oi removal of the long stagnation.”
5' the stagnation which had fallen upon
trade and commerce.” P. 320-“ some policy
T. ould ? a P, the prevailing stagnation.”
1 rungs inaugurated vary from “Melbourne
University ” (p. 210) to “ public works ” (p. 270)
on p. f 330— ltG products ” « effectively displayed
ti,T. he ■ Boil , an , d climate of the islands, however, render
em singularly fitted for the production of many of the
entries" ° f tr ° PiCal and subtropical
As to “tropical’’-“the problem of the labour
question* m the more tropical districts is not yet
solved ” (p. 257). Further (p. 261)- 7
In the end it is possible that all parts of the Australian
continent which are actually tropical will require separate
government from those that are temperate?but fo?theh
own sakes it is desirable to speed slowly.
The opinion is questionable ; and the expression of
such an opinion is beyond a school-historian’s
province. Districts, of course, are either within
niOTe ” °or° r< q^ 7 not ’ tbere no room for
It woukl be interesting to set the Fort-street
Practising School to parse these sentences—
It was felt that both the legislative and executive work
rp B u he ,° 0 ony had suffere d, and that the only hope of
reall ' ®trpng government lay in accepting the fiscal poliev
in force ’
They [New Zealand Railways] have, however been
trfffip d? A rapld V i an i d , already ?’ 222 miles are open for
traffic. An important line now in course of construction
to umte the east and west coast of the Southern Island’
by a private company, who receive in compensation—on
the principle so largely adopted in the United States of
A la ® r * oa ‘ a pant of land on both sides of the route
mt ' a mo "°P° ly - for a certain number of years’
of the line when made.—P. 325. years >
txsfza • 1 “ wh ”- the SpS
And the compiler sapiently continues—
Should this decadence continue, the time will probablv
come When the colony must be either inhabited by Euro-
peans, or principally by coolies from Southern Asia 7
The Department’s precipitate ardour for print
has apparently left the compiler no time to
employ his literary sense. We read—
the inhabitants 01 ® 6 f ° rm ° f jury 0r a i ury of
v,‘ ■ • th ®, par U w as flercely attacked by the natives,
P 118 m beafclnB ' them off wi th heavy loss.—
loss ? party ” or “the natives” suffer heavy
T e j fc 7 to bring back the horses, which had
rambled a good deal.— P. 131.
,• their case, led to separation, the concession
has l ed to the establishment of self-
governing States . . . (p. 143).
tended to alter the conditions existing
(p 166) °i° n y before that t:ime than the development .. .
’ • • an d compulsory attendance of pupils between 6
and 14 years of age was adopted.-P. 178.
„ to these, [Schools of Art and Public Librariesl
e J) 'jtbte ned public taste has added the refining influences
of Museums and Art Galleries, which are largely used by
all classes of people. Higher education has established,
itself among us, and our University, High School
Grammar Schools, and Colleges throw open to youru
P&TSO7IS of both sexss the treasures of the past. . (p. 181)
• • • and the trial of the principle was agreed to fo
three years, and was subsequently extended as a pe
manent arrangement.— P. 214.
• • • k e performed more useful works in opening u
the country than any other Governor had done. p. 280.
This refers to Queensland—
Besides gold, the Colony is rich in a variety of minerals
Coal has been found in quantities second only to those o
New South Wales, and has been worked to some exten
since the year IS6O. At first the yield was small, bu
lately it has increased, and done much to assist othe
industries. Silver is found in considerable quantities
Copper exists in many places, in some places promising
great richness. Tm was discovered in comparative!
early days, and it has been worked with a deal of suices'
many a . rs ‘ * ron and other metals exist in consider
able quantities. . . . (p. 258).
Further on we read that “the Dutch navigator
Vlamingh had discovered in 1697 the mouth of
a river which, on account of the vast quantity o]
swans he had seen there, he had named “ Swan
itiver. The compiler in many places seems also
to be conscious of the existence of considerable
quantities of lead ; for in some places he becomes
rhetorical, with disastrous results. E.g.—
• T - : P u dls . t 5 where a few years before such pioneers
as Leichhardt found death and desert, the air began to
resound with the bleat and low of sheep and cattle.
Some of the very best settlers abandoned Western
t ™ e > going eastward to South Australia
and Port Phillip, where, if they met with hardships and
disappointments, the future was not dressed in sable
river p years continued to be the case at .Swan
. punctuation is frequently so faulty that it
is difficult to understand what the compiler
means. E.g. —
It is difficult to picture Eyre’s unfortunate position.
Ueft in one of the most inhospitable wastes of Australia
with oniy native upon whose fidelity he could not
Sufficient has been written to show how utterly
disgraceful is the book which N.S.W. Education
Dept, has authoritatively endorsed. The quota-
tions given are not exceptional; but typical.
ii n ij l ! £ oes without saying that no book
+ °Ji r 6 placed in the hands of children for
study which cannot bear the severest criticism in
pomtof accuracy of statement and of style, since
the children naturally follow the models which are
placed before them.
The History ” closes with an extraordinary
chapter entitled “ Citizenship—its Rights and
Responsibilities,” which begins by a reference to
the nine Australasian Colonies,” and proceeds to
discuss the laws of Hew South Wales as if they
had force in Australia and Maoriland. This
chapter is by no means faultless in statement and
expression ; but the limit, of criticism has been
reached. '
There is no, index to the “ History.”
Plainly, N.S.W. Department of Education has
been too rash. Its authoritative book will not be
fit for use in Australian schools until another
dozen years have elapsed. The copies of the issue
should be withdrawn from sale and burnt—with
the exception of one only, which should be pre-
served in the Departmental museum for the warn-
ing of impetuous officialdom, and for the wonder
of more enlightened times.
A.G.S.
X.O. : Thus a Sydney artist who really sup
ports himself and family by his art: “Never
mind about the State fostering Art. Let it govern
the country so that the country will grow othe
things, and Art will grow of itself.”
V : ihe insignificance- of Henslowe’s Annua
is explained by the fact that many of the con
tnbutions are gift horses, and the editor has not
looked at their mouths. The editor, by the way,
is ati ingenuous English person who remarks in i
preliminary notice to contributors—
I do not wish to discourage would-be writers, who must
remember that in writing, as in alj else, success is only
attained by long- practice. With regard to artists, many
of the drawings submitted, showed much promise, yet
were not good enough for reproduction in the Annual.
Then you turn the with interest to find
that the editor’s own literary contributions are
uncommonly feeble, and that his artistic contri-
butions are feebler and imitated. His drawing
on p. 19 looks like a tracing of Mackennal’s
“ Circe,” ridiculously altered. On p. 53 there is
an impudent plagiary of the figure of Whistler
from p. xm of Phil May’s Sketch Book; and on
p, 31 appears an imitation of the figure of Oscar
Wilde, in the same drawing by Phi] May. Good-
natured tolerance of such a “magazine” is unfair
to all penmen and pencilmen who try to do
original work.
The Athenceum of Aug, 17 “notices ” Becke and
Lawson in three columns wherein disparagement is
varied by the old familiar references to Gordon,
Clarke, and Stevenson. The writer lays down the
law with all the superior superficiality of an Eng-
lishman who is thoroughly ignorant of what he is
talking about. Becke’s taste is corrected, and
Lawson’s language ; and some things are said that
are true—some things that were true once, or
true partly—and some things that are false. The
Athenceum is doubtless able to set Australian
authors right in relation to literature ; but when
it undertakes to set them right in relation to Aus-
tralia it ought to employ a reviewer who has some
better basis than the faded memory of chance
acquaintanceship. '
The remarkable correspondent, and the others—
Maskee : Shallow...Yesab ” asks where S. H. Sime’s
drawings are being printed now ? Outlaw : Basis
not broad enough for inference, obtainable books being
limited in class and number J.L. : Oan’t agree; L.
Mack’s verse touches us in the manner of those Turner
sunsets which J.B. dispraises. Turner was a kind of
spirit of mad God moving upon the face of the paints,
but out from his incoherent whirlwind comes at times
such a dazzling gleam of Power that (once seen) you bow
of course to his godlihead. De minor. : there is a similar
light behind Miss Mack’s tourbillon of language. Pray for
eyes M.L.: “George Bernard Barton” should have
been “George Burnett Barton.”


NTDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
4»
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
M'DOUGALL BROS., 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
JVsesM-tai: UVr.Z. L. JSz. 3VE. A., Go., Ltd. LOCAL AGENTS EVERYWHERE
sdg
SEND
YOUR
WOOL
TO *
WINCHCOMBE, OARSON & CO. ud.
SYDNEY.
If you want to get the best possible results.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.
Wool and Produce Brokers.
Consolidated Charge!
for Selling Wool J
2t Per Cent.
/Includes all Charges excepting
/cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents -
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
tr\ orders.
Tails. Plaits
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS and PLAITS,
20in. lone:, 5/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6 ; 24in.,
10/6 ; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address” : W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLI AM-ST., Corner of Palmerst.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door. All
work guaranteed. Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
Wigs made on shortest notice.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FR
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
BOOK
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
FOREIGN STAMPS.
{jMfBMXm
warn
Si Vr
sdg
/''HEAP SETS.- 40 Japan, Is 6d I
47 Spain, 2s ; 10 Bulgaria, 6d ;
16 Heligoland, Is : 8 Egypt, 6d; 30
French, 9d ; 12 Indian Telegraghs,
6d ; 9 Labuan Pictorial, 2s 6d; 11
Canada, 6d; 9 Canada Duty, 6d ; 5
Bolivia,4d. Packets 60, 15;100,256d.
Stamps Purchased. New Catalogue
of Stamps, Albums, etc., Gratis.
.FOUR PE
CHARLES DOK'NE, 346 Little Collins-st., Melbourne.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing'Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character), That Hideous
Dancing Skeleton (turns himself inside out), Mafelting
Grub (or nerve-strengtliener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Spider and the Fly
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. Gd.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 Georice-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON. Manager.
HAVE THE
BEST.
I)
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operate !, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
securely all kinds of mock.
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS"
“CYCLONE” WOVEN
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
WIRE FENCE CO.
NEITHER CRACK
NOR BURN.
5800
6807
58 08
CBB
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
OUARANTEE.-ShouM .«, ’
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, I#. 2d.
Mick Simmons, haymarket, Sydney.
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY, Stores: PYRMOMT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, -fco the GJ-rowera.
BONUS | PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per U). to the Buyers.
“On Our Selection.” By “ Steele Rudd.”
WHAT WARNER’S
SAFE
CURE DOES.
WARNER’S SAFE CURE
The remarkable power possessed by Warner’s Safe Cure in over -
coming all diseases of both the liver and kidneys is conceded by
scientists and specialists throughout the world.
WARNER’S SAFE CURE
Restoring to health and activity the kidneys and liver, necessarily
cures all disorders arising from the failure of those important organs
to cleanse the blood of urea, uric acid, and other poisonous impurities.
indigestion and Dyspepsia
Are cured by Warner’s Sa'e Cure, for the simple reason that good
digestion is assured when the liver and kidneys are acting, normally.
The digestive organs are then supplied with pure blood, which is in a
condition to absorb nutriment freely.
Biliousness and Headache
are cured by Warner’s Safe Cure. When the liver and kidneys are
properly performing their duties there is no such thing as biliousness,
no such thing as headache. All bile formed is duly delivered to the
intestines, and act as nature’s catharthic.
Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and Gout,
Are cured by Warner’s Safe Cure. These disorders all arise from
the presence in the blood of urinary and biliary poisons, due to the
defective action of the kidneys and liver. As soon as the kidneys and
liver are restored to health these poisons are expelled from the system
in a natural manner, and these diseases are consequently cured.
Neuralgia
is cured by Warner’s Safe Cure. Neuralgia is caused by poverty of
blood, and the excruciating pain felt is but the demand of the nerves
for richer blood. A healthy action of the kidneys and liver ensures
rich blood.
Anaemia and Debility
are cured by Warner’s Safe Cure. This medicine, causing as it does,
the liver and kidneys to act perfectly, every particle of food eaten goes
to replace nature’s waste and build up the constitution. A proper
and generous diet is all that is then necessary to make the weak strong
and the pale face flush with the bloom of health.
Blood Disorders
Are cured by Warner’s Safe Cure. Pure blood is incompatible with
boils, skin eruptions, etc. Warner’s Safe Cure, by inducing a perfect
action of the kidneys and liver, causes all impurities to be extracted
from the blood and to be expelled from the body.
Gravel and kindred Troubles
Are cured by Warner’s Safe Cure. The specific action of the medicine
upon the kidneys and other organs restores them to health ; the
accumulated acids are dissolved, and the troubles cease.
Bright’s Disease
Is cured by Warner’s Safe Cure, This remedy is the only medicine
known to science which will cure this dread disease.
I3iP So many millions of bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure have been used in all parts
of the world that it is now easy for anyone to make inquiry amongst personal
friends, and as a result become convinced as to the marvellous curative properties of
the medicine. A pamphlet containing further particulars will be sent, post paid, to
any address on application to H. H. Warner & Co., Limited, Australasian branch,
528 to 532 Little Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, Victoria.


Address: care geo.
ADAMS, HoUart.
Caulfield C. Oct. 1
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name,
Address
Caulfield C. (Special)
(DEAWN MORNING OF RACE)
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me __shares in the above.
Name
Address
Melbourne C. Nov. 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address
Melbourne C. (Special)
(DRAWN MORNING OF RACE)
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
jshares in the above.
Name
£ *
Address
MELBOURNE 0. November 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 20
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me .. shares in the
above.
Name
Address
ALSO
OPEN ON
SancHiurst 0., 27tli 3XTo"v , 100,000 at 5.
Newcastle C„ istli Dec., 50,000 at 5.
Sumixicr 22€5"fcj3. isu<sc?* s 50,000 at 5.
Carrington S-, 28tli Dec., 50,000 at 5.
■ -I—C33tX JL p . , Ist J 'SLTT\ rj ■ 25,000 at 5.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


\ t~»
That man
failed to shut
the door, and
the strong draft
struck you
squarely in the
chest.
A draft means
a cold, a cough,
pneumonia, and
often the beginning
of consumption
itself.
Tou shun a draft. But
you can’t when riding in
the street-cars; either in
the closed or open cars. Then
keep at hand a bottle of
Ayer's
Cherry Pectoral
It will cure a “street-car cold” in a
night. The moment you feel chilly or
feverish, want to cough, or have any
tightness in the chest take a dose. The
relief is immediate.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral Plaster is a
great aid to the Cherry Pectoral. Placed
directly over the painful lung, it draws
out all soreness, relieves congestion,
and imparts great strength.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
3
r PMRot
3f/?AiMS^oU/ibc
(joUGMS (OIPS if
[Beware of
Imitations
The Hotelkeepers’ Friend.
Soda Water, Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
HOTELKEEPERS MAKE THEIR OWH SUPPLIES OF
DERATED WATERS.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn
to operate the Machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“Dear Sirs.— The Machine purchased from you is per-
fect. The stuff turned out is splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers.—Geo. Nicholls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill."
Mr. Klug, Hotelkeeper, Charlton, says “It is worth
itB WEIGHT IN GOLD.”
Mr. P. Kennedy, Ooolgardie, says “ Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says “ I have made
thousands of dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of repairs.
No Hotelkeeper should be without one of them.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W.,
says “It is the greatest money-maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says Since getting one of
your Machines, and making my own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says “Machine great
E. Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., savs :—“Cannot speak too
hi ;hly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says:—“Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable. ’
T. H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.”
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland, says“ Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists for
a good quality of Aerated Waters. Observe the profits.
Call and see these Machines, or write for Circular describ-
ing them, also Price List.
D ivlesford Hepburn Mineral Water Co-
-407 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
AGstraliao tyGttial ProVideot Society.
MONET TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
——^
tumuuN.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 IOSr
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-sb.,
SYDNEY.
BSW Send for a
Catalogue.
sdg
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and, Cheapest
H. HILLIER. 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY,
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
m
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales—
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Queensland —
ThoB. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Phllp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.,
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchurch.
m
ROBCRTS’
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY. i
APARTMENTS: ~ *
BEDROOM (Single) 3s. PER DAY.
BEDROOM (Double) .. 6s. PER DAY.
TERMS:
Cash in Advance. No Booking-
Meals Paid For when Obtained.
Letters and Telegrams addressed to
“THE MANAGER »
will receive prompt attention
THE
‘PLUM’
sd
THE
‘PLUM’
ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
' Jr like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. 6d.
“ RAZOLES ” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
f Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 308.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
{SP“ Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
I’ll Try It.’
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
3?
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Ourly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
CRAIG & AITKEIVNC
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
6BO-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description oi
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
toOrder. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 pe*
cent more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Kedfern, SYDNJS Y
OUU SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
gsd
Dolirered at any Wharf # r
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Deserted Diggings: Maoriland.
The golden light is waning,
Falling through
The sombre mountain gap
On the Mother Forest rolling
Out of view :
The sleepy shadows gather
Low on her spacious lap.
The long grey flats are silent,
Lone and dun ;
About lie ruined huts,
Like dead men’s bones a-bleaching
In the sun;
Here runs an ancient truckway
Hid in its grass-grown ruts.
It leads into a tunnel
In the hill,
And glow-worms gleam aloof
Where once men’s voices echoed ;
All is still:
Like tears that follow laughter,
Drips water from the roof.
Near-by a rotten windlass,
Half o’ergrown,
Lies ambushed in the flax ;
A weka whistles shrilly
From a lone
Log, in some faded summer
Felled by the ringing axe.
A dam is over yonder,
Lying low
Behind its gravel banks
Piled up by human labour
Long ago ;
The gauge is leaning over
Its water-sodden planks.
Like lepers, sad, forsaken
Of their kind,
The pine-trees’ naked trunks
Arise, —and from the stagnant
Swamp behind,
Bereft and bare of branches,
Reach up their withered stumps.
O’ergrown with matted bushes
Is the race,
Close by a ruined flume,
Where black pipes hissed the water
On the “face,”
And swart and sweating sluicers
Drenched in the flying spume.
Here lies a rusty shovel:
All about
Old boxes, rotten planks,
Just as the owners left them—
“ Duffered out! ”
Oft have the blows of hammers
Rung on these rock-built banks.
Once, down this silent gully
Laughter woke
The echoes of the gorge,
And from these ruined chimneys
Issued smoke;
And loud the bellows panted
On yonder broken forge.
Oft round the camps at even
Tales were told,
And songs of many lands
Sung by the fire of rata;
Miners old
Joined in the “ lang syne ” chorus
And gripped each other’s hands.
Where are ye now, old comrades ?
Past alarms,
Past lust of gold or gilt /
The sinews of a nation
In your arms,
Out of your strength and folly
A Nation ye have built!
M.L.
LOLA.
Mummer’s Sick.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'Ave yer fed them ’orses, Percy ?
Martha ! Jus’ go in ter “Mum.”
(Now then, Standon’t cry, my sonny !
Pupper’s goin’ ter give yer some.)
Perce ! you go an’ put the saddle
On the yaller mare ; be quick !
Ride across to Andy Hogan’s :
Tell yer auntie, Mummer’s sick ;
Leave the panel down. ’Ere, Stanley 1
Let the dawg alone, my son !
Come along and play with Pupper,
An’ ’e’ll let yer see ’is gun.
Is the kettle boilin’, Martha ?
Take yer Mummer in some tea*
Then you go an’ get yer supper.
No, yer needn’t wait fer me.
Pupper put ’is boy to bye-bye ?
Daddy undress little Stan ?
See if we can git ’is boots off 1
That’s ’is daddy’s little man !
Lay down, Patch ! (I’m cornin’, Mummer!)
Martha, fetch a bit more wood.
(All right, Mummer !) Good night, Stanley !
Go to bye-bye and be good !
’Ere’s a bite o’ somethin’, Mummer !
There now ! let me raise yer ’ead I
W’at was it the doctor told me ?
W’y, ’e said —’e said —’e said—— !
Oh, my Gawd t ’e couldn’t mean it /
Bess ! you ain’t agoin’ ter die ?
Bess, my darlin’ . . .
All right, Stannie!
Pupper’s cornin’! Don’t you cry.
S.A.
NIL.


A British Tommy, writing home from the
Ladyhrand distriot of S. Africa During the
last week we have killed several thousand sheep,
leaving them near farms to rot, to make every-
thing as uncomfortable as possible for the enemy.
By such severe means are tne Boers to be reasoned
into common-sense.” “ Reasoned ” is good.
The annual report of Factory and Shops
Inspector M‘Lay (Brisbane) was laid before
Queensland Parliament lately, the first report
under the new Act of 1900. Average wages for
Beveral trades were shown: Bread-makers, £119s.
Bid. and hours from 48 to 70 per week against
Victoria’s £2 8s. for 48 hours ; boot trade, males,
£1 7s. 64d.; females, 12s., against Victoria’s £1
14s. 5d. for males, and 14s. 7d. for females, &c.,
&c. The report concludes thus: —
The possibilities of future developments underlying
these figures open up a subject which is not within the
scope of this report to discuss, but it would appear cer-
tain that important changes are impending requiring
earnest scrutiny. Victoria will presumably very reluc-
tantly relinquish her minimum-wage. South Australia
has already adopted regulations for the appointment of
wages boards, and N.S.W. seems to be moving in the
same direction. Will Queensland be forced to follow
suit, or will Victoria have to recede from her present
standard ? It is, I think, obvious that, after the intro-
duction of inter-State Freetrade, the two scales cannot
continue to exist as they do now. If the statement of
Victoria’s Factory Department is to_ be accepted in full,
no one seems to be conscious of having greatly suffered
by having to pay more for the articles they require.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
With Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen Jhat when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURIO YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/l£d. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents ; ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
MARRIHEA, &c., bears on
tlie Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—-
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chiokodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
b
6
i
A
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECT IIIG
KELTS and
A TELIA NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
(V
l|ll!/]||]))ll
K
HOTELKEEPERS!
MAKE YOUR OWN
JERATEDWATERS.
rpHE “AUSTRAL” AERATED WATER MACHINE occu-
pies only Four Feet Square, will produce 150 Dozen per day of
Finest Waters (LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, SODA WATER, &c.)
at a Cost below Fourpence per Dozen. This machine
supersedes all others for SIMPLICITY and USEFULNESS, as it
requires no skilled labor to work it.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214-216 Queen-st, MELBOURNE.
Evil Effects of
Some Soaps on
the Complexion.
PREMIER VINOLIA SOAP is not colored with
poisons, rendered transparent with Chemi-
cals, or semi-transparent with resin and
sugar, nor does it turn yellow in spots,
revealing putrid fats. It is not charged
with powerful penetrating perfumes that
gratify the sense of smell to the detriment
and injury of the skin. VINOLIA is purest,
safest and best. Laundry soaps should
never be used on the skin.
Five Kinds : Sold Everywhere.
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will All your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory Dvs
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidney s, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr.OLARKSON’SRE-INVIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves anS n . , , , , ,
THEIR TOUGH IS MAGNETIC d organs 13 tra, y wonderful.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
gd
CAM, Oli, WHITE-
OWL
CUT
RATE
DRUG STORE
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
s
t¥.
Ml
m
s
NATURES TRUE REMEUIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnece sary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers from Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia, .ZEnemia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
<rs
ffiitMSMpuas
fcttuutu
IWMIIME
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S CHIEF LABORATORY,
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Affections, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Pool-
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Course, 28/6.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases, Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
Anemia, Wasting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Touic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOXES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free,
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A
Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
posted, 35., 65., 12s. and 235. 6d.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
cure for all Spinal and Kidney Affections ;
425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name — Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
CORN CURE, 1 /-.
OINTMENT, 1/-.
Correspondence held confidential.
/ J
HWBAL AIfAIipi® ERR RAS
HERRRMSWUSSEN
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and hil
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke-st.
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen-st.
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney-st.
N.Z. —91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A.—PERTH, 481 Hay-st.
KALGOORLIE—Hannan - st.
BOULDER CITY-Piesse-st.
EREMANTLE—Henry-st.
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALFALINE REMEDIES.


Parramatta is excited over a rumored pro-
posal to erect a big consumptives’ hospital at
Rydalmere. It can’t be too strongly insisted that
a retreat for the tuberculous should have at least
1000 acres of grounds, and be five miles from
everywhere.
"V errnont is one of the Prohibition States
of the U.S., and it is habitually held up to
admiration by the Cold Tea brigade as an earthly
Paradise, where all blessings are and whisky isn’t.
But, according to the Lancet, since Vermont
gave up liquor it has taken to opium instead, and
the quantity consumed is so large that it would
provide every adult with one ordinary dose daily.
There are plenty of non-users, of course, but then
the hardened cases who take the equivalent of
many ordinary doses per day compensate for them
and keep up the average. The opium habit has
grown up in a night; the teetotal brigade had
barely got back from chasing the drink fiend over
the State border, and admired itself in the glass
as the saviour and regenerator of its country,
before it found the new fiend in full possession.
It is a sorrowful fact that almost every country
which doesn’t take alcohol takes opium instead.
A country may pull through without much
alcohol, but if it takes none it is pretty safe to bet
that it takes something a great deal worse.
Vermont, as a whole, doesn’t mind swearing off
its old rye whisky now. Its opium-wreck rises up,
clawing the air, to assure the world that whisky is
a superfluous habit, and that it is all a mistake to
say that liquor is essential to anybody’s happiness.
“ Demon ” to The Bulletin :—
The strength of the detective force of the city of Mel-
bourne and suburbs up to Healesville, Dandenong, Epping
and Diamond Creek, is 18 men. Population in that area
nearly 500,000. There are 27 racecourses in and around
Melb. Two detectives have daily to be present at race
meetings where spielers are taking down spielers, thieves
robbing thieves. Flemington and Caulfield meetings
sometimes demand all the detectives available. Then,
again, it is a detective’s duty to watch gaming-houses,
suppress bookmaking and Chinese lotteries. A “ d.”
must report himself at the office in Russell-st. either
personally or by ’phone at 2 p.m. daily. Say, one is
making inquiry at Oakleigli. He is just getting on the
scent. Looks at his watch and finds it nearly 2 p.m.
Rushes then franticallj- to find a telephone, and tumbles
across one. Has to tell the shopkeeper or business man
he is a detective. From Russell-st. comes the inquiry
“ What are you doing there?” “Attending to Blanky’s
case,- fairly on the scent.” Answer from the Inspector—
“ Got something more important for you, come down at
once.” Now it so happens the owner of that tele-
phone is often friendly with the person the inquiries
are being made about and the cat is let out of the hag.
This is what the heads of the dept, calls detective work ! !
How can the men do their duty when hampered thus ?
How can they track criminals while they have to attend
race-meetings in the day and theatres at night ? How-
can 18 men keep under surveillance hundreds of clever,
unscrupulous criminals? The thing is impossible, and the
men have given it up in despair, and only do their duty
in a perfunctory way. The criminals know the routine
of the detectives, and they work smart schemes on the
strength of the circumstance. Rotten with tyranny and
parsimony, steeped in ignorance of the very rudiments of
how to detect crime, the Melbourne detective force —no,
farce —stands a disgrace and a monument to the incom-
petence of those responsible for it.
THE MICA LUBRICANT CO., SOUTH SHIELDS, ENG.
Lubricants and Packings for all purposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 90% in cost of lubrication, and keep B
bearings perfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice as long as ordinary, and are 25% lighter. They do
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate.
Sole Agent for Australasia : R. A. HERVEY. Depdt, 171 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
sg
UJl
No. W 7. Silver-Plated Ilair-Pin
Po X) 8s 6d.
No. Wo. Silver-Plated Jewel-Case,
Satin-lined, £1 Is.
No. W 24. Embossed and Silver-
Plated Hair-Pin Box, 10s 6d.
No. F5173A. Silver-
Plated Spectacle
Case, 10s 6d.
No. FS39. Silver-Plated Butter Dish,
with Knife, 9s 6d.
esV
No. W-2018. Esfff-Shape Satin-lined
Jewel-Case, best Silver-Plated, £1 is.
No. F 4457. Silver-Plated Ink-
Stand, 18s 6d.
mm
mzm
No. W 36. Best Silver-Plated
Shaving Mug, £1 2s 6d.
No. F 4587. Leather
Spectacle Case,
Plated Mounts,
7s 6d.
No. F 4707. Carved Ivory Handle Bread Fork, 11s 6d.
No. F 4588. Silver Glove Button-Hook, 2s.
No. E 9070. Combination Egg Frame and
Cruet, Cut-Glass and Best Silver-Plate,
£1 15s. /
No. F 4709. Carved Pearl
Handle Bread Fork, 13/6.
No. F 4849. Silver-Plated Fern Pot
Height, 8 inches, £3.
Write for our Illustrated Catalogue.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEITY COMPJSSTITIOKT.
WINES ne °’ a,J SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WAT KBS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS r~°
French’s Acting Edition.
dg
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Books Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
STEAM
ENGINES
FROM 5 H.P. TO 100 H P
DYNAMOS
MOTORS
FROM 1 H.P. TO 60 hp.
CAN BE SUPPLIED PROMPTLY
FROM STOCK.
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; 17 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
(LIMITED),
DA.FTO (Lais© llawarra), near SYOKTEY-
SMELTERS.
• • •
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE silver.
1*S. :
L_l
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. Of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
..IiItAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of G-OLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS' SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD HULL! O *
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Moksk, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N. 3. W.


SUNLIGHT
SOAP
15 REALLY
THE CHEAPEST
iW THE END.
Linens, Cottons and Woollens are soon reduced
to holes when washed with ordinary soap contain-
ing alkali in a free state.
SUNLIGHT SOAP does not contain any alkali
in a free state and is really the cheapest in the
end, as all articles washed with it last much,
longer than if washed with ordinary soap.
<S4)
Freetra,d.e Frioea for Ever!^^
We beg to notify our numerous Patrons and the Public generally that we intend selling in the
future, as in the past, all our goods, which are acknowledged to be unapproachable for Value,
Quality and Durability in the Southern Hemisphere—
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue. at LOWEST FREETRADE PRICES.
&
ART JEWELLERS AND OPTICIANS, 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
ti
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
“ flodge ” Standard
Blood Split pulleys
All Sizes kept in Stock.
SOLE AGENTS:
N. 6UTNRIP66 Ltd.,
71 Clarence St., Sydney.
SEND FOR CATALOG.-* 1
a*
Those
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
SINGLETON S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
ALL CHEMISTS.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
A
World-wide
Reputation
Unapproached
and
Unsullied
from
Generation
to
Generation.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
Be
m
(8
•Sfcifc
V.V;/
Wi
m
i n
urn
>i LI
MUIAUVI
MU
K. \
>'V
W(. r \
r. i
ffm
W>*x
/r'l 1
ks
w
oU" Aii
;mm
EEXHHS^
ds
A MARVEL of STRENGTH
and SIMPLICITY
ANCHOR FENCE
THE ANCHOR PENCE has befen pronounced by the leading fence experts as the strongest fence on the market. It is made with plain
galvanised wire, and cannot injure any kind of live stock—nor can the live stock injure it or displace any of the wires owing to the use of the
Anchor Clamp. The Anchor Clamp securely fastens the horizontal and cross wires, thus consolidating the strength so that the whole fence
resists an attack on any part of it. As the strength of a chain is gauged by the strength of its weakest link, so a fence is only as strong as its
weakest part—the Anchor Fence is equally strong throughout, and being constructed wholly of large wires is much stronger than a fence in
which small wires are used.
THE TIE THAT BINDS."
CLAMP BEFORE USING
THIS LITTLE CLAMP.
1. It is made of the best one-ineh No. 17 hoop
steel, therefore is strong and durable.
2. It is simple ; can be applied by any one.
3. It does what other ties pretend to do—makes
an immovable anchor.
4. It prevents sagging wires.
5. It prevents loose wires.
6. It prevents injury to stock.
7. It makes a fence that stock cannot break
down.
THIS LITTLE CLAMP.
8. It can be used on smooth or barbed wire.
9. It can be used for making new or repairing
old fences.
10. It is the only tie yet devised by which a fence
can be made in any manner desired, or
repaired without re-building.
11. It makes the BEST wire fence on the
market.
12. IT IS CHEAP.
IT NEVER SLIPS AFTER
CLOSING.
BEFORE.
REPAIR YOUK OLD FENCE
WHBHnU* *
**Cffir>«A’lf«£BS|gfefc
After Our System
Applied.
AND MAKE IT PERMANENT.
This cut shows one of the many practical uses to which our clamps and
stays can be put.
Simply straighten up your old loose wires, put on stays five or six feet
apart with Anchor Clamps, and your fence is as good as new. And the
beauty of it is, it will continue so. Nothing can spread those, wires now;
and if a staple or several staples should pull out, your fence will hold its
shape and position just the same.
It is exactly what you have been wanting all these years.
SOLE AGENTS
FOR AUSTRALIA
E, RICH
CO. LTD.
IF YOU’RE INTERESTED SEND FOR OUR BOOKLET.
SYDNEY
BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 22.—N0. 1129,
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1901.
Pbioe 6d.
THOSE “LINKS OF KINSHIP.”
JOE CHAMBERLAIN’S IDEA: “NOW, THEN, ‘ADVANCE AUSTRALIA’—IF YOU CAN!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ A ustralia for the A nstrallans.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Atistralia,
Westralin and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
■SI, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscrilters in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of ljd. postage, the subscription
to Tub Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage — l sd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland,
NOTICE.
By sending direct to XJIe Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and qJJ, Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in JllaeTc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency
Rhodesia.
T^e'^xxllelZn.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1901.
The N.S.W. Budget.
It is a specially cold day in New South
Wales when, after the appearance of the
Treasuier’s financial statement, the Sydney
dailies do not issue a leading article apiece
about the “ gratifying progress of this great
country under a sound and judicious policy
of expansion.” So long as there is no strong
party issue involved—and party politics are
practically dead in the N.S.W. Legislature
since the fiscal question was removed to a
higher place—almost any kind of financial
statement is accepted comfortably as a proof
that “we” are a great and progressive
people and the salt of the earth gener-
ally. On this point the unanimity of the
press is vast and wonderful, and it is
a unanimity which saves much trouble,
and is pleasing to the public vanity.
It is also remarkably like the mental attitude
of the American of many years ago as carica-
tured by Dickens in “ Martin Chuzzlewit ”
—the alleged American who, knowing him-
self to be the admiration of the universe,
put his feet up on a high place and expec-
torated at Creation generally.
* * * *
In any country which troubled much about
its future solvency, Treasurer Wapdell's
financial statement would have roused a
general execration sufficient to blow that
painfully ordinary gentleman off his official
pedestal. Last year closed with a huge
deficiency of about £150,000 —the fourteenth
deficit which N.S.W. has had in 21 years.
This was despite the fact that £1,241,917 of
the proceeds of land sales and £126,000 of
other people’s money that will have to be
refunded—the rents derived from Sydney
properties resumed but not paid for—was
treated as revenue, and that £081,786 of
ordinary, unproductive expenditure was
paid out of loans. These are the Treasurer’s
own figures, so presumably he has reckoned
everything as productive expenditure which
bore even the slightest resemblance that
way. The £961,786 went iii bridges, dred-
ging work, schools, museums, colleges,
gaols, court-houses, lockups, fortifications,
and all manner of sundries, including that
good old item, the “reserve stock of
ammunition.” Almost every year the “re-
serve stock of ammunition ” is bought out of
loans ; then it is shot away (it has to be, for
ammunition doesn’t keep in a reliable state
for ever), and a fresh “reserve stock” is
bought out of the loan funds, and it is also
shot away when it ceases to be “ reserve,”
and a further lot, similarly purchased, takes
its place. The amount of loan money paid
away last year to cover ordinary expendi-
ture was the largest that even N.S.W.
has ever got through in 12 months.
And Treasurer Waddell says that that
old, enduring spectre, the Accumulated
Deficit, has now been reduced to £2,785,000.
Considering that Coghlan, on page 794 of
his “ Seven Colonies,” estimated the deficit
a year ago as being down to £2,027,584, this
looks rather like an increase. It is certainly
a slight-—a very slight— apparent reduction
on the figures for 1894, but even that reduc-
tion is only apparent. The Cash Basis
swindle has arrived since 1894, and now
there is the great mass of unpaid accounts
to be reckoned with as well as the visible
deficit.
• * * f
For the new financial year Treasurer
Waddell reckons that—after handing over
the postal and telegraph revenue and a part
of the customs and excise receipts to the
Commonwealth, and with the abolition
of inter-State customs close at hand—
he will collect £11,004,076—0ver £200,000
more than the State ever collected when
it had its postal and telegraph and
all its tariff revenue for its own exclu-
sive use. And he expects to swell up
the expenditure to £10,980,660, which is
more than N.S.W. ever expended, even
when £750,000 a year of postal and tele-
graphic expenditure, now paid by the Com-
monwealth, was a charge on the State
Treasury. This leaves a poor little prospec-
tive surplus of £23,416. The N.S.W.
Treasurer assumes that he will receive
£200,000 more from the railways than he did
last year. And he takes it for granted that,
despite the abolition of inter-State duties, and
despite the fact that he can only reckon upon
receiving three-fourths of what remains of
the tariff revenue after the inter-State duties
are abolished (the Federal Government being
entitled to the other fourth) he will get
£2,200,000 from this source, which is more
than N.S.W. has received for many years
from the whole of its customs and excise,
with border duties included. In other words
he expects to get back £1 12s. 3d. per
inhabitant, and neither the Victorian nor
S.A. tariff, with the inter-State duties
abolished and a portion of the revenue re-
tained by the Federal Government, would
yield anything dimly resembling that. In
addition to this he proposes to repeal, or
suspend, Lyne’s Act (which never really
came in force), whereby the State is pledged
to make an extra annual paymentin reduction
of the old deficit; but as that Act was probably
never meant to come into force this is only
what might be expected. He also abandons
the promise to put the bankrupt Civil
Service Superannuation Fund on a
sound footing; the fund is simply
to be permitted to exhaust itself, and
then, about two years hence, it is under-
stood that the pensions will become a charge
on the revenue. Nothing is to be done in
the meantime towards meeting the liability.
And the old process of using loan money as
ordinary revenue is to go on in the same old
way.
* • * *
The Cornstalk man of finance also served
jup again the old, comforting lie about how
the N.S.W. railways were returning a large
profit. The same lie has been served up
every year for a long and weary time, and
year the Auditor-General goes through
the accounts and shows a heavy loss. Up to
June, 1900, which is as far as the Auditor-
General’s published figures go, the accumu-
lated loss was £7,983,311, and for the
year ended June, 1900, there was a deficit of
£138,317 —the worst since 1896. The
Treasurer reckons that this unpayable rail-
way system, which cost about £42,000,000
to build, would sell for £54,000,000 to a
foreign shindykit, and is of opinion that this
alleged fact fully justifies N.S. W. in having
a public debt, which stood at nearly
£71,000,000 in June last, and is now over
£75,000,000. As the foreign shindykit
usually wants from 5 to 10 per cent, for its
money, instead of 2| or 3 per cent., the
probabilities are eminently unfavorable.
The same authority calculates that the un-
sold public lands are worth £75,000,000.
This may be so, but it is difficult to see what
it has to do with the case. It is impossible
to sell all N.S.W. bodily to a sliindykit in
order to pay off the public debt. And
N.S.W. lives on this land—over £1,200,000
of its income is derived from land sales.
If there is still £75,000,000 worth to be sold
before this source of revenue gives out and
the State is left on its uppers, the country
has at least the satisfaction of knowing that
it is getting through this asset as fast as can
reasonably be expected.
* * * *
So the view which the See Government’s
Treasurer takes as regards the future is
that New South Wales will just about pull
through—
(1) If it uses about £900,000 a year of loan money as
ordinary revenue, in the same way as heretofore.
(2; If it goes on raising about £2,100,000 a year land
revenue as at present, and uses it all for current expenses.
(3) If it keeps on borrowing in all about £3,000,000 a
year, as at present, to keep the boom afloat.
(4) If it leaves the question of making good the Civil
Service Superannuation Fund shortage to some future
day.
(5) If it repeals or suspends the law requiring an extra
£250,000 a year to be paid off the old deficit.
(6) If there is a considerable railway boom.
(7) And if the Federal Parliament imposes a heavier
tariff than that now existing in Victoria, and a far heavier
one than that now existing in South Australia.
If all these things happen it is reckoned that
N.S.W. will just get through and have a
margin of £23,000. A great change has
come over the spirit of the financial dream
within the last year or two. The passing of
the Old Age Pension Act, without any
corresponding provision for finding the
money, was partly responsible for this. The
great increase in the railway deficit in 1900,
and in the annual interest bill (which is now
£2,542,000) is also partly responsible.
Nothing is heard now of the gentlemen
who used to write wildly to the papers
proposing that the huge surplus that
was to accrue to N.S.W. under the
Federal tariff should be used to reduce rail-
way fares and freights by 50 per cent. The
Foreign-trade push still talks of a moderate
revenue tariff, but N.S.W., under its
Foreign-trade policy, has now got to a point
where, unless there is a great increase of
direct taxation, it requires a larger tariff
than either Victoria or South Australia—
possibly a larger one than Tasmania—to
enable it to keep up even a bad semblance
of paying its way. When allowance is made
for the loss of duties on inter-State imports,
and for the fact that heavy duties will
materially reduce foreign imports, and,
further, for the fact that a part of the
Customs revenue will necessarily be retained
by the Commonwealth Government, it will
require an all-round 20 per cent, or, pos-
sibly, 25 per cent, tariff to realise the
N.S.W. Treasurer’s estimates. And even
they are based on the assumption that about
£900,000 a year of loans will still be used
for revenue purposes ; if that practice was
abolished a 30 per cent, tariff would hardly
fill the gap. There are some interesting pro-
blems ahead in N.S.W. But the See Govern-
ment is in a unique position which almost
places it beyond criticism. It is a personally
Protectionist Ministry, which inherited and
maintained a Foreign-trade policy. The
importing press has to allege that N.S. W. is
gloriously prosperous because a Foreign-
trade policy is in force, and the Protec-
tionist press feels bound to believe that the
State is in a state of unparalleled prosperity
because it couldn’t be otherwise with the
old Protectionist hacks in office. So the
Waddell Budget has been received with an
enthusiasm which that shocking document
has done nothing to deserve.
The Bread of Death.
N.S. Wales has a Public Health Act, and a
Public Health Board, which is supposed to have
full power to protect the people against unwhole-
some food, and preventible infection. How
thoroughly this Board has carried out its duties
the records of the baking trade during the past
three years will show. Bread is the pivotal point
of our food supply, its use is so universal that in the
language it is the type-word for nutriment. Any-
thing tending to taint the bread of the community
is as dangerous to life, therefore, as the infection
of the wells and springs which supply water. Yet
during its existence N.S.W. Board of Health has
taken not a single step towards the protection of
the public from dirty bread, and the State’s
main article of diet has been, in many cases,
produced under conditions of revolting filth, and
of sweating, dangerous not only to the workers in
the trade but to the whole public. The direct
result of ill-ventilated, sewer-infected, filth-
begrimed bakehouses and over-long hours of
labor, was that the journeymen bakers, as a class,
were ravaged by consumption, and the public was
infected with heaven-alone-knows-what amount
of poison with its daily bread of death. *
* • * «
There is no reason why, with proper precautions,
the baker’s trade should not be a moderately
healthy one. The time of labor is at night, and
the bakehouse is necessarily hot and, to an extent,
steamy. These conditions are unavoidable. But
with short hours of labor, with provision of a
proper interval for a midnight meal, and
with scientific ventilation and perfect cleanli-
ness in the bakehouse, a trade could be
made endurable which was, a year or two ago,
absolutely deathly, and which, in many cases,
is still just within the bounds of human tolera-
tion. During the past few months the Sydney
trades-union of journeymen bakers has, by a
thorough organisation of the workers and by wise
co-operation with the employers, put an end to
many of the conditions which made the baking
trade a menace to those engaged in it and to the
public generally. The conditions before, in many
instances, were simply loathsome. In underground
bakeries, ill-ventilated, ill-drained, infested with
vermin, contaminated by sewer-gas or the reek
from lavatories, workmen were employed from
9 to 10 and even 12 hours of the night; some fall-
ing victims to consumption addea a new poison
to the already deadly atmosphere.
• * * *
The prevalence of consumption and other chest
diseases among bakers has long been a familiar
fact to medical men. Phthisis, pneumonia, sciatica,
rheumatism are the chief banes of the journeyman
baker, all four telling of unhealthy conditions of
labor, the two former more particularly so. In
connection with the bakers’ trades-union there is
a friendly society with a “burial benefit.” Of
the three last deaths recorded, two were from
phthisis and one from pneumonia. As the condi-
tions of labor have, within the past three months,
been considerably ameliorated, it may be expected
that the ravages of phthisis will be, to some extent,
checked, but there has been established a
dangerous nucleus of infection to the community
which will exist for years to come if remedial
measures are not taken.
* * * *
The work done by the Bakers’ Society, in
conjunction with the Master Bakers’ Union, during
the past two months may be summarised:
Sweating has been put down, and eight hours
established as the duration of a night’s work;
unwholesome and insanitary bakeries have been
put in repair or are now being attended to ; the
lack of accommodation in many bakeries (leading
to dirty methods of work) has been or is being
remedied; underselling (“ cheap ” bread was the
cause of most of the sweating) has been stopped.
There still exist a few sweating-shops—under a
dozen all told—in the metropolitan area, but the
great majority now work under the agreement
come to by the master bakers and their workmen*
* _♦ • *
But what the to note is this: The
fairly sanitary conditions in the trade now
existing have been won by the efforts of the work*
men almost solely. Whilst some employers have
always sought to observe wholesome condi-
tions, many others had to be forced at the
point of the strike manifesto to clean, and
drain, and ventilate their shops, and to allow
to their men hours of labor which make it
just possible for them to keep clean and healthy.
The workmen, assisted by the fair employers, have
been the reformers. They have had absolutely no
assistance from the Public Health Board, or from
all the Health and Factory legislation, of which
so much was expected. And it is a very grave
question whether the burden of observing healthy
conditions of labor in this vital trade should be
allowed to remain upon one little trades union,
which may, or may not, be equal to the task in
the future. It is also open to serious argument
whether eight-hours’ night-work in a hot, steam-
ing atmosphere, without any proper interval for a
meal, is not too much.
• * * *
Finally, the existence of the consumptive work-
men in the trade is a problem of great moment.
It is, naturally enough, not the desire of those
connected with the workmen’s organisation to
disclose the medical history of members But
what facts can be gleaned show that phthisis is
extraordinarily rife amongst bakers, and every
phthisical workman is a source of grave danger
to the community. The responsibility for the
illness of these men rests upon the Government
of the State, the Government which, with ample
powers, in esse and in posse, to prevent it, allowed
these unfortunate fellows to be stifled, and
sweated, and poisoned in deadly bake-houses. If
the burden of the comfortable maintenance of
these men were taken over by the State, as the
price of their abandoning their trade, the bargain
would be' strictly equitable, and certainly a good
one for the community. It seems, indeed, one of
the necessary steps in the fight against phthisis.
But what is still more vitally important is that
the conditions which lead to the ravages of lung
diseases among bakers should be effectually and
permanently remedied, by strict Government
regulation and supervision of the conditions and
hours of labor. The baking of bread would prob-
ably kill tubercle germs existing in the dough
when put into the oven—though a few might pos-
sibly survive in the centre of a lightly-cooked loaf.
It is the subsequent handling of the bread, and its
dusting with unbaked flour, which constitute the
chief danger when a bakehouse is infected with
consumption. At present, undoubtedly, the staff
of life is helping many on to the road to death.
More White Australia.
Last week the Federal Government informed the
House , of Representatives, in the plainest possible
on behalf of the British Government, has inti-
mated that any exclusion measure which alludes
definitely to the color or birthplace of the ex-
°luded nigger will be vetoed by the British
Government. 1 his is the language of Joseph :
c In th w fi ! st d l }? recently-vetoed Queensland
Sugar Works Bill is here alluded to) embodies a disquali-
fication based on a place of origin that is practically adis-
tinction of race and color. Any attempt to impose dis-
qualifications on the base of such distinctions, besides
being offensive to a friendly Power, is contrary to the
& eneral conceptions of equality which have been the
g }“ ding pnnciple of Bntish rule throughout the Em-
Disqualification by educational tests such as are
embodied in the immigration laws of the various colonies
is not a measure to which the Government of Japan, or
any other Government, can take exception on behalf of
ks objects, and if the particular tests in these laws are
not regarded as sufficiently stringent, THERE IS NO
reason WHY MORE STRINGENT AND EFFECTIVE
ONES OF A SIMILAR CHARACTER SHOULD NOT
BE ADOPTED.
The explanation is reasonably plain, and wonder-
fuiiy like Chamberlain. The Judas of Bir-
mingham has been the boss liar of British politics
for many years, and though he is a very unc-ori-
yincing liar, still he tells his tale with an
assurance that carries weight. The British
Government goes almost unanimously on the
principle of denying its colored subjects all self-
governing rights whatever—it draws the biggest
color-line in the world and shuts out nine-tenths
of the empire from all share in the empire’s
management. But, all the same, it maintains the
silly and childish hypocrisy of being an empire
where black men and white men are equal—
and it doesn’t mind if they are made unequal
surreptitiously, so long as a sham appearance
of equality is maintained. And, according to
its new policy of humble subserviency to Japan,
it desires that the Jap., though not a member
of the empire, shall not be kept out openly,
but doesn’t in the least object if the same result is
arrived at sideways, in an accidental and apolo-
getic sort of fashion. Chamberlain’s instructions
are not to walk straight at the purpose desired,
but to get there on all-fours without attracting
attention,
But Chamberlain is reasonably explicit in
stating that the educational test may be worked
for all it is worth, and if it is worked for all it is
worth then it will keep out anybody and every-
body that the Federal Government desires to
exclude. In this respect, undoubtedly, the best
test is one by which the immigrant may be called
upon to show his ability to write out a dictated
passage in “some European language”— not the
one which requires him to show his ability to
write a passage in English. For the clause which
makes “ some European language ” the test does
not specify that the immigrant can choose his
own language. It is a clause under which the
anglicised Jap. might be called upon to show a
good knowledge of Spanish at a moment’s notice,
or a specially objectionable-looking Greek, or
Turk, or Pole might be examined in an erudite
and complicated Scandinavian author. But either
clause, if applied with discrimination and enthu-
siasm, would close out everybody that Australia
seriously desired to exclude,
* * * •
And the question for Australia to consider is
this: Is there any real reason why Australia
should go out of its way to make Joseph
Chamberlain and co. less crooked than they
naturally are ? The educational test is a hypocrisy,
but it isn’t our hypocrisy Apparently we can get
that kind of nigger exclusion at once. The straight
and honest kind may be obtained after a year’s
haggling, or ten years’ haggling, or it may not be
obtained at all so long as the Imperial connection
lasts. If Australia demands straight-out exclusion


and will take no other kind, and the British
Government will only assent to the education
test, then either the nigger must stream in un-
checked, or else this country must “cut the
Eainter” and set up for itself. Possibly it would
ave to fight the British empire for its indepen-
dence ; almost certainly it would have to fight the
arrogant brown man of Japan on the immigration
question. And the Australian people have shown
no general willingness to fight over the mere form
of exclusion. And little draper M‘Millvn, who
has just taken an Imperial title, and who talked
so glibly about cutting loose from the Empire over
the matter, would be recalled to England by his boss
softgoods firm when the trouble began and trade
was stopped, so that his services to whoop in the
front rank of dreadful war would not be available.
And the Barton Government would almost cer-
tainly lose its billet over the matter, and be suc-
ceeded by George Reid, who has already crawled
down over the same question.
* • * •
The great trouble is that Australia has already
accepted the educational test, and found it to
work well if honestly—that is to say, dishonestly
—applied, and the fact that it is a mere subter-
fuge hasn’t troubled this country in the least.
When George Reid, who is so honest and valiant
when he wants to get another man’s billet and
salary, and so abject when he is afraid of losing
his own job and salary—allowed his own straight-
out Nigger Exclusion Act to be vetoed in 1896,
and didn’t even make a protest, but agreed to
accept the educational test in a humble and con-
trite spirit, he set up a precedent which it is now
difficult to get rid of. And the Labor party (in-
cluding Mr. Watson, M.H.R., who now demands
that the Asiatic shall be shut out in the
most definite fashion) stood by and let
things go. That George Reid should froth
wildly because the Federal Government
does as he did is merely what might be expected
of that unscrupulous billet-hunter and insatiable
Yes-No. What the Barton Government has to
consider is that Australia wants any efficient
kind of exclusion that it can get at once;
that the educational test can be made
efficient; and that, after Australia’s peaceful
acceptance of the educational test at George
Reid’s instance, there doesn’t seem to be
enough abstract conscience in the country to make
a great fight over the mere form of the thing.
Also, it has to consider the fact that the men who
are demanding straight-out exclusion are, in many
cases, nigger-labor politicians, who only desire to
get a clause inserted in the Bill which will ensure
its rejection. And, lastly, Australia can fight for
direct exclusion (and be determined to insist when
necessary—even by force of arms—on direct
exclusion) after it has got its educational test just
as well as now, and The Bulletin hopes to see it
do so. Then it will have the blessed advantage of
knowing that the Piebald One is not streaming in
all the time the long fight is going on.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Bishop and His Brougham.
The Bulletin has received the following polite
letter from the Bishop of London :
Fulham Palace, London,
Aug. 20, 1901.
Sir, —An interesting account has been forwarded to me
from many correspondents, cut out from your paper,
purporting to be the description of a meeting held in
London in the cause of Public Morality.
I rearret to say that you, or your London correspon-
dent, have been the victim of a hoax. A skit appeared
in some serio-comic, paper in London, which was appa-
rently meant as a joke, but the paper was so little known
that we decided to take no notice of it.
It is a different thing now that it has been sent to what
I understand is a widely-read journal in Australia as a
serious account of the meeting, and I shall be obliged if
you will insert this denial of the truth of the whole
account.
As the Daily Chronicle said on Monday : “ It is hardly
credible that any intelligent human being should believe
what was printed then of the story, but if there be any
such, we have the Bishop’s authority for stating that it is
a pure fabrication, to say nothing of the evidence of our
reporter, who was present at the meeting.”
Youri fWVull'’,
A. F. London.
The Bulletin is quite satisfied with the Bishop’s
word without any corroboration from the Daily
Chronicle reporter, or from the argument as to
human intelligence. At this end of the world
there is no opportunity of studying the O.E.
Bishop in his solid silver state (a colonial bishop is
notoriously only electro-plate), and we were, there-
fore, misled into accepting as truth what was
only intended as a too ingenious satire on a
Bishop’s brougham. Our readers will now under-
stand that the statements (B. July 6) headed
“ The Bishop and the Prostitute ” —which
reached us as a newspaper-cutting purporting to
circumstantially report a London meeting—are
not facts, and sympathise with our regret at any
annoyance to which Dr. Ingram has been sub-
jected. One moral of the incident is that no
paper is so little known that it can be ignored
with impunity.
♦
The Slaughter of the Children.
Of 107,425 white refugees detained in cencentration-
camps during the month of August, 1878 died, including
510 out of 22,036 children, in the Orange River Colony.—
Cablegram last week.
This much is certain —that so long as the enemy know
that their wives and children will be supported in, to
them, unaccustomed luxury and idleness, at the expense
of the British taxpayer, just so long will S’Africa be
harassed by roving bands of swiftly-moving, ever-escap-
ing marauders.—Sydney Tetegrapii’s S'African corres-
pondent.
I was very much surprised with the Boer farms, for,
from newspaper accounts I had read of the people, I
thought they were an ignorant, dirty race, but the sight
of their homes totally dispelled that idea. Almost with-
out exception, they were scrupulously clean and neat,
and in many houses there was either a piano or organ,
and books were to be found in every place.— Australian
contingenter’s letter ; a fair sample of many dozens that
have appeared in the Australian press.
The August mortality in Kitchener’s murderous
concentration camps, according to the cabled in-
telligence, was at the rate of about 210 per 1000
per annum. Among the children, the death-rate
was 275 per 1000 per annum ! The prisoners are
almost wholly women and children, and Kitchener
certainly makes war on them much more success-
fully than he does on grown-up men. The death-
rate is eighteen times the death-rate of New South
Wales, and twenty times the death-rate of Maori-
land. And this is among non-covnbatants.
It is a death-rate which will practically
extirpate the women and children of the
Boer race inside five years. The prisoners
in these camps are mainly the people whose
homes have been burnt by Kitchener —the
homes which our combustible contingenters
agree in describing as, in the main, clean
and picturesque, well furnished, with books,
pictures, musical instruments, and other evi-
dences of a high civilisation. The women and
children were dragged from these burnt homes to
herd under canvas in densely-crowded, leaky tents,
to sleep in many cases on the ground, to dispense
with the ordinary decencies of life, and to perish
of neglect and disease at a rate which beats the
record of the Black Death —commonly regarded
as the most awful plague which fell on the world
in historical times. During the worst two years
of the Black Death it is reckoned that the total
death-rate went up to 167 per 1000 per annum ;
Kitchener’s prisons leave even that result hull-
down on the far horizon. They beat the death-rate
of London in the worst cholera year ; in fact, they
show a five times worse record than London did
in one of its great cholera visitations. And this
is not an isolated record ; the results have been
much the same, month by month, ever since cer-
tain members of the House of Commons dragged
from the reluctant Salisbury Government in-
formation as to the rate at which the Kitchener
system was killing off the women and children of
the Boer territories. Also, it is from these camps
that the Red Cross nurses were excluded a few
months ago, on the ground that their services
were superfluous, and that things were perfectly
satisfactory ! And yet —consider the humor, or
the brutish callousness, or the hoglike ignorance
of it —the allegedly civilised Sydney Telegraph
describes these perishing mothers and infants as
“being supported in unaccustomed luxury and
idleness,” and is indignant because they don’t
suffer even worse horrors in order to coerce their
male relatives into surrendering. It will be
many years before the moral tone of the
British nation recovers from the degradation
of Kitchener’s campaign. He has dragged
it down to the level of the Middle Ages,
and made the war a war against non-combatants,
and a general destruction of private property, and
he has patterned after Weyler, the Spanish
butcher of Cuba, who invented the horrors of the
concentration camps—though whether Weyler
killed off the mothers and infants as fast as
Kitchener is a matter of doujit. And it will be
long before Australia recovers from the moral
degradation of aiding in this work, and its press
from the unspeakable foulness of being
Kitchener’s apologist.
♦
Another Benevolent Shindykit.
The vultures still hover over that rich carcase —
New Guinea. The latest scheme of Papuan
exploitation—somewhat vague as to details, but
eminently lucid as to the project—was put before'
Premier Barton, the other day, by Theodore F.
Bevan, F.R.G.S. Mr. Bevan has just returned
from the home of boodle—Hingland— and said
he represented a shindykit, which, if the scheme
could be engineered, proposed to call itself
the New Guinea Chartered Industrial and;
Trading Corporation, Limited. The N.G.C.I.
and T.C. Ltd. proposed to “interest itself”
in the whole of British New Guinea, “ the
Commonwealth retaining the government and
continuing the present contributions towards
the cost of administration ; all else would be
made over to the Chartered Co., who would
find all money required for the gradual deve-
lopment and re Cement of the country.”
The amazin r gene wity of the: e shindykiters
is only p i aliekd by their astounding im-
pudence. Mr. Bevan went on in a large and
enthusiastic way. The country was a land of
boundless resources and inexhaustible wealth ;
rich gold runs down from lofty mountains into
rivers which are natural sluice-boxes ; India-
rubber, copra, pearls, timber, &c., constitute
further sources of untold wealth. The syndicate
is willing to tackle all this wealth gratis, and
let Australia pay the cost of governing the
country. It proposes to run steamers on the
rivers, electrical railways, mines, &c. ; har-
bors are to be built, townships created,
and so forth. The Chartered Co. doesn’t
say anything about the present native inhabi-
tants of the country; probably they will be
induced to become amenable to the influences of
civilisation, thereafter to be employed (at a
nominal wage) in boosting-up the syndicate’s divi-
dends : and if they refuse to become so amenable
they will most likely be eliminated, or dispersed,
or concentrated, or whatever happens to be the
word in vogue at the moment. Anyhow, they
don’t seem to count. The Corporation is pre-
pared, so Mr. Bevan says, to lay out at least
£10,000,000 in New Guinea within the next five to
10 years provided the Commonwealth makes it
worth while. Bevan, being merely a sort of
advance agent, couldn’t go into particu-
lars, but he thought the co. would be' satis-
fied with a lease (presumably including all
mineral, agricultural, water, and other rights)
for from 50 to 100 years of such portions of the
land as may become available from time to time.
In a word, this awful syndicate wants the practi-
cal ownership of nearly all New Guinea for a
whole century, without the cost or trouble of
governing it, absolutely for nothing ! As a speci-
men of the modest, retiring promoter, this is
simply stupendous. New Guinea is beginning to
have experiences. The last syndicate (Somers
Vine and co.) that struck that blessed isle was
admittedly “on the make”; this one professes
itself an association of benevolent philanthropists
animated solely by a desire to improve a valuable
Australian asset. The Bulletin hopes this is
the case—but it has its doubts.
An Over-Governed Community.
A good old Sydney Tory, A. W. Pearse, some
little time ago got this off his trunk in Sydney
Telegraph
AN OYER-GOVERNED COMMUNITY.
We have eight Governors, 16 Houses of Parliament,
seven Agents-General, 72 Ministers, and 700 members of
Upper and Lower Houses. Also a vast body of Govern-
ment officials, and all this to manage a population less
than that of London. Is there any wonder that our debt
is fearful to contemplate, and that our taxation is in-
creasing by leaps and bounds? What other result could
we expect? We are told that we have such wonderful
assets in our railways and other reproductive works which
have cost hundreds of millions of pounds. So we have,
if population was being attracted to our shores, but it is
not; in fact, thousands of our young men are leaving us
for South Africa, because they can see no future here,
and our population is not increasing as it should do.
Vast areas of land in New South Wales, Queensland,
and South Australia have been abandoned owing to idiotic
land legislation, and private enterprise is being blocked
rather than encouraged by legislation introduced, not for
the good of the country, but as a means of keeping in
office. What will be the result in the end?
What will be the end ? Or “ How Will It End ? ”
aa Isaiah Cohen said in his novel. Therefore,
let Mr. Pearse join with the Labor party and The
Bulletin in advocating the abolition of five of
the Agents-General, six State Governors (a cheap,
locally-appointed Lieut.-Governor, as in Canada,
is enough for any subordinate State), and six
Legislative Councils (one House of Parlia-
ment, as proved by the Canadian example,
is enough for any State). And let him holler
for breaking up the big estates which
should be available for all these young men to
settle upon as a desirable form of private enter-
prise. As for other private enterprise, let us,
with Pearse’s assistance, give it a big, vigorous
boost by Protection, under which the United
States has become the great workshop of the
world, and let Pearse cease wasting his time over
bi-metallism —which isn’t a productive industry.
Also, let him try to acquire a rooted objection to
the Tory crowd which ran N. S. W. all on its own
until the Labor party appeared in ’9l, and which,
between 1881 and 1891, added £36,000,000 to the
N.S.W. public debt. Things are bad enough
now, but if the Labor party hadn’t appeared in
’9l and somewhat checked this fearful shovelling
out of loan money, N.S.W. would owe ninety
millions by now.
4
The Colored Capitalist.
The Hambledon (Q.) Cane Planters’ Association
has asked the Queensland Govt, not to indent
Kanakas to Chinese growers. But it is pointed
out that no power exists to prevent the colored
man elbowing out the planter as well as the
planter’s white workmen. In the fate of his boss
—pushed to the wall by a monster of his own crea-
tion—the disinherited white worker may find, for
a while, some melancholy satisfaction, But the
Philp Govt, is certain to discover means of relief
for the capitalist confronted by cheap Chinese com-
petition. In the pearl-shelling industry, organised
capitalism, having driven out white labor with
cheap colored divers, found itself the victim
of tlie black and yellow capitalist’s competition.
At once Parliament interfered to prohibit the
person of color from owning a pearl-shelling boat.
All the pathos about how the Christian faith
makes no distinction between the white man and
the colored specimen at once dried up. The rich
man, who is so shocked at the selfishness of the
poor man in wanting to shut out cheap Asiatic
competition, found the Asiatic competing with
himself, and promptly forbade him doing it by
Act of Parliament. Then, having forcibly sup-
pressed Asiatic competition as directed against
his own personal interests, he went right on being
shocked at the poor man’s selfishness in just the
same old way. Now he wants to shut out the
Asiatic from being a boss planter, because in that
capacity he will interfere with the Fat Man’s
interests, and at the same time his attitude of
Christian surprise because the white worker also
objects to the Asiatic interfering with his interests
is in as good repair as ever.
4
A Dutch Legislator,
Arthur Griffith, M.L.A., to The Bulletin
As typical of the methods by which the S’African mine-
owners’ press has from the first deliberately misled the
British people with a view to getting them to believe in
an alleged Africander conspiracy, the following is in-
teresting. In the Oape Times of 25th Oct., ’99, appeared
this paragraph
“Mr. M. J. du Plessis, M.L.A. for Cradock, addresses
a letter to his constituents through the medium of the
local Dutch paper, in which he tells them : ‘ The Trans-
vaal people are our kith and kin, and it is only natural
that we should sympathise with them. There is no
honest man, no matter of what nationality, who will not
admire us for doing that.’ ”
Mr. du Plessis is a prominent member of the
Bond party in the Assembly, and this paragraph
is calculated to fasten on him a charge of stimulat-
ing co-operation with the Republican forces. Now
compare this sentence with a literal translation of
the entire letter which Mr. du Plessis addressed
to his constituents, and which may be taken as a
fair example of the tone generally adopted by the
Dutch members: —
“ Oradock, October 14, 1899.
“ To my Fellow-Citizens, —
“ Beloved fellow-citizens, the times in which we live
are serious, and as I shall not have the opportunity of
meeting you at present to address you, and to inform
you of what is in my mind, I use the columns of the
Afrikander, as the matter brooks no delay. The in-
habitants of the Transvaal and the Free State are one in
blood with us, and it is impossible for us not to sympa-
thise with them. There is, moreover, no right-thinking
person of whatever nationality who will not approve this
sentiment. However, I desire to say to all my fellow-
citizens, ‘ Men, sympathise and feel with and for our
relatives and friends as much as you please, but do not
forget that we are subjects of her Majesty, our revered
Queen Victoria, and lei us not commit any excess to mar
the last years of her reign. Let us stay still and leave
the issue which is so momentous for the whole of South
Africa in the hands of Him who judgeth justly, and who
will make all things end in the best way.
“ Your fellow-citizen,
M. J. du Plessis.”
4 ■
The Flight of Capital.
Apropos of that alleged person who said he was
going to start a Bovril or Beef-tea or something
factory here with British capital, but was so
shocked at our awful Labor legislation that he
couldn’t conscientiously recommend his people to
do it, the Canterbury Times (Christchurch,
M.L.) makes these remarks :
Some wealthy London corporations seem easily
frightened. We remember that a few years ago, before
the Labor tribunals in this country had quite settled
down to their career of usefulness, the Government and
the Liberal party were roundly accused of driving capital
out of the country. A standing dish at all meetings of
employers and of Chambers of Commerce was the sad
story of a wealthy English syndicate whose representa-
tive, having come to Maoriland with the object of
starting a new factory, employing thousands of hands,
was frightened away by our Labor legislation. The
trimmings were varied, but the meat was always the
same. Sometimes the man’s name was Smith, some-
times Jones ; sometimes it was a chevril fac-
tory, sometimes a wooden-nutmeg factory ; but
the man always went away without investing his
money in the country. It seems now that Smith had
been in Sydney, where he confided to a member of the
Chamber of Commerce that he had been all round the
colonies to make arrangements for the manufacture of
raw products on behaif of a wealthy London corporation,
but that, owing to class legislation, he could not recom-
mend his principals to invest money here. He was going
to the Argentine, he said, to carry out his project there.
It is a pathetic picture of the absolute failure of British
colonies, and we really do not understand why so many
people persist in carrying on their bankrupt industries,
losing money day by day as though they were enjoying
themselves. We recollect now that in the Maoriland stories
Smith sometimes went to the Argentine to found his indus-
tries, but we fear that the tick, or lumpy jaw, or some-
thing of the kind, must have frightened him there, for the
industries were never started. The reason for Smith’s
appearance in Sydney is not far to seek. N. S. Wales is
seriously considering the question of introducing legisla-
tion on the lines of our Industrial Conciliation and
Arbitration Act, and the employers are resorting to the
same methods of fighting the reform as were adopted in
Maoriland five or six years ago. But even if we accept
the Smith story as absolute truth, what bearing has it on
the justice or injustice of the legislation, which, after all,
is the question at issue? We are better, in the human
sense, without an industry which cannot afford to pay
a living wage to the workers and to grant
them proper conditions of labor. And from the
financial point of view we cannot believe that
labor legislation constitutes a more serious tax upon
industries than do the strikes of older countries.
Here in Maoriland we learnt that lesson nearly a decade
ago, and whatever changes may be made in our legislation,
it is certain that neither employers nor workmen would
consent to any alteration that would throw us back to the
conditions existing prior to 1891. Mr. Wise, whose sym-
pathies are not altogether with the workers, has been
courteous enough to defend Maoriland against the attacks
that are being made upon her in N.S.W., adopting very
much the attitude of Judge Backhouse. He does not
accept the Maoriland experiment as final, but he admits
that our experience does not justify the gloomy fore-
bodings of gentlemen like the Smith of the story. It has
shown, he says, the folly of those who told them that
capital would leave the country if industrial disputes
were settled by other than the “ barbarous and wasteful
methods of strikes and lock-outs.” That much is granted
now by all sections of the community, and we have little
doubt that Australia will have the good sense to follow
our example in the near future.
Peacock s vacillation over the Convention Bill
has already had the effect of further stiffening the
sufficiently-inflexible back of Victoria’s House of
48 Rich Landlords. The stolid four dozen, being
invited to pass the Old Age Pensions Further
Provision Bill—validating payments made since
last June—calmly put it on one side till they got
an assurance from the Kookaburra that 7s. a
week should be the future maximum. The spine-
less laugher cordially agreed to the 7s. limit, as
far as he was able to commit the Assembly;
and the brutally selfish four dozen promptly
showed what they thought of him by
throwing his Exported Products Bill into the
gutter. There is little hope for Victoria till
that State finds or grows a Premier who
knows how to fight, and has a cause worth fight-
ing for. Meanwhile, every fresh insolence on the
part of the Landlords brings nearer the time when
the Victorian members will sool the Federal
Legislature on to them. The Federal Parliament
should take up the Exported Products question,
which, as a commercial matter, comes within its
range ; it can easily do so by levying an export-
duty on produce that is not of sufficiently good
quality to deserve the official stamp. And it
should levy graduated land and income taxes and
absentee tax as Federal imposts, whereby it
might make the Landlords sorry that they had not
been more reasonable in their day of blatant
pride, and grieved that they had provoked outside
interference.
4
The other day Customs Minister Charley
Kingston arose in all his W.C.T.U. wrath and
prosecuted the publishing firm of Geo. Robert-
son and Co. for selling Balzac’s “ Droll Stories ”
and Paul de Kocic’s “ Monsieur Dupont,” on the
ground that they were indecent works. Prof.
Morris was called to uphold the opinion of the
department, and P.M. Panton fined the firm
£lOO, reducing it to £25 after a lot of trouble.
Balzac, especially, possesses a reputation
which, rightly or wrongly, leads the average
man to regard all his books as standard
literature. If every book-firm is supposed to be
answerable for the decency of every line of its
books, not one quarter of the literature written
prior to ttie present century, and including
Chaucer, Shakespeare and the Bible itself, will be
available. The suppression of these quasi-indecent
works may be advisable in the interests of
morality, but Religious Tract Societies which deal
in Bibles should certainly be instructed to cease
the pernicious practice on pain of being haled
before a police court. And, during the
prosecution, Librarian Armstrong admitted
that there was a copy of “Droll Stories”
in the Melb. Public Library—in French, it is true,
but available for all-comers. The prosecution of
Mr. Armstrong, and the fining of the Library
trustees, must logically follow Kingston’s action.
Mr. Coldham, who appeared for the defence,
elicited from Prof. Morris that he had included
“ St. Agnes Eve,” by Keats, in a book for school-
boys, but saw nothing indecent about it (notwith-
standing that its motive is of a young man looking
through a keyhole at a girl undressing herself).
The friskiness of Kingston’s youth used to be
described as reprehensible by pious Adelaideans.
The morality of his old age threatens to be
calamitous.'
4
In Victoria the Govt, is doing what a private
member has undertaken in N.S.W. Solicitor-
General Wynne has introduced a bill to amend
the law respecting money-lenders. It includes
every variety of usurer excepting licensed pawn-
brokers, societies registered under the Friendly
Societies or the Building Societies Acts, or bona
fide banks. No specific rate of interest is fixed, or
named as excessive, but very wide powers are
given to the courts to open up and review all kinds
of money-lending transactions, and to reduce
charges considered to be “ harsh and unconscion-
able.” The Bill provides that the shent per shent
gentleman must register in his own name and ad-
dress. The penalty for non-registration is a fine not
exceeding £lOO, and, on a second conviction, im-
prisonment for not more than three months. If
the offender be a body corporate, that body is liable
to a fine not exceeding £5OO. Any money-lender
who makes any false or misleading statement,
representation, or promise, whereby he fraudu-
lently" induces, or attempts to induce anyone to
borrow money) is liable to imprisonment up to two
years or to a fine not exceeding £5OO. Every honest
man in Vic. Parliament ought to do his best to
rush this Bill through—with a big and important
amendment. The weak point is that of almost all
Bills—though a maximum punishment is fixed
there is no minimum, and the sympathetic court,
which mustn’t fine the shark more than £lOO, will
often indignantly charge him 2s. fid. Let us have
a minimum as well as a maximum.
4
Here is an edifying letter
Editor Bulletin, —
Now that the deficiencies of the Watson’s Bay lifeboat
service have received attention, perhaps the N.S.W.
Department concerned will consider other evils that
retpiire a remedy.
Speaking to a deep-water sailor, the other day, he related
the following curious state of affairs—and subsequent
inquiry has satisfied me that he was stating facts :
When a donkey-engine is placed aboard a sailing-ship
the practice is to reduce the number of fo’c’sle hands.
Now, a donkey-engine is first-class for hoisting sails and
various other things ; but when a dirty squall appears,
and the ship has to be shortened-down instanter, men—
plenty men—are required.
A ship of 1300 tons recently left Sydney with this crew :
—Master, two mates, two apprentices, cook, cabin-boy,
and ten seamen. Having lost two men, their places were
filled by a fireman and a coal-trimmer, both foreigners,
and knowing practically no English.
Each watch was thus composed of a mate and five sea-
men, and is supposed to provide one man for the wheel
and one for look-out, thereby leaving the mate and three
men to work the ship. The look-out man is frequently
regarded by the master as an idle vagabond, and, in con-
sequence, he is not allowed to loaf. So it comes to pass
that he only looks-out when there is nothing else for him
to do. Another of being short-handed is
that there is no regular watch-below (sleep) for anybody,
even in ordinary weather, and the vigilant look-out
required by law for the protection of life and property is
not kept.
Another trouble with some Australian ships is that they
are not properly provisioned. One of them recently
arrived at her home-port, after a 6iJ-da.vs’ passage. Her
former record for the same trip was 65 days, and on this
occasion she was short-handed, yet, on the 58th day, her
stores were down to a barrel of rotten beef, and half-a-
barrel of flour. The crew were painfully thin at that, and
what they would have looked like had the ship been out
10 days longer may be imagined. The same ship, by the
way, carried two Britons—one an apprentice, the other
the cook.
What can the poor wretches do ? They dare not com-
plain, because that would prejudice their chances of
getting another ship.
There is another matter that needs inquiry : How many
ships are thpre in Sydney and Newcastle that have their
permanent ballast stowed immediately on top of the
cement stiffening in their bottoms, so as to give them
more space for carrying lumber ?
These evils require remedies, and the man charged with
that duty must be made responsible in fact, and not in
name only. At present, when an unseaworthy ship goes
to sea and is lost, the responsible man, who is supposed
to see that she was seaworthy, sometimes gets a “ severe
caution ” from his departmental chief. The proper
penalty for negligence of this sort is a heavy fine in all
eases, and a stiff term in Darlinghurst prison when the
negligence is proved to be gross.— Viking.


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STANDING
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S. W. D’ARCY-IRVINHi, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney; or to
G. G. McOOLL and B. H. PASCOE, Managersfor Victoria, S. Australia and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melboukne.
C. CARLIBLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
'SB
The New
Field Glass
For the Races, <fcc.
Very powerful, as used by
Officers of the British Army
in South Africa. Easily
focussed by the patent
quick draw.
Magnifying 5 times, 65s ; Aluminium, 84s.
Magnifying 6 times, 73s ; Aluminium, 85s.
In Solid Leather Sling Oases.
WOOD, “The Optician,
Only address in N.S. IV.,
290 Ceorge-St. Sydney (opp. Hunter-St.)
and EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
REGAL SUITS
BEADY for WEAR.
Equal in Style and Finish
to the highest efforts
of the best
in “ order ”
/•
Tailor’s
work.
OUR ONLY ADDRESS:
[ondon Tailoring Depot,
(opp. C.P.0.) BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ Sweet and Twenty ” and “ The
Bugle Call.”
Lyceum “A London Arab ”
Her Majesty’s Italian Opera.
Empire Fuller Co.
Palace “ World’s Entertainers.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Crane-Power Co.
Her Majesty’s “ The Casino Girl.”
Bijou “ Tom, Dick and Harry.”
Theatre Royal “ Taken From Life.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Heroes, male and female, around whom
grand opera is written, don’t seem to have taken
any stock of the fact that the Almighty’s canon is
fixed against self-slaughter. Of course they
occasionally slaughter the other party, but that
seems more natural than permanently effacing
themselves from glorious scenery and palace-halls.
For they always live in great style, and with no
more hint of squalor than is conveyed by a snow-
capped mountain range and a lake glowing ruby
under the setting sun. “ Ernani,” staged at Her
Majesty’s on Saturday night, is founded, as to
story, on Yictor Hugo’s “ Hernani,” and tells the
tale of a lovely lady who is loved by three men (so
unequally are things managed in this world), viz.,
a king, a grandee, and a robber chief. She
(Elvira she is named) loves the robber, who
is described as “ practising his calling in the
vicinity.” This is really a pretty touch and
calls up an impression of a mountain fastness
bearing a brass-plate inscribed, “ Ernani and Co.,
Solicitors on the Highway.” The grandee has the
advantage of the other lovers in the fact that he
is Elvira’s guardian, and he is going to compel
her to wear orange-blooms when the royal lover
glides along (with a cloak over his royal brands
and ear-marks), and strives to get her to go away
with him. Then arrives the robber-man, with
bugle, daggers, big boots, and angel sleeves. He
challenges the king, but apologises when the
king’s kingship is declared. Presently, the king
gets rid of the bandit on a wily pretext. Later,
lovers and maid come together again as the
marriage with the guardian is nigh celebration.
Ernani, in the disguise of a pilgrim, is hidden by
Don Silva, the guardian, from the wrath of the
king, but only till the grandee can do his own
killing. Elvira is “lifted” by the king as a hostage.
Ernani comes out of his hiding-place, but declines
to fight with one who has saved his life. He, how-
ever, offers to die by his own hand whenever Don
Silva shall call upon him by sounding one note
upon a bugle horn which he gives the elderly
lover. Don Carlos, the king, is elected Emperor
of Germany, and in the general rejoicing he does
a lot of pardoning and gives Elvira to Ernani.
They are married, and are trilling joyous duets
when the furious Don Silva blows the fatal note.
The bridal pair sing anguished solos at the re-
morseless Don Silva, then Ernani, after his 16th
century notion of honor, keeps his promise with a
stiletto.
* • * *
Signora Benedetto as Elvira was in
splendid voice on the opening night, and her solo
“ Ernani Involami,” the music of which is an old
and beloved friend, was encored. Larizza, as the
bandit chief, was occasionally too robust in the use
of his fine tenor. The choruses in the conspiracy
scene went with great vigor and brought a lot of
ill-timed applause from the galleries. Larizza
swings and sways to his music; —he sings even
with his legs, and if he wouldn’t put so much dis-
temper into his nose ——. Signor Bozzoli, as the
king, showed off his baritone royally, and his dress
when he becomes Emperor of Germany—well, if
Edward VII. gets nigh its splendor on his corona-
tion day the photographers will be glad. As the
Spanish grandee, Signor Travaglini was a fine, old,
proud basso of a proud race, and Signorina Marchi
filled her usual role of consolatrix of the afflicted,
and sang her few notes with as much sweetness as
Yerdi allows, and that’s a good deal.
'#* * *
Basil Hood, the man who wrote the joyous
libretto of the “Rose of Persia,” has fallen some-
what from his high estate in “ Sweet and Twenty ”
—the latest Broughism at Sydney Royal. It is
called a comedy for probably the same reason that
“colonel” is called “kurnel.” Most things in
this world are called what they are not. A red-
headed handy man (Brough plays the part in a
broad smile and glaring whisker) is amusing
enough, but he doesn’t belong to the plot
to any extent worth mentioning. The tale
itself is built upon a long, pallid parson;
and his son, the pale, plump prig, who is study-
ing for the church ; and his other son, the joyous
naval officer, whose faith in his fraternal prig is
pathetic to witness ; and the girl both these sons
love. In the first act, the handy man breaks a
good many things, and the naval son goes
away to rejoin his vessel. In the next act he
comes back a wreck, dismissed for drunken-
ness, and the handy man breaks more things,
and the prig-son sets himself up as media-
tor, and urges his brother to go away and
redeem his character in Australia. He does this
in order that he may take the girl to his pale theo-
logical bosom in the prodigal’s absence. And in the
third act, after the handy man has broken almost
everything, the prig proposes to the girl, and
tells her his brother is drunker than ever in Aus-
tralia—only just then the brother comes in pro-
sperous and happiy, having given up drink, and
gone to Australia, and made enough to buy a
new suit of clothes, and come back, all in a mar-
vellously short space of time. He becomes
engaged to the girl, though nothing very definite
appears as to his means of supporting her. The
morose prig brother, who is eaten up with
theology, goes out to shoot himself, but doesn’t.
And the handy man breaks quite a lot of crockery
in between whiles.
There are gleams of better things in the
play, but there aren’t enough better things. The
png, with his small meannesses and his small
piety, his dull, leaden, yet intense affections and
knowledge of Scripture—with a black tail coat
and the instincts of a saint looking through a
keyhole into a girl’s bedroom from the best
motives, is a good, though dreary, study, and
Cecil Ward plays him admirably. Yet Ward
looks too old for the part. Miss Temple hardly
looks her part either, yet she has a fine conception
of the character of the girl who is supposed to be
sweet and twenty. Ernest Vere’s sailor brother
is an individual who wails dolefully in his
time of ill-fortune. Mr. and Mrs. Brough and
Miss Vaughan brighten up the play a good deal
in an extraneous way, but the plot is thin and the
tale is small and dolorous. Among the characters
in the real story Charles Garry, as the father
parson, is about the best. Garry looks the
long-established reverend who has mouldered all
his life in a country vicarage. There is also a
mother who plays her part consistently, inasmuch
as she is ill upstairs in all the three acts ; and a
small, consistent alligator, said to have been
brought home in a basket, which remains in the
next room with an attention to detail that can’t
be too much commended.
» * • •
A one-act play, the “Bugle Call,” doesn’t
brighten the programme much. It is the simple
story of a girl whose mother wanted her to marry
a rich man, but she refuses him, and becomes
eugaged instead to a poor lieutenant who is
bound for Africa to burn the Boer farms. As the
lieutenant is going out he hears the bugle-call, and
that is about all. Mrs. Brough and Miss Susie
Vaughan help along this fragment a good deal,
but Miss Dora Battiscombe—the girl who becomes
engaged to the man who hears the bugle—is only
a moderate success.
-* * * #
Mr. F. M. Alexander and Miss Edith
Tasca-Page went through a few nights’ season of
“ Hamlet ” at Sydney Criterion. Mr. Alexander
gave a more hare-brained representation than
usual of the scraggy youth with the bee in his
bonnet, who pretended to be mad till he really
became so, and besides which, was insane from
the start. This drama always gives one the im-
pression that the king was rather a soft person,
considering the grave crime he is alleged to have
committed on the uncertain evidence of a ghost.
Mr. Tait made an excellent Polonius, but when
stabbed by Hamlet it is a pity that an enterpris-
ing super behind the arras didn’t put alittlered ink
on the tip of the weapon. Miss Beatrice Parry,
who took the part of the Queen on Thursday
night, looks much too young to have a son making
disrespeotful remarks to her on her age. Miss
Edith Tasca Page put much energy into her mad
scene, and, as far as a mere lay person can judge,
her insanity was correct in every item. Five
minutes after she left the stage her drowned body
was brought in and promptly buried, the weary
and hopeless Court of Denmark making no attempt
at resuscitation, but evidently thinking it was all
for the best. The humor of the grave-diggers was
gone through with fair but not overpowering
success, after which the Court of Denmark went
to pieces in the usu.il way and strewed itself
about the throne steps, while two bright, young
pages stood, one on each side of that piece
of furniture, looking as if Royal personages
in Denmark were quite in the habit of toppling
into eternity in this manner. Why can’t a page
strain a point sufficiently to give way to reason-
able excitement when he sees the whole royal
family perishing unexpectedly on the floor?
* * * *
The red figure of Shylock followed the
weird, black figure of Hamlet at Sydney Criterion
on Monday night. The most noticeable features
about the first performance were the intervals,
which were long. The shifting of stage furniture
was sometimes done with the curtain raised, and
the Jew’s house was frequently heard banging
itself about in the dark during its erection.
Alexander’s Jew made a better all-round im-
pression than his Hamlet, though it hasn’t
got the dignity of some Shylocks. Dorahy
made a good impression as young Gobbo,
and Mr. Spong, as his half-blind father, delivered
himself of his aged voice very impressively. The
scene where Portia is united to her lover was
adorned by a bevy of young ladies in various
evening costumes, one very tall, pink lady, in
something Grecian, being specially noticeable for
her soldierlike attitude. (There was also a modern
Japanese screen in Portia’s drawing-room.) These
young ladies are understood to be the slaves of
the household, and it was evidently the fashion in
these days for all the servants to be invited into
the drawing-room whenever a young man was
going to propose. They didn’t give young men a
chance to escape in Italy during the Middle Ages.
* * * *
The vaudeville season at Sydney Palace
closes shortly, and for a while, at any rate, the
public will be deprived of the burglar, the bright
dancers, and other people who are entertaining
and, above all things else, polite. For to-day
(Saturday) a new programme is announced, and
Nelstone will illustrate in fresh dances a weird
crookedness, wasted on any sphere but politics,
whilst others will strive to be as unlike their
present selves as possible.
* * * *
As a shrine of true Anglo-Saxon gaiety,
Sydney Empire draws cheery audiences. The
niggers fall upon the stage with a bump
which tells of genuine bruises and livens the house
to honest hilarity. A show which can get its
knockabout men to fall in a realistically painful
way will always have support wherever the Union
Jack flies.
* * * *
“ The Orphan Heiress ” continues to be a
blighted blossom at Sydney Lyceum, and the
shapeless tiger grows more and more weary at
seeing his delicate titbit of distressed heroine
snatched from him by destiny just when he is pre-
paring for the feast. The heroine has been so
knocked about by her guardians that she enters
the den quite passively and with all the shriek died
out of her. The rest of the characters behave
with the usual amount of imbecility. Something
concerning a street arab is to be staged at the
Lyoeum next week,
** # *
The chief feature at Sydney Tivoli this
week is the illusion exlrib tion of Madame Dante ;
anybody who wants to see what looks like the
white souls of a score or so ladies whirling round
in garments that resemble many-colored flames
flashing through the darkness should go to see
Madame Dante as multiplied through numerous
mirrors. The lady also produces the fiery end of
“ She ” and dances a Lily dance —all notable so far
as prettiness is concerned, but stopping far short
of anything remarkable in the matter of novelty.
“ She” has been burned too often of late years to
excite much furore. Skate-dancing Almond once
more pounds joyously on the Tivoli boards, and
Little Gulliver, the pocket comedian, receives a
genuine encore for his reasons why there is no
place like home. Gulliver says he regards home
as a good place to sober-up in.
** * *
The slow and stately season of Wilson
Barrett and co., at Her Majesty’s (Melb.), will
conclude to-night (Thursday) with, or without,
the Doxology. For sundry reasons, “Ciaudian”
has been selected to play Barrett off the premises,
the principal reason, perhaps, being a mighty
earthquake which befalls the palace of Ciaudian in
the second act, and leaves him to work out his
strange salvation amidst the ruins. The enthusi-
astic shilling majority of the audience, which has
remained loyal-to Wilson Barrett all through his
season, will think it fitting that he should perish
finally ’midst an earthquake’s debris, but present
scribe would have preferred to see him make a
farewell bow as Yirginius. “Virginius,” by
Sheridan Knowles, is an 80-year-old tragedy
of almost Shakespearian vigor, and the name-
part belongs to Wilson Barrett by right of
his old legitimate method and full experience in
the art of how to run the show. He did it on
Saturday for once, and the gods saw that it was
good. In fact, they saw that it was better than
his previous production of the piece, inasmuch as
Miss M‘Carthy, who played Virgy’s daughter, is
many points lighter than Maud Jeffries used to
weigh ; therefore,, the spectacle of the ancient
Roman parent heading an insurrection with his
offspring’s corpse in his arms was a more tragic
effect than when he staggered under the heavier
burden. Barrett knows his business in all depart-
ments. A sound, strong actor, with occasional
genius ; a prince of stage-managers in his own
Roman line ; a king of advertisers ; a Great
Grafter. But Bar.att makes mistakes, like
weaker mortals; and one of his errors
this season was the staging of “Quo
Vadis ” for four nights when he could have been
so much more respected in “ Yirginius.” Barrett’s
co. has some capital male figures for hanging
Roman drapery on. The two Majeronis, Basil
Gill and Carter-Edwards carry their sheetings
with an air of distinction, whilst Miss Lillah
M‘Carthy looks so sweet that even her despondent
tones don’t make one feel very sorry for her. And
these figures seem to belong to the time of Yir-
ginius, which was probably centuries 8.0., if
that somewhat mythical citizen ever had any time
at all. One word more on the serious subject of
Wilson Barrett. Last Friday he and his hard-
worked co. contributed a matinee performance of
“The Christian King” in aid of “The World’s
Fair,” otherwise the Abbotsford Convent fund.
Considering that the Fair professes to have a large
and influential committee working for the cause,
and Barrett gave his show on that understanding,
the committee aforesaid deserves no glory for its
neglect to push the matinee and fill the house.
In such cases a full attendance ought to be
guaranteed.
»* * *
J. C. Williamson’s Comic Opera Co., an
organization which ranks as a top brick on the
Commonwealth chimney, and a corner-stone of
Australia’s social system, and is likewise a
sparkling well-spring of happiness, and a heap of
other matters —the Comic Opera co. that went
away from Melbourne six months ago is returning
to Her Majesty’s on Saturday next (sth) for a
short season. “ The Casino Girl ”is the bill, and
a violent colored posterette depicts the young
female in the act of embracing a pale donkey with
her estimable legs.
** # *
Saturday night, at the Bijou, brought a
great gathering of everybody who used to rush
the house in the palmy B. and B. days of yore,
plus many other people who have been coming on
in the meantime. An S.R.O. night, with an
accent on the O, and all because “Tom, Dick,
and Harry” had a ring of frivolousness in its
title, and promised to be a farce of the Smith-
Jones order. There is, seemingly, a great open-
ing in Melbourne just now for an entertainment
named “Thompson” or “Plain Bill.” The world
wants to feel certain that nothing dreadful will
happen in the last act. “Tom, Dick, and Harrv”
is a farcical comedy, written by a woman, and the
slim white hand of female authorship is percep-
tible in its complications. Tom suffers from a
dyspeptic military father, who doesn’t want him
to marry a certain Daisy ; consequently, thwarted
Thomas assumes the disguise of a red-headed man
in a straw hat, and the other man happens to be
the ginger twin-brother of a third straw hat. The
middle twin has a lost wife looking for him, whilst
the third ginger of the trinity gets cut off from
his girl, and the red deceiver who is all the world
to Daisy gets mistaken for either twin, just
according to which woman chances to recognise
him by his false hair. Also, the twins get mis-
taken for the wrong Rufuses by the shrieking
sisterhood, and every man hugs the other
fellows’ bits of property in turn, and the dyspeptic
warrior flies to a lunatic asylum for consolation.
Moreover, the three young men, at whose fiery
heads matches may be lighted, are likewise con-
veyed to the asylum by violence, or of their own
free will, and the three girls chase the wrong
lunatics. Finally, the red-headed deceiver
removes his wig in order to get his father’s
blessing, and the wandering wife recovers the
identity of her' twin, and the joke flickers
out. It is a good joke in some places, and
a tired joke sometimes. Take it for all in
all, “ Tom, Dick and Harry” might be a
weaker joke. All the same, an authoress who
creates three red-headed men in one mould,
and turns them loose upon the stage with in-
structions to finish up in a lunatic asylum, is a
sort of new humorist who deserves little en-
couragement. There are limits to dramatic
license, and the literary mother of “ Tom, Dick
and Harry ” oversteps the limit. The cast is not
very dilferentfrom what it was in Sydney. Herbert
Ross as the unreal ginger lover, and W. F.
Hawtrey as the demented dyspeptic are the main
strength of the co. Miss Ruby Ray and Miss
Roxy Barton shine brightest of the ladies. Some
of the other performers make reasonable attempts
to be funny, but the effort is not always suc-
cessful.
* * * *
“A Highland Legacy,” the mild and pretty
first piece, would be prettier and more exciting if
Thos. Holding, O. P. Heggie—suggestive name,
Heggie ! —and Gregan MacMahon, not to mention
the ladies, were 18 carat actors. Hawtrey, in a
kilt, is a valuable consideration. He dis-
Eenses wealth to the inhabitants of a garret, and
rings the curtain down on a feeling little speech,
and “ A Highland Legacy ” is a pleasant memory
during the red-headed revels that ensue.
** * *
“The Only Way,” now staged at Mel-
bourne Princess’s, is a notable success as regards
the one strong character in the play. Tyrone
Power’s living pictures of Sydney Carton may be
a little too melodramatic, but they are fine, manly
pictures. The actor spreads himself in the part,
and the part bears the strain, although Tyrone
Power is about 62 inches tall and boisterous in
proportion. He convinces from first to last. A new
Mimi (Miss Eva M‘Donald) is an intelligent
little successor to Miss Rose Musgrove; the
Defarge of Roland Stavely is good enough, like-
wise Charles Hammond as Darnay. Miss
Crane and Oily Deering play their former
parts passably. With the two exceptions
of Tyrone Power and the scenery no item
in “ The Only Way ” seems quite all that it
might be. The French Revolution has lost some
of its original tumult, and the roar of popular
approval when a bloated aristocrat steps outside
to get guillotined sounds as though the multitude
had mostly lapsed into a blood-thirsty silence.
m* * *
These are the last two nights for
witnessing the victorious sprint with which
Walter Baker wins the bicycle race at Mel-
bourne Royal. Also, they are the final oppor-
tunities for appreciating the noble conduct of the
dawg. “ Riding to Win ” will be laid aside after
Friday, and on Saturday (sth) Bland Holt will
revive “ Taken From Life,” which drama is for a
few nights only.
** # *
At the Opera House, nothing in particular
has happened to the bill since last week, when
the Tyler Family came to pass ; but the devoted
patrons of Rickards live in hopes of meeting a
distinguished someone from Europe or America
on Saturday next. Meanwhile, Peggy Pryde is
about halfway between London and Bourke-st.
** * *
Lauri, Palotta, and co. gave a big matinee,
in Adelaide, on Saturday (28th Sept.), for the
newly-formed Comic Opera Charitable Fund. It
included an act (specially revived) of “Ma Mie
Rosette,” with Brownlow as the amorous monarch,
and Carrie Moore in “ I was Dreaming.”
In The Bulletin of 20th ult. an item
appeared having reference to a recent Melbourne
railway accident. It has been pointed out to us
by Mr. John Birt (known on the stage as Pro-
fessor Weston), trainer of performing dogs, that
the paragraph might be misconstrued into a
reflection on his honesty. No such meaning was
intended in regard to the gentleman in question,
and we take the first opportunity of expressing
regret for any annoyance that may have been
caused to a reputable citizen.
The Wild Cat Column.
Queensland has dumped on the London market
a 3 per cent, loan of £1,374,213 at £9l 10s. for every £lOO.
This makes the fourth big Australian loan issued in
London this year, or if the Victorian loan of £3,000,000 is
omitted (it being merely a renewal on most disastrous
terms of an old liability) there are still three new loans,
all issued in September, and aggregating 1 £6,874,213. The
Queensland loan has been underwritten at the usual
charge of £1 ss. per cent., reducing the yield to £9O ss.
for every £lOO, and expenses have to come out of that.
So results are something like this :
Debt Cash received Loss
incurred. about about
N.S. Wales .. ..£4,000,000 £3,680,000 £320,000
Victoria 3,000,000 2,715,000 285,000
Westralia .. .. 1,500,000 1,335,000 165,000
Queensland .. .. 1,374,213 1,229,921 144,292
£9,874,213 £8,959,921 £914,292
Roughly speaking, this means that the credit of the four
States was just about good enough to enable them to
borrow at £3 10s. per cent, all round. But, with the
usual desire to shirk present trouble, they bor-
rowed at a rate which involves paying somewhere
about £3 ss. 6d. per cent, on the money actually
received, and the rest of the interest (about
£914,000) is added to the public debt. In other words, in
addition to leaving future generations to pay for all this


stocks Kept „ r
RAND ROCK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
BY THE SOLE AGENTS—
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ; WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
214 HIGH STREET, FREMANTLE; KALCOORLIE.
g
TRAMWAYS. TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
IDSf Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p. “a®
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
: graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World, upon
application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
Zetz Spa Water (naturally effervescent) taken
with meals absolutely cures and prevents indigestion.
There is no other table water as pleasant to take, or aa
effective. Try it.*
* • * •
Stock Exchange, London, 17th July, 1901,
re Colonial {Mutual Life office : —“ Notwithstanding its
comparative youth, it has achieved, in the short time of
its existence, a status and reputation that places it
amongst the leading life offices of the world.”*
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * ♦
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. Sd. post free.
* * * •
The Hecla mine, Lake Superior, U.S.A., have
recently given an order for 80 Wilfley concentrators in
one lot. They have decided, after trying every known
concentrating machine, that the Wilfley table is. by far
the best. The Wilfley concentrating machines continue
to gain in favor in these States. The sole manufacturers,
The Austral Otis Co., South Melbourne, inform us they
are kept fully employed in turning out these machines,
and have sold a very large number.*
« * « *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil*
Allan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
John W. H. Piper, C.E., M.A.1.M.E.,
M.Am.I.M.E., &c., Australian representative of Cutten
Bros., Dunedin, mining and dredging engineers, is leaving
for London about the end of September to establish a
Home Office for the firm, the increase of foreign business
necessitating this action. Mr. Piper will be pleased to
undertake any commissions that may be entrusted to him.
Equitable Buildings, Georg e-street, Sydney.*
• • * •
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
If further proof is needed that Luhrig Vanners
are the best and most economical machines for dressing
fines and slimes, it will be found in the fact that the Tas-
mania gold mine, Beaconsfield, Tasmania, has decided to
increase the number of these machines in the extension
of the present mill and reduction works. When com-
pleted it will have over 100 head of stampers at work, and
60 Luhrig Vanners, including the additional 24 of the
large type. Before finally adopting plans the Tasmania
board sent its manager to inspect the chief reduction
works in other States. Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, of
Melbourne, are the Sole Agents for the Luhrig appli-
ances.*
• « * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
he., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
• * * *
A fall of £4 per ton took place in copper last
week immediately following the announcement that the
Amalgamated Copper Trust had declared a disappointing
div., and had thereby paralysed operations in Wall-street.
It was followed by a £2 rise, which was immediately suc-
ceeded by a£2 10s. drop. Then came another rise, and
at time of writing the price is in the vicinity of £63, or
£4 lower than it was a week before. No definite explana-
tion has been given. Probably the big Copper Trust of
America has manoeuvred it. Some two months ago
shareholders in copper companies which had joined the
Trust against their wish threatened to bring an action
and to have the Trust declared an illegal organisation. It
is not unlikely that the proceedings have started, and
that the Trust, in the declaration of a disappointing div.,
has some other fish to fry; perhaps it has put copper
down to foreshadow what would happen if the Trust
itself collapsed.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, eta
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges,
Ny. Markwaid,
178 William-street;,
Melbournb;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st. , Adel. ; #7 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
WILD CAT” BRIAR PIPES Wild
8
D.
ea.
IN A DOZEN DIFFERENT SHAPES.
Posted, lOd.; 6s. per Dozen—posted, 6s. Bd.; 725. per Gross— tssr Carriage Free to any
Railway Station in New South Wales.
8S
Cat
jsjjr
jf
sdg
WOOLF JSb 00., 376 Qeorge-street (aext GhRO.),
s a s'E>3srxi*ar.
generation’s public works—even works which return no
revenue, and which, in many cases, will be obsolete or
worn out and quite useless in a few years—a large part of
this generation's interest bill is also left to posterity to
pay. Once more : will some politician, who ranks above
the spieler or the pickpocket in point of probity, move
that a sinking fund be established in every case, sufficient
at least to pay the loss incurred on floating loans at a
ridiculously low rate of interest ? Many of the “ per-
manent and reproductive works ” for which money is
borrowed are ridiculous enough, but charging £914,000 of
interest to posterity is barefaced swindling.
* * * *
The usual Bill to authorise the Sydney Municipal
Council to borrow £200,000 has slid gently through
N.S.W. Assembly. The bulk of the money (£167,791) is,
as usual, to pay off the overdraft which has accumulated
through the Council not raising enough taxes to cover its
necessary current expenses. The increase of the rates to
Is 9d. in the £ has made ends come nearer to meeting,
but there is such a vast interest-bill to pay on the old
shortages that it would probably need 2s. in the £ to
wholly stop the drift.
* * * •
The Australian Metropolitan Life Assurance
Co. (Brisbane) has closed its best year up to date, and it
has again—for the second time in about three years—
written up the book-value of its office. This is how
things hare gone with the co. since its inception :
Expenses Total Added to funds
Total and Out- (apart from
Income. Claims. Dividends, goings, writing up of
property).
1896 £250
1897 .. £4540 £133 £2754 £2887 1653
1898 .. 6393 751 4423 5174 1219
1899 .. 7252 992 5102 6094 1158
1900 .. 9386 1277 6934 7211 2175
1901 .. 11,023 1483 6551 8034 2989
£38,594 £4636 £24,764 £29,400 £9444
Office Property written up (1898) .. £10,095
t> >, written up again (1901) 5500 15,595
Nominal amount of Assurance Fund.. £25,039
As far as can be ascertained from the information
available the Australian Metropolitan Co. bought
its office property for £14,405 and by adding £15,695 on
to the valuation it now makes it appear as an asset worth
£30,000. Therefore, over three-fifths of the nominal
assurance fund of £25,039 consists of the extra value
tacked on to that office property. There is, of course, no
positive evidence that it isn’t worth £30,000. The invest-
ments consist of said office property, £30,000, and loans
on mortgage £3103 ; total £33,103. Interest and rents
received are set down at £1521, which represents
£4 12s. lid. per cent, on the average funds for the year.
If this rate can be maintained the writing-up of the
property may be held to be justified, but at the same time
the rate isn’t a high one, and it doesn't look as if the
building could stand any further inflation.
At August, 1900, the Australian Metropolitan
held its first quinquennial investigation, and decided that
the present value of the liabilities under its policies was
£10,324. It had actually accumulated £6455, so but for
the writing up of the office property there would have
been a deficit in the assurance fund of £3869. As it was,
there was an apparent surplus of £6226. As most of this
was carried forward, and as the office property has since
obligingly increased in value by another £5500, there will
probably be another handsome surplus at the investiga-
tion in 1905. Also the heavy expense rate is diminishing
somewhat, though it is still very massive, and the co.
may really be in a position before long to pay its way out
of earnings. Expenses run as follows :
Expenses in Proportion to Total Income.
1897 ..£6O 13 2 per cent. 1900 ..£63 4 6 percent.
1898 .. 69 310 „ 1901 .. 59 8 7 ~
1899 .. 70 7 0 „
The business is partly ordinary life and partly
the expensive “ industrial ” racket, and as the accounts
and assets of the two branches are mixed together, it is
quite impossible to say whether the Australian Metro-
politan runs its ordinary life business on anything like a
reasonable expense rate or not. The best thing the co.
can do now is to put £ll,OOO, being that portion of its
written-up values which was not absorbed at last year’s
valuation, to a reserve fund, and to let it accumulate at
(say) 3 per cent, compound interest, so that if the build-
ing, which increased in value so fortunately, should
decline again it will be possible to write it down without
breaking anything. Then the co. should start to keep
separate accounts of its ordinary and industrial business.
And, above all, it shouldn’t write up that good old office
any more. Up to now expenses and dividends have
absorbed over five times the amount paid to policy-
holders. So the latter class can’t be said to have made
much out of the concern so far.
* * * *
Adelaide is a city of many small Tramway
Companies whose more or less antiquated horse drags an
antiquated box-on-wheels along streets which deserve to
be infested with something better. Yet, even these
prehistoric vehicles make something out of the business.
Here are the accounts of three of the companies for the
past two years :
Adelaide and Suburban Tramway 00.
(Paid-up Capital, £130,000.)
Total
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
July, 1899 £21,244
January, 1900 £7,428 8 per cent. =£5,200 23,472
July, 1900 6,858 8 „ „ 5,200 25,130
January, 1901 8,189 8 „ „ 6,200 28,119
July, 1901 9,165 10 „ „ 6,500 30,784
Adelaide, Unley and Mitcham Tramway Co.
(Paid-up Capital now £31,250.)
Total
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
April, 1899 £3,030
October, 1899 £2,071 61 per cent. = £931 4,170
April, 1900 2,208 7£ „ „ 1,113 5,265
October, 1900 1,970 7J „ „ 1,113 6,122
April, 1901 2,315 about 8 „ „ 1,175 7,262
Adelaide and Hindmarsh Tramway Co.
(Paid-up capital, £37,297.)
Total
Profits. Dividends. Deficit.
June, 1899 .. ~£14,383
December, 1899 ... £489 Nil .. 13,894
June, 1900 .. 121 Nil .. 13,773
December, 1900 .. 372 Nil .. 13,401
June, 1901 .. 1065 Nil .. 12,336
These are only three out of five Adelaide tramway co’s.
and they include the most utterly unlucky one of the
crowd. Yet these three, taken jointly, have earned
during the last two years an all-round average of over 10J
per cent, per annum on their paid-up capital. Their
position, too, is distinctly improving ; last year’s earn-
ings, taken separately, were nearly 12 per cent. If two
other tramway co’s. are thrown in, the average earnings
of the five are well over 10 per cent.—this despite a most
antiquated and unprofitable system, and the waste
entailed by all this extra management and accountancy.
If the State or a municipal Tramway Trust
took over the whole business and converted it into an
up-to-date electric system with only one management,
there should be no difficulty whatever in making 10 per
cent, profits. Even if the work wasn’t done until the
present concessions expire there are only a few
years to wait, and Adelaide can think of something else
meanwhile to divert its mind. The Snow Syndicate, if it
gets its concession, has arranged to buy out the existing
concerns and start building a new system immediately,
and the State could do the work quite as immediately as
Snow could. But even if it couldn’t, there is no such
desperate haste, after all these years, that the most
profitable State enterprise in S.A. should be given away
for a song, merely to save another year or so. An arti-
ficial agitation has been frothed up to make Adelaide
believe that something unspecified has happened which
makes it absolutely necessary to have things rectified at
once regardless of cost. The sleepy city wants its little
penny doll on the instant, even if it pays £5O or more for
it.
» ♦ * *
Adelaide’s horse-trams were reasonably up-to-
date when they started, but the horse became antiquated,
and the old co.’s simply said : “ It isn’t worth our while
establishing anything new, as our lease will expire in a
few years; the old horse will last our time.” Similarly,
if S. A., as proposed, gives away its tramway rights for a
great number of years to Snow’s syndicate, that syndi-
cate will probably supply an up-to-date service— but, in
time, it will also become as antiquated as the horse is
now. Then Snow’s co. will simply say: “It isn’t worth
our while making any changes, as our lease has. only
another (say) 20 years to run. This old rattietrap
electric arrangement, which was new in 1901, will
last our time.” The fool city which gives away
its tramway privileges to a syndicate is always
being treated like that, unless it gives away its rights for
ever, in which case it is treated a great deal worse. It is
always either giving its "syndicate extra concessions to
induce it to make improvements and bring its concern up
to date, or paying it large 6ums to get out of the road
before its time and let someone else make the improve-
ments, or putting up with a dilapidated system and
waiting anxiously till the concession expires that it may
get reforms.
* * * *
South Australian Gas Co. (Adelaide):
Total
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
June, 1894 £33,187 13 per cent. = £32,500 £68,566
„ 1895 31,234 12 „ „ 30,000 69,800
„ 1896 34,429 12 „ „ 30,000 74,229
„ 1897 31,963 12 „ „ 30,000 76,192
„ 1898 32,362 12 „ „ 30,000 78,554
„ 1899 33,636 12 „ „ 30,000 82,190
„ 1900 33,498 12 „ „ 30,000 85,688
„ 1901 37,299 12 „ „ 30,000 92,987
This is about the most rapidly-growing gas co. in
Australasia. And unlike the Sydney and Melbourne con-
cerns it has no liability to debenture-holders, but trades
wholly on its own capital (£250,000) and reserves.
• » * »
The Colonial Bank (Melbourne) announces that
the last of its reconstructed deposits will be repaid on
30th December. They amounted to £3,043,196 in May,
1893, but by last March they were reduced to £123,990.
The Royal Bank of Queensland pays off its last instalment
at the same date, and then the only banks with recon-
structed deposits unpaid will be the Queensland National
(Queensland), Australian Joint Stock (N.S.W.), Com-
mercial of Australia (Victoria), and the London Bank and
English, Scottish and Australian (England).
* • * •
Wellington Building and Investment Co. (Wel-
lington, Maoriland):
Total
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
June, 1893 .. £2374 9 per cent. = £1732 £3969
„ 1894 .. 2442 9 „ „ 1732 4679
„ 1895 .. 2400 9 „ „ 1732 5347
„ 1896 .. 3351 9 „ „ 1732 6966
„ 1897 .. 2931 9 „ „ 1790 8107
„ 1898 .. 2730 9 „ „ 1800 9037
( 2909
I Premiums
„ 1899-< on 9 „ „ 2115 13,581
I New Shares
(. 3750
Profits.
„ 1900 .. 3444 9 „ „ 2469 14,556
„ 1901 .. 3345 9 „ „ 2475 15,426
The co. made £l2 3s. 3d. per cent, last year on its capital
of £27,500. It is a remarkably prosperous and rapidly-
growing concern ; still, the total shareholders’ funds are
only £42,926, and it owes £98,832 to depositors, and has
£131,951 lent on mortgage. If Maoriland struck an
experience like that of Australia in 1893, and there was a
rush to withdraw deposits, and mortgages became practi-
cally unrealisable for the time, something remarkable
might happen to a co. even as strong as this which trades
so largely with borrowed money.
» * * *
The Fresh Food and Frozen Storage Co. (Mel-
bourne) :
Dividends. Reserves.
July, 1897 .. Loss £2587 £15,532
Jan., 1898 .. Profit 1893 17,425
July, 1898 .. Loss 4347 13,078
Jan., 1899 .. Profit 2403 5 per cent. =£1035 14,446
July, 1899 .. Loss 3186 11,260
Jan., 1900 .. Profit 4370 5 per cent. =£ll4o 14,490
July, 1900 .. Loss 1945 12,545
Jan., 1901 .. Profit 3194 15,739
July, 1901 .. Loss 29 15,710
Things look better during the last two years than they
were, still there appears to be no extraordinary luck
attaching to the frozen-victual trade. During the last
three or four years a considerable amount (apparently
about £9OOO, but the exact sum is difficult to get at) of
capital has been forfeited for unpaid calls, and applied to
write down the book value of properties. If those losses
had come out of reserves these would have been
down to about £6OOO or £7OOO.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Civil Service Co-operative Society
(Sydney)
Net &percent. Dividend T . ,
p ( ~ and 10 p.c. bonus on „
Profita - purchases. Reserves.
Jan., 1899 .. £4681 .. £4374 .. £11,835
July, 1899 .. 4501 .. 4463 ... 11,873
Jan., 1900 .. 5024 .. 4583 .. 12,314
July, 1900 .. 4719 .. 4833 .. 12,200
Jan., 1901 .. 6206 .. 5237 .. 13,169
July, 1901 about 5753 about 5205 about 13,717
The paid-up capital is £6996, so the reserves are very
nearly equal to twice the capital. Total shareholders’
funds are now £20,713, and the society has a steadily-
growing business and, apparently, the best of prospects.
Answer to G.C. {Bathurst): N.S.W. Shale and
Oil Co. showed a great improvement last half-year,
though no dividend was paid. Last three half-years have
been :
Loss. Deficit.
June, 1900 .. £432 v-*=r- £899
Dec., 1900 .. 382 1281
Profit. Reserves.
June, 1901 .. £2128 Written off Plant=£Bl2 £35
The paid-up capital is £75,000, however, so even if this
rate can be kept up, and there is no further allowance for
depreciation, it only means about 5 per cent, to divide.
» » * •
Another important development announced
from Lucknow, Mr. Newman, manager of the D’Arcy
Wentworth mine, having exhibited in Orange samples of
auriferous ore obtained from the deep levels, and the
writer knows from experience what the effect of that
general!}' is. “ The samples are very rich, and equal to
several hundred ounces to the ton. This development is
regarded as of the highest importance, as it proves that
Lucknow is about to experience a revival. The miners
say that they are continuations of the veins which, in
previous years, yielded such high returns, besides which
there are almost unlimited quantities of low-grade ore in
sight.” A puff paper par. from Lucknow comes now
about once a week. The place is sadly in need of resur-
rection. All the mines, with one exception, are shut
down. A place that employed upwards of 1000 men
is practically deserted ; further exemption from
labor-conditions has been granted. For the last
two years periodical attempts have been made in London
to amalgamate these properties and raise more capital
for their further development. So far, these attempts
have ignominiously failed, partly because of the shameful
way in which the mines were manipulated some years
ago, but mostly on account of faith in Lucknow having
departed. And, as there is not much hope of getting any
money in London at present, and no possible chance what-
ever of raising any in Orange, Lucknow’s resurrection may
be much longer delayed, these puff pars, notwithstanding.
Writer would suggest the holding of a revival-meeting to
pray for the ending of the Boer war. That would do
more good than the exhibition of specimens in the streets
of Orange, which always leads to drink.
* * * •
Grassy Gully, N.S.W., has another new man-
ager. If the mine is half as good as his last
report (as printed) it has no equal in the Common-
wealth, much less in N.S.W. “Kept the battery going
almost constantly last week ; place looking well; crushing
good stone. Splendid stone is now coming up every day.
Have opened out on the rich chute and the stone goes
from 20oz. to 30oz. to the ton. This class of stone, with
as little mullock as possible, is now being landed every
day and is ready to crush. Next month I shall have a
splendid result. I think I will be able to keep the battery
going constantly for I have a lot of stone at grass besides
the stone at the battery. There is a face of stone 15ft. by
15ft. which looks like a sovereign—coated with gold.
There is a lot of good stone here which I will have
to leave for a while because of the way the mine has
been worked.” Then there is something concerning
the way the new boss is going to work it : “ Before
another couple of months I will astonish you with the
good results. Will be starting the cyanide plant in a few
days. Am also getting some good gold out of the new
shaft. I have a few tons here ready to crush, and some
splendid-looking ore is coming from here.” This takes
the cake, and the new boss at Grassy Gully must wear the
belt until he is deprived of it by a better man. “20 to
30ozs. to the ton ! and the battery to be kept going on
it 1” Ye gods 1 What is the matter with the market ?
Sellers —paid-ups at 2s. 3d. and no buyers ; contributing
might be given away with a little difficulty; certainly
there are no buyers at any price. And yet while there are
ounce-and-a-half mines in Westralia selling at millions
the Grassy Gully, lock, stock and barrel, has only a
market valuation of £2,000 or £3,000. The public refuses
to be astonished.
* * • *
Croydon notes to Sept. 13 : —Recent crushings :
Outhbert’s Golden Gate No. 5 South, 1098 tons, 16620 z. ;
G. Gate United, 590 tons, 1186 oz. ; G.G. and Nancy Lee
United, 192 tons, 4040 z. ; Queensland Mining, Ld., (Cale-
donian lease), 182 tons, 141 oz. ; Content, 200 tons, 2400 z. ;
G.G. 4 and 5 S., Block (198), 447 tons, 3960 z. ; G.G. 5 and
6N. Tribute, 126 tons, 2280 z. Total Aug. output, 6727
tons for 89720 z. gold bullion. Month’s divs., £3480 ; ditto
calls, £663 13s. Three mines now crushing continuously
and providing regular divs., viz.: G.G. United, G.G. 3 and
4 S., and G.G. 5 S.
* * * *
Mt. Garnet, Chillagoe and Exploration Co. is
mining on a most restricted scale, so that the estimate of
ore in sight is still practically 95,000 tons. “As the Mt.
Garnet Freehold Railway will pass within four miles of
the lease, the directors hope to make satisfactory arrange-
ments for the disposal of the co.’s ore, particularly as it is
an ideal smelting ore. The strictest economy is being
exercised consistent with the proper carrying on
of a certain amount of exploration, and the
directors trust that as soon as the line is
ready for traffic, which is expected to be in
about nine months time, the property will be in a
revenue-producing position.” The same old tale, told in
the same old way. Everything is going to be all right
when another co. builds a railway and starts smelting
other people’s ore—as if it were the usual practice to
carry ore and to smelt it at less than cost, whereas experi-
ence all the world over has shown that it generally means
absorbing all that is in the ore, no matter how much.
And these directors have the audacity to speak of
“ strictest economy,” when they spent in Melbourne in
management during the half-year more than one-fourth
as much as was spent in mining. No explanation of that
fact is given.
* * • •
Mount Garnet Freehold : “ Owing to the short
time No. 1 furnace was running during the half-year
ended June 30, the directors have not this half-year sub-
mitted a working account showing profit and loss re-
sults.” Under these circumstances, every shareholder
can bet his bottom dollar that there are no profit results.
It is also even money that the loss results are something
substantial. If there were any profits, those not only to
the end of June would be shown, but it would be found
not a difficult matter to show what they were from June
up to date. Last week it was published of this mine that
the smelter was doing good work, that the output for the
past month was in the vicinity of 45 tons of copper and
55000 z. silver weekly. “This gives a nice profit,
and the co.’s revenue will be materially in-
creased shortly, as another furnace is to be blown-in
next week.” If this were not a romance the
truth would be revealed in the report, which says there
are over 200,000 tons of ore available, also that the finan-
cial position rendered it necessary to spend a limited
amount of money on mining operations and procuring
regular supplies of ore to the furnaces and permitting of
smelting operations being carried on continuously.
Well, if one smelter gives a “ nice profit,” two will give a
nicer profit, and the more ore smelted the better for
everybody—whereas the report clearly shows that smelt-
ing is done at a loss, and the directors thought it wise to
minimise that loss. Some time ago The Bulletin declared
that it believed this was so on the best of authority. No
official contradiction to that statement was made, and in
this report it is tacitly admitted. Possibly, the running of
two furnaces may do away with the loss, but with the
carriage of coke in and matte out on camel-back there
can’t be much profit. Writer advised some time ago the
shutting down of the furnaces till the starting of the
railway, and if things were clearly explained in the direc-
tors’ report the shareholders would soon see that that is
the course to pursue. The railway will not be
finished for a year, and although it may be a sorry busi-
ness to shut down furnaces after erecting them, it is
better to have a little sorrow than to lose a lot of money.
* * * •
Mt. Garnet Freehold : The directors think that
the electro-magnetic separation of zinc on a commercial
scale has been accomplished, and their reason for drawing
attention to the matter in their half-yearly report is that
a large tonnage of low-grade material containing copper
and zinc exists on the mine, and this ore may now be
turned to profitable account. At last we have an admis-
sion that there is ore in this mine containing a heavy
percentage of zinc, and the thing is only confessed when
there seems some chance of turning such ore into money.
Recent developments in diamond-drill prospect-
ing at Croydon should give great incentive to mining on
the Far-Northern field. Years ago, the Iguana reef, a
big lode which crushed up to lOoz. per ton, was cut out by
a hard wall of granite, variously termed a break,
“ slide ” and “ fault.” In Ophir Block shaft the slide
carried the reef up on its course, thus leading to the
belief that the reef was cut in two by an intrusive mass of
hard granite. This was Geologist Band’s theory, and he
suggested putting down a bore beyond the probable limit
of the supposed intrusive mass, pointing out a suitable
site. A syndicate of 20 Croydon business men was formed
about two years ago, and boring was begun on the site
indicated under the experienced direction of J. I. tow,
formerly well-known in Sydney. Without a hitch Uole
bored to a depth of a quarter-mile, cutting at a
splendid reef formation, carrying numerous gold-bearing
quartz-leaders. This formation was proved 29ft. thick.
Drill thus proved continuity of Iguana lode m the deep
ground beyond the supposed intrusion, and the syndicate,
which has gold-mining leases nearly 50 acres in extent,
talks about sinking a shaft to explore the reef. Estimated
cost of shaft, £20,000.
• • * •
From Clermont (Q.): Mount George and other
Sandy Creek finds fizzled out ; it is dangerous to talk
ironstone shows in Clermont now. Bedford’s have 15ft.
wide of crushing stuff, and not across it yet ; about
500 tons have been put through, averaging 30dwts. _ Two
local battery proprietors bought the show from original
holders. At Fig Tree another couple of reefs have been
struck showing good gold, and a lot of stone is now being
carted. An Adelaide syndicate has one slag-heap at the
old Copperfield Copper Mine under offer —200,090 tons.
A Gympie man is after the mine.
» * * •
The Star of Hope reef at Copperfield is again
being worked. The trouble in the past has been copper.
A local cyanider seems to have mastered this, put-
ting through 50 tons for 25ozs. smelted gold. At
present the Star has 7ft. of crushing stuff, promising
lOdwts. free gold. Nixon —on same line—is also raising
stone. A mill employee got away with the amalgam
from last crushing. From this show, 100 tons of tailings
cyanided 80oz. Present holders got the mine from a
party of working men, who held the ground for seven
years, during which time they raised 350 tons from a
3ft. reef, and got exemptions whenever they wanted.
(Continued on page SO.)


DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
George Street, SYDNEY.
SHIRT TAILORS
MERCERY HOSIERS
and GLOVERS
\g alitv SHIRTS & COLLARS
Cut and Made by our EXPERT.
FIX GUARANTEED. FRIGES MODERATE.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
HARRINGTON'S CAMERAS
dsg
NOT ONE
But ALL the Latest
and Best the world
produces in
Styles, Grades and Sizes.
Hand, Stand, pocket Kodak
Send for Illustrated Catalogue—Free.
From
6-
up
to
£5O
Visit
Our
Showroom.
66KWG5! 5YDNE'
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjoyment of
V)
LaJ
LJ
ec
ft
VS
u
Ul
o
Society
Some of the history of Wax. Madden’s
tenacious grip on the Vie. State Governorship
was made known to Parliament the other day. At
His Wax.’s earnest solicitation, ex-Premier
M‘Lean engineered that he should keep the job
until all the Federal pomp and ceremonial were
over; but this was only the thin edge of the
wedge—the Chief Justice’s idea was that if he
kept the Governorship 18 months he would have
it altogether. But the present Government,
which doesn’t seem fond of “John,” stepped in
and probably stopped the Australian States gener-
ally from getting locally-grown figureheads—
which is to be regretted.
* * * *
How the bitter racial hate is brewing in
the black-specked Australian States ! Thus the
Spectator (W.A.):
The Afghan of the back country is, when he dares by
force of numbers to be so, a ruffianly bully, ever ready to
insult the white man, for whom he feels, and is at no
pains to conceal, the most utter contempt. ... He
camps at the wells, water-holes, and soaks, and
pollutes, often wilfully, the supply to prevent its being-
availed of by the despised European. It is not so many
years since one of these alien invaders, after watering his
camels at a soak in the presence of white men waiting to
give their thirsty horses and themselves drink, delibe-
rately drew off his boots and started to wash his dirty
feet in the slowly incoming water. He was promptly shot
dead by one of the prospectors, against whom—if we re-
member rightly—the Attorney-General refused to permit
a bill to be filed.
Give the black man a few more years’ grace of
entry, and no Australian daily paper will
be without its “special reporter” to attend
burnings at the stake by lynch law. The
Australian who boasts in letters to his mother
of the piece of Boer flesh, or of the dead
Boer’s whiskers, he is bringing home as a
trophy, or of how a mate of his deliberately blew
the top of a Boer prisoner’s head off (“ and serve
him right ”), is quite capable of setting light to
kerosened niggers.
SIGNOR TREBELLI.
A Southern Senator who is understood to
cherish a weakness for missionary enterprise
among the heathen, and is therefore opposed to
the white Australia proposals as “ un-Christian,”
“un-British,” etc., may now pose as a person of
experience. Housed in the Senator’s suburban
mansion was a black female waif, aged 17. She
was caught young, and until recently was
a pattern of propriety, and a credit to
her up-bringing. Latterly, however, she
has developed giddy tendencies. Finally,
the savage maiden set the whole plantation at
defiance, and carried on so alarmingly that the
Senator himself had to be sent for. He was in his
place in Parliament, urging the claims of the
colored alien to free admittance to Australia,
when the call to duty arrived. He got home ere
the heathen had made up her mind whether to set
fire to the house, or eat the panic-stricken family
raw y° un £ lady was promptly driven off
the premises, and, at latest, was looking for some
other kind, Christian family to adopt her. Those
in the know are awaiting with much interest the
Senator’s next pronouncement on a white Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
It would be hard to think of a meaner
crowd than that Petersham (Sydney) mob which
tried to deal out a push death to one Maslin, last
week. Maslin’s wife, after 20 years’ matrimony
and six children, left him. He searched out his
wife, and, on her refusing to come home, shot her
with a revolver. Running away, he was followed
by a big crowd, which didn’t dare to rush him, but
kept always at a respectful distance. When,
however, the police arrested and handcuffed
Maslin, then the brave citizens came to close
quarters, striking and kicking him. It was a
noble way of showing sympathy with woman’s
rights.
* * * *
In regard to the scourge of consumption :
A mail steamer which reached Australia the other
day had buried en route two phthisis cases, and
brought to port two other consumptives nearing
death. After barring the colored man out of
Australia, the Commonwealth will have to legis-
late against the too-white tuberculous man.
* * * »
From British Medical Journal:—
' " A well-known medical man in Geneva lost a
daughter of 17. In perfect health till 1892, she began to
waste away in ’93, and in ten months died. A post-mortem
examination revealed extensive tuberculous disease of
the intestines. How had the disease been contracted ?
There was no family history. But it appeared that every
Sunday the doctor and his family spent the day at a small
estate on the hills, and one of the greatest delights of
this young- girl was to drink milk fresh from the cow. It
was proved afterwards that four out of the five cows on
the estate were tuberculous ; and two of these were found
to have tuberculous disease of the udders.
Which seems to hardly fit in with Koch’s recent
statement that the risk of infection by tuberculous
milk and ox-flesh was so small that he did not
deem it advisable to take any measures against it.
* • * *
Apropos of “The Cost of Baby”—in one
N.S.W. country town a chemist acts as doctor
and midwife for 10s. per infant. So far, too, he
has managed to dodge an appearance at an in-
quest.
• * * *
“ M.C.” joins in the population racket to
cast another stone at “Father in Israel ” :
It is the disinclination of young husbands and wives to
have children, not the cost of doctor and nurse (combined
generally under £l5), which causes the decline of the
birth-rate. Married couples say they can’t afford to keep
them. Foolish people ! In the long run they will pay
more ; he out of his pocket for medical fees, she in pains
and aches. lam a trained obstetric nurse, and think the
comparison between the modern, scientific nurse and the
“ kind motherly person ”of old simply absurd. What did
the latter know of anatomy, of how to avoid puerperal
fever, of treatment of hemorrhage, that frequent and
dreaded incident of childbirth ? I have a relative who
has been 20 years an invalid through the incompetent
woman who nursed her with her first child. Convincing
proof of the value of the trained nurse may be found in
the records of the big maternity homes, when, since the
era of modern scientific aseptic nursing, the rate of mor-
tality has shown a splendid decrease.
» * » *
The story of Mr. and Mrs. Dixon, of
Newstead (Vic.), amounts to an idyll of the Old
Age Pension Act. Dixon was 86, and his wife, a
comparatively vigorous female of 50 odd, used to
collect his pension for him, leaving him at home
with his legs tied to the sofa, lest the poor dear
ancient might fall off and hurt ’isself. On 14th
Sept. Mrs. Dixon bought a quart bottle of whisky
and some chlorodyne, and that night neighbours
heard sounds of domestic ructions in the Dixon
hut. Subsequently the old man was found dead,
with “70 to 100 wounds” on his naked body, and an
effusion of blood on the brain, probably the result
of blows inflicted with “a batten studded with
nails.” Two grey hairs and sundry clots of blood
were sticking to the batten. Mrs. Dixon had
some stabs on her hands and head, and she
explained that the injuries to both parties were
inflicted by the infirm old man “in a frenzy,”
though the neighbours had certainly heard Dixon
cry—“Oh, mother, don’t!" Last act of all:
Mrs. Dixon died at Castlemaine hospital a week
after her husband had yielded up his ghost and
his pension. Thus was the detective in charge of
the case defeated in his intention to “cast a
strong net of evidence around Mrs. Dixon.”
* * * *
The Long Arm : Three months ago, a
young Sydneyite was run over the leg by an
electric tram and died from shock. The other day,
bis mate was run over the leg by a steam tram,
and died from shock. The trams have their
uses, but they are fast thinning out Sydney’s
population.
* • • *
Geelong (Yic.) goodies are trying their
surreptitious hardest to sneak back the liquor-
license for a very big hotel, which has languished
since they took it over with great eclat in boom-
time to run as a teetotal show. A similar move was
made at Melbourne Grand about Exhibition time,
when the fussy, good people publicly rent the
license of that big pub. into fragments—and were
very sorry afterwards.
THE COLOR BAR.
dead-beat : “I throwed up me job in the
country, missus, to join the bushmen’s kin-
tinyent an’ then found I couldn’t except the
kinditions.”
YOUTHFUL HOUSEWIFE: “Poor fellow ! What
did they want, you to do?”
D.B.: “ They, wanted ter paint me nose kharki
color, an’ I wasn’t takin’ any.”
The harsh conditions attached to old-age
pensions are severely felt in country districts.
Kiandra (N.S.W.) applicants, for instance, have
to travel 100 miles of rugged country to Tumut to
obtain their pittance. Why can’t the pension-
claims, once approved, be paid at the local P. 0.,
thus saving much hardship and expense to the old
people ?
* * * *
There was humor in barrister Coldham’s
cross-examination of Prof. Morris at Melbourne
City Court as to the character of certain French
books which had been tabooed by the Customs
department. After the Prof.’s statement that the
books “demoralised his mind, and made him feel
the need of a bath, ” Coldham proceeded to ask,
gravely, “ Do you think they would affect educated
men of high moral character ? ” Audible smiles
throughout the Court.
Certain evidence given in aforesaid case has
reminded many ex-’Varsity students that, years
agone, one of the books prescribed for French
honors at a certain Australian University was
Aucassin et Nicolette, an example of old French of
the 12th or 13th century, which, for red-hot
detail, can hold its own with the “bluest” of
them. Yet, before his honor class, which one
year consisted of one man and one woman, a cer-
tain professor went through every word of the
blistering stuff.
* * * *
How are the churches placed that are
situated in the Government-resumed Sydney area ?
Are they taken over by Govt. ? If so, do they pay
rent, and how is the amount arrived at ?
* • * *
One N.S.W. hotel-keeper points out a
possible further move on the part of the brewer
when ties are abolished: he may set himself to
acquire hotel-leases and then hold the publican as
a weekly tenant at his absolute mercy. It seems
necessary to forbid the licensing of a house leased
by a brewer; and then the brewer might hold his
leases, and work them as ties, through a dummy.
• * m v
The last material relic of the Duke’s visit
to Melbourne was swept away the other day,
when the Princess Bridge arch was demolished.
The original intention was to let the big gewgaw
block the thoroughfare for a year, but it got dry-
rotted, the tacks of its covering gave way, and
loose strips of zinc began to rattle about it with
a gallows noise. What has become of the project,
enthusiastically taken up by several leading citi-
zens, to erect the arch permanently in marble at
a cost of £20,000 ?
At Castlemaine (Vic.) re-
cently a man sentenced to three
months for stealing Is. 3d.-
worth of old iron asked the
magistrates—“ And what about
the toffs who sneak their thou-
sands, and get no more ? ”
What, indeed !
• * *
“ Melb.” : Here is some-
thing which would be ruth-
lessly cut out of any local paper.
Last Sunday night I went to
St. Francis’s (R.C.). Lonsdale-
st., where they had Gounod’s
Oratorio of Tobias, with pyra-
mids of threepenny-bits on the
plates at the doors, and such
a jam, of (say) 1300 people
inside, that every passage was
choked right up. Though near
the door, I thought to myself
“ I’m a goner if there’s a nanic,”
not being in the first flush of
youth or health. It was truly
awful to note the slowness with
which this clot of populace
extricated itself from the
building. My thoughts ran
upon that unparalleled
holocaust in the San-
tiago Jesuit Church.
Wesley Church, also
in Lonsdale-st., is
nearly as bad as St.
Francis’s, where the
dreadful trap of the porch
ought to be knocked away
instanter. The Board of
Health is absurdly exigent
about new buildings. The old
ones, especially churches, are
just allowed to rip, till they horri-
bly Hordernise. Why not prosecute
a church, as well as a playhouse, for
overcrowding?
A beautiful piece of Bumbleism. On the
day of the announcement of the death of President
M‘ Ainlev, flags were flying at half-mast on every
public building in South Melbourne, except the
town hall. The omission, which was tardily
corrected, was due to an official inadvertence.
Some time ago a council committee, to check the
indiscriminate hoisting of the flag, drew up a list
of persons, from the sovereign downwards, whose
decease was to be signified by the flag at half-mast.
The list was confined entirely to distinguished
persons in the British Empire. The council, in
preparing the, list, was somewhat conservative as
to the display of official bereavement. If a
councillor or his wife dies the flag is placed at
half-mast, but for council officers this token of
respect is restricted to the town clerk and city
surveyor. Thus, when the city treasurer (Mr. J.
Sayers) recently died, after a long and honorable
service, the flag was not displayed.
* * • •
Four dipsomaniacs of means, hailing from
the one Maoriland town, went through a curing
process at the Hagey Institute some time ago.
Within the last year three of them met death in
one form or other ; then the fourth remarked that
it was time for him to strike camp also. On a
recent morning he was found dead with his head
in a tub containing Bin. of water.
MEAN.
BILLY (as fat man passes): “ I say, Snailcy, with
all ’is brass ’e only buys a ’at that size.”
Victorian Criminal Court has just ended a
painfully-drawn-out scandal bv acquitting a State
school teacher charged with nameless offences on
female pupils. Accused had been tried on twc
previous occasions in the district where the
offences were alleged to have been committed.
Each time the jury disagreed. The concluding
trial was set down at Melbourne, and, after 11
months finality was reached. Accused was re-
presented by Purves, Q.C., and his defence
must have cost him a small fortune. There is


J.D.K.Z. GIN.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16'5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney. - '
d
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette, and Sailing List with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Colllns-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
Raff an’S catarrh remedy
For Cold in the Head and Chest.
RAFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY
For Headache and Stuffed Nostrils.
RAFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY
Throat and Chest, Sore and Tender.
RAFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY
For Difficult Breathing at Night.
RAFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY
Stomach and Bowels deranged and swollen.
RAFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY
For Post Nasal Troubles.
RAFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY
For Cold Shivers and Weakness.
2/0. RAFFAN, Carlton, Melbourne.
Harper’s
Always Pure and Fresh.
Sold in 71b. Bags.
A copy of “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” The Bulletin’s particularly suc-
cessful pamphlet, will be posted from this office to
any Australian address on receipt of Bd. in stamps
(of any State).
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
“STAR”
Oatmeal
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
BILE BEANS
■ . —j
LIVER
•£- anp ** Troubles.
much speculation as to what the Education
Department will do with the acquitted man ; but
since it is obviously impossible, under the circum-
stances, that he should go back to teaching, it
seems to be the clear duty of the State to treat
liim as if his office had been abolished, and let
him leave the service, with fair money compensa-
tion.
* * * *
The Gold-Jubilee Exhibition at Bendigo
promises to be all, or nearly all, that Bendigo has
hop.ed for. Space-applications came in with a
rush at the last moment, and settled any doubt as
to the show being well-stocked when all the ex-
hibits are there. As for an announcement that
the gardens and grounds and cool palm walks will
be brilliantly illuminated, the management will
probably see the wisdom of turning down the
lights in unconsidered places. An exhibition
ought to cater for Sunday-school patronage in the
dim, religious manner which ever appeals to the
Nonconformist conscience. Secretary G. V.
Allen must certainly provide breaks in the mono-
tony of illumination. Allen, by the way, is the
same George who was one-time leader of the staff
on Melbourne Age, and the hand of the wily
pressman shows itself in all parts of the advt. save
the reference to those “cool palm walks.”
• * * •
The sort of letter an up-to-date lover
writes to his girl nowadays. He was landed for
£lOO and costs for breach of promise in Melb.,
last week :
My own darling Mag.—l was beginning to think you
had forgotten me. . . You were saying you were lonely
and sad, and I, darling, missed you, too. . . I often think
how nice it must be to have a good little wife, and a nice,
snug little home, for I know you love me dearly.
(Kisses.) . . I don’t think I would care to settle in
Colac. I shall certainly pick some other place for us to
live in and rear our family (which must be a small one).
. . . Poor little Fairy’s boy is far away, but may give
you a surprise any day. Now, my poor little love, I
think I have told you all. Good-bye, my sweet little
pet.—Your own true lover, Easton Johnstone.
Then he went and married another girl, with
money ; and the sweet little innocent, who was
to have only a small family, was l“ f t lamenting.
* * « *
Vic. Factories’ Act Commission has
brought to light some horribly unappetising facts
re restaurant food and its cooking. One
witness said he had worked in a smah
kitchen with nine other employees whose
backs got much baked by the heat of
the adjacent stove. At some restaurants
the perspiring slaves work 14 hours a
day in the mysterious region where the
meats and fixings are prepared. Men
get as little as os. a week and their
food, the food of which they
know so much. And the pro-
prietor of one such place goes
to church three times every
Sunday, said the witness.
One can imagine that pro-
prietor chipping in with a
greasy “Amen” when
the parson reads “Take
no thought for the
morrow, what ye shall
eat.”
* •
“Bob R.” : A
new aspect of the
old - age - pension
matter. Said an
acquaintance to
me, t’other day:
“Oi advoised
ould Billy to git
th’ pinsion.
Now Billy has
bin wid me for
six years, an’ a
rale good malm
he wuz, too ;
but I thought
that, as he cud
always have a
home wid me,
the pinsion
would come
in handy for
him for poc-
ket - money.
Well, he got
it all roight ;
but divil a
tap of wurrk
he do since,
excipt trottin’
back’ards and
for’ards to th’ pub.,
and cursin’ me be-
tween whiles for ex-
pectin’ him to do
anything for his keep ! ”
A Melb. sign : “ Beds 4d., clean beds 6d.”
The proposals for the building of the new
Sydney railway-station, right alongside the old,
inconvenient site whose remoteness has made Syd-
ney curse for 35 years, is accompanied by a scheme
f or the necessary reconstruction of surrounding
streets, which, it is said, will take a dozen years to
complete. And in it all there isn’t a mention of
the extension of the railway into the city, or
the construction of a good suburban system;
a ll that is an extra. Long ere the new idea
is half finished, the demand for the city
extension will be as loud as ever, and the pres-
sure on the streets through the railway traffic
being transferred to the tram-cars at Redfern will
be worse than ever. And then when the city ex-
tension has to be considered it will be found that
calling it an extension instead of a main line
hasn’t made the selection of the route a whit
easier. The only difference will be that, by the
new O’Sullivan policy, the extension will leave a
big, new, costly station behind it at Redfern
instead of an old, small, cheap one. Everything
else, barring the huge debt contracted for building
the new station in the old, inaccessible suburb, will
be as it was. The question of the up-to-date
branch system to the eastern and western suburbs,
and the convenient city station, and the connec-
tion with North Sydney are all left where they
were. Practically all the things that the public
has been clamoring about for 35 years are left
where they were.
. * „ * . . ,
Mr. J. E. Spencer writes from Auckland
(M.L.) agreeing with some recent remarks in these
columns as to the expediency of destroying savage
dogs, especially in towns, and forwarding a clip-
ping f rom the local N.Z. Herald
A «»■ named Wh,„i„ admitted to h»,p,W
and
* ed a *>uHdog. On being examined and
ft? X KVTZ? K&5 ancltorn
SSSSJ, SZ SSt. TbSSS Si
several wounds on the back of the neck, and lacerated
wounds on the hips and lower extremities. He states
that he was being worried by the dog for a quarter of an
hour before help came and he was rescued from the
ferocious brute. Dr. Adams thinks that the man, not-
withstanding his frightful wounds, has a fair chance of
recovery, but he will be a long time in the hospital.
DONAH AND DUDE.
DONAH : “ But, what's yer name?”
DUDE : “ Guess. It starts with A.”
DONAH: “I know—it’s ’ Arrold .”
The Jingo slump ! Of the “ indulgence ”
passengers booked to go from Sydney per Harlech
Castle back to the land of burning farms only 49
turned up. Many of these admitted that they
were not going back so much for another term of
war as to settle in S’Africa for good, in the hope
that life there will prove “more congenial and
profitable.”
Hon. H. Jones declares that he intends
visiting the hotels of Wellington (M.L.) to get the
barmaids’ views of Hon. J. Jenkinson's proposal
to make their work cease
at 9p.m. If Hon. Jones
goes to all the hotels on
this kindly errand, and
gets safely home on all-
fours with the informa-
tion, his opinion should
be valuable—provided he
can remember
what it is.
WONDER WHAT MOTHER CAREY WILL
HATCH OUT THIS TIME?
Sydney D.T. has Initiated a fund to provide prizes for a
N.S.W. hen-laying contest.
The newest girl-romancer—a Me'bourne
girl of 15 —broke out in a comparatively harm-
less spot. She and her sister, aged 11. were sent
out after dark one Saturday evening, to buy
groceries, at an outlying Melbourne suburb. Mary
had a £l-note concealed in her stocking, and
brought back the change honestly enough the same
way. She also brought back a terrible tale of how
she had found a half-sovereign—-how she was
bringing the coin home rejoicing—how four large,
desperate men, all masked, with three revolvers
and a knife, had leaped over a hedge at a lonely
part of the road, and, with horrible cries, de-
manded money or ahuman sacrifice—how M ary had
pacified them with the Providential half-sov., and
then they had fled across the fields, using terrible
language. Mary’s mother believed the tale, and,
after extracting the change from Mary’s stocking,
put the house in a state of siege till Sund iy
morning. Then she reported the blood-curdling
incident, and Mary was interviewed by the police
on her way home from Sunday-school. She
adhered to her tale of horror bravely enough, but
the small sister, aged 11, broke down, and admitted
it was all a work of art. Still, it was a harmless
romance compared to the usual kind, and Mary
might almost as well have been left to enjoy it in
peace. Apparently, the Australian girl must
invent something of this kind once at least in her
life, and the sort of story she invents generally
threatens some man’s neck.
* * * *
At Carlton (Melbourne), the other day,
Charles Rose, aged 81, was fined £lO, in default
three months, for “using profane language in a
public place.” Defendant had been addressing a
crowd in the Carlton (Melb.) Gardens, and was
alleged to have “ made use of profane words about
Christ.” The prosecution was instituted by per-
sons who had debated with accused on such sub-
jects, and who admitted having called him a
gorilla, an ape, an ignoramus, and a liar. This
Carlton Bench is notorious for its lenient treat-
ment of the committers of brutal assaults, and
not long ago it let off with a fine of five shillings a
ruffian who, by kicking a pregnant woman, had
caused premature confinement, the death of the
infant, and permanent injury to the mother. Yet
it penalised in 40 times the amount a man who
declared his disbelief in the Christian reli-
gion (which nobody practises), time to pay being
refused, although time is always allowed to the
beastly Melbourne larrikins. The case was simply
one of organised persecution of a Freethinker by
alleged Christians.
* « * *
Now, where did this happen ? A carriage,
heading a procession that passed before the Yorks,
in Australia, contained, says an English paper,
“the nearest approach to a double of the King
that Australia could supply.” He was clad in
royal robes, with crown and sceptre, a Queen
Alexandra accompanied him, and “the Duke’s
amazement at this astonishing spectacle could not
be concealed.”
* * * •
Perhaps because of the threat of restrictive
laws, there has been a sudden influx of Hindoos
and other colored peoples to Australia lately.
They are swelling into Victoria especially, for the
State immigration laws there are most lax.
Agents who let slum houses in Carlton and Fitz-
roy to Oriental nigs, find it impossible to provide
all the accommodation asked for. Even with the
system of sleeping ten in a 10-foot room the pre-
sent houses usually devoted to Hindoos have
E roved inadequate to hold them. Fresh places
ave accordingly been found at rents which few
prosperous white citizens could afford to pay.
“ India ” writes :
There’s some jargon about a young man’s fancy in the
spring lightly turning to thoughts of love. Seems to me
the young man doesn’t always wait tor
pring. This happened recently on one
of the mail boats : Among the passengers
from Australia were a young married
couple, just about as affectionate as
they make ’em. As the Palotta re-
marks, “When they’ve been married
over a year things cool considerable
—or words to that effect.
While travelling through
the tropics the heat
was intense, and, as
is often done, most
of the saloon passen-
gers camped on deck
men on one por-
tion, women on
another. The
young husband
wouldn’t leave
his mate,
and they
camped as
usual, but
in the
women’s
quarters.
Direful in-
dignation was
expressed by
a virgin
bone-bag.
It had no
effect, so the
spinster
formed a depu-
tation of herself,
and, chockful of
wrath, reported the
shocking matter to
the captain. He, hav-
ing smothered his feel-
ings, remonstrated
with the offender, whose
main defence consisted in the fact that “ he made a point
of donning a clean pair of pyjamas every night,” specially
for the occasion. The explanation was held to be in-
sufficient, and those whom the parson had joined were
torn asunder by a mere skipper, who thus saved our
ship from calamity and degradation. The boneful spin-
ster stood 6ft. in her socks, and had the makings of an A 1
Female Sanitary Inspector.
* * * »
A predominant factor in the Australian
Star (Sydney) proprietary is big brewer Toohey,
M.L.C. The following, which appeared in the
Star’s leading columns t’other night, will, there-
fore, be read with added interest: —
Some few persons, whose intellect has been weakened
by long courses of unrestrained indulgence, may mourn,
hut all right-thinking persons will rejoice, that there is
likely to be a shortage in the supply of the peculiar curse
of Australia. Of course we allude to that bane of
Australia —TEA. Tea-drinking is the national vice.
Morn, noon, night, before breakfast, at breakfast, lunch,
dinner, tea, and in between, the fateful and hateful pot
occupies the chief place at the board. It would be easy
to show that the vile practice of tea-swilling fills our
hospitals, lunatic asylums, and prisons, and has brought
misery into thousands of households. Advanced
scientists tell us that the difference between virtue and
vice is largely a matter of stomach and digestion. Tea
and tannin are the deadly foes of digestion. How can
the tea-bibber, who has no digestion, and is merely a
walking mass of dyspepsia, be virtuous ? It can’t be
done. Happily, the time has now arrived when a great
and united effort may be made to purge this fair young
country from the loathsome incubus, which is sucking its
life-blood, poisoning our sons and daughters, and weaken-
ing the race to so lamentable a degree that there seems
to be a more than possibility that future generations may
be born with a handle, a spout, and a lid.
A light-hearted Vic. woman, with a grown-
up family, put on liat and cape t’other evening
and started out to meet her “ boy ” —a fascinating
foreigner. Husband and a son were waiting
adjacent and duly followed. They saw her meet the
lover and stroll off towards a park. The sight of
this philandering doesn’t seem to have aroused the
lawful husband and son to any extent. Anyhow,
though they had a club apiece, they merely pur-
sued slowly at a respectful distance, till the lover,
brandishing a revolver, ordered them to retire or
be “potted.” They retired in good order, and
next day summoned the lover for illegally carrying
fire-arms. The husband admitted in court that he
had a pot of tar ready to be spread over the
foreigner at a convenient opportunity ; also if he
caught him in the gardens with his wife he pro-
posed to strip him and send him home nude ; but
he would do nothing rash or hasty. It was also
stated that two of the lady’s sons declined to take
any serious offence at her conduct, and held that
it was none of their business. Altogether it seems
to have been a somewhat languid family.
STAR-SET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No star sinks but the earth grows darker,
No man dies but a love doth perish ;
Farewell, O Star, in the far night sinking ;
Farewell, Dear One, whom we sought to cherish.
Courage ! we say, all stars must follow
Yon fair star that has left us lightless ;
And eyes that weep, like the eyes past weeping,
Soon shall be dust, amid dust, and sightless.
O Star, far-setting, thy gleam is guidance
To ships through a peril of night-seas sailing :
O Life, slow-creeping o’er Death’s dark border,
Leave thy love lest a heart go wailing !
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
FAIR ICONOCLAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To me your love was heaven ; and I entered.
I built a world-beyond on your assurance ;
Since you were mine, I could not doubt; I centred
My faith, my fate, upon your love’s endurance.
Now, false one, that I find the proposition
A pitiful, ridiculous delusion :
Must still the soul accept my definition
And draw the only logical conclusion ?
Berlin.
V. KPTZE.


gds
The Charm of MARK FOY’S is the Price.
One of the keynotes of Mark Foy’s success is the working
up of the Men’s and Boys’ Outfitting Trade. m
To yovmg gentlemen in offices, stvdents, apprentices, and others,
who wish to present a good appearance, we call special attention to
MARK FOY’S SMART SUITS FOR BUSINESS YOUTHS.
Every youth on entering his business career desires to be smartly
dressed, but the stern necessity of rigid economy with small
salaries necessitates care in spending the coin.
MARK FOY’S NAVY SEROE YOUTHS’ SUITS (Ready-Made)
but not what is known as slop-made. These are manufactured in
our own factory only, from
GUARANTEED PURE INDIOO DYED ALL-WOOL WORSTED SEROES
The cut, style, and finish of which are perfect, and the value is
unknown but at Mark Foy’s.
Mr. C. J. Saunders has received the
temporary appointment of Acting-Member of
N.S.W. Public Service Board, vice Wilson, in-
disposed. The rise of Mr. Saunders has been
rapid. When the P. S. Board delegated the
grading of the Depts., some five years ago, to a
sub-Board of three, Mr. Saunders, then only an
inspector in the Lands Dept., was chosen as chair-
man. He pleased the Board so much that he was
promoted, and promoted, until, when Federation
made complete changes in the Customs Dept, he
was made one of the Commissioners of Taxation
under the Treasury.
A Bill has been introduced in M.L.
Parliament making it an offence for any person
under 16 to smoke tobacco in any form in public,
the penalty for the first offence being 55., and 10s.
for any subsequent breach of the law. A penalty
of £5 is provided for supplying tobacco to the
young person, but no conviction is to be entered
“if a medical officer certifies that the using of
tobacco is beneficial to the health of the young
person.” The Bill has no chance of becoming law
for several years, M.L. Govt, being too busy now
attending to the navigation of the party vessel.
On and after this date this space will
contain interesting information contributed by
Mr. Westall Guest, of Melbourne, by appoint-
ment Chemist and Toilet Specialist to the
Governor-General of Australia, sole originator of
his now celebrated treatments of face-massage for
beautifying the skin, and scalp-massage for pro-
ducing a luxuriant growth of hair; also other
toilet treatments. Ladies should not miss this.*
At fashionable weddings now, cynical
bachelors, impressed in their own despite by the
tempting figures of bride and bridesmaids, have
taken to observing, with a wink of mingled
admiration and alarm, “Another victim to the
wiles of the P. D. figure. ” This cant phrase is a
fine testimony to the man-alluring qualities of the
P.D. Marriages, nowadays, are mostly made in
the P.D. Corset Factory.*
rCoffe X
T.tM. SfDITH’S
Do you like Coffee .
Perfect, Pure,
Fragrant, Exhilarating (
Then Try
Cold
* edal
Coffee Essence
Winners of the GRAND PRIX against all
other makers at the PARIS EXHIBI-
TION, 1900.
Australian Representatives.
WIFT& COMPAN
7 Spring- Street,
Bydney
A WOMANS LETTER.
Sydney, October 1, 1901.
My Dear Arini, —
Sydney has not been a valley of quite dry
bones since my last letter. The Upper House
threw us a conversational bone with much tough
meat on it by a vote of 26 to 21, when it rejected
the Woman Suffrage Bill. Mr. Wise, in an excel-
lent speech, pointed out that the measure had
been endorsed by the general elections and carried
in two Assemblies by large majorities. But out
it went ignominiously, and after it filed Miss Rose
Scott, Mrs. Martel, Miss Golding, Miss Vallen-
tine, and a host of its friends. But they didn’t
look downcast, only disgusted, and they said in
effect, “ The morrow is also ours.”
Another bone —much pleasanter gnawing this
one—has been dropped by a clergyman, the Rev.
S. S. Tovey, in a discussion on the employment
of barmaids. He urged that it might not be quite
a good thing to abolish barmaids, as their presence
behind the bars may tend to elevate those places.
Anyhow, he would rather see a woman behind a
bar than a barman with a revolver, as was the case
in America. Now this is really a novel view of the
question. Given the hint the barmaid may aim
at hitching her waggon to a star. And, in
time, a new type of barmaid may evolve—
women after the stamp of Hypatia. If the
calling of barmaid come within the scope of the
university woman graduate, then would begin the
ascension of man. At the counter-lunch she could
read him snatches of Emerson, Matthew Arnold,
and Philip Gilbert Hamerton. She could dilute
Buchanan’s Blend with the persiflage of Schlegel
or Kant. And the ascended man would recipro-
cate with little presents such as a “Treatise on
the Categorical Imperative.” No more bangles
or jewelled hat-pins—just books and flowers. The
university woman-graduate would be a perfect
goddessend to the hordes of young men—who
would stay away from bars for evermore. The
movement would have far-reaching consequences.
It would go some way towards solving the
domestic-servant problem, and would put some
thousands of able-bodied “generals” and house-
maids on the market.
Concerning the domestic-servant problem, 700
house-workers in Melbourne have put a requisition
before the State Peacock. Their specific requests
are that their hours of work may be restricted
to 60 hours a week (ten-hours a day); also they
demand a weekly half-holiday, and every Sunday
off. And already a group of matrons, scared by
the “ Sunday-off ” clause, are taking measures to
form a Guild of Household Dames, such as has
been formed in London, to encourage “ women of
gentle birth ” to enter the “profession” of
domestic servants. The principal of the training-
home for Household Dames is overwhelmed with
applications from would-be-employers. It is
desired to give the gently-born as much as possible
the social status of trained nurses. They have
fixed hours of leisure, and wear a dress of Liberty
design, with apron and guild badge.
That magnetic lady, the laterally-extensive
Signora Benedetto, appeared on Saturday night as
Elvira in “Ernani,” and got a loud and long
reception when she came on, “ moving as if on
inyisible skates.” Doesn’t that just describe the
gait of some very stout but graceful women 1 Her
first dress, of perfectly plain pink satin, is em-
broidered with gold; her white bridal satin glitters
with silver tracery, and with both gowns ropes of
pearls encircle the waist. Larizza’s (Ernani’s)
wedding garments are as well worth chronicling
as any woman’s. Cloth of silver, white em-
broidered silk continuations and a large diamond
order—for valor, no doubt, in the “ bail-up” busi-
ness. Even when in working dress, Ernani wears
the Order of the Golden Fleece, a yellow sheep
hanging by the middle of its spine, on his broad
breast. Ernani is, of course, a noble robber with
a magnificent castle.
Melba asks our Mr. Williamson for £5OO a
night! And elsewhere she gets it. Her Majesty’s
theatre holds, at present prices and when crowded,
only £3OO worth of body and soul, and Australians
wouldn’t pay more to hear the Angel Israfel.
£5OO a night! What a fearful loss to Melba if she
should ever run a nail into her voice.
Miss Mary M‘Camley, an 18-year-old Queens-
land girl, with a soprano voice of great range and
power, gave a concert under the direction of her
teacher, Mr. Burns Walker, last week. Several
of the heavy operatic numbers she rendered were
too ambitious for so young a voice, and a voice
which might, if Miss M‘Cam ley doesn’t go on
training backwards, bring in £5OO a night, ought
to be tenderly nursed. Miss Lydia Larner played
a brilliant composition, “Danse Oriental,” of her
own, and Miss Marion Tweddle gave a capital
recitation of the court scene from “ The Merchant
of Venice.” The calm judical tones of Portia and
the harsh voice of Shylock were most cleverly
differentiated.
Now, isn’t it easier to ask for “smoked lamb”
than for “ Rulepolse ” ? Yet in Danish the two
are synonymous. Also, “Roget Sild ” means
smoked herring. You could get these Scandi-
navian dainties and plenty others at the late
Scandinavian fair in aid of the Cot Fund of the
Children’s Hospital. Acting-Governor Darley
declared, in his fete-opening speech, that he was
proud of the Scandinavian descent of the Royal
family. Then he went and bought two little
statuettes, copies of Thorwaldsen’s sculptures.
Most of the Scandinavian ladies resident in
Sydney worked their best for the fete, and dressed
themselves and their assistants in picturesque
national dresses. Mrs. Marcker wore the holiday
garb of Bornholm, a little island in the Baltic,
black satin skirt and bodice, with Oriental ribbon,
and a big, wide bonnet of pleated muslin and lace
and pink silk covered with flowers. Mrs. Tom
Marshall was an Armager girl (Armager is the
cabbage-garden of Copenhagen), and wore a short,
black skirt, covered all round with a blue apron,
a black satin bodice, and a poke-brand of bonnet,
lined with blue. Mrs. Pauss had the Norwegian
stall, and Mrs. Boesen, Mrs. Marcker, and Miss
Vallentine ran the Danish stall. Miss Aileen
Knaggs, one of Mrs. Boesen’s assistants and that
lady’s future daughter-in-law, wore the dress
of “Dyveke,” a pathetic, romantic figure in
twelfth-century Danish history, and somewhat
similar to the fair Rosamond of England.
Cranbrook, in Rose Bay (the beautiful residence
of the late Hon. James White), which has been
going begging for a tenant since the Harvey
Lovelys sold off and quitted it some two years
ago, has been taken by the Government for the
State ruler’s residence. It has a superb view to
seaward, and fine grounds, and its rent (£4OO
yearly) doesn’t represent a fraction of the interest
on the money spent upon it.
Those two large oak-framed portraits of the
Duke and Duchess of York, which Mr. Newman,
of George-street, sent to the King, have been
acknowledged by cable to Mr. See. And a letter
to Mr. Newman is being rocked in the cradle of
the deep. Edward VII. thinks the portraits
excellent. That of the Duchess shows her stand-
ing at a table, one hand on a silver casket, the
other holding a spray of roses. She wears a black
brocaded dress and half-a-mile of pearl necklace.
Lord Hopetoun celebrated his forty-first birth ■
day a week or so ago. He doesn’t look his years,
not by five or six. His Countess, on the contrary,
appears more than her3—at least since the Yorks
stayed with her. Whenever a Eogtown society
paper has occasion to refer to Lady Hopetoun it
prefixes her with “Irish.” “The Governor-
General’s popular Irish wife,” for instance, or
“ handsome Irish wife.” Madame Hersey is not
Irish ; she is Scotch, as her consort (that’s a good
word), once told his entertainers at a banquet,
and if she were Irish what of it? It’s not more
distinctive than being English or Scotch. Now,
if Lady Hopetoun were Japanese one could
understand the insistence of her nationality in
newspaper mention.
I had a look at the inter-State lawn tennis
tournament on Saturday and found it tamer than
a pet rabbit. A bitter wind blew over the cricket-
ground. The champions hitched their principal
garments constantly after the fashion of the
Musical Burglar at the Palace, and a brilliant
square of women sat in sixpenny chairs around—
no asquare—-the tennis court. It was a floral
square, a pink-and-blue muslin silk and lace
square, with men lolling on the chair backs and
men serried in the rear. It wasn’t quite the kind
of square that Fuzzy Wuzzy broke, and it looked
chilled, and longed for its winter clothes. I used
to play tennis and noughts and crosses and such
exciting games for years. Now I’m trying to in-
vent a game—we want a new game badly—that
will combine the best features of tennis, chess and
football.
Genial Dicky Speight, who died in W.A.,
had a large family. Of his daughters, Mrs.
Lancelot Gordon was the prettiest, and she was
gifted with a splendid soprano voice which would
have brought her fame anywhere had she listened
to business offers. Her husband, a son of General
Conway Gordon, was a rather wild boy before he
left Fogtown to settle down at Mildura to lemon-
growing and the management of Lord Ranfurly’s
ranch.
I have to acknowledge the first number of a
paper called the Kat, edited and illustrated by
Sydney Smith, “ for amusement and educational
purposes.” Its editor, who is a son of the manager
of the Australia Hotel, has reached the palsied
age of 15 years. The Kat will mew every fort-
night, and it is a penny a mew, or 6d. for a quar-
ter’s mewing.
A very fashionable and haughty— not to say
haw-hawty—Sydney club gave a ball the other
night, and, as is customary, each member
had the privilege of nominating two non-member
guests, subject to the approval of the committee.
The guest—a big business man—nominated by
one member wrote to the secretary thanking him
for “the tickets,” and adding that he would be
glad to send four dozen of beer—colonial !—as a
contribution to the supper. When the unhappy
nominator heard this he almost died.
Brough’s new play, “ Sweet and Twenty,” will
be popular with everyone of that style and
age, as well as with .sweet though seventy. Miss
Emma Temple looks the part well, and dresses in
pretty pinks, cornflowery blues, and whites. Her
hair, much crimped, is parted in the centre, and
hangs in a half-loose tail down her back. Mrs.
Brough, as the old family servant, makes up as a
very sweet, barely middle-aged woman in a black
frock, lace apron and mob cap. '
The Fair in aid of the Home for Destitute Boys,
Westmead, will be opened on Saturday next by
Cardinal Moran at the Town Hall. Messrs.
Quinlan, Hepburn, and Bartlett, of Lyndhurst-
chambers, are hon. secs.
Mr. Hugh M'Kernan, the editor and proprietor
of a W.A. paper called the Vindicator and
Matrimonial World, is a man who has suffered
for years from some awful grievance against
society in general, and Michael Davitt in particu-
lar. Considerations for the peace of mind and
happiness of a possible wife kept him a bachelor
during this fiery-furnace time. “But now his
character is vindicated ; the tables are turned on
his enemies, ” and he is free to look a floral toque
under the brim and clasp a maiden’s hand. But,
to be perfectly impartial, to give every free woman
of his acquaintance, and all the unfettered women
of the Commonwealth a chance, Mr. M‘Kernan
offers himself for competition in marriage after
the manner of a “Tatt’s” sweep. The event is
for £lO,OOO, in tickets of £1 each. Ladies over 30
are disqualified as being “lazy, or they would
have married before.” All tickets remaining un-
sold may be purchased by one woman. The winner
need not claim, the prize. The fashion of the
drawing will be quite above-board—a marble cor-
responding with a numbered ticket, a barrel and a
long stick. “ The conditions having been fulfilled
I will marry the drawer in the usual way,” says
Mr. M‘Kernan, who seems to be most dreadfully
in earnest. Photographic reproductions, show-
ing Mr. M‘Kernan with and without a beard, are
printed in the Vindicator so that the girls of the
Commonwealth may have a chance of admiring
the prize.
Waldington of the smile attracted even more
attention than the G. -G. in Brisbane. Brisbane
has never had a Wallington, consequently factions
have ever ruled Govt. House, except in the case
of bir Henry Norman, who had no sympathy with
fawning, gossiping, and snobbery.
Governor-General Lord Hopetoun and suite
attended the polo ball and danced in spite of the
tropical temperature (writes a Brisbane corres-
pondent). Everyone’s sympathies have been with
bir bam. and Lady Griffith during the last few
days their eldest son has been dangerously ill
from the effects of typhoid. Llewellin Griffith is
a remarkably clever engineer.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The Gov.-General, back from Bananaland,
showed a small, wizened, parchment-like face at
the Hunt Club races on baturday. The trip seems
to have benefited him very little. Even top-
coated, his figure looked gaunt and reedy. Still,
lie was cheery, and cracked jokes with all and
sundry, lhe Exs. arrived before the crowd—
°‘ice more evading a reception stare. A few of
the Naicest, arriving at the eleventh hour, found
the Countess’ broad back confronting them from
the rails beside the judge’s box, beyond the special
Ladies’ Reserve ; and most of the day the cold-
shouldering lady remained there, chatting with
Messrs. Miller and G. Chirnside, or the horsey
members of the suite, until at last the ruler of
Moonee Valley brought an easy chair from the
discarded tent, and there her Haughtiness
perched, surrounded by male flunkeys. The
Naicest were raging.
“A negligent grey costume, a pale biscuit cloak,
akin to a belted dressing gown, and a black tulle
toque with pink roses for its fetching frontage,
comprised the Countess’s outfit. It wasn’t smart,
it wasn’t becoming; it was almost careless.
at • i S cruellest cut of all, its carelessness.
Neither “Cliveden” nor “ Rupertswood ” was
represented, so that showy frocks were an un-
known quantity. Mrs. Donald Mackinnon looked
well, though her dressing was of a nondescript
order. The Barr-Smiths were the frilliest of the
women in the gathering. Several summer frocks
were given an airing by leading dazzlers of the
stage and turf, the most notable being a wistaria
blue costume with trappings of priceless lace,
from the ventilation-collar to the silk-lined skirt-
hem.
“ ‘ Better-not ’ Wally wore the deepest collar at
the races that has ever been seen on any neck save
Will Whitburn’s or that of a black brother of
the music-halls. This territory of white starch
sawed his ear lobe every time the splintered
wearer turned his head, so when it became too
painful to use his neck as a pivot, Wally kept his
eyes to the front, and avoided all flank move-
ments. Capt. Corbet, the most rakish horseman
who has ever tailed on to an Ex., wore fashionable
riding-pants, and took more than one turn down
the straight with Godfrey Watson. Talking of
riding-wear, George Lorimer took the breath out
of all brother Nimrods at the Point to Point
Steeplechase, when he appeared in baggy checks
—the very latest in London astrides.
Mayoress Gillott, in her way of receiving, is
a striking contrast to her ailing predecessor. The
present Mayoress is delighted with the responsi-
bilities and honors (?) of the office. Last week
she could scarcely restrain her joy in acknow-
ledging the smiles, nods, stares, gapes, and bobs
of the multitude. Mayoress M‘Eacharn used to
give a martyred smile on her friends, and turn a
countenance of care on the mob. Miss Wilson
Barrett, who religiously attends all the Melb
gatherings, stood at the side of the dais, with the
air of a reviewer, or a novice at dress-chronicling.
The daughter of the Barrett seemingly goes
through life on a tour of inspection, but, so far,
has never had anything to remark concerning her
observations. Some day, when her stock-taking
season is at an end, she may show her wares in a
typical Barrett window of wide front.
Olive Kingston, the Dolores of Australiennes,
was worth a second inspection in a Frenchy cos-
tume of deep strawberry tone and a delicious toque
man even deeper shade. The demure brunette
has the Parisian’s art of looking as if her clothes
were part of her character.
“ It was a hot enough crush in the main hall,
yet only a mere scratch of martyrdom beside the
grilling in the tea-and-bun room. The tide bore
many in and out again, affording them as refresh-
ment only a glimpse of waves of people seething
round a shore piled up with used cups and saucers,
broken glasses, cake crumbs, and squashed sweets.
Once a Senator cried : ‘ Something wet and cold,
waiter, for a fainting lady.’ When the dose of
champagne arrived upon the scene, the anxious
Senator promptly swallowed it himself. He was
his own fainting lady.
“ Philharmonic concert (Wednesday, Sept. 25)
included Hamish MacCunn’s ‘Lay of the Last
Minstrel.’ This interesting work, ‘ excellent
though not desperately original,’ resembles that
nursery favorite, ‘ The Story with a Cake In It,’
inasmuch as it deals with popular themes, depict-
ing to the ear by musical sounds love, war,
chivalry, superstitious fear and patriotism. The
Philharmo chorus and orchestra did their work
well, especially in the eerie grave-snatching bit,
but two of the four principals were regrettably
weak. Armes Beaumont treated his hearers to
such a sweet, plaintive note now and then, that
his weakness in the bulk of the idyllic tenor music
seemed all the more lugubrious by contrast.
Nellie IMcClelland, as substitute for IMrs. Palmer,
bravely tackled Lady Buceleuch’s soprano defiance’
butasparrow shouldn’t essay the scream of an eagle.
Williamson’s dark, vociferous soprano Benedetto
would sound well as Lady Buccleuch, I guess.
Horace Stevens held up his end comfortably as
Cranston, and Allie Mattinson as Margaret
gave a simple, sincere, round-voiced rendering of
‘ True Love. ’
The audience seemed less thrilled by the
* Last Minstrel ’ than at a former concert by the
‘ Damnation of Faust.’ We’re a melo-dramatic
ot, 1 fancy, loving our pleasures not only sad but
horrible, with lashings of spectacular or melodic
blood and brimstone, and lavings of histrionic
wailing and gnashing of teeth.
“Colonel Campbell deserves the V.C. for his
heroic action at the end of the Philharmonic
Society’s concert. The Countess (but not the
Earl) was present and chatted quite gaily through
all the items with His Wax., though she seemed
most uncommunicative as far as his better-half
was concerned. The concert over, their Excel-
lencies proceeded to form the usual procession.
Then the gallant Colonel was seen vaulting over
benches, and with outstretched arms and excited
gestures trying to prevent the ruffled spouse of
His Wax. from moving along the passage. Mur-
murs of horror filled the air as the intrepid matron
quietly brushed away the danger-signaller and-
swept forward with Waxellency, thus taking prece-
dence of the Countess. The procession advanced,
headed by ‘ John’s ’ noble shirt-front; after him
the partner of his joys ; then the Countess, biting
her lips to hide her amusement, treading on and
tripping over the voluminous chiffon frills of Her
Wax’s train. The question is—what sort of time
did Col. Campbell have when their vice-regalities
got him alone ?
“ ‘ Fast Lady ’ won the third place in the recent
‘ Rupertswood ’ Bracelet Stakes, a sporting-item
provocative of many smiles.
“ ‘ Sweet simplicity ’ seems to be the prevailing
dress sentiment of the hour ; and so much the
worse for poor people, because flimsy materials,
costing more to make up and trim than substantial
ones, droop far sooner. White muslin frocks are
much in evidence in imported wardrobes, girded
girlishly with a long sash—black or pale-blue.
Among a travelled friend’s fresh-from-Paris mil-
linery, I note a pancake of burnt straw, support-
ing a cloud of white embroidered chiffon and
forget-me-nots, but all her hats are not flat. A
white tulle Gainsbro’ shows under its turned-up
leaf four rich black plumes and an enamel buckle,
while the whiteness of its under-brim is further
relieved by narrow black-velvet cords and band of
bhtck chiffon-applique. This hat is the ward-
robe companion of a gown of finest white
cloth, with sailor-collar, turn-over cuffs,
and chemisette of ivory-silk point-lace, and
nautical breast-knot and waist-scarf of black
silk-muslin. Black lily-of-the-valley predomi-
nates a toque of paint-green chiffon and
applique, and the usual sailor hat of yore is
superseded by a rustic burnt-straw, which travels
with a number of big, smart, detachable bows of
black chiffon, white tulle, yellow muslin, and
cherry silk respectively, to be pinned on by the
owner to suit the rest of her toilette. At present,
Parisian modistes send home with cotton frocks
soft turn-over collars and cuffs of tucked white
lawn and embroidery, while more ambitious robes
demand darned-net tuckers, Honiton lace, &c.
“If Premier Peacock doesn’t mind, the credit
he gained when Minister of Education as the
founder of cookery centres in Vic., is likely to be
obscured by their gradual decay through inanition
during his Premiership. Three centres have now
abruptly closed, because there are no teachers.
Of the first and only batch trained, one has died,
two others are married or are going to be, and
there never was an emergency man provided for
relieving work. At this moment, not a teacher is
in training, although the Dept, must be aware
that many more will be wanted. If the work
is to succeed at all it must grow and extend to
many country centres, instead of always being
confined to Melbourne and her suburban horse-
leech daughters.
“ A well-known Collins-street photographer
relates that only once did he ever have to re-
monstrate severely with a sitter—and this one a
honeymooner. The ecstatic bridegroom wished
to be taken in the arms of his wedded, love. But
the artist, who has nothing to do with the
emotional side of life, his business being with the
purely mechanical inanimate, demurred, and re-
fused such a ‘ sitting.’ The amorous groom, how-
ever, insisted. Ashe was a professional maninMel-
bourne, and a moneyed one, the camera angel
gave in and ‘ took ’ the pair in their chosen
position. The poor man didn’t live long to enjoy
the fame of this love-lock, but dozens of the
pictures are now extant—proofs of his sweet brief
bliss.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


There is one place in Sydney where the
business of money-lending is carried on in an
equitable manner and where those in need of
financial accommodation can rely on being
decently treated. The sensible man who wishes
to get rid of his monetary worries at a minimum
of cost and trouble to himself goes to the offices of
the Australian Equitable Investment Co., Ltd.
The co. has a large capital for investment at low
interest, and is always open to advance money on
risks which the banks would decline; -and acts
generally as a medium between the banks and
ordinary money-lenders. Men in business can
obtain assistance for their venture at a figure
which will leave them a fair profit for themselves.
The eo. advances money to any extent on deeds of
land, bond warrants, merchandise, stock in trade,
scrip, interests under wills, furniture and all classes
of security. Press notices which have been pub-
lished from time to time express the favorable
opinion which generally exists regarding the co.
Mr. J. E. O’Brien is the Managing Director, and
the co.’s offices are at 45 Elizabeth-street, between
King and Hunter-streets.*
THOS. WHITELAW & GO.
TELEPHONE 3768.
LONDOty,
SYDNEY,
WALL PAPER MERCHANTS.
MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE
Artistic Wall Papers.
Novel Ceilings in
Plaster Effects.
latest Designs and Colorings.
Absolutely Fireproof.
A Charming Assortment.
The lull London and Continental Collection of the above Goods are now on view at the Firm’s
New Warehouse and Showrooms—39l GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
These Decorations comprise the most delightful Assortment ever shown in Australia. Invited.
Clients will find, our Art Goods are most inexpensive. Patterns forwarded on application.
FACILE PRIIMCEPS
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY
BLACK and WHITE.
Lightest
Wines
Australia.
in
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. Jos. Symes, of Melbourne, who knows
no God, is a strong Jingo and black-labor advo-
oate. A man must have some superstitions.
Probably Premier Jenkins of S.A. is the
only native of the U.S.A who ever controlled
the political destinies of a British possession.
Page, the Maranoa (Q.) representative,
who challenged Knox to hump bluey through
Leperland, is the top weight of the Federal Parlia-
ment. He tips the beam at about 18st. 71b.
Capetown University beat the Australian
declension shops in the matter of crawl. Whilst
we only gave the Duke of York bogus degrees, in
South Africa they made him Chancellor of the
University !
A member of N.S.W. Army Medical Corps
named Wooten returns from S’Africa vigorous
and happy after having been shot right through
brain, lung, and arm, and wounded in the back !
Probably the world’s prize surgical curio.
Artist Souter isthenew N.S. W. Art Gallery
trustee. His appointment will give the rival
Sydney art-cliques each two reps, on the trust,
and no doubt the Daubers versus Potboilers row
will be carried into the Gallery board-room.
“P.X.”: I come to the rescue of the
reputation of the “ fiery Australian ” who —four
of him —propped up the fence while the White
Cliffs mail-robber went through the bags. The
four “Australians” were—Rosanove, Kanter,
Pedrana, Ortloff.
Jonathan (good name) Roberts, who sen-
sationally escaped from the prison at Ripa Island
in Lyttelton Harbour (M.L.) 13 years ago, by
methods yet undiscovered, has written a diary of
his adventures, and the Lyttelton Times editor
says he’s going to publish it. Roberts is supposed
to be in S. America.
IMPERIAL TRANSFUSION.
“ The Federa Government admits having received a text communication
from the British Government regarding the Aliens Bill aud its treatment of
Japanese, laying particular stress on the aid expected from Japan in the
settlement of Chinese and other Eastern questions.”— NEWS ITEM.
NURSE BRITANNIA (to Australia): “You have poured out your
blood in South Africa for us ; let me suggest strengthening
your Constitution by a little transfusion.”
The career of the late John McKenzie,
leading Maoriland politician, was curiously por-
tioned into decades. He arrived in M. L. in 1861,
was elected to Provincial Council in 71, entered
House of Reps. ’Bl, became Minister of the Crown
’9l, and died in 1901.
N.S.W. Crown-Solicitorship, now vacant,
is the highest-paid post in the Public Service —
£1650 a year. The acting-Crown-Solicitor is an
official at a few hundreds a year. There will be
some skilful wire-pulling to guide the bestowal of
the permanent billet.
It isn’t likely that Mr. H. M. Chomley
(who retires on the verge of 70 years) will be
succeeded, as Vic. Police-Commissioner, by Supt.
O’Callaghan. The latter is now 57 years old, but
that is not the only fact likely to debar him from
the promotion he seeks.
When Inspector-General Fosbery gives up
charge of the N.S.W. police, De Wet, when
caught, should be appointed in his place. De Wet
is the only man The Bulletin can think of as
capable of coping with the approaching plague of
returned-cohentingenter.
According to the cable-man “ Kruger’s
funds are almost exhausted, and the Boer refugees
in Europe are on the point of destitution.” Why
can’t these folk maintain a fair consistency in
their romances ? A few months ago Kruger was
wallowing in tons of ill-gotten gold.
The King, it is reported in London, has a
severe throat affection, and there is a ghastly
rumor as to cancer, from which two of his blood
relatives—Duke Alfred and the German Dowager-
Empress—have lately died. The King’s pathetic
reference to cancer at the Tuberculosis Congress
was marked by many as showing the shadow of a
personal fear.
Melb. Australasian Editor Watterston
goes for a six months’ trip to Europe. Like most
of the chiefs employed by the Argus proprietary,
over-work has broken him down. The decision to
go. was arrived at rather suddenly, and horses
were swopped while the paper was going to press.
Editor Bulletin. —The expression, “ Six
Families,” so frequently used in connection with
W.A. is a mistake. It should be “ Fixed Fami -
lies,” from the fact of the families in question
having been so placed to administer affairs before
the advent of Responsible Government in 1890.
J.M.
Colonel Finn, now commanding Q. forces,
is a strong candidate for the N.S.W. commandant-
ship. Others mentioned for the post were Col.
Waddell (brother of the N.S.W. Treasurer) and
the fierce-looking Senator Neild. The latter,
indeed, is said to cherish a wild hope that “ with
a change of Ministry” he may get the Federal
command.
Before Salvarmy “ Commandant ” Booth
sailed for the land of his hook-nosed progenitor,
he shed more light on the Jonah fish-story. The
“ Com.” evoked fresh sympathy for Jonah by tell-
ing an audience that “he had a very hard time
in that whale’s belly with nothing to eat but
castor oil for three days.” The inspired teacher
didn’t explain why Jonah’s whale was full of
castor oil at the time. What had the whale done
to deserve such a purgative ?
As the English Judge Emdeu, in his plea
for the reform of law-practice, lately pointed out,
one of the wholly-unnecessary burdens put upon
those who go to the courts is the rule of Bar-
etiquette that a K.C. must have a junior with him.
In Australia the rule is being steadily got under
foot, but Westralian Judge Stone, on his appoint-
ment as C. J., revived it the other day, expressing
the hope that it would be adhered to. But, then,
as Judge Emden also said, it is perhaps stupid to
expect the ordinary judge to be more anxious for
the welfare of the public than of the Bar from
which he came.
“ Few people have ob-
served,” remarked an ex-
M.L.A. to The Bulletin
t’other day, “how fatal a
Erofession political life is.
100 k back less than two
decades ago to the N.S.W.
Parliament of ’B3. The
Ministry then was the last
that Parkes reigned over in
his plenitude of . strength,
and of those who have since
passed out are the “ Grand
Old Man” himself, old Jack
Robertson, W. C. Win-
deyer, Robert Wisdom,
James Hoskins, Joseph
Long Innes, William John
Foster, Stephen Campbell
Brown, Saul Samuel, Alex.
Campbell, and Ezekiel
Baker. These were ousted
in January, 1883, by the
Stuart Ministry, of whom
are also since dead the Pre-
mier, Patrick Jennings,
W. B. Dailey, and J. S.
Farnell. Besides these, the
rank - and - file have gone
down by the score, includ-
ing such prominent mem-
bers as Joseph Abbott,
James Fletcher, Davie
Buchanan, Tom Garrett,
John M’Elhone, “Dolly”
Taylor, Angus Cameron,
J. P. Garvan (a rank pessi-
mist in politics, but the
cheeriest of men in private).
Of the smaller fry fully half
a hundred can be counted —
young and old, teetotal and
bibulous they have all
crossed the razor-edged
bridge. Read the roll of
the Sydney dead : hearty
old Tom Play fah’, J. D.
Young, George Merriman,
Fred. Gibbes, Sydney Bur-
dekin, Michael Chapman,
Robert Butcher, Ninny
Melville (pleasantest of
undertakers), Joe Mitchell,
Hughie Taylor, of Parra-
matta, T. C. O’Mara (as eloquent as his sainted
namesake, Chrysostom, of old), but the list would
“stretch out to the crack of doom.” And, Heaven
knows, comparatively few of them died because
they had come to the age when a man may, in the
ordinary course of nature, look for Death.
When N.S.W. Upper House rudely
downed the Womanhood Suffrage Bill on the
third reading, a charming woman, to whose advo-
cacy the measure owes much, scared the souls of
its opponents by weeping in her seat behind the
President’s chair. If the vote could only have
been recalled then, the Bill would have gone
through without a division.
There is not a man in the Victorian railway
service who worked under Richard Speight who
will not heartily regret his demise. From the
men’s point of view, he was the best “boss” they
have had. He had been through the mill himself,
and his administration has never been proved
seriously at fault as regards existing lines, though
with the construction of new lines perhaps it was
different.
Writes a Bulletin correspondent from
Munich:—
The death of Empress Frederick mu9t have come as a
relief to her. She died of cancer, and for the last few
months was in an unspeakably dreadful condition. Also,
notwithstanding continuous injections of morphia, she
suffered terribly. She was, on the whole, cordially hated
in Germany, and she has done little to earn that country’s
gratitude. As to her love for the late Emperor—soon
after her husband’s death she married secretly her M.C.,
or whatever else you might call that imposing dignitary,
a Count Veckendorff. By-the-way, William 11. is an actor
born. When called to his mother’s deathbed he appeared
at the very last moment, clad in the uniform of the 2nd
Black Hussars, of which regiment the poor dying woman
happened to be honorary colonel. A man who, at such
a moment, can think of such a trifle, has missed his
vocation.
WILL IT COME TO THIS?
THE KANAKA: “Driven out of my own home,
I can see more than ever now the need for a
Black Australia .”
Apropos the fact that at Cairns a drunken
ruffian threw a rotten egg at a carriage containing
Gov.-General Lord Hopetoun. At a long ago
Sydney election-meeting a rotten egg bit John
M'Elhone in the eye. “Aha!” triumphantly
exclaimed a voice from out the crowd, “it
stinks!” “Yes,” replied the ever ready and
always-elegant John, “ but not like the breath of
the bastard chat threw it.”
Mr. A. B. Worthington has been appointed
minister of the Sydney Unitarian Church. A
handsome man, of great personal magnetism, lie
easily convinced the trustees that there was
nothing in an interesting past to prevent him
doing good service to their tabernacle. Details of
some very fine gimlet work on the part of Mr.
Worthington’s Maoriland disciples some years
ago kept the good in a state of salacious piety for
months.
More irony of fate ! A many-stationed
Victorian squatteress was once driving over one
of her estates with her lawyer, who chanced to
remark, “How much better would this land look
if it were dotted all over with farmers’ home-
steads?” “I would rather see it peopled with
pigs,” replied the rich woman. Well, she died
lately, and that very estate was, but a few months
ago, bought by Government for “closer settle-
ment,” and is now cut up into about 100 small
farms, on which reside as many Crown lessees.
Church organist J. R. M‘Cann, who has*
finally taken his feet off the pedals of the R.C.
Cathedral organ, Hobart, tells of the
fate of a choir which he trained for a
Collingwood (Vic.) church. It was in-
tended that the charm of Mozart and
Haydn should burst as a surprise on the
congregation, so one Sunday, in the
middle of the service, organ and choir
plunged into a highly ornate “Gloria.”
The priest (Dr. Bleasdale, familiarly
and tenderly known as “Father
Blazes ”) was more than surprised, and,
turning round, called out: “Will you
stop that noise ! I can’t go on with such
a distraction.” The choir was effectu-
ally scattered, and “Father Blazes”
was no more distracted.
Attorney-General Deakin thinks
of presenting to Melb. Museum an old
letter, written by grandfather Deakin in
London to his mother in Nottingham
(granfer being a boy at the time). The
letter tells of a strange-looking animal
which had lately arrived at the Zoo-
logical Gardens in Regent’s Park, an
animal with a long tail and short fore-
legs. Captain Cook and Dr. Banks had
brought it from a country called New Holland
and its name was “kangaroo.” To think of the
English natural history of Australia being no
older than Alfred Deakin’s father’s father !
Donald Macdonald is back again on the
Argus staff, taking up his work just at the spot
at which he left it off two years ago. Already
Mac. is doing the meetings of the Harbor Trust,
the Chamber of Manufactures, the Women’s
Hospital committee, and other such warlike
engagements. Three Sydney war-correspondents
are back again to the Equity Court, “the
suburbs,” “ Parliament first turn, ” and seem to
agree with their peaceful duties. Alas ! that the
cohentingenters cannot drop back as calmly to the
ways of work.
Jimmy Mirams, when he sued Melb. Age,
the other day, for £lOOO libel damages, was so
favorably impressed by his counsel’s statement of
the case that he wouldn’t have sold his chance for
£lOO had a speculator made the offer. The little
man has a truly bantam eocksureness. He didn’t
even go into the witness-box to stand a cross-
examination, yet after hearing himself sweetly
spoken of by his hired advocate Jimmy felt sure
of a verdict. The Judge’s summing-up never
gave him a “possible.” As a matter of fact, the
Age remarks upon the vanity of J.M.’s hopeless
candidature for the Federal Parliament were fair
and mild comment, and the jury had gumption
enough to tell him so.
Cardinal Moran avers that he will return
to Australia from Rome if spared to do so. The
Bulletin sincerely hopes he will change his mind.
The Cardinal may be, as his Consecrated Press
affirms, a polished diplomat and a politician of
extraordinary power 5 but his .Australian record
(read his Newtown speech!) is one of clumsy
bungling. His proper weapon is a shillelagh.
When he takes up a rapier he always pokes
himself in the eye. The Bulletin hopes to see
the Cardinal stop away as a resalt of his election
as Pope.
To hear that our dear old friend, John A.
Dowie, now of Chicago, lately fitted on to him-
self purple wings and a golden robe, and flopped
about on a public stage like a wood-grub m
butterfly garb, as Elijah 11, evidently gave the
idea to someone else that two could play at a
game which was as simple as all that. For we
hear now, with joy, that John Hoop, of Minnesota
(U.S.A.), has set up in business as John the
Baptist 11, and wants to argue things with Elijah
11. “After the argument,” says John the
Baptist, “there won’t be any more Elijah.” So
far, the Baptist only runs to a tin star as an
announcement of his mission.
“H.S.R.”: Amusing to read of Lord
Milner, of Golgotha, spouting about “the Im-
perial policy of England.” This Lager Peer is a
German by blood, his father having been Carl
Milner, of Weiss, in Germany, and It is mother a
Miss Von Rappard. Alfred Milner was even
born in Germany, so that there is nothing English
about him unless it is his pharisaism. And he is
thewnan who, only two short years ago, told, the
S’Africans " that other parts of the empire might
possibly be as loyal, but none more so ’’—having
at the same time the dagger up his sleeve. It is
truly a case of dog eat dog.
Prondergast, Victorian labor member and
hurricane talker, was “father of the chapel ” on
Sydney D.T in the early days when that paper
was known from the habits of the staff as The
Morning Rum. The methodical old advertisement-
clerk had a fixed time for going upstairs with his
few columns of “fat,” anxiously awaited each
night by the comps. As his head appeared at
the head of the stairs it was saluted with loud
applause and sometimes with strange missiles.
One night, somebody let fly a huge wet sponge,
but the head that came spluttering up was that
of Manager Wynne. He sacked the comps, in a
body, but afterwards relented, because he couldn’t
get the paper out.
N.S.W. Senator O’Connor, as pictured by
Adelaide Critic :
However, here is Senator O’Connor standing by his Bill.
He is tall and robust-looking, with powerful shoulders,
carrying a well-poised head. His heard is close-cut, and
just tinged with grey. His hair, fine as silk, is much
ruffled just over the forehead. His body is rigid as he
stands ; and his earnest eyes, instinct with deep sin-
cerity and thought, let their gaze fall at the feet of the
front Freetrade bench. His right hand is pushed deeply
into his trousers-pocket ; his left hand holds a copy of
the Bill under discussion. He emphasises his points with
this, and when he is very emphatic, his shoulders stiffen
visibly. He is a plain' orator, with neither quips nor
cranks nor fine phrases, but his clear wisdom goes
through sophistry like a fire through the dry under-
growth. Senator O’Connor standing to his opinion is a
picture of mental strength and power worth going far to-
see.
HE OF H»MTo KEEP HER, QRWE-PV"
-s' CAREEN
JA ND V,HEN S " E 'N nooo SERENE
HeNPECK NOTED.
*V/Wf PIAHT V/OVJUS fiTTiaq BE.l'
Inspired, he pikn'yed —— <=
ONE srw.>- TEPFPV’SKE-e!
Ck.TVH-
The newly-elected teetotal Mayor of a
Melb. suburb, in giving his reasons for declining
to supply councillors with grog, solemnly declared
that it was the duty of “ those in high positions ”
to set a good example. His brother councillors—>
the usual mixture of small drapers, grocers and
publicans—naturally applauded this tribute to
their collective exaltedness.


TRY
MACONOCHIE’S
S’
CELEBRATED
Worcestershire
Sauce.^=g—
Most Delicious
and Cheapest.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT & CO.,
7 Spring Street, Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
DAVID STORED, & SONS’
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker.
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
This Hotel has popularised hotel-living in Australia.
During our enervating summer, the cool and ele-
gant drawing rooms, the charmingly - arranged
dining room, the readiness and perfection of the
attendance, and the splendid appointments of the
Hotel throughout, prove a boon and blessing to
visitors. The Hotel is so loftily-built and situated
that residents sleep in a distinct atmosphere—a cool
light air, entirely free from the dust and impurity
of the city.
J. SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Oastlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —In the ease of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
The new lady-teacher had just taken
school in, when there was a knock at the door.
Opened it, and was asked, “Moight Oi addhress
the childer for a moment, mum ? ” The teacher,
thinking it was possibly a candidate for Parlia-
ment—or some other public character —said :
“Certainly, sir! Come inside?” The gent,
stepped in, cleared his throat a few times, and
said: “Now, bhoys and gur-rls, lisliten to me !
Did any of yis see a red poley cow on your way to
school this marnin’?”
* * * •
Dr. MacGillicuddy (begorra !) lecturing at
Collingwood (Melbourne) on medicine-mania and
the capacity of cranks to swallow rivers of mixture
and pyramids of pills, went to America for his
illustrations. He should study the Australian
bushman, but more particularly the “hatter,” in
his lair, if he wishes to discover the possibilities of
the human passion for pills and potions. Writer
once had a mate who took daily doses of a popular
patent-medicine just because he had “ got into the
way of taking it ” years before. He has met a
household in which the wife was often beaten by
the husband for taking his medicine, and where
the whole family had a craving for that particular
brew that suggested the opium-habit. Ask Imy
country storekeeper, and this is very like the
testimony you will receive: “Lots of my cus-
tomers go for new patent medicines as soon as they
come out, others stick to the old ones. So far as
my experience goes, if the average bushman has
to choose between his favorite medicine and his
favorite booze, he takes the medicine.” This is
the word of a tradesman in a Gippsland mining
and agricultural centre. The Australian bush
NOT THE HORSE’S FAULT.
TIM : “ It’s divilish poor your horse is lookin’.”
MIKE : “ God knows it’s not his fault—he ates all he gets.”
could do with a strong anti-medicine revival and
an active crusade against pills.
* *' • *
“Barwon”: Re* carriers’ method of ex-
tracting liquor from casks (“ A. A. A.*” B. 22/6/’01).
When writer was in Central Queensland in the
70’s he frequently heard old carriers speak of
“bulling” casks of spirits, especially of rum.
Method was to pour boiling water on the top of
the cask overnight, cover it over, and (so they
said) the water would be converted into spirits
before morning. The heat possibly might draw
the spirits through the wood. Another way was
to “spile” under hoops ; and make good the
quantity extracted with water.
• • * •
“ A.E.S.” : Re carrier’s extraction of grog
from casks by means of heated iron (B. 22/6/’01).
Have seen the gimlet trick frustrated by a cask
inside a cask. The carrier bored the outside cask
to no purpose. Continued operation, penetrating
inside cask (rum). Inside cask shifted and pre-
vented plugging. Result —cost to carrier about
£l5. Consignor and consignee had “ been there ”
before.
* * ♦ *
“ Walgo ”: Re “ Pel’s ” query (B. 15/6/’01)
as to why birds “tower” when struck in the eye
by gunshot. I fancy that the shot causes the bird
to hold its head up, thereby directing its flight
upwards. Have often seen ducks hit in the eye
by shot, but it has always caused instant death.
Have also seen ducks tower when surprised by the
appearance of a man—without being fired at.
“Eller”: Re the crow being “the far-
mer’s friend and the squatter’s enemy,” he has
now turned dog on the farmer by playing havoc
W “” th 6
, » * •
<( Heimadal » . « L .F.H.” (15/6/’0l) is not
„ puUing your leg .„ The old ) dent / ty [, e men .
heIST it
inoidmta menl i one d „ e f, cts . There is another
j oca j ancient who is over 90, yet gets his living by
litti pa i ings . M et him once? about five years
Reeling a barrow with a couple of cwt. in it.
jf 0 had trtm § led the load eight miles of up-hill
road in three hours.
* * * *
tl p , w-is this a iudf/ment ? VVivside
Leb • : as . 18 a . ~ \i rT i »
P ub 5 three bullockies drink N.Q. Called Back”
rum, but No. 4 has lemonade. Crirl, fumbling
with wire, lets cork bang into his eye. Immediate
effect relieved with curse-cure, but at camp the
man becomes insensible and never comes-to. Post-
mortem. A small artery on the brain ruptured by
the sud den blow.
* * * *
~ . -c ~ D a - j /-d
' supposed poison-weed (8.,
22/6/ 01) Have heard old practical hands assert
cattle in these cases are not poisoned at all,
but tbat weak and starving stock, allowed to
depasture suddenly on this weed, gorge themselves
with fatal results ; whereas stock depasturing
habitually m the same country get fat, simply
because, to begin with, after ram they cannot
gorge themselves till the weed grows long enough,
Such disasters mostly if not always, occur
amongst travelling or shifted stock,
* * * *
Jaynol : I know a man who kills snakes
by catching them by the end of the tail, and
“cracking” them as one would a whip. The
head comes off at the first joint, just as a piece of
rotten whipcord will break off with every crack of
a whip. I also know a local resident who recently
had a live tiger-snake sent through the post to
him, done up in a box like wedding-cake.
* * * *
“ Pelican ” : Re “ superstition ” of horses
(“ Wat Tell, ”B. 15/6/’01). Remember once camp-
ing close to the ruins of a “ haunted ” pub. on
Gayndah-road, Q. An employee of mine (native
of the locality) protested, assuring me that no
horse would stop there. We belled and hobbled
the mokes, and as, up to turning-in time, they
seemed contented enough, the prophet was duly
“guyed.” About midnight, however, there was a
regular stampede, and next morning we had a
lively hunt to find the brutes. Condensation of
the legend : Woman. Man rides up, night-time.
Squabble. Bottles fly. Publican runs for gun.
Horseman runs for horse, mounts, clears, full up.
Bang, bang—man and horse dead on road.
Story may be a myth, but the horse stampede was
painfully true.
• * * *
“D.H.R.”: Re the frequently-made as-
sertion that black ducks will not lay in a hollow
tree. I once saw a duck of this kind fly out of the
“spout ” of a gum-tree on the Bar won. Took no
notice at the time, but passed there two days
afterwards, and witnessed the same thing ; where-
upon I borrowed a tomahawk and climbed the
tree. Found a nest with five fresh eggs.
* • * *
“ D. 8.” : Was lately told by an old Bogan
River gin that at one time alligators (strictly—
crocodiles) used to be seen in the deep waterholes
of the lower Bogan. Can any Bulletin reader
corroborate ?
“E.W.8.”: Re prospectors’
luck. Swincers were out nine
months last year near Laverton
(W. A.) for nothing. This year they
had been out five weeks, when-
searching for their camels —they
struck a likely - looking gully.
Brought shaker up and put a run
through—Gold ! Sinking, 2ft. to
4ft. Rush set in; 600 men there
in a week. Nobody outside the
Reward getting wages. Swincers
getting 20oz. to 40oz. daily.
» • •
“ Trotter ” : Re “ Monte
Christo’s” contradiction of my
statement (B. 14/9/’01) about ewes
fetching £1 per head in C.Q. this
year. I have many press-cuttings
in which are quoted sales at 155.,
175., and £1 per head. The station
that bought 100,000 ewes was
Wellshot (Longreach district).
* • *
“What’s in a name?” At
Cairns (Q.) the municipal council of
that awful town was greatly exer-
cised at a recent meeting over the
deposit of objectionable town rub-
bish on the Hap Wah-road, and
finally decided that the smellful
stuff be dumped into a swamp in
Canton-street. This is taking off
the hat to the Chow with a venge-
ance.
* * *
Seen through a window in
Little Latrobe-street, Melbourne —
24 newly-arrived Hindoos squatting
in a room 12 x 12 : in the centre a
white man reading from a book.
Probably the niggers were being
coached in the elements of hawking-
conversation.
A remarkable mirage was seen from the
P. and O. s.s. Australia last Nov. while crossing
the Australian Bight. At the time of the appari-
tion land was invisible, but the mirage—appearing
to seaward —was apparently a complete represen-
tation of the coast on the opposite side of the ship.
The mirage lasted for some hours, and was very
distinct; the scenery altering• just as the real
coastal scenery does when a vessel travels at speed.
The oldest hands on board had never before seen
anything like it.
• * * *
“Eller”: A few years must see our
marsupials extinct—at the present rate of exter-
mination. I know a storekeeper in Stanthorpe
district (Q.) who, during 1898-9, bought 54,326
skins of all kinds, whereas during the ’99-00
season he could only purchase 14,586.
* * * •
Dear B.— that cruel Victorian boy.
I knew a school lad who, one day, was found in
front of three small crosses, upon which were
nailed, with forelegs outstretched, three living
frogs, evidently a representation of Calvary.
Predicted a bad future for that kid, but-was
possibly wrong, as he is now something in the
parson business. —SPRING.
• » • •
The deplorably dirty Castlemaine (Vic.)
vagrant who had half-crowns hidden in his matted
beard, and 3d. pieces encrusted in the loam on his
skin, and who had to be hydraulically sluiced from
afar off by the gaol people, had (says The Argus),
“tufts of grass growing between his toes.” A
truly effective climax, this. The memory of the
poor beggar (who died as the result of the douche)
may be handed down to posterity with that of the
way-back man wlio ventured on a Turkish bath.
After shampooing him for an hour, the attendants
came upon a very old-fashioned waistcoat.
* * ■» *
“ Scotty W.” to “ J.W.C.” : I accept your
challenge, and will find a backer to plank £lO
that you do not clear a holding of less than 640
acres of live rabbits in one week. At the com-
mencement of the 168 hours, there will be de-
livered to you or your man one bag pollard, one
shilling’s worth of poison named by you, sugar
ad lib., and rations and camp for the manipulator.
I shall be present during the whole time, not
necessarily for publication but as a guarantee that
there is no extraneous barrowing, or burrowing, or
borrowing. You shall choose an umpire, I an-
other ; and, if necessary, they will call a referee.
My tenner and yours to be lodged with the
manager of any bank in Narandera. The holding
is practically rabbit-proof, or will be made so.
Water nearly all round; plenty of timber for
firewood and rabbits.
• • * *
“8.R.”: Why not extend the Bill for
shearers’ accommodation to harvesters and plough-
men ? The big “ cocky ” employs as many men as
the average squatter, for a longer period, and
generally provides no accommodation, unless the
privilege of sleeping in a stripper, or the hay-
stack, or under a few chaff-bags thrown over a
wire-fence is “accommodation.” Surely these
bush-workers are as worthy of consideration as
the “swaggers,” “tomahawkers,” and “loppies”
of N.S.W.
• * * *
“ Prospector ” : When camped on the tops
of the highest mountains in Victoria, I have seen,
at sundown, countless numbers of the huge
“ bogong ” moths arise from the rocks. They fly
away to feed at night, and return at daylight.
The blacks used to make annual summer trips to
these mountains to feast on the moths, and I
have found stone tomahawks of a hard, blue or
green diorite on the tops of Kosciusko, Buffalo,
and Bogong (latter named from the moth).
THE LATE MR. GEORGE COLQUHOUN, N.S.W.
CROWN SOLICITOR.
Photo, by the Swiss Studio, Sydney.
“ Cecil P.” : Re remarks about the |White
Cliffs stioking-up (B. 14/9/’01). Why should un-
armed men nave been asses enough to rush a
loaded revolver ? “One or even two might have
been shot.” Yes, it was likely. And to what
end ? If this scribe had been there he’d have
stepped up to the fence, too —and he’d have
stepped lively.
# # 4c •
The Bulletin has received from Gunda-
booka, near Bourke, N.S.W., a carpet-snake skin
9ft. 4in. long, which “ Abdul ” thinks is a record.
But in North Queensland writer has seen one
nearly 22ft. long, and 16-footers are not uncom-
mon. Mr. L. F. Sachs, lately of Sydney, and
now of London, has in his possession the skin of a
carpet-snake (killed by himself) measuring, if we
remember rightly, almost 23ft.
y * * *
Not long ago two youthful lawyers success-
fully appeared for a defendant, who gave, as
security for their costs, a lien on a horse in his
possession, described as a “ thoroughbred.” When
the specified time for payment had arrived, they
decided upon “collecting” the security, and,
armed with the writ, a halter and sundry nobblers
they proceeded to their client’s residence. The
owner pointed out the “thoroughbred” in, t'.e
middle of a 200-acre paddock, and told them to go
and catch their “costs.” Over the attempt they
spent four fruitless hours, and are now certain
that if they could have secured the noble animal
a Melbourne Cup would have been within their
grasp—such “foot” and “bottom” did the
“costs” display in evading capture.
*•* * *
Reported that three black gins of Coraki
(N.S.W.) drew first prize in Tatt.’s special on
Metrop. Stakes. What a corroboree on Bunga-
walbyn Creek !
A curious animal was caught last month at
Thuddungra (N.S.W.). It was about the size of
a rabbit, but had a snout Gin. long, tapering to a
point; ears 4in. long, and almost hairless; and a
12in. tail brushed at tip. A Young paper says
“ it was of the graminivorous order, very active,
and could jump to a considerable height.” De-
scription savors of a cross between a rabbit and
kangaroo-rat.
m * * *
A Western squatter on the contingent
question: “We’re sendin’ all our best men to
South Africa, and we’re breedin’ from culls.”-
• * * *
“ Nabo ” : In the construction of a Govt,
tank (started some months back), to furnish a
water-supply for a small N.S.W. township, some
hundreds of sq. yds. were excavated before it was
discovered that the operations were upon private
property, the owner of which had preserved a dead
silence —being naturally a silent man. To avoid
litigation, the partly-made tank was filled in
again. Needless to say the official responsible for
the blunder pursues the even tenor of his way in
the Govt, service.
* * * *
Three stud merinoes from Cullenbone
(N.S.W.) yielded 12-months’ fleeces of 341 b., 331 b.
and 281 b. A 5-year-old ram at Pine Park,
Burrendong, yielded 391 b. of wool.


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM.
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
“ Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose. —A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “Hunyadl Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
USED IN THE ROYAL HOUSEHOLDS.
“CEREBOSSALT
Besides being the most Dainty, Dr>y, and Economical
Table Salt, “Cerebos” contains the strengthening and
constitution building properties which are wanting
in White Bread, owing to the removal of the Bran.
It is, therefore, invaluable in the daily food of
growing children, delicate mothers, and all brain
workers.
Wholesale ,4g<?«fc;-HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 334 and 336, George Street, SYDNEY.
Sold by Grocers and Stores.
“C.D.J.”: We’ve heard a lot about the
goanna’s bone-swallowing capabilities, but I think
the following is new: —Nest-eggs having persis-
tently disappeared, I got half-a-dozen porcelain
“ fakes,” thinking thus to “ euchre ’’ the suspected
“ ’anna’s,” but the china all went within a couple
of days. Soon afterwards I shot one of the
marauders, and found inside him two of the china
eggs, as well as several of the real article.
* * * •
“C.J.C.”: At pub. in the drought-
stricken west. Two swaggies and “ swell ” at
table. Landlady: “What will you try, sor—
Galah, goat, or porcupine ? ” Swell: “ A little of
each, please ma’m.” Miss Public-house : “ Try a
little lignum sprouts wid it ? ” Galah, by the
way, takes much stewing, but porcupine is_ real
good and fat. Too fat to roast; must be boiled ;
and then tastes like ox-tongue.
* » * •
Near Blackall Range, S.Q., a timber-
getter got his leg badly smashed at the foot of a
fairly steep range. His one chance of being
picked up was to get on top of the hill along
which ran a timber-track, and although the dis-
tance was almost half-a-mile, rising as much as
25ft. in a chain, he managed it. Most of the
journey was done backwards, the poor devil
prizing himself with his hands, from a. sitting
posture, then leaning forward and lifting the
injured member as close to the body as possible.
* * » •
A certain corn-and-pig Macleay cockie
wants a Govt, road, so that two “ verticles ” can
pass without “coinciding.” Same man says he
has a prescription for the resurrection of a churoh,
and that lie hasn’t been very successful as the
people have hardly enough to export their own
families.
MISS STELLA MILES FRANKLIN , Author
of the First Real Australian Novel.
Photo, by Rozette Studio, Goulburn (N.S.W.).
Re queer geological formations
(“Pelican” B. 22/6/’01). Near Byalong (Vie.) a
railway-cut exposes, amidst reddish granite, what
looks like the filled-in course of an ancient river.
On the bottom and partly up the sides—which
have a uniform slope—is a layer of large, water-
worn quartz gravel. The rest of the filling is
black soil. In the same district, on low flats, are
similar formations, mostly running in a ciroular
direction. The grass in summer dies first on them,
and thus makes them easily discernible.
* * * •
“ Prospector ” : Not generally known
that the “ bobuck ” mountain-’possum is car-
nivorous. I recently snared a wallaby, and, after
skinning it, threw the carcase into the limbs of a
sassafras tree. Next day I was surprised to find
the greater part missing. Set four whip-snares,
and on following morning had four bobucks
caught. Being still sceptical, I watched that
night and saw quite a mob of the ’possums feast-
ing on the remains. After three nights only the
bones were left.
* * * *
“Prospector”: Re the black-backed
Monaro magpies (B. 22/6/’01). Has “ Gumleaf ”
or any other observer ever seen two ‘ 1 maggies ”
marked alike ? I have seen thousands, but never
two quite the same.
» • * *
“ Belah ” : “ H.M.T.” (B. 8/6/’01) is in
error as to how the kylie is thrown by the W.A.
.blacks. The woolana, as it is termed by the gold-
field natives, can be thrown from either hand, and
it does hit the ground when thrown with hostile
intent. Have seen many a native fight, both
tribal and otherwise, and whenever the. woolana
was used it hit the ground a few yards from the
person aimed at, and then rebounded with a
twang on its upward flight of destruction. If it
misses its mark it describes the usual circles. The
high circle-throwing is mere gallery-play. You
must see the native throwing for his daily food to
understand what woolana-throwing is. Unlike
the spear, the woolana cannot be dodged, and
escape depends on the manipulation of the shield
or woondah.
* * * »
“ G.P.B ” strikes a rich patch :
After footing-it some hundred miles, I struck a job (at
Commonwealth time) a few miles outside Temora. I was
expected to sling the axe at huge trees from daybreak
till an hour before sundown, then get the cows in and
milk them, look after horses, and do a little farming, etc.,
for fun. Wages, 3s. a cord of wood cut and stacked. I
was expected to cut down the tree, saw it into 14in.
lengths and split up fine for the stove. The other work
was exacted from me in return for permission to sling
the axe all day.
Seddon seems to have
quietly dropped his de-
mand that the Imperial
Govt, should appoint a
committee to inquire into
Gov. O’Brien’s allegations
as to the confiscation of
Maori lands. Probably
one of Dick’s depart-
mental officers has shown
him one of the standard
maps of Taranaki, with a
broad black line, marked
“Confiscation Boundary,”
running down the middle
of it.
Springvale, near Win-
ton, W.Q., lias a spring of
good water, somewhat miner-
alised, in which moderately
dense objects won't sink. A
human plunging in, for instance,
is immediately jerked to the sur-
face again. A strong up-rush is supposed to be
the cause of this.
• * * *
At a station in Cloncurry (Q.) district
there is a gin 6ft. high and weighing 13st.
N.S.W. Lands Minister Crick declined to
answer a question on the eternal Mercadool case,
“as the case is to go back again to the Courts.”
Seeing the amount of fog in which the lawyers
have involved it, how would it do for Par-
liament to appoint a court of independent business
men, and make their decision final ? The first
step to that is to order a return as to the costs to
date. That would be a many-thousand-pounds-
shock to the people.
The reductions, varying from 20 to 75 per
cent., made by local Land Boards in N.S.W.
Central Division on the capital value of c. p’s and
h.s’s, give a nasty set-back to those officials who,
to curry favor with the head office, imposed
ridiculously high prices on land thrown open for
settlement. Writer knows a case where one of
these officials, now out of the service, put, in his
capacity as district surveyor, a price of £3 per
acre on a block of land unimproved in any way,
and adjoining a highly-improved freehold block,
on which, a few weeks previously, he had refused,
as private money-lender, to advance more than
16s. Bd. per acre.
The accompanying likeness of Miss Stella
Miles Franklin, of Goulburn, N.S.W., gives a
good idea of the author of “My Brilliant (?)
” as she appeared at 18, when the story
was written. Her book has been described as the
first really Australian novel, —Australian through
and through ; but the credit for its lively charm,
given to Australian sunlight, should possibly have
been divided with Irish heredity. Yet Miss
Franklin is “totally, absolutely, completely
Australian entirely.” Her father, John Maurice
Franklin, is the youngest of three Franklin
brothers, formerly of Brindabella station, N.S.W.,
well-known as intrepid riders and expert bushmen.
Miss Franklin was born at Talbingo station, near
Tumut; and has been a bush-girl all her life, and
a scribbler since 13.
Antiuric removes all impurities from the
blood in man, woman or child. It is the one
simple, cheap, and certain cure for rheumatism.
Sent post paid to any part of Australasia, ss.
Antiuric Co., Box 842, G-.P.0., Sydney.*
King Edward is said to be in poor health.
He is nearly 60, and has lived well up to his years.
Lloyd’s insurance people are charging 10 per cent,
to insure his life for tradesmen until after the
coronation.
A farmer has been arrested, the cable
states, for giving false information to the British,
thus enabling the Boers under Theron to cross
some river or other. But the same Theron, by
the cables of a month back, had been captured, or
killed. Boer commandants are fabled, i.e. cabled,
to have at least nine lives.
THE MAN WHO WENT BEFORE.
ADONIS: “Gam! get home, can't yer. Yer
always foxin' about when a fellar’s gain'
courtin’.”
A WESTERN PATENT FOR A BAD
LEADER.
When the pack-horse jibs the rope is pulled
tight, and suddenly released. The sapling, re-
bounding, strikes the horse sharply on the rump ,
and he gees up.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
B. Arrow : Nobody quite knows what records
were destroyed in Sydney Garden Palace fire. Old Jack
Robertson ordered, “ on his own hook,” the destruction
of many early-day Australian records ; how they were
destroyed we can’t say... .Asp : We certainly don’t pay
for what are prima-facie hot, and possibly spiteful, Little
Pedlingtonian libels.... V.S.: The gentleman should not
be made pastor of the flock ; he is, as a matter of history,
too fond of lamb... .6 Y.H. : A “month’s hard ” isn’t “ a
savage sentence ” for throwing a rotten egg at a Mayor-
even the Mayor of Cairns—and the Governor-General.
What has the Governor-General done that he should be
assailed by so foul a missile ?... . Mealie : If he said you
had cancer he no doubt lied. In fact, it is a million to
one he lied, for, so far as is known, no drug will cure
cancer. Some forms of cancer are often cured by early
operation—for instance, epithelioma of the lip is fre-
quently snipped out and heard of no more X. 0.: Your
information about the Oloncurry Railway Bill as far as
concerned royalty, deposits to secure co.’s bona fides, &c.,
was so inaccurate that we don’t care to rely on the rest
of the statements Hubert (Kalgoorlie) : Do, please,
send diagrams next time to show what your letter is
about.... Speculator :If any State - Government will
introduce a Bill for the establishment of a State lottery,
honestly conducted, Tub Bulletin will back that Govern-
ment all it knows Kelpie: No; but a journalist’s
grammar is more important than most people’s, because
it moulds many people’s M.L.P.: It isn’t a poem ; it’s
an unfenced Zoo A.E.O. : When you write ballads,
write ballads Ahau : Some charm ; too faint and stiff.
And you employ too many mean little joiner-words ; style
wants elevation, resonance, and a little ornament....
F.A.B. : “By Fate’s O.” not strong enough—especially
for a paper which doesn’t stay up all night yearning after
the domesticated Alf. D. : Will consider anything you
send, but not if “ also sent to another paper.”.. .Panurge :
Suit medical publication only Laura T. : All human
actions are “ selfish,” in the sense that they have ultimate
reference to our own sensations. Self-sacrifice, however
emotionally admirable, is biologically immoral.. Switcher:
A desert of words, ungraced by the flower of an idea
F.R. : “ Misunderstood ” too obvious ; but there is good
material on the pony-tracks for stories Waiau : Have
already had one reference ; let the thing g 0... .Harpy :
Very technical and very dull Max Bertram : A hack-
neyed theme Lilli (Parramatta) : You don’t say what
the illegal sentences were, and we can’t print your state-
ment without knowing the facts... .A.L. : Anyhow, a
despot’s life doesn’t seem to be so insecure as that of a
ruler chosen by the voice of a free people May Flower:
The “ B.” wouldn’t guarantee to take a weekly letter
even from Beelzebub, and his beat is the best in Creation
for news. Send any fresh, bright pars, that come to
your mind Veritas: Trivial; not improving F.M.:
Good batch Wanderer : “ Chantey ” good Annam :
Shorter ! brighter ! Ohapul: “ Maid ” worthless ; con-
sidering “Nothing Else.”... Alone : “Rose” closes too
feebly D.A.M. : Precisely Pteropod : Your single
apt line begins “ Futile thought, away!” Hamer : Very
fluent; very mediocre L.L.: No value in « Fat Man ”
as it stands Jacy : Not up... .Arch. M.N.: You have a
very Scotch notion of poetry R.B.H. : Answered as
too long and too slow Roland : We’d as soon print a
step-ladder Castlemaniac : Can’t reprint such twaddle.
A.P.I. : Interesting in places, but general form un-
suitable Cora L. : Rather humorous, but doesn’t hit
us as a wh01e.... Carew: Lacks fibre and finish W. J. D.:
Conventional and flimsy.... .Nell Cook : Sorry neither up
to mark Issachar : A doleful wail Sabrina: You
“ can send us a lot more like that.” Carefully don’t!
Mac T. : Can’t answer purely technical questions like that.
R.A.K. : The Melb. Girls’ Club is not a very thrilling
matter for comment. There doesn’t seem to be any hug
in it J.H. (W.A.) : A German Yank, has invented a
machine for turning out humor of your brand, and we
are thinking of importing a few tons—for the use of con-
temporaries R.T.C. : Too loose and scrappy
F. 0.8. : “ Tragedy ” been often—and better —done. Verse
conventionally pretty. To your questions :1, prob-
ably ; 2, don’t remember; 3, yes ; 4, hardly so ;
5, ditto.. .Max: Bather wild and hairy Jack-a-
Clubs : Yes ; try it again. It’s crude, but there’s
grit in it Norman M. R. : Some little
quality in them. Practice should do much for
you J.D.C. : You are an artistic liar. May
use.. Henry O’D. : Not new or forcible C.D.F. : You
don’t lie with the graceful ease which shows the
artist. Try and make your lying a labor of love
and an anchor of consolation Smilax: That de-
tective story becomes unintelligible after page 2
Quilp : Don’t care much for “Susie.” J.G.D. : Un-
usuable A.J.P. : Shoo! Austin: Considering
scrawl H.W.Y. : Not unpromising; count your
syllables and mark your accents J. 0.: Writing seem
i
In have lost vrit... .L.M.P. : Too school-girlish.. ..Mr*.
R. : h With your manifold activities, why don t youlearn
to tvne ? .. Hiero : Worthless as put A.L. (Durban; .
Neither style nor matter....Spieglein : Prose too thin ;
verse has some sentimental value—try and condense it t
nassion And get double rhymes X. 0.: Lilies not
bright enough. g . .G.M.H. “You ask fora “ httlevillages
poem from Maoriland. Some M.L. writer might take the
hint and try.... A.T.S. : Not bad ; not good enough....
Glenara: Shorten your lines and your
M T W • But have vou seen how the Q. Ministry sud
sidises" (inGovt! advts.) the «independent little papers ”
in question?. .F. 0.1, : The Dental College formerly
advertised in The Bulletin was the original college
founded by E. L. Oldfield-address, 34 Nicholson-st.,
Melbourne. A combination of rival dentists ha Y e n ° w
established a Dental College and Hospital in Lonsdale-st.,
Melbourne. The Sydney dentists, seemingly, are now
“ considering" the establishment of a similar institution.
....Scotty: You are exasperatingly nebulous....J.D..
That Dowie extract unprintable... ..H.G.K. : inanKs.
The Bulletin bobs-up everywhere Cyclops: Xou mane
too long a yarn of it. If you send any more be as concise
as possible Waif: Not too bad ; may use.. Hamer .
Don’t altogether care for it, though it’s the best of yours
we’ve seen... .Vie. Kers. : Lacks congruity and finish....
Spring: Most of your copy interesting.. ..Vim. : JNo ;
two of them are very ancient indeed, and very well-
known ....E.S.: (“ Ideals and P.”). Mam idea has been
handled by Maupassant, and many others. Your treat-
ment still fails to give it enough distinction R.A.K...
“Opera’’mild conversation, suitable for a paper with a
telephone - column Polynesian : Some nice little
quotations on a pretty string, but not suitable for B.
..Sam’l Cornstalk: Not worth 64 lines of space.....
Hiero : “ Only a Lark ” a crude horror H.J.H. : Treat-
ment excellent ; but the theme is so very, very 01d....
Rattler : Curious mixture of grey realism and transpon-
tine melodrama ; a readable story could be made out it....
M.G. : Horse-talk written on both sides of the paper is
against all the rules of The B F.O. : A dull, persistent
youth... .E.R.A. : Coach-yarn reads like a very laborious
invention Pluff: Bald horror; crude, inartistic
blugginess.... Papoose : Tin-kettling an unsatisfactory
sort of thing. Presumably it has some sort of a local
foundation in fact, and that doesn’t add to its attrac-
tiveness. ..Percy M. : In “Dickson” absolutely nothing
happens.. . .Indra : “The Philosopher” is feeble knock-
about humor suitable for a music-hall comedian. “ What
Bill Did ” an old joke stretched out thin to avoid identifi-
cation O.K.A. :No use your sending verses to the
artists for illustration. First step is to have your verses
accepted Waddy : Mining matter already dealt with.
Jimmy S. : Too long and tough O.D.P. : The
Bulletin has hammered at that abuse for years....
Golden F. : Nothing in them... .Hippo : There’s no such
thing as “ a jury of matrons to try certain cases,” though
something of the kind used occasionally to be appointed
to decide upon the condition of a death-sentenced woman
who pleaded pregnancy in stay of execution J.G.,
Shaker, and others : Had enough of that question
The Bard : Nobody wants “ imaginative ” names for the
stations on the new Oollingwood (Melb.) railway. James
Smith’s suggestions were all right. Two of them have
been already adopted by the Railway Dept... .G. Rowe :
Your “ old comp.” friend is doubtless some malicious liar
whose copy has been rejected... .H.M.N. (8.H.) :An old,
old story in a somewhat new setting ; might possibly do
if adroitly cut down 50 per cent J.O. :No chance;
that isn’t our gospel.... J.W.C. (Q.) : Oan’t tell until we
see sample of the wonder-child’s drawing G.M. : Had
the story been liked well enough, the typed copy would
have been revised from the MS. Details as to punctua-
tion, &c., would not affect the judgment of the office
reader, who would form his opinion in a broad way
Platt-Betts’ Pacer Interviewed.
Mr. Arthur L. Ryan, who resides at Church-
street, Parramatta, close to the Railway Bridge,
is well known in this State as an athlete, and in
conversation with a reporter he recently gave
some interesting particulars of his life. Mr.
Ryan is twenty-eignt years of age, was born in
Parramatta and educated at the local Grammar
School. He is prominently identified with foot-
ball, cricket and cycling.
“You accompanied Platt-Betts when that
eminent cyclist toured Australia, did you not ? ”
said the reporter.
“Yes,” said Mr. Ryan, “I travelled with
Platt-Betts all over the colonies and was chief
steersman for his pacing machines.”
“Did you have a smash-up ? ” was asked.
“ No,” said Mr. Ryan, “ all went well, although
I must admit that I owed my steadiness of hand
to Dr. Williams’ pink pills for pale people, for
before that I had suffered greatly from indiges-
tion for two or three years, and tried many
patent medicines without avail. I had no
appetite, did not relish my food, and after meals
I suffered from wind, flatulence, heart-burn, and
a heavy, drowsy feeling ; there was often a nasty
taste in my mouth, which was so dry that my
tongue seemed to stick to the roof of it. Pains
in. my chest and stomach afflicted me, and I
could not sleep properly. I used to turn from
side to side for nours before falling into an unre-
freshing sleep, and when I rose in the morning
I still felt tired and weak. I was always des-
pondent, and could take no active interest in
anything. I lost weight and came down to nine
stone. Mr. L. W. Pye, the well-known chemist
of Church-street, Parramatta, recommended Dr.
Williams’ pink pills, and I tried them. After
taking two boxes I felt greatly benefited, and
before long my appetite returned. Now I eat
heartily, relish my food, and am stronger than
ever. I sleep well at night and am com-
pletely free from every symptom of indigestion,
debility or unstrung nerves. Since taking Dr.
Williams’ pink pills I not only went through
the colonies successfully with Platt-Betts, but
have won five handicaps in cycle races, and have
paced for the Dunlop Tyre Co., on the Sydney
Cricket Ground. I can conscientiously re-
commend Dr. Williams’ pink pills as a cure for
indigestion and debility.”
Athletes and others who suffer from unstrung
nerves and debility will fiud that Dr. Williams’
pink pills tone up the nerves, enrich their blood,
and strengthen their constitution in a manner
hitherto unknown to medical science. Owing to
their blood-building and nerve-toning properties
these pills cure rheumatism, neuralgia, sciatica,
bronchitis, consumption, skin diseases, hysteria,
St. Vitus’ dance, heavy colds, effects of influenza
and pneumonia, etc. Sold by chemists and store-
keepers and by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
Queen’s Place, Sydney two and nine per box,
six boxes fifteen and three, post free.


Here’s more of it. Even Sydney dailies
are now printing such happenings
“ The Work of Devastation.—-Trooper
(Ted Smith, writing to his father, Mr. /
John Smith, of Bogo, from Middle* (
burg under date July 24, gives somp v
. detaiis of_ the British operations. He
says ‘
>l We btirnt a great- number of farms, and
\ brought on goodness knows how tnanv
\ families. On our way we’passed through
-Krmelo, and smashed the town up
generally All sorts of .shops and public
/ holdings were looted, and contents
/ destroyed, and later on, I believe, the
/ place was burned. It was almost a
pity to see such things as pianos,
/ ergans, and mirrors smashed. One
/ cha P went into a hotel where
/ there was a huge mirror. He
/ had a look' a,t himself, and
/ then stuck his rifle through it.
JNo wonder !— Ed. B.] We are
/in Lord Kitchener’s column, and
/ have been since we started
/ on the JI
We have* slaughtered,’ I
f i suppose, about 20,000 sheep
since we started, and left
f \ • them to rot. This, of course,
\ is part of the work of devas^
\ . tati ° n -’ ” /*! i-n //
THE GREAT STATE-RIGHTS
GRIEVANCE.
Citizen" J. J. Smith (of New South Wales,
to Citizen J. J. Smith, of Australia)'(
“You infernal thief !*—you vampire l- 1 *
you ! You live on me and my
taxes, and my surplus, and my pros-
perity, and now you want to steal my
public buildings 1 ”
The tear of paternal pride here seen
stealing down the cheek of the elder
Smith on reading the above is not
only pardonable but natural
I/OHDOK, Friday.—Of 107,425 white refugees detained in
concentration-camps during the month of August, 1878 died,
inciting 510 out of 22,036 children in the Orange River
colony.
J. Bull : “ Bless you, my children ! ”
JoHH BcLt: “Well, If I could only get at the man who started
me off on this jag that’s all!
The above picture illus-
rates (if if illustrates
anything) the. abiding faith reposed in
prophet Wragge by his countrymen,
Brisbane, Satur-
day.—A novel ex-
periment was made
in the Botanic Gar-
dens this morning,
when several trials
_ . , of the Stiger vortex
.gun were made, under the direction ef
■Mr. C. Wragge, Govt. Meteorologist.
The experiment proved without result,
so far as rain-producing was concerned,
though Mr. Wragge expressed himself
. w ell pleased with the results obtained, as
he states it Would require at least two
guns to cause the necessary waves in the
air to bring rain. The experiments will
Be continued on Mondav.
CARTOONLETS.


8 W
pi*?* 0
i%
r >
•*
I I
>\&)
1
■ C? L*'
i f/f
lullijbrd
fyu<.e
Oonj P)»W
i(W«rtt v
y' \
°
\ *v y
faf.k'l..
iSfSßli)N^]
" y*S !
*«oK>
5 7p
A DREAM OF THE FEDERAL PARLIAMENT GYMNASIUM-TRAINING FOR THE TARIFF STRUGGLE.


SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalassk and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
S 3, per Halt-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
E. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q'land
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sappliires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassni ussen’s advt. on page
5 of this issue *
Tie lusm Rrmnum [ire issna
COMPANY, LiMITEO.
IR, lE3 V IE IDT TT IE A C C O TJ U T.
For the Year ending 31st August, 1901.
Total amount of Funds at beginning
year
Premiums (no re-assurance) .
Interest and Rents
Transfer and Office Fees
Profits on realisation ..
Received on Shares
Increase in value of Co.’s Free
£9,507 13
1,520 17
5 2
5 10
3,166 15
hold Property as per valua-
tion „ „ .. 5,500 0
£ S. D.
22,565 1 7
19,705 18 5
£42,271 0 0
£ S. D.
Claims under Policies (no re-assurance) .. 1,146 5 8
Government Tax .. 78 15 6
Surrenders 336 3 9
Dividends 601 9 11
Expenses of Management—
Procuration of New Business
and Commission .. .. £2,916 5 9
Salaries, Medical, Audit,
Actuarial, Directors’ Fees,
5,876 9 6
Written off Office Furniture and Fittings .. 10 16 0
Amount of Funds at end of year .. 34.220 19 8
£l2 271 0 0
BALANCE-SHEET.
LIABILITIES.
£ S. D. £ 8. D.
Subscribed Capital .. .. 12,000 0 0
Less Uncalled .. .. 2,818 4 6
9,181 15 6
Assurance Fund.. 25,039 4 2
Sundry Creditors 221 0 7
Suspense Account 6 13 10
£34,447 14 1
T. J. HAROLD, Managing Director.
ASSETS.
£ S. D.
Freehold Property—Queensland Deposit
Bank Buildings and Fittings .. .. 30,000 0 0
Loans on Mortgage 3,102 19 8
Sundry Debtors 25 0 0
Outstanding Premiums .. .. .. 1,124 16 0
Accrued Interest 87 16 11
Furniture, Office-fittings and Stationery .. 107 1 6
Agents’ Advances nil
£34,447 14 1
JOHN URE, M.D., Chairman.
I hereby certify that I have examined the Company’s Books, Accounts,
August, 1901, and certify that the above Accounts are in accordance therewith,
held by the Company, and found them correct.
Brisbane, lUth September, 1901.
and Vouchers for year ending 31st
I have also inspected all securities
F. Ll. EVANS. Auditor.
ALOK
(BEGISTEBE D)
The Most Famous of all
Modern Tonics.
FRESHLY PREPARED FROM THE CELEBRATED AFRICAN KOLA NUTS.
The Other Ingredients of ALOK are Secrets -Known Only to FISHER AND COMPANY.
In the Mornings and before each meal ALOK is the most Bene-
ficial, Refreshing, and Recuperative Brink known.
*** N QLOX Cleanses the Palate, Regulates the Liver, and does the Stomach firr* 1 t~“
4LOX Strengthens the Heart, Removes Headache,
Cures Indigestion, Creates Appetite.
ALOK is the Greatest Nerve Restorer Known.
, —*" *
ABSOLUTELY ALOK IS THE KING OF ALL “PICK-ME-UPS.”
UNINTOXICATING—Thousands of Ladies drink it when Shopping in Town.
All Hotels and Refreshment Rooms, with Soda Water, 6d. per Glass.
All Chemists, 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per Bottle.
COLO
MEDAL
VAQ O £ 0«~*£
LOK
MIGHTY “ALOK.”
Something to carry you along and help you over the
difficulties of Life.
AWARDED GOLD MEDAL AT THE SYDNEY ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SHOW, 1898.
When out of sorts you cannot do better than take a DEINK OP ALOE.
AT THE BAR ASK FOR IT IN THE “USUAL” OR “EXTRA BITTER” FORM—BOTH CONTAIN THE
SAME WONDERFUL AND THERAPEUTIC VIRTUES.
ALOK SAVES DOCTORS’ BILLS.
*** CAUTION —Always pour ALOK out of the Bottle yourself, to make sure that you are getting the
Genuine Article, and not a Spurious Substitute. Insist on being served with ALOK, and you will be sure to get
FI3HE3 and COMPANY’S ORIC3NAL and FAMOUS TONIC.
The Universal Fraisse of MIGrHTY AX,OK.
MADAME ALIANI, THE QUEEN OF SONG AND FRIEND OF HER LATE MAJESTY QUEEN VICTORIA.
Messrs. FISHER and CO. Hotel Australia, Sydney, March 29, 1898.
Dear Sirs. —I shall be much obliged if you will send me two bottles of your preparation, “ ALOK.” lam very
o-lad to tell you that this Tonic was of great service to me on the sea, and in helping me to recover from the effects of
my long voyage. It is-of great benefit in stopping sea-sickness, and of great assistance to anyone who has
Fatiguing' work to do. I am, yours very truly, G. ALBANI GYE.
Mr. J. L. JACOBSEN, Champion Chessplayer of Australasia, forwards unsolicited the following Testimonial, which
speaks for itself :
Dear Sirs.—As a cure for brain weariness and lassitude, I have proved Mighty “ ALOK ” a Marvellous Tonic. A
dose before commencing enables me to endure the arduous strain of match-play with little fatigue. I consider it a
boon to brain workers, and heartily recommend it to all chessplayers. J. L. JACOBSEN.
What HENRY BRACY, Esq., says about FISHER and CO.’S TONIC.
Henry Bracy’s English and Comic Opera Company, Sydney.
Messrs. FISHER and CO. ‘ ‘ Lyceum Theatre, March 6th, 1897.
Gentlemen. —It is with much pleasure that I testify to the merits of your Tonic. In my professional vocation I
am very often tired and fatigued after long and worrying rehearsals, and I find great benefit at the time from a dose
of vour Famous Tonic with a little soda water. It invariably has a reviving effect, and I have got quite fond of it.
Yours faithfully, H. BRACY.
In the MOUSING —before taking
Fisher & Co.’s Mighty “ Alok.”
Mighty “ fllok ”
is an Unfailing Remedy for
Neuralgia, Nervous Dyspep-
sia, Anaemia, Brain-fag, De-
pression, Impoverished Blood,
Rheumatism, Sleeplessness,
Indigestion, Influenza, Ner-
vous Headaches, Debility,
Lumbago, Gout, Melancholia,
Impaired Digestion, and all
disorders consequent upon a re-
duced state of the Nervous System.
Every Hotel and Refreshment Room,
with Soda Water, 6d per Glass.
All Chemists 2s 6d and 4s 6d per
bottle, postage 8d extra.
In the AFTERNOON—after taking
Fisher & Co.’s Mighty “ Alok.”
ABk for “ A-lolt,” to secure tb.© G-euuiue Article
Sole Proprietors
.. and ..
Manufacturers—
FISHER AND COMPANY,
Pharmacy : 337 GEORGE ST.,
Also 407 Collins St., Melbourne.
Nearly Oppo-
site G.P.O.
SYDNEY.
K3T Send to Headquarters for a Genuine Bottle
Otago (M.L.), gold-dredges are now producing
upwards of 2000 oz. per week, and yet stocks won’t
rise. One co., the Monte Ohristo, in three weeks returned
3660 z., and prospects were good as ever. Yet shares
were at latest quoted at 355.; whereas IS months ago a
dredge returning 40oz. a week was considered a good
thing, and shares read .ly found buyers at £3 or £4, A
good yield now produces not holders, but unloaders.
Expenses and liquidations have destroyed confidence ;
the average investor feels that dredging investments are
about as risky as trotting bets.
* * * *
After long years of alternate hope and disap-
pointment, the syndicate which has been boring for
pet oleum at New Plymouth (M. L.), has decided to throw
up the sponge. The oil is there in good quality ; but the
(juantity is small, and the bores seem liable to constant
inrushes of salt water. Another syndicate has secured
boring rights over large inland areas in the same district,
but doesn’t seem in a hurry to start operations. The loss
to the chief New Plymouth syndicator, a prominent M.L.
lawyer, is said to run close on five figures.
* * * *
Mr. J. H. Bryant writes from Derby; Tas. :
“ The alleged fly in the Briseis ointment — i.e., the silting-
up of the main watercourse—is simply a bogey, and that
is all. The watercourse in question is the river Ringa-
rooma, which h is an uninterrupted and rapid course from
the Briseis outlet to the South Pacific ; when the ocean-
tides cease to operate, then, and only then, is it possible
for this watercourse to silt up. In support of my conten-
tion, let me state that recent expert examination of the
river below the Briseis outlet d.scloses that scouring to
the extent of almost 4ft. has taken place during the past
year and that between the Briseis outlet and Moorina
(seven miles down stream) there is 70ft. of fall; at the
latter place, the river is as bare of debris as it was before
mining began on the coast. A few years ago, 4000 miners
were engaged sluicing on the terraces and streams of six
fair-sized rivers and numerous small tributaries that
empty into the Ringarooma. Those workings consider-
ably choked the river; but now, less than 10) Chinese
are engaged fossicking, hence the tendency of the waters
of those tributaries is to slowly, but surely, scour the
Ringarooma. That some low-lying terraces along the
Ringarooma’s banks are silted up must be admitted, but
the grade from the Briseis to the ocean is the same now
as before mining commenced here. So long as the ocean
does not refuse to accept the debris , the Ringarooma
can’t silt.”
• * * »
Mining in the Northern Territory continues a
ghastly disappointment. The failure of the Northern
Territories Co., boomed ridiculously by Horatio Bottom-
ley, and then kicked bj' the same man for the awful ex-
travagance which naturally followed the booming, has
taken the heart out of most of the other English co’s.,
none of which have been making much more than office
exes. When co’s. throw up the sponge they nearly always
get tribute-offers from the local Chinese ; for the rest, the
only people who really look like making a fair thing out
of the mines are one or two Palmerston and Pt. Darwin
merchants, who are going into the business of mine-
running regularly. As for the one-time-threatened gold-
dredging boom, only two leases have been taken, and
neither of them has been worked.
* * * *
“ Sessil ”: Here and there on almost played-out
fields one sometimes stumbles on a good show. Thus on
the Mornish field, near Rockhampton (Q.) —otherwise
deserted, save for a few fossickers--William O’Donoghue
has for 11 years drawn a nice little income from the
Caernarvon Castle at Blackfellow’s Gully. Originally
owned by a co., much over-capitalized, money was spent
on expensive machinery and in uncovering fresh and low-
grade reefs instead of sinking. Finally the co. retired
with experience and a sickly smile, and O’Donoghue
stepped in. The reef is only 2in. to 12in., but the crushings
have varied from 2to 7oz. Owned by a practical miner,
it is worked at minimum cost, and is a good thing—with
the aforesaid low-grade stone as a reserve. At Rosewood,
near by, is the usual collection of old hands living on hope
and their savings. One claim was at work—the Golden
Bar ; but the manager being absent, no information was
procurable. A patchy field always.
* * * *
A measure before the Westralian Parliament
proposes that mines shall be open to inspection by share-
holders on one day in each fortnight—that once in 14
days the owner should be allowed to look at his own pro-
perty. It seems a reasonable idea—what are the rights
of property if an owner isn’t even allowed to look at what
he is supposed to own ? Almost all W. A. mines are bossed
in London. Local shareholders are shut out as rigidly as
possible. All reports are sent to London and carefully
suppressed until the management has bought in, if pros-
pects are good, or sold out if they are bad. And now the
local shareholder has grown weary of the arrangement,
and wants to see his own capital now and then, and find
out how it is getting on.
* • * »
Not often do Govt, officials write so strenuously
as the Govt. Geologist (N.S.W.) and Jaquet, F.G.S., do
in opposing the building by the State of copper and lead-
smelting furnaces at Broken Hill. “Just,” they say,
“ when experience has proved to business men that it is
not profitable to smelt locally, even with silver and lead
at much higher prices than they are now, this request is
made to the Govt. It amounts to an application for a
bonus to work unprofitable mines.” The great difficulty
would, however, be to keep the furnaces in blast for little
men’s shows. But, anyway, if the S.A. Govt., and
more especially the Silverton Tramway Co , will be
liberal in the nutter of railway freights, the startin'* of
the State smelter at I’t. Augusta (S.A.) will to a great
extent serve Barrier prospectors and holders of small
mines.
* * • *
The high price of coai last year may not prove
quite the good thing for N.S.W. and English producers
that it looked. For instance, it set India opening up
her mines, so that she raised 6,095,000 tons against only
2,530,000 tons in ’93. And she begins to open up an ex-
port trade, too, to Java, Sumatra, &c.
* * * *
“ Wad ly ” : The desulphurisation process for
B-'oken Hill ores announced as creating “ intense excite-
ment ” turns out after all to be a colorable imitation of
the Heberlein process (now used by the Sulphide Cor-
poration), which is in itself the application of a chemical
reaction of oxide of lime on sulphide of lead or its asso-
ciated sulphide minerals which was first announced in
1372 by Kivot in Traits de Mbtallurgie, Paris, vol. 11.,
page 42. The difference between the Heocrlein process
and the Carmiehael-Bradford is that in the former they
mix oxide of lime with the ore and then heat it in
furnaces so as to produce sulphate and sulphide of lime
wn,h sulphate of lead, etc., while the latter process
starts right off with sulphate of lime or sulphide of lime
instead of waiting for the furnace to produce it. Both
processes blow air through the hot ore at one
point in the roasti ig operation, to bring about the com-
pletion of desulphurisation, and also to agglomerate the
fine ore. Where sulphate of lime is found native as gyp-
sum, the Carmichael process would be commercially all
right, but as in most parts of Australia gypsum is not
plentiful, and ordinary limestone is both plentiful and
cueap, it looks as if its application is likely to be localised
to districts where gypsum is found, or where sulphate
of lime is a by-product from some other process. It
might be interesting to state that Storer and Marsh
patented, some years ago, the use of lime in roasting
Broken Hill ores. The only thing new about either pro-
cess seems to be the use of air to finish the desulphurisa-
tion.
* * • *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
» * » *
Lucknow Mines, N.S.W. : Another application
for suspension of labor conditions, based on the ground
that amalgamation arrangements are not yet complete,
but are expected to be within the next two months, and
that for several years the mines employed an average of
60.) men and paid in wages over £5OOO a month. The
application was objected to on the ground that under the
Mining-on-Private-Lands Act regulating this pro-
perty, suspension could only be granted for six
months ; also, that these mines could be let on tribute,
and muscle would take the place of capital. One objector
said he was ready to take the property on tribute,
but was not prepared to say how much money would
be put up. The warden has given a limited exemption.
These mines were originally a freehold, for which £50,009
was paid. Several co’s were floated in England, two of
which —the Wentworth Proprietary and Aladdin’s Lamp—
were for a time fairly successful, each paying some
divs. The others, such as the D’Arcy Wentworth,
the Wentworth Extended, and the Amana, never
had a crushing, much less a div. Some tons of gold
have been taken out of the mines, and some tons
of gold have been sunk in getting it. At the
moment the writer can’t say where the most gold went;
but would like to ask what the effect of the forfeiture
of these mines would be. It seems almost impossible in
N.S.W. to do any big gold-mining without London
capital, and there would be very little hope of getting
any if such a group of mines as these were forfeited
because labour conditions were not complied with. But
there is no excuse for the co. not letting portion of the
mines on tribute if it can be shown that there are
tributors ready. The co. should not be allowed to follow
a dog-in-the-manger policy.
• • * •
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
The Tasmania mine has just paid its 187th
divide.! I. Last crushing : 32000 z. from 2400 tons ; value
£11,340.
* * * •
Never buy a horse when fat. The sick state of
several Zeehan (Tas.) silver shows has induced Great
Western Brunlees to offer £7OOO for the Queen Extended
and £12,000 for the Oonah. Former is equal to 4s. per
share, latter about 2s. 6d.


Injportaot flnnnflnrpmgnt to €tf<ry Rtadtr of Sydney “Bolltti^’
OPENING OF THE LISTS FOR
NEW SOUTH WALES.
unm of
■ ■
LITERATURE
A Limited Numbei of Sets
Specially Reserved for Australia
Now Offered to
Prompt Applicants
-» for a first payment of
10s.
And Easy
Monthly Payments.
Free Delivery in Sydney
Edited by Dr. RICHARD GARNETT, C. 8.,
Late Keeper of Printed Books , British Museum.
Issued in London by the “Standard.”
19,000 Copies Sold ii) Britain-,
20 Handsome Vols.
10,000
Royal Octavo Pages.
500
Full Page Illustrations.
42T Numerous Plates in Colors.
“ Tile Library of Famous 'at Tucirk fche^'lstinaara. r ’' unable
ascss rasrss
out to till orders in Great Britain. F°rt un ately, had been made for Australia, and the copies thus
London a reservation of a limited number Australian public. Under the terms of the arrange-
reserved are now for the first time .offere " t 8 rese rved are offered under more favorable con-
ments made in London, the limited nu • r o|l d olli Residents in New South Wales may
ditions even than those which recently pro fixed by the “ fct' ndaid,” with the option of
now secure this great work at the half-pn b ca rriage charges have been prepaid from London to
easy monthly payments.; in addition to thw, ■ all carmgocma g the shipmen t, which has
Sydney, and prompt delivery will be madm p j| VJU j^ Ke 0 f the offer now made will secure full
just arrived. But only those who ta P l j tl( j eec j the only unfavorable feature is the fact that
advantage of the benefits arising from this offe • the last set has been subscribed for no
the number of sets available is strictly limited, «md that when t e literafcU re should not secure
ssss -s—■
promptness.
« T t, e Library of Famous Literature ”is not merely a library of English literature; its
K" f “sSKtss:“r£i»t;^
Brunetiere and others of equal prominence and authority. The result of this collaboration of dis
Sneuished writers is the production of a work which may be justly described as an unparvaHeled cfdlec-
tion The Library occupies in relation to literature the position held by the Encyclopsedia
Britanniea” in relation to general knowledge-a position of pajamount i ’ h *t
deserves, and will doubtless secure, a place in every home in New South Wales in which tie
Htprntnre is orized But the necessity for promptness cannot be too strongly urged. AU sudsc p
tio »T S MS* in the order rf re Jipt, »nd wLn the tot copy bu been aee.gned the offer mil he
withdrawn.
SOME OF THE
Many Notable Features.
AN UNPARALLELED COLLECTION-
The “Library of Famous Literature” is a collection,
unparalleled in extent, of the greater literature of the
world, from the dawn of letters, from Homer to Kipling.
ITS EDITORS—
The Editor is Dr. Richard Garnett, C. 8., equally known
for his fifty years of service in the British Museum and as
one of the'foremost of English scholars. The association of
Professor Brandi, Professor of Literature in the Royal
University, Berlin ; of M. Leon Vallee, Librarian of the
famous Bibliotheque Nationale of Paris ; and of Donald U.
Mitchell, of the United States, not to speak of many
qualified assistants, suffices to stamp the work as ot the
highest authority.
COMPLETE AND NEW—
It is an absolutely new and original work, the first com-
plete collection of the world’s literature published in
Great Britain. Its mere extent is equalled only by great
works of reference like the “ Encyclopedia Britanmca.
WHAT ITS TWENTY VOLUMES CONTAIN—
Over 300 of the finest poems, over 400 of the best
stories, together with the best of travel and adventure,
philosophy and science, art, wit and humor, letters and
journals, religious meditation, criticism and miscellan-
eous essays which may be gathered from all the books
still preserved among men.
OVER 10,000 ROYAL OCTAVO PAGES—
The Library comprises over 10,000 royal octavo pages,
of large, clear type, cast specially for the Library, and
restful to the most sensitive eyes.
DELIGHTFUL TO READ—
The work is complete in twenty handsome volumes,
printed upon a paper made specially for this work, pre-
senting a clear, soft, unglazed surface, grateful to the
eye, and rendering these books so light that they may be
held with the utmost ease.
ILLUSTRATIONS THAT ARE INTERESTING
The Library is richly embellished with nearly 500 full-
page illustrations and colored plates, printed separately
from the text, on heavy enamelled paper. These illustra-
tions are apt and interesting ; often rare and quaint.
RARE COLORED PLATES—
The colored plates, running through every volume,
form one of the most notable features of the Library.
Thev have been gathered from rare sources, and comprise
some of the most exquisite specimens of the antique art
of book illustration.
A GREAT LIBRARY IN ITSELF—
A thousand volumes could not contain all that one may
find in the “ Library of Famous Literature ” not many
thousand such as the average man or woman would buy,
if they set out to purchase a huge library of the world s
literature. All these treasures are here in the most
compact and convenient form, arranged in chronological
order to show the gradual development of the human
intellect and the art of literature.
I
'J
X
2 A
i
u
m
/,
m
'/A
W
w
Dr. RICHARD GARNETT, C. 8., Editor-in-Chief,
IN ASSOCIATION WITH
(FOR FRANCE) (FOR GERMANY) (FOR AMERICA)
M. LEON VALLE, Dr. ALOIS BRANDL, DONALD G. MITCHELL,
Librarian of the Bibliotheque
Rationale,
PARIS.
Professor of Literature in the
Royal University,
BERLIN.
(Ik Marvel), The Author of “ Reveries of
a Bachelor,”
NEW YORE.
ORIGINAL INTRODUCTIONS FROM
Celebrated Men of
Letters.
A Brilliant Series of Essays from the Most Distinguished
Living Authors, Specially written for the Library.
♦
The “ Library of Famous Literature ”- gathers together
more than a thousand masterpieces from the great writers
of all ages ; it provides an endless store of good reading
the most interesting portions of all that has been written
since civilisation began ; and, arranged in chronological
order, it affords a fascinating view of the world s literature
from the earliest times to our own day. .
In addition to all this, the Library comprises a series of
delightful essays on the literature of different epochs and
different races, written specially for the Library by the
most distinguished of living men of letters. The follow-
ing list will suffice to indicate the character and scope of
these charming studies :
MR. HENRY JAMES—“ The Rise of the Novel.”
DEAN FARRAR—“The Literature of Religious Cri-
ticism.”
FERDINAND BRUNETIERE—“ French Poetry.”
MAURICE MAETERLINCK—“ The Drama Since Shake-
speare.
BRET HARTE—“ The Rise of the Short Story.”
ARMANDO PALACIO VALDES—'“ The Decadence of
Modern Literature.”
SIR WALTER BESANT—“ Novels That Have Made
History.”
PAUL BOURGET —“The Evolutions of Literary Criti-
cism.”
EMILE ZOLA—“ Naturalism and Romanticism.”
DR. EDWARD DOWDEN—“The Elizabethan Era.”
PROF. PASQUALE VILLARI—“ The Renaissance and
Modern Literature.”
DONALD G. MITCHELL—“ The Great Literatures of
the World.”
DR. HENRY SMITH WILLIAMS—“ The Literature of
Science.”
DR. ALOIS BRANDL—“ The Main Currents of German
Literature.”
ANDREW LANG—“ Literature in the Nineteenth Cen-
tury.”
M. LEON YALLEE—“ A General Introduction to French
Literature.”
THE EDITOR OF THE LIBRARY, DR. RICHARD
GARNETT, C.B.—“ The Use and Value of Autho-
logies.”
SPECIMEN PAGES.
It is difficult, if not impossible, to give an adequate
idea of a work that is in itself a great library, by means of
a few specimen pages or mere description. All who apply*
however, will receive free a full prospectus of the
“ Library of Famous Literature,” together with specimen
pages, specimen illustrations, including several full-page
plates in colors.
Special Arrangements for
Distribution.
In order to insure prompt delivery, the Proprietora of the ‘‘Library of
literature ” have made arrangements with Messrs. GOKDUJN ana
§oB®H for*‘diSution of the work in N S Wales All “
besent direct to Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Sydney (P.O. Box where
“ T,i e volumes of the various bindings may be examined. Full particulars
hidintr njices) will be supplied upon application at this address. T 1 os
who deSo receive a copyof the Prospectus should fill in and post the
Inquiry Form printed on opposite side of this page.
FULL PARTICULARS
AND
FR€€ PROSPECTUS
UPON APPLICATION.
Cut out and Post
this Coupon
Application Form for Prospectus.
To Messrs . Gordon & Gotch,
PitUstreet, Sydney (P.0.80x me)
This Form can be
sent in an Unsealed
Envelope for Id.
Please send me the Free Prospectus crnd Particulars of your offer of ‘ ‘ The
Library of Famous Literature
Signed
S.B. 1.
Address
Specimen Volumes may be examined and Orders booked at
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch’s, 123 Pitt-street; and at Messrs.
W. H. Paling and Co., Ltd., 338 George-street, Sydney.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
•* Ws learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attached to every bottle of Condy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
curing most of the ailments and accidents
affecting Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry,
and Birds of all kinds.
Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses.—Scab, Foot Rot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Rinderpest, Hoove, Foul in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle.—Distemper
Mange, Canker, and Eczema in Dogs.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of local substitutes, all are
inferior. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
H
GrO TO HELI..
i IGOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizateth-st., Sydney.
- Australian Stamps bought, prioe-
lis gratis.
"AT?- HATS. HATS.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fatted with this
valuable inventioxi.
Write for
Catalogue to
B, Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
P'urniture and Pine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Room - :, 324 Georg} Street, Sydney#
Have always on hand
for auction a. for private sale
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Jtootns.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sala-
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
For the Hair
Mips
|V^%(
It is the most reliable and the best
preparation for the hair, you can obtain.
110 years success proves this. It
PRESERVES THE HAIR
restores it when thin or withered, cures
baldness, eradicates scurf, is specially
adapted for Ladies'and Childrens'Hair,
and is also sold in a
GOLDEN COLOUR
for fair or grey hair, which does not
stain or darken the hair, or linen.
Sold by Stores or Chemists. Ask for
Rowlands ,67, Hatton Garden, London.
HIGH-GRADE
FARM—-
g
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd
35 BROASWAT,
Georee-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Barton, who gave “ One Man One Vote ”
to N.S.W., ought to hold to the ambition of giving
One Man One Color ” to Australia.
Philp s two-babies-two- votes proposal is
claimed by its supporters to be, after all, only the
logical sequence of “manhood” suffrage.
Kitchener having, by his famous procla-
mation, outlawed Botha, Botha naturally responds
by outlawing Kitchener. So both Commanders-
in-Ohief are outlawed now, and things are level.
1 he Protestant Banner (Sydney) puts
down the murder of M‘Kinle.y to a Popish olot
win Ist the equally reliable local R. C. organ finds
its cause in the Godless system of undenomina-
tional education in IJ.S.A.
Freetrade England gives lOd. per lb.
Protection to home-made cigarettes. 'Result':
Whereas a few years ago American brards had
“ monopoly, now England makes
b,000,000,000 annually “on her own.”/.
At the critical division on the Alien Immi-
gration Bill, Barton had (ominous sign !) eight
knights on his side, and only one (M‘Millan)
against him. It is not good for a man’s democracy
to keep the company of K.C.M.G.’s.
Last S.A. elections, while the male voting
power exceeded the female by 15,000, the female
votes cast were in the majority of 21,000. More
than one-half the male electors failed to record
their votes, but only one-ninth of the females.
The straight-out White Australia vote in
the Federal Parliament revealed a thick black
streak in several rabid white Australians’ compo-
-Bltl°n. The most notable case is that of Wilkin-
son (Q.l who was elected as an out-and-out White
man.
Bruce Smith, of N.S.W. whose fossildom
makes even Sargood and Zeal appear like furious
reformers, last week got in his final denunciation
about the White-Australian “hysteria.” B Smith
was left over by the Mound Builders when they
and the mastodon quitted this earth very long*
ago. He is an able man, and would have been a
boss Mound Builder, but there is no demand for
mounds now, and Smith waves his stone-axe man-
fully in a dead cause.
UP HE GAME WITH HIS LITTLE LOT.
“The Minister points out that recently a system has.grown up of granting permits to Chinese to bring out
thelr sons He believes that this sydtem is being abused, and that Chinese use it simply to import cheap
labir to the State: In order to put a stop to this ahuse, Mr. Trenwith states that be is relusing these permits
almost without excention.”-ARGUS.
SIN FAT: “All li, Missa Tlenwith, you gi me permit bling out my lilly boy. This him!”
Was G. H. Reid’s vote with the Labor
party on the exclusion of aliens mere politics, or is
it a fact that Yes-No has secretly taken that trip
to North Queensland which he stated was the
necessary preliminary to making up his mind on
the colored labor question ?
Is the I nglish Extradition Act in force
in. Australia since the Federation? Such is
the question, momentous till settled, on account
if the possibilities of Australia becoming a Con-
tinental Callao, raised by the Melb. extradition
proceedings in the case of a Swiss named Gerhard.
The Australasian attributes “ Joey ”
Bell’s defeat by Groom for the Darling Downs to
ihe alleged fact that Groom lives at Toowoomba.
A.s a matter of fact, Groom lives in a Brisbane
luburb. What really spoilt Bell’s chance was the
idvocacy of Brisbane Courier, which wet blanket
«vould have killed the chances of even a far better
nan.
Let it be set down to the credit of W. J.
■Lyne that he seems more earnest on the
Jeo L 9f - federal Old Age Pensions than any
other Munster. So far, See, of N.S.W., is the
to the sch e eme emier Wh ° haS given in his adhesion
There is a little corner in G.. H. Reid’s
party which has a rough rule of political conduct:
Whenever the Labor party vote against the
Government we vote for the Government. This
cave, small as it is, gives Yes-No more trouble
to an he cares to admitr
Sydney D.T., unwarned by its awful ex-
perience with “its own” N.S.W. Ministry is
already lifting up a battered head to suggest a
™ W T?®j era A teamthus: : • Mr. Isaacs and
Ivlr. Reid. Out of a combination of this character
fo Btr<^ n ,? Administration could undeniably be
N.S.W. Premier See is disposed to play
into the hands of the anti-Billites in Parliament
who are bent on picking a quarrel with the
x ederal Government. N.S.W Federalists take
some comfort in the fact that B. R. Wise is
still m the local Legislature to prevent John See
making altogether a fool of himself.
Pliilp and co. aver that Queensland is
crying oiit for syndicate railways and introduce
the Oloncurry - Normanton grab ; yet Labor-
member Airey, who is opposed tooth-and-nail to
any such shameless schemes, was returned un-
opposed for the Flinders (the electorate that is
going to be benefited by “ Janny ” Leahy’s
monstrous project).
N.S.W. members of the Federal Labor
party give Barton a very short term as Premier.
Renecting on colored labor and old age pension
nicidejits, and charmed by the oily attentions of
G. H. Reid, they only await, a chance to swing
the party round to the Opposition side. But
when the time for the change comes there will be
one or two defections.
J- T.—haw—Bell got a tremendous facer
over the recent Q. Federal bve-election, his own
pocket-borough, Dalby, giving Groom over 100
majority. The ingenuous Bell explains that his
constituents are so proud of him that they voted
against him for fear they would lose his services
in the State Parliament. Yet Joseph earnestly
besought their votes.
Why has the Australian Jingo press shut
down on “Letters From the Front?” Is it at
last ashamed to publish egotistical epistles which
narrate nothing more edifying than the burning
of farm-houses, the cold-blooded murder of a
Boer prisoner (vide Mudgee paper), and the
removal of wretched women and shrieking child-
ren to the death-camps ?
Sydney Freetrade papers carefully omitted
the charges made by a recent sweating deputation
against a certain eminent Freetrade politician,
lhe speaker stated that at this politician’s factory
serious sweating exists, and the Factories Act is
openly defied. Perhaps there is another side to
the story ; if so, it is high time that the political
magnate in question gave it to the public.
“ Old Hand ” writes :
Who is the liar ? It was stated in N.S.W. Assembly on
20th Aug. that the inmates of the Govt. Asylums on
getting their old age pensions, went on the razzle and
sought re-admission to the institutions. The members
laughed. It can be easily proved that no inmate received
any pension until Ist Sept. Why does the Govt, insist on
throwing cold water on the old age pension scheme by
making such a glaring mis-statement and many similar
ones ?
An analysis of the voting for a Federal
representative for Darling Downs makes, on
paper, the seats of Bell, Macintosh, and the
recent “’vert,” W. Thorn, none too safe. Bell
was without a doubt the Bhilp nominee, and every
effort was made by the party to have him returned!;
yet, on the face of this the constituencies of Car-
narvon, Dalby, Cambooya and Aubigny gave
Groom handsome majorities, as also did Cunning-
ham, the electorate of Kates, the “ candid friend ”
of the Philp ministry.
The Federal House of Representatives
actually voted, in the debate on the Distillation
Bill, to allow the nefarious potato spirit, or any
other kind of spirit, to be used for fortifying
wines. It thought better of it later on, but even
then the awful mistake was only rectified by a
majority of one/ And it wasn’t consideration for
the corroded Australian stomach that moved it.
The House was only shifted by Isaacs’s impas-
sioned appeal about the prospective ruin of the
export trade if it became known that Australian
wine was adulterated with potato liquor.
MIRAMS V. THE
“ AGE.”
CLAIM FOR £lOOO.
“If they were to
take a Freetrade
bribe, in order to
betray their friends,
they would not be
one jot more culp-
able. As it is, the
betrayal is palpable,
and if it is not for a financial considera-
tion, it is for a no less sordid gratification
of personal pride and self-seeking.”—Aon.
“ The book of his (Mirams’) political life
is closed. It shuts up a record that is
almost wholly unhappy, and in some cases
unsightly.”— Age.
JOB AND HIS FRIENDS.
N.S.W. Legislative Council, after not only
passing the Women’s Suffrage Bill, but growing
so cordial in the good cause that it amended the
measure to give her the right to sit in Parliament
also, changed its alleged mind, and rejected the
Bill at the third reading. This is what comes of
a crowd of dull and deaf old men thinking they
have minds when these implements have long
since fizzled out.
Melb. Age has been trying to work a
quiet job in Vic. politics during the past few
months by offering to take over the Hansard
reporting. So far, the scheme has been kept quiet,
and, according to all indications, it is unlikely to
further. In Adelaide the official reporting is
shared by the morning papers, who do the work
with cheap men, and make a profit to their pro-
prietors of about £3OOO or £4OOO yearly.
Isaacs, of Victoria, attempted unsuccess-
fully to amend the Immigration Restriction Bill
so that the Bill itself wouldn’t shut out anybody,
or enforce any educational test, or make un-
pleasant allusion to any nigger or colored person
whatever. He proposed that it should simply
give the Federal Parliament power, by resolution
of both Houses, to exclude at any time whatever
race it considered undesirable. Even the aggres-
sive Jap could hardly object to that idea. There
would be no reflection on him in the Bill ; so far
as the evidence went it might be intended to shut
out American artisans and German professors of
dead languages. But the suggestion came alto-
get her too late, and it was lost in the hurly-burly.
Reported by cable that sundry American
millionaires are moving to secure control of five of
the great English tobacco-businesses, and if the
purchase can be effected this will practically put
the English tobacco-trade in Yankee hands,
where the match-trade has already gone. Also
offers have been made by Americans to buy up
“?dily the Cunard and _White Star shipping co.’s.
I he United States, which is now reaching out for
a mortgage on the globe, is solid evidence of the
absurdity of that Freetrade doctrine that it is an
infallible sign of prosperity when imports exceed
exports. The U.S. has the biggest surplus of
exports m the world ; and the surplus represents
money exported to pay off the remainder of its
external debts and to buy up odd bits of earth in
all directions.
Victoria has fairly good laws to cope with
the plentiful Chow if they are decently adminis-
tered, but it is made evident that the wire fencing
is anything but Chinky-proof if the party in
charge is not inclined to object very strenuously
when he finds a Celestial wriggling through.
Confucians are very insidious “on their own’"’
but with powerful influences operating to work
the oracle on their behalf they can ooze into the
country like mercury through a sugar-bag.
Trenwith lately made a surprising disclosure in
the most casual manner. It has been the practice
he says, to give Chinamen permits to bring their
sons from China, “but,” he adds, with all the
ingenousness of an oil-painted nun, lam afraid
the ; privilege is being used to import cheap labor ”
and he goes on to imply that he will jolly well
stop it one of these days if somebody doesn’t look
out. Think of the shocked Tribune almost
suspecting at this late hour that the Chinaman
may not be quite honorable in his dealings !
Brisbane Chamber of Manufacturers re-
cently passed a resolution disapproving of a
decimal currency “unless adopted by Great
Britain.” How would it be to carry this touching
faith a little farther, and disapprove of borrowing
money for unproductive works, as Britain doesn’t
do it, and decide that sufficient taxation should be
levied to pay off part of the public debt every
year, as Britain does that ? Why will these
people who are so intensely British in coinage and
Jingo matters treat the example of Britain, with
such utter contempt in other directions ?
LIBEL : MIRAMS V. SYME.
“ At this stage Mr. Jacobs put in copies of
the Age of 20th and 23rd March, containing
the alleged libels, and also several extracts
from the Age of dates ranging from 7th Sep-
tember, 1880, to 7th October, 1886, which all
alluded to Mirams in flattering terms. In
one, plaintiff was compared to the late Mr.
Joseph Ilume ; in another, his ‘ painstaking
zeal ’ was praised ; in a third, he was de-
nominated 1 a real moral power’ ; and in yet
another, he was called a ‘ staunch demo
crat.’”
A clause in the
Cloncurry (Q.) pri-
vate Railway Bill
enacts that no Asiatic
shall be employed on
the works unless he
is provided with a
certificate that he is
able to read and write
English, which pro-
viso, if carefully en-
forced, will do a lot
of good. With the
educational test every-
thing depends on the
person who adminis-
ters the Act. The
ideal educational test
would be one requir-
ing the Asiatic appli-
cant to prove that
he can think in Eng-
lish.
“The real object aimed at by the piesent
Q. Pastoral. Leases Extension Bill,” says member
Hardacre, in Brisbane Workkr, “is the further
locking-up against grazing-farm settlement of the
best sheepholds of the State. . . West of the
Main Dividing Range are immense downs, where
land for settlement is in eager demand. Here
extensions of leases have previously been secured
and have now from 13 to 20 years to run. And
yet . . the moving advocates . . . are seek-
ing to secure furthur extension of these leases,
which the present Bill proposes to give ! ”
The division on the Watson amendment
to exclude Asiatics from the Commonwealth is so
far the historical one of the Australian Parlia-
ment; 67 members divided (36 to 31), and six
“paired.” The only two votes unaccounted for
were the Speaker’s and that of a Queens-
lander away on business. Cruickshank (N.S.W.)
and three Victorian supporters of the Barton
Govt, voted with the Opposition (Reid’s following
and the Labor party). The Govt, was saved and
the amendment defeated by Bruce Smith, Dugald
Thomson, G. B. Edwards (N.S.W.), and Braddon
(las.), of the Opposition, refusing to follow Reid.
The Library of Famous Literature.
Announcement is made in our columns this week of
the offer in New South Wales of copies of the “ Library of
Famous Literature ” reserved for the Australian States.
This work was compiled under the direction of Dr.
Richard Garnett, C. 8., for many years in charge of the
great library in the British Museum. He has been
assisted in his labors by M. Leon Vallee (Librarian of the
Biblioth6que Nationale), who has not only brought- the
s P eciali sed experience, but has also enriched
the Library ”by the contribution of an admirable study
of French literature. Professor Brandi, who occupies the
Chair of Literature in the Imperial University -of Berlin
has also been associated with Dr. Garnett in the
preparation of the “ Library,” and has written,
for the fourth volume of the work, a study of
The Main Currents of German Literature.” Mr. Donald
G. Mitchell, who is, perhaps, better known under his
familiar pseudonym of “Ik Marvel,” is responsible for
those sections of the work which deal with that Ameri-
can literature which, in a good deal less than a working
century, has added so extensively to our bookshelves
The plan of the work is simplicity itself. The twenty
volumes of the “Library of Famous Literature ” contain
the best parts of each author’s work, not a ragged extract
but a carefully-chosen complete picture, in that author’s”
particular style, enough for half-an-hour’s reading-
enough to give the reader the desired sense of an intel-
lectual change of air. More than a thousand of those
examples are offered in a handsome and eonvenient form
Nor is the result a mere compromise. The best thing aii
author ever wrote is, for the purpose of occasional read-
i better than the whole body of his work, since it
enables the reader to get at the essence of his creation
without losing time over the straw and chaff which form
a part of even the most precious literary growths.
The Work, when issued last year by the Standard, in
London, met with phenomenal success, more than 19 000
sets of 20 volumes each being sold within a few months
As the terms upon which the work is offered here are
even more favourable than those which prevailed in
London including free delivery as far as Sydney, a pro-
portionally large sale is anticipated in Australia The
number of copies available for New South Wales is strictly
limited, however, and intending purchasers should apply
tor particulars at once. The application form, which
appears in another column, should be cut out and posted
to-day.


A Question
Answered.
If the Pianola ena-
bles those who
have absolutely no
musical knowledge
to play the piano,
of what interest is
it to those who are
able to play ?
This is often asked, and when asked in our showrooms, generally results in the
purchase of a Pianola ; but more often the question finds expression only in
thought, and offers no opportunity for an answer.
PADEREWSKI HAS A PIANOLA in his home.
ROSENTHAL HAS ONE.
SAUER HAS ONE.
and only recently has ordered two more for friends in Germany, who are themselves
eminent musical critics. This certainly disposes of the question, although it fails to
give the reason. The reason is equally clear.
Pianola being placed in position to play Upright Piano.
The Pianola increases the
repertory of even these musi-
cians from twenty-five to fifty
compositions which they can
play in concert form, to prac-
tically everything they may
desire to play. It increases
the repertory of every skilled
musician, and gives a reper-
tory to the novice.
The Pianola does not mar
the piano, as it may be moved
up to or away from the key-
board at will.
The Pianola does not mar
the playing, as artistic taste
receives full opportunity for
expression to which the player
can give his undivided atten-
tion.
The Pianola offers relaxa-
tion from the technical and
enjoyment of the musical.
It is true, since the player
controls the expression, the great musician obtains a more artistic result from the
Pianola than the novice, because he is more critical, but in this very point lies the
secret of the Pianola’s fascination.
The player, whoever he may be, gives his own individuality to his rendition.
This causes the musical taste to develop, and it is not long before the veriest novice
finds his own playing preferable to many of the pianistic efforts in the average concert.
Expression-marks appear on the musisas it unrolls, for the guidance of those who
may be unfamiliar with the selection.
In this article there has been little attempt to explain how the Pianola is manipu-
lated, the principal object being to show the desirability of the Pianola for every one
who owns a piano, whether he be skilled in its use or not.
We shall be pleased to mail a complete description of the instrument upon request,
although we urge all who have the opportunity to hear the Pianola for themselves.
Can be bought by instalments if desired. Send for Catalogue C.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO
Sole Agents for Australasia.
The Pianola is sold at no other
Address in Sydney.
323 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
HEAD WHAT
VITADATIO
IS DOING.
INDIGESTION
CONQUERED AGAIN
... BY ...
VITADATI
MR. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir—l had been a great sufferer from indigestion
for five or six years, with headaches, giddiness, heavy and
oppressed feelings. Added to these about eight months
ago severe pains seized one of my legs from the knee
downwards, and became a source of real agony to me,
destroying my rest at nights, and causing me worry and
trouble during the day. After much pain and anxiety I
called at your Adelaide office about four months ago, and
as the result decided to try Vitadatio, and I took four
bottles. It is now three months since I finished the last
bottle, and I am pleased to say that the excruciating pain
has entirely left my leg. The headaches and oppressed
feelings have disappeared. I am able to enjoy food that
I dared not touch before, and feel very thankful for what
Vitadatio has done for me.
You may mention my name to any enquirer who may
be interested, and who may desire relief such as I have
obtained.
(MRS.) S. WOODHEAD.
Golden Grove, South Australia.
Full address on application to Vitadatio Head Institute
238 Rundle-street, Adelaide. .
For further particulars,
s. A. PALMER ,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
American Naphtha Launches for Sale.
One 18ft., one 16ft.—Quite New.
Sharpies’ Cream Separator & Dairy Supply Co.,
143 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN . . •
STAMPS
Highest Cash Prices Paid
to any amount for
Old or Rare Stamps,
Used or Unused.
The First
Australian Stamp.
POSTAGE
wmsm
JjJSTraSmTtiiKXgi
moMS
For Sale—The Largest Stock ol STAMPS, ALBUMS, etc.,
in the Southern hemisphere.
SMYTH & NICOLLE, H Hunter-st., Sydney.
auction salts.
The Imperial Hotel
. . AT . .
Mount Victoria,
The CENTRE for TOURISTS to THE CAVES and THE
MANY ATTRACTIVE BEAUTY-SPOTS ON THE BLUE
MOUNTAINS.
TO BE SOLD AS A GOING CONCERN, with all the
Furniture, Plant, Vehicles, Horses, Windmill, &c., &c.
THE DEEDS are free from any mortgage or encumbrance,
and the property will be sold on easy terms at 5 per
cent., or for cash.
THE IMPERIAL HOTEL occupies an elevated and well-
chosen position, close to Mount Victoria Railway
Station, at an ALTITUDE of 3424 ft., 77 miles by rail
from Sydney.
THE BUILDING is of brick, 2 stories high, with hand-
some elevation, and has the necessary accommodation
for a large and lucrative business.
THE ACCOMMODATION is as follows: — GROUND
FLOOR : Wide verandahs, vestibule entrance and
hall, large drawing-room, large dining-room, 10
good bedrooms, smoking-room, billiard-room, bar,
manager's room, servants’ quarters, large kitchen, &c.
FIRST FLOOR : Balcony, private sitting-room, 11
bedrooms, linen-room, 2 bathrooms, and w.c.
Detached are large scone Stables (30 horses), Carriage-
house, coachman’s quarters, 5 closets, 2 men’s bath-
rooms, &c., &c.
THE IMPERIAL HOTEL is well furnished and equipped
throughout. EVERYTHING IN GOOD ORDER and
up-to-date. ELEVEN CONVEYANCES (Drag,
Sociable, Buggies, Sulky) are included in the sale,
and about 25 HORSES, Harness, &c., &c.
THE LAND, under Torrens Title, has an area of over
twelve (12) acres, with extensive frontages to
STATION-STREET, the MAIN BATHURST-ROAD,
and the RAILWAY.
Also,
The Property known as the HALFWAY HOUSE, 18 miles
from the Imperial, on the road to the CAVES, about
180 acres of C.P. Land, with COTTAGE of 5 bed-
rooms, 1 dining-room, bar, kitchen, and stables. This
Property is used in connection with the large direct
TOURIST TRAFFIC to the CAVES, which attracts
so many visitors staying here for lunch and changing
horses.
HARDIE AND GORMAN have received instructions
from Mrs. Beaumont to sell by auction at their
Rooms, 133 Pitt-street, Sydney, at 11.30 o’clock on
Wednesday, 23rd October, 1901.
THE IMPERIAL HOTEL and THE HALFWAY HOUSE
Properties, as before described, IN ONE LOT.
FULL PARTICULARS and orders to inspect on appli-
cation to the Auctioneers.
It is not necessary to enlarge on the business possi-
bilities of the Imperial under the control of a smart
business man, as the property is well known throughout
the States and abroad.
Missing Friends.
MR. FREDERICK CONSTANTINE HOPE
CHARLESWORTH. Information re-
quired concerning the whereabouts of him and
his children (if any) for their advantage. Last
heard of at Parramatta in 1887. Refer to
THYNNE & MACARTNEY, Solicitors, Bris-
bane, Agents for CULL & BRETT, Solicitors,
Staffordshire, England.
The FEDERAL
Balmoral
BOOT
lOC
sdg
Our new
* Federal ’*
It is made
Balmoral is the best Boot this seaßon. ,
of finest Dongola calf, with kid legs. is leai th ® r lined,
the sol -e are fair stitched and standard screwed.
The “ Federal” Balmoral is made P y for ob,
and yon can’! get it elsewhere. In ail the “®'"'**shion-
able shaped toes. Price carriage P a “ *° “2?
in the Australian Commonwealth or New Zealand u
half a guinea pair. Your money back if not satisfied.
The DON Cash Trading Co.
JOHNSTON 3T.. COLLINOWOOD,
MELBOURNE
Dr. M'Call’s attempt to establish in Tas-
mania the system of Ministries elected by Parlia-
ment only commanded the support of two votes
j—his own and Propsting’s.
The painfully familiar story of the lying
hussy crops up again in ML. Two innocents,
one-time inmates of a children's home, gave a
circumstantial account of having been cruelly
wronged bv the master, since resigned, and the
man was committed for trial. The allegation was
that he had committed the offences, on four
different occasions, in daylight, and m rooms
accessible to 30 inmates and the matron On one
alleged occasion both girls were together, the
liars broke down hopelessly under cross-examina-
tion, and the Grown proceeded no further. Ihe
small girl whose diseased mind suggests getting a
splurge of excitement out of a rape charge never
is proceeded with further. It is its absolute safety
that popularises this form of amusement.
OUR NEW 1902 STYLE.
dg
FOLDS FLAT in lln. SPACE.
WEIGHS 10lbs.
Enjoy TURKISH BATHS at Home, na. each
Now is the time to buy before the duty is on.
SQUARE QUAKER
Folding, Hot BATH cabinet
Air and Vapour 1 ' 1 V
Guaranteed to cure Influenza and the most
obstinate of diseases without drugs. Every home should
have one. All symptoms of Pneumonia, Influenza, Tevers,
Throat and Lung Troubles are broken up and eradicated from
the system in one night. Why will you do without one ?
Price reduced to £?E3s.. including Vapour Stove
and formula for Medicated Baths. Valuable Descriptive
Book Free.
Address all communications to
A.. J. LA.WRE3MCB,
A Good Agent wanted
in Every Town.
SOLE AGENT,
26 Jamieson St., Sydney
REST THE BURDEN
of your correspondence
on the
New Century
Typewriter instead of on your steno-
grapher, and you will get more work,
cleaner work, better work. It has no
equal for speed., lightness of touch and
durability. Fine new catalogue sent
free.
United Typewriter & Supplies Co.,
lilt Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S. W., Aus.
sd
jjjorld’s Record Qrder 1
The LARGEST TYPEWRITER ORDER
for the WHOLE WORLD . . .
Has recently been placed with UNITED TYPEWRITER
AND SUPPLIES CO. by the Austro-Hungarian Govern-
ment for
500 New Centurys
The New Century has been extensively ordered by N.S.W.
Government Departments, and is the Machine adopted by
His Excellency the GOVERNOR-GENERAL, and also
the State Governor, Sir Frederick Darley, K.C.M.G.
V.SEND FOR CATALOGUE^^
United Typewriter |i Supplies Co.,
(By appointment to His Excellency the Governor-General)
114 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
lillllft
h
m
&
£
M
/
*S3*«--;S£
ig^S^&ir.y?
3 &S9fe&S£lftrt -&»-
ft# S
ISS
'/*•
■rr i
;
&W*£*£
Why don’t you
fit solid Rubber
Vehicle Tyres ?
We can supply you
with the finest Solid
Rubber Carriage
Tyres in the world!
viz., the
i Kelly-Springfield.
They
save all noise,
all vibration,
AND
double the
life of your
vehicle.
If you Drive ■ • ■
Send to us for our Illustrated Booklet
and Price List. Posted
gratis upon application
to
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre G®-
of Aus. Ltd.,
150 Clarence Street, Sydney ,
Section of Kelly Tyre.
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
28 Queen Street, Brisbane;
59 Franklin Street, Adelaide;
154 Barrack Street, Perth;
128 Lichfield Street, Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
c$*
$
BILLS
discounted.
3xr.s,-w-.
(float depieteO.^|.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
CASTLEESAGH ST., *JA
SYDNEY '
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mu! mil Life Assurance, Hndownients and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robhrts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 —assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indereasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eouitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
file Bank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Oo. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... .. £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 900 ... £350,000
Queensland Smelting (Jompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
|->UYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
||eu Zealand Insurance go.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Tb* Trustees, €*€^Citors,
AND
AgsiKV Conjpaoy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £BB5B 7 3
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901 ... £6,388,976 5 3
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.';
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITED.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £385,187
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 245,119
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 55,000
£685,306
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Ass. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. JJd. of London.
( The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydnej' : Sir W. M‘Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks.
Adelaide: L. A. Jessop, Esq. Wellington: H.
Beauchamp, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J, ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Established 1879.
THE ‘ :
IJnited Jjistralian mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
, Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital .. 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance.
AGENTS REQUIRED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
Alfred Webster, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR percent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LIME.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 5,12 Noon.
Gabo, Tuesiloy, October 8, 5 o.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Oct. 12, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early,
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer Early
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, Oct 5
Burxvah, Tuesday, Oct. 1
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 1
, 12 Noon.
3, 5 p.ra.
2,12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Lenra, Saturday, Oct. 5, 12 Noon
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 12, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GEItALDTON
CAIIINS, &c.
Lass o Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. I’as^eliters and Carjro
booked through.
Lowest. Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
ool S onil f i « r «'r< oketB s P terchan eeible with all other Inter-
colonual S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Ofimes Mutual Life Buildings, corner decree and
Wynyard Streets. b
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at. Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL. CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Ited Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Lai yet y and Company, Ltd...
AGENTS. O’Onnn '' St.-
Huddart, parker $ go’s (,ine
—TO—
M ELHOTJR NK, HOIIAUT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
gsd
_A_ 3XT X 3 •
g
San Francisco,
California.
X_. I DXT E
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-BCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H. V.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts., SYDNEY.
THE “ALL RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OF THE
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
Under contract with the Governments ot New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
Connecting at Vancouver with the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 days, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world —over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the-Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of Overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, applv to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount, of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital _ .. £2,500,000
II *4 J THE
United ii)&oraocc co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£500,000.
Fire Insurances on aii cWs of
- —- Ruildmgs, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks °? Wool Merchandise Hulls
ot Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Rates very Low.
THOMAS
M. TINLEY, Manager.
The Commercial Hanking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
£1,000,000 0 0
1,01(1,000 0 0
1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C. .. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C.
E. W. Knox, Esq.
Auditors :
E. S. Cape, Esq. Hon. F. T. llumphery, M.L.C.
Head Office: Georg-e Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manasrer: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
Itondon Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H S
Littleton Manager, Nathaniel Cork
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
TIME TABLE
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
INT. 13. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
or
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via i’orts.
♦Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. DRESDEN, 4527 Tons,
LEAVING SYDNEY, 14th NOVEMBER NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Publications.
THE BALLET GIRL
sdg
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza, -
913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and
C! 'e; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and M matures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Older or Cheque on London.
English, French, and German Rare Books.
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GENNERT,
89c Faubourg: St., Martin, Paris, France.
TJHTE 3XTEW
EDISON TALKING MACHINES.
The Bijou Phonograph
With Complete Outfit, including 6
Assorted Records, £2.
The Standard Phonograph
sd
With Complete Outfit, iiiclmlinjf 24
(2 dozen) Assorted Re-
cords, 2 Blanks, £5 10s.
Undoubtedly the Heat
Value ever offered.
Extra Edison Records,
20s. per dozen ; 12s. per
half-dozen. Concert (fi.j
inch) Records, 6s. each,
60s. dozen.
Send tor Catalogues con-
taining 3000 selections.
REEVES & CO • ADELAIDE and BROKEN HILL
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(T.l MITISI >).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Viatorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR .MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
port pirie
And UULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
October i.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
October 5.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
Townsville
And Ports North to Cairns
•S. Allinga, Friday,
October 4,
liest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne ami Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STItEET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. INI, Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THU POPULAR PASS UN Gl5 It LINK
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly
|YONEY am, ROCKHAMPTON — Bi weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Norman ton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE,WeekIy. *
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA.
Fortnightly.
Passe nf/er Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application,
l'or Adelaide and VV. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PIIILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, in Bridge-
streeLSydney and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
ANDO.”cOMPAN Y’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Exhress
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Sydney,
Noon
Steamer.
Commander.
CHINA
ARCADIA
•INDIA
OCEANA
BRITANNIA
7!)l2jT. S. Angus .. ~ Oct.
. 6063 A. C. Loggin .. Oct.
. 17911 W. D. Ci. Worcester, R.N.R. Oct. oi
6603 C. Gadd .. .. Nov. 16
625F. A. Seymour ... Nov! 30
* Leaving two days earlier on account of Melbourne Races.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £7llos to £l2l
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific, and
Messageries Maritimes Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will lie dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
Steamer
ARMAND BI
lIIC
AUSTRALIEN .
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particuars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, I'itt. Street, Sydney.
It. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
e. an d~ a7”Tin e!
Mr NILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for t >e Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
f|)‘|!u!rai}h,fn‘Eac!iarnB jjo.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KiALGOOBLIB, 4500 TONS,
COOLGABDIE, 3500 TONS,
SAIL FORTNIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
M‘ILWRAITH, M'EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle
r ydney Agents BURNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.
A
GEIMTS
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
odrkss. — L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
A POLICY FOR THE No > R^ dy
Price (id. ;
Posted, Bd.
COMMON WEALTH


jyjEN’S AND BOYS’
CRICKETING & OUTING CLOTHING.
CRICKETING TROUSERS, Ready Made, 6s. 9d., ;
Bs. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d. Cut very full with (
a big turn-up to allow for shrinking, (
although the material is shrunk before being ;
made up. 1
CRICKETING TROUSERS, To Order, 12s. 6d., ;
16s. 6d. THOROUGHLY SHRUNK. 1
CRICKETING SUITS, White Twill Serge Suits (
(Coat and Trousers), 17s. 6d., 255., 355. "
Readv Made. » 1
ASSAM SILK COATS (Coat and TrouserT :
Just the Thing for Umpires, 1
Ready Made, 255., 305., 325. 6d., 401
THE FEDERAL BRAND.
STRIPED TENNIS FLANNEL SUITS (U 5
and Trousers), of Striped Flannel, in tke
Latest Colorings ; made so that they will
hang in shape and hold their shape—some-
thing that it is difficult for an Outiijg Suit
to do. Ready Made, 205., 30s.
FANCY CHECKED TENNIS SACS and
TROUSERS, 205., 255., 30s.
: PITT-STREET HORDERN’S.
1 MEN’S WHITE DRILL TROUSERS, 3s. 6d.,
r 4s. 6d., 6s. 6d.
- MEN’S WHITE DRILL SACS, 4s. 6d., ss. 6d.,
- 6s. 6d.
r BOYS’ WHITE DRILL TROUSERS, 2s. lid.,
r 3s. 6d., 4s.
r BOYS’ WHITE DRILL SACS, 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d.,
r 4s. 3d., 4s. 9d.
I MEN’S KHAKI DRILL TROUSERS, 3s. 6d.,
r 4s. 6d., ss. 6d., 6s. 6d.
; MEN’S CRASH TROUSERS, 6s. 6d.
Come in and See Our Faultless Clothing
r (in your lunch hour is a good time).
I Also, see the New SHIRTS for SUMMER, an
s almost unlimited variety in the most fetching
patterns are here to delight you; all our Shirts are
r Neat, Correct, and the Best Possible Adjunct to
£ natty appearance that can be made for the money.
£ hordern Brothers,
t FEDERAL CLOTHIERS,
£ 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
NOW READY at Turner & Henderson, DiuMtu.
Toilet & Troubles of the Skin & Hai
by Dr. ALFRED NEALE ; new edition, post Is Id.
TRICHO-OaY, a Study of the Hair, post 7d
JWUmSCe,
Til cl bourne
Jhe best House for
music.Pianos.Violins and
. all Ittusical sundries
Collins St..
Medical.
n«= RX CORO’S
The only infallible Remedy for WHA KNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia —PERRY & CO., 4-7 Queen St.,
Melbou -lie ; Wholesule Agents for New South Wales—
Australian Drug Co., Ltd., O’Connell St., Sydney. All
Chemists, or Box 165, C.P.O.
\
CAWt
TO
• I do not ask you to spend
money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’
Dance, etc. All I ask of you
is to SEND for a FREE
Bottle and to try it. I abide
by the result. A safe remedy-
approved by the Medical
Profession.
H. G. ROOT, 28,Endslelgh
Gardens, London. N.W.
CURES COUGH.
« Cured my son of a dreadful Cough.’
Mrs. Johnston, Belleek, Fermanagh.
GIVES REST & SLEEP.
HAYMAN’S
BALSAM
of Horehound
Safe and Pleasant for Children.
‘NOTHING LIKE IT FOR A COLD.’
Mr. W. HIRD, Norwich.
STOPS COLD.
THE NEW FRENCH REftlfcuY
THERAPION
This suc-
cessful
and highly
popular remedy, as employed in the Continental Hospi-
tals by Ricord, Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others,
combines all the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of
the kind, and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1 maintains its world-renowned
and well-merited reputation for derangements of the
kidneys, pains in the back, and kindred ailments, afford-
ing prompt relief where other well-tried remedies have
been powerless. . . „ ~ ,
THERAPION No. 2, for impurity of the blood,
scurvy, pimples, spots, blotches, pains and swellings of
the joints, gout, rheumatism, and all diseases for which
it has been too much a fashion to employ mercury, sarsa-
parilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’ teeth and ruin
of health. This preparation purifies the whole system
through the blood, and thoroughly eliminates every
poisonous matter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3, for exhaustion, sleeplessness,
and all the distressing consequences of dissipation, worry,
overwork, etc. It possesses surprising power in restoring
strength and vigor to those suffering from the enervating
influences of long residences in hot, unhealthy climates.
THERAPION
may be procured of the
principal Chemists and
Merchants throughout the world. Price in England, 2s. 9d.
and 4s. 6d. In ordering state which of the three numbers
is required, and observe that the word “ Therapiox ”
appears on the British Government Stamp (in white
letters on a red ground) affixed to every genuine package
by order of His Majesty’s Hon. Commissioners, and with-
out which it is a forgery
.. • ‘V.lJt.ii
mm
r 1
' :
mm
Z& Co.
DYNAMOS, MOTORS.
EVERYTHING ELECTRIC.
Expert Advice Free.
Sole Agents for Australasias
The Austral Otis Engineering Co. Ltd.
SOUTH MELBOURNE.
300 K.W. Three-phase Generator
BRAUN ORE SAMPLE-CRUSHER
and PULVERISER.
a
Combination of a Jaw and Roil
Pulveriser working together.
May be operated by either hand or power.
Jaws, 3\ in. wide; Roll, 6 in. diameter; Belt
Wheol, 16 x2* in. Total Weight, 2851b5.
Write for Particulars to —
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
MINING ENGINEERS & MACHINERY
MERCHANTS.
9
NAVY CUT and PRAIRIE FLOWER
(SPECIAL MIXTURE)
As supplied to the ARMY and NAVY.
T O IB.^oo^sS
Manufactured in England
Agents—Virgoe, Son and Chapman
1 Y
?0 R LABOR-SAVING
APPLIANCES
. . . the Best House is . . .
Mean Bros. & Rigg, [td.
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. PERTH.
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK oucht to contain A BOTTLE of
ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’
Em
VM
Fop Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
TESTIMONIAL —“ I have been a nurse for ten years, and have nursed cases
of scarlet fever pyaemia, erysipelas, measles, gangrene, cancer, and a most every
mentTonable diseasl During this time I have not been ill for a single day, and
this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a
I recommend it to all my patients during convalescence. Its
Se a a s a Jea.TThealth cannot be overestimated.” A Professional
SSmmSfS • FRUIT SAIT' OH A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AHO FEVERISH COHDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It IS, IN FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSURPASSED ON .
. cautions mthout * *•* *
J O. ENO, Ltd at toe 'FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO'S r.tebt.
IF YOU WIBM TO SUCCEED
IN LIFE,
CULTIVATE YOUR MEMORY.
THF PELMAN SYSTEM
OF MEMORY TRAINING
ENSURES
SUCCESS AT EXAMS.
CUBE OF MIND WANDERING.
SPEAKING WITHOUT NOTES,
BOOKS MASTERED IN ONE READING.
HUNDREDS OF TESTIMONIALS FROM SUCCESSFUL
PUPILS ALL OYER THE WORLD.
PT BASED ON SOUND PRINCIPLES. “WS
A DOCTOR WRITES “ I can strongly recommend
Pelman’s System to anyone whose memory is bacl ol
defective. It is based on sound principles. —Allan Deirj
Stinson, L.R.O.P. and S., Edin.
THE SYSTEM IS TAUGHT THOROUGHLY BY
CORRESPONDENCE LESSONS.
Send To-day for Free Explanatory Brochure and Pros
‘ pectus Giving Full Particulars.
Address — THE SECRETARY,
The Pelman School of Memory Training!
G.P.O. Box 402 i MELBOURNE.
SUIimVS
mil
At »*\-
"SANITAS" "SAN HAS
OUH I WO HECISTfcfIED IflADt MARKi
a
NON POISONOUS
DOES NOT STAIN.
DISINFECTANT, ANTISEPTIC.
AND DEODORANTcoMBiNto
A PEOPLES HEALTH IG A NATION'S WEALTH
THE SANITAS COMPANY limited
Jr] BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON. E. g_
FLUID
ALSO
Powder, Soaps,
Sulphur (Fumigating) Candles,
and all kinds of Disinfectants.
“The list of ‘Sanitas’ preparations is now so great as to com-
“prise a complete antiseptic and disinfectant armamentarium.
“The composition of most of these is based on ‘ Sanitas, a
“deservedly popular pleasant, and moreover active compound.
J -LANCET, August 24th, 1895, p. 501.
«HOW TO DISINFECT.”
Book sent FREE on application.
OF ALL CHEMISTS, AND
The “SANITAS” Co., Ltd., Bethnal Green, London.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A TESTED AND INFALLIBLE REMEDY,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps.' Prepared only at the Laboratory ot
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE,
‘Allenbury s Foods.
PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique In providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “Allenburys”
The “ Allenburys ”
Milk Food No. I
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
Milk Food no. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three monthß of liie.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
The “ Alfenburys” Malted Food no. 3
——. ■ ' For Infants over six months of age.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that— “ No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 484, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.


Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER . .
Take
REUTER’S LITTLE PILLS.
For all LIVER complaints-
The Blight of Phthisis.
The religion of militant medicine was preached at
a. meeting in Sydney on Monday night. Resolu-
tions, spoken to by prominent physicians, were
agreed upon requesting the State to build a
hospital for advanced cases of phthisis, and the
citizens to join an association to assist in the fight
against this disease by private effort. Phthisis is
the most deadly of all human ills in Australia.
Yearly it claims over 4000 victims—more than
typhoid, scarlet fever, diphtheria and other fevers
combined—yet modern medical science knows it to
be curable, and knows that, with care, it might
be utterly stamped out of Australia just as
the plague was stamped out in N.S.W, If an
earnest effort were made, not in one State alone,
but throughout the whole of Australia to fight
phthisis, in a generation or two it would occupy
the same place in the vital history of Australia as
smallpox does now. But the consumptive patient,
the most pitiable of all, is, at the same time the
most neglected of all. In N.S.W. the State
spends on the patient in a metropolitan hospital
from £65 to £75 a year. The sick man at Little
Bay Hospital costs £6B 11s. a year, and on the
hoodlum m gaol £3O a year is lavished; but
on the consumptive in that awful den, Liverpool
Asylum, is spent only £l5 6s. sd. a year.
He is most in need of generous diet and spacious
living accommodation (in Germany the phthisical
costs a hospital twice as much as the ordinary
patient), and he is starved and kept in an
absolute Black Hole on .£l5 a year, whilst the
garotter battens on £3O a year. Dr. Nash, M. L. C.,
who has collated these figures, states that the
criminal consumptive, who gets from gaol to the
Liverpool hospital, is anxious always to go back
to gaol, for the treatment is better there. The
shame of this fact should haunt Premier See until
a change is made. Dr. Sydney Jones pointed out
that with proper sanitary dwellings for the poor
consumption would be driven out of its very
citadel: but he held out no hope of any early
reform of slum tenements. Surely, though, if the
greed of landlords is so largely responsible for
breeding this poison in the community, there is no
need to calmly knuckle down to them. If the
funny police-court reporter recorded one day that
Silas Ebenezer Purse, a stout gentleman, mottled
with purple, and of pronounced religious convic-
tions, was sentenced to six months hard labor for
letting poisonous, insanitary premises, the tuber-
culous dens would soon disappear. The State
grapples fearlessly with the blights which afflict
trees—with phylloxera, potato-grub, codlin-moth,
orange rust. Human life, in a community where
babies are comparatively infrequent, is valuable
enough to warrant as much care as, say, the potato-
crop.
The latest concession demanded by the
unspeakably impudent and squalid promoters of
the Great Western (Tas.) railway syndicate is
that £7OOO deposited by the original promoters
with the Treasurer as a guarantee of good faith
be returned. It is promised that the money will
be spent in surveys, etc., and if the co. fails to
float during another 12 months the Govt, is told
that it may step into possession of all the plans in
lieu of the £7OOO ! If the concern again fails to
float in London the plans, etc., will probably be
valuable as pipe-lights for the Cabinet, but it will
take a lot of paper to outweigh 7000 golden so vs.
Anyhow, Tas. Parliament decided to part with
the £7OOO.
Clement Wragge, the meteorological wild
cat of Queensland, has no luck. His much-
bragged-of “high-level station” on Kosciusko
never produced anything in particular-
in fact, Wragge only started that frozen
elephant when the high-level station idea
was worn out and about dead. And now
he has struck a patch of ill-luck that is
really memorable. Wragge’s latest craze is
the Stiger vortex gun—said to be beneficial in pre-
venting the fall of hail, though Wragge is using
it to accelerate the fall of rain. And last week,
having carefully explained in his forecast that it
was likely to rain in any case, Wragge publicly
fired his big gun at the clouds in Brisbane (one of
the dampest places in South Queensland), and the
weather remained dry immediately. Whereupon it
was wired that Wragge was quite satisfied and was
going to fire two guns at the clouds next time. If
the old theorist keeps on at it he will probably
at last strike a time when it was going to rain in
any case, and then the spectacle of Wragge as the
Man Who Did It All will be something immense.
Concerning the case of Vic. Private Steele,
lately sentenced to death in S’Africa :
Trouble threatens over the intimation that one Steele,
a member of the Victorian Fifth Contingent, was lately
sentenced to death for “inciting to commit mutiny. 11
The facts, as stated in Melbourne, are that Steele was a
member of the last Vic. contingent, one section of which
was cut up severely at Wilmansrust by the Boers, who
rushed its camp at night while the men were asleep, with
their rifles stacked. Twenty Victorians were killed and
many wounded, and all who did not escape were taken
prisoners. After the affair, one Major Beatson, an Im-
perial officer, characterised the Vic. contingent as
“ white-livered curs,” notwithstanding that the Wilmans-
rust disaster was wholly due to the incompetence of an
Imperial man, subsequently retired. The Victorians, not
relishing the epithet, made audible comments on the
quality of British courage as shown at Nicholson’s Nek
and some other places, and, eventually, Beatson found
it advisable to tell a Vic. officer that he apologised
for what he had said. Then came the order that
the Vies, were to go out under the command of the man
who had characterised them as “ white-livered curs ”
Whereupon Private Steele told his mates to “ chuck down
their rifles, and refuse to go out under Beatson, unless he
apologised personally.” Two of the men took up the
cry ; but, ere anything could happen, word reached head-
quarters, and all three were arrested and court-martialled
for inciting to mutiny. Found guilty, Steele was sen-
tenced to be shot, and the others were sent to gaol for
two years apiece. Subsequently, Steele’s sentence was
commuted by Kitchener to 10 years in a British gaol with
the scum of England. There is already a very bitter
feeling in a wide Australian circle over this matter. There
is no doubt that the free-and-easy Australian does cor-
dially resent the overbearing insolence of the typical
Imperial officer, and crowds of Steele’s compatriots will
insist on the Commonwealth demanding his release. The
incident may yet loom large in politics.
Badly Crippled.
VV\
ft
Rheumatism, at its worst,
is a sort of Living Death,
It chains a man to a chair, or
binds him to a bed, and
metes out to him a daily
martyrdom. At the best,
rheumatism is a painful
malady, interfering alike
with pleasure and business.
To cure rheumatism it is
necessary to eliminate from
the blood the acid poisons
which are the cause of the
disease. This is effectively
done by the use of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
They carry out of the blood
the corrupt and poisonous
accumulations which breed
and feed disease. They in-
crease the activity of the
blood-making glands, and
send an increased supply of
rich, pure blood through
every vein and artery, to
strengthen every organ of
the body. Mr. John Boyce,
of Hunter-street, Stockton,
Newcastle, N.S.W., writes:
“I write to inform you of
my case. lam well-known
in this district. For some
months I was laid up with
rheumatism, which confined
me to my house, being prac-
tically a cripple. I could
T ■ ,<i n ot lift my hand to my head.
I suffered untold agony. I tried several
remedies, but of no avail. I lastly tried
Dr. Morse s Indian Root Pills, and was astonished
at the result The first bottle gave me
real relief; I then took the second bottle,
and was then able to resume my dailv work.”
r. Morse s Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood
purifier and a positive cure for biliousness, indices-
tion, constipation, headaches, sallow complexion,
liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils,
blotches, and female ailments. Sold by chemists
c nd^ t ° re a e l epers ’ ls I^d P er bottle . or six bottles
bs. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock
Lo Ltd. (Australasian Depot). 58 Pitt-street,
►Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the full
name blown thereon.*
Another wise man has spoken. Sydney
Cooper, the veteran cattle-painter, savs he has
not tasted tea or coffee for over half-a-century,
but although 96 years of age, is enabled to con-
tinue working by moderate potations of “Old
scotch at luncheon, dinner, and bed time In
asmuch as “the best old Scotch” means D.C.L.,
and nothing else, this grand old apostle adds
another to the long list of intellects whose strict
adherence to D.C.L. has won for that brand its
well-known title—the Whisky of the Wise.*
The Macgullykiddies wanted to see what
cat-pancakes would look like, so they started to
put the family-mouser tail foremost through the
mangle, which was a new plaything for the
youngsters, and easy to work. . Macgillycuddy,
hearing frantic yells, rushed into the wash-house
in. time to save most of the animal, though its
tail, as a tail, was ruined for ever. The cat always
paid a hurried visit next door when washing-day
came round after that, and never truly appreciated
what was really a first-class mangle—the Ewbank
Jewel—which Mac. bought for 555. at M‘Lean
Bros, and Bigg, Ltd., Melbourne.*
A small tragedy took place on Woolloo-
mooloo wharf t'other day. One of 63 sledge-dogs,
en route to join the German Antarctic Expedition
proved so savage that a policeman was asked to
destroy him which he did with an iron bar. Hard
luck for a dog coming all the way from lone
Siberia to be brained by a Woolloomooloo bobby.
-A
A JUST AS GOOD
will not suit you. You pay good
money, see that you get a good
bicycle .... *
RED BIRD BICYCLES
Are good because they are built of the finest
Easy Terms arranged. “3hg
Branches in Every State.
material, and sold by a firm who would not handle a poor article
Red Bird Bicycle Department —
-64 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Lucknow, with which Kelso had two good wins
at the recent A.J.G. Spring meeting, first saw light at
Rylstone. His dam was bred by Hon. Geo. Lee, at Kelso,
and was one of a buggy pair sold by him to a Presbyterian
parson for 60 guineas. After the mare had done good
service for about five years the parson decided to breed
from her, and she was accordingly sent to Widden, where
she spent the remainder of her days. Her first visit was
to Russley, and Lucknow was the result. He also did
harness duty for a time, but, becoming too flighty for the
rev. owner, was sold for £l5. The rest of the mare’s
progeny were sold very cheaply, and will doubtless be
heard of ere long. In other hands Lucknow’s dam would
have proved a little gold-mine.
• * • *
Sydney D.T. put it very nicely on Monday :
“ The fallacy of the time-test was made apparent at Can-
terbury Park on Saturday. Hazel Girl ran fifth with 7 7
in (he Park Stakes in 1.18, and, later in the day, with 8 9
won the Shorts Handicap in 1.17}.” Hazel Girl wasn’t
quoted in the Park Stakes betting, but started second
favorite for the Shorts.
* * * *
Latest raid on Sydney shop Mo’s, was by one of
own order, who gathered up per commission
all the Acetine money for the Canterbury Handicap
from all such as had their prices posted up. So smoothly
was the thing engineered that no suspicion was aroused
and as it looked odds on Acetine being a non-starter Mo!
came rather freelj r . Acetine started 7t02 on and won in
a canter, and it is understood that owner-trainer “ Dick ”
Wootten has laid up sufficient treasure to take him to
Melbourne and back. Meanwhile the howl of Ikey is
loud in the shops and places within the meaning of the
Act, to the effect that between police and commission
raids the game isn’t worth boot leather and blue pencil.
* * * *
Some layers of the leetle double are troubled
with visions of hominy and fat booky wielding a pick—a
beastly common pick, with an armed warder in the baok-
ground. A Mo.’s assistant was fined £3O or six months,
and the presiding beak hinted vaguely that the first
time a principal comes before him something horrible is
likely to happen. The big haul of silver-bettors were
mulct in £3 fines, and as a consequence shops are de-
serted, but the hooked-nosed are busy constructing under-
ground and back-door escapes from the invading coppers
that wdi make the average tote-shop half-brother to an
old-time Maori pah.
* * * *
In the Eulowrie case Tatt.’s committee decided
m favor of Mo.—not on the English of the rule, but accord-
ing to “ its spirit,” which leaves the way open for
countless haves ”. by allowing horses to win bets
when they are disqualified, before starting, from
the remotest possibility of getting the prize. Tatt.’s
, j * glaring partiality for the bookmaker calls
loudly for drastic intervention by the A.J.C., which is
hereby afforded a splendid opportunity to prove itself the
champion of clean sport and the general public.
* * * •
Be published statement that trainer Tom
Payten fancies San Fran’s prospects for Melbourne Oup
muchly. Worth remembering the Metrop. winner has
9.7, and that nags humping that burden or more have
only scored four times in the history of the race.
* * * *
At Canterbury Park (Sydney) races, Saturday,
jock J. Barden won all four events he rode in bv
sheer good riding and judgment.
* * * *
Prince Consort-Harriet nag Pandora’s double
(Trial Stakes, 7 fur., and Spring Handicap, 6fur.) at
Adelaide Tatts. meet, Saturday, supplied two good
dividends on the place tote—£l2 12s. in the first instance,
and £l7 17s. in the other.
• * * *
A humorous Sydney turf feature is the “mental-
punter. Remark to him : “ ’Spose you backed the
winner of the Metrop? and he opens out' ** I was just
coming out of the bank with 20 quid that day, and I meet
a galoot from Oome-by-Ohance, that’s lost his luggage
and kids me to go to the station and help him find it, and
by the time we do get it Gameboy’s won the first race,
and I m that narked I won’t go out. I’d have won £25
on him, and I’d have socked it on San Fran. Give you all
your Patronages and Sequences in. Then it’s a monte I’d
put 50 out of that 100 on Kaimate for the Steeple. Must
have backed Grasspan to win me a couple of hundred at
w0 . 3 ,‘ , was telling Billy Jones that morning, sure as
Cecil Godby rides First Consul in the Squatters’ Handicap
it a picking up money backing him. Must have had 50 on at
sixes. What with following San Fran, Hautvillers
Grasspan, and Kuhn through the meeting, I’d have been
thousands ahead of it now ; and all thrown away through
v°l }° 81n S his luggage.” Withal the mental punter is
about the only man in the community who parts neither
to Tatt 8., totes, or bazaar-tempters.
• * * *
M.L. Govt, declines to exclude racing-clubs
from the provisions of the Workers’ Compensation for
Accidents Act, and insurance-offices won’t insure trainers
and jockeys on race days.
* * * ■
Jcickeying is being purified in Maoriland.
Black-markers," pub. loafers, and the card fraternity
are being refused licenses all over the land, and the ranks
skimmed of the baser element. Auckland Racing Club
u ?.? one further than that in ordaining that any jock
holding a license and not in regular employ must give a
satisfactory reason for his idleness.
• * * •
Plebeian origin of sundry M.L. crack nr ads •
Goldspur once ran in a Dunedin tram, and didn’t reveal
his great sprinting powers till late in life. Moifaa was a
mounted-infantry hack who got into the Hawke’s Bay
Hunt Club programme somehow; and Kohunni used to
hump the mails between Martinborough and the coast
and was valued at £7.
* * * •
Specimens of Maoriland nomenclature (all run-
?' n & °« same day, May 24 last) :-(l) Na Dhichuimhuich ;
(2) Matamataharakeke ; (3) Pipiwharauroa. at Takapuna
J.C. meeting ; (4) Eketerini and Passeropoulo, at Otaki; (4)
Paulme-you-are-a-belle, at Windsor. Pity the sorrows of
poor Ikey Mo ! No. 2 means “ flower or bloom of the flax ”
(phormium tenax), and No. 3 is the “ zebra-bird or
golden-spotted cuckoo.” But what on earth are 1 and 4 ?
The first looks like Gaelic and the other like Greek
* » * *
<t Th e alleged facility with which horses can be
stopped ” by the Tod Sloaners is worth considering
Says London Referee “It was an evil day when the
American jockey and his style of riding came to be found
profitable here. We had fared very well as we were, and
could tell to a little what riders were doing*; if you
watched heel and hand you might go close. With the
forward seat and the hold close to the bit it is 10 times
more difficult to discover whether a jockey is stopping a
horse or letting him go.” Fortunately for Australian
racing-stewards they are not required to worry them-
selves on this score. If a jockey were to lie back in the
saddle and pull like a tug-o’-warsman all the wav round
the course he would probably get let off with a caiition
* * * *
Yankee pug. Scanlon has made two engage-
ments with M'Coll, and the elder of the soldiers
ihompson, who had such a desperate dust-up with M’Coll
at the Sydney Golden Gate A.C. months ago. Most of the
other alleged fighters of N.S.W. want to see someone else
test the Yank before “ taking him on.” Sturgeon, the
middle-weight champion, is said to have refused fight
uniess Scanion can square up at list, or under—an im-
possibility. Scanlon’s presence promises to liven up
fr?m e the e ia C „d n oft4an” the W ° nted attitude of slu^ers
* * * *
a'sSrSaf^a!
he came in Tho r u T he w , ent ba( * >n the same boat
1 *
SrtsSTiSif JSff "' ">« S.A.O. Club, in YoS:
dney )> and > barring l two awful fights with Joe
Goddard, won everything. Jack Ashton and Jonnel Sub
and . after Goddard gave Ashton a
hfs ’ hetlfh or l fc ’ J turned out to be travelling for
eath ; ° r pleasure, or something else than fitrht
Then much-boomed ’Murkan feather-weight Ike Weir'
came breathing slaughter, but went home again leaving a
£5O forfeit to Jack Fuller, which should have been £lOO
Altogether 6 ° f he Sydney man ’ 8 backer
suS&hSr PUgS ' haV6 not been a howlin «
a
3°“ e enterprising San Franoiscan has inaugur-
exhlb°Uon a on i?hTi conteBt3^ in da yli?ht. The initial
less thin ’fionn o J y ’ p i r J oved an immense suocess, no
less than 6000 people attending. There should be a
great opening here for some Australian imitator The
lnd rt whii A^ tra lV an T C,udes Practically every Australian,
and, while the attendances at boxing contests are com.
wnloh V th y those who read accounts of fights and
watch the performances of every pug. are legion The
of S sto a ulh nS enth, he - a ? rage box ing-hall keep nine-tenths
f'™ 0 ™ enthusiasts away. Situated generally in a
garter, the ring is invariably surrounded by a
steaming crowd of criminals and larrikins. The prices
also are extortionate from the standpoint of the man who
to view i n « fc h- e eek l y football-match, for it is impossible
to view a big contest comfortably under ss. In the
the Piron 3,n t thlS wollld be changed. An amphitheatre of
neonle woniT 6 ’- CaP ü ble of holding a few thousands of
people, would give all a good view without crowding, at a
reasonable pHce, and allow visitors to choose their com-
panj. There should be money in the spec, for a good
manager. ®
••* • »
Middleweight pugs, Artilleryman Thompson
a te% lk ,? St f warfc - s miled at one another across the
gloves at Sydney’s Go den Gate A.O. Saturday night.
ErrS* waB ln dead '.v earnest, and slung vast
™ f and freely. The black was decidedly un-
early resorted to evasive tactics. Some-
coddled his white brudder round the waist and
sometimes round the legs. He wasn’t particular. Had
Thompson known how to fight as well as he knew how to
slog and rush, it would have been all up with Stewart.
As it was, in round seven the darkey, absolutely at the
last continuously, till the “ gintlemin from
the bate stopped the scrap, and the referee declared it a
d ™ Wl ■ f v rber \ the ? rowd reared up on both its hind fists,
and with hoots and curses, threatened to disembowel the
referee, and dump the hall and fittings in George-st., and
roast somebody in the ruins, till it got thirsty and had to
go for a drink.
* * • »
The opening of the new Australasian swimming
f ® a Q S ,?" u° n « J', leSd ay , marked by some special function
in all the States and M.L. Amphibious N.S.W. indulged
Lpm fitU o 8 ' P r os P ects are promising. World’s mile record-
-I S, ? xpecfced }° SCO °P the pool from J-mile
upwards. Fred Lane, partner in the world’s 220yds , and
owner of many other “ bests,” has returned from a long
spe 1 up-country stronger and more eager than ever.
Dick Oavill has improved, and young Claude Corbett, the
Australasian school-boy champion of last year, will, pro-
vided he improves as anticipated, be one of the 47 guns
of the season Championships of the Continent are to be
decided in Maoriland this year, where N.S.W. governing
body hopes to select a rep. to be sent against the British
record-holders.
it * * * *
“Crab”: Jim Stanbury will likely be the first
to challenge world’s champion sculler Towns on his
return to this country. The South Coast giant has
given up erecting telegraph-lines, and is now employed
on one of the N.S.W. harbor-dredges. As there ‘are
several moneyed men only too anxious to back him, and
Stanbury s inclinations are all in that direction, it is
shortly 6 soraethmg deflni t e will be heard on the matter
* * * *
At Halifax (Nova Scotia), on Aug. 10. Shoal-
s ,?d’ e . r Wray met a local champion named
Mark Lynch, in the single sculls at a big annual regatta,
and amply paddled away from him, dropping as low as
;.T. ~ . the m " lute now and again. The honest Scotians
didn t know Wray, and the local editors had to cable to
jN e^ v , y P rk and Chicago for a supply of adjectives with
which to relieve their feelings.
* * * *
Melb. ’Erald adopts a figurative Yankee style
in appealing to the emotions of football barrackers The
ball is boosted up and down the field with “ meteoric ”
and cyclonic ’’rushes by the various heroes. “ Rickettv
Dick came sailing through them like a mightv “ comet.”
Ihen something awful would have happened, only the
great Gavan ” was there. “ Gavan leapt high into the
air, and reached the ball down from the sky.” Whoosh !
Axb 8 llke a basebaP matc h report in the Arizona Pick
* * » *
Now that Vic. football season is over the rats
begin to squeak, and it is coming out that a number of
high-up clubs have been controlled bv a syndicate of
metalhcians, who simply decided how matches were to
finish according to their books. The downfall of Vic.
football—probably the best outdoor game ever invented
bo h for player and spectator—dates from the time when
a big sport.” stiffened enough players in a leading team
to enable him to win a pot by backing t’other side. Since
then the public has looked with suspicion on football but
was just beginning to get back confidence when this’ ex-
posure came along. There is less excuse for crooked
practices in football than in any other sport, seeing that
the amount of wagering on any match is
nificant as compared with the money held by the ring at
an obscure suburban meeting. That big men who deal in
thousands at Cup-time should trouble about such a thing
at all only shows that some people would sooner flatter
their own smartness by getting ss. “on the cross” than
£1 squarely.
* ■ * * *
Sydney cricket season opened on Saturday with
the initial round of local matches. Previous night’s rain
favored bowlers, who scored well in most instances. Best
batting was shown at Hampden Park where Paddington
last year s premier club, piled up 337 for 7 wickets, Victor
Trumper contributing 158, which topped individual
scores. Pyes 133, not out, for Central Cumberland
against Glebe ranked next. W. R. Iredale got 91 for
Paddington. R. A. Duff and A. J. Hopkins made 71 and
75 respectively of North Sydney’s 184 against Waverlev ;
and, for Leichhardt-Balmam against Sydney, Diamond’s
score of 53 was highly creditable, as he had four good
bowlers, including Marsh, against him.
* * * *
, Jack Lyons is retiring from cricket, owing to a
m. U H b j ifU l, le?r, ry hlch h ?! s long troubled him. He his been
madeahon. life-member of the S.A.C.A., which also, at
its recent meeting, specially congratulated Geo. Giffen on
having completed his 10,000 runs and 1000 wickets in
first-class matches. Clem Hill, under a new strict enforce-
ment of the electoral system, will have to play for East
Torrens, which has just lost Lyons and Darling Mac-
Laren’s team opens the season on Nov. 9, and N.S.W.
pays a visit in January, in readiness for the third test-
match.
* * * •
MacLaren had, at latest advices, made two bad
blunders in captainship in consecutive matches. Against
Derby he declared his first innings closed at 183 for five
wickets : result, the opponents led by 26 on the innings
Then, after winning the toss, he put Sussex in first;
result, Fry, Ranji, and co. made 457 for seven, and were
able securely to “declare.”
• * * *
N.S.W.-Victoria tennis tourney, on Sydney
Cricket Ground, Friday and Saturday, was hampered by
bleak weather and sodden courts (which favored the
visitors) first day. The finish on Saturday was the closest
on record—N.S.W. winning by only one point. Actual
figures were—N.S.W. : 10 rubbers in singles, 20 pts., and
4in doubles, 12 pts. ; total, 32 pts. Victoria : 8 rubbers
in singles, 16 pts., and 6 in doubles, 15 pts. ; total, 31 pts
Closest previous victory was by 2 sets.
* * * •
The Vic. tennis team was among the strongest
seen in Sydney. Kearney, fresh from big achievements
in Britain, played splendidly on the first day, beating
Gaden, Irving and Rice in the singles. Vic. doubles-
champions (Brooks and Fraser) never lost a set on Satur-
day, but Spence’s play was the most brilliant and force-
ful. His slow, skilful cutting from the left court on the
return of the service drove a boundless ball down on the
mde lines within a yard or so of the net, and utterly
baffled the server. Rice, of N.S.W., is shaping excellently
and will make a stern fight for the championship to-day
(Saturday). J
* * * •
Lesna, who claimed, when in Australia, to be
a champion behind pace ” rather than a racer, seems to
have lost the recent Paris-to-Brest-and-baek event only
by bad judgment. He did the outward half, 372 miles, in
just under 24 hours, being miles ahead of anything else,
but had to give up when 135 miles from home. Winner,
a - fc 9 ok llmin., or over 14 miles an hour
right through. Motor-pacing was not allowed.
* * * *
Another big match between pigeon-slayers
Eales and Gorrick. Pity some of the aggressive
Puritanical energy directed against “Tatt.’s” harm-
less gamble hadn’t been brought to bear on this
barbarous alleged sport.
* * * •
Victorian draughts championship—won lately
by previous holder, F. T. Best—was notable for the clever
play of a Ballarat youngster of 15, G. D. Cairns. The boy
shook-up a lot of the old hands who know the “ book ” of
the game better than they know their alphabet and only '
went down in the final to Best.
• * * *
Telegraphic chess match, N.S.W. v. Q., played
28th Sept., resulted in a hollow win for N.S.W. by 8
games to 2. The Banana State had a very weak team
Champion Jacobsen was one of two Walers beaten, losing
to A.M.P. Secretary Apperley.
• * * *
A. Jewell last week bolted with the West Aus-
tralian 50 miles road championship record on a Massey. *
Pedal-pusher, Bob Mutton, at the Agricultural
Grounds, did an unpaced quarter in 27sec. dead on a Red
Bird—New South Wales record.*
• * * »
Champion sprinter McManus stripped no less
than five times for a handicap at Newcastle t’other day
In the first round he dead-heated with Dowrer, Gilmour
and Pogonowski, and in the run-off finished abreast of
Dowrer, who went under in the third effort. Later the
judge couldn’t separate McManus, Smith and Davis but
a second essay saw the back-marker (McManus) beaten
with much of the steam out of him. McManus and M L
crack McLachlan will contend for a stake and the “ gate ”
at Newcastle to.day (Saturday)—McManus conceding
10yds. in 880. b


ttJhy ||ot Something Useful
SILVER HALL-MARKED
TOILET BRUSHES. . . .
I
•y *
m
JIB
u
SILVER CLOTH BRUSH, 8/6
SILVER HAIR BRUSH .. „ - -
OTHER DESIGNS, from
Case containing 2 SILVER HAIR BRUSHES
AND COMB
SILVER-MOUNTED COMBS, from .. ...
17/6
15/-
£2/2/-
5/6
Write for Illustrated Souvenir Catalogue-Sent Free.
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY CO.
187 PITT-ST., SYDNEY
i (Next Shadier’s Cafe.)
NEVER
NEVER
RIDE ANY OTHER BICYCLE EXCEPT
WwkA
W\wr
Specially constructed to carry its rider over all conditions of Australasian roads. Call or write, and our agent
in your district will explain Massey construction embodied in our latest models. Also, the easy buj mg terms.
West Australian Depots; Hay Street, Perth; and Hannan Street, Kalgoorl.e.
throughout N.S.W., Victoria, South Australia, Queensland, New Zealand.
SHOULD THIS . . .
W MEET THE EYE
of anyone knowing of the existence of any tea equal to Globe Tea, and
procurable at the same price, their plain duty is to introduce such a tea to
our notice, for we have tried hard but have not yet discovered it. We make
the bold assertion that there is no tea in Australia equal to GLOBE TEA at
the same price.
The Reason is Simple,
FIRST.
SECOND.
Because we know all that can be learned about the
goods we trade in.
Because these goods are bought for cash, sold for cash,
and are not burdened with the awful expenses of an
involved trading system.
Send for our Price List and you will be astonished. We will send, as a sample. Two and a-half Pounds of
Tea, comprising Five Half-pound packets of different teas, for FOUR SHILLINGS (which includes lid.
postage). By comparing these teas one with another and with the tea you are using, you, can ju g
yourself the extraordinary value we offer, and it will save you a lot on your tea bill, besides provi g
you with tea of the highest quality.
ATCHERLEY & DAWSON,
MERCHANTS^
284 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
WEDDING
CARES**
gds
Highest Quality in Materials
and Manufacture.
g
Specially Packed
for Country.
Send for
PRICE LIST.
D.S.W. FBESjI FOOD t ICE GO. in-
SYDNEY.
sdg
mms
FOR
THE
d
THE GREAT HAIR PRODUCER AND RESTORER .
The Finest Dressing 1 , Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
Has the distinguished honour of being used in almost every Royal
Palace throughout the World.
gd
Monsieur Philosophow is commanded by
HER MAJESTY
THE QUEEN OF GREECE
to forward cheque for the six bottles of
“ Harlene ” duly received.
H.R.H: Princess Marie of Greece wishes six bottles of Edwards’
“ Harlene ” for the Hair sent immediately.
Crown Prince's Palace, A thens, Greece.
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE writes: Messrs. Edwards’
Preparation, “ Harlene ” for the Hair, has given entire satisfaction.
H.R.H. The DUKE OF SPARTA
Harlene 11 for the Hair sent by express parcel post.
Palace of Prince Royal, A thens.
requires six bottles of Edwards’
H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHSIMLOHE
of “ Harlene ” for the Hair by return.
Esterhazy Uteza.,3o, Buda-Pest.
writes : Please send me three bottles
Canea, Crete.
(High Commissioner of Crete)
writes: Please to forward three bottles of ‘ ‘ Harlene ” for the Hair at once.
H.R.H. PRINGE GEORGE of GREECE
l/« > 2/6, and (3 times a/6 size), 4/6 per* Bottlet_eweiT|where^
A Policy for the Commonwealth.
PRICE, 6d.; Posted, Bd.
Wedding Presents
Best Electro-plate and Glass Butter
Dish, 10/6.
Our stock is replete with them
We stock no inferior qualities.
We stock only goods we know as special value
We buy them for sell for cash.
We sell at London prices.
II." ■
Electro-piate and Glass
Preserve Jar, 15/-
Electro-plate and Glass Preserve
Jar, 30/-
Plain Figures.
London Prices.
Strictly Qash.
OUR TURN-OVER ENABLES US TO DO IT.
FAIRFAX <Sc ROBERTS
Vice-Regal Jewellers, 23 HUNTER BT., SYDNEY.
Tbc
CallagljaQ
Boot
Honest Wear
In every pair.
:
1
I I :V
1
'
.
■
U
w
THIS
BOOT IS
PHOTOGRAPHED
FROM
STOCK.
Our Boots can be
EXCHANGED if not
correct, as we wish
DISTANT customers
to be as pleased as
those in town.
Your money RETURNED if you
are not satisfied with the
Boots.
Calf Lace, full goloshed, medium wide welts, bespoke appearance, 21/-; post paid, 22/-
Tan Willow Calf Lace, full goloshed, fast color cyclists, perfect fitting, 22/6 ; „ 23/6
All Sizes and Fittings.
Have you ordered
a pair yet ?
CALLAGHAN & SON j 395 Gcorge-st., Sydney.
Fate ! Had M'Kinley been defeated by
Bryan at last election, the assassin’s bullet would
surely have found another billet.
The sordid row about the bill is still alive
in Melbourne. That roomful of gorgeous furni-
ture which was bought because some unauthorised
person waved his hand and said, Bo the tiling
properly! ” has been returned, but £lBO is
demanded for the hire of it ; and the trouble
about the 248 (or thereabouts) bottles of strong
drink which were got in for the alleged refresh-
ment of the duke and duchess hasn’t fully sim-
mered down even now. Apparently in the whole
tribe of “ loyal ” FitzGribbons there isn’t one who
will pay a copper to prevent the duke’s refresh-
ment becoming a laughing-stock.
The retirement of Mr. Mair from Sydney
stipendiary bench should be taken advantage of to
appoint a strong-jawed, fairly young man who
will have no hesitation in dealing out vigorous
“stoush ”to pushites and hoodlums. Mr. Mair is
well-advanced in years and has lately been some-
what troubled with deafness. He had not the
best of luck. Whenever there was a very con-
tentious and notable case before the police-court
with Jack Want’s chin wagging hard on one side,
it was almost certain to strike Mr. Mair; and
these stormy interludes in the peaceful chant of
“ten shillings or the rising” are not appreciated
by magistrates.
Nurse Macready (a daughter of the lately-
deceased Sydney veteran Presbyterian cleric of
that name), recently back from the war, tells
Sydney D.T. things that ought to make every
back-number of that paper blush for the wilful
lies, or woeful ignorance, of its Jingoistic
creators :
Speaking of the Boer, Miss Macready says he has an
unshakeable belief in the justness of his quarrel. He
values the independence of his country above all things,
and in his heart is prepared to fight on until beaten past
recovery. And when he is beaten he will not be con-
quered. That may appear a paradox. Yet Miss Macready
says it represents the spirit of the Boer. And it is be-
cause he values so highly his independence that he deeply
felt the hand the Australians took in the war. He was
prepared to admit that the English soldiers were doing
nothing but their duty as they saw it, but believing that
the Australians were'living under conditions similar to
those which existed in South Africa, the average Boer
looked upon the Australian interference as unjustifiable.
Of the immediate and final termination of hostilities,
Miss Macready is not very hopeful. Her belief is that
Great Britain has a most difficult problem to face in South
Africa. The feeling among Boer men and women alike is
most bitter towards Great Britain, and the restrictions
which military government means is, she adds, beginning
to cause irritation to the South Afrikander. The Boers
themselves will never forget nor forgive the burning of
their farms. The refugee camps are also likely to prove
difficult things to handle. Behind the establishment of
these camps was the idea that, by taking the women away,
the Boers could not so readily obtain food, and would he
robbed of one of the sources of information. What has
really happened is that the Boers, relieved of the imme-
diate necessity of looking after the women and children,
have greater freedom to travel from place to place, and
prosecute the war as opportunity offers. Nor does Nurse
Macready look to the future with feelings of hopefulness.
So devastated is the country, she says, that years will be
required to re-settle it in anything like its former shape,
and the Boer women, even if an apparent ending is made,
will foster in the minds of their children the hatred for
the English which they now have in common with their
husbands.
Self-acting ice-cream freezers, which re-
quire no labor, at 155., are being shown by Messrs.
Brandt Bros., 236 Pitt-street, Sydney, as well as
hin butter-coolers, which reduce the temperature
Odeg. without using ice or chemicals; price ss.
aoh.* .
Obit. : Capt. R. J. Skinner, oldest skipper
in the Newcastle Co.’s service. He had been in
the Australian shipping trade since the 60’s, and
an acknowledgment was made of his thorough
knowledge of the N.S.W. coast when he was
asked to pilot the Ophir with the Duke on board
from the Hawkesbury.
“Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled “ Piles and the Wav to
Cure Them,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.*
A remarkable youngster died in Perth
Hospital at the end of August—“ Tony ”
Ryan. In the middle of his law-course in Victoria
he jumped off with the early rushes to the West,
battled out as far as Malcolm, made more than
tucker, and took a goldfields’ pub., sold out well,
and returned to Vic. and the law, but, with only
a final exam, to pass, soon rushed back to fight the
Malcolm seat. The pace killed—through some
affection of the brain —at 26.
\e gods ! The Boer war threatens to
return to its old, inexplicable entanglements in
the Tugela River districts. Are we never to hear
the last of the Upper Tugela and the Lower
Tugela, and will they be “forded’’and “flooded”
this coming summer as they were two years ago ?
FOB the person who is not a millionaire, there
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
W.W. GREENER’S NEW RIFLE
sg
Made expressly for Cadet Corps.
An entirely New de Exclusive Design.
The new Rifle has been produced
solely to supply the wants of Cad’t
Corps for a REALLY RELIABLE
and ACCURATE RIFLE at a low
price, £ 3 Us.. - *®
Ten Shots in 3 inch Square at 100 yards.
GENUINE ENGLISH MANUFACTURE THROUGHOUT
Every Rifle guaranteed and named
W. GREENER, Birmingham, England.
On Hand—Greener Guns from 9 to 30 Guineas ; Martini
Sporting Rifles, take 41 Winchester Cartridges, very
accurate; Lee Enfield and Metford Rifles. “ Siiarpshootixo
for Sport and War,” posted 1/2. Stamps from other States
not accepted. OS’ All Rifle Shots should read this Rook.
nvia.a W. IBuoltlaiad,
Representing W. W. GREENER,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE


8-Hour Demonstration
• •
....TO BE HELD AT....
IN PRIZES
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL GROUND,
°" MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1901.
Grand Sports Programme, PRIZE MONEY £250, including Bicycle Races : Five Mile rK am ™ n „.v
of Australia, all the Champions taking part; many other interesting events 1
~ Hot and Cold Water Provided.
Dancing in Spacious Pavilion.
Grand Procession of Societies through the City, starting at 10 a.m
The Grand Art Union
THIRD PRIZE, Hapsburg Piano, value £sl>; FOURTH PRIZE, Three-quarter Cabinet' Sewinr ! ,
£l4 14s, presented by BEALE & 00., Sydney ; and 171 other Valuable Prizes. For particulars see Liafaat Avents
TICKETS, ONE SHILLING EACH.
Including admission to Ground, and Chance in Art Union. Equal Chance whether present or not
IHOS. 11. 11l ROWER, Secretary Trades’ Hall, Goulbum-street, Sydney.
FALIERE’S PHOSPHATINE
PHOSPHAT/WEjXI
FAUERES
The Only
Food
containing
Phosphate
of Lime.
For INFANTS and
INVALIDS.
AN ESSENTIAL REQUISITE IN THIS COUNTRY.
ERASMIC
—— PERFUME
Is delightfully fragrant and pleasant to use.
A DAINTY, DELICIOUS DELICACY.
. . . ASK YOUR CHEMIST FOR IT . . .
GOOD KAIR FOR ADL.
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and sriving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
m’ For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & 00.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOU E.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR.
A great proportion of all Australians have Catarrh in either the first stage or
.chronic form. Probably 20 per cent, of all the people we meet have but one good
nostril—the other is clogged with catarrhal deposits, or by some weakness whose
parent was a neglected cold. This forces them, perhaps unconsciously, to breathe
through the mouth, and, unless attended to, will result in a life-long annoyance
,and serious trouble. Home treatment with our Medicator will restore the organ
to its natural condition, and enable it to perform its functions properly and
healthfully. It relieves and cures Catarrh, Hay Fever, Cold in the Head, and all
Nasal inflammations. It soothes, cleanses, heals; contains no injurious drugs.
Pamphlets Free on request—a postcard will do.
Medicator, with. Complete Treatment, post free, 10/-
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
229-231 Collins Street, Melbourne.
sdg
Medicator.
Uo
y;
rv-i
liijS
\Vhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin-
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired o' STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointmen j, send for one of Stephenson’s
- ELECTRICAL. APPLIANCES, invented by
- Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
[ strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
' CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
! THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
;DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
* LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
‘ Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
iThey impart vigor and potency to every function,
‘ brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and,
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy are light, comfortable, and |
may be worn without' the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands. I
THEY WILL CURE YOU.,
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0 |
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0 |
Extra powerful, with suspensory
autajhments 330 |
E.adies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0 |
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and j
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, |
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to — (
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney j
sd
gsdg
No. F27B7.—New Twin Heart and Arrow
Brooch, 9c. Gold, 8s 6d.
No. F 3704. New Lucky Bell and Leal
Brooch, 9c. Gold, 11s 6d.
No. E 8739. —Fine
monrl and iBc.
Rin ». £4 10a.
Dia-
Gold
3*
Magnificent Diamond
and Opal Cluster Ring,
£l7 10s.
No. F2254.—15c. Gold Brooch, Rubv
Centre, £l 10s.
No. F3ss3.—New Btil Brooch, 90. Gold.
V2s (i..
No. Fs93.—Fine Pearl New Moon and Spray
Brooch, 15c. Gold, £5.
No. F4s46.—Fine Quality Pearl and 15c. Gold Spray
Brooch, £9 10s.
No. F4299.—15c. Gold Bird and Leaf
Brooch, £1 6s.
No. F 4540 -15 c. Gold
and Pearl Pendant,
£2, 105.
L_o
No. Es629.— New i,ai and Bell Brooch,
9c. Gold, lUu (id.
No. F269l.—Strong Bar Brooch, New Design,
9c. Gold, 13s Od.
No. 1976.—Fine Pearl Scroll Brooch, 16c. Gold,
£1 15s.
No. F4Bsl.—Fine Pearl nd sc, Gold
d
Shamrock Brooch, £llss.
No. EB6oo.—Pair of 9c.
Gold Tie Clips, 5s 6d.
Illustrated Catalogue
Ft •ee to all.
WTtrsnr
AAJULgJLR.
WTiTif 0
mnnm sis
SUL2JUUUL
wwy
MMMI
Dedicated
To the
Tables of
The World
o&xv <y~J&
SAUCE.
AGENTS
VIRGOE, SON & CHAPMAN, and D. COHEN & CO.,
Sydney.
gdg
PLAIN HOME TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
Bv Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modt rn Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic, Is 6d, post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. Tiie Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates.), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, Is 3d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid.
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Metal Working, Brazing, etc., Is 3d.
Send for my Illustrated Big’ Book
eat') ogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.


WHEAT. PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
A.CT -AS SBLLIN G BROKERS.
Consignors are absolutely protested under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION - FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
"(Including Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
• will be 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb i 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
„ under Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing'. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation to the Company.
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills, Buncle and Sons’ Chaficutters.
Donald’s Patent Woolpress.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIF.
CHARLES READ & CO.
5-stone Half-Hoop
DIAMOND BING,
Price, £5 and upwards.
5-stone Diamond and
Sapphire Bing.
Price, £3 10s. and
upwards.
5-stone Australian Opal
Bing, 22/6.
Camden Buildings, 420 Ceorge St., Sydney
15-ct. BROOCH, with Opal or
Turquoise,
Price - - - 17/6.
Three doors from,
Strand Arcade.
A Saving; of
25 per cent.
JEWELLERY,
SOLID SILVER GOODS,
SILVER-PLATED WARE.
Write for our 80-paged ILL USTJRA TED
CATALOGUE.
r
* /K~-
!/- '.
A/
A A
Uh
aLf*
•'S'
mt
M'A
4
Crozine Blacking
is the best dressing made for ail bright finished leathers.
It is easily applied with a cloth, and produces a polish that is unequaled for brilliance
and permanence. Men, women, and children who use “ Crozine ” once want “ Crozine ”
always, as it is the most satisfactory waterproof dressing made for all varieties of shoes.
Sold almost everywhere. Made and guaranteed only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Boston, Mass., U. S. A.'
umu
HAIR TONIC-
The Guaranteed Remedy for
Weak, Thin, and Falling Hair.
Testimonials from International Cricketers and
Footballers, Leading Sydney Solicitors, Business
Men, and from Parliament House with each bottle.
2/6 per bottle, post 3/2 ; Intercolonial, 3/6 ; 4 bottles (posted under cover)jwhieh will effect a cure in the
most obstinate case, posted free for 10/-. Intercolonial, 11/-.
W. RICHARDS, Proprietor, 168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TO BE OBTAINED AT ALL STOREKEEPERS AND CHEMISTS.
THE HEALTHIEST
TOBACCO.
In
three
trengths.
ABSOLUTELY
PURL”
Mild
Medium &
Full.
v*\\
cs
/Sf
&
✓5
@2
ovSs
•4$
Name of nearest Agent post free from M. RUTTY & Co. Sydney.
THE
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This is the only Medical
Institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind gruaran lees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all contracts.
Electro-Medical ai)d
SOrgjcal IpStitQte—■
IN AN AGE
which is so remarkable for its progress in all departments of Art, Philosophy, Manufacture and
Science it is surprising to find the practice of Medicine so deplorably in the rear, while thousands
of practitioners in the healing art prefer to remain in the conventional groove of their predecessors. Ibe Freeman
and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise superior to the alse code of ethics which
tyrannically bind the medical profession, and announce to the public that upon all special complaints they still con-
tinue to be consulted by the afflicted at their old address. Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
m
*%;■< -■ " f - > 'f >
if ■:;■■•
• , ’.
it-l’
• li;H
* ’ I
;,; T 8 f I
STZ
i mt
U
EXPERTS FREEMAN AND WALLACE,
The Specialists who conduct the largest practice in Australasia.
jj.npAi ji | MftTFfl'E No one should hesitate to consult us, as consultations either by letter or jn
OrEvIAL WU I ll»ta person are given FREE OF CHARGE, and Strictest Privacy is always assured.
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
Every Farmer, Miner, Mariner, Station-hand, Book-keeper, and other Toilers should send for a copy of this
Useful Memorandum Book. POST FREE ON APPLICATION—ALL COLONIES.
400-PAGE MEDICAL WORK (Illustrated, containing 80 Engravings, Many Useful Prescriptions,
Hints on Sick Room, Accidents and Emergency) Price 6d (POST FREE) ON APPLIGAIION.
<ASP€CIRLITI€S t
Heart, Kidney, Liver Affections;
Nerve and Brain Complications.
Grave!, Bladder and Spinal Affections.
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
Rupture and Plies Cured without Operation.
Blood and Skin Diseases,
m£Z
m
3^%
g L gt, . •
*Tj v v»~. s*:'
km
His?
a " E#LTB
s»r
“•■sg
:
f- -■' ca ■ ■ • s-A a: - immmtt ■ '.. ■ : ?<s
* )::'=■ i 1
I ' , fA L STRENGTH EIECIRQ?
- :
. ; - *; '
"■ : ' '
-I; fr. ** *
a - ;-•!-.
mmm
?X, \k ?v-'y. *A
WHY WE ADVERTISE!
Because Advertising is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people,
to acquaint each other with their avocations and wants. If a man has a
Speciality, and has devoted years of his life and expended large sums of money in studying that Speciality and in
purchasing the necessary appliances, etc., for treating certain diseases, it would be absurd for him not to announce
the fact, and disseminate the knowledge universally, We have no apology to offer for informing the world through
this advertisement and otherwise of the means of relief we can afford to sufferers who need our help. Therefore,
however opposed to your own preconceived ideas and to those of your medical advisers, our method of treatment
may be, the fact still remains that it is successful, and this is verified by the thousands of testimonials received from
grateful patients. We make no secret of our mode of practice. We only claim to have utilised in a common-sense
way the result of scientific research and long experience. If you listen to the counsel of your sceptical friends and
jealous physician you may omit consulting us, but remember if you allow the disease to run riot in your system, you
are guilty of culpable neglect, and are alone responsible for your future pitiful condition.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government
Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Great Britain
and America Open to Inspection by Dr. Wallace, our Physic an-in-Chief.
Late Consulting Staff, Homcepathic Hospital, Melbourne.
Late Medical Staff, British Army.
—lf you live out of town and cannot visit us, this need not deprive-
you of the benefits of our wonderful treatment, because in the new
system of combining medicine and electricity a complete Electro-Medical home treatment is provided for. Scarcely a
day passes that the news does not reach us of some wonderful home cure of a person living so far away that a per-
sonal visit could not be made. Write a plain statement of your condition, explaining your feelings and symptoms as.
clearly as possible, and from it we will be able to accurately diagnose your case. It only costs you the trouble of;
writing, and twopence postage to get the opinion and ad\ ice of Australia’s Leading Specialists.
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS
When there are so many quacks and impudent pretenders in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to themselves,
the monstrosity of giving' counsel and advice in matters of which they are profoundly ignorant, arid who have
nothing to recommend them but their audacity, sufferers cannot be too careful whom they consult. Although
liberty of choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessary. In consulting THE FREEMAN AND WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shall receive the advice
of those fitted by superior skill and education, the result of special study. Our reputation and unparalleled:
success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of the WorId—CONTENTS.
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
°a Elizabeth BatbGrStSts, Sydney
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs. F. & W.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
N.B.—QUEENSLANDERS are hereby informed that a person advertising as Dr. Wallace-
in Brisbane is in no way connected with the institute.
HOME TREATMENT


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
'•.Va'.v:
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
preparation.
MARVELLOUS
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Remnvif n c+ d - Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Restores tHe H °*C»«e an, Jewe „er,
J; or Sale all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
e-i i , ioles, ale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
d
Amuseme ncs.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas.. J. B. Moutrie.
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
J. O. WILLIAMSON’S ITALIAN OPERA COMPANY.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 3, the Great Double Bill,
CAVALLERIA RUSTICANA and I PACLIACCI.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, ERNANI.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCT. 5, Gounod’s FAUST.
Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Stalls, 3s. ;
Family Circle, 2s. ; Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
THE BIG NEW PROGRAMME
by the
THE WORLD’S ENTERTAINERS
(POLITE VAUDEVILLE)
HAS MADE AN IMMENSE HIT.
REMEMBER Ml
EVERY NIGHT and at the
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30 p.m.
No Extra Charge for Reserved Seats.
PRICES—Is., 2s. and 3s.
Seats at Elvy’s and Theatre.
EMPIRE THEATRE, SYDNEY
Oastlereagh-street, Next Fire Station.
FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE COMPANY.
Every Evening at 8. Saturdays at 2.30.
SPECIAL HOLIDAY MATINEE, EIGHT-HOUR DAY.
Starring Features, Mr. WILL WATKINS, Laughter
Oompeller ; ILLUSTRATED SONG RECITALS, “ The Ship
on Fire ; ” Professor T. M. MACKAY, Champion Dancer ;
ALBERT LUCAS, &c.
Prices 25., Is., 6d. Children Half-price except F.O.
Matinees, Children Half-price All Parts.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDN E Y.
■ Under the Management of Mr. Robert Brough
Representative .. .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
LAST THREE WEEKS of
THE BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY.
EVERY EVENING at 8.40,
Sweet and Twenty,
A Comedy in Three Acts, by Basil Hood.
Preceded, at 8 o’clock sharp, by THE BUGLE CALL
Box Plan at Elvy’s, George-st. Prices as Usual.
LYCEUM T HEAT RE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. William Andbrson.
ENORMOUS DRAMATIC BOOM
Achieved by the Latest Surrey Success,
THE Oil PH AW HEIRESS.
LAST TWO NIGHTS.
SATURDAY EVENING, OCT. 6, A LONDON ARAB
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
H E « MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
" Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. E J Tait
SATURDAY, OCT. 6, RETURN of the FAVORITES
J. 0. WILLIAMSON’S OPERA CO.,
In the Brightest of all Musical Comedies
THE CASINO GIRL.
ni?i eSS o oi £ c ‘ e }} ea - ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s. 3
USE
SPOONER’S
m
a
m
SPOONER S
v
I a tint l£athe« boots
GLAZED RIOS &?
I#**♦*.* art*
• W».(»i(
=aaili]J
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blaoking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Amusements.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
MADAME DANTE in her Illusionary Dance Creations
ZOBEDIE.
PROFESSOR OE WYNNE. Mr. EDGAR CRANVILLE.
Mr. TEDDY BOX. WINSCHERMANN’S BEARS.
THE POCKET COMEDIAN. LITTLE CULLIVER.
THE DIAMOND DUO. Miss IVY SCOTT.
LENNON, HYMAN and LENNON, FLORRIE RANGER,
STELLA RANGER, &e„ &e., including
THE AMERICAN BIOSCOPE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturdays & Wednesdays.
DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Lessee .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Sub-Lessee .. .. .. Mr. William F. Hawtrey.
THE HAWTREY COMEDY CO.
The Funniest of Farcical Comedies,
TOM, DICK, a rad HARRY,
Preceded by “ A HIGHLAND LEGACY.”
PRICES—Ss., 35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Allan’s.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE.
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
RICKARDS' TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY
COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, THE TYLER FAMILY,
in their Unique and Unequalled Risley Act.
FRED. BLUETT, Comic Vocalist and Eccentric Dancer
Re-appearance of FRANK LEON, England’s Greatest
Character Comedian and Champion Dancer of the World.
And Miss LIZZIE KIRK, the Fascinating Young English
Serio and Comedienne, and all Our Great Co.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, LAST NIGHT of
RIDING TO WIN.
SATURDAY, OCT. 5, For a Few Nights Only, a Story
TAKEN FROM LIFE.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s CHRISTIE SIMONSENS. Bus. Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE^
• Sole Lessee .. ..Mr. George Musgrove.
Under the Direction of Mr. Tyrone Power.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, LAST NIGHT of
THE ONLY WAY.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 5, TRILBY
For a Few Nights Only.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager, FRANK MUSGROVE.
W ° R F AI XI,
Exhibition Building,
Melbourne.
Opening Day: SATURDAY, OCT. 12, 1901,
TO BE CONTINUED FOR 4 WEEKS.
GRAND PROGRAMME OF AMUSEMENTS.
£lOOO
To be Given for CYCLING. ATHLETICS and
TUC-O’-WAR, &c., &c.
Also :
ART UNION.
VALUE:
£lOOO 13\r FRIZES.
TICKETS, is.,
Admit to Fair and Give Ohance in Art Union.
P. J. O’CONNOR, Hon Sec.,
Modern Chambers, Melbourne
Medical.
The Eucrasg Company’s Book
. . ON . .
DRUNKENNESS.
The Eucrasy Company, of Sydney, extracts from whose
book on the disease of drunkenness have been published
by this paper from time to time, have lately issued the
third edition of their pamphlet, explaining the action of
Eucrasy, and pointing out their method of curing those
addicted to the liquor habit.
The Eucrasy cure is one of the oldest, having been
before the public since 1882, at which time sanatoriums
were in successful operation in many cities in America,
and the succees of their remedy is shown by hundreds of
grateful patients all over the world.
A well-known merchant, residing at Newcastle, says :
“ I have much pleasure in testifying to the excellent
qualities of Eucrasy. I felt even after the first dose a
different person, and may say now that lam cured. The
craving has entirely gone, an d I can with full confidence
recommend it to anyone, no matter what hold the liquor
habit may have of them.
“ Thanking you sincerely for your kindness, I am,
yours faithfully,
Any reader of The Bulletin can obtain this book free
by addressing THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
i
PHYSICIAN
AND
Registered by the
Medical Board
of N.S.W.
SURGEON
H A V . IN . G had 30 years experience in all parts of the world, and also having I , , ,
whn! 18 S a PoSltl ° n t 0 treat eV6ry Case s «bmitted to him according o § the method “? ™ tende * tri P fchrou gh Europe and America, he
whole world. amg to the methods of the most recent and eminent Specialists of the
Every Case treated on its own
Sufferers at a distance, unable to describe their eases to their own satisfaction, shonid write for D WaWa
“Guide to Diagnosis”
which will allow them to give exact and full nartiVnln™, „ , ~ *
method of treatment. ’ as ° enable him to report fully as to the disease and its radical and rational
The publication of crowds of symptoms, testimonials and (Personally, or by Letter),
should look with h doubtful eye upon all those who “ doth protest too much!” SRIII a ° d attamments savours too much of self-praise ;so the public
Dr. Watson does not pretend to say that “ One Pound is sufftr' -it
public are quite satisfied to pay a fair price for fair and legitimate treatment! ’ “ Stated in Certain advertisements, for he considers that the
Write for small
“ Guide to Health,”
and Method for Self-Diagnosis.
(Please mention this paper when wilting.)
D
R
137 Elizabeth-St.,
SYDNEY.
k
B
A Brisbane Appetite.
Nobopy can tell the following story better than
the writer tells it himself.
“In 1891,” he says, “I first experienced the
miseries of acute indigestion. I was obliged to
knock off work, and suffered agonies for two
months. Then I felt slightly better and went
back to my post at the North British Fire Brigade
Station, and stayed there until the great flood in
1893.
“Then I had a terribly severe relapse which
laid me down for ten months, seven weeks of it
being spent in the hospital.
“ Several doctors attended me, but they failed
to effect a cure.
" Yet, at the end of ten months I felt somewhat
better, and being of an energetic disposition, I
started in to work again.
“I managed to keep at it for six months and
then collapsed completely, and resigned my
position in the Brigade.
“On returning home several of my friends
urged me to put my faith in Seigel’s Syrup, and
in that only, saying they had known it to cure
cases as bad as mine. ‘Don’t be down-hearted,’
they said.
“On this I began using Seigel’s Syrup (and
Seigel’s Pills occasionally) and gradually got
better. When I had taken about twelve bottles
in all, I was so much better, I accepted a position
as mate in a ship going to trade in the Islands —
taking a supply of the Syrup with me.
“ I must mention that I kept on using Seigel’s
Syrup until we got to Sydney, and then I was
quite restored to health, and have been perfectly
well ever since.
“My health is now splendid; my appetite is
excellent, and all the bad symptoms I once had
are gone like an ugly dream after morning breaks.
“ My wife uses the medicine for a milder form
of indigestion than mine was, and is as firm a
believer in it as I am.
“I will name a few of the peculiarities of the
aggravating and dangerous disease as it affected
me. There was always a bad taste in my mouth,
my breath was bad, and I used to retch frequently
after eating ; I belched continually, lost flesh, and
had thin, lantern jaws.
“Scores of friends and acquaintances can
testify to the truth of what j have said. It is
certain that Mother Seigel’s Syrup cured me
when all other medicines and forms of treatment
proved to be no good, and I have to thank the
Syrup only for the fact that I am now a strong,
healthy man. I have now been nearly three
years in the employment of the Queensport Meat
Company, but my home is at the address given
below.” A. C. Blackmann, Myrtle Villa, George
Street, Kangaroo Point, Brisbane, Q. September
Oth, 1900.
At Poverty Point.
Mr. Tyrone Power writes from Melb. Princess’s In
justice to Mr. Maurice Barrymore, who is not here himself
to make the. author of the foul remark ‘literary bounder,’
bite every bitter word of it, permit me to speak in hi's
behalf. Far from being a ‘bounder’ of any sort, Mr.
Barrymore is a man respected in America and in England
for his talents as an actor and an author. Your ‘ scribe ’
here accuses Mr. Barrymore of forming his play
‘Nadjezda’ upon the models of Sardou’s ‘Fedora’ and
‘La Tosca.’ Why ? What does he know about the
matter? Had he made inquiries, or sought for infor-
mation, instead of relying upon his ignorance, he would
have learnt differently. As a matter of fact, ‘Nadjezda’
was written long before either ‘ Fedora ’ or ‘ La Tosca ’—
Barrymore having no other inspiration than his own
intelligence ; Mr. Barrymore himself lending the play to
Sarah Bernhardt, with a view to its production in Paris,
and when later Bernhardt produced ‘ Fedora ’ by Sardou’
Mr. Barrymore threw the gauntlet of plagiarism' into Mr.
Sardou’s teeth. The gauntlet has yet to be taken up ”
[To which The Bulletin scribe : Ist. That Mr. Barry-
more’s yarn re Sarah Bernhardt, “ Nadjezda,” and Sardou
looks like mere authoi’s bluff—an advertising dodge.
If he ever did charge Sardou with plagiarism in the long
ago, when Tyrone Power was a youth, then the eminent
French author treated Barrymore as a “bounder” by
ignoring his “ gauntlet.” Probably the “ gauntlet ” story
is a modern fiction. What does Mr. Power know about
the matter, except what he has heard from the older
showman ? 2nd. The Bulletin scribe is a better authority
» h irwi Mr ' >?' cor ’ cer,UlI n theatrical matters in 1883 when
previous ™imT W Nadjezda ”
previous to 1883, why wasn’t it staged by Barrymore
’ ar ‘ d T h ' V didn ’ t the American 3 press
notices of Nadjezda —notices so sweet and foolish that
they might have been written by the author himself—make
TnZZiTZ t 0 the plagiarism of SarS
instead of re erring to “Nad.” as a play which only
slightly resembled “ Fedora,” and was a great improve-
ment (ye gods !) on the French work. Mr. PoweiTletter
looks particularly bluffsome in the light of a booklet of
Fimahv a "ri!!rm notlces issued by him a few weeks ago.
1 mally, The Bulletin scribe, in his wisdom and kindness
‘Swi° r » a ■ Tyro " e „ Power t 0 abandon the delusion that
13 a famous” or profitable play for any
ml ™ g , mat, ag:er to get struck on. Actors judge
vamtv y “w e i- 'fri 1 ma,fe the public smile at their
t Nadjezda ’’ was not a big success in London,
nor is there any Australian record of its ever having
been a phenomenal boom in the land of Barrymore.]
Kalgoorlie Sun 'seems to have been narked by the dis-
XtF that t l‘ e «rn- orodora ’” wh!ch lately boomed in the
West, was not Williamson’s original No. 1 article. It was
much about the same show which had satisfied Ballarat
and Bendigo, and other cities of considerably greater
tonnage than Kalgoorlie, but the Sun made scornful
r A w rk r Up , on c J£. e a A*t ged s . alaries of the principal ladies
(Australian] of this No. 2 ” crowd, in comparison with
the alleged remuneration of some imaginary English
artists who had played the same parts in Mel-
bourne and Sydney. By way of soothing Kal-
in Tub ' Bulletin mav as well slate
that the only lady (Grace Palotta) imported for
Williamson s original production of “Florodora” speaks
with an Austrian accent. Other girls concerned
m ,^ le , rec:o , r< J run vvere Australians—mere natives, grown
and educated on the soil, allee same as clever Rose Mus-
and lt:r , sister-angels of the W.A. touring co. So
the Bun may be said to have gone down upon its wrath
sornewhat heavily. Nathless, the pink-colored paper’s
poetical address to manager Williamson is worth quoting :
P r aps you think because we’re diggers that we book our
seats with “ slugs,”
And our towns are mostly tailing-heaps and tents.
Alas, the days are over for the nugget-spending mugs,
We are civilised by rates and “ 3 per cents ”
Tis true that at the Boulder all the Florodora Co
Were invited to a civic jamboree,
Which meant that Messrs. “ What’s-Their-Name,” and
also “ So-and-So ”
Would be asked to witness each performance free.
You have sent us decent dramas and a biograph or two—
Latest Pictures from the Seat of War,” you brought *
And, though we cheered each battle-scene, our doubts
were j ust a few
Concerning where these “ gory fights ” were fought.
You presumed on past successes, and you sent the awful
Nance,
And, before we’d quite recovered from the blow,
You rounded up the stragglers from the mob of song and
dance,
And we get them as the Florodora Co.
Regina Nagd was presumably known to Nellie Mitchell
Melba m her Very young days, for her father had a small
farm at Lilvdale (Vic.), close to the station of David
Mitchell. Regina joined the local 0. of E. choir, and
when Bishop Goe came on a tour she was selected to sing
the solos in honor of the visit. Mrs. Goe remarked the
beauty of the young girl’s voice, and took an interest in
her later when, through the kindness of some Lilydale
friends, she came to Melbourne to get tuition from Mine
Steinhauer. Everyone now knows that Nagel’s first
success was her singing of “ Ben Bolt ” behind the scene
in Trilby, but the story of her subsequent Westralian
tour is not so well known. Zeb. Lane asked her and the
company with which she was travelling to visit the Great
Boulder mine, and way down in the bowels of the earth
the organ-toned contralto was persuaded to give ’em the
Lost Chord.” Naturally, the little crowd thought thev
had never heard anything half so beautiful, in a mine dr
out of it. The managers of other mines on the Boulder
Mill got her to visit their shows and sing, and the amiable
young woman did her throat considerable harm bv
obliging them. J
There s a horrible fascination for the public in the
dinner of steak and ’taters which Bland Holt furnishes
for the Baker household in his latest drama. Bland
ostentatiously peels the bond-fide vegetables and pops
them into a pot over the stage fire what time the steak is
getting cooked. A few minutes later the meat is dished
the taters also are turned out of the steaming pot, and
the company start a savage attack on their respective
helpings just ere the curtain falls. The actual consump-
tion of steak is so palpable that the audience are filled
with misgivings re the potatoes. Sympathetic matrons
protest against Bland’s inhumanity. lie gets credit for
ordering the co. to devour ’taters which were not more
than lOsec. “on the boil.” Even strong men totter forth
to the refreshment-bar exclaiming, “ Godelpem if thev
swallow those spuds ! ” J
“H-” : T , Maud , Wheeler says In ’ing is 72 - He is 63
(Belike. But a lady of 72 i 5.27.— Ed.)
At Hexham (England) recently, a miner)
charged with assaulting the police, asked for
mercy on the plea that he was the father of 32
children.


A. SAUNDERS,
Leading Art Jeweller & Silversmith,
Showrooms s
815 George St., Sydney
%
/
N
A.SAUNDERS
815. 817 CEORr.ES T
„ SYDNEY
m
/
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Reliable LEVERS—“THE CHAL-
LENGE,” 15s. The UNRIVALLED LEVER, in
Black or Nickel, 20s—perfect timekeeper. The
LONDON LEVER, new f-plate model, 25s ; in
Solid Silver, -£2 2s ; in Double-case, £2 10s, £3.
ROTHERHAM LEVERS, £3 10s, £4, £5, £6, £7,
£B. Gold Watches, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O. Mind, we guarantee you
the utmost satisfaction, “otherwise we will
exchange watch- fol" you.” Send for illustrated
book of particulars, post free.
V VV V v U vV > Vvw
Solid Gold CHAIN (Single or Double), £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5.
15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO.
Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
9c. Gold Heart Amethyst Brooch, 7s 6d.
17 Pure Double Cut Diamonds, extra strong, 15c.
Gold Brooch, £l2 10s ; with Ruby or Sapphire
Centre, £lO 10s.
Gold 2-Bar and Pearl Turquoise Set Scroll
Brooch, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Motto Registered Gold “Dinna Forget’
Brooch and Amethysts, 9c. Gold, 17s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
Gold Heart and Key with Ivy Brooch with
Diamond, 20s ; 15c. Gold, 35s ; 18c., £2 ,ss.
Solid Gold, “Mizpah,” “Good Luck,” with
Amethyst Heart, 12s 6d.
o
16c. Gold, 2 Bamboo Bar and Pearl Set Scroll
Brooch, 15s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 30s. Very neat.
WP
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Federal Brooch, with Pretty Enamelled
Flag and Gold Spray, 22s 6d ;
With Good Wishes, 15s 6d
_
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered) Gold Secret Name Brooch, 15c. Gold,
Diamonds, £2 10s and £3. Any Name or Motto
Free. Six different patterns, similar.
Gold Bracelet, 4 Heart Opals and 10 Pearls, £2 15s. Brooch to
match, 355. Very Pretty and Effective.
A. SAUNDERS.
Name Bracelet, Gold Bands, Any Name, 25s ; 15c. Gold, £3 ;
Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 30s to £4.
Gold Diamond and Ruby Bracelet, £2 15s. Very Pretty.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bamboo Bracelets, 18s 6d ; wider, 21s, 80s, 365, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Designs; Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Diamond and Red Stone,
Scroll and Bell, 21s ; 16c. Gold, £2 ss.
71 »
Gold Bracelet, 8 Opals, 24 Pearls, £2 15s. Brooch to match, 355.
Very Pretty.
15c. Gold Pearl and Turquoise Pin, Ladies' or Gent.’s, 20s.
Newest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2-Bar Scroll Chain and Bell Brooch, 15s.
Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Solid Gold Spray Brooch, Diamonds and
Rubies, £l2 10s; All Diamonds, £l5.
Gold Forget-me-not Chain and Heart Brooch
11s 6d ; with Amethyst, 12s 6d.
A. SAuW DEBS.
Registered Gold G*™d Wish Brooch, 13s 6d J
16c. Gold, 265. Silver, 4s 6d;
I
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Butterfly Brooch, Pearls, Red or
Blue Stones, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Gold 2-Bird 2-Heart Amethyst
Brooch, 20s ; Pearl Set Bird, 22s 6d ;
16c. Gold, £2.
S-Bar and Garnet Brooch, 15s, larger size, 21s
Gold 2 Birds, Chain and Heart
Full size, 10s ; small, 8s 6d.
Gold Brooch, 2
Heart, Ruby
A. SAUNDERS.
Shields and Hatchet, Chain and
and Pearl, 15s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 355.
a Q
Gold 2-Bar Brooch Scroll, Pearl Set with Red
Stone, 20s.
GENT.’S RING.
Solid Gold Amethyst, 255.
15c. Gold, £2; 18c., £2los
fcai*
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, 3 Pure Dia-
monds, 2 Opal Hearts,
£4 10s. Latest Style.
18c. Solid Gold
MAPQUIS RING, Dia-
monds and Rubies, Sap-
phire and Opal Centres,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
18c. Solid Gold, Extra
Strong and Heavy, 1 or 3
Diamonds, £2, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £5.
18c. Buttercup Single-
stone Diamond RING,
£3, £4, £5. .
16c. Solid Gold RING,
Red Stone and 2 Dia-
monds, 25s ; similar, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Band, Opal,
17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 30s ;
18c. Gold, £2.
Send for Size Card.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s, £2,
k 2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5;
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
Gold “ Good Luck ” Brooch, 10s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 21s.
Lonn WATCH
BETWEEN ‘ ME
2.THEE WHEN
MIZPA
WE ARE. AISEMT
ONE FJOM
-
Gold “Mizpah” Brooch, 2 Ivy Leaves,
Heart and Bow, 12s 6d ; Silver. 4s 6d.
GOLD CHARM, i.iitli, Hope, and
Charity, 7s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 15s.
£2x3
is&sxz
A. SAUNDERS.
Bar Raised Flowers, 5s 6d ; Larger,
6s 6d; Largest size, 7s 6d.
These are indeed very pretty.
Our Stock of Ladies- Engagement the
Largest and Best Value .n
gjr Send for Illustrated Booh and
A. SAUNDERS.
16c. Gold Baden-Powell Sword Pin, Turquoise and Pearls, £2.
g
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain, Snap Padlock
255, 30s, 355, £2 ss,
£3 ; 15c., £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6,
£7 10s, £B, £9, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold Pearl and Turquoise
Floral and Ribbon Brooch, £2
10s. London’s Newest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Heart Brooch, Tur-
quoise and Pearl Centre, 20s.
Newest Style.
16c. Gold 2-Bar Diamond and 2 Bed
Stones, 25s
A. SAUNDERS.
New Wish Bone and Arrow, with Red
Stone, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid Gold Name Brooch, 7s 6d ;
With Raised Flowers, each side (Any Name)
GOLD (JKOSS,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s,
255, 30s ; smaller,
ss, 7s 6d, 10s.
Gold Heart Locket
7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
Three Sizes.
Heart CHARM,
with Amethyst
and Pearls,
8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM.
New Gold Bell,
•7s 6d.
Gold Heart and Dumbbell LINKS,
12s 6d ; 15c., 25s ; Silver, 3s 6d.
w\
15c. Solid Gold Opal LINK, with
Initial, £2 10s. Extra Strong.
Newest Solid Silver
FEDERAL MEDAL, 2s.
15c. Gold 2-Heart with 2
Opal Hearts, Ivy Leaf,
Knot and Diamond,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold Pearl and Tur-
quoise Heart Brooch,
£2 2s. The Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d.
Our own Registered
Design.
18c. Gold, 3 Sap-
phires or Rubies and
4 Diamonds, £3,
£3 10s, £l, £5.
The latest 18c. Solid
Fold Single Stone
Ring, £2, £2 10s, £3.
Price to Size of
Diamond.
i
m
18c. Solid Gold, 3
Opals, 4 Diamonds,£s
Smaller Diamonds,
£2los, £3, £3 10s, £4
18c. Solid Gold, 5 Pure
Diamonds, £8 10s.
Smaller, £5, £6, £7
£7 10s to £3O.
18c. Solid Gold Dia-
mondßand,£2, £2los,
£3 ; 15c. Gold, 30s.
•iuyim
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s ;
15c., 30s, 35s ;
18c., 2§s, 30s, 355, £2.
Any Name Free.
Solid Gold Turquoise
and Pearl Ring, 12s6d.
Very Cheap.
GOLD SHIELD LINKS,
. 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
Smaller Shield, 15s 6d.
MIZPAH
GOLD
CHARM,
4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers,
9c. Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15c.
Gold, 15s ; extra heavy, 25s ; 18c. Gold, 20s ;
extra heavy, 30s, 35s’ 10s. Send for card.
Gold Cat CHARM,
with Pearl, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS (Regis-
tered) Gold LINKS, 20s ;
15c. Gold, 32s 6d ; Silver
& Gold, 10s ; all Silver, 5s
CALL AND SEE OUR JEWELLERY EXHIBITION—A SPLENDID DISPLAY;
Or Send for our 1901 Complete Illustrated Book, POST FREE ANYWHERE.
_
LEADING ART JEWELLER
815 & 817 George St.
Nearly Oppo-
site Railway
Station,
Sydney.


If you want to know why, in connection
with the ohemioal and similar industries, the
Germans are getting ahead of the rest of Europe,
let these figures soak in : Three months ago, in the
German soienoe high-sohools and the Universities,
there were 53,60!) students. And probably twice
as many were receiving lower-grade teohnioal
instruction.
Concerning newspaper thieves :—
Dear Bulletin, — Re the recent gaoling of a man
for derision of court in the stealing of Charles
Arnold’s “ What Happened to Jones,” and merely
altering the title. Can’t anything be done to impu-
dent thief-papers, like London Photo Bits, in which
(issue of 12/1/’01) I recently came upon an original
Bulletin story, printed l/ll/’OO, under title “ How-de-
do ? ” The London thieves had merely re-named the yarn
“Seventeen Years After,” and altered the locale from
Melbourne to London. The impudence of the thief-
editor is astounding, anyhow. I tried to sell a story to
a M.L. leading paper, but had it returned because “ they
could get things so much better from English magazines
for nothing.” I then went away, translated De Maupas-
sant’s “ La Rivi&re ” into English, brought it to the editor
as mine, and begged him to read it and compare it with
some of the English work. He read it, and was “ sorry to
say it was ‘ not up.’ ” I came down gradually from £1 to
2s. 6d.—and then told him the thing was a masterpiece
of the prince of short-story writers. But he only smiled
serenely and went on with his work.—P.A.
Premier Philp was recently asked by a
member of Q. Assembly, if he (the Premier) were
supplied by the questioner with the names of
civilservants employing colored aliens in Brisbane,
in contravention of the Pacific Island Laborers’
Act of ’92, would he prosecute. The Courteous
I riend of the Fatted Syndicate immediately
replied : “ The lion, member can lay the informa-
tion himself. If he does so he will be entitled to
half the penalty inflicted, the same as any other
informer ! ” The law with regard to the employ-
ment of Pacific Islanders is broken every day in
Queensland with absolute impunity—so long as
the offender is a Somebody.
■
p
dg
«SSS-3
■MMi
SSS&SfSJiSSaK
tit#
S§SSSSS
igS|ss
@Bl
■ 9SK
$S Photo from Life.
Original may be seen at 113, Begent Street, London, W.
dgd
' Y
■m
. Under Royal Patronage.*
koko for the hair
111 is a tonic, cleansing, invigorating preparation, causes the hair to grc"
I luxuriantly, keeps it soft and pliant, imparts to it the lustre and freshness
j| of youth, eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling, is the mo&t
i' cleanly of all hair preparations, and is perfectly harmless.
OLD PEOPLE LIKE IT
||l for its wonderful power to invigorate decayed hair, and induce an enth
lii new growth when that is possible.
middle-aged people like it,
111 because it prevents them from getting bald, keeps dandriff away, and
IN makes the hair grow thick and strong.
YOUNG LADIES LIKE IT
mi as a dressing, because it gives the hair a beautiful glossy lustre, ensures c
luxuriant growth, and enables them to dress it and keep it in any style
' ll that may be desired.
CHILDREN LIKE IT,
||| because it keeps the hair and scalp cool and clean, allays irritation, rr
il‘ keeps the hair in whatever position desired
THEY ALL LIKE
IT,
because it is as pure as crystal, perfectly colourless, contains no poisonous-
substance, no sugar of lead, sulphur, nitrate of silver, or grease, end decs
not soil or colour the scalp, face, or the most delicate fabric in rlothinf.
produces a wonderfully pleasant and cooling effect on the head, and no
other dressing is needed to give the hair the most beautiful appears n/ 1 •
possible. Try it once, and you will use no other. It contains n
colouring matter or dye.
1
g
KOKO is sold in 1 /•, 2/6 and 4/6 bottles everywhere.
Australian Depot. Koko-Maricopas Co. Ltd., 34, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
> CAUTION—See that this Registered Trade Mark is on every bottle
d
sm
mo.
mo,
mo
mo
mm
mm
mo
ffir 'O,
mo,
mo,
Beanie’s
TJHJES FAMOUS REMUDY FOR
tire.
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION.
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA. ’
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough Difficulty of Braafliino TT r> •
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable as it effects a GomnW C lloar ®f l ? ess ’ J 7 im or
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Con,sunn,Lion to 18 a** 1 '
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose7s
and a Complete Cure is certain. ° geneiauy sumcient,
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearue.—Dear Sir, —I ail' writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first, the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great rpiantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS ccUE.
Dear Sir. —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once', and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Wodewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was setfen months old. She had been suffering from
broil bit is from her birth, and now she is 3'years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUBTLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had vary bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of then’. The housemaid also had such a severe
' cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
i cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
' commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
I “ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
"Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“ Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.*
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenweliyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows:—“As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
. Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do-send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told I
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it, I
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her ;
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply."
12 Tears’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone. New South
Wales.'*
A Five Tears’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
sir >“~ Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
an d apparently beyond hope of recovery,
rhe first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and l steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville.
Queensland, writes : —“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to tryHearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and sinoe then
which was in the beginning of 1883- 16years ago-I have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending:it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma."
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE
PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
. Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel 3562
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Fast to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
.lxndon Medical Record.
FOOD fob
Infants
9
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
ecjjyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER'S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Ac., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food' has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Mkdical Journal.
Invalids
AND
THE AGED.


Nervousness and General Debility.
Suffered enough to break
anv Constitution.
Another Thorough Restoration.
The Case of
MRS. FRANCES STARR
(BY a special.)
Our representative called upon Mrs.
Frances Starr, of 206 Victoria Street North,
Darlinghurst, for the purpose of ascertaining
the particulars concerning her recovery from
a distressing, attack of nervousness and
general debility, and upon explaining the
nature of his errand was cordially invited to
take a seat.
“ To what cause do you assign the com-
mencement of your suffering? ” enquired the
reporter.
“Well, I must tell you that some years
ago I contracted an internal complaint which
caused me to undergo medical treatment,
and the pain I endured at that time was
enough to break down any woman’s con-
stitution for life. When the doctors had
done all they could for me I was too weak
to do anything, and as I have always been
used to doing plenty of work you may guess
how low-spirited I felt. My nerves were
quite shattered, and the simplest thing
would cause me to tremble most violently.
It is impossible for me to describe the head-
aches I used to have, and they probably
seemed all the more painful because I could
scarcely ever get to sleep, and whenever I
did manage to snatch an hour’s doze it was
of such a restless description that I did not
feel any benefit from it. I would wake up
with a start, and my nerves would shake all
over my body. A feeling of abject depression
was always upon me, for I commenced to
despair of ever getting well and strong
again. When in these despondent moods I
was frequently seized with hysterics, and
would sit and cry for hours. My face was
thin and as white as a ghost’s, and my lips
were dry and bloodless. Whenever I at-
tempted to walk about a sensation of giddi-
ness would come upon me, and I had great
difficulty in saving myself from falling. To
make matters worse, I was everlastingly
catching colds—through being so weak, I
suppose —and so I had to wrap myself in
flannels ; but that did not prevent me catch-
ing thorn all the same. My constitution,
was that weak and exhausted, and there
appeared so little hope of recovery, that I
lost interest in life.”
“ Your nerves must have been greatly
unstrung?”
“ That is no name for it. They were in a *
state of collapse; for the slightest noise of
an unusual kind would cause a feeling of
terror to run through me, and I did not like 5
being left by myself. The sound of children’s
voices was a source of annoyance to me, and
I was nearly always in an irritable mood.
My greatest trouble, I believe, was an entire
absence of appetite, because I knew that if
I could persuade myself to eat a little there
was yet a chance of becoming stronger.
But it rarely occurred that I could touch
any food, and, as a consequence, I became as
thin as a skeleton.”
“Were you receiving medical advice all*
this time ? ”
“Oh, yes; but it did not improve my
condition in the least. I was thoroughly
prostrated for weeks, and unable to attend
to my business, although I took all the
medicines and pills that the doctors pre-
scribed—all to no purpose. Nothing they
ordered mo did the slightest good. I was
becoming weaker and more nervous every
day through my inability to eat and sleep,
and would spend my time picturing a miser-
able future for myself. The physic I used
to take according to my doctor’s instruc-
tions had but one effect—that of making me
feel sick, and increasing the misery of my
feelings after each dose. My condition was
about as hopeless as it is possible to imagine,
and I felt quite sure that I would never be
able to go about my work like I used to in
the days of my health and strength, which
appeared to have vanished for ever. Friends
would call and sympathise with me, and
advise me not to take any more of my
doctor’s medicines, but to try something
else. I did not follow their recommendations
for a long time, as I thought the medic al
man who was attending me ought to know
the best remedies for my case. But at last
my patience would hold out no longer, and
I began taking mixtures that I saw adver-
tised, and gave them a fair trial; but they
did me more harm than good. My hopes
were altogether shattered. There seemed
to be nothing for it now but to drag out an
existence of misery, as everything I bad
taken failed to cure i re. But lam thankful
to say that a lady living opposite, who had
a delicate daughter, happened to haar of my
condition and paid me a visit. The good
soul told me that her daughter had been a
similar sufferer to myself, and the same
medicine that had cured her would cure me.
‘lf you only take Clements Tonic I’m sure
it will restore your health.’ m3' friend said.
I naturally felt very doubtful about it, after
all the stuff I Rad taken before. I though fc
I was incurable. But, at all events, I bought
a bottle of Clements Tonic, and by the time
it was finished my health had greatl \ r im •
proved. My nerves were much steadier,
and the sleep that came to me, and which I
needed so much, relieved the dreadful head-
aches from which I used to suffer so terribly.
My appetite was at once regained, and my
friends were delighted with my steady pro-
gress. I took five bottles altogether, and
during that time I grew stronger and
brighter every day. The nervousness dis-
appeared, and I speedily became as healthy
and happy as you see me now. I never
experience headaches, and my meals are
always a pleasure to me. I can go through
a good day’s work without feeling any ill
effects, and am so grateful to Clements
Tonic for my complete recovery that you
can publish my case in any form you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION
1, Frances Starr, of 206 Victoria Street North,
Darlinghurst, Sydney, in the Colony of New South
Wales, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consisting of
four folios and consecutively numbered from one to
four, and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic,
and also contains my full permission to publish in
any way my statements—which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act
made and passed in the ninth year of the reign of
her present Majesty, intituled “An Act for the more
effectual abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken
and made in the various Departments of the Govern-
ment of New South Wales, and to substitute Declara-
tions in lieu thereof, and for the suppression of
voluntary and extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits."
a
Declared at Sydney, this 27th day of July, ona
thousand nine hundred, before me,
FREDEII.UK PENNY, J.P.
STRENGTH
FOR
THE
WEAK.
Dr. JAMES WILSON writes: “ I have thoroughly examined and tested Hale’s
new Patent Electric Belt, and I am satisfield that not only is it a genuine article, but
it generates an electric current capable of overcoming the resistance of the body. I
consider it a valuable agent, especially for ladies and gentlemen of tender skin, as no
metal substances come in contact with the body, and I am only too pleased to recom-
mend a genuine electric appliance.”
“ Dr. FOWLER presents his compliments to Messrs. Arthur Hale and Son, and
has much pleasure in stating that he has carefully examined their new improved
Electric Belt, and finds that it is perfectly genuine as to electric properties.”
Dr. DEWAR writes : “ I have examined Hale’s new Electric Belt, and find that
it is capable of generating a powerful electric current, although no metal substances
some in contact with the skin. I consider this a great improvement, as it prevents
the irritation so often caused by other appliances.”
PERCY NEWELL, L.R.O.S., L.R.O.P., writes: “There is no doubt about the
Electricity, as my patients constantly feel the current.”
“ THE MEDICAL MONTHLY,” August, 1893, says : “ The firm of Arthur Hale
ind Son, of 106 Regent Street, London, W., has distinguished itself in the develop-
ment of electrical science as a medical agent. By an entirely new method of applica-
tion they have succeeded in producing an Electric Body Belt, which for comfort,
efficacy, and genuineness, is unquestionably far superior to any previous invention.”
y
Hale &-Son’s Improved and Patented Electro-Galvanic Belts and Appliances are
feature's Chief Restorers. Our Plain Belt, our Special Belt and Suspensor for Gentlemen,
and our Abdorninal Belt for ladies are guaranteed to be the most Scientific and Genuine
Electric Appliances yet produced. They will speedily relieve and Cure Nervous Exhaus-
tion, Rheumatism, Pain and Weakness in the Back, impart tone and vigor to the whole nervous
system and make life a pleasure* We invite all sufferers, no matter what the disease or ailment niaj' be,
to call or send for our Free Book, entitled, 41 Modern Treatment of* Disease toy Electricity.”
Consultation Free.
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
105 Regent St., London, W.> and 44 CSASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
Please mention this paper.
Now
Ready,
A POLICY FOR THE COMMON WEALTH
Prioe 6d; IPosted Sci.
Business Announcements.
(aood Tailoriog.
SPRING.
New Neat Designs in Worsteds
and Tweeds.
PURE INDIGO SERGES.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &C.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post tree.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Mercers,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
AWARDED “ GRAND PRIX,” 1900.
See the Marvellous results obtained with the
No. 1 Panoram
KODAK
Which takes Wide Panoramic Pictures, Tin.
X 2£in., and is Loaded and Un-
loaded in Daylight; also the
No. 3 Folding Pocket
KODAK
Taking Pictures 3|in. x 4jin., fitted with
Rapid Rectilinear Lens, Brilliant View
Finder, made of aluminium.
Send for Illustrated Leaflets, and
mention this Papers
To be obtained of all Dealers throughout
Australasia, or of —
Ltd.
THE BLOCK,
284 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Medical.
NOTICE *
To sufferers f rom Gout,Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy. 1
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstrk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick (
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists '
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys '
all Parasites of Head or Body. <
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all <
Chemists in the Australian Colonies. c
POWELL’S BALSAM
aktSAMflp
tA^**
OF ANISEED
WILL CURE YOUR COUGH
All the world over, it has been the recognised
Cough Remedy for the past 75 years, and is
to-day the Safe and Reliable Cure for
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and all Lung Troubles.
Loosens the Phlegm immediately, and re-
moves the tickling sensation in the Throat,
which deprives so many of rest ourjng the
night. It Strengthens the Voice.
WARNING .—When purchasing
Powell’s Balsam of Aniseed
see the above Trade Mark on each wrapper
and beware of Imitations,
Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers through-
out the world. Prepared only by Thomas
Powell, Ld., Blackfriars, London, S.E.
"Tv EAR SIR, —I have heen cured of Weakness and De
-L' bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CF.OTtIING in Auttralia.
- LINCOLN,STUARTS 0.
* PHOPRIETART LIMITED,
262 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
g
Our Suit to order at 425. Is
marvellous value; made from
all-wool Tweeds.Vicunas, or fast
color Series ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class if material, £‘.l 3s. To
measure, capital Trousers, very
good patterns, 12s. (id.
Dress Suits, to measure.
Clerical Suits, to measure. £s*
Hiding Breeches, 255.
Hiding Habits, &c.
We supply ready-made. Men's
capital T weed Suits. 2 is. & 25*-
Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye,2ss.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergerette Suits, 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Berge
Trousers, ss, lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests, 19s. (id.
Men’s Grass Cloth- Summer
Suits, 19s. (id. White Dri l
Sacs and Trousers, 10s. (id.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, 12s (id
Black and Grey Alapaca Sac*,
(is. 9d. White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9d., 4s. 9d., ss. (i I
Travelling Trunks, Bai,s ai d
Hugs in great variety.
Men’s White Shirts, colored
front and cuffs, 2s. 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. (id.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket, 3s. (jd.
Solt Alpine Hats, 4a. 6d., all
colors.
Hard Hats, 4*. (>d. Caps, Is.
Merino Undershirts or l’ants,
ls.9d,
Neckties, all shapes and colors,
la.
Gents* splendid Balmoral Boots,
White Shirts to measure,
fia. 9d., 9s. (Jd.
We like to write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for any
information. Our book, “ The Philosophy of Dress ” 1
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement forms posted -five
Write for them.
BLAIR’S
GOUT { RHEUMATIC
FXX.X.S-
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALCIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These 'Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. l£d. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
€V€RY MAN
Should send for a VALUABLE PAMPHLET explaining
how all NERVOUS and ORGANIC derangements may be
SUCCESSFULLY TREATED by a NEW METHOD. It is
EASY and PLEASANT, and will effect a PERFECT and
PFRMANENT CURE. Sent post FREE. Address—
THE BOTANIC INSTITUTE, VICTORIA CHAMBERS,
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
ifHil
DEAF
by using Wilson’s Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Wonderful Results obtained in
cases considered beyond any
treatment. Soft, comfortable,
and invisible when in use.
Head Noises Relieved.
Pamphlets and Australian
Testimonials Free.
J. CHALMERS, Sole Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
CEB
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
Hand Head Noises, no matter of
■ how long standing. Are the same
f to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. 9
[DEAF
dg
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL. LIMBS.
d
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par -
tieulars, &c.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
M!
'?S;
m
Wm
mm,
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Gabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of thesa
Cabinets. Price 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne
Is your Hus-
band, Son,
Brother, or
Father a
PRUNKARP
If so, send us your Name and Address, with Id. to cover
postage, and we will send you in a plain envelope our
Booklet giving full particulars how to give EUCRASY
secretly in Tea, Coffee, Food, etc. It is odorless and
tasteless, and will cure this dreadful habit quietly and
permanently without the Patient’s knowledge or consent.
GOOD FOR BOTH SEXES.
Write THE EUCRASY 00., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney.
NOW READY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being a reprint of a large number of articles from
Tiie Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
Price 6d ; Posted 3d.


m
m
m
m
M
Hi
1
tea
§ m
p
ill
I
lisiy '
mm
mm
m
y\:
■ :
m
m
m
m
I
gsd
A WONDERFUL OFFER !!
150 PHONOGRAPHS^.
at a GUINEA each.
IT TALKS!
IT SINGS!!
IT PLAYS!!!
The Great Depot for
EBM'S 6EIIIME fhtllOEilPHS
THE NEW MODELS HAVE JUST ARRIVED.
The “ New Gem,” with Recorder
and Reproducer £2 10s. complete
The “Standard,” with Recorder
and Reproducer £4 10s. complete
Tho “ Home,” with Recorder and
Reproducer £6 10s. complete
Also in stock—
Edison’s Concert Grand Machines,
With Polyphone Attachments for same.
Edi Sop apd Colombia Records
NOT A TOY, but a ... .
First-class Little Instrument
that plays any instrument splendidly, talks like a
member of Parliament, and sings beautifully. It is
simple to use and only needs winding-up. Nothing can
be more amusing and entertaining than a Phonograph.
Please send your Order at once, as the number we have
is so limited. We have the largest stock of all classes
of Phonographs and Records in Australia, and shall
be glad to send a Catalogue to anyone wishing it.
No house should be without one. .Life is never dull if you have a Phonograph.
We offer a Phonograph, exactly as illustrated, and guarantee it, for £1 Is.
Records for it are 2s. each, or 21 S. by the dozen; you can either select
them yourself from our list of thousands, or leave the choice to us and we will
send you some really good ones. We have Comic Songs, Sentimental Songs,
Trios, Quartettes, Banjo, Trombone, Cornet, Violin Solos, &c., and Band Selec-
tions by the best bands. All One Price — 2s- each; 21 s. dozen.
■sm
4.
Br
m,
OSBORN & JERDAN,
OPTICIANS, .
ELECTRICIANS,
■ ■
&c.
PHONOGRAPH DEPOT : 393 George Street, Sydney.
The Great Smoke
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Here I am in London.
Is it really I,
Walking down High Holborn,
Unconcernedly ?
Circumscribing Fleet-street,
Wandering through the Strand.
Here I am in London.
“So I understand.
Here I am in London,
Someone just like me.
Not myself, of course not—
That could never be.
I shall never wander
Down a London street;
I am in the gums’ land
Where the curlews greet.
Who is this in London
Then, who wears my face,
Dons my clothes, and settles
In my little place ?
Who is this, for ever
Torn with joy and fear ?
Like me, but that my “ me”
Never could be here.
Who is this still figure
Sitting in St. Paul’s,
Gazing at the angels,
Drinking in the walls ?
Bending in the Abbey
To some golden name,
Kneeling to the pavement,
Kissing without shame ?
Ah, the Abbey’s Abbey,
And St. Paul’s St. Paul’s,
Though the halls of music
Be not Music Halls.
Yes, and London’s London,
Very big and spry,
But I cannot fathom
Who it is am I.
Some day it may happen
I may journey here —
Some day, in a distance
That will never near.
In the meantime, tell me.
Who I am to be :
Best pretend, since London
Seems to think I’m Me. ■
By the Indian Ocean,
Merry old Ceylon,
Mecca in the distance,
Suez coming on.
By the wicked Said lights
Flickering in the dawn,
By the white Crete Ranges
Where the gods were born.
On past pink Palermo,
Through the Golden Straits
purple twilight,
To the blazing gates
Of Stromboli’s island,
Flaming through its smok
Past the Rock and Fortress
Where a brave heart broke.
Five long weeks of water -
Time to think it out,
Time to know your Ego,
Find what you’re about.
And yet never, never
Can I think I’m 1,
London’s clean abstracted
My identity.
ENG.
LOUISE MACK.
Broughton, M.L.A. for King-division of
Sydney is the first legislator to indicate anv
regard for the Lord Howe Islanders. The island
is technically a portion of the King electorate, but
Jf.M? re alit y , so far as Parliament is concerned, a
disfranchised land. G. H. Reid, who nominally
represented it for nearly 20 years, never gave it a
moment s attention. Broughton purposes visiting
the island at an early date.
According to the latest available census
returns, there were in the cotton, woollen and
other textile factories of Britain 86,499 children
ot ten years and over, working half-time ; 88 696
Kin* coq , betv Y ee o 13 and 18 working full time;
610,608 females from 13 years upwards working full
time (ten hours per day), and 298,828 men—every
A l i oV ®rH 8 K U f lg . considered a man. Total
1,084,631 The half-time child of ten may begin
work at 6 a.m. and work five hours a dav Thi«
is Freetrade. Yet how beautiful it is'to hear
George Reid orating about the employment of
females in protectionist countries !
The threat of the Brisbane wharf authori-
ties to employ returned cohentingenters, should the
wharf-hands go on strike, recalls that during the
great ’BB maritime strike sis. Takapuna left Wel-
lington (M.L.) wharf with a stokehold crew of
coilege-boys. But by the time the vessel reachi d
the Heads her gallant stokers were all sea-sick
and it was with difficulty that she returned to her
berth.
Hicks, M.L.A. (Westralia), the gentleman
who says that he habitually attended nigger-
floggings, and who wants W.A. Parliament to
appoint a committee to find a verdict that the
treatment of the aborigines is all that can be
desired:—
With regard to the squatters .... they were law-
abiding and courageous, and he would ask 'if, amongst
men of that sort, one would expect to find cruel practices?
This kind of logic travels in a circle. First of all
(without waiting for any evidence), the squatter
isn’t the kind of man who would commit cruelties.
Then, as he isn’t the kind of man who would com-
mit cruelties, it is naturally absurd to suppose
that he would commit cruelties. Therefore, what’s
the good of saying any more about it ? Hicks also
“ quoted figures to show that black labor wpuld
actually cost twice as much as white labor”—
which is doubtless the reason why the squatter
uses it. The Bulletin could also quote figures to
show that Hicks’s uncle would have eight legs,
but it isn’t worth wasting space.


Nature’s Greatest Health Restorer.
GENUINE TESTIMONY.
Recommends it for Uric Acid Diseases.
“ Netley House, 15, Henrietta Street, Cavendish Square, W.
“NURSE BELL begs to thank Messrs. Kutnow and Co. for the
sample of Kutnow’s Powder forwarded to her. After having given
it a fair trial, she is much pleased with it, and will most certainly
recommend it to her patients suffering from ‘ uric acid ’ diseases.”
Diver Complaint Much Relieved.
“ Ballinamallard, co. Fermanagh, Ireland.
“Will you kindly forward me a bottle of Kutnow’s Improved
Effervescent Carlsbad Powder. I have used your sample bottle for
a patient suffering from liver complaint, and she was much relieved
after each dose. I think it a very good preparation, and very
pleasant to take. L. COLE, District Nurse.”
Lost All Symptoms of Rheumatism.
“ The Vicarage, Seaford.
“ Many thanks for sample of Carlsbad Powder. I found after
taking the first two doses that it was most beneficial. I had been
feeling very rheumatic, and, as I have had rheumatic fever, was
rather alarmed, but since taking 1 Kutnow ’ have lost all symptoms
of rheumatism. Have just ordered two large bottles. ... I con-
sider one cannot speak too highly of the grand results attending the
use of your Effervescent Carlsbad Powder. ... I am recommending
it to all my friends and patients. SISTER MARIE.”
Highly Approved by Medical Attendant.
“ Belfield, Lawrie Park Road, Sydenham, S.E.
“ Thank you sincerely for the sample of your Effervescent Carls-
bad Powder which I requested you to send me a short time ago for
the use of my wife, who has been in the habit of taking all sorts of
so-called * fruit salts,’ but which she has now discarded in favor
of your Powder, as she finds it far more beneficial, without, at the
same time, producing the excoriating effects which she used to
experience from them. I may add that her medical attendant, a
man of considerable practice in Sydenham, highly approves of her
use of your Powder. J. DENNY (Clerk in Holy Orders).”
Good Effect on the Digestive Organs.
“ 94 Westminster Bridge Road, S.E.
“ I have already used your excellent preparation, and am assured
that, had I done so years ago, I should have been saved an infinitude
of suffering from a derangement of the digestive organs. No saline
in the market can be even approximately compared to it as a
pleasant, efficacious, and absolutely painless laxative. The stomach
must be beyond human aid that would not benefit from its use
“T. S. LAWRENCE.”
Considered Excellent for the Liver.
“Roos Rectorv, Hull.
“ Thank you very much for sending me a sample bottle of your
Powder. It was owing to a friend having given me a dose of the
Powder, which I thought did me good, that made me send you the
order. I intend in future to keep a bottle by me, as I feel sure that
it is an excellent medicine for the liver.
“E. MILSOM.”
Unequivocal Approval from a Medical Journal.
“The MEDICAL TIMES and HOSPITAL GAZETTE” savs
“ S. KUTNOW and Co. exhibited an IMPROVED EFFERVESCENT
CARLSBAD POWDER, which is manufactured from the genuine
Sprudel Salt from the Carlsbad Springs, the unpleasant taste of
which is very effectually disguised, whilst its aperient action is not
impaired. It is a most, palatable and very efficient preparation, of
great therapeutic value, especially in hepatic and stomachic de-
rangements.”
POWDER
(Days & means to Health
“Follow the healthful laws of life, and you will avoid the
calamity of disease.”
The continuity of good health is necessary to the busy man,
but the worry of responsibilities and the every-day difficulties
tend to produce derangement of the system and mental aberration.
The wealthy man with leisure is ordered to a Continental Spa,
but to thousands of business men this remedy is impossible. By
the DISCOVERY, however, of KUTNOW’S improved effer-
vescent Carlsbad POWDER, all the advantages obtained from
a course of Continental Medicinal ‘Spring Treatment are
acquirable AT HOME FOR A TRIFLING EXPENSE.
If you are robust and strong, KUTNOW’S POWDER will
maintain and preserve your health. If sick and languid,
KUTNOW will cleanse you of all impurities and restore vitality.
If diseased and suffering from painful maladies, KUTNOW will
lay the foundation of speedy recovery by promoting a rousing
activity of the great organs of the'body. It cannot possibly
prove harmful, is absolutely safe, palatable, a perfect organic
cleanser, and THE S A VET Y VALVE OF HEALTH. By its
aid man becomes himself again, lives, breathes, and enjoys his
being, eats well, sleeps well, and works well. The stomach
resumes motility, the liver roused from lethargy, the kidneys
renew their filtering activity, and the whole system is cleansed
and restored to its normal functions.
KUTNOW’S POWDER is sold in capsuled bottles by all
first-class Chemists and Medicine Vendors everywhere. See
that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirschensprung ” (or Deer
Leap), and the autograph facsimile signature “S. Kutnow &
Co., Ld.,” are on the label and carton. Only these ensure
genuineness. Insist on “ KUTNOW’S,” and firmly refuse any
substitute—they are worthless, and often injurious.
A GRAND REMEDY.
“Eradicates Stubborn Diseases.”
The extraordinary complicated diseases resulting from
neglect of precautionary measures pass the wit of man. It
is not the business of Kutnow’s Powder to claim that it can
cure all the ills of mankind from Housemaid’s Knee to
ImpecUniosity. One solid, incontestable fact, however,
remains in the world-wide testimony of sufferers from
painful and distressing derangements, viz., that
KUTNOW’S POWDER not only prevents disease by its
marvellous cleansing properties, but absolutely eradicates
diseases that have become stubborn through neglect. If in
robust health, take KUTNOW’S POWDER on rising, and
you need never be ill; if ill, depressed, irritable, languid,
or sleepless, take “ Kutnow,” and the trouble will quickly
vanish ; the blood is purified, the heart beats more vigor-
ously, the liver quickens into action, and the kidneys are
regulated into increased efficiency. Thus does the man
become himself again, lives, breathes, and enjoys his being,
eats well, sleeps well, and works well.
Donald Nichol, Esq.,
President of the Engineering and Sanitary Association for
London and Middlesex, wrote :
“I am free to say to the acting authorities of the several hos-
pitals and infirmaries of which I am a Governor that great benefit
cannot fail to arise by the use of your Effervescent Carlsbad
Powder.”
“Land and Water” says:
“We have seen a letter from the Dispenser of.-the City of London
Hospital for Diseases of the Chest, requesting further supplies of
Kutnow's Improved Effervescent Carlsbad Powder, which had been
used in the wards with success.”
Dr. Andrew Wilson say :
Kutnow’s Effervescent Powder is a very safe and excellent
family medicine. The use in Gouty and Rheumatic condition, and
in Liver and Kidney troubles is especially indicative.”
THE SUPREME REMEDY FOR ALL DERANGE-
MENTS OF THE STOMACH, LIVER, SPLEEN,
KIDNEYS, AND INTESTINES. IT PREVENTS
AND RELIEVES SICK HEADACHE, NERVOUS
HEADACHE, LANGUOR, HYPOCHONDRIA,
BILIOUSNESS, DYSPEPSIA, CONSTIPATION,
MORBID DEPRESSION, INSOMNIA, DROWSI-
NESS, RHEUMATISM, GOUT, SCIATICA, AND
ALL CAUSES OF BRIGHT’S DISEASE AND URIC
ACID TROUBLES. INVALUABLE TO NURSES
BY PREVENTING INFECTION FROM ATTEND-
ANCE IN CONTAGIOUS CASES.
Proprietors :S. KUTNOW and CO., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C. Proprietors in USA. : KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York.
Concerning His Honor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I.
The firelight was playing strange tricks with two
faoes—one a woman’s, the other a man’s. They
sat motioiiiess, each following a train of thought
that carried them for the moment far apart.
The Woman, a 9 always, Was the first to break
the silence. She leant a little forward, shading
her face With her hand.
" I have a proposition to make to you. It in-
volves a rather nice point of honor,” she added,
and stole a look at him through her fingers ; then
Returned to her study of the fire.
The man, who sat lazily watching her clear
profile and the fine hand supporting her chin, said
nothing, so silence fell once more between them.
Presently she began to speak again in the slow
tones of matured purpose, shaping her proposal
in terse sentences,
“You know, of course, that the no-confidence
motion was carried this afternoon—the papers are
full of it. Already Harrison has been sent for by
the Governor; and he is at this very moment
Premier.” She paused an instant, and con-
tinued :
“He is a man who once did me the honor of
loving me. I refused him. His heart, in re-
bounding, Was caught by a frizzy-haired barmaid,
with china-blue eyes and plump cheeks. He mar.
ried her in his hour of pique—a substitute for me
He Would have bartered his immortal soul for me;
but I judged his soul to be trash, and scOrned the
exchange. However, he swore a vow—l can give
you his very words—they were, -somehow, burnt
in on my mind—‘Yes, little woman, thdse prbud
lips of yours shall plead with me some day as I
have pleaded with you to-day—l swear it—but
punishment shall come then, when I give
you what you ask.’ ” Her words rang out just as
his might have done, and she unconsciously raised
her head.
“Strangely enough, an idle vow has practically
reached its fulfilment.”
All hint of laziness had gone from the man’s
attitude ; he sat upright, still watching her.
“Well?”
She started as he spoke, artd recalled herself.
“I met him yesterday, at the garden-party.
We Came unexpectedly face to face.—No, thanks,
t like the fire <3n uiy face. —He still loves me.”
“ Still loves you ? ” the man repeated, mechani-
cally, with a faint note of interrogation.
She tapped her foot impatiently on the fender.
“For Heaven’s sake, don’t repeat my words—you
know how it irritates me ! ”
He sank back without a Word. He was accus-
tomed to this irritability in her, and merely
Waited till it should have passed. She resumed,
without preamble.
“I had it confidentially, yesterday, that the
Chief-Justice has sent in his resignation, it will
not be announced for some days, and no rieW
appointment will be made for a little while yet* I
have been anticipating this resignation, but never
dared to hope it would Occur simultaneously with
a change of Ministry* Fate, by playing into rriy
bands in this way, has crystallised an idea which
bas floated vagriely iri rriy brain fdr sonie tirrie.”
She glanced at him, arid Meeting tile veiled
ridffiiratidri iri his eyes, srriiled, with one of the
rare, sudden snides which never failed to set his
heart beating—as now.
_ “You never knew just how great my political
influence was before. I know many things before
the Premier himself. And now I come to my
proposal. Listen carefully, fori will waste no
WO rds in reiteration, .. . To-morrow lam going
to the Premier to remind him of his vow—as the
supplicant he prophesied—wait !—I shall ask
t° JP V ?, Gbief-Justiceship td ydri, . • • Sit
if™ a * r6eA J d : hear
Me orit; Hesidess* I know all you would Say in
reference to my dignity. We will disrriiss that,
Dignity is Often rriorri effective when dispensed
With for a moment.
“You would also remind me that there are at
a d< ?, zGn m en who have good claims to the
’Sd’S* tM’Xg
province will rise in its iridignatiori. My friend,
it has dorie that before, arid has speedily re-seated
itself—be sure it will do so agaii). Ydri would
Glainia ddzeri Menwhd
deserve the place. Td that I say, that df the
dozen dligibles dniy dne csn get it—leaving there-
fore eleven lamenting. Make them twelve—one
iriore matters little. Oh, of course there are a
thousand other things ; but we won’t gd Over
M 1 J A - vdn ’?
considered yoUr rittitride iri—in t h iri affair as
thoroughly da the rest of the scheme ? You fur-
riish a rather inipdrtririt detail, ybu know,” she
&a,id, With an attempt at levity,
.. !>” „ . .
„ Y ? U shadhear me^ rst ~I lnaist! ” ,
He bowed to the stronger will, and smothered
the fiery WQrds thafc his \ nger ’ threw G ff like
sparks.
“I shall not do this without your consent,” the
co °l voice continued. “It lies entirely with you.
Why else should I take you into ray confidence ?
It is my wish that you decide this yourself, as
there must be no cause for reproach of me after-
wards. For though you are not .as strong, as I)
even counting yOrif rigid code df hondur, I ldve
Jtoq.” The face arid voioe softeried indescribably.
“ That is rriy sdle reasdn for wishirig there should
be nd secret such ris that between us. If you are
made Chief-Justice .”
“Leila!” He towered above her—“ you have
enough. Are you mad ? You are almost
wanton—do you understand ? You shall not
St AquiverpLed over the upturned face, and he
was on his knees beside her in a moment. “ For-
S?’ ve me . dear, I was brutal.”
No ) V0!1 ? an knew better than tllis one when to
wheato command. She lowered her eyes
that he might not see the triumph in them. Her
victory she knew to be half-won.
“If you are madd Chief-Justice,” .she said*
bolding his gaze, “it means lriariy things. , Arl
, en d to poverty and bard work—an erid td daily
humiliations bdrne fdr my sake. It will place yd'ri
at a leap above your superiors.”
He winced; the slightest hint of her deprecia-
tion hurt hint like ft iash—ftil the nidre that the
depreciation wfts uriconscious:
“ Arid,” she paused— li it means that instead of
Waiting; 1(1, 20 years, while dur yduth dies slowly;
We can be. Married at once; ” .
, “Leila l” A dull-red flooded Lid face, ri look
leapt to his eyes before which her oWn fell: She
shrank back:
Suddenly his arms fell to his sides, and the light
died out of his eyes. “But it cannot be,” he
articulated, thickly; “it is only a wild, impossible
dream.”
“ Why—cannot—it—be ? ”
“Because of my self-respect—and yours.”
“It is a fine point,” she agreed, _ reflectively,
“but I would marry you to-morrow if it could be
rounded-off. In short,” she continued, “it
resolves itself into a question of honor dr me. ; Iri
my mind the twd art* ndt entirely irtdoMpatibid,
Hut I Must cdnsider ydur point df vieW., If yddf
ridnor is Mdre td ydu than Me I will fade out df
life, retiririg iri its favdr. The Mari I cari
ldve with thR, dhsdrptidri possible ,td tne
must ldvC nie above; All—hiS life—nis soul—hid
hondr. J will give you time ; as ydur decision will
be final;”
She rose as she spdke, and crossed the rddrri;
with ftn inexpressible grace df movement., The
Man watched her as shd passed, rind realised thftt
just sd Sue Wduid glide witri her long, slow steps
out df his life —as she had said, Theri tie knew
what She was to hinj, and hdw much he Wanted
her. A great wave df passidn svVept Him td her.
“Lon’t gd !.” he cried, iri a vdice she hrirdly
recognised, “ there can be, only one choice—you.
God ! how I love ydu.” Her slender form swayed
in the storm df his emotion, and the next moment
she had fainted in his armS;
. it: ,
. tPhe deserted ball-room gleamed redly; A
broken fan, a scrap of lace, a programme, re-
mained to tell the tale of ended revelry. The
Chief Justice and his wife stood side by side,
where they had said good-night to the last guest.
“ It has been our greatest success,” she said, at
length.
He was lost in a dream of other things, and
started as her voice cut the silence.
“You think so?” he queried coldly, relapsing
immediately into his former abstraction. She
looked at him critically, then walked to one of the
windows and flung open the shutter. Leaning
wearily against the sill, she strained her eyes into
darkness,, as if she Would wrest from the gloom
sdMe well-Hidderi secret.. A grist df, Wind.blew a
red candle-shade to thy flddr, and a door slriMMed
somewhere in a distant part df the House.
“Allow me to shut that window for you, or ydu
will have the entire scheme of decoration reposing
in the flower-bed presently.”
The refined irony of his tone struck dully on her
brain.
“And—if so—would it not be somewhat be-
fitting ? ”
“ Befitting what ? ”
“ This—everything ! How soon ” —stretching
out her hand in vague pain— ‘ ‘ life becomes a
handful of withered roses ; thrown carelessly on a
garden bed amongst the young buds. Thrown
there that they might realise to the full that
nothing lasts! ; . , And those same buds will
expand ldvipgly td the world to be shOrched ftnd
scarred, arid wither in their turri.! ”
“You grow reflective, rriy deftr—riot td say
dramatic.”
She turned and faced him. In her eyes shone
thfe niatrjX df ail passidriri; . ,
“ I had meant never to Speak df this,, but to-
night—ydu goad me td say things I shall repent
to-mdrrdW; These nionths have brought me the
kridwledge,thritydri ndltinger ldVe me, I do no’t
understand. Yoii are riot the, man td tire of ft
wdirian you ris ydu have loved me. . : I
have not altered ; I am all that I was; yet, ydu
do not love me. It has been no sudden change.
I have watched it day by day grow like a poison-
ous thing. I make you no appeal, for that might
cause you to despise me. I only ask a reason.
Despise me you never shall.”
He walked to the door, then turned as if
changing his mind, and came where she stood.
“ You are tight, Leila, I shall never despise
yop. That is Why I—liafd ydti ! ’
, She shivered and sWayrid slightly,- thdri, teflovrit-
tng hdrself, Stddcl With White face and piteous eyes
devouring his inscrutable expression. The glearri
df her rings dridghi hiS eye,' and he ndticpd With
the. eye df a cdnndissedr the exquisite effect df he#
White hand agdirist the heavy blue durfcdin §iid
clung td fdr support:
,l I will explain it td ydu as well ris I cari; since
ydu wish it, arid because ydur intelligence; as
always, comrriands niy respect: I hate you ” —the
cdld voice Continued, dissecting emotions carefully
“ without passidri ; therefore the case is hope-
-IBSS.”. •
A singular sniild flitted acrdsS llflf Hpri
“.I hate you—fdy all this:” . ~
ite lodked rdurid the rodni as he Spoke. Great
topes df wheat rind pdppies hring frond the Ceiling
in festddris, rind ri hundred Shaded candles glo'wed
Softly, reflected iri the polished flddr.
“ You hate Me—fdr all this ? ” ,
“ For it all, because it symbolises the loss of mv
nianhodd, the loss of my self-respect. These
Months with ydu have taught me that passion can
blurit every Sensri-piifhile ijb last,s. It does not
last—-you knoW that tdo: After,? If ri riirifl lifts
sacrificed honor fdr the woman, the wondari Must
be content with the brief day of passion: The
lasting love of a man for a woman is founded on
the fact that the woman causes him ,to respect
himself in winning her—in holding her—to
respect himself more because he respects her more
—this is the secret of her power. You demanded
from me a sacrifice of what I now know is dearer
to me than you—and I have come by degrees to
hate you, because, to gain you, you made me
destroy myself.”
There was a pregnant silence as the man and
the woman stood face to face.
“ Then a man cannot love a woman better than
hisjibrior beyond a little time?”
He bowed ftssierti: “it is sd. Fdr yduf sftke I
could regret it.” -, , ■■ : ,
Her pride supported her; hilt she felt hbrself
white and ill—she knew she could ndt s’tis'tam
more.
“It grows late,” she said. “Will you ring to
have the lights put out?” She swept past him
almost haughtily. Had she been weaker he might
have pitied her; but her seeming strength piqued
and steeled him. He closed the door after her,
with an elaborate bow, and went to the supper-
room for whisky. The scene had been a trying
one.
Upstairs the woman dismissed her maid, and
walked straight to the medicine-chest in the cup-
board of her bedroom. When the new day broke,
Overcast With clouds, all Hate. hsid been buried
with Loyd iri the grave df the night, on the other
Side of tlie wdrld:
S.A.
ADAN.


Do You Get Up
With a Lame Back?
E_
S
&
O
O.
K
Y
A
■a
Kidney Trouble makes you Miserable.
jjoan’s Backache Kidney pills
ARE THE GREAT REMEDY FOR
KIDNEY, BLADDER, AND URIC ACID TROUBLES.
You are in no danger of being sick if you keep your kidneys
well.
They filter your blood and keep it pure and free from disease-
breeding germs.
Your other organs may need care, but your kidneys most,
because they do most.
If you are sick, begin with your kidneys, because as soon as
they are well they will help all the other organs to health.
The treatment of some diseases may be delayed without
danger ; not so with kidney disease.
The testimony of friends and neighbors cheerfully given by
them, and told here in their own words, is the positive evidence
of merit that backs every box of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
Bead this, a case in point :
Mr. Martin Nicholas, whose city address is No. 16 Elizabeth-street, says:—“ A year
ago I gave my testimony as to the wonderful benefits I derived from Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills. I had been a great sufferer from kidney trouble for a long time. My back
ached so terribly at night .that I could scarcely sleep, and it was so sore that I could
hardly turn over or get out of bed. The disease, or whatever it was, was getting a firmer
hold on me, and at one time I was laid up in bed for three whole weeks. The doctors
advised an operation, but I would not consent to this. I finally got up again ; but I was
a constant sufferer. At times the pain in my back was so severe that I could hardly
stand up. I had tried doctors and numerous remedies, but not until I had taken Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills did I get relief. I procured these pills at Newman’s Pharmacy,
in King-street. I continued taking them until I was entirely cured. It is nearly a year
ago since I discontinued taking them; but I have had no return of my old complaint, and
this convinces me more firmly than ever that these pills are a true specific for kidney
troubles, and as such I will always recommend them.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will be
posted on receipt of price by the proprietors, Poster-McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE YOU GET DOAN’S.
ITCHINESS OF THE SKIN.
Ever have any irritation of the skin? There
are many forms of it, any of them bad enough to
tax your patience. Hemorrhoid, a plague of the
night; no rest for the sufferer from that com-
plaint. Eczema, too. Hives don’t sound danger-
ous, but they cause much misery to those
unfortunate enough to be troubled with them.
Doan’s Ointment is “a wonder’’ for any such
trouble. Any troublesome irritation of the skin
can’t resist its healing, soothing influence. Lots
of Sydney people know this now.
Mrs. M. A. Carter, Waratah, Orange-st., Rand-
wick, this city, writes a most enthusiastic letter
as to how her young daughter, aged 10 years, was
cured of Eczema by Doan’s Ointment. Mrs.
Carter thought her daughter contracted the
disease at school. It affected her scalp, which
was terribly inflamed and all broken out, and
irritated her terribly. She obtained some of
Doan’s Ointment at Newman’s Pharmacy, King-
street, and, after thoroughly washing the child’s
scalp, applied it. The result was that the scalp
entirely healed in a few days, and left no scar,
much to their joy.
“I have also used the Ointment myself for
irritation of the skin —a sort of Eczema—and it
has done me equally as much good as it did my
daughter. You are at liberty to publish these facts
at any time, and I will only be too pleased to
verify the statements should I be called upon to
do so.”
Doan’s Ointment is splendid in all Diseases of
the Skin, Eczema, Piles, Hives, Insect Bites, Sores,
Chilblains, &c. It is perfectly safe and very
effective. Very frequently two or three boxes
have made a complete cure of chronic cases that
have not yielded to other remedies for years.
Sold at 2s. 9d. per box. If you cannot obtain it
locally from your chemist or storekeeper, same
will be posted on receipt of price by the proprie-
tors, Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Australian Spring.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The dewy freshness of the dawn, to breathing
blandness turning;
The clear translucent hours of noon, the sun so
softly burning;
The faint, suffusing sunset-bloom, than damsel’s
blush more tender;
The gentler shining of the stars,—all mark Spring’s
virgin splendor.
Some trees are speckled witli small buds, some
eagerly are greening,
Their rueful leisure left when they found out life’s
mighty meaning ;
The insect tribes are just astir, birds to and fro
are winging,
Or fluting snatches of the songs they’ll soon be
sweetly singing.
But, oh ! this shower of melody, this clear strain
floating o’er us,
The gush and cry of utter joy—love’s care-
abandoned chorus!
The subtle sirens sang to death the souls their
spells could capture,
But yon lark sings Spring’s bridal song to lift us
to life’s rapture !
The orchards, lulled by lazy bees and shallow
streamlets flowing,
Seem drifted o’er with snow warm-tinged in sun-
set’s rosy glowing ;
And, like some splendid passages in an unvaried
story,
The wattles in the bush burn here and there in
yellow glory.
N.S.W.
ARTHUR A. D. BAYLDON.
A Cornstalk Baby-Farm.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We read Zola’s latest, “Fruitfulness,” which
describes how the French factory-girl gives her
baby into the care of the motherly woman, who
leaves it, when-pay is in arrears, in some place.con-
venient for the hens to pick out its eyes and the
cow to give it its final quietus ; and then took train
for the Ashfield (Sydney) Cottage Home. This
refuge for foundlings is prettily situated in a net-
work of garden and field. There is a great variety
of babies of all ages up to three or four, and of all
shades, excluding absolute black. They treat the
casual woman - visitor quite as a relation,
and give her live snails, reels, pieces of doll,
grasshoppers, and other donations in a friendly
and engaging spirit. The elder children, besides
other toys, have a big toy-boat, large enough to
admit four or five, to sail a stormy sea on the side
verandah, and they also possess a garden to which
they attend during the summer. The matron
tells that their specialty is sunflowers.
How different are these bright-eyed youngsters
from the usual State-children of school age 1 An
institution for very young children, open thus to
the inspection of any passer-by, could never hide
cruelty for long. The voluntary grasp of a small
hand on the matron’s dress speaks for itself, for
no infant can pretend affection or confidence. But
the smile of the fourteen-year-old girl may hide,
and often does, immeasurable hatred.
Some of the children are fortunate enough to
have their own mothers in the establishment
waiting till positions as domestic servants are
obtained for them. Not infrequently the man
responsible for Jane’s entry into the ranks of un-
married mothers offers to take her back on legal
terms, and then Jane departs cheerfully, taking a
large, blue-eyed baby as her contribution towards
the new menage. Sometimes another man takes
Jane and accepts the infant in a philosophical
spirit. Australia, generally speaking, has a sen-
sible way of looking at Jane i. *' trouble,” and
nobody seems to wonder w aether sue is less like
the Beautiful Snow than other girls.
There are some mothers who ought to be here
and are not. One such, some years ago, stood by a
quiet pool in the neighbourhood and looked at it
till its stillness got into her very soul, and she took
her baby to its peace with her. It was her second
illegal child, and the rules of the establishment,
in this land that is crying out for population, are
against the admission of a woman who has twice
“burdened” the State with what it seriously
needs.
Sometimes baby’s grandma plays a disagreeable
part in the. drama that concerns the arrival of the
unauthorised infant. One such old dame, in a fit
of annoyance at her daughter’s ringless finger,
“planted” baby in a shed while she and its
mother were travelling through the district.
Having grimly kept her secret for years, grandma
died keeping it still, and it was only after years
of trouble that baby was identified at this Ashfield
Home, and restored to her ma and also to a brand-
new father. A half-caste Chinese girl of two
years is the result of the sale of a fourteen-year-
old girl by her mother to a Chinaman. It is an
unexpectedly attractive result, considering .the
parentage, but that doesn’t put the vendor in a
more pleasing light.
A few of the mothers outside the Home pay a
little towards baby’s support—never more than
five shillings a week. Otherwise the burden falls
on the State and the voluntary charity of the
public. Most of the children, however, are found-
lings. One small atom, with an Abraham Lincoln
smile, was picked up on the road, and another,
thoughtfully ticketed “Oliver,” was coaxed back
into life (after an all-night sitting under a hedge),
by hot water bottles on the incubating principle.
He looked ninety years of age when he came, but
has now got down to fifty-five.
A setting of crimson frocked youngsters on
emerald lawns makes a good effect on a landscape,
and it is a pity there is not room at Ashfield to
accommodate more than the sixty small occupants
who already reside there, for every little asset in
an empty continent requires banking in as careful
a way as possible, if the State is to be kept from
insolvency in human beings.
CONSTANCE CLYDE.
It is probable (says a London paper) that
the custom of ladies being kissed by the King on
presentation will be dispensed with. Tummy is a
reformed character.
An old lady named Sullivan died the other
day atKingower (Vic.) at the reputed age of 109.
But, as Snazelle says, these fine old veterans are
such fine old dubiosities.
“Tweed": a Photograph.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Among my cherished photos, —among the true-eyed
comrades of the back-country, the kind-faced
women of the exile days, the good horses valued
not the least of all, race-groups and mining-groups
and polo-groups, a hundred casual snapshots of the
little world down-under—there is one of a prick-
eared Kelpie dog, that is very dear to me.
Tweed was something more than dog and a
little less than human. Most of us have owned a
faithful dog at one time or another, and valued
him ; but when he is also the pride of our voca-
tion and the mainstay of our income, the obliga-
tion is tenfold. And the drovers say that a good
dog is worth two men and a boy. I watch
1 weed’s photo., and dream and dream.
* • •
The warm glow of niid-day steals through the
thin-leaved gums by the creek, the blanket-bundles
and the big pack-saddle with its torn lining are
tossed upon the ground in negligent disorder, the
heap of gray ashes marks where the billy has
boiled ; and the drovers lounge upon their rolled
blankets and blow their smoke-rings to the blue.
On the great bank above them two thousand
wethers lie close in the warm dust or stand with
lowered heads trying to dodge the million flies ; in
the open glade the bay horse and the chestnut colt
that carries the pack stand head to tail in the sun,
flick-flicking the flies from one another and
stamping in the gray dust till the hobble-chains
ring. Down at the creek the big brown horse,
with a saddle on, drinks long and noisily, and then
trails away to the others with his foot through the
muddy bridle —rousing a lazy cheek-on-elbow,
oath from his master.
Away out on the top of the bank the hungry
wethers, lured by the disappearance of the sun
behind a cloud, string slowly into the scrub with
drooping heads and lpw calls to one another.
“ Tweed /” A pair, of. quick ears leap to atten-
tion and a black tail wags expectantly. “ Look
out for ’em ! ”
A rush in the dead leaves and he is gone, wide
to the right, two sharp barks away ahead of the
wanderers, and the mob comes rushing down hot-
footed to the camp; then Tweed comes limping
back, carrying one forefoot, and saving a hind one
whenever possible. “ Come here, old man ! ”
Tweed drops his tail and crouches up ; lie knows
that he came back far. too close to his sheep, and a
kelpie has a conscience, but—his feet were sore,
and the sharp stickshurt. And his master knows,
and makes allowances. He rolls Tweed over on
his back and examines the poor, blistered little
feet, raw and red with long padding up and down
on burning ground, and a little lump thickens in
his throat as he thinks of the pluck and devotion
that keeps the game little beggar going on the
hottest days, in spite of creeping age. For the
old dog is failing, there is no doubt about it. The
muzzle that lies so confidingly in his master’s
hand is pathetically gray, and there is a stiffness
in the near shoulder and a visible breakdown in
the near fore-leg.
“I won’t bring the old fellow out any more,”
says his master, meditatively; ‘ ‘ poor old chap,
he has earned a long spell, but he is so game one
forgets his age!” (Again that swelling in.the
throat.) “ D n those sheep, they’re off again !
Send Lady ! ”
WULL H. OGILVIE.
One of the most curious papers in Aus-
tralasia is the Canterbury Times (Christchurch,
M.L.). It is a liberal and progressive paper (in
M.L.), and speaks encouragingly of the democratic
policy which lifted that State out of the old-time
slough of despond. And it keeps an incurably and
hideously Tory correspondent on this side, who
curses every progressive idea, so that by its
showing everything that is good in Maoriland is
unspeakably bad in Australia. This gives the
paper a curiously piebald appearance, but the
editor doesn’t seem to mind.
Thus a returned S’African warrior :
Too much has been made of the undisciplined troops in
this war. People have grown to scoff at discipline and
training, and to hold up the Boers as examples of fighting
men. But if the Boers had been well generalled and dis-
ciplined, the British would have been glad enough to
patch up any sort of a peace a year ago. The Boer
generals should have rushed into Natal and Cape Colony
a month earlier, when three-fourths of the local popula-
tion, who are always ready to jump with the top dog,
would have been with them. And, as for discipline, the
Boers repeatedly held positions which were absolutely
impregnable, yet, after firing a few shots, they abandoned
them and rode off; whereas, had they been disciplined
soldiers, capably generalled, they would have held these
positions until the British had brought an overwhelming
force to carry the places with the bayonet at immense
cost. Then would have been the time for the Boers to
take horse —leaving English dead ten times more than
their own. The Australian civilian regiments were good
enough for the style of fighting provided by the Boers,
and the British Tommy Atkins had all his self-reliance
disciplined out of him. The men who had just the proper
amount of discipline to have coped with either sort of
fighting were those of the first Australian contingents,
made up from the local militia and volunteer forces.
Cut from an English paper :
There is at Hartlepool a peculiar industry carried on
nearly all the year, but more especially during the
months of spring, in which a number of women, varying
from 480 to 700, are employed. The industry is caused
by the importation of eggs into the Hartlepools, and the
work consists of sorting, pickling, washing, and breaking
of the eggs. The sorters separate the good eggs from
the bad and the large from the small, and receive
in wages from Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. per day. Picklers
receive anything from Is. 4d. to 2s. per day, those who
wash the eggs Is. Bd. per day, and the “breakers,” Is. 2d.
and Is. 4d. per day. Their hours are from 8 till 6 o’clock,
with an hour’s break for dinner. When the pressure of
work is very great, however, they have to work all night
as well. Many of the women appear to be widows, some
of them with families to maintain. The work is extreme-
ly disagreeable, and the conditions very unsatisfactory.
Some of the women are lifting sieves full of eggs in and
out of water all day long, which means that their feet
and clothing soon become saturated, in which condition
they have to work for the rest of the day. The
“ breakers” have to separate the yolks of eggs from the
whites, the latter being put into a cask—it is said, for
sale. During this progress the girls become covered with
a filthy slime. They work in what are termed “ dark
cells” —why, is not very clear. The odour from the bad
egg is simply awful, amounting to a foul stench, which,
of course, the women are compelled to inhale during
working hours. The “cells’’are badly ventilated, and
the sanitary conveniences inadequate. In one warehouse,
where from 300 to 400 women are employed in the rush
of the season, there are nominally three sanitary con-
veniences, but practically one convenience only is
available for over 300 women. There is no adequate
provision made for enabling the women to take their
food in decency and comfort. They have to go about
the docks and sit where they can, and get their dinner
in the best way they can, no matter what the weather
may be. There is, it is true, some provision made for
the warming of their dinners. One solitary old woman
is supposed to cook for 15 men, and to warm the cans
and dinners of over 300 girls ! It can be imagined how
such an arrangement works. The women are inevitably
of a low type, and, of course, the tendency of their work
is to drag them further and further down. Apparently
the “ cells ” in which they work are neither “ factories
nor workshops” within the meaning of the Factory
Acts, which ignore egg-workers.


Gives Muscular Strength
and Nerve Power
Takes Out Every Impurity from the Blood, Makes the Blood Rich and
Red, Removes Depression, Imparts Vigor and New Life.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Mr. Thomas Monroe, of Oriel, Albion, near Brisbane, Queensland, is well
known in football and athletic circles. He has to keep his system in perfect
condition all the time. Read what he says about Dr. Ayer’s Family Medicines.
♦Ho have used Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to restore the appetite and give tone and strength to
the whole system, and I have heen greatly benefited by doing so. 6
. “ 1 have also obtained marked relief from the asthma by the use of Dr. Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
famiiy medlcines°” remedieS are well known throughout Queensland as thoroughly reliable
So great is the reputation of Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla as a remedy for healing
the sick that it is called everywhere
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
, . are sick, you certainly should give Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla a thorough
trial. It cannot fail to help you, for it cures the blood first of all. Then your
nerves become steady and strong and the hot weather of summer does not affect
y° u ’ depression is overcome. Remember, it is a wonderful medicine for
the children, too, when they are thin and feeble, pale and languid. Put your
confidence in it, for there is no family medicine in the world its equal.
’S Sarsaparilla
Purifies and Enriches the Blood.
AYER’S PILLS cure dyspspsia; strengthen the stomach.
26
YEARS’ SUCCESS
THE
UNIVERSAL REMEDY
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
'A sthma,Bronchitis,
influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Consumption,
HAS MADE
frame
A
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY IN THE HOME
* OR KIT OP EVERY COLONIAL.
It saves many Lives.
There is no difficulty in obtaining it, so
when you ask for Owbridge’s Lung
Tonic, insist upon having it, as
other so-called remedies
often substituted.
Prepared by
W.T. OWBRIDgE, M.P.S., Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is 1 id., 2s. 9d., 4*.6d, &
by all Colonial Medioine Vendors
COPYRIGHT.
are
m
lls
g
50SS-
—-o
Si
V/*
ht
i-its
pi Hi S
nt
sdg
v/yr ,/ 'r r if*
x& .
S, JLj */* s siZrf , /s,
S. FREEMAN # SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHOS
FREEMAN’S
.. * _'
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
hbadopfice. WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
:
mm
Th e Universal Remedy for Acidity oi tue Stomacn,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
Tlie Physician’s Cur©
for Grout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS'
MAGNESIA,
Vx-
4
m
Sold Throughout the Worm.
ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
O^fAINGTo/y,
IRI
MOSS
FOR
-The besf remedy-
INFLUENZA, "
COUGHS,
Ask for Banning ton's
and. seetkatyou net it.
COLDS.
BRONCHITIS.
ASTHMA.


Wl?3t Will o€ tOC ©ij w-arus*© riosa
IX MAY BE 15 OR 25, OR EVEN 334 PER CENT., BUT YOU CAN SAVE ALL THAT IF
YOU BUY AT OUR PRESENT
PR.ESETSIA.I33a PRICES.
GARDEN
ma
■ ■
RUBBER HOSE.
Ply, 50 feet Coils, 20s, 255, 27s Od, 30s, 32s 6d,
60 „ ~ 37s 6d, 60s, 60s.
COTTON-COVERED HOSE.
, 50 feet Coils, 17s 6d, 21s, 255.
EVERY HOSE IS GUARANTEED RELIABLE.
RUBBER GOODS ARE OUR SPECIAL LINE.
_ANY LENGTH CUT TO ORDER.
PERDRIAU & CO., Only Address:
270 George Street,
Sydney.
60
TEARS DTEOTG
FOR THE LADIES.
W- C. rEIi,:DZEai:DCJ-:E3 &c CO;,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 \ Olt k S'l’Tt K KIT, SYDNI3V
(Ojip. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post irom all the colonies promptly
attended to.
The Bulletin’s latest publication —
“Dreams iu Flower,” a book of verses by Louise
Made—contains all the best poetical work of this
writer for the last ten years. Price half-a-crown,
post-free from this office.
POTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
/• <
m
32 & 34 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY
ton Pumps
For all Services kept in Stock.
for Oatalogiie.
—
ds
BELTING.
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
PERTH
GOOLGARDIE
AND
Representing in Australia
TANGYES LIMITED.
♦
STOCKS CARRIED
A ALL THE STATES.
NEWHAM’S
in Ki
X/- a, BOX
PASTILLES.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST - SUPPER.
KEMP'S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the b,rgest squatters m Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as lone as required. It will NOT injure the wool. It will dissolve out under
the ordinary scouring process-
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FEtTOO. 6RMHIBE * Cl.. IDEHOOiUIE.
BLACK, IlEJ), and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases)--
PRICE IN MELBOURNE v : 3/« per Gallon
SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.)
BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.)
HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.)
3/0
3/0
4/3
COMPRESSORS.
gd
sg
d
ROCK
DRILLS
Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors hold the highest
average records throughout the world. They have met and defeated in fair competition
every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain their reputation for
doing the most work at the least expense. Write for Catalogue to
The Representatives in Australia of
“ New Ingersoll.
THE INGERSOLL-SERCEANT DRILL CO.,
PARKE
& LACY
isr.s.-m.
“3
gd
ence Street
RNE
435 Bourke Street
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES :
Blake Steam Pumps
Pay’s Woodworking Machinery
Tanite Emery 'Wheels
Sturtevant’s Pans and Porges
Pickering Governors
Ludlow Valves
Schuttes’ Korting Injectors
“Champion” Lubricating Oils
Hoyts’ Leather Belting
Genuine “ Atlas ” Metal
Empire Laundry Machinery
Stratton’s .Steam Separators
American T@ol Co’s Lathes
Goubert’s Eeed Water Heaters
PS ,rfi r works®
fet ' ', co '
j<mAßtair
SLi ~p s A ■ .
i i a
a*
-
