

’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid’s London Draught Stout.
Absolutely
Pure.
*
therefore
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity-”
The Lancet.
JR£. Cth-« A insim
® ™ w Jmm JHkSnhi JhL SSP €1 £
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Minings and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXP] OSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
270
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
Engines
Sold.
gag
savmoiiHvj any saoiaa acwr a&ag
WINE !
WINE!
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST
AUSTRALIA.
83T Send for Samples and Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co, Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
, BATTLE & C°
85 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY
SOLE AGENTS FOR
TL*&
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
:
Motion
GIIMES and BOILERS and PUMPS
rasliing Mncliizies, Saw Benches,
THORNE’S
"" A 1 WHISHT.
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
«& CO. Ltd., Agents, Sydnev.
df
f
dsf
ECOBAFtT.
”
Hadley’s Orient Hotel,
JjJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS,
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite 9h
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Larges/ Hotel
Accommodation m Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF fn*
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week
RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL.
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL
JMAJkJa.J3.wii.*! U JJVIAKi VJU UAilill 01~ fiti Hrt i.. HIJJKHKI
SAN DEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
241 FIXT STREET, SYJDUKTRSY.
try orders.
Tails. Plaits.
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS and PLAITS,
20in. loner, 5/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6 ; 24in.,
10/6 ; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
priee. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address ” W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLIAM-ST., Corner of Palmer-st.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
Wigs made on shortest notice.
ds
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches: —P. Frankel & 00., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q. ;
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. E. Fysh and
00., Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter * Co., Auckland ;
Blaekburne & Smith, Oashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
Fair girls and gray horsics
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
JOHN JAMESON
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents : J. BAERE JOHNSTON & CO., laoffcus Street, Sydney.
ice 6s.
Post Free.
ON OUR SELECTION.
“By Steele Rudd.”
OTARD-DUPUY
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
m
PROOF
USE <
Head Office :
0 BLIGH
What Price WATERBURY Watches ?
LOW PRICE.
What Quality WATERBURY Watches?
HIGH QUALITY.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne*
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefullv
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
tar the largest and most complete in the
colomes; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bails
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
oF various sizes supplied.
11*1 the world-renowned
Ediswau - Lamp.
EDI SWAN I'. ;! I
ECONOMY IN -
• - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light,
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
the ran im
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY
Q’nsland Depot— Central Buildin s Edward-st., Brisban
The Bulletin
Vol. 22.—N0. 1124 j
f Saturday, August 31, 1901.
Pep-i stored at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For
GOUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
r incnQ
iiUNUb.
ov
fcKv.
IN TINS, Is. 6d
(REGISTERED).
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singer 3
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
Cr. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia,
THE RED PAGE.
Two New Novels,
THE note dominant of to-day’a English
fcrt, one London-returned Australian
tells us, is “the refined.” Another
London-remaining Australian chooses
the epithet “idyllic”-—not to say “wishy-
washy.” What both imply, apparently,
is that English art is . clever enough, pretty
and charming enough, but bloodless and
epicene—destitute of virile ideas—a sweet-
voiced eunuch fluting proprieties to the
Respectable Young Person who grows,
neuter and prim, in the shadow of the Picca-
dilly shambles.
• * • *
Which, of course, is an old story. Current
English literary art, for example, teems with
prating praises of “.the mighty Eliza-
bethans ”; but if a mighty Elizabethan
sprang to life in London nowadays,
there is no “ Respectable ” publisher
who would print his books ; there is
hardly a “critic” who would not re-
vile him. If, by some strange chance,
Mrs. Grundy finds that she has mothered
a changeling genius, she invariably over-
lies him in infancy for the sake of Public
Morals. But when Marie Corelli marries
the Bible with a uterine disorder the pro-
duct is sold in 50,000 copies; and “The
Visits of Elizabeth ” to country-house drain-
traps collect a series of ambiguous social
odours that are eagerly sniffed at the circu-
lating-library. Ralph Peacock’s “Sisters”
at the Tate Gallery, selected by A. J.
Fischer as an example of English art in
painting, portrays only half the family. By
its side should be a picture of the seamstress
Sycorax of the slums, her arm round the
waist of some poor pavement - creature
dragged sodden to the police-court after a
■bootless night’s, prowling. These also are
types of English womanhood. But it seems
that, while Paris hangs the “ coarse and
tawdry ” in the Salon, London is content to
crucify it in the Strand.
* * * *
It is to be feared that the efforts of Mouat
Loudan to induce England to “ see Art
large ” are not meeting with the best re-
ward ; for in literature, at all events, Eng-
land persists in dish-clothing the living
model —with the result that fifty good
novels, at least, are written in French for
one that is written in English. The atti-
tude of A. B. Walkley to George Moore’s
Sister Teresa is a capital instance of what
follows when the Briton endeavours to “ see
Art large.” A. B. Walkley’ has a certain
critical reputation in London ; and he takes
a column in the Morning Leader to explain
that for the life of him he cannot understand
what Moore would be at, or why he would
be at it. So he writes—
... To me, the average man, Mr. Moore is
quite incomprehensible. . . . He “ intrigues ”
me) as the French say. Here is something
strange, a temperament, a view of the cosmos, so
unlike my own that I cannot make head or tail of
it. . . . And so I have read nearly every book of
his, from “The Confessions of a Young Man”
down to this last book “ Sister Teresa. ” But it
has always been with irritation, with a vague be-
wilderment, a feeling that I was conversing with
a foreigner talking a language of which I could
only translate a word into my own language now
and then.
(“ See Art large ! ” But suppose you are
so little that you can’t ? What mannikin by
taking thought can add a cubit to his
stature ‘l .. . And A. B. Walkley continues
to explain the uncomprehending British
attitude towards Large Art.)
“Sister Teresa” ... is a sequel to “Evelyn
Innes,” and tells us how a prima donna forsook
the stage and her lovers for the cloister. To be
more accurate, that is the starting point of the
book, the real subject of which is the life of the
cloister, in all its little intimate detail, and the
successive phases of feeling in a once worldly
woman in passing from the novitiate to the veil.
I must say that I have the strongest possible dis-
like for this subject. We live in an age when art
asserts its right to deal with all subjects. But it
is still, I submit, permissible to say we like this
subject and dislike that. For my part, the last
thing I waut revealed to hie in a novel is the in-
ternal economy of a convent. . . . For remember
that we buy a novel for pleasure. We give Mr.
Fisher Unwin (is. for “ Sister Teresa,” just as we
give Messrs. Spiers and Fond 6s. for a pint of
champagne. And therefore, by the way, I hold
all so-called “religious ” novels detestable. But
that is another story. For Mr Moore’s is not a
“religious” novel in the ordinary sense; it is
largely tire history of a soul-struggle, and that in
itself is a legitimate—as some people think, the
only legitimate—subject for the novelist. But I
do feel reluctant to get six shillings-worth of
pleasure for an idle hour out of the intimate pri-
vacy of nuns. . . . It is a question of taste. And
that Mr. Moore should choose such a subject,
should devote two years to exploring all its re-
cesses, should be able to mingle a sort of pious
fervour with a sort of ghoulish insistence on cer-
tain phases of physical revolt, makes him more
than ever incomprehensible to me.
And the satirical gentleman who teaches
drawing and painting at the Westminster
Art School puts his tongue in his cheek and
exhorts the Briton to “see Art large ” ! !
* * * *
Again, Victoria Cross recently published
a novel called Anna Lombard. It was a
novel : it took an aspect of Woman new to
English fiction, and represented it pas-
sionately and effectively. In a preface to
the third edition the author answers the
challenge of “certain papers” to “state
her intentions.” Lond. Daily Chronicle
the list. Like A. B. YValkley, its
“ oritic ” cannot understand fiction which
varies from the half-dozen conventional
patterns adjudged more or less suitable for
use by a middle-class household. One regrets
to have to add that Victoria Cross’s explana-
tion of herself is just as humourless as the
queries of her “ certain papers ” : she insists
that her work really is of a conventional
pattern, and that her hero, whose conduct
The Daily Chronicle stigmatises as “horrid
absurdity,” is really an exemplar of typical
Christian virtues. Probably both the lady
and her critic are right; but the point is
immaterial to the issue—which is simply
this : Does Art exist for the sake of con-
ventions ; or do conventions exist for the.
sake of Art ?
* * * *
So put, no doubt even A. B. Walkley and
The Daily Chronicle would say, “ Oh, con-
ventions exist for the sake of Art— of course!
Conventions are a mere falsework on which
we build our artistic bridge.” But when
it comes to applying the principle, for the
life of them the English bourgeois “ critics”
cannot succeed. A. B. Walkley sees and
says that clearly he is disqualified from
criticising George Moore’s story—because
not merely he does not sympathise with it,
but he does not understand it ; he cannot
even momentarily take the author’s point of
view, realise the goal sought, and measure
how nearly it has been attained from the
author's point of view.- Yet A. B. Walkley
—admitting his own folly—proceeds to
criticise and condemn the incomprehensible !
He thus typifies conventional British’ Art,
which reduces everything to the common
denomination of the willow-pattern plate.
One result is that every year, in the English
Academy, you see so many hundred land-
scapes, so many hundred portraits, so many
hundred compositions, which almost might
have been turned out of a mould—so
monotonous is their conception, so shallow,
mean, and ignoble their quality of Art.
And when a man like Peacock gets the
utmost from the convention, and raises the
willow-pattern to its height (for the willow-
pattern is one form of Art, and can be
raised), the typical British critic points
proudly to “ The Sisters,” and says in effect
“See by what a magnificent exception to
the dull mass we prove our artistic pro-
gress ! ” In this view, the Westminster
teacher exhorting the Australian painter to
“ see things Large ” is a figure almost tragic.
♦ »
It does not follow that Sister Teresa is
good fiction : as a matter of fact, it is not.
But it is not bad because the subject does
not please A. B. Walkley ; it is not-good
because the subject is not very well handled.
Whatever the human senses can perceive,
whatever the mind can conceive—that is the
material of Art. To genius there is nothing
common or unclean; though for talent there
are some subjects obviously better than
others. And Walkley’s truly British statement
that it is the novel’s business to give pleasure
slays his critical pretensions at once. You
can say, if you like, that it is the business of
the novel to move us, to interest us, as
an artistic manifestation—seeing that the
Art which retains emotion in her womb
may as well be barren ; but the choice of
the word “ pleasure ” is crucial—pointing
Walkley to the abyss.
* * * »
Evelyn Innes, to which Sister Teresa is
sequel, was really good fiction on the second
plane. Probably it represents the best
of Moore’s maturity, just as Confes-
sions of a Young Man represents the
best of his youthful effervescence. For
his model, Moore hovered between
Balzac and Zola, touching neither at
all points. The style was Zola’s, warmed
towards Balzac’s emotion ; the idea of show-
ing the effect of heredity was Zola’s ; the
display of musical erudition was in Balzac’s
manner. And Evelyn Innes was interesting.
She was represented as oscillating like a
pendulum between religious influences and
sexual influences ; and Sister Teresa swings
to rest amid the pettinesses of London con-
vent-rolitine—which Moore may have con-
ceived as the negation of both imaginative
religion and passionate sex. The two books
are really one ; they were written as one,
and Moore says they may presently be pub-
lished as one. While they remain two it
is not unfair to consider Sister Teresa separ-
ately.
* * * *
Convent life, which is the staple of Sister
Teresa, is excellent material for fiction ; but
mere Talent is forced to look at its tragic
aspect/ In leaving, to some extent, the
models of Balzac and Zola in order to follow
the model of Huysmans, Moore fails more
markedly because he cannot command the
intellectual wealth of Huysmans or Huys-
mans’ fascinating splendours of style. His
convent details are trivial and wearisome in
themselves, and they make a rather trivial
and wearisome book. Possibly Moore so
planned : he may have wished to show
Evelyn Innes, a Nile of womanhood,
flowing from far sources in a noble stream
to fritter out her life through barren sand-
heaps. But even a final judgment, con-
sidering Evelyn Innes as one book in
two volumes, must weigh the second volume
by its iesult. And the result will always be
rather trivial and wearisome. What is meant
is this : that the trivial and wearisome may
be essential to Moore’s conception of Eve-
lyn's life—just as a central desert is essential
to a geographer’s conception, of Australia.
But just as we do not live in. Australia's
desert, not being compelled by Life, so
Moore.’s artistic idea cannot compel us to
value a desert of Art. This is where the
realistic school must always fail, for a func-
tion of Art is to exclude the uninteresting :
not to repeat Life, but to digest the vital
idea of it, cast out the natural husks, and
preserve the kernel for spiritual sustenance.
• * * *
And, on the whole, though he has laboured
strenuously and well, Moore has not done
the best with his material. The provenance
of Evelyn is not made quite clear: it is
not inevitable that she should issue from
those parents ; the mother should have been
treated more fully. A greater fault is the
omission of many years of Evelyn’s passion-
ate life ; her love of Ulick is only hinted ;
Moore could have described it,—made it
interesting in itself, and valuable as showing
the progress of Evelyn. To poise and
balance her, indeed, a third median volume
is needed ; and this would be a good volume
because Moore would be dealing with good
material. Then the long-drawn convent
volume would not be top-heavy, might not
mar the whole. x Moore fails in architec-
tonics : he does not rightly proportion his
work.
**. * - *
The style of Sister Teresa is so artificially
plain, so elaborately simple, that it becomes
as monotonous as the subject: even Flau-
bert niight receive an uneasy suspicion of
the value of dithyrambics. “ The glory of
Art, the sunshine of Letters, is simplicity.”
Yes ; but why ? Only because simplicity
gives, on the whole, the best result ; is, on the
whole, the most forcible kind of expression.
But simplicity, like everything else, must be
judged by its fruits : there is nothing in it
that is essentially venerable. And the
simplicity which breeds monotony is ob-
viously unjustified : is crying for ornament.
Good style is neither always partridge nor
invariably plain porridge ; it has its grace-
notes even as a bird’s song, and is all the
better for them. There is the value of Balzac
as compared with Zola : Balzac has terrible
expanses of flatness, but when he rises he
soars-, in style as well as matter. Zola’s
matter rises sometimes; but his style is
nearly always flat. And Moore, coming after
Zola, is often flatter. He does what he can
with little luininousph rases which do hot quite
heat into epigrams: thought-sparklets to
which you have to add your ,own imagina-
tion in order that they may effervesce. For
example—
The only way a man can keep a woman is
through her children. . .
He saw the autumn leaves, and the faintly-
flushed sky, and, with a sudden pang, he remem-
bered that life is passing away while we are
arguing about it. . ,
She had heard Owen say that the arts rose out
of,sex; that when man ceased to capture woman
he cut a reed and blew a tune to win her, and that
it was not until he had won her that he began to
take an interest in the tune for its own sake. . .
Lady Ascott’s literary critic followed a few
yards in the rear, and occasionally in her rapid
excursion down the rooms Lady Aseott called to
him, addressing a remark to him, which he
answered timidly. He had been lately discovered
in the depths of a museum, and had not yet ca.ught
the manner of Society. He was feeling his
way. He was a man of sixty, gaunt,
and wrinkled like a pelican about the
throat. He meditated, as he walked, on
Harding’s objections to his article on style.
Harding had said he did not believe in the possi-
bility of writing ineptitudes in good style.
Harding had said that he had known Hugo,
Banville, and Tourgueneff, and that they had
never spoken of style.* He hadsaid that “the gods
do not talk theology : they leave theology to the
inferior saints and the clergy, ” and the critic was
distressed in his chocolate-colored overcoat. . . .
And now I read over this hurried notice,
and find its impression a little too deprecia-
tory ; it is a posterity’s-iinpression, but for
present reading Sister Teresa is a little better
than here suggested. It is the clever way in
which Moore has indicated—too faintly;—the
stirrings of sex in the convent that chiefly
moves me to say this. Sister Teresa is sold
in Fisher Unwin’s “Colonial Library ” at
2s. 6d. and 3s. 6d. ; the new Evelyn lanes,
at 6d.—much altered from the original book
—I have not yet seen.
«. -
Anna Lombard is the fifth or sixth book
published for Yictoria Cross. (John Long,
London; 2s. 6d. and 3s. 6d.) Victoria is
the lady who wrote the very warmest
story in The Yellow Book —a story
whose very memory holds frissons and
tingles, and frdmissements and thrills—so
forcibly was it written. Since then there
have been Paula and Theodora worth
reading ; but Anna Lombard is the best of
all. Victoria Cross is a real woman, a
passionate mate, not a sentimental parasite ;
and she has evidently let her sex go
and is all the better for it. So the
comment of The Queen writer—that “I
see in Victoria Cross the possibilities of
a future Marie Corelli ’’—printed at the end
of the new book as a testimonial, serves
only to accentuate the blunder of The Satur-
day Review which (in another testimonial) i
credits Victoria with “ a sense of humour.”
Victoria will never be like Marie Corelli, for
she is healthy, not hysterical; she has more
kinship with delightful Ouida, though Ouida
is more intellectual, and her undoubted
passion runs to sentimental extravagance.
And that Victoria has no sense of humour
can be seen from her failure to appreciate
the subtle incongruities of sense and style,
sense and taste, style and taste, language and
allusion, which occur all through Anna
Lombard. But for this thing Victoria is to
be praised : she writes herself. Perhaps the
chief value of woman’s literature is woman’s
unconscious manifestation of herself. And
vvhen woman is honest, and earnest, and in-
telligent, and passionate, and has some
graphic power, she is good company indeed.
* » « *
Victoria Cross lifts her head above her
tribe because she is uncommonly passionate,
and writes uncommonly well—for her tribe.
And Anna Lombard gives the fillip of
novelty. Scene—lndia. Actors: Anna, the
Englishman, and the Pathan. The English-
man and Anna love at sight; but the
Englishman does not tell his love, he goes
away to Burmah ; and Anna, instead of fall-
ing into green - and - yellow melancholy,
privately marries the Pathan. “He is such
a beautiful creature ! ” The Englishman
comes back from Burmah, and Anna engages
herself to marry him (at sight;). But she defers
the marriage ; and one evening the English-
man is in the garden, beneath Anna’s window,
and hears Anna remark, “How beautiful
thou art 1 ” in a voice with a deep contralto
note. A deep whisper follows: “1 love
you ” and the Englishman's horse sweats
that night. Explanations are followed by
Alina’s proposal to marry the Englishman
also, on condition that she need not give
up the Pathan—her body loves the Pathan,
it seems, and her “ soul ” loves the English-
man. But the Englishman can’t quite agree
to that, though he is a Christian exemplar.
He falls ill ; he goes away ; he comes back
to find the Pathan stricken with cholera ;
and, having some knowledge of cholera, the
Englishman tries to nurse him through.
But the Pathan dies ; Anna is disconsolate ;
yet presently she is going,to marry the Eng-
lishman when (Victoria carries things to
the bitter end : one reason for liking her)
——what do you think of Gaida's baby ?
The Christian Englishman marries Anna to
avoid scandal : and presently there is a little
Eurasian in the bassinette—credited to the
Englishman. The Englishman is jealous of
the little Eurasian in the bassinette—Anna
is fond of sim ; and Anna realises, and rises
to her Middle-Ages height (did I say Anna
was a Catherine Sforza from the Middle-
Ages ?) and—kills the baby! Then the
Englishman is sent away for a year while
Anna numbers the days of her lamentation
for the baby, and “ makes herself good-
looking”; and at the end of the year the
Englishman comes back and loves Anna at
first sight.
* * * *'
There is allusion to Draupadi, a mytho-
logical Hindu heroine, “consecrated not to
one husband but to five,” who “ wed her
simultaneously, and share her amongst them
as they share their common tent. Draupadi
is a faithful and devoted wife, and eventually
bears a son to each.” There is a passage on
the difference between passion and love
(pp. 237, 238) which might have been written
by Olive Schreiner in her bloonn And
there is a quite French naivete in the des-
cription of physical states, untainted by
louche French lubricity. And the whole of
this synopsis is grotesquely misrepresenta-
tive, shockingly unfair.
* * * *
But Anna is convincing, in spite of the
novelty of her amours. And when you have
made her acquaintance you have not only
learnt to respect Victoria Cross as a writer
and a woman, but you have seen, beneath
the lowest deep of possibilities, a lower deep
opening wide to engulf you in Her Abysmal
Sex.
THE BOOKFELLOW.
* Note the split pluperfect; and the fact that Moore
could get his emphasis in no other way.


New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED CHARGES ON
COMMISSION
warehousing (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charges will be
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb.
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under
WAY BILLS sent on application.
WOOL:
2 per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
WHEAT.
last season show an increase of 25 per cent, as compared with previous years. Unrivalled
accommodation. Three months’free storage.
f u^est particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired.
blda Company are protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Buncle & Sons’ Chaffcutters.
Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
SKINS
Send Your Consignments op
KANGAROO,
WALLABY,
RABBIT,
OPOSSUM SKINS
TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.
SYDNEY.
' They obtain the Highest Possible Prices.
Ltd.
Government Notices.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
Sydney, 29th July, 1901.
TpHE attention of Trustees and others having funds for
investment is drawn to the fact that, on and after Ist
August, 1901, “New South Wales Funded Stock,” bearing
interest at the rate of per cent., payable half-yearly,
will be purchasable at the Stock Office, The Treasury, at
par.
The Stock has a fixed currency until 1912, after which
it is repayable at the option of the Government, upon
giving twelve months’ notice.
Forms of applications for Stock and all particulars may
be obtained upon application at the Stock Office, The
Treasury.
2a2.
T. WADDELL.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fisfi (gives definition of your character), That Hideous
Dancing Skeleton (turns himself inside out), Mafeking
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Spider and the Fly
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
X
HAVE THE
BEST.
f
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operated, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are two-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected'by Crimped Steel Pickets
securely interwoven at any desired distance apart forming a perfect Web Fence which will hold
securely all kinds of Stock.
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS —^
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
NEITHER CRACK
6°
5806
s 8
ssor
c
BB
58oa
NOR BURN.
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE.
—Should any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Burn a
New One will be Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post. le. 20.
Mick Simmons, haymarket, Sydney.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY, Stores: PYRMONT.
gole Charge : 3 IPer Cent, -fco the Q-rowers.
BONUS } PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
“On Our Selection.” By “ Steele Rudd.”
WARNER’S SAFE CURE
ACTS SCIENTIFIC ALL Y
Curing, as it does, all diseases of the Kidneys and Liver
this remarkable medicine necessarily cures speedily and permanently
Indigestion
Dyspepsia
Biliousness
Sick Headache
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Backache
Sciatica
Anaemia
General Debility
Blood Disorders
Gravel
Bladder Troubles
Bright’s Disease
This is a long list of diseases for one medicine to cure. When, however, it is realised
that they one and all arise from an abnormal condition of the Liver or Kidneys, or
both, and that Warner’s Safe Cure, by attaching the seat of the disorder, restores the
Kidneys and Liver to health and activity, thus enabling those vital organs to naturally
remove from the body all poisonous acids and other waste products tvhich cause these
diseases, it is easy to understand why such complaints are of necessity cured.


TATTERS ALL’S.
Address: Car© geo. ADAMS, Hobart.
Sept. 9.
Metropolitan S.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
above.
Name
Address
Metropolitan S. Sept. 9.
(SPECIAL)
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me ___shares in above.
Name
«
s
Address
Demonstration H.
Oct. 1.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me .shares in the above.
Name
Address
Caulfield C. Oct. 19.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALI*
Please allot me ~ shares in the abova
N ame
Address -
t
Melbourne C. Nov. 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name,
Address,
Melbourne C. Nov. 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name.
Address
Melbourne C. (Special)
3.00,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name,
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circular
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


EMULSION
WITH KYFSPMSSSPHITES
FREE SAMPLE
On receipt of 4d. postage.
Mention SYDNEY BULLETIN.
THERE must be many readers of this
paper who suffer from some form of
lung trouble, or who are run down
and in need of a good healing tonic. Such
people should at once write for a free
sample bottle of Angier’s Petroleum
Emulsion. This preparation combines
the antiseptic, soothing and healing pro-
perties of our specially purified petroleum,
with the tonic qualities of the Hypophos-
phites of Lime and Soda. A perfect
cream-like Emulsion it is pleasant to take,
and agrees with and benefits the most
delicate stomach. It not only cures the
most obstinate cough and teals and
strengthens weak lungs, but it also pro-
motes appetite, aids digestion and builds
up the health and strength generally.
PRESCRIBED by the MEDICAL PROFESSION,
USED Ilf THE HOSPITALS.
Do not accept inferior imitations made with
ordinary Petroleum.
BE SURE TO GET ANGIER’S.
Op all Chemists & Drug Stores.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL GO., LTD., BYDNEY, M.B.W.
HIP
Soft, silky,
glossy, abun-
dant, beauti-
ful, elegant,
splendid,
handsome
you can’t find
words to de-
scribe a mag-
nificent head
of hair, 'tsthisf
the kind of
hair you have ?
Is your hair long enough to suit you?
Does the color exactly please you ? In
a word, are you perfectly satisfied with
your hair ? If not, give it a good hair-
food. Give it
Ayer's Hair Vigor
’Twill make you have long, rich, abun-
dant hair, and it will stop falling of the
hair, too. Ayer’s Hair Vigor always
restores color. You can depend upon
it every time. It brings back all the
rich, dark color you had when you
were young. If you are 30, there is
no need of looking as if you were 50
]ust because your hair is gray.
And you will like our Hair Vigor,
also, as a hair dressing; while it forms
a valuable addition to any toilet table
because of the elegant way in which it
is put up.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
br^nd:
Wup. Ol
! c5 a
\Vound?
Coughs (pLPS £«
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Arouu-LDJ., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk strife
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by postlUrouyho at
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE St SONS, Brisbane Q’land
Australia!? ProVidcpt Society.
MONEY TO LEND
„ •* f T3’T?Ti’TrTTnT T> or T,E A.SEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
Or on' FREEHOLD a?d CU>. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any tine.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
it
i'r
m
m
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
K3T Send for a
Catalogue.
sdf
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Eight Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIEK. 130 Susscx-street.
VVOiks : MELBOURNK-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY
Buyers of Light Yehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
W:
w
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & GO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Co. Ld.,
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania, —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.,
Dunedin and Wellington
MOIR’S
ANCHOVY PASTE.
In Tins about 2 ozs.
Manufacturers a
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
THE
‘PLUM ’
PCD
THE
‘PLUM’
/GENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow
VT like a ke j] ) an( i never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
edtre that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years,
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. od.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
ground, rings
exact kind of
, can testify to
Price
r Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a
\ Single Razo:, in Ivory Handle, 15s ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
%W" Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
I'll Try IV
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
■ to any part of Austra.,
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
-
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL hair.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers 4. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Humah Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part o-f Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEN^
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
3sr.s-
A7V. Carriage
Note our New Address:
&: Saddlery Manf- Coir
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When In town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description o i
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Piioe List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double’Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They oannot do so, and you pay 15 pet
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUK SPECIAL IVO. 2
£8 18/6
d
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wool!
A loaded lorry lumbers down the street,
Four tiers of greasy “first ” from Goondabluie,
And, stumping close behind on aged feet,
The owner of a corrugated cooey,
Gesticulating wildly as he cheers —
Each dust-browned bale he welcomes with a yell,
And down his withered cheeks run joyful tears —
For it is wool; he knows it by the smell!
Wool, golden wool! the first to reach the Sea:
He sniffs it and he follows from the Railway to
the Quay,
For recoflections fonder of the saltbush plains out
yonder
Gome rushing swiftly o’er him with the smell of
greasy wool.
He sees the rambling woolshed once again,
The sunlight on its broad white roof a-glancing,
The far-off shining mirage on the plain.
The brolgas in its waters quaintly dancing ;
The crowded huts, the cheery signs of toil ;
He hears the greetings of the mates of old,
The careless jest; wit in its native soil —
And fancy paints the Past all rose and gold.
Wool, wool, wool! O that smell of yolkey wool !
Gundabooka/Bendenine, Brenda, Bringagee !
The ringers now are battling, the presses now are
rattling—
The lorry bears the tidings through the city to the
Quay.
The Sydney loafers fling a careless j'eqr :
“He’s ratty as a shikkered turkey-gobbler !”
Tie / love 1 ot wool who never learnt to shear,
Nor sympathise who never cursed a “cobbler.”
Seems that we’ve met this Ancient One before —
In eighty-two ? A ringer then he was,
A d we were tar-boys on the Binya floor;
So we shout, too, because—well, just because —
Wool, wool, wool! a reminiscent smell of wool
Takes us where we love to be when Spring was in
our veins,
Through mulga, box and gidgea, to the dear old
Murrumbidgee,
And we’re filled with fellow-feeling for the Ancient
of the Plains.
T * roley-poleys racing ’fore the breeze,
The knee-deep trefoil by lagoon and river,
The tank-heap looming through the sparse borees,
And fence-lines in the sun-haze all a-quiver.
Again he feels God’s carpet ’neath his tread,
And over him God’s cloudless, inland sky ;
We understand, and shake no pitying head,
Nor scoff at tear-drops in the old man’s eye.
Wool, greasy wool! not a fashionable perfume,
But pleasant to the rover as the odour of the sea ;
Replenishing the measure of boyhood’s toil and
treasure,
We follow, slyly sniffing right from Redfern to
the Quay 1
N.S.W.
JOHN DRAYMAN.
"-!"
When you strike a streak of trouble in the stratum
of your life, —■
Lose a horse, a flock, a sweetheart, —find perhaps
a wayward wife —
Then, I think, instead of bleating like a long-
belated ram,
You might rise and seek for comfort in a good
old solid “ ”
Oh ! it’s good to hear it ringing through the cold,
crisp morning air
From the far-off team at Scotty’s, as he boots his
baulking mare ;
Or, when screwing up an eyebolt, thumb and
wrench and fingers jam,
Then you recognise the beauty of a swift and
swinging “ ****** ! ”
Look at Bill, the shearers’ hero ! ringer of a score
of sheds—
Dinted quart-pot, battered visage, pipe askew,
and pants in shreds ;
See him slouching, careless, happy, off to make a
landlord’s “lamb,”
Is he not a “living picture” of the everlasting
”
Watch a loafing crowd of navvies when the ganger
comes along—
“ Seven bob a day ! You crawlers ! Dash your
eyes ! Not worth a song ! ”
Watch each straightened back curve swiftly—
solid calf and straining ham—
Oh! there’s motive power and vigor in a crisply-
uttered “ ■'■■f'—! ”
Story-writers make their heroes rant and rave a
hundred lines,
Clear-cut thought and words well-chosen, polished
till the whole work shines ;
Yet I somehow think the raving and the ranting
mostly flam—
Half the tragedies of manhood climax in a gasping
“mob T ”
And the moral of this sermon—comrades mine and
not of mine:
When the “ dirty left” of trouble biffs you fairly,
do not whine;
Rise (or, if unable—sitting) in a heap your troubles
cram —
Spit them from you fairly, squarely, in a concen-
trated “ ! ”
V.
MATCHBOX.


GALKIN CUPEL MACHINES.
Calkin's Automatic Cupel Machine.
Will make 600 cupels of uniform size
and density in an hour.
The only absolutely satisfactory machine
made.
Made in three designs—Automatic, Table
and Wall.
The automatic machines will make five sizes.
The table and wall machines from one to
three sizes, depending on dies furnished.
Machines for one size only at propor-
tionately less price.
Write for full particulars to
SOLE AGENTS-
piirke s Lucy company etd.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, N .s.w.
Importers of modern appliances for Assayers—Furnaces,
Blowers, Sampling: Machines, Ore Crushers, etc., etc.
‘Ctllipi’
PcsigO iO
COpids.
A TRIUMPH
. . IN . .
FINE ART
REPOUSSE WORK.
M
■ I
Photo Frames,
Size 10 x 9 inches, finished
in Bronze, Gilt, or Silvered,
Remarkable Value, 27/6.
We have only a limited stock
STERLING SILVER
Midget Frames, 1/-, 1/6, 2/6
Size Larger, 4/-, 4/6, 5/-
Carte de Visite, 7/-, 8/-, 9/-
Cabinets, 9/6, 10/6 to 35/-
Paris Panels, 35/- 40/- to 76/-
Art
Jewellers
K.
90 Kinc ST I
Sydney.|
Send for our Illustrated Cata-
logue. All Goods Post Free.
it
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6a. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
“podge” Standard
|||ood Split Pulleys
All Sizes kept in Stock.
SOLE AGENTS :
N. 6UTNRIP66 Ltd.,
71 Clarence St., Sydney.
SEND FOR CATALOG.-** l
Sore £yea! Blight!
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Never f cells. Restores Eyelashes.
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“H3W TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
The
Excellence
of
all
Bottled
Brandy
bearing
this
Label
5s
Guaranteed.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
It-. '
ml
V-'• </fs>
; W ' \f,
*M£ViV/ \ v\l s
r
u*r
&
v’.W
( v> • flu
Sfeiv 1 -'' A • JtWN.'i•>* -•
J/.
.'>*v v ilH‘ ( i
Kin rn’N'/l.
Mi
\*'l; I
\U'
* _ _ *^\
iJ *l\X
* % K?
$
\V
.v_
~ V
HIGHEST AWARD-GOLD MEDAL—PARIS EXHIBITION, 1900.
For INFANTS
and INVALIDS.
MELLIN ? S FOOD yields a complete diet for the youngest
infants, in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD retains its properties for any length of
time and is adapted for use in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD when dissolved in milk, makes a simple
nutritious diet for growing children.
Samples etc., may be obtained of GOLLIN & Co., 172, Clarence Street, Sydney, 562 4, Bourke
Street, Melbourne, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, and Wellington.
Mellin’s Food Company lor Australia and New Zealand Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, London.
MELLIN'S EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS,
and BRONCHITIS.
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & CO., 172 Clarence Street, Sydney.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC
i THE
Jouis* Velveteen.
NOTE WELL!-Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS” Velveteen
hears the name (spelled L“0“U-l“S and in no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
THE WORLD’S BEST.
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS’
PEERLESS GLOSS
is an oil dressing which so softens the leather that
smaller sized shoes can be worn with perfect comfort.
“ Peerless Gloss ’ ’ is the great dressing triumph of the
world, as it imparts a brilliant and permanent polish to
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
shoes that outrivals all other dressings, and yet it does not
contain anything injurious to the leather. Beware of
imitations. Demand Hauthaway’s “Peerless Gloss,” and
take no substitute. For sale nearly everywhere. Made
only by C. D. Hauthaway & Sons, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
*X*O DBJr'Y COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Chdy of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Voi. 22.—N0. 1124.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 31, 1901.
Price 6d.
A Govt, sanatorium for inebriates ia
to be located on an island' in the
Hawkesbury River
Scene.— The counting-room of the Chris-
tian Commercial Atheist.
Ist Valuable Contributor! “What
d’ye think the editor of this rag said
to me this morning t ”
2nd do. : “ Something nasty, o’ course! ”
Ist : “ Yes; he said, ‘ Thank Heaven,
my contributors will now have a per- A
manent address i ’ ” fm
ROMPING IN'.
'Womanhood Suffrage Bill (to tf.S. IT.
Upper House): “Now, then, get out
of the way, old feller, and let mo
pass ! ’’
There is a proposition
on foot -among the Truly
Good in N.S.W. to have
the age of barmaids
“ raised ” to forty.
„ SURVIVAL OF THE FATTEST.
The House of Representatives adopted the anti-“ TattersalPs ” clauses with-
out-'a division. There was only one amendment, and that was to ensure that
there was no question that iC Tattersall’s ” wn,s aimed at.
THE TRUTH AT LAST!
Publican : “ What’s yer age '/ "
Fair Applicant : “ Rising 41”
Ist Right -Tuinkikq Citizen « I sse the Dook of York has been 6 h*kin«
hands with Boer prisoners ! "
2jtd R.T.C. : “Huh ! bloomin' pro-Boer! “
Yhe safest place foe the
marker under the circum-
stances.
Premier See opened the Rand-
wick and Coogee Civilian Rifle
Club last Saturday by firing’
the first shot.
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... ®
Half-yearly ... ... 0 u °
Quarterly ... ... ••• U o o
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— l Jd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post O ffice, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with pottage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
tveekfor a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and aJJ, Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publisljgrs. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence" column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in HlaeTc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa.— R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 31, 1901.
The Song of the Shirt.
Concerning a subject which has, of late,
been considerably discussed, after a wander-
ing and uncertain fashion, in the press and
elsewhere, the Sydney Morning Herald
made this pronouncement in its leading
columns of 22nd August. It is quoted here
because it is typical of the Right-Thinking
Person, and is the sort of counsel and conso-
lation which the Right-Thinking Person
gives in all such cases :
The state of many women workers in the clothing trades
is deplorable; the hours of works are excessive, the
rewards of toil are pitifully small and uncertain. It is an
admission painful to make, hut amply borne out by fact,
that, however women seek to earn their bread, they must
submit to harsher terms, lower wages, a more relentless
attrition in the industrial conflict, than men undergo.
Involved in this apparently hopeless struggle with cir-
cumstances, some of which it may be in the power of
humane laws to ameliorate, while others, and these,
perhaps, the most important, lie beyond the reach of any
local remedy, it would seem that only a fruitless sym-
pathy could be offered to these toilers of modern
cities, and that, in the hard lot to which a greater
number of women are every year condemned, little
except endurance could be counselled. But this
would be a counsel of despair, and no community could
regard with apathy the miserable toil of thousands of
self - respecting women. It is necessary to arouse
the conscience of the public. Already the disclosures
made at recent meetings of the tailoresses who are now
engaged in forming a union, have excited concern and
surprise. In itself the union of women in the clothing
trades for mutual support and to secure benefits may not
be a measure of great efficacy, even if to the strength of
union be presently added the strength of votes. Unionism
cannot change the laws by which modern enterprise is
governed. The purchase of cheap clothing may be com-
pelled by his own necessities ; and though the Govern-
ment may be able to raise the tailoresses’ wages for uni-
forms to something like the “log” of the tailors, the
firms or the individuals who supply the ordinary trade in
men’s and boys’ clothing have to consider the purchasing
power of their clients. Again, a union will probably
only embrace those tailoresses who work in factories,
and this section of the trade is sufficient to itself. The
women whose case is most grievous and most difficult
to ameliorate are those who take the work home,
and try in that way to help the poverty of the
poorest households. These women are almost beyond
organisation, yet it is they who, driven by bitter neces-
sity, supply the worst example of sweated industry. But
though we cannot entertain the hope that great advantage
can soon be reaped by those now engaged in organising
this poorest of trades, yet there is hope in steady work to
that end. The union should at least be able to state a
case that will rouse and retain public sympathy, and
afterwards in those directions where improvement can
follow, by raising the wages or reducing hours, or making
work fairly regular, the public will be found to be on the
side of humanity. It is not an heroic remedy. Those
who are helping the tailoresses to organise and to put
forward a case for relief must expect disappointment at
the slow course of reform, but the chief and first thing is
to awaken public interest.
* * * *
This is the sort of advice which every
Conservative organ everywhere gives on
similar occasions. The substance of it is :
“Don’t hurry with reform lest you upset
old Precedent, which is sacred. Do nothing
definite lest you capsize old Fetishes, which
are gone in the feet. Even if a subject has
been debated and investigated for 100 years
without anything being done, don’t do any-
thing. Start considering the subject all
over again. Doing anything at any time
comes under the head of Rash and 111-con-
sidered Legislation.”
* * • #
The Herald considers that it is good to
raise the wages of the miserably-paid sewing
women. But it must not be done by the
short and simple process of deciding the
rate of wages at which a sewing-woman can
live—humbly enough, no doubt, but still
live, not starve —and enacting that that rate
shall be the lowest rate paid, and taking
every care that the law is enforced. That
would be the revolutionary and dangerous
Minimum Wage principle, and an ignorant
interference with the Law of Demand and
Supply. Of course, the sewing-woman’s
wage can’t be materially increased without
some increase in the price of the things she
sews, unless her extra wage can be made up
by economies in other directions. The
increase might add as much as a copper or
two to the price of a pair of pants. And the
theory of every Right-Thinking Person, like
the Herald, is that it is quite right to add
this necessary copper to the price so that
the sewing- woman can get a living wage, and
be a human being, and not a semi-outcast
eking out her crust by enforced prostitution
—so long as the law of Supply and Demand
is only burst up by public opinion, and
public opinion doesn’t take any tangible
form. But if public opinion records itself
in an Act of Parliament—which is only
public opinion on paper—then it becomes a
ridiculous upheaval of the established order
of things. To artificially interfere with the
alleged law of wages by meetings, press
articles, sermons, lectures—by working up
an artificial indignation till the public
agrees to let the sewing woman have an
extra 3d. for making a pair of pants is de-
sirable. But to put that public resolution
on the Statute Book, and to let her have the
same 3d. by a Minimum Wage Law is too
unspeakable for words. Yet it is the same
3d. all the time.
• * * •
Public opinion which merely remained in
the shape of public opinion never did any
permanent good. Public opinion was roused
against slavery, and slavery was abolished by
Act of Parliament ; if the matter hadn’t
taken the definite form of an Act of Parlia-
ment, public opinion would have sat down
again many years ago. Public opinion was
roused in England against the awful iniquity
of child labor in coal-mines, and that was
abolished by Act of Parliament. Public
opinion was aroused like a flame on behalf
of the oppressed, starved, enslaved sewing
women of London when Hood wrote his
“ Song of the Shirt,” sixty years ago, and it
was such a burst of public opinion—of grief,
rage, pity and unanimous sympathy—as is
only known once in two or three generations.
But it did not happen this time that public
Opinion took the concrete form of law, and
all that frenzy of grief and pity did not raise
the wages of the sewing-women of London
by one copper per annum. Besant investi-
gated her case thirty or forty years after
Hood’s time, and found that her starvation
wage had dropped 20 or 30 per cent further
in the interval, and every horror of which
Hood wrote had become a greater horror.
Yet public opinion had been with her all the
time—a vast, shapeless,, helpless thing
crawling in a circle with the best intentions.
The cast-iron law of Supply and Demand
called for cheap slave labor, for cheap child
labor in factories and mines, and for cheap
woman labor in the sewing business. Legis-
lation abolished the first two, and the alleged
law of Supply and Demand was none
the worse. It didn’t abolish the third be-
cause callous, silly, stereotyped fetish-wor-
shippers like the Sydney Morning Herald
taught that the thing which had already been
done couldn’t be done.
* * * *
Public opinion is large, shadowy, intang-
ible, without arms, legs, or concentration. It
has practically no creative power except by
the medium of legislation—legislation either
by Parliament or by trades-unions which are
strong enough to organise a trades Parlia-
ment of their own and legislate for
themselves. The Herald and false
prophets of its kind know this fact well
enough. The Herald doesn’t trust to
public opinion to get the Freetrade that it
so much desires; it demands Law as the
permanent and concrete form of public
opinion. It doesn’t trust to public opinion
to cause its paper to be carried free
through the post for the enrichment of its
proprietary; it reaches out for Law. It
doesn’t trust to public opinion to prevent
its wealthy boss being skull-fractured on his
way home at night; it demands Law, and
plenty of it. It wants the sewing woman
who is robbed of her earnings to trust to
public opinion to put her right, but does it
trust to public opinion to prevent Mr. J.
Fairfax being robbed of his earnings by a
dishonest clerk or a skilful forger 1 Not to
any great extent —it wants Law. Public
opinion has been strongly with the sweated
sewing-woman—the miserable representa-
tive of the most miserable class in the
community ; one that is so weak and
casual and scattered that in its case
trades unionism is, apparently, impossible
for 60 years, but it hasn’t even been able, in
the absence of Law as its weapon, to prevent
her sinking into worse than the awful depths
that Hood found her in. It has 60 years of
dire failure behind it, and hundreds of years
of previous failure behind that. The Mini-
mum Wage Law has been in force in one
small State (Victoria) in various trades for
terms varying from a few weeks to about
five years. . During these five years, wages
have gone up from 20 to 40 per cent., as
shown by official records ; the number of
employees has increased by 14,000, and the
State’s export trade has increased by over
£4,000,000. That is the record, on a very
small scale for a very short time, of public
opinion crystallised into Law, as against the
age-long failure over vast areas of public
opinion wandering about loose —shapeless,
chaotic, without organisation, a great, well-
meaning moral spectre, beating the air in
the darkness to no purpose. If the Herald
wants to realise how spasmodic and tem-
porary is mere unorganised public opinion,
let it consider the returned contingenter.
All the loose public opinion in Australia
can’t keep his boss up to his effusive promise
to preserve that returned hero’s billet for
him. And so far from being permanently
awakened by the awful revelations made a
few weeks ago about the state of the Sydney
sewing women, it hardly remembers now
which paper it read them in.
• * * *
There is no immutable GoD-given law that
pants must be 3d. cheaper or shirts Id.
cheaper, as the Right-Thinking person of
the Herald variety professes to believe.
Nor is it worth while for any community to
lose its soul for the sake of getting its pants
3d. cheaper. All there is of the alleged law
is something like this :
The community, no matter how good are its intentions,
buys in.the cheapest market.
The man who supplies the community wants to sell
cheaper than anyone else so as to make trade. At the
same time, he wants to make a bigger profit than anyone
else so as to make money. So he also buys in the
cheapest market.
It costs just as much to import raw material (N.S.W.,
by reason of the Freetrade principles of the Herald and
similar dismal rags, hardly makes any of its own clothing
materials) as to import the finished goods. There is no
“ natural Protection ” in our great sea distances so far as
this matter is concerned. Therefore, under Freetrade
the local sewing woman must work as cheaply as the
sweated sewing woman in England—the one whose state
is now far worse than it was when the heart-rending
dirge of the “Song of the Shirt” was written—in order
to get any work at all.
And even if public opinion—that vague, shadowy
failure about which the Herald babbles—did decide to
pay more for its clothes in order that the sewing woman
might get a decent living, it couldn’t be sure, in the
absence of a Minimum Wage Law and proper officials to
enforce it, that she got a penny of the increase. The
great disorganised population couldn’t call at her house
regularly to find out how she was paid.
Raising the pay of the local seamstress by a Minimum
Wage Law under Freetrade would simply mean that the
work of the English sweated seamstress would be im-
ported more largely, and the Australian one would lose
even the miserable employment she has. Then we would
be accomplices in the degradation and misery and slow
murder of our English sister instead of our Australian
one, and there is no satisfaction in that. The only way
out appears to lie in shutting out the work of the sweated
English sewing woman by a heavy protective tariff—we
can’t raise her wages, but we can at least refuse to be a
participator in the unspeakable system which makes her
what she is. Then we can raise the wages of the Aus-
tralian one to a point where life is at least endurable, by
a Minimum Wage Law, and not wear any fellow-creature’s
shroud under the guise of a shirt for the sake of pre-
serving the Herald’s bogus political economy.
* * * *
It must be remembered, however, that
there is no positive reason to suppose that
paying a decent wage would necessitate,
after the first few months, paying a single
copper more for anything. There is no
reason to believe that it would do
any harm save to the importing tribe’s
business and the Herald’s fetish. If
the goods of the outside sweater were
shut out by a Protective tariff then there
would be more goods to be made locally, and,
with a larger business, it would be possible
to employ better machinery and introduce
all manner of economies in working. Prob-
ably in the end, when the new machinery
and the new conditions were in work-
ing order, the seamstress could have
her wage fixed at twice its present rate, and
yet make the finished article no dearer.
The greatest manufacturing country in the
world is the United States ; its products are
•now worth more than those of Britain,
France and Germany put together ; and it is
also, by reason of the cheapness of its goods,
the greatest exporting country in the world.
Yet it is a Protectionist country of com-
paratively high wages, and its advantage all
lies in the fact that it works on a large scale
with the best appliances. But every scheme
for improving the condition of the poorest
classes of the community comes up with a
crash in the end against the necessity for
Protection as a first essential. And that
would be bad for the importing industry.
So the best remedy the Freetrader can sug-
gest is to wait another century or two, and
see if Public Opinion will do anything.
The Continuous Railway Deficit of New
South Wales.
The annual N.S.W. railway report, covering the
year to 30th June, 1901, appeared last week,
showing, as usual, a handsome profit after all
working expenses and interest were paid. And,
as usual, the two Sydney morning papers had
enthusiastic articles about the matter, with
screams like this in them :
While it may seem somewhat ironical to congratulate
the present Government on these results of a Freetrade
policy, the benefit of which goes to their administration,
the compliment is due all the same. In Victoria, the
Treasurer, instead of getting- help from the railways in
the shape of a surplus, paid into the Consolidated Revenue
account, has still to provide money from that source to
make good the difference between their net earnings and
interest charges. If what Mr. See and his colleagues
spent so many weary years telling us about the inevitable
results of Freetrade had been only half true, seeing that
under Protection the railways of Victoria do not quite
pay their way, those of New South Wales would by this
time have necessarily reached the bottomless pit of bank-
ruptcy. Instead of' that happening, it is the singular
good fortune of the Premier to be now at the head of the
Government of a Freetrade State, whose railways, owing
to the industrial progress of the community, are earning
a large annual profit for the public Treasury. However
people may differ in their political views, this is a state
of things which all may regard with the liveliest feelings
of satisfaction.
The Sydney dailies have published the same
annual glorification on the same annual occasion
for many years. Then about ten months after
each shout of exultation there appears the cold,
matter-of-fact report of the Auditor-General, in
which he exposes the processes by which the sur-
plus is manufactured, and the expenses with which
the railway department refuses to debit itself,
and the lamentable hollowness of the whole busi-
ness. The same tiling will doubtless happen this
time, but about the Auditor-General’s annual re-
port the Sydney dailies maintain a silence com-
pared to which the grave is deafening, and Death
itself yells with a voice akin to that of John
Norton’s Open Letters.
» * * *
Here is the Auditor-General on the subject so
far as his reports are available—that of June, 1901,
isn’t due for nearly a year yet :
N.S.W. Railways and Tramways
Accumulated
Deficit for Year. De ficit to date.
December, 1891 .. £6,671,835
„ 1892 .. £288,362 6,960,197
„ 1893 .. 118,632 7,078,829
„ 1894 .. 148,559 7,227,388
Deficit for 4-Year.
June, 1895 .. 186,135 7,413,523
Deficit for Year.
„ 1896 .. 321,690 7,735,213
„ 1897 .. 38,545 7,773,758
„ 1898 .. 57,129 7,830,887
„ 1899 .. 14,107 7,844,994
„ 1900 .. 138,317 7,983,311
The shortage is not a very large one nowadays,
even though it shows signs of getting much worse
than it was in 1897-8-9. It wouldn’t take a very
great effort to convert it into an actual surplus,
or at least to make the system pay its way.
But in New South Wales everything is sacri-
ficed to the interests of the British and
foreign importing firms of Sydney. They want
Freetrade for their own exclusive interests. In
order to preserve Freetrade, so far as concerns
M'Millan’s softgoodsand the like, it is necessary
to keep the masses constantly informed of how
their State is prospering under that beneficent
system, and how adjacent Protectionist States are
going to a place the name of which is profane
language, so that a deluded community will vote
the good old shoddy ticket with enthusiasm. The
alleged N.S.W. railway surplus, as shown in the
newspapers and afterwards demolished by the
Auditor-General, is one of the inventions which
help to keep up the fiction of how N.S.W. is
prospering through letting in M‘Millan’s calicoes
free of duty. And so long as the people are
assured that there is a railway surplus they can’t
very well be urged at the same time to send men
into Parliament who will try to put an end to the
railway deficit.
• * * •
Victoria has four times as much railway as
N.S.W. in proportion to its area; 30 per cent,
more than N.S.W. in proportion to its population,
and 320 miles more in the total. It is by com-
parison an over-railwayed country with more lines
than the people can profitably use. But the prin-
cipal difference lies in the fact that, in N.S.W.,
the highly profitable Sydney tramways belong to
the State and their profits are included in the
railway revenue. The highly profitable Mel-
bourne tram system belongs to the municipalities
and is leased out to a company, so its returns are
not included in the Victorian railway revenue.
If the Melbourne tramways belonged to the State
instead of to the city, and were built with money
borrowed at the same rate as the railway con-
struction money cost, the results of the joint pro-
ceeding would be something like this : —■
Victorian Railways and Tramways.
June, 1891 Deficit £161,531 June, 1896 Deficit £453,880
„ 1892 „ 268,182 „ 1897 „ 243,946
„ 1893 „ 232,369 „ 1898 „ 331,287
„ 1894 „ 246,796 „ 1899 ~ 238,173
„ 1895 „ 247,575 „ 1900 „ 119,317
All through the bad years immediately succeeding
the Land Boom disaster, Victoria had by far the
worse-paying railway system, but for the year
ended June, 1900, it got level again, so far as can
be gathered from the diverse system of account-
ancy—if it didn’t get, for once, a fraction
ahead. The Victorian railway system is a sorrow-
ful commentary on the mistakenness of building
too much railway for a small population, and of
having Land Booms, and leasing out an asset like
the Melbourne trams to any private syndicate.
But for the year to June, 1900, it paid just about
as well, or possibly a shade better, than the
N.S.W. railways, if taken apart from the trams,
despite the over-railwayed state of the country.
* * * »
The N.S.W. railway surplus is one of the silliest
and most brazen and most persistent lies of the
Calico Jimmy party of Cornstalk Land. Not only
does it not exist, but it shows no present
sign of coming into existence. For the year just
ended both N.S.W. and Victoria had a railway
boom through the rush of business at Federal
Celebration time. The N.S.W. railway depart-
ment must needs, of course, show the bigger boom
of the two. Its revenue shows the extra receipts
of both railway and tramway traffic ; those of the
Victorian Department show extra railway returns
only, the extra tramway returns appearing in the
accounts of the Melbourne Tramway Co. But, so
far as appears, there is behind this increase of
revenue no solid or permanent prosperity in the
N.S.W. districts far away from Sydney. New
South Wales has 18 non-paying railways, -aggre-
gating 1286 miles or nearly half its entire railway
system; 1180 miles consisting of remote country
lines. These 18 lines showed a loss of £318,000 in
1899 and an increased loss of £324,000 in 1900. It
is possible something might be done to put these
matters on a better footing if the subject was
approached in a business-like fashion. Unfortu-
nately nothing can be done to alleviate the Corn-
stalk railway shortage until the existence of such
a thing is acknowledged, and while any person who
is aware of the deficit is howled down by the
Foreign-trade press conspiracy as a traitor to the
great Truths of the M‘Millan imported calico
business, and as a Protectionist and a hired Vic-
torian emissary, it is difficult to even begin look-
ing for the cause of the evil.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Melbourne Tramway Co.’s Grievances.
Melbourne is still intermittently asking for
penny sections on its tramways and not getting the-


same. Still, a little consolation comes its way now
and then. The co. which leases the lines hints
periodically that it won’t mind considering the
matter if the lease (which expires in 1916) is ex-
tended by way of compensation. And the power-
ful Age also remarked the other day that “the
public demand for penny sections over the tram-
lines can be met ” —if the public gives the co.
sufficient payment for the concession, presumably
in the shape of the extension of the lease afore-
mentioned. The co.’s craving for an extension of
its lease is something enormous. Even when it
was asked to allow its men an eight-hour day it at
once began inquiring if it could get an extension
of its lease by way of compensation. But before
the public allows its representatives to grant this
very insolent and rapacious monopoly any exten-
sion it should consider these points :
(1) It was part of the public’s bargain With the Tram-
way 00. that it should work its employees only eight
hours per day, anything beyond to be overtime. The co.
systematically broke faith. The public, instead of
making it keep to its bargain, and making it pay a
penalty for previous breaches thereof, asked it to observe
the conditions of its agreement. And the co. refused.
But, having broken its promise once, it offered, more or
less directly, to make a new promise just as good or as
bad as the old one, if it was paid for doing so in the shape
of an extension of its monopoly.
(2) It was part of the public’s bargain with the co. that
it (the public, by its Parliamentary representatives)
should have power, at any time after 1899, to revise the
fares without paying the co. any compensation. The co.
got its splendid monopoly on this condition. The co.
professes that it will be an outrage if the public keeps
it to its bargain unless it is compensated by an extension
of its monopoly.
(3) The public, in asking for penny sections instead of,
as it should do, simply establishing them by Act of Parlia-
ment, isn’t really asking for a concession that is likely to
cost the Tramway 00. anything. It isn’t asking for a
reduction of fares so much as for a cutting up of the long
threepenny sections into short penny ones. The experi-
ence of Sydney, where business and profits have increased
largely since penny sections were established on all lines,
shows that the co. would probably gain by the change.
(4) If the co. was dead certain that it could not get an
extension of its lease it is quite probable that ib would
establish the penny sections for its own profit. But
while there is a hope that, by representing the penny
section idea as involving an immense sacrifice, and posing
as a crushed martyr over the matter, the co. can get a
most valuable perquisite in the shape of an extension of
its lease it will most likely hold off. If it established
penny sections now, and made an extra profit by doing
so, then it couldn’t well demand an extension of iease to
compensate it for making that extra profit.
(5) The only possible plea on which the co. can demand
that it should not be expected to keep to its bargain as
to the eight-hour day and payment for overtime, and that
Parliament should not exercise its right to alter and
reduce fares as specified in the agreement, is that times
are bad and the Tramway Co. isn’t making reasonable
profits. What is there in this argument ?
(6) During the 13 years to June, 1901, the Tramway
Co. has paid its shareholders average dividends of £l6 7s.
6d. per cent, per annum on the capital they put into the
business (£250,000). The highest dividend was 38) per
cent. ; the lowest 9) per cent. Just now it is 24 per
cent. The dividends are made to look less by treating
£230,000 of profits as capital, and paying dividends on
them also, but that is a mere dodge which disguises the
immensity of the profits. If the Commercial Banking
00. of Sydney did the same thing it could pose as a poor
crushed concern that was only paying 5 per cent.
(7) In addition to paying £l6 7s. 6d. per cent, on a
regular average for 13 years, the co. (with a paid-up
capital of only £250,000) has accumulated in the same
13 years, £508,431 of reserves, and has also provided for
£88,357 of preliminary expenses and other charges inci-
dental to the establishment of the co. It has £508,431 of
net reserves (though £230,000 of them are disguised by
calling them capital), after paying all its liabilities for
interest and sinking fund to its landlord, the Tramways
Trust, and providing for losses, repairs and depreciation.
(8) If the remaining 15 years of its lease only pan out as
well as the late period of depression has done, the co.
(paid-up capital £250,000) will end with £1,195,000 of
reserves after paying 15 more annual dividends of
£l6 7s. 6d. per cent.
There are probably too many tramwayshareholders
in authority for the public ever to get fair treat-
ment in itsdealings with this outrageous monopoly.
Still, the public has feelings in its pocket like
other people. Let it remember, therefore, that
the flat refusal to renew the co.’s monopoly, and
the rigid keeping of the co. to its bargain, mean
earlier public ownership of the tramways and a
large revenue therefrom to relieve the rates. If
the public wants to pay Id., 2d. or 3d. in the £ of
unnecessary rates in order to make a superfluous
present to the Melbourne Tramway 00. then the
public is unfit to be at large. Meanwhile Adelaide,
which is thinking of making exactly the same
kind of fool bargain with another tramway syndi-
cate, should seriously consider how the experiment
has panned out in Melbourne.
♦
More Muddle.
The Freetrade paper has four grievances against
Protection —that it lowers wages and makes the
people poor, and that it raises wages so high as to
block the progress of industry, and that it puts up
prices so that the poor consumer can’t live, and at
the same time puts down prices—the same prices—
till the poor producer is burst up. For instance,
after a pretty long howl about how wages are far
lower in Victoria than in N.S.W., and how that
proves that Protection is too awful for words, the
Sydney Telegraph, in its issue of the 26th August,
laid up that howl for repairs, and took the other
shriek down from the shelf :
For it is not only food that cuts and hurts ; hoots must
be soled and heeled. In Sydney, any respectable shoe-
maker fixes his charge for the work from 3s. 6d. to 4s. fid.
In Victoria, the swagger bootmaker gets Bs. 6d., and in
Suburbia ss. 6d.
Of course, the statement strains the truth a little ;
though wages are higher in Melbourne than in
Sydney, they aren’t so vastly higher as all that.
Even Protection and the Minimum Wage Law
don’t profess to get the Victorian shoemaker
Bs. 6d. for a job that the ill-paid N.S.W. shoe-
maker is glad to do for 3s. 6d. But it is charac-
teristic of the most utterly foolish Foreign-trade
organ in Australia that it is prepared to swear one
day that the Victorian tradesmen gets only about
half what the N.S.W. one does, and that proves
Protection to be ruinous; and the next day it is
equally ready to swear that the Victorian gets
twice as much, and that proves Protection
to be still more ruinous. Also, it is against the
Minimum Wage Law because it has failed to
raise wages, and its chief grievance against the
Minimum Wage State is that wages are raised ;
also that they are lowered.
♦
The Old Pioneer.
The Bulletin has long been of opinion that this
country doesn’t show proper disrespect to its old
Tory pioneer. That person is too often a shore-
less sea of bounding self-complacency and a howl-
ing wilderness of gas. He is prone to meet
together and pass votes expressive of his
admiration of himself because of the way he
built up the country, and the way he sacrificed
himself for the sake of posterity, and all manner
of similar imaginings. A particularly fine sample
of the class, one John Cameron, has lately been
writing to Launceston Examiner to urge that
Tasmania should ease the present burden of taxa-
tion by bigger land sales, and he says, with the
fine unselfish spirit of the old pioneer:
It is argued by faddists we should not sell our lands
but preserve them for posterity. . . . Why should we
bear the burden of posterity ?
That last sentence is characteristic. The old
pioneer actually has the front to pose as an in-
dividual who is likely to bear any burden for
posterity. Tasmania has now been to some ex-
tent a settled country for about two generations,
and it has accumulated this little lot for posterity :
These two generations have sold about one-third of the
island and spent the proceeds. This includes almost all
the good land. The next thousand generations can sell
the other two-thirds—mostly precipice that is only
marketable as scenery.
These two generations have left posterity to pay for
practically every road, bridge, railway, telegraph, wharf,
harbor-improvement, &c., that they have built and
enjoyed the use of, and also for many works that are
dead and gone and worn out, and which posterity will
never see. They are all in the good old public debt, and
posterity has to settle it somehow.
These two generations also leave posterity to pay, in
many cases, their (the good, brave old pioneers’) passages
to Tasmania. Many of them came out as assisted immi-
grants, and their passage-money was charged to the
public debt.
These two generations leave posterity to pay a large
sum which they voted as State-aid to religion and an
enormous amount of their revenue deficiencies, built up
because the lazy, cowardly, shiftless old pioneers wouldn’t
even meet their own current expenses of Government.
They put these things also into the public debt, and left
them for posterity to liquidate.
And the old pioneer, after grabbing everything he
could get, and selling it, and spending the pro-
ceeds on himself, and leaving his debts to pos-
terity, has still the assurance to pose as an indi-
vidual who is in danger of carrying to grievous ex-
cess his habit of sacrificing himself for the benefit
of those who come after him. What an opening
there is in this country for a Society for Being
Disrespectful to the Old Pioneers !
4.
Sydney’s Railway Muddle.
When Sydney’s new main railway station is
built at Redfern there is to be an “extension”
into the city. An extension is just a railway after
all, so when the big station is built away in the
suburbs, to dodge the question of carrying the
railway into the city, the question of carrying the
railway into the city will be there just the same.
The extension will have to have stations on it,
and land will have to be resumed for the
extension and the stations. Same old
problem. Then a demand for branch lines
must come. The branches to Woqllahra,
Paddington, Darlinghurst, Waverley, Raridwick,
Bondi, Surry Hills, and so on, can’t end at Red-
fern. People from those suburbs don’t want to
be carried to another suburb in another direction
—they want to get into the city. They will have
to be dropped at a central city station on O’Sulli-
van’s extension. And that city station will grow
and grow through pressure of traffic till it will be
the main centre, and the public will find the ques-
tion of a big city station just as rampant as
ever. All the money that can be fooled away on
building a new depot at Redfern won’t lay the
ghost for more than a few months at the outside.
When it is built the row about the route for the
extension will be just as violent as the row about
the route for the same line when it was called a
plain railway. It may be called an extension, or
an elephant, or an ink-bottle, or disguised by any
other name, but it is just the question of bringing
the railway into the city —same as it always has
been. An immense sum is to be spent in order to
hang it up for a short time, and save immediate
wear and tear of somebody’s intellect, and that is
about all.
The Nice Little Girl.
The very-much-tangled Piedington case, in
which Norma Mills, of Melbourne, wants police-
man Piddington to support her infant, developed
along the usual lines. Some samples of the young
lady’s evidence :
Mr. Gaunson : That’s what Judge Molesworth said.
(To witness): Did you tell Mr. Lockhead that ?— I can’t
remember. I might have done so.
Were the statements you made there a pack of lies?—
Yes.
Did you afterwards write a letter containing those
statements ?—I did not write it, but I signed the letter.
How long was it after you had called at the railway-
office ?—I cannot say.
Well, it was in November last. Was there any truth in
the statement about Jack Desmond ? —He never had any-
thing to do with me in his life.
You wickedly wrote the letter containing abominable
lies about the poor innocent man whom you drove to
South Africa? —I didn’t write it.
Did you dictate it?—Yes.
After that did you sue Piddington for the maternity
expenses ?—Yes.
Are you mad ?—No.
Well, that’s all right; only wicked ?
On the day that you got an order in that case did you
not swear an information against a girl named Norman ?
—Yes.
Did you swear then that you had never complained that
anybody else had been the cause of your trouble ?—I can-
not recollect.
Did you not say that Desmond had assaulted you in a
railway carriage ?--I believe I did. I swore some lies first,
but I corrected myself afterwards.
In answer to Mr. Fisher, Mills said that she had told
the lies regarding Desmond in order to screen Piddington.
To Mr. Dobbin, P.M. : What she had said about
Desmond was untrue.
Not a week passes in Australia without three or
four girls who have made indecent charges of one
kind or another against men, admitting, unblush-
ingly and without fear, that their statements
were absolutely untrue. Of course there is no
reason why they should have any fear. For some
reason which is beyond all human understanding
no Crown Law Department ever prosecutes the
girl with the false accusation, so long as it is a
dirty and indecent accusation. The Bulletin
has wondered over this subject for years.
♦
The Y ells of Duncan.
Right to the bitter end the Gillies crowd in Vic.
Assembly drearily reiterated that there was no
certain evidence that the people wanted a popu-
larly-elected Convention to draft a new State
Constitution. Which was quite true. There is
no certain evidence, under the existing Parlia-
mentary system, that the people want anything.
They may elect a majority in favor of Protection,
graduated land-tax, resumption of large estates,
paying off the public debt, and minimum wage,
yet that majority has no certain knowledge which
of these principles made the people return it. It
may even have been returned on none of them ;
the people may have elected it because of its
sound views upon the dog-tax without it having
the least idea of the fact. The only way to
find out exactly what the people desire on
any given subject is by the Referendum.
But the illogical Gillies party won’t have
the Referendum; it furiously opposes the
only device by which the people can distinctly
say that they want or object to any reform, and it
opposes the reform because the people haven’t
distinctly said they wanted it. The Gillies
party is the dullest and silliest of hypocrites in
this matter —and also in another matter. The
people demand the Convention in exactly the
same way, and just as definitely, as they demanded
that Duncan Gillies should be Premier, and
should float all his big loans, and build all his
ridiculous cockspur railways. They give exactly
the same authority now for revising the constitu-
tion of the House of Landlords as they ever gave
for leaving it alone. If that authority—the
authority of a Parliamentary majority isn’t
good enough, Gillies should have found it out
earlier. It is meanness beyond the ordinary to
collect seven years’ Ministerial salary, as Gillies
did, on the mere authority of a Parliamentary
majority, and only find out when thereis no hope
of any more salary that that authority is quite in-
sufficient, and proves nothing at all. And to hold
that a mere Parliamentary majority was good
enough authority to borrow £17,000,000 upon, and
v=*t is not good enough warrant on which to
cheapen and simplify Parliamentary proceedings,
is just what might be expected of an ancient bore
of Talking Duncan’s calibre.
♦
“ Our Destiny ” and the Sabbath.
Rev. J. Nicholson (Mount Erica Wesleyan) said several
instances of Sabbath-breaking had come under his per-
sonal knowledge. The other evening he saw a coffee-shop
open in Chapel-street in which there was a deal of hilarity
and a little disorder going on. It was desirable that the
Sunday law should be strictly enforced for the benefit of
the young people, who were tempted to spend the pence
given them to take to church for missionary purposes in
the lolly-shops. This led to peculation on the part of
children.— Argus, 2/7/T, page 6.
“ Pagan” to The Bulletin on the above text:
Editor Bulletin. —To the dismal Methodist, for whom
the mystic attribute of “ grace ” is synonymous with
gloom, who has ideas on Hell which are a burlesque in
their definitude, but whose clearest conception of Heaven
is merely the “ everlasting bliss ” of having dragged him-
self shuddering from damnation by his teeth and nails,
no desecration of the Sabbath could be more horrifying
than the awful “ hilarity ” which the parson saw in the
coffee-shop. Happy laughter on his day of denuncia-
tion he instinctively knows as the worst enemy of
his murky creed. (This assumes his sincerity;
though with many of his kind such savage melancholy is
the unintelligent hypocrisy of custom, born of generation
alter generation of dull people in a dull land.) The
attitude of this bleak-minded pietist is quite inhuman.
He is not satisfied with the dead awfulness of his own
life ; the flat, immobile faces of the men and women on
whose half-consciousness he pounds his illiterate fervor-
having for their only emotional outlet, beyond the coarse
amours which flourish freely enough in the duller
“Christian” sects, the unhealthy enthusiasm of the
most bastard of religions. The cloudy temperament
which he has derived from a long life of un-
rejoicing ancestors (often the bent of mind acquired
from his own cramped upbringing) he wants to impress
also on the Australian, to whose bright intellect it is
wholly unsuited. But his collective strength is so great
that he has been able to taint all our politics, and with
the help of hundreds of “local members” who bow the
knee to him, he has robbed the Day of Rest of almost all
its social and medical value. The weary Sunday; with its
over-eating, over-sleeping, and inert languor generally,
so reacts on our nervous systems that there is hardly a
man in “ respectable ” Australia but goes to his work on
Monday morning less fit than on any other day in the week.
Whether from a mixed and adventurous fatherhood,
(Providence’s counter-balance to the narrow religion some
of them brought! or from climate (we have been told that,
in fact, we are Hellenes), the Australian has a sensitive
organism; and to this genus irritabile it is sheer injury
to be forced into one day’s stagnation in the seven. Let
the workmen of Australia guard the holiday closely, but,
for the Nation’s sake, let them make it a real holiday, and
not the 24 hours of dry rot that it is now. The “religious”
side of the question doesn’t worry one Australian in ten.
He is too sane for the mythology of any creed ; too free
to be a “ good” Catholic ; too much gifted with humor
for that absurd bulwark of “ society,” the English
Church ; and too bright for Puritanism. . . .
In the homily on the bad little boy with the
missionary’s pence, the parson shows himself plain ass.
Every small boy has one quality that goes to make a
good criminal, in that he sees far more clearly than most
men the many dangers of detection. If a youngster has
boldness to enter a lolly-shop on Sunday, knowing (as he
always knows vividly) that a thousand hostile eyes might
see hini go in, or discover him eating the forbidden fruit,
and that any one of a hundred authorised persons (there
are so many in authority over the young) might demand
to know its origin, he will certainly be capable of keep-
ing his penny till the Monday. The writer has tried
both dodges, and knows which of the two is done with
the easier mind.— Pagan.
♦
A Royal Commission has just sent in a highly-
useful report on the municipal government of
Hobart —the city that gives a landlord seven
effective votes and allows a tenant none; revels
in all the glory of stinking cobble-gutters, and
allows a noisome open sewer to meander peace-
fully through its centre. The report recommends
a vigorous course of cleanliness, and urges the
desirability of Hobart procuring enough water to
thoroughly wash itself. It also recommends that
the noisome sewer aforesaid be closed in ; that the
cobble-gutters be abolished; and that the back-
yard and other slops be disposed of in a less
offensive manner than the present method of
allowing them to trickle along the mazy windings
of the cobbles above mentioned. It is also sug-
gested that all the member of the City Council
should be elected on the one day, and all retire
together at the end of a year ; also, that the
Mayor should be elected by the whole of the
ratepayers. But as such revolutionary pro-
posals are distasteful to the local leaden-footed
Mercury (which, by the way, is run by Mayor
Davies, C.M.G.), Hobart is told, at great
length, that it can’t afford the cost of wash-
ing itself, so is advised to “let well alone.”
And as Hobart has never yet caught itself suffi-
ciently awake to protest against the Mercury’s
ruling, it will probably accept the same old advice
in the same weary fashion, and continue to be as
dirty and disreputable as it knows how. Like St.
Stylites, it will only wash itself when it rains,
which—-thank the gods and not the City Council
—is fairly often.
+
Dear Bulletin.— A par. (8., 10/8/’01) claims that
it would be better for N.S.W. Govt, to purchase
land under the Closer Settlements Act than to
“throw open the Western Sahara.” Granted,
but there are millions of acres of splendid land in
the Central Division, with a decent climate, where
the leases have terminated, where the land has
been surveyed, and which would be taken up to
the last rood if some malign influence did not pre-
vail in the Lands Department to prevent this
country being thrown open to the hundreds of
genuine selectors in want of it. In the West it
is an open secret that late Lands Minister
Hassall had his ear ever open to an application
to postpone the opening of land by the lessees,
and it is within my personal knowledge that many
thousands of acres were withdrawn, by telegram,
from selection after a judicious visit to the Lands
Department by the owner of the station con-
cerned. Even to-day some of the finest land in
the West has been withdrawn from selection, but
not, I think, with Minister Crick’s knowledge.
It might, however, safely be asked in Parliament
(say by an inquisitive Labor member): “ Why are
these areas thrown open for selection one week,
only to be withdrawn the next ? ” —W.S.T. [Ex-
actly. But a lot of this demand for “splendid
land ” in the Central Division only arises because
such concerns as the A. A. Co. are allowed to block
close settlement on equally splendid and more
accessible lands further east.—Ed. B.]
<s.
The detestation which the Melbourne Fatman
feels for the Victorian Factories Act arises mainly
from his absurd humanitarianism. The Substan-
tial Person can’t sleep o’ nights for thinking of the
shocking outrages committed on the poor, and the
old, and the halt, and the blind, by this infamous
piece of legislation. Recently a great to-do has
been kicked up by a philanthropic firm of manu-
facturers, aided and abetted by the Argus, over
the tribulations of a “pore cripple,” formerly em-
ployed by said firnq, mainly from motives of
Christian charity and natural love aud affection,
and paid 30s. per week for his services. The
Wages Board insisted on the man getting £2 a
week, and as he could not earn that much, accord-
ing to the statement of the employers, the latter
were obliged to discharge him, although it nearly
broke the heart of the whole establishment
to part with the afflicted toiler. This dis-
closure excited the Argus to pious frenzy
and fired the honest soul of every Fat em-
ployer and “right-thinking” person in Melbourne.
Then Chief-luspector Ord stepped up with a
word or two. He said the man in question had a
lame leg, which did not in the least affect his use-
fulness as a tradesman. He had been granted a
license to-work for £2 a week, which was less than
the minimum wage, but did not desire to use it, as
he knew himself to be worth the full rate. He
had no complaint against the Factories Act ; on
the contrary, he was grateful, since it had raised
his wages 10s. a week. After this a deep silence
fell upon Fatman, and the philanthropic firm
which had generously employed the damaged
workman at less than his value retired from the
argument with an air of martyrdom.
♦
Justice in Westralia is shaped very much like
the Beast in Revelations, which was no shape in
particular. For instance, at Broome police-court
three colored divers recently sued their employer,
the boss of a pearling schooner, for a series of
brutal assaults. In one case the plaintiff could
speak a little English, and he proved his case so
effectually that the law indignantly fined the boss
2s. 6d. The other two men couldn’t speak Eng-
lish, the court refused to supply an interpreter,
and because the men hadn’t supplied one at their
own cost the cases were dimissed. They weren’t
even adjourned to allow the plaintiffs time to get
an interpreter. Then the boss charged the same
men with refusing duty, and though he hadn’t
brought an interpreter either, and his com-
plaint was, quite as unintelligible to the men as
theirs was, to him, and they hadn’t the ghost of a
chance of stating their defence —they were fined
£lO each. That was up in the Nor’-West,
where the nigger-flogging and nigger-murdering
and nigger-slavery, torture, starvation and rape
horrors are. And the Nor’-West Groper, whose
ideas of justice to a colored man, even in the light
of day and at a comparatively-civilised town like
Broome, are of the pattern just mentioned, asks
Australia, by way of defence, if it really thinks it
possible, let alone probable, that a person of
British extraction, with ti e alleged principles of
British fair-play embedded in his soul, would treat
an aborigine badly.
Despite the constant complaints—mostly emanat-
ing from the Calico J immy and nigger-labor press
—about the slow rate at which the Federal Par-
liament gets through its business, there isn’t a
State Parliament in Australia which has put up a
much better record any time in the last ten years.
The State Premier has no departments to organise
—he finds them ready-made. He hasn’t to get
the machinery for governing a whole continent
in working order—he is only responsible for a
spot, and there he takes over a working busi-
ness. And what a record of work does he put up ?
The writer opens at random the Year Book for
1900. In that year N.S.W. passed 55 Acts—
mostly formal affairs of a few lines dealing with
ordinary money matters or ordering the further
expenditure of £lO,OOO on the works at some God-
forgotten harbor, and the whole lot put together
didn’t require as much brain-exertion as the
Federal Customs Duties Bill in itself. Queens-
land held two sessions and got through 19 Acts
—five of them formal matters about money and
the rest mainly two or three clause statements
concerning rabbits. S.A. passed 14 measures in
six months, mostly formal money Bills or measures
for granting seed-wheat to distressed farmers.
Victoria passed 25 measures in eight months—
nine formal money Bills, two authorising
the despatch of contingents, and the rest mainly
small local measures of two clauses or so dealing
with Geelong Mechanics’ Institute, the Kei'ang
Show-yards, the Prahran Mechanics’ Institute, a
park at Romsey, and a small financial trouble of a
twopenny sect called the Reformed Presbyterian
Church of Ireland. The Federal Government
may be slow, but in two months it has got more
big measures under way than the ordinary State
Legislature does in 10 years. And it is a pretty
slow Parliament, all the same.
Dear Bulletin. —The American Trusts, about
the evils of which the British press has such a lot
to say, are at least well paralleled by the enormous
mining monopolies of the Rand, in whose interest
British—and Boer—blood is being spilt like water.
The following are some of them : Wernher, Beit
and Co., owning 29 mines and three financial
businesses, with nominal capital of £18,384,507 !
market value ir. August, ’99, £76,000,000. Con-
solidated Goldfields (Beit, Rudd and Rhodes),
19 mines; nominal capital, £18,120,000; market
value in Aug., ’99, over £70,000,000. S. Neumann
and Co. ; nominal value, £8,806,500; market
value, August, ’99, about £30,000,000. The
above form one combine, known as the Eck-
stein Group, with a total market value of
over 170 millions sterling. Outside of this is the
Robinson group owning 19 mines and a vast
amount of other property with a nominal capital
of £14,317,500 and a market value of three times
that amount. Also, Wernher, Beit, Rhodes,
Rudd, and Rothschild are associated as chief
owners and life governors of De Beers diamond
monopoly. These are the poor, oppressed;* plun-
dered Outlanders in whose interest the sons of
Australian cockies are burning down Boer farm-
steads, and it’s a fair thing that the Australian
people should know it. Yours, Arthur Griffith.
+
“ Old Cove” re the western division of N.S.W. :
We want a “ Goydbr’s line” withdrawing all three-
acres-to-a-sheep country from the W. division—such
country to be added to the Central, or treated separately
as a new division. As to the real W.—that GoD-forgotten
land running a sheep on from five to twenty acres—it’s
nothing but a huge eapital-and-man trap, and the Govt
might lease it to those already trapped for another 30 or
40 years (for the bare cost of administration if it can he
got), when the time might be ripe for the State to take
it over and work it as a whole upon a vast scale. It is
inherently unfitted for individual effort. The cost of
running a sheep increases out of all proportion as the
animal requires a more extended acreage. Put a sheep-
returning about 2s. 6d. per annum—upon 10 acres of
land, fence him in, provide water, keep down noxious
animals and weeds, and provide for working expenses, in-
terest on capital, &c.— and where’s the rent to come
from? With half a continent of unexploited possibili-
ties, why the S.A. wheat-grower starves upon four-bushel
land, why Vic. farmers live a death-in-life in the waterless
mallee, and why N.S.W. graziers sink their strength
and capital in the inhospitable West are three questions
hard to answer, unless, as with the question why N.S W
sends Meagher and Jack Haynes to Parliament, the
explanation lies in Carlyle’s sardonic “ mostly fools’.”


BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY, LIMITED,
K 2
Have JUST LANDED the Celebbateb
No. 15 Popy Prcipo
This is a Camera we can thoroughly recommend
and can safely say that no Amateur should he
without one.
Send for Catalogue. Price £A .
373 Sgorge St., Sydocy,
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, and Brisbane.
“ALLIS” MILLING MACHINERY.
TTNI VERBAL BOLTERS, &c, BAND SAW-MILLS ;
U AUTOMATIC CIRCULAR MILLS, for Sleepef-
Cutting 5 SAW-MILE and FLOUR-MILL ENGINES and
BOILERS 5 TRACTION ENGINES, &c., &e.
WILLIAM FLEMING
24 Clarence-St.
BV3NEY.
Julphide Corporation
LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N<S.W<
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, whers
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, a O T Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Tj(irr/e Parcels 01
Iter/ulas' Supplies under Contract.
Fall Particulars and Tariffs pn application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
'tlH-DVNVH
'aovAvs - a v
GIBBS, BRIGHT 4 53,,
Agents for Australia
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ The Amazons.”
Lyceum “Struck Oil.”
Criterion “ Death or Glory Boys.’*
Her Majesty’s Italian Opera.
Empire Fuller Co.
Palace “ World’s Entertainers.”
Tivoli Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess s Arnold Season (last nights).
Her Majesty’s “ The Silver King.”
Theatre Royal “ Riding to Win.”
Bijou “A Message from Mars'”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
When Mascagni wrote “ Rustic Chivalry”
(or as he, being a poor, ignorant foreigner, pre-
ferred to call it, “ Cavalleria Rusticana ”) he was at
his last equivalent for a British penny, and the
why of his writing it is an all-time proof to the
starving genius that his finger-post to fame may
be set up in such an obscure corner that the odds
are he’ll never see it. Mascagni’s polenta barrel
was empty when he chanced to pick up a torn
fragment of newspaper containing the advt. of a
prize competition for a one-act opera. So he
competed with “C.R.” It took the prize, and
the judges got over the contravention of the one-
act rule by hyphenating the two acts with what
was the instrumental introduction —the immortal
Intermezzo. Two women love the same man—a
young farmer-soldier. One of them is a wife, and
to her the gay dog remains faithful after
he has discarded his unwedded love. The
latter “tells,” and there’s a duel between
husband and lover in which the lover is
killed. If there’s one thing our Italian visitors
can do to the limit of perfection it is the pourtrayal
of jealousy. At Her Majesty’s on Saturday night
Bozzoli, as the wronged husband, stalked about
the stage, shrugged his shoulders, smiled and blew
cigarette-smoke as if his Lola’s infidelity were a
trifle. But even the person who read Tit-Bits
during the Intermezzo recognised in him a human
Etna with a thin ice-cap. The fire breaks through
when, with a snarl and a spring, he challenges the
lover in Sicilian fashion by biting his ear. As
Santuzza, the wronged maiden, Madame Sapio
has most of the hard work. In her scenes with
her lover she is plaintive, entreating, passionate,
and then desperate, but singing all the time.
Commendatore Larizza, as Turridu, the lover, has
long vocal pauses in which his face takes the
stage almost to the exclusion of Sapio’s music.
His under-lip and his eyebrows tell in ten
different ways his high estimation of him-
self, how much the women think of him, and
how great his contempt for poor Santuzza. She
clings to his knees and his nose twitches with
vanity and weariness, and all Her Majesty’s audi-
ence desire to kick him and wish the killing would
hurry up. The plays opens with an enchanting
bit of old Sicily—such weird architecture in which
sanitation could have no place. It is Easter Sun-
day, the villagers troop to church carrying palm-
branches —short-skirted women, men polychro-
matic in their Sunday clothes, blind beggars, little
children, the sinning Santuzza (who is not allowed
inside the church), and her lover with his scapular
prominent on his full white throat. The music of
the opera rolls, rises, swells, and crests with a
kind of Hosanna-to-the-Highest effect. “Rustic
Chivalry” may not be, as the critics assert, of
the very highest order of music, but nothing
staged during the present Italian season has
equallv stirred the audience.
• * * *
Second half of the double bill laid before
Her Majesty’s foregatherers on Saturday was “I
Pagliacci.” After the hurrying action of the first
piece those of the audience whose souls won’t sing
in the seventh heaven of music found it to drag
somewhat, especially the chief mountebank’s
solos. It is another story of love, jealousy, hatred,
and stabbing. Strolling players come in on a
donkey-cart. The same donkey Grace Palotta
caressed blinked its white eyelashes sympa-
thetically at the circle. Clown (Bozzoli)
makes love to Nedda (Vaccari), the pretty
wife of Canio (Larizza), who is chief of the
troupe. He is repulsed, for she loves another
one, Silvio (Lombardi). Larizza’s acting, when
almost mad with jealousy he demands of his wife
the name of her lover, is very fine. His grotesque
white clothes, chalked face, accusing finger, and
hissing, gasping reiteration of “II nomen, II
nomen ” made the audience contract its muscles
and curl its toes tight inside its evening shoes.
Signorina Vaccari, who, by the way, is very well
in the matter of teeth and smile, and has a pretty
little thrush like walk (have you seen the swift,
short-stepping walk of the thrush ?), makes a
dainty Columbine, and dies (musically) rather
than betray her lover. He betrays himself, and,
with Canio’s stiletto-thrust and an angry jarring
from the orchestra, “ the comedy is ended.”
** * *
Pinero’s brightest comedy, or thereabouts,
“The Amazons,” is on at Sydney Royal for a
limited number of nights. It can only be hoped,
for the sake of the community, that these nights
won’t be too limited. The present production is
weaker on two points than the one of more years
ago than it is pleasant to remember. Dot Bouci-
cault’s Count was probably almost the best of the
innumerable parts which that finished actor did
in this country. It was not overdrawn by so much
as a hair’s-breadth, and it was impossible to think
of any point on which it could have been im-
proved. Leslie Victor would look one of the best
figures in the present performance but for these
recollections of the lamented Dot. As it is, lie
seems to fill the character witli extra and super-
fluous gymnastics. And Miss Chatteris, quaint
and pretty as she is, does not fully
replace Grace Noble as the smallest of
the three boy-girls whose clothes rouse
the three parishes of Overcoteand Little Overcote
and Scrumley to pious indignation. Also, Mrs.
Brough plays the largest boy-girl in a harder
fashion than of old. But, as a set-off to all this,
Brough, as Lord Litterly, is a good substitute for
Titheradge. Miss Susie Vaughan, the massive
parent of the three girls who ought to have been
boys but weren’t, is admirable. Miss Temple,
who has been doing excellent work of late, nas
rather improved on the middle boy-girl of the
trio; and Cecil Ward’s Earl of Tweenwayes is the
same delightful brown idiot as before, and neither
moth nor rust has corrupted his idiocy since days
of old, nor have thieves broken in and embezzled
his many hereditary diseases and his desire to
keep away from the Hereford bull.
* * ♦ *
Some day or other the present writer
hopes to become respectable and take to writing
melodramas. There is room for a good-sized one
as a sequel to “ The Amazons.” The three
mannish boy-girls are left rushing on to matri-
mony, and the most mannish of the three—the
one who smokes hardest, and carries her gun most
vigorously, and is least regardless of the Hereford
bull —falls to the lot of Tweenwayes. That pale
and bent inheritor of the complaints and porous-
plasters of the centuries, having lain down and
apologised when threatened by a poacher who
wants to borrow money with violence, hires a
game-keeper for an economical sum, to tell of his
valour in knocking the marauder endways. His
girl falls in love with him by reason of thisTun-
expected ferocity. She admits that he looks like
a terrified private hospital, but the fact that he
has valour concealed about him fetches her.
When she discovers, in after life, that he has
nothing concealed about him but cramp and
sciatica, and she has to rub his disappoint-
ing back with liniments in his ancestral halls,
the tragedy probably begins. She may kill
Tweenwayes by letting a draft blow on him;
or stay at home with him and nag miserably at
the faint brown heir of a hundred shattered earls;
or bolt with a less diseased person, and be aban-
doned by him, and come back a crushed woman on
a cold night, when Tweenwayes possibly dies of
chill, caught through getting up to tell her that
she can’t come in because she has disgraced an
old family which had indigestion on the walls of
Acre in the days of the crusades. Pinero supplies
an exceedingly clever and original comedy, which
stops short just at the right place. The sequel
should be played at the Lyceum, with C. Hollo-
way humanely lending Miss Temple a baked
potato off his barrow when she is starving after
being deserted by the man with whom she fled,
because she couldn’t stand the sight of Tween-
wayes’ goneness-at-the-knees any longer.
»* * *
Maggie Moore, who made her reappear-
ance at Sydney Lyceum last Saturday, was
warmly greeted by a crowded audience, and
numerous assortments of vegetation were passed
up to her before she could proceed to be an artless
Irish maiden, of the heavy and humorous type of
artlessness. The drama in which Maggie puts
herself is something of no importance. It is
called “ Killarney,” and the howl of the distressed
Irish peasantry is heard in the first act. There is
no occasion to howl so early in the drama, as two
of the other characters are merely having a dis-
agreement on their own account, and tne Irish
peasantry know nothing about it. Nevertheless,
they get round outside the building and howl on
general principles. Later, when they are asked
to pay their rent, which has generally been
in arrears for some twelve months or so (they
mention this bitterly as if it was somebody else’s
rent that was in arrear) they curse the oppressor
and also observe that the Banshee will Wail.
Being asked again for the coin, they add that the
shamrock will cease to bloom in the Emerald Isle.
When the peasantry (mostly clad in beautiful
fancy costumes) hire themselves out to do hay-
making for the oppressor, and the oppressor
objects to their spending their time in dancing an
Irish jig, they do some more cursing, and relieve
their feelings by murdering him outside the scenes
in the last act, just about the time the wrong
missing document and the right missing document
are both discovered, and the estate is going
back to the true owner. As an Irish estate con-
sists mostly of bog and unpaid rent, it is not an
asset that would seem to be of much importance ;
nevertheless, there is a good deal of quarrelling
about it. The rest of the drama deals with
the noble-hearted young English landlord who
goes disguised to right the wrongs of his tenantry.
He persuades his aristocratic friend to come to
Ireland, and make love to a nice little Irish
girl. The hero’s friend takes this too literally
and asks somebody called Nora to be unmarried
to him, and when she definitely refuses he
becomes suddenly good and tells himself that he
“ will never trample this little flower beneath his
foot. ” There is a good deal of desultory arresting
in the drama, but whenever a father or lover is
accused of anything one of the girls merely stands
up and says, “I am an Irishman’s daughter, and
I say he is innocent, ” upon which evidence the
charge is allowed to fall through. An explosion
happens in a pair of bellows, and a gun goes
off by itself, but the real big murder of the
oppressor and his companion is done off the boards.
* » * •
Besides Maggie, nobody of any importance
crosses the Lyceum stage. Maggie is certainly a
very large Irish maiden, and her short skirt above
her healthy ankles makes her look bigger still,
but her fair wig and humorous countenance, and
her undoubted dramatic ability atone for these
disadvantages. Maggie’s voice, both speaking
and singing, is above reproach, being still round
and sweet and without any jagged edges. Also,
her brogue never forsakes her, even in the hour of
the long speech, when the brogues of most
actresses fall off astonishingly. Leo de Chateau
gives some of his speeches, as the oppressor, in a
rather sermonic manner ; and John Ennis, as the
Irish servant who is allowed to make as much
noise as he likes, could have made more of the
part. Ethel Bashford .refuses to be a trampled
flower very equably, and is still calm when honor-
ably raised to the English aristocracy in conse-
quence.
»* » *
The refined and graceful variety pro-
gramme at Syney Palace is prospering with much
the same bill as heretofore. If this paper finds
itself in robust health next week it will deal with
this subject at greater length.
** * *
The latest Sydney Empire joke consists of
the boss bringing a large (presumably sham)
policeman from somewhere outside to suppress an
alleged row among his company. This sort of
joke has two disadvantages, however : some people
are alarmed at first lest the row is real, and some
are angry afterwards because it isn’t. Hetty
Warden introduces a Cachuca dance, which looks
genuine and is certainly pretty and graceful; and
May Dagmar, Denis Carney and a remarkable
horse may be mentioned in passing.
** * *
The “Death or Glory Boys” continue
their weird caricature of the British Army at Syd-
ney Criterion, where for some time longer the
villain will continue to poison himself in the last
act, and his widow to bestow herself on the hero
almost before her late suicide has got one foot on
the Golden Shore. It is a violent and unreason-
able drama, and the only thing that does not
hurry too much is the prison wall when it turns
round and becomes part of a church. The sur-
prising cruelties which the British soldier inflicts
on his officer, and the way he knocks that per-
sonage about unreproved, remain as astonishing
as ever, and will-do so until further notice.
** * *
Rickards, at Sydney Tivoli, gives many
items that are individually bright, though the
habit some performers have of billing themselves
as doing an “entirely new repertoire of novelties, ”
and then doing very much the same things they
always did, is to be reprehended. In the case of
Marie Lloyd, however, it may be forgiven. The
Tivoli second part (its first part is more or less
hopeless) makes an impression of good material
badly put together. Each performer is either a
rather good or a very good performer, but in
many cases they stay on the stage too long, and do
the things they used to do not long enough ago.
#* # *
A faint, watery reflection of Rickards has
started to shine in a useful, humble way down
George-street, Sydney, where the old Alham-
bra Theatre is doing a little variety show
without making any fuss about it. The ad-
mission is by silver coin, and the usher,
whose Christian name is Charley, and who
seems to prefer being addressed as such, shows
people to their seats by saying “ Here y’re.”
No programmes are handed round, and when a
visitor is curious to know who is to be the next
performer, he has to go outside and see the names
nailed up on the door. The scenery consists of a
piece of calm blue sea, and the blackened gentle-
men who ask one another questions, and the “ seat
warmers,” have to sit close up to it, leaning hard
against the wet waves. It is a homely, simple
entertainment. The orchestra consists of one
piano, and during the interval, when a holey cur-
tain rushes down, it practises songs for the next
part, and the singers come down and show it how
to. The performers and audience, by the way,
make an impression of being one another’s rela-
tions, and it looks as if ma, who keeps the lolly-
shop in Surry Hills, has come to see her Juliar
enter her professional career. It is a good-natured
audience. People all know one another’s Christian
names, and when the male part of it thoughtlessly
puts its feet up on the seat in front, it always
knows enough of the usages of good society to put
them down again when the lydy, whose frock thev
have got on to, looks at them very hard.
** * *
“A Message from Mars,” which came to
Horace Parker in Sydney last Xmas, is just now
being delivered to that lazy amateur astronomer
at Melbourne Bijou. The ancient dress-circle
carpets, worn into holes by the tread of bygone
boots, have given place to nice new carpets, and
the house on Saturday night look full and festive.
Melbourne will probably warm towards the case
of Parker, though, in the ordinary way, admirers
of modem comedy don’t care for simple moral
lessons. This comedy, unlike the new furnishings,
is simple in design and thin in texture, but it has
humor and clever scenic effects and mixed inte-
rest, and its intentions on the surface seem
as strictly honorable as the motive in
Dickens’ “ Christmas Carol.” In fact, it maybe
taken for an up-to-date version of the Carol with
amendments suggested by Pett Ridge’s delightful
little yarn, “ A Person of Some Importance,” and
another fellow’s yarn of the Yankee millionaire
who got cut adrift from his wealth in London and
was compelled to doss upon the Park benches.
Moreover, Parker’s brown visitant reminds one of
the telephone message from Jupiter that provided
Mr. Somebody, in another book, with his
“Second Opportunity.” To have read all those
stories is to be unimpressed by “A Message from
Mars.” The playlet’s plot is reminiscentially
weak (copyright phrase). Pett Ridge’s fable, or
the romance of the penniless millionaire, would
have admitted of stronger dramatic treatment.
But, inasmuch as the “Message ” is a droll novelty
to most people, its Melbourne outlook is promis-
ing—even at the Bijou.
* * * *
Horace Parker is a little more stupidly
selfish than the average young gilded bachelor
who kills time in feeding his vanity and dosing
himself with science. Parker lives here below.
He’s one of us in a slightly aggravated form. The
inhabitants of Mars are dull, methodical slaves to
Unselfishness, it appears, and when a man up
there was detected in the act of feeding his
vanity the Government sentenced him to visit
this planet and stop here until.be could bully and
worry Parker into a state of human kindness.
When the mundane creature has been regenerated
through the busting of his bank the messenger
from Mars is whisked back again to his planet.
Or, rather, Parker falls asleep and dreams that
the miracle is brought to bear upon him,
and when he awakes he has got Unsel-
fishness on the brain. His charity runs riot.
If the curtain didn’t descend on Parker’s love
for his fellow man he would be bereft of all his
belongings in a week. Also, his noble example
would certainly wreck his auntie, and his best
firl, and then the selfish, submerged tenth of
iondon’s population would pass them by as toffs
fallen from their high estate, The moral lesson
overreaches itself so wildly that the student is
left in doubt as to whether the teacher hasn’t been
pulling the leg of his conscience all the time.
* * * *
There are 28 mines cm the bill, and the
acting of numerous young ladies is not at all per-
suasive, Miss Ruby Ray and others bring little
else than beauty into the show. Their talent
must have been mislaid for the most part. Her-
bert Ross, in the two-sided part of Parker, ranges
from satisfactory to good, even very good. The
lines of the brown person from Mars are delivered
in a loud, lisping tone by H. Stephenson; also
the American Johnnie, enamoured of Parker’s
girl, is a monotonous stranger who pays his
addresses as though he were delivering a lecture
in sections. Old friend W T. Hawtrey is enter-
taining as a tramp, especially when he gets to
work on Parker’s whisky, but if he is intended as
a genuine object of sympathy, he misses the ’bus.
*« * «
The last night of “White Heather” at
the Royal happens this week, and on Saturday
the Bland Holt co. will undertake “ Riding to
Win,” for the first time. The announcement that
the new piece will be “ bountifully illustrated ” is
quite superfluous, but The Bulletin makes it,
because it is a safe thing to say. If Bland Holt
should ever stage a melodrama unbountifully the
heavens may be expected to fall in a fit of pained
surprise.
m *■ * *
In the interval between Wilson Barrett’s
two visits to these shores the least bluffable sec-
tion of Melbourne has dropped its early reverence
for that earnest and intelligent showman. Be-
lated press comments on Barrett’s mannerisms
must sound funny to the people—and there were
even then a good few of them—who summed him
up justly four years ago, when adverse criticism
was tantamount to a foul libel on the King. The
faults complained of now are really less noticeable
than of yore. Barrett then was —not to say it
unkindly—swollen with the success of “ The
Manxman” and ‘‘Sign of the Cross.” Later
plays have not been so successful, and a little loss
of sense of importance has seemingly improved
his acting. At any rate, Barrett in “ The Sign ”
is not such a glaringly melodramatic Marcus as
Julius Knight was.
»* * *
Her Majesty’s (Melb.) has been an in-
teresting place of worship since Wilson Barrett’s
advt. was shaped like the indentation of an
Easter bun. The vast auditorium overflows with
brethren and sistern who look proud of having
done the things they ought to have done, and
sorry for such as have left those things undone,
and there is much spiritual health in them. The
congregations are so infectiously Good all at once
that present scribe finds himself breathing a short
prayer into his hat before he puts it under
the seat. The dress - circle these nights is
clothed not in purple and fine linen, but
in love and peace and plain garments. A
strange, sweet sense of Church-Catechism fills
the air. An agnostic, gazing moodily at the stalls
and pit, is bound to admit that, though he
knoweth not what this Christianity of Barrett’s
may be, he certainly does know that if it can pro-
duce any more shows like “ The Sign ” the whole
managerial treasury will be the Better for it.
“ The Sign ” attracts a multitude that rarely
spends three shillings on any kind of amusement
which doesn’t include a few remarks by the curate.
Therefore, it is a drama to be encouraged—in
moderation. And the author ought to be encour-
aged. If Mr. Barrett is willing to erect a statue of
himself in gold (all gold) outside Parliament House
or at any free, easy, and accessible spot, the Tigel-
linus who pens this paragraph would see to it
(meaning the effigy) as soon as the necessary funds
are guaranteed. Already a million of souls in
Australasia have been uplifted, as it were, by “The
Sign of the Cross.” The necessity of- sending for
the Woman, and chasing her until your sins drop
off, has been impressed upon ten hundred thousand
minds. And Wilson Barrett has done this. In
the event of his ordering a statue, Tigellinus would
suggest that he order it to be modelled with a
gigantic forefinger pointing upward to the Light.
* * # *
“ The Silver King ” goes up on Saturday
for a six nights’ run, and after that “ The
Christiau King,” who is Wilson Barrett as Alfred
the Great, will make a first appearance on any
stage.
** * *
Charles Arnold’s season at Melb. Prin-
cess’s is passing hence cheerfully. To-morrow
(Friday) will close the first chapter of Smith and
the stern, invincible cake. Two turns of “The
Professor’s Love Story ” are to happen on Satur-
day, and these should be interesting tests of the
improvement which has come with practice
in the co.’s performance of J. M. Barrie’s
sentimental comedy. It was new to the
parts when the show was staged for a fortnight in
Melbourne last year. “Jones,” the bagman, re-
appears on Monday, and will rush round for three
nights only. Then “Smith” will resume opera-
tions for two nights, after which Arnold marches
his forces off to Brisbane.
*m * *
Next Thursday afternoon (Sept. sth) the
proprietor of “ Smith ” and “ Jones ” gives the use
of the Princess to veteran George Coppin for a per-
formance in aid of the Old Colonists’ Home
and the Dramatic Association, the two charities
having agreed to work a point of mutual interest.
Coppin will emerge from his long retirement on
this occasion, and produce a “ talented combina-
tion ”in “ Not Such a Fool as He Looks.” Also,
Arnold will contribute a comedy to the entertain-
ment, and Lady Hopetoun, the Mayor, the
Waxellency, and other prosperous citizens are
under engagement to leaven the vast audience
which is confidently expected.


stocks Kept of i—^
RAND ROCK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
BY THE SOLE AGENTS—
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at 456 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ; WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
214 HIGH BTREET, FREMANTLE; KALCOORLIE.
I
TRAMWAYS. TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.)
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
|D®“ Locomotives from 10 to %50 h.p. TEf
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &e. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World, upon
application. • A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The Austral Otis Co., of South Melbourne, has
just completed a contract for the supply of shafting,
pulleys, plummer-blocks, trommels, &c., for the Lloyd
Copper Mine, N.S.W., and has also in hand a contract
for the construction of a tandem compound steam-engine
of 300 h.p. for the same co. This engine is to be of the
highest class, and fitted with Suezer type trip valve gear,
and all modern improvements.*
The Insurance Record of 20th July, 1900,
writes with reference to the Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society, Limited : “ The Society’s transactions
during 1899 are calculated to afford considerable satis-
faction to all connected with the institution, and the
management are to be congratulated upon having brought
affairs to so successful an issue during troublous and
unsettled times.”*
* * * • .
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
Allan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* * * *
John W. H. Piper, C.E., M.A.1.M.E.,
M.Am.I.M.E., &c., Australian representative of Cutten
Bros., Dunedin, mining and dredging engineers, is leaving
for London about the end of August to establish a Home
Office for the Arm, the increase of foreign business
necessitating this action. Mr. Piper will be pleased to
undertake any commissions that may be entrusted to him.
Equitable Buildings, George-street, Sydney.*
• » * •
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor HorsAeld Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
If further proof is needed that Luhrig Vannera
are the best and most economical machines for dressing
Anes and slimes, it will be found in the fact that the Tas-
mania gold mine, BeaeonsAeld, Tasmania, has decided to
increase the number of these machines in the extension
of the present mill and reduction works. When com-
pleted it will have over 100 head of stampers at work, and
60 Luhrig Tanners, including the additional 24 of the
large type. Before Anally adopting plans the Tasmania
board sent its manager to inspect the chief reduction
works in other States. Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, of
Melbourne, are the Sole Agents for the Luhrig appli-
ances.*
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject W>inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne. *
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Irotifounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, Aanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, Auming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and ail sorts of iron-work.*
South Blocks have used up only £2llO of tlseir
capital this last half-year, and have done good work
for the money ; they still have £10,640 to the good. The
directors’ policy, in view of the low prices Of metals, has
been to conAne attention to prospecting and develop-
ment, so that when the market does improve the stuff
may be got out readily and disposed of. This is good ; if
some bigger mines had done the same thing they would
not now be in Queer-street. The Blocks have opened up
big and fairly uniform bodies of good milling ore, rich in
lead but poor in silver. When the improvement in the
lead market comes (if it does come), the co. will be handi-
capped by want of a mill.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
• Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine'and Blasting Charges.
Hy. tyarkwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Adel.; Dajle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellinjton, and
Auckland, NX.
WILD CAT” BRIAR PIPES Wild
IN A DOZEN DIFFERENT SHAPES.
Posted, lOd.; 6s. per Dozen—posted, 6s. Bd. ,* 725. per Gross —tsr Carriage Free to any
Railway Station in New South Wales.
D.
ea.
8°: Cat
WOOLF &z 00., 370 G-eorge-atreet Caeadt C3-.3E*.0.), SYDNEY.
of
❖
The Wild Cat Column.
“ M.D.”: Balance-sheet of Standard Life
Association was reviewed in issue of 24th August.
* * * *
The Bank of New Zealand has published, for
the year up to 31st March, 1901, its sixth balance-sheet
since it came under State control. It is not a State Bank
in the proper sense of the term. The State found it
utterly wrecked by insane and incompetent private
management, with all its capital lost, a great deficit
in its deposits, and unable to earn enough to pay its ex-
penses. The management implored assistance, and the
State advanced £2,000,000 at 4 per cent., and then another
■ 509,000 at 3J per cent. It bought up the Colonial Bank
and amalgamated it with the B.N.Z. It took the chief
control of the concern, and set aside its vast mass of dead
assets as a separate concern under an Assets Realisation
Board, and took the management of them also. And then
it set to work to earn enough to make up the losses.
These are the results so far as the Bank of New
Zealand —the live part of the institution, as distinguished
from the dead weight of foreclosed properties in the
hands of the Assets Realisation Board—is concerned ;
How Disposed off.
f l " " N
Old Losses Paid towards Interest on
and Losses of £2,500,000
Profits. Colonial Bank Assets advanced
purchase Realisatioh by
written off. Board. Government
Balance £384
1896 119,700 £35,709 £84,375
1897 136,891 39,391 97,500
1898 182,532 £10,132 74,900 97,500
1899 191,420 43,920 50,000 97,500
1900 242,520 95,020 60,000 97,500
1901 300,242 160,665 60,000 89,577
£1,173,689 £309,737 £300,000 £563,952
The loan from Government is now reduced to £2,000,000,
the other £500,000 having been repaid. If this loan is
treated as capital then the earnings are at the rate of
£l2 ss. 7d. per cent, per annum on the total funds
(Government loan, £2,000,000 ; shareholders’ capital,
£421,860 ; reserve fund, £23,474 ; total, £2,445,334). But
if the Government loan is treated as a fixed deposit, then
the profits, so far as the private shareholders are con-
cerned, are £210,665, equal to £47 6s. Id. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ capital and reserve fund. No
other bank in Australasia, and probably no other bank in
the world, shows such results as the Bank of New Zealand
does under its State control. Unfortunately for the
shareholders, these profits have to go to pay off
the frightful losses which the old private manage-
ment left behind it. The Government has done all
this for the shareholders without fee or reward ; it merely
gets the 4 per cent, which its £2,000,000 advance actually
costs it. And the private shareholders, so far as the
writer knows, haven’t even presented Premier Seddon
with a kauri walking-stick.
The Assets Realisation Board has in its charge
the great mass of hopeless-looking foreclosed properties
to the alleged extent of nearly £3,000,000. It took them
over from the Bank (paying for them in 31 per cent,
debentures) at their nominal value, which was very
much more than their real value. The Bank is
pledged to pay not more than £50,000 a year out of its
profits to the Board towards making good deficiencies
till the trouble is finally cleared up. So far this is how
the Assets Realisation Board has progressed, after paying
interest at 3J per cent, on debentures still outstanding :
Loss on Loss on Less Re-
Busi- Property ceived Total
ness. sold. from Bank Deficit.
. of N.Z.
March, 1896.. £43,860 £35,709 £8,151
„ 1897.. 41,814 £45,231 39,391 55,805
„ 1898.. 56,629 65,924 74,900 93,458
„ 1899.. 53,011 28,354 60,000 124,823
„ 1900.. 6,623 28,463 50,000 109,909
„ 1901.. 22,185 22,530 60,000 104,624
The Assets Realisation Board began with a liability of
£2,680,285, being the amount of 3£ per cent, debentures
issued in payment for the property. It has since redeemed
£305,285 of these, and the liability is now only £2,375,000.
The £104,624 shown above is, of course, nothing like the
total deficit. The unsold properties still stand at book
values. If they could all be realised to-day at their real
present value, the deficit would probably be over a
million.
To make any really accurate showing of the
position of the B.N.Z. under its State management as
compared with its old condition under private control it
is necessary to take the profits of the bank, less interest
on money advanced by Government, and the losses
on the working of the Assets Realisation Board’s pro-
perties. Losses on realisation and other writings-off are
really the losses of the old private management provided
for by the State management out of earnings. Results
are as follows compared with the last year of the private
management, when the loss was £37,356 :
Bank and Applied Provided to
Assets Realisation towards meet losses
Board. Purchase left behind
of Colonial by Private
Loss. Bank. Management
March, 1896 .. £8,535
„ 1897 .. 2,423
Profit.
„ 1898 .. 28,403
„ 1899 .. 40,909 £5,000
„ 1900 .. 138,397 10,000
„ 1901 .. 188,480 60,000
£385,231 £75,000 £310,231
The Bank of New Zealand has, in six years of State
control, now paid for the Colonial Bank’s business in
full out of its earnings, so the drain on the earnings
to pay for this new asset is ended, and only the
profits remain. It has also written off £414,855 of old
fosses (£234,353 in the bank and £180,502 in the Assets
Realisation Board), but, as ihe Board has accumulated a
deficit of £104,624 at the same time, the net provision for
the old management’s losses is £310,231. Considering the
immense increase in earnings, the reduction in interest
through the repayment of £500,000 of the Government’s
advance and £375,000 of the Assets Board’s debentures,
the improved position of the Board’s properties, and the
fact that the purchase money of the Colonial Bank is now
wholly provided for, there should now be from £160,000
to £200,000 a year available to clear off the old losses.
The Insurance and Banking Record, by the
way, wants to know why the shareholders of the Bank of
N.Z. are not, in common justice, relieved of all responsi-
bility for the troubles of the Assets Realisation Board
(their responsibility being only a payment of £50,000
a year.) The Board has charge of all the old Bank’s bnd
assets —the ones which show even yet £44,000 a year loss.
The Record apparently holds that the private shareholders
should have the good portion of their bank—which
earned over £300,000 last year—and let the State keep the
bad portion. Its plea is that the shareholders' “ property
was practically taken out of their hands.”" Seeing that
the State became a partner in the bank to the extent of
supplying all the working capital (this at the share-
holders’ urgent entreaty) one might think rather that
while this arrangement lasted it was taking the
management of its own property. The shareholders had
no property when the State came to their aid—only a
huge deficit, a great call - liability, a dreadful moral
stench, and a certainty of ruin.
* * * *
Query: Why does not the privately-managed
Commercial. Bank of Australia, which also puts its bad
properties into a Trust for realisation, publish the
accounts of that Trust as the State-managed B.N.Z. does ?
There must be accounts, and they must surely be plain
enough to be understandable, and when the State-
managed institution finds it quite a simple thing to put
its Trust’s balance-sheet before the public there is surely
no insuperable difficulty in the private concern doing
likewise.
* * * *
The Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank
(Melbourne) shows, for the half-year to 30th June, 1901,
the worst results it has achieved for the past three years :
Loss. Total Deficit.
June, 1895 .. .. £7,481 .. £14,402
December, 1895 .. 2,531 .. 16,933
Profit.
June, 1896 .. .. 144 .. 16,789
(Deficit provided for out of forfeited capital.)
Total Reserves,
December, 1896 .. 978 .. £978
June, 1897 .. ... 912 .. 1,890
December, 1897 ... 1,051 .. 2,941
June, 1898 .. .. 1,207 ... 4,148
December, 1898 .. 1,400 .. 6,548
June, 1899 .. .. 1,257 .. 6,805
December, 1899 .. 1,575 .. 8,380
June, 1900 .. .. 1,521 .. 9,901
December, 1900 .. 1,640 .. 11,541
June, 1901 .. .. 1,222 .. 12,763
Profits represent ss. 4d. per cent, per annum on the
shareholders’ funds as at the commencement of the half-
year. Part of the decline may be set down to the
increased rate of interest now payable on deposits. The
A.D. and M. Bank reconstructed on a system whereby 70
per cent of the deposits were renewed at 3£ per cent, till
1910. The rest were repayable without interest by three
instalments of 10 per cent, each, on Ist January, 1896,1899,
and 1901 respectively. Before the first instalment was paid
therefore, the rate of interest on all deposits was £2 9s.
per cent. After payment of first instalment it was
£2 14s. 6d. per cent. ; after payment of second instal-
ment, £3 Is. 3d. percent. ; and since the third instalment
was paid on Ist January, 1901, £3 10s. per cent. About
£187,000 in all has been repaid without in any way reduc-
ing the aggregate outlay in interest, and if this money
was worth even 2 per cent., the earning power of the
bank is £lB7O less per half-year than it was in 1895, and
£620 less per half-year than it was six months ago.
Under the circumstances, the A.D. and M.
Bank is progressing steadily, but all the same a very
heavy writing down of capital would be required to put
it on an even keel. The paid-up capital is £906,507, and
the earnings for last year would only pay a 5 per cent,
dividend on £50,000, and leave £362 towards a reserve fund.
Still the prospects don’t look hopeless. In the last four
years the A.D. and M. Bank has realised £79,809 of the
assets taken over from the old bank at reconstruction
time ; it has reduced its interest-bearing reconstructed
deposits by £25,580; and its half-yearly interest bill by
£775. In the same period it has paid off about £125,000
of non-interest-bearing deposits, so a good deal of pro-
gress has been made. The non-interest-bearing deposits
being all cleared off, it should now be possible to devote
the funds to buying up the 3J per cent, deposits, and if
the bank has any real vitality a steady improvement
should set in. Hitherto, with the increase of the average
interest rate on its reconstructed money, it has been
struggling uphill all the time.
• • • *
The Land Mortgage Bank of Australia wrote
off another £178,684 of- lost capital during the past half-
year, with a view to clearing off the accumulated losses to
30th June, 1900, and, in a manner of speaking, started
afresh. At June, 1893, the Land Mortgage Bank, after a
long and prosperous period of dividend-paying, had
reserves of £118,161, and a paid-up capital of £250,000. It
has lost all these reserves and has written off £285,716 of
capital, so the whole funds, as they existed in 1893, have
been lost and, £35,716 besides. The new capital paid up'
to date is £188,241, but the new shortage is already
beginning to eat into this. The record of the past two
half-years—all losses up to June, 1900, having been
written off—is as follows :
Apparent loss
by discount
Loss on on calls paid Total
business. in advance. deficit.
Dec., 1900 .. £2,263 .. £459 .. £2,722
June, 1901 .. 1,049 .. 565 .. 4,336
The co. writes off part of the discount loss, and carries
the rest (£666) forward, for the present, as an asset, and
calls its accumulated new deficit £3670. Still, the real
situation appears to be as above. The actual loss on the
business is the smallest for a very long time. If the
debenture-holders, to whom the tremendous sum of
£682,065 is still owing—more than three times the paid-
up capital—will continue to accept interest at the
reduced rate of 3.) per cent., the bank should soon begin
to show a little profit again. The original rate was
4£ per cent., and the reduction granted was for five years
only, and expires on 31st December, 1901. Supposing the
debenture-holders demand their full 41 per cent, after
that date it will add £3410 to the loss each half-year, and
the prospects will look too bad to be worth mentioning.
The Land Mortgage Bank has, on paper,
£852,565 of actual investments, and these investments are
supposed to have been written-down to actual present
values. Yet, though the half-year just ended was the best
for a long time, the gross yield from these investments
was at the rate of only £3 os. Bd. per cent, per annum.
This looks as if there was still room for more writing-
down. The co.’s total net assets are set down as worth
£885,369, and as the liabilities to debenture-holders and
others are still £701,464, the shareholders own very little
of the institution now except the deficit and the right to
pay calls. With a continuation of the 3.)- per cent, rate
of debenture-interest, and if more call-money can be got
in, and the property market keeps improving, the Land
Mortgage Bank will pull round, but its situation is very
moderate just now.
■* * * *
The Universal Land and Deposit Bank, Limited
(Sydney), has a paid-up capital of £6825, so it may fairly
rank as one of the smallest concerns in its own line of
business. Some of its recent results :
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
June, 1899 .. £596 Nil £3,068
December, 1899 .. 5.9 6 per cent. = £204 3,373
June, 1900 .. 616 3 „ „ 102 3,887
December, 1900 .. 641 4 „ „ 136 4,392
June, 1901 .. 653 4 „ ~136 4,909
The Universal Land and Deposit Bank, for some unex-
plainable reason, has never started a reserve fund, but
always carries its bulky balance forward as undivided
profit. On the face of things it looks a prosperous lit; ie
concern, with large accumulations as compared with its
capital. Still, the total shareholders’ funds are only
£ll 734, while the co. trades on over £21,000 of borrowed
money, so it badly wants to accumulate a little more cash
of its own.
* * * *
The proposals of the management of the Royal
Bank of Queensland to call up £1 per share of the ordinary
capital (£70,034), and also to issue 30,000 preference shares
of £lO each (£300,000), with a first claim on the profits up
to per cent, dividend, have both been endorsed by the
shareholders. In this matter the shareholders showed
themselves well advised. There is room m Queensland
for a bank with the good reputation of the Royal to do a
vastly larger business than it can do with its present
resources. It can’t expand its business by lending out its
reserve-fund, for that is (most wisely) kept separately in
State securities. It could, doubtless, get a lot more
deposit-money to lend out, if it liked to hunt vigorously
for new deposits, but deposits fixed for two years cost
nominally 3.) per cent., which is just as much as the pro-
posed preference dividend, and they really cost more, for
part of the money must be kept lying idle to meet pos-
sible withdrawals, while no cash-reserve is wanted against
■ the preference capital.
Last half-year the earnings of the Royal Bank
were at the rate of £3 19s. 3d. per cent, per annum on
the shareholders’fund. If the new preference capital
(£300,000) only produces as much as that it will earn its
Sh per cent, dividend, and £1387 over. It will probably
earn a great deal more, for the profits have been increas-
ing every half-year since 1897. Under the circumstances,
and seeing that the preference capital carries no liability,
that it has £440,000, and will shortly have £510,000, of
existing funds between it and any possible loss, and that
it is an investment in an institution with a steadily-
improving business, it should be a very respectable specu-
lation.
The Queensland Trustees, Limited (Brisbane) •
SlSSduw T °“ D * lwt
June, 1592.. £ 276
„ 1893.. £lOO 176 a
” Total Reserves.
„ 1894.. 1065 2£ per cent=£663 £226
„ 1895.. 714 2i „ „ 662 278
„ 1896.. 920 3 „ „ 795 403
„ 1897.. 1077 3£ „ „ 927 553
„ 1898.. 1195 4 „ ~1060 688
„ 1899.. 2248 7 „ ~ 1856 1080
„ 1900.. 3359 8 ~ ~ 2121 2318
„ 1901.. 2367 8 „ ~2121 2564
Gross earnings are £349 less than they were for
previous year, while expenses are £643 more, ana
the two items make a reduction of £992 in the net
profits. Still, the Queensland Trustees is doing remark-
ably well as companies of its kind go ; the only trouble
is that it isn’t doing quite well enough this year
to fairly justify it in paying more than 6 or 7 per cent.
An institution of this kind should have a very solid
reserve to inspire confidence—a thing which is as essential
to a trustee co. as it is to a bank or a politician or a
spieler ; and, except for the one large increase in 1900,
which had probably something to do with Tyson s estate
(all Brisbane was living more or less on Tyson’s estate in
1900) the growth of the reserve is very slow. An exceed-
inglv good feature of this co. is that about three-fourths
of its assets (£21,080) are in Government securities, and
only a very small amount in miscellaneous investments.
* • * *
Be the Duke of York “bear” squeeze. “ Speck-
ing ” shares has been a common practice in Victoria for
many years, and was indulged in more tban usual this
year. “ Speckers” or “ bears” have found themselves in
a tight corner in re Duke of York contributing shares, of
which it appears there are only some 18,000 on the
register, and no doubt the trap was laid when it was
found that more shares were sold than could possibly be
delivered ; consequently they were forced up from 12s. to
675., and many complications followed. All who can
afford it will be forced to pay. The “ squeeze ” is the
theme for newspaper articles, in which appalling ignorance
is displayed. Many uncomplimentary things are said of
“bears,” who are represented as persons that kill the
mining industry; and, as usual, if the “bull” is not
praised, he is not condemned. There is not much
difference between them; probably the “bear” is the
more reputable animal. True, he sells what he hasn’t
got, but he must get it, or pay the difference between
the price he sold at and that current when he wants
to buy. He takes a much bigger risk, for the “ bull ”
can only lose what he has paid for the shares, even if they
go to nothing, whereas the “bear” may be called on to
pay the amount five or fifty times over, as in this case,
where he sold at 12s. and was forced to cover at over 60s.
The “bear” is a man who bets that the stock will fall,
and the “bull” vice versa. No such rapid “corner”
could take place in London with any well-known mining
Stock because of the carrying-over system, and numerous
other arrangements bv which an investor with, say, £lOO
is enabled to do £lOOO worth of stock-dealing. The
sooner such a system is introduced into the Stock
Exchanges of Australia the better it will be for brokers
as well as for the mining industry. But for “ bears,”
many well-known W.A. mining shares would not be more
than half their current prices, hence they give share-
holders chances to get out of their shares at double their
intrinsic value.
• * * *
The Copper Combine: Lately cabled that another
huge combine has been formed to control the copper-
market —production as well as price of metal —capital
£200,000,000. The Calumet and Ilecla and the Amalga-
mated Copper Co. of New Jersey have joined, and the
Rothschilds have signed on behalf of a large European
combine. This probably refers to the Rio Tinto and
Tharsis copper-mines in Spain, which are the only two big
European producers. It is known that in the trusts
formed last year, in which the Standard Oil Co. took a
prominent part, the Calumet and Hecla stood out, and
now, according to this cable, it has joined hands with the
Amalgamated Copper Co., the chief mine of which is the
Anaconda, the world’s biggest producer. Nothing is said
of the participation of any of the Arizona mines, the chief
of which is the Copper Queen, owned by one man, Clark,
formerly a partner of Marcus Daly, who was part-owner of
the Anaconda. The big attempt made, many years ago,
by a French sj’ndicate, to control the price of copper,
failed ignominiously, chiefly on account of the
Anaconda. When the co. found itself in trouble,
it called a conference of the principal copper-mine
holders of the world. All were agreeable to regulate their
production according to the wishes of the French
syndicate, and everything was going along swimmingly
until Daly was called in. He point-blank refused to
accept the production limited for him by the syndicate,
and said he preferred to take the chances of the market,
as he had a mine that could produce copper for £2B per
ton, and gave proof in that direction. The Frenchmen
immediately collapsed. For many years the Anaconda
has produced one-fifth of the world’s supply, one-third
the total production of America, and although its output
has been steadily falling it is still the world’s greatest
individual producer. It will be a very easy matter for
this combine keep the price of copper up to £65, the
present price, or £75 if need be, by limiting the produc-
tion of the three or four great U.S. copper-mines, which
produce more than all the others in the world put
together.
• • * •
In its half-year to June 30, B.H. South made
a profit of £15,300, or, with £2763 off for depreciation of
plant, £12,537. Out of this £lO,OOO was paid in divs. The
mill treated 51,091 tons ore for 11,496 tons concentrates,
containing 7223 tons lead and 236,7440 z. silver. For the
lead an average of £l3 10s. 2|d. per ton was got; for the
silver, 2s. 6d. per oz., fine. Present prices are about £ll
17s. and 2s. 41d. Reckoning 7000 tons of lead (the whole
of the 7223 tons is not recoverable from the concentrates),
the fall in that metal means £11,900 ; so that if the co. is
going on now as it went last half-year, the present pi ofit
has got down to very little. Certainly, there are
items in the expenses which will not occur next
half-year—£lsol income - tax, for instance;
the allowance for depreciation is not money out of pocket.
Further, economies are being steadily made, loi -
stance:—“The four B. & W. boilers, provided with
mechanical stokers, superheaters, and a, full economiser,
are'now working with most gratifying results. ' "
bustion of the coal is smokeless. The increased efficiency
of this boiler plant over the old one will mean a saving o
over £5OOO per annum.” The new mill, now beginning to
look something like a mill, should also mean a big saving.
Without that, however, mining costs have, in the six
months, been reduced from 12s. 2d. to 11s. 9j
milling from 4s. 7d. to 4s 04-sd. per ton. The financial
position is like this :
Liquid Assets —
Concentrates (less advances) 7401
- Supplies and stores .. • , • • •• r’oori
Debentures (Metrop. Board of Works) •.
Sundry debtors
Cash.. " I,d
£17,758
Liabilities—
Sundry creditors .. .. _____
Surplus of liquid assets .. . • • • - •
Underground the mine looks first-rate. Shareholders
would be lucky if the lead market looked only half as
well.
What marvellous things the “ great ” dailies
do tell us about mining ! Take what they said in Melb.
about the B.H. South report—just at a time, too, when
precise information about Barrier and other silver-lead
concerns is needed. One of them made shareholders
happy by telling them that “ the manager reports tha.fi
the mill has treated 51,019 tons ore, and has produced
11,496 tons concentrates averaging 69'08 per cent, lead’
50'240z. silver, and 12'11 per cent, zinc.” What they did
actually average was 62'83 per cent, lead, 20'60z. silver,
and 9'52 per cent, zinc ; and that is what the manager
said. The other figures refer to the percentages °f the
metals in the crude ore that were recovered. Upper Col-
lins-st. praises the management for a splendid improve-
ment in the extraction. “ The existing plant has secured
the excellent recovery of 69'08 per cent, lead and 50 24
per cent, silver as compared with an extraction of 61 81
per cent, lead and 43'22 per cent, silver obtained during
the preceding six months.” But the recovery during the
preceding six months was 69'22 per cent, lead and 49'83
per cent, silver ; so that there was an actual falling on in
lead recovery, with a slight improvement in silver re-
covery. Lower Collins-st. says the output of lead for the
half-year was 10,455 tons ; whereas the total quantity of
lead in the concentrates was 7223 tons. And several
other things, including the treatment of £lB,OOO, as
though that were the profit, whereas it is simply the
working account balance from which all expenses of
management, taxes, depreciation, &c., have to be de-
ducted.
(Continued on page ,?4. )


Complete
Outfits.
AN ORIENT BOOT
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT^
63/-
TO MEASURE
ALL CLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE ..
“Orient To measure” Clothing
.. AT ..
PRICES-'
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
DAVID JONCS & COMPANY,
George $ Barrack Sts., Sydney
SPECTACLES
will be found satisfactory
if fitted by
WOOD,
“The Optician,”
fd
who has a reputation for Testing and Fitting the
Eyes correctly. No charge for examination.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
95 Elizabeth St., Melbourne,
and 299 George-St., Sydney (opp. Hunter-St.)
N.B.—Our New Self-Testing Chart posted free, with
full instructions, to any country address. Write for
particulars.
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjoyment of
HOME CIGARETTES
Society
Seeing that the forthcoming Vic. Governor
has been booked at £5OOO a year, which is £lOOO a
year less than Joe Chamberlain wanted for him,
why doesn’t the alleged Radical Party in Vic.
Assembly pass a resolution to the effect that the
poor man is not expected to spend a shilling in
entertaining ? ” A Gov. who didn’t butter snob-
dom would be a cheap blessing to the cause of
Democracy at £lO,OOO a year. Vice-regal dinners
and balls and garden-parties ought to be pro-
hibited by Act of Parliament, along with heredi-
tary Australian titles, and if that were done the
knighthood bauble could be left to die of ridicule.
But as long as theK.C.M.G. “distinction” is a
sort of first-class passport to Government House
gatherings grovel will remain a fashionable
disease.
* • • •
Most editors will be glad when winter is
over. Seventy per cent, of current MS. is blurred
and smudged with clots of influenza medicine —
congealed blobs of eucalyptus and sugar, and
weird, erratic stars of mustard, and miniature
snowdrifts of quinine powder, with a still small
odor of slop-breakfast in bed arising from it all.
We got a “First Breath of Spring” poem like
that last week, and a colored facsimile of it would
make a good foundation of a colored Christmas
supplement.
THE RAG CULT.
HE: “ Which scene do you like best? ”
S HE: “ The one in which the heroine wore the
flowered satin gown, which must have cost at
least 18s. a yard. It was a charming scene! ”
Mr. Brient is succeeded as editor of Syd-
ney Daily Telegraph by Mr. Henry Gullett,
lately acting-editor of S. M. Herald, and long
associated with the Telegraph both as a large
shareholder (he holds, or did hold, some .£20,000’
worth of stock in the concern), and as a leading
member of the literary staff. Mr. Gullett, an able
journalist, and most popular among the members
of his profession, was for many years editor of
The Australasian, which under his wise
rule grew into a great property. The changes
in the Telegraph are a direct result of
the disaster which befel the paper at last State
election, which disaster was doubtless brought
about in no small degree by the meddling of that
grotesque institution known as the board of direc-
tors. No newspaper run by a committee of share-
holders (as are the Telegraph and Australian
Star) can ever be an enduring success. The
Telegraph has a strong editor in Mr. Gullett and
a strong manager in Mr. Wynne, and if the
“ board ” are well advised they will in future stay
right away from the. office.
* * * *
Colonel Ricardo, who has just mulcted
Brisbane Observer in £5OO damages, is not locally
popular, as from all accounts he seems to represent
the type of the aggressive militaire, one of the
very worst types that the Australian community
can encourage. Despite this, The Bulletin con-
curs with the verdict on the evidence and under
the law. The Observer could have done good
social service had it tackled the matter in the right
way, but it tried to be smart, and it has smarted.
The professional soldier, as a public servant, is
subject to public criticism ; the Ricardo jury lias
merely translated into damages and costs the
average man’s objection to flippant attack where
another’s reputation and career are at stake.
* * * *
The Ricardo libel trial bordered at
times on the farcical. Four jurymen sat in a
box, and a host of witnesses went into topo-
graphical details of miles of country, and en-
deavored to give an idea of military evolutions
extending for miles. No chart or blackboard or
model was arranged as in an Admiralty trial over
a collision ; and the climax was reached when the
Judge, in an endeavor to make a witness’s meaning
apparent, put one arm out at an angle of 45 and
said : “One party of you went that way”—and
then shooting his other arm out—“and another
party this way.” Very clear for the jury !
* * * *
Another batch of returned cohentingenters
has gone back to S’Africa from N.S.W., embark-
ing on the Britannic on Aug. 20. Government
military officials granted 287 “ indulgence ” pas-
sages, each man having to pay in advance Is. 6d.
per day of the voyage for rations. Of the 287 men
only 128 turned up, the balance, presumedly,
failing to find the necessary £2 Bs. There were
about 80 Queenslanders added to the lot, and
another crowd joined at Melbourne. The crowd
was a motley collection, and, as usual, more drunk
than sober. To board the transport, men had to
walk the plank, barely 18in. wide. Many abso-
lutely crawled aboard ; others staggered across the
narrow bridge and fell on the Britannic’s deck, and
not a few stowed-away, despite the efforts of the
military people. Why were the latter in attend-
ance superintending operations, seeing that
Federal Premier Barton publicly discountenanced
recruiting, &c. ? In this matter the Federal
authorities appear to have been acting a double
part.
* * * *
The slump in Jingoism is now acknow-
ledged by S.M. Herald. This is how it explains
and apologises, and says, “thank goodness, the
transport Britannic is gone ” :
Most of the ‘ indulgence ’ passengers, after returning
from their initial trips to South Africa and China, had not
succeeded in finding regular employment. . . . Their
departure, although deprecated as a loss of vigour and
resource to Australia, certainly relieves the State of some
temporary embarrassment.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Equity bar has “struck it
rich ” —the Broken Hill mining co.’s on one side;
B. H. municipal council on the other. Thousands
have already been spent in preliminaries; and
there are still thousands in the bag. The co.’s
used to pay about £4OOO in local rates; the Labor
party, when it got a majority in the council, asked
for £20,000. The council says that if the co.’s
thought that the amount was too much they should
have gone to the municipal appeal court provided
by the Act; but the co.’s evidently don’t trust
“ any two J.s.P.” to decide an exceedingly deli-
cate point of law involving an annual charge of
from £lO,OOO to £20,000. If the co.’s win, the
council will not take the case further; if they lose
the Privy Council will have to worry it. The gist
of the dispute, clouded by a score of side issues, is
“How can the ‘fair annual value’ of a mine be
arrived at ?”
* * * •
Prominent Adelaide citizens are indus-
triously booming a proposed national memorial to
S.A. soldiers killed in S’Africa, but persistent
canvassing has produced only £2OO odd to date.
Meanwhile, returned soldiers are bitterly com-
plaining that they cannot get the billets they
were enthusiastically' promised at Jingo-boom
time, and the swaddies’ pride gets a knock when
recommended to register at the Labor Bureau !
* * * *
The Melbourne Jingoes are camped on the
stops of the Treasury, begging as usual. They
want the Government to give a valuable piece of
COULDN’T RECOGNISE HER.
“ John, dear, come up with me; now do."
“ You go 'way, my good woman, go 'way; I got a wifer me own!"
land just by Princes Bridge, and spend £lO,OOO or
so on draining, levelling and beautifying it, so
that they can put - their £6OOO statue of Queen
Victoria thereon. And if Government does that,
they will almost certainly call round again to
demand that it shall pay £3OOO towards the statue
itself, for the penurious Jingoes have so far proved
too mean to put up the money for their own fad.
If there is any kind of mendicant in Melbourne
who needs 12 months’ hard labor it is the Jingo
mendicant who is always boasting of his loyal
desire to show his attachment to the Throne, and
always begging that the Government will find the
money. And ditto in Sydney. The monument to
fallen soldiers isn’t being raised (it couldn’t be) by
public subscription. It is all coming in a lump
out of the Treasury.
* * * *
At Petone railway workshops ('M.L.) the
employees were gathered together at their lunch-
hour some time ago (it was shortly after Joseph
Ward got his title), and harangued at great length
by an official about the splendid character of the
rich Joseph Ward aforesaid. Then it was pro-
posed that they should subscribe to a testimonial
to show their joy at Joseph having got a title —the
theory evidently being that because Joseph had
got a title, men who hadn’t got anything them-
selves were to give him something to show how
glad they were. “ But,” said a protesting voice,
“we gave Mr. Ward a testimonial not long ago.”
“You gave Mr. Ward a testimonial,” said the
orator, severely. “That was quite a different
matter. What we propose now is to give a testi-
monial to Sir Joseph Ward.” Then there was a
silence, as if Niagara had suddenly left off.
* * • *
“Ex-Trooper” to The Bulletin :
Re Kitchener’s merciful treatment of Boer women in
concentration camps—just let me “ testify” to his mercy
to his own soldiers. A S.A. trooper, for cheeking a “ non-
com.,” was sentenced at Murraysburg, C.C., in Feb. of this
year, to Kitchener’s “ field punishment ” : (a) to be tied
hands and feet to a waggon for four hours every day
during one month ; (b) to do all camp fatigues for one
month ; (c) to mount guard or picket every day for the
month. With regard to the first part of his sentence,
even the nigger servants employed by the officers used to
shrink when they saw the poor wretch on the rack, and,
as for the latter part of the sentence, one has only to
think that the Queen’s regulations state that no man can
mount guard or picket on two consecutive nights, as it is
considered nearly impossible to keep awake whilst on
duty. For my part, I’d sooner do five years’ solitary in
Australia than a month of Kitchener’s field punishment.
• * * •
Two items cut from a column of Sydney
D.T.:—
LONDON, Friday.—The Eight Rev. Dr. F. J. Ohavasse,
Bishop of Liverpool, has been appealed to on behalf of the
Boers by the Swiss Evangelical Alliance. In reply, Dr.
Ohavasse strongly upheld Great Britain’s cause, maintain-
ing that the charges brought against British military
administration in South Africa were based upon defective
information, which was spiritually harmful to the evan-
gelicalism of the world.
Sergeant William Miller, of the last N.S.W. con-
tingent, to his mother: —
It is a terrible thing, this war. When we come to a
farm house, it is looted by us, and the women stand help-
lessly by weeping. All their cattle, sheep, pigs, and
poultry are confiscated, and the houses are burnt to the
ground. The furniture is destroyed, even to the pianos
and organs. We then take the women along with us till
an opportunity occurs to send them to the refugee camp.
The evangelicalism of the world !
* • * *
Recent bailing-up of a Melbourne tram-
car by masked highwaymen raises the question as
to how many or how few intelligent desperadoes
would be needed to bring off a successful raid on
Vic. Parliament Houses at the isolated Exhibition
Building. The idea of 10 armed men “ going
through ” the well-dined Legislature, whilst their
pals kept guard over the telephones, doorkeepers
and casual functionaries (including Jenkins,
0.M.G.) has a wicked fascination for The Bul-
letin. What a haul of valuable portable property
they might achieve in the Council! And how
silently it might be managed !
* * * *
The Hawthorn tram-car comedy (whereof
the funniest particulars cannot be printed with
impunity), enabled somebody to make a “quid”
or two on ’Change. It was put about that the
precious Hawthorn horse-tram-car treasury had
been robbed of a large amount in notes, gold and
silver, whereupon tram shares fell twopence on a
weak-minded market. A twopenny drop in the
stock as the result of a “ fifty bob ” loss to the co.
* * * *
Apropos the “declining birth-rate of
France” and other things, _ British Consul
Haggard, of New Caledonia, in his ’OO report,
stresses the point that nearly all French settlers
there have large families.
“ Boko ” : T’other day
some children were playing at
“ weddings ” in the back yard.
The ceremony, an imposing
one, was carried out with care-
ful regard to detail. Observing
one of them away from the
others and crouched down
almost out of sight, I inquired
why she was not playing with
the rest, and got the reply:
“ Oh, I’m not in it yet. I’m
waiting to be born.”
* * * *
“ Shellback ” : Looks as
if the time is coming when the
number of passengers in anyone
hull will form the subject of
legislation. Many a big At-
lantic liner now has accommo-
dation for 2000 in all classes,
and in an emergency it would
be a matter of the greatest
difficulty to get all these into
the boats, even supposing the
life-saving gear was in the
highest state of efficiency—
which condition, by past expe-
rience, has not always been
found to obtain.
» * * •
“ Yril ” : Con cerning
“solitary” in the dark, this is
what a Queensland “strike-
prisoner ” said to me :
I got seven days’ dark cells for
threatening to strike a warder.
God 1 you could stir up that dark-
ness with a stick. Hours seemed
days. I slept as much as I could,
and thought I would go mad. I
pulled a button off my clothes and
threw it away, then groped about
till I found it; threw it again, and
ditto—anything to kill time. I
came out of that cell a wreck. My
God 1 it was awful. I would have
whined and licked the gaoler’s boots
if he had threatened to put me
back. I was “broke,” body and
soul.
* ♦ * •
N.S.W. Medical Association is about the
most disunited “ union ” known to social science.
It is honeycombed with cliques with their claws
out for the other fellow’s liver. The latest quarrel
that has come to the surface (most of them simmer
underneath) concerns the endeavour of one section
of medicoes to oust Dr. Knaggs from the edi-
torial chair of the local Medical Gazette.
Local physicians haven’t yet assimilated the
notion that medicine is one profession and
journalism is another ; and they cavil apparently
because a half-time doctor doesn’t turn out the
paper that might be expected from a full-time
journalist advised by a medical committee. The
Bulletin, which reads the A.M.G. with interest,
considers that Dr. Knaggs has run his paper at
least as well as another doctor would have run it
under' the same conditions; and has made it
probably a better paper than most medical
amateurs could have made it. Having said that
much, this paper recommends its evening contem
poraries to wade in with their bright reporter
and chronicle the fight.
A PAIR OF US.
“ Some people have
silly children
“ Yes, sometimes they have twins."
N.S.W. Board of Health, in its annual
report on the Coast Hospital, Little Bay, pub-
lishes the names and diseases of all those who died
during the year. There seems to be no real neces-
sity for the publication of the diseases. Some of
them are never mentioned in polite society, and it
is only calculated to harrow the feelings of the
relatives to know that the name of some loved one
is officially recorded, in a print available to any
prying eye, of having died of what nine-tenths of
the world considers a far from respectable com-
plaint. The statistical part is just as well served
by the appendix which gives the number of deaths
from all maladies.
OWED TO SPRING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Spring is coming, and the wattle
Fast is bursting into bloom,
(And the eucalyptus bottle
Holds possession of my room).
I can hear the bell-birds ringing,
And the sky is crisply blue ;
(And my ears they, too, are singing,
For I’ve got the blessed “ ’flu ”).
All the flow’rets are unfurling,
(As it is their wont to do),
And the little creek is whi. ing ;
(And my brain is whirling, too).
And the ’couta and the haddock
Softly carol down below,
And the wheat is in the paddock;
(And the corn is on my toe).
Nature tries to hide the gruesome,
And the bright and gay to spread,
For she feels Spring in her bosom
(And I feel it in my head).
You are coming, lovely season,
As I have already said
(And it’s for that very reason
That I’m sick and in my bed).
MELB.
PERCIVAL O. COLE.


J.i.K.Z. 611.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
on ly —largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16 - 5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.; LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
9*
IheWhiskyof The Wise
The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World ...
GEO. ROE & CO
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Everyone should purify their blood by
taking a course of Antiuric—it prevents disease.
We can prove that a few shillings’ worth has cured
rheumatism after hundreds of pounds have been
paid, to doctors without obtaining relief. Highest
references to responsible persons. A course of
treatment, sufficient for any ordinary case, sent
post-paid to any part of Australasia on receipt of
55., postal-note or money-order; stamps, 6d. extra.
Address—Antiuric Co., Box 842, Sydney.*
Harper’s
Always Pure and Fresh.
Sold in 71b. Bags.
“STAR”
Oatmeal
THE WEAK alt VESSEL LIKED IT.
VUGSTUS: “I never read that beastly rag my-
self; it's too scurrilous for me. But my wife
likes it.”
Apropos of the N.S.W. Marriage Bill
iroviso that the State may refuse to license
. celebrant if there are not already two
icensed celebrants in the denomination, local
Ipiritualists are working up a protest. In
ingland and America Spiritualistic marriages
„re common and legal, though Spiritualism is not
ecognised as a denomination in law. Unless
'J.S.W. Spiritualists move they will have to go to
lie registry offices.
* • * *
The spindle-shanked table on which Queen
Victoria signed the Commonwealth Act has at last
lisappeared from its place in the Queen’s Hall of
Melbourne Parliament House, where it stood since
.he opening of the Federal Parliament. This
jhamber was utterly unfurnished save for the
;able, consequently there was always a risk of
some backbloek cocky, whilst waiting for a
member, squatting on the royal furniture and
bringing it to grief.
* * * •
Dialogue in Singleton (N.S.W.) police-
jourt :
Police-Magistrate Scott told the solicitor in a case that
ae would hear the evidence for the defence, but he was
aot going to sit much longer, as he wanted to be in Mait-
land that afternoon. Solicitor: “ Well, your worship,
;his is very hard on my client. He’s under arrest practi-
jally, and this is the second time he has been brought
aere now through no fault of his.” The P.M. : “ I can’t
aelp that, and I am going to Maitland by the 1.13 train,
md if you can’t finish by then I shall adjourn the case for
x week.” Solicitor : “ But there are two later trains this
ifternoon.” The P.M. : “Yes, luggage trains. I’m not
joing to travel by a luggage train to suit anybody’s con-
venience. The case is adjourned for a week.” Accused’s
nail was extended.
* * » *
“ Melb.” : Viewing the Freetrade banquet,
at the Town Hall, with the whole under me, I
generalised afresh. Thus : Banqueters neither
eat nor drink, more especially drink, as they used
to. At the head table, Reid, Braddon, Symon,
and the rest, seemed to do their feeding in a few
minutes, and one hardly saw a man of any note
drink at all. The 300 guests appeared as
abstemious as if they were drinking water. I
don’t know whether the nervous modern heads
signify better men. Caterers charge as much, and
must pocket a great deal more.
“ Bilby ” : Sweet job collect-
ing names for a directory !
Triedit once, and was allotted
a poor quarter of' Mel-
bourne. Came across
some queer creatures.
At one little cottage
standing by itself, after
I had knocked several
times the door opened
and there appeared some-
thing whose _ sex I
couldn’t determine, and
which, when I asked for
the name, began stamp-
ing about in a rage.
“ Give you my name for
a derrectery ! Oh, gods
and carrots! gods and
carrots ! ” Then it
slammed the door in my
face and was seen no
more. At the end of the
second day the boss dis-
covered that I had made
three mistakes and sacked
me. The wonder is I had not
made 30, as at the end of
the day I could hardly
drag my feet along.
Wages 4s. 2d. a day, out
of which I paid two
tram fares and a lunch.
Yet, when the names
were being taken down,
there were dozens of fel-
lows pushing each other
aside in their eagerness
to be taken on. What
a country !
*
“ Bilby ” : No place
like home ? Wife went
out t’other day and left
me in charge, and in the
course of two hours I
got through four vege-
table-men, two bottle-ohs, a
woman wanting to buy old clothes, a
man wanting to sell serge, a plioto.-
enlarger, a black-coated cove with
tracts, a domestic
(evidently on her day
out) who wanted to
know if a young lady
named Madge was
working here, an insurance-
canvasser, a sewing-mach-
ine man, a book-fiend, and
a Jookoyork-memento miscreant.
* * * •
The innocent-looking damsel with the
shocking story gets ever younger and more shock-
ing. Nine-year-old Florence Twyford, of Ballarat
(v ic.), lately charged a lad of 16 with indecent
assault. The “ assault ” turned out to be a push
given by the shocked and disgusted lad at an
immoral proposal by this short-skirted innocent.
The evidence of the infant’s mother and sister (of
14) was given in very free language, but the baby
herself absolutely paralysed the court by her flow
of eloquence and ner acquaintance with things
best known to doctors and the police. The jury
decided that the small horror was committing per-
jury, but, as a matter of course, nothing will
happen to her. Nothing ever does.
A MATTER OF PIGMENT.
SHE: “ How do I look?”
HE: “As fresh as paint (sotto voce) can make
you.”
A reliable index to the lively nature of the
“ Early Days” is found in the number of sudden
deaths recorded on stones now being rapidly re-
moved from Devonshire-st. (Sydney) cemetery to
La Perouse. There is also much evidence that
the matter of grammar didn’t greatly trouble the
old hands. A sample :
Sacred to the Memory.
Elizabeth Edwards,
William Jackson,
who was carelessly rode over and killed returning from
the races, May 21st, 1831, aged 21 years.
Oh, Henry, you did me kill,
And would not pay my doctor’s bill.
Your drunkenness has caused my fall;
But consider you must come when God does call.
From a N.S.W. Benevolent Asylum in-
mate :
Editor Bulletin. Sir,— lte par. (B. 24/8/’01) anent t e
foreseen difficulty that already troubles the authorities
with regard to the granting of old-age pensions to ooi c.
asylum inmates. If there is any difficulty, it has
created by the Dept, of Govt, asylums. The
not had a chance of making any. They Jill not be
allowed any pensions until the Ist Sept., and their ce
tificates or'vouchers are not given to> them until t y
qualify by living outside of the institutions—for amo
or so, perhaps, on the smell of an oil-rag, or on board-
and°- lodging obtained on credit. If they remain
in the asylums until the end of the month they wi
charged at the rate of 7s. per week, although the main-
tenance costs under ss. per week, so £llls- 'J 11 '
ducted from their first pay, thus leaving them 12s. 4d. to
live on during the month of September Another
in connection with this matter : A tew o
inmates who did not apply through the offices the
asylums have had no difficulty in drawing their pensions
on Ist. August. They did not leave the institutions
until the money was due, and have not, so tar,
returned to the asylums. The unrest mentioned
in the daily press as existing among the in-
mates arises from the idea that they are being diddle
somehow out of the first month’s money, due on Ist Aug.
They applied in June, the same time that applications
were made outside. The pension is supposed not to be a
charitable donation. Why should the payment of it
therefore be given by the authorities fche . Co !hP lexlon
the dealing of a begrudged dole, instead of that of Che
liquidation of an acknowledged debt ; and Why has the
matter been mixed up with the asylums by the appoint-
ment of Oharity-director Hanson to the chairmanship of
Parramatta Board ?— Old Hand.
» » * *
A. B. Dawson to The Bulletin :
B. Fitzalan Howard’s letter re Australians going to the
Phillipines contains many inaccuracies to the square inch.
Have been knocking around Manila and Hongkong tor
three years, and never saw any distinction drawn between
Americans settling there and other worthy whites. Also
“ ail the old oppressive Spanish laws ” are not being
“ upheld,” though some Spanish laws are being tempor-
arily retained until order is thoroughly restored and new
laws drafted. And the place is not worse for a British
subject, or any other subject, than before the war, but
incomparably better. And as the American Army and IN avy
Regulations forbid the use of all kinds of liquor on
board their ships, or in canteens, it is easy to see how
grotesquely untrue is the writer’s statement that Bntisn
steamers at any Phillipine port have to have six soldiers
billeted on them and to find said soldiers in food and
liquor.” Have lain in a dozen different ports alongside
lots of British steamers and never heard of billeting
before. During the troublous times Manila acquired a
good many undesirables and some impossibles, and the
law re return fares is, or was, necessary to keep the place
clear of beachcombers. And there are more Australians
stranded in Sydney in a week than in Hongkong in a
month.
* • * *
“A.8.T.”: There are no shanty pubs, in
S.A., because the Licensing Act requires all hotel
buildings to be up to a fixed standard
as regards accommodation, repairs
&c. I know of a fine stone building
about 300 miles north of Adelaide
almost new, capacious,
plastered, painted, sta-
bles, tanks, &c., all in
good repair, which
nevertheless narrowly
escaped being refused
a licence because a
square yard or so of
ceiling had fallen away
after a heavy thunder-
storm, and because the
ventilation was allegedly
defective. The takings
of this place averaged 5s.
a day for 12 months. Of
course a brewery kept it going.
The wisdom of such strictness
is very doubtful.
* * *
“ Immortelle ” : Even
cemeteries have their humor-
ous side. Saw an ancient grave-
digger, t’other day, boiling the
billy (in the cemetery) over an
old iron drum, the fire of which
he was feeding with withered
wreaths / Nothing sentimen-
tal about gravediggers.
Once heard one of that
ilk testily inform the
chief-mourner (who had
weepingly requested cer-
tain of the wreaths to be
buried with the deceased)
that, “of course, he could
please himself, but they
would only rot the corpse
quicker.” An hotel (facing a
cemetery) alongside a N.o.W.
road, upon which funerals con-
stitute nearly the sole traffic, used
to sport this sign outside : “ Here
stop and spend a social hour.” The
present proprietor, with more sense of
the fitness of things or less sense of humor,
had it erased.
A queer affair was the election of a new
town-clerk for Sydney. A local candidate was
vigorously pushed by a section of the aldermen,
but they counted noses and did not dare to risk a
straight-out ballot. So they decided to vote for
Mr. Ellery, town-clerk of Adelaide, trusting to
inter-state jealousies to upset the appointment
before it was confirmed, a course much easier than
if a man from England got the appointment.
Mr. Ellery was elected all right, but their plans
were upset by the Adelaide man suddenly dis-
covering that Sydney wouldn’t suit his health, and
declining to accept the position. Hastily rallying
thpir forces they faced a fresh election, but lost by
one vote, the second selection being Mr. Nesbitt,
town-clerk of Westminster, England.
* * * *
An Adelaide lady, who wanted a separa-
from her husband, admitted in court, last week,
that once, when the old man came home in a
hilarious state, she capsized him and strapped
him upside-down to a verandah-post. “He was
only up about four feet,” she said, so apparently
he was a kind of crucified drunk, suspended in the
air. A policeman arrived before he died of rush
of beer to the head.
m * ♦ *
Warrnambool (Vic.), alias Spudopolis, a
town which had the patrio-jingoistic fever worse
than any other place in the State, is now troubled
over the fact that it has a Kruger-street, named
many years ago after a leading townsman. The
street is not an important one, but lately it was
necessary to advertise it in connection with alter-
ing its width, and the loyal citizens have been
greatly distressed. It is feared that Chamberlain
may see the advt., and conclude that the town
is violently pro-Boer. The outlook is most serious
The tram-robbing outrage at Hawthorn
(Melb.) has played up with the nerves of people
located in the dim distant suburbs, and has led to
many scares, the most absurd of which happened
in the vicinity of Brunswick at a late hour when a
tramload of theatre-goers was bowling home. A
sequestered spot had been reached, and the imagi-
nation of the passengers was going fourteen to the
dozen, when suddenly the door was opened, and a
man stepped in—a muffled man with his hat low
and his neckerchief high, and carrying what
looked like a deadly weapon in his hand. A stout
lady in the corner gave a lead by uttering a shrill
scream for police assistance, and collapsed into
howling spasms. Two young ladies took up
the running and yelled piteously, and an ex-
cited but heroic young man, by way ot
seizing the opportunity, grabbed the intruder
in tlje rear, and bore him to the floor,
when a fat share-broker and a prison warder
instantly fell upon him, making a considerable
heap which was added to when the man m charge
rushed to the rescue. For a few minutes the men
rolled and raved on the floor, and the. warder s
wife excitedly lambasted the heap with her
gingham. Of course the man underneath was a
timid and innocent citizen, and his lethal weapon
was merely a garlic sausage, or something less
dreadful, but this was not found out till some
policemen and a large crowd had gathered. I hen
the tram passed on, containing a lot of heated
people, hoping to heaven they didn’t look half as
foolish as they felt.
• • * ♦
More is likely to be heard of the ship
West Lothian, which lately reached Melbourne
with the crew in a state of mutiny, from ‘ hazing
and promiscuous brutality. She left the Yarra a
few days later minus eight of her crew—two of
them in gaol—but, in place of the other six, the
skipper took £6O or £7O of wages due, and the
alleged “scum of New York,” as P.M. Panton
branded them, are left penniless in Melbourne.
* * *■ *
The clock of the world moves on ! The
associated journeymen bakers of Sydney —up to
now the most miserable of slaves —have just
successfully demanded shorter hours and better
pay from their employers. The waiters’ union is
moving in the same direction. The carters’ Union
has much ameliorated the condition of its mem-
bers. The cold-storage workers are making a
similar move. The wretched chemist’s assistant,
with his £2, or less, weekly, and 13 hours’ daily
grind, hopes to do something for himself pre-
sently. And there is a move on in favor of the
factory girls.
An effort is being made locally to
induce N.S.W. Government to accept
for the use of the State Governor the
old Vice-Regal residence in Parra-
matta Park.
TOLD OUT OF SCHOOL.
“ At one time you refused me nothing
“Ah! but that was when you refused me every-
thing!”
A hysterical 17-year-old Melbourne girl,
of an original turn of mind, called at a complete
stranger’s house, near the Yarra, t’other evening,
and requested the loan of a paper and pencil to
write a farewell message, prior to throwing herself
headlong into the slow, brown river. A cynical
bachelor, who happened to open the door, was
quite agreeable, and even volunteered to tie a
stone round her neck and see that she sank pro-
perly and finally, but some interfering person told
the police, and she was duly run in for “ insulting
behaviour.”
• m * *
On hearing of Seddon’s proposed Bill to
prevent the sale of certain “immoral” articles,
the druggists , of Wellington met and solemnly
resolved that the proposed Bill was “an unwar-
rantable interference with the liberty of the sub-
ject.” Good old liberty of the subject!
* • » *
Yaughan, the N.S.W. gaol-escapee, re-
captured last week, is suffering from consumption,
of which disease his sister lately died.
BY THE CREEK
[For The Bulletin.]
Down by the creek I felt her near—
I trod enchanted ground ;
Glad spirit of my dearest dear,
Loved presence lost and found :
Through wattle groves wood-fairies know,
And past the willow tree,
And further where the violets grow,
Her spirit went with me.
Beyond, the further hills were blue,
The woolshed, gray between,
Nearer, a wise old jackass flew,
Then laughed at things he’d seen ;
And later, when the sun had set,
And turned the frost-imp free,
Home again, slow to leave me yet,
Her spirit went with me.
VIC.
SPINNER.


-U ■ f-
The Charm of MARK FOY’S is the Price.
One of the keynotes or Mark Foy’s success is the working
up of the Men’s and Hoys’ Outfitting Trade. .mu
To young gentlemen in offices, students, apprentices, and others,
who ivish to present a, good appearance, we call special attention to
MARK FOY’S SMART SUITS FOR BUSINESS YOUTHS.
Every youth on entering his business career desires to be smartly
dressed, but the stiprn necessity of rigid economy with small
salaries necessitates icare in spending the coin .
MARK FOY’S NAVY SERGE YOUTHS' SUITS (Ready-Made)
but not what is kncnm as slop-made. These are manufactured in
our own factory only, from
GUARANTEED PURE INDIGO DYED ALL-WOOL WORSTED SERGES
The cut, style, and finish of which are perfect, and the value is
unknoum but at Mark Foy s.
Do you like Coffee?
Perfect, Pure,
Fragrant, Exhilarating Coffe
Then Try
T.iH.SII|ITR’S
Coffee Essence
Gold
> edal
Winners of the GRAND PRIX against all
other makers at the PARIS EXHIBI-
TION, 1900.
Australian Representatives •
Wl FT & COMPANY.
7 Spring 1 Street,
Sydney
All Drapers Everywhere.
GLOBE TEAS
Twice as good as other Teas!
Half the Price of other Teas l
241 b. Canisters @ 7d, BJd, 10Jd.
ATCHERLEY & DAWSON,
THE BEST IN AUSTRALIA @ Is 9d.
284 George Street, SYDNEY.
THOS. WHITELAW & GO.
WALL PAPER MERCHANTS. —.
TELEPHONE 3768.
LONDON,
SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE'
Artistic Wall Papers.
Novel Ceilings in
Plaster Effects.
Latest Designs and Colorings
Absolutely Fireproof.
A Charming Assortment.
The full London and Continental Collection of the above Goods are now on view at the Firm’s
Hew Warehouse and Showrooms—39l GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
These Decorations comprise the most delightful Assortment ever shown in Australia. Invited.
Clients mil find our Art Goods are most inexpensive. Patterns forwarded on application.
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
Sydney, August 27, 1901.
Mr Dear Arini, —
Half-a-century ago one Felicien David consti-
tuted nnnself the Desert’s Advocate, and pleaded
the waste places’ cause in music. Last week
Sydney Liedertafel interpreted David’s music,
and a house packed downstairs and upstairs said
(with the palms of its hands and tips of its sticks)
that the rendition was so good that each grain of
sand was gifted with a voice. Mr. Alfred Hill
conducted. The desert which the French com-
poser set himself to set to music was that Eastern
desert which you associate with Allah, camels
caravans, and simoons. Blot out all but the last
and it has nothing 1 like the inspiration of our own
Great Western Desert, with its plague of buzzing
flies, the all-day-long scream of its hot wind and
its evening lightning storm—a soundless storm,
but grand, so grand ! Then our own desert
harbours lizards, spinifex, and blacks. Across
it also travel camel-caravans, seeking gold or ex-
ploring. A musician with the soul of a poet and
the usual extras could get a magnificent symphonic
ode from those lightning storms, screaming winds,
buzzing flies, and gliding lizards.
In the introduction, “Sounds of the Desert,”
the composer gives you low, throbbing music to
express the vastness of his background. David,
who had a personal acquaintance with Madame
Sahara, must have 'heard the beating of his own
heart in the sandy silence. Anon you hear the
distant music from a caravan coming near and
nearer. Later the inevitable simoon, with a fine
crash-bang from the chorus, and orchestra races
and roars, and suddenly calm is restored, and,
after the double quartette and chorus have given
the caravan a cheerful send-off, comes a tenor solo
“O, Lovely Night.” Mr. Austin Craven’s light
tenor voice did pretty justice to that and a suc-
ceeding solo, “Enchanting Night.” A “Fan-
tasia,” descriptive of Arab horsemanship, which
follows, reminds me that when our desert comes
to be set to music the composer mustn’t forget
bushmen and buckjumpers. “Chant of the
Muezzin was a captivating grain of desert sand,
and the last grain of all, the chorus “Praise
Allah,” was reminiscent of the “Dead March.”
In the second part of the programme Mr. Ernest
litts, who was in splendid voice, sang the
“Guerdon of Love.” Certain of the audience
scanned the words of this song narrowly, for they
are by Hugh Macdonald, M.L.A. Even as a boss
shearer, and when head of the wool-shed years
ago, he used to write verse. Somehow there
seems to be a long cooee between love-song writing
and shearing the rams. Anyhow the song—music
by Alfred Hill—was hotly encored. Miss Hetty
Holroyd, in white with black on the bodice, sang
Mattel s “For the Sake of the Past ” with charm
and. pathos, and later It. Goring Thomas’s
exhilarating “ Spring is Coming !”
By the way, a very promising promise of a star
appeared in the guise of Mr. Lawrence G. Smith.
He played Mendelssohn’s “Rondo Brillante ”
with orchestral accompaniment in a way that
couldn’t make the spirit of the old composer any-
thing but glad.
Four of the Italian Opera Co. (only two of
them being principals) were present for the first
half of the Liedertafel concert. They seemed
fairly interested and amused by the “Desert,”
until a trio, of the olive-eomplexioned, cameo-faced
Caro family caine and sat within their ken. Then
they frankly stared and talked excitedly together,
claiming the group as friends, countrywomen, and
Romans.
An immense audience greeted the double bill at
the Italian opera, last Saturday night. Madame
Sapio. was a handsome peasant, with red hair and
red roses behind her ears. Signorina Vaccari
whom Sydney loved at first sight, was the Colum-
bine in “I Pagliacci.” She is said to be only 18,
and is out here very much against the wishes of
her kin. Signor Hazon was back at his post with
his gouty right wrist bandaged. The evening the
prompter took Hazon’s place, he (the substitute)
also fell sick half-way through the opera, and the
first violin had to relieve him. There was nothing
noticeable in the audience’s dressing, save that the
long coat of silk, brocade, or cloth, which has
come in suddenly, was very much in vogue. And
big, black velvet hlies and poppies appeared on
corsages.
Emily Soldene, in her letters from London,
makes some persons glad and others mad with
references to things to eat. Gourmets’ sym-
pathies go out to Emily when she “smells ducks
and green peas,” when she makes them hear the
(jlug-glug of a fine foreign wine that she had at
some restaurant, and when she talks of the “iced
bier of Munich and the sausage of Frankfort.”
Dyspeptics get mad at the references. And
persons who would like to feed as Emily can but
can’t afford it, get angry with their share of
Emily’s grilled birds and truffles ; but good cook-
off is so rare in Australia that when the first-class
sort is put before the majority they can’t appre-
ciate it.
I heard of a French chef who was engaged
by a Queensland club. An angel could have
sipped that chefs soup and sung his hosanna all
the better after it. He sent his first lot up to the
dining-room, then went and stood at a side-door
to watch the effect on members. The first action
of every one of those men was to reach for the
Worcester-sauce bottle and drench the inspired
soup with its contents. If one member had but
taken a spoonful of soup as it was, then turned up
the whites of his eyes in ecstasy, the chefs life
would have been saved. As it was, he staggered
out and cut his throat. The famous Soyer said
he admired faces with small, bright eyes, snub
noses, and large full-lipped mouths. They
belonged to the type that loves food—a lot of it,
and well-prepared. But it’s not a usual type
among Australians born. Now, Emily’s country
people
Someone (some many, rather) in England is deter-
mined that we shall be Pole-Carewed. A group
of London papers has for months back been saying
howlucky Australia will be to get such a man as
Reginald Pole Carew, K.C.8., to command her
“ forces.” He seems eminently fitted for us. Our
citizen soldiery would like him for he is popular,
and courteous, the handsomest man in the British
Army, dontcherknow; and Society would love
him, for he parts his hair and name in the middle
and spells the latter differently to the way he
pronounces it. Personally, I wish he would
come, for Lady Pool Carey’s frocks would be
worth seeing. She is very rich and very
lovely, and 26. Reggie is 50, which is
seven years past the magnetic age—the age
at which a man (so says a high authority, I
believe it was Dr. Crichton Browne) is most
attractive to women. That three worries me
Why not 40 straight ? And is the magnetism
neutralised by the 44th birthday ?
The Koinati Poort and Modder River hero
would doubtless be nice in a sense, but the kind
of man we want to fashion our army is one like
the typical IJhlan general—bull-necked, iron-
jawed. He won’t speak a civil word to any one,
nor take an unoivil reply. Meantime, no one in
Australia knows anything of the Poolcarey
appointment. Premier Barton says that none has
been made.
If you want to see exquisite etchings have a look
at a collection in the valuable library that
Dymock has bought from a local man whose
name is not for publication. There’s also a book
of engravings of Sir Peter Paul Rubens’ famous
works. How funny it sounds, that paltry little
“ Sir ” prefixing suoh a great name ! “Corona-
tion of Mary de Medicis” must be a
gorgeous canvas. You see the kneeling
Queen, the King and ambassadors watch-
ing from a gallery, the Court ladie3— what
double chins they have ! —and clearly they knew
not of repressive straight-fronted corsets ; the altar
stiff with two cardinals, and the two dogs (whose
breed I don’t know), occupying a prominent
place. Any dogs seeking admission to the Seventh
Ned’s coronation will be chivvied. In this library
you’ll find such quaint, dainty illustrations of
Japanese art—such as wall-papers decorated with
ladies and serpents.
Annual ball in aid of funds for Boys’ Brigade
was an all-round success, in spite of the wet night.
Committee ladies—some of them —had their hair
powdered; all had black velvet bracelets. Gentle-
men who assisted wore small pale-blue bows with
the letters 8.8.8. in silver. The decorations of
the supper-tables, yellow and white, were done by
Mrs. Mathias and Mrs. Davenport. On behalf of
the committee, Mrs. Watson-Munro presented
Mrs. ex-Mayoress Harris with a choice posy.
Pour debutantes— Misses Joyce, Marr, O’Donnell,
and Cutter—looked very pretty in their white
silks and chiffons. Miss Littlebridge Harris and
her two nieces, Mrs. J. T. Thompson and Miss
Blanche Harris, were choicely gowned. Mrs.
Watkins wore a pink silk, with miles and miles of
narrow black velvet. Mrs. Sydney Jamieson got
an early-dawn effect out of the huge faint-pink
guelder roses she wore on the corsage of her white
silk gown.
Melbourne women who come over here and go
to our balls acknowledge that we have the advan-
tage of them in one way more than our beautiful
water-way. We have no lack of men at our
dances. Wallflowers here flourish out of doors
only. Boys’ Brigade Ball was a pretty one
because of the number of quite young girls at it.
I noticed a few women wearing long earrings.
Ex-mayoress Harris’s were very long and a dull
pink. If they were other than coral I’ll apologise.
At this ball a lady, who had evidently kept her
eye on a pretty and popular girl, told friends near
h6r that the girl must have a man friend outside
to round-up her partners and hurry them in, for as
soon as she had finished one dance, another man,
or several men, claimed her.
At a recent charity ball I noticed several
damsels who had got themselves up as to dress,
hair, and coloring as like Madame Darto as
possible. The imitation was really good, only
they failed to assume the butterfly grace of the
Erenchwoman. At the same hop there was a
girl who must have intended to represent Hor-
dern s late fire. The way those red geraniums
flamed round her upper storey, and ran down and
lapped round her skirt and broke out in unex-
pected places ! St. Vincent’s Hospital ball occurs
on Sept. 12. It’s going to be far ahead of last
year s when the late Mr. Dalton had to come to
the committee’s aid financially.
Miss Sharpe—of whom mention drifts hereward
as now being in a smart Society set in Richmond
(Eng.), wearing Paris frocks, belonging to the
Ladies’ Rifle Club, carrying a long rifle and hunt-
ing-knife—was awhile ago resident m Brisbane,
where she was connected with Brisbane’s premier
dressmaker, Mrs. Walker. She was known as
“ Walker’s Advt.” Later, she was engaged
to a member of a family which had a station on the
Downs. Later still, she was heard of as fore-
woman in David Jones’s (Sydney). It is said that
papa Sharpe is a Somebody, so perhaps that
accounts for his daughter “going up one” in
English society. Report further says that Miss
Sharpe will presently come out again to Australia
to marry.
An Australian lady in London (who herself has
inconsiderable a musical success) writes to
me : “ I have never heard such perfect singing as
Melba’s. It is not that the voice is big, but it is
so perfect—round, pure, true. It is like Alice
Montague’s multiplied a hundredfold. The place
was packed and she was recalled many times each
act (the opera ‘ La Boheme ’), and she sang the mad
scene from ‘Lucia.’ Her drawbacks are—no
sympathy in the voice, but just drops of clear
crystal; no appearance, little ferrety eyes, fat and
forty-something; no dress, no acting—but when
she sings you can only imagine a thousand water-
bubbles, a voice clear and pure with wonderful
carrving powers. Covent Garden is about twice
the size of Sydney Her Majesty’s, yet every note
however piano (and she cultivates pianissimo) was
heard everywhere.
At Brough’s revival of the “Amazons,” Mrs.
Brough looks splendid in her male shooting dress,
and Miss Susie Vaughan wears a captivating
black velvet coat cut short in front, with long
tails falling to the hem of the skirt. Her skirt, a
big checker pattern, linen shirt and vest, dress a
well-played Lady Castlejordan.
The engagement of Major Chauvel, of Queens-
land, to a very pretty Sydney girl was given out
last week. The lady is Miss Ethel Mason, who
was a debutante at this year’s Brisbane Yacht Club
Ball, and is distantly connected with the Chauvel
family. The Major, who had the C.B. conferred
upon him after service in S. Africa, is one of the
most popular officers in the Q.D.F.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Three of Marshall Hall’s Conservatorium
singing studentesses are said to be leaving
Melbourne for Germany. Well, they ought to be
more than passable professional singers—in
Germany. But when is the M.H. Conservatorium
going to turn out a songstress who will shine as
an Australian singer of the finest vocal music?
The three damsels aforesaid are taking a Sherman
method to Shermany, and the specimen numbers
at their farewell coneert were the compositions
of Meyerbeer, Beethoven and Heinrich Proch.
All the music sung or played by the rest of the
students was German, German, German—the
product of the country where Marshall Hall,
the vociferous schoolist, got his pedantry from.
“A Melb. amateur contralto, by the way, is
billed as Miss Lovie Mueller, an impossible name
for a woman to carry through a long life, private
or public. Fancy addressing a stout, prosaic
matron as ‘ Lovie ’ !
“The Literary and Elocutionary, etc., Com-
petition is the epidemic of the moment in Vic-
toria. They have got it worse than the influenza.
The bacillus was acclimatised and cultivated by
the South-street Society at Ballarat. It was
further developed by the ‘Bendigo Boom,’ and
now every little one-horse town in the State is
considering the advisability of holding a competi-
tion. One of the saddest occupations conceivable
is to sit and listen for hours to ‘ girls under 15 ’
playing ‘Andante Con Variazoni,’ or reciting
‘Curfew shall not ring to-night.’ Dreary- for
everybody but the parents, aunts and cousins of
the budding Bernhardts and Melbas.
( “ Talking of the exodus of Melbourne musical
‘genius’ to foreign parts—fathers of clever
daughters are not always the happiest of mortals.
Unselfish Dad sends ’Ome his bright chick with
Mamma to take care of her, goes into cheap lodg-
ings himself as a grass-widower, and forwards
every spare farthing to Europe. After ten years
or so two strange women come back, laden with
culchaw, and he overhears the younger of the
pair describe him to her friends as ‘rather fun.’
1 hen he realises for the first time the difference
between a ‘ soul ’ in an artistic sense and a ‘ good
soul,’ of the common, or parental, kind.
“ Olive Kingston’s singing at the ‘ Rippon Lea’
musical At Home, on Thursday last, made the
whole frou-frou gathering rustle to attention, and
clap its kids, and clamor for an encore. She sang
two or three delicious songs, and convinced the
patrons of the profession that here really was a star
of some magnitude. Those who had not heard
her warble when Gerardy’s strings ‘ made Heaven
dreary with the harmony,’ openly confessed the
sin of neglect.
“Now, look on this:—
Y OUN(i Widow, very affectionate, wishes meet
refined Gent, the same. Alice, Fitzroy P.O.
where little is said and so much signified. And
on this:—
JEWESS, spinster, respectable, industrious, pre-
possessing, would like to meet Jewish respectable
gentieman, in good position, view matrimony. Rar-
toffelbluthe, S. Yarra P.O.
where nothing is left to the imagination. Then,
for purity of diction and directness of purpose,
contemplate this ad.:—
JJ.ENTLEMAN, with means, will correspond lady,
with means, nice looking, stout preferred, view
marriage. Private, Age Office.
“ Naturally Brisbane was interested in its
military hbel case; for not only is the plaintiff,
Colonel Ricardo, a familiar figure in Northern
society, but his father-in-law, Dr. John Thompson,
hospitable Scot, ex-naval surgeon, and leading
Brisbane medico, is known persona lly or profes-
sionally all over Bananaland. Pretty Mrs. Ricardo
ever so much younger than her husband, was, as
little Ina Thompson, the childish pet and play*
thing of her predecessor, the Colonel’s invalid
first wife.
“Fancy sticking-up a sleepy old horse-tram!
Australians at ’Ome should lose no time in writing-
up ' Melbourne tram-terrors’ along with ‘Sydney
larrikins.’ One swallow makes a literary summer,
apparently, so, for the sake of writers impatient
to diagnose and crystallise Smellbourne’s robbery-
under-arms type, let me tell you on the authority
of a victim that one of the four was polite and
conciliatory, unlike his rough, vile-spoken mates.
They borrowed a passenger’s hat to collect the
■fares,’ and dug a revolver into his head, hard
enough to hurt, to ‘keep him from catching
cold ; ’ but when, at the last, the owner pleaded
for a return of his boxer, the polite one granted
his request with a profound bow.
“The Governor-General’s ‘little Benjamin,’
otherwise the ‘ Hon. Charles Melbourne Hope,’
was at the Arnold matinee on Saturday with his
governess and some boy-friends. The others,
young Australians, I guess, were all twice as
ruddy, brown and sturdy, as their small host, who
looks a frail little fellow in his high-hat and
Etonian finery, but seems an agreeable, chirpy
kiddie, a pocket edition of his father. The boys
didn’t laugh much over the Smith tangle. Family
quarrels and such don’t appeal to youngsters, but
they applauded the pugilistic cook and her red-
petticoat scene and got much glee out of the
kisses forced on ‘ Smith ’ by his would-be
‘ Friend and Bruder.’
“ Arnold’s hugging of the engaged Smith calls
up thoughts of dead-and-gone Otto Berliner, a
stout private-detective (once in the Victorian
force), formerly well-known hereabouts. Poor
Otto was a kind, big German, liked very much by
women of his acquaintance. He wouldn’t have
dreamed of kissing them—that would have been
an unheard-of liberty—but he’d snatch men to his
bow-window waistcoat if they so much as asked
him how his toothache was.
“‘Society’ reporting has got so low-down in
Melbourne that the chief local fashion organ
describes at considerable length a wedding in a
third-class hotel, and climaxes the thing by
chronicling the departure of the happy couple by
a ship which only carries third-class passengers!
“An engagement, just now the cause of much
congratulation, came about in this way. The
man, a few years ago, left for a trip to Europe,
after a sad parting with the dear one. During the
separation of the affectionate pair she brightened
her pathetic letters with details of the visits and
doings and charms of a girl-friend, whom the
man was implored to like for his own Popsy’s
sake. Barkis was willin’ enough. The bright
patches anent this girl-chum were a perfect oasis
in the epistolary desert, and the tired traveller
solaced and laved his soul, in the comforts of it.
Returning to Melbourne, he greeted his old friend
affectionately, but looked over her shoulder for
the fair oasis. When evening came he openly
expressed a wish to see the charmer. So she
came, and saw, and conquered—and it’s their
engagement that is being talked about in a small,
way.
“ A society woman took a small dinner-party up.
to the House of Reps, on Wednesday, presumably
in the hope that the capers of the members would]
act as an aid to the process of digestion and a,
source of novel entertainment. That night, by
the way, Sydney’s own Conroy was telling the
Premier to use decent language, whilst Yes-No.
Reid was barking at the Ministry across the-
table, and John Forrest worked his vest like a»
concertina in a fit of laughter at the latest joke-
about Charlie Kingston, and Alfred the Great
(the pedagogue of the House) was passing from,
one Minister to the other in explanation of some
Pons asinorum, and all the air was charged with.,
chatter and dissension. A theatrical effect was-
gained by passing on to the Senate ; it happened!
to be a tired night there. Members spoke quietly,,
answered each other politely, and Mr. Jawbone-
Neild was tongue-tied, but posing elaborately ini
new checks on the back bench.
“ A popular suburban organist recently got ai
copy of the Boers’ National Anthem from a re-
turned kharki hero (in patches), who had secured!
this memento of his part in the war, instead of,
teeth or coins. It has a fine, sacred swing, and!
the organist palmed it off on a Presbyterian com
gregation as a voluntary. The good people were ■
delighted, and not knowing one sacred air from,
another, didn’t bother to inquire whose it was.
.Another Sunday, seeing the great faith of the.
kirkers, the wag gave them Kenningham’s ‘ Oge
Asthore,’in slow, solemn chords that seemed to.
bear only an accidental resemblance to a song
they’d heard in ‘ Florodora,’ and they liked it—it-
influenced for good the offertory receipts.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


(jitiZGIIS’Pe Assurance Company [united.
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
POLICIES I3XT FORCE EXCEED 216,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Absolute Security. Annual Bonuses.
Moore and Castlereagh Streets,
Sydney.
Resident Secretary,
W. J. BLOOMFIELD, 8.A., LL.B.
1 FACILE PRINCEPS. 1 | SEMPER IDEIVI.~|
BUCHANAN WNISKY
BLACK and WHITE.
Lightest Wines
Australia.
in
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Of N.S. Wales batch of Premiers in the
last 45 years almost all of them leaving sons—only
one, Frank Farnell, in the direct line now sits in
the Assembly.
Cardinal Moran will go to Rome almost
immediately on the arrival in Sydney of Arch-
bishop Kelly—a couple of months hence. It is
understood that he will not return.
The first C.E. Bishop of Australia was Dr.
Heber, author of “ From Greenland’s Icy Moun-
tains. I'(at was when Australia was part of the
diocese of Calcutta. When Australia separated
from Galcutta Dr. Broughton became Bishop.
A recently-elected member of N.S.W.
State Parliament has lodged in Sydney daily
newspaper offices _ a four-column type-written
article describing his career. He accompanies it
with photographs, showing his full face, his side
face, his stature and his bust.
Melba, according to a contribution of hers
to the Lady’s Magazine, has been especially
honored by the Scandinavian king. After Nellie’s»
singing before the king, his Majesty pinned an
order on her breast, and “then kissed me on both
cheeks in a brotherly way ” How domestic these
kings always are !
Died at Maitland, N.S.W., last week,
Mrs. A. M. Lill, aged 72. Deceased was born in
Baden-Baden (Germany), and came to N.S.W. 49
years ago. She leaves her husband, 10 children,
49 grand-children, and two great-grand-children.
W. P. Schreiner (ex-Prime Minister of Cape
Colony), says a local paper, was her nephew.
Nelson Illingworth’s life-sized bust of
Archbishop Saumarez Smith, now exhibited in
Sydney, presents that prelate clad in a humani-
tarian smile, which, however good as a work of
art, is sure to exasperate cabmen. The Primate’s
face, as fashioned by Illingworth, is instinct with
easy-going benevolence and love for man and
horse.
THE RETORT COURTEOUS.
KIND OLD MAN : “ Ah, my son, when I was a lad I. never stooped so
low as to pick up those filthy butts! ”
THE BOY : “ Gam! Tell that to Dr. Ross! Ow'd ye git that bloomin'
'ump on yer back? ”
Jas. Bonwick, Australian historian, now
in London, and 85 years old, has recently issued
a pamphlet, in which he puts forward suggestions
as to how the name of New South Wales arose.
He asserts that the more orthodox logs of Capt.
Cook’s ship, the Endeavor, do not give any
authority for the name, any more than for that
of Botany Bay.
Mr. C. H. Woolcott, ex-town clerk of
Sydney, is suffering from an attack of apoplexy.
When Sydney was created a municipality in 1842,
John Rae, who died but a year or two ago, was
elected town clerk, and Mr. Woolcott was his
chief henchman. One of the first councillors,
ex-Mayor Thomas Broughton, still lives, and en-
joys life as a nonagenarian.
Michael Logue died at Dubbo (N.S.W.)
aged 104, thus having had a breathing acquaint-
ance with three centuries. He considered himself
in the prime of life at 70. At 80 he was much
concerned at his hair falling out, but on reaching
100 he was gratified with anew growth. To the
la-it his eyesight was unaffected, and he was able
to read and write without glasses. Although he
lived half-a-century in Australia he never quite
mastered English, and said his prayers in Irish,
Letter received by a N.S.W. M.P. from
an important bush-person seeking the “ honor ” of
J.P.-ship :
To
Sir, —A number of the risdence asked me to aply to
be a Justis of the Peac as one is so much reqired at
— therefor I take the libery of asking you to asist
me in this mater. So pleas send me the nesary
intruction and rules. lam a farmer grazer and agent
ft t Hoping that you will hury the matter up
at your earlest oppertunity befor any oppersition
could take place. Hoping you will oblig me in this
Yours faithful
He has been gazetted ! A gospel fact.
A recent London Athenaeum digs up some-
thing fresh about Napoleon. At St. Helena he
visited Sir W. Doveton’s, and said to that gentle-
man’s daughter, Mrs. Greentree : “ Madame, I
should like to come here often, but really I cannot
endure that universal habit of the English in get-
ting drunk. Tell me, how often do your father and
your husband get drunk ? ” Mrs. Greentree :
“Oh, your Majesty, seldom.” Napoleon: “Ah,
yes—seldom. What does that mean? Two or
three times a week ? I was only drunk once in
my life. It was in Italy. It made me horribly
ill for three days.”
Archbishop Vaughan, who died suddenly
18 years ago, was commemorated in Sydney the
other day. The Archbishop was a big man every
way, but he wasn’t over-fond of Irishmen,
especially Irishmen who carried a bottle of Glen-
livet, labelled “ Holy Water.” ArchbishopPolding
and Archbishop Vaughan were Englishmen, Bene-
dictines, and suspicious of Tipperary and Cork.
They urged the Pope to keep Irishmen out of
front-rank ecclesiastical positions. Card. Moran
got to know all about this in Rome. Hence every
Bishop since the Cardinal came is an Irishman,
and his coadjutor, who is now on his way out, is
an Irishman who avers that whisky is good for
* the heart of man.
One gratifying fact about Royalty, shown
during its Australian trip, is that it really speaks
English, and not the jargon which the soi-disant
British aristocrat and his imitators adopt as a sort
of public brand of superiority. Both the Duke
and Duchess spoke like ordinary Australians of
average education, and there was nothing about
either of the “Haw” which we have come to
regard as the attribute of typical English fashion-
able people. In strong contrast was the lingo of
some of their staff. One military potentate
especially was possessed of a yabber beside which
that of an ordinary vegetable-John seemed
Chaucer’s well of English undefiled; even the
backblock Yorkshire sailors on one of the warships
were more easily understandable. Considering
that Royalty sets the fashion in almost every-
thing, it is surprising that the aristocracy should
adopt a language so totally different.
Donald Macdonald
severely criticised the
cleanliness of dear Old
Hingland, in an article
on a bike-tour through
Warwickshire, in a re-
cent Austkalasian. One
fault of the picturesque
and homely old English
inns, he says, is the
difficulty of getting a
bath. Whenever be asked
for one, the publican
looked at him as though
he were an escaped luna-
tic. “In one of the
finest hotels in Oxford I
was told that I might
have a bath, as a favor,
but it apparently upset
the routine of the hotel
to do it. Again, at Kenil-
worth, I found the
shower upstairs, and was
soon under it. A com-
motion downstairs fol-
lowed—there was a clat-
ter of feet, a shout of
anxious voices, and, at
last, the suggestion,
‘ Someone is using the
shower-bath ! ’ Yes, I
was using it, and it had
been so long out of use
that the water was leak-
ing through and flood-
ing the rooms beneath.”
Had Macdonald dared
to say such a thing a
year or two ago, he
would have gone very
near being denounced
as “a pro-Boer.” In
those ancient times, the
brutal, filthy, cowardly
Boer’s aversion to wash-
ing himself was regarded
as one of the prime
factors of the war.
A well-known figure in Wellington (M.L.)
streets is Jacob Joseph, the Hebrew capitalist.
He drives in a stylish turn-out and wears blue
glasses. But he has been stone-blind since boy-
hood, when he tried to frighten a servant-girl by
playing ghost with a sheet over his head. She
clutched his face, and in her excitement her
thumbs destroyed his sight. His knowledge as to
his whereabouts and the nature of his surroundings
is marvellous. He can tell the size and height of
a room immediately on entering it andl directs his
driver as though he could see where he is being
driven to, the congestion or otherwise of the traffic
directing him. He owns property in every part
of Wellington, and is one of the wealthiest men
in M.L.
Concerning Shiels’ latest speech :
Vic. ex-Treasurer Shiels made a splendid speech on the
Convention Bill in the Leg. Assembly the other dav.
Usually Shiels’ speeches are pure “ spellbinding ” efforts—
sort of wordy fireworks, which you sit and listen to and
afterwards wonder what made j r ou stay. On this occasion
Shiels managed to suppress his fearful passion for fine
phrases signifying nothing, and went in for a slashing-
debating utterance. He is a well-read man, and illumi-
nated his arguments with many striking quotations. It
is said that Shiels suffers from heart disease, but he is a
remarkably vigorous patient. When speaking he lashes
himself into an eloquent fury, and while his legs hold up
he walks up and down the side of the clerks’ table beating
time to his own sentences with his pince-nez. When his
legs will no longer support him he sits in a chair at the
table. His body sways from one side to the other, and he
keeps the chair moving round an area of about six square
feet by a series of nervous little jumps or kicks. He in-
variably has a glass of brandy-and-water before him, and
at the close of each argument or subject he takes a’ sip.
His voice is not pleasant, but his bright fancy and his
happy knack of framing strong, impulsive phrases compel
attention. Shiels, however, is not a practical politician
He knows well enough what it would be good to do, but
lacks the power and capacity to do it. He and Federal
Attorney-General Deakin are strange Australian pro-
ductions in the same respect
Editor Bulletin, —You say, in answer to
a correspondent (3/8/’01), that Chief Justice
Madden has always approved of flogging. I was
present when the first man was flogged in Mel-
bourne under Wrixon’s Act. Dr. Madden
was present ; also his father-in-law, the late
Frank Stephen. When the thing was going
to begin, the late Gaol-Governor Castieau
came into the flogging-yard and was sur-
prised at the size and influence of the j
crowd. “How did all these gentlemen
come here ? ” he demanded of a warder.
“On warrant,” said Madden. The others
grinned, but feared they were going to be
turned out of the gaol. However, the
flogging began and all were let stay. But
after the fifth stroke Frank Stephen
wanted to go home. He was terribly ill,
and two reporters helped him out and
right over to the pub. opposite the gaol,
where they revived him with a strong
dose of P.B. John Madden got on
all right and saw the show through. I
have, thank Heaven, been at only
one hanging in my life, and then I
stood between two eminent lawyers
—Dr. Madden and the late R. D.
Ireland, Q.C.
It isn’t always, perhaps it isn’t
often, a kind thing to break in upon
an old man’s settled ways, and drag him
out to congratulate him on having done
something or other 50 or 60 years
ago. His German and English friends
did that, the other day, to Dr. Esau,
President of Onkaparinga (S.A.) Racing
Club —he was 74, and had been just 50
years a doctor. The excitement was
too much for the fine old fellow, and
next day he died. A. J. Esau, well
known in connection with the N.S.W.
provincial press, is a son of his.
About an Australian Bishop : —
Arrived in Adelaide recently Dr. White, Anglican
Bishop of Oaipentaria, the biggest diocese in the world,
stretching 1000 miles from east to west, embracing the
North of Queensland, Thursday Island, and the whole of
the Northern Territory of S.A. Dr. White left Pt. Dar-
win June 4, and travelled overland companionless right
through to Adelaide. The journey lasted 80 days, and,
barring five nights, he slept in the open air. The doctor
is a sturdy, energetic, good-humored cleric, who, when
he originally arrived at Thursday Island cut planks
and erected his house himself. He has no curates, or
rectors, or archdeacons under him, and “the church”
pays him £3OO a year to reclaim the Japs, Kanakas,
Melanesians, aborigines and Malay pearl fishers. Pro-
bably Dr. White is happier than the Archbishop of Can-
terbury, and less subject to indigestion.
“ Melbournite ” : Apropos of Miss Dun-
more Lang. The first and last time I saw John
Dunmore Lang was when he delivered a lecture
in the old Mechanics’ Institute (now the
Athenaeum), Melbourne, over 30 years ago. When
people heard he was in Melbourne (he was their
old member in Sydney Parliament), they hoped
to hear him talk about Separation time. But
the Doctor came down to the Mechanics’ and
talked in his ponderous wav for a couple of hours
on the discovery of the Victoria and Albert Lakes
in Central Africa ! The late W. M. K. Vale
moved a vote of thaksto the Doctor, and told him
to his face he would rather him chat of the early
days of Port Phillip. And so thought all of us.
Theatre-going Melbourne professed to
find a replica of the late Grattan Riggs in Senator
John Downer, when he first arrived to take his
seat in the Senate, but down Bourke-street the
crowds of sporting men regard the old politician
with the respectful awe due to a retired pug.
That he is anything but a brilliant ornament of
the old P.R., successful in later life, never strikes
the push around the Opera House, and, while
speculating as to his identity, they remark ad-
miringly : “’E ain’t even got a thick ear!”
T’other day one of “the Rats ” caught a gleam of
the Senator’s capacious smile. “ Blime,” he cried
“/ know who he is now. Ef he ain’t Mat.
Mitchie’s big brother I’ll go to work.” Mitchie is
the Barrier pug. who fought several Melbourne
battles and whose resemblance to the Senator is
indeed striking.
NEAT, IF NASTY.
FATBOY: “ Hullo, you globe-trotter.”
TALLBOY (sourly): “ Hullo, you—you trottiny-
globe!”
While one of the 48 Rich Landlords in Yic.
Leg. Council was making an impassioned oration
on the injustice of the Factories Act t’other night
a tearing, rushing roar shook the building, and at
first it was thought that a 10-inch gun of some
foreign warship was opening fire on Melbourne.
The member broke off his speech with a terrified
jerk, and the mountains of fat on the necks of the
rich legislators began to tremble with fear. Just
as the strain was becoming unbearable some one
AFTER THE POLITICAL
MEET I NO.
O'BRIEN: “ Oi do belave all
the crowd jist comes to see the
crowd; and if the crowd wasn't there, thin all the
crowd wouldn't come at all, at all."
noticed that George Jenkins, the Clerk of the
Council, was asleep; he was snoring with his
chubby face buried in his spacious brown beard.
Then Solicitor-General Wynne slipped across the
floor and awoke the sleeping beauty. No wonder
Jenkins wanted to leave his billet in the House of
Reps. !
One episode in the political life of the
late James McKean was carefully forgotten by
that elongated attorney. When he put up for
Maryborough seat in Victorian Assembly for
the second time, the electors would not listen to
him. He bawled out over the howls and cater-
wauls that he insisted on being heard, yelling that
he was like the British Lion, and never, never
would give in. However, he didn’t get the seat,
and the Melbourne Waxworks exhibited his efflgy,
with the addition of a pair of very long donkey--
ears, and labelled “The British Lion.” When
McKean heard of it he threatened the waxworks
people with law, but when he learned that defen-
dants intended to bring “ the British Lion ” into
court as an exhibit, he gave up the suit, and the
figure remained in its place for quite a long time.
Dr. iVRInerney, a learned Melbourne
University lawyer, and Warden of the Univer-
sity Senate, who was returned to Vic. Assembly
for a backblocks’ constituency at the last general
election, cut a poor figure in the debate on Pea-
cock’s Convention Bill. He strove hard to impress
the House with his marvellous constitutional lore,
and failed dismally. MMnerney is a strange
mixture of the scholar and the emotional Irish man.
When his brother Tim went to the war Dr. Mo.
trudged the whole length of the procession by his
side, swinging a great black gamp, and bordering
on hysteria. No man deserves more credit for
having acquired much learning in the face of
many difficulties, and no man will ever make less
use of it. Mentally, he is like the owner of a big,
well-assorted stock of beautiful and useful wares,
who doesn’t know where to put his hand on any-
thing he happens to want.
“What is Blasphemy?” asked a
member of the House of Reps, last week.
Well, when Henry Copeland was N.S.W.
Minister of Mines, the smooth and saintly
Joseph Barling was his Under-Secretary, aiid
Copeland used to call Barling “Joe.” That
was blasphemy. Also, Dan O’Connor was
once placed at a semi-public lunch along-
side editor Cumow of S. M. Herald, and
when the wine had gone round twice he
began addressing Mr. Curnowas “ William.”
That also was blasphemy.
It is an open secret that the Yorks re-
garded Premier Seddon as the most stupendous
bore met on their travels. The white-headed boy
of the M.L. Ministry, so far as the Royalties
were concerned, was “Jimmy” Carroll, whom
they invited to stay with them when he visits
England.
Boot-factory owners Bedggood and Hark-
ness both told Melb. Factories Commission re-
cently that they were quite sure that if the Mini-
mum Wage Law —to which they objected—were
suspended wages would still keep their present)
rates. Nobody had sense enough to put the obvi-
ous query : “If you would pay the same without
the Minimum Wage Law as with it, why do you
want to get rid of it ? ” The same Harkiiess told
the Commission he was not paying any more now
than before the Minimum Wage operated, also
that' three-fourths of his men received above the
fixed legal wage—yet he was solid on the point
that the Minimum Wage must be swept away at
once. And yet these are reckoned clear-headed
business men !


DAVID STOBEB & SONS’ Thr " Col " r “
Rkqistered
Trade
Mark.
f
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker.
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Kuppers Elberfel'd Lager.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.—/)! the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
“ Right-Angle,” concerning the Chatham
Islands:—
I note with interest that the mongrel inhabitants of
the Chathams have again evaded the dog-tax. The last
dog-riot took place about ten years ago, with the same
result. I can personally vouch that the Islands’ dis-
puted dog is the meanest and most miserable cur con-
ceivable. About “ polyglot.” Have slept in a whare
during tangi time with crosses of Spanish, Portuguese,
American, British, nigger, Maori, Mouriri, and China-
man ! Cross this lot again, and you come somewhere
near the breeding of the present Chatham Islander. In
my time (’95) there was only one original Mouriri left.
During Maoriland’s little war, captured Maori warriors
were deported to the Chathams—unhappily for the
original dwellers. The Mouriri—whose- only cultivation
is attested by crude stone chisels and goat-skin boats—
went under without a struggle. I got particulars from
an old German missionary, named Ingst. The Maori ate
the Mouriri, and what women he didn’t dine off he, in
company with the whaler, used for other purposes.
Therefore, there is much now that is undesirable.
Whalers—white, brown, and yellow—have done much
towards the making of this new race of Seddon-defiers.
The big “ fish ’’ hunter has left his mark—most unwhole-
some ; but the Chathams see him no longer—he is gone
further south.
The vagaries of Chatham Island sand. It has climbed
over a wall of granite 200 ft. high, and it is smothering
the clearings inland. Where the coast-line of basalt is
broken the sand pours through like a mill-race. Efforts
are made to check the invasion by planting a peculiar
creeping native weed which —where it grows—certainly
checks the sand ; but then it grows where it pleases.
At Kaiangaro, in the North West, there is a cannibal
camp. According to the ancient missionary aforesaid,
when the deported Maori had finished off the Mouriri he
warred against himself. It was at Kaiangaroa that the
great faction fight occurred, and the victors ate the van-
quished. As a memento there is to be seen on the site of
an old fighting pah, below what is now known as Kaian-
garoa sheep-station, a pyramid of skulls three feet high.
At Teraki, on the opposite side of the island, I was
shown some strange sights by a white girl—a regular
Amazon, who once killed a big bull-seal with an axe, got
between the “ flopper ” and the surf and fought him to a
finish. She entertained me by delving in the sand and
fishing up parts of skulls and odd bones. She produced
from among her gruesome treasures the lower jaw of
a defunct warrior, with the teeth white and perfect.
The Chatham Islander is a great looter. One evening
news came to Teraki that a big ship was ashore on the
Wharekauri beach. When writer rode on to the beach
next morning the ship was there all right, a big iron
barque (Jessie Readman, Captain Burton). She stood up-
right, bows on to the shore, and the whole population of
the island was there, yabbering over the promise of spoil.
Eventually, the insurance co got 4000 bales of dumped
wool out of the wreck, and sold the vessel as she stood to
a Maoriland speculator. The co.’s steamer was hardly
out of sight when the islanders swarmed aboard and
literally tore the internals out of the craft. When the
Maoriland victim arrived there was nothing left but the
iron shell.
On about 40 miles of coast over 20 wrecks may be seen,
all sailing vessels; relics of the old “drunk” days.
Sunken wrecks are here the favorite haunt of the blue
shark ;in fact, the Island waters stink with shark. De-
ducting the sand and the kope trees, the balance of
Wharekauri—the mainland—is quaking bog.
• * * *
“ Yril ” '. One meets curious beliefs in the
bush. Was seriously asked one day by a wild
and woolly miner if pulling out a long, thin sinew
that runs down a pup’s tail would prevent him
being mischievous. Had never heard of this idea,
THE POST-MORTEM.
SQUATTER: “ Found the beast dead, did you? A likely story. What the
devil are you doing now? ”
HOGAN ( nonplussed): “I was jist holdin ’ the inquest, sor.”
though I’m a bit of a dog-man myself, so sought
explanation. The wild one said he had heard
plenty folks say that sinew was the “ worm of
mischief” —probably a small brother to the ser-
pent in Genesis. “Just bite the tip of the tail
with your teeth and pull, and this ’ere white
worm thing will pull out,” he said cheerfully. I
asked if tail-cutting would not he a more pleasant
alternative. “’Tain’t no good, mister,” he said ;
“ I tried it on me pup at the camp, an’ it ’pears
ony to have irritated the worm ; the pup’s wurser
than ever.”
• • * •
Writes “ Ex-West Indian Medico ”
Dear Bulletin. — Re “Vale” (B. 26/l/’01) on R. L.
Stevenson’s mystical phenomenon. Some years ago, in a
West Indian sketch, I wrote, as a result of many inquiries
amongst the natives and the Creoles of French and
Spanish descent “ She died at that critical hour when
the world, in spite of what the astronomers may say,
ceases to revolve. This hour, ‘when Se jumbie (evil
spirit) stop um world an’ see who him want,’ can only be
really experienced far from the bustling hum of a city.
It is the hour when the busy mosquito changes guard and
gives the weary, restless sleeper an hour’s peace. The
u-uinea-hen stirs and shrilly cries ‘ coco-nut ’ thrice, the
cock loudly crows. The dog, vaguely conscious of its
origin, turns three times on its mat to smooth the grass.
The horses tug at their halters, and the sleepy cattle lying
on the fields cease to chew the cud. Then, from nowhere,
called by this nameless unrest—or perchance causing it—
from the unknown comes a gruesome, awe-inspiring wind,
which, like a ghost, stalks spectre-wise through tne
house. The silent-winged Angel of Death ? The cur-
tains stir not, nor do the lamps flicker. It passes,
gently moaning, down the valley. Then the silent sleeper
shivers, and, though the thermometer may stand at over
90°, pulls up the coverlet. It is at this time, the edge of
dawn, that Earth embraces her children who are ready to
return to her. Physiologists may laugh, and talk about
the pulsation of the heart and other things—but they
have never felt the motionless wind wandering through
the silent house at the edge of dawn in the tropics. The
bang ! rattle ! splash of a falling chatai breaks the spell.
Earth gives a sigh of relief. As by one accord, led by an
invisible conductor, the mosquito resumes its zig-zag, the
cricket shrills its incisive song, the wood-borer bores
again, the whole insect world hums with renewed vigor.
The juinbie-bird too-toots in the zeiba tree, the bats
swirl, chirping round the sweet-juiced sapodillas, the
wood-pigeon resumes its monotonous love-song, and the
little scorpions tic-tac across the carpetless floor. The
sleeper turns and sleeps again.” A critic once suggested
that I had copied the foregoing from Carnegie’s “ Spimfex
and Sand,” a book that, at that time, I had not read.
Carnegie’s passage runs : “At that time in the morning
your head is drawn into the ’possum-rug, and you lie stiff
and shivering until you hear the indescribable something
that heralds the coming of the sun. It may be a camel
moving, as he shakes the frost from his woolly coat ; it
may be a bird or a grasshopper, but always there
is some little noise that would tell even a blind
man that night is over.” Physiologically and physio-
graphically the time referred to is the dead centre of the
twenty-four hours, when the human and terrestrial tem-
perature is at its minimum, and the heart-pulsation at its
lowest. It is a common hospital experience that “the
hour before dawn ” is the most critical for debilitated
patients.
It is an interesting theory, about the world
ceasing to revolve at the hour before dawn. And
the other half of the world, where it is afternoon,
doubtless goes right on revolving. Or does the
earth stop twice in the 24 hours ?
Dear Bulletin.— Re the ascertained fact that
the most fatal time to persons hovering on the
brink of death is “ the dead, dread hour before the
dawn”—can any of your medical readers say
whether there is any statistical corroboration of
the notion that very many more persons die dur-
ing ebb-tide (local, of course) than during flood ? I
know of several remarkable cases of death occur-
ring just upon the first of ebb ; but, of course, the
induction is too narrow for scientific value. —
Alex. M.
• « • *
During the progress of some sports at
Riverstone, N.S.W., a person who considered
himself aggrieved threatened to pull the hon.
sec.’s nose. “You pull it!”. yelled the H.S.,
whereupon the other man seized the proboscis
and dragged its owner along by it like a jibbing
pup at the end of a string. During the resultant
court case evidence was given that defendant had
only accepted prosecutor’s cordial invitation to
freeze on to his nose. The Bench, however,
couldn’t see' it, and inflicted a heavy fine. The
incident “ closes” with this advt. in the Windsor
and Richmond Gazette
THANKS.
joe desires to thank all those who so liberally
L' Subscribed his Fine for Pulling
JOSEPH ,
Riverstone.
“D.E.R.”: Can
any of-your readers
throw light on the
following : On a
flat, close to Wal-
lerang Creek, near
Hargraves, N, S.
Wales, there is a
huge circle, like a
circus-ring, made
with earth heaped
up to about 18in.
The inside of the
ring is level as a
billiard-table, and
about 60ft. in dia.
All the trees round
it are scored with
abo r i gin a 1 car-
vings. About a
mile away is the
prostrate figure of
a man, with arms
extended, made
with eaith htaped
up to about 2ft.
The figure is about
9ft. or 10ft. long.
All round this fig-
ure are mounds of
earth, like graves,
* and the trees all
round are scored
with carvings. I
often, when a boy,
picked up frag-
ments of stone
hatchets about the
places mentioned.
Have asked num-
bers of blacks what
it all meant, but could get no information.
Possibly the Young Men’s Heathen Association
used to meet there in bygone days.
» * * »
Maoriland Education Commission has
struck some peculiar things during its travels.
At one place, a settler’s house was the school;
and the schoolmistress was his young daughter,
whose sole pupils were her brothers and sisters.
She did her whack of the housework, and drew
salary and allowances. In another outlandish
spot, a duly-qualified teacher was discovered
playing marbles with his solitary scholar.
* * * *
“Scotty W.” : Be the “boyang,” ori-
ginally called “ London and Yorks ” : The straps
are worn by men who want to stoop comfortably
at work, and by those who wish to look like work
—the latter principally larrikins and booveroos.
I have seen boyangs atop of patched bell-bottoms
and turn over high heels, and above all a “biime
straw-decker.”
“B.” : The “Australian curlew,” in Sydney
Museum, is a small brown bird with a long curved
ibis-like bill. What we in the bush call “curlew ”
is a much larger bird, with large eyes and a short,
straight beak, somewhat resem-
bling the speckled brown
nankeen crane. This is
labelled “ Stone Plover ”
in the Museum ; Ibut
is certainly the bird
that utters the
“curlew’s lonely
ery.”
MORE ABORIGINAL ARITHMETIC.
BILLY RAWLINS (loq.): “ Hello, Pomp! Been to
Sydney?”
POMP: “ My word!”
BILLY : “ See the Gubnor? ”
POMP : “ My word!”
BILLY : “ Many people there?”
POMP: “ Yowi. Hundids, towsins, millions”
( excitedly) “ pLURRY NEARLY PIFTY! ”
Weslralia does not possess a monopoly of
brutality. Extract from Queensland Government
report
The manager has had trouble of late with the blacks,
owing to their disturbing his cattle. As far as the police
patrol could make out, the stockmen on this station treat
the blacks very badly. “ They race their horses on to the
blacks, cut them right and left with their stockwhips,
break their spears and take their tomahawks.” Again,
the manager himself told the police that he would allow
no blacks on the run, and that “ trackers would shoot
them—that was what they were there for.”
* * * *
Sub-Inspector Martin, local Protector of
Aborigines in Mackay (Q.) district, discloses a
pretty state of things. Listen
My experience here is that the Chinese farmers who
employ aborigines treat them very much better than
most of the white people who employ them. The Chinese
offer better wages, and, what is more, pay the aborigines
their wages when due ; they also house and feed them
well.
A damning impeachment of the farming class
round Mackay—a class, by the way, which is pro-
Kanaka almost to a man. They are, according to
above official report, much less humane, less j ust,
and less generous than the ordinary Chow.
Mackay should be proud of them.
Another delightful patch (Dr. Roth loq.) :
Take the case of Atherton. Here there are some
250 aborigines occupying from time immemorial some 64
square miles of scrub, which is full of native food, both
animal and vegetable. This land is being rapidly cleared
and the blacks are forced to leave. There are upwards of
230 Chinese employed by, or renting land from, over 70 out
of -76 European selectors, with the result that the blacks
are, necessarily, mostly employed by Asiatics. ... I
have given orders that blacks are not to be allowed to
work for any colored alien once convicted of supplying
opium.
Note the glorious trinity! The Cairns white
who leases his land to the Chow; the Chow who
employs the nigger; the nigger who poisons
himself with Chow opium.
* * * *
Pakefield, near Lowestoft, England, has
produced a strawberry weighing 7ioz. It was the
Royal Sovereign variety. A London daily repro-
duced a full-size drawing of the monster, which
could not be placed in an ordinary-sized tum-
bler. Specimen is said to be plump, healthy,
and others half the size from same ground
were found to be of good flavor. It measures
4|in. by and is bigger than a man’s closed
fist. Rarely is a strawberry over one ounce seen
in Australia.
“D.H.R.” : I once found an emu’s nesfc,
on Cobran station
(near Deniliquin),
containing three
eggs. Two were
of the usual
size. The third
was Min. in
circumference
and 8|in. long.
No man on
the station
had ever
seen an
emu egg of
the size.
The egg
was con-
sidered by
a commit-
tee, which
decided
that the
emu must
have laid
it with as-
sistance.
“ A.J.M.” : Some years ago I was pros-
pecting with a mate in Kimberley district, W.A.,
and camped on a creek, a tributary of the Ord
River. We were lying down smoking when my
mate picked up a “ color ” of gold about a
£dwt. How it came there puzzled us; for there
were no indications of gold in the country there-
abouts. I got the dishes and stripped the
ground close to the bank. It was a loose, black
loam with a bottom of hard, flat rock without a
ripple, so that, if gold had passed over it at ai y
time there would not be much of it left behind.
There was no wash, not even any gravel amongst
the loam. When my mate had got several dishes
I stopped stripping and went down to the water-
tub to see how he was getting on, and, to my
surprise, found he had struck a pennyweight-piece
and had several other colors. We tried another
dish and got over a pennyweight; the next dish
yielded half-an-ounce ! This began to be exciting.
JIM TELLS OF AN ADVENTURE WITH
ROYALTY.
Wot! Your R’yal ’ lghness sett in' on a bare
logl’ sez I; when up ’e gits, and bloned if
’e don’t look inter the log. ‘ Bear? ’ sez ’e ;
‘I don’t see no bear.’”
I put the shovel into the ground again, and struck
something hard. It was a human skull ! We un-
earthed the whole skeleton and beside it found a
leather pouch, rotten with age, with a rotten
chamois in it. It was from this the gold had
come. There were no papers of any kind ; and
we gathered up the bones and buried them on the
bank of the creek. We got nearly soz. and one
sovereign out of that “ claim.”
* * * *
Is the-kangaroo to be allowed to become
extinct? The people of Omeo (Vic.) the other
day petitioned that the large kangaroo should be
declared vermin in their shire, but Government
rightly declined to remove the existing protec-
tion.
WITH A SWAG.
[For The Bulletin.]
Down to Gippsland in the summer,
When the steam ie in the swamp,
And the ’skeeters bite like blazes,
There my bluey will I hump.
Past the Bunyip, Drouin, Moe,
Warragul and Longwarry,
Powong East, Fumina, Neerim,
Arrawatta, Allambee.
Down to Gippsland, where the roses
Clamber out upon the rails,
Where the “ cocky ” rides on sledges,
Where the green grass never fails.
Past the Tarrego and Baw Baw,
Kooweerup and Narracan,
Yarrayou, Traralgon, Willung,
Old Baromi and Mardan.
Visions of potato-digging,
Cutting scrub or ringing bark,
Bracken slashing, paling-splitting,
Till the mopoke hoots at dark.
Perhaps at Jindiwick or Yarram,
Perhaps Oallignee or Mirboo,
Korumburra, Darnum, Morwell,
Boolarra or Woorayl will do.
Budgeree may claim my talents,
Darlimurla, Nar-nar-goon,
Tarwin Valley, Buln Buln,
Meeniyan may see me soon.
Sweet Kardella or Jumbunna,
Toora, Dollar, or Yinnar,
Any place will suit a swaggie
Any place where there’s a bar.
no.
J. NOLAN.


CLEARS
the BLOOD
through the
KIDNEYS
► . Q,
LUa
II— <
The Dead do not Suffer. 1
This is a trite saying and calculated to make
many of us envy the dead. Somehow or other,
although we all look for peace beyond the grave,
we are quite content to leave the date unfixed
when we shall enter into the enjoyment of that
peace. The desire to postpone that date is
inherent in human nat tire as is also the desire that,
so long as life lasts, we may suffer as little pain
as possible.
In spite of these desires, which are so strong
as to be really part of ourselves, we go blunder-
ing along, neglecting to take adequate care of the
intricate and beautiful mechanism of the human
body. We eat too much, drink too much, and
generally play the fool with the machine, the
smooth running of which really means happiness ;
for health is happiness.
Nine-tenths of the pains we suffer arise from a
disordered condition of the liver and kidneys.
Rheumatism, gout, neuralgia, biliousness, jaun-
dice, indigestion, gravel, anaemia, debility, most
blood disorders and Bright’s disease are all com-
plaints arising from a diseased or inactive con-
dition of the kidneys and liver. Yet, there is a
medicine known as Warner’s Safe Cure which,
owing to its remarkable action on the liver and
kidneys, will in every case restore them to health
and overcome all disorders which are due to a dis-
eased or impaired condition of these vital organs.
Highett Road,
South Brighton, Vic.,
22nd March, 1901
Dear Sirs, —
I have pleasure in supplementing your numerous
testimonials by a few lines from myself, I having
used Warner’s Safe Cure when suffering from
severe pains in the head and back, together with
general weakness. My kidneys were in a very
bad state, so much so that I thought I was about
to have a serious illness, but, thanks to the
beneficial effects of Warner’s Safe Cure, I was
saved in time.
I have heard from many others who have also
derived great benefit from taking this medicine.
Yours truly
(Mrs.) ELIZA WEBB.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.*
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, &c.
The VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS'* says:-
“ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity.
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
df
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
' ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
“ Wad dy ’ :
“Tuna” talks
(8/6/’01), in “ Abo-
riginalities,” of a
dealer who fed a
cargo of pigs on
the remains of
some diseased
cows. It isn’t
necessary to go to
Walcha to see
that. Go down
the South Coast
of N.S.W., where
the ‘ ‘ dairy - fed
pork ” comes from.
Manyfarmers who
keep pigs feed
them on dead
t tberculosedcows.
Can I ever forget
—or could anyone
else—the horrible
vision of a dozen
grunting pigs feed-
ing on a cow (the
skin, being worth
155., had been re-
moved) at a farm
not far from Wol-
-1 ,'ong ! By the
way, it would hor-
rify most people
to know the quan-
tity of diseased
milk sold in Syd-
ney tuberculous
milk. There are
country herds
which are simply
rotten with this
te rible disease.
What is the good
of spending money
on consumption
hospitals when the
most common-
sense precautions
are neglected?
Many of the muni-
cipal inspectors
being related to
some farmer or
other, what chance
is there of this
criminal state of
affairs being stopped until a new system is intro-
duced ?
* * * *
“ Yar” : Simpson was a squatter of the old
school ( one old school) ; also a J.P. and store-
keeper. He had driven into town, and had “ met
a few.” I was asked by some of his friends to
drive him home. And Simpson talked, turning
his bleary eyes on me :
What do you think of eddication? Eddication is the
curse of the country. There was a time when I could get
boundary-riders for half the money. Then they had a
chance of making something forby their wages, and were
satisfied to work for next to nothing. I had about 800
acres of reserve enclosed, and the neighbors’ cattle were
impounded off that every night. The neighbors then,
mind you, could neither read nor write, and they were
satisfied to pay up every time and ask no questions. But
after a while, when their youngsters grew up a bit, and
were taught to read and write, they began to look into
“ers. These youngsters wanted to know. Somehow
HISS ELLIOTT-PAGE AND HER HUSBAND, MR.
TURNBULL OF NEW BRUNSWICK,
Photo. by Elliott and Fry, London.
they got a map of the parish, and the result was that my
place thr d ow 0 n C opent°and nowYtVleaL^ndiettled^bj 6
all sorts. And, of course, I’m regarded as a bit of a rogue,
looked w T ere 6 hSSSfcd^?'to
Ann, who put down the items and totted up to see if
the total was correct. Of course, it’s mostly correct
now, and that’s why X maintain that eddication is a
curse. It’s as bad as drink, and wants stopping.
Yet some of these labor fellows want to have it free—as
if it isn’t too dam free already ! These labor fellows them-
selves are the result of eddication. They get a smattering
°7®™ g j P’s W I? I had Tutlve% biased
M work “ h7S»! JE
RESPECTING THE DEAD.
1ST. PUNTER : “ What’s that jookey got that black band on his arm for? ”
2ND. PUNTER : “Oh, I suppose he's in mourning for the rest of the field.”
stick in every school in the country. The churches are
right enough; they’re mostly with us. They don’t
eddicate, and don’t do any harm, as far as I can see.
Why, if you want a man to work nowadays, he starts to
talk “ union rates” and all that rot. We can still get a
bit of clearing done cheap by the Chinamen, but I’m
blessed if they’re not getting some eddifcation, too, and
want to be treated like white men ! A little more eddi-
cating for them, and they can leave the country. What’s
the use, I’d like to know, of a man like me eddicating his
sons, when every Jack, Tom and Harry they meet has a
chance of knowing just as much as they do ? Then we’ve
got the ballot, which gives a man a chance to vote just as
he likes. In the good times, it was as we liked ; but all
that has changed, too —and all through eddication 1 It’s
worse than drink, I say—a dam sight worse 1
Next time I saw old Simpson he asked whet our
conversation had been about. When I told him
“ Mostly Chinamen,” he looked hard at me and
asked me to come and have a drink !
The aborigines from
La Perouse (Sydney)
have gone to Wallaga
Lake and Runnymede,
latter one of the most re-
cently - established sta-
tions for the native black-
fellow. No one seems to
have power to shift them
from any camp ; moral
suasion only can be used,
and this was worked for
all it was worth with the
Botany nigs. Rations
are supplied by Govt,
through the Aborigines
Protection Boar:!, and,
when a camp is to be
shifted, said moral sua-
sion is backed by threat
to stop supplies, and
offer of special induce-
ments for the new camp.
That at Yass is to be
transferred to Pudman
Creek, owing to its in-
sanitary condition, and
new huts and appliances
are to be given the old
residents. Blackfellow
knows his position re
removals as well as the
white man, and works it
for all he can get ;
generally he succeeds
pretty well. Otherwise
ne won’t budge an inch.
* * *
On 30th Sept., ’99,
two teams with 117 bales
of wool left Nappa Merrie
station, Cooper’s Creek,
Q., bound for Charleville
(500 miles) but only ar-
rived at destination on
24th July last, 22 horses
having perished on the
journey. For 18 months
the teams stood in the
wilderness.
A Coleraine (Vic.) farmer has been show-
ing a freak in the form of a lamb with one body,
two necks and heads, four front and two hind
The internal or « anS ° f , the animal-which
was killed by crows—were all double except in
case of the heart and kidneys.
.
Advt. from a M.L. paper :
j ahall {eel obliged, if the person who took my hat from
the Presbyterian Church o/sunday night last will kindly
‘°
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Jfo notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submit'ed, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
E.E.: Have read “ Fall of Jones.” Glad Jones
fell F.R. : Don’t fancy the Deity laughs like that.
Man doesn’t laugh at the theories propounded about him
in the Cockroach Parliament, elected on the principle of
One Beetle One Vote Boggabri: If you are going to
make it a matter of absolutely mechanical arithmetic,
then if 1J hens lay 1£ eggs in days one hen will lay
§ egg in one day. But, as no one ever saw i hen laying
anything, the question can’t be solved arithmetically.
Try another : If it takes two men and a dog to see to the
top of the Equitable Insurance building, how many men
and a girl will it take to see to the bottom of the reason
why the S.M. Herald should be carried through the post
gratis? Bull’s Wool: Certainly the shearer isn’t always
right; but all the 'more reason for a Compulsory
Arbitration law to squash him when he’s wrong....
Y.A. : Yes—“ Truth forever on the Scaffold, Wrong for-
ever on the Throne.” Curious : “ Officier d’Academie ”
is a very cheap decoration indeed... .Mother in Q. :
Faith-healingisamurderous notion of weak intelligences.
Mark Antony : You can’t orate here, Marcus ... .G. :
Yes, if you saw your own dear mother boiled alive you
would give her 19 lame stanzas, wouldn’t you ?..... W.F. :
Thanks ; but there’s nothing in the inconsistencies. No
two men ever saw a thing in precisely the same way
F.W. : That’s all very old. Probably ex-Speaker Bent
stands next to the other Parliamentarian as a district
agent, but Tom isn’t a refined authority on fichus and
corsets and things, and the wives of his Brighton ad-
mirers mostly do their own shopping in town J.O. :
Fully agree with bench. If the price of using the
national adjective was £9 19s. 6d. every time there would
be more money in the Treasury and less adjective in the
streets E.J.W. : “ Chums ” stereotyped idea. There
are but two possible endings to that kind of tale —both
threadbare. . .N.G. : Bridget goes to the opera in an
Irish accent, and that’s all G.H.R. : Yes
E. A. : Under the present Australian law, a theatrical
pirate who has been “injuncted”—at considerable
expense to the injunctor—from performing further acts
of piracy, is in exactly the same position as an Adolphus
who marries a ward in Chancery without the permission
of the Court A.W.H. : Reads like a tame record of
facts—so possibly your “ resident-master ” did say, “ I’ll
lay down all day.” W.R.R. : Not much in ’em S.
(E. Adelaide) : Please send along Hansard, with reports
of those speeches. They are too beautiful to waste, but
then, so many people, seeing our guileless exterior, send
along imaginary speeches to take us in On the Watch :
That’s why The Bulletin wants to get Old Age Pensions
made a Federal matter. While only two States of the
Commonwealth pay them, it is difficult to see how they
can do otherwise than insist on a long term of residence
in the State. If they merely insisted on a term of
residence in Australia they would have to pension the
aged of the other four States as well. Of course, it is
hard—but kick the four States which don’t grant pen-
sions; not N.S.W. and Victoria, which do Glenara :
Send something without blanky in it Buz : The only
tolerable bit —
The miners came, the plains conceived,
And soon a township grew ;
A town whose thirst is unrelieved
By any kind of brew.
A thing long : jared has come to pass,
For, even as I write,
The beer is boiling in my glass—
Out here in Hell’s Delight 1
Teamster : Not funny enough to justify the elaborate
invention Zozimus : There’s something in the idea,
but such a bald, cold treatment would kill any idea
S.G.B. : Exactly like 10,000 other pretty little memory -
poems Vic Kers : Returned. Sorry quite hopeless
from a literary point of view Traveller: Too many
vicissitudes of rhyme-and metre in it Atriplex :
Hardly do Aristo :No good Alif :No definite force
or value Mite B.: Worthless.. .Narranghai: “ Future ”
uninteresting Pyalla : Too ponderous Egmont:
Received W.V. (M.L.) : May have been one or two
printed—nothing of importance... Walker : Considering.
Tahune : Much better done by Hebblethwaite...
J.O. : Hardly new or forcible enough Inky : Not too
bad. Humor rather forced Alec Z. : TrioLt not up.
Prose sketch, will consider... .Fred. : Style good, but
interest slack Faugh-a-B. : Hardly worth while....
Barcoo W. : ’Roo question hung up. “ Little Game ” lame
and tame E.S.S. : “Getting a Start” would have
been more effective in half the space. You might re-cast.
... ,A.M‘L. : Only the dry bones of a yarn.... Theodore
W. : Bulletin has no use for ghost-stories of a strict!y
regulation pattern. Sorry “Shenandoah” also unsuit-
able Papoose : None up to our mark... .Tatey-Patcli :
Stiff and commonplace... .Oamiro: Bad lead-up, and
would have been better in quarter the space St.
Leger: Very flat finish. May alter for print.... Alone :
More sound than sense. Gives no distinct impression....
Veritas: An incoherent jumble D.S.A.D. : There's
something in it, but you don’t put. the case clearly or
concisely enough W.L.B. : Facts not sufficiently clear.
E.M.S. : Sorry no value... .Bryan O’Lynn :So bad that
it’s almost good ! Myna : Writing too faint. The weary
wastes of SIS. we have to cross don’t allow us to take such
handicaps ...Hugo: The use of either code is optional
during present year, but from beginning of 1902 new code
only must be used. Navies use the International for
ordinary purposes, but have also their own special codes,
which are frequently changed.. ..Q.E.D. : The lady was
Mrs. Brown Potter, and the matter has been amply dis-
cussed already... .Addnem : Hardly good enough....
J.B.H. : Interesting as fact, but not as literature....
Beatrice M. : Merely promising... .White Wing: Idea
good ; handling stiff and awkward... Eller : Good central
notion —ill worked out... .Barry S. : May use... .C.N. :
Good, solid curse, anydiow 1....V.R.R. : Too like 1000
other horse-yarns... .H.S.R.: Would need too much
alteration.... Wolfgang : One joke dull ; t’other not re-
spectable One Interested: Your letter starts nowhere
and ends nowhere. Also, it looks suspiciously like a mere
greasy advt. for the asylum matron... .Calamo :No use
trying to argue us into liking a story. If we like it it is
printed ;if we don’t, it isn’t printed G.S. : Dog-yarn
uninteresting lie. Other a miserable chestnut S.F. :
Statement requires particulars of time and place
A.G.T. : We’d have to re-write it, and it isn’t worth
while John Gay : Very good in its way, but unusable
in such a form R. Castles : Rather clever, but too
long ; and Bulletin doesn’t care for allegories, anyhow.
G.F.B. : But we couldn’t prove that at this lapse of
time, and the jury would “send for” us P.R.W. :
One verse:
Few in any occupation can boast a greater reputation
Than that gem whom we rejoice to see guarding so well
our peace,
Whose energy and dauntless pluck makes us appreciate
our luck
In having men of stamina enrolled in our police.
And the rest is even awfuller ! Hamer: “Coquette”
has some merit, but doesn’t suit Bulletin. Prose-yarn
flat and conventional... .E.H. : Just tell us in what par-
ticular was the dead Empress Frederick better than any
decent old Boer woman killed in the course of the present
war? Time enough for this community to turn into
worms when it’s dead. While it lives, do let it crawl
vicariously per Fitzgibbon and co Atnplex : Ant-Joke
stale.... E.T. (Q.): May print some day.... Willie G. :
Short pars., if you like; don’t want “letters. ....Win-
tonia : Unusable....W.H.W, : Thin.... A.D.B. : “Spring
won’t do E.R.W. : Still worse. ..Ahau: Too many
flaws Ticket: “ Ory ” declined.... M. E. J. : Awkwardly
sonorous; no interest... .Michod : Worthless... .Sheba .
Don’t come after ;go before... .G.E.M. : Oan t subsidise.
White Cliffs: Fluent; too flat. Try something
shorter and brighter.. . .Anacreon : Your lyre is a kero-
sene-tin Warrack : You don’t put it usably..., Thos.
I, ; Good sentiment; too many holes in rhymes J.G.
(Waihi) : Thanks.... Blowfly : We’re tired announcing
that we’ve no use for lies, as lies... .Solo : Some cats will
take to water after fish, but your retriever-pussy is too
large an order Agnostic : Nothing in it ordinary
Sal varmy wh00p.... R. W.S. : Don’t send us items from
the Sydney Sunday Kitchen-Wench Mary M. :
Not force ‘enough Backwoodsman : Good doctrine ;
bad verse D.H.R. : Stick to prose awhi1e.......
Yaamba : Possibly P.M. : Address Will H. Ogilvie,
Holefield, Kelso, Scotland Point Blank: Not
enough interest to carry it Kelpie: Order from
London per E. W. Cole, 333 George-st., Sydney
Verite • Rather dull.. .. Tui :“It is said that joy never
kills.” Foolishly said, then. The aged and the debili-
tated are often slain by sudden pleasurable excitement.
.R.T. (Q.): Very low-down verse... .Max Q. : Method
good, but general effect unsatisfactory.... Jimmy S. :
Not worth the space. Getting the “ bullet” embodies two
ideas —an equivalent to being “ fired,” and an antithesis
to “getting the bi11et."....X. A.P. : Only mediocre....
N.A.P. : Inclined to be pithy, but the man-masquerading-
woman is a well-worn device.... Black Spanish: Can’t
tell till we see the matter. Wouldn’t take matter in
advance from W. Shakespeare... .Ted. : Thanks....
V. R. R. : That cigar and railway-carriage story is indeed
a veteran C.W. : Present writer has often seen horses
drink beer, but has not known them to take alcohol in
any other form... .Consid. : Yes, it is injurious to health,
but amenable to treatment in the case of people of
moderate age. (2) Suggestions unavailable C.C. :
Nobody would believe that yarn about the salt mare
Llewellyn L. : Only one of interest, and that (the T. and
N. story) appeared in almost the first issue of Bulletin. ..
M.E.O. : The fact remains, however, that; the post-office
is not “ sacred ” in any country. Every Government
opens people’s letters whenever it suits it to do so
A.L.N.: Name and address of writer should always appear
on face of MS E.O.W. : Send us the MS. with your
name and address plainly written thereon, and let it stop
absolutely at that. No long, explanatory yarn needed....
Betrayer : MS. is so hideously unattractive (which
means hard to read) that you’ll bear a heavy handicap
until you get a type-writer... .Frank : “Britannia” too
“ steep.” As for Duke joke—was there ever any duke,
and, if so, where on earth was he Duke of? Ooloo:
Has that old joke happened again? R.W. : “Maria”
hardly' even rises to doggerel... M.A.R. : Great lack of
definiteness about your Queensland pastoral suggestions.
E. Lang : Four pages asking us to further your pro-
ject, and no project enclosed... .Lizzie Tries : We aren’t
taking any Alfar : The attempted semi-secret sale of
the Mt. Elliott timber-reserve is too purely local a matter
for so extended a narrative in a paper of general circula-
tion Frank P. : Probably not dealt with yet A.
Castle: Received; will consider.... Fraulein : But you
seem to judge bush-speech entirely' from a Vic. stand-
point. Your State is but a small corner of Australia, after
all C.G.D. : The Animals’ Protection Society certainly
does seem to wink at the iniquitous misusage of the
Sydney ’bus-horse. There should be more prosecutions
and heavier fines.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
A.E.L. : Can’t possibly say till we see the sketches
C.H.B. : You really think we could emphasise that by a
picture? The Crank : You can’t yet draw a horse and
you don’t this time make a joke M.S.W. : Sketches
are bound to go wrong unless name and address of artist
are written legibly on them. Useless to say “ Sent a
letter with them.” A.R.B. : Nice little drawing, but
there are so many versions of that alleged joke
Unavailable : N.L.S. (P.), Henry J.R., Jack-o’-Olubs, Ted,
Oswald P., A.S.M., R.W.S., Keith H., P.D., M.E.H.,
W. J.W., P. Sheppard, N.J.S., 5.0.0. (M.), Roger,
Percy W.S., Ben S., A. Lyle, J. B. Macdonald, Petit,
Measles.


BARBED WIRE IN WARFARE, WATERLOO— AS IT MIGHT HAVE BEEN.


Wc«7»ous <^7 **> ce>7
S'^r 7 °f^ e Cfess" futys
C- or 'ttje, l^nrbtighrt'&"&**s
I^ e cifec<°f K crtA-felf W^lea
S-fTcK W s>o“*s o
*~ ,d tw rW, Js* •*«
_
k IVK«- v Ke .-
\ \ooK\
fAulToac
w a 'fy burTcjer s
as> |poMt)d
ff
| Cl)o(?s .
SOME MELBOURNE POSSIBILITIES. —(Suggested by the recent tram-looting incident.)


that name,
A. SAUNDERS,
IS A GUARANTEE YOU HAVE A RELIABLE ARTICLE.
ON A WATCH
Trump,
10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
WATERBURY WATCHES.
Few Short wind, 10s : Guard, 12s 6d ; Series J. 16s
6d ; Railway 18s 6d ; New Model Gent.'s, 20s ;
Silver, 85b ; G-old, £2 15b and
All the above Watohes are Specially Regulated
and Oiled.
Series J,
16s 6<L
20s,
A. SAUNDERS
"UNEIVALLEI)” NON-MAGNETIC LEVEE
Strong, Reliable, Perfect Timekeeper, Screw Caseß.
Dust and Water Tight 20b ; Sofid Silver Cases
85b ; Hunters £2. A Written Certificate with th
Unnvalled.
The KNOCKABOUT LEVEE 15b
The MARVEL, 8s fid.
20s.
Nickel,
255.
A. SAUNDEBS.
“LONDON LEVEE.”
Extra Finished, f-Lever, Full Chronometer Balance,
Duet and Water Tight Sorew Cases, 25s ; Silver,
jB2 2s ; Silver Hunting Cases, £2 10s and £3.
A Written Certificate for 2 and 8 Years.
Silver,
£2 2s.
Nickel,
85s.
A. SAUNDERS.
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Speoial Direct Agents.
Silverloid O.F. Keyless, S Works with Chronometer
Balance, 85s ; Hunters, £2 ; Pure Solid Silver
Hunting Cases, Extra Quality Movements, £2 los,
£l3, £8 10s, £4, and £5 ; Gold Patent Cases Wal-
thams, £4 4s, £5 ss.
Solid
Silver,
£2lOB.
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ WATCH.
Blaok or Niokel Silver, Keyless, Reliable Works,
20s i Pure Silver, 85s ;
Solid Gold, £2 10s, £8 10s.
For a Cheap, Reliable Watch these are
Reoomm ended.
20s,
•SOI 93r
A SAUNDERS
LADIES’ WADTHAM SOLID GOLD KEYLESS.
? -Movement, Chronometer Balanoe, Jewelled, Per-
eot Timekeeper, Extra Strong Cases. Full Size, £6
10s ; Small Size, £5 10s. Pnre Solid Silver, Same
Works, £2 10s and £B.
Guarantee 4 Years to keep in Thorough Repair.
£6 10s.
I Send
for
Illustrated
Book,
Post
Free.
18ct. Gold,
£5 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold, Full Jewelled $-Watch, Most
Reliable Timekeeper, £5 10s ; Large Size, £6. In
Solid Silver, £2 ; Large Size, £2 10s.
These Watches are Beautifully Chased, and
Guaranteed for 3 Years.
18ct. Gold,
£5 10s.
14ct.
Grold,
£8 10s
m.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ot. Solid Gold Keyless WALTHAM LEVER,
Full Jewelled Works, Patent Action, New Model,
£lO, £l2 10s.
Yon Can’t Get a Better Watch.
14ct. Solid Gold, C 8 10s.
18ct.
Gold,
£lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN and MINERS.
ROTHERHAM SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH LEVERS,
Full Cap, Hand Finished, Extra Jewelled Works, Perfeot
Timekeeper, with Pure Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight,
£8 10s. Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance, £4 10s
«5, £5 10s, £6.
A written certificate for 8,4, and 5 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
A. SAUNDERS.
WALTHAM RAILWAY KEYLESS LEVERS.
LARGE SIZE, as supplied to all the Railways in Australia, with Screw
Dust-tight Cases. The Works are Strong, with full Chronometer Balance. £2
£2 10s, £3 ; Solid Silver, £4, £5, £6, £7, £B. Price of these Watches are accord-
ing to the grade of works.
m
insi
A. SAUNDERS.
SPECIAL MADE “ ROTHERHAM ” KEYLESS
ENGLISH LEVERS.
The Most Reliable and Best Finished Watches made. Guaran-
teed to give the utmost satisfaction. Pure Solid Silver Hunting
Cases, Extra Finished Works, £5. Extra Quality, t 5 10a;
Superior Quality, i. 6, £7 ; Acme, £B.
These Watches are made especially for A. Saunders only.
Guaranteed for 5 and 6 Years.
SOI £9r
'PPB
P^S
A. SAUNDEBS.
PBESENTATION GOLD WATCHES.
SPECIALLY MADE SOLID GOLD KEYLESS
WALTHAMS,
J Works, Extra Jewelled Actions, Chronometer Balance,
£7 los. 14ct. Solid Gold, £lO : 18ct. Solid Gold, Cl 2 10s,
115, £2O. Guaranteed for 3,4, 5, and fc* Years.
14ct. Solil
Gold,
£lO.
Guarani ee
Satis-
faction.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years.
Thousands in wear give untold satisfaction.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESENTATION SOLID GOLD ROTHERIIAMS f-PLATE
KEYLESS LEVERS,
Full Chronometer Balance, 19 Jewels action, Hand Finished, with Dust-tight
Cases, £lO 10s and 112 10s. 18ct. Solid Gold, £l5, £2O.
4,5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
Inscription for Pi <-<‘>'tation Engraved Free.
Send for
1901
Price List.
Silver,
£5.
“FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS.”
These we have at Every Price and Style. In Solid Niokel os
Black, 30s ; Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s ; Split Seconds, £3 10s,
Pure Solid Silver, £5, £6, £7, £B, and £lO ; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O,
£25, and £3O. A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years,
TEY ONE.
Silver,
£6.
A. SAUfSsDERS. WATCHMAKER, 815 GE ORGE-STREET,
NEARLY
OPPOSITE
bTATION,
RAILWAY
SYDNEY.


XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX X xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
you MAY OR MAY NOT
be particular about your Clothes.
IF YOU ARE,
we want to be YOUR TAILORS. Among
our almost boundless varieties of weaves
and fabrics, including all the NEWEST
PATTERNS and effects for SPRING, you’ll
not have the slightest trouble in finding
something exactly to your liking.
Trust us with the fit and finish.
You’ll find both faultless. There is a
certain individuality about
Pitt StrsQt Hordsrg’S
TAILORING —a characteristic tone and
elegance that are appreciated by every man
who aims to dress well.
And the Prices are
Modest—Extremely So.
SEE OUR PATTERNS
before you decide on your SPRING SUIT. It
you cannot come in, we will post samples
to you FREE.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL TAILORS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Fashionable Gentlemen should see our new
Shapes in STRAW HATS.
The New-shaped ALPINE STRAW.
The “ HOPETOUN,” 8s 6d, 9s 9d, 10s 6d.
And a Choice Line in
“ALPINE” and FOLDING PANAMAS
Just Opened.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XXX XX xxxxxxxxxxxx
She Naturally Thought So.
Mrs. Hicken says she supposes the doctor knew
what was the matter with Lizzie.
Maybe he did, and maybe he didn’t. Now, let
me have your ear for a quarter of a minute, as
though you were a telephone, while I talk a
suggestive truth into it.
Read any big medical book, intelligently and
honestly written, and you will be astonished to
find what a lot of diseases therein described are
said to be “ of unknown origin.”
Therefore, the doctor might not have under-
stood what ailed Lizzie Hicken, and no blame to
him. As it was, he worked away at the symp-
tons (the outside presentments, you know) and
trusted to luck for results. And he might have
struck it right, but he did not, unfortunately ;
and it came to pass what Mrs. Hicken is going to
tell us about.
It was in 1896 that the young girl began to
suffer terribly with pains which, as she put it,
“ran right through” her, particularly across
the stomach and under the shoulder blades. A
continuance of this so prostrated her that she
would sometimes be laid up for a month or six
weeks. “We fancied it was rheumatism, yet it
did not act quite like that complaint.
“She was also greatly troubled with a nasty
cough that completely took the power out of her.
I called upon the doctor with my daughter, and
told him how she had been handled ; and I suppose
he knew what was the matter with her, but, at
all events, I am certain his medicines did her no
good. ,
“Then I bought her all sorts of cough medi-
oines, but they had no more effect than if she
had used so much water.
“By this time the poor girl could neither eat
nor sleep, and you may be sure we were in great
worriment and perplexity to know what to do.
“However, I saw one of the Mother Seigel’s
Syrup advertisements, and sent to the chemist
for a bottle, and before she finished it I could see
she was better. So we kept on giving her this
remedy until she was completely cured.
“ I have used the Syrup myself for indigestion,
and it cured, after I had worn out a deal of other
medicines to no purpose.
“I want to say, so strongly that there can be
no doubt of my meaning, that the entire credit
for Lizzie’s recovery is due to Mother Seigel’s
Syrup, and also for my own.
“We both swear by it, and are seldom without
a bottle in the house. I commend it to every-
body.”—Mrs. J. Hicken, Graham-street, Auburn,
N.S.W., Nov. 27th, 1899.*
Federated Malay States.
STRAITS SETTLEMENTS.
WJ ANTED for the Survey Department, Negri Sembilan,
VV FOUR FIRST CLASS SURVEYORS (European or
Australian), competent to accurately survey long traverses
and to ascertain true bearing by sun observations.
The Term of Engagement is for 3 years. Salary $2400
per annum and Exchange Compensation (which at present
Rate of Exchange brings the value of the appointments to
about £3OO a year), and a Consolidated Transport and
Field Allowance of $35 a month. Government will pro-
vide a Free Second Class Passage by Mail steamer or First
Class by any other line, and Return Passage on Expiry of
Agreement. Half Salary will be paid during the passage
out. Single men under SO preferred. It will be necessary
to pass a Medical Examination on appointment.
Apply with certificates to the SUPERINTENDENT
REVENUE SURVEYS, Seremban, Negri Sembilan.
TJSE —^
SPOONER’S
m
SPOONER S
V
*
*
fMTIKf LEATHER BOOTS
GLAZED KIO&'M
&.m>nts+~'f ■+»!•*•*
t ** <,*«•**«
Ss*aif»J
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Ere., Etc.
[Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
A- Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
Estd.
mo.
CONCERTINAS
and AEOLAS
Unsurpassed for
TONE and . .
WORKMANSHIP.
Manufactured and Guaranteed by
WHEATSTONE & Co.
(Original
Invent ib &
Patentee),
20, Conduit Street, LON DOM, W., England.
Of all Pealers ; <?r send direct tor Pi ice Lists.
PHOSFERINE
The Greatest of all Tonics.
Phoseerine is the most powerful Nerve and Recuperative
Tonic known. It removes IMental Repression, want of Tone and
Nerve Power. It has remarkable Health-giving, Strength-giving,
Energising, and Rejuvenating properties.
No other Medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions, and
in giving hack to the prematurely aged New Life and Energy.
It is an unfailing remedy for Neuralgia, Nervous Dys-
pepsia, Ansemia, Brain-Fag, Depression, Impoverished Blood,
Rheumatism, Sleeplessness, Indigestion, Influenza, Nervous
Headaches, Debility, and all disorders consequent upon a
reduced state of the nervous system.
ROYAL COMMANDS.
Phosferine enjoys the distinguished honour of having beeii supplied by commands
MEMBERS OF THE BRITISH ROYAL FAMILY.
.I.M. the Empress of Russia.
.M. the King of Greece.
.M. the Queen of Roumania.
.I.M. the Dowager Empress of Russia
. S. H. the Hereditary Princess olLeiningen
M H M H H
W H HH W H
.I.H. the Grand. Duchess Olga of Russia.
.R.H. the Crown Princess of Routnania.
.I.H. the Grand Duchess Serge of Russia.
.R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse.
.I.H. the Grand Duchess Xenia of Russia.
And the principal Royalty and Aristocracy
throughout the
World.
No other Medicine has been awarded this unique distinction of Royal favor,
and it speaks volumes for the wonderful restorative properties^of^hosferme^^^^
CURES
Neuralgia,
Sciatica,
Lumbago,
Gout,
Rheumatism,
Impaired
Vitality,
Debility,
Brain Fag,
Weakness,
Nervous
Exhaustion,
Melancholia,
Impaired
Digestion, etc.
w.
wm.
y
A
Vitalizing
Tonic,
Imparting
New Life
and]
Energy
to the
Entire
System.
CAUTION.
GENUINE PHOSFERINE.
Ashton & Parsons, Ld., 17 Farringdon Road, London,
the original and only genuine makers of PHOSFERINE find it necessary to
put the public on their guard against mendacious imitations of their well-known
medicine that are being offered for the sake of extra profit.
It is necessary, when purchasing Phosferine, to see that it bears the name of
the genuine makers, viz. :
Ashton & Parsons, Ltd., 17 Farringdon Road, London
Price in Great Britain, Bottles, 1/I|-, 2/9 and 4/6*
pr The 2/9 size contains nearly four times the 1/1J size.
The Genuine Phosferine can be obtained from Washington H.
Soul & Co., Pitt Street, Sydney, and all respectable Chemists.
Wholesale Agents: SAYERS, ALLPORT CO., SYDNEY.
Latest Novelty in Corsets ..
THOMSON'
‘GRACIOSA’
Unbreakable Waist. Natural Hinge
Extract from Madame Schild’s
Fashion Journals for March.
“A New Corset. —This novelty is a very clever arrangement ot
the nature of a hinge at the waist, so that the wearer does not break
the steels when stooping. This new Corset is called ‘ The Graciosa,’
is extremely comfortable to wear even from the first, it fits the body
at once, and is as easy as a glove. It is boned with RUSTLESS
‘ SILVIDE,’ and the bones cannot push through. 57
Made In Colors, White, French Grey, and Black. '
Makers: W. S. THOMSON & Co., Ld,, 112, Fore St., i+ortraoi/, Eng.
takersol the Celebrated New Model ‘ Glove-F. tting,’ &‘ La Noblesse ’ Corsets
Ot all dealers throughout the World.
[Patented and
Registered.]
m
'is
--
mu
m
THE MICA LUBRICANT CO., SOUTH ShIELDS, ENG.
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro plat .
Sole Agent for Australasia: R. A. HERVEY. Depot, 171 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
At Poverty Point.
Overheard in a Melb. barber’s shop. The “ pro.” just
shaved had got a little soap in his mouth, and addressing
his successor in the chair, a total stranger, he said :
“ Ah, don’t let this dirty fellow shave you. He put soap
in my mouth. I get £l6O a week to come out here as Mr.
’s leading man, and this is how I’m treated.”
“ X. 0.” : The Sunday night “sacred and classical?”
concert still holds sway in Brisbane. It happens in the
local Theatre Royal. Puts writer in mind somewhat of
George Perry’s penny concerts in Sydney Temperance
Hall. The first thing that strikes one (not literally but
metaphorically) on entering, is a crockery soup plate.
Purpose of said dish is to take the collection. A “ tray-
bit ” will pass donator into the gods, a “ sprat ” into the
stalls, and Is. into the reserved stalls or dress circle. No
donation, no admittance. As soon as church bells sound
the audience flocks in. At eight o’clock the house is
generally full, but the performance does not commence
till the churches are out. The setting is the same as for the
nightly first part, interlocutor, company and corner men —
only the female co. wears its dresses long, and the corner
men are powdered and rouged instead of burnt-corked, and
are minus bones and tambos. By a dispensation the
interlocutor refrains from gagging with the corners. The
show is very funny ! The song-and-dance sisters have to
execute a duo in long dresses without gyrating and high-
kicking, and the act, as an exhibition of restraint, is
capital. Their feet appear inclined to be rebellious, and
one does not thoroughly understand what an inanity the
week-night sisters’ song is till he hears it done without
step and gesture. The poor corner-men are in a like fix,
and the watchful interlocutor keeps his eye on their legs
and feet, and passes them the word if they show any
dancing or bounding inclinations. The balladists are the
usual “ Take me home to mothah” and so forth variety,
and the serio-comic in a long dress is a comic tragedy
worth 6d. to see. The show rushes out at 9.30 The most
sacred item I have struck so far was “ Oh, Sainted
Mother,” and the most classical was about someone who
was Dot-Dot-Dotty. If you come to Brisbane don’t miss
the Sunday night sacred-and-classical.
“ M.A.P.” r. m irks that when Miss Ethel Haydon
arrived in England with her mother some years ago she
knew very little of the stage or professional work, but
was kindly taken up by Henry Irving, who gave her parts
to understudy before she made her first London hit in
comic opera. As a matter of fact Ethel Haydon had
played a pantomime engagement of many weeks with
Williamson and Musgrove, and a short engagement as a
comedy ingenue at Melb. Bijou before she went ’Ome.
The defunct Lyric Opera (amateur) Club brought the nice
little girl to light in a prima donna capacity. Mabel
Darley, nee Mabel Davidson, who was with Bracy’s Opera
co. previous to getting engaged by W. and M. for leading
parts, was another recruit from the Lyric Club. The
professional stage seems to come very easy to a bright
Australian singing girl, and Ethel Haydon owes little or
nothing of her London success to her Lc ndon experience.
People who saw her in London found her much the same
Ethel who had starred in the Lyric Club operas. Her
limit as an actress was soon reached. Nowadays she is
singing ballads of the mild and dainty kind at the Palace
Theatre, and is quite a minor turn compared with her
husband, Geo. Robey, an artist who, having been engaged
for Australia before he became expensive, paid forfeit to
Rickards.
A belated Amy Castles item appears in a London
“Bits "paper. It states that she is homesick, and says
she would “ rather lie a nurse-maid than a singer.” The
confession of weariness was uttered to Mrs. Doubleday,
her “ discoverer,” at the time when Australia had got
“Castles Boom ”on the brain. She doesn’t talk like that
now. Ambition was thrust upon little Amy ; she is two
years older, and nearly the whole of those two years has
been spent in a Paris atmosphere which doesn’t develope
the pram-pushing instinct in singing students, artistic or
otherwise. Talking of Amy Castles, the death is
announced of a lady who had much to do with the boom-
ing of the 19-year-old “child” from Bendigo. The late
Mrs. Best, wife of Senator “ Bob,” being anxious to assist
her friend Mrs. Doubleday, canvassed all her friends
and acquaintances on behalf of the first Castles concert,
and but for her enthusiasm the boom might never have
come off.
“ Edson ” : Wilson Barrett’s attempt to utterly smash
the scientific teachings of heredity makes an extremely
dull drama. As entertainment is made quite subordinate
to instruction in “ Man and His Makers,” playgoers have
at least a right to expect the instructor to know what he
is talking about; but it looks as if W.B. had taken all his
knowledge of heredity from a fiolicscme essay by Edward
Carpenter, and he is ridiculously wrong in his statement
of the scientist’s case, and a little more so in his prentice
method of refuting it. The genesis of “ Man and His
Makers” is obvious. Wilson Barrett had seen “ Ghosts,”
and, shocked by the appalling pessimism of Ibsen’s remorse-
less tragedy, the repentant playwright seized his pen and
rushed to the defence of Christian optimism. He would
show the other side of the picture ; he would prove that
man’s progenitors have little or nothing to do with the
making of him. Alas ! it was too big a contract for the
Knight of the “ Sign of the Cross,” and the other side of
the picture, as he presents it, is a blank, depressing as a
play, unedifying and ignorant as a sermon.
News of E. J. Lonnen’s physical break-down recalls to
mind his foolish attack on a newspaper-office in
Maoriland. The offending journal had made some
nasty, but not undeserved, remarks about the moral
character of his “third” Gaiety co., and Lonnen,
at the head of his aggrieved comrades in disrepute,
stormed the little fortress and broke a table and a chair
or two. The real joke of this warlike absurdity lay in the
fact that Robert Courtneidge, the representative moralist
of the company, who had his estimable young wife with
him, didn’t take any part in the affair. Lonnen wanted
him to accompany the belligerents, to give the attack an
air of virtuous indignation, but Courtneidge merely
scratched his head and quoted an old proverb concerning
dwellers in glass houses. Wise man, Courtneidge. For
some years past he has been the director of the two
principal Manchester theatres.
Patents for Inventions — Arthur Griffith,
International Patent Agent and Consulting
Engineer, University Chambers, Phillip-street,
Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights,
obtained throughout the world.
AT THE SHOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Each night the selfsame hour I see her face
Go passing down the long and crowded street.
Her bright eyes rest on mine, then into space
She trips with supple form and dainty feet.
Ah ! shall I ever call her darling, wife,
And hold her tender little hand in mine ?
And guide her through the turmoil and the strife,
And hear her whisper “ Love I ” in tones divine ?
Never ! although I see her every day,
A victim I remain of Cupid’s shaft;
The street she walks is many miles away,
And she is only cinematographed.
CONSTANCE CLYDE.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
We learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attached to every bottle of Condy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
curing most of the ailments and accidents
affecting Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry,
and Birds of all kinds.
Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses.—Scab, Foot Pot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Rinderpest, Hoove, Foul in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, quid Diarrhoea in Cattle. —Distemper
Mange, Canker, and Eczema in Dogs.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of local substitutes, all are
inferior. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
nwHMiifi
<3-0 TO HELI,-
IGOIiAN l> for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizateth-st. f Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, prioe*
lis gratis.
HATS . HATS m "f li
SVtauntcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
to B. MOUlltGaStle & SOIIS,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WRLTCR BRADLEY # CO.,
J'urniture unit b'Lne Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydne/,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
lEST" Sales Held at the Auction /looms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sala
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
□
cwwss
jVkLtftOß.
FOR THE COMPLEXION
An emo'ient, soothing and healing pre-
paration for preserving and beautifying the
Skin in ali climates; it cools and refreshes
the Face and Anns in hot weather, removes.
Freckles, Tan. Sunburn, Fedness and Rough-
ness of the Skin, heals all cutaneous Erup-
tions and Insect Stings, produces
SOFT, VELVETY SKIN,
Imparts a luxuriant beauty to the com-
plexion and a matchless whiteness to the
Neck and Arms unobtainable by any other
means. It has been known for the last 75
years as the most curative and harmless
preparation ladies can use. Ask Stores and
Chemists for Rowland’s Kalydor, of 67,
Hatton, Gartler... London.
HIGH-GRADE
FARM
H
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd
35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL POINTS
As a result of the land policy of Ballance
and ‘Jock” M'Kenzie in Maoriland, (jhe total
number of flocks has increased from 9149 in ’B6 to
18,599 at the end of ’99. Average size of flocks
was 1659 in ’B6 ; 1040 in ’99.
Australian financial axioms : To pay your
way, Borrow. To pay your interest, Borrow.
To pay off your borrowings, Borrow again. When
you are in doubt, Borrow. When you can’t bor-
row, owe—or sell something.
S.A. Assembly is cheerfully considering
an address to the Federal Parliament protesting
against heavy Commonwealth expenditure. The
pot and the kettle with a vengeance, for S.A.
Assembly declines to save £lO,OOO a year by re-
ducing the number of its members, despite the
public demand for reform.
Meagher, M.L.A., is anxious to secure a
Royal Commission to inquire into the liquor-
trafflo of N.S.W. In Meagher’s constituency
(North Coast) for every gallon of alleged whisky
that comes through legal channels there are ten
gallons uncustomed. Even some of the J’s.P. up
there make fortunes by distilling sly grog.
Transpires that if postage-stamps were
made uniform throughout the Commonwealth
Tasmania would lose a trifle of £14,000 a year.
The Federal Govt, hesitates to despoil poor little
Raspberry-land of such a sum, so the cumbersome
practice of confining the use-value of the Common-
wealth stamps to certain districts of the Common-
wealth will probably obtain for some years. Tas.
officials’ figures must be correct, for before the
return was sent to Melbourne “ ‘ Tattersall ’ was
consulted.” Apparently, nobody dares do any-
thing in Tasmania now without consulting “Tat-
tersall.” The isle is really Tattermania nowadays.
FANCY BEING TIED TO A Till EG LIKE THAT /—A CASE FOB
REFORM OR DIVORCE.
Certain members of the practicully-bank-
rupt Q. Ministry are dreadfully indignant at the
proposal to cut down gubernatorial allowances.
The Imperial Govt., however, cannot imagine that
the Governors salary is now to be maintained at
the old absurd £5OOO level, and pi eposes (it is
alleged) to send out commoner -I. C. Bodley in
Lamington’s place. The Philpites .are simmering
with indignation ; they must have a nobleman.
Salaries of Canadian provincial Covernors, £l4OO
to £2OOO.
Premier Seddon, swiping out blindly at
Steward’s proposal that Ministers should be
e'eeted by Parliament, said, among other things,
that it would involve “ cutting the painter with the
old country.” Seddon grows incoherent in his
latter days. Why doesn’t he also add that it will
lead to a large deposit of ambergris-on Hokitika
beach ?
Says Derham, Melb. jam-maker :—“ The
Factories Act was passed to stop sweating, yet
sweating still exists to some extent. Let us
therefore suspend the Act.” Quite so. And the
Giimes Act was passed to stop theft and assault,
and as these still exist, let us therefore suspend
the Crimes Act. It’s poor logic that won’t work
both ways.
Tom Temperley, of Richmond River
Times, suggests as a solution of the Kanaka-labor
problem : to make Kanaka-labor unprofitable to
employers by establishing a Federal Customs duty
of, say, £5 per ton—with an excise of, say, £3 per
ton only on sugar grown or manufactured by
colored labor. This, he claims, would settle the
difficulty at once.
If any £20,000 a-year billet is to be pro-
vided in the Commonwealth, this paper reckons it
ought to be that of Auditor-General. Australia
badly wants a £20,000 a-year auditor to kill off its
politico-financial fakirs and to have a strong say
in banking, insurance, and other financial legisla-
tion. But the odds are that we will have a
£20,000 Governor and an £BOO-a-year Auditor.
You have to read the S.A. rain and wheat-
harvest records together to realise what an
appalling slump there has been in the value of
S.A. land for farming. In ’G2 a 21in. fall gave a
12-bushel harvest; 23in. in ’63, 14 bushels ; 19in.
in ’64, 11 bushels ; 15in. in ’65, 8§ bushels. But
in ’95 21in. gave only 420 bushels; in ’96, 15in.,
1’66 bushels; ’97, lb-fin., 2’64 bushels ; and ’9B,
20fin., 4 '9l bushels. Certainly, artificial fer-
tilising begins to make things a bit better.
The Federal Government was beaten on
the “seditious and blasphemous” clause of its
Post and Telegraph Bill. Also Parliament refused
to permit the substitution of “grossly offensive,”
holding that it would be six of one and half-a-dozen
of the other in the eyes of a weak or corrupt
Minister desiring to “deal with” a “reptile
press.” Parliament has done well, seeing that a
Minister who regards it as Sedition to hint that a
King has human weaknesses, and Blasphemy to
scoff at a K.C.M.G. is still more than possible in
this democracy.
John Drayman moralises :
Apropos of the Federal-capital question, it is singular
how rarely the first-approved site has proved suitable,
or has not * n
the long- run
been rejected
for a better.
Thus, when
the American
States decided
to federate, the
concentrated
wisdom o f
le gi s I a tors
fixed upon
Philadelphia
as the capital,
the three great
reasons being
that it was
near enough to
the coast for
vessels of large
tonnage to get
to its wharves;
far enough up
the river to
be safe from
invasion ; and
easy of access
to each of the
States. It
turned out a
failure. The
history of Phil-
adelphia re-
calls the defi-
nition of the
crab—“ a red
fish that walks
backwards,”
which was
passed as good,
but for the
three objec-
tions that it
was not red,
that it was not
a fish, and that
it did not walk
back wards.
The river re-
ceded so that
vessels of large
tonnage could
not get near
Philadelphia ;
so many other
States joined
the Federation
that instead of
being central
it was practi-
cally on the
edge, and it
was promptly
taken posses-
sion of by an
enemy. Aus-
tralian capitals
illustrate the
same thing.
Sydney was the second choice for N.S.W. ; Mel-
bourne, the second for Victoria. Hobart was the
second choice for the South of Tasmania, and Laun-
ceston the third site chosen for the chief northern
city of the little island, while it is quite on the cards that
both Hobart and Launceston may have to give place to
Devonport. Therefore if Bombala be chosen, let not
Albury or Yass or Orange mourn as they who have no
hope, and let even Milparinka keep its pecker up.
It is solemnly recorded that the Queens-
land Leg. Council sat two days at the opening of
Parliament. Then it adjourned for a week and
THE NEW AE'L.
The third stage of the war has now been reached , amt
Kitchener , so far as one can make out from the cable, is in-
structed to hang all Boer prisoners found guilty of murder
by the war correspondents, or convicted of being implicated
in rumors of assassinations and other infamous practices
contrary to the rules of civilised warfare.
sat two days more. It then adjourned another
week and sat 20 minutes, after which terrific exer-
tion it took a spell for a fortnight. In five weeks
the lordly Council did not do five hours’ work.
And yet Bananaland, yearning for retrenchment,
can’t see what ought to be done.
Brisbane Courier, as might be expected,
is now telling the public, in violent leading articles,
that Dr. Maxwell, in his report to the Federal
Parliament, said that white men are physically
incapable of working in the cane-fields. Of
course he said nothing of the kind, but the report
was too bulky for the ordinary man to read, and
nine people out of 10 will take it for granted that
the Courier’s brassy romance was in the document
somewhere.
Jingo hysteria calms down to such an
extent that even Melb. Argus is prepared to
admit that most of its war-cables were colored by
the interpolations of lying and unscrupulous
Imperial popinjays. A whole column of the
cable-page is devoted to an illustration of how a
certain captain on Gen. Lyttleton’s staff, acting
as censor, would write-in engagements that never
happened, and victories by officers who mostly
stayed away.
The mono-rail railway and the wireless
telegraphy system are both coming, and when they
arrive, even though the existing railway road-bed
and bridges and so on will still be valuable,
another £50,000,000 or so of the money this
country has borrowed for “permanent and repro-
ductive works ” will go into the scrap-heap. There
are no permanent works, for everything becomes
obsolete some day. Therefore, every debt should
have a sinking-fund attached to pay it off before
the work on which the money was expended
becomes an antiquated mass of waste metal.
lie that leak in Customs discovered by
Kingston. Said leak has been going on for years.
The men who benefited in no small degree were
the wharf-laborers, whose immunity from prose-
cution for pilfering cargo has been owing to the
lot of overvalue and mis described packages
landed. To run-in a wharf-laborer or two might
lead to unpleasant inquiries and a search of in-
voiced packages. Two or three of the biggest
Customs swindles have been detected through the
indiscretion of a wharf-laborer who had helped
himself and let it be known from what ship when
officials knew no such goods as those stolen were
on its bills of lading.
In the Customs Bill debate, the Tories of
the Federal Senate surpassed each other in their
impassioned addresses in favour of deleterious
food. One might have thought a national calamity
was threatened from the way in which Pulsford
pleaded that “exhausted” tea and oleomargarine
should not be put on the prohibited list. Sargood
and Gould were on the same side; also Walker
almost wept because it was proposed to exclude
prison-made goods, and with tears in his voice
pointed out that this clause would prevent Aus-
tralia getting its carpets made in the gaols of
India. The oleomargarine is to comp in, but the
Senate stood fast on the matter of prison-made
goods, and the Australian of the future will be
denied the joy of seeing his happy child crawling
among the cholera germs on the carpet made by
some nigger in a foreign quod.
Edward Braddon, ex-Premier
of Tasmania, at that gathering of
lost 'hopes and blighted remnants,
the annual Freetrade dinner in
Melbourne:—
As soon as the tariff is announced
the Freetrade battalions will unfurl
their flag, and, I believe, carry it to
victory.
And the dreadful Braddon was for
5| years head of a Protectionist
Ministry collecting the proceeds
of a heavy Protectionist tariff in
Tasmania, and didn’t unfurl that
flag worth twopenn’orth of cop-
pers. Did he do that out of a
wicked desire to injure Tasmania?
Or was it that he was a sordid, un-
principled office-hunter selling the
Immortal Truth for a wretched
little billet? His own explana-
tion is understood to be that he
was driven to it by Tasmania’s
necessities, which is a profoundly
silly statement. If Freetrade is a
good thing, and makes a country
rich and prosperous, the necessi-
ties of Tasmania should have
driven him to that. To say Pro-
tection is ruinous, and yet take
refuge in it when bad times come,
is pitiable bathos. And Tas-
mania, seeing that it is going to
lose its inter-state customs, is
likely next year to be more neces-
sitous than it was when Braddon
sank his principles and nil it
under a Protectionist tariff. Ap-
parently, the only difference is
that Braddon has got out of State
politics and doesn’t care so much
now what happens to Tasmania.
Apropos of the demand in
certain Jingo quarters for a differ-
ential tariff in favor of Britain.
Wool is Australia’s chief export,
and amounts in value to more than
all other products put together,
leaving gold and silver out of the
calculation. During the last five
years the United Kingdom has
bought for its own use from all
sources an average of 171,500 tons
of wool per annum, while Ger-
many has bought 161,000 tons.
Between 1891 and 1899 Germany’s
direct purchases of wool from this country in-
creased by £1,200,000 a year ; Britain’s decreased
by £4,600,000 a year. Better go slow with that
differential tariff.
The O’Sullivan, holding forth recently
about the advisability of building lots of new rail-
ways and tramways, expressed the opinion that
N.S.W.’s 18 non-paying railways were only made
to appear so because the Railway Department
didn’t credit them with a proper amount for the
traffic they brought to the main lines. O’Sullivan
desires to credit these branches with some
money now credited to main lines, and make them
look as if they paid better by making the other lines
look as if they paid worse. That will leave the
regular deficit on the whole N.S.W. railway
system just where it was. It is only making the
blanket longer by cutting a pieee off the bottom
and sewing it on the top.
Dr. M'Coll, Tas., who was kept out of
Parliament for years because of the fighting
proclivity, which caused him to always contest
Braddon’s seat with the old warrior, is now once
again M.H.A., and signals his re-arrival in the
legislative halls of his somnolent country by gird-
ing at its most cherished institutions. “Federa-
tion,” says M‘Coll, “has limited the importance
of the State Legislature, which will now only have
ordinary business to transact. Such an Assembly
no longer needs a House of Review. To continue
the Upper House under the altered circumstances
is absurd. Why, we’ll be asked to establish a
House of Review for the City Council, next! ”
Which is no a bad point, ye ken.
Nothing could be weaker than Peacock’s
leadership of Vie. Leg. Assembly. He was
reputedly one of the strong men of the Turner
Government. In the Shiels Government, too,
Peacock, although one of the junior members
of Cabinet, was appealed to by his colleagues on
all matters requiring judgment. His present
falling-off is, therefore, painfully noticeable. In
the House, he blows hot and cold without apparent
reason. First he will oppose an adjournment of
the debate or the House, and then, after an un-
seemly wrangle with some insignificant person, he
will relent and back-down ignominiously. He
announced, at least half-a-dozen times, definite
dates on which he would insist upon the debate on
the Convention Bill being closed. When the time
came he gave way before mild protests of half-
hearted supporters of the measure, who wanted
more time in which to bamboozle their consti-
tuents. On one occasion he arranged with the
Opposition leader to take the division on a given
date, and then went down on his knees to that
dull creature to release him from the contract, on
the ground that he would never have it said he
closed any man’s mouth. Had Peacock taken the
vote during the first week’s discussion, he would
have had a much more substantial majority. There
seems to be no other explanation of Peacock’s
vacillation than that he is completely run down
and in danger of a serious collapse.


PALING’S GREAT REDUCTION OF PRICES
GREAT REDUCTION OF PRICES
ALL MUSIC
BOOKS, OPERAS, STUDIES, etc., REDUCED
to the Lowest Possible Prices.
ALL MUSIC
New and Popular Songs all at Reduced Prices!
“ Bandit Chief ” ...
“Eldorado” ...
“ Seville Gipsy Maid ” ... ... ... .
“ Russian Love Song ”
“ AN OLD WORLD SERENADE ”
“ Till Death ” (I Love You)
“ Where Roses Gleam ”
“I’LL BE YOUR SWEETHEART”
“ As Your Hair Grows Whiter”
“ The Lads in Navy Blue”
“ Won’t You Take Me Back to Dixie ”
“A PURE WHITE ROSE”
“ A PATTERN TO THE WORLD ”
(Latest Patriotic.) Sung with tremendous success
“ The Girl I Loved in Sunny Tennesse”
“ She is a Sensible Girl ”
“ Once ”
“ Say Yes ” ...
“Echo”
“ OH, PROMISE ME”
“ Colleen Oge Asthore”
*' HOLY CITY ”
~ Marks
, Lardelli
Lardelli
.. Lardelli
Meyer-Helmund
Mascheroni
Mascheroni
. Dacre
. Dacre
Dacre
Davis
. Dacre
Dacre
by Henry Weir,
Garter
Dacre
Hervey
D’Hardelot
. Somerset
~ De Koven
. Adams
“ Whisper and I Shall Hear ” ... ...
“ Deathless Army ”
“ Flight of Ages ” ... ... ...
“ Ma Curly Headed Babbie ” ...
“ 0 Divine Redeemer ”
“QUEEN OF THE EARTH”
“Good-bye” ...
“ Bid Me to Love ”
“ Life’s Lullaby ” ... '
“ ASTHORE”
“ Why Must We Say Good-bye ”
“ Beloved, it is Morn ”
“May Morning”
“ Beauty’s Eyes ”
“ Star of Bethlehem ” ...
“Daddy”
“ The Carnival ”
“ Old Countree ”
“ FOR ALL ETERNITY ”
“ If Thou Wert Blind”
“THE SHADE OF THE PALM” (from “Florodora”)
“ Farewell to Summer ”
Piccolomvni
Trotere
Adams
Clutsam
Gownod
Tosti
Tosti
Barnard
Lane
Trotere
Cooke
Aylward
Denza
Tosti
Adams
Behrend
Molloy
Pinsuti
Mascheroni
Noel Johnston
Noel Johnston
vocal Scores, Piano Scores, Songs and Dance Music of the Favorite Operas:
“Casino Girl,” “Florodora,” “Runaway Girl,” “Messenger Boy,” “Belle of New York,”
“Circus Girl,” “Geisha,” “San Toy,” “Bose of Persia.”, i -
W. H. PALING & CO. LTD.
George-street, Sydney; and at Newcastle and Brisbane.
FOR BRINSMEAD’S, LIPP & VICTOR PIANOS.—*- -
Read. Wh.at
VITADATIO
lls Doing.
CONSUMPTION
Can Be Cured.
Bead What Mr. Fred Stevenson says
VITADATIO has done for him.
Dungog, July 17, 1900.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
Dear Sir, —For over two years I suffered from what the
doctors here told me was consumption, and during that
time 1 suffered considerably and could not get any relief
Seven times I broke a blood vessel, and gave up all hope
of recovery. The doctors told me that they could not do
me any good, and gave me up. It was then that I heard
of VITADATIO, and I determined to try it. The first
bottle did me a deal of good, and after taking twelve
bottles I can now say I ami quite cured. Twelve months
ago I weighed under nine stone, and to-day I was weighed
at your representative’s request, and was just ten
stone eight pounds, and am now working on the roads
as maintenance man, and well able to do a hard day’s
work as well as I could years ago. I am well-known
here and will do all in my power to persuade others who
are suffering to try your Medicine.
(Signed) FREDERICK STEVENSON,
Dungog, N.S.W. Government Maintenance Man.
I have read the above carefully, and know it to be
correct, as I have known Frederick Stevenson during his
illness, and have watched his wonderful recovery ; he is
now quite well. I can also add that I have tried VITA-
DATIO for indigestion and it has done me a wonderful lot
of good.
(Signed) EDWARD PIPER, J.P.
For further particulars,
184: Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
CoGfytry Readers
In Need of GLASSES for FAILING or
IMPAIRED VISION should write for my
PARCEL OF SPECTACLES
.. CONTAINING . .
6 PAIRS ASSORTED SIGHTS
and an ILLUSTRATED SHEET of INSTRUCTIONS
to aid you in selecting the right power, at prices from
3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 21/- per pair,
case included.
Forward me the PRICE OF ONE PAIR and I will
send you the six Spectacles to select from, money returned
if you are not suited.
H. A. BARRACLOUGH,
CONSULTING OPTICIAN,
371 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
Next door A.J.S. Bank (King & George Sts.).
And at 232 Collins Street, Melbourne.
A POLICY
for the
COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d.—posted Bd.
direct from The Bulletin Office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any
Australasian province), postal notes, or P. 0.0,
for amount stated.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
(8 DOORS FROM
STRAND ARCADE.)
Camden Buildings, 420 George St., Sydney.
" 1 25 PEE, CEET.
WALKER & HALL’S SILVER-PLATED
FORKS AND SPOONS.
Sii^
311
.
OLD ENGLISH OR FIDDLE PATTERN.
Write for our 80-Paged Illustrated Catalogue—POST FREE.
“Flag Brand”
Table Forks—
ll/-£-doz.
Dessert „ 8/3 „
Table Spoons—
-11- J-doz.
Dessert ~ 8/3 „
Tea „ 3/9 „
cjs
m
T
1#
No
Other
Tyres
will stand the
same amount
of hard wear as
Dun iqp Tyres 1
which excel
all others for
Reliability
AND
Ease of Detachment
BEWARE
OF
IMITATIONS.
All Dunlopa
bear this
embossed on
the cover
and tube.
Ttade
THE . . .
Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Go. of Aus. Ltd.
160 Clarence Street, Sydney;
and at Melb., Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Chrirtchurch, N.Z


Banking, Public Companies, Sco.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security .
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
d
f
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3XT.S.-W.
UjontdepieteDJ|.C».,!;H.
74
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
EUSTACE BENNETT, Managek.
'-.Til 10
Colonial Mutual I>ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOB
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices * ■ 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robbrts,
C.M.0., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 —assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576;850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eouitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
01TY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
The gank of flarth Queensland
■LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director - JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. i .ld.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,90J
Capital Paid-up ... .. £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 100 ... £350.000
Queensland Smelting (Jompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough
TJUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-* * Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
gem Zealand Insurance go.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
The Trustees, €*€<;<itorS,
AND
Ag?fKY Conjpaov Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDIt. A. LANG, Assistant Manage!
No. 412 Coilins-street, Melbourne.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED. V
CAPITAL PAID-UP £385,187
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 245,119
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 55,000
£685,306
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Ass. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. o/ London.
(The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks.
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq. Wellington : H.
Beauchamp, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN. General Manager for Australasia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Established 1879.
THE '
United Australian Mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices:
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance.
AGENTS REQUIRED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
Alfred Webster, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
Shipping.
thOoward smith line.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WAKRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., Aug. 31, 12 Noon.
Buninyoner, Tues., Sept. 3, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 7, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., Sept. 3, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., Sept. 3, 6 p.m.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Saturday, Aug. 31,12 Noon.
Bunvah, Tuesday, Sept. 3, 5 p.in.
Peregrine, Sat., Sept. 7, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
I Tyrian, Saturday, Aug. 31,12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., Sept.’7, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GEKALDTON
Cairns, & c .
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers ami Cargo
booked through.
Lowest. Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Building’s, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of .King-street.
THE “ALL RED ” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDOM.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OF TIIE
GAMADIAM-AUSTRALIAM LIME
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales; Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA arid VANCOUVER.
Connecting at Vancouver with the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY-
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea arid the
cold oi Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 days, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world—.over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all otljer informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPAHY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of New ZealandL
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amountof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ... .. £2,500,000
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-GeneraL
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
7 in nh' of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office- GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,250,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,250,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Chas. K. Mackellar, M.L.0., President,
Senator James Thomas Walker.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Henry Norm and MacLadrin, M.L.OL
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
Auditors:
F. W. Utiier, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
laondon Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
_J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Medical.
Is your Hus-
band, Son,
Brother, or
Father a
DRUNKARD
If so, send us your Name and Address, with id. to cover
postage, and we will send you in a plain envelope our
Booklet giving- full particulars how to give EUCRASY
secretly in Tea, Coffee, Food, etc. It is odorless and
tasteless, and will cure this dreadful habit quietly and
permanently withojit the Patient’s knowledge or consent.
GOOD FOR BOTH SEXES.
Write THE EUOR.ISY 0 3., G 2 Hunter-street, Sydney
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and infallible Remedy,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
GENTS.^*
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Addebss.—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via OAI OWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
MEDIC, L 2.000 tons, to Sail about 21st SEPTEMBER,
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
A FRIO, SUEVIC, PERSIC, and RUNIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
I Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout.
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA.
KT. 13. L.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via. Ports.
’Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to HONGKONG,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA and YAP.
G.M.S. NUEN TUNG, 1341 Tons,
Captain Schoenberg,
LEAVING SYDNEY, 27th SEPTEMBER NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agenls.
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Publications.
THE BALLET GIRL
Virsi
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza, -
FOREIGN ST A ,i Ps.
GEEBHSB
WESTERN
fd
AUSTRALIA'
uannGaagl
/"iHEAP SETS.— 40 Japan, Is 6d ;
47 Spain, 2s ; 4 Tientsin, 3d ;
16 Heligoland, Is : 8 Egypt, 6d ;
30 French, 9d ; 7 Iceland, 9d ; 9
Labuan Pictorial, 2s 6d; 11 Canada,
6d; 9 Canada Duty, 6d; 5 Bolivia, 4d.
Packets 50, Is ; 100, 2s 6d. Stamps
Purchased. New Catalogue of
Stamps, Albums, etc., Gratis.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
Tsicococy
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, By Dr.
ALFRED NEALE. Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
AND THEIR TREATMENT.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers : Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Chic; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque on London.
English, French, and German Rare Books,
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GENNERT,
890 Faubourg- St., Martin, Paris, France.
‘FAUST.”
/'ZJ.RAND SELECTION from Gounod’s popular Opera
arranged for Pianoforte by Warwick Williams
Published at 4s.
Also,
The celebrated WALTZ and stirring SOLDIERS’ CHORUS
MARCH from the same Opera.
Of all Music Sellers.
W. PAXTON & CO., London & Melbourne.
Catalogues Free.
Jllluti $ C??
thcl bourne
4 Jh« best House for
ttlusic.P!Jmos.Vi'olinsat
alj TTlust'cal sundries
Collins JSH..
Castro’s Last Sacrament
By ALBERT DORRINGTON. 4s 6d.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports J
S.S. Allinga, Friday,
August 30.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
September 7.
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Calms
S.S. Warrego, Friday,
August 30.
Best and Cheapest lloute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A. U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
_ Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. INI. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
AND ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktovvn, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger Accoinniodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
e .I? 01 '*' between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
,°r Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO, Ltd., Agents, 111 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P AMD O. COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON-Single, £3B 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £7llos to £l2l
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific, and
Messageries Maritimes Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOM BO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELROUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
DE THUY, Principal Agent.
Huddart, parker $ Co’s Qine
Melbourne, houa I it,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND 'POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Pu ts and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for t ie Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT anil CO., Managing Agents
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pit.t-street, Sydney.
|‘|liuraith,fl|‘gaeharn * go?
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
4500 TONS,
COOLGARDIE, 3500 TONS,
SAIL LOUT NIGHTLY 'between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accom modat ion Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
M‘ILWRAITH, M‘EACHARN AND C 0.,,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantlo
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.


Chief Mechanical Engineer Roberts, of
the S.A. Railways, just back from a world-tour,
says that what struck him most about any rail-
ways anywhere was the punctuality of the long-
distance TT.S. trains. He says he never rode on a
train there that was more than three or four
minutes late. As for other things, the most
striking improvement effected in 10 years has
been the provision of observation cars, from which
the country can be seen to advantage from the
rear of the train. Roberts says the Canadians are
getting very tired of the private-ownership of
their railways.
“ G.P.” on a Maoriland railway-terror :
Re Rimutaka incline and the Duke’s regard for his life
in “passing” the proposed trip. You tell us vividly
enough of screaming engines, of friction as an illuminant,
and possible destruction-dealing landslides, but miss the
point in giving the gradient as 1000 ft. in eight miles.
The descent on the north side of the range takes place
daily to the weird tune of one in 15, and as it is three
miles to go, we drop somewhere at the bottom of 1100 ft.
Then again, the wind was prime mover in toppling a
small train clean over into a gully some 20 years back —
three killed, many injured. Result- -breakwinds at all
exposed turns. Don’t wonder H.R.H. thought it advisable
to cable Pa for permission to wear a crown before hvs
time. And as Pa replied in a positive negative, the local
Royal Amusement Committee was sorely hit as to how
that £6OO carriage might be royally occupied prior to its
passing into Dick Seddon’s catalogue of private property.
The .most they could do was to train the visitors to a
small woollen mill on “ this ” side of the iorbidden slide
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when .you
precs your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
flousemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per b >x. Prepared by
ALBERT' 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •. ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
DR. J. CDLUS BROWNE'S
fHLOROPYNE
oaution. — G enuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS DROWNC.
* THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS o!
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large mini her of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
1
1
X)
m
1
r
•sgssas*
-«3
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
AT ELIA NCEB
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Pi
NLi
<9H
HOTELKEEPERS!
MAKE YOUR OWN
DERATED WATERS.
rpHE “ AUSTRAL” /ERATED WATER MACHINE occu-
pies only Four Feet Square, will produce 150 Dozen per day of
Finest Waters (LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, SODAWATER, &c.)
at a Cost below Fourpence per Dozen. This machine
supersedes all others for SIMPLICITY and USEFULNESS, as it
requires no skilled labor to work it.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Agent: WM. JOHNSON, 343 Queen-street, Brisbane
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214-216 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
VINOLIA SOAP
FOR DELICATE, SENSITIVE SKINS.
FACTS-
VINOLIA SOAP
VINOLIA SOAP
VINOLIA SOAP
VINOLIA SOAP
VINOLIA SOAP
is unsurpassed for the complexion,
is guaranteed pure, and will stand all tests,
yields a most soothing and abundant lather,
is made from the finest materials.
keeps the skin as soft as velvet.
IN FIVE KINDS. SOLD
EVERYWHERE.
Vinolia Cream
.. FOR ..
ECZEMA, ITCHING FACE SPOTS, Etc.
Editor Baby reports:
“An emollient antiseptic cream. For acne
spots on the face, and particularly for
eczema, it is undoubtedly an efficacious
remedy, frequently healing eruptions and
removing pimples in a few days. It relieves
itching as if by magic.”
FOUR SIZES.
Vinolia Powder
.. FOR ..
REDNESS, ROUGHNESS, TOILET, Etc.
Editor Lady’s Pictorial reports :
“ Vinolia, Powder is a very soothing pre-
paration, superseding the old toilet powders,
which are. apt to cause acne by blocking up
.thepores of the skin.”
White, Pink, & Cream Tints.
FOUR SIZES.
Dr. C 1 arltaon’a Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other bodj r appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs. J
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parte, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and rw.>„ o • t , , . ,
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.nerves and Organs , s truly wonderful.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
I
bjewhib- owl r c a u t t e drug store
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY. *
s
'Us
S(,
rii
m
H
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every ;
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers from Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia, iEnemia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
RiO ME DIES.
<o"*S
MilMHpntt
iinuN'e^
HHMUMtt
tf
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS CHIEF LABORATORY.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guarante< d Cure for All Nervous Aff ctions, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Course, 28/6.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin-Diseases, Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the W< akest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
iEnemia, Wasting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOAES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alf .line Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
bago. Boxes, pos'ed, 35., 65., 12s. and
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A
Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
posted, 35., 65., 12s. and 235. 6d.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
cure for all Spinal and Kidney Affections ;
425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Correspondence held confidential.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
CORN CURE, I/-.
OINTMENT, 1/-.
W&
Eli HEIR M55MU551
HERBAL AIFALfIiIPI
HERR RASMUSSENS
ac2*l
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, . and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W,
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and hia
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke-st.
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen-st.
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney-st.
W.A.—PERTH, 481 Hay-st.
KAI.GOORLIE —Hannan - st.
BOULDER ClTY—Piesse-st.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington.
FREMANTLE—Henry-st.
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALFALINE REMEDIES.


Swallowing 1 .
9
Swallowing a sword is a
trick not conducive to health
or longevity. But it is. not
more injurious than the
hasty swallowing of half-
m isticated food washed down
by hasty gulps of tea or
water. Hasty eating is the
fall of health. Sooner or
later it must result in indi-
gestion, or some other form
of stomach disease. For the
cure of the diseases of the
stomach, and allied organs
of digestion, there is no
medicine so effective as Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
Mr. Vine is a well-known
greengrocer, residing in
Denison-street, Kingston,
Sydney. He has a few
words to say about his suffer-
ing and cure. “For some
considerable time,” he said
“ I have had a bad set-to
with acute indigestion,
which at last took me to a
doctor. The pains would
catch me sharply in the pit
of the stomach, and with
such severity that when the
doctor told me what my complaint was I could
scarcely believe him, thinking that indigestion
could never use a man so badly. His advice and
medicine however, did me no good, and I was
advised by friends to try different remedies. I
followed this ones advice and that; but my com-
plaint was still as bad as ever, when I resolved to
give Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills a trial, as
I had heard them praised so much by many
I knew who had used them. From the first dose
they acted very well upon me, giving me more re-
lief than anything I had ever taken, and I can
recommend them to all who suffer as I have done ”
Dr. Morses Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood
purifier and a positive cure for biliousness, indices-
tion, constipation, headaches, sallow complexion,
liver kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils,
blotches, and female ailments. Sold by chemists
and storekeepers, Is l|d per bottle, or six bottles
6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. 11. Comstock
Do Ltd. (Australasian Depot). 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney Packed in amber bottles, and the full
name blown thereon.*
, “P ile s -and Their Cure.’’-The pamphlet
y Albert Sharp, entitled “ Piles and the Wav to
Lure 1 hem, without operation, sent free on
street * tlon t 0 Depot, 257 George-
REUTER’S
LITTLE
PILLS FOR
THE LIVER.
} Are particularly adapted to the needs
lof the family, act in such a manner as to
; cause no inconvenience, specially intended
|for the cure of all ailments arising from a
disordered LIVER and STOMACH.
f
ƒdf
PERFECTION.
RED
This Season’s Model
BIRD BICYCLE
is undeniably perfect in construction. Just look at the fv, v,
w _ ■„ J P arts J the quality of the material; the finish ofTverv detail bear^»B and
We arrange Easy Gradual Payment Terms. Red nird „ , y
Branches in Every State Kdßl d Ble V cle Department—
64 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Broken Hill Junction directors, whose mine is
now idle, propose another reconstruction ; but as the
mine could not possibly pay anyhow with lead at its
present figure, they are not. rushing things—the meeting
will not be held till Oct. .22. The present limited liability
co. consists of 200,000 shares ; 100,000 of these were issued
only about a year ago to provide new plant and renovate
the mine after a collapse due to various things. The
£25,000 thus raised (the shares were issued as fully paid
to £1 on payment of 55.) has all been spent; and
“>« co. has a still-incomplete plant, still-damaged
shafts, still-ricketty drives, and ore that cannot be
brought to surface except at ruinous cost. The manager
reported five months ago (practically no work has been
done since): “At a conservative estimate there is alreadv
blocked out between the 775 ft. level and the next above
over 100,000 tons of milling ore, a great deal of which
would average from 16 to 18 per cent, lead and lOoz. to
12oz. silver, which cannot he worked to full advantage
until the poorer material (which is nearest the 775 ft
level) is removed, and until, by farther dead-work, theore
can be brought direct to mill without the rehauling at
present neoessary.” In other sections, the position is
much the same. In the last working 1 half-year, milling
cost ss. 7|d. per ton (an average price is 4s. 6d.) ; mining
16s. 5 2 d. (ditto, 125.) Something over £52,000 has been
spent on available plant. All this justifies the directors
in asking for more capital. (It should be mentioned that
when, six years ago, they, or their predecessors, found a
fine body of good ore, they fell upon it greedily
and m 12 months, during ’96-7, made a profit of £95,000.)
Present plan is to wind up the co., form another (no-
liability this time), capital £lOO,OOO in 10s. shares, holder
of old 00. shares to have the right to take the same num-
ber m new co. on plying 6d. and accepting the sort of
liability which the N.L. Act contemplates for a further
4s. 6d. The amount that will be immediately available
£2500, is ridiculously small; but, all the same! it is better
for possibly hard-up shareholders to pay whatever they
must pay by small instalments rather than lose entirely
what may have cost them £2 apiece. Nevertheless this
and the adjoining, and now also idle, North and Junction
North mines will never be worked as well and as cheaply
as they should be until they are amalgamated. In fact
that is the only hope for any of them with a low metals
market—and there is precious little prospect of even a
moderately high one.
* * * *
The King Conrad Mine, N.S.W. : The lode
struck in the second 300 ft. level shows 18 inches of clean
metal galena, copper pyrites and mispickel. Prom the
first level, same depth, 80 tons of ore raised in a week
averaging 60ozs of silver and 22 per cent. lead.
• * * *
Blayney Copper Mine : The second furnace
should be at work in a month or five weeks’ time, and the
other furnace is doing better than the average work of
last year. The mine, too, is looking fairly well : an in-
termediate level has located a sulphide ore body averag-
ing 4 per cent. High grade ore has been found in a pro-
specting shaft a considerable distance away from any other
ore bodies, and good ore has been found so close to
the main shaft that the next lift is likely to be carried
down in good grade sulphide-ore—which means the sink-
ing of the shaft for nothing. The mining and smelting
is done as cheaply as anywhere in Australia, owing to the
excellent situation of the propertv for fuel and flux and
costs will be considerably reduced with the second fur-
nace and the installation of a system for granulating the
slag as it runs from the furnaces, instead of carrying it
away in small pots. 6
* * * *
JembaicumbeneDredgingCo. is the second public
dredging co. to pay a div. in N.S.W. ; £825 being dis-
tributed in that pleasing fashion.
* • * *
About the best brand for sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
m the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E.'Rich &Oo
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * *
“ Pel.” : If rain comes not within a month Mt.
Morgan will he compelled to close down. Already the
water in use is objectionable, from over-mineralisation.
An effort will be made to keep the west works going froni
soakage in Mundic Creek—a mere temporary expedient.
* * * 3)1
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
Croydon notes to Aug. 12.—Recent crushings :
Golden Gate No. 5 South (four-weekly clean up), 612 tons
for 9770 z. ; G. Gate 7 N. Tribute, 440 tons for 1170 oz. •
Butterfly (Iguana Hill), 140 tons, 1740 z. ; Homeward
Bound 3 N., 20 tons, 90oz. ; Moonstone 1 S. 140 tons
280 oz. Big crushing (1090 tons to start with) now goin<r
through from G. Gate United. Ditto (about 400 tons for
a commencement) from “Ninety-Eight” mine. Two
more G. Gate blocks bottomed' on reef—G.G. 9 South
Block and G.G. 10 and 11 S. Block. These discoveries
prove lode to extend oyer a mile-and-a-half. Important
discoveries also in outside localities, givinggreat incentive
to mining operations on field.—Diamond drill cut reef for-
mation, quartz and mineral, in Iguana Consols lease, thus
proving the deep ground capable of carrying lories.
Morgan’s Block management procuring powerful Worth-
ington pump to continue sinking. Plan ’s deep block
shaft now down over 600 ft. ; estimated to lap reef at about
700 ft. ; Croydon will then “ hum.” Prospects now very
promising, and capital will have a big field for invest-
ment when it comes along.
* * V »
Croydon G. Gate 3 and 4 South turned out in
three years about two tons of bullion j paid nearly
£200,000 in divs. Large ore-bodies still available, but
crushing stopped owing to loss of gold by mineral in
water.
* * * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buciiu Ritters..
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
Boulder Perseverance: Manager Nichols has
renewed his engagement for another two years. The full
text of the balance-sheet shows even a greater indebted-
ness than that cabled. Credit is taken for writing off all
development-work, as if that was not the custom with
every mine or ought to be, anyhow. It is just as neces-
sary to a mine’s existence as the crushing of its ore.
£7614 is allowed for depreciation forplantand machinery.
This, too, altogether apart from the sulphide plant.
‘ Our sulphide plant being new, we have not thought it
necessary to write off any depreciation from this account
this year.” Indeed ! At the time of the meeting the sul-
phide plant had been running nearly a year, and with dry
crushing and roasting it is well known'that th- deprecia-
tion is much greater than by any other method of treat-
ment. Ten per cent, at least should have been written
off, as it is very doubtful if any of the sulphide plants
out there will last 10 years, for while some parts may
not be renewed in that time, others will have to be re-
newed several times over. The total cost of the sulphide
plant was £125,000, and the report says :—“ You will see
that the accounts show an indebtedness on loan and open
accounts at the date of the balance-sheet of £199.000,
against which we have unrealised gold and cash at
bankers amounting to £21,500. Since date of the balance-
sheet the big gold-production from the mine has consider-
ably reduced the indebtedness, which will probably be
wiped out altogether by the end of October, when sub-
stantial dividends are promised.” Meanwhile, influential
authorities of the mine, and their followers, are loaded
up with shares at over £lO, and they are working the
show beyond its legitimate capacity to get out without
loss.
• * * *
Despite all that may be said about Queensland
Treasurer Gribb’s deficits and incapacity, there is at
least this to his credit—he didn’t conceal his shortage by
faking the accounts as Reid did, or get down to the
depths of financial degradation that were reached by that
unspeakable person. At the end of May, 1901, Treasurer
Orihb, with one month of the financial vear still to run,
found himself with £154,959 surplus. Reid in N.S.W., on
31st May, 1896, found himself in a somewhat similar situa-
tion. In each case there was a big sum |to pay for
interest on Ist July, for the half-year Ist January to' 30th
June. In each case it was an obligation of the current
year and distinctly chargeable thereto. Oribli charged it
to the current year, and finished up with a real
deficit of £528,000. Reid charged it to next year,
and thereby debited the year with only six months’
interest on a large portion of the N.S.W. debt, and did
the same trick with many other liabilities, and came out
with a sham surplus of some £340,0<30. If Oribb had been
another Reid he could have finished up almost the worst
year Queensland ever had with a bogus surplus of nearly
£200,000. Fortunately, Australia has only had one Reid.
It has had many awful Treasurers, but no'other got down
quite to his utterly despicable level of account faking.
Also, it is*to be hoped, there is no other city where the
Respeitable press is so degraded as to defend such
practices, as the Sydney Herald and Telegraph did in
the Calico Jimmy interest.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Ruskm and Undaunted came home first and
second respectively in Tramway Handicap at Tatt’s
fnHwTfi* ? U 'i k Saturda .V- Kuskin’s time was 1 16k
fookh l r fi nw e hv aB ii y ' The 7 inner is a well-bred, stylist
Mni S t/ ? } Abercorn from Ruslrinite by Martini-
?o ~U uT \U l i k(,rap )- In the A.J.O. Epsom he’ll hump
7ib less ° l penal , t : v )-wbi'e Undaunted’s burden will be
opeii thin ever. WhlCh the big m ile appear more
* * * .
s Spring Handicap (l|m.) at Randwick,
l', ort * herr ; dlstrict mare, Allinga, suddenly
sti ea,ved to the front after passing the Leger stand, and
Pnsnn, h u’ th p K lenty in hand - s he carries 7.8. in the
Epsom and her chances look reasonably rosy. She is
63 rs. old, and is by Pilgrim’s Progress out of Vendetta.
* * * •
Kelso s lately-purchased Lucknow reached out
S l >r ‘ n £ handicap at Randwick on Saturday.
Started a hot favorite, 7 to 4 against, but ended a bad
, Public money swamped the up-country champion,
which had long been whispered a “sure thing’’for the
first event it tried for. Considering the nag came home
fresh as paint this miserable showing looks queer.
v ♦ * *
Apropos various nags’ chances in coming A.J.C.
Derby. Sir Leonard has improved out of sight in one
short week. In Tattersall’s Hampden Stakes, on Satur-
day, he tucked his hind legs under in great style, and
gave nothing a chance from the home-turn. Metropolitan
investors had better make a careful note of this fact.
* * • •
Crack N.S.W. jock., Frank Kuhn, surprised
everyone by appearing in silk again on Saturday on
Grasspan, The Maine, and Lord Rudolph. At the annual
meeting of the A.J.C. “Bill” Long said he hoped the
committee wouldn’t stultify itself by reconsidering de-
cisions with regard to certain jocks., and the chairman
said he knew of no such intention ; but Frank Kuhn
slipped from under the embargo all the same.
*.* * *
Owner and trainer “Bill” Forrester, who died
at Warwick Farm, Friday week, had been racing for over
30 years, having won A.J.O. St. Leger in ’7O with Moselle.
He was owner of The Watchdog, Highborn, Gaulus and
The Grafter. Highborn ran second when Carbine won
the Oup. In ’92 his Ronda and Penance were second and
third. He won ’97 and ’9B Cups with Gaulus and The
Grafter, two full brothers. Highborn ran second for the
Australian Cup in ’9l, and won it in’92. Last year the
dead man’s Watchdog and Saraswati were first and third
in the Newmarket. His last win was the Ellesmere Stakes,
with The Watchdog, a few weeks ago. Had Highborn
beaten Carbine for the ’9O Cup Mr. Forrester would have
won a fortune ; as it was he died in a bad way financially,
and efforts are being made to raise money for his widow
and children. Of a verit3', Mo is the only one who makes
diamonds and affluence out of the turf.
* « •
Recent balance-sheets of the two chief S.A.
racing clubs are a pretty good advt. for Ikey Mo.’s pet
aversion. The Adelaide R.C., which issues the more
detailed accounts, shows that of the £7425 given in stakes
in the year, over £5600 came from the tote. At the big
Birthday meeting, the tote-commission (only 7J percent.)
actually came to more than all the other sources of
income together—owners’ fees, gate-money, catering, and
everything else ! £5600 diverted from the man with the
bag to the banking-account of the promoting club,
what time the public were getting decent odds for
their money. The S.A.J.C., the ruling body,
pays Godfrey Watson £175 to come over from Melbourne
four times in the year to act as starter for 7 da3's’ racing.
This club also administers a strong fund for disabled
jockeys; jockeys’ fines are put into this, but the only
other source of income is “ totalisator fractions.” By
common consent, when the machine is paying a div., it
pays only to the nearest shilling, and keeps the odd
coppers, these being distributed among charities of all
kinds. The S.A.J.O. alone had £430 in this way to dis-
tribute last year, and various disabled jockeys received
£172, Teddy Hodgkins’ widow getting £5O. What a lot
more charity the lavish V. R.O. could dispense if it only
had the Tote to swell its income !
* * • •
Vol. 12 of J. J. Miller’s “ Racing Chronicle,”
just _ to hand, is, seemingly, a little fatter than any
previous vol. of that handy, but not-too-well-appreoiated,
publication. It contains a full statement of 849 race
meetings—names of starters, weights, riders, starting-
prices, and other particulars—which happened from Feb.
Ist to July 31st. Also, it includes a pathetic circular,
addressed to subs., desiring them not to lend the book to
horse-“form” students, who are too mean to buy it, and
not to forget that even a subscriber to the “ Chronicle ” is a
delusion and a snare if he omits to pay his subscription
when called upon, and some of them have not responded
with the cash. The price of vol. 12 is 7s. 9d., post free to
any address. If it specified all the horses that ran “stiff ”
at the 849 meetings it would be cheap at double the price.
* * * *
It seems plain enough that the operations of
“ Tattersall ” are to cease under the Federal regime ; but
if he has to go he should, all things considered, be given
reasonable notice. It would be unnecessarily' harsh, for
instance, to capsize his long-standing arrangements for
the big Melbourne meeting in November.
* • * *
The luck of it! Victorian James Redfearn
parted with Sport Royal in disgust, and the brute turned
round and landed Kalgoorlie Cup, worth £lOOO and £lOO
trophy, for his Westralian purchaser.
••* * •
N. Queensland top jockey is Snell with 29, then
Gardiner with 24, Whybird 21, Clayton 14, Ross 13, Keene
and O’Neil 12 each. Total added money £17,153, against
£14,600 of last year. Mr. O’Leary topped winning owners
with £1025.
» » • . •
M.L. nag Record Reign, winner of the August
Handicap in 2.37 J, went to India last week.
* • * *
Pigeon-shooter Eales is home again, having won
38 times and £l2OO in cash, to say nothing of 40 members’
challenge cup's scooped in at Nottingham (Eng.). At Flor-
ence (Italy) he murdered 36 pigeons in succession, and won
everything, he entered for. During the International ,
week he won £2OO, but expenses are said to run nearly
£lOO per week. Our best birds are'absolutely out of it
compared to the English brand. A picked team of
Australian pigeon butchers might beat the best of their
kind in England, but some of the latter would need a lot
of dealing with.
•** / • :
At Kalgoorlie, South Melbourne bruiser Jack
M’Gowan knocked out Sydney Rocks thumper Tweedie
for lightweight supremacy and a £2OO purse. Fight
swung even till round six, when “ Cocker’s ” jaw stopped
a right swing. All the rest was stars and darkness.
It was also at Kalgoorlie that a bulging house
watched Tut Ryan and Tim Nolan fight a cut-and-dried-
looking scrap for the Australian championship. It was
horribly one-sided, and Nolan skied the sponge in great
haste with sundry remarks about not going to be a chop-
ping-block for Ryan or any other man.
• * * *
Hard-up pugs, should go to India, where Jack
M’Auliffe and Jack Slavin are taking that benighted
country down in a most brazen fashion. A Singapore
correspondent sends a card announcing M’Auliffe as
“Champion Light-weight of America and Australia,” and
Jack Slavin “ Middle-weight Champion of Australia.”
M’Auliffe was never within speaking distance of the
Austral light-weight supremacy, and never even saw the
America of which he is represented champion. The
Yankee Jack M’Auliffe was quite another pusson.
Jack Slavin has not been visible in Australia for
at least 10 years, and was shooed off the middle-
weight premiership over and over again. When someone
asked pertinent questions as to whether M’Auliffe was
himself or the other M’Auliffe, a letter appeared in the
Singapore Free Press offering to forfeit 1000 dollars to
any local charity named by the municipal president if his
S!sssSS> i^!S ssfefi:-‘3
n l untry and living* m the best pubs, at too tariff
b - to *
iSzfsissfZrfs,. sx *s*ss
Viously a reversal of the figures! 6ft 7iu Peters Tnread
srSS^Sfc'stt:;!
*
. Absolute nakedness of ’Murka for swell bruisers
is evidenced by the fact that all the star thumping per-
Ruhlffihad !T g for ’ Bob KtSfaEs and
Kunlin had a go on the carpet, t’other day, and the giant
Mahe°r n r°° At dates, Je^S
Maner, Sharkey, and Oorbett were talked of as Dossibili.
ties in the same biz. Trade must be bad indeed when
“ h£fi come down to the ground-tumbling racket. Though
holts and stops were big factors in the old P R davs
modern boxers have no use for them. Nothing is more
sort "let ai r one n atV, me fchan a hold of any
nent Tn ih P ft. h t\, 0n f u may not even trip an oppo-
far-back days there was as much of one as
t other, and a thorough knowledge of ’rastling was a
powerful tool m a fighter’s kit. Taking hold below the
belt was not permissible neither was floor rough-and-
tumble clumsy acrobatic work, though, on occasions
excited bruisers would do most of their fighting while’
down. Gouging and chewing also came in but were
bv°tha « corn fc b ,y ofbcials ' hy mostspectators, and certainly
fullv in th?. J«ZZ h T P" n “ pal P er f° rme d less success-
iuuy in this respect than t’other combatant
,* * * *
Broken wm -August, at Pinnacles, outside
Broken Hill, Frederick Leary Smith, old-time pug., aged
• I? roaring days he was Vic. goldfields’ light-
weight champion ; but in his old days he looked back
fbr B the r Vie y oh n a lost -a Ught with Dave White
kent ro^nT P £ nShlp ’ W j l6 ? l wifch a broken arm he
draw b d ffc6r r ° Und ln the hope of making a
* * * »
Long-looked-for World’s Championship scul-
ling match twixt Canadian Gaudaur and ’Stralian Towns
decln r r ( a rf a i Por ! lag ?. I " ext Wednesday. Canadian scribes
declare Gaudaur is still as good as when he struggled so
desperately W!th Bill Beach. Towns and party are very
?s said nnV J hough Towns concedes a stone, for Gaudaur
nf M° car ry any adipose deadweight. The course
°r thr ee miles with a turn will be much against Towns
who is supported by the presence of Double Bay (Sydney)
Spencer loHan.’ Sullivan, and Maoriland ' sport,
* * * •
Apropos Towns-Gaudaur match, for the world’s
sculling premiership. Last similar event was when Aus-
tralian Jim Stanbury and the Canadian met on the
Thames, five years ago. Stanbury (financed by a sport-
went’Orne with Bookie Beales. Prior to
Jim s defeat of the then English champion, several Mo.
S' e '! lber f s °f Tatt. 8 clubbed together and wired money to
ifH! nVeBtl i ne ? t , 0n the Ausfcr alian. The cabled
one Inf?/ f he „ c ontest brought joy to these people, and
fronf imf m i Bh °'! te ?; wme - Next morning, a memo,
from the Telegraph Dept, read, “Your cable to Beales,
undehvered ; addressee unregistered and un-
two v, „M lst f ke , occurred owing to Beales registering
of h iv, Re f Ut 7’ omlttin - fco inform his Sydney
added f iifS , Subse fi u e.ntly a big lump more was
added, and the lot wired to go on Stanbury against
Tb ' s reached its destination, but no corks
popped after the race.
• • • *
Thirty-six competed in Uth contest for
cross-country premiership at Kensington, Saturday.
.. b Sl ?' ltb > from Victoria, skimmed away over four
miles, sailing over fences like a bird. Close behind him
Grindal and Wally York followed as persistently as the
a G u‘ n w,l wenfc tQ the fron t. but'right at
the last York flashed through the worsted less than 3ft
to the good, after running five miles and covering 35
jumps An ideal finish ! First mile, 5.27 2-5 ; second,
44 ’ 8 ik e?’ 2 H 6 4-5 5 and last- in 29.3 3-5. York’s club
(South Sydney) also appropriated the team championship.
i T.°u' r ’i'^' a ?^ aren ' 8 English cricket-teain consists
o Tyldesley, Lilley, MacLaren, Hayward. Jessop, Quaife,
Jo '! es . Bl .V tbe and Garnett. What price this team? Evei
with the other names lately mentioned—Fry, Hirst and
Rhodes—it would be farcical to travel 16,000 miles to
play Australia. The last team was lamentably weak in
bowhng but MacLaren’s suggested eleven should never
get Hill Noble Trumble, Darling and co. out. Hirst
was a failure with Stoddart’s team, yet he is second in
bowling in England this season. Garnett was never
heard of in Australia before, and Blythe is a mere second-
f. at ® r \ The bowling is shockingly weak, and the batting
little better, for of the 11 names mentioned Tyldesley,
Hayward, Jessop and Quaife are the only ones with any
reputation, and MacLaren himself has been a great failure
in county cricket this season. MacLaren’s mediocre
crowd had best stay home.
* * • •
Year after year the dearth of English bowlers
becomes more and more pronounced, and high authorities
fear that twill be the ruin of the game. Right through
English cricket there are plenty bats but very few
bowlers. Most ascribe -it to and suggest greater
supervision at schools, &c., for batting is easier and more
congenial to many. Opportunities of a first-class bowler
are far greater, than those of a first-class bat, who must
reach excellence before finding room in any large-dog
team. With bowling, if fair ability is shown, the bowler
is snapped up immediately. If he turns out well his value
to the club is rated priceless. Said that neither Oxford
or Cambridge rep. teams this season owns a single bowler
above the average.
* * * •
The Bulletin begs to be spared any paragraphs
or newspaper-cuttings re the latest scores of English
sloggers (such as little Jessop) who are likely to come
to Australia with Maclaren’s next team. The doings of a
Blogger in English county matches, or any other matches
on English wickets, are no guide to what he is likely to
do with Australian bowling on fast pitches. Brockwell,
some years ago, came here with a great reputation for
forcing the score, but he almost iijvariably got out before
he could force it much. Druce, the good-looking young
amateur of the Ranji team, had been the dashing top-
averager of the previous English season, but here he
never failed to get caught in a test-match after making a
few, boundary-hits—very few, as a rule. Sloggers who
shme in EngUnd a,re not likely to.shine under the best
Australian conditions of cricket, though there is always
a fair chance of a merry, versatile hitter coming off suc-
cessfully J. T. Brown Was a case in point. He was a
rapid rather than a reckless batsman, and he picked the
ball off the wicket with more precision than any of the
so-called “ cracks ” who have visited Australia.
# * * *
Western Suburbs (Sydney) Cricket Union
elected officers last week. Among the batch figure 12
M s.L.A., while most of the rest are either ex-M’s.L.A. or
men who wag their chins in that direction. Politicians
have a keen scent for the solid club vote.
* * * *
At Brisbane the N.S.W. team went down
before the local crowd with only 11 to 25. It was quite
expected. Cornstalks being weakened by attacking Q. and
Maoriland simultaneously. The game was fast, and the
Bananalanders back-combination was machine-like.
4)lxon and Spraggwere their best three-quarters. Graltoii
did well as, half, and Nicholson, O’Connor, Cropps, and
Austin made things lively as forwards. Among the Corn-
stalks Roberts (back), Blaney and Macnamara (three-
quarters), Manning (half), and Joyce, Challinor, and
Comber as forwards, are specially mentioned.
• ■* *' m
Eied at Bendigo (Vic.), from consumption, the
boy-wonder ” cyclist, J. M‘lnnes, aetat 21 years. Three
years ago he loomed large in the wheeling world, but the
heavy strain on an immature system left him too ex-
hausted to resist the disease, and Death came with a
spurt.
THOMAS H. NESBITT, City Comptroller,
Westminster, just appointed Town Clerk of
Sydney.
Photo, by W. A. Worburton.
N.S.W. football-team in Maoriland went under
to Southland-Otag'o by 5 to nil. Record so far : three
walloping's with 16 points to 39. N.S.W. has never beaten
Otago—which, once the stronghold of Maoriland Rugby,
is said to be weaker than ever before. Test-match, for
which the N.S.W. team is being saved, occurs at Welling-
ton to-day (Saturday).
* • * *
. Sydney Sports Club the final of the matches
m connection with “ the Amateur Billiard Championship
of N.S. W.’ was won by H. Rumball, who beat W. Lyons
lll game of 1000. But what a farce to iabel
the thing “ amateur ” championship ! To accept entries
from registered bookmakers and players who, a couple of
weeks before, competed in “Tattersall’s ” tournament, the
winner of which received £5O in hard cash as prize-
money, made a precedent which may cause the Sports
Club some trouble in the future should it decide to run
the championship on bona-fide amateur lines
* * « *
On September 14, the employees of the Massey-
Harris department, Sydney, will hold their annual Five-
mile road-race from Bunnerong Road to Long Bay and
back. Great interest has been taken in the contest as
valuable trophies have been donated as prizes,*


For
MEN’S
WEAR.
V/f.
GOLD LINKS,
12/6 Pair
LATEST DESIGNS IN Ol j m T 0
15-Oarat Gold Links, from —■ ■ /
LATEST DESIGNS IN Q/fi TO
9-Carat Gold Links, from w
LATEST DESIGNS IN O/fi TO
Scarf Pins, from ■“/ w
50/-
22/6
£lO
A £
I
GOLD TIE-OLIPS,
jVrite for our Illustrated Souvenir Catalogue
Sent Free.
5/6
Pair.
The modern flrt Jewellery Co.
187 PITT STREET (Next Shadier"s Cafi).
SOMETHING NEW. —'
Eas-s Terms
Arranged.
ftAassey-H-arris BicycU
Contains practical features every buyer should inspect. Bearings have ball retainers preventing friction.
Bottom bracket has narrow tread. Anyone can adjust it; parts are so simple. Handlebar and Seat-post
Fastener is unique.
West Australian Depots: Hay Street, Perth; and Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie.
at Melb., Sydney, Adelaide, Dunedin, Brisbane.
ƒdf
HEBBLEWHITE’S
377 George-St., Sydney.
DIRECT IMPORTERS—
SgWipg Macbipcs, Bicyck SOpdrigs,
CabipQtS. . . -
PRICE-LIST OF SEWING MACHINES
WILLCOX & GIBBS, <
NEW AUTOMATIC
Hand Machines ..
and £7 10s.
No. 1 Treadle
No. 2 Treadle and
Drawer ..
£7 5 0 No. 3 Drawer and
Cover (as print).. £9 9
8 0 0 No. 3i Cover, 3
Drawers and Flap 10 10
8 5 0 And upwards to .. 18 18
0
0
0
NEW VICTORIA,
Silent, Light-Running Lockstitch.
Hand Machine and Cover.. .. ..£3 10
No. 32 Cover, Drawer and Treadle .. 4 5
No. 34 Cover, 3 Drawers and Drop-leaf 6 0
No. 35 Cover, 5 Drawers and Drop-leaf 515
0
0
0
0
NO TIME PAYMENT.
All above Prices
are on a . . •
SPOT CASH BASIS.
Why pay Exorbitant Prices when you can Buy for Cash 1
“It was found that the head was com-
pletely severed from the body, and life was ex-
tinct.”— Sydney E. News.
Dear Bulletin. —In your issue of week
before last you said : “ The death of Mr. T. H.
Kelly, sen., has touched the life-assurance co’s to
the extent of £70,000. The Sun comes first with
about £32,000, and the A.M.P. next with £18,000.”
Now the holder of the £32,000 was the New
York Life (£31,500— original policy for £20,000).
The Mutual of New York had, I understand,
£20,000, and the A.M.P. £15,000 (including
bonuses) on Mr. Kelly’s life.—Atroy.
Dear Bulletin. —As enclosed price-list of
a local store will show, “Northerner ” (B. 3/8/’01)
has grossly misrepresented the state of things at
Chillagoe. Provisions and clothing are—taken all
round—at least 40 per cent, cheaper than “ N.”
makes out, vegetables are fairly plentiful, the heat
is less than in many parts of N.S.W., and sickness
is not prevalent. Day-labor wages, also, are as
high here as anywhere else in Queensland, and,
altogether, it looks as if “ Northerner ” had either
been trying to “stuff” or had been badly stuffed
himself. —-Dinkum.
Two lepers supposed to be “ detained ” at
the N.S.W. leper station, at Little Bay, near
Sydney, stepped out, lately, for a change. One
only went for a walk round the sand-hills, but the
other came into the city, and was missing for a
day and a-half. He might have been missing yet
if he hadn’t given himself up. According to his
own report, he had had a good time. How many
pewters did he drink out of during that good time,
and how many barmaids’ hands did he shake, and
how many ’busses did he ride in, and how many
cigars did he smoke leaving the butts for the
small boy in the street ? The lost leper adds a
fresh horror to the threepenny bar and the two-
penny Noah’s Ark on wheels.
The R.C. authorities rarely quarrel with
their bread-and-butter. When they have a mind
to sup with the Devil, the size of the spoon is all
that counts. At a Surry Hills (Sydney) school
opening last week Crick and Eden George,
M’s.L. A., each promised £lOO to the funds if their
respective mokes “ had a good win ” at the ensuing
race-meet. The announcement was received with
great applause, so the faithful would probably be
expected to pray for the success of both horses—
Crick’s Roman charger and George’s Protes-
tant prad each going at £lOO to nothing for
the holy cause. In contrast. A Scotchbyterian
parson, of considerable tonnage in Tasmania,
resigned from the York reception committee
rather than be a party to the acceptance of a dona-
tion from “Tattersall” Adams. “Tatt.” sent
£2OO, stipulating that half be used for the ducal
festivities, and half be given to the local benevo-
lent institution. Needless to say, the canny
Scot’s resignation in no way endangered the gift.
He knew very well that the rest of the committee
was not afflicted with the same kind of cohen-
science as himself, ye ken.
It would appear that, as an exhibition of
pure savagery, the S’African war is only just about
to begin. The Boer leaders’ reply to the Kitchener
proclamation is that their people will fight on,
and in future British soldiers who fall into their
hands will be retained as hostages—presumably
to provide means of retaliation in case Kitchener
goes over the line with his hangings and concen-
tration-camp business. In N. Queensland it is
called “dispersal,” in S’Africa, concentration, but
according to statistics the results would appear to
be the same.
Decided at Broken Hill recently, that
when a reserved bush-track runs through a hold-
ing, said track being unfenced (and practically
none of them are fenced, nor is it contemplated
that they ever will be), the holding isn’t “en-
closed lands,” and trespassers are not liable.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there ia
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
"Ellis’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
W.W. GREENER’S NEW RIFLE
df
Made expressly for Cadet Corps.
An entirely New & Exclusive Design.
The new Rifle has been produced
solely to supply the wants of Cadet
Corps for a REALLY RELIABLE
and ACCURATE RIFLE at a low
price, £3 3s. “a®
Ten Shots in 3 inch Square at 100 yards.
GENUINE ENGLISH MANUFACTURE THROUGHOUT
Every Rifle guaranteed and named
W. GREENER, Birmingham, England.
On Hand—Greener Guns from 9 to 30 Guineas ; Martini
Sporting Rifles, take 44 Winchester Cartridges, very
accurate; Lee Enfield and Metford Rifles. “ Sharpsiiootinu
for Sport and War,” posted 1/2. Stamps from other States
not accepted. 333" All Rifle Shots should read this Book.
Clxa,3. W. EfixcltlandL,
Representing W. W. GREENER,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Refinement
Elegance
# Quality
Are the characteristics of
our JEWELLERY STOCK . .
Double Bar Brooch, set with choice
Oriental Pearls, 15/- to 22/-
Gold Orescent, with Comet set with
choice Pearls, 21/6 upwards.
We stock no common German 6ct. Jewellery.
London’s Choicest Jewellery at London’s Lowest Cash Prices.
Gold Wishbone Brooch, set with
choicest Oriental Pearls & Diamonds.
From 55/-
Plain Figures.
London Prices.
Strictly Cash.
FAIRFAX # ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney
Gold Brooch, lor Name, 5/8
Street.
Peacock, Trenwith and co. wisely decline
to suspend Victoria’s Minimum Wage Law at the
bidding of a few blatant employers. If these
latter really hope to get it suspended or superseded
why don’t they furbish up some other workable
scheme to stop sweating? So far their combined
intellect has brought forth the notable compromise
that they are willing to concede a living wage.
Well, what is the "Is. of the fellmongers, the 42s.
of the bootmakers, the 16s. of the whiteworkers
but a bare living wage ? After he has paid rent,
food, clothing, and sundries for the wife and
bairns, how much could employer Derham put by
for his old age out of 36s. a week ?
It was an unlucky coincidence that the
news that all Red Cross nurses had been ejected
from the camps where the Boer women and
children are confined should have been imme-
diately followed by the awful news that the pre-
sent death-rate in those dens of pestilence is at
the rate of about 180 in every 1000 per annum. A
country that is in the worst agonies of the plague
seldom shows such an awful record. When
Kitchener ref used the aid of Red Cross nurses, on
the ground that this incredible state of things was
all right and quite satisfactory, he could surely
only mean that the most satisfactory state of
things was the one which killed off the whole
Boer nation —women and children included —the
soonest.
Watson, M.H.R. has an amendment to
submit on the Federal Immigration Restriction
Bill, for the purpose of excluding :
Any person who is an aboriginal native of Asia, Africa,
or of the Pacific Islands.
Which is straight and honest, even if it may not
be politic. This is what Australia wants. It is
also, so far as concerns the Asiatic and African,
what the educational test in the present Bill aims
at. At the same time, the British Government
likes devious ways, and it has intimated very broadly
that it will stand the exclusion of the nigger
sideways, on an educational quibble, but not
straightly and honestly because he is a nigger and
the black and white don’t mix well. Still, if the
majority were sufficiently decisive, even Chamber-
lain might forget his terror lest the Jap. should
be offended, and give way.
From a letter dated Middleburg, S’Africa,
27/6/’01, received by a Sydneyite : —
Middleburg, June 26,1901.
I wonder if all the people out of Africa know that the
war seems no nearer a finish than it was this time last
year ? If you go three miles out of the town here the
Boers snipe at you a3much as ever, and every column that
enters here has to fight a rear-guard .action right up to
the outposts. The Boers are dying hard. There are over
6000 Boer families living here in tents. They must suffer
from the cold terribly ; there are about ten funerals a
day leave the camp, nearly all children. The British feed
the whole lot, of course. It is frightfully cold here now,
and you can’t help pitying the Boer women and children
trooping out to wash in the morning at the sluits.
They hate us English as much as ever, if not more so. A
Dutch girl, who got married the other dav, told an officer
that she hoped all her children would be sons, so that
they would be able to carry a rifle when the time came.
The women go on their knees and curse us 1 . . . The
Australians are longing for their time to be up; poor
devils, did you hear about their little business a fortnight
ago ? The Boers caught them (men of the 6th contingent,
Victorian Rifles) napping, about 15 miles from here, and
cut them up properly. I wouldn’t like to be the Aus-
tralian officers who were in charge at the time, as I
believe they made some ghastly mistakes. There were 21
killed, 70 wounded, and all the rest prisoners. The
wounded came into hospital here. The worst of it was that
the Australians lost two pom-poms, and the Boers broke
all their rifles and cut all their saddles up. They also
took all their good horses. The Tommies chaff the life
out of the Australians.
An engraving of Tom Roberts’ picture
Shearing the Rams ” is published by Robertson
and Moffat, of Melbourne. One hundred signed
artists’ proofs are offered to subscribers at three
guineas each, which is not too modest a figure, and
the “ usual prints on India paper ” will be issued
at one guinea.
Henri Gilbert, who has been some months
“ walking round the world,” via Queensland,
writes to an association at Burketown from
Powell’s Creek announcing an addition to his
travelling company in the shape of a daughter,
bom at Powell’s Creek on 20th June. The letter,
with the signature of Marie and Henri Gilbert, is
published in the Mundic Mineb, and is an agree-
able variation in the annals of the travels of Henri
and co. in Australia.
S.A. loses one of its best public officiasl
through the appointment of Prof. Lowrie, head
of the Govt. Agricultural College, to a position in
Maoriland. It was Lowrie who first taught S.A.
farmers how to grow wheat scientifically. He
recently resigned through friction with Owen
Smyth, the Works department boss, who is
credited with being the autocrat of S.A. public
service. Lowrie is a young man of great capacity,
and has, within a few years, made the Agricultural
College one of the most prosperous of S.A.
institutions.
After several weeks of drum-beat .and
“ organising ” the employers opposed to the
Victorian Factories Act held a meeting last week.
It wa§ a frost. Not one-third of those in the room
were factory employers. Even among those on the
platform there were squatters, bankers, ship-
owners, and men like N. Levi, M.L.C. McEacharn,
M.H.R., filled the chair, and Her ham filled the
ears of the audience with his usual “ tripey
tirade against Peacock. Derham’s trouble is
Peacock. Years ago, when Peacock first intro-
duced Factories legislation, and it did not look as
if it were going to touch Derham, that person Was
to the fore with assistance. When the legislation
began to interfere with his particular brand of
employee-squeezing, Deri jam bucked, and Peacock
told how he was -assisted by Derham to out-do
the other fellow who was sweating. The news-
papers gave a report extending over two columns,
and Derham’s denunciation of Peacock occupies
half the space. The agitation against the Factories
Act is now petering out badly.
Two solid days of the Federal Parliament’s
time were wasted by a little gang of N.S.W.
Freetraders howling for exclusive Protection for
the big city dailies. The N.S.W. Freetraders
voted almost as one man. that a clause should be
retained in the Postal Bill giving certain postal
privileges exclusively to papers printed in Aus-
tralia. If they hadn’t, their boss, the Sydney
Daily Telegraph, being Infuriated at the loss of
the Protection it has always enjoyed and insisted
on, would have demanded their heads on a soup-
dish. But then it was proposed, as the logical
result, that the rule should apply to the whole
paper; that supplements must also be printed
locally before they could enjoy full postal privi
leges. And, as the Telegraph doesn't print
supplements, and it wasn’t a que tion
of protecting the Telegraph this time, tin-
servile N.S.W. representatives, who had just put
a fiscal clause in the Postal Bill for the Protection
of the paper which owns their souls and bodies,
declared that the proposal to put a fiscal clause in
the Rill was an outrage. Two days were wasted
over this mean, sordid row before the House could
get on with business again.
Tb€
Callaghai?
Boot
THIS
BOOT IS
PHOTOCRAPHED
FROM
STOCK.
: s
H
i
m
H
■
%
5
I
Honest Wear
In every pair.
Our Boots can be
EXCHANGED If not
correct, as we wish
DISTANT customers
to be as pleased as
those in town.
Your money RETURNED if you
are not satisfied with the
Boots.
Calf Lace, full goloshed, medium wide welts, bespoke appearance, 21/-; post paid, 22/-
Tan Willow Calf Lace, full goloshed, fast color cyclists, perfect fitting* 22/6 ; ~ 23/6
All sizes and fittings.
Others have ordered .
Have YOU?
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 George St., Sydney


Rumored that the well-known Allan s.s
line contemplates putting on a Liverpool-to-Aus-
traha service. In view of the present rate of
reight there is room for more “bottom” in the
Anglo-Australian stoam-trade.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
, ■ ly i ? u A jh ° li,le Lotion - It dri\ as away
pmiples, blotches roughness, redness, and all dis-
hgurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Js. bottles. Made in London.*
X. inflicts his private affairs on this
paper :
rniafortun e to dwell near a pious party who
unreirister l ed e do ray? v." ?n^ etingS per Week and BfcarveB his
stholf do^-whlc ; h consequently preys on the live
stock of adjacent unbelievers, especially me. Having-
wit S h'thre/£ lUCta ?iV ly nourished the K°°d man’s mongref
of abtDennWh 8 ’ t f he , wo ™ ( me ) ha s turned to the extent
of s'xpenn orth of strychnine. When to-morrow morn-
efhiw'n, K fL dS the tm . r , oofs of Rockhampton it will also
Ti„ ? the P ra - Verful Person’s back-yard, wherein will
1 h ? v ® a ? y and >t doesn’t rain) the cadaver of
v ~ * shall be weeping and wailing, and pro-
bably unseemly language. F
Brisbaneites received some information
from their G-ovt. Analyst a week or two ago. He
reported butter almost all loaded with impurities ;
milk, mostly adulterated with formalin ; all the
beers sampled badly adulterated ; wine, mostly
made from sugar; temperance-drinks nearly all
adulterated ; and fruit syrups “ either entirely
factitious or loaded with preservatives which are
a menace to health.” Thirty chests of tea
were of such infamous quality that “they
were ordered to be destroyed or immediately
exported. The latter course was adopted.”
Sixty samples of confectionery were found to be
injuriously loaded with aniline. And the report
stated cheerfully that the common method of
making whisky in Brisbane is to dilute essence of
whisky with proof spirit, and then put an arti-
ficial “ bead ” on the mixture by adding sulphuric
acid and olive oil. These horrors, be it remem-
bered, are mostly in comparatively-civilised Bris-
bane. Out of what horrors do they make
whisky in the backblocks, where people are
less particular about what they put into their
cast-iron stomachs, and will drink a live land
crab, claws first, if no better stimulant is obtain-
able ?
THE NEWEST OF THE NEW.
If you Buy it from us it 's all right .
No. F27B7.—Nsw Twin Heart and Arrow
Brooch, 9c. Gold, 8s 6d.
No. F37o4.—New>Lucky Bell and Leaf
Brooch, 9c. Gold, 11s 6d.
No. Fs93.—Fine Pearl New Moon and Spray
Brooch, 15c. Gold, £5.
No. F4299.—15c. Gold Bird and Leaf
Brooch, £1 ss.
No. F269l.—Strong: Bar Brooch. New Design
9c. Gold, 13s 6d. ’
No. F4Bsl.—Fine Pearl and 15c. Gold
Brooch, £3 15s.
No. EB739.—Fine Dia-
mond and 18c. Gold
Bing, £i 10a.
Magnificent Diamond
and Opal Cin d er Ring.
£l7 IDs.
No. F 4540 —15c Gold
and Pearl Pendant,
£2 10s.
No. EB6oo.— Pair of 9c.
Gold Tie Clips, 5s 6d.
Heavy Make, 10s 6d.
No. F2254.—15c. Go!d Brooch, Ruby
Centre, £1 10s.
No. F 3553. —New Bell Brooch, 9c. Gold
12s 6d
No. F4546.—Fi
Quality Pearl and 15c. Gold Spray
Brooch, £9 10s.
No. £5629. — New Bar and Bell Brooch.
9c. Gold, 10s 6d.
No. F976.—Fine Pearl Scroll Brooch. 15c. Gold
£1 15s.
Shamrock Brooch, Jolls a .
Illustrated Catalogue
Free to all.
STEWART DAWSON & CO
412 GEORGE ST. and
STRAND, SYDNEY
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS rr ,oeuo
French’s Acting Edition.
df
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalo yue
Boohs Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE . .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
Eradicates Scurf.
Promotes Growth
Si
&
HAIR
ss
Prevents Hair Falling.
Contains no Dye.
m
L 4
d
Hothing Succeeds like Appearance.
UP-TO-DATE STYLE FOR UP-TO-DATE PEOPLE.
The Suit
To Order
42s
With
Extra Trousers
Holds the Commonwealth’s Record
.... FOE ....
STYLE, FIT and FINISH.
Send for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms to our only address—
OPP. G.P.0., BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
STEAM
ENGINES
FROM 5 HP. TO 100 H P
DYNAMOS
MOTORS
FROM 1 H.P. TO 60 hp.
CAN BE SUPPLIED PROMPTLY
FROM STOCK.
NOVES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; 17 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
DA.PTO (liaise
(LIMITED),
llawarra), near
SirDWET".
SMELTERS.
• • •
REFINERS
* • • •
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
—r-.
1
MAKERS OF
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILL AW AREA”
..BKAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD. SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAH BITTTTntt
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information lecrarding Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Morse, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAP'fO, N.S. W.


CAPILLA Hair Tonic
( Registered under the Provisions of the Trades Marks Act of 1900).
ASTOUWPIHC CHALLENGE.
THE Proprietor of Capilla Hair Tonic being desirous of
having a public test made to prove the infallibility of his
now famous Hair Restorer, known as Capilla Hair Tonic, is
prepared to treat any gentleman troubled with absolute Baldness
(it is immaterial of how long standing) Eree of Charge for a
period of 12 or 16 weeks, and guarantees in that time to pro-
duce Hair long (by the aid of Capilla alone, used accord-
ing to the Direction supplied with every bottle) on the scalp
affected by Baldness. Bailing which, he is prepared to forfeit
to the Sydney Hospital the sum of £25 sterling.
The conditions to be Ist. That a committee of six Sydney medical men, or well-
known Sydney gentlemen, be appointed to substantiate the fact of CAPILLA having
done what we claim for it. 2nd. That the gentleman upon whom the test is to be made
has upon the scalp a down or slight fluff. It is immaterial whether it is discernible with
the naked eye or not, so long as a microscopical examination proves it to exist.
We can procure actual living proof of
Capilla having cured actual Baldness.
If the above challenge be accepted, we particularly request the attendance of Newspaper
Reporters, Medical Gentlemen, or any person interested, to ivatch the progress
made day by day.
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC will make Ladies’ Hair increase in length and
strength, by about 1 inch to 1\ inch per month.
CAPILLA is not a dye, containing no oils or injurious ingredients.
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC, 2s. 6d. per bottle. Your chemist or storekeeper stocks Capilla.
If not obtainable locally, we will forward one (1) bottle to any address in the Australian States
for 3s. 2d., or the full course of six (6) bottles for 17s. 6d. post free (under cover).
W-|-k a f-fc OJ Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer,
. KIuUAKJLID, 168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TAKE TTO STTBSTITTTTE.
f
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
KMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which, they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects cohcerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
ful'est sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted-to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts reody-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking- made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art op Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic, Is 6d, post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
posted.
Chini jut's Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d posted.
Balzac's Droll Stories, Is 3d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. My price, leather hound, 15s post paid.
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Metal Working, Brazing, etc., Is 3d.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
gfijnflUg:
vVhen
writing
please
mention
THE
BcnnETiN.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL bj
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention,
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully ai*3 perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief im Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d. •-
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0 W
Extra, powerful, with suspensory
attachments 3 3 0 K-
Radies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports %
at prices ranging from ~ 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &e.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. B. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
I‘FREEMANiWALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL & SURGICAL INSTITUTE.
The Two Eminent Specialists
who have the Largest Practice
in Australasia.
And the Only Specialists
Received Hijhly Commendable PteuNobeM
in Leadina Australian Journals.
Specialties : Nervous and Chronic Complaints, Blood and Skin Diseases,
Heart, Kidney, Liver, Bladder, Eheumatism, Sciatica, (fee., &e.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of purification and R e|* b the Govern-
ment Medical Boards of New South Wales, V.ctor.a,
Britain and America, open to inspection at the C 8
by our Physician-in-Chief.
Pis an acknowledged fact the world-wide over that no
single individual or combination of men can be ab-
solute masters of every phase and branch of art, science,
medicine, or other professed avocation of a limitless
sphere of operation and magnitude. At best the greatest
scientists of the day—men like Lord Kelvin and kdison,
I
■ill
M
Yours truly . . .
II OIF Ano FREEMAN,
Sydney’s Leading Specialist.
Professor of Electricity as applied Medically, Member
Dr. Harmon’s College, Washington Cor., Cal., IT.S.A.
Director and Founder of the Institute.
for instance, whose fame i= universally known—class
themselves as infants in scientific invention and research,
and modestly tell us that they have but a smattering of
knowledge of the possibilities, extent, and development
We have only to look at the fine buildings that occupy
the corner of Elizabeth and Bathurst streets to gain some
Wea of the extent and importance of their profession«J
work. But to have the privilege of being shown throug
the building by the Specialists themselves, and to see amd
learn something of the real character of their wide prac
tice, is a treat that only conies the way of a foitunate in
dividual like the writer. .
The instrument-room was, as usual, one of particular
curiosity. Laymen always have a penchant for e\
and examining the polished steel articles w>th which so
many extraordinary acts are performed upon the human
body. The collection in this room is in every way up-to-
date. Whenever a new instrument comes to the tr ° n W
and its worth is proved beyond question, it is added to
this rare assortment. Another room full of absorbing in-
terest is that devoted to the galvanic batteries, of which
there are several magnificent kinds. The noted Game
batteries, the finest French makes, are here in perfection,
irrespective of their high cost. If any article or mechani-
cal and electric contrivance is found necessary in main-
taining the fame of this institution, the price is never
allowed to stand in the way.
The correspondence department is a veritable eye-
opener. Its sacredness is a bar to a stranger’s admission,
but a full view of the work going on is had through the
glass doors. Half a-dozen typists are seen driving their
machine-writers at electric speed. To the principals only
are known the names of the persons throughout Australia
who are being treated as skilfully in their homes about
the metropolis and away in the interior as if they were
present in personal consultation at the institution.
The packing-rooms are likewise shut off from curious
and prying glances, and the w’ork of one department is a
mystery to the others. No better system for holding
secret the nature of sufferers’ troubles, for safe-guarding
their interests, and giving due heed to the feelings and
sensitiveness of patients, could be imagined. I ackages
are not plastered with advertising labels, they are put up
in such a way that only the names and addresses are in
What a practice is here revealed and what a consola-
tion must it be to these eminent specialists to know that
they are permanently curing and restoring to health and
happiness thousands' of people whose lives were a burden
to them. The young, the middle-aged, and the healthy
are treated with the same amount of success. The pro-
digious nature of the work accomplished by these
specialists necessitates—not the stereotyped morning and
evening two hours’ consultation ticket, but their constant
attention at the institution from early morning till late
into the night. “I can assure you,” said Dr. Wallace,
“ we don’t put in these long hours because we are fonder
'"' M s**«
Premises : Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts. (Opp. Hyde Park, Sydney
(All Trains Stop at the Door).
of electricity, and only a fringe of imagination of the un-
told stores of strength and wealth wrapt up in this
phenomenal power.
Therefore it requires no argument to convince the
most pronounced of optimists that the field in any one of
the great and honored professions of the day is far too
vast for the thorough comprehension of the most per-
fectly brain-endowed man, or body of naturally-gifted
men. Yet in respect of the most delicate and difficult of
all professions—that of prescribing for the ills and
diseases of mankind—we find doctors, scattered over the
globe, off-handedly and without careful, minute, and
searching examination and diagnosis—without any know-
ledge of the past lives of patients—flippantly dashing off
prescriptions for every class of complaint, as if a cure was
as simple as falling over the proverbial log.
Thanks to the march of civilisation, culture, and edu-
cation, people are getting to know that modern medical
men who are worth consulting confine their practice to a
certain class of cases. Realising the utter hopelessness of
mastering and curing everything under the sun, and find-
ing that “ gullibles ” are not so plentiful as they used to
be, the wise and progressive men of medicine devote
themselves to one or other class of cases, and work out
the remedies for them to the best of their skill and
ability. X
What better and more striking illustration of the suc-
cess of Specialists in Skin Diseases, Heart, Kidney, Liver
Affections, Rheumatics, Sciatica, Nervous Diseases, could
the people of this magnificent continent, Australia, have
than the enormous practice of the famous practitioners of
the Electro-Medical Institute. Their skill, attainments,
position, and renowned reputation stamp them as the un-
doubted masters of the classes of diseases and complaints
which have been the study of their professional lives.
When we speak of electricity we think of Edison. Why ?
Because he dwarfs other men in this branch of science.
In the same way, when we talk of specialists, we at once
associate the names of the Freeman and Wallace Insti-
tute. So it is in every branch of scientific medicine;
some one or two men stand head and shoulders above
their fellows.
It is the aim, object, and devotion of certain doctors to
be pre-eminent in some defined class of disease rather
than to tinker with a host of complaints about which
they can have but a hazy notion, and superficial know-
ledge. To use a hackneyed but expressive phrase, they
are “ Jacks of all trades and masters of pone.” Never
since the time of Ricord, the noted French Specialist,
have any men conduoted so gigantic and successful a
practice as that conducted by the Freeman-Wallace
Electro Medical and Surgical Institute.
of hard work than any other medical men ; we do it in
the best interests of sufferers. We don’t keep them
waiting longer than we can help, and W’e suffer many in-
conveniences for our patients’ sakes.”
Noble sentiments, thought the writer, as the time came
for his departure, and the Specialists returning to their
ds
fd
*6*
.
Yours truly . . .
RICHARD WALLACE,
Physician-in-Chief,
M.D., L.Ii.C.P., L.F.P.S., L.M.,
Late Medical Staff, British Army; late Consulting
Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne.
consulting-room. How many doctors in our midst can
we bracket in this category'? Dinners and drives and
conversaziones are more frequently uppermost in the
mind of top-loftical medicos than the speedy treatment
of sad and suffering patients.


N.S.W. Railway report forthe last quarter
of 1900 mentions the discharge or resignation of
18 tramway conductors, not one of whom was
getting over 6s. per day.
Bourke’s (N.S.W.) representative with the
last lot of Bushmen tells the same old ghastly
story:—
We have been doing some good work since we have
been over here. Every day we are blowing up houses,
with beautiful pianos and organs and lovely furniture. It
seems a pity to blow them up, but the thing has to be
done, so the gun-cotton soon puts an end to it. We do a
great bit of looting as well as commandeering stock, and
if the officers leave us alone we never go short of any-
thing.
“Good work !” May the Lord have mercy on
our souls !
Hordern’s fire will have a far-reaching
effect on Sydney city improvements. The whole
of the Hordern Haymarket site and the Gasworks
is being resumed for the widening of Pitt, Gipps,
and Parker streets, and it is likely that the block
from Gipps-street to the junction of Pitt and
George streets will also be taken for the same
object. It is stated that any ground not needed
for this purpose will be leased for small business
sites. Mr. Hordern has acquired the whole of
the block from Goulburn to Swan-street, bounded
by Pitt and George streets; its demolition, to
make way for his proposed new “Palace,” will
shortly begin, and a chattering Chinkie colony
will have to pack up.
The Australian public is fast waking up to the
disadvantages of buying sewing-machines on time-pay-
ment system. The system requires a big and costly organi-
sation to work it, a numerous staff with managers in
receipt of absurdly high salaries, and an army of can-
vassers and collectors. Consequently, Messrs. Hebble-
white and Co., who work on the cash system, are able to
sell for £4 ss. a machine which, on the extortionate time-
system, costs 10 guineas. And thus the excellent House-
hold and New Victoria lock-stitch machines, and the Wil-
cox and Gibbs chain-stitch machine gain more and more
popularity with the public.*
W. H. Wigzell, of William-street, Sydney, one
of the best-known of Sydney’s hairdressers, sends his
price-list post free to any address on application. Wig-
zell’s transformation head-dress is an astonishing beauti-
fier. It is made of the best natural wavy hair, and in the
dampest weather it remains the same. They are thus a
great comfort, and every lady should have one.
HYPNOTISM
Anybody can learn to exert a magic influence over
others. You can become proficient in curing dis-
eases and bad habits of every nature. The acquire-
ment of these powers brings happiness and health ;
develops will power ; gratifies ambitions ; gives one
the key to personal and social success, and suggests
many opportunities to make money.
If at all interested, don’t fail to write for the most
wonderful book of the age, entitled “ Wonders of
Hypnotism,” 100 pages, profusely illustrated. This
work instructs you how to thoroughly master all
the secrets of Hypnotism, Magnetic Healing’,
Personal Magnetism and all Occult Sciences. It
is sent Absolutely Free. We guarantee vou success.
NEW YORK INSTITUTE OF SCIENCE,
Dept. vb!3. 39 State-st., Rochester, N.Y., U.S.A.
K
■
S 2? LABOR-SAVING
APPLIANCES
the Best House is
|!|c[ean Bros. & Rigg, [id.
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. PERTH.
Wanted.
ANTED IMMEDIATELY.
GOOD REVERBATORY
FURNACE HANDS.
North Mount Lyell Copper Co., Kelly Basin, Tasmania
Amusements.
■HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager
Bland Holt.
FRIDAY, AUGUST 30, LAST NIGHT of
THK WHITE HEATHER.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 31, First Production in the
Colonies of the New Melodrama,
RH3HXTG TO WIN,
By Arrangement with Arthur Shirley, Esq.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Alla n’s CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
CHARLES ARNOLD’S LONDON COMEDY COMPANY
. . in . .
WHY SMITH LEFT HOME.
SATURDAY AFTERNOON and EVENING, AUG. 31,
THE PROFESSOR’S LOVE STORY.
MONDAY, SEPT. 2, WHAT HAPPENED TO JONES.
FOR THREE NIGHTS ONLY.
Manager, L. J. LOHR.
Business Announcements.
't'
HP
r
OLD
MS
i>J
SUNBU.
fing
«/?
CHA
N
s
H
Y
Federal
BuSia
ness
Suits
sf
All-Wool
Colonial
or
Imported
Tweed,
Navy
Serge,
Blue or
Black
Vicuna
Your money
back if not
satisfied
Well-Cut
and
Trimmed,
Properly
Tailored
and
Thor-
oughly
Depend-
able
Patterns
and Self-
Measure-
ment Forms
postedfrea
t To Measure
Extra Pair of TROUSERS
GIVEN WITH EVERY SUIT
40/=
Great Value! Our Famous Ready-Made
Federal Sac Suit
la Good Colonial or Imported Tweeds
all-wool Navy Serge or Black Vicuna.
Any size from 3 OfW,
to 7, Special Tailor
made,fitted with Italian
Cloth inings
Padded Shoul-
ders, in and out
breast and ticket
pockets, etc.
Carriage paid to any address in the Australian
Commonwealth or New Zealand.
DON Cash Trading Co.
173 a to 214 Johnston Street
Collingwood, Melbourne
ordering give this number, No. 0123 .
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
J. O. WILLIAMSON’S ITALIAN OPERA COMPANY.
THURSDAY, AUG. 29, GAVALLERIA and PACLIACCI.
FRIDAY, AUG. 30, UN BALLO IN MASCHERA.
SATURDAY AUG. 31, LUCIA Dl LAMMERMOOR.
Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Stalls, 4s. ;
Family Circle, 2s. ; Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Henry Lee and J. G. Rial .. .. Lessees.
Jas. H. Love General Manager.
EVERY NIGHT
(Except Sunday)
WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY MATINEES at 2.30 p.m.
THE WORLDS ENTERTAINERS.
You can get more real enjoyment in two hours and forty
minutes than in any other place jn Sydney.
PRICES—Is., 2s. and 3s.
Reserve Your Seats at Elvy’s ; or at the Theatre.
empire the a t r e, s y d n e y.
™ (Late Royal Standard, Castlereagh-street.)
23rd WEEK. (FULLER THAN EVER.) 23rd WEEK.
Fuller’s Ftnpire Minstrel Specialty Co.
MISS HETTIE WARDEN, the English Serio.
THE LESLIE BROS., FUN IN A BAR-ROOM.
MR. CHAS. FANINC, the Great and Only.
MR. WILL STEVENS, MR. DENIS CARNEY, MR.
TED HERBERTE, MR. FRED BLUETT, MAIE and
ANDREWS, THE CLINTONS, &c., &c., &c.
Prices—2s., Is., and 6d.
■■■HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Under the Management of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative .. .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
THE BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, for a Limited
Number of Nights,
THE AM AZONS.
In Preparation— LADY HUNTWORTH’S EXPERIMENT
Box Plan at Elvy’s, George-st. Prices as Usual.
|_YCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. William Anderson.
MAGGIE MOORE.
HER RECEPTION WAS A TRIUMPH.
TO-NIGHT AND ONE MORE NIGHT ONLY,
□EC ILL A. R 2\T E Y.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, AUGUST 31, Grand
Revival, for positively 6 nights only, of the welcome and
evergreen STRUCK OIL.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. Charles Holloway.
SECOND WEEK of
THE STARTLING PRODUCTION,
DEATH OR GLORY BOYS,
As Presented by Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
POPULAR COTERIE OF PLAYERS.
Prices —35., 25., Is. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.55;
ordinary doors, 7.30. Plan at Nicholson’s
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRZ, SYDNEY.
-Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Enthusiastic Reception of THE DIAMOND DUO.
MR. EDGAR GRANVILLE.
MARIE LLOYD (the Inimitable). LAST NIGHTS.
LAST NIGHTS. ALEC. HURLEY (the Coster King).
CELINA BOBE (Xylophone Expert and Violiniste).
MDLLE. LUCRETIA (Burlesque Artist).
The American Bioscope, and all Our Great Double Co.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturdays & Wednesdays.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Sub-Lessee .. .. Mr. W. F. Hawtrey.
Business Manager .. Mr. E. F. Bradley.
EVERY EVENING,
THE CELEBRATED HAWTREY COMEDY CO.,
In Richard Gauthary’s Play of the Century,
A MESSAGE FROM MARS.
PRICES—Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 3s ; Stalls,
3s. ; Family Circle, 2s. ; Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY
COMPANY.
Re-appearance for a Short Farewell Season of Mr.
AUSTIN RUDD.
The Wonderful ZOBEDIE, the World’s Greatest Hand
Balancer, Ascensionist, and Equilibrist, and
ARNOLDI, the Clever Young Juggler and Equilibrist,
and all Our Great Co.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. E. J. Tait.
LAST WEEK of WILSON BARRETT SEASON.
UNPARALLELED TRIUMPH of
THE SIGN OF THE CROSS,
FRIDAY, AUGUST 30.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 31, THE SILVER KING.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
K
PHYSICIAN
Registered by the
Medical Board
of N.S.W.
SURGEON
LJ AVING had 30 years experience in all parts of the world, and also having lately made an extended trip through Europe and America, he
is ra a position to treat every case submitted to him according to the methods of the most recent and eminent Specialists of the
whole world.
Every Case treated on its own Merits.
Sufferers at a distance, unable to describe their cases to their own satisfaction, should write for Dr. Watson’s
“Guide to Diagnosis,”
which will allow them to give exact and full particulars, so as to enable him to report fully as to the disease and its radical and rational
method of treatment.
CONSULTATION FREE (Personally, or by Letter).
The publication of crowds of symptoms, testimonials and puffs of one’s skill and attainments savours too much of self-praise ; so the public
should look with a doubtful eye upon all those who “ doth protest too much.”
Dr. Watson does not pretend to say that “ One Pound is sufficient to send,” as stated in certain advertisements, for he considers that the
public are quite satisfied to pay a fair price for fair and legitimate treatment.
Write for small
“Guide to Health,”
and Method for Self-Diagnosis.
(Please mention this paper when writing.)
NOSIVMSHdO
137 Elizabeth-St.,
SYDNEY.
w
L
Sydney University Dramatic Society gave a performance
of “ She Stoops bo Conquer." An extract from Hermhs,
the University journal, criticising the performance:—
“ Among the minor characters mention must be made of
the cats This fine animal led the hunters a wild chase
from his den in the GHebeto the fastnesses of Lillie Bridge
before his capture and subsequent butchery to make the
inevitable Roman holiday.” This is a playful way of
describing the shocking cruelty of three young ruffians
who deliberately killed a splendid cat for the purpose of
throwing its body on the stage during the performance of
the comedy. The unfortunate animal was run down by
the brutes in question, and some other brute, judging by
above remarks, apparently regards their conduct as
humorous. This item is recommended to the notice of
the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Harry Rickards is probably 10 years younger than the
“old man" he is sometimes made out to be. Nothing
ages an identity more, in the belief of the theatrical
world, than his reputation for wearing wonderfully well.
Rickards began to sing at small ’alls in London when he
was a rorty youth of 16. If he has been nearly 40 years
before the public the old performer doesn’t amount to an
ancient. Nellie Stewart, whose name has figured on
Australian show-bills since she was a little kiddie, is
another mature performer with a deceptive record. And
Carrie Moore already has got credit for being about five
years older than her age, which is barely 20. Ten years
hence the 30-year-old man will say of Carrie—“ She was
playing leading parts when I was a boy. She’s 40, if she’s
a day,”
Probably the best-preserved public performer in the
world is W. H. Williams, the illustrious founder of Mel-
bourne Hawklkt. Printer Williams was a favorite Mel-
bourne tenor in the ’so’s, and now he is a slim, fresh-com-
plexioned man with a strong crop of dark hair, only a
little tinged with grey. This is his seventieth year, and
there is no reason to doubt the allegation that his general
appearance hasn’t changed since the time of G. V. Brooke.
Charles Arnold complains that when he played “Hans
the Boatman ” for the first time in Perth (W.A.), he was
informed that four companies had been before him with
the much-pirated piece. “ Fancy coming in fifth with
your own play !” he cries. Which recalls the righteous
indignation of Lauri, in “ Ma Mie Rosette,” when he dis-
covers that the artless, rustic damsel he led to the altar
was the widow of three predecessors—“ Not No. 1, or No.
2, or No. 3 ; but —dam it! —No. 4.”
There are no married, or partially married, couples in
this Italian Opera co. as there were in each of the com-
panies that Simonsen brought out. Signora Benedetto
travels with a husband, and Dani has a wife to preserve
him from the temptations that tenor flesh is heir to, but
neither Signor Benedetto nor Signora Dani appears on
the stage.
Melb. newspaper readers, as a rule, don’t know the true
inwardness of things, so they missed the humor of a par
in the Herald of Wednesday last week: “Interesting
notice of Mr. Marshall-Hall’s Conservatorium students
concert appears on page 3.” Now, the laudatory
“criticism” on page 3 was interesting for the reason that
Herr Pinschof is part proprietor of the Evening ’Erald.
He is the husband of Madame Wiedermann, who teaches
the Conservatorium singing class, and their old friend,
Hartung, is secretary to Marshall-Hall and musical critic
for the Herald by the grace of Pinschof. The notice of
this particular concert didn’t appear under friend
Hartung’s pen-name, but whoever may have written it
was not likely to have possessed a soul of his own in deal-
ing with tlie Conservatorium work. Anyway, the voice of
the Pinschofian publication pronounced the “ star ”
pupil’s warbling to be “exquisite art,” and “well nigh
irreproachable,” and so forth. One of these days it will
be interesting to hear what the same journal has to say
about the pupils of the rival Conservatorium, or any other
young people who have been educated outside of the
Pinschallwiedertungverein.
Seems that Miss Edyth Latimer’s reproduction of the
Maud Jeffries stride is due as much to accident as design.
The Sydney girl is slightly lame, the result of a fall when
she was a child. Miss Jeffries also is lame, but in neither
case is the actual cause of the lounging walk sufficiently
marked to fotbid criticism. One notices the habit with-
out suspecting that it conceals its motive.
Latona, the Musical Tramp, completed an 18 weeks’
Australian engagement the other day, and took the boat
back to London, where there are more jobs waiting for
him. In fact, he will have to travel overland
from Marseilles, the extra expense being borne by-
Rickards, who persuaded him to overstay his contract
time, and also booked him for a return visit. Latona
belongs to the order of music-hall “turns” that are
always in good demand.
“Ernani” seems to have been the typical old Italian
opera from which the musical humorists derived their
parodies. Lecoq’s conspirators chorus in “ Madame
Angot” is just the reductio ad absurdum of the
“ Ernani ” scene where the plotters in black hats and
cloaks come to compass the death of His Gracious
Majesty. And in the first act of the same opera you get
musical effects which Gilbert and Sullivan burlesqued in
“Pinafore” with Little Buttercup's chant —“ So-many-
years-ago, when-I was-young, and-charming.”
The “Lilian Carew Comedy and Dramatic Oo.” opens
at Petersham, Sydney, on Friday night next, with the
musical comedy, “ That Dreadful Young Woman.” It is
Miss Oarew’s intention, after doing several other suburbs,
to take a country touf ; and, if all goes well, to open later
on in a Sydney theatre.
No Australian manager is likely to follow the lead of
Irving at the Lyceum. On some Saturdays the old
man gives only a matinee performance, the theatre
being closed at night to permit of a clear two days’ rest
for himself and co.
What time the Italian Opera Co. was playing “ Pag-
liacci” and “Oavalleria” in Melbourne, the orchestra
included a local solicitor, A. O. Destree —the same Destree
who takes the chair of music at the Vic. Artists’ Society
smoke nights. One of his vices is the bassoon. Up to
then the opera orchestra had got along without a second
bassoon, but for “ Pagliacci ” a full supply of that weird
instrument is absolutely indispensable. So the lawyer
was induced to give his services as a dilettante for a few
nights, with the result that a good many people got the
impression that he had turned professional musician, and
would soon be appearing in court with long hair. A
similar case happened years ago. W. A. 0. A’Beckett,
brother or nephew of Judge A’Beckett, blew a bassoon in
the orchestra for the first Melbourne production of
“ Aida," under the late W. S. Lyster’s management.


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
“ Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories,” by Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”)
is the hest book of short stories yet produced in
Australia. The S. Daily Telegraph recognises
the author’s “absolute genius.” The S.M. Herald
says the volume “contains dramatic pictures
which the best of our artists in words might well
envy.” A handsome cloth-bound volume, 350 pp.,
post-free from Bulletin office for 4s. 6d.
For two years N.S. W. Works Department
has been boring at Grafton in search of artesian
water to give the town a water-supply. Official-
dom is still hoping for success ; billet-holders
quite satisfied. And Premier See represents the
constituency. Questions: How deep is the bore
or bores ? What is the cost of boring to date ?
One just-noted result of Victoria’s mini-
mum wage law is that it acts as a sort of appren-
tice indenture. Now that the employer has to
pay his boys decent wages at the start, with
annual increases, he takes care they learn enough
to enable them to earn the wages.
Be the constant discussion about religious
teaching in State schools, a N.S.W. teacher gives
his experiences :
I was in a school where a parson of some bounding
brotherhood or other disorganised things almost
every morning from 9.30 to 10 a.m. Parsons, as a rule,
are not disciplinarians. Occasionally weird noises would
come from the class-room holding the shepherd and his
flock. The weirdest noises arose when the final “ Amen ”
was being pronounced. Some of the crie3 suggested a
loco, whistle, and they ranged from that down to
the bray of the wild ass in Persia. There was also the
trombone amen and the William-goat amen. After the
amen the parson would emerge as from a lion’s cage, and
a swishing sound behind him suggested the flight of a
Testament through the air. The chief heard it one day
and rushed past me, reaching out for a fathom of cane.
“ I’ll make the young imps say amen,” he declared. He
turned the knob with a snap just in time to receive the
Holy Scripture fairly on the nose. Momentarily checked,
the boss rallied and charged again. For a moment there
was a hush ; then I knew the chief had kept his word.
As to special lessons by teachers —1 used to choose sen-
sational subjects, sucli as Daniel in the den of lions. I
became such an expert at these that often the youngsters
would rise in their seats and gasp for breath, which
flattered me very much. At last one of the parents
oalled and asked me kindly not to lay the Scripture on
too thick, as his boy used to scream out in the night that
he was being chased by King Ahasuerus and millions of
wild beasts. I hauled off a bit after that.
Three Tears
Intense Suffering*
The Case of Mr. H. M. KEYEY.
(By a Special Reporter.)
All government, indeed every human
benefit and enjoyment, every virtue and
every prudent act, is founded on com-
promise and barter. To promote our
personal welfare we balance inconveni-
ences, preferring to give and take in
order to attain our ends. We remit
some • rights so that we may enjoy
others, and we choose rather to be happy
independent citizens than servile ten-
ants. Great sacrifices are made by wor-
kers who aspire to become their own
landlords for the advantages to be de-
rived from the attainment of their as-
pirations. “My illness,” said Mr. Henry
Moran Kevey, of Garfield-street, Par-
nell, Auckland," was brought on tnrough
working night and day at my sedentary
trade of bootmaking. The object I had
in view was to purchase a home for my
wife and family; but I stuck to my task
so closely that it caused me three years’
intense suffering. It is eight years ago
since my constitution was completely
broken down.”
“You look strong and vigorous now,”
said the reporter.
“And I feel as well as I look. But
there was a time when I thought I was
going into consumption. My face was a
deathly colour, and my eyes were sunk
deeply into my head. You would not
have given twopence for my life if you
had seen me then. Before I was struck
down I thought of nothing but work,
and I took my meals at all hours, some
times going without them altogether.
I felt myself getting weaker and
weaker every day, till I could
hardly crawl down to my shop
A few minutes after starting work
I felt giddy and faint, and I was obliged
to take frequent rests during the day.
Then my digestive organs went wrong,
as shown by the tightness in my chest
after eating, and also great pain and
discomfort in my stomach, which felt as
though I had swallowed some foreign
matter which was turning sour and pu-
trid. Indeed, my breath bore out this
theory, as it was most objectionable,
and my mouth had a very bad taste
continually, which made me feel sick
Sharp pains used to dart under my
shoulders and down to the end of my
ribs, and in a short while I was unable
to retain a meal on my stomach. As
soon as I ate anything I was seized with
violent fits of vomiting, and the pain
and distress I suffered was beyond de-
scription. I felt tired and miserable,
being without enough energy to sit
down and read a book. As a matter of
fact, my eyesight was too bad, and my
eyes seemed to have little spots danc-
ing before them, besides being hot and
swollen.”
“How did you manage to keep on
working in that condition ?”
“J- could not do a stroke of work at last.
#i u to knock off altogether. I
felt heavy and drowsy, and suffered
greatly from splitting headaches. My
bowels were irregular. For days they
were constipated, then followed a weak-
emng attack of diarrhoea. I found great
dimculty in swallowing anything, even
such a simple thing as a cup of tea
making me conscious of the fact that
my throat was very sore. My appetite
went right off eventually, and my ner-
vous system then collapsed. An addi-
tional complaint in the form of a vile
attack of neuralgia now commenced to
worry the life out of me. Shooting pains
darted from the ear to my eyes, and
licence to my forehead. The agony was
so acute that I could get no rest day or
night. I twisted and turned from side
co siq« all night long, and in the morn-
I was too exhausted to get out of
0ec ‘- rhis new torture continued for
months, till at last I thought I was
going mad.® A peculiar feature of my ,
dreadful ilness was the way my tongue
used to swell. It felt too thick for my
mouth, and almost choked me. My
brain w4s full of evil-forebodings as I
Jay throughout the sleepless nights in
a state of nervous terror. Many a time'
l have awakened my wife from her slum-i
ber and told her that the tortures of
my complaint were driving me crazy,
and in the day time I felt so greatly run
down that I used to say to my wife, ‘ I
suppose I will live through this summer,
but if I do I am sure I will die during
the winter.” One night my condition
was so alarming that my wife went
straight away for the doctor, who said
I had a diseased liver, and that my
blood was in a terribly bad state.”
“Was there anything to show that
your blood was impure ?”
“Rather. I will tell you, and then
you will know that my blood was poi-
soned. It happened through wearing
a soft woollen hat, the rims of whicn
used to fall down on my ears. I used to
wear a blue serge suit, and my better
half told me I ought to get a hat to
match the colour. As I always study
comfort before appearance I bought the
soft one alluded to. The result was
that my ears were poisoned by the dye
out of the hat. My ears swelled and
broke out, and my agonies increased
ten-fold. I used to pray for death to
release me from my sufferings; but no,
I had to endure it. The tops of my ears
were eaten away, as you can see for
f ourself, and even when they healed up
believe I had enough poison in my
blood to kill twenty men. I was really
on the verge of death by now, without
animation, without hope.”
“Was there any benefit derived from,
your doctor’s medicines ?”
“Not the slightest. Neither did I re-
ceive any benefit from the many adver-
tised remedies I tried; but I was saved
by the advice of a friend, who urged me
to give Clements Tonic a trial. I did
so, but I can honestly say that had it
not been for Clements Tonic I would
be a dead man now. I started on that
matcldess medicine with a feeling of
great anxiety, as I knew my fate de-
pended on it. My anxious fears were
soon set at rest, as I felt greatly soothed
and stimulated in a few days. My case
was a bad one, and I could not expect
to be rid of all my ills for some time;
but Clements Tonic proved equal to the
great task before it. A gradual slacken-
ing off of the sharp pains in my back
and loins, besides the absence of discom-
fort in my stomach, showed that
Clements Tonic was doing the work in
first-rate style. My appetite, which had
so long lain dormant put in a feeble ap-
pearance at first, and then increased
every day till I could eat a hearty meal.
My head was again free from aches, and
every morning I awoke feeling decidedly
better for the sleep which resulted
through my continuance of Clements
Tonic. My nervous system was streng-
thened and invigorated by the same
medicine, which eradicated all skin erup-
tions and purified my blood, besides
driving away the raking neuralgia, which
has never since troubled me. Each
day 1 gathered weight and strength,
meanwhile shaking off the fit of melan-
cholia which has depressed me for three
years, and my work was undertaken
with the same pleasure as of old. Cle-
ments Tonic gave me perfect health
when all else failed.”
“Was the cure a permanent one?”
“Yes, and I am anxious that every-
body should know that such a grand
medicine exists, so you may publish
these facts in any way you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Hekri Mohan Kkvet, of Garfield Street,
Darnell, Auckland, in the colony of New Zealand,
lo solemnly and sincerely declare that I have care-
ully rend the annexed document, consisting of
hree folios and consecutively numbered from one to
three, and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic,
and also contains my full permission to publish in
any way my statements—which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of
an Act of the General Assembly of New Zealand,
intituled “The Justices of Peace Act, 1882.”
fylxnwyt,
Declared at Parnell this thirtieth
me thousand nine hundred, before
day of October,
me,
JOKS MoCABE. J.p,
Business Announcements.
(aood Tailoriog-
SPRING.
New Neat Designs in Worsteds
and Tweeds.
PURE INDIGO SERGES.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGB, &c,
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Mercers,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR
' All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
ANEW
KODAK
The No. 2 Plico Kodak.
XL
For Pictures x3£ inches.
Price
21/-
Only.
Loaded and Unloaded in Daylight.
Send for Illustrated Leaflet and mention
this Paper.
KODAKS ALL PRICES, FROM ss. TO £7 153.
Now on Sale by all Photographic Dealers.
KODAK Ltd.
“THE BLOCK,” 284 Collins St M
Melbourne.
Medical.
* NOTICE «
To sufferers from Gout, Rlieumati sm, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy .
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizks, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, Loudon, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
POWELL’S BALSAM
Qe»
%
OF ANISEEB
WILL CURE YOUR COUGH
All the world over, it has been the recognised
Cough Remedy for the past 75 years, and is
to-day the Safe and Reliable Cure for
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and all Lung Troubles.
Loosens tbe Phlegm immediately, and re-
moves the tickling sensation in the ’Jhroat,
which deprives so many of rest ouring the
night. It Strengthens the Voice.
WARNING .—When purchasing
Powell's Balsam of Aniseed
see the above Trade Mark on each wrapper
and beware of Imitations.
Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers through-
out the world. Prepared only by Thomas
Powell, Ld., Blackfriars, London, S.E.
T)EAR SIR, —I have been cured of Weakness and De
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise, an.l
Buy the Best, Cheapest and Most
Stylish Clothing In Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & Co. r Z:
252-254 Flinders St., Melbourne
(Opp. Station).
df
Our Suit to Order at
4 2/- . is marve'oua
value, perfect fitting
and beautifully finish-
ed.
Trousers. 12/ G.
Dress and Clerical Suits,
to order, £5 •
Biding Breeches, 25/-
Men’s buits, Beady for
Wear, 25/-
Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 25/-
Lonsr Chesterfields. 30/-
Tweed Overcoats 2i/-
y Waterproof Coats, full
capes. 18/6.
Tweed orSergeTrousers,
5/11.
Travelling Bugs, 10/ S
13/9.
Black and Blue Vicuna
Coats and Vests I tf/6.
Undressed Wbite S irts,
2/6,3/6, 4/6. :./5
Crimean Shirts, 5/5.
7/6.
Gent's Splendid Bal-
moral Boots .6/9,9/6
We like to write letters,
so don’t be afraid to
ask for any informa-
tion. Our book. 7he
Philosophy of Dress.
patterns of all kinds
and self-measurement
forms post free. Write
for them.
Don’t Forget to Write for Patterns,
~GOUT v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO,
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one.
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the. only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pito ut & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Oolom'a-s.
EVERY MAN NEEDS IT.
QOME interesting information is disclosed in the book
published by the Electro-Botanic Institute, of
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney. It dis-
cusses the private side of life in such a way as to cause
most men to pause and think as to whether they are just
what they ought to be physically. The book is sent free,,
in plain, sealed wrapper.- —Medical Review.
DON’T POISON'
YOURSELF
WITH DRUGS when our ELECTRIC BELT (with or
without suspensor) will CURE YOU. ELECTRIC
CURRENT GUARANTEED. Pamphlet and Consulta-
tion Free. HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists, 105 Regent-
street, London W., and 44 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
We give a fair trial before payment.
d
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Boole of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
, pound Inhalent, and 1 tin -| /
' Nasal Ointment, only ■"/ Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
THE
mm
by using Wilson’s Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
They restore the hearing, and
relieve singing, roaring, and
buzzing noises in the ears.
Many benefited after trying
other remedies without success.
Testimonials from all the States.
Send a post-card to-day for
illustrated book, FREE.
Address, J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
ffitJ
DEAF
GOJSJ
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
■Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
f
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
JSole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
) and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, ,he.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument; Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
1
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyers Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
test. best, restores the natural color. Loek-
safest,
yer’s the real English Hair Restorer,
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Large
The Bulletin’s latest publication—
Dreams in Elower, ” a book of verses by Louise
Mack contains all the best poetical work of this
writer for the last ten years. Price half-a-c rown,
post-free from this office.
A copy of “A Policy for the Common-
wealth, The Bulletin’s particularly suc-
cessful pamphlet, will be posted from this office to
any Australian address on receipt of Bd. in stamps
(of any State).
.Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. ( n page
23 of this issue *
The Victorian “ system ” smugly alleges
it intends to reform criminals, but when once a
man has expiated an offence by a term of gaol,
the Law takes all sorts of care he shan’t get an
honest living in future, if it can help it. It won’t
let him hold a license even after many years’
honest living—as a publican, auctioneer, hawker
—even as the common bottle-oh ! And, as Dr.
Lloyd said at North Melb. t’other day, “If a
man isn’t a fit and proper person to collect rags
and bottles, what on earth is he fit for ? ”
“Boko The oil-lamps used in Sydney
trams are a standing nuisance. There is always
something the matter—either flaring and cracking
the glass so that it falls in a shower on the passen-
gers, or else the reverse happens and you have to
strain your eyes to read your newspaper. Some-
times they leak, and you may see a person all un-
conscious of harm with the oil dripping on to hat
or clothes. A very few drops of oil will spoil an
expensive hat, and the sufferer will not find it out
till he or she has left the tram and all iiope of
compensation behind.
M DOUGALL S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NO N - POI SO NO US DIP.
IVTDOUGALL BROS., 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
-A.g'esKX-ts: 3XT.22. L. Hz. TSOL. A.. 00., Ltd.. LOCAL AGENTS EVERYWHERE
C. BRANDAUER & Oo.’s)
Circular-Pointed Pens. ■'
Seven Prize Medals Awarded,
Neither scratch nor spurt, the
points being rounded by a new
process.
Attention is also
drawn to their
new
“GRADUATED
SERIES Of PENS.”
Each pattern being made in four degrees
of flexibility and Points.
C. BRANDAUER& C os
Ask your S for an Assorted Sample Box of either series. Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENCLAND
KEMP S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT/
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long as required. It will NOT injure the wool. It will dissolve out under
the ordinary scouring process.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FEtTOII, ERimUIBDE » Cl, MEUftIK.
BLACK, BED, and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases)---
PRICE IN MELBOURNE ..
„ SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.)
» BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.)
» HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.)
3/6 per Gallon
3/6
3/6
4:/3 ft
Hearne
■mss FA.MOXJS IEHESHVEjEJIU'Sr IE^OIES.
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA. 7
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain oi
Soreness mi the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop Consumption has
CompletT Cou S ha luve been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
BEJWA.RIi3 OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.VV.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr do
colds and bronchial asthma. I do not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer t nybodyto me.
“ 1 heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was, —Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
li oin a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“ Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfullv,
“JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidlv successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
“I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Coxvies Creek, Victoria.”
Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
sending for another bottle in case I should want it.— D. M‘DONALD, Trinkey, via
the medicine yet; but I am
Quirindi, N.S.YV."
w
‘ Youl ' Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that vour Brochitis Cure has done us
a,l of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
both a wonderful deal
Victoria.”
w
i 4. i ve of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me. —(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
1 1 have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skiplon, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time The diffi-
culty of breathing has alt gone. —J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
WaS ’ disappeared a£ter two d oses.-C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
w
“ 1 lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
W
‘Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.-(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
W
n P leased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“ Youi ' medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria."
"J„ ha '’ r e V* 6 * lota of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody —S
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” O
“I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
, c , a , , A,,-!V Ysay tha l . T ant astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of mv brief trial.—JOHN c’
TRELAWNEY, Severn liner, via Inverell, N.S.W.” *
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis .Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H HOOD
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.” 1
w
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from vou have Dulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough Victoria ”
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.— CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlmgford, Victoria."
Gratitude and Appreciation.
hundreds cured in their own
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during- the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Coll ins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom*
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchir-is Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, dRMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
4 THOMASON, CHATEE & CO.,
44 Wholesale Chemists.’"
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken
with immediate curative effect. '
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of vour
Bronchitis Cure.’’-ELLIOTT BROS.. Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria,
? "™° sP ° T Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food for
INFANTS
9
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BERBER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, 80., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


AQuestion
Answered.
If the Pianola ena-
bles those who
have absolutely no
musical knowledge
to play the piano,
of what interest is
it to those who are
able to play?
This is often asked, and when asked in our showrooms, generally results in the
purchase of a Pianola ; but more often the question finds expression only in
thought, and offers no opportunity for an answer.
PADEREWSKI HAS A PIANOLA in his home.
ROSENTHAL HAS ONE.
SAUER HAS ONE.
and only recently has ordered two more for friends in Germany, who are themselves
eminent musical critics. This certainly disposes of the question, although it fails to
give the reason. The reason is equally clear. . ,
b The Pianola increases the
- ■ i "- w
m
JW4\
Pianola being placed in position to play Upright Piano,
repertory of even these musi-
cians from twenty-five to fifty
compositions which they can
play in concert form, to prac-
tically everything they may
desire to play. It increases
the repertory of every skilled
musician, and gives a reper-
tory to the novice.
The Pianola does not mar
the piano, as it may be moved
up to or away from the key-
board at will.
The Pianola does not mar
the playing, as artistic taste
receives full opportunity for
expression to which the player
can give his undivided atten-
tion.
The Pianola offers relaxa-
tion from the technical and
enjoyment of the musical.
It is true, since the player
controls the expression, the great musician obtains a more artistic result from the
Pianola than the novice, because he is more critical, but in this very point lies the
secret of the Pianola’s fascination.
The player, whoever he may be, gives his own individuality to his rendition.
This causes the musical taste to develop, and it is not long before the veriest novice
finds his own playing preferable to many of the pianistic efforts in the average concert.
Expression-marks appear on the music as it unrolls, for the guidance of those who
may be unfamiliar with the selection. ...
In this article there has been little attempt to explain how the Pianola is manipu-
lated, the principal object being to show the desirability of the Pianola for every one
who owns a piano, whether he be skilled in its use or not.
We shall be pleased to mail a complete description of the instrument upon request,
although we urge all who have the opportunity to hear the Pianola for themselves.
Can be bought by instalments if desired. Send for Catalogue C.
HENRY M. BIRGE & C 0. s
Sole Agents for Australasia.
The Pianola is sold at no other
Address in Sydney.
323 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the orld
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
cRAHCA
A.&F. PEARS
Reduced Facsimile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAKERS,
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
When the Battler was Hard-Up.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
11 You talk about being hard-up,” sneered the
Battler. “ Why, you don’t know what it means.”
“Don’t know so much about that,” said the
New Chum, knocking the leaves from the billy
and lighting his pipe. “When a man goes five
days and nights, as I’ve done, without food or drink,
he really ought to know something about it.”
The Battler gave a contemptuous grunt. “ Fivt
days and nights without food or drink,” he said
with a sarcastic laugh. “Do you know that I
have gone thirteen days and nights without so
much as a crumb of bread or a drop of water.”
The New Chum smiled incredulously.
“You can sneer as much as you like,” said the
Battler, striking a match and settling himself
comfortably on his swag; “ but what I tell you is
truth, and I reckon that up to the twelfth day I
had walked, weak and hungry as I was, nearly
four hundred miles.”
The New Chum laughed outright.
“You can believe me or not,” said the Battler,
“but when I dropped exhausted that day I
thought it was all up. You see, I had been walk-
ing round a circle all the while, and was com-
pletely bushed.”
The New Chum looked interested.
“ Howsomever,” went on the Battler, pulling
contentedly at his pipe, “ when I awoke on the
morning of the thirteenth day I noticed smoke
rising above the scrub in the distance, and my
heart nearly jumped into my mouth with joy. So
up I gets and tries to walk in the direction of the
smoke, but I had gone hardly six yards when
down I drops to the ground as powerless
as a babe. There was nothing else for it,
so off I starts on my hands and knees, and,
would you believe me, if I crawled a yard
I must have crawled nearly twelve miles be-
fore I got to the hut where the smoke
was coming from. But there was a disappoint-
ment in store; the hut was empty, or, leastwise,
the place was locked-up, and I was just as badly
off as ever.”
The New Chum shifted his position on his swag,
and knocked the ashes from his pipe.
“ Well,” the Battler proceeded, “a 3 I had come
so far, I was determined not to be beaten, so I
pulled a sheet of bark from the hut and crawled
inside. But all I could find was a broken bottle
and an empty flour-bag. I could have dropped on
the spot, but, taking the bag, I shook the few
grains of flour that were in it into the palm of my
hand, an’ tried to swallow them. But my tongue
and my throat were too dry. So, keeping the
flour in my hand and following the directions of a
sign stuck on a gum-tree, I started off in search of
water. When I had crawled another 12 miles,
with the flour in my hand, I struck a Government
tank, but found it dry as a bone. I was just
about to collapse when a poor old sheep eame up
to the edge of the tank. He gazed first into the
empty hole and then at me. He remained looking
at me for some minutes. Then I noticed that tears
were standing in his eyes and actually falling to
the ground. I felt that I could almost cry myself,
but an idea struck me. I would crawl up to the
sheep and let his tears drop on to the flour I held
in my hand.”
The New Chum threw his left leg over his right,
and rested his head on his hand.
“Yes,” continued the Battler, “I felt that I
was saved at last, and crawled cautiously up to
the sheep, so as not to frighten him. He seemed
to know what I wanted, and didn’t move, but
kept on crying. I was almost overcome to think
that, after all, I was to be saved from death by a
Eoor, kind-hearted sheep. I could hear my heart
eat as I drew close to him, and I could feel his
warm breath on my cheek. But just as I was
about to hold out my hand, he gave a frightened
snort, and blew every atom of the flour from my
hand. All I remember after that is that I fell
back in a swoon, an’ ”
“What was that you said about the moon?”
said the New Chum, sitting up on his swag with
a yawn.
“A swoon, I said,” corrected the Battler,
sharply.
“Oh, yes,” said the New Chum, rubbing his
eyes, “I was forgetting; ‘you fell back in a
swoon and died.’ And where did they bury
you ? ”
The Battler gave his mate a long, fierce look,
and then opened up his swag preparatory to turn-
ing in for the night.
BAŔY SPRAYTON.
Exit Bos!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He stands bewildered in the middle of the yard.
Why is he cut-off from his friends? What is
this smell of blood ? Instinct tells him there is
danger. But where ?It lurks unseen. Where-
fore he turns round and round, stamping up the
dust and bellowing, now piteously, now defiantly.
Crack ! Ah ! there is something he knows how
to deal with. Lowering his head he rushes at the
boy who has dropped lightly into the yard.
Crack ! The boy is on the fence, and the bullock
stands underneath—baulked. Crack ! Crack !!
Whoop!!! Round he goes. The boy is in the
yard again. Crack ! Too late again. The nar-
row “race” appears to be his only chance.
Whoop-oop! Crack! “Get up there, bally!
Whish-isht ! Hurroo ! ” Crack ! Two more
boys are standing over him. He stops. Crack !
He tries to turn. The race is too narrow. Crack !
He must go on. Up the race. In the pen.
What is all this blood—that head lying in the
corner ? His knees tremble. Crash !—thud !—he
is down and dead !
C.G.D.
Some time ago, one Dunedin (M.L.) firm
(Bayley and Co.—something in the leather trade,
if writer remembers correctly) said that it would
remove its business to N.S.W. on account of the
Maoriland Compulsory Arbitration system. It
hasn’t removed, but the empty objurgation of that
one lonesome shop has been quoted all over Aus-
tralia as a convincing, overwhelming, irrefutable
proof of the utter ruinousness of the Compulsory
Arbitration system. Even the remote Brisbane
Courier had a leading article the other day on
the horror of Bayley’s threatened removal.
Meanwhile, Maoriland finds employment for 60
per cent, more of its population in manufacturing
industries than N.S.W. does, and in the last two
years the hands employed in its manufactures in-
creased by 9266 —in proportion to population,
twice as large an increase as N.S.W.’s. But all
this counts for nothing compared with that one
small manufacturer who was going to clear out
and didn’t. He re-echoes all through the Tory
press of seven States.
His “Monkey-Tricks.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As old Banks was for the best part owner of the
barque he sailed, he had a perfect right to make
an ass of himself in that particular way, and no
one doubted his having done so, when, on the
night before sailing, he brought aboard with
him Albeda, the wanton little ‘ ‘ monca ” from the
wine-house on the quay.
All had been ship-shape and proper, however;
the lady having insisted prettily on being
hitched-up by the padre before she’d entrust her
plump little self to the captain’s keeping.
“ Pretty as paint, ain’t she, Burke ? ” asked
Captain Banks of the mate next morning; and
Burke, young, Irish, and virile, took stock of the
girl and assented. For, like a flower raised on
foul soil in a foetid atmosphere, Albeda had,
from the filth surrounding ner, absorbed much
outward beauty. Lolling on the poop-skylight,
she’d rolled a cigarette, and noted with half-
closed eyes that the Irishman was good to look
on, though not so much to her fancy, perhaps, as
the fairer one with the blue eyes.
“Ah! well; the good God was kind. She,
with these young men”—
“Heave-short, mister, and get the jib and
staysail on her,” said the captain to Bourke;
and, carrying under her hatches a cargo of green
hides and horns, and on deck all the ingredients
required for a tragedy, the vessel soon left the
dirty west-coast town far astern, and Albeda,
for a while at least, ceased to charm the eye.
The second mate —he of the blue eyes—had
been laid-up for a day or so, and the captain had
perforce to take his watch. He had relieved the
mate at twelve. It was a moonless night a,nd
overcast, and £he old barque, oreaking lazily,
rolled to a beam-swell. The wheel kickod
noisily in response to the swash of water under
the counter.
There was no wind to speak of; and Captain
Banks was not in the best of tempers. He cursed
at the slat and bang of the sails as they chafed
and fretted against the rigging in the still, hot
air aloft. Banks was jealous; Albeda was way-
ward, and annoyed him by her behaviour
towards the mate ; who—curse him ! —well, he
should get his discharge on getting to port, and—
Captain Banks was looking over the quarter,
into the black beneath him. Just then a flash of
phosphorescence for a moment revealed to him a
man’s form, pressed close to the ship’s side, with
head inclined to the open port of his wife’s cabin.
The old man drew in his breath and clutched
tightly at the taffrail. Dropping to his knees,
he could not hear the whispering below. So, it
had come to this! What a d d old fool he’d
been ! ”
He rose and said to the man at the wheel: “Is
that you, Hawkins? Let’s have the wheel for
ten minutes, my lad—l’m that sleepy I can’t
keep my eyes open. You go away for’ed and
get a smoke.”
The man readily gave up the wheel and Banka
presently was the sole occupant of the poop.
Letting the wheel spin as it liked, Captain
Banks knelt on the deck and felt, with trembling
hands, for the deep-sea-lead, which hung in
beckets from under the wheel-box grating.
He was peering over the rail again—into the
dark —waiting—with sixty pounds of lead poised
endwise in both hands! Again a momentary
flash of light showed him that which he sought,
stealthily moving forward now.
“ Is that you, Mister Burke ? ” queried the old
man, thickly. “Be careful of your footing, sir ! ”
The man below him paused on his way; then,
down went the lead —smash ! upon the upturned
face; and Albeda, lying at the open port, was
startled at a splash, wondered uneasily awhile,
and fell asleep. _ When 8 bells went, to Banks’s
astonishment, it was Burke who relieved the
watch—then in a moment the skipper understood.
He hurried to the second mate’s berth, and
found, as he now expected, an empty bunk.
“ Bedie ! my dear,” said Captain Banks, on his
wife awakening in the morning, “the second
mate’s missing.”
“ Ooh ! ” and Albeda, with round, questioning
eyes, looked straight into his. “Yes,” resumed
her spouse, shifting his gaze; “the poor young man
was a bit off his head—up to monkey-tricks,
you know ; a-walking round on the outside of her,
and and a-doing things he didn’t ought to.
Must have missed his footing, I guess.”
“Ah !” sighed Albeda, and glancing at the
bulkhead, she devoutly crossed herself.
M.L.
F. MARRYAT NORRIS.
Why not maintain censorship over the
returned cohentingenter ? At a “Welcome Home”
to a Boer-slayer in a country town t’other night
the hero was detailing his deeds of glory to a
group at the head of the table. Narrated how the
troops who had taken up the white man’s burden
hanged two Chinamen with barbed wire for the fun
of the thing ! Droll fellows. Also captured a
couple of Boers and beat them to death with
sticks. Couldn’t shoot them because there were
Boers in the neighbourhood who might hear the
shots. The heroes of the last-mentioned feat, he
said, were Australians, and the narrator didn’t
seem to think the practices at all discreditable to
our brave fellows. Re the hanging episode, he
stated that when an officer put in a mild remon-
strance his men told him that they would hang
him too if he cheeked the current of their zealous
loyalty. For King and Country ! Elieu !
All manner of people who apparently don’t
understand their own language are writing to the
papers about the tyrannous and “ un-British ”
character of the Federal Immigration Restriction
Bill. That Bill provides that any immigrant,
white or black, who can’t prove his ability to
write the English language when requested to do so
by the proper officer, shall be shut out. This
gives the widest possible discretion to apply the
law so that the undesirable immigrant—the nigger
of all varieties—-shall be “requested,” and the
desirable white immigrant shall not. The measure
is expressed that way because that is the British
way, and the British Government intimates that
unless this circuitous method of keeping out un-
desirable Asiatics is adopted the Bill won’t
receive the royal assent. But the large class
of mentally-confused correspondents is troubled
about the wickedness and folly of barring-
out Frenchmen, Germans and others whose
English is imperfect. They evidently assume
that the Bill says, not that the immigrant
must show his ability to write English when re-
quired to do so, but that he must show that ability
whether he is required to do so or not. A wilder-
than-usual person, signing himself “Interloper,”
writes to Melbourne Age to state that he is an
Englishman, and that, as an Englishman, this
clause (which was dictated to Australia by the
. English Government) seems very strange and
shocking-


Are You Aware That
of all Medicines, BILE BEANS FOR BILIOUSNESS holds first place as
the specific for Liver and Kidney Ailments and Derangements of the System
arising from Impaired Digestion, Assimilation, and Bile Flow ? They act in
exactly the same way as Nature’s animal bile, and while correcting and
strengthening weak and impaired organs, yet do so in a perfectly natural
way. So widely is their value now known that thousands of people bless
them daily, and
150,000 Bile Beans
are consumed every night. They cure many ills when all else fails. Such is
the statement made not only by the proprietors but by the vast army of
those who have been strengthened by them. In every town and city and in
most of the important villages throughout Australia and England, they have
effected cures when all else has failed. Women and young children who have
been benefited are numerous. Indeed they
Are Consumed
by weary worn-out women whose life has lost its charm. In such cases of
Debility and Depression they are Invaluable. Remember they are purely vege-
table, and the youngest child or the aged woman may take them without fear.
The fact that over 150,000 Beans are taken
n
• *
@ >
Every Night
proves conclusively their great worth and
popularity as a cure for all liver troubles,
etc., etc. All Chemists stock them, or
you can obtain them from the BILE
BEANS MANUFACTURING
CO., 39 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
N.S.W., upon receipt of Is. l|d.
per box, or six boxes for 6s. 6d.
For Biliousness, Headache,
Female Ailments, Constipation,
Indigestion, Liver and Kidney
Troubles, Spring Blood Troubles,
Piles. Rheumatism, Pimples, De-
bility, Full-
ness after
‘ Eating, they
are the most
effective re-
’ medyknown.
QUALITY IS HIGHER HERE
And the Prices are as Low as elsewhere for humdrum
Styles. That is one of the advantages of buying from us.
No. W 7. Silver-Plated Hair-Pin
Box, 8a 6d,
No. W 9. Silver-Plated Jewel-Case
Satin-lined, £1 is. ’
No. W 24. Embossed and Silver-
Plated Hair-Pin Box, 10s 64
No. F5173A. Silver-
Plated Spectacle
Case, 10s 6d,
No. F 839. Silver-Plated Butter Dish,
with Knife, 9s 6d.
No. F 4457. Silver-Plated Ink-
Stand, 18s 6d.
No. W2OlB. Egg-Shape Satin-lined
Jewel-Case, best Silver-Plated, £1 Is.
No. W 36. Best Silver-Plated
Shaving Mug, £1 2s 6d.
No. F 4587. Leather
Spectacle Case,
Plated Mounts,
7s 6d.
No. F 4707. Carved Ivory Handle Bread Fork, 11s 6d.
No. F 4588. Silver Glove Button-Hook, 2s.
No. E 9070. Combination Egg Frame and
Cruet, Cut-Glass and Best Silver-Plate,
£1 15s.
No. F 4709. Carved Pearl
Handle Bread Fork, 13/6.
No. F 4849. Silver-Plated Fern Poc,
Height, 8 inches, £3.
Write for our Illustrated Catalogue,
Stewart Dawson & Co
H 2 GEORGE STREET and STRAND, SYDNEY.
Dawn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All night in the ports and' offing
The hosts of the Night Waves tramp
To thunderous music, scoffing
At every harbor lamp ;
So fierce that no star dares brighten
The coast and the stormy gloom,
And only the Night Waves whiten
The cliffs, as they charge and boom.
All night have the stars been hiding,
But now to the East afar
The Squadrons of Seas are riding
A-tilt at the Morning Star,
That lights with a mellow lustre
The road that the Dawn will take ;
And see how they march and muster !
And see how they swing and break,
And strive with their shields and sabres
To darken the star’s clear light—
A-sweat with their frantic labors,
The foam on their steel flecks white !
And as in their blind wrath leaping
They threaten the fearless star,
The stars of the night are peeping—•
Pale-faced, as they always are—
To see on the East’s horizon,
As though by the mist-folk drawn,
The glow of the morning skies on
Her tresses—the grey-eyed Dawn !
And swiftly the warlike clangour
Is stilled, and the waves, afraid,
Forget in their fear their anger,
And shrink from the pearl-robed maid.
Oh ! slowly across the water,
Afraid of the Night, yet proud
With courage the Day has taught her,
Dawn comes; and the corsair crowd
Slink back where the Night still lingers,
And, mocking them as they flee,
The music of fairy fingers
Floats up from the Eastern sea ;
While, laughing their guileless laughter,
With hurrying, joyful feet,
The Waves of the Dawn come after,
To jeer at their slow retreat.
And lo ! as the pale, grey maiden
Steps fearfully through the dark,
A cloud, with the Sun’s light laden,
Burns gold, and the Waves cry “ Hark !
He cometh ! ” The Dawn-Maid blushes
To know that her love is near.
Then out of the sea there rushes
The sun, and the Day is here
To redden with hot caresses
The lips of the maid, so white,
Who, whispering soft, confesses
Her terrors of frowning Night.
As laughing Day bends to hold her,
To ride on his saddle-bow,
In long ranks, shoulder to shoulder,
Retreating the Night Waves go.
They march to the dull West’s distance,
Well knowing that all in vain
Are mutterings and resistance —
To-night, they will charge again.
M.L.
QUILLP N.
A Man’s Inconsequence.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Carmichael drew the curtains and shut out the
dreary, lingering daylight. Within the room all
was softness, light, and color—it was not like the
Chamber of Death. She lay so easily, as if she
were sleeping, on the couch, with the lights shin-
ing warmly on her and on the wealth of red roses
that lay all around her. There were no white
flowers in the room—none of the Continental em-
blems of death. These were the flowers she had
loved; and she had been so soft, so warm and
sweet, and yet, withal, so passionate, that these,
with their richness of color, their velvety hearts,
and their wealth of perfume, seemed the only
flowers to place around her.
This was the end of their love-idyll—that through
four years had retained all its freshness and
poetry. He dared not think of the loveless years
ne had wasted before they inet —of the long, cold,
weary stretch that lay before him, with the icy
propriety of his wife instead of the other’s clinging
companionship. He sat down by her and took
out a packet of her letters, turning them over and
reading the words that came uppermost, and that
were like stray sentences from the lips curved so
peacefully there before him.
“Dear Heart, I am so lonely—two whole days
since I saw you —it is a week thrown away. Oh,
Dear Heart, come soon.”
“Your photo, is frowning, dear Love, because
I have been naughty. But I will never be
naughty any more—there, I have kissed it and
promised it, and it is smiling again—and so good-
night, dear Love—good-night.”
“ What happened before we met, Sweetheart?
I do not know, for I did not live before I knew
you. Now I live always, and am so glad to be
alive, because it means that I am here to love you
and for you to love. I look in the glass every
day to see if I am as pretty as ever —only for you,
Sweetheart —only for you. I love my eyes—they
grow so soft when I think of you, and the lashes
come close together—as I know you like to see
them. I love my mouth too—for when I think of
you it looks as if it wanted to be kissed. You see,
I love the Me that you know and love. Would
you love the other Me, I wonder ? Ah, Sweet-
heart ! no one but God and I knows the other Me
—and I often wish *hat He were not in the
secret.”
“I must write to-day, dear, though I only saw
you last night—how horrid of you to be so far
away when there is a lwle bird in me singing all
day—songs so foolish and happy that it is a shame
I must hear them alone.”
The papers rustled softly, and a big, heavy-
hearted rose fell to the ground. But another
sound made Carmichael turn and spring to his
feet, with something between a cry and an oath
—for his wife stood in the doorway.
She came forward as composed as ever, and
made a slight, disdainful gesture to deprecate his
anger,
“Don’t distress yourself,” she said, quietly. “I
have not come here to make a scene. You know
I hate Jt worse than anything. If I had not done
so do you suppose this pretty love-story would
gone on uninterrupted for four years ? ”
, You—you knew?” he stammered.
Of course I knew. It was a pretty little affair
whue it lasted it s a pity Death spoilt the story,
wasn t it; just at the most interesting chapter,
too ? one spoke m a musing tone, as though the
subject lay far outside her active personal interest.
.Lucy . for God’s sake—stop ! ” But she went
on, unheeding.
I learned the story from a man whom she
professed to love. He was complimentary enough
to prefer me and, to win my favor, brought me
the whole tale. I wasn't pleased—it was rather a
cad s trick, I think. You ate wed yourself far
more of a gentleman, for .you were courteous and
kind to me, and the <orU] thought you faithful—
for that I must give you thanks.”
She paused. Carmichael had sunk into a chair,
and his face was hidden in his hands. She looked
at him long—almost pityingly.
<< f J did i not think >” she went on, “that Death
would take from me the full sweetness of my
triumph—I wanted it all—every bit of it—for I
loved you Harry, and it was bitter to think she
took you from me. But I brought you her letters
to him—the other man. I thought that here,
beside her, you might like to read them—and com-
pare them with yours.”
She laid them on the table beside him and
turned away. He sprang to his feet.
, d j S j.i a ke— ; a cursed lie, Lucy! Someone has
forged them—she never loved anyone but me.”
Lucy Carmichael drew her long cloak round
her.
“Probably not,” she said, calmly, “but her
jotters had a way of counterfeiting that might
have imposed on anyone less confident than you.
But remember, Harry, when you read them, don’t
blame her. You were faithless to me, and I do
not reproach you—do not cry out if you find that
you were treated as I have been.”
She turned and left him, and mechanically he
picked up the letters and looked at them, turning
them restlessly in his hands, and reading the sen-
tences before him.
“Sweetheart, why do you not come to see me?
I only count the days when you are here—one
day a week is so little to live —I grow old waiting
for ( my day of life, Sweetheart.”
. “The big rose-bush outside my window is out
m bloom, and red roses always make me think of
you—but everything does that, dear—so why
should the roses have that special honour ? ”
Yes, I am just as pretty as ever. I have
looked in the glass to assure myself of the fact,
and I am glad, because I want you to love me—■
oh, ever so much ! ”
Carmichael crushed the letters and flung them
on the floor. - Then he went out of the room with-
out a glance at where lay she whom he had loved
so well. But she had been faithless; and now —to
a man’s curious reasoning—the red roses round
her were the fitting emblems of her sin.
NELLIE M. FIELD.
The N.S . W. Asylumed Poor.
A patient at Liverpool (N.S.W.) Asylum sends
to The Bulletin some remarks concerning the
unspeakably uncivilised treatment of 100 con-
sumptives (more or less) at the asylum in ques-
tion :—
Dr. Beattie, Govt, medical officer, Liverpool, now in
Europe on six months’ paid leave, represented N.S.W. at
the Tuberculosis Conference in London. In view of the fact
that, in his absence, phthisis-patients receive even worse
treatment than before, the medical representation of this
State at the conference in question savors of an official joke
of a most sinister nature. The authority on chest complaints
in N.S.W. is Dr. P. Sydney Jones, who advocates abund-
ance of fresh air, superabundance of nourishing diet,
absolute rest of body and mind, and exercise out of
doors suited to the condition of the individual patient.
Those responsible for the well-being of consumptives in
Liverpool Asylum enforce a system diametrically
opposed to that of Dr. Jones. At one time patients
at the asylum had liberty to come and go much
as they chose —within reasonable limits, of course.
Two years ago, or thereabouts, the Liverpool towns-
people petitioned that consumptives be prohibited from
entering the township. As a result, patients’ leave was
entirely stopped for many months, and only after this
gross injustice had been ventilated in Parliament and
press were the unhappy walled-in patients allowed two
hours’ leave weekly, with an occasional four hours’
absence on occasion of public holiday or local event.
Doubtless church leave may be obtained on Sundays, but
as a new and gratuitous indignity was recently thrust
upon them, entailing the handing over of private cloth-
ing (which hitherto they had been privileged to wear) to
Govt, officials, the church leave is the hollowest of hol-
low mockeries. Yet not a Sunday passes but those in
other wards may be seen fully attired in private clothes,
whilst consumptives remain “ cribb’d, cabined, and con-
fined,” arrayed in the garb of pauperdom, waistcoat
excepted.
Until April last there was no lack of food. In addition
to ordinary meals, patients had a choice of various extra
rations. With May began an era of retrenchment, since
then “ extras ” are almost unobtainable, unless in cases of
very weak or bedfast patients, and such as imitate the
importunate widow of Holy Writ. Further, the ordinary
meals are economised to an alarming extent. Patients
who' have soup for dinner are debarred from meat. For
some time they were served with good brown soup,
but now, alas! soup also has gone off color.
Prior to May, porridge was supplied to all at breakfast,
since then it is available but four mornings weekly—he
who wants it daily must ask the doctor for it as an extra
ration. This, in an hospital, simply leaves the reductio
ad abmrdum nowhere. The doctor must surely know
what nutrition his patient needs, and, if so, why compel
the sick man to ask for food enough to sustain him ? At
dinner-time the meat is invariably deficient in quantity,
leaving quality out of court in toto. He who obtains 6oz.
of meat is fortunate, and this in face of the fact that a
phthisis patient needs more food than a working navvy,
theformer having his disease to feed in addition to himself.
In phthisis, perhaps more than any other disease, the
mental attitude of the victim is of the very first
importance—a cheerful mind, and a light heart counting
for much. Can gaiety and cheerfulness be looked for
under the conditions described? Penned within narrow
limits, a sentry on each gate, overcrowded and underfed,
how can men forget their troubles ? A paddock is cleared
and a shelter erected within stone’s throw of the asylum
walls, avowedly for consumptives’ use, but as they are
practically prisoners, cui bono? Moreover, land has
been cleared a considerable distance from the Institution
for purposes of a sewage farm. Should the excreta from
phthisis cases be carted and deposited there, it
will form a grave menace to the public health.
The sanitary conditions within the Asylum are rude and
crude. There is a water and sewerage system, but no
water-closet. Medical men (who proverbially differ) are
perfectly agreed on one point, viz., that the sputa from
phthisis patients should be subjected to direct or
indirect action of fire. This course is not followed
in Liverpool; the sputa are simply mixed with
an ordinary disinfectant and emptied in the
common sewer. Further, each patient should be provided
with a bottle in which to expectorate by day. Special
flasks for this purpose have been in use in Europe and
America for years past, and are not unknown to the
medical faculty in N.S.W. Under present conditions
consumptives in Liverpool are unquestionably a
source of danger to other men there. Provide
each with such a bottle, and the risk is reduced to
a minimum. In view of the facts herein set forth
is it matter for surprise that Liverpool Asylum shows an
appallingly high death-rate ? If properly - equipped,
phthisis patients occasion no danger to public health.
In any case, while in Liverpool they cannot be charged
with wilfully spreading the disease. They, almost to a
man, are working-men—wage-earners of the class which
composes. the nation. The facts as herein stated can be
sworn to in any court of law in the land. More, much
more, might be added, but quantum sufficil. The urgent
question is—Where and with whom is the remedy ?


7 A Grand Family Medicine, Good for all from the Young-
est to the Oldest. After the Doctors had Failed to Cure,
Health was Quickly Restored by taking
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Unable to
Nerves
Sleep, Could Not Eat,
/Joints Swollen.
V
X
*
u
n*
m
“ Not long ago 1 was extremely ill. I could not sleep, eat, or work. My heart would tlnob
violently with the slightest exertion. My nerves were all upset and my joints were swollen so I
could hardly take a step. , . , . , _
“ All the doctors failed to cure me and I was completely discouraged. A friend then per-
suaded me to try Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and Pills. In a few days I felt better and it took only
two bottles of the Sarsaparilla to restore me to complete health.
“My husband has taken Ayer’s Sarsaparilla with the greatest benefit, too. It cured him
of indigestion, general debility, and purified his blood when he was suffering from boils.
“ I have given Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to my children with the most wonderful effects.
It keeps their blood pure, builds them up, and makes them strong.”
This is the testimony of Mrs. Julia Osborne, Grand Junction Road, Rose-
water, Adelaide, So. Australia. She sends us her family photograph, which we
give above.
Good for all members of the family; hence its name
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
You must certainly be convinced that Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is a most won-
derful family medicine. It takes out all kinds of poisons from the blood, fills it
with life-giving power, and is the strongest nerve-tonic you can take.
AYER’S
>arsapari I la
.. ■ - -
A Splendid Medicine for Children.
taking AYER'S PILLS, a pleasant and easy laxative.
w 26
YEARS’ SUCCESS
AS THE
UNIVERSAL REMEDY
FOR
Coughs, Colc/s,
1 Asthma,Bronchitis,
l lnfluenza, Whooping-
Cough, Consumption,
HAS MADE
AH ABSOLUTE NECESSITY IN THE HOME
OR KIT OF EVERY COLONIAL.
It saves many Lives.
There is no difficulty in obtaining it, so
when you ash for Owhridge’s Lung
Tonic, insist upon having it, as
other so-called remedies are
often substituted .
JPrevared by
W.T.OWBRIOBE, W P S., Chemist, Hull.
d in bottles, at Is.ljrd., 25.9 d., 45.6ci., <ft 11s.,
by all Colonial Medicine Vendors
is stairs
GOPTEieHT.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
77 0R> Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain m the Stomach, Sick Headache
1 Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold GhiUp, ii 1 ish-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. JJUfciJij
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be WOBxH A
G U BEECHA M’S "PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs£^ n jt™tPe B and
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the hl^a n £ frame These
arousing with the Rosebud ok Health the Whole Physical Ekergi f . ; to the
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society and one of % best uara eet me
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beerham s Fills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Mediei
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is ljd, and 2s 9d each.
A POLICY FOR TH€
COMMONWEALTH^
Bcios a series of articles rcpriijtgd
fron> “Tbc BCilletio,” Witb ap
appendix dcalipg witb tbe Fiscal
Q£s^Stioi)-
PRICE 6d. ; posted, Bd.
s. FREEMAN # SONS
cmiwil
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIA LTIES:
BATHO’S baking powder.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT 1 OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. YIN EGA LI. FLOUR,
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
“ON
ELECTION.
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
m
■ .
mm
The Universal Remedy for Acidity ox the Stomaen,
Headache, Heartburn. Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Grout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
htedicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDSi
MAGNESJAj
HHsN
Sold Throughout the Worm.
Nkß.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S magnesia,
o
3
IRISH
HOSS
ds
TOE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Col
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


SYDNEY
Rubber Works
manufacturers of
Sheet Bubber,
Washers,
Valves,
Gas Tubing,
UDDer
Rollers,
Buffers,
and Every Description ef
Mechanical Rubber Goods.
Works :
CAREY STREBT, off Birkenhead Road.
Onrr Office :
PERDRIAU and CO.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
<Sf| YEARS DYEING
V# FOR THE LADIES.
*w\ C- 3B T,XDIe.XTDGS &c CO.
DYERS ft CLEANERS,
40 YOKI4 STIUHiI', S YDNISY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by pent irom alt the eolonits promptly
attended to.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
GEORGE & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Apartments: Bedroom (single), 3s. per Day, or 21s.
per Week ; Bedroom (double), 6s. per Day, or Two
Guineas per week.
Breakfast, Luncheon, or Dinner from
ONE SHILLING upwards.
Letters and Telegrams addressed to “ The Manager"
will receive prompt attention.
J rOW READY.
A POLICY
FOR THE
COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d; posted, Bd.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
fd
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Worthington Pimps
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Catalogue.
Mammatt’s
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
»\NV
<a>HE J^BBOT
J. & J. MAXFTF.LD, Phoprs.. SHBFFTRLB.
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
Ml A rt n.
<«SJU
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE BLOCK,*
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
NEWMAN’S
ANTISEPTIC
NE
WMAN’S
in King* St.
X/- a. SB ox
THROAT PASTILLES.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COC O A
breakfast supper.
ERASMIC
PEERLESS
SOAP
reserver and
Beautifier of the Complexion. It diffuses an exquisite
odor, and imparts a stimulating- and refreshing influence-
ALL WHO DESIRE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
GAN OBTAIN
IT
BY USING
V
an
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ V- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade <fc Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
W** oP
fmr
PARKE & LACY CO.
LIMITED,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
AGENTS FOR PELTON and LEFFEL WATER WHEELS.
t
¥
IS
inxr stock;:
Knowles Steam Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors, Nagel Horizontal
and Vertical Engines and Boilers, Pennsylvania Keturn Tubular Boilers, Buffalo
Blowers and Exhaust Fans, Morris Dredging Pumps, Bullock Diamond Drills, Dodge
Rock Breakers, Roger Rolls, Gates Rock Breakers, Challenge Ore Feeders, Hunting-
ton Quartz Mills, Wood and Iron Working, and Laundry Machinery, and* Mine and
Mill Supplies.
And at San Francisco and London. OO 1 HO© Street, SYDNEY.
H. !I?_ GREGORY <Sc CO.
sf
74 Clarence Street
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
435 Bourke Street
rs and General Machinery Merchants.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES:
Blake Steam Pumps
Pay’s Woodworking Machinery
Tanite Emery Wheels
Sturtevant’s Pans and Porges
Pickering Governors
Ludlow Valves
Sehuttes’ Korting Injectors
“ Champion ” Lubricating Oils
Hoyts’ Leather Belting
Genuine “ Atlas ” Metal
Empire Laundry Machinery
Stratton’s Steam Separators
American Tool Co’s Lathes
Goubert’s Eeecl Water Heaters
mm
ciftptKtffifj
O 3 A.
