

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid’s London Draught Stout.
§lutely
ire,
store
st»
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity-”
The Lancet.
■kj* a -wwy nri a Ks p TTurcss
%jr<& ww xIl JL 291 Cww
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOIt—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
IWeLAFEN’S Compound
Traction Steam Engine.
sdf
WINE!
WINE !
WINE!
Buklmlla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST WmE^>
-i" IN AUSTRALIA.
SSB" Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
2G3 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 85 pm st™. SYDNEY.
6ole Agents for «J. & H, McLaren, Leeds, England, Makers of Steam Ploughing Tackle, Traction Engines for Haulage, General and Special Work.
We Stock and have to arrive McLaren’s Compound Traction Engines; HUSTON'S Portable Horizontal and Vertical Steam Engines;
BROADS ENT’S Hydro Extractors; KIRCHNER’S Saw Mill and Wood-Working Machinery.
COMPOUND TRACTION STEAM ENGINES
THORNE’S
«- ju WHISKY.
HELIDON
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH & 00. Ltd., A.geuts, Sydney.
1
UO'BA HT.
-
Hadley’s Orient Sots!.
"'•V
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME
SANDEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
241 F*ITT S*!* J=t 33353 T"* SYDKTEIY.
Telegraph —“ 11 Ell VEY, SYDNMY.”
Mining & Contractors’
Machinery and
Explosives. r
&
&
*
►
i
Builders’ &
jtrtffineers’
Sundries, Belting,
(!PM _ M foils, Packings, Ac.
Campbell" Gas A Oil Engines.
171 Clarence St.,' Sydney.
sd
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Beit of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. c. LUDOWICI & SOM, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches:— P. Frankel & Co., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q. ;
H Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
Co., Collins-st., Ilobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
“Tales of the System.”
*
ls. ... per Post Is. 3d.
FATR. GIRLS AND GRAY HORSES.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
JOHN JAMESON
W HI SK Y.
Agents : J. BAERS JOHNSTON & CO., Loftus Street, Sydney.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
To nui-p-v coaa;i*JE!TiTio3\r.
WINES ae Bes< onlv ° J SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
NEVER!
Did you make a bigger mistake than in thinking that a
WATERBURY
is a Common Watch.
n ~r
It may be CHEAP, but it is also ""' ■"" '
ACCURATE, RELIABLE, AND GOOD VALUE.
Henßy Skinner,
Clarendon-si, South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE PLENISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
THE
E diswan - Lamp,
*r
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
IBS 111 a SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch : 1G Carrington-streot,
WYNYABD SQUABS, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buiklin b Edward-st., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Vol 22. -No. 1114. j
[Saturday, June 22, 1901.
Postered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The Bulletin publications.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated; price 4s. 6d. post free.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). New
Issue. With about eighty illustrations by
JVlahony, Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher
and Fullwood ; 6s. post-free. * * “The
jolliest book yet printed in Australia.”
Pair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait; ss.
post free. *** A charming presentation
volume.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free. *** Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. *** The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
A Hose of Regret:
Verses by James Hkbblethwaite ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 9d. post free.
The Circling Hearths:
By Roderio Quinn. No. 11l of The
Bulletin Booklets, Enveloped, la 9d.
post free.
Dreams in Flower:
By Louise Mack. No. IV of The Bulle-
tin Booklets (enlarged). Enveloped,
/ 2s. 6d. post free,:
Tales of the Convict System:
By “Price Warung.” Paper covers, 193
pp. ; 6d., post free.
The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Faveno. Paper covers, 141 pp.; 6d. post
free.
Forwarded by return mail from The Bulletin
office in exchange for postal notes or stamps of
any Australasian State or Province.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS.
and all
AFFECTIONS of
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
a- •
oso^
O.vcji
IN TINS, Is. 6d.
The Gr.eat
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singer*
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OB POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT: 5 ahd 7 QUEEN'S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE.
I WOULD like to see a picture of “ Human
Evolution ” painted by an artist with the
skill and imagination of Max Klinger. To
right of the centre should appear the vivid,
„ sunlit figure of a man marching—the Man
to-day. Behind him and a little beneath
should be the broadening company of Shadows
from whom he is descended—the parents,
the ancestors, the primitive men—the ape-
animals, dog-animals, swine-animals—all the
array of brutes which- succeeded the fish-animals
and reptiles—and so down the scale of hereditary
life until the Outlines of shape, clear at first, grow-
ing gradually vague, should lose themselves in
gloom of the Beginning. Before him and a little
above should be the company of Shadows to
whom he gives birth—his children, his grand-
children, his descendants in illimitable genera-
tions, expanding fanwise more and more darkly
till they should vanish in gloom of the End.
Around all the sand-glass—symbol of the lapse
of Time. Below the centre, the tropical beach
where we think Life first may have begun. Above,
the face of supreme Man, Beyond-Man, Man of
the Future, with his mouth of sweetness, eyes of
dream, and brow of power.
[The artist might offer the central Adam an Eve
for mate, but woman is unessential to the concep-
tion. Sex is an evolutionary detail. The woman
gives Life extension, not intensity—makes for
perpetuity, not progress. It is true that many
men who walk down George-street still clutch a
stick—a movable tree-bough—a reminiscence of
the ape-ancestor; # but many more women carry
parasols—nearly every woman is uneasy without
something in her hands—some holdfast in case
she drop from the hereditary branch. And the
man in George-street straightens his spine; the
woman stoops more—she has been more recently
erected from all-fours. Sitting is a concession to the
quadruped in both sexes; but woman is the seden-
tary sex. And woman, the wilder animal, holds
more of the wild-animal’s vitality ; she lives longer
than the man, so that in compensation for stand-
ing up last she lies down last. All this being
seductively divagatory, diseontinuously episodical,
unnecessarily irrelevant, and ten more long words
implying bad art. Comes of watching local
painters sacrifice art to idiosyncrasy.]
In European houses where family portraits have
been preserved for generation after generation,
* The secondary use of the stick for defence does not
affect the fact that, as an ornamental companion, it is
usually a badge of weak character, scanty intellectual
acquirement, superficial civilisation. Henry Parkes dis-
dained umbrellas; but the crooked appendage of the
vacuous English “ Johnnie ”is proverbial. The later use
of the bough as a weapon, a club, is seen among the more
primitive, or more vital, races and individuals. The
Irishman’s shillelagh thwacks the same broken-skulled
moral as the Australian aboriginal’s nulla-nulla. There
are other local examples besides that of George Dibbs
who presents a ring-gidya stick to the British king. In the
hands of G. Bibbs the stick would typify club-usage • in
the hands of King Edward it will typify cling-usage—the
transference reversing the process by which the weapon-
symbol of the virile monarch of yore became the orna-
mental sceptre of the weakling modern monarch. When
war brought peace, the second usage of the stick became
the third usage as a badge of authority or office—as in an
usher’s wand, a Speaker’s mace. But through all changes
it is the atavistic bough—the ape-man’s heirloom.
“ Imperial Csesar, dead and turned to clay
May stop a hole to keep the wind away ”
and the supports of our ancestral forest-home become the
dude’s solace, the king’s sceptre, the jest of a Melbourne ,
bagnio. These he evil days.
the scion of a historic stock may sometimes trace
his own lineaments in a pictured ancestral face.
hich of us has not noticed the reproduction by
a child of some trick of gait or gesture not seen in
the parents, referable perhaps to a grand-parent
perhaps seen only in a distant kinsman ? How
often in a family, is there observed some son or
daughter with traits dissimilar from those of all
known relatives. The records of breeders of
animals contain instances of individual reversion
to a type which disappeared from the line scores of
years before. Weismann’s theory of the germ-
p asm explains these and analogous cases by pos-
tulating a halving of the germ-elements - one
set becoming active in the production of
a new body, while the other set is handed
down as a latent force which may become
active only after the passage of generations
On this theory, every human being holds
some trace, however infinitesimal, of the influence
of every one of his human and other ancestors
right to the beginning of Life. Stand, then,
before a mirror, and see the shadowy faces of the
Past peering over your shoulder in an army
which would over-fill the earth—since, even
to the time of the Norman conquest, a man
of to-day may count 86 million forbears who have
mixed their blood in his. More, see those faces
peering through you—looking througli your eyes,
giving that shape to your forehead, that turn to
your nostril, that line to your lips; and realise
how insignificant is any single individual in the
line of evolution. So little of himself is his own,
to so very, very small an extent is he able to per-
petuate the acquirement of his brief life, that the
individual becomes in the scientific aspect hardly
more than a germ-bearer—one whose function in
the universal process is merely to hand on to
another the flame of existence.
Then consider the apparatus of thought and
emotion which climaxes in the brain. Just as the
fleshless hands of millions of ancestors have given
to your hand its slowly-acquired prehensile power,
just as every peripheral organ is an inherited pro-
duct tardily won by myriads of beings that once
had active life and are now dissipated in the
mouldered dust of ages, so the central nervous
system and its resultant of conscious thought are
your legacy from long-gone cycles of cen-
turies. The human infant is an ape with
potentialities, the human child a barbarian
capable of civilisation; and you, the man
your brain repeats the ancestral brain as
your body repeats the anoestral body—it conforms
with a type which varies only minutely in thou-
sands of years. As you think, then, before the
mirror, see the pale wraiths of ancestral thought
come floating from the far past to merge with and
alter the thoughts which your own experience has
originated ; listen to “the savage turning in his
tomb”; and, once more, at the height of your
pride of individuality, be very'humble in the
presence of that tremendous debt. You are
“yourself” ; but how much yourself? or, rather,
how inconceivably little !
A new theory of the development of ideas sug-
gests that, in inheriting the ancestral thought-
machine, we inherit also a number of latent
ancestral thoughts. That is, the hereditary
brain-cells, though they be composed of en-
tirely fresh nerve-plasma, are yet arranged
after an ancestral plan beyond our control, and
can spontaneously generate thoughts in which in-
dividual experience has no part. The theory is
but an extension to conscious thought of a power
well-known to reside in hereditary nerve-cells
when automatic impulse is concerned. Conscious
individual brain-acquirement, for example, can
have no share in the nerve-control of the fcetal
heart. N. S. Shaler, Harvard professor of geo-
logy, who writes of this and kindred subjects in
his recent book about “The Individual,” relates
his endeavours to capture the spontaneous
thoughts which seem just to rise to the level of
consciousness—to be always flitting over the
edge of the conscious horizon ; and finds that one’s
capacity to think in a way apparently independent
of his own experience can be strengthened and in-
creased by deliberate effort.
Making the befitting literary application, this
theory furnishes interesting explanation of the
irresponsible character of lyric poetry. From the
earliest times the poet has been regarded as
“possessed” by some external power. In this
“possession” the priestess of Apollo raved, the
Italian improvisators chanted, the Maori tohunga
writhed and foamed. From the earliest times the
poet’s chief themes have been love and death, the
beauty of skies and woods and waters,—aboriginal
passions and the natural phenomena familiar from
the human cradle. We know now that the power
resides in the poet’s brain, that the poetic
“possession ” is mere escape of brain-centres from
their normal control; and We infer that lyric
poetry is essentially the product of inherited
emotion. ,
Sometimes the escape is conscious, the inherit-
ance realised. You feel a detachment, a duality
in your brain, as if some primal breath had blown
across it. In our small local sphere, Hoderic
Quinn tells me that there are times when his own
individuality seems to sleep; when he fancies
himself standing on a Donegal cliff under a
wild sky, gazing through driving sleet at the dark
Atlantic heaving’ below; and strange alien
thoughts come teeming, crowding. Between
dreams and waking Will Ogilvie, bred
on the Scottish border, has imagined him-
self tieading a reivers’ band across the
Tweed, and the picture has recurred with a vivid,
an intimate detail which seems never to have
been learnt through his own senses. And Louise
Mack says that “When I write verse I am not
conscious of words —the feeling and the thought
are almost dropped on the paper. The moment
X am conscious, think of a word—the poem is
dead, and I stop—can’t hear it, don’t feel it I
always write poetry as if it is someone else’s that
I ve half-forgotten, and slowly am drawing down
from the recesses of the brain, driven to it by
some tide of feeling.”
Thus is justified the belief which Macaulay
reached on other grounds, that civilisation implies
the decay and death of poetry. The more We
read, the more we remember, the less opportunity
we give to the primal ancestor within us to pic-
ture the emotions which he felt when red blood
surged through a virgin brain in the vigorous
youth of the race. It nas been written that every
savage is a poet, however imperfect his power of
expression. It may soon be written that every
civilised man is prosy. Only here and there some
young and vital brain, escaping from the worry of
modern life, the weight of bookish ages, survives
to astonish us with the keen sight, the full emo-
tion, the glowing picture, born in some prehistoric
group of brain-cells perchance ten thousand vears
ago.
The moral is that a man should be kind to his
ancestors now they are old. If you are a Murphy,
before you read “The Decline and Fall of the
Roman Empire,” reflect that the mass of Gib-
bon’s resounding facts may bury Red Murtagh,
the B.C. bard, under a weight which will make it
impossible for him to emit one spark of the fiery
inspiration which gladdened the hearts of his
sept. If you are a Macpherson, think that the
study of medicine may murder an Ossian
within you. Your brain is the tomb of your
ancestors; but they have been buried alive —
if you listen you may hear them squeak-
ing. Conceive the array of personal
ghosts putting mournful heads out of their nerve-
cells when they wake up along with you each
morning, and hear Lah, the cave-man, remarking
to First-up-a-Tree, the ape-man: “He read a
society novel last night ! That was a barrowful
of clods on Johnson. Johnson’s dead ! ”
No ; don’t read so many books ; don’t acquire
so much experience; don’t worry your over-
burdened brain. Go out into the sun and the rain,
and let your ancestors talk to you. Love, fear,
hate, curiosity,—all your most vital emotions, —
they share them all. It may be, if you are a
weakling denizen of cities, that they still feel
them more keenly than you can feel with your
little bit of individuality. Reverence old age,
especially your own old age within your brain,
because that typifies the youth of your race, and
you can never be so young and joyous, so young
and strong, so young and loving, as your race has
beeu. It lias been said that to little children
belongs the kingdom of Heaven. It can be more
truly said that to little children belongs the king-
dom of Earth. And this is the gospel and the
Law.
♦
Re “Our Future” : I havo watched the long
procession of the critics of our own Australia file
past. One genuine factor of Australia’s future
they nearly all ignored—the Bush child. Some-
one, I believe, casually pitied him. I have known
him intimately for years, and never was pity more
misplaced, for lie is one of the happiest little crea-
tures under the sun. 111-clad, uncouth, expres-
sionless to the eye of the cultured outsider he may
be. But his first impressions are of air, sunshine,
and liberty. His meals, if little varied, and not
always of the best quality, are frequent and plen-
tiful. I have never seen a hungry bush child.
Later on he is promoted to a little shirt, made
from a flour-bag, and two shapeless evolutions
from his father’s moleskins, and the dogs and the
old pony (lean and uncomely, but to him models
of symmetry) become his cherished companions
and possessions, and the“crik” his happy hunt-
ing-ground. Such work as he is called upon to
perform is light and changeful, with frequent
intervals of relaxation.
His parents are unburdened with any feeling of
moral responsibility concerning him ; they merely
cuff him promiscuously when he becomes a per-
sonal nuisance. His mind is never disturbed by
conventionalities or religious difficulties, although
the minister is an occasional object of criticism
through a friendly chink in the kitchen door ; Und
when his eye aches the bush child goes outside
and criticises the minister’s horse, often with even
greater reason.
And he is at liberty to express his opinion (if
any) on all subjects with refreshing candour. Yet
the State school (an object of indifference or aver-
sion in some older countries) is regarded both by
him and by his parents with a pleasing sense of
proprietorship— “ our school ” and “ our teacher.”
And if the bush teacher be fairly capable, or,
better still, a “lady” teacher and prepossessing,
the bush child regards the teacher with admiring
curiosity.
The bush child is wonderfully persistent, won-
derfully adaptable, wonderfully full of resource—
when he chooses. But he does not always choose.
—J.B.
In “Jiff’s” notice of Kipling last week, Brovm
iwi’s “ Brahma ” should have read Emerson's
“ Brahma of course. But don’t let this correc-
tion spoil your natural pleasure in telling us.
[Several letters in defence of Plagiary held over.]
“Mr. Alfred R. Coffey . . . has been travelling
in Europe. . . . The young painter writes . . .
that he was especially delighted with Madrid, and
could scarcely tear himself away from the prin-
cipal picture gallery, which actually contained 62
Rubens, 10 Raphaels, 46- Murillos, 64 Velasquez,
43 Titians, 22 Van Dycks, &c.” No ;we have n’t
these in N.S. W. Gallery; but we have their names
(ay, and more names !) carved outside the Gallery
building.
One gets tired of all the fuss about the Mitchell
library, and the “splendid generosity” of the
Sydney donor who offers his “magnificent collec-
tion of books” to N.S.W. in exchange for per-
petual remembrance. What better can Mr. Mit-
chell do with his books ? They are of no use to
him, for he is n’t an original worker ; he Can only
keep them and gloat over them while he lives,
and when he dies he can’t take them with him.
If he turns them into money, he can’t spend the
money on personal enjoyment. There is nothing for
him to do but give them where they will be of use.
His action is to be praised, of course, as an ex-
ample to others ; but there is no generosity about
it—the gift will cost Mr. Mitchell nothing, from
his point of view. From the public point of view
the gift should be thankfully taken, and proper
accommodation should be provided for the books.
But N.S.W. Govt, has no money ; it has wasted
so much in riot and extravagance that even in-
creased revenue hasn’t helped it much. Well,
if IS.S. Wales won’t find accommodation, let Mr.
Mitchell offer his books to Victoria, or to the Com-
monwealth, or wherever he likes. They’ll be
just as useful in Melbourne as in Sydney.
The Kiama ghost isn’t thoroughly laid yet.
Kiama School of Arts has been considering a
solemn protest by the parish priest against one of
Joseph Hooking s novels, characterised as “an
outrage to Catholic instincts.” Joseph and his
brother Silas are both Methodist ministers, both
fifth-rate novelists, both panders to the illiterate
Nonconformist. If there is any difference be-
tween them, it is that Joseph is slightly the better
Methodist, and slightly the worse novelist. All
that the Kiama P.P. has secured is bold advertise-
ment for Joseph—to whom advertisement is the
breath of Silas’s life.
THE BOOKFELLOW.
THE REIVER’S HEART.
Across the Cheviot passes
Rode those rough sires of mine,
To lift the Southern lasses
And drive the Southern kine;
In epic and in idyl
Those days are but a dream,
Yet hand to Fancy's bridle
I ford the Boumont stream.
When all the world is sleeping
Beneath the Night's warm wing,
And the pale moon comes sweeping
With vanguard glistening,
And slow, in open order,
The starry scouts advance,
I cross the misty Border
To raid the Realm. Romance.
I force them to my bidding
Beneath the Jethart axe >•
I rob the kye-full steading
And fire the golden stacks ;
I lift the soft-eyed maiden
Across the champing steed ;
And so, with love light-laden,
Ride northward to the Tweed.
I see the stirks together
Crowd on before the steel;
I smell the dewy heather
That sweeps my rowelled heel;
I watch the red flames leaping
Above the ruined farm,
And hear the lone maid weeping
Below my bridle-arm.
A moor-cock, warned of battle,
Crows welcome in the mist :
Once—for our footsore cattle ;
Twice—for our maids rough-kissed.
Ho ! this is royal barter
For one short night in 'mail:
See ! Dawn upon the Carter l
And yonder’s Teviotdale l
Though now the hot hoofs thunder
No more down Coquet-sidc,
Nor South for white-armed plunder
The wild moss-troopers ride,
When Beauty wants a warder,
When fight and foray start,
We, bred upon the Border,
Have still the reiver's heart /
WILL H. OGILVIE.
THE FISHER FLEET.
I had been walking under stars
(How beautiful our Autumn nights t)
And close beside me gloomed the sea ,
With far-off, tossing, top-mast lights.
The wide, dark waters seemed to cry
For one to hearken their distress,
And on the waves a Wonder walked,
That strangely wrought my soul to guess.
A little while H was calm, and then
A wind with wetness on its wings
Came quietly and charged my blood
With memories of many things.
I saw a long-lost herring fleet
Sail landward in a sunset glow ;
But what the sea it sailed upon,
And to what land, I did not know.
A silver tumult in the boats
The clean, sweet-smelling herrings seemed;
And, here and there, was one that died,
The while its red gills gaped and gleamed.
With song and call the boats sailed on,
While night and dark began to creep
Upon the reapers of the sea
Who harvested the crowded deep.
But ah ! as one by one they filssed,
My heart, grown cold, scarce seemed to beat;
For one, who wore my eyes and hair,
Was Captain of the Fisher Fleet.
I stood in silence on the sand,
And all was clear as noon to me ;
In ancient days my soul had found
Dark kinship with the midnight sea.
N.S.W.
RODERIO QUINN.


PRICES
FOR ....
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN
OBTAINED BY CONSIGNING TO
Goldsbrough, Mori* Co.
and Reduced.
Circular Quay, Sydney,
Who render PROMPT RETURNS and safeguard your
Proceeds by their TRUST ACCOUNT System.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
>*■
C B B
\
58o*
5800
5800
/\S»
Sfio7
©IMB
mMJWfi
ran feed oof lo or boro.
CERTIFICATE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
application. Thousands Selling: Daily.
aviaa
isaoj
SUDDJQJIS m
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
WHITE’S
PATENT.
dowel jfUUcwmt
WHITE’S
PATENT.
Without Attachment.
The “TITAN” (Regd.)
Indispensable with the present tight*
fitting skirt.
Produces straight front without in-
creasing size of waist or impeding
action in walking, as it does not
require stocking - suspenders to
keep it in position.
Guaranteed not to ride up or wrinkle.
Idealises the symmetry of the figure and
gives indescribable elegance to the simplest
gown.
Reduces High Figures and Large Hips.
Restores the Figure after Confinement.
Affords great support with perfect ease and gives
permanent satisfaction to the wearer.
Can be attached without sewing to any corset. Underskirts
can also be attached without sewing to the lower edge, thus
further reducing size. Worn by Royalty.
Recommended by the Medical Profession. Thousands of un-
solicited Testimonials. To be obtained of all the best Drapers ,
and Ladies' Outfitters throughout Australasia.
With Attachment.
N.B.—When ordering, the size round largest part of hips should be given. Every Attachment is stamped “ TITAIV.”
In Black, White, and Ecru. Price 6/6.
Patentee and
Sole Manufacturer,
Mrs. A. WHITE, 4,2 &3, Langley Court, Long Acre, London, W.C.
r— T’-f Trade supplied through all the principal Wholesale Houses in Australia and New Zealand.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
THE
f OUiS* Velveteen.
NOTE WELL ! —Each Yard of Genuine “ LOUIS ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled an< * * n no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
'
9 to
'■v;
4
auunorc
•Or/
When
writing
pleeee
mention
Tn
BCIiLITIH.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
. ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
' LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
| Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
'They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.,
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0 i
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 8 0 I
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments SBO |
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0 |
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and {
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, |
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &o.
All communications should be addressed to— I
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elisabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney {
fsd
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
JO Plate*. 86 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Bases.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Katuie as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngand old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a brieht future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the iinforniation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist; post free Is. The
Art ok Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
Ilow to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, bv Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Editii O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 0d posted.
Chevasse's Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man Ills Own Carpenter, Is 0d posted.
NOTE. —STR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by iin are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from lam—ara
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, is Parkstr«t, Sydney.
SKINS
Send Your Consignments op
KANGAROO,
WALLABY,
RABBIT,
OPOSSUM SKINS
TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYD3NTEY.
They obtain the Highest Possible Prices.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and U O’CONNELL STBEET. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge ; 3 JPer Cent, to the Gf-rowera.
BONUS f PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
fifi
LAWRUS” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS A STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS BTAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
4fc f
OUUJUM
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
STOGDALE & DUFFUS, Finks Buildings, Corner of Elizabeth & Flinders Sts.,
Melbourne; and 422 George St., Sydney.
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will All your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other bodj' appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarlt3on’s Jtte-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dj'S-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORA TOR
V
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is trulv wonderful
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. 8 iruiy wonuenui.
Price —ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGOItATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
OAIXORWRITE- OWL B c A “ T T e BKUG STORE,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
PRIZE MEDAL DRESSING.
HAUTHAWAY’S
PEERLESS GLOSS
takes first prize medals at Boston, Vienna, London, Phila-
delphia, Melbourne, and all other leading cities, for pro-
ducing the finest possible polish, and absolute freedom
from all substances injurious to the leather.
It is the favorite dressing of the world for
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
shoes, as it is easily applied, retains its brilliancy, and will
not rub off and soil garments. Try it once and you will
use it always. Sold nearly everywhere. Made only by
*C. L. tIAITHAVAY £• SONS,
BOSTON, MASB.
O. S. A.


TATTERS ALLS.
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, HoTaart.
Grand National H. July 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me uTmrpg in the above.
Name.
J 3
t
Address.
Silver City 0. July 31.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALI*
Please allot mo shares in above.
Kurin
Address
Spring H. (Special) Aug. 10.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTEE.SALI*
Please allot me sharp-q in the above.
Nanw
Aridrp-sa
S
Adelaide G.N.H. Aug. 10.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALLb
Please allot me _ _ _ _ ah nr as in the above.
Kame
Address
Metropolitan S.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Sept. 9.
.shares in the abore.
Metropolitan S.
(SPECIAL)
60,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTEBSALL.
Sept. 9.
Please allot me.
shares in above.
For full particulars read our Printed Circular
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


MGIIRS
EMULSION
.WITH HYPOPHOSPHITBS,
FOR
WEAK LUNGS
AND ALL CHRONIC
Lung Affections.
THE best proof of tbe value of Angier’s
Petroleum Emulsion in the treat-
ment of Consumption and Chronic
Lung Affections is the fact that it is
prescribed extensively by eminent lung
specialists and is used in the large con-
sumption hospitals. Under its use appe-
tite is healthfully stimulated, digestion,
assimilation and nutrition greatly im-
proved, and a greater vitality and power
of resisting disease secured. It has also
great power to relieve the distressing
symptoms of Phthisis, such as coughs,
night sweats, and diarrhoea. We con-
fidently claim that it will do more to
prevent and cure Consumption than any
other remedy. Unlike Cod Liver Oil, it is
pleasant to take and agrees with and
benefits the most delicate stomach.
A FREE SAMPLE
On receipt of 4d. for poatage.
Mention SYDNEY BULLETIN.
Do not accept inferior imitations made with
ordinary Petroleum.
BE SURH TO GET ANGIER’S.
Of all Chemists & Druo stores.
THE A'!Gl r R CHFMICAL CO., LTD., BYDNEY. N.B.W.
li'ht
Soft, silky,
glossy, abun-
dant, beauti-
ful, elegant,
splendid,
handsome
you can’t find
words to de-
scribe a mag-
nificent head
of hair. Is this
the kind of
hair you have ?
Is your liair long enough, to suit you?
Does the color exactly please you ? In
a 'word, are you perfectly satisfied with
your hair ? If not, give it a good hair-
food. Give it
Iyer’s Hair Vigor
’Twill make you have long, rich, abun-
dant hair, and it will stop falling of the
hair, too. Ayer’s Hair Vigor always
restores color. You can depend upon
it every time. It brings back all the
rich, dark color you had when you
were young. If you are SO, there is
no need of looking as if you were 50
]ust because your hair is gray.
And you will like our Hair Vigor,
also, as a hair dressing; while it forms
a valuable addition to any toilet table
because of the elegant way in which it
is put up.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass.,U. S. A.
»LVpTy
Woundc
CpVCM S (OLPS {c'
[Beware of V
LADIES.
WHITE FOB VALUABLE FBEE BOOK
CONCKKKTOG TOUBSELVES.
300 e«flln« Ot, Melbourne
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SILK STRIPS
Mattalassk and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE ft SONS, Brisbane, Q'land
Australia!? MCitdal ProVidcpt Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LAIsDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers tlie privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
m
E.
0
/,
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 lOs-
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
&3T Send for a
Catalogue.
jgsta*
r -
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Eisrlit Vehicles
The Beat and Ckeayest.
H. HII/LIEE. 130 Sussex-street.
WOiks : MKLBOURNK-ST., CONCORD, SYDNK.Y
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
HIGHEST AWARD-GOLD
MEDAL—PARIS EXHIBITION, 1900.
FOOD
For INFANTS
and INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S FOOD yields a complete diet for the youngest
infants, in all climates. 1 ,
MELLIN’S FOOD retains its properties for any length ot
time and is adapted for use in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD when dissolved in milk, makes a simple
nutritious diet for growing children.
Samples etc., may be obtained of GOLT.TN & Co., 172, Clarence Street. Sydney, 562 4, Bourke
Street, Melbourne, Grenfell Street. Adelaide, and Wellington.
Mellin’s Food Company tor Australia and New Zealand Ltd., 56, Cannon Street. Lont on.
MELUN'S EMULSION
For COUGHS. COLDS,
and BRONCHTTIS.
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & CO., 172 Clarenoe Street, Sydney.
Visitors to the old country
SOUTH
KENSINGTON
HOTEL
QUEEN’S GATE TERRACE.
LONDON. S.W.
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
w
CONSIDERABLY ENLARGED. NOTED
FOR ITS COMFORT & CONVENIENCE.
ONE OF THE
MOST FASHIONABLE
HOTELS IN LONDON.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S) Seven Prize Medals Awarded,
Circular-Pointed Pens.
Neither scratch nor spurt, the
points being rounded by a new
process.
Attention is also
drawn to their
new
“GRADUATED
SERIES Of PENS.”
Each pattern being made in four degrees
mm
0. BRANDAUER & C os .
POINTED
a
of flexibility and Foivts. -
4 sk your Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either series•
works: BIRMINGHAM, ENCLAND.
THE HIGHEST CLASS TOBACCO.
In Three Strengths! MILD , MEDIUM, FULL .
HAS NO EQUAL IN
QUALITY AND
AROMA.
f
Modern Scientific
Authorities declare
“AHDAIH "
The Healthiest Tobacco /
Name of nearest Agent post free on appl'cation to
M. RUTTY & Co., Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:! LA C&pa de la Habana & “ Akdath ” Factory
Man iitac nrers of Pure Tobacco. 62, i cadenliail - treet, London. B-- gland.
U.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery IVTawf. Company
Note our New Address: 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNKV
When In town, pay ns a visit. Do you- want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
*Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7',
3-Spring Sulkies, i. 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, nil.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we oan. They cannot do io, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requlrtments.
(close to Kedfern Railway Nation).
OUR SPKCIAL Xo. 2
£8 18/6
It?** A
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.B.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10 /-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To Our Old Mate, Fortune.
You come not to the ranges, as in the days of old,
To flood our hearts with gladness, and fill our
hands with gold ;
You graced the New Land diggings with all we
held most dear,
Our sweethearts fi - om the Home Lands, our glad-
ness and our beer.
We met you first at Fryer’s (you may recall the
day
Dick “ shouted ” in your honor in a large histone
way)
To F'xviehawk you led us ; and thence to Myer s
Flat;
Then a golden reef you pegged for us on busy
Ballarat;
And when the shoot grew faulty we acted on your
“tip,”
We registered a company and gaily sold the scrip.
• * * *
You’ll own we acted squarely, “ Here s fortune,
boys ! ” we’d say,
And drank your health in liquor vile some twenty
times a day ;
Yet when—all through our faith in you—we
bought the “ Royal Prince,”
Without a word you left us, and haven’t shown
up since.
Now, is it mere divine caprice, or things that
Dick has said
(When in drink he’s disrespectful) that makes
you cut us dead ?
But anyhow, we’ve sought you long, and sought
you all in vain,
To say “ All is forgiven ; come and board with us
again 1 ”
v.
FRANK BELLMAN.
Walgett.
Where the Namoi, drifting slowly,
Joins the muddy Barwon stream ;
Where the ground is dry and holey
Want and hunger are supreme—
There, in all its dusty glory,
Stands the perished Walgett town,
Setting forth a piteous story
Typed in letters baked and brown.
Weary horses blindly wandering.
Seeking vainly for a bite ;
Workmen, at their wits’ ends, pondering
How to best maintain the fight.
Streets deserted, business stagnant,
Starving tradesmen void of rent;
Banks that clamour to the heavens
For the money they have lent.
Dried-up tanks, and rivers failing,
Scrub-trees coming to an end.
Wells worked-out with endless baling ;
Poison-weed down in the bend.
Jumbucks by the thousand dying,
Cattle bogging by the score ;
Creditors relentless, crying
As they’ve often cried before.
Ghostly spectre gliding slowly
Round the blighted homestead fence,
Where the ground is dry and holey
Through the ring-barked timber dense ;
His domain is wide and lonely,
And a goat, some haggard curs,
And a loony cow drift only
O’er its whited sepulchres.
Wandering swagmen limping forward
To the land of God-Knows-Where ;
Dust-storms flying westward, nor’ward,
Sand and heat and bones and glare ;
Pallid folks whose hearts are broken —
Track these indications down,
And you’ll know by that same token
You’re approaching Walgett town.
N.S.W.
D. H. RICHARDS.
S.M. Herald advt. :
TTAVE those you slighted me for, and I will love
someone else. To you, from M.
Evidently a philosophical and accommodating
person.
The sea-serpent begins to gain an air of
probability. The latest is that one of him—
probably a member of the sub-marine push—made
an unprovoked attack on a fishing-smack off
Corner Inlet (Victoria), and bit it so severely that
he left three teeth in the boat. The teeth are
there right enough, so the experience wasn’t all
fiction or all whisky.
There is some excitement at present in
Otago (M.L.), at a small rock-strewn waste some
eight miles or so from another melancholy spot
known as Middlemarch. A certain woman began
giving accounts of a man who made periodic visits
to her house, stealing, breaking, etc. About the
same time sheds, barns, and other structures of
the forlorn locality began to get mysteriously
burnt, with the result that the insurance offices
rose up in wrath and refused to “ take ” any risks
in the place aforementioned until the violent man
was captured. As usual it came to light that the
woman had done all these marvels herself. She
alleged that she was tired of the rocky wilderness,
and thinking others might be tired also thought
she would put a little excitement into their dull
lives. If she had been an Australienne she would
have added the Man with Violent Intentions to
her tale —but she was only a simple Maoriland girl,
and she did not think of that.


CALKIN CUPEL MACHINES.
r
oaikin's Automatic Cupel Machine.
Will make 600 cupels of uniform size
and density in an hour.
The only absolutely satisfactory machine
made.
Made in three designs—Automatic, Table
and Wall.
The automatic machines will make five sizes.
The table and wall machines from one to
three sizes, depending on dies furnished.
Machines for one size only at propor-
tionately less price.
Write for full particulars to
SOLE AGENTS-
piirke & each company etd.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n. B . w .
Importers of modern appliances for Assayers— Furnaces,
Blowers, Sampling Machines, Ore Crushers, eto., eto.
COMBINATION
PENDANT,
BROOCH, and
HAIR
ORNAMENTS.
Art
Jewellers
Jr.
&c.
-''SOKincST
Sydney.
all goods post free.
KINDLY SEND FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED SHEETS OF
NOVELTIES.
We have 50
Different Designs
in Stock.
sdf
sdf
15ct. GOLD COMBINATION PENDANT, BROOCH and HAIR ORNAMENTS.
Set with Beautiful Pearls, Set with Finest Quality Pearl and Turquoise
67/6 and 72/6 each. Beautiful Lustre Pearls, £5/10/-. set, £3/7/6.
Cl
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
A. BOWMAN’S
You Can Have
English Boots
.. AT ..
London Prices.
Best Style.
Best Quality.
No
Better
Made.
We do One Line—Gentlemen’s Boots—only.
That one we do WelL
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St., and
145 KING ST., op. Theatre Royal, SYDNEY
Also 294 Collins St., Melbourne.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
For
Uniform
Quality
Absolute
Purity
Excellent
Flavor
Hennessy’s
Brandy
Stands Alone.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
s
©ami!®
IV E TTFS.
YANKEE DOODLE
Is well in front in New South Wales, and forging ahead in
the other Australian States.
The Free Voice of the People is the Strongest Proof possible.
Customs figures show the Yearly Increase in the Sales of DIXSON’S TOBACCO
in NEW SOUTH WALES ALONE to be
1898 INCREASE - - 109,397 IIDS.
1899 INCREASE - - 1*73,332 lt)S
1900 INCREASE - - 223,263 lfc>S.
Over 100 TONS more Last Year than during 1899.
YANKEE DOODLE (LIGHT and DARK) The Great Mild Smoke
AND IS THE TOBACCO OF THE DAY!
CONQUEROR: Dark, Rich, Good —For Smoking and Chewing.
CHAMPION Gold Leaf, Plug and Cut —Choicest Natural Mayor—CUT, in Hermetically Sealed Patent
Tins. Champion Blended Stock Yankee Doodle.
BONANZA CIGARS-4 for 6d. in packets. Best value of any cigar.
MONO POLE The ORIGINAL ROTHSCHILD, and above all Imitations.
PIPES AND TOBACCO WARE OP ALL KINDS
DIXSON 4. SONS LTD., PARK STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vox- 22.—N0. 1114.
SATURDAY, JUNE 22, 1901.
Phich to.
THE SENATE,
Senator NEILD hoped the Senate would not
• agree to the motion. It was a most deliberate;
attempt to belittle the House, and troat it as
occupying the position of the Legislative Councils
of the different States The House was appar
ently to be treated by the Ministry in the matter
of publio expenditure simply as a Chamber oL
revision. % y
Sir J. Madden not only draws a salary of £3500
a year as Chief-Justice, but he also draws £5OOO a
year as Libutenant-Governor, bringing his official
income up to £B5OO, in addition to which he is
provided with an official residenoe at “ Stonning-
i !"?*?» Toorak. His Excellency does not occupy
otonmngton ” just now, on the plea that it is too
from Melbourne, but he is at liberty to use it
if he felt so disposed. The Government is anxious
Jto bring the matter to a termination, but the
.leisured run of tho correspondence is stringing the
negotiations out for an unconscionable time. Steps
are now being taken by the Ministry to ascertain
wbat the Secretary of State for the Colonies in-
tends to do in the matter.
Min
rf*r 1
NoW j 5
ftfujis'JeV f&r'
bav \*\\sf i®
'\SK'i *?&£«- wi-r" /
' r
<5 \ \
of
i H^^Wd
i\ ' ) frj' r ijz > 2k 6S uv 7 e /
-j\ *j? /f
>T\ ‘ I*7 7
nm
Y \tl
i/f' St> e *Xh«; 1
/ I trj*p "t<r a^ot^ev-r
l I ( Z oo ' Jfi
\ A 1 yfffl
\ * \ w e -^ x M/TJ
\ X. 'X Q \y 'Y
gr |
c*JI dtjetr] oa'T f y
ImMmmmmlmiMm
nmHiwss
mmmm.
MiSliffl r
//M4wnilYMv\ i I'f NN > Rll All ! P I i 1 fi ’ ■
> %|^l" *HP
'Wom? '7 °f, fej
/ |j«*J S« i ' r «7« u v'f«b 7£ de^
J5T4Vi.u f'WJ** ta yo Jl''
hjeeiiv <^/ oa •• J
The prompt rejoinder in the Herald of Satar*
day of Sir Matthew Davies to the remarks in tbe
■House of Representatives of Mr. King O’Malley,
■member for Tasmania, regarding the disappear*
enco of the Speaker’s Mace from Parliament
House in 1891, naturally aroused considerable in-
terest in political circles, and speculation was in-
dulged in as to whether Mr. O’Malley would
accept the challenge of Sir Matthew, and fight
out the whole case in the law-courts and outside
the bounds of Parliamentary privil^e.
MELBOURNIANA.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
44 A ustralia for the A'UBtv€t>liunB» pp
Filnted and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, WAverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
.t 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• £ £
Half-yearly ... ... ... 01A 6
Quarterly ... ... ••• (Job
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia.,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lid. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tiib Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and ail Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand _ that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street <Ss Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 3M> Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 33 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
SATURDAY, JUNE 22, 1901.
The Jap. on the Horizon.
A few weeks ago news reached Australia that the
British Government had vetoed the Queensland
Act providing that State aid should be given to
certain sugar mills with the condition, that no
colored labor should be employed therein—in
other words, that the Government, as the party
who found the money, and was, therefore, the
virtual employer, claimed the right, like any other
employer, to engage only white workers if it felt
that way inclined. Now an explanation comes by
cable :
Mr. J. Chamberlain, the Secretary of State for the
Colonies, in the House of .Commons last night, in answer
to a question as to the 'reason of the Royal assent being
refused to the passing of the Queensland Sugar Works
Guarantee Act Amending Bill, said that the Imperial
Government considered that the Queensland Bill
proceeded on objectionable grounds. The principle
of the policy of disqualification was based solely on
the place of origin of colored labor, and excluded the
Indian subjects of Great Britain solely for the difference
of race and color. Moreover, the disqualification was
offensive to the Japanese, who were placed in the cate-
gory of Asiatics subject to the bill regardless of their
civilisation.
What a clumsy lie ! Australia doesn’t care whether
the Asiatic was born in Asia or in Sheol. It doesn’t
care whether he is black, or brown, or bright-
green with red feet and a blue stripe down the
back. So far from excluding the Asiatic solely
on account of his race and color, neither his race
nor his color have anything to do with the matter.
Australia objects to' the whole Asiatic, African
and Kanaka tribe because they work for wages on
which only a person far lower in the scale of
civilisation than the white Australian can live,
therefore, where they are numerous, the white
man, in order to get work, has to come down to
their wage level, and, in consequence, to their
civilisation-level. It objects to them because they
introduce a lower civilisation. It objects because
they intermarry with white women, and thereby
lower the white type, and because they have
already created the beginnings of a mongrel race,
that has many of the vices of both its parents and
few of the virtues of either. If Judas Chamber-
lain can find a black, or brown, or yellow race, in
Asia or Africa, that has as high a standard of
civilisation and intelligence as the whites, that is
as progressive as the whites, as brave, as sturdy,
as good nation-making material, and that can in-
termarry with the whites without the mixed
progeny showing signs of deterioration, that race
is welcome in Australia regardless of color.
* « * *
Is Joseph _ Chamberlain said, as reported by
cable, that it was proposed, in Queensland or
any oth"~ oart of Australia, to put disabilities on
anyon< mse of his color, then Joseph Cham-
berla s shamelessly perverting facts. If he
said, as reported by cable, that it was proposed to
put disabilities on anyone by reason of the place
of his birth, then Joseph Chamberlain is
lying over once more. The Australian would
sooner be mulatto or Eurasian than white—if the
mulatto and Eurasian were a better man than the
white. If the Englishman in India will cease to
regard the native as an inferior; if he will look
upon the Eurasian as an equal and treat him as
such ; if, in an Empire which is 90 per cent, nigger,
he will let the black man have his fair share of such
billets as that of Viceroy of India, Commander in-
Chief (of the army which is furnished by the
mostly-nigger empire), colonial Governor, &c.; if
he will get into such a frame of mind that Queen
Victoria could have married an Indian rajah and
given a half-caste heir to the British throne with-
out causing any objection or disturbance—then
Joseph Chamberlain will have a right to say
things. If Britain’s Ktpling will cease to kipple
derisively about the half-bred race which forms
the outermost fringe of the European population
in India, and other English writers will mitigate
their scorn about the mongrel peoples of the
Levant—the “scum of the Levant,” as they are
often called—with the blood of Greece, Syria,
Egypt, the Archipelago and possibly of Italy in
their veins, then Joseph Chamberlain may look
less of a liar and a smaller amount of a fool.
If the same Joseph who prates of Japanese
“civilisation” as entitling the people of Japan
to enter Australia on equal terms, will show
that he believes there is a real Japanese
civilisation by seriously considering the ques-
tion of a royal intermarriage with the Japan-
ese reigning House, then he will also look a
more desirable character. Britain wants badly to
cement its alliance with Japan. British royalties
are many, and desirable alliances for them are not
always easy. And Joseph O. holds that the
ordinary working Jap is a civilised person whom
the ordinary working Australian has no cause to
regard otherwise than as a desirable mate and
brother. Let him consider how long his billet
would last, and how long he would be in a position
to find desirable jobs for his relatives, if he pro-
moted a marriage between a royal Jap and a royal
Briton. Let him propose it to Edward VII., and
then let them size-up their joint opinion about
Japanese civilisation.
m m 9 *
The Englishman has a profound scorn for
colored races, even when he is only an intruder
in the colored man’s country. He believes
in Parliamentary Government, but in every
colony or possession where the black population
is in the majority he has either so fixed
the franchise that Parliamentary power is
reserved to the white minority, or else got over
the difficulty by having no Parliamentary au-
thority at all. If the colored man started to
invade Britain on a large scale, and cut wages
there, and aggravate the people whose votes keep
Joseph Chamberlain in office, this scorn would
probably develop into active hatred. The Briton
is strong upon the right of the colored British
subject to travel within the empire wheresoever
he pleases; as that colored fellow-subject is de-
barred by the rigorous climate from swamping the
United Kingdom, that is just the sort of right
that the Briton would be likely to be strong upon.
The Australian, who is liable to be swamped,
doesn’t see where the black man’s right to travel
all over the empire comes in, but he is shocked to
some extent at the high-handed tyranny of
the Chamberlain gang in refusing the black
man the inalienable privilege of political freedom
and Responsible Government. Still, when
Chamberlain and co. explain that circumstances
at their end make it imperative to deprive nine-
tenths of the King’s subjects of political free-
dom, Australia is quite prepared to let it go at
that. Equally urgent circumstances at this end
make it imperative to deprive the black man of
his alleged right to free locomotion throughout the
Empire, but Chamberlain and co. refuse to see
it. A fair inference seems to be that Chamber-
lain and eo. are an aggregate hypocrite as well as
an aggregate perverter of the truth.
m m * m
It is impossible to have a large colored alien
population in the midst of a white population
without a half-caste population growing up
between the two. India proves that; would prove
it much more conclusively only the white popula-
tion isn’t large enough to be a very extensive
?arent to the Eurasian mongrel. Spanish and
ortuguese America show it. The United States
show it. Queensland shows it already to an alarm-
ing extent. And Australia thinks highly enough of
its British and Irish descent to feel a desire to
keep the race pure. This may be a mistake, of
course. It may be that the British race isn’t
worth keeping pure. Joseph Chamberlain evi-
dently thinks so, and certainly if all the British
race was like Joseph its preservation would be
very doubtful policy. When there were no re-
strictions upon the influx of Asiatic immigration
it flowed into Australia at a rate which, if it had
not been checked, would have monstrously
adulterated the scanty white population of
this country. Between 1881 and 1891 the half-
caste Chinese in Victoria increased by 500 per
cent., while the white Victorians increased by
32 per cent. But for the early restrictions put
on the Chinese influx, whereby there were not
enough Chinese fathers to go round, Victoria
would apparently be almost a wholly mon-
grel State by this time —and Victoria is in a
better position than the other mainland States.
A continent with only 4,000,000 white in-
habitants, and with 800,000,000 colored people
at its back door, is easily mongrelised,
unless it shuts that back door hard. Aus-
tralia doesn’t want to be mongrel. It values its
British descent a great deal more highly than does
Renegade Joe of Birmingham. And if, through
Britain’s ignorant and brutally-selfish course of
action, it ultimately loses its white status to a
great extent, then the Briton will be the first to
jeer at it for doing so, just as he jeers at the
Eurasian mongrel and the Levantine.
* * * *
And yet Australia doesn’t care a straw for mere
whiteness, and when Joseph Chamberlain says
that it objects to any race because of its color or
birthplace, then Joseph Chamberlain is lying.
The fact that Joseph Chamberlain is lying can’t
be too strongly impressed. What Australia val ues
is the fact that the white man leads the world in
almost everything. If Chamberlain can show a
black or brown race with higher civilisation, and
higher mental capacity, and a greater ability to
lead the world, than the white, then Australia
wants to import 10 millions of that race as soon as
possible. But there is no such race. The Japan-
ese is probably the nearest approach to it, but
even he doesn’t fill the bill. If Britain is shocked
at Australia’s desire to maintain its pure Euro-
pean descent, then Britain doesn’t know the value
of its own white status, and is only fit to be a
nigger, and a very poor kind of nigger at that.
The Examp’e of Ontario.
“ A good deal was being said about the reduction of
members of the Leg. Assembly, but instead of this he
would advocate the abolition of the Upper House as being
unnecessary and useless. If it was desired to save money,
let them abolish the Leg. Council as being altogether
superfluous. (Cheers.) The party would still work for
this principle regardless of what Government had the
credit of doing the work. Any Ministry could have the
honor and the glory.”— N.S. IF. Labor-leader M'Goioen.
To the above The Bulletin says Amen. Or,
rather, The Bulletin said these things first, long
before M‘Go wen or the Labor-party appeared in
N.S.W. politics, and M‘Gowen says Amen. Not
that it matters much who says Amen. Almost
every person and party in N.S.W. is agreed that,
since the labors and responsibilities of the State
Parliament have been so much reduced through
Federation, a less cumbersome legislative machine
should now serve the State’s purpose. And
when the cutting-down process begins it is obvi-
ously advisable to cut off the most useless thing
first. The Leg. Council of N.S.W. represents
nobody except itself and the dead-and-gone Mini-
stries by which it was appointed. Many of its mem-
bers were sent to where they still are that they might
support the views of Ministries of the ’Bo’s, the
’7o’s, even the ’GO’s—Ministries that are buried
personally as well as -politically. The N.S.W.
Council doesn’t even represent Property —it re-
presents tombstones, or places where tombstones
used to be. It is unpaid, though it costs a great
deal in free railway-passes and expenses. It is
seldom there; the Council sits very little,
and when it does sit niast of its members are
absent. When it is in a good mood it passes Bills
just as they come from the Assembly, which the
Y.M.C.A., or the Band of Hope, or the Mothers’
Sewing Meeting could do quite as effectively. It
requires no labor or intelligence to say “ ditto.”
When it is in a had mood it alters or rejects Bills,
and if the matter involved is one of any impor-
tance whatever, a howl goes up from the Assembly
about “ infringing the rights of the People’s re-
presentatives,” or “defying the Popular Cham-
ber,” or “resisting the expressed will of the
People.” The complaint always directed against
the Council is that it is not useful, and it can’t be
useful by agreeing to everything the Assembly
says and does, and when it doesn’t agree there is
Sheol to pay.
* • * •
Of course, when the Council disagrees it
generally disagrees the wrong way. It either
doesn’t interfere at all, when it is useless, or else
it interferes in the cause of Toryism, when it is
injurious. In other words, the complaint is that the
Council ought to be more liberal and progressive
than the Assembly, and it isn’t. But no sane
person could possibly expect these stationary old
men, who are responsible to nobody, and who doze
far from the madding crowd of influences which
help to keep the Assembly up to the mark, to be
the more progressive body of the two. If they
were, their active interference would still be re-
garded as an insult to the Popular Chamber and a
gross interference with the rights of the people.
The Council originates practically nothing—it
doesn’t get a chance to do so. Money Bills can’t
be first introduced in the Council, which knocks
off half its possible usefulness. Money Bills
can’t be altered there, so the Upper House,
if it did want to check the awful financial
vagaries of the Assembly, could only do so by
stopping Supply altogether, which would bring
down on its head a storm of rage such as a much
less ancient and infirm body could hardly be
expected to face. Very little even of the Govern-
ment’s formal business is originated there. The
few Bills the Council starts on its own account are
only small private measures of hardly any import-
ance. The Council has no voice in deciding by what
kind of Ministry the country shall he governed.
It is a House of Review, which isn’t allowed to
seriously review anything. It is kept in existence
mainly that it may, now and then, oppose the
Assembly, as an inmate of the Old Men’s Home
might oppose a large, healthy prize-fighter; so
that the Assembly may get a chance to talk
largely about the sacred rights of the people, and
show its valour and resolution and democratic
spirit by biffing the feeble old obstacle out of its
road. Yet if it never got in the road a rubber-
stamp would do as well, and the Council would
presently be told so with contempt. An unrepre-
sentative body of old men, who are jeered at for
being old and for being unrepresentative when
they can’t help either circumstance, and who are
not allowed to be useful and are scorned for being
useless—that is N.S.W.’a Legislative Council
nowadays.
* * * *
It is beneath the dignity of N.S.W. to keep
this helpless butt and Aunt Sally on its premises
any longer. Anybody who keeps an aged and in-
firm relative in his house to be a subject of
derision is regarded as something less than a man,
and that is exactly what N.S.W. does with its
Upper House. The Council might be made a
paid and representative body, with the same
power, and elected on the same liberal franchise, as
the Assembly, and only differing from it in the
fact that it would be chosen by the whole State
as one constituency, so that it would repre-
sent the State as a whole, in contra-distinction
to the other body which represents the State in
125 parts. Or, as the Federal Senate pretty well
fills that bill now, it might be better for it to be
abolished altogether. There is any amount of
British precedent for its abolition. The great
bulk of the provinces which make up the British
empire are run with only one legislative body
apiece. Where there are two, it is generally the
case that the Upper House is a body of nominees
preserved as a relic of the despotism of the old
Crown Colony days, in order to prevent the power
falling wholly into the hands of the people, who
might do something rash. The process is usually
one of evolution. First, there is one House of
Legislature nominated, or mostly nominated, by
the Crown. Then there is reluctantly added an
elective House,-the old nominee Chamber being
preserved to sit on its head and keep it in subjec-
tion. Finally, there is the stage when the nomi-
nee Chamber wears out and becomes useless
for its evil purpose, and a mere object of
contempt, and by that time its abolition is
due. Five- of the seven provinces of Canada
(New Brunswick, Ontario, Manitoba, British
Columbia, and Prince Edward Island) with a
total population of over 3,000,000, get along
peacefully enough with an elected Assembly
apiece, and no Upper Houses whatever. The
great North-West Territories of Canada also
struggle on with only an Assembly, and there the
people even elect the Government. Ontario, the
doss province of Canada, has 222,000 square miles
and (in 1891) 2,114,321 people, against N.S.W.’s
310,700 square miles and (in 1891) 1,132,234
people ; yet though Ontario has nearly twice the
population of N.S.W. and a very large area, its
single chamber of 94 members answers all require-
ments. It answers so well that Ontario has
actually no State debt whatever, being almost the
only section of the British Empire so situated.
The Bulletin has an idea that this big Canadian
province is a reasonably good precedent for
N.S.W. (with its two Houses and its 184 legisla-
tors) to follow. Canada and Australia are the only
two Federations in the British Empire. Canada s
subordinate States are the only ones in the British
Empire which can serve as a precedent for the
subordinate States of this Commonwealth. And
when five out of the seven have adopted the one-
chamber system there is an overwhelming pre-
ponderance of precedent in that system’s favor.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
These Billets.
After reading the extensive explanations of
Sydney Telegraph re all the appointments which
the Lyne Government bestowed upon people con-
nected with it, the situation appears to be this :
The Telegraph, after violently opposing Lyne and Co.
for many years, started to support them rather cordially
on the ground that they had agreed to let the fiscal issue
slide till the Federal Parliament took over the tariff ques-
tion, therefore their fiscal principles didn’t matter.
The Lyne Government simply rained valuable public
billets and concessions on people connected with the
Telegraph.
The Telegraph did not support the Lyne Government
for the sake of these billets and profits.
The Lyne Government didn’t give the billets in pay-
ment for past support, and as a corrupt inducement
towards future support.
It was all an-unfortunate and beastly coincidence.
The See Government is composed almost wholly of the
same materials as the Lyne Government, and on the fiscal
issue has exactly the same claims to the Tele-
graph’s support. In fact, it has even greater claims, for
the fiscal issue is more completely dead in State politics
now than it was in Lyne’s day. The See Government
doesn’t appear to have given or offered the Telegraph
crowd any billets worth mentioning.
The Telegraph is frantically hostile to the See Govern-
ment and demands that it be wiped out—principally
because its members are mostly Protectionist, just as they
and Lyne were in the days when the Telegraph sup-
-1 orted them.
Tiiis attitude has nothing at all to do with the question
of Government billets either.
And now the Government has no cause to complain, so
far as the billets were concerned, for if all these valuable
concessions were not given to the Telegraph people for
the corrupt purpose of buying that paper’s support it
can’t grumble when the article which wasn’t bought is
not delivered.
And it is difficult to see that the Telegraph has any
cause of complaint either. When it practically ceased its
hostility towaius an enemy of such long standing as Lyne,
and Lyne started to bestow billets on its people with such
Tins Waggon Government.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The Boer Government now consists of Mr. S. Burger,
the “Acting” President, General L. Meyer and Mr.
Smuts, the ex-Staats Attorney, and Mr. F. W. Reitz, ex-
State Secretary of the Transvaal. The members of this
so-called Ministry are reduced, since at no time in the
Transvaal can it remain for a consecutive fortnight in
safety, to trekking about the veldt. The whole outfit of
the ‘Government’ consists of five waggons and a Cape
cart.”— Cablegram, daily paper, 10th June, 1901.
Lo, the “ Ministers ” of Britain, in the merry month of
June,
Sitting in upholstered chambers, comfortably, to com-
mune 1
And the theme that claims attention (Jingoes well will
understand)
Is the Glory of the Empire (and the ruling of the Rand—
Is the burning-off of homesteads and the ruling of the
Rand).
But from out the lanes of England—ringing sweetly with
the notes
Rushing, gushing forth in gladness from the thrushes’
mellow throats—
Comes a moan of maid and mother, comes the Nation’s
mournful cry
With the wailing of her widows for the men who fought
to die.
Do the statesmen hear the moaning ? And the mourning
—do they see ?
Ah, the walls of State are padded with a wealth of luxury !
For they fill up “To The Empire,” to the brim they fill
the cup;—
Millions more for war are wanted—we must put the taxes
up;
We must show the mighty powers with the weight behind
our guns
How the people’s sons take vengeance for the people’s
butcher’d sons;
How the Britisher for freedom with the God of Battle
quests
While he fights for King and Country (and for Vested
Interests).
So they fill up to “ The Empire ” —they are Englishmen
and brave—
Fill and drink and shout for glory while the soldier fills—
the grave.
But the statesmen of the Transvaal ! Have they gilded
halls of State ?
Yea !—a caravan of waggons in a country desolate.
But they fly the flag of Freedom, though their strengtn be
almost spent,
As they trek across the kopjes with their “ Waggon Gov-
ernment.”
’Tis not theirs to shout for “ Empire ” ; ’tis not theirs to
toast a king ;
’Tis not theirs from sweated workers taxes for a war to
wring ;
Only theirs—the four undaunted—onward now to point
the way,
With their rifles for their warrant and their freedom for
their pay.
Past the graves of heroes fallen—hark the women’s woe-
ful wail!
Past the burnt and blackened homestead, staring from
each veldt and vale.
Answering the stern invader with the Mauser ringing
true—
They are trekking into hist’ry as “ The Ever-Dauntless
Few.”
For the cry from St. Helena and from Ceylon’s prison
shore,
And the thinned commandos fighting as they never fought
before,
Give them hopes of other nations—other nations white
/ and free—
Stretching out a hand to help them to a newer Liberty.
No, not theirs the cushioned chamber, and not theirs to
toast a king ;
Never theirs from sweated workers taxes for a war to
wring;
Only theirs the hope of Freedom, though their strength be
almost spent,
As they trek across the kopjes with their “ Waggon Gov-
ernment.”
MILKY-WHTTE.


liberality, the coincidence was bound to awake suspicion
as to the purity of its motives. A paper that can’t see an
approaching coincidence like that deserves no sympathy.
4
Australia’s “ City Beautiful.”
“ Wurrym ” offers a design for a Federal capital:
The Oit.v Beautiful—that’s not necessarily my name,
but it’s my idea for the Federal capital. For fourteen
years I have been dreaming it, planning it, and tearing
up the plans. I submit it now to you (quantity of com-
plimentary remarks struck out here. —Ed. B.), in the hope
that, if there is one reasonable suggestion among much
husks, you will impress that suggestion on those who
are going to build City Beautiful.
Our City must be builded on many little hills. It can-
not be entirely beautiful if it be not. So much being
granted, the man who designs it must be one of
broad ideas, an artist capable of thinking broad effects,
not a niggler. The thoroughfares must be long and wide,
say two chains between kerbs, with sidewalks 15ft., or
even 20ft., in breadth, for we are going to build a city for
all time. Midway in the street, at intervals, shall be
islands for foot passengers. It is on the islands that the
electric-light poles will be set. The streets will be at right
angles, so that the city will be cut up into a series of squares.
Now only alternative squares will be leased for building
purposes, so that every row of residences will face an
open square at least an acre in extent, for the intersec-
tions of streets will be 10 chains apart. There will be 24
residence-sites in each block, for no residence shall be
built on the allotment of the land-shark, where health and
common decency are not. The building blocks in our
city shall be large and roomy, 300 ft. x 55ft., therefore he
who builds may, nay must, not approach his neighbor by
nearer than 15ft. The cheap suburban terrace shall have
no place in our city, and the semi-detached cottage shall
be a thing to be utterly abhorred. So it shall not be
possible for you to be awakened by the snore of your
neighbor, for if the neighbor shall have more than a 15ft.
snore then he shall he outlawed. The residence blocks
will be intersected by a road one chain wide, to give
access to the back premises or the houses, but no road
shall intersect the garden blocks.
The business-sites need only have a frontage of 22ft.,
but shall be not less than 84ft. in depth. This will be
arrived at by running two intersecting streets one chain
wide across the block. The Houres of Legislature must
occupy an eminence in the centre of the city. Near them
will be the markets. Close at hand, also, will be the law
courts and the offices of government, with the city lying
all around to the outskirts, where the sewage farm, and
the incinerator, and the crematorium, and the bonemills,
an 1 tanneries will be on the one side, and the boiler fac-
tories, and foundries, and sawmills on the other. At one
boundary of the city the makers of stinks, and at the
other the makers of noises.
The government of the city shall he in the hands of its
citizens—subject, of course, to the supreme control of the
Federal Government. To begin with, the residents
around each square —I adopt the English term for a
vacant space surrounded with houses—shall be, by virtue
of their tenancy from the State, members of a guild which
shall conduct the management of the square of which
they are the guild. They shall elect one of their number
as representative to the council of the ward, or collection
of, say, 10, 20, any number of guilds. Each ward-council,
of which there shall be eight, shall elect from among
themselves a member of the council of aldermen, but the
citizens alone can elect a mayor. It shall be competent for
any 25 citizens, three at least from each ward, to demand
a referendum on any subject, so that if an alderman be
considered unfit for the position after attaining it, he
may, by a majority of one, at a referendum of not less
than three-fifths of the citizens, be cast out of office.
There, I’ve set down things that may look like dreams,
but we Australians do want a City Beautiful and a City
Healthy.
A Slump in the contingent Business.
The Jingo business is not what it was in Aus-
tralia. Listen to this horribly muddled oration
by ex-Minister “Joey” Carruthers, of N.S.W.
(Sydney D.T. report)
But the Government in recent times has shown a disre-
gard of true public opinion. So far as the sending of
contingents away is concerned, a great public service has
been served. . . . As a mere advertisement, if for nothing
more, it has done incalculable benefit to N. S. Wales and
the rest of Australia. Contingent after contingent was
sent away— we even sent one to China, God knows why—
but how different the going away and the coming home !
(Loud cheers.) When these men went away they were
told that those whom they left behind should be well
looked after and made the care of the people, but we find
to-day that notone but scores and even hundreds have come
back,'lost their billets, and are trudging about the streets
of Sydney trying vainly to get work—(cries of “ Shame”)
—and vainly pointing out that they went to fight the
battles of the Empire and to represent Australia. They
are almost denied admittance to the public oDices. (Loud
cheers.) I say that any Government, if it rightly inter-
prets the wishedof the people, cannot have all the gain
and glory of the movement without being prepared to
fulfil the obligations. The Government has had all the
honor, and it cannot afford to neglect the men whom it
has used for the purpose. No matter if they be the veriest
■ragamuffins, they have done good service for us, and we
certainly are indebted to do a little more than the mere
3s. or 4s. per day which we have to pay them. (Cheers.)
Kipling’s lines—“ 1 It’s Tommy here, and Tommy there,’
and ‘ chuck ’im out, the brute ’; but it’s ‘ saviour o’ his
country ’ when the guns begin to shoot ” —are particularly
applicable just now. I say that this Government, having
got all the honor and glory and continuance in office by
reason of these men, they should keep their promises to
these men, and keep, too, the public to their promises.
(Loud cheers.) I do not advocate that there should
be any lavish expenditure or waste, but I would
recommend the Government, even at this late hour,
to appoint some board of responsible and reputable
men, to take in hand the cases of those soldiers, and see
what can be done to help them into positions, and thus
save them becoming loafers on the State. (Cheers.) We
subscribed our money to a patriotic fund ; but we know
what difficulty we had in getting enough money to keep,
in this electorate, the wife and family of a mandat the
front whose draft had gone astray. (“ Hear, hear.”) The
men who risked their lives, and the lives of their children,
in our behalf, having soundly and well advertised Aus-
tralia—to put it even on the lowest basis—having helped
to cement the Empire—let them find that their country
recognises their services, and keeps faith to the letter.
(Loud cheers.)
Now, just let ex-Minister Joseph Carruthers
(who aspires to the N.S.W. Premiership) come
outside and look at himself. First he says that
N.S.W. has gained incalculable benefit by the ad-
vertisement its contingents have given it. How
did it get the benefit ?—not in increased commerce,
nor in increased manufactures, nor in enlarged
agricultural production, nor in lower-priced loans,
nor in enlarged population; the contingents
didn’t help in any of these matters. They cost a
huge lot of money, killed or crippled many valu-
able men—and the visible result is one or two
titles, and the broad hint by Joe Chamberlain
that this country must cease to exclude the cheap-
labor Jap because Britain wants to keep on good
terms with Jap-land. Where is the incalculable
benefit that the blatant Carruthers is talking
about ? Then Carruthers sneers at the latest con-
tingent—the Chinese one —and says : Hod only
knows why it was sent at all.” Great Scott.
Wasn’t it sent to gather in the incalculable
benefits that Carruthers was just talking about t
He must be taken to suggest roundaboutly that
the contingenters are the “ veriest ragamuttins
which is a coarse and brutal and hideously un-
grateful way to speak about the men who brought
back these incalculable benefits. He says that
the Government has shown a disregard of public
opinion in not finding billets for the returned con-
tingenters, and if it “rightly interprets the
wishes of the people ” it will find them billets.
Also he says that public opinion cares so little
about the matter that he could hardly raise
enough money in his own electorate to support
the wife and family of one soldier, and he wants
the Government to “keep the public to their
promises” in the matter. If the public are to
keep the Government up to the mark and the Go-
vernment is to keep the public up to the mark, then
who on earth is to keep both of them up to the mark.
And Joseph says that the contingent business
has been of “incalculable benefit to N.S.W. He
also says the Government has had all the gam
and glory of the movement,” and these state-
ments can’t both be true. Also it seems that the
noble contingenters are people who will become
“ loafers on the State ” unless the State finds
billets for them, The State has already found
them a steady job for 12 months or so at about
twice the pay they were earning in the backblocks
these hard times. And other men, who haven t
had a 12 months’ steady job, have to hustle for
billets themselves. Does Carruthers mean that
the contingenters are such a helpless lot,
and so utterly lost to honest industry,
that they can’t find jobs for themselves in the
open market as ordinary men have to do, espe-
cially in a State which is prospering so gloriously
under the advantages of Freetrade ? If they are
only as good as average men (and they are said to
be the pick of N.S.W.) they have quite as good a
chance as other men, unless public opinion hates
them so utterly that people won’t employ them at
any price. And in that case, what is Carruthers
talking about when he says the Government’s
neglect of them shows “ a disregard of true public
opinion ?” In fact, what is J. Carruthers talk-
ing about in any case. There appears to be a
dreadful slump in the contingent business some-
where.
4
Concerning' “ Tattersall.”
The Federal Government is asking for power in
the Post and Telegraph Bill to suppress Tatter-
sall by the simple process of stopping delivery of
his letters, and Neil Lewis, C.M.G., as Premier
of the circular spot with dampness around it
whereon Tattersall at present has his local habi-
tation and his gamble, denounces this as an un-
constitutional Federal interference with State
rights. In this matter Lewis hasn’t the ghost of
a case. Posts and Telegraphs are wholly a Federal
affair, and the authority which owns the Postal
Department always has the right to refuse to
carry objectionable matter within its dominions.
Also it has the sole right to decide what is objec-
tionable matter. But while the Federal Govern-
ment is absolutely within its rights in demanding
powers to stop Tattehsall’s correspondence
(which is the same thing as stopping Tattersall)
there will be grave doubts as to whether it is
absolutely in its senses if it uses these powers.
It can certainly make Tattersall move on.
N.S.W. suppressed him, and thereby lost a con-
siderable amount of postal revenue, and he simply
moved on, and N.S. W. gambled as much as ever,
sending its money to Tattersall’s new
address. Queensland suppressed him, and lost
much postal revenue, and didn’t suppress local
gambling worth a cent ; lie moved on again, and
local money went into his sweeps just the same.
If the whole Commonwealth suppresses him he
will doubtless move on to New Caledonia, or some
such place ; and the Commonwealth will lose
much postal revenue, and it won’t stop the vice of
gambling in the least. Unless the Commonwealth
takes power to stop all correspondence addressed
to Tattersall, or any other person in his line
of business, anywhere, it is only snuffling and
pouring water into a belltopper without any
crown. And if it stops letters addressed to
a respectable resident of a French or Ger-
man colony, carrying on a legal business
there by arrangement with the local Govern-
ment,, then there is always a possibility of trouble.
Yet the Federal Government must take the risk
of doing this ; or else let Tattersall remain
where he is; or else wipe him out by establishing
in his place a Government Tattersall so as to
make as much profit as possible out of the
gamble ; or else it must write itself down as a mud-
dling and inefficient Government that throws
away good revenue merely to allay the inward
shrieks of an ill-regulated conscience.
4
More South Foie.
Ed. Bulletin. —The Northern Pole of Thought
should find its opposite, its complement, in the
South. What is the good of the Equator if it does
not help us to find our own equation ? Are we
going to be a decimal to Europe ? or are we going
to get in front of the dot and have an integral
value of our own ? Let us be Ourselves. Any fool
could be someone else, made to order by the
mental tailors of the colleges. The old world is
already hard at work telling us what to do and
how to do it. Our elder sister, America, looks at
us superciliously (when she deigns to look at all)
measuring us by her everlasting dollar standard.
Our type is different, and should be made to differ
vigorously. Protectionists of local knowledge,
we should levy prohibitive sarcasm on the dear
elder worlds who would give us good advice from
their stores of prejudice. The ocean puts things
in proper perspective. The isolation of Australia
tends to individuality, aided by the decrease of
immigration since the superficial riches of
alluvial goldfields and early territorial con-
cessions have given place to the era of the
multitude with the limited income. It is this
multitude which has to cook a new joint or
compound a tough hash of the old materials.
We begin our National life with Upper and
Lower Houses both elected by the same manhood
suffrage. In this there is a world of hope, if only
the National mind will also start its estimates
from a manhood standard. We have found it ex-
pedient to poll-tax the Chinaman, and to quaran-
tine plaguey persons. A poll-tax, or at any rate,
a popular quarantine, should be inflicted upon
persons suffering from hereditary disease in their
opinions—the supercilious person, and (when she
can be identified) Mrs. Grundy, who, worse than
many Chinamen, demoralises the Silly Woman,
who is the Fetter of Nationality just as the sensi-
ble woman is the Crown. The supercilious Briton
is mostly of the Norman habit of mind—a narrow
and obstinate habit, mediaeval in the worse sense.
The social anomalies of the supercilious and the
obsequious must be got rid of. The infection of
this style of thought is great, as we see by the
modern Beerage. Our own wealthy class would
soon receive it if their tenure of glory were not
evanescent. The presence of numbers of un-
doubtedly vulgar people in high places here has
done much to preserve us from grovel, but it is
high time that the declaration of the social
independence of this new democracy should be
affirmed by people of intellect and cultivation.
The National style should be founded upon the
real Australian unconventional, easy-going, ready-
witted, reticent type, cultivated free of humbug-
weeds. Such was the manner of the Greeks in
their prime. It is a manner utterly opposed to
the Philistine or bourgeois frames of mind. The
Puritans took these to America, but Australia
was founded rather by the Robin Hood type, the
historic ancestor of the Gumsucker. Ideals are
much. If we can only get the National idea pro-
perly Australised in time to prevent our most
prominent classes from becoming Philistine or
Shoddily European, then we can keep expelled
the old chimera of aristocracy, plutocracy and
precedent, as we do the small-pox. Yes, to be
truly ourselves we must locate the Southern Pole
of thought, and maintain a friendly polarity
cheerfully opposed to the traditions of authority
beyond the Equator. So shall we best balance
the world and benefit the race.— Point Blank.
4
An agricultural man writes about a leakage: —
If the N.S.W. Lands Minister will direct his officers to
prepare a return covering the improvement leases disposed
of during the past five years, and will devote an hour to
an analysis of that return, he will come to some useful
conclusions. He will find that the vast majority of these
leases —probably four-fifths—have been bought by the
runhclders at the upset price—that is, without competi-
tion, and that the remainder have brought anything from
twice to five times the upset price. These latter will be
found to be mostly situated in the older settled districts
where the original runs are divided into numerous small
estates, and where small capitalists are plentiful. The
farmer will be found to be in districts where the land is
divided between the selector and big squatter.
One of the unwritten laws of the bush is that no squatter
shall encroach upon his neighbor’s run, therefore the
reason for this lack of competition becomes obvious. The
return will also show isolated leases even in the thinly-
peopled districts which have brought rentals double,
treble, or quadruple the upset price. These cases, where
the intrinsic value has been reached, are accounted for
by an outsider “ chipping in,” or by “ arrangements ”
having fallen through and someone “ turning dog” on his
neighbors. If the Minister will make judicious outside
inquiries he will hear of smart men who pocket
a frequent £5O or £lOO for simply being absent
when the leases are offered. It is to be re-
membered that there is no question of settlement
involved in this matter. The Lands department assumes
open competition by offering these leases to the highest
bidder ; the only consideration is one of revenue. Judged
by results, the present system is the worst possible one,
as the State gets far below the intrinsic value of the land,
and the public is demoralised h.v the intrigue, chicanery,
and blackmail the system developes. One line of improve-
ment would be to let by- tender. Many a small settler or
outsider would compete by secret tender, but though often
prepared to give twice or thrice the upset price, it
is now useless for him to inspect one of these leases, for if
he opposes the squatter at auction he can count on cer-
tain defeat. The run-holder with adjoining country,
water, and plant can afford more than the small settler
every time —when he is run to it. Knowing this, the out-
sider does not bid, as he only gets himself disliked for his
trouble, and thus the squatter isn’t rushed. The tender
system would largely block “knock-outs” and discount
“ arrangements,” but the auction is too heavily loaded
against the State. Further, the Minister might look to
his appraisers, for whilst inferior country is occasionally
ov-'f.valued better country is often scandalously under-
valued.
Sydney Daily Telegraph is furious at the tacit
understanding between the See and Labor parties
concerning the impending State election, and
loudly condemns “the unholy alliance.” Some
three years ago, when the support of over 20
Labor members alone saved the Reid Government
for months, the Telegraph was enthusiastic at
the “splendid assistance” afforded by the party,
and as a reward demanded that the “ Freetrade-
and-Liberal” executive should not oppose its
re-election. Another instance of the foolish posi-
tion the Telegraph has landed itself into by its
chopping and changing policy of the past few
years is its patronisingly-forgiving attitude
towards those members of the political Stiletto
Brigade (Haynes, Fitzpatrick, Bawler Clarke
and the like) who deserted Reid for Lyne in 1899.
The Telegraph has re-admitted these members
on condition that they atone for their disloyalty
hereafter by strict party allegiance. When it is
remembered that the Telegraph “ratted” simul-
taneously with the Stiletto Brigade, and did more
to kill the Reid Government outside than the
defaulters did inside the House, the brazen impu-
dence of its forgiving airs seerps about a record.
4
Styles, of Vic., gave the Senate an interesting
little history of how patent-swindles are worked
by Australian importers. He once bought an
engine, branded “patent” on every part, and
paid a price about 100 per cent, over its intrinsic
value, in consequence, apparently, of the protec-
tion afforded to the poor inventor. One small
part breaking, Styles tried to get it substituted
by local manufacturers, but one and all shied off,
fearing prosecution for a breach of the patent
laws. The importer at last agreed, for an extor-
tionate figure, to replace the broken bit, and
Styles had to wait the better part of a year to
get it. Subsequently he perceived a method by
which the machine might be improved, and, pre-
paring drawings, took them to the Patents’ Office
to protect his invention. A search was made for
the original patent, and it was found to be non-
existent. The big importing firm and the English
manufacturing firm had made huge profits out of
a simple game of bluff—charging fancy prices for
articles that would otherwise have been made in
Victoria for about half the price. Styles asked
that the patents which cover reapers and binders
and cream separators should be investigated, as he
had received an offer from T. Robinson and Co.,
of Melbourne, to make, for £2O each, 500 of the
former machines, exactly similar to those which
come into Victoria free of duty, and are retailed
by the blessed importing ring at £5O apiece. He
might have gone a little further without breaking
anything, and asked that the people with the
bogus machine-patent above alluded to should be
gaoled for getting money by false pretences.
♦
The Freetrade cry, that “ Protection makes mil-
lionaires,” is an absurdly premature yelp to raise
in Australia at present. Thus far not one pro-
tected manufacturer, outside the liquor-trade, in
any of the States is under suspicion of being half
a millionaire. The rich men, bar the brewers, all
have made their money from land—grazing land,
mining land, or city land, the wealth in the latter
case being created for them by city circumstances
over which they had no control. The strongest
indirect argument in favor of Protection is the
fact that Australia’s most prosperous producers of
manufactured goods are small capitalists by com-
parison with the importing middlemen who
mostly spend their profits in England. When
monopolistic boils and tumors begin to disfigure
the full-blooded bodies of local protected manu-
factures it will be time enough to deal with the
evil. Meanwhile the fat importers are the men
the Commonwealth needs to watch.
4
“ G.S.” writes from Perth (W.A.); —
In view of the Plain English par. in 8., May 18, isn’t it
time to impress on the Minister for Defence the necessity
for establishing, at as early a date as possible, Australian
small-arms and ammunition factories ? It is no use form-
ing rifle-clubs if the members have to content themselves
with shooting at bottles with shanghais or throwing
road-metal at fowls. In conversation with John Forrest,
some time ago, I broached the subject, and Forrest
went somewhat thoroughly into it, in an appreciative
manner. John’s own State, however, declines to recognise
rifle-clubs, the Panjandrum of the local forces, Major
Campbell, insisting on rifle corps, the members of which
perform drill, learn how to present arms, and go through
all the flummery that the average old swaddy adores.
Campbell belonged to some British regiment of
mud-crushers, and his ideas don’t rise above a
parade - ground. Meantime, there are dozens of
men ready to form themselves into clubs so that
they may learn to shoot straight. But even if they
could get the necessary authority, the lack of arms and
ammunition blocks the way, for most of the State arms
are lying in the stores at Capetown, or on the veldt.
Look at Queensland’s clubs and say why can’t the other
States have similar ones. In the light of late cables, it is
plain that it would be rank folly for Australia to rely on
the Imperial authorities, for ammunition at any rate. It
transpires that recently, at a most critical moment,
Britain’s own supplies almost wholly ran out. Nor do we
want to be compelled to draw our supplies from- British
manufacturers, who furnish goods “Made expressly .for
Australia” for by now we have got to learn just what
that means. Let us have our own State-owned factories
so that we may get supplies at a slight advance on cost
price, and at the same time have a standard of quality
and pattern thoughout the Commonwealth.
" : 4
N.S.W. would-be Premier Lee on the subject of
borrowing for Temporary and Unproductive
Works: —
Mr. O’Sullivan made a pleasant little speech, in the
course of which he said that, during the past year, no
less than 499 works of a reproductive character had either
been completed or were approaching completion. I had
the curiosity to look into this, and I found that the list
contained 103 bridges THIS IS THE FIRST TIME 1
HEARD OF BRIDGES BEING REPRODUCTIVE. It
also contained over 100 harbor works. THIS IS THE
FIRST TIME I HEARD OF HARBOR WORKS BEING
CALLED PRODUCTIVE.— DaiIy Telegraph report, 17th
May, 1901.
Lee is either a man with a very short memory, or
a very deficient intellect, or a very inferior regard
for the truth, for the Reid Government, which he
consistently supported, and of which he was
ultimately appointed to be the tail in order that
he might keep the flies off the hindquarters of the
animal, put scores of bridges and harbor works
among the “permanent and reproductive” works
charged to loan funds. But that may pass. The
present matter is: Lee says that bridges and
harbor works (and he might add roads, gaols,
court-houses, lunatic asylums, benevolent asylums,
museums, public libraries, repairs to Government
House, &c.) are not reproductive works. If he
becomes Premier, and borrows money for these
things as permanent and reproductive works,
then he will be a fraud, a political swindler,
and a sham and impostor. Still he doesn’t
definitely promise that he won’t be that kind
of a fraud, and The Bulletin is waiting for
that definite promise. When it comes this paper
is with the Lee crowd heart and soul.
4
One bitter complaint that goes up from the re-
sumed area of Sydney is to the effect that the
Government has taken over properties which
were returning, in some cases, 10 per cent, on
their value, and is only allowing 4 per cent, in-
terest on the unpaid purchase-money. But after
all, the grievance isn’t so woeful as it looks. . Ten
per cent., less taxes, repairs, losses by occasional
lack of tenants or by defaulting tenants, and less
an allowance for the steady wearing-out of the
buildings, isn’t much different from a continuous
4 per cent, which doesn’t wear out and is subject
to no deductions. In ordinary cases, if a little
more haste was shown in paying the 4 per cent.,
there would be no genuine ground of complaint.
The persons who have a real grievance are those
whose properties were mortgaged at rates varying
from sto 8 per cent. If the State had taken
over the mortgages along with the properties, and
paid them off, and allowed the ex-owner 4 per
cent, on the balance of the purchase money, there
would have been little reason for grumbling. But
where the owner is getting 4 per cent, (or doesn’t
get it but has 4 per cent, owed to him), and his
creditor is demanding 7 or 8 per cent, cash, with
extra penalties for non-payment, the situation
is a hard one, and a disgrace to the slow,
muddling, incompetent Government which
brought it about.
4
Sydney Telegraph recently made the well-worn
observation that wealth was leaving Maoriland
under the influence of socialistic legislation, and
instanced the withdrawal, or partial withdrawal,
of those two big English money-lending institu-
tions —the N.Z. Trust and Loan Co. and the N.Z.
and River Plate Co. These seem to be rather
two most gratifying cases of debt leaving the
country. When a million is invested in Maori-
land by Smith, who habitually lives in Maoriland
and spends the interest there, that is Wealth. When
a million is invested in Maoriland by Smith, who
habitually lives in London and spends the interest
there, that is Debt. The difference is that, in the
second case, Maoriland has to send away (say)
£60,000 a year interest; in the first case, it has to
send away nothing. If the first Smith goes away
with his million that is a Misfortune; it leaves
the countrva million poorer. If the second Smith
takes away his million and he isn’t replaced by any
like individual that is a Blessing; the country owes
a million less. The reasons why this country wants
a very big absentee-tax are: (i) to discourage the
second land of Smith ; (2) to prevent the first and
desirable kind of Smith transforming himself into
the second and undesirable kind of Smith ; (3) to
lighten the tax burden on the first Smith at the
expense of the second Smith, the first Smith
being more deserving of encouragement; and (4)
to make it worth the while of the second Smith,
whose investment is simply debt, to transform
himself into the first Smith, whose investment
represents wealth. The Smith question now sits
down to take a well-earned rest.
4
Scrap from a recent S.M. Herald leader re N.S.
Wales State elections:
The decision turns upon the fiscal issue. We are no
longer called upon to settle the question of Freetrade or
Protection in Che State Legislature, but we are certainly
called upon to remember that N.S.W. is the leading Free-
trade State within the Commonwealth, and that it would
be hardly worthy of us to say one thing in the Federal
Parliament by a majority of our Senators and Representa-
tives, and something entirely different by the fiscal faith
of the Government in the State Legislature. That con-
sideration defines the issue we have to fight out in the
com ng campaign.
Exactly! The facts that N.S.W. has about
£6,000,000 of accumulated deficits of one kind and
another, that its revenue is fully £1,000,000 a year
short of its legitimate expenditure, that there is
another £400,000 a year to find for Old-Age
Pensions, that a Local Government system is
urgently wanted, also a new State Constitution, a
Greater Sydney scheme, a Closer Settlement
policy, a solution of the huge Unemployed diffi-
culty, and a few other trifles, don’t matter in the
least. The one purpose of N.S.W. Assembly is
to be a big ad vt. for M‘Millan’s imported calico.
♦
Sample from violent Foreign-trade speech in
House of Representatives by N.S.W.’s own
Pumpkin Smith :
Speaking in Melbourne in 1894, Mr. Reid said, “ In the
great and wealthy continent of America the struggle for
life was ten times more terrible than in Victoria. . . .
Any man with a heart in him must have been moved by
the sight he witnessed in Washington when Coxey’s army
appeared in the capital. These men with their hungry,
helpless appearance made a great impression upon his
heart.
Mr. O’Malley : That was during Cleveland’s Freetrade
policy.
Mr. Sydney Smith : It is no use the hon. member talk-
ing about Freetrade at that time. The hon. member
knows very well that America has had Protection for
years, and in ISS3 Cleveland was not in power. The
condition of affairs which I have described was brought
about by Protection (Hansard, page 721).
Now, as it happened, Coxey’s army of unem-
ployed entered Washington in 1894—not in 1882
—and Cleveland, the Freetrader, was President
of the U.S. then, and it was under Cleveland’s
brief and disastrous attempt at Freetrade, or
rather Revenue T.tviffism, that Coxky gathered his
workless armyand made his famous demonstration.


BAKER & BOUSE PROPRIETARY, LIMITED,
df
Have JUST LANDED the Celebrated
Ho. >5 Popy Prcrco
This is a Camera we can thoroughly recommend ,
and can safely say that no Amateur should be
without one.
Send fo„r Oafalogue. Price £4.
375 St., Sydney,
J nd at Melbourne, Adelaide, and Brisbane.
orporation
limited,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W,
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, lead, a r Copper
Ores^ asic L Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought—-*
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PRO.VIpr CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Larr/o Parcels or
Iter/ular Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
Julpliide |2
A E. SAVAGE,
MAJuasa.
Cl BBS, BRIGHT i 00.,
Agents for Australia.
\Vhy on earth does N.S.W. send an awful
Pumpkin Smith to the Australian Parliament to
bring it into discredit by such ignorance ?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
RorAl ' * “Nurse” and “A Bit of Old
Chelsea."
Lyceum “ The Favourite.”
Queen’s Hall Snazelle.
Criterion “The Milestones of Life.”
Palace “In the Soup ” and “ For
„ „ , Charity’s Sake.”
Her Majesty’s “Florodora."
Empire Fuller Co.
Tivoli Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's Italian Opera.
Theatre Royal “ In London Town.”
New Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Dampier Dramatic Cc
Athknjkum Hall Charles Bertram,
Hawtrey’s newest production at Sydney
Palace, “In the Soup,” takes its name from
a genuine tureen supposed to be filled with
the substance above mentioned, and the thing
that is put in it is Mr. Gillibrand’s sleeping
draught. Mrs. Gillibrand inserts it in order that
three painfully complicated persons may go to
sleep, and thereby give her time to think. When
these things occur Mr. and Mrs. Gillibrand are
professing to be out, and are passing themselves
off as their own servants—who have left indig-
nantly through inability to collect their wages
The newly-married Gillibrand is in the difficult
position of having an insufficient income which he
forfeits if he marries before the age of 30, in which
case the money goes to his long-absent uncle, the
angry Indian Judge. Having great need to re-
trench, they decide to let their Hat, and do it
successfully—Mrs. Gillibrand lets it to the Indian
Judge without knowing him, and Mr. Gillibrand
lets it to the Frenchman who is married to the
woman that the Judge used to love. It is at this
st a ge that the Gillibrands hurriedly disguise
themselves in the clothes of their own
servants, who have just departed with much
opprobrium, state that they are not at homo
and proceed to wait lamentably at table, and leave
all the people who have taken the flat to sort
things out. And if Mrs. G. didn’t put the sleep-
ing draught in the soup, and her husband didn’t
swallow part of the soup and fall asleep standing
with a plate and a sardine in his hand, and the
frenchman didn’t come in to find his wife slum-
bering at the dinner table with her head on the
shoulder of a strange Judge and his daughter and
a man-servant and a plate with a sardine on it all
unconscious together opposite them, and if he
didn’t demand a divorce and insist on the Judge
being co-respondent, and the Judge didn’t by
mistake hire his nephew to defend the case and
give him £5OO to bribe himself with, things might
have been different.
**• £ .
“ Soup ” is not a first-class comedy, but it
has one excellent act, and one good act and
another act. The author gets away from the old
stock joke of concealing people in boxes and back
rooms, and his complications have a certain
novelty about them. r lhe eight leading characters
range from good to excellent. Those who may be
set down as excellent are Hawtrey, Miss Ruby
Ray, H. Stephenson, Herbert Ross, and Miss
Nellie Mortyne, though the latter has only a small
Kas the inflamed and unpaid cook. Misses
ge Hope and Winifred Austin and Frank
Peachey (as Miss Mortyne’s unpaid husband) also
deserve to have kindly things said of them. The
all-round goodness of the co. and the excellence of
the stage management make “Soup” go for a
S;ood deal more than it is worth, especially in the
ast act, where it tails off considerably and might
be called Ox-Tail Soup.
* • * *
A one-act drama, “ For Charity’s Sake,”
has so many good points about it that it forms’ a
valuable addition to the Palace bill. Miss Roxy
Barton, who has improved wonderfully since
Sydney first began to know her, is a pretty and
pleasing heroine in a back room behind a vege-
table shop; and Miss Winifred Austin appears
to advantage as a small boy who is somewhat
reminiscent of the boy who hadn’t the cough
in “ Two Little Vagabonds.” It is clearly
proved at the end that Hawtrey, as the oily
city missionary in the black suit with the snail-
tracks on it, was the person who stole the money,
and Miss Barton is cleared of all suspicion!
Hawtrey’s city missionary is an excellent work of
art in a brief tail coat, and Percy Walshe supplies
a good rendering of Nubbles, the kind-hearted
greengrocer, who lives by having money owed to
nim for coals by indigent neighbours. There was
on Saturday a tendency to confusion, gabbling,
and inaudibleness about the young man who mar-
ries Miss Barton after it is proved she didn’t
steal Nubbles’ money, but possibly he may im-
prove. If he doesn’t this paper will be driven by
a stern sense of duty to speak to him in print
about it.
** # *
Somebody is alleged to have said that you
“smiled at the ‘Private Secretary,’ laughed at
‘Charley’s Aunt,’ and positively roared at
‘Nurse.’” This scribe pleads guilty to the first
two charges v but is innocent of the latter indict-
ment. “Nurse,” which appeared at Sydney
Royal last Saturday, is a comedy of especially
good dialogue and situations, and equally
especially the reverse, the close of the first act (the
play boasts only two) being without any strength
whatever. There is a good deal of irrelevant
cleverness in it, and a number of loose incidents
that could be worked up to better advantage.
The main idea—the Family 'Erald motive of the
two young people refusing to love each other un-
seen, and then doing so violently when meeting
each other as two other people—is left very much
as it is ; and the other motive—of the robust
invalid seriously ill of nothing whatever—is also
only made humorous here and there. There is a
lady with two admirers, and a husband with a
gun and a tendency to descend into the hero’s
apartment by the roof. There are also some
male friend, of the hero who do nothing
particular, and a writ-server who goes into an ice-
chest for no great reason, and remains tfiere
t irougliout the play til] the audience has com-
pietely forgotten him. “ Nurse ’* is a corned y that
may work up better as the nights progress At
present, it is a play witli spotf of unusual
brightness and also some other spots of
no doubt wholesome and disciplinary dullness’
Carden Wilson is excellent as the writ-server, and
Henry Ludlow, who appears to he a young actor
love 1 to y «r USlng , a ? the “'valid who makes
love to every girl he meets, leaving also a strong
mission when his heiress-nurse annexes hinf
that he will continue through married life to do
the same. Miss Jennie Maynard never misses a
point, nevertheless she creates an opinion that
pure comedy is not her forte. This idea is con-
her acting of Saucers in the after-piece,
at her toUches show Mis 3 Jennie M.
* * • *
A Bit of Old Chelsea” is the one-act
story of the rescued flower-girl who will not per-
mit the sculptor who rescues her at two o’clock in
the morning to send her home in a cab, as she will
thereby lose her character, but offers to sleep on
his hearthrug all night, which, in her rank of life
is evidently a mere circumstance. The sculptor
has only one room, and his visitor’s settled deter-
mination to repose for the night on the hearthrug
of that apartment is the chief motive of the plav.
Ihe mora l, evidently, is that when a respectable
artist finds a frozen flower-girl on the pavement
outside, his best plan is to call a policeman. It is
a quaint and pretty little playlet, but the flower-
s' 1 / 3 . c ' ress 13 immaculately clean when she is
lilted from the street; also, when she leaves the
studio she forgets to take her hat with her,
though it is probably her only headgear, and
an obliging galleryite earnestly entreated her oil
Saturday to come back for the neglected asset.
Next Thursday (27fcli June) Shakespeare’s
grim old comedy, “The Merchant of Venice,”
will commence a three-nights’ season at Sydney
Royal. Mr. I. M. Alexander, the dramatic and
vocal trainer, who is running the show, takes the
part of the blood-thirsty mortgagee, while the
original lady-barrister, Portia, is to be represented
by Miss Edith Pasca Page. The remainder of the
characters will be done by 14 students of Mr.
Alexander s Shakespearian Society, and the show
is under the patronage of Chief Justice Harley
and other personages of great weight.
** * w
On farther investigation the domestic
drama at Sydney Criterion has a moral still
more out of gear than was at first notice-
able; and the working man who does not
support his wife, and yet objects to the
other fellow doing so, is guite undeserving the
plaudits which an undiscriminating gallery awards
him, when he speaks large tearful paragraphs in
prison about his lost honor. A great deal is made
of the affection which the ruined man shows his
child, but as we see him first stealing the coverlid
from her cradle for drink, and later escorting 1 her
over the town late at night (when she should be
in bed) in order that she may see him mur-
der her mother, his paternal affection is
clouded over with considerable doubt. The other
characters on the stage, mostly working people,
are also rather curious. When the working man
murders his Annie, her girlhood’s friend gently
remarks that, in his queer, odd way, he must have
loved her. The good working man preaches to
the wicked aristocrat on the heartlessneas of the
world which stones the woman and lets the guilty
lover alone. Meanwhile, he helps in his escape
the man who not merely stoned the woman in
question, but killed her outright. Most women
would prefer the metaphorical stoning of a heart-
less world to the large physical rock of an
annoyed husband. According to the “Milestones
of Life” the working man is moral to brutality.
Smashed windows and the coverlid stolen from
baby’s bed do not excuse a wife in leaving her
husband’s roof. The wronged husband is still
entitled to give her her quietus, though he has
strenuously refrained all through her married life
from giving her anything else.
* * * •
In addition to all this, great annoyance
is occasioned to the present unpretentious pagan
by the behaviour of the good working-man’s wife.
She is a very unpleasant, preachy young person,
and does not stand by her school-girl friend to
any extent worth mentioning. When the dving
woman sends a message asking her to command
see her for the last time she asks her hus-
band what she shall do, and when he tells her
to consult her own heart she goes virtuously and
with an unnecessary halo of nobility about her.
An ordinary pagan would go to a dying comrade
as a matter of course ; a stage Christian always
does these actions with much virtue and bowls her
saintly halo along with her as if it were a hoop.
Little Edna Seaton deserves credit for getting
completely away from the ordinary angel-child
the one who comforts the tipsy father in adversity.
Edna makes not the slightest attempt to uplift
her father. She takes her parents and their on-
slaughts upon each other in a cheerful spirit, and
tells the good little boy, when he affirms that he
has never stayed in a work’us, “’Ope as yer never
knows yer luck.”
** * *
Herr Pagel, the “German Hercules,”
burst forth upon the Sydney public at the Empire
last Saturday. As an exponent of the drearily
wonderful art of moving heavy substances to
places where they are not wanted Pa«el is not to
be sneezed at. In fact he is not to be sneezed at
on any subject, unless there is plenty of space for
a run. Then it might be done, for his hind legs
do not look as though adapted for bust travelling.
The advt. says Pagel is the only genuine strong
man Australia has yet seen, and the matter is not
of sufficient interest to be worth arguing about.
He elevates a bar-bell, said to weigh 2501b5., right
up above his head with one hand. A small pony
with a small boy on its back are next waved aloft
as an Australian contingenter might shake a
’possum in the face of the Boer nation. Pagel’s
final performance is the whirling up of his wife on a
/olb. dumb-bell in his right hand, while his left
holds up another 751 b. dumb-bell for her close
inspection. The Herr is decidedly impressive,
and he challenges anybody to come and do like-
wise, loser to pay £lO to sundry charities. So far
no one has taken up the challenge, although
several people go on the stage every night and tug
at the weights, and smell them, and look at them
side-ways, and by other methods satisfy them-
selves that they are genuine. The other new
arrival, Denis Carney, calls himself a Yorkshire
comedian, and some remarks about him are being
saved up for next week.
*# * *
As mentioned last week, “ Florodora,”
at Her Majesty’s (Sydney), is gradually trans-
forming itself into still another new opera
under the influence of many additions. Eileen
Boyd, one of these additions, belongs to the
infantile brigade, and if it is a fair thing that
children should be on the boards instead of in
bed, Eileen has as much right to be habitually out
of her little cot at a late hour as any other of
her persuasion.
** m m
Next Saturday night the “ Nightbirds ”
will be replaced at Sydney Lyceum by a horsey
melodrama entitled “The Favorite.”
** * *
Snazelle is still at Sydney Queen’s Hall,
though the time for his departure is said to be
drawing near. In this place it may be as well to
warn loyalists that the monarehial tradition will
likely come to its end through the machine which
Snazelle is permitted to convey through the Em-
pire. The Cinematograph is one of the greatest
anti-monarch arguments up to date. There have
been a good many anti-monarch arguments
in past ages, and many a potentate has had
to leave so suddenly by reason of them that
he left his kit of reigning tools behind him. But
as a slow, persistent, corroding argument the
Cine, has no equal. When the public come to
realise that an invention which ought to be show-
ing them the wonders of earth and sky and
humanity, is being utilised more and more to
bring before them long, dreary funerals of dead
monarchs, and long, dreary processions of living
ones, painfully nod-nod-nodding to great masses
of shadows, the public is liable to grow tired. For
which reason it is to be hoped that Snazelle will
not be weary of ill-doing, but will put on a few
more royal funerals, and keep them on.
** * *
It is getting nearly time Harry Rickards
introduced a little variety into the “ first part” at
Sydney Tivoli. The spectacle of the well-fronted
ladies marching in and round about to their chairs,
the promenade of the black men, the ambling of
the two couples, followed by four artificial negroes
rushing to the centre and yelling “In gay Puree !
I* l guy Paree ! ” is becoming a trifle wearisome.
I he rest of the first part is not calculated to stiinu-
late a jaded appetite, though pretty little Pearl
Lovell and Arthur Crane put some brightness into
it. The “olio” is much stronger. The polyphone’s
rendering of the ancient but tuneful “Rocked in
• 6 C r adle t * ,e -^ ee P ” 13 a decided success, but
its other numbers are clangy. Polyphone items
want careful selecting. John Coleman returned
unexpectedly on Saturday from the place where
he has been for a long time, and received an ova-
tion for his Scarecrow Dance. When the audience
brought him back to do it again for the severalth
time, his wife, a fac simile of himself in everything
except size, also appeared and made a second
Scarecrow. John made a speech in which he said
that he hadn’t been in several places where he was
accused of being, but as to where he had been he
offered no information worth mentioning.
#* # *
Ella Russell’s engagement with George
Musgrove was for £5O a week, and, as it turned
out, she would have been a good investment at a
much higher salary. The arrival of the buxom
lady shook up the Melbourne season wonderfully,
though her voice took about three weeks to recover
from the effects of the sea voyage, and was a dis-
tinctly old voice at its best. Declamatory force,
backed by a big professional reputation, gave
Miss Russell an importance that had been want-
ing in the individuality of other ladies of the co.
l a P r * llla donna can convince her audience that
she has been in the habit of holding a foremost
place on the stage or platform she is all right.
Albani, years ago, was a financial success in Aus-
tralia because she gave them all that is expected
of a famous singer—except the voice that won the
fame. The general public felt satisfied as to the
voice having been in the artist’s possession at one
time or other, and they tried to think it was still
there.
** * *
Amusing to notice the chagrin of a number
of Melbourne musical people, when Miss Olive
Kingston, unknown to them even by name, came
out and took her place as a minor star vocalist at
the Gerardy concerts. The management needed
a fresh young artist, something different from the
styleless ballad warblers who crowd upon the
market and hustle for opportunity to appear at
suburban halls —and Miss Kingston, the apt pupil
of Marchesi, was just the soprano to fill the
position. ’Cellist Gerardy’s Co. includes only
himself, Herr Scharff, the pianist, and Miss
Kingston, so the debutante (she has now gone to
Adelaide with the party, and will probably
go to Sydney later) got a distinctive start
in professional life. Too nervous to do herself
justice on the first night, she sang the
well-known waltz song from “Romeo and
Juliet ” admirably enough. At the next
concert she shone in a scene from “Lucia,” and
before the Melbourne season was over the new
soprano had knocked ’em with her bright voice
and skilful execution. Miss Kingston is the most
promising of all the Melbourne girls who have
been heard in public for some time past. Her
light voice, which will go on improving with age,
like good wine, is of the kind that takes kindly to
culture. She has the makings of a valuable
platform personality, and all the essentials to
success as an artist. The ordinary empty-headed
concert-singing young lady who hangs around the
music-shops and revels in cheap notoriety is not
in the same class with unobtrusive Olive King,
ston.
* * * •#
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.) the sacred lamp
of Italkn Opera continues to burn brilliantly.
“Ernani,” on Saturday, was accountable for
another great house, and vast demonstration.
Simonsen’s first co. played “ Ernani ” on the same
stage 14 years ago, since when Melbourne has
heard nothing of Verdi’s old opera, as far as the
present historian can remember. A deliberately
tuneful opera throughout, it is remarkable for not
supplying the name character, or even his best
girl, with a very sweet solo. They sing much that
is pleasing, but nothing that goes straight to the
uneducated soul of the people whose “encore”
is law. The basso gets the principal
sugary plum of the performance, also
the baritone has a toothsome item all
o himself, and no specially attractive burst of
music is allowed to transpire without one, or both,
o these heavy men assisting largely in the work.
ie baritone is a red-haired and spider-legged
ving of bpain, and the basso is an elderly grandee
v 10 intends to marry his ward, the prima-donna,
v lereas the lady loves a brigand from the moun-
ains (hrnani), and wants him to add her to his
„i ' ) er f. to * en treasures in his rocky home. The
• uction would probably have happened but for
the arrival of the King. His auburn Majesty
covets the prima-donna for a time, and what with
o,^ e .i fer y / uardlan , an d the enthusiastic bandit,
■i ,! e red . crowned head all wanting the same
girl tliere JS p l enty of plot to go on with
■ T course the bandit gets very awkwardly
R ‘ 1 °,, 1S under so much obligation to
wl, JL rdl f, n that he promises to commit suicide
l v f r t , le °|d gentleman may choose to blow a
S’ a £° h \J°Iln,s 1 ln , s m a conspiracy to kill the
a ter vvhich he receives a royal command to
aehiAvorM pr ' ma Monna. And when at last he has
tn rlt tK awf . ul possession of the lady he is blown
eklmW S ° u S ? e ß k> the horn of the
bpforAth 116 ’ l V1 ? be lP s to bring off a rousing trio
before the catastrophe falls due.
Theful,-voiced company at Her Majesty’s
tinri S > g ° 1“ V Krnani ” with even more vigor
than it went with in “Aida.” Tenor La,4a
br4rh ~ r° n-chested bandit. His great
sbm4nr4 V .T 6 Bee , ms a,most to Justify the in-
h« ™ th r at heou ff llt; to be a baritone, though
tlint ,ne *. f rom a country where mistakes of
im'nmii'hj a cf- not ad °wed to happen with
„ Y' , Signora Lenedetto, in long satin
dnnnn’ & Btat f Paris-fashionable prima-
i;j compared with lier previous figure
d n and J' er s,n &nig and acting are again
Travaghni, as the guardian who
anrZf I ,0r “/ amouMts to a treat. His perform-
th« Sn 4 i part I f, artl ®t , c f a "d his rich voice is surely
wlitiiT that has rol]ed upo » these shores
aco fvS !?’ • q ß' te , S 0 effectively, a few years
S ; tadori, fs the baritone monareh, is pass-
limb's hJ P i° f US comic w >'g and unpadded
inTn h ,? P V ts war ™th and intelligence
nnrl fro- IIS vol^e » which was colorless
“ A irO, ggy W l . et i he played the black man in
micht hnvtT* hr'ghter now. The chorus people
heen n ’ ore cerfcaln of the music than
they were on Saturday. Also the stnge-
“ Frmm; ™ ght - h do . ne better with them. In
soulless b,ucia >” the choristers are a
am inr ’ 1 Cl i Cular - array of vocalists. They
exacts wh4f| d an lnterpre ter to tell them
thevn,44 * f y i Y e Slll ff in ff about, and how
i y tto feel the words. Hazon’s capital
nlaies vvttl rre 4° n the - Bide ° f loudn ess in several
Snr efi 'J drowning the voices, and the im-
ported scenery erred in the direction of thinness.
4er4 [‘ °, pera ? cener y It is probably above the
sits for S ? s ° on after locally-painted
the show Alda Xt looked the weakest feature of
* * * *
Touching “ Lucia di Lammermoor,” which
happened four times last week, there is nothing
except that the smart light tenor (Dani) is
unon the g -I® favorable impression he made
and Si^o an Q m -° Bt - 0f their male relations,
Blsrn , ora 9apio smgs as though her sore
throat were almost convalescent.
** * *
The success of “In London Town” at
Melbourne Royal is one of those tilings which a
hardened theatregoer regards with gladness not
unmingleii with scorn. It isn’t even a good story
from an actor s point of view, for it gives nobody
tbe X Ce t 0 tak ? Up a prebable position and pile on
t e agony in a humanly melodramatic style The
hero is a wandering philanthropist of uncertain
blfore h t°he ayS f deeply wronged in the years
the , cur * al “ rese, and is obviously soft-
headed when he arrives upon the scene/ The
chief villains are a young man who supplies
peopie with ready-made daughters at the
shortest notice, and a blind larcenist who
wnSfl 8 • hlmaelf horribly unpleasant to the
wo,ld in general. As a rule he is banging
hJYu b p y Wltb \ st]ck ’ or cursing somebody’s
daughter because she cooks his meals and guides
b * S H W n eary f °? tsteps , lnto Mayfair drawing-rooms
and other places, where money can be begged or
portable property lifted. The meek heroine of
the fiction suffers considerably from the violence
thJY 4° kCn " kneed , bunibng ; also it appears
that another g,rl-a hard-hearted and wayward
spinster—was Lis drudge until she bore an illicit
baby to the bad young man. All the characters
mentioned, and a lot more, provide a series of ac-
cidental meetings and conversations “In London
-f own, and the audiences at the Roval give them
every encouragement. Probably Styan, as the
W lnd £?f n > 1S the f> rst favorite. Up to now
the sightless persons in melo-drama and music-hall
song have been oppressively kind and gentle,
therefore the afflicted hypocrite with a turn for
brutality comes as a refreshing fact. The boys in
the gallery, who know something about the busi-
ness, utter roars of recognition at old blind Norry
when lie smites the small cripple on his bent leg
Moreover, the cripple, played by Miss Athena
Claudius, is a convincing street character, like-
wise the thick-set little factory girl (Miss Mary
Ingersole), who contributes casual remarks" of a
flippant character. And Mrs. Bland Holt is
beloved because she gets the “chuck” from the
factory for pulling hair out of the head of another
fir* „ 110 arguing against “In London
I own Ihe plot may be a public outrage, but
the slang, and the bathos, and the prevailing
influences of pub. and pawnshop commend Bland
Holt s show to favor.


“Rand” Rock Drills.
“Rand” Air Compressors.
“Wilfley” Concentrators.
“Ivankoe” Minin? Steel.
“Anchor” Brand Fuse.
Explosives, Lubricating Oils.
N. 6UTHRIP6C, Ltd.
71 Clarence St., Sydney.
“ ENGLAND'S FAVORITE.”
PLAYER’S
navy cut
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
V.
The Cobar Chesney mine, Cobar, have lately
placed an order with the Austral Otis Engineering Com-
pany for a pair of powerful winding engines to haul from
2000 feet. These engines are rapidly approaching com-
pletion, and will be delivered about first of next month.
The same firm of engineers have also supplied the Occi-
dental mine, Cobar, with a handsome pair of winding
engines, as well as a boiler. This machinery was delivered
in very quick time and should give great satisfaction.*
* * * *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* * * •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
» * * *
The Financier anti Bullion ist of 2nd August,
1900, writes re the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Limited : “ Considering the world-wide opera-
tions of the Society, it is astounding that, with all its
gigantic ramifications and temptations to accept new
business of a risky nature, it has passed through the
ordeal not only scathless, but with almost unparalleled
progress.’"*
• * • •
About the best Brand for Sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich & Co.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
» • * • C'
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Bock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * « *
All Barrier Mines remodelling their mills on up-
to-date lines include a number of Luhrig vanners. The
South and Junction companies each have about a dozen,
no slime treatment plant being now considered complete
without these excellent machines. In Queensland tin
concentration is the latest accomplishment, the Irvine-
bank Mill having introduced Luhrig Vanners with success-
ful results, the example having been followed by the well-
known Coolgarra Tin Mining Co., who are installing a
number of Luhrig Vanners in connection with their new
Tin Dressing Mill. Messrs. W. &J. Lempriere, Melbourne,
are the general agents for the Luhrig Appliances.*
v » * *
Norman Godlcin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,"
Melbourne.*
* * * »
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfonnder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boiler 9,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
* • * •
The marvellous increase in the importations of
explosives to Westralia: —’93, 5278 ; ’94, £19,223 ; ’95,
£32,540; ’96, £86,507 ; ’97, £92,199; ’9B, £85,452; ’99,
£96,123 ; ’OO, £157,318. Thanks to wholesale condemna-
tions in ’99, last year only 15J tons of high explosives
were condemned and destroyed before landing.
* * • •
Church interior, Alexandra South (centre of
recent Maoriland dredging boom). Minister in impassioned
exhortation : “ Do not miss it—embrace the present
opportunity and ascend to the golden shore.” Somnolent
parishioner (suddenly awaking with a jump) : “ Put me
down for 50 1 ”
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Kagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, A’Z.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings, '
113 WILLIAM STREET, f
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per cent,
pure), Bleaching: Powder, Mining Requisites,
Candles, eto
Ab Melb. Bijou old friend “ Monte
Cristo ” is working out his slow vengeance to-
night (Thursday) for the fifth and last time this
season. “Monte Uristo,” as Dampier produces
it at the Bijou, is an improvement on what it was
at the Alexandra in days of yore, and a moderate-
sized audience took the good with the bad of the
performance, and applauded the manager vigor-
ously on Saturday. To-morrow (Friday) “ Ham-
let ” goes up for one consecutive occasion, any-
how. The advt. at time of writing didn’t state
whether Ophelia’s best boy would hang on to the
bill for a longer period, or make way for another
drama next night. Seems to the present scribe
that the policy of administering Shakespeare to
the public in homoeopathic doses is a mistaken
policy, because it doesn’t catch the large heavy
section of the public which never gets news of a
show except from somebody who has lately seen
it.
* # Jit #
The Darbos, whose charm of novelty has
departed, and left them in the shadow of the
Lauri-Carrie Moore burlesque, are the latest
“ star turn ” at Rickards’ Opera House, where
graceful Celina Bobe continues to treat the
xylophone with two inspired hammers, and make
clever music from her violin. Austin Rudd is
back again for a brief period, also, the ultra-flexible
Rosie Aquinaldo. And the new first part con-
tinues to be more cheerful than the old first part.
* * *
At the Town Hall the Imperial Concert
Co., consisting of Madame Belle Cole in the
first place, Avon Saxon, Mdlle. Cheron, and a
youthful .Paganini who is said to be younger than
he looks, have been giving popular concerts at an
unfortunate time. At the Athenaeum Hall, the
remarkable card tricks and conjuring of Charles
Bertram are going fairly strong, but the objection
to Bertram’s superabundant patter is a matter
worth considering. More magic and fewer remarks
made Dante’s entertainment a brighter affair.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
These were the accumulated deficits of New
South Wales, at 31st May, 1901, so far as they can be
arrived at :
Balance of old Deficit (about) .. .. .. £2,027,684
Debit balance, Martin Place Suspense ac-
count Cabout) .. .. .. .. .. 300,000
Debit balance Centennial Park Suspense
account (about) 228,000
Deficit on Police and Civil Service Super-
annuation Funds (about) .. .. .. 2,000,000
Deficit on this year’s accounts to 31st May .. 18,270
Owing as interest, &c., Resumed Area of
Sydney (about) .. .. .. .. .. 148,000
Borrowed from trust funds for war, plague,
P’ederal celebration and other expenses .. 473,628
Unpaid accounts, regularly carried forward
to next year under Reid’s Cash Basis dodge
(say) .. .. .. .. .. .. 600,000
£5,695,482
This is saying nothing of the fact that over £12,000,000 of
ordinary 7 expenditure has been charged to loans at
different times, and is now being so charged at the rate
of about £1,000,000 a year. It is a beautiful deficit, yet
N.S.W. is already talking about the surplus it is to have
under the Federal tariff, and wondering what on earth to
do with it; and the S.M. Herald, in a leader last Tuesday,
urged the public to take “ the wisest measures that we
can for dealing with A SUPERFLUOUS AND RATHER
DANGEROUS INCOME.”
* * • •
During the last 17 months New South Wales
has borrowed nearly £5.000,000 —£2,000,000 in Sydney and
£2,000,000 in London on Treasury 7 Bills, and about
£1,000,000 from the Savings Bank or by the issue locally
of 3 per cent, inscribed stock. As regards the Treasury
Bills, just consider these results :
Amount
received for
Where Issued. Interest. each £lOO
1900. stock issued.
Feb. .. £1,000,000 London 4 per cent. £99 10 0
May .. 500,000 Sydney 3£ „ 100 5 4
Sept. .. 500,000 „ ■ Sj „ 100 1 6
1901.
Feb. .. 600,000 „ 3J „ 99 10 8
March .. 1,000,000 London 4 „ 99 0 0
June .. 509,000 Sydney 3£ „ 99 9 9
In each year the local market gave a better price for 3J
per cent, stock than the London market did for 4 per
cent, stock. Under these circumstances the action of the
Lyne-See Government in going to the expensive London
market looks like a dismal example of ignorance and con-
fusion. The question which is never answered is this:
Why should the British lender be offered 4 per cent,
while the local one is only offered 31? If it is because
the Australian is a poor, degraded animal who doesn’t
deserve so good a return for his money as the lordly
Briton will W. Lyne please say so, and end the contro-
versy.
* * * •
The Grand Hotel, Limited (Melbourne), is show-
ing a considerable improvement in its prospects. Results
for the last two years are as follows :
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
31st March, 1900.. £2699 .. About 2 p.c. = £562 .. £15,750
„ 1901.. 4608 .. 3 „ = 927 .. 19,431
The profit would be only £3161 if the same method was
followed this .vear as last; in 1900, 10 per cent, de-
preciation was written off furniture out of profits, while
in 1901 the 10 per cent. (£1447), instead of being written
off, is carried to replacement reserve. Even on this
stricter basis, however, there is a good increase in the
profits, which are equal to over 10 per cent, on the paid-
up capital of £30,913. The reason why larger dividends
are not paid is that the property (put in the balance-sheet
at a book-value of £102,999, which is probably much more
than the present real value) was burdened until lately 7
with a huge mortgage of £70,000. This has been
reduced in the last two years by 7 £4501*, and now
stands at £65,500, and it will evidently be necessary to
apply the bulk of the earnings to repayment of this liability
for many years before it is wiped off. All the same the
Grand Hotel, Limited, is earning splendid profits in pro-
portion to its capital, and if the shareholders are prepared
to plod away till they lift their mortgage, the earnings,
with over £2OOO a year saved in mortgage interest, should
one day place their concern in a position to pay 7 12 per
cent, dividends with ease. The Grand Hotel Co., by the
way, has a strange and motley collection of reserves—
ordinary reserve fund, £69; replet'ement reserve, £2197 ;
mortgage reduction reserve, £4soi\ contingency reserve,
£10,613; and undivided profit, £2052; total, £19,431.
Why not carry, say, £1931 of the undivided profit to the
ordinary reserve, and make it £2000? A reserve fund of
£69 is painful to contemplate.
Some remarks from Toronto Economist re the
Independent Order of Foresters, now, unfortunately,
doing life assurance business in Australia: —“ In May,
1896, there were about 90,000 members in the order,
carrying upwards of 100,000,000d01. of life and endow-
ment assurance, with an accumulation of less on an aver-
age than 19dol. to the credit of each lOOOdol. certifi-
cate. A large number of certificates have matured, and
no doubt new ones will fall due each year hereafter. As
the cost of carrying the risk increases very rapidly from
age 55 to age 70j the premiums paid between these ages
are insufficient to carry the bare insurance without any
provision being made to meet the endowment of 900dol.
per lOOOdol. policy at age 70. The endowment must
therefore be paid out of the accumulations of the
members who have not reached an age when the cost
of carrying their risk is not equal to or greater than the
premiums being paid. How long can this robbing
Peter to pay Paul system go on before all of Peter’s
money will be exhausted? Some years ago the Supreme
Chief Ranger used both argument and invective against
any person who would dare to dispute the sufficiency of
the premium rates then being charged. They were exe-
crated as the emissaries of old line insurance companies.
Notwithstanding all his previous arguments to the con-
trary, at the last Supreme Court meeting held in this
city in 1898, without an apology to the members or a
blush of shame, he coolly produced a bran-new scheme of
assessment to go into effect on the Ist January, 1899, but
to apply only to members who joined after that date.
This produced the incongruous spectacle of two members
each, say, 44 years of age at entry, the one paying a pre-
mium of 88 cents per month, the other paying 2dols. per
month. Could anything be more absurd? Outside of a
friendly society could anything more unjust be found?
Can any but a plausible argument be used to justify its
continuance?”
Apropos of the above, by the way, a Dr. Mon-
tague has been lecturing in Victoria on the blessings and
advantages of insuring one's life in the remarkable
1.0. F., and Kyneton Observer reports him as saying
proudly that “the 1.0. F. had £1,000,000 invested in
Government bonds.” This is very beautiful. The blessed
1.0.F.’s published balance-sheet shows total assets
of less than a million, and of that amount the
bulk is in mortgages. Dr. Montague is also reported as
stating that no member of the 1.0. F. is allowed to borrow
money on his policy. This was actually put forward as
an advantage. No member could borrow on an 1.0. F.
policy. When money is lent on a policy it is lent on the
surrender value, and the 1.0. F. policy has no surrender
value. If the insured fails to pay a premium even after 30
years of membership, the policy is simply lost, and all the
money previously paid on it is lost also. It would be
about as easy to borrow on a brown paper bag as on the
surrender value of a policy that hasn’t any.
* * • *
The directors of Bendigo Cash Coupon Co.
waited upon Premier Peacock lately and asked him to
bring in a Bill to abolish the Cash Coupon business alto-
gether. The reason for this startling conduct on the part
of the Cash Coupon directors is that the Bendigo co. is a
purely protective company. Another co. came to Bendigo
and sold its coupons to certain traders only, and the
other traders found that their business was falling off.
First they tried to induce their rivals to give up couponing,
but failed, so they banded themselves together and started
a rival co. A six months’ record of the new co. is in-
teresting : it issued £3OOO worth of coupons, but only
£BOO worth were presented for payment; so the co. not
only made a profit on the goods given away for the £BOO,
but made a further profit of about £2200 on coupons
which were never presented. But the directors say that
the coupon system is a parasite on trade and an injustice
to the trader. Their experience, and the ridiculously
exorbitant profits they make out of it, show that it is of
little or no value to the public; and their co. is quite
prepared to give up the big profits it has been making
provided the Government will wipe the whole coupon
business out of existence.
* * * *
M. Govt, is now taking on accident assurance
under authority of the Act of ’99. The pronounced
success of its life business augurs that the new line will
be profitable.
* • • •
During the first quarter of the year, N.S.W.
workmen’s own contributions to the Miners' Accident
Relief Fund totalled £4729. (Ninepence a fortnight is de-
ducted from each man’s pay, where 20 men are employed
at a mine, and the employer hands over the total to a
committee.) The relief paid was £1053. The workmen’s
contribution is a fourth of the whole ; the employer pro-
vides another fourth, and the State the other half. The
benefits are 12s. a week during total disablement; Bs. a
week for a widow or other dependent, and 2s. 6d. for each
child under 14 : £l2 for funeral expenses. Roughly, it is
estimated that the recent accident in Broken Hill South
mine, when six men were killed, will cost, the fund £l6OO,
though much depends upon the re-marriage or otherwise
of the widjws. This is about as much as the workmen
at this mine will contribute in four years, at the present
rate of contribution.
• * * *
Sixteen fatal accidents in and about Broken
Hill mines and ore-reducing works this year down to the
beginning of May ! The worst average in any year. Has
the fall in the value of the metals induced the co’s to
take more risks—or, rather, to consent to the miners
taking more risks ? For it is a deplorable fact that many
miners—perhaps the vast majority of them—will take any
risks bosses will let them take.
* * * *
,T. C. Moulden, lately general manager of the
unfortunate Broken Hill Junction, joins the Sulphide
Corporation as assistant manager of the Cockle Creek re-
duction works.
* * • •
N. Mines Department is sending up one
of its Geological Survey staff to report on the proposal to
build a State custom smelter somewhere near Broken
Hill.
m m m *
Most mining co. meetings are a farce when they
aren’t a tragedy for somebody or other. The directors
turn up, also the sec., and sometimes a shareholder whom
one of the board has just “ shouted ” for. Block 14 direc-
tors have had this experience so often that when, at the
half-yearly meeting, t’other day, an unknown person
moved an amendment requesting more information,
there wasn’t anybody in a position to second it, even for
the purpose of'getting the grievance discussed. Yet it
needs discussing—badly. The opinion among scores of
mining men at Broken Hill is that it doesn’t pay a co.
with so comparatively small a mine as Block 14
to smelt its own ores; and the grievance
is that the co., alone of all the Broken Hill cos.,
doesn’t give enough information to allow shareholders
to judge whether this is so or not. Anyhow, Block
10, with a less area and no carbonate ore, by selling its
mill product to the people whose exclusive business it is
to smelt, has made three times more profit than Block 14 ;
and the South, adopting the same policy of selling its
product, has made about thrice the profit, notwithstand-
ing the poorness of its ores so far as silver is concerned.
Talk of a lead combine, and a zinc combine, and
a silver ditto ; but nothing definite as to any. Operation
in silver seems unlikeliest, owing to the vastness of the
accumulations ; but something may be done in the others.
In fact, “ understandings ” between European zinc dis-
tillers have been common enough hitherto.
* * * *
The yarn about that lead-combine is probably
a lie, told for the purpose of adding a few shillings to the
prices of Barrier stocks, and to enable brokers to take
advantage. There is not much hope for lead. Stewart
admitted so on his return from London recently.
Often a good metal market is anticipated without even-
tuating. Writer never heard the anticipation of a bad
one proving incorrect.
• * * *
One of Australia’s most enterprising (and not
least lucky) mining men is the opulent Mr. James Dick,
of leather-belting fame, who has many big irons in many
fires. He lately became sole owner of that long-worked
and enduring mine, Mitchell’s Ceeek Freehold, which he is
now completely re-fitting with plant and further develop-
ing at a cost of about £20,000. The new mill will be one of
40 heavv stamps. The Mitchell’s Creek Freehold, which
has a phenomenally long and regular gold-chute, has for
some years made regular returns of from £20,000 to
£30,000, which Mr. Dick now means to largely increase.
During the erection of the new plant a full complement of
miners will be kept on in sinking and opening out the
deeper levels, so as to get a big ore reserve ready for
treatment by the new machinery.
* * • •
Sensational mining news from Junee, N.S.W.
“ Four men are working underground at Howell’s Con-
solidated Mines 1 ”
• * * •
Mining at Cobar: Several of the mines of this
district are shut down for want of water. Many in other
N.S.W. camps are shut down for want of gold. It will
take some months for the other mines of Cobar to ex-
haust their water-supply, even if they have no ram
meanwhile. The mines along the lode are also being con-
nected bv railway, in the making of which much fat-
headedness is displayed. It was first intended to continue
the line from the big copper-mine, and some of the earth-
works in this direction were started. It was then
arranged to start the railway from a point about a mile
from Cobar railway station, and run along the foot of the
hills on which most of the mines are situated. Finally the
line is being constructed along the main street of
Wrightville, the name of the town formed within the last
three years. The result is that in one part of the
thoroughfare there is a railway-cutting Bft. deep and in
another an embankment of about same height. To carry
the railwav into the Cobar Gold Mines will cost about
£lO9O, and then it will not be nearly as convenient as if
the railway was carried along the hills. The same diffi-
culty applies to Cobar-Chesney and other mines. The
route taken will serve no good purpose whatever as pas-
senger-traffic is prevented by the line not running into
Cobar town. It is only another Govt, blunder at Cobar
where so many have been committed, and the only ex-
cuse given is that in building this line employment was
wanted for men who could only use pick and shovel, and
were not accustomed to blasting operations. Some
£20,000 has been expended in a Govt, water-scheme.
There is no water in the reservoir, which is soshallow that,
when it is full, more water will be lost by evaporation
than the people will use.
• » • •
Cobar Gold Mines : The 100-head stamp mill
and cyanide plant running continuously, but, as usual, no
returns given. Another lift opening up, carbonates of
copper showing in the bottom, and some ore of good
value in gold has to be put aside because of its copper-
contents ; but all the ore above the level is absolutely
free of copper, and from present appearances this lift
will, if anything, be better in gold than those above.
There are still some hundreds of thousands of tons of
oxidised auriferous ore above the copper zone, and the
levels now are of great length, with ore still in the
faces, although the lode there is not of the average
width. The filter-pressing plant for the treatment of
slimes, started some time ago, had to be shut down. A
big mistake was made in using pumps to force the
solution through the presses with water instead of com-
pressed air. Pumps were first tried at Kalgoorlie, and
had to be discarded. The pumps are now being taken
out and a compressor taking their place. There is no
doubt whatever about the system, and but for this mis-
take the slime-plant on the mine would now be dealing
with upwards of 200 tons a day. The extraction will
probably be between 80 and 90 per cent., and the cost
much less than at Kalgoorlie, where labor is higher and
extraction lower because of the salts in the water absorb-
ing cyanide. » * *
Occidental: Reduction-plant shut-down for
want of water, but mine splendidly equipped for a big
output, and occasional divs. when crushing is resumed.
The new shaft and winding-plant will enable the ore
around the old shaft to be taken away and the mine
worked to a greater depth. Undoubtedly a payable pro-
position—cheaply worked, economically managed, many
years’ ore in view, and probably a copper-mine when the
oxides are exhausted.
» • » *
Young Australia: Struck what appears to be a
continuation of the surface chute below the 200 ft. level.
A few small crushings were gouged out, averaging 14dwt.
by amalgamation, and leaving an equal amount, if not
more, in the tailings, which are too coppery for cyanid-
ing. Main shaft going down for another lift, making a
little water, which is troublesome for want of a pump,
but which can be easily handled by baling as soon as the
shaft is down. It will then probably be found that the
ore contains a higher percentage of copper, and will not be
amenable to battery treatment, and to send it. avvav to
Dapto or Cockle Creek will mean that nearly all that is in
it will go in freight and smelting charges.
* * « *
Great Western : Under exemption, and the
mine can stand a lot of it without capital. It certainly
can’t be worked on a decent scale without, and it is about
time its management realised that it will take, say, £20,000
to make it a payable concern.
* « * *
Mt. Pleasant: Worked on tribute by the owners
of the Great Cobar copper mine for the sake of the
silicious copper ore found below the 20')ft. level They
have the right of purchase for £5OOO at the end of their
tribute, and the manner in which they are working the
mine gives the impression that they intend to exercise
the option.
* * * •
Cobar Chesney : Still spending a lot of money
without hope of immediate return. The mine is being
placed in good shape for a big production. The basket-
ware concentrating plant is to be remodelled. About two-
thirds of it is useless and will be thrown out, and other
plant, such as Wilfley tables and spitzcasens, will take its
place. That part of the plant for which no expert advice
was sought is all that is wanted. The boilers are of good
type, the air-compressor is undoubtedly the finest in the
district, the driving-engine power is also the biggest in
Cobar, and the new winding-plant will also deserve that
designation. Much money has also been wasted in bad
mining. The levels at 360 and 460 ft. have been driven
far off the lode all the way. In some places
it has been found necessary to crosscut over 20ft. before
the western or foot-wall of the lode was reached. Just
think of anyone being unable to keep levels in such a lode
as the main lode of Cobar (having an average width of
over 40ft. !) The mistakes made in mining and
machinery on the Cobar-Chesney mine are simply appall-
ing. It may work out its own salvation some day ;
already nearly £lOO,OOO has gone in the attempt.
* * * *
Q, Govt, has just sent 50 unemployed, giving
them 10s. a week, to hunt for gems at Anakie (0.Q.),
Anakie yields a prolific crop of stones—sapphires, zircons,
etc. ; but up to now the bulk have been like land-bank
assets in ’93, bad or doubtful.
* * *
Croydon notes to May 30 : Late developments
prove Golden Gate lode to be continuous and nearly two
miles long ; the regularity of the shoots is now being
proved by thorough and systematic prospecting. Latest
discovery is in Golden Gate 12 South, tribute party strik-
ing a 2ft. reef similar in appearance to famous G.G. 3 and
4 South. Recent crushings : Golden Gate and Nancy
Lee United, 540 tons, 844£0z. ; Cuthbert.’s Golden Gate 5
South, partial clean-up, 431 tons, 5900 z. ; Golden Gate 3
and 4 South, 540 tons, 1963£0z. ; Mountain Maid P.C.
(owned by Victorian capitalists), 54 tons, trial from 7ft.
reef, 470 z., worth £3 Bs. per oz. ; Jubilee Consols
(True Blue) lease, 140 tons, 1790 z. 18dwts., reef
and gold improving in deep levels ; Rogers’ Golden Gate,
272 tons, 322£0z. Recent important developments
on Content line, connecting link between Golden Gate
and True Blue lodes. Good gold struck in Kitto’s claim.
Block shaft being sunk by Fred Cuthbert to cut reef at
250 ft. By the way, Cuthbert is gone for a trip to Glasgow
Exhibition. Made his pile in Croydon mines, and is still
a “ sticker.” Walked to the field from Normanton in the
early days. Went away sick with fever ; walked back from
Cooktown. Went into mining, and prospered ; now re-
garded as the “ Lansell ”of the North. Recently 7 took up
a big slice of Queensland loan. He’s all right. Croy-
don’s outside “ shows ” are being again taken up. When
capital oomes along, there are reets outside the “ Golden
Corner,” with millions of tons easily 7 getatable, that will
be grabbed up and crashed wholesale—the only way they
can be made to pay.
* * • *
A 720 z. nugget was unearthed by two new-
chum fossickers on Ebagoolah (N.Q.) field the other day.
• * « •
From Clermont (Q.): —The local Dredging Co.’s
clean-up on June 8 for a fortnight’s run was for soz. and
a few dwts., to say nothing of metals other than gold re-
covered—to wit, one threepenny-bit dated 1865, me
loaded cartridge, numerous cartridge - shells, sundry
bullets, a gun-barrel, and a Chinese coin. Yet another
promising - looking reef opening out near Clermont.
Known as the Fig Tree, and lies about 15 miles north-
west of the township. Specimens from the reef are real
good, but a 10-head battery is more convincing.
Things alluvial are so dead on Peak Downs (Q.) fields that
the whisper of a few dwt. colour being found is a great
draw for diggers. The month of May saw several “ pic-
canniny” rushes on dwt. rumours, and a few score men
sank holes round the lucky colour holes—in all case*
duffers.
(Continued on page 35.)


Complete
0-u.-t E.-ts.
AN ORIENT BOOT
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT-~
63-
TO MEASURE
ALL CLASSES OF GARMENTS
. . IN THE ..
“Orient fa measure” Clothing
.. AT ..
PRICES
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
DAVID JONCS & COMPANY,
6sorge $ Barrack Sts., Sydney
re
/riTvV.
HEADACHES
. . TRY . .
SPECTACLES
FITTED BY
WOOD^
“The Optician”
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
95 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE ;
and 299 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE HUNTER STREET.
Only the ONE address in each State.
Eyesight tested through post. Write for particulars.
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjc> ,/ient
HOME CIGARETTES
Society
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRAMDY
Whether Australia shall hold an Exhibi-
tion or not within the next few years (and such a
commercial machine could not be properly engi-
neered with less than several years’ preparation)
the suggestion that it shall be started to com-
memorate the inauguration of Federation is par-
ticularly weird. Australia has been com-
memorating that inauguration with Dukes,
Princesses, titles, and fireworks, till the country’s
liver don’t know where it are. To all gigantic
showmen, who probably see something in such
razzles for themselves, Australia should unhesitat-
ingly say, “Give us a rest ! Get to work in the
ordinary industrial channels, and prove your
patriotism by helping to drag the land out of
debt.”
The Age makes moan over the fact that
Victoria has been deprived of the comfort and
consolation of a real Hall-marked vice-regal re-
Eresentative for close upon 18 months, and
athetically beseeches Premier Peacock not to
continue to risk the moral and material salvation
of the State by retaining a system that leaves its
“administrator with an inferior status to other
Australian Governors ” The fact that the
Imperial Powers show no particular anxiety to
fit Victoria witli a Governor seems to “wooden”
the Age with amazement. Can David really,
really be desirous of bequeathing a baronetcy,
and does he fear that the present Acting-Gov.
system is a poor medium for the transmission of
grovel ?
People begin to wonder what Gov.-General
Hopetoun is to make out of that Imperially-
calamitous fiasco, the Royal Visit. At onetime
it was thought certain that a dukedom would come
his way. But after the ignominious failure of this
Royal “ outfit "’ to impress Australia and the
heavy slump in Royal titles and presents, he will
probably have to put up with a good deal less.
Something like a Knight Grand Cross-ship of the
Ro,, al Victorian Order, for instance. The privi-
lege of tacking a few more letters on to his already
fej.r ome official title will be scant repayment for-
the expense and trouble of the visit, to say nothing-
of the worry and anxiety occasioned to His Ex.
by the humiliating exhibition which the coming:
K. has made of himself.
* * » *
Several of the Vic. State Ministers are in
Lord Hopetoun’s black-list. The trouble arose out
of York’s visit —what a curse that visit will be
yet! Seems that one of the many dinners given
by the Gov.-General was arranged in order that
the State Ministers and their wives might have-
an opportunity of grovelling before Royalty and
its missus. All the Ministers accepted the
invitation. Some of them, however, did not turn
up, and some of them turned up without their
wives, and Lord Hopetoun was very angry. Of
course it would have been more manly and cour-
teous if the Ministers who did not propose to'
attend the dinner had declined the invitation in
the first place; but still the fact that on second
thoughts some of them decided not to be there
gives hope that a day will come when even
Australian politicians will not all go down on.
their stomachs at the shadow of Royalty across,
their paths.
* * » •
The York visit to Ballarat was mainly
undertaken to lay the foundation-stone of the
soldiers’ statue ; 18 minutes being allotted for the
function. The Jook drove up, accepted the
jewelled trowel, said : “lam pleased to say that
this stone is well and truly laid,” and drove off,
the time occupied being 59 seconds. The authori-
ties had announced that offerings could be laid on
the stone, and expected at least £5OO. As, how-
ever, the crowd were too loyal to exceed the
Royal donation, which was nix as usual, not a
solitary copper was forthcoming. The Ballarat
loyalists are as whole-souled as they make ’em;
but when they reflected that the Imperial Parlia-
ment had just voted £40,000 for the Royal pair;
that the Duchy of Cornwall is turning in a cool
£60,000 per annum ; that the Australian trip costs
tiie Jook nothing ; that valuable gifts are being
showered on the visitors; and that the Austra-
lians (whose statue was thus inaugurated) had
died to support the thi’one the canny George may
one day occupy (though to back King Ned’s life
against his son’s wouldn’t be a bad wager)—their
loyalty received such a knock that it has had that
tired feeling ever since.
I here was a pleasing and instructive inci-
dent at Melbourne Old Scotch Collegians’ welcome
to Commander Tickell. The gallant Tickell told the
gathering that when in China he had not forgotten
the old school. He saw in a Buddhist temple at
Pekin a remarkable bell, and “ appropriated ” it
for the use of the college. He would be glad if
the Principal would accept it. Dr. Morrison
smilingly nodded his head, and the exhibition of
practical ethics ended with a promise that the
piece of loot from the heathen house of worship
should be utilised immediately to summon the
college-boys to morning chapel.
Extract from N.S.W. railway regulations :
Any emplov6 accepting a gratuity from the public is
liable to dismissal.
From Sydney D.T., 8/6/T :
ROYALTY AND THE RAILWAYS.
His Royal Highness the Duke of Cornwall and York,
when speaking to Mr. Oliver about the excellence of the
N.S.W. system of railways, presented him with a scarf-
pin of unique design, with an emerald set in gold, sur-
mounted by a gold crown. Mr. Harper, the chief traffic-
manager, was also signalled out for royal favor. The
Duke handed him a silver cigarette-case, with gold medal-
lions of the Duke and Duchess.
Good old regulations and discipline ! Precept’s
better’n example every time.
• * * *
From Newcastle Chronicle (Eng.) :
It is reported that the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall
have, so far, derived marked benefit to their health by
their voyage in the Ophir. They are expected to arrive
at Melbourne about May 6. Antipodean loyalty is at
fever heat, and great preparations are on foot for the
reception of the Royal party and the festivities to he
associated therewith.
Query—What does the Jook look like when he’s
at home ? Also, has the fever subsided ?
w ♦ • m
Gov. Larnington (Q.) has his trunks packed
for 20th June, and Griffith, C.J., casts sheep’s
eyes towards Government House. Also, Lieut. -
Gov. Le Hunte, of British Papua, finds it neces-
sary to visit Brisbane just now. Never-mind
Nelson says he wouldn’t take the post were it
offered him.
• * * *
“P.X.” : The absurdity of public-holiday
arrangements was pretty well illustrated lately,
when, even in far-west N.S.W., schools, banks,
public offices, etc., were closed to allow the people
to join in the welcome of the Duke of York. I
spent the days in a township from which Sydney
can’t be reached in less than five days; but the
offices, such as they are, were glued-up all the
same.
* * * *
“ Royal visits to all parts of the British
Empire should be periodical in future,” remarks
a Sydney Jingo print. Judging from the effect
produced on the Australian mind by that most
inglorious fizzle, the Yorks’ tour, it would be in
the interests of the Monarchy if the Royal visits
suggested were made at, say, 200-year intervals.
• » * *
In an interview with Mrs. 0 Neill, an old
Sydney resident who has acquired a sudden Dook-
o’-York vogue through having been in the late
Queen’s domestic serv .ee—Sydney Sunday Times’
“ Lady Special ” ask d the ancient daine’s present
entertainer: “Hov did you come to interest
yourself on Mrs. O’Neill’s behalf ? ” she received
in reply the following lovely squeak of bagpipe-
cum-penny-trumpet: “Because she remembers
my kinswoman, the Hon. Flora Macdonald, who
was appointed Maid of Honor to Her Majesty,
and later Woman of the Bedchamber. We belong
to the Macdonalds of Glencoe, the late Sir John
Macdonald, first Prime Minister of Canada, being
a relation of mine, and the present Lord Mac-
donald being chief of our clan.” How beautifully-
characteristic of the servant-girls’ organ !
* • * »
“ Hermes ” : Be the recent great Maori-
land hotel fire. When travelling in Maoriland
(in the North or Pig Island) I was always haunted
by a dread of fire, and carried a rope about with
me. No matter how late at night I arrived at a
strange hotel I made a point of learning
the geography and fastening the rope to
the bedstead, all ready to slither down in case of
accidents. Never found anything in the shape of
a fire-escape in any hotel in Wellington. On one
occasion I landed there at midnight, and was
shown into a room with only a sky-light. Porter
scouted the idea of tire, and declared it was the
only vacant room in the house, and chat all the
other pubs, were full. “All right, I’ll camp in
the street then.” And I went out and wandered
about for two hours till I got a bed in a room
which, in the event of a blaze, would not have
quite such a resemblance to a colonial oven. A
few years in a land of ancient wooden public-
houses makes you cautious.
• * • *
Stated that there were only two fire-escapes
in connection with the Grand Hotel (Auckland,
M.L.), recently burnt, and that both were death-
traps. Nearly every passage in the house led on
to the big circular staircase, the well of which
must have created a fearful forced draught once
the fire caught it.
* * * *
Australia’s only hippopotamus died in
Adelaide Zoo last week. The huge creature cost
the Zoo authorities over £lOOO, only last year. The
sight of the ungainly animal wallowing in the
mud was a useful object-lesson to the young, and
a warning that a misspent youth might end in an
aldermanic old age with a vote for the Legislative
Council.
* • • *
Melbourne's Board of Health t'other day
told the town Council of fashionable St. Kilda
that it didn’t approve of the practice of the
market-producers-going home with loads of
manure —camping in the main street and enrich-
ing the atmosphere the while they bought the
week’s supplies, and swore at the price of cauli-
flowers. YVhereupon, the Council replied that it
had taken great pains to attract said ‘ trade ”
from Prahran, and that it loved its collective
dung-cart too well to find anything objectionable
in the “bouquet” thereof. And the Board was
actually surprised.
* * • *
S.M. Herald somehow secured a mono-
poly of the sensational finding of the Expert
Board on the cause of the Sydenham disaster—
which finding was that the accident was caused
by the running of the wrong sort of engine on the
wrong sort of line in the wrong sort of way. The
Daily Telegraph of the Saturday morning con-
tained not a word of this, but printed a speech by
Carruthers, M.P., to the effect that such report
could not be got from the Govt. Still the same
morning it had a “scoop” in the*announcement
of the engagement of actress Carrie Moore to
Mr. Tyson. The latter item of news far sur-
A BIT TOO HONEST.
MISS HAGG : “ I declare my hair is fcahful! I
can't yet it to ‘do ’ at all."
MAID (just from North Queensland): “ Yes, I'vc
never seen anything like it, except among the
Mack gins!”
passed in point of interest tlie other in the eye;
of the readers, most of whom had quite forgotten
the Sydenham disaster.
* * * »
The curious Australian notion of wh t
military discipline doesn’t mean was further
evidenced in Melbourne the other day, when over
100 troopers “ missed ” the s.s. Morayshire
apparently with the view of being trained to
Sydney. Only 20 of them, at all events, turned up
to travel by another steamer which the authorities
had arranged should take them along.
» » * *
Quite a crowd attended at a well-known
Sydney church a week or so ago, to witness the
wedding of a wealthy spinster and a young gentle-
man half her age who had boldly wooed and won
her. Guests were all present, even the best man
was there and the bridesmaids, but the hour rolled
by and the principals failed to appear. Finally,
no explanation being forthcoming, the guests had
to go home, and the breakfast, prepared by a
swell caterer, was left uneaten. Which, after all,
was perhaps the saddest incident.
* * * *
Great excitement in King-street, Sydney,
on Saturday when the balloon-vendor lost his grip
of his wares and the whole stock-in-trade went
sailing skywards.
» » * «
A prevalent popular misapprehension was
once more exemplified at the inquest on Joseoh
Fowler, who recently suicided at Sou tl i Melbourne.
Fowler’s wife found him hanging by the neck, and
ran for assistance. The next-door neighbor came
in, had a look, and went for another neighbor,
who in turn went for the police. When the latter
arrived, the “suspended” (possibly still alive
when first discovered) was, of course, quite dead.
When asked why they had not oromptly cut the
man down, the witnesses said that they “thought
a person had no right to touch a body before the
arrival of the police ” —a curious notion which has
converted many a half-strangled unfortunate into
cold meat.
* • * •
No sooner had Joseph Henry Grey, late of
Geelong, and later of Fiji, been committed for
trial on an involved and complicated charge of
forgery, than the Grown hastily dropped all other
charges against him. But the same “Crown”
was at the same time proceeding with great vigor
on each and all of about 20 different charges of
housebreaking against a couple of escapees from
Bayswater .Reformatory. Also, the week previous,
a trio of uninfluential larrikins, having been
ordered six years’ hard labor apiece for a serious
offence, were persistently docked again and atrain
by the Crown for trivial offences, the Judge shew-
ing what bethought of the proceedings by making
all sentences concurrent. Interesting to note
whether, in the not unlikely event of the forgery
charge failing, the other accusations against Grey
will be resuscitated.
* * * *
Rev. Bath, of Melbourne, states that if a
Speaker or President cannot reverently offer the
Lord’s Prayer when Parliament meets, he is “ un-
fit to represent the people and should acknow-
ledge it at once.” But why need the unhappy
official despair of learning to pray properly ? He
could take a short course of lessons. He might
go to Bath for instruction.
* * * *
A-pretty little woman, with an oval mouth,
and an ostrich feather in her hat, told a Svdney
stipendiary on the bench the other dav to “go to
h The stipendiary, drawing attention to
the pretty mouth before him, remarked that
nearly all bad-worded women have pretty mouths.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am pursued, the lover sard
"I am pursued this night.
So take me to you gentle maid
And make this lad alright
Said she "You are a forward thing
So down that lader go
Next time you'd better knock andring
And more politeness show
"Yet"- and she siphed a llittle bit
Too gentle to be scorning.
"Don't go at once kor you'll be hit
But stop here till the morning
wo


J
U.Wt.L.
TheWhiskvof The Wise
J.D.K.Z. GIB.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 3 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16'5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
Wedding notice from S.A. Advertiser :
DOOLEY—SMITH.—On 26th April, at St. Patrick’s
Church, John Dooley, eldest son of Michael Dooley,
of Dublin, to Mary Smith, eldest daughter of W.
Smith, of Adelaide, by Father Patrick M'Murtagh.
» * • •
The latest-proposed Maoriland Parliamen-
tary Royal Commission relates to the care of
children’s teeth.
Ladies’
Tan
Shoes
Inexpensive, but pretty; excellently
made from smooth, well-finished kid
skin; neat toe-style, kid tipped ; a
well styled heel of moderate height;
medium sole weight; fast-color eye-
lets,
11/9, 12/9, 13/9 & 15 6.
Callaghan & S on >
395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
sd
BILE BEANS
C^B
o OSNESS lIVER
I*' w and * Troubles.
At a recent meeting of Sydney City Coun-
cil, Alderman Fitzgerald complained of the Board
of Health’s refusal (on the ground that the
nominee was very young, unmarried and quite
inexperienced), to recommend the appointment of
the lady-inspector (a 8.A., of the local University),
recently nominated by the Council. As the lady
was described as “young and charming” she
must be all the more fitted for poking round
Sydney slums, encountering the wrath of the
fierce female denizens thereof, and sniffing out
the noisome sink and the pestilential drain.
Shade of old Romance !
• » * *
So far this year there have been 15 fatal
accidents in and about Broken Hill mines. In
five years 104 men have been killed.
• * * *t
One consolation from the “ Royal Visit.”
No Australian authoress will dare hereafter to
describe her particular “hero” as of “princely
mien.” Let us be thankful for small mercies.
• * * •
Writes “Alba ” to The Bulletin
Russian war-ship Gromoboi, ram and general sea-jugger-
naut, lately anchored in Sydney harbour, iooks
wicked enough to knock roosting birds off Gibraltar.
The Russian navy is without traditions, save for a few
uninteresting encounters with Turkish monitors in ’76.
The Gromoboi’s crew are a deep-jawed, clear-eyed crowd
of young giants, ready to eat something as small, say, as
Japan. The other Sunday it seemed as though the whole
of Sydney were trying to hoard the big-beamed ram.
Women carrying children struggled bitterly to ascend
the steep gangway that led past tiers of black-snouted
guns. Almost at the foot of the gangway was the
Gromoboi’s cutter, packed with Russian sailors, watching
the people ascend. The fat women passed up without
comment, but when a thin girl started to climb up it was
the signal for peals of Muscovite laughter. The thin
Australian girl was so numerous, and the laughter so
indecent, that it evoked resentment from several male
visitors. Suddenly a golden beard popped from under a
steel barbette, followed by a pair of saucer-like epaulets.
“ Wunslci, knoutik !” it whispered ; “ Wunski, knoutik ! ”
and the 24 Russians in the cutter shuddered. There was
no more laughter. Then the officer with the golden
heard looked at the sky casually to see if there were pro-
spects of snow, and then down at the delinquents.
“ Knoutik 1 ” he said, with tender ferocity ; “ Knoutik ! ”
The boat’s crew shuddered itself almost beneath
gangway. Knoutik 1
A MATTER OF REGRET.
MRS. SMITH (reading in background).
“‘ Infants born on the date of the
Duke's landing will receive a gift of a silver
spoon ’ Oh, what a pity we didn't know!”
Melbourne city ratepayers are snorting
painfully over an addition of 4d. on their rates,
making the charge Is. 4d. in the £. The city
deficits have been long accumulating, and the cost
of the York flag-flying flare-up is a large lump on
top of the usual shortage. How wonderful is the
sobering influence of a little bill 1
♦ * * *
They are walloping a very sluggish animal
in Brisbane just now—the Queen Victoria Mem-
orial Fund, to wit. After two months’ laboring
and press-puff the result is £75 promised and £lO
in hand. Not more than would be collected in an
afternoon for an injured mannikin at a pony-race
meeting.
* * * •
“Melb.”: A mother of one of “Our
Boys,” providentially spared to come back from
S’Africa, writes to the papers asking for a
memorial service in the cathedral to thank Heaven
for his return. I don’t want to be harsh, but do
the mothers of the providentially killed and
mangled join in this ?
* * * *
Some curious evidence was given in a
divorce case lately heard in Wellington (M.L.).
The wife was the applicant. Reversing the usual
order of things, it was the husband who had gone
astray with the lodger. After the latter lady had
taken her departure he confessed everything to his
wife. Sheforgavehim, apparently, onconditionthat
the ex-lodger was offered up as a burnt —or rather
a spanked—sacrifice. So the siren was beguiled
back to the house by a telegram, and on arrival
was severely horse-whipped. According to the
wife’s story, it was the husband who flogged the
former object of his affections under her supervi-
sion ; the husband’s tale was that he merely held
the lady while the wife chastened her. Strange
to say, the reconciliation thus sanctified by sacri-
fice only lasted a few weeks.
* # * *
A novel charge was laid against a man in
Melbourne lately—that of “ taking a corrupt
reward.” He had offered to return, or put the
owner in the way of recovering, an allegedly stolen.
watch. Sec. 168 of the Crimes Act says : “ Who-
soever shall corruptly take any reward —under
pretence of helping any person to any money or
valuable security which shall have been stolen,
shall, unless he have used all diligence to cause
the offender to be brought to justice —be liable to
imprisonment for fifteen years." The most sur-
prising thing about the law is the number of ways
it has of catching the little fish while it lets the
big ones escape. With the latter the law always
says its mesh was too large, or the net wasn’t the
right sort for that particular fish, or it was look-
ing the other way when the shark went by.
There’s a close connection between the law and
fish.
• * * *
A budding Melbourne burglar struck a
new variety of householder t’other day._ Aroused
in the small hours, the housefather laid in a handy
poker and started to investigate. Finding a hat-
less and bootless stranger in a dark corner, he in-
quired of him how he entered. The burglar frankly
explained he had come by way of the verandah-
post, and through a bedroom window. Also he
said that.if let off he would quit the profession,
being convinced he had mistaken his vocation.
He assured the man with the poker he was willing
to depart quietly, and without needless publicity.
Whereupon the housefather escorted him to the
front door, watched him put on his boots and hat
and move down the street, and then went back to
bed. An officious policeman subsequently tried to
work up a “case” out of the incident, but the
citizen refused to take any interest in the pro-
ceedings.
“ Via ” : Just before Mrs. George York
and Co. passed along George-street, Brisbane, an
incident happened that nearly brought fame to
the writer. He was on a verandah waiting for
the procession (he had been dragged there by his
wife, who had bought a new silk dress and a
picture hat) and just before the languid pair
hove in view, a foreign-person tore down a
piece of scantling on which hung a calico
Union Jack, and dropped the dauntless
banner of our country in the street. He
was obviously a dreadful and blood-
thirsty anarchist, and as he was only a
small man, four or five of us arrested
him on the spot in order to ensure
the safety of the empire. We
expected to be knighted, but alas !
he explained. “My vife,” he said
wildly; “mine Katrina the pro-
cession can not see, and she at ze
back is, so I a way make so can she
see if it is true about the baby
that comes.” Katrina protested
volubly in Dutch to the same
effect, and the crowd laughed, and
we disgustedly dropped our anar-
chist.
Said a pickpocket
t’other day : “I watched
her for a week coming
and going to the
bank,but could never
get her to myself—
couldn’t lose sight
of the d’s when she
was about. Still
there’s no harm in
following up a
good lay, and I
reckoned that a
woman who shop-
ped with her
brougham would
carry a dry bit in
her purse. One
day I got her
beautifully in Jones’
doorway. She had a
fancy satchel in her hand. I squeezed
it open and snatched out a banana !! !
* * * *
Our milkman hails from—say Edinburgh—
and his description of our future King is this:
“King is it! Shure if ’e took ’is busby orf an 5
shtuck it on th’ ground ’e couldn’t see over it!
Huh !! ”
* * * *
From “ Watto ”
Dear Bulletin.— Apropos doctor-sweating. “ Wat Tell ”
writes what’s not correct. The doctor alluded to does
not receive 30s. per member. He receives 25s., and out
of this has to provide drugs and dressings—for which you
may deduct 5s. As far as I know he gets no extra fee for
operations. If another lodge-doctor be called in a con-
sultation fee of a guinea is allowed. The mileage rate is
not 2s. 6d. per mile, only beyond a radius of three miles
is the rate allowed, and it has to be collected by -the
doctor. He does not make about £300 a year. £200 is
probably a good deal above the mark. However, the
doctor has no cause to grumble at above rates for bona-
fide lodge practice. What he may complain of is thedact
that many wealthy people take advantage of the lodge
rates.
WHAT OUR ARTIST HAS TO UNDERGO.
CONSTANT READER : “Ha! ha! By Jove, that
was a real funny cartoon of yours on the
front page last week, ha lha! ha! I almost
laughed myself ill over it. Ha! ha! ha! ”
OUR ARTIST : “ Always glad, Em sure, when any
little thing of mine ”
CONSTANT READER (in confidential tone): “Ha!
yes. By the way, hut what WAS the point of
it, now really?”
The principal hen-roost of the Melbourne
Ladies Bountiful is the Women’s Hospital Com-
mittee. These people indulge the common vice
of their type—namely, in ingenious
insulting the helpless who seek
their aid—by putting a distinguish-
ing label over the beds of the un-
married girls in the maternity ward,
This practically invites the atten-
tion of visitors, doctors, atten-
dants, married occupants of the
ward and tattling cats and hens
generally to the fact of
theirsingle butencumbered
blessedness. A vigorous
anti-bed-card agitation was
carried on for some time,
but with little apparent
effect on the she-Peeksniffs
of the hen-roost. It had
an effect on subscribers,
however. So many withdrew
their donations on high moral
grounds that the Women’s
Hospital is now in great
straits, and apparently the
hen-roost in charge will either
have to give up its cherished
insult or else see the institu-
tion gradually break up. At
present it looks as if the com-
mittee values its insult more
than its institution, and as if
the hospital may gradu-
ally dwindle and perish,
womanfully stating on
its bed-card to the last
that occupant Sarah
Jones ought to be mar-
ried but isn’t.
As a spectacular affair the ending of the
second trial of Mrs. Jane Smith for the Talune
alleged murder by poisoning was a distinct disap-
pointment. The court, as usual, was crowded,
and, lamentable to relate, a considerable propor-
tion of the audience was composed of well-dressed
women. Every other person turned to someone
and made remarks about “butchered to make a
Roman holiday ! ” and everybody expected there
was going to be a scene, and waited with intense
interest. Suddenly Mrs. Smith appeared through
the trap-door. Her face still looked round and
fresh, but the eyes showed traces of weeping and
racking anxiety ; yet she bore herself bravely,
and, guilty or innocent, she has enviable
courage. She sat down and bowed to her
counsel, and gave no signs of nervousness. The
court was filled with the hum of voices, and
a few shafts of yellow light came through the roof
windows and lit up the gilded cornice. Men
were jabbering about how she’d take it, what-
ever it happened to be, and some said she
was steeled to face the worst, and the only
thing that would knock her over would be an
acquittal. An awful voice crashed through the
hum, and as the echoes rolled away the battered
ears of the crowd realised that it had said
“Soilence!” And they were “soilent,” and
rose to their feet as a thin, hard-faced
man, with short, almost invisible side-
whiskers, and wearing a red skirt, which he
held up in a fashion that made him look like
a brahmapootra hen on a wet day, tripped up into
the canopied seat. The jurymen filed in and took
their places. Every eye turned on Mrs. Smith.
The plump, rounded bosom rose and fell a little
irregularly, but otherwise she gave no sign of
interest in the twelve. The small, grey-whiskered
man in the red skirt stood up and said to
the jury. “ I understand, gentlemen, you
have been unable to agree upon a verdict?”
The foreman replied that there was no
possible chance. The* Judge looked disgusted.
The foreman went on to say the jury had con-
sidered the case all night and in the early hours
of the morning, and could come to no decision.
The Judge looked bored, and started to adjourn
the Court, when the foreman stuck his voice in
again, and S’Onah waited impatiently. Then he
adjourned the Court till Monday, 10 a.m., re-
manded the prisoner to her former custody, and
began to trip out again, holding up his red dress.
The foreman once more pulled him up to thank
him and the Court-officials for their kindness, etc.
The Judge looked as though he would like to bite
the verbose foreman, but contented himself with
saying that the Court officials always did their
duty, but —er —were glad to hear that it was ap-
preciated. Then he got a fair hold of his dress,
and bolted. Mrs. Smith was talking to her juve-
nile-looking counsel, Mr. Mack. Her husband
stared at her very hard ; then he swished his
stick, and ambled out without throwing a kiss or
congratulation to the wife who had just escaped
through the jaws of death. Evidently a very self-
contained man. The accused is to be tried
again. There is a local precedent for such a
course in the Louisa Collins case, wherein, after
two juries had failed to agree upon a verdict, a
third jury was empannelled and arrived at a final
conclusion.
» * * •
“ J.D.” : Apropos Japanese aptness. The
writer was English tutor to a Japanese gentle-
man, recently touring Australia. Tne latter made
rapid acquisition of the language, and one day
developed quite startling progress—got ahead of
his teacher, in fact. A cable in a Sydney paper
made reference to a proposition by a Queensland-
politician to include Japs, in the list of aliens
liable to poll-tax, and this was pointed out to the
visitor. He read it carefully, and then, pushing
the paper back with an air of amused contempt,
HAS THE RAGE DEGENERATED?
“ We never saw young men like that when I was
young. ”
"But surely, dad, they were not all short!”
ejaculated, “ Our blanky troubles ! ” Blauky was
pronounced in pure Australian, too. He was
surprised to learn that up-to-date Australian was
not necessarily parliamentary English.


“He’s from the Country.”
— I Ii7 r i¥asaak
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’B success is a Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY’B.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun of the thing t
MARK Foy, sypNEy.
Bame prices and attention ae If you bought amongst the dally crowds at the oounters.
The Govt. Prizes
Three
Firsts
were Awarded to
Coolalta Claret
... iAT THE
commonwealth show.
fgTURE
§8
PM
%
0
cogs
IN
All Drapers Everywhere.
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TE4S
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEA 3
GLOBE TEAS
hav«
Have
have
Have
have
Have
have
have
have
have
XTO
EQUAL.
EQUAL.
EQUAL.
EQUAL.
EQUAL.
EQUAL.
EQUAL.
EQUAL,
EQUAL.
EQUAL.
Vhe
Best Tea in Australia
1/9 PER LB.
choice family tea
241 b CANNISTERS @ 12Ad. =£l fig '
12th CANNISTERS @ 13d. „ iST
61b CADDIES @ 13M _ S -
SINGLE POUND, Ib. 2d °
sgs
ATCHERUEY
DAWSON, T*i Murohanto, 884 GEORGE ffifßEß®, fiYDJfBY.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, June 18, 1901.
My Dear Arini,—
Didn’t someone once write an ode to Dullness ?
Anyway, I recall a line—“ For, born a Goddess,
Dullness never dies.” She’s goddessing in Sydney
just now to such an extent that some other place
must be neglected—probably Maoriland. At
afternoon-teas—there are plenty of them—you
may hear the flapping of the goddess’s wings.
A goddess has wings, hasn’t she ? I was at a few
teas last week—the usual thing. Women came
in from the eager, nipping air with blanched faces
and went out with suck red noses. There’s noth-
ing like a heated drawing-room and tea for rosing
your nose. Some of the women wore four-decker
hats. Really they looked as if they had four hats,
one over the other, with alternate brims of white
and black crinoline, the upper deck carrying a
freight of feathers and flowers And under the
hull, one had a bird and a bow. You’d think the
tonnage of these three or four-decker toques to be
considerable, but their substructure is so light
that they carry many cargoes of flowers and fowls
with great ease.
The afternoon-tea-lappers told each other in the
Orange Pekoe pauses that really the “ Voice that'
Breathed O’er Eden ” was having, or going to
have, considerable respiratory exercise. Miss
Rundle, a daughter of Mr. Bryce Rundle, is en-
gaged to Mr. Marsh, the agent for Mu mm’s cham-
pagne. I believe it was of this bride-elect that a
writer in a Melbourne weekly said : “She looks
just the kind of girl to whom Eric Mackay wrote
his ‘Love Letters of a Violinist.’” Mr. Ernest
Tyson—a thin, sallowish young man who lives at
the Australia in a private suite (his mother and
sister live at North Shore in ex-Speaker Abbott’s
former house) mariies pretty Miss Carrie Moore
in a few days. He isn’t a millionaire, or anything
approaching it, as has been given out by various
papers; in fact, he only inherits through his
mother, who is a niece of the late million-maker,
Tyson. She got £lB,OOO for her share of the
N.S. W. property. Miss Carrie will, after a short
honeymoon, return to the stage.
At one of these afternoon teas I saw a curious
veil—a black one with a thin, red pattern trailing
over it. It made the wearer look as if her face
had been carefully scratcuod with a pin. There
was another veil, a very fine mesh, with the
Southern Cross in big chenille spots three times
on it. One constellation caught the wearer over
the left eye, another oh the mouth, and the third
hung over an ear. I don’t think the S.C. ought
to be encouraged to leave its sphere in this veiled
fashion.
Already the recoil from mourning to coloring is
apparent. Shops are full of dawn-in-December
clothes (if you want anything brighter than a
midsummer sunrise I can’t direct you) and
“ Florodora ”-hued toques. One of the afternoon-
tea dames said that she had watched in vain for
the Duchess to wear one or any of those dresses
in which she was dressed in English fashion-
journals. “ And,” continued the scrutineer, “I
saw her on all her public appearances here and in
Melbourne and several times when she wasn’t in
the public eye. She never wore one of those
frocks that are described in Hearth and Home
or the Gentlewoman.”
I don’t see so many necklaced necks now. Blue
beads at 3£d. a string are within even the means
of the little girl who minds baby. Yet Potts
Point wore them under the alias “Venetian”
glass. It’s astonishing the number of women who,
since beads have been the wear, have relatives
and friends travelling abroad. “This necklace
was sent from Venice—Venetian glass. So nice
to get these things from the places where they’re
made, isn’t it ? ” And if you’re very horrid yoii’ll
ask “ Have Hordern’s a branch in Venice? ”
Referring to the prevailing style of dressing the
hair to resemble a large-sized onion, a lady re-
marked to me: “It takes a load off my mind to
hear that we can wear our hair uncrimped. My
husband said to me the other day, ‘ Lucy, I have
stood greases, I have stood curl-papers, but if
these fireirons you wear in your hair had lasted
much longer I should have been obliged to seek
another apartment.’ So I was pleased,” said the
lady, simply.
Duchess May is said to be very nervous at sea
in a storm. On the voyage out here the chief
stewardess of the Ophir (no, not a lady-in-waiting)
awaited on a couch at the foot of the Duchess’s
bunk whenever there was a promise of a stormy
night. One night a Wagnerian storm arose and
the stewardess sat up all the time, expecting the
Duchess to awake and add to the noise
without. Presently she did unbutton her eyes
and give a honi-soit-qui-mal-y-pense-ick-dien shriek,
and the stewardess was at her side in an instant!
“Thank goodness,” said the Duchess, “if you
weren’t here I’d have had a fit.” I chronicle this
remark merely to show the Duchess’s everyday-
ness. It was a natural human remark. Persons
from Milparinka and Boggabri would have insisted
that she’d say something like “Stewardess, take
your nothingness out of the path of the divine
circuit: Arouse the band and bid it play ‘ Rocked
in the Cradle of the Deep.’ ”
Duchess May had her teeth attended to whilst
here. Dr. Slate, of Macquarie-street, was the
happy dentist selected, and the royal toothache
took itself to his rooms to be cured. May’s teeth
look very pretty behind her smile, but no doubt
they had suffered from the salt horse on board the
Ophir.
There was a surplus of £52 after the Duchess’s
presentation fund. It will lie used to buy “some-
thing useful” for the children’s ward in the
memorial wing of Sydney Alfred Hospital, so
eally some little good has come out of that fund
ISaines of subscribers have been forwarded to. the
Duchess “in a handsome book of white vellum ”
and May said the conventional thing through the
lady in-waiting—“ expressed herself pleased.”
There won’t be a vacant corner in any of the
royal garrets when the couple get home with their
swags of addresses and views.
The snuff-box given by the Duke of York to
Mr. Barton is big enough to hold a couple of
small sandwiches quite easily. No one takes
snuff now save a few old persons in the Benevo-
lent Asylum, and I hope Toby won’t contract the
habit just in order to live up to his Box. I’ve
been trying to think how he could make it useful
°r does a thing so beautiful as that need to be
useful . The lid of this perfect work of art is a
plate of gold enamel led in royal blue, over which
are delicate gold scrolls set with six large dia-
monds The centre of the lid holds three Prince
of Wales feathers fashioned by over 200 tiny
diamonds, and surmounted by a crown of more
white brilliants under which shows the glow of
red enamel. The jewelled Garter with its Honi
soit legend encircles the feathers, and the buckle
looks as if done in diamond-dust, so tiny are the
stones. The sides of the box are in exquisite re-
lief work. It weighs close on 90z., and is said to
be worth about t'4oo. It is a wondrously delicate
example of the jeweller’s art.
he half-caste Minister Carroll, who stands by
tym , 01 their M.L. travels, translates the
Duke s speeches, putting in all the imagery and
poetry that the Maori likes. “ I thank you for
the splendid welcome you have accorded me, and
for the unflinching loyalty so nobly emphasised ”
will very likely go to the Maoris as, “Here beneath
the setting sun, O descendants of Hinemoa, I and
my wahine clasp your hands and call you
brothers. Before the Great Spirit took her, the
White Queen spoke to us saying: ‘Go
hence to my children, the Maoris, and tell them,”’
etc. That was a, good idea, though, of the Auck-
landers —the living Union Jack, composed of 2000
children dressed in the necessary colors. I suppose
the Jack had Jills in it. And how the originator
of the idea must have trembled lest it should
leak out before the Couple had left Australia ! It
would have been pounced upon. Lord Ranfurly,
the Gov. of M.L., who left Sydney suddenly after
attending the first royal dinner-party at Govern-
ment House, never explained his “ mysterious
disappearance” hence, but it leaked out that
there was no room for him at Govt. House. And
he couldn’t afford the Australia. The Ranfurlys
are far from opulent, and that lemon-ranch of
theirs at Mildura, where they long lived, is not
a mine of wealth.
Thrfee bachelor girls in Wellington, M.L.,
locked up their cottage on a recent holiday and
went on a triune picnic. But rain drove them
home in time to surprise two boy burglars, who
were in the eldest “bachelor’s” bedroom, where
the consolidated funds are kept. “We know
who the boys are,” she writes, “as one of them
was so green 111 the profession as to bring his dog
with him—a long, low, yellow mongrel, not unlike
a rat; and this animal was sitting at the gate
when we came home, and waited patiently for his
master for a long time, not knowing that the
youthful Bill Sikes had departed in a hurry via
the roof I knew the dog by sight, as it is so
nmd I told the police. A very handsome
detective waited on me yesterday and informed me
that I would have to give evidence against the
boys, as the foorce is anxious to break up
the gang which operates in our ward. They
had waded in to jam and cake—all home-made, so
1 think they must have suffered enough in conse-
quence to atone for the housebreaking, but the
police don’t think so. I wonder how I shall have
j 113I 13,ve 111 col| rt ? I have not been there before,
and do not know the etiquette.” Now if it had
been appearing before the Yorks
The Australian society damsel is frequently of
a Martha-like and economical disposition. This
scribess heard one sister exhorting another at a
recent Govmentouse function: “Remember, we
had to pay 15s. for the cab, so take it out in the
supper, Nelly.”
orR on ’y° rget the Fresh Air League Ball on the
zuth - xou can get tickets from Mrs. Caro (hon.
sec. ) or any of the committee or flower-shops, and
don t make the mistake of thinking, as some have
done, that the Fresh Air League arranges for
holiday-jaunts for affluent persons like yourself,
it sends poor children, and grown-ups who are
convalescent or in need of a change, to the
Mountains or elsewhere, as farasits funds permit.
For weeks there have been references in the
cables to the illness of Mrs. M'Kinley, the
American President’s wife, and I heard someone
say the poor thing’s law-business will suffer ”
oomeone who evidently believed the papers when
they said Mrs. M'Kinley is a lawyer in full
practice. I hat made American residents amongst
us very mad. “Why,” they argued, “your
Mayoress could not mind a law or other business
and her social and domestic duties as well. 80
now could our President’s wife ! ” Mrs. M‘K.
isn t a lawyer and she’s very delicate and most
devoted to her home and her husband’s interests.'
1n 22 * pr °f V 5 CrOWC i, the , R °y al Opera people
looked at mid-day on Saturday as they left for
Brisbane. Groups of musical and press people
got m their way and delayed their luggage, and
harried them for signed portraits; and a few
bouquets of jonquils were handed through the
train-windows to the Mignons and Sentas and
Llizabeths and Lisas. These stars didn’t shine in
their dowdy travelling clothes and “bashed”
™ ■ fY?* a ™art tailor-made or chic toque
amongst them. Low, a dramatic co. manages to
look very smart even at mid-day on a railway
station, with its luggage astray, and ten Nobodies
asking it to write them a weekly letter and put
verses in their birthday-books. But, then, the
dramatic co. gets orchids instead of jonquils, and
its snnle is not so abysmal as the operatic smile.
Miss Jennie Maynard, who is “Nursing” her
own co. at Sydney Royal, is an Australian, but
tor the last ten years, save for an interlude when
she came here with Musical Sketches, she has been
touring m England and Africa. Theatre-goers
who haunted Essie Jenyns’ performances will re-
call Miss Maynard as a girl (playing small parts)
in them and being often mistaken for sweet Essie
herself. A stage-struck school-girl came over
trom M.L. in- those days just to see the Jenyns,
and when she went back she talked also of one of
the company who had a most rare speaking voice.
Between then and now the Maori often wondered
it that beautiful voice had gone—whether out of
its owner or to foreign parts. Voice and woman
have not parted. You can see and hear them in
' Nurse ” Maynard.
N urse strikes me as one of the most
lU lj° roUS things we have had in this Duke-
saddened country for a long time. And it
was written by a woman, same woman,
Dio Graves, who wrote “Mother of Three,”
by which the Broughs are said to have
made £3OOO. Miss Clo Graves is a small, com-
pact, alert person about 30, dresses in a natty mas-
culine fashion, and wears a man’s hat, and doffs it
too, like a man, sometimes, in greeting her friends.
You won t go to “Nurse ” to see Miss Maynard’s
dresses. Her black frock, cap and apron and clini-
cal thermometer are only fitted to adorn a sick-
scape picture.
But Miss Minnie Brandon wears a gown and
toque that remind you somehow of an edition de
luxe of the Seven Deadly Sins. The toilette
harmonises beautifully with the charming hussy
grass-widow part she plays—a skirt and bodice
of canary glace silk barred from waist to hem, with
bands of wall-flower velvet, and draped down the
front with a transparent cloud of yellow silk.
Bodice of same color with like bars, and a lot of
rippling lace at the neck. It’s those bars, I think,
that label Mr.s. Walker Wilson “Sinister.” No,
I think its her big toque—the angle at which it is
worn—also her old rose-silken underskirts and
\xr* "I 1 ee^ shoes. These are so suggestive of the
World (a primrose one) the Flesh (pretty and pink
and ivlute) and the Devil (really not a very wicked
demon—just an imp). When Mrs. W.W. talks
of her flat you feel sure it is beautifully furnished
and that the light comes through rose shades
and that her tea is good.
The Suburban Bicycle Club Annual Ball will
be held this year at Paddington Town Hall on
Thursday, 20th June, at 8 30. The committee
have everything up-to-date, and have arranged
for drags to be in attendance to convey guests to
the outlying suburbs. Mr. Healy is lion. sec.
Sydney University Sports Union will also hold
its yearly ball at Paddington Town Hall on July
4. Hon. secs, for this year are Messrs. H. M.
Stephen and A. G. M. Pitt. De Groen’s Band,
special trains and trams.
I took a tour round the Sydney Hospital dis-
pensary the other day, and have come to the con-
clusion that the great enjoyment of a certain
section of the community consists in taking
medicine, To many of them—women especially—
a visit to the out-door department of the hospital
partakes of the nature of a social call and a public
appearance combined. The social element is sup-
plied by the one lydy that the other lydy talks to
while waiting to have her case dealt with and by
the general exchange of symptoms, while the
sense of public importance arises from the fact
that the case may prove to be an interesting one
which will lead half-a-dozen well-known medical
men to gather round and make the lydy a kind of
scientific institution. Sometimes this blaze of
fame causes her to lose her head. “ Are you
married?” asked a doctor of one smiling but
flurried-looking dame. “ Oh, yes, sir.” “Now,
what about your husband?” “Oh, he’s married’
too,” she responded. A little girl, with torchon
lace pinafore and squashy hat, was an object of
admiration among her comrades outside because
she had got a big bottle of medicine to be took,
and had “ ’er nyme on the ’orspital books,” and
was altogether a public character. The joy of
medicine-taking, hovvever, was not visible in the
face of a worn-looking woman with an ana?mic
baby. “I’ve come for me ’usband,” she explained
on being questioned ; “’e’s lost an eye.” “How
was that? YVhere was he working?” “Oh,’e
wasn’t workin’; ’e was playin’ cricket, and the
u R an d the eye ’ad to betaken out because
the other was beginnin’ to go out of sympathy,
the doctor says. But, thank Gawd, the other eye
is pickin’ up wonderful now. And p’r’aps he’ll be
able to play cricket again, after all; and maybe,”
as an afterthought, “do a bit of work between
times.” Poor woman !
The Chinese people use their ears for recepta-
cles, but it was left for a Society lady, the other
day, to find a still more curious way of disposing
of her threepenny-bit. She was quite the genuine
thing, this Society lady, and entered the tram
only by a sort of accident. She had the fashion-
able silk-garbed undulating back (the old idea of
looking as if you were built into your clothes is
quite out of date nowadays, a small perpetual
wriggle all over one’s anatomy having replaced
the calm of Vere de Vere.) This lady’s wriggles,
however, became 30 pronounced as to rather
exaggerate the fashion, and, as the tram-man
waited patiently for his threepence, she was
observed to lengthen her features, then to shorten
them, while she seemed to be doing strange inward
calisthenics with her tongue. Then she despair-
ingly took out her top set of teeth, and extracted
the small necessary coin from behind two molars.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent
“ The dignified ‘Lady Munro’ departed from
Melbourne the other day, and now probably glad-
dens Sydney with her sweet smile.
“ Australians were surprised to find the Dook
such a doleful little dullard, ’cause last time he
came he was the merriest of lads. At Albany
where owing to a ship break-down, he and his late
brother spent a gay fortnight ashore, our recent
visitor used to play cricket like mad, and, though
a knock-kneed little chap, was an active fielder.
In the same pretty town, when the Royal boys
were yarded in to an ‘At Home,’ the younger
drew a bevy of gushing spring-chickens aside,
and, pointing to his brother enthroned on a chintz
sofa, said, * See here, you girls ought to cut out
that piece of stuff Eddy’s roosting on. A pin-
cushion, made of thingumbob sat on by the
future king would be awfully jolly ! ’ There was
a scissored rush for the seat as soon as it became
vacant, but the hostess firmly repelled the raid on
the plea that she wished to reserve the hallowed
spot as an ancestral holy-of-holies. When the
princes were out of hearing she was more candid
and confessed she couldn’t afford to destroy her
new cretonne couch.
“ Another time, joker George induced his mild
elder brother to have a design tattooed on his
nose. The picture was purposely not pricked in,
so that it soon wore off, but there was an awful
scare and corrobboree at Sandringham and
Windsor when the boys’ tutor first wrote the
tidings, and English newspapers were soon
officially inspired to announce that the heir to the
throne was not p :rmanently disfigured.
“A fashionable dress-builder with rooms in
Collins-street is basking awhile in the sunshine
of Fame. It happened in this wise. Janet Lady
Clarke, on hearing from the modiste that she had a
birthday-book with a real original V.R. signature
in it, suggested that she (Janet-Lady) should pro-
cure the glittering autographs of the Yorks.
Moieover, she bore the book (bolstered with
quotations from the ‘ works ’ of the late Princess
Alice) to headquarters, and secured through
Captain Better Not the desired names. Last week,
by which time the news had leaked out, there was
a perfect bombardment of Press pars recounting
the sweet story of the birthday book, and so the un-
expected heroine kept her notoriety warm by giv-
ing a big tea and sing-song at her rooms recently,
when machines and needles were still for the day.
Practically, the invitations to friends and custo-
mers was to meet the Honored Book. They came
early and gazed at the signature.
The book aforesaid supplies some droll impres-
sions. Large as life, in picturesque characters, is
‘Richard PlantagenetNevill,’ probably the oldest
family represented, royalty included in the asser-
tion. Another droll thing is the names of Lord—
um—avv —Brassey’s first and second wives. The
former was secured in England many years ago.
The dainty De Vere signature was one of
more recent addition. ‘My sister in Sydney
introduced me to Earl Beauchamp, who offered,
when hearing of the birthday book, to write his
name in it,’ says the enterprising possessor. ‘He
asked me if 1 would like any others.’ “Cer-
tainly,” I replied, “if you can vouch for their
respectability.” The quiet and business-like lady
has some humor. At one time her family were
wealthy station-owners in N.S.W., but times of
travel and luxury, like all uncertain joys, come to
an end, and the girls have been doing for them-
selves. Miss Darchy, long associated with Sydney
Daily Telegraph, is a sister of the birthday book
owner.
“ A Collins-street*dressmaker was the first to
pass a cheque signed by Royalty into a Melb.
bank. Her entrance with the document marked
an epoch in the history of this young country, or
something like that, and the officials gathered
round in numbers and gazed with awe and admira-
tion on a previously ordinary customer.
“Italian Opera grows exciting. When scribe
sampled ‘ Lucia,’ a man understood the singers to
object to Australians wearing swords. He took
this so badly that a policeman and an usher had to
drag him out, and the trio came tumbling over the
d.c. seats like an avalanche. As the fighter went
through the door, he tore down curtains and rods;
next day he was fined £4.
“ And on the first night of ‘ Ernani ’ (June 15th)
a cat lost her temper. Perhaps she looked upon
some of these vociferous de Benedetto notes as
take-offs of feline music. Anyway, she ramped
round the d.c. miawling distractedly, jumped
from balcony to stalls, and when last seen, was
still running.
“Among the huge ‘Ernani’ audience were
Mdme. Sapio and hubby of the bald head and up-
turned moustaches. The vocaliste’s cream gown
was simplicity itself, but a few diamonds sparkled
m the lace fichu drawn up round her neck. She
has beautiful auburn hair, and looks even better
off the stage than on. Janet Lady Clarke with
Mr. Fitzgerald and her two daughters wore an im-
pressive white-brocade pelisse, and appeared the
youngest anip gayest of the group.
“ Although the Wiedermann party on the open-
ing night of the Williamson Opera Co. took the
treat without any apparent enthusiasm, but seem-
ingly rather with the critic’s pinch of salt, Mar-
shall-Hall sat in one of the stall-seats and holloa’d
out ‘Bravo’ at every opportunity, clapping in a
way that would put Jove and his thunder-bolts to
shame; he generally behaved himself as if he
could relish heaps of ‘ Aida.’ In fact the apostle
of Wagner set all the stallites crazy with enthu-
siasm. Can the House of Israel be divided against
itself ?
“A well-known society-woman, smarter than
the majority, is starting a palmistry-business in
town. Spiteful people declare she picked up the
tricks-of-the-trade by seizing everv opportunity of
having her hand read at swagger “At Homes”
where she longtime shone. Since station-property
has been eaten into by mortgages and things, the
dame has declined in glory, and now she is going
to pitch her tent in Collins-st. and ‘ take the palm ’
for pluck.
(Continued on page 25.)


fpiiZBns’[ifepsufance Company limited.
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
POLICIES IN' FORCE EXCEED 210,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Absolute Security. Annual Bonuses.
Moore and Casllcreatjh Streets,
Sydney
Resident Secretary,
W. J. BLOOMFIELD, 8.A., L.L.B.
FACILE PRINCE PS.
BUCHANAN WHISKY
The Only Scotch Whisky officially ordered for the “ OPHIR.”
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Premier See, whom Sydney Daily Tele-
graph so persistently abuses, holds a substantial
share interest in that paper. f
Australia follows American example in
becoming “a. nation of colonels.” In Sydney,
the Laue-Mullins family already numbers three
live captains.
There is a second George Dibbs in Aus-
tralia. No. 2is a farmer at Bungaree, near Bal-
larat (Vic.), and his hobby is not carving walking-
sticks for crowned heads, but growing giant
turnips.
According to Sydney Freeman’s Journal
no coadjutor has yet been appointed to the R.C.
archdiocese of Sydney. The announcement of the
appointment of Monsignor Kelly, rector of the
Irish College at Rome, appears to have been pre-
mature.
Premier Seddon was very ill again quite
recently, but he now feels better. All the same,
he works and travels day and night, has a hard
session in front of him, and will come to a sudden
stop very shortly should he not take a strong pull
at himself.
The Sydney R.C. clerical organ says that
“ Cardinal Moran speaks fluently all the European
languages. Modern Greek and Italian he knows
like a native. Of course he is a well-known
Hebrew scholar, having been Professor of Hebrew
in Rome.”
Some members of the Commonwealth
Ministry wish to give the Federal Chief-J ustice-
ship to slippery Sam Griffith ; others favor Synmn,
who fought so manfully against the Privy Council
solieme, and there is said to be more or less of a
deadlock on the subject.
June 15 was the 58th anniversary of the
first N.S.W. Parliamentary election: Only one
of the 24 members then elected now lives —Dr.
Charles Nicholson, who was one of the five repre-
sentatives for Port Paillip. Dr. Nicholson will
be 93 years of age Nov. 23.
When York quitted Brisbane without
leaving so much as a K.C.M.G. behind, the dis-
appointed grovellers said : “ Wait until his birth-
day.” And they are still waiting and hoping
against hope, and not even a star of the 47th
magnitude shows on the hoi’izon.
The late James McKean was, in his day,
probably the tallest man in Melbourne. His son
and partner ran him close, but both had to look
small alongside young 'Kiddle (also in the law),
who is a growing lad of 23, measuring 6ft. Sjin.
He is evidently destined to be a very high legal
authority.
King O’Malley, revives the yarn that
the old Victorian Parliamentary Mace passed
into the hands of “some of Solomon’s lilies” at
Boom-time. One meets many men in Melbourne
who have seen the Mace in mysterious places, and
for a long time it was reported to be the favorite
weapon of a Nicholson-street “ cliucker-out.”
Bertram, Brough’s clever necromancer at
Melb. Athenaeum, tells an Age interviewer that
he taught King Edward (when the latter was P.
of W.) howto do the three-card trick. Albert
Edward may have been hard-up at times, but The
Bulletin will never believe he defied his fellow
subjects to find “the little lady Queen for a quid.”
Four distinguished Australians have their
birth anniversaries this week, Archbishop
Murphy, of Hobart, was born on the day that
Waterloo was fought, so that’he is now 86 ; Chief
Justice Griffith dates from 21st June, 1845 ; Presi-
dent Baker from 22nd June, 1842; and Premier
Richard Serldon also was born on that date but in
an earlier year.
THERE AND BACK.
TICKET-COLLEOTOR : “ Have you a return ticket? ”
EXCURSIONIST: “Yes! ar' so ’us my lunch!"
Federal Trade Minister Kingston has been
slaving over the making of the tariff, and he has
often kept his subordinates in the Custom House
until past midnight, while, on one occasion, he
went on until 4 a.m. South Australians know
this industrious trait in Kingston’s character, but
it is a revelation to the Victorian politicians and
officials. All the same, the Minister is looking
thoroughly worn-out, and his friends, are very
anxious concerning his health.
Lieut. S. S. Reid, of the Westralians,
seriously wounded what time Bigjohn s nephew
was killed, was the Scotchbyterian meenister at
Boulder when the war started. Got a taste of the
business as chaplain to an early contingent; and,
no professional man of God being wanted with the
last lot, went as a professional man-killer instead.
Difficult to go right in: the presence of
royalty. Mayor Ware, of Adelaide, is much
laughed at for having kissed the Duke of York’s
hand when it was given him to shake. Yet a
recent book of reminiscences bases one of its
funniest stories on the fact that the Mayor of
Oxford shook Queen Adelaide’s hand when it was
extended to him to kiss.
Had Senator Higgs’ motion, debarring
M’sP. from taking office as Supreme Court Judges,
been the law in New South Wales, that State
would not have had Martin and Darley as Chief
Justices, nor Wise, Hargrave, Faucett, W. M.
Manning, Windeyer, Innes, or G. B. Simpson as
puisne Judges. Several of these were valuable
men ; the others could well have been spared from
the Bench.
A breezy Maoriland paper started a yarn
that Premier Seddon was to be appointed to a
colonial Governorship, and other journals took
the matter up seriously. Of course the thing is
all flam. Seddon, a born fighter, would be quite
out of place as a peaceful vice-regal ornament.
Also, it’s about the last position he’d hanker after,
so long as he could hold his present autocratic
control over M.L.
“ David Blair ” (writes a Sydney Catholic
Press contributor) “had a big head like every
intellectual Irishman, but lie told me that he put
Deniehy’s hat on one day and it fell on his shoul-
ders, and then Deniehy put on Parkes’ hat, which
nearly hid him from view. Parkes had the biggest
head in Australia, and it is a pity some of his old
hats have not been kept for the museum of the
Commonwealth.”
More, O'Sullivanesque glory. The N.S’.W.
Works Minister has now ordered statues (to cost
£l5O each) of Parkes, James Squire Farnell,
Daniel Henry Deniehy, Dr. Lang, and Chief
Justice Martin, to be fitted in the niches outside
the Sydney Lands Office building. “ Sandstone ”
is indeed appropriate to the case of James
Squire Farnell. Who of the present generation
ever heard of him, and why is he to be com-
memorated at an annual cost of £5 or £6 ?
There isn’t a Knight left in S.A. Leg.
Council, and the only one in the Assembly is
Coles, the Speaker. Moreover, unless several
people are romancing, offers came lately to
Premier Jenkins, Gordon, and Catt (old poli-
tician and Chairman of Committees), and all
were declined with thanks. Gordon has his eye
on a Judgeship; and so can’t afford to en-
danger his political life ; Jenkins is too cute ;
Catt is too poor, or thinks he is.
Giant Jimmy M‘Kean, the Melbourne
solicitor, had been palpably marked for death
some little time before his end came. The spirit
of the stentorian battler, who, in days of old,
denounced the members of Vie. Assembly as “ a
drunken and immoral lot,” was tamed by the
chronic rheumatism that had bent his huge frame,
and it was sad to see him pottering about his old
haunts. Yet, until quite lately, the ancient, bent
as he was, carried his years very well.
Said that Dr. Cockburn, who will cease to
be Agent-General for S.A. at the end of next
month, may possibly return to the practice of his
profession, which he gave up when elected to the
Assembly in 1884. He is a gold-medallist of
London University and was making several
thousands a year when he left physic for politics.
It is not unlikely that he will start as a consulting
physician in London, but there will be an effort to
induce him to re-enter S.A. Parliament.
A. S. Cowley, the defeated Queensland
pro-Kanaka Federal candidate, was reared in
Natal, a British colony in South Africa.
Natal contains (besides 787,000 odd abori-
ginals) 53,000 white inhabitants and 61,000
imported cheap Hindoo laborers. This
latter variety of British subject is only
allowed to come in under contract.. He is
allotted to a master by the Protector (! !) of
Hindoo immigrants, and must remain with
that master at least five years. After
that he may hire himself out (with the
consent of the Protector) to a new
master on an engagement of at least two
years, starting at 16s. a month, and
rising by an annual increase of Is. per
month to 20s. per month. He doesn’t get
more than 20s. per month. He isn’t
allowed to leave Natal without a license,
and he can’t get one till he has re-
sided there for at least ten years. He
must wear a badge showing whose servant
he is. If he has no employer he must
pay the Government £3 a year for a
badge. He isn’t allowed in the streets
after dark, and even in the day-time he
isn’t allowed on the pavement. He can’t
have a vote, can’t own land, or hold a
mining claim ; and he can only engage in
trade of any kind under severe restric-
tions. And many of these restrictions
apply also to the Kaffir, the native of
the land. Cowley was brought up amid
this kind of British freedom, and coming
from a country where the imported cheap
black laborer already outnumbers the
white settlers, a piebald community pro-
bably seems to him a natural and de-
sirable kind of community.
King O’Malley’s revival of Victoria’s Miss-
ing Mace scandal gave Matthew Davies an easy
chance to score the advt. his soul hungered for.
The previous Mace Inquiry Board, which decided
that the loss of Matthew’s bauble was a respect-
able mystery, didn’t command much reverence at
the time, but now that the story of the disappear-
ance is crumbling into decay the Mace Board’s find-
ing is the only thing left to swear by ; and Davies,
in challenging King O’Malley to prove the Parlia-
mentary tribunal a farcical thing, threw down a
gauntlet that the other fellow had to leave undis-
turbed. All the same, O’Malley was under no
obligation to look as though the gauntlet had hit
him in the eye.
The largest Queensland Federal con-
stituency is Maranoa, which contains 300,000 sq.
miles, and is, consequently, about as big as N.S. W.
Realising its immensity, said constituency appro-
priately sent Laborite Page to represent it in the
first Commonwealth Parliament. The fitness of
that gentleman is partially due to the fact that he
weighs 18st. 91b., and therewith scores as top-
weight in Australian politics. As a set-off, the
four lightest members are Batchelor, Hughes,
M‘Donald and Tudor, all in the Labor Party.
These four are such lightweights that no two of
them taken together can balance the champion
“ fat ” from the Prismatic State.
THE TOD SLOAN POSITION.
"Hay, Mister! sit further back an ’ you'll git a lonyer ridel."
Healy, who unsuccessfully tried to keep
ex-Labor leader Batchelor’s West Adelaide As-
sembly seat for the Labor party —Batchelor has
gone to the Representatives—succeeded Sleath as
secretary of the Broken Hill ’92 strike committee
the latter was arrested, with others, for
alleged conspiracy. Healy would have won West
Adelaide, too, but for the candidature of an inde-
pendent Laborite.
Kingston is about the only member of the
Federal Ministry who is not willing to babble to
reporters. His reticence is of long standing, but
is none the less bitterly resented by the searchers
after gossip on the Melbourne press, who are
privately breathing slaughter against him. Under
these circumstances, any little nastiness which
may appear in print concerning Kingston may be
prudently discounted.
That bright writer, R. A. Loughuan,
has been commissioned by Premier Seri'lon to
provide an account of the dull Dook’s tour through
M.L. Seddon, by the way, intends turning the
visit of His Royal Shortness into a huge advt. for
the country ; every movement of the bored and
wearied tourists, from arrival to departure, is to
be cinematographed, and the pictures sent to
Hingland and ’Murka.
Symon’s accession to Federal politics means
great financial loss to him, for his legal practice
was worth something like £5OOO a year. His de-
parture, with that of Kingston, Downerand Glynn,
gives several young Adelaide lawyers big openings
Attorney-General Gordon, who, unlike Kingston,
declines to neglect private for political business,
is now practically the leader of S. A. bar, and is
hardly ever out of a big case.
The Dukeryork came into contact with
one Australian who did not go weak in the knees
and betray a desire to squirm in a characteristic
attitude before the Royal boots. He was an old-
mari cockatoo on aGippsland station when the wee
Duke was being led out to shoot tame quail. The
cockatoo, from his perch, spoke treasonable and
derogatory language at the King’s son, and
screamed blasphemy at the whole show in a
terrible falsetto voice, till a local light went with
knocking knees and a clammy brow, and, stifling
the clamor of the seditious bird in his robe, bore it
swiftly from the Presence.
From Sydney Star :
One of the pure-bred bulls recently imported to Maori-
land is to be sent to the West Coast. The settlers intend
christening it “ Dick Seddon.”
A compliment indeed ! Which recalls that an
Australian city newspaper once published an
enthusiastic leading article based on the assump-
tion that a certain local politician’s sobriquet of
“ Honest Tom ” was derived from the public’s ap-
preciation of his conspicuous personal rectitude.
Whereupon a beastly country correspondent wrote
to say that the statesman in question was re-
christened after a well-known stud bull.
In “ Recollections of Government House,”
by G. S. Fort, recently printed in- the Empire
Review, there is a story of how a girl, introduced
at a dance in England to a young Queenslander,
auspiciously led-off by asking the astounded
youth: “Is your tribeat peace with the white
man now?” Related also how, when some Jap
naval officers made a semi-official call upon the
A.D.C., they sat on for weary hour after hour,
until it occurred to somebody that, according to
Chrysanthemum etiquette, the unfortunate little
men would have committed a gross rudeness if
they had taken their leave without being asked to
do so.
The Bulletin now hears that Premiers See
and Peacock were never offered knighthoods at all
—plainC.M.G. was the bauble, the only bauble, ten-
dered for their acceptance. Heaven and earth were
moved to make Chamberlain relent, but he was
immovable. The investiture ceremony was ac-
tually postponed, in the hope that a second
imploring cable might soften his adamantine
heart, but he again refused to budge. Very likely
the Colonial Office, narked at the derision now
poked at Imperial titles by the populace of Aus-
tralia, and smarting at the Australian press
assumption that titles were to be as common as
dog-mange during York-time, has determined to
bull its bauble-stock.
Lord Hopetoun is, apparently, making a
strong bid to become a genuine Australian in the
f u n Ben se of the word. Casual visitors to Mel
bourne Govt.-House during the recent Royal visit
were surprised to find the Governor-General
personally supervising everything, and issuing
directions to unintelligent subordinates with a
vehemence that would have done credit to an old-
time bullocky. The quality of His Ex.’s blanki-
ness is not strained, and vivid adjectives now roll
from the vice regal mouth with the fluency that
comes only of long and arduous practice. People
who have opportunities of observing him in Lis
hours of ease say that he had difficulty in restrain-
ing himself from referring to the transcontiblanky-
nental railway in his first speech to the Common-
wealth.
Acting-Judge Pennefather, of Westralia,
to whose appointment strong objection was taken
on the simple ground of lack of qualification, has
done one sensible tiling—granted an applica-
tion for the hearing of a Supreme Court action on
the goldfields, instead of dragging parties, wit-
nesses, &c., down to Perth. But the goldfield
accused must still lake his chances from the resi-
dent beak. Judge Pennefather will be re-
membered as the lawyer who, when a very young
man, so strenuously defended Cordini (he was
convicted and hanged) for alleged murder, before
the late Mr. Justice Windeyer. Mr. Pennefather
shares with G. H. Reid and E. P. Field the dis-
tinction of being the only counsel who ever
really “stood up to” Judge Windeyer in a cri-
minal case.
Hardly a Senator fails to stumble hope-
lessly when mentioning in debate Senator Sir
Josiah Symon.
The deaths'of Walter Besant and Robert
Buchanan were cabled on the same day last week.
The former was—barring, perhaps, Anthony
Trollope, who used to go regularly to his office,
and work at his novels as if he were a bank-clerk
—the ideal British Workman of Letters. He
followed, longo intervallo, in the steps of
Dickens when Dickens was haunted by the
spectre called Moral Purpose. Besant never re-
covered the loss of his collaborator, Rice.
Dick Mortiboy and Mr. Brinjes will keep alive
when the other lay figures constructed by Besant
have been tenderly carried out into the lumber-
room of oblivion. Robert Buchanan was another
sort of writer. He was born in Stafford—the pot-
tery county—of Scotch parents, and was a fine
embodiment of the irascible perfervidum ingenium
Scotorum. His best novels—“ The Orchardsons, ”
“God and the Man”—were models for Hall
Caine. R.B. wrote the current language of the
British people better than most Scotsmen, who,
when they are not writing dialect, are too beauti-
fully correct, and remind one of a pretty Welsh
girl talking book-English. Buchanan’s poetry is
finer than his prose. Some of it had a certain lilt
and gallant Border-ballad air, very refreshing in
these times of teacup emotion and greenhouse pas-
sion. Buchanan had also a certain gift of humor—
“ Widow Maisie,” for instance. He was, more-
over, a somewhat irritable person who took him-
self seriously. But he made a mistake when he
quarrelled with Yates, of the World. Yates’s
retort is famous : “ This man caine to me a hungry
and scrofulous Scotchman. I gave him food for
his belly, and sulphur for his back—and see how
he turns on me ! ”
Sir Josiah Symon, sir
(Try to say it quick,)
Sighing sibilants a-slur—
Stammer, stutter, stick !
“ Senator Sir Jos-i-ah
Symon,” what a trap !
“ Senasir Jersymon,” bah !
Jerjam, Senna, Jap !
“ Sir Josiah, Jerjer Siah,”
Fatal is such fame,
If you cannot now expiali
Get another name !
Surjer Sigher Symer, Sir
Jersah Symon, Jew ;
Surely’twas an error, sir,
To ennoble yon !
Drop it, Sir Josymon, Jos.,
Titles don’t fit you ;
We will all survive your loss,
Surger Symon, shoo !
J.D.


For
golis
•SddVUUDS
£
Hot with
Lemon
at
Bedtime.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
« •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —Always give, in ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., exact date and exact
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
COMPREHENSIVE.
APPARTTION AT DOOR : “ For God’s sake, boss,
give us a drink. I’m that hungry I don’t
know where to sleep to-night.”
“G.R.” : The Cannonbar (near Warren,
N.S.W.) blacks have—or had—an albino gin, with
white skin and pink eyes. She is absolutely
blind, and the colored community are so proud of
their freak that they never let her walk a foot
but carry her everywhere. Have heard that a
tribe near Queensland border includes another
specimen. ,
• * * *
S.C.O.J. : An old bachelor gentleman
had a station on the Condamine, where scrub-
turkeys were plentiful. He managed to secure
a y? un S 0110 > and to rear it. The garden in front
ot the house was a very fine one for the bush, and
the old chap took a great pride in it. When his
pet turkey was still in the flower of its youth ho
went to Brisbane on business. When he returned
his garden was in a heap in the centre. The
turkey had found a mate, and, unbeknown to
anybody, had started in to make a “ nest.” There
was not a flower left, or a bed left untouched, and
the garden was about 20yds. square. There was
no “ Hamlet’s soliloquy” about the old gent when
he saw how matters stood. He shot ’em both
with one barrel.
* * ♦ *
Returning Queenslanders tell queer yarns
about Imperial officers in S’Africa. Among
others they relate how a certain gilded captain
commanded that the bullocks in a team, at the
close of the day’s work, must be led about and
cooled- , and not turned out to graze immediately,
.** * *
“ Pelican ” : Banchong station (Clermont,
ii J , 8 a T)®® Istrip 1 strip of country, known as the
telegraph-line. It is a couple of chains or so
wide, and devoid of trees, and the soil and vegeta-
tionon it are quite different from anything in the
surrounding country. It looks as though some
very previous race had made a road here, and had
brougtit sou from a distance for road-making pur-
poses.
* ♦ * *
Dear Bulletin. —Was recently surprised
to see a very distinct rainbow on a cloudy moon-
light night. Always thought that only the sun
caused rainbows.— Wilcow. [Moonlight rainbows
occasionally occur. The subject was here dis-
cussed at length about two years ago.—Ed.]
“Pelican”: Belyando niggers run totem
bm forall it is worth. For instance, if an able-
bodied nigger dies up there, witchcraft is always
held accountable. The cadaver is buried; fine
wood-ashes are carefully smoothed over upturned
soil, and for a certain time friends daily visit the
giave in search of evidence. Should tracks, say
ot a curlew, be found on ashes, then assuredly one
of the tribe which owns the curlew as a totem has
been guilty of black art. Thus feud arises ’twixt
the bandicoot and curlew factions, if deceased was
a bandicoot man.
* * * *
“A.H.L.”: In reply to “ Boka ” (8.,
1/(5/ 01) re ant-lion, I _ much doubt whether his
method of capture, viz., blowing sand away, is
practicable. When constructing his trap the
lion ” invariably provides a tunnel into which he
very rapidly moves when disturbed. Have tried
many ways to catch the insect (blowing among
them), but the only successful one was to fasten
an ant to a piece of cotton, drop it into the trap,
and steadily haul out ant with “ lion ” hanging-on
tenaciously. Further, the bite of the “lion” is
very deadly. Even the wiry bull-dog-ant is a
corpse within 10 secs, after being attacked.
* * * *
Pine Hill (C.Q.) 15 years ago was a pros-
perous town of 2000 inhabitants and 27 pubs. It
was then the head of C.Q. Western railway. The
hne was pushed on a few score miles and Pine
Hill wilted away. To-day not a vestige of the
old town is visible, scrub is again taking posses-
sion, and all is gloom.
• • • «
“ Cecil P.” ; Does any Bulletin reader
know anything of a timber discovered by
Buchanan and Collins at head of Xmas Creek,
Beaudesert district (Q.) Consists of one big-tree
with half-a-dozen smaller ones growing round it—
all from the one bole, boss, or root. Finders call
it “ red beech.”
* * « *
“ D.H.” : Re travelling. I know a man
who came from Barraba, via Cobbadah, to Wal-
gett, a distance of about 240 miles, in eight
days. He carried a fairly heavy swag, and lived
on bread and water the whole time. Between the
two places he spent Is. 3d., and that was in grog.
* * » *
“Gumleaf”: The magpies on Monaro
have while backs. In all other parts of N.B.W.
that I have
been in, their
backs are jet
black, with
only a white
ring round
necks. I have
a pet Monaro
magpie here
(South Coast
of N. S. W.),
and the differ-
ence between
him and the
local maggie is
very notice-
able. To
change the
subject sud-
denly—re the
lizard in the
hen egg, al-
luded to in re-
cent Bulle-
tin. One morn-
ing a friend of
mine started
on a duck egg.
The first
spoonful
brought out a nice
little boiled frog.
My friend so nearly had him too, that he passes
duck eggs now. Once found a live frog in the
heart of a solid gum tree. My axe, unfortunately,
killed him, but his death-struggles proved he was
alive, and healthy, and wet. Must have been there
for years or ages, as 9in. of solid wood was be-
tween him and daylight.
* » * *
A lot of mummified remains have recently
been found in catacombs under some high lime-
stone rocks near the head of the Awaroa River
(M.L.). In the dark recesses of a cave into which
two tourists from Auckland peered they beheld
bodies with scattered locks of long black hair.
Some of the bodies, upon closer inspection, proved
almost as complete as when laid away shortly
after death in the unknown past. It is said that
the late Captain Fairchild always expressed a
doubt as to the existence of these mummies, and
some of the oldest European residents have
shared in his disbelief, but from the necessarily
superficial peep into the catacombs mentioned,
and what was then seen, there is sufficient warrant
for further investigation. The remains are be-
lieved to be those of a race unknown to the
Maoris.
* * * *
“J. W.C.” : “Scotty” (B. Ij6/’01) states
that well-placed rabbits can't be shifted, and gives
a lot of calculations to controvert my assertion.
(B. 16/3/’01) that I can exterminate every rabbit
on a sq. mile of country with one bag of pollard.
Now, where “ S.” makes the mistake is in assum-
ing that on, say, a run of 900 sq. miles the whole
would be so infested that it would need a bag of
pollard to every mile, and also that it would be
necessary to fence the country into small areas..
This is not necessary under my method. I can.
get the same result on 1000 sq. miles as on one sq.
mile. Again, “ 8.” states that rabbits will, after
a time, get tired of phosphorus. Well, my experi-
ence is that once I have laid the poison for the
bunnies tl.eie are none left to get tired.
Dear Bulletin.— “Ben
Sun’s ” statement (B. ll/5/’Ol)
that “ Gorang’s” remarks on
the Australian “ chaffing ”
habit, brand the latter as
out of sympathy with Aus-
tralian character and
“prurient-minded ” is un-
satisfactory. Those who
find no zest in life, even
Out-back, save in the
cracking of coarse jokes,
are justly condemned and better
dead. Further, it is open to
argument whether persons of
weak mind are properly the
prey of others who lack
sufficient intellect to dis-
play a deficiency or eccen-
tricity. The fact that the
practice of chaffing is fre-
quently malicious and at-
tended with disastrous re-
sults is undeniable. Many
unfortunates, merely “soft”
at first, are quickly driven
to extreme lunacy by no-
thing else than the brutal
badgering defended by
“Ben Sun.” Example—
and this is a real case: Bill-
jim is “ weak ” on women.
Someone starts the ball by
telling the butt that Miss
Soanso (living in the
township) is “ shook ” on
him. At the instigation
and dictation of his
‘ ‘ mates ” he writes a
letter, the contents of
which would stagger a
Moll Flanders. This, of
course, never leaves the
station, but. an answer is faked by people in the
know. This sort of thing proceeds for a time.
Finally, an elopement i 3 arranged. At the
last moment comes a letter from her father;
all has been discovered, and dire and awful ven-
geance is threatened. Flustered and cruelly
“prompted,” he assigns his turn-out, dog, and
even his credit-balance in the station books. He
shaves, changes his name and makes a general ass
of himself in the way of disguises, to avoid detec-
tion. Next he is sent out to a distant tank to
“plant” on his own, also to escape detection.
(Just imagine the poor, distracted wretch —his
addled brain teeming with grotesque theories as
to pursuit, capture and punishment—alone in a
solitude, that is truly desolation.) A jovial
trooper is retained to intensify the ecstasies of the
baiting ; chases are indulged in that give the most
exhilarating pleasure to the pursuers and keen
distress to the pursued—and so on, ad lib. All
very amusing, maybe, but pitiful too, I think.—
Louis M.
* * * *
Humors of the drought : 140 inches
(nearly four yards) of rain has fallen at Geraldton,
N,Q., since Ist January.
* • * *
The break-up of the drought 1 Yet on
one Lower Darling station they opened June with
30 men constantly engaged cutting and carting
scrub to keep life in what is left of the flocks.
The sheep-man knows that at this time of year
such means the loss of practically the whole of the
lambs. Artificial feeding is out of the question.
The river is a mere ditch of green water, impas-
sable by even a rowing flat-bottom, and chaff could
not be landed there at much under £lO a ton.
♦ ♦ * *
Scraps from the letter of a farmer in the
drouthy Victorian mallee, published in a Melb.
daily:—
Your letter came to ua aa we struggle in the tentacles
of a drought. We are now carting water for 1300 sheep,
65 head of cattle and 12 horses, and nearly all this water
has to be raised 120 ft. and carted four miles. . . No rain
here for nine months. Plains like rolling deserts of sand,
blood-red and bare. . . While Melbourne has gone
screaming mad over a crowd of ducal satellites and vice-
roys with their feasting and champagne, here in the grim
depths of the mallee men cart their tankful of filthy
liquid home and thank God if they can give their stock
one decent drink a week.
* * » *
Charters Towers papers tell how a young
man was recently run over by a bullock-waggon
bearing a six-ton lead. The unfortunate fellow’s
feet were terribly crushed, and he was 150 miles
from the nearest hospital— at Ingham. Twenty-
six comrades (miners) made a litter and carried
their poor mate, in relays of four, to this distant
haven.
• • » •
“Snell” : Baldwin Spencer, writing from
Alice Springs or thereabouts, remarks upon the
unimpressionable nature of the Australian
aboriginal, who is rarely perturbed or even sur-
prised at the wonders of science. He takes the
telephone, the phonograph, the camera, or the
magic lantern just as they come, as either simple
tricks or manifestations of spirits. I remember
an effort being made to amaze a tribe at Alfred-
ton, near Ballarat, 30 years ago. A wandering
Italian was bailed up by a number of drovers, and
paid to grind away at his barrel-organ before the
tribe. The nigs listened and were fairly amused,
but King Billy only grinned far and wide when
the drovers tried to convince him that there was
something supernatural about the organ. “No
fe’ I no fe’ !. ” said his Majesty, “ mine know how
you work him! there, look!” He sprang up, seized
a tomahawk, and cut a small hole through
the shell of a hollow log. Then he grabbed one of
his mongrels, crowded the protesting animal into
the log, pulled his tail through the hole, and
turned industriously at the tail as the dago
had done at his organ-handle. Result: Fearful
howls from the log, and triumph of Billy’s demon-
stration of the true inwardness of a hand-organ.
* • * *
The Duke of York, during his shooting
expedition at Condobolin, shot three white cocka-
toos. This is shocking sportsmanship in Aus-
tralian eyes, the bush sport being ashamed to kill
A RECORD .
DOHERTY : “ That's a foine hen, Flannigan.
Sometimes she lays double-yolked eggs.”
FLANNIGAN : “ Thot’s nothing. Don't I lay drain-
pipes, begobs, wery day in the weck!”
“ anything that talks.” David Christie Murray,
when appearing in Geelong with a distress-
ful dramatic co., went out shooting with Harry
St. Maur. They tramped for hours without find-
ing anything fit to kill, and finally struck a dirty
old man cockatoo dreaming in a tree near an
isolated pub. The litterateur was vicious after
many disappointments, and, taking careful aim,
banged both barrels at cockie, who fell to the
ground. Running to secure his booty, Murray
was met by a blast of profanity. The cockatoo,
who had only been frightened off his perch, stood
up, every feather curled with righteous indigna-
tion, crying shrilly :—“Oh, you ! you !
you ! ” Harry St. Maur used to nearly kill
himself laughing over this incident. He used to
say : “By gad, for the moment Murray thought
it was the devil—or his wife ! ”
# * * *
“A.A.A.” : Have heard that old-time
carriers used to put a sheet of iron on top of a
cask of spirits (brandy) and build a fire on it.
After a time the fire could cause the spirit to press
up through the seams, ultimately filling the space
on top of the.cask. The extraction of beer from a
cask is mere child’s-play. One method is to knock
the top hoop up—thus opening the staves a little.
The cask is then tipped over a tub and let leak.
When enough has been withdrawn, a bit of
coopering soon replaces the hoop, and nobody
could swear the cask had been tampered with.
“ COBBERS
A sketch on the Mungindi road.
“ D.H.R.” : I have noticed that poison-
weed grows mostly after rains or floods. It
seems impossible to eradicate it where it has once
obtained a root. I know abend in the Macquarie
River, where poison-weed grew thick 30 years ago ;
and, to this day, never a mob of stock camps there
without losing some of its number. On Stony
Plain, on the Warrego River, poison-weed first
grew after the ’64 flood, and it’s still there, but it
never spreads to the adjacent country. It is puce
underneath, and green, tinged with red, on top.
Is known amongst carriers and horsey men as
“ tricky-weed,” or Puce Devil.
HIS COUNTRY—AFTER, ALL.
He was out of work and hard-up, and he yearned to get
away,
So he ’listed with the Bushmen for the four-and-six a
day ;
He’d grown deadly tired of everything ’twixt Sydney-side
and Perth,
And he reckoned that our townships had the queerest
names on earth:
For there’s Adjungbilly, Bean Ba, Ballengarra, Bamarang,
Oabramatta, Cambewarra, Cullubumbung, Carrawang,
Durren Durren, Dilga, Dungog, Eurongilly, Enwylong,
Ghinni Ghinni, Goonoo Goonoo, Goondiwindi, Gerringong.
He had roamed o’er all Australia, but had never been to
sea,
And the mal de mer that gripp’d him when the winds
were blowing free
Sent him groaning to his cabin, where he lay and wished
him back
’Mong the dusty .towns and townships on the swagnian’s
weary track :
He had sweetest thoughts of Gilgai, Grabben Gullen,
Goolmangar,
Goorangoola, Grogan, Grong Grong, Gumble, Gum Flat,
and Gunbar ;—
Of the beer he drank at Howlong, Heilman's Tank, and
Illabo,
Ingebyra, Isabella, and that sweet town, Ingledow.
Though he fought as strong men battle in the thickest of
the fray,
Still his heart was but half in it, and his thoughts were
far away;
And above the conflict’s clamor, softly to his straining ear
Came the syllables of old names, silver-sweet, and low,
and clear :
Jerilderie, Jembaicumbene, Junee, Jiggi, Jindabyne,
Joadja Creek and Jillib.v, no names were e’er so fine 1
Killawarra, Kookabookra, Knorrit Flat and Kerrabee,
Micketymulga, Milbrulong, Nunnagoyt and Nymagee.
Back again in old Australia, as a hero he was hailed ;
And he proved his heroism, for he faced, and never
quailed,
All the beers they “shouted" for him at the pubs, in
every town —
Never Boer took cover quicker than that tanglefoot went
down !
He got full at Adaminiby, Bongongolong, Cooyal,
Dondingalong, Kurunderee, Fassifern, and far Groongal ;
Humula, Ilford, Jamberoo, Ifoorawatha, Tallarook,
Mulleryndgery, Numbugga, Coolongolook !
ULOOLA.


DAVID STOBiSS & SOMS’ in Three Colors BLACK ’ REDantl blue
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATT
Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
marking
or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker.
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM.
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
“ Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose.-— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
]
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
In a certain small N.S.W. country town
are to be found displayed the following curious
“shingles ”: —
“ , Chemist, Druggist, &c. Teeth ex-
tracted, and pictures framed. Stationery of all descrip-
tions and glass cut to any size.”
“ , practical Tailor and Bricklayer. Gents*
suits to measure, from 505.; chimneys and stove-setting a
speciality."
“ , Bailiff. New and second-hand furni-
ture for sale. Best brand of xxxx tea, 9d. a pound.”
“ , Biotmaker and Hairdresser. Chil-
dren’s soles, Is. ; ladies’ own hair made up.”
“ , Registered Milk Vendor. Piano 3
tuned.”
In the same town an undertaker’s aocount ap
peared in the following guise :
“ Dairy. Mr. . Dr. to -, Regis-
tered Milk-Vendor and Sexton :
£ s. d.
Sun.— .. .. ..
Mon.—To digging one grave .. ..076
Tues.—To grave fees .. ..076
Wed.—
Thur.— .. .. ..
Fri.— .. .. .. ..
Sat.— .. .. ..
Eggs .. .. .. .. 0 1. 0
Total £0 16 0
• • • *
“ Larrikin ” : Recently struck a cocky’s
homestead. Was hard-up for a read, so asked the
MONS. AND MADAME GERARD Y.
daughter of the house for a book. She asked me
if I had read “Filthy Lucy,” and I was a bit
staggered until she produced the book —“ Filthy
Lucre.” Same young woman asked me if I had
heard the “Chlorodyne Waltz.” “No,” I said,
laughing. “What’re gigglin’ at?” she said,
“’erey’are”—and she flourished the “Gloire de
Dijon” waltz under my nose.
•** - *
“ Melb.” : To-day I had the pleasure of
seeing “One Pfeller” —aboriginal, of course —
operate with the boomerang on a vacant acre
almost in the heart of Melbourne, near the corner
of Swanston and Victoria-streets. He had one of
those angular-looking boomerangs, with which
they do the best feats. Leaving his hand, the
weapon skimmed eastward towards the Gaol,
southward towards the old County Court, west-
ward over Swanston-street, northerly to a jam-
factory, and came back right into the thrower’s
hands, like a fluttering pigeon.
Sandy Mac., an old N.Q. identity, is a
“ whisky-terror,” and t’other day, when he was
“ paralytic,” Mrs. Sandy stole his clothes. The
pair have a fat, 13-year-old son, rather short
for his age, while Sandy stands Oft.
2in. —and when the old man came-
to and realised his plight, he
promptly seized the lad, stripped
him of his togs, and presently the
town beheld the apparition of a
long, bony Scotchman quarter-
clad in knickers and a small boy’s
shirt, with a straw hat like a six-
penny-piece surmounting a deter-
mined Caledonian visage and a long
grey beard. In this array Sandy rushed
madly along till he reached a clothing estab-
lishment, whence presently he issued clothed
in smiles and a complete suit of dungaree.
S.M. Herald, June 6 :
Behind the transport, which extended in an irregular
line for miles and miles, came the rear-guard of infantry,
officers and men alike plodding painfully along, ankle-deep
in dust, with dry tongues hanging out and with emply
water-bottles, with blistered feet and tight-strung nerves.
One often hears the expression, allegorically used,
that a “ man has his tongue out for a drink,” but,
in the above extract, it appears to be stated as a
literal fact. Things may be different in S’Africa,
but in Australia men do not put their tongues
out when suffering from thirst. Cattle and dogs
indulge in this little luxury—men and horses do
not. Men and horses perspire through their skins,
cattle and dogs through their tongues. A bullock
is warm and dry to the touch when dead ; a horse,
like a man, is cold and clammy after death. Taking
all things info consideration, a tired and thirsty
man would find it hard work to march along a
dusty road with his tongue out. If S’Africa is
the grave of generals, it is also the grave of the
descriptive writer.
“ Siandra ” on an insectivorous topic :
Re the blowfly maggot, an insect inquired about in
Bulletin (20/4/T). To the best of my belief, the blowfly
maggot bears the same relation to the blowfly that
caterpillars do to moths and butterflies. Every
winged insect, has, at one stage of its existence,
been a caterpillar, grub, or maggot. The larva of
the mosquito is a little, black, wriggling thing, some-
times seen in water drawn from tanks. I have never
seen the blowfly chrysalis, but have seen many of the
jumper-fly maggot, which infests ham and bacon. I am
certain about the dragon-fly, as I have watched it emerge
from the chrysalis, and a pretty sight it is to see the
insect unfolding its gauzy wings and shaking out the
creases. The cherry-green beetle is at one time a grub,
as also the ladybird. Some people may not be aware the
latter is a showy relation of a homely insect, known
variously (in England) as a B. flat, or a Norfolk Howard.
Some beetles, when in the chrysalis stage, remind one
curiously of something Egyptian—l do not know if it is a
peculiarity of them all, nor do I know if the “ average
bushman ’’ will understand this —but I know what I mean
myself, and that is saying something.
• » » »
“Pelican”: Up on Moray Downs (Bel-
yando country, N.Q.), there is a lake, or, rather,
lagoon, some miles in extent, but only a few feet
deep. At one end, the water is good, palatable
drinking fluid, but it gradually tails off in quality
by an admixture of sodium until, at the far end,
some miles off, it is quite impossible for human
use.
“ Embryo ” : I was attracted
by the sound of a more than usually
raucous voice, and stopped to listen.
It was Billy Jones—the Billy Jones
—the celebrated lightweight, now
alas ! converted and disguised in a
tomato-hued jersey, and lost to the
ring for ever. The recognition was
mutual. As lie saw me the light of
battle gleamed once more in his
eyes, as in the days of old, and he
let out his dirty left at the Devil as
he Used to do at hi 3 foeman’s ear,
and I could almost hear the biff as
Old Nick got it on his scaly hide.
“Ah, my dear friends,” raising his
voice in still more strident tones,
“I see a man ’ere wot I used to
know when I was a sinner,” (“ Praise
the Lord,” said the crowd) “ Oh,
my friend, you are going fast to
’ell! and on that last awful day
when the sheep shall be separated
from the goats, I will be taken up
into Abraham’s bosom, and you will
be cast down into ’ell. You will
look up to me and cry ‘Billy!
Billy ! One drop of water —one
little drop for to cool my burning
tongue ’ere in ’ell.’ And what will
I say to you ? his voice rising in
hoarse crescendo and his form shak-
ing with emotion — “what will I say
to you? ‘No! No! No! Not a
dashed, dashed, dash drop.’ ”
(“Praise the Lord,” said the crowd
with enthusiasm).
♦ * *
The latest thing in bush in-
vention : A West Queensland genius
has constructed a bag to fit over his
goat’s udder. The concern is fast-
ened on by straps. Inventor asserts
that, by keeping the bag wet, he can
keep the milk in the udder cool
and also increase the supply. Fancy a man
wasting his intellect on goat-inventions.
Baden-Powell has resigned his S’African
constabulary command. That gorgeous subscrip-
tion-sword of his still ornaments a Sydney jewel-
lers’ window. Why not send it along before
something happens to make the presentation too
utterly ridiculous for further mention ?
“Sabocq”: To “ Ignotus ” (B. 20/4/1),
about the Great Pyramid. The statements made
by Laing are approximately correct. Assume
diameter of circle 100; then radius or vertical
height of pyramid is 50, perimeter of base is 314T6,
and the side of base is 78*54. The altitude of
sloping triangle on this base is easily found to be
63*58, and its consequent area 2497; while the
square of the vertical height is 2500. These figures
are approximate (with the exception of the vertical
height), and if worked out exactly would give
results slightly lower than 2497.
SCORCHER AND VICTIM.
CYCLIST (after knocking man down): “Look
out! ”
THE VICTIM: “Good Lord / are yer coming
back?”
The lately-cabled news that Prof. Picker-
ing thinks he has proved the existence of snow on
the surface of the moon, by means of photography,
is a violent shock to the last summer’s stock of
unsold astronomers. Snow, of course, means
water, and water means some sort of an atmos-
phere, and if there is one point on which science is
reasonably positive in its own mind it is that the
moon is airless. And Pickering’s name stands so
high that his alleged discovery can’t be set down
off-hand to drink.
Dear Bulletin. — To “Ignotus”(B. 20/4/1).
Adopting the rule that the circumference of a circle
is about 3 1-7 times diameter, it follows that the
height of the Pyramid is equal to 7-llths of a side
of the base. The apothem of the Pyramid is the
perpendicular from the vortex on a side of the
base, and forms the hypotenuse of a right-angled
triangle, which has the vertical height of the
Pyramid for its perpendicular and half the length
of a side of the square base of the Pyramid for its
base. Hence the length of apothem is easily
found, and half the product of the apothem and
the side of the base of the Pyramid will give the
triangular area of each of the sloping sides, which
will be found to be as nearly as possible equal to
the square of the vertical height, so that both of
the statements quoted cam be true. —Theodolite.
“ S.S.” : Have run up against three public
subscription-lists for the benefit of relatives of
killed or injured miners during the last four days,
and in each instance the accident was due to
“economic” mining, and the companies were
morally, if not legally, responsible. The mines
are worked cheaply, and the miners’ lives exposed
unnecessarily, in order to produce the largest pos-
sible profit, and then, when stopes come down,
the public is invited in the name of charity to
stump-up the difference.between the cost of risky
working and efficient ditto, for the relief of
the widows and orphans. In the old-fashioned
days stopes were kept filled, hundreds of thousands
of tons of dirt being sent down a blind shaft from
the surface when necessary, and under these con-
ditions the facemen were safe. But these were
antiquated methods; they had to give way to
cheap “ scientific ” systems which save money and
squander lives. There has rarely been a big acci-
dent of late years that was not long anticipated
by the men, and it is about time we had a law
compelling companies to “ bury their own dead.”
When a big mine’s pension-list is a yard long
directors may begin to realise that cheap mining
is only profitable while the public can be induced
to “ hold the baby.”
The war cables • now being dished
out make interesting reading. First we are
told that Kitchener, is drawing a tight “cor-
don ” round the enemy. Next we learn that
Methuen is making a “sweeping” movement
through the Transvaal. Just the other day the
news-manufacturer got a fresh idea. He informed
us the enemy was being “hustled” northwards.
In spite, however, of all these alleged successful
tactics, Hoopstad was besieged for nine months,
and now Bosh of has just been relieved after being
invested for several months. These sieges weren't
even mentioned till they were over. And after hear-
ing for months about the collapse of the Boer resist-
ance, week before last brought news of half-a-dozen
hard-fought engagements with heavy losses. The
casualty-lists issued by the War Office also prove
that the Boer is still-troublesome and still strong,
and in good fighting order.
In these days when modern invention
seems to supply and anticipate every reasonable
want of man or woman, one is tempted to wonder
how our poor forebears, who lived in the
“ glorious good old times,” managed to exist at
all. They, for instance were fain to content
themselves with the crudest of soap and water
ablutions, unsoftened by any of the luxurious
attributes with which we are wont to indulge
ourselves to-day, such as Scrubb’s Cloudy
Ammonia, whose refreshing and invigorating
qualities render it an indispensable addition to
the toilet table. Nor is this the only respect in
which it is invaluable, for its cleansing properties
make its influence on the complexion highly
beneficial. To the economical, this capital
preparation will commend itself as an important
factor in the renovation of old gowns whose front
breadths have become grease-marked or dis-
coloured. Busty black, too, is immensely ben-
efited by a smart rub with Scrubb’s Ammonia
and subsequent hanging up to dry, after which
simple process it will be found to have recovered
a considerable amount of its original freshness.
Altogether Scrubb’s Cloudy Fluid Ammonia
must be reckoned a household boom.*
A SEA FANCY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Oh, why do the steamers swerve about ? ”
She asked as she nestled near ;
“ And follow a course in wondering doubt,
And stumble and stray and veer ? ”
“ These things,” I answered, “ I can’t make out —
But maybe the crew can’t steer.’’
“ I think I know why they do,” she said
(And the man at the wheel could hear) ;
“ ’Tis not a fancy in each ship’s head,
But only a friendly fear
Lest waves be parted though newly-wed,
If courses are followed clear.
‘ ‘ They trip and stumble o’er pitfalls laid
By wavelets that peep and peer
In wonder great that the ships aren’t stayed
M.L.
Or checked in their wild career.
And steamers, hearing, are half afraid
They’ll hurt them unless they veer.
“ And thus do they try to pick their way ”
(Oh ! the man at the wheel could hear) :
“ They would like to stop, hut they must obey
The hand of their engineer ;
A nd the waves that die in a cloud of spray
Are slain hy the men who steer.”
I laughed at her and her pretty ways,
And her fancies sweet and queer,
Yet pray wdll never in future days
Be parted hy sharp hows sheet —
The steamer Death with her hows ablaze
And Fate on her bridge to steer.
QUILP N.


TEE TEMPTER OF RANDAL CAREY.
“The facts relating to Mr. Carey's appointment are very simple. He was repeatedly pressed by the head of the Lyne-See Government to accept the position of Chairman of the Harbor
Trust, at a salary of £2000 per annum for seven years, the holder of that office to be removable only by a vote of the two Houses of Parliament. Mr. Carey just as repeatedly declined ti.e offer.
Premier Lyne then asked him if he would take the Chairmanship of the Rocks Resumption Board, with fees amounting to £500 per annum, being only one-fourth of the salary attached to the
position which he had previously refused. Mr. Carey promised to consider the matter, and eventually refused the position of Chairman. He consented to take a seat on the Board as an ordinary
member, where the fees could not possibly amount to more than £400 per annum.”— Sydney DAILY Telegraph in explanation.


The State Mjimster for Public Worl®»
,Mr. OEullivni. (that name again 1). has
approved of a scheme for the dis
S. ptisal of the materials used on
\ the -occasion of the Royal visit
Hospitals
for the in-
sane, and kin-
dred institutions,
are to receive “sets
of trophies-!, flags and
streamers,” and the arches
are to be distributed among
the deserving poor. What
cannot be given away will
be sold at auction.
Mr. Dooselbrook, who has long had
his lamented ma-in-law's unmarked grave
upon his conscience, now sees his -way to
silence the upbraidings of the same, as
well as those of Mrs. Dooselbrook. Those
Martin Place columns go off at a mere
: song.
King O’Malley, on the question of payers » beWSP read the
House of Reps., pointed out that some a y . daunts G f Solomon’s lilies,'.’
jVic. Assembly, and made sport with the b^ k * e c j^. t8 j 5 that prayers by
might be elected to the House and a am 1 P f re ligious forms and
such a Speaker wouldn’t add to the reverence of members for religio
ceremonies. k now not who may sit upon that chair--
The man wot stole the Mace may read the prayer .
But imagine the effect upon a “ mind
diseased ” of seeing a set of those flags
and streamers, so long the terror of our
streets, suddenly and unexpectedly
hoisted in his vicinity !
PUT THIS AND THAT TOGETHER
“ The representatives of Redfern,
y Waterloo and surrounding districts have
f prevailed upon Mr. O’Sullivan not to use
i the Exhibition Building, in Prince Alfred
* Park, as a night shelter for the unem-
-1 ployed during the winter months. lhe
Minister has decided, instead, to utilise,
as far as possible, the sheds on the Bun-
ncrong-road for the purpose, and where
there are objections to this he will issue
tickets for cheap boarding-houses m the
city on wet and cold nights.
« In his Rockdale address, the other
night, Mr. Carruthers spoke strongly of
the indifference shown by the Govern-
ment regarding the making of any pro-
vision for returned N.S.W. volunteers
who find themselves without employment.
There are now, as has been said, a very
large number of returned volunteers who
‘have Wne their part well for the honor
of this State, and suffered much hard-
ship under South African suns, tramping
about our streets vainly seeking some
kind of work ”— Sydney D.T
Mr O’Sollivan (to returned warrior) : “My good fellow, even if we did
any such promise lam not now in a position to give you any work; but 111 tell you
what ; he?e is a ticket for a cheap boarding-house, * If. our Government comes back
into office, I promise,” &c.,
.. The lathe of Mr. George Dibbs has yielded yet another stick.
A present for the King.” —Daily paper.
His Majesty (to the Lord IRgh-Keeper of the Umbrella Close 1) Ho v l k
you this to our Royal Carpenter and bid him saw about a foot
Dear old Damchicago ! he must have measured himself foi it
CARTOONLETS.


A. SAUNDERS’
WEDDING AND PRESENTATION SILVERPLATE-
THE VERY BEST QUALITY. “SEND FOR 1901 ILLUSTRATED BOOK.”
4 o'clock SPOONS, Pure Solid Silver, bi'x different patterns
as al>' vf ', in Silk-lined Case, 6 Spoon< 20s and 255, wPh
Tongs 25 , 3 'e, 355, pure Silver-plated, 12s 6d f 15 S> 20s.
MOST USEFUL and ACCEPTABLE.
4-Bottie Lunch or Dinner CBUET,
Pure Silver Electro-plated
on hard White Metal, 2 i,
Similar Styles, 255, 80s, 85s.
6-Bottle, 365, £2, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4.
Hot Water KETTLE and STAND, can be used
as a Teapot.—Pure Silver-plated on White
Mi-tal, Beautifully Chased and Ornamented, 365.
Embossed and extra Chaßed £2, £2 10s, Other
Styles, £B, £8 10s. Handsome and useful article.
A. SAUNDERS.
BTSOUIT.- Floral China,
real Silver-plated .Mounts, 20s.
Similar Designs, 153, 255, 80s.
Very prett and acceptable
present.
A. SAUNDERS.
CARD RECEIVER, Late«! S'yle,
Pure Silver-plated and Ornamented, 20a.
VERY CHOICE.
T EAPOTS, very pretty and useful,
J uie Silver-plated, Hand C based and Ornamented,
‘22s 6d.
Other Styles and Patterns,
15s 6d, 17s 6d, ‘2os, 255, 3cs, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDE.ES.
Regist red Motto, Silver-
plated CRUET
(“ Dinna Forget”), 21e.
Very choice and pretty.
Cake B ASKET, Heavily Chased and Ornamented, 365,
Similar Designs, 2 'S, 265, 3'is, £2, £2 10s.
OUE STOCK OF CAKES IS CHOICE AND LARGE.
EGG CBUET. Silver Electro-
plated, 4 Cups and Spoon:-, 2)8.
Other St vies,
228 6d, 26b, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3.
rrmnr
''iii.i
life
Mi
< 3&Dord
"iun ltJ
IS ! a
BREAD BOARD »nd KNIFE,
Chased, Silver-plated Rims aid B ise,
21s, 255, 80s, £2.
I
BS3?*k
■jirt
*r.
Serviette KING, Solid Silver, Diamond Cut.
8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
SAUNDERS.
Ladies' ltii'.SD,-Pure Solid Silver
Mounts, 18s 6d.
Very useful and acceptable presents.
BUTTER. All Metal, Tuie Si ver-platett,
Nicely ( hased, 15s, 20s, 255.
Mi's 1 Durable.
JAMS, Shaded'an-i Ornamented Olasa,
Carved Ornamented Silver-plated Stand,
12a 6d ; similar, 15b. 'ihese are made in
6 Different Pattern-.
Solid Silver PHOTO. FEAMES,
Chased and Ornamented,'
1 >B, 12s 61, 15s, 17s 6d, 20, 25s ;
smsllerj sizes, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, ss, 7s 6d.
s
Jl
■I
. ::-
sEi
; -
A MOST ARTISTIC DESIGN.
PKFSBN'TATION TEA and CO FEE K SET, HOI WATER KETTLE, WITH 2lin. SALVER, 20 GUINEAS.
The above ~et is most Beaudtully based, Fluted, ano Ornamented, and the quality is the very best English
Silver-plate, which is guarauteed for 20 years. Other Styles, £6 6s, £6 6s, £7 10s, £B, £lO 10s, £l2 10s, £l5. -end for Particulars.
SUGARS, Han ) < Wed »nd Ornamented,
Silver-plated, 16s 6d, 20s, 25b, 80s.
SALTS, Fancy Claris and Plated Stand,
6s 6d, 7b 6d, 8s 6d, 10s Pair,
with Bpyon.
EN TREE DISH, Silver-plated on Hard White Nickel Silver,
Hard Soldered. £2 12s 6d. Make two Diihes othei Styles,
32s 6d, 355, £2.
ILO W t: STANiiS,
bilver-pUted, Coloured
Glass, 12s 63 pair.
ases
WmwP
IKA INFUSEH, to make a cup of tea, Silver-plated, 3s 6d. Veiy Useful.
Child’s CUP.
Nicely Chased, Silver-
plated,
8s 6d, 10s, 12a bd,
15.,, 2os.
p
CZ&-
Vo i o’clock 1 E A SET, with C am-,
li re i ilvcr e tro-pln cd on White Metal, first-class English Make, £2 10s.
Si ini p St le , £2, £2 15s, £3, £3 10s, £i.
mm
mu
'mmm
NUT CRACKERS and PICKS in Silk-lined Case,
Ch ised and Silver-plated, 16s 6d, and 20s.
VERY USEFUL.
a
SB
B/
a
TOAST UA 1 K. Pure Silver-plated,
in Every Style and Shae, 10- (id, 12a 6 t, 15s,
17b 6d, 20s. A Nice Pres nt.
BUTTER, White Glass, Chased and O natnented
Rim, Silver-plated, -20 s; smaller, 15s 6d.
Very nea end pretty.
2 JAMS and 2 BUTTEK3,
Beautifully Chased and Ornamented, very best Silver Plate,
20i, 255, 80s.
Aj SAUNDERS
JEWELLER ana SILVERSMITH.
A BEAUI.LFUL DISPLAY OF PRESEN IS.
Minit, 815 GEORGE-STREET,
' E Vli i Y OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


The PUREST WHISKFY
in the World • . .
GEO. ROE & CO.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
VV. B. Melville to The Bulletin :
In “ Answers to Correspondents ” (15/6,/T) appears this
mysterious announcement : “ C.M.L. : Mr. VV. Bede
Melville is not in any way authorised to speak on behalf
of Tub Bulletin.” Naturally, such an intimation to the
world at large brought me'to your Managing Director,
who assured me he, too, was in the.dark as to the mean-
ing of the message. He knew of no wicked representa-
tions on my part as far as the business and -financial
departments of Tiie Bulletin were concerned. I then
saw the Editor, who explained that the “ answer ” had
reference to inquiries as to whether The Bulletin had
countenanced my Federal candidature for Oanohlas. I
complained that the par should have been explicit. I
was then invited to write this note. Let me state at once
that I never sought the support of The Bulletin for any
candidature, and that neither in a speech nor in a con-
versation in the Canoblas electorate, or elsewhere, did I
state or insinuate that I had the support of The Bulletin.
1 opposed Mr. Wise fairly and openly, and every shilling
spent in doing so was earned with my pen.
I understand that The Bulletin, an admirer of the
Federal se vices of Mr. Wise, wanted that gentle-
man to win, and was annoyed to find that I had attached
to my printed ‘ Declaration of Principles ’ a little bill con-
taining ‘ Opinions of Melville’s candidature,’ in which,
among other expressions, were sets of verses by two of
the best-known of Bulletin bards. For the information
of electors who did not know, I had ‘ Bulletin office,
Sydney,’ attached to the date of the verses. The other
expressions of opinion were similarly identified to give
them localisation. In no way, however, did I desire to
convey that The Bulletin editorially endorsed my candi-
dature. I did, however, desire to point out that two literary
friends were with a fellow press-worker in a very difficult,
if enthusiastic, Federal campaign. The importance of
this matter to myself is my reason for removing a
misconception caused by the anxiety of The Bulletin to
jealously guard its reputation, even at the risk of hurting
the feelings and damaging the good name of one whose
modest contributions to its pages extend over a period of
14 years.”
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
The Hotel Australia, Sydney, earned a
splendid name during the Duke of York celebra-
tions. The visiting pressmen were accommodated
there, and were very loth to leave.
A Letter from Fort Melbourne.
54 M‘Cormick-street, Port Melbourne, Yic.
August 24, 1900.
Dear Sirs, —
Having been a sufferer for a long period from
Indigestion and Heartburn, I was advised to give
Warner’s Safe Cure a trial. I am very thankful
for this advice, as the medicine has completely
cured me.
Yours obediently,
PATRICK M‘GRATH.
Warner’s Safe Cure acts scientifically. Most
ailments arise from a feeble or diseased condition
of the Kidneys and Liver. Warner’s Safe Cure
cures all complaints of this nature, as it restores
the Kidneys and Liver to health and activity,
thus rendering impossible the existence of In-
digestion, Rheumatism, Anaemia, Blood Dis-
orders, Biliousness, Gout, Gravel, Neuralgia,
General Debility, and Bright’s Disease.*
Missing Friends.
%A#ILL James Duncan, who left Hlllmorton,
® Christchurch, New Zealand, about eighteen years
ago, communicate with the undersigned without delay.
MEARES & WILLIAMS,
Solicitors,
Christchurch, New Zealand.
A J.T. —Third and Last Time. Will give One Week to
send Address ; if not, will send for you. Will tell
Martha you know what I know.
E. M. A.,
Star Hotel,
10/0/''ol. GEORGE STREET, REDFERN.
'l3lft.—Rope getting short,
mercy. Write to
H. WEAVER,
Solicitor, A —dale,
EVA. •.
T
Will have no
| ABSOLUTELY THE BEST
SOLE AGENTS—
N. GUTHRIDGE,
LTD.,
71 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Watch Repairs by Post
WATCHES Thoroughly Cleaned, 2s. 6d. ; best English
Mainspring, 2s. 6d. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three vears. 15s. Cd.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
355. Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit all sights: Send for catalogue.
D. S. MAIR,
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
684 Georye-st. (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rPHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
J- Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
. Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
JAMeS REID “
PREPARES STUDENTS FOR ALL EXAMINATIONS,
MATRICULATION, MILITARY, SURVEY,
ENGINEERING, MINING.
Subjects —Classics, Mathematics, Physical Science,
•History and Geography. Technical College, Mining, or
Engineering Students, or others requiring Special Teach-
ing carefully coached personally or by correspondence.
Mr. REID may be communicated with at
198 Springfield Terrace, Grafton St., Bondi Junction.
DEAR SIR, —I hive been cured of Weakness and De-
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no chab e
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBES f
E. PARK! lURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
D
RUNSCENHISG
Positively' CURED by Administering
It can be given in
drink or food with-
EUCRASY.
out the subject’s knowledge. Perfectly Harmless, and
will effect a Speedv Cure. Write TO-DA V for Free Book.
Address THE EUCmSY CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Election Notices.
LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ELECTION (VIC.)
SOUTH YARRA PROVINCE.
W. L.
BAILLIEU
19 A
CANDIDATE
AND
SOLICITS YOUR VOTE
and INTEREST.
Polling Dag, 25th Jane,
tt
J. M. BALFOUR, General Sec.,
375 Collins Street, Melb.
The Last of Six ”:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By
Ernest Faveno. Paper covers, 141 pp. ; 6d.
post free.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
So notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
0.0. W. : We dunno, but we presume that Mr.
Dan O’Connor is on both sides, as usual... .Mackero : He
was “ travelling round the world moneyless for a large
wager.” Was he ? And you actually believe that vener-
able yarn ! It is almost incredible that people can still
be found to swallow the crude mendacities of such
notoriety-hunting bounders C.M.A. : Olive Schreiner’s
dreams had virile force ; yours show only feminine weak-
ness Katasha : Gloomy lines, apparently written in
a cellar by a frog sitting on a fungus Ah Sin : First
verse of “ Drought” good ; after that metre is as ragged
as if torn by 42 she-bears. “ Morn till Eve ” just plain
wattle verse P. Heagney : It isn’t the want of news,
but the shamelessly-incorrect comments thereon that
make the press the liar it is. Your tremendous scheme
of a State news-supply wouldn’t make Sydney Teleqrapii,
for instance, any more truthful over tariff questions ; and
it wouldn’t have abolished one of the stupendous mass of
falsehoods with which it tried to block Federation. You
are hardly attempting to touch the real difficulty. As
for your proposed State newspaper in N.S. Wales, it
would have sworn by Protection when Dibbs was
in office and bossing it, and sworn by Freetrade
when Reid was in office. And y r et that paper
is to be a model of consistent truthfulness!!....
Relative : Re trooper Swan. His parents live at Quean-
bey an, N.S.W. Letters addressed there will find them....
Y. : But wasn’t the treatment of the body of that brave
young Boer, as described by R.C. chaplain Timoney,
reminiscent of that accorded to the remains of highway-
man Ben Hall? H.N. : The Australians’ doings in what
you call the “ great Boer war ” aren't sufficient to demon-
strate that no foreign nation can ever conquer Australia.
It would be a mighty poor race that wouldn’t do some
bright exploits when fighting on the side that had odds
of eight to one in its favor, with unlimited money and
resources behind that—the side that was absolutely
bound to win. What we want to know is that Austra-
lians are the people who can fight a good battle in a
hopeless cause. They haven’t been tried in that direc-
tion yet. They haven’t even been tried long enough on
the winning side to fully test their staying capacity
Heimsdal: You ask “how many Australians know
whether Pembroke is an English county, and how many
could place Ashby de la Zouche or the Seine ? Well, if it
comes to that, what country is the Dirty Devil River in ?
And how long would it take you to find the Gape of
Eleven Thousand Virgins ?... .Wemsley : The movement
to suspend the Gape Colony Constitution, no doubt,
means that Jingcrdom would like to make all S’Africa into
a big Crown colony, practically under martial rule, until
it can dragoon the people into Imperialism... .Aobus :
The paragraph is inaccurate in several particulars, and if
published might cause unnecessary’ scare : —The number
ofp rsons killed was two, not several. The bodies of the
guff ring could not act as condensers ; the probability is
that they were still in contact with the wire. Death
would be instantaneous and not take three-quarters of an
hour ; also wet does not give an increased power to the
electric current, it merely affords better contact. “Blue
flames emitted from the sufferers’ bodies ” is purely
imagination. Finally', the Liverpool accident need not in
any way alarm the citizens of Si dney and Brisbane....
H.R.H. THE DUKE OF YORK.—Sketch by
Max Beerbohm.
Esmi: You are correct in supposing that the writer
confused the Ophir with the Royal Arthur. For the
rest, his complaint was that the British cruisers
sent out for the occasion shouldn’t have been 2nd-class—
. ..E.S.S.: Mostly good. Thanks... .T.H.M. : “Smok-
ing Song ” too long for material. Others under considera-
tion ... .R.A.K. : “ Farewell F.” rather slow Waratah :
Will print your well-told and unaffected story. But you
don’t write your name on your MS H.S.R. : It was
sent to us as original, anyhow Whanariki: Parodies are
mostly poor. Yours is destitute John B.S. : Our
answer was not at all beside the mark. We simply said
that what you suggested was a physical impossibility—
that no man can attend to two occupations, each of which
requires 12 hours work per diem F.S. : You reckon
that “if we are capable of dealing fairly,” we will “ pub-
lish the enclosed verses.” All right. Send some verses,
and we will publish them. When you rhyme
“roars” with “ paws” that isn’t verse, surely! H.P.
(Ararat) : (1) Two good items. (2) Bulletin said “ the
less government that is needed the better.” Protectionist
laws are urgently needed. As to Protection involving an
extra set of officials, that is absurd. You require much the
same officials under a revenue tariff. Britain is supposed
to be a Freetrade country, and its customs’ staff costs
about £1,500,000 a year. If you have no tariff you require
ttie officials to collect direct taxation. The land-tax re-
quires three times as many officials in proportion to the
cash results as the customs... Cocky : “ Does it ever strike
us that if the Duke of York iiad his Way lie would rather
not be Duke of York at all.” Quite probably. Almost
everybody thinks he has got a hard job, and would be
happier if he was something else. Some of them
get a chance to be something else, and are
very glad to get back to the old job again
Quartpot: Well, where else was the poor bagwoman to
sleep if there was no other bed available ? W.W.
(Boulder) : (1) One-man-one-vote existed in several South
American States and elsewhere before it commenced in
Maoriland. (2) Woman Suffrage has existed to some ex-
tent in Austria for many years. (3) Maoriland did not
lead the world in the matter of old age pensions—in fact,
it is impossible to say when some of these things began,
they are so old. (4) M.L. has universal penny postage.
(5) A great deal of power formerly exercised by State
Governors now belongs to the Governor-General
A POLYGLOT.
BLUFF (brass bound sea-dog who occasion [?]hy airs his ignorance of
French and other fore ign tongues): “ Hullo I Well and strong, eh?
Why, I thought you were both suffering from beche-de-mer.”
. A.O. : Don’t you really think that the man
,vho travels to Melbourne to represent Carpen-
taria in the Federal Parliament should be more liberally
considered in regard to expenses than the man elected by
a Victorian constituency ?... .True Bill : Beastly old hill
though E.K. (Broken Hill): Ten verses of deadly
commonplace... Norton M. (second name undeeipher-
,a,le _ w hy don’t you print your name) : Will use best
verses of “Season.” O.H. or 0.F.5.0r O.T.S. : “Monu-
ments” too magniloquent a musing among the tombs....
Vulcan : Will print vour glorious ant mendacity
Wallaroo: Will print “Artist’s Dream.”... ..Richard
O’K. : As you don’t point out these alleged “mistakes”
we haven’t a chance of explaining that you don’t know
accuracy when you see it....R.P.T. (Wagga): May be
good or may he bad. A man who writes a pin-point
hand on transparent paper can’t expect his stuff to be
read Yarran : “Tinned Dog” yarn good. . H.T. :
Why all this gloomsome verse about the necessity of
parting for ever ? We don’t want you to part J,A.N. :
Good yarn C.O. : Roast pork idea too slight ...D. :
“King and Duke” rather dreary Jill: “Nancy’s
Boy” about pulls through.... Alex. J. G. : Glinimers
with a very small glim.... Pteropod : Ilang acrostics....
Meera : “ Uloola ” is quite correct on the white ant ques-
tion The O. : “Coming Faith” strikes us as flabby
and dull Fairholm : Joke burned in deep gloom
T.Q.R. : Not a nice subje- j, and none too well handled.
.... W. J. : “ Ploughman ” very moderate sample of groans
and skim-milk.... .S.R. (Adelaide): Dunno if your
“ bounder ” was so very bad after all. Suggestion hardly
up Camiro : Too large and heavy W. A. (Berringa):
All respectably commonplace Coony : “ Ancient
Rhyme” feeble and slipshod Dher Aw : Thanks for
suggestion I.E.R. : Returned with comment.....M.
(Banana): Not yet distinguished. Nothing for it but
practice Judas: Yarns too rough; possibly some
verses... .Glentaggart: Anything's “acceptable,” if in-
teresting. Your verse isn’t Hamer: “Dawg” de-
clined; considering other. Verse worthless Nalla :
Too steep. Only gentle declivities go down here
J.F.W. : Office cat can write a better poem with one
whisker and an ink-b10t...,. R.A. : Too trifling
Ruby : Pearl returned... .Longfellow : Not bad ; not good
enough.. . .D.M.M. : Weak thought in fair metre... .R. 0.:
Ballade too tame Kynetonian : According to
the printed evidence forwarded, accused delibe-
rately broke the window —belonging to a perfect
stranger —before he had asked for or been refused food.
Under those circumstances it is hard to sympathise with
him Don :We expressed no opinion whatever on the
question involved. We only said that we believed (from
internal evidence) the letters to be “ fakes”—and we say-
so again Chita: Merely chopped-up prose. Blank
verse requires possibly more of the true poetic gift than
does any other form Odin : Your irony is leaden !
Turquoise : May possibly re-set you... Andy J. : You
say nothing in particular, and say it very ill. ..
Double-Barrel : Well, you’ve missed us with both!....
M.0.M.: Promises weil. Style still very faulty, but
you seem to have the root of the matter in y0u....
Effigy: Hardly worth print Bodoh : Grievous lack of
life and spirit Belle H. : Moderate merit. ...Lacklands :
“Barker” hardly good enough. Others returned. ..
Alfred B. : “ Those Boots”—don’t quite fit... .Watt E. :
Some character-insight, but painfully stiff and prosy....
D.D. : Rather prettily written, but not enough in it....
Snorter :It is ! —but it’s too like Sterne... . D.H.R. : You
don’t seem able to get any vividness into your work.
The mere narration of pathetic incidents doesn’t make
good reading A.C.H. : Hints to nursing mothers are a
bit out of our line Too Too : Precisely... .R.S. : Heavy
—very Owl: “Faith” is flabby Eller: Not bright
enough... .Nut Cut: You’re not lucid; and the nut is
tougher than you think it Billy: No new thing....
Oxymoron : “ Argemone ” is well-known, and was re-
printecl in the B. some years ago... .B.C.J. : Better im-
prove your script Pyalla : Whitman isn’t literal gospel;
and otherwise you fall flat.... Owl : Tired hoot
Jay Jay : Trying to remember how new or how old that
joke is Bogan Billy : Plain, ordinary snake-bite ...
Skipper : Dying-away-of-the-myall question nearly dead
by now 0.H.1. : Not a'joke ; not even a decent pun.
K. C. Wye : Very tame, wants more climax.. ..I.H.
(Perth) : Unfortunately most of the items became ancient
history while the mail was laboring protractedly round
the coast... .Woady Yallock : Not up to much
Viking : Nothing remarkable in that. The order to
“march at ease” had probably been given... .Agra :
Rather laborious humor... .R.S. B. : Strictly in the beaten
track.. . .Hero K. : Quality rather thin... .Abraham P. :
Not consecutive or clean-cut enough pfar : “Burg-
lar” rather flat and feeble... .G.H.W. : Hardly worth
while Bilby : Very good in its way ; but, in order to
print, we should have to tone-down the horror on which
the interest turns L.A.O. : You “have the honor to
be an alderman here.” Rats !... .1 .E. A. : Anyhow,
while the captains of the other visiting war-vessels are all
nervous about deserters, the officers of the U.S. Brooklyn
say their men are quite free to bolt if the.v like... .Victor
G. : No.... Ted: Too odorous... .Fla ;t.y :We should only
be gratuitously advertising the impudent person in
question A.M.B. : Hardly worth the necessary re-
writing.. ..Oxy M. : “ Sidelights” would need too much
attention. “Atheist,” old yarn re-cast... .Caledonian :
Impossible to say, so long as a lot of self-styled Free-
traders are “prepared to accept a revenue-tariff,”
and a lot more are prepared to support a Protectionist
Government. If you want to know how many real Free-
traders there are in ihe Commonwealth Parliament, we
should say about Jth... .G.C. W.: Too many English echoes
H.J.B. : Items got separated from your letter.
Please give titles New York : 2nd and 3rd cousins, re-
spectively. Your last question should be put to a R.C.
clergyman Sach Bat : His idea wasn’t original—the
same story has been told of other criminals
Geo. S. (W.A.): That will be all right.... A. W.S. : You
lia\ e 100 much self-confidence for Bulletin. You “ want
£3 per 1000 words ” for a story which we wouldn’t print
if you offered us £l6 per 1000 words to do so—Crack :
“ Die.” and “ Dep.” right out of Bulletin line. This
paper’s matter must not only be as original as possible ;
i must likewise seem 50.... Navvie (West Coast, Tas-
mania): No, Casino-Grafton railway not yet started
Ezrom : I f , as stated, he is a M.D. of Berlin University,
then he has had a good med'cal training. Little is known
of him in Sydney and apparently nothing to his dis-
advantage.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
We learn that a most useful Veterinary
Pook is attached to every bottle of Condy’s
Hu id. This Book contains instructions for
curing most of the ailments and accidents
t Tooting Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry,
and Birds of all kinds.
CTondy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
t >r Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses.—Scab, Foot Rot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Rinderpest, Hoove, Foul in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle.—Distemper
Mange, Canker, and F.czema in Dogs.
Gondy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of local substitutes, all are
inferior. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
rVVW\j
GrO TO TTT^T.T
«i lUOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
HATS. HATS. HATS.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fatted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLCy » CO.,
furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Grsorgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sala
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
fOR THE COMPLEXION
An emolient, soothing and healing pre-
paration for preserving and beautifying the
skin in all climates; it cools and refreshes
the Face and Arms in hot weather, removes
Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Rough-
ness of the Skin, heals all cutaneous Erup-
tions and Insect Stings, produces
SOFT, VELVETY SKIN,
Imparts a luxuriant beauty to the com-
plexion and a matchless whiteness to ths
Heck and Arms unobtainable by any other
means. It has been known for the lart 75
years as the most curative and harmless
preparation ladies can use. Ask Stores and
Chemists for Rowland’s KaJydor, of 67,
Hatton, Garden, London.
HIGH-GRADE
FARM—-'
fs
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd.
35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Sydney D.T. and the Lyne-See Govern-
ment : Arcades ambo !
What a fool Sydney D.T. was to explain !
Just look at all the things it has told people that
they didn’t know before !
Ere long there must be in Sydney a new
daily paper—one with pronounced Labor and
Radical leanings. The situation simply howls for
it.
A question arises whether Victoria can
collect income-tax on the salaries of all Federal
members, these salaries, while the Parliament sits
in Melbourne, being “ money earned in Victoria.”
The war is over ! And De Wet has re-
e ppeared in the vicinity of the Rand with 1000
men. The war is all over—all over the place.
There are now (vide cable) only 17,000 Boers still
in the field, split up into 80 or 100 commandoes.
What a lot of harassment might have been
saved over the question of opening the Federal
Parliament with prayer by simply enacting that
avory member should pray separately before he
arrived, and that the House should take his word
that he had done so.
The first member who raised his voice to
demand that the Federal Government should start
borrowing money was Gould, of N.S.W., who
wanted a loan floated to build nice new post-
offices all over Australia. And the first man who
danounced the loan-disease was Symon, of 9. A.
Sydney Telegraph claims that “ it fought
tooth and nail against the proposal to hand the
Sydney tramways over to a wealthy syndicate ”
and that its “persistent hostility” had “some-
thing to do with the ultimate defeat of the
project.” Wanted, the address of that persistent
hostility.
Cable reports that two Boer prisoners at
Pretoria have been shot for attempting to escape.
Tavist that incident round, garnish to suit the
Jmgo taste, and dish it up to the Imperialistic
SAVING GRACE.
THE SHOUTER (in the sixpenny bar, who has just
discovered that he has only sixpence): “ You
can have what you like, you know, but the
beer’s very nice.”
press, and you get one of “the dastardly and
brutal murders ” so characteristic of the Boers
throughout the war.
N.S.W. Minister O’Sullivan tells a Great
Truth :
The " J inistry’s opponents now found fault with them
for the Commonwealth celebrations, and the celebrations
In collection with the visit of the Duke and Duchess of
Cornwall and York. These were unpalatable to them
because they had not the opportunity of doing it them-
selves.
N.S.W. Lieut.-Governor Darley is entitled,
if he claims it, to a higher salary than Gov.-Gen-
e> tl Hopetoun. The State Lieut-Governor has a
demand on £7OOO in addition to his judicial income
O' £3500, but it is understood that he foregoes
a na of his large total while filling the two
c >acities. The matter should not be left for per-
s nl arrangement. It is Parliament’s business to
c a ilitely fix such item's.
More signs of the approaching N.S.W.
State elections:
At the instance of Mr. W. Rigg, the Government has
granted 20 pairs of blankets to St. Peters Benevolent
Society.
Mr. T. Jessep has obtained for the Waverley Benevolent
Society 20 pairs of blankets.
The North Sydney conference of the St. Vincent de
Paul Society has received 20 pairs of blankets on the
representations of Mr. E. M. Clark.
That aged person, D. R. O’Sullivan, who
polled 13,000 votes in the N.S.*W. Senate cam-
paign, is out for Fitzroy for the State Parliament.
His former heavy polling was due to the fact that
thousands of ignorant electors thought they were
voting for E. W. of that ilk.
Should Griffith get the Fedexal Chief-
Justiceship a murky political atmosphere would
be cleared in Queensland. Rutledge, the present
local Attorney-General, would, no doubt, consider
it his duty to ask Hon. A. Rutledge, K.C., to
become Chief-Justice, and this in turn would give
Leahy, the syndicator’s friend, a chance of snar-
ing Philp’s billet. And then the voice of the syn-
dicate would indeed be heard in the land.
“Returned Soldier” writes a grievous
letter to Brisbane Courier, asking :
Was all this professed patriotism in Queensland
genuine ? Are the people of Queensland, after all, pro-
Boer? We find, among other hardships on our return,
that we are disfranchised.
Just fancy a man who went away to battle
(nominally) for political rights for other people in
S’Africa, coming back and finding lie’s got none
of his own. Nemesis !
Geraldton (Q.) World (organ of the
Cowley party) talks in this fashion :
Without antagonism against anything already sanc-
tioned and regulated by law, the N.Q. sugar-growers can
obtain as plentiful a supply of cheap and reliable labor as
they require from his Majesty’s subjects in India.
Perfectly true! Fiji has already tapped this
source very freely, and possesses as a conse-
sequence 17,000 Indian coolies (laborers, artisans,
shopkeepers, &c., &c.)
The present S.A. political craze is to
“foster the producing interests”—by returning
squatters and farmers. 9o squatter Riddoch
takes Laborite M‘Gregor’s place in the Council,
squatter Mortlock takes Shearers’ Union-organiser
Poynton’s in the Assembly, and farmer Russell
succeeds Holder. You see, both Adelaide dailies
feel safe in barracking for “the producer” ; anl
since Bonython was S’langdoned, the ’Tiser has
apparently been growing less and less anxious to
be seen in company with the Labor crowd. So
with no Kingston, M‘Pherson dead, Gregor
M‘Gregor gone to the Senate, and no Press help,
the S.A. Labor-party is about as sick as any party
can be.
After years of litigation, the great
M.L. native land case of Tamaki v. Baker
has been finally argued before the Privy
Council, and judgment given in favor of the
Maoris. The result is, as the late Judge
Richmond said, that “ a cloud hangs over
almost every title in the country.” M.L.
lawyers have always assumed that, by
right of conquest, all the land in the pro-
vince was vested in the Crown. The
Treaty of Waitangi they regarded as a
treaty only in name. Hence they assumed
that the Crown could deal with land that it
had not formally acquired from the native
owners. The Privy Council has reversed
this decision of the M.L. Court of
Appeal. It follows that if the Crown has
not formally acquired from the native
owners the title to their land, the natives
can go behind the grants issued by the
Crown and claim that the land still belongs
to them. An Act of Parliament will pro-
bably be needed to put matters straight.
It is reckoned that it will require
£1,000,000 to bring the dilapidated Aus-
tralian telephone systems into proper re-
pair, and the daily papers most unneces-
sarily state that “ the money will be pro-
vided by loans ” —not paid by instalments
out of the’phone revenue. Yet, what kind
of industry is it that can’t provide the money
to pay its own repair-bill ?
The opening of the Federal House of
Reps, with prayer makes it obligatory that, in
appointing a Speaker, a man not only of decent
life but of admitted theological opinions must be
chosen. Speakers in various Parliaments of Aus-
tralia have been atheists ; most of them have been
Rationalists. The imposition of a prayer-formula
will be discovered to be, in the Australian Com-
monwealth Parliament, as big a blunder as, in its
own sphere, was Edward Vll’s coronation oath.
The new Westralian Ministry consists
mostly of goldfields members—there are four of
them in Premier Leake’s Cabinet. Leake himself
is a Groper, a member of the Six Families, and
nephew of old Speaker Luke Leake, but apart from
him the Groper element in the Cabinet is weak.
Leake’s Government consists largely of South
Australians and Victorians. Treasurer Illing-
worth is English by birth, but his best years were
spent in Victoria, and he is anex-M.L.C. and ex-
boom wreck of that State.
Cabled that Sir William Vernon Harcourt
in a vigorous speech remarked that the British
Parliament, though newly-elected, was already
suffering from all the symptoms of senile decay.
The war he denounced as the greatest disaster of
modern times. It had originated in a subsidised
insurrection fostered in a friendly State (the
South African Republic), accompanied by an
armed invasion, for both of which Mr. Cecil
Rhodes, then Premier of Cape Colony, was
responsible.
HIS QUALIFICATION.
MANAGER (to applicant for billet): “Do you
possess any knowledge of the silks and satin
department?”
APPLICANT: “Spent all my life among ’em, sir.”
MANAGER: “And sheets, blankets, dec.?’
APPLICANT (forcibly): “Born among ’em, sir!”
O’Malley of the Hat, who seems to be
doing a lot of the good democratic work
of the Federal Parliament, has a motion on
the notice paper that the Commonwealth should
go extensively into the resumption of large estates
for Closer Settlement as provided in clause 51, sec-
tion xxxi., which empowers the Commonwealth
to legislate for
The acquisition of property on just terms from any
State or person for any purpose, in respect of which the
Parliament has power to make laws.
“ Vulcan ” : Iti Luidor’s “ conversations ”
I struck this:
“ Alfieri ” : The lumber of our Italian courts, the most
crazy part of which is that which rests upon a red
cushion in a gilt chair, with stars and sheep and crosses
dangling from it, as were Artaxerxes and Domitian.
These automatons, we are told, nevertheless, are very
condescending. Poor fools who tell us it! Ignorant that
where on one side is condescension, on the other side
must be baseness. The rascals have ruined my physiog-
nomy. I wear an habitual sneer upon my face, God con-
found them for it 1 even when I whisper a word of love in
the ear of my donna.
The IS.A. Tories did better than they
knew when they put enough property in the
names of their wives and daughters to qualify the
latter to vote in Leg. Council elections; for the
defeat of Laborites, and Radicals with the Labor
support, besides keeping these horrid people out of
the Council, prejudices the chances of candidates
running on the same ticket for the Assembly.
“ Nothing succeeds like success”; and the Tory
trick, intended only to capture the Council, is
capturing the Assembly as well, or seriously
affecting its character, anyhow.
David Syme’s "great daily” has been
much more fearfully Jingo over the Boer war than
the Argus, and David’s anti-Boer fanaticism
grows fiercer. The Argus prints all Major
MTnerney’s generous praises of the Trans-
vaalers and Orange Free Staters, but the Age,
while printing the speeches, edits out of them
every word of commendation lavished on the
enemy. This is a sad exposure of the methods of
the Age, but Syme trusts to his rival’s compara-
tively small circulation, and is rarely put away.
News is the thing that isn’t printed.
Hearken to the Argus, which a few years
ago bellowed shocking prophecies about the buck-
toothed British tourist who would sit on the ruins
of the Pink Terraces and overlook desolated
Maoriland, ruined by democratic legislation :
The true causes of the prosperity of New Zealand have
nothing whatever to do with what Mr. Lloyd calls the
“ demoeratisation ” of legislation. The same process
might be followed elsewhere without any improvement in
the circumstances of the country occurring. There has
been hardly more than a coincidence.
The prophet who lives to explain why his pro-
phecy did not come off doesn’t know his business.
S.A. Democratic party, as a result of re-
cent by-elections, has gained a seat in the Assem
bly, but almost irretrievably lost its position in
the Council. Coombe, a strong Radical, succeeds
to Downer’s seat, and Russell, one of Kingston’s
old-time supporters, follows Holder. In the
Council, however, squatter Riddoch and Racing-
Secretary Von Doussa, both Ass. nominees,
succeed Baker and M‘Gregor. Instead of having
a slender majority of one in the Tory Chamber,
the Ass. party has now 14 nominees out of 24, and
democratic measures will get short shrift in the
Council for years to come.
As requested by Sydney Sunday Ttmes, a
lot of indignant Jingoes have been supplying to
that paper the names of the N.S. W. public schools
at which the recent absurd official flag-hoisting
injunction was ignored. The Times, however, also
prints a refreshing epistle from a person who per-
tinently remarks that though this bunting-busi-
ness "may please those who delight in making
asses of themselves over an exhibition of senti-
mental loyalty,” it is nobody else’s affair that some
of the teachers have not been inspired to a like
display of “ patriotism,” and have not felt inclined
to give themselves gratuitous trouble to gratify a
bunkum enthusiasm.
Far-western N.S.W. electorates which,
except ex-Speaker Abbott’s Wentworth, have been
so solidly Laborite ever since that party was
formed that a contest has rarely been thought of,
are now hopelessly riven—and all, it is to be
feared, through the scheming of two or three-
ambitious men inside. Cann is to be left alone
but in all the other districts there are rival .Labor
men reaching for one another’s windpipes in-
some cases the Central Broken HiIIP.L.L. Execu-
tive is running against the local leagues ; m others-
—the cases of Ferguson and Sleath —the old mem-
>ers, having quarrelled with the P.L.L., are run-
ning as independent Laborites.
Hughes, for West Sydney, wants
Freetrade in sugar and the abolition, of cheap
colored labor. Now Hughes surely doesn’t expect
the white man to work for nigger wages if he
does he is a disgrace to his race and his color.
And he can’t expect the sugar grown in Queens-
land at white man’s wages to be as low-priced as
imported Fijian or other cheap nigger-grown
sugar, or to be able to compete against it on Free-
trade lines. Therefore, Hughes, M.H.R., is
advocating the destruction of the Australian
sugar industry without the courage or honesty to-
say so. And every Freetrader who votes for a
White Australia is doing the same.
Within the last ton years the population
of Maoriland increased by 23 5 per cent. ; United'
States, 22 per cent. ; Australia, 19 per cent. ;
Germany, 14 per cent.; Great Britain and Ireland,
10 per cent. ; Italy, 8 per cent. ; India, 2£ per
cent. These are ail the returns available as yet,
and they are by no means a bad advertisement
for Maori land’s policy of Protection, democratic-
legislation, State socialism, and heavy taxation in
preference to heavy borrowing. They are especi-
ally good, in view of the fact that Maoriland
started the 10-year period with a thicker popula-
tion tlntn any other Australian State bar victoria,
and with six times as many persons to the square
mile as Australia in general.
J. J. Hynes, candidate for Denison (N.S.
Wales) strongly advocates extending the Old-Age
Pension system so as to make the pension age 00-
years instead of 05. So does Thk Bulletin, but
this paper also recommends finding the money to
pay the pensions with. Up to now. the N.B.W.
Parliament, well-knowing that the Treasury can’t
meet even existing demands upon it, has merely
ordered, in a lordly way, that about £400,000
a year extra be paid in Old-Age Pensions, and
hasn’t supplied one copper of extra revenue to pay
with. The large-hearted sympathy for the poor
and suffering which is expressed by ordering that
the money which isn’t there shall be divided
among them is a pitiably cheap way of buying
popularity.
Victoria’s Old Age Pension bill is about
£335,000 a year, so it may be fairly assumed that
N.S.W., with its larger population, will have to
find between £350,000 and £400,000 a year. This
year, even after paying every item of extra expen-
diture (war expenses, plague expenses, celebration
expenses, &c.) out of trust funds, and annexing
the rents of the Sydney resumed area and the
extra railway receipts of the Commonwealth time
as revenue, there is a shortage ; and nobody has
the courage to make any provision either for it or
for next year’s extra outlay. • But it has been de-
cided to start the old age pensions from Ist August
instead of Ist July, and dodge one month’s pay-
ment. That is the See Government’s nearest
approach to making provision for the future.
TRULY. IT IS TIME.
HOLDER (to Barton): “Look here, I reckon it's
time somebody gave me a hand with this job.”
One G-. T. Bruce writes to N.Z. Times
urging that Maoriland should not join the Com-
monwealth for ten reasons. Most of the first nine
create a suspicion that Gr.T.B. can’t read good
large print; for instance he has a wild idea that
the Federal Constitution would disfranchise the
Maoris ; abolish the woman vote and re-establish
twopenny postage. But the tenth one is under-
standable enough. Federation, says G.T.8.,
would
Hitch an enterprising progressive race like the Maori-
ianders on to the lackadaisical degenerating Australian —
the motor car on to the tail-board of the old stage coach.
It is refreshing to read a yarn like that, anyhow.
This paper gets tired sometimes when 24 local
members get up in succession after the banquet
to state that we are the salt of the earth.


FOR
e
ACCORDEONS
from 8/6, post free.
Write for catalogues,
it will pay you.
fs
CONCERTINAS
from 4/6 post free.
Write for catalogues,
it will pay you.
ef
Anglo German
and English
CONCERTINAS
from 25/-, post
free. Write for
catalogues, it will
pay you.
s
d
MOUTH
ORCANS
from 3d. Write for
catalogue*. It will
pay you.
fs
VIOLINS
from 5/- Write
for catalogues, it
will pay you.
d
MANDOLINS
from 25/- Write
for catalogues, it
will pay you.
'(S)
GUITARS
from 12/6.
Write for cata-
logues, it will pay
you.
fa/s
BANJOS
from 25/-
Write for cata-
logues, it will pay
you.
a
FLUTES &
PICCOLOS
from 4/- Write
for catalogues,
it will pay you.
XI
m
o
CORNETS
from 25/-
BAND INSTRU-
MENTS
bv the best
makers Write
for catalogues,
H will pay you.
e
AUTO-
HARPS
from 12/6.
Write for cata-
logues,
it will pay you.
fs
POLYPHON
MUSICAL
BOXES
from 42/-
Play any number of
tunes
Write for catalogues,
it will pay you.
phocni*
MECHANICAL
ORCANS
from 65/-
Write for cata-
logues, it will pay
you.
Everything known in Music. Best Quality at the Lowest Prices.
W. H, PALING & CO., Ltd.,
338 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
LIPP PIANOS
LIPP PIANOS
LIPP PIANOS
“ Lipp System,
“ Same as Lipp’s,”
And Names such as “
and other contortions aro
NOT THE
GENUINE
PIANOS
PALING’S, LTD.,
#r
Are Sole Agents
for the Gemline
Rich . Lipp & Sohn
of Stuttgart
■When buying a Piano at Paling’s, you can bo
certain you are getting what it is represented
to be, and a new one, too.
Prices commence at £65, and not cheaper.
Lipp Pianos have “been here” for over 30
years. Their “ staying ” qualities have been
well tested under all climatic conditions, and
they have proved their worth.
Hundreds sold annually. This is conclusive
proof of their popularity.
Send to Paling’s for Catalogues and prices of
all models of the genuine Lipp Pianos.
LIPP
PIANOS
W. H. PALING & GO., LTD
338 George Street, Sydney.
“ Melbourne is the mitred Metropolitan
of the Horse-Racing Cult.” — American.
The cheek of the local professional military
gang ! A correspondent of a Sydney daily “ hears
on very good authority that it has been decided
that the Krupp gun captured by the N.S.W.
Mounted Rifles in S’Africa, is to occupy a perma-
nent position in front of the Royal Australian
Artillery officers mess, at Victoria Barracks. . . .
Why this gun should be placed where only
a few officers of a regiment which took no part in
its capture can view it is inconceivable, while two
Russian cannons (in the capture of which our
troops took no part), should occupy a position in
such an appropriate place as the Domain.”
The recently - published statement by
N.S.W. Public Service Board that they declined
to retire State Under-Treasurer Kirkpatrick at
the demand of then-Premier Lyne is flatly denied
by the latter. Lyne says he didn’t ask the Board,
and the Board says he did. This time the Board
is believed by the service. The incident is two
years old. When Lyne got office he swore that
there was no money in the Treasury, that Reid’s
balances were fictitious and his books unreliable.
For these statements he expected the loyal sup-
g>rt of Kirkpatrick, permanent head of the
epartment. But as Kirkpatrick for five weary
years had applauded the Reid system, the cash
surpluses, good old Cash Basis and so on, he could
hardly be expected to give the lie to it all at a
week’s notice. It was too sudden. So Lyne and
Kirkpatrick fell out, and the latter’s resignation
was expected daily for some time. But the Board
stuck to the Under-Treasurer, and the financial
rumpus was transferred to royal commissions, ex-
perts and outsiders. The Under-Treasurer and
the financial tangle are still both with N.S.W.
If the British Government suspends the
Constitution of Cape Colony (the cablegrammer
states that such an idea is mooted) tliesp what is a
Constitution? In theory it expresses the right of
the people to govern themselves on certain fixed
principles, but supposing the British Government
suspends the Constitution of any colony, then it
appears there is no self-governing right, in the
case. The act would reduce things to the level
of Russia, where Poland had a Constitution till
the Czar took it away, and where Finland had a
Constitution till the Czar took away as much of it
as lie darned well pleased and left the rest. And,
if it is held that the Sovereign, with the advice of
his Ministers, can suspend the Constitution of one
part of the British Empire, then how about his
right to suspend it in some other part—-say in
Britain ? Of course, he might come to grief over
the exercise of the right, as Charles I. did, but
that is another question.
Joseph Dolton to The Bulletin :
S.M. Herald, in her telegraphic reports of the
Federal Parliament’s debates on the Postal Bill,
carefully omits most of the discussion upon free
newspaper postage. Sydney Telegraph's report states
that the Postmaster-General intends to limit the excep-
tionally small postage-rate on newspapers to those issued
at intervals of not more than seven days. These pro-
posed exceptional rates are on account of the claim to
educational value! Nevertheless, really educational
journals like the Review of Reviews, Scientific Aus-
tralian, Agriculturist, Surveyor, Medical Gazette,
Photographic Journal, Law Times, Chemist & Druggist,
etc., are to be taxed on behalf of the Presbyterian,
Truth, Jewish Herald, Courrier Australien, Deutsche
Post, Chinese Herald, Meat Trades’ Journal, Church
Reporter, Temperance Foister, Shopkeeper, Bad Debts’
Collector, Barbers’ Pole, Undertakers’ Record, etc.
These latter come out 62 times as against 12.
Ye gods!
“It ia no use to talk about saving a soul
while the owner has cold feet.” —General Booth.
Daily paper item :
Several of the Ballarat councillors were visibly affected,
and with trembling knees awaited the Royal vistors.
A Trafalgar (Vic.) onion-grower has real-
ised over £7OO for the product of 3£ acres —73
tons.
Rsad what VITADATIO is Doing-
ANOTHER CANCER CURE.
73 Years of Ag'e.
Doctors did 2VTotlalng.
VITADATIO
CURED.
READ WHAT MRS. ROSE SAYS.
New Glenelg,
26th July, 1900.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir, —I am pleased to say that I have tried your
VITADATIO, and have received great benefit from its
use. lam 73 years of age. Two years ago I was suffering
severe internal pains, and seeking medical advice, was
told mine was a ease of cancer, and was advised to go
into the hospital for an operation, which I did, but my
age being so great, it was not thought advisable to do
anything, so I left, feeling that I would not live many
weeks. I was in a very low condition. I could not sweep
my room or do any of my usual work, and was expected
by neighbors to soon pass away, when I was advised by a
lady who had a relative cured of tumor, to try VITA-
DATIO. I have done so, and now I feel as well as I did
ten years ago. I can do all my own house work. I can
walk miles now where I could not walk 100 yards for the
pain before, and feel generally well and hearty, to the
great satisfaction of myself and relatives around me.
You are at liberty to publish this, as it may be of use to
others who suffer. I am thankful VITADATIO came to
Adelaide. I remain, yours truly,
EMILY ANN ROSE,
New Glenelg.
Witness : M. P. Murphy, Storekeeper, Glenelg.
~ Geo. R. Drvie, Adelaide.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
18d Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
try orders.
Tails.
Plaits,
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS' and PLAITS,
20in. loner, 5/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6; 24in.,
10/6; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address”:— W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLIAM-ST., Corner of Palmer-at.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention giyen to coun-
Wigs made on shortest notice.
THE HIGHEST ORDER—
FOR
Quality of Material and Workmanship
NI
asiaotiKS
DuNifiP TYres
WON BY MERIT
<1
DUNLOP
TYRES
are the
k best .
BEWARE OP IMITATIONS
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus. Ltd.,
150 Clarenoe Street, Sydney
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, and Chrlstohuroh,


Banking. Public Companies, &o.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
BILLS
discounted
3vr.s,-w.
(Ijont deplete
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
VIA CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
§ . SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
'—THE—.'
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robkrts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; BruCe Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miui.br.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,60!)-assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Polities Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
„ —THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4.800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital £3,216,885 0 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman ; J. C. Syme,
Esc., J.P. ; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith;
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Ofjice: 1 Ltishopagate Street Within
corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
IM«CW SOUTH wales:
KVi>Nloy - 273 GICOIIGI3 STIXIOET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
SLiymaiket, Gosfcrd (with aareucy at Wyong\ New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST.,. SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Established 1879.
THE
United Australian Mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney'; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital .. 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
Tiie Bank of Qarth Queensland
LI Al I Till). ■
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 000 ... £350,000
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Eq.ui.able Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital „ .. £2,500,000
|)eui Zealand Insurance (Jo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Tb« TrCistccs, €xcc6torS,
AND
flgSOCy Conjpaijy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business)
Amount, at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1900
£150,000 0 0
£90,000 0 0
£150,000 0 0
£8312 0 0
'6,326,343 0 0
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. 1. Barker registered
trustee.
Direcinrs: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R: Murray
Smith, Ksq., C.M.G.; Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. .1. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORIIOWMAN, Manager.
FKEDIi. A. BANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Cdllins-street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE ,
GEELONG
PORTLAND i
WARRNAMBOOL J
Leura, Saturday, June 22, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, June 29,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer Early.
BRISBANE 't
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON I
BUNDABERG I
Peregrine, Sat., June 22, 12Noon.
Konoowarra, Tues., June 25, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, June 29,12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat., June 22, 12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, June 29,12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT/
GERALDTON '
CAIRNS, &c. (
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest. Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers'rickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of Kina-street.
THE “ALL RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OF THE
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN LINE
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
Connecting at Vancouver with the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 days, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world—over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies, &e.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ijtd. o/ London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. McMillan, Hon. A. W. Meeks,
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson - Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Campy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
±J Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap, ly to GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,250,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 2,000,000 0 0
Total 6,250,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.O.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors :
F. W. Utiier, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.tc Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
usiness Announcements.
ASK YOUR JEWELLER TO SHOW YOU
, The Patent Unbreakable
‘ONE-PIECE’ STUDS
Masterpieces of mechanical skill,
Made in Gold, Silver, and Gold-Cased.
Once
Worn
Always
Worn.
Beauty of
Contour
& Finish.
I;
Avoid
imitations
None
genuine
unless
stamped
‘ Patent.'
If damaged from &N 7 cause, a new
one given in exchange.
Wnoleam.it onl//:
SAUM3ER& & SHEPHERD, LTD.,
279, GEORGE St., SYDNEY, & London, Eng
Shipping
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL. CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
IST. D. L.
imperial german mail.
Fleet Comprising
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754 ; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1900, 4,707,000 ; Over 4 million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
. m *Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to
HONG KONG, via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW
BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and YAP.
S.S NUEN TUIMG, 1341 Tons,
Captain Schoenberg,
LEAVING SYDNEY, 10th JULY NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Medical.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
sic-
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and IIANUS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, &c.
DEIMYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 CEORBE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
Business Announcements.
Acetylene |as generator.
THIS GENERATOR, COMPLETE, WITH PILLAR,
LIGHT, SHADE, and 4ft. RUBBER TUBE,
37/6.
Suitable for LANTERN WORK, OFFICE,
DWELLING, or ANYWHERE.
ID* - A Single Powerful Light is Required.
I Brandts!
MlAccmtNtlf
(^GENERATOR
WE, STOCK ALL ACCESSORIES, Also BUGGY,
BICYCLE, HAND, and MINERS’ ACETYLENE GAS
LAMPS, SEARCH LAMPS, &o.
Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BRO 53.,
236 PITT ST., SYDNEY, and
422 & 424 ELIZABETH ST„ MELBOURNE.
USE
SPOONER’S
m
SPOONERS
fWTINT LEATHER BOOTS
GLAZED RI0& M
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning’and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (iu
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers o?
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Hate Powdei-s,
Laxness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by,, all . Storekeepers,
Bout. Mops, Saddlers, etc.
Snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP DO.
(UMITKH).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Quaensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PI It IE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S VVarrego, Fiiday,
June 21.
S.S. Marloo (from Mel-
bourne), Tuesday,
July 2.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Cintra. Friday,
June 21.
Jiest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage ticker,s are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne ami Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and W.A. ail tickets are inten*
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-,
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
— 0 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. IN. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOYVN MAIL LINE Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Islan l,
and Norman ton.
SYDNEY, NEYV CALEDONIA, AND FIJI
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST
Fortnightly.
Monthly.
AUSTRALIA,
Rassen.f/er Aero in modation, A ttenda nee and
Cuisine, an rirailed.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
ot ' the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application,
for Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO, Ltd., Agents, lit Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Steamer.
Commander.
[Sydney,
) Noon
INDIA 7911 W. I>.G. Worcester, R.N.R. June 29
OCEANA 6JU3C. Gadid ... Julv 13
BRITANNIA [6525 F. 11. Seymour . July 27
AUSTRALIA . 6901 I. Reeves .. ...’Aug 10
VICTORIA .. 6525 E» Crewe .. .. ... Aug. 24
The Company's steamers now cail at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, L3B l()s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return 171 Ills to 1.121
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial por>:s
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
tralia. Exchange Corner. Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of Ofoo tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
Steamer
ARMAND BE-
IIIO
AUSTRALIEN
V.DELACIOTAT
POLYNESIEN ..
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
DE THUY, Principal Agent.
fuddart, parker § go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBA KT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. |Tns Commander. jLeave Sydney
GUTHRIE .. '2500 W. G. M‘Arthur .. 22
EASTERN ... 3600 VVinthrop Ellis July 13
AIRLIE 2500 St. John George August 10
AUSTRALIAN . 3000 JP. T. Helms August 31
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn's Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-Street, Sydney.
n‘|lwraith,m‘Eacharn£go.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALG-OOE.LIZ!, 4500 TONS,
CQOLG-AE.DIE, tons,
sail roarx ichtly i„t
Sydney, P?l3l»ioiirne, Adelaide, and
West Australia?! Peris.
Passenger Ac6ommodatioH.il nntepaxxed.’ Liberal Cuisine.
MMLWRAITH, MIEACHARM AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle
Sydney Agents -BURNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.
Com-
mander.
Le Cois-
pellier
Verron
Fiaschi
Chevalier
Sydney, , ‘^ e *'
Noon | b ° l,r,ie >
1 p.m.
June 24'
July 8 July 11
Aug. 5 Aug. 8
Sept. 2 Sept. 5
Ade-
laide,
1 p. m.
July 13
Aug. 10
Sept. 7


German commercial proverb One boy
(for purposes of office or store work) is a boy ; two
boys are half a boy ; three boys are no boy at all.
At a recent Vic. municipal council meet-
ing :—“There will never be any peace while Cr.
W is allowed to sit here. He’s a nuisance
wherever he is. If there was only me ana him in
the world I’d kill him and live by myself.
M.H.R. Hughes, annoyed at some of
King O’Malley’s'interjections (which, being a bit
deaf, he had not heard correctly): “It is sur-
prising, Mr. Speaker, that a person with such a
massive intellect as the interjector was not in-
cluded in the first Federal Cabinet. OMalley,
impressively. “ You’re quite right, brother.
Chief Justice Madden, in the course of
granting decrees nisi at Melb. Divorce Court,
stated that during the present sitting he had
heard more than a dozen petitions by wives
“ apparently able and willing to fulfil marriage
obligations,” whose husbands had deserted them
in a casual sort of way. And his judicial
Waxellency was pleased to suggest sarcastically
that the Commonwealth Parliament would have a
lot of social blots to wipe out before it could make
a “white” Australia. From which one may
suspect that Madden considers one giddv Aus-
tralian husband to be ample excuse for the im-
portation of twenty black Kanakas.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
pre-s vour finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies alt
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I ( AN
CURL YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Store*,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per b x. Prepared by
AI BERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •. ELLIOTT BKOS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look foi the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
gieen la' el on t ach box. (Regd. copyright).
e
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Niekel-
platrd), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
,pound Inhalent, and 1 tin
Nasal Ointment, only
to/-
Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
DON'T POISON*
YOURSELF
With j HUGS. All Diseases of the Nervous System'
Lame Back, Sciatica, Liver. Complaint, Dyspepsia, Des.
pondency, Brain Pag, and, in fact, all chronic weaknesses
and ailments can now be Speedily Relieved and Cured
without Drugs or Medicine of any kind. Address—
ARTHUR HALE, 44 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
PHOTOS
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Ohio; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque on London.
English, French, and German Rare Books.
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GENNERT.
890 Faubourg St., Martin, Paris, Franoe.
CALVERTS
SO per cent.
CARBOLIC
SOAP
Cures and prevents Insect
and Mosquito bites.
The strongest Carbolic Toilet Soap.
F. C. CALYERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n>brocatioi7
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints.it. MAX and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatioQ-
The Ways of Many Waters
Collects the dashing ballads and verses of sailor-men's
and wharf-men’s life which E. J. Brady has contributed
to The Bulletin and the Sunday Times, Sydney. It U
the first attempt on the part of an Australian verse-
writer to chant the life on the sea and the margins of
the sea ; though there is one horse-poem—the story of
“ How Jack Bowlin Steered ‘ Jones.’ ” The volume is
bound in buckram, with gilt top, in a size that will go
into a pocket without squeezing; and the price is 55.,
post-free.
s
XL
IF
m
&
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnece sary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers from Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection. of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia, MCnemia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
UltUlWjMl'S
feunTcnj)
JwiineJs
KH'Ura?
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERS RASSMYSSEFS CHIEF LABORATORY.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Affections, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Course, 23/6.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases, Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
AHnemia, Wasting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOXES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills —Guaranteed to Aifaline Asthma and Cough Pills —A
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum- Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free. posted, 35., 65., 12s. and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— Electric Belts— Containing powerful and
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
at the same time as it supports the parts. cure for all Spinal and Kidney Affections ;
Price 215., posted. 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters .containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/*
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCI.XG
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
CORN CURE, 1/-.
OINTMENT, 1/-.
Correspondence held confidential.
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST„ SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and hia
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke-st. W. A.—PERTH, 481 Hay-st.
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen-st. KALGOORLIE—Hannan-st.
ADELAIDE—IS Pnlteney-st. BOULDER ClTY—Piesse-st.
N.Z. —91 Lambton Quay, Wellington. FREMANTLE—Henry-st.
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALFALINE REMEDIES.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Caution.—- I Genuine Chlorodyno.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEONOHITIS,
DIAKEHCEA, &c.j bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS o!
Sept. 28, 1896, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, 1 should say Chi.obodvnk. J never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of^ simple ailments hums
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
fHLOROPyNE
f
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
AREIIINCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric-
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
iri all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what w e say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. —Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free),
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH .SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most- sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
t* COMMON SENSE. EAli JDlt UM.”
THE
DEAF
HEAR
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying, every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and infallible remedy.
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
W M.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
G. L. ROBERTS. M.D.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
IP
4
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
INVENTOR op Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c.
use D r . ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. i£d. and 2s. 9d. each of all Drug
Stores.
Sole Makers, BEACH & BARNICOTT, LtcL
BRIDPORT, England.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
(Completely overcome Deafness
and Mead Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne,
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
■
i&m
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cahinets. Price 25/- (
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.


A Living 1 Witness.
“For
the last
six or
seven
years I
suffered
from that awful
complaint arising
from the Liver,”
writes Mrs. A. C.
Cufley, Cubitt-st.,
Richmond, Vic-
toria, “and always
had that weary,
run-down feeling,
and my complexion was
sallow. I used to get up
in the morning feeling
more tired than when I
went to bed at night.
Besides this weakness I
had nasty pains in the
head, also a disordered
stomach. There were
times when I had to take
to my bed, and lost all
energy in my household
duties. I tried many
remedies and doctors’
medicine, but lost all
faith in them, as they did
me no good. Not long
ago a friend of mine, and
V
v\<r
71
also ray daughter, advised me to give Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills a trial, which I did, and have
received great benefit from them. lam now free
from pain in every way, and that weary, run-down
feeling has quite gone, and I feel as well as I did
before that terrible complaint fastened upon me,
and will be glad to answer any questions regarding
my case, should anybody care to know.” Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood
purifier, and a positive cure for biliousness, indi-
digestion, constipation, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
boils and blotches, and female ailments. Sold by
chemists and storekeepers, Is. l£d. per bottle, or
six bottles 6s. Gd. Sole proprietors, The W. H.
Comstock Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-
street, Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the
full name blown thereon.*
As
a Corrective
and Safeguard
of HEALTH.
THE BEST REMEDY TO-DAY IN THE MARKET IS
REUTER’S LITTLE PILLS
FOR THE LIVER.
A HOUSEHOLD NECESSITY.
-A
Anyone can see the Good Points about
IN A FLASH
Red Bird Bicycles.
THEY ARE SO WELL BUILT. So beautiful in design. So superbly finished.
The bearings, sprockets, chain and other parts are mathematically accurate.
BRANCHES IN bvery state. GOOLP BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Veteran Maori footballer Joe Warbrick visited
Wellington recently and started the springs of reminis-
cence. The old-timer first appeared as an Auckland rep.
in 77, and last played for that district in ’96. Joe skip-
pered the native combination that went through Aus-
tralia and subsequently tuned up ’Ome Rugb.vites to the
extent of winning 49, drawing 5, and losing only 20 of 74
matches played. In M.L. and Australia they lost 3 of
26 contested all others were victories. “ Barlow ”
Madigan, Maynard, Anderson, Webster, Goldsmith,
Karauria and Rene are dead. Alf. Warbrick is a tourist-
guide at Taupo, Arthur is an East Coast fanner, Billy runs
Lavender Bay (Sydney) swimming-baths, and Fred is in
Brisbane. George Wynyard (“ Sherry ”) is a carpenter in
Sydney, brother “ Tabby ’’ lives in Auckland, and “ Pye"
Wynyard is at Petone (M.L.), “Bully” Williams is a
policeman, Lee is a reader in the Govt. Printing Office,
Dick Taiaroa and Pat Keogh still cling to Dunedin.
“ Davie ” Gage is at Blenheim, Dave Stewart affects the
turf at the Thames, and dapper M‘Causland, the dead-sure
place-kick, is said to be in some N.S.W. branch bank.
Ihimaira (“Smiler”) is in Napier or thereabouts, Billy
(“ Mother ”) Elliott is at Auckland, and Nehua is a settler
in Whangarei district.
• • * •
“Scrip”: One of the chief causes of the decay
of the Rugby game in M.L. is the introduction of the
wing-forward system. Off-side half the time, opposing
wings push and spar round scrums, which are ill-packea
and disorganised sort of arrangements. The good old
“ passing ” game seems almost an impossibility under the
new order of things, it being a case of “every man for him-
self.” When a player chances to get a sniff of the
malodorous leather he does a little sprint until scragged
and flattened-out. Suspension for slaughtering opponents
is more conspicuous than aforetime. Two got passed out
at Dunedin t’other day ; another got two years at Wel-
lington ; and same week there was a glorious “stand-up ”
during a goldfields match, but people took no notice—
thought ’twas all in the game. There’s also a dearth of
good drop-kickers—a visit from a ’ome team that plays
modern scientific football would be productive of good.
Meanwhile, those obnoxious wing-forwards should be
poll-axed.
• • • •
Saturday’s round of Sydney senior Rugby saw
the competition half-way through ; all clubs having so far
met each other. Big crowds were the rule everywhere.
Five thousand witnessed South Sydney oust ’Varsity from
its unbeaten position by 4 to 3, which, however, still
left it top of the list, with the South next. Losers
evidenced some falling-off in form, otherwise they must
have won. It speaks volumes for their defensive powers
that in the last four matches no side has notched a try
against ’Varsity. South Sydney’s score on Saturday was
a goal from a mark, and ’Varsity’s, a penalty goal. Glebe
triumphed over Balmain in a run-away affair—23 to nil—
and yet the vanquished combination (a week before)
drew with the early “fancy” for the final—Eastern
Suburbs. Western Suburbs had a soft thing (10 to nil)
with North Sydney (a surprise), and Eastern Suburbs put
Newtown down, 13 to 6.
* » • *
Cricket cranks are crazed with excitement over
the probable constitution of the next ’Ome team for Aus-
tralia. Cable tells of four already selected (McLaren,
Jessop, Hayward and Lilley), all top-notchers, whose
inclusion was anticipated: Jessop will be the sensation
of the tour, as he is the hardest hitter known in cricket
history. Lilley has no compeer behind the sticks; and
Hayward’s previously solidly-built reputation was much
enhanced by his achievements in the last lot of test-
matches during the’99 season. If the remaining members
of the prospective combination are near the standard of
those already selected, Australia will need to have it all
on to keep her end up, but matters may be rendered less
difficult if the “down-under” reps.’ bowling strength is
no greater than it promised to be at the time of writing.
Cabled that A. A. Lilley, the Warwickshire
pro., accompanies M‘Laren’s team as wicketkeeper. All
Australians who have visited England place Lilley as the
cleverest “keeper” the old country has had for the last
decade. Darling once told writer that Lillev’s catching
of Hill off Richardson in one of the ’97 matches was the
best thing he had ever seen. Lilley is 34 in Nov.
• « * *
During the 35 years (1864-1900) that W. G.
Grace has been playing first-class cricket he has had 1243
completed innings, and scored 50,672 runs. Average for
whole period, 4076 per innings. Since 1866 he has headed
the batting averages 12 times. Only four other players
have secured the distinction more than once, viz
Shrewsbury (five times), W. W. Read (three), Ranji
(three), and Gunn (twice). The “ Doc.” owned the highest
aggregate on 15 occasions ; nobody else has had i# more
than twice. In bowling “W.G.’s” figures show that he
took 2620 wickets, in doing which he bowled 27,258 overs
at a cost of 44,488 runs ; average, 16'98 per wicket.
• * * *
Annual lacrosse match between S. A. and Vic.,
at Adelaide on Saturday, went, as most followers of the
game expected, to the more seasoned side (S.A.), who ran
rings round the visitors from end to end, excepting during
the third quarter, when Victoria rallied in great style,
and from the “ face-off ” till near the close had much the
better of things. But it availed little, as the score closed
6 to 3 in S.A.’s favor. S.A. has won seven of the nine
games played. The first (in ’88) went Victoriawards, and
that State didn’t get its only other win till 10 years
later.
• • • •
Fist fights ahead in N.S.W. just now promise to
boom the game. First is Sturgeon and Parker, then
Sturgeon and Herb M‘Kell (just back from S’Africa), with
Mick Dunn and Otto Cribb to follow'. Well-built and un-
questionably clever ink-hued bruiser Tom Mitchell was
expected to hitch on to one or other of those named, but
he left quietly for ’Frisco in the Sierra, Wednesday last
week. We’re Sure to see Sturgeon and Gribb at it again,
and if Dunn settles the M.L. cyclone this time, he and
Sturgeon should supply a tip-top go, for Sturgeon is
clever, and that’s the class of man that will suit Dunn
down to the ground.
• • » •
Bruisers Melbourne Jack Willis and Sydney
Harry Dawson dished up a big surprise for Sydney' pug.
patrons at Gaiety A.C. t’other night. Most put the scrap
down as a cert, for Willis, who was being tipped as a good
thing in brine for Cribb or Sturgeon. Odds of 4to 1 were
freel.v offered on Willis, and only' accepted in a few in-
stances. * Willis made the pace, but Dawson moved round
coolly and warily—forcing his vift-d-vis to do the bulk of
the work, and ultimately laid him out in the Isth round.
Daw'son is cool, tough, and likely-looking, but he’ll have
a hard row to hoe with other middleweights having
claims to be pitted against him in the future.
* • * •
Proof that M.L. bruiser Otto Cribb would have
done infinitely better at home than in Yankeeland comes
along every day. He is matched to meet Mick Dunn next
month, and will draw a huge house. Then there are
Snowy Sturgeon, Herb. M'Kell, and others to follow—all
big “gate” affairs. W.A. speculators offer a £2OO purse
and ex’s, for a match with Cribb as one of the principals,
but Otto isn’t taking any of the “ West,” averring that
there’s much more money for him in Sydney than else-
where.
* * * »
“Jab.”: Tripped to Botany, t’other day, and
saw Yankee “ Kid ’’ Parker have ’em on with Mick Dunn,
who did what he liked, though the ’Murkan worried
away at top-tension all through. Parker is a strong,
well-built fellow, but much too muscle-bound, short in
the reach and stature, and heavy in the under-pins (each
of which is a huge load in itself) for a M.Q. fighter. No
man with such a weight of leg could make a clever boxer.
Besides, he doesn’t know too much about the game—not
nearly as much as the man (“Snowy” Sturgeon) he has
to meet July 1. Though Parker might score by chancing
a few punches when getting in, and then (like Cribb)
hustling and keeping atop of his man, he stands off.
Parker may fight better than he boxes—he’d need to, a
lot—but present scribe can’t see how ’tis possible for him
to live three rounds in front of Sturgeon.
Once premier light-weight pug. of N.S.W., Tom
Meadows, died of consumption, at Bathurst, Wednesday,
last week. Little more than 12 months since Tom (two
years short of 40) looked to own a long lease of existence,
out went down with a run once the disease so unaccount-
ably gripped him. He hadn’t trained for many years and
held aloof from excesses of all sorts. Tom acquired his
initial notions of glove-fighting from Peter Jackson (now
in a bad way from lung-trouble, at Roma, Q.), and went
to Murka” with the famous black and that other Aus-
tralian top-notcher of the time, Paddy Gorman, perhaps,
15 years ago. Meadows pulled off two or three battles
straight-way, then went to England and settled down as a
teacher for years, but ultimately came to Sydney where
he opened rooms, and did well teaching boxing and
breeding bull-dogs. Told that for some days prior to
death, Tom used to dream he saw his corpse at the foot
of the bed, and a little while before the end played a game
of euchre with his brother, suggesting that i'f he (Tom)
won twould be taken as an indication of his ultimate re-
covery and the reverse if fortune went t’other way. Tom
lost. AprofK is, it’s marvellous what a number of athletes
have gone off through consumption lately, and how many
are suffering from it now.
• • * *
“ Melbournian ” writes: “ Spare-tne-Days ” (B.
15/6/01) has the Foley craze bad, or else he was born
yesterday. Undoubtedly Larry Foley was, and is, excep-
tionally clever, and made some men more skilful than
they might have been, but not everybody—he didn’t
teach Fitzsimmons. Fitz was a good man when he came
to Australia from M.L. and went to Jackson. Foley never
taught “ Griffo ” either. “ Griffo ” was a natural fighter
(there was and have been heaps of them in the world),
who did things rolev never dreamt of and couldn’t repeat.
Griffo” owned more original methods than any other
man in the biz. before or since. Foley didn’t teach either
Jack or Jem Hall. Former (nearly the cleverest light-
weight Australia has seen) came from London a better
map than when he went away. Jem Hall got the whole
of his knowledge from Billy M’Carthy (writer heard him
tell this at Costello’s “ Lounge,” and paragraphed it when
on Melb. press). Foley didn’t teach Mick Dooley, either;
they were running opposition boxing-schools iri the old
days, Dooley says. Any odds, also, that Foley never
taught George Seale, for Seale shapes too unorthodoxly
(right hand and foot forward)—the way the new hand
does it at the first attempt. Seale was probably a good
man before Foley knew him.
• • * •
“Cocker” Tweedie and .Tack M‘Gowan have
their second match at Kalgoorlie (W.A.) this Saturday
night, and the Sydney Rocks development expresses
extreme confidence in his prospects. It was the same in
Brisbane a year or two since, but miniature giant
M'Gowan caught Tweedie playing to the gallery in the
13th or 14th round and, hey presto ! Such a happening
is always a possibility where Tweedie is concerned ; they
settled him that way twice in ’Frisco.
• • * •
Inter-State bout between “Kaffir” Easier and
Melbourne hard-fighting “ feather ” North at Golden Gate
A.C. (Sydney) Sat. night drew a full house. North was
on wires from the jump ; Essler coolly waited till oppor-
tunity offered, and then put all his stored-up energy into
one slaughterous punch. North got home a few times,
but there wasn’t enough sting in his work. The square-
built, square-living black was all power and go right
through. The towel went up in North’s corner at the
end of the fourth round as a heavy “ right cross ” had hit
the point of his jaw.
» * * *
“Milky White”: The top-flat of the Demo-
Club’s rooms in Swanston-street, Melb., is now
occupied by the Y.M.C.A. as a gymnasium. The other
night, I heard a couple of “the lads” (one had just
returned from a long spell in “ New South ”) talking
about it. Here is what I made of the conversation :
“X. : Melbourne “Billy” Williams tells the
story of how Paddy Slavin took on Peter Jackson for that
memorable fight in London years ago. Peter was in a
bar, lounging about in his usual slouchy style and looking
played-out, when Slavin and Williams'came in, called for
wine, and Jackson joined them. After leaving, Slavin
referred to Peter’s limp appearance, and said “ Why, he’s
half-dead now—l’ll make a match with him in the morn
ing” ; and he did. Previous to this the black had been
doing all possible to yard Paddy, without success.
Neither ever fought a better fight than he did that night,
and each got so much belted out of him that neither
did any good subsequently.
* * * •
Erstwhile Australian middleweight pugs. Jack
Slavin and M'Auliffe were at it again last month for the
heavyweight premiership of India at Rangoon. M'Auliffe
won in five rounds —which should just about make once-
clever Jack (brother of famous “ Paddy”) give the game
best and tackle something he is more suited for. M'Auliffe
was never, by any means, a champion in Australia.
* * * *
Discussing the recent death of a boxer at the
National Sporting Club, London, one print said : “ Bun-
garee, the Australian pugilist, died from injuries received
in a fight with Broome, at Newmarket, in 1842.” No 1
Bungaree fought several subsequent battles with Broome,
and thereafter returned to Australia.
• * * •
The latest “ strong man ” —a local product—has
started out in M.L. Only just turned 21, Sampson Spry
(calls himself “ Samson ”) puts 2201b5. over his head with
one arm and juggles with other weights of heavy calibre
in all sorts of ways. His chest expansion is 7£in. Spry
is a good advt. for Sandow, whose muscle-making system
he adopted only two years ago, with present results’.
* * * *
A cause for a recent appearance in insolvency
did not come out at the official examination. Some time
ago, insolvent, who thought himself smart and extra
keen-edged, was advised by a friend of a wonderful pony
down at Newcastle which could do six furlongs in “record.”
Accompanied by his friend, X went to Newcastle full of
ardent dreams of hitting Ikey Mo. very hard. Ponyseen,
tried at dawn and beat the watch easily. £159 paid.
Lillie Bridge- a plunge with all the beans to be borrowed
or begged. A race in which “ the good thing” acted as
sheep-dog, taking extra care that no horse got behind
him. Only then did X find that the 6-furlong peg on the
course at Newcastle had been shifted. Old trick, new
mug.
* * * •
Lochiel-Redemption gelding Redeemed (men-
tioned herein 15/6/’l) still further and substantially served
Randwick trainer “Dick” Wootton at Warwick Farm
(03 dney*) races last Saturday by annexing the bijr thing of
the programme (lm. 2£f.) and landing a huge haul from
hard-swearing and deep-sorrowing Mo. The field wasn’t
h° s ? certainly, but the winner did enough to show
that he is coming on at a great bat and will hump big
burdens when asked without being much inconvenienced
thereby. The Watchdog went out first favorite but
wasn t in it after a mile, which would seem to indicate
that staying is not his game. Writer, however, holds a
different view, for a prad who can throw 6fur. behind and
finish as full of running as the Watchdog did at Randwick
t other day has it in him to see a distance out, and will
show it some day.
• • * •
Aged Southern rural performer, Mermaid,
sprung a huge surprise on those not in the know by abso-
running away with Warwick Farm Stakes (Satur-
dav), and finishing a “ street ” in front of everything else.
Mermaid is !»y lago from Union Maid, and had previously
gathered in several country races.
• * * •
Young Cornwell, whorode Edna in the Warwick
Handicap at Warwick Farm on Saturday, is the third
generation of the name to figure on local racecourses.
Albert Cornwell, the head of the family, a Hawkesbury
native, has been identified with horse-racing in N.S.W.
from the early' days, and anecdotes of his turn for practical
joking could be told to fill a volume. “ Cracker ” Corn-
well, his son, is scarcely less well known on N.S.W.
courses than the “ old man,” and young Albert, the
midget who rode Edna on Saturday, is “ Cracker’s ” son.
Albert the elder’s name has been prominently before the
public lately by reason of the phenomenal success of the
popular Mr. R. Richards’ horses, which he trains.
* « * «
Mo’s sleek sides fairly heaved with joy over the
result of Newcastle Cup on Saturday ; it proved an abso-
lute “ skinner ” for most, and very little less for others.
Winner (Salute) was the biggest outsider of all (IS) that
.lined up, and deservedly, for, though well-bred (by Grand
Flaneur from Salutation, by Segenhoe from imported
Welcome, by Dutch Skater), he had done nothing to war-
rant putting on more than a small “ saver.” Salute has
been in many stables and accomplished little. His last win
was the Commonwealth Handicap, at Newcastle, in Jan.,
this year. He is owned by the prominent Singleton
(N.S.W.)sport, Mr. E. Curtis, and was bred by “Bill”
Long.
* * * *
Looks as if four-year-olds are going to have a
big say in coming A.J.C. Epsom and Metrop. Of 117 in
former 42 will be that age on the day, and 31 (of 96) in
latter. One owner has put five in the Epsom, another
four, and four more three each, while 19 have two each
nominated. Two owners have four each entered for the
Metrop., and six others three each.
• * « •
“ Punt ”: Fact of so many apparently no-chance
nags entering for Melb. Cup this year has been com-
mented upon. Owners probably imagine that there’s a
possibility of their coming on “ out of sight” before the
day—which recalls that 200 to 1 was obtainable about
each of last two Cup winners soon after weights were
announced.
•* * • *
After Miller’s hunter (Tonbridge) had won a
Hunter’s Cup at Aloonee Valley, carrying 13.5, he was
rushed in all sorts of doubles for G.N.’Steeple. He was
duly entered, but punters got a shock when it was noti-
fied in the papers that Tonbridge was to be offered for sale.
• * * •
M.L. trotter Jessie Palm, sent out to cover a
mile (saddle) in 2.20 or under in a trial at Christchurch,
put up 2.18 —a saddle record for ALL.
• • * •
Among matters for M.L. Trotting Conference’s
consideration this year are suggestions that dead-heaters
be compelled to divide, and that protest-money be in-
creased. Former is a provision badly needed at S.vdney
pony meets, for heaps of mischief is frequently done in
the run-off; but why' protests should be made more
costly than at present needs explaining. For one frivo-
lous kick there are at least a dozen well-grounded ones.
* * * «
“Q-”: May not be generally known that the
notorious nag, Parthenopieus, is doing stud duty at
Elderslie (Q.), and is responsible for the existence of a
dozen or more promising youngsters from 7 to 8 months
old.
• * * *
“T.”: Haven’t seen it told that Sir T. Lipton
months ago wanted ’Ome Derby winner, Volod3'ovski,
and offered £15,000 down, with £5OOO more from con-
tingent wins, but Lady Meux declined. Said also that
Frank Gardner (Mr. Carrie Swain), who dabbled in S.vdney
turf matters years ago, had an eye on the nag and made
a move towards getting him, but Yankee millionaire
Whitney held too strong a hand.
• * * *
“ H.G.” : The introduction, in U.S., of oxygen-
inhalation to sustain invalids has produced the “oxygen
habit” in the form of a craving for artificial stimulant to
the blood. The fact suggests the possibility of oxygen
as a valuable aid to athletes. A small bag carried on the
handle-bar of a bicycle would weigh but a few oz., and
would have the effect of lettinga man finish the last mile
of a century as fresh as he began, so that the phrase,
“ dropping his bag,” would have additional signifi-
cance. The long-distance diver, after taking a dozen
deep breaths, would have his lungs so oxygenised as to
easily outlast all unscientific competitors, while the up-
to-date seconds who first carry the oxygen-bag to the
ringside and squirt the invigorating gas over their bat-
tered hero between the rounds, mav probably find a
world-beater in the ruck of an obscure novice compe-
tition.
* * * *
Latest from ’Ome re projected world’s cham-
pionship sculling match between Gaudaur and Australian
G. Towns is that the wily Oanuck offers £5O ex’s if Towns
will meet him at Rat Portage, and insists that all the
stake-money must be lodged in the Rat Portage bank,
which isn’t known outside Rat Portage. Towns emphati-
cally says London Sportsman’ shall hold the wager, and
has already left £lOO with that journal as earnest of bona-
fides, at the same time promising Jake £lOO to cover ex’s,
if he will row on the Thames.
* * * *
Annual Australian ’Varsity 8-oar race was de-
cided over the Yarra three-mile course on Saturday, and
again went to Sydney, which got half a length best in
16.43 2-5 after a hot struggle. The fixture, as such, was
inaugurated in Centennial year. Prior to that period
4-oar races were contested in ’7O and ’7l, when the crews
included Messrs. “Toby” Barton, “Dick” Teece and
Judge Fitzhardinge. Sydney has had 8 wins in 13 starts ;
Melbourne, 4 in 11, and Adelaide, 2 in 10.
* * * *
N.S.W. Bowling Association’s “Champion of
Champions ” tourne.v, for which only defined club cham-
pions are eligible, is at an interesting stage ; the two left
in to fight the final are “Jim” Hogue, ALP. (winner of
N.S.W. B.A.’s individual supremacy this season), and
“Joe ” Bradbury, present holder of the title in question.
It isn’t often form pans out so truly. Hogue accounted
for a long list of competitors in the absolute premiership
this year, and follows that up immediately* by success-
fully going through another almost similar test against
the best available. Bradbury’s showing this season en-
dorses his play of the previous year. It would be fitting
if Hogue won, as he probably will, otherwise we’ll again
have last season’s spectacle of two champions—each one
owning as good claims to the blue riband as the other.
• * * *
Atop of successes mentioned (8., 15/5/1), Aus-
tralian bowlers at ’Ome have since accounted for Chi-
chester, Southampton and Cheltenham (latter by 80
points), making five successive wins in seven matches
played. Hanigan (Manl.v, N.S.W.) has been the most
successful skipper, followed closely by Victorians Bentley,
Wood and Cudden (manager). ALL. men, in Scotland,
have gone under thrice in four matches, but they’re
meeting far better bowlers than those of England, whom
N.S.AV’s grand sachem of bowls (Mr. John Young), after
some experience, said wouldn’t want much beating.
Results seem to endorse his view, for, at best, the Aus-
tralians are but a scratch team with a big “ tail,” which
has evidently been judiciously kept away.
It is a great game with Wellington (M.L.)
cyclists to take boasting visiting wheelmen over the
Rimutaka, the mountain separating Wellington from
Wairarapa district. It is a long, weird sort of road aj>oiiC
Bft. broad, winding in and out, right over the top of the
mountain, among the clouds. Not a vestige of green, only
dry fern scrub ; no birds or rabbits. It is a long, silent
climb, with a sheer wall on one side and long clear-cut
precipices on the other. Even on a calm day on the flat
the cj r clist will occasionally feel a puff of wind, wh ch. if
he is not prepared for it, will take him off his machine.
The Wellington boys will ride down (and up where ride-
able) with ease, but the stranger can he distinguished
creeping along the wall, leading his machine.
* • * m
According to a Waikato (M.L.) paper, four
years ago it was not uncommon in that district to see
herds of from 10 to 100 deer, roaming over an extent or
about 30,000 acres. Not more than 3000 deer have been
slain since the protection was removed, and there must
now be, it is stated, at least "400,000 between Cam-
bridge, Tirau, Matamata, Richmond Downs, and Scotch-
man’s Valley, taking a circle.”
An officer lately returned with the Citizens’
Bushmen writes to The Bulletin as follows with
reference to the alleged mutilation of a Boer at
Pietersburg, as related by N.S.W. army-chap-
lain, Rev. Father Timoney :
I saw the Boer in question just after he was killed. He
had received a number of bullets in his body and one
bayonet-wound in the back. That was all, and, though
quite enough, yet it is a gross exaggeration to say that
the men, “after he had long ceased to live, used the
bayonet in a most shocking manner to disfigure
and rip-up the corpse.” The N.S.W. Bushmen, I
may state, had nothing whatever to do with this
incident, except that two of them, at the re-
quest of one of their officers, proceeded to dig
a grave, hut before this was completed an ambulance
came and removed the body, which was buried in the
public cemetery. Father Timoney, I feel certain, did not
see the body at all, as I was present up to the time it was
removed, and he was not there, lie got his information
at second-hand. The men whose officers had been killed
were furious, and it is idle to speak of humanity in such
circumstances. This Boer was hidden in the grass and
behind a white-ants’ nest, and shot his victims down at a
range of about 50yds. As Father Timoney correctly says,
having shot one officer, he shot a second who was about
to assist the first. He also killed a trooper and several
horses. Having done this, when discovered he cried for
mercy, but at least a dozen men fired on him in their
natural wrath, and one rushed him with the bayonet. It
is a gruesome subject to write about, but since it has
been made public let us have the actual facts. It was
asserted at the time that this man was a deserter from a
certain South African corps.
N.S.W. Premier John See complains to a
Star interviewer about the dashed injustice of
his critics :
Mr. See gave an assurance to a Star reporter on Satur-
day that the State finances were in a highly satisfactory
condition. “ The revenue for the financial year,” he
said, “will quite cover the expenditure. The extra-
ordinary expenditure consequent on the outbreak of the
plague, and the cost involved in sending the contingents
to South Africa and China will amount to about
£320,000. That will be provided for, and provided for
out of revenue. It was never contemplated that the
whole of the expenditure in connection with these matters
should fall upon one single year. It would he just as
reasonable to expect the British Government to charge
the whole cost of the South African war against one year
as to expect us to provide for these extraordinary expen-
ditures out of one year’s revenue. The contention is, of
course, absolutely absurd, and would not he maintained
by any fair-minded, reasonable man.
There is a difference, however. For one thing,
the N.S.W. war-hill would have to be five millions
instead of £320,000 before See’s parallel would
hold good. And Britain has paid, in one year,
more war expenses in proportion to population
than the whole N.S.W. bill that See makes
such a song about. The British Govern-
ment pays part of its war-bill out of this
year’s revenue, and provides, by special taxation,
for paying a portion every year. John See, in his
anxiety not to unjustly charge the whole bill to
this year, hasn’t provided for paying any of it.
And if it is “ absolutely absurd ” to suppose that
N.S.W. could pay £320,000 of war and plague
expenses this year, then how is N.S.W. to
pay about £350,000 or £400,000 of Old Age
Pensions next year and every succeeding year ?
If John See conducted his private potato and
shipping business on the lines which he thinks
good enough to run the public finances on, he
would now be standing in two broken boots out-
side the Treasury door asking for a soup-ticket.
“ It is your bloomin’ turn ter shout.”
“ Yes 1 have a drink with ine, old pal.”
“ Right-o 1 Now, tell us all about
The Demo.’s blessed funeral.”
“ Oh, dim and dull the room is now ;
No pool is played, no quoitses thrown ;
Gone is the pug. with classic brow
The euchre and the.drinks—all gone.
“ And in the place of them we knew
‘ Tim,’ Paddy Basto, ‘ Micko ’ Gray,
And all the brave old biffin’ crew—
There is the Y.M. —blank—O.A.
“ Oh, yes ! they scrap. I seen ’em once,
And, bli’ me, how I tore my hair.
They never ‘ went ’ for any ‘ bunce,’
But started off each mill with prayer.
“ And though a few watched ev’ry go—
(The chosen, with the worried look) —
They were not relatives of ‘ Mo ’;
They had a diff’rent kind of book ;
“ A kind which, when the * work ’ was done,
And ev’rythink was squared and calm,
They’d opened-up at ‘ ninety-one,’
And parted with a bloomin’ psalm.
“ And, Bunko, when I come to think
Of how the skin and hair and gore ”
Just here he stopped to have a drink,
And I, alas, could hear no more.
But, later, when he went to ‘ rise ’
Another tiddle.v for his pal,
I saw he mourned with two black eyes,
“ The Demo.’s bloomin’ funeral.”


c°‘
>°V»
<b>
=V'
(Stl
&
,©< 4%s*
*
<b
,\ ft '
Send for Illustrated
Souvenir Catalogue.
<x€i)<iiQe Eoglisb LgVgrs
Have always held pride of place as sound,
strong, reliable, and accurate Watches.
The “Fx&R.” Gent.’s 18ct. Open Face English Lever is £loloa.
It is made throughout in England.
It has 10 jewels, which are counter sunk.
It is a stem winder and has all the latest improvement*.
It is a three-quarter plate Lever.
It has ruby roller Jewel.
It has Brequfit Hair Spring.
It has compensated and adjusted Balance.
It is guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order without charge
for 2 years (breakages excepted).
It will stand hard riding and knocking about.
It is made in every style of Case.
FAIRFAX aijd ROBERTS,
This Watch is a marvel of
value and is sold only for
strictly NET CASH.
Viae-Regal Jewellers,
23 Hunter St.,
SYDNEY -
/
N
S 3
w
Gentlemen’s Solid ISct. ENGLISH LEVER,
Open-Face WATCH is £lO 10s.
Mauger, M.P. (Vic.), after a recent trip
through the Q. sugar-country : “ I went into the
cathedral at Townsville, and found 13 half-castes
in it and nobody else.”
Tloiv to Guard the Empire!
.. Read ..
“Sbarpsbootiog for
apd War,”
s
By W. VV. GREENER, Author of
“The Gun,” “The Breechloader,” &c.
All about Rifles and Rifle Shooting
for Beginners and for Experts, Rifle
Clubs, Ranges and Warcraft, to-
gether with the history of the Armed
Civilian in ancient and modern times
Positively the Pest Shilling’s Worth ever Published.
pF-180 PAGES, 100 ILLUSTRATIONS FOR |/- NETT.
Of all Booksellers, or C. W. BUCKLAND, Agent for
VV. W. Gksknbk, 317 Collins Bt., MELBOURNE
A POLICY FOR THE
Now Ready.
Price Gd. ;
Posted, Sd.
COMMONWEALTH
FOR the person who Is not a millionaire, there i»
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,’"
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor • - GKO. W.
The Bulletin hears that that promising Tar-
coola yield (2Joz. average from 90 tons) came from very
carefully-picked stone, and was not up to the owners’
expectations.
Golden Link (W.A.): “Development work is
practically at a standstill, owing to a heavy flow of water
at the rate of 100,000 gals, daily, but the pumps are hard
at work, and it is hoped that the flow will be considerably
diminished in a few days. The manager is a firm believer
in the value of his mine, and has every reason to believe
that his confidence is well placed.” But, in Abigail’s im-
mortal words, “ What are the fax ? ” The crowd running
this mine once owned the Golden Horseshoe as well, and
sold it, preferring to work the Golden Link, because of
its position between the Lake View and Great Boulder
mines. Over £lOO,OOO spent to date, and little or no gold
found, although a shaft has been sunk over 1000 ft., and
much prospecting done at various levels. Has ample
working capital left, and it is not reasonable to think the
authorities’ confidence will cease before the cash runs out.
Golden Links have been up to £6, and there are only
350,000! Present price 215., and of course they are not
worth it under the circs.
• * * *
Central and West Boulder: “Preparations
being made to sink the present shaft from 400 ft. to 1000
ft.” In print 600 ft. of sinking is nothing, but it takes
considerably more than a year to perform. A small lease
surrounded by the Lake View and Associated mines, cer-
tainly one of the best position-blocks of the field. It had
one good lense of ore in the oxidised zone, which was
worked by open-cut. Up to date it has found nothing in
the sulphide zone, and the mine is now gouged by
tributors, whose last crushing of 155 tons gave 178 oz.
Shares have been up to £3 10s. and down to 3s. 6d. The
mine will probably be abandoned, or acquired by one of
the surrounding mines before the shaft is sunk 1000 ft. It
is onl3’ another proof that on this line of the Hannan’s
wonderful gold belt the gold occurs in pipes or funnels
of ore—good enough if they were not so far apart.
•** , •
Associated : This after much useless detail—
“ Taking it all round the Associated is now looking well
both above and below ground, and with the new plant in
running order, a series of good monthly yields should
shortly be initiated.” The public has been hearing this
story for a long time, meanwhile the mine has been work-
ing at a big loss. Shares a few weeks ago were over 605.,
and are now 505., a depreciation of over a quarter of
a million. Present price represents a valuation of
£1,250,000—a very fair thing for a mine the sulphides of
which have averaged under an ounce, which has been
working at a tremendous loss for over a year, and has
only a slight hope of ever working at a profit.
* * « •
Great Boulder : Last month’s production
12,1580 z., made up by the battery crushing oxidised ore,
the cyanide plant working on the old tailings-heap, and
5110 tons of sulphides milled for 84510 z. Working costs
were given at last meeting of shareholders in London
seven weeks ago. Mine expenses 21s. 3d. per ton. This
seems very heavy and, no doubt, will be considerably re-
duced when the development work is lessened, more
money having been spent in this direction than on any other
mine on the field. Battery, 11s. per ton. This shows the
dearness of fuel, labor, etc. Running 30 head of stamps
on soft oxidised ore, and yet costing 11s. per ton to crush.
Sulphide mill, 255. lOd. per ton. This includes rock-
breaking, dry crushing, furnace roas’ing, grinding
and amalgamating, and filter-pressing, and it is
doubtful if it will ever be materially reduced.
Tailings, 9s. 2d.—refers, no doubt, to the cyaniding
of the old tailings dump. General charges, 7s. 10d.
Writer does not know what this means, unless it is
directors’ fees, and management in London and elsewhere.
Total cost of treating oxidised ore, 40/1; ditto sulphide
ore, 54/11- There is no mine on the field more economi-
cally-worked than the Great Boulder, and its lodes are
above the average in size arid value. To expect any
material reduction in these costs would mean a complete
change of system, of which concentrating in lieu of
roasting would be the distinguishing difference. How
unreasonable it is, therefore, to hope to have cheap
mining and milling in a place where the most economi-
cally-worked mine, with a production of upwards of
10,000 tons a month, cannot be worked under an average
of about 50s. per ton, or 12piwts. of fine gold. Sulphide
mines out there cannot make ounce ore pay expenses
unless they are worked in a big way.
'•» • •
Cosmopolitan, W.A. : 1358 tons milled for
1088 oz.; 1980 tons tailings cyanided for 6290 z. Total pro-
duction for last month 17170 z. This is 500 to 600 oz. more
than the average of the last 18 months, and no doubt this
will be increased to over 2000 oz. a month when the equip-
ment is complete. Theco. paid one div. of 6d. last year, and
it is about time shareholders asked what has become of
all the money. Understood that new shares were issued
for the requisite new machinery. It is controlled by two
London mining firms, but it looks as if Bewick Moreing
and Co. occupy the position of “ top dog.” Shares 275.,
an advance of 4s. in a few weeks, and likely to be over
30s. within the next few months. About the only good
Westralian mine working in granite.
* « * *
Bank of England, W.A. : “ Announces a grati-
fying development which should pul a good deal of heart
into the owners of other properties on the eastern fringe
of the belt.” The report proceeds to show that a rich
chute has been struck in the winze below the 200 ft. level,
2ft. of which assayed Boz. 17dwts. per ton. “ The stone
is exceedingly nice-looking sulphide, carrying quartz
bands. Free gold in splashes of telluride is very much in
evidence.” Well, it is about time that some mine on the
eastern side of the belt struck something. Up to date
the eastern mines have been more or less tantalising
duffers. The best of them, the North Boulder, had a
runof good oxidised ore,and paid several divs.,since which
time more than the money thus distributed has been
spent in fruitless prospecting. The western “ fringe of
the belt ” occupied by the Horseshoe and Ivanhoe seems
to be the bast; undoubtedly the eastern fringe is the
worst.
• * • •
Hannan’s Oroya : The hope of this mine is now
centred in trying to locate the chute of ore worked in the
Northern Associated. Reported that the lode in the
south block continues payable, and that in driving north
and south at the 500 ft. level in some places the ore-body
attained a maximum width of 25ft., worth over an oz. to
the ton. That is the yarn, anyhow ; there is no sulphide
plant to disprove it, and there are no dividends in that
kind of rock if it were. This mine ran several Hunting-
don mills for a long time on oxidised ore ; only closed
them down when the average was under sdwts., and, as a
rule, when the oxides are so low as that it is a poor look-
out for the sulphides. However, it is in a good position
to pick up the Northern Associated run of gold at a con-
siderable depth. With that prospect in view shares have
been 255. and 20s. Reconstruction in some form or other,
is inevitable should the mine develop any payable sul-
?>hide ore. Should it not locate the N.A. chute, peaceful
iquidation is recommended.
s » • •
Lake View Consols: 9020 tons, for 13,6020 z.
There should be a big profit in this. It was the custom
up to some months ago to give the working costs, but for
some reason or other (and it cannot be a good one) that
has ceased. Sooner or later it will be acknowledged that
the ljoz. per ton of this and other mines of the field can
only be maintained as long as the wonderfully rich
chutes last; that as soon as they are exhausted (if
others are not found) and the mines have to depend on the
average of the permanent ore bodies, the average will
come down to about an ounce per ton, making a wonder-
ful difference in profits and divs. Some six weeks ago
the Lake View struck a continuation of a rich chute
within a few feet of the Perseverance boundary, and this
is serving to keep up the average. The Perseverance,
hard up for a bonanza to bring up the average, is making
a B-line for it. Rumored some months ago that the
bonanzas in the Lake View were good enough to ship.
They are probably used to keep the average up to l£oz.
* * • *
Great Fingal Consolidated (W.A.): 3740 tons
milled for 50050 z., 2160 tons of tailings cyanided for 10390 z.
balance from concentrates; total production, 65280 z.
If writer took any pride in himself as a mining tipster
(“ which he don’t ”) he would refer to the fact that a few
weeks ago, when these shares were about £7, he remarked
that they would probably see £lO within a few months.
Last week they were up to £9 10s. This tipping offence
must not occur again, as it is interfering with another
person’s business, and is a poor game, anyhow.
* • * *
Hannan’s Brownhill: 3165 tons sulphides milled
for 43850 z., and 3538 tons tailings re-treated for 7200 z.
If this could be kept up it would be a big mine, but it is
well known that it cannot, and it is about time the man-
agement admitted the truth. Probably a few more good
returns, and possibly a few more divs., and the mine
will be a back number.
• • * *
Sons of Gwalia, W.A.: 10,430 tons milled for
4,0390z5. Tailings and concentrates brought the month’s
production up to 5,6360z5. This has been going on for a
long time without a div., indicating that it either takes
an enormous amount of money, to run the mine or it has
a large accumulation of money that should be distributed
amongst the shareholders. Now, which is it? There is
not much money in running a Joz. mine in a country
where wages are high aud water and timber are scarce.
• * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
• * * *
Golden Horseshoe : Another month’s produc-
tion of 15,487ozs.—made up of 6071 tens crushed for
46170z5. ; 3182 tons tailings, 1860ozs. ; 4284 tons slimes,
2010ozs.; 2162 tons sulphides, 63400z5.; concentrates,
608ozs (these figures don’t quite add). A magnificent
return and the mine said to be developing remarkably
well in the lower levels. It will need it all to keep up
such a production.
* * * •
Perseverance : Last month’s production, over
10,0000z5., is the largest ever recorded from the mine,
and additions are being made to the machinery to further
increase it. In the face of it shares fell 10s. within a
week. If this mine is making anything like the profit of
the others surrounding it, it should by now have nearly
cleared off the enormous debt it had when the sulphide
plant started, and if, as certain newspapers have de-
clared, the mine never had an incubus of debt, then it is
about time the Perseverance started paying divs. The
manager has gone to London to explain things. It badly
wants a bonanza ; also, a place to dump its tailings.
• * * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buciiu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
“ Frances Ross, the badgered good girl of Bland
Holt’s new play, ‘ln London Town,’ which is
quite the usual kind of Blandoltian thing, has to
begin with artless curls hanging down her back,
virginal pale-green frock not long enough to hide
buckle-shoes, childish muslin collar, and white
rustic hat. Miss Ross’s figure looks youthful
enough even for this salad-dressing, but her fa.ee
isn’t quite in the picture with that babyish
coiffure. As troubles thicken, the harried country-
mouse lengthens her skirt, and dresses in dingy
drab to match her feelings. The sole spectacular
remnant of happier days is her 18in. waist. Mil-
lionaire Walter Baker, not having seen Frances
‘ere sorrow her young brow shaded,’ spied her
swooning in the street one day, and diagnosing
her complaint erroneously from her genteel belt-
measurement, comments sympathetically that he
himself has known the ‘ hunger-pain.’
“ Harrie Ireland, as a young person with a
past, looks quite a beauty in battered grey.
When she foists herself on millionaire Baker as
his long-lost daughter, she is promoted to dia-
monds and white brocade, the bodice cutueri/low,
the sleeves tight to the elbow, thence flying; out
in stole-ends. In high-life Harrie is over-addicted
to lounging. Of course she represents a free-and-
easy female, but common, garden awkwardness,
even though true to life, is seldom welcome on the
stage. By the way, ‘ the pleece,’ as Baker and
some of his colleagues call them, are much in evi-
dence ‘ In London Town.’
“Less hackneyed than most shows was that
Ragged Boys’ Entertainment in Melb. Town
Hall, Tuesday, June 11. Mabel Mattingley, with
other well-known performers, provided attractive
music, but the mission youngsters, some of whom
were strikingly pretty, were the plums of the
pudding. In the hall, near me, were a 10-year-
old girl and two younger brothers amicably
sharing in common their presentation sweets. All
three had dark eyes, curved red mouths, tight
yellow curls, and smooth skins, so they made a
charming group, though Sis flaunted faded finery
and the boys were got up like stage-burglars in
plaid neck-shawls, &c. This knowing trio took a
most embarrassing interest in the touzled auburn
hair and warmly-tinted cheeks of a lady-musician
who sat near, writhing under their scrutiny.
“ While grown-ups played and sang, rapturous
excitement prevailed amongst small-boy gym-
nasts awaiting their turn. The management pro-
vided tidy white sweaters, which were worn over
the athlete’s ordinary clothes, so that the regi-
ment looked like a corps of stout sausages. The
baby of the batch, an extra-chubby three-year-old,
suggested a pocket edition of Big John Forrest.
The audience cheered and clapped whenever poor
little Poddy started to swing his clubs. Fatty,
evidently inured to the ‘rude World’s jeer and
joke,’ bore up for a time, but at last his tears got
the better of him and his knuckles went to his
eyes. The instructor cheered him up, as man to
man, and by the end of the ‘ turn ’ the gritty
little mourner was swinging his clubs with the
rest. Some of the ‘ turns ’ were ruined by people
flinging coppers on to the stage, thus demoralis-
ing the performers. When honorary workers toil
and slave to coax waifs into paths of discipline
and decorum it’s inconsiderate of outsiders to
breaks the bounds by, virtually, calling for pen-
n’orths of horse play.
“ Gerardy’s farewell matinee (Sat., June 15) was
attended by a chilly, shivering audience. Why
doesn’t some philanthropist end the martyrdom
of musical Melbourne by building a snug concert-
hall? At the matinee, the women round about
were audibly praising the ’cellist’s ‘ beautiful
stroftg face.’ True enough with regard to the
young Belgian’s upper countenance, but there’s
an ill-tempered pout lower down. One wouldn’t
care to offend that mouth by an overdone roast or
an underdone pudding. Miss Kingston, in an
effective blue-and-white frock, sang a dainty little
chansonette.
“The engagement of Miss Florrie Roberts,
Melbourne’s most photo’d charmer, has just been
clinched. The happy man—Mr. Archibald Burt
—hails from the West, is middle-aged, and boasts
an income and a family-tree. Miss Roberts is a
dark, laughing, southern beauty, with luminous
black eyes and a rich complexion. Her father —
the late Mr. Roberts, M.L.C.—was at one time
member for Williamstown, and the wealthiest
man in the place. One or two Melbourne men
are considerably upset by the engagement.
“ People are congratulating ‘ little Langford ’ —
so one hears—on his recent discomfiture of a six-
foot citizen, who, like himself, is in the mining
way, but is not so big, financially speaking. Mr.
Langford, executor for Mrs. Crotty, and bride-
groom of ‘ Miss ’ Clara Merivale’s daughter, is
never seen upon’Change except in a tall hat and
a long frock coat ; so when the six-footer called
him ‘nothing but a little —term of contempt,’ his
dignity wouldn’t stand it. He challenged his in-
suiter to say it again, whereupon Goliath repeated
the offence. The dapper capitalist having replied
with acts of violence, the tall gentleman sped like
the wind from the Collins-street pavement,
followed by Mr. L., and shouts of ap-
plause from the brokers. The retreating
figure is even said to have been assaulted
rearwards by his vanquisher’s immaculate patent-
leather boot. If stockbrokers are fair samples of
the oaks that girls are expected to cling to for
support, it looks as though the Duchess of York
would probably fare better in time of peril if the
small Jook were present—than the wife of her
father-in-law’s burliest subject.
“The consort of ex-Premier Forrest, who is
credited with brains and much tact, is a regular
visitor to the galleries of the House of Reps. She
sails over from dinner at the Grand and takes a
prominent seat, occasionally letting a bare arm
(dinner-dress being donned) protrude from a
dressy cape. Very closely the wife of Roly
Poly follows the debate, while Roly Poly himself
describes a semi-circle with his arm around the
sly Kingston and whispers, with great gusto, the
good things that cause the Minister of Customs to
laugh somewhat in his beard. But that is King-
ston’s way—he smiles and smiles, and what he
thinketh is unknown of men.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
The Belated Heroes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By the s.s. Morayshire 11 officers and 277 men
for N.S.W. and 10 officers an 1 164 men for Queens-
land arrived in Sydney. In a splendid dying
spasm of Jingoism, S.M. Herald sent a reporter
to meet them. And the first question asked them
by that practical scribe was: “Is there any enteric
fever aboard ?”
First at the feast and last at the fray,
Was a saying fine in the Viking day.
Now it is changed by the changed Zeit-Geist,
Last from the fray is last at the feast.
Where are the banners that flew so free ?
Where is the scarlet trumpery ?
Why does it lie inert and dumb,
The thundering, thumping, loyal drum?
Where are the girls with their eyes aglow?
Where are the kisses they used to throw ?
Where are the glory and gallant cheer?
Gone with the drinks of yester-year !
Heroes who first from the war came here—
They took the froth from the Loyal Beer.
Took it and drank it, in casks and kegs—
Those who come after must drink the dregs.
They had the kisses, fresh and new ;
Khaki then was the colour true.
Khaki was worn in hats and boots,
Khaki was worn in summer suits.
Over the land spread the craze like a flood,
And girls wore clothes of the colour of mud.
Banquets were spread for those fortunate
First-back Heroes. In ev’ry State
You could hear the plop of the quick-drawn cork
From Leuwin to Howe, from Howe to York.
Mayors, as fat as a Berkshire hog,
Stood by the table that groaned with grog:
Stood and said, “ Gentlemen, take your drinks—
We toast the health of Corporal Jinks.
“ Corporal Jinks, I may say, has been
Given the Order of the Canteen.
“ Corporal Jinks, of Quangbeyan,
Never was found a lazy man.
“ Corporal Jinks, when the bugle sent
Summons quick to his regiment,
“ Rose like a lion with work to do,
And simply went out and slew, and slew t
“ What are we toasting him, gentlemen, for?
What has he brought us back from the war ?
“ Look at the noble scar on his nose 1
Look at . . . the rest are under his clothes.
“ Civilisation, with fire and sword,
He’s helped to teach to the Boer horde.
“ Here, for a sign, he has brought us some
Of the guts of a Boer’s harmonium.
“ Corporal Jinks is the only man
Who saved the Empire —and Quangbeyan.
“ Corporal Jinks, if my health keeps sound,
Will caretaker be of Quangbeyan Pound."
Who then so fine as Corporal Jinks !
Plenty of kisses, and lashins of drinks :
Never was seen so proud a man
Walking the streets of Quangbeyan.
And O the stories he had to tell
In the Quangbeyan chief Hotel.
“ Chargin’ down on the Kop we came :
Rifles in front spittin’ death and flame.
“ Twelve Boers I sees in front of me—
A Commandant and his Company.
“ ' Billy ’ —l calls my horse by his name—
‘ Billy,’ why, this is our blanky game !
“ Straight we goes for the bloomin’ lot—
My word, I tell you, we were red-hot.
“ * Surrender! ’ saj-s they, with their blanky cant—
But I cut down their blanky Commandant.
“And ev’ry other man living there
I made him a blanky prisoner.
“ I tell you, boys, and this is no jest,
If we Australians—me and the rest—
“ Had not been back to Australia sent
We’d have eaten the African continent.”
“ Right," says the Landlord ; “ Liz—more drinks !
Quangbeyan’s Hero—Corporal Jinks."
That was the way in months of yore,
Lashins of liquor, and girls galore.
Now for these heroes, returned in June,
There is no Bacchic Honeymoon.
Kisses and liquor and love are done—
Kisses and liquor and love and fun.
Lips are straight and taps are dry ;
Kisses and beer are both to buy.
When the Morayshire steamed in free—
What said the Herald ? Ay de mi l
Her.au> that led the Loyal Horde,
Herald that yelled for gun and sword—
“ Have you enteric fever on board ?”
Peace, noble warriors, you may be
Remembered in a year, or three
By Premier—if he lasts—John See.
C REEVE ROE.


THOMSON’S
NEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING ”
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
Tln-.se World- Henowned Corsets have been entirely He-
in oil ell ed, and are now. the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long waist.
18t
v
m
Thom
ons
THE MOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST
N.B. —Old Model Corsets always in stock.
99
“LA KTOBLESSE
A New and Elegant Series of Corsets. Ask to see them-
TO BE HAD OP ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & 00-> Ld-, London-
Publications.
THE BALLET GIRL
sef
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza, -
913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROYAL yiSIT.
"NJEW GRAND- MARCH, commemorating the visit of
the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York to
open the First Parliament of United Australia, with
three portraits. Also, KING EDWARD the VII. MARCH
and QUEEN ALEXANDRA WALTZ, with superb full-
length colored portraits of their Majesties.
Of all Music Dealers.
W. PAXTON & CO., London & Melbourne.
Catalogues Free.
English. French. German.
CURIOUS.
NIKS
and the best ORIGINAL
PHOTOS from the world.
is. for Catalogue.
APPY & CO., 65 Rue Pigalle, Paris.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
mm.
4
'TmTfiwi
pHEAP SETS.—4O Japan, Is 6d ;
47 Spain, 2s ; 4 Tientsin, 3d ;
16 Heligoland, Is; 8 Egypt, 6d;
30 French, 9d ; 7 Iceland, 9d ; 9
Labuan Pictorial, 2s 6d; 11 Canada,
6d; 9 Canada Duty, 6d ; s'Bolivia, 4d.
Packets 50, Is ; 100,256 d. Stamps
Purchased. New Catalogue of
Stamps, Albums, etc., Gratis.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins-st., Melbourne.
TRICOKOGy
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, By Dr.
ALFRED NEALE. Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
AND TIIEIR TREATMENT.
Posted Is. Id;
Publishers : Turner and, Henjlerson, SYDNEY.
iIAMOND SONG BOOX,
1 600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC, f
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where, Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other Fast Selling Bodks. Mention this paper when writing
Public Notices.
THURSDAY, 27th JUNE, 1901.
COLDSBROUCH, MORT AND COMPANY
LIMITED AMD REDUCED
Have been favored with instructions to oiler for Sale bv
Auction at
Meuzies 9 Hotel, Melbourne,
on THURSDAY, 27th JUNE, at THREE O'CLOCK
fIIJBURn STilTIOI) * STOCK,
Comprising about
633 square miles Leasehold (7 years to run)
724 ~ .< under Grazing Right
1,357
Situate in the Burnett District of Queensland, about 70
ahmfr /a'-nn Ch"^ 1 ” 11 l, Ra,lwa y Station, together with
about 19, 00 Mixed Cattle, consisting of (about)
4,100 males, 1 year to 4 years
11,450 females, 1 year to aged
242 bulls
583 speyed cows
2,625 calves and weaners
19,000
and 350 horses.
The Station consists for the most part of table-
land with iron bark ridges, the flats carrying a
thick coat of grass.
An ample water supply is obtained from the
Auburn iviiver, Johnstone, Fishey, O&rdcirgo, and
other permanent creeks which intersect the pro-
perty, and from 5 dams and 1 well.
Improvements include about 400 miles of 3 4
and 5 wire-fencing, making 22 paddocks. There
are also 5 sets of drafting yards and 4 tailing
vards conveniently situated. About 10,000 acres
have been rung, and about 20 acres are under
crop. In addition to the homestead, which con-
tains 9 rooms, and has all usual conveniences
there are four out-stations.
Great care has been taken in the purchase of
stud stock, and every effort made to maintain a
high standard, and the Auburn cattle are well-
known for their fattening qualities.
C 1 uded in the females above-mentioned are
329 studs from which very useful herd bulls are
bred.
Also, immediately after the above,
THE TELLERAGA STATION,
Com prising about
18,928£ acres Freehold Land
3,7681 „ Conditionally purchased land
1,636 J ~ ~ leased ~
5,325 ~ held under Occupation License
12,452 „ „ ~ Pref. ~
42,1101 acres
Situate in the Eastern Division of New South Wales
about 32 miles from Moree Railway Station.
The property consists of black and chocolate
soil plains, with open coolibah forests. About
9500 acres have been rung, and the country now
carries a heavy sward of blue, barley and other
grasses, and the best fattening herbage. The
Meehi River, which runs through the property,
2 tanks, and i well, afford an unfailing supply of
water.
For fattening purposes the property is unsur-
passed in the district, and having direct railway
communication with Sydney, Newcastle, and
other centres of population, it is within easy reach
of good markets.
Improvements include about 90 miles of six-wire
fencing. There are 10 paddocks and 1 dropper
sheep yard. There is a good homestead, wool-
shed fitted with 22 shearing machines, and all
necessary out-buildings.
Further particulars and conditions of sale may
be obtained from
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & 00-
Limited and It educed
MELBOURNE AND SYDNEY!
Maoriland and Other Verses
By ARTHUR ADAMS. 68.
STEAM
ENGINES
FROM 5 HP, TO 100 H P
DYNAMOS
MOTORS
FROM 1 H.P. TO 60 HP.
CAN BE SUPPLIED PROMPTLY
FROM STOCK.
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; 17 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
NEWMAN’S
ANTISEPTIC
NEWMAN’S
in Kingr St.
THROAT PASTILLES.
1/- a *; ox
Now
Ready.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH
Pr ioe 6tX; Fosted Scl.
iLllenbiirgsFoods.
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique In providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of VOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “ Allenburys ” Milk Food no. i
Specially adapted to the firet three months of life.
The “ Allenburys ” Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of Ilia.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
The “ Allenburys” Malted Food No. z
For Infants over . ix months of age.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that— “No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application tc the Wholesale Depot, 484, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
DAF*TO
(LTMTTISK),
(Lalte Illawarra), near SYDWBY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OP
FINE SILVER.
MWmM
'■/ !
MAKERS OP
S. Co- of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILLAVARRA”
.. BRAND OF- .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Mouse, Manager,. The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.


Business Announcements.
OGr NfW Catalogue
Posted to anv Address in the
Commonwealth . . .
FREE!
AN APPLICATION ON A PENNY POST
CARD WILL DO.
KINDLY WRITE FOR ONE.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADERS OF FASHIONS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
(w e Ditv Postage on all Parcels of Drapery
Mras
Under Royal
Patronage.
KOKO for the Hair *s a tonic, cleansing, invigorat-
ing and delightfully cooling preparation, causes the
hair to grow luxuriantly, keeps it soft and pliant,
eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling and
turning grey, promotes growth, contains no dye or
greasy substance, is the most cleanly of all hair
preparations, and is perfectly harmless. The unioue
testimonials received prove it to be undoubtedly
the best dressing for the hair. 1/-, 2/6, and 4/6, of
all Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Australian Depot: Koko-Maricopas Co., Ld.,
14, Castlereag'h Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
se
CAUTION.
See that this registered Trade
Mark is on ever}’ bottle.
fs
Dear B.— After the last six months read-
ing the two biggest cosmic problems seem to be :
(1) What is bigotry ? (2) Whatever bigotry is,
how is it that the church opposite got the com-
plaint in such a virulent form ?
Among the great steamship companies of
the world the (German) Hamburg-American line
is now the largest, with its fleet of 541,083 tons,
and the (German) Norddeutscher Lloyd comes
second with 454,930 tons. The Norddeutscher
Lloyd has also the biggest fleet in course of con-
struction (94,380 tons). It is evidently no idle
boast the Germans make when they promise to
fight Britain for supremacy on the sea.
The mansion of one-time great Westralian
mining boomster, Whitaker Wright, in Park
Lane London, is for sale, and it was rumored
that ’Kaufmann intended to buy it. Baron
Grant, Colonel North, Barney Barnato, and
others, mostly mining-boomsters, built mansions
in Park Laiie, only to see other people live in
them, and their fate seems to have fallen on
W right.
In Governor Falloff Brassey’s time an
endeavor was made to get up an Australian book
of Snobs— a list.of persons imagining themselves
to be something above the ordinary. It was
laughed down completely. A Code of Cads or
Book of Bounders was so ridiculously out of har-
mony with Australian life that it subsided m a
yell of ridicule. But lo ! it bobs up again. Writer
has a circular inviting participation. It is a gem
in its way. The previous sudden dropping of the
blue-mouldy hot potato is thus explained :
This intended publication, “The Australasian Society
Blue Book,” initiated during Lord B-issey’s office as
Governor of Victoria, was postponed owing to the
expected alterations in connection with the Common-
wealth of Australia.
There is a tempting bit at the end of the circular:
As the interest attached to armorial insignia is being
revived, the proprietors of “ The Australasian Society
Blue Book’’intend to promote this knowledge through-
out the Australian States, thereby assisting a tribute to
the memory of ancestors, as well as considerably increas-
ing the interest in genealogical researches.
Reproduction will be afforded .to valuable family
memorial ivy means of heraldic illumination.
Thereby assisting a tribute to the memory of
ancestors” is bad policy and worse grammar.
A book for forgetting ancestors at any is
mucli more urgently wanted in Australia. Ihe
promoters of ttiis remarkable human stud-book
announce that it is to be published “ by permission
from ” Gov.-Gen. Hopetoun. As Hopetoun can t
legally prevent the publication, and isn t big
enough to fight the publisher, he can’t avoid
giving his permission—his tacit permission, any-
how. “The Australasian Society Blue Book”
will also come out by permission from Pompey,
the Lam i of Thibet, Budda, Mahomet, and The
Bulletin’s hick door cat.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse 11 err R assmussen’s advt. on page
23 oi tins issue *
BALDNESS.
PAPILLA
(Registered.) H3l r“T OH! C«
Tv Captain of the New South Wales Cricket Team writes 5 1/01. Your ‘ Capilla ’is indeed a wonderful
Remedy -it does all you claim for it. Can recommend it to anyone troubled with weak,
Where /sr it is possible, CAPILLA will produce hair. None need decpiir of obtaining a good head of hair.
W. RICHARDS, 168 Pitt-st., Sydney.
2/6 per bottle, post 3/2 ; 4 bottles, which will effect a cure in the most obstinate cases, posted fieejor 10/-,
CONJURING
APPARATUS
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST
Of TRICKS, PUZZLES, Etc.,
Etc., FREE.
ef
Eare Books
French Novels
Books the Harriet 1
EXTRA SPECIAL ca taloc v
OF HOOKS FREE.
STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTES OF ANY COLONY TAKEN.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE,
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ENOS
HEALTH GIVING,
COOLING,
‘FRUIT
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
SALT.’
MOIR’S
SEVILLE ORANGE
MARMALADE
In 1 lb. Round Flat Tins.
Manufacturers :
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
g FREEMAN
ELECTRO-MEDICAL & SURGICAL IHSTITUTE.
The Two Eminent Specialists
who have the Largest Practice
in Australasia.
w
And the Only Specialists mAuitrali
Received Highly Commendable Pies*. AoUcee
in Leading Australian Journals.
Specialties = Nervous and Chronic Complaints, Blood and Skin Diseases,
Heart, Kidney, Liver, Bladder, Rheumatism, Sciatica, &c., ac.
Mi __ nin , nmas and certificates of Qualification and Registration by the Govern-
New South »*., Victoria, south Australia, Oro.t
Britain and America, open to inspection at the Consulting Rooms
by our Physician-in-Chier.
Pis an acknowledged fact the world-wide over that no
single individual or combination of men can be ab-
solute masters of every phase and branch of art science,
medicine, or other professed avocation of a limitless
sphere of operation and magnitude. At best the greatest
scientists of the day—men like Lord Kelvin and kd.son,
mm
V ♦ -
! I (in. truly . . .
110 tVA RI) JR ERMA N,
Sydney’s Leading Specialist.
Professor of Electricity as applied Medically, Member
Dr. Harmon’s College, Washington Cor., Cal., U.S.A.
Director and Founder of the Institute.
for instance, whose fame is universally known-class
themselves as infants in scientific invention and research
and modestly tell us that they have but a smattering of
knowledge of the possibilities, extent, and development
We have only to look at the tine buildings that occupi
the corner of Elizabeth and Bathurst streets to gain some
idea of the extent and importance of their profession d
work But to have the privilege of being shown through
the building by the Specialists themselves; and to see amt
learn something of the real character of their wide prac-
tice, is a treat that only conies the way of a fortunate in-
dividual like the writer. .
The instrument-room was, as usual, one of particular
curiosity. Laymen always have a penchant for eyeing
and examining the polished steel articles with which so
many extraordinary acts are performed upon the human
body. The collection in this room is in every way up to-
date. Whenever a new instrument conies to the front,
and its worth is proved beyond question, it is added to
this rare assortment. Another room full of absorbing in-
terest is that devoted to the galvanic batteries, of winch
there are several magnificent kinds. The noted Lame
batteries, the finest French makes, are here in perfection,
irrespective of their high cost. If any article or mechani-
cal and electric contrivance is found necessary m main-
taining the fame of this institution, the price is never
allowed to stand in the way.
The correspondence department is a veritable ei e-
opener. Its sacredness is a bar to a stranger’s admission,
but a full view of the work going on is had through the
glass doors. Half a-dozen typists are seen driving their
machine-writers at electric speed. To the principals only-
are known the names of the persons throughout Australia
who are being treated as skilfully in their homes about
the metropolis and away in the interior as if they were
present in personal consultation at the institution.
The pa '•im>-rooms are likewise shut off from curious
and pryiri, dances, and the work of one department is a
mystery to he others. No better system for holding
secret the nature of sufferers’ troubles, for safe-guarding
their interests, and giving due heed to the feelings and
sensitiveness of patients, could be imagined. Packages
are not plastered with advertising labels, they are put up
in such a way that only the names and addresses are m
' 1 What a practice is here revealed and what a consola-
tion must it he to these eminent specialists to know that
thev are permanently curing and restoring to lit a th and
happiness thousands of people whose lives were a burden
to them. The young, the middle-aged, and the healthy
are treated with the same amount of success. Ihe pro-
digious nature of the work .accomplished by these
specialists necessitates —not the stereotyped morning and
evening two hours’ consultation ticket, but their constant
attention at the institution .from early morning till late
into the night. “ I can assure you, said Dr. Wallace.
“ we don't put in these long hours because we are fonder
'HEFb
HEALTH
th£
electro
STRENGTH
icM
s i
MEDICAL
mF.d
cm?
EUI
pfJLLACfc:
II
SUBCICAL INSTITU^I^S?
AND
3tti 'ck
m
nmm
mm
L m
M
m asm
Premises : Oor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts. (Opp Hyde Park, Sydney
(All Trams Stop at the Door).
of electricity, and only a fringe of imagination of the un-
told stores'of strength and wealth wrapt up in this
phenomenal power. .
Therefore it requires no argument to convince the
most pronounced of optimists that the field in any one of
the great and honored professions of the day is far too
vast for the thorough comprehension of the most per-
fectly brain-endowed man, or body of naturally-gifted
men. Yet in respect of the most delicate and difficult of
all professions—that of prescribing for the ills and
diseases of mankind—we find doctors, scattered over the
globe, off-handedly and without careful, minute, and
searching examination and diagnosis—without any know-
ledge of the past lives of patients—flippantly dashing off
prescriptions for every class of complaint, as if a cure was
as simple as falling over the proverbial log.
Thanks to the march of civilisation, culture, and edu-
cation, people are getting to know that modern medical
men who are worth consulting confine their practice to a
certain class of cases. Realising the utter hopelessness of
mastering and curing everything under the sun, and find-
ing that “ gullibles ” are not so plentiful as they used to
be. the wise and progressive men of medicine devote
themselves to one or other class of cases, and work out
the remedies for them to the best of their skill and
bility.
What better and more striking illustration of the suc-
cess of Specialists in Skin Diseases, Heart, Kidney, Liver
Affections, Rheumatics, Sciatica, Nervous Diseases, could
the people of this magnificent continent, Australia, have
than the enormous practice of the famous practitioners of
the Electro-Medical Institute. Their skill, attainments,
position, and renowned reputation stamp them as the un-
doubted masters of the classes of diseases and complaints
which have been the study of their professional lives.
When we speak of electricity we think of Edison. Why ?
Because he dwarfs other men in this branch of science.
In the same way, when we talk of specialists, w'e at once
associate the names of the Freeman and Wallace Insti-
tute. So it is in every branch of scientific medicine;
some one or two men stand head and shoulders above
their fellows.
It is the aim, object, and devotion of certain doctors to
be pre-eminent in some defined class of disease rather
than to tinker with a host of Complaints about which
they can have but a hazy notion, and superficial know-
ledge. To use a hackneyed but expressive phrase, they
are “ Jacks of all trades and masters of none.” Never
since the time of Ricord, the noted French Specialist,
have any men conducted so gigantic and successful a
practice as that conducted i the Freeman-Wallace
Electro Medical and Surgical Inautute.
of hard work than any other medical men ; we do it in
the best interests of sufferers. We don’t keep them
waiting longer than we can help, and we suffer many in-
conveniences for our patients’ sakes.”
Noble sentiments, thought the writer, as the time came
for his departure, and the Specialists returning to the'
■' •
-
Yours truly ...
RICH ART) WALLACE,
Physieian-in-Chief,
M.D., L.Ii.C.P., L.F.P.S., L.M.,
Late Medical Staff, British Army; late Consultin')
Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne.
consulting-room. How many doctors in our midst can
we bracket in this category? Dinners and drives and
conversaziones are more frequently uppermost in the
mind of top-loftical medicos than the speedy treatment
of sad and suffering patients.


* The stone-throwing mystery ” at Camp-
belltown, N.S.W., is still unsolved. Try as they
may, they cannot yet find the girl.
The simplest way out of the Sydney Daily
Telegraph’s dilemma is for J. Randal Carey and
Co. to resign their billets. There would be no
compliment then on either side. This is a friendly
suggestion.
N.S.W. Labor-party throws down Wise’s
Arbitration and Conciliation Bill as a gage of
battle. If the Council rejects the bill, the
Laborites, declares Arthur Griffith, M.L. A., will
force an appeal to the country. “We are going,”
he says, “to sell our votes for compulsory arbitra-
tion.”
Smart’s 1120, in the bye-election for
Groom’s seat, was the best Labor vote yet given
by Toowoomba. Tolmie, the Ministerialist, who
beat him by 81, is a local school-teacher turned
newspaper-man ; Smart a local plumber. Both
are well liked ; but it is a pity, in the present
state of Q. politics, that the vote should have gone
in favor of the Govt. hack.
The See Government is trying to carry out
a well-known trick of G. H. Reid—charging back
delinquencies to a predecessor. It is sought to
fasten the Sydney D.T. appointments on to Lyne
and to repudiate the responsibility of See, Wise
and Ca Lyne violently objects to this and in an
interview praises up all the appointments as the
best ever made, refers to others which were pro-
posed but didn’t come off, and definitely fixes the
responsibility on See and Wise in shares with him-
self. Verily Lyne has enough to carry without
being the solitary scapegoat of the whole trans-
action.
Two important witnesses for the defence
in the case of Frederick Locke, aboriginal half-
caste—now under sentence of death at Sydney
for rape—have made statutory declarations that
they were told by the police that they were not
required to attend on the day the trial came off.
Thus when called for the defence they were
absent. Under the circumstances the convict
ought not to be hanged. The evidence of these men
might have been worth everything or nothing, but
it should have been heard. All the Crown
witnesses were rounded-up by the police and duly
appeared.
Cabled that 250 Victorians have been sur-
prised at half-past 7 in the morning, 18 of them
killed, many wounded, and most of the rest cap-
tured, disarmed, and released by the Boers. The
press has, for the last 18 months, been booming
the praises of the Australians as scouts. This
episode ought to somewhat reduce our swelled
head, as, barring a,n improbable yarn about the
capture, while bathing, of General Buller and his
staff, there has hardly been a case of the despised
Imperial Tommy falling-in in this wholesale
fashion through bad scouting. British forces
have walked into ambushes, but these Australians
were apparently stalked in their own camp and
just yarded up. No detailed casualty-list is yet
to hand, and meanwhile thousands of people in
victoria are eating their hearts out over this
miserable affair.
Th* Bulletin's latest publication—
Dreams in Flower,” a book of verses by Louise
Mack contains all the best poetical work of this
writer for the last ten years. Price half-a-crown,
post-free from this office.
The other day Dixson and Sons, Ltd., of
Sydney, paid £40,000 in one pop as duty on
American tobacco-leaf.
Sydney D.T. actually prints this (re the
preamble to the Commonwealth temporary
supply-bill): J
preamble begins with this magnificent flourish :
llost Gracious Sovereign, wc, j’our Majesty’s most duti-
ful and loyal subjects, the House of Representatives in
Parliament assembled, towards making good the supply
which we have cheerfully granted to your Majesty in this
session of Parliament, have resolved to grant unto your
Majesty the sum hereinafter mentioned, and do therefore
most humbly beseech your Majesty that it may be
enacted. And be it enacted, by the King’s Most Excel-
lent Majesty and the Senate and the-House of Representa-
tives of the Commonwealth of Australia in Parliament
assembled as follows,” etc. The other day Dr. Rentoul
lamented the obsequious deference to Royalty which is
permeating the formalities of the Federation. It looks as
though this were a specimen. No subject addressing an
Oriental potentate could abase himself more than the
Federal Parliament.
Now that the “ York Rush ” is a thing of
the past, visitors to Melbourne, desirous of strik-
ing a cheerful place of sojournment, with all the
breezy scenic attractions that the prettiest and
handiest ” of the suburbs can afford, are invited
by advt. in another column to write to Mrs.
Pobin, Queen’s Mansions, St. Kilda, Melbourne.*
In connection with the refusal of the Im-
perial authorities to sanction the Bananaland
measure prohibiting the employment of colored
labor in mills enjoying the public bounty, Melb.
Argus anxiously insists:
There is not the slightest ground for a suspicion that the
Imperial authorities desire to intermeddle factiously with
our legislation.
The Jingo organ assures us that we are a self-
governing people, but points out that the little
Imperial game is evidently intended as a hint to
the Commonwealth Parliament to go slow in
framing its anti-alien legislation. This is self-
Govemment with a difference. We can please
ourselves so long as we also please J. Bull, and
don’t interfere with his efforts to. placate the
Japanese, or upset any other British pot in Asia.
The horse-coper again. At Colling wood
Court (Vic.), the other day, George Wenke sued
Alfred Smith for the recovery of £l3, amount of
deposit paid on a draught horse bought for £22,
and warranted to draw three tons. When plain-
tiff got the animal home, he tried it in an empty
dray.. In half-an-hour it was done, and blood ran
from its nostrils.
A vet. deposed that the horse had asthma, and was a
close roarer, the most dangerous kind of affliction, for an
animal was liable to fall down at any moment. The
bleeding at the nostrils was caused by the rupture of
small blood-vessels through the terrible coughing. In
order to hide the symptoms from a possible buyer,
horse-copers ” crammed balls of fat and leaden shot
down the throat. This exercised a pressure upon the I
flap which, in its movement, caused the roaring. A good
appearance could be given to such a horse by giving it a
quantity of linseed and slop food, that would fatten if not
strengthen. The horse looked, at a reasonable distance,
like an animal worth £4O at least, when, as a matter of
fact, it would be worth more dead than it was worth
alive. At the most it would only bring ss. The effects
of this treatment would last for about five or six hours.
The horse coughed up a quantity of shot while witness
had it in his care.
Verdict for amount claimed with costs, but as
defendant said he had no money, plaintiff’s
chances of recovery are nil.
What can “Our Boys,” fresh from the
slaughter of patriotic Boers, set off against the
story of Madden, the Ballarat miner, whose
heroism was brought to the front again the other
day by the effort to secure him the Old Age Pen-
sion? Madden was a faceman in the Star of the
Ea-t at Sebastopol. Recently lie and his mate,
Warnell, were injured by the explosion of a blast,
left by the previous shift, and Madden, after the
accident, ascended a difficult rise, and travelled
along 2000 ft. of drive to give the alarm. He was
seen, by the platman, groping blindly with his
hands, and when addressed, answered: “For
God’s sake, go to Warnell;” and fell insensible.
It was found that both his ©yes had been destroyed
in the explosion, and he was injured in other
ways. His mate had his arm torn out. Madden,
who was a member of the A.M.A., has been given
the Old Age Pension and was medalled for excep-
tional bravery in the execution of his duty, but
had half as game a thing been done by an Aus-
tralian swaddy in Africa the empire would have
been postered with his name.
“ The Best Australian Book of Short Stories."
Castro’s Last Sacrament
By ALBERT DORRINGTON. 4s 6d.
Amusements.
JEAN GEHABDY,
The World’s Greatest ’Cellist.
Under the Direction of Mr. A. H. OANBY.
ADELAIDE, 22nd JUNE to 29th JUNE.
SYDNEY, 9th JULY.
JOHN H. TAIT.
Medio?].
o 6 RXCORO’s
C.sSE** ce °f u \ F£•
The only Infallible Remedy for Nervous WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Aust-alasia—PEßßY & CO., York Cham-
bers, 47 Queen St., Melbourne ; Agents for New
South Wales—W. H. SOUL & CO., Pitt St., Sydney.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
BUSHMAN WATCH.
se
nr
4
fs
df
s
<ss
m
Camden Buildings,
420 George St., Sydney.
Three Doors from A Saving of
Strand Arcade. 25 per cent.
JEWELLERY,
SOLID SILVER GOODS,
SILVER-PLATED WARE.
Write for 80-Paged Illustrated Catalogue Post Free
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrls.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
THE WILLIAMSON OPERA COMPANY.
ELEVENTH WEEK AND CONTINUED SUCCESS of
FLOROD O R A-
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, George-street. Prices as usuaL
P~~ A LACE THEATRE, SYDNEY
Lessee, W. F. Hawtrey. Gen. Mgr., E. F. Bradley.
EVERY EVENING.
THE HIT OF THE SEASON.
HAWTREY COMEDY COMPANY.
In the Laughable Farcical Comedy,
iu tk e soxjr».
THE PLAY THAT TOOK LONDON BY STORM.
Preceded at 8 by a Domestic Drama in one Act,
FOR CHARITY’S SAKE.
Box Plan at Paling’s, Prices—ss., 35., 25., and Is.
SNT A.ZELL B.
QUEEN’S HALL, PITT ST., opp. Criterion Theatre.
The Enormous Success of SNAZELLE, with West Ss
Sons’Glorious Moving Illustration of OUR NAVY, will
be continued NIGHTLY at the QUEEN’S HALL, opposite
Criterion Theatre. SNAZELLE, with West & Son’s
Indescribable Illustration of Britain's “FLEET IN
BEING.” Prices : 35., 25., Is. Matinees, Wednesday and
Saturday. Every Evening at 8.
Children Half-Price to all parts.
Manager for SNAZELLE, Mr. CHARLES MAOMAHON.
Manager for WEST & SON, CAPTAIN EDWARDS, R.N.
CR ITER I O N T HEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. Charles Holloway.
A UNPARALLELED TRIUMPH.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENINO,
MR. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
and his POWERFUL COTERIE OF PLAYERS, in
THE MILESTONES OF LIFE.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Early doors (Od. extra) open 0.55;
ordinary doors, 7.30. Plan at Nicholson’s.
|_YCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. William Anderson.
oth WEEK and LAST TWO NIGHTS of
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, headed br
Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN,
NIGHT BIROS OF LONDON.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, 22nd JUNE, THE
FAVOURITE; or, THE SPORT OF KINGS.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
EMPIRE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
“ (Late Royal Standard, Castlereagh-street.)
11th WEEK. (Still Mork Noveltiks.) 14th WEEK
JOHN FULLERS EMPIRE GO.
Every Evening at 8. Every Saturday at 2.3 a
Children Half-price to all parts (Matinees).
Electric Success of HERR PAG EL, the German
Hercules, and Mr. DENNIS CARNEY.
SATURDAY NEXT. First Appearance of MR.
CHARLEB FANNING, Sydney’s Greatest Favorite.
Prices—2s., Is., and 6d. Open at 7.15.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee J. 0. Williamson.
Sub-Lessee .. ... .. G. Mu strove.
Under the Direction of Miss Jennie Maynard.
CONTINUED SUCCESS OF
NURSE.
A Delighted and Enthusiastic Audience Witnessed the
Fourth Appearance of
JENNIE MAYNARD
as NURSE.
TO-NIGHT and FIVE MORE NIGHTS ONLY.
Children Half-price to all Parts.
PRICES—Dress Circle, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. : Back Stolls,
2s. ; Family Circle, Is.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Doors open at 7 p.m.
"J* HEATRE ROYAL, BYDNEY.
Under the Patronage and in the Presence of His Excel-
lencey the Lieutenant-Governor Sir F. M. Darley, G'.C. M.G.
THURSDAY,FRIDAY, SATURDAY, 27th, 28th, 29th June
Mr. F. M. ALEXANDER’S Production of
THE MERCHANT OF VENICE.
, Mr. Alexander interprets * Shylock,’ and will he assisted
by Miss Edith Tasco-Page as Portia, and members of his
Shakespearean Society will undertake the other characters.
Box Plan opens this week.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Enthusiastic Reception, Gigantic Success of
JOHN COLEMAN. LITTLE ERIC.
DE WYNNE BROS., FRANK and JEN LATONA,
Albert Whelan, Three Faust Sisters, Fanny Powers,
The Bioscope, The Polyphone, and all Our Great Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturday and Wednesday.
DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE. *
Sole Lessee Mr. Harry Rickards.
EVERY EVENING,
ALFRED DAMPIER,
Supported by a Most Brilliant Coterie of Dramatic Artists,
IN A GREAT DRAMATIC SEASON.
FRIDAY, JUNE 21, HAMLET.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY
COMPANY.
MARIE LLOYD,
ALEC. HURLEY, ALEC. HURLEY.
Celina Bobe, Marv Lynne, Irene Franklin, and the
Misses Noni and Madge Rickards in the Coon Ballet.
■■■HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE. ~
. ■ Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
2nd WEEK of the GREAT POPULAR HIT
IN LONDON TOWN,
The Exceptionally Powerful Drama, by Messrs.
George R. Sims and Arthur Shirley.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. (3d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is Box
Plan at Allan’s CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Under ihe Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. E. J. Tait.
MAGNIFICENT SUCCESS of WILLIAMSON’S
ITALIAN OPERA CO.,
Musical Director SIGNOR HAZON
Stage Director Mr. W. WOLFF.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY, JUNE 20 and 21,
ERNANI.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 5s ; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
ATHENAEUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
** Under the direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
EVERY EVENING.
Mr. CHARLES BERTRAM
THE ROYAL and IMPERIAL COURT MAGICIAN.
ADMISSION—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Allan's
MAOSNEES, WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS, 2 p.m.
At Poverty Point.
Melb. : Gerardy, the’celloist of genius, is only the
third eminent solo performer in that line Australia has
heard. The second was Hattenbach, established in this
city. The first was poor Douay, who travelled with
violinist Poussard. They were the first stars engineered
by Smythe. Many years afterwards, Poussard made a
Melb. operatic frost with his wife, Lottie Mental.
. Gerardy*s musical ability’ and expert management of
his bow are only half responsible for the rare charm of
his violincello playing*. He has a wonderful instrument,
perhaps the finest in the world, and a phenomenally
clever left hand for pulling* the string’s. The genius
seems to be in the fingers of Gerardy’s left hand.
Seems that young Gerardy’s visit to Australia was caused
by the death of his father, which befell some three or four
months ago. The “ Wizard of the ’cello ” felt his loss so
keenly that he determined to try a change of scene and
as Australia was not only a long way off, but also the
place where Mark Hambourg was idolised, he took
a passage for Alelbourne. Jean is a most un-
i affected wizard. He bends over his 'cello without any
preliminary to-do, and works away until his forelock get*
damp and the ends flop limply over his eyes and nose
And when he has finished he ducks his head and depart*
hurriedly, quite unconscious of the girls who are gloating
down upon him from the gallery.
The O’Neil disbanded her co. at the end of the fairlv-
successful Adelaide season, and has been resting in S A
bhe has taken a private house, for the sake of quietness •
but various hotels tell weird tales about her dogs, which
are too large, and too powerful, and too exacting in their
demands for ham-sandwiches and exercise in the small
landlord mornin{r > for the P eaoe of mind of the average
An Australian writes from New York : “ Harry Roberta
is not playing great things in New York, but he will he
shortty. He came over here in time to take a small part
ni the first production of • The Price of Peace,’ and made
a hit of it. Now, David Belasco has engaged him to sup-
port Mrs. Leslie Carter in his (Belasco’s) new piece, *La
Du Barry, for next season." r
Dear Bulletin,—Ella Russell’s gushful praise of the
girl singmg-pupds at Marshall-Hall’s Conservatorium
(Melb.) was not calculated to benefit those damsels
but it certainly served the purpose of Madame
Wiedermann, who worked Ella for the ad. “ When such
voices and such talent can be trained locally, Ella Russell
wondered that English singers should be so generally im-
ported, said your Poverty Point paragraph (June l/’Ol).
What a waste of wonder ! English singers are not gener-
Hr^u 1 1.u POrted ~? ertainly not Eddish women singers.
With the exception of, perhaps, Madame Slapoffski, there
is not an Englishwoman in either of the grand-opera cos
now appearing here. Williamson’s comic opera co.'
hasn t an imported Englishwoman on the bill, and its
principal soprano voices are .young Australians. Did Ella
Russell intend the pupils of Madame Wiedermann to
understand that managers ought to engage them at large
salaries, but are giving the preference to inferior foreign
singers i And does the paragraphist who quotes Ella’s
compliments find fault with Australia for rating
Dolores as a more finished artist than Marguerite Hen-
derson of the Conservatorium ? Let me whisper in your
ear that Miss Russell gave foolish “ taffy ’’ to the Wieder-
mann pupils, none of whom needed any “taffy” to
strengthen their self-esteem. What Australia really
wmits is a constant supply of visiting artists to show the
difference between singers and singers, and take, if pos-
sible, some of the conceit out of the present generation of
voices. Looking back a few years one is struck by the
modesty of Melba, Miranda, Crossley, and Saville. Then
didn t talk about their own “ interpretation ” of songs in
the glib, self-satisfied style of these Conservatorium girls.
They took to heart the lessons that a few imported singers
could teach them from the platform, and then went to
Europe for further tuition.—Cold Douciib.
According to Boston (U.S.A.) Morni.no News, there was
a scene at the local Opera House when tenor de Reszke’s
admirers sought to present him with flowers while Melba
was also on the stage. Melba stamped her foot and shook
her head, and would have none of it. Speaking to
de Reszke, she said, “ I will not allow it. I will not go on
the stage with a man, and see him receive flowers, when
there are none for me. If you wish to accept the flowers
over the footlights, you must go alone, for I certainly
shall not accompany you.” Meanwhile the audience were
applauding, and at the same time Melba was protesting.
There is no other star here above me, and I will not
submit to the indignity.” And she had her way, as women
generally do. M. de Reszke shrugged his shoulders, after
the manner of the French, and said, “ Very well • have
the flowers sent round to the stage.”
Walter Baker refused a tempting offer for an engage-
ment with the Nance O'Neil co., which, from a business
point of view, could hardly have been so attractive as his
billet of hero in the perennial Bland Holt melodrama
Always a good manager to work for. Bland Holt is just
now anchored in Melbourne. He lately renewed his lease
of the Theatre Royal, and his people are practically fixed
there for a long term, a much more profitable job than
the ordinary travelling engagement J. C. Williamson’s
dramatic co.’s have.
The late poet Buchanan was author, or part author, of
four plays that have been produced in Australia—
“ Sophia ” and “ Joseph’s Sweetheart,” adaptations from
Fielding's novels; “ Bachelors,” a rather rough-edged far-
cical comedy ; and a strong, gloomy melodrama, which
Buchanan wrote in collaboration with Harriet Jay.
Brough and Boucicault made money out of the three
first-named works a dozen years ago, and Bland Holt got
several revivals out of the melodrama.
“S.S.”: Marie Lloyd is A 1 at Rickards’ New Opera
House, and her vitality and vim are enough to cut up
amongst a score of the serio-comics with whom Melbourne
is familiar. But wh.v this fearful and wonderful striving
after suggestion ? Marie’s wink isn’t merely a suggestion ;
it’s like a thud in the eye with a hammer. With such
great talent why resort to the catch-penny tricks of the
squeaking variety “artiste” who has nothing to rely
upon but legs and double-entente? It is said the audi-
ence demands it, but Peggy Prvde managed to give
satisfaction whilst relying on fairly legitimate character-
business, and Marie’s coster effort proves she has in her
stuff of the same sort.
Nina Boucicault seems to have scored a big artistic suc-
cess in a three-act comedy “Lion Hunters," at Terry’s
Theatre, London. The Daily Mail speaks of it as* a
delightful work, and “ Miss Nina Boucicault’s triumph.”
The two short plays “ Beau Austin ” and “ Macaire,”
that the late Robert Louis Stevenson wrote in collabora-
tion with W. E. Henley, were recently staged by Beerbohm
Tree, at a hospital-benefit matinee.
“ That attractive and gifted Brisbane girl, Florence
Rudd,” writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent,
“ who was burned to ashes in a boarding-house here this
week, owed her fearful death to the fire-trap she was
ljving in. The house is a portion of the Duke of Bedford’s
valuable estate in London’s dwelling centre. A few years
ago the 99-.vears’ leasehold fell in, and several millions of
property fell on the young duke. Four storeys high with
a basement, the squares of terraces have ‘century-old
stone staircases. The fire brigade’s expert told me that
immediately the hydrants splashed on the heated stone
the whole staircase collapsed from top to bottom, leaving
the poor girl to perish in a top room like a pigeon in a
roof-cote. Had the brigade been signalled for on the
first outbreak she might have been saved, for all alarms
in this dangerous district are answered with escape-
ladders. Visiting Australian* ‘ rush ’ these death-traps in
the Squares.”
“J.A.C.”: S.M. Herald’s recent account of an inter-
view with Madame Ella Russell contains various inaccura-
cies. By the “ greatest living tenor, Mazzini,” is probably
meant Masini—who, by the way, I knew well, having lived
in the same house, in Milan, with him—when he was not
making 7f. a day, let alone 7000. The tone of his voice
has never been of “ great volume,” but rather of marvel-
lously beautiful quality and of extreme flexibility.
Madame Russell is also wrong in saying that Masini never
sang in London. He sang at the first production of
Verdi’s Manzoni Requiem Mass, at Albert Hall. Asso-
ciated with him were Stoltz (soprano), Waldmann (con-
tralto), and Medini (bass) —a magnificent quartet—and
Verdi, in person, conducted. It is true that Masini broke
a contract with Mapleson, but that was because Costa
Mapleson’s conductor, snubbed and frightened him’
Jean de Reszke I also knew before he ever
faced a public. He made his first essays as a
baritone, and was anything but a conspicuous suc-
cess. I have heard Tamherlik, who was one of the
finest artists the world has known—his recitative singing
was a revelation, and his high notes were peculiarly bril-
liant, but the rest of his voice “ wobbled ” painfully
Tamagno has possibly the finest voice ever put into a
human throat, and stands ahead, in that, of all existing
tenors. I knew him when he was first “ discovered,” ana
was studying with Bonolu in Milan. Previously he had
«nH n fh"i th « c horui of the Teatro Regio, Turin
and the conductor, Pedrotti, did not think he had mimiM
tion enough to be entrusted even with a small^narfc!
asked him •* ‘"oot height o , f , his fame> he met Pedrotti P and
asked him . Got any small parts to spare, Pedrotti ? "
Vincenzo Larizza, the boss tenor of Williamson's Italian
Opera Co., is described as “ ComniendatoreTwUich nre
sumably, is an Italian equivalent for C.M.G. ’ P
; To watch Nance O'Neil’s Ladv Macbeth la
Shakes P eare b y hashes of the Melbourne
When Clarance Holt toured the Victorian provinces as
he often wrofce his °wn drama-
who understood P a P er3 > which never had a man
understood the business. The screed was alwavs
something to remember in the way of a puff. It usually
bepn something like this: “The pla/ dragged lom^
on to the ta "e'' r ‘ C fC H v'’ 2*° h , ero of the P iece - bounded
on to tne stage (G. V. Brooke was another man who
electrified ed The “ Then the audience
soul stlrHm, thrilling story unfolded itself with
effect and rapturous applause, until the cul-
ref.ef^Bl^f POlrlt K cached, and the matchless tragedian
* rom r be delighted onlookers an ovation which
geniiVof\r Ltor,'' V ( te.? t & c 0 . nCe “ h ° neBt tfibUte t 0 the
.< l irßinia Ea , rle - remembered here as « principal bov "in
I^p an^!i! ne (the '^ urka ! 1 burlesque that rehed upon a
mm pH p ® mian an d a bloated female impersonator
Edna d \Lv h Ue) 1 n JUSt “"V appearing in London with
There y ’ H y Oonor and co - iu “ The Girl from Up
“Haresfoot ”: Clarance Holt figared in the greatest
cast ever seen on the Australian stage—the “ Octoroon ”
Holt 1 ® Pp U | me : i4 S - alen J Scudder - Jefferson; Wahnotee,
Holt, Pej ton, Heir ; Jacob M‘oloskev, Fitzgerald • Pete
Inhn ar p : i S . unn y® ldes * Lambert; Ratts, Dunn ; Paul)
Julia Edouin ; Poindexter, Ireland ; Zoe, Mrs. Heir •
Dolly Green. " 1 1>e >' ton > Mrs. Phillips ; Grace,’
loftvhpi^rrr l ° f Grand °P era ] <x> k s down from
» fc be mere exponent of the Comic ! It is
dncpH d , of rand °P erft Potentate that he was intro-
,nai; Australian city to a leading man in
the other line of business. And do you suppose he
HjJed F reet b‘ 9 brother artist? Not much ! He only
looked at him sadly, and asked : “ Do you sing ?” with an
emphasis on the you.
fnmmw b n” V opera he P, n 5n Melb - under Coppin, whose
famous dictum was ‘lt can never pay.” The earliest
artists included Anna Bishop, Madame Carandini, Octavia
H?XnH n i? COU b"’ baugiaise. In 1858, there came Julia
iiarlarm, and Sherwin. Lyster arrived 40
years ago, and his career lasted noarly 20 years. He
brought Lucy Escott, Rosalie Durand, Georgia Godson,
Squires, K Lyster, Trevor. Other people were incor-
porated from time to time, such as Signor and Signora
uianchi, Madame Simonsen, and Beaumont. In 1870
Lyster and Smith imported Lucia Baratti, Lucy
Chambers, Neri, Contini. and Dondi. Two years pre-
viously there had been a brief appearance of Ida Vitali,
Devoti, Bertolini, and De Antoni. In 1877, there came the
first great double company, that of Oagli and Pompei, in-
cluding Signora Zenoni, the Coys, Rosnati, and Grand!,
lhe best known conductors of the past have been Lavenu,
Norman, lteiff, Siede, Simonsen, Marzorati, Hazon.
Lyster s most notable productions were “The Huguenots ”
Lohengrin,” “ Aida,” “LaSuive,” “ Sicilian Vespers,”
Prophete, ‘ lone.” He said “My passion is grand
opera, and deeply regretted the public taste that led him
to inaugurate a change of policy, which he begun with
Offenbach s “ Grand Duchess.”
“ Haresfoot ” : Irving’s Coriolanus is tepid, and there-
fore the press says it is not a good acting play. Wrong :
Kemble’s Coriolanus was received with “shouts of de-
light, and Macready’s was full of electricity.


NO MISTAKEN PRIDE.
The Truth for Truth’s Sake
The Case of WJrs. E. RUSSELL
{For the “ Newtown Independent”)
“There is nothing immodest or indelicate
in attesting to the truth, no matter what
the subject may be. lam glad to say that
my actions are not influenced by foo.ish
notions of mistaken pride, and as I may be
doing a little good by granting your request,
vou are welcome to take down every detail
for whatever use you may deem fL.”
These words were addressed to a repre-
sentative from this paper by a lady living
at No. 14 Francis-street, Enmore, named
Mrs. Emily Rosina Russell, who had, on
perceiving a note-book in the pressman s
hand, anticipated the object of his mission.
“ You are quite right,” answered the re-
porter. “I may take the particulars,
then ? u
“ Most decidedly. The first sign of de-
parting health was a shocking state of
nervousness. My nerves were so weak
that I started quivering and shaking on the
least provocation. I dreaded to be without
somebody to keep me company in tiie
house, and always had the back and front
doors locked when left alone. Ido not
know exactly what I was afraid of, but
there was a constant fear that some unde-
fined evil was going to happen. I folt
very dull and listless for two or three
weeks before the full troubles manifested
themselves. Then terrible headaches at-
tacked me, together with pains in the
limbs and back, under the shoulder blades,
and also in the lower part of my stomach,
where the agony was often so acute that I
thought they would cause my death. I
was intensely feverish, my skin being
parched, hot, and dry. Fearful night
dreams, resembling hideous nightmare,
also troubled me, and when I slepb for
about an hour I had to get up and walk
about in order to relieve my mind of its
terrifying thoughts. My mind was quite
unhinged through complete nerv >us ex-
haustion brought on through my constitu-
tion being run down. But for the fear of
death by starvation I would gladly have left
off eating entirely. As it was I never ate
anything solid, potatoes and meat being out
of (he question.”
“ Did your food disagree with you ? ”
“Everything I ate caused more or less
pain and discomfort. Each repast, even of
the plainest description, brought on painful
results. My food turned sour in no time,
and large volumes of wind were belched up,
or else I vomited a nasty yellowish fluid,
which tasted for hours after. My chest felt
heavy, with usually dull pains inside, but ]
frequently they were so sharp and severe
that I shrieked in agony. I was not even
free from these attacks when in bed at night,
aid the gravity of my posbion made me
depress'd and hopeless. An internal de-
rangement which gave me evil forebodings
caused palpitation of the heart to come on
"with the le tst exertion. My heart used to
throb against my ribs so distinctly that I
am sure it could be heard in the next room.
I could not real without my eyes aching so
bt l that I had to cease in a few minutes,
a >d I found that I could not remember what
1 had been reading about. Colour from my
chee -s had all vanished, leaving my com-
plexion pasty and dirty looking. My
a pe: ite was poor and fickle, and at length
I could not eat at all. I think the bitter
taste that lay on my tongue continually had
something to do with this, as it was so
nauseating that I felt habitually weak and
sick at the stomach. My sufferings were so
g eat that I used to feel as if I wished for
death to release me.”
“ Had you lost much weight?”
“ I was as thin as a wafer, and just as
weak as you would expect such a skeleton
to be. Even those dreadful nights I used to
have would have been acceptable to me now,
for I cou’d not get any rest. All night long
I turned and tossed in endless pain. The
sunlight of day was no comfort to me, as I
was too worn-out, melancholy and dejected
to appreciate it. One by one my domestie
labours were neglected, and instead of doing
a little woi k I had to look on quite helpless.
My weakness became so extreme that I
could not walk across the road.”
“ What did you do then?”
“Well, I was so alarmed at being unable
to Walk that I consulted a physician. Of
course, I had not gone on all this time
without taking medicines, but they all
proved worthless. The doctor pronounced
my case to be a very bad one, and said I
required skilful and careful treatment. I
placed myself under his care and took his
medicines till I could take them no longer.
My sufferings became more intense than ever,
and my stomach was too weak to retain the
medicine my doctor gave me. I had given
up hope through his treatment being so un-
successful, and did not care what happened.
A neighbour then urged me to give Clements
Tonic a trial. I did not expect to get well
again, but I bought some Clements Tonic,
and after a few days an extraordinary im-
provement was apparent. My nerves were
strengthened by each dose and my head
ceased to ache, besides losing the distressing
feeling of sickness at the stomach. Pains
from the chest and shoulders were removed,
and I never again retched or vomited after
I st rted taking Clements Tonic, which
also gave me a splendid appetite. I felt my
food was doing me good, and I soon looked
it, too, as a healthy colour came back to my
cheeks, which became more plump every
day. Clements Tonic made me sleep soundly,
and I got up every morning feeling fresh
and vigorous. When my doctor and all
other medicines had failed, Clements Tonic
gave me robust health.”
“ Can I let the public know ? ”
“ Yes ; do. I hope all sufferers may read
my case and benefit as I have done. ”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Emily Russell, of 14 Francis Street, Enmore,
Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that 1 have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting of three folios,
and consecutively numbered from one to three, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account of
my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also con-
tains my full permission to publish in any way my
statements—which I give voluntarily, without receiv-
ing any payment; and 1 make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue of the provisions of an Act made and passed in
the ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty,
intitule l “An Act for the more effectual abolition of
Oath 9 and Affirmations taken and made in the various
Departments of the Government of New South Wales,
and io substitute Declarations in lieu thereof and for
the suppression of voluntary and Extra-judicial Oaths
and Affidavits.”
Declared at Newtown, this Bth day of October one
thousand nine hundred, before me,
FREDK. JONES i.i
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
HATTE’S Popular Department.
Our Three-Guinea. Dress Suit, with Silk Facing's, beautifully cut and Finished. Cannot be equalled.
Our Five-Guinea Dress Suit cannot be procured elsewhere under £7 7s.
We carry an immense stock of West of England, Scotch, Irish, New Zealand and other Tweeds, al
in the Latest Designs and Patterns.
GENTS' MELTON or SERGE OVERCOATS, from JB2 ss.
New Zealand or Scotch Tweed Suits, to measure, 455.; usual City Price, £3 3s
Hatte’s Famous Tweed Suit, with Extra Pair of Trousers, hundreds of Patterns to select from, made
to measure, £2 2s.
Gentlemen residing at a distance have only to write for Self-Measurement Forms and Patterns to
have their orders faithfully executed. All our Tailoring done on the premises.
Our Chief Cutter is the Best in the State.
C. G. HATTE, Newtown.
THE
‘PLUM’
ef
THE
‘PLUM’
/'T ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
thp’r merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a. 6d.
“ RAZOLEB ” LIGHTNING RAZOR BHARPENER, 6d cake.
p / Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
PiucF, | single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 308.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
■ to any part of Austra..
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10e. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL hair.
Naturally Curl}' Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human' Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Eoyal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
ORAIG & AITKEN«
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
6BB-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Business Announcements.
(£ood Tailoriog-
AUTUMIN.
Hough Tweeds and Worsteds .
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
TO STAND ALL WEATHERS.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VEBTINGB, &O.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free .
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
AN BFFlUiJtfjnrr
51-
FILM CAMERA
THE BROWNIE.
Not a toy. Takes splendid photographs,
2| by inches. Complete with hand-
book of instructions.
KODAKS from ss. to £7 158.
OF ALL PUOTOGRAPIIIC DEALERS, or from
KODAK, Limited,
The Block, tSk Collins Street, Melbourne.
Cend for illuitrated price list and mention this
paper
Medical.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poinguestre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
soi.d in two sizes, 9d. ife Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdicstre &. Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrtted dropt.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood.and ena-
bling i h constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and interesting
preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-'*/* hat all
the good effectt of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth.”
emit BY CHKMIBTB All. THK WOIW.D OVKR.
WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette.
♦
OLD
HNS
cuNBU,
fing
t/3
HA
V
>1
&.C
*Jr
®Ne
S
H
y
ft
p «o
Pr *ETO
RS
Sore Eyes! Blight!
USED 300 YEARS.
SIJIGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails . Restores Eyelashes .
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
FnMnes* Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the Footsteos of tho Wise, and
Buy the Best, Cheapest and Most
Stylish Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & Co.
252-254- Flinders St., Melbourne
(Opp. Station).
se
Our Suit to Order at
42/* Is marvelous
value, perfect fitting
and beautifully finish-
ad.
Trousers. 12/6.
Dres* and Clerical Sults #
to order. £ >•
Biding Breeches,.2s/-
Men’s Milts. Beady for
Wear. 2.1/-
Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indig • dye, 21/-
Lonsr Chesterfields, 30/-
Tweed Overcoats. 21/-
\ Waterproof Coats, full
capes. 18/6.
Tweed orSerge Trousers,
6/11.
Travelling Bugs, 10/6
13/9.
Black and Blue Vicuna
Coats and V eats. 19/6.
Undressed White Shirts,
2/6.3/6, 4/6. 5/6
Crimean Shirts, 6/6.
1/6.
Gent's Pp’endid Bal-
moral 800t5.6/9.9/6
We like to write letters,
so don’t be afraid to
ask for any informa-
tion. Our book. 7 he
Philosophy of Dr css.
patterns of all kinds
and s If measurement
forms post free. Write
for them.
Don’t Forget to Write for Patterns.
H. NEWMAN’S
SILVER KEYLESS
WALTHAM
WATCH
£2 10s.
FOB
FOR
A Splendid Timekeeper, with Beautifully Finished
Nickel Movement: Three-quarter Plate ; Compensation
Balance ; Seven Jewels ; in Heavy English Hall-marked
Silver Cases.
On Receipt of Remittance ohe of these Watches will be
forwarded, securely packed, carriage paid, and at our
risk, to any part of Australasia.
H. NEWMAN,
The Waltham Watch Agency,
175 & 177 Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character), That Hideous
Dancing Skeleton (turns, himself inside out), Mafeking
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Spider and the Fly
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. fid.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 Ceorjfe-street, SYDNEY.
GOUT
PILLS
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
sc3atTca,
LUMBAGO,
These invaluable Tills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state <>f
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.


Re the escape of Edward VII. at the time
of the Shamrock 11. disaster, Brisbane Courier
Wrote thusly : “ The late Queen’s reign was re-
markable in this respect, and the escapes of Her
Majesty were so numerous that it is not difficult
to understand why she was able to keep a serene
temper in the most trying circumstances.” One
of these “escapes” occurred at Windsor when
Victoria slipped (in descending from an upper
room) and hurt her leg. The loyal press of the
day spread the rumor that O’Donoyan Rossa, the
famous Fenian, had soaped the stairs —in accord-
ance with a Plan of Campaign.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to tlieir advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
Strange rumors float round the Russian
warship sent on a complimentary visit to the
Commonwealth. Russia is a peculiar country,
where the Tartar is only covered up in patches,
and numerous streaks of Barbarian continually
rise up to ask Civilisation “ whaffor ? ” Public
opinion in Russia is still a very tender plant, and
private liberty spends a good deal of its time in
evading the gaol. S.M. Herald noted that the
Gromoboi’s sailors who had outrun their leave
seemed to be very sorry for themselves when they
were being taken back ; and some of the warship’s
visitors have brought back a queer tale of a
nautical offender of long standing who lives per-
manently in a cage, and glares dismally through
the bars when the hospitable revels proceed. It
would be interesting to know just how much truth
goes to the lb. of yarn about the Gromoboi.
It is hard to understand how it pays any-
one to patent small articles. M‘Lean Bros, and
Rigg, Ltd., have brought out a handy little thing
which they sell under the name of the “Duchess
Collar and Cuff Drier.” No one who sees it but
would buy, for the convenience is undoubted, and
the price is only sixpence. They must expect to
sell them by the thousand, but even then, how
does it pay ?*
“H.” : The King’s yacht adventure is
singularly like one recorded of Charles 11. He
gave the Duchess of Portsmouth a yacht. The
Duke of York, afterwards James 11, was an
alleged Admiral in those days. He took the
King, the Duchess of Portsmouth, and a little
party in the yacht off the Thames mouth. They
struck fearful weather, and just escaped a general
drowning. Gostling, the celebrated tenor of the
Chapel Royal, was of the party. His account in-
spired Purcell to compose a fine paraphrase of
the psalm “ They that go down to the sea in
ships.” Gostling sung this in the Chapel Royal,
and it was a great favorite with the King.
Some observations (possibly inspired by
drink) in Victorian country paper, name of which
is mercifully withheld :
The comet, as seen last night by the residents, re-
sembled the letter V, and was a beautiful sight in the
western sk3' before the moon came on the scene. It seems
a happy augury to the Royal couple visiting our shores,
for although the days of superstition are past, yet there
are many who foresee in this resemblance to that letter
that our late beloved Queen looked down, as it were, and
wafted a blessing in spirit to the future of the Common-
wealth of Australia in the person of her grandson.
What a cheering idea, that the spirit of the de-
parted should be tearing through the unutterable
frosts of space like Tomlinson’s ghost ! Yet the
country editor laboriously digs and dynamites
these poetic fancies out of himself in all serious-
ness. And, after all, they are probably as good
as could be expected at the salary.
Dear Bulletin. —About your expulsion
from Maoriland Parliamentary Library, I dropped
in there recently and found you roosting in your
accustomed place. What is the reason ? Did the
Library Committee relent, and commute your
sentence? Last session, by the way, Premier
Seddon, from his place in the House, declared
that he had not been a party to your removal
from the Library.— Kiwi.
Patents fok Inventions —Arthur Griffith,
International Patent Agent and Consulting
Engineer, University Chambers, Phillip-street,
Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights,
obtained throughout the world.
The Vic. Government, with a cheerful
disregard for economy, has repeated at Melbourne
Exhibition Building all the luxuries of the Par-
liament House, which lately passed into the tem-
porary possession of the Commonwealth Legisla-
ture. _ Everything that Peacock and Co. enjoyed
in their old place is to be found in equal splen-
dour at the “ temporary ” establishment. It is as
though the Leg. Assembly and Council Chambers
had been lifted from the top of Bourke-street and
dumped down in the Carlton Gardens, together
with ante-rooms and official quarters even more
commodious and more carefully furnished than
those of the temple whence the mace was
stolen. A little bill of £30,000, or thereabouts,
will be duly passed on account of this new Vic.
Legislative Club. And when, in the fulness of
time, the Commonwealth Capital is established,
and the Parliament of Australia clears out of the
stone edifice that represents more than £1,000,000
sterling, the Vic. Government will have a pecu-
liarly useless property To Let for evermore.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
“ Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories,” by Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”)
is the best book of short stories yet produced in
Australia. The S. Daily Telegraph recognises
the author’s “absolute genius.” The S.M. Herald
says the volume “ contains dramatic pictures
which the best of our artists in words might well
envy.” A handsome cloth-bound volume, 350 pp.,
post-free from Bulletin office for 4s. 6d.
“ At Hughenden, on last Primrose Day,’
writes Sydney D.T.’s London correspondent, “it
was noticed by the pilgrims to the grave that for
first time since ‘Dizzy’s’ death no Royal wreath
lay thereon. Very appropriate is the explanation,
in a character sketch of Queen Victoria, which
appears in the Quarterly Review, of Disraeli’s
ascendancy over the Queen. ‘No one, it is cer-
tain, ever amused her so much as he did.’ She
permitted to him what she permitted to no one
else, a ‘reckless disregard of Court etiquette.’
He was never in the least shy ; he did not trouble
to insinuate, he said what he meant in terms the
most surprising, the most unconventional ; and
the Queen thought that she had never in her life
seen so amusing a person. He gratified her by
his bold assumptions of her knowledge, she ex-
cused his florid adulation on the ground that it
was ‘Oriental,’ and she was pleased with the
audacious way in which he broke through the ice
that surrounded her. She loved the East, with
all its pageantry and all its trappings, and she
accepted Disraeli as a picturesque image of it.”
A copy of “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” The Bulletin’s particularly suc-
cessful pamphlet, will be posted from this office to
any Australian address on receipt of Bd. in stamps
(of any State).
Hearne’s Bronehitis Cure.
THE FA-MOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to dovelop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughshave been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. ____
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“Mr. Hearne. —
«< Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
vour medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. 1 do not wish any names to
he mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but w’ill be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
«Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
“I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but I am sending for another bottle in case I should want it.— D; M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S. W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good.it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.’'
•
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletelv left, me.- (Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
•
“My cold, had as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
•
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
1,1 Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronohitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.-(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at onoe.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth JEI a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria,’!^
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” •
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN O.’
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, -uta Inverell, N.S. W.”
•
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—ll. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
•
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a lone and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
•
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
" The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 109 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has .been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises ’of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. VVe enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
“THOMASON, CnATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“lam, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struok with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
.R.HCH depot- ojg ce . No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD FOB
INFANTS
9
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is "
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BEMBER’S FOOD ia sold in Tina by Chemiata, Be., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has,
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
AND
THE AGED.


THE
>EOLIAN
IN
SYDNEY.
Showrooms
Open Daily.
Everyone
Cordially
Invited
To Hear
This
Marvellous Instrument
THE /EOLIAN is an Organ Orchestra which, on account of
its beauty of tone, its refinement of expression, and its wonderful
Orchestral effects, has taken
TH€ WORLD CAPTIV€.
Anyone can play it, for it supplies the technique or mere fingering, and
leaves you the leisure to put in the expression, tempo, and phrasing
that you desire.
In appearance the .ZEOLIAN is like a Cabinet Organ, as shown in
the illustration below. The Stops are used to vary the expression and
form a never-ending delight to those who love music. The two Knee
Pedals open respectively the Swell-box and Great Organ. By one you
turn on immediately, without drawing a stop, the full power of the
Organ ; with the other you vary the power from pianissimo to fortissimo.
A time lever working on a dial enables you to vary the tempo at
will and phrase just as if you were using your own fingers.
The only difference is that the drudgery of practise is done away
with, once for all. You use the iEOLIAN fingers to play with and
these you
ABSOLUTCLY
CONTROL.^
If you arc a lover of music and can-
not play, or can play and have no time
for practise you ought to see and hear
this wonderful Instrument.
If you are at a distance and cannot
call, we shall be pleased to send you a booh
containing further descriptions and illus-
trations. In sending ask for Catalogue C.
Henry (I). girge # Co.,
323 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
BBSS
ssita
ns
r<iWrt'
grass!
vjssh'j
'■ KSSS
S2B
•XIMAN
cooooo o o c c o c
STYLE D. Price f&0.
Other Styles up to £4oo.—Cash or Terms.
THE HiOLIAN is sold at no other address in Sydney.
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
gygp awarded at any International Exhibition in the Y^orld
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
ft
■ SS
> n
CSiiSSAIS
A.Bt F. PEARS 5
Reduce# Fw-mlte
°f
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris, Eshibitiqn t
gOAP MAKERS,
fsv
gpeial Appointment
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
My Birthday Hat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I saw a toque yesterday at Grace Manners’ I
rather liked,” said my married sister. “Let’s go
there first.” And since she had that day tele-
phoned to me “to meet her in the afternoon to
see about the hat she had promised,” I “was
willin’.”
It was my first visit to Grace Manners’ since
the crash that killed my father. Visits to
any milliner since that event had been but few
and far between, and the mere idea of new head-
gear was a delight.
Only when we reached Grace Manners’ and
Amy removed her hat-pins did it dawn on me
that it was on her, and not on my, account the
toque had been put aside. For a while she was
undecided between it and another, marked 655.
She debated long on the merits of each, and ended
by choosing her first love, which was 84s.
“My allowance is really so small,” she whis-
pered, as she resumed her hat, “ that I feel quite
justified in paying the difference from the house-
keeping purse.”
Amy has only at the rate of £5 ss. a week to
dress on !
My soul meanwhile had gone out to a creation
whose simplicity was its chief charm. It is rarely
Grace Manners descends below the level of two
guineas. This, to my delight, was only 255.
In imagination I had it on, just found it suited
me to perfection, when Amy asked :
“Are you ready, dear? We have plenty to
do, you know.”
Maybe I looked as flat as I felt. Anyhow, she
added soothingly : “There are real nice shops in
Jones-street, and we’re bound to find something
pretty.” , ,
But between Grace Manners’ millinery and
Jones-street millinery is a great gulf fixed, and no
wonder I felt flat. _ .
From a spectacular point of view, Amy is an
undoubted success. Hers is that broad-blown
comeliness, red and white, which always attracts ;
added to which her taste in dress is beyond re-
proach. It was possibly on account of her ob-
vious silk foundations that, in the next shop we
entered, the head-milliner herself came forward to
serve, and on my account produced the straw
shapes, which I was made try-on until too bewil-
dered to distinguish one from another. But there
was one in which Amy and the milliner decided
lay infinite possibilities. Only, declared the
former, its price was prohibitive. Five shillings
for the toque alone was absurd; so, after much
talking, she got it for 4s. 3d. .
“ It’s really no use getting an expensive shape, .
whispered she. “They’re old-fashioned before
you know where you are. And, as I’m buying it
out of my own purse, of course I want to keep it
as low as I can.”
How I resisted saying—“ One usually did buy
presents out of one’s own purse,” is still a mystery.
“I’m ninepence to the good now, you know,”
she continued, “and, of course, the less I spend
on the hat the more I can give for the trimmings.”
I was doing my best to appear interested, when
the milliner mercifully came to the rescue.
“No,” said she-; “they never sent-out goods
themselves. Of course, if a lady particularly
wished it, the carrier could take things out, but it
wa3 always extra.” The mere word “extra”
frightened Amy. “ We’ll take it,” she announced.
And we did —or, to be more correct, I did. I
thought it only decent to offer.
All mv interest in it had long before evaporated.
I had not even given its trimmings a thought till
Amy said, “There’s another shop further along
where the ribbons are dirt-cheap. Come and see
if we can pick anything up; ” and I blush to say
I went.
The ribbons, the man in the shop declared, were
given-away, and so they were. Amy, unfortu-
nately, remembered she had seen them elsewhere
for id. a yard less, and refused them as a gift.
“ She did not believe in being done,” she told the
shopman. I was inclined to offer him the extra
id. to save another walk, but thought Amy might
be hurt. Jack declares she would only have been
too pleased. Finally, we came to a shop contain-
ing, as the posters everywhere announced, “a
damaged stock ; ” but from its general frowsmess
that fact, even to the most unobservant, would,
without any posters, have been at once apparent.
Amy discovered in the window the exact shade of
ribbon she wanted, bore down in triumph on the
sole girl visible, and—think of the extravagance !
bought two whole yards of it. I almost begged
her not to be reckless.
“It’s soiled,” she admitted; “but what else
could you expect for 4d. a-yard ? ”
“ What, indeed ? ” said 1, and went on to regret
she allowed the hat to give her so much trouble.
“Well,” she confided, “I have been worried
about a wing. I don’t want to buy, of course ; and
now I’ve just remembered there’s one in that felt
hat I had the winter before last. I’ll never wear
it again, I daresay, and it really isn t any better
worth.”
For a second I wanted to cry ; then I longed to
laugh ; only Amv, excellent as she is in many
respects, is unfortunately without a sense of
humor, and I did not dare. “ And I’ve got an old
steel belt-buckle that will do for an ornament.
It’s broken, of course, but who’s to know?
Who, indeed ?
“And ’’—glad, no doubt, to find me enter into
the spirit of |the thing at last—“ if you happen to
have a bit of velvet anywhere that would go under
the crown, that, of course, would save.
Amy looked distinctly relieved when I assured
her that either mother or I had.
“ I’ve kept within the 55., too,’ she said, as we
left the shop. ‘ ‘ That’s the best of knowing where
to go. And it’s not likely you’ll think the less of
the hat because you know what it cost.
“As if anyone would ! ” , , . .
“Those silly notions of mothers about people
not caring to buy their own presents are quite out-
of-date. The day of sentiment is over, thank
goodness. gaid j And Amy , a 3 j s her
amiable habit, took my irony for acquiescence.
“It’s too late for tea,” she announced as we
once more found ourselves in the heart of the city,
and, tired as I was, I was not sorry. For, to march
into a crowded tea-room, carrying the bag with its
obvious Jones-street brand, was—though I am not,
I trust, a snob-a feat to which I felt myseif un-
eq Amy was to trim the hat at her house, and, as
we live in suburbs far apart, I eagerly looked for-
ward to the moment when she would relieve me
from it. I had reckoned without ray host. For,
when we reached the corner, and I held out the
bag, she only said, “Oh, I’m going to buy fish
and really can’t carry it and the bag, both. You
see,” with a sudden inspiration, “I might crush
it ”
That’s what I myself wanted to do, and to jump
On it as well.
"So you wouldn’t mind very much taking it
home to-night, and bringing it down to-morrow,
would you, dear?” But, as she had not the
faintest intention of carrying it, it was not much
use my saying so, if I did. . . ,
I travelled home second-class. I was in no mood
for friends. At the end of the journey, as the
train left our station, a man, leaning far out of a
carriage- window, was to be seen, waving wildly
a paper bag, which, strange to say, bore the
same name as the one I had formerly carried.
Many people seemed interested. I am thanktui
to say I am above vulgar curiosity, and took no
n °At dinner that night mother and Jack (there
are only three of us) dragged from me an account
of my afternoon. .
“Pretty pure!” was Jack’s comment. And
though we are hard-up, and a hat is a hat, mother
did not scold. ..... .i •
“ It’s better where it is,” I explained. Nothing
under the sun would have induced me to wear it,
and Amy’s feelings might have been hurt.
“Amy’s feelings!” snorted Jack. Like to
know where she keeps them. She was born
pachydermatous.”
And mother softly wondered, as she has done
more than once, “who ever does she take-after .
Later that night, Jack, who had already remem-
bered my birthday, slipped two sovereigns into
my hand. 46 To get that hat you liked, he ex-
plained. , ....
“Jack !” I gasped. “ It’s far too much. You
want heaps of things yourself, and, besides, you
can’t run it.” .
“ That’s my affair, I hope. And look here, Lil,
if you don’t buy it to-morrow and wear it down
to Amy’s the first show you get, you and I’ll have
a row.” . , , ,
My nightmare was, that when Amy heard what
had happened to her gift she might offer to make
the loss good. I need have had no such fear.
And, if Jack imagined he was going to turn her
eves into her soul, he also was mistaken. All Amy
did with her eyes when I turned-up on her next
day was to open them wide; and if possible,
when she heard the price of Jack’s gift (which
she inquired), to open them wider.
But she did not forget, the next time she saw
mother, to say, when she spoke of my getting: so
expensive a hat, that she had always heard it
was the poorest who were the most improvident.
E. M. DAVIS.
Larry Petrie, Anarchist.
Killed by accident recently at Villa Rica, Para-
guay, the only working anarchist Australia has so
far produced.
Larry Petrie was well-known in Sydney in the
early nineties as an agitator of a particularly
aggressive brand, and the most cheerfully irre-
sponsible person imaginable. He lost his left
arm (previously injured) at a Riverina woolshed ;
a non-union shearer didn’t like Petrie’s union
arguments, and fell upon him. Result: Petrie’s
arm was amputated in Wagga Hospital. He
afterwards did some organising among the N.S.W.
woolshed laborers, then drifted to Sydney to
make things lively for the various Works Minis-
ters and other friends of the unemployed.
When the seamen’s strike was on in ’92 (or ’93)
Petrie booked a passage for Brisbane in the s.s.
Aramac. On the voyage the side of the vessel
was blown out. Fortunately no one was injured,
not even Petrie. He long afterwards calmly told
writer (in a letter from another country) that he ex-
pected the vessel to become a total wreck, but
that the bomb (if it was a bomb) had partially
failed because of the absence of weight on its top
side.
Petrie was arrested when the Aramac got to
Brisbane, kept in gaol three or four weeks,
charged with the crime, and acquitted for lack of
evidence. The detectives were wholly at fault ;
all they seemed to be able to do was to go round
the Sydney explosive-stores and ask who had
bought dynamite. As if a real anarchist would
buy dynamite while Govt, blasting operations
were in progress in half-a-dozen Sydney suburbs,
and the storeman in charge o’ nights could be
enticed to an adjacent corner hostelry for a much-
needed drink!
Petrie naturally lost many labor friends by his
supposed connection with the Aramac outrage; but
he said he had reckoned on that beforehand. “Of
oourse,” he remarked, “if the ship had gone down,
so would I ; then my friends could only have
shown their disapproval by refusing to wear
mourning. I daresay my wraith would not have
wept therefor.”
Under “proper ” conditions Petrie would have
made an appalling anarchist or a successful soldier.
Consider 1 its courage and resource. Finding
Sydney “hopeless” he walked to Newcastle;
no money, no tucker but what he could borrow by
the way. Writer next heard of him at Hono-
lulu ; he had worked his passage from Newcastle
in a coal-ship. (He had but one arm and was
anything but strong). A few months later he was
seen in ’Frisco selling bootlaces in the streets. He
wrote from there saying he intended to battle
down through Central America, across Brazil to
Paraguay, where he would knock at Lane’s door
and ask to be allowed to join Cosme. But in a
few weeks he was heard from at or about New
York. He had “ beaten ” the railroad companies
for a ride nearly the whole way across the con-
tinent ! Some of his written experiences of
stifling journeys, packed in among the merchan-
dise on freight trucks, and hairbreadth ’scapes
from heavily-booted and irate railway conductors,
would make sensational chapters in a tramp’s diary.
Somehow —Heaven knows how —he got from
New York by sea to Monte Video, then wrote
to Australian acquaintances from Cosme,
saying he reckoned he had found a per-
manent home at last. But he hadn’t.
Two years’ communism was more than enough
for the restless firebrand, and he _ went out into
the world again. He got a situation as railway-
watchman at Villa Rica, and expected to shortly
have enough money saved to take unto himself,
“with my one remaining arm,” a soft-eyed Para-
guayan wife. “ I am qow,” he wrote quite re-
cently, “ Senor Lorenzo de Petrie, and am almost
persuaded to become an individualist. But I
guess I’ll be a one-winged angel first.”
He probably guessed correctly.
J.D.
When Parnell, the originator of the eight-
hours’ movement, died at Wellington (M.L.) ten
years ago, a memorial-fountain was erected by
public subscription on the wall of the Public Lib-
rary. Since then it has been allowed to go to
rack and ruin. The bust of Parnell has been
chipped and broken, the gilt has been scratched
out of the lettering, and the marble slab is used to
record the unclean wit of the local larrikin. Better
to be altogether forgotten than have your ghost
come-back in after years to r see the uses your
monument is put to.


fs
GRAMOPHONES.
Price Complete, Net £6 Cash.
RECORDS, Extra, 2s 6d each, Net Cash.
Other Styles, £2 10s, £3 10s, £4 15s, £7, £B, £lO, £lO 10s
df
rFIH-lEZE WITH T<r A twt-ri
OIE 1
OtTK, AGE3\TT.4
A GRAMOPHONE makes a capital
present. Welcome everywhere and by
everybody. Endless amusement for
the festive season. Pleases your family
and friends. It more than takes the
place of a piano, banjo, mandolin, or
cornet, for you hear not only one, but
all these instruments, and many more,
as they are played, not by amateurs,
but by the most celebrated artists. No
matter how remote your habitation, it
brings within the family circle the
actual voices of orators, singers, come-
dians, and story-tellers, who perhaps at
that very moment are delighting
Metropolitan audiences with the same
eloquence, melody, humor, and dialect
that is coming from the Gramophone
in the quiet of a country home
hundreds of miles away.
•S.
-
. . $
mb,
fio [unit to Selections
There is practically no limit, either
in number, quality, variety, or fresh-
ness. For instance, no sooner does an
artist become a popular favorite than
he or she is invited to sing or play for
us into a Gramophone. As many
reproductions are possible from one
such performance, we can secure the
fery highest talent, and what costs us
iginally £2O to £lOO can be sold for
2s. 6d.
GRAMOPHONES can be seen,
heard, and purchased at all Music
Shops, Fancy Dealers, Stores,
Ac., all over the Colonies.
Man ufactu red
and
Guaranteed
by the
“HIB MASTER’S VOICE,"
GRAMOPHONE CO. Ltd., Maid*o Lao«, Straijd, Loodoo, W.C.
Wholesale Pgpot for Australasia: 163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Utterly Damned.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now, this is a song for the Lost to sing—
A hymn for the Utterly Damned ;
A lusty lilt for the sailor folk
Who the ships of sin have manned ;
A sneer for the men who might have been,
A curse for the things done well,
And a cheer for the straight-away course we
steered
Hard-down for the Port o’ Hell.
We’ve struck in the mouth the god of Hope;
We’ve spat in the face of Fate ;
There is no law for the Damned, messieurs,
But the law themselves dictate.
Friendship and love are a coarse-thrown jest
In the ranks of the outcast corps;
And truth lies rotting—a sacrifice
We made in the years of yore.
We throttled the Faith our fathers reared,
We left it a foul Thing, dead ;
We stared back hard in the eyes of Shame,
Till Shame hung down its head ;
Honor we stretched on a self-made Cross,
Laughed grim while the nails we drave,
Then buried the corpse where the blind worms
creep,
And covered with filth the grave.
But stick your hat on the side of your head—
’Tis treason to shrink with us ;
Stand stiff for the whip when the whip falls due—
Though it lash to the bone—no fuss 1
Let no man see by a twitching lip
The torturing power within—
For this is the pride of the Utterly Damned
That the least recruit must win.
A brave song this for the Lost to sing,
The hymn of the Utterly Damned;
A capstan chant for the sailor folk
Who the Ships of Sin have manned ;
A sneer for the Men we might have been,
A curse for the Things Done Well,
And a cheer for the straight-away course we
steered
Hard-down for the Port o’ Hell.
U.L.
J. BARR.
Mayor Ware—Kissy Ware—of Adelaide,
the man who insisted on kissing the Jook
of York’s hand when he was C.M G’d.,
seems to have enjoyed himself most grovel-
somely in Melbourne. After his return to
a !i , ? w °rshipful dignitary, from the parlor
at Adelaide Town Hall, wrote a letter to a livery-
stable-keeper, who promptly applied it to advt.
purposes—
Dear Mr. Blank.—l am writing these few lines to express
to you my appreciation of the cab which I had from you
during the recent Commonwealth festivities. It was a
really splendid vehicle, with every comfort. I also wish
to comey to you my best thanks for the .courteous atten-
taon which you, as driver, at all times paid me while I was
in Melbourne.
A Black Blot on White
Australia.
S'r West?- S ° N wri *- ea plainly on doings in the
John Forrest (for 10 years Premier of W.A., and now
wardTs hTa ° f the Commomve al t h) has come for-
ward as defender of the W.A system of aboriginal
ment'of nfl 6 A ° E that “ W..A. Govt.’s treat-
Anstr»i f 3 13 good> probabl > r better than any other
cal What'll-vi Btatement as false as ungrammati-
i w i l be3ldes W ’ A ’ aB3i B: ns its natives to any-
anting cheap labor? Forrest seems to think that
WbirVwf J r hU “ n bfger’’-slayers were Victorians
y birth, W.A. Govt, and people had no share in the
nrfm u Bay th ® . W-A ’ Govt ’ and its Jp - officials were
primarily responsible because they assigned the natives.
Even the birthplace argument is shallow. Bunbury may
produce a murderer some day when it awakes. I landed
almost S th Ck n 1" ““ N ° r ’ WeSfc ’ some years back, and
almost the first sound I heard was the clank of the chain-
gang of aboriginal prisoners at work on the W.A.
Govt, tram-line. They were chained round their necks
in pairs, and were repairing a line which a “ Willy Willy ”
(blackfellow’s name for cyclone or rainstorm) had
arnage . If two were engaged at wheelbarrow work
when the barrow wasfull one gothold of the handlesand his
attached” mate, dropping his shovel and gathering up
t e slack of the chain (connecting them), so that he
wouldnt trip over it, accompanied his black “brudder”
to where the barrow was tipped. He also had to go if
?w e A°^ thC svndicate had reply to a call of nature.
( v.A. Govt, makes no allowance for weak stomachs).
_ * *
Forrest says “the general opinion of those who visit
country portions of W.A. is that the natives are really
well-treated, and I know very well there is no cruelty
about it.” The Church of England Bishop of Perth
visited the Nor’-West some months before the “ Bendhu ”
case, and was the guest of various squatters there, yet in
a letter to a Perth paper on his return he said
"that from his observation” (you bet squatters
aid not let him see the worst of their system),
and from what he had heard, the Nor’-
West natives were not well treated.” John Forrest says
all Ji si. are native protectors, and the police are speci-
fy charged to repress any cruelties to natives that come
under their notice.” But most of the J’sP. are squatters
and squatters friends—the squatters being the“slave-
W. of the Nor’-West. I ask any reasoning human being
what justice will an unfortunate “ slave ” get if up for an
offence, when, as is mostly the case, the complainant is a
brother squatter and a brother slave-driver? As to the
police, they are weak human beings; and if a bush trooper
on his beat of 200 or 3 i 0 miles from station to station
rides up, and the squatter welcomes him effusively (for is
he not representative of the W.A. Govt. ?), invites him in-
side and makes much of him, is the said trooper likely
to favor the squatter or the down-trodden slave of the
squatter? Also, the squatter has “whips of time”
(appropriate phrase) to “deal it out” to niggers between
troopers visits, about every two months, and it’s certain
the squatter must inform on himself—if he is to be in-
formed on—the slave is too much “ frightened fella.” He
believes the squatter owns him body and soul, and with
reason. Talking of the Bendhu case, Forrest says it was
one of the worst that has ever occurred, and that the
Bendhu case was dragged before the world. Yet it took
three trials in W.A. to bring the killer of three people
(two women and a man) in guilty of—manslaughter 1
* * * *
The “ indentured ” natives are kept near starvation-
point on most N.W. stations. Camp on a station, and the
‘enslaved” natives (tied by the “indent” to that
station) will pester you for food. A man on tramp can’t
carry much, but for the bit he can give, he can pick his
choice with the native women and girls. It’s hunger
drives them, not lust. If you camp (I’ve done so) within
miles of a nigger “assigned” to one of these stations,
he 11 turn up almost every night for what food you can
give him, and he will bring his gin with him, if she’s
wanted, each visit. Again, a common practice on these
stations is what is known as the “ Pinki ” (native holi-
day)—a picnic where the tucker is flying in the air, or
crawling the earth, the natives having first to catch
Defore they can satisfy their hunger. This “ pinki ” takes
place when the kind “ master ” has no immediate
work for his “ indentured ” black goods, such as fencing,
clearing, &c., and he wants to save the stingy allowance
of low-class flour and damaged rice, which he is compelled
to give his “ stock ” to keep sufficient strength in them
so that they can toil. The bulk of these stations have
iar more natives than they really require, but the
squatters are so greedy that they get all the lot
assigned ” to them ; it allows for annual losses, break-
ages, sudden deaths, &c. So the “master” tells his
natives to go for a “pinki” for one moon, two moon, or
until he requires their services. The native can’t go where
he likes, and he must return at arranged time or else—
trooper neck-chains—trials for the runaway “assigned ”
native, who when guilty (he always is guilty)
1? «?n nlshe<1 ‘ T ! le magistrate will ask the employer
Will you have him flogged or imprisoned ?” This ques-
tion is as natural to a Nor’-West court as is the “guilty
or not guilty” of civilisation. If the “master” requires
the services of the native just then he will say, “ Oh, flog
him, and it is done, and the native handed over ; if the
master” does not require the native, “Oh, imprison
him, and then the native gets worked and fed at VV.A.
i? Vfc i. expense until sentence is served. To continue
about the “ Pinki.” The natives not needed just then
? lre ~uu c ks, gins, and picanninies—turned into the bush
to hunt the game that has so largely departed through the
squatters’ sheep. The natives hunt and eat everything
almost with life in it, and gather seeds, roots, &c., and
stick up every traveller they fall in with for tucker. Not
a , P ac * .move on the squatter’s part, if his
station _ is any way near a mining or digging
camp, is to let his spare natives go for “ Pinki ’’
every now and then so that they mav live on the diggers.
Women and men return to the station when the “ Pinki”
is over, carrying 601 b. flour bags, containing flour, tea,
&c., and clothed in the diggers’ cast-off shirts, pants and
hats—in fact, physically stronger and their nakedness
covered, without costing the squatter a bean.
* * * •
.Again, I’ve seen a native sent on the road with a mob
of killing sheep (native name, cookinjerry) sold to a pub-
lican about 20 miles off (owner of this station a small
squatter ; most of these Nor’-West squatters are only
cockatoos). The trip would take at least two days, as
the sheep must not be hurried. The native’s entire outfit
for the journey was a waist-strap round his middle, a
dirty handkerchief knotted to it back and front and
passing between his legs, and a quart-pot. He
would have to shepherd mob night and day, as there was
no yard on the road, and, while shepherding, find his food
on the bare road if he couldn’t cadge it from a chance
traveller.
• * • •
Again, I’ve worked on a diggings, nearest station 25 miles
oil, and I ve seen a native waik in with a pack-bag on his
head full of corned beef, and about 701 b. in weight. This
was in summer time (the Nor’-West is in the tropics,
average heat about 115 in the shade or more). The first
water on the road from that station was 16 miles (the
station-owner could find no water-bag for a “ damned
nigger of course). I’ve seen the squatter’s son take
delivery and tell the native “ walki morianti ” (meaning
travel quickly ”) and send that native back the
road he came without a mouthful of food—so miles
walk between meals—in Hell. That station had plenty of
horses, but horses are worth money and natives are not.
ve seen a native travel same journey and arrive with a
lib. tin of butter. I asked the squatter’s son if he would
not give native a feed before sending him back, and he
replied “ No ; he might loiter on the way.” So, unless
he scored a feed from a miner or at one of the pubs., he
travelled back as he arrived—empty inside ; and a fat lot
he received when he arrived back on the station—l li-.ow
it. I spoke to a white man in Roebourne, about five or six
years ago ; he drove the Govt, watercart up to the well,
where I was filling a waterbag. He wore the broad-
arrow suit, and I gave him a piece of tobacco (regret
doing so ever since), and asked him what was he
domg time ” for. Said he, “ I suppose vou read about
that nigger-shooting case at Nullagine? Well, what is the
blank-blanky country coming to when a white man gets
six weeks for shooting a blank - blanky nigger.” He
thought, really and truly, he was doing no harm in put-
ting a hole through “ his assigned servant ” ; he thought,
no doubt, the nigger was his, “body and bones”; tor
what else did the \V.A. Govt, mean by assigning “ the
nigger” to him,? Hence his very natural astonish-
ment at the severity of his punishment. The shooting
was done so openly, right in a diggers’ camp, that there
was no option but to take notice of it. Otherwise
* • • *
It is not necessary to go to South Africa to see niggers
flogged ; you can witness the flogging any day in “ Free
Australia,” and the police-court records of VV.A. will
prove it. What a splendid opening for the late-lamented
Mr. Legree, were he still to the fore ! I fancy I can see
him fixing a new wire cracker on his stockwhip, and
giving a preliminary crack or two to be sure it was in
good nick. I fancy I hear him exclaim with a shriek of
intense joy, mingled with pleased astonishment, “ What!
nothing to pay for the darned niggers ! By gosh, let me
at ’em !” And yet Mr. L. aforesaid would require to be
in good working fettle to beat the Bendhu record estab-
lished by the Anderson Bros.—that is for quickness and
thoroughness ; he would want a whip with a heavy fall
to smash up shoulder-blades as prettily as the Bendhu
pair did. But slavery ! cruelty ! In golden W.A. “ there
is none, of course,” says John Forrest.
• * • •
I’ve waited for Federation to raise my voice on the sub-
ject—it was no use before, whilst the W.A. Govt,
ruled and regulated the slave-trade in W.A.,
and paid no attention to papers, or crimes reported
against squatters, &c., unless compelled to do so, as in the
Anderson case. But if the Commonwealth Parliament
will appoint a Commission of Inquiry I will give names of
the stations and individuals (whites) I have referred-to,
and confirm all I’ve said on oath.
Which is a challenge that oan, The Bulletin
thinks, hardly be declined.
“ Agra ” tells an interesting bit of history,
or else a most deserving and cheerful lie :
Dear Bulletin. — Apropos the recent suppression of an
Irish newspaper : Here is a legend of India, showing that
the pen is mightier than the gun. Many of the States of
India are still semi-autonomous under their own Rajahs.
Now, these Rajahs were strongly opposed to the liberty of
the press (they are still, but they don’t show it with their
old candour), and when any native editor dared to criti-
cise them, by Allah 1 he was Suppressed. But some Of
the editors found that treasonous rags sold well, mainly
by reason of the shindy that everybody knew would
follow; so they would issue a flaringly re-
revolutionary newspaper, and, after collecting
the proceeds, bolt. Then when the angry Rajah sent the
native equivalent for the bobby to jug thated., they could
only seize ss. worth of an old rusty printing press. But
then that editor could not come back, and after the ex-
isting editors had bolted from all the existing States the
supply ran out. And things would have gone against
free speech, had it not been for a few Englishmen in
neighbouring British territory, who, when they heard
that there was money in it, swore that the right of the
enlightened press should not be trampled upon. There-
fore, they bought a few of the fastest available
horses, with a portable little printing press,
and were ready to battle with the enemy.
They proceeded thusly : Entering a native State, they
unpacked and issued a rag, which they called the Flying
Column. Now this paper contained nothing but the
grossest libels upon the Rajah and his Court, calculated
to boil the blood of an ice-chest and raise the ghosts of
his ancestors. They sold their copies (which were eagerly
bought-up). Then they “ got 1 ” A story is told of how
they were once pursued for three nights and days by
cavalry, but so far out-distanced their pursuers that they
were able to issue a special hotly-pursued Flying Column,
which sold at fancy prices. As the local half-monarchs
still remained obdurate, other Flying Columns came into
the field, until at last the Rajahs and Maharajahs realised
that the old stationary libeller was cheaper and more
respectful than his rushing substitute ; so they let him
come back, and killed the sale of his special seditious
edition by leaving him alone. The new horseback press
gradually died out after that, and to-day the legend of
the Flying Column is not as well-known in India as it
deserves to be.


Unable to Sleep, Could Not Eat,
Nerves Upset, joints Swollen.
A Grand Family Medicine, Good for all from the Young-
est to the Oldest. After the Doctor? had Failed to Cure,
Health was Quickly Restored by taking
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
v
9
“ Not long aero I was extremely ill. I could not sleep, eat, or work. My heart would throb
violently with the slightest exertion. My nerves were all upset and my joints were swollen so I
tOU l l “ l A!u\ > ie t doctors e lailed to cure me and I was completely discouraged. A friend then per-
suaded me to try Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and Pills. In a few days I felt better and it took only
two bottles of the Sarsaparilla to restore me to complete health
“My husband has taken Ayer’s Sarsaparilla with the greatest benefit, too. It cured him
of indigestion, general debility, and purified his blood when he was suflermg from boils,
“ I have given Dr. Ayer's Sarsaparilla to my children with the most wonderful effects.
It keeps their blood pure, builds them up, and makes them strong.”
This is the testimony of Mrs. Julia Osborne, Grand Junction Road, Rose-
water, Adelaide, So. Australia. She sends us her family photograph, which we
give above.
Good for all members of the family; hence its name —•
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
You must certainly be convinced that Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is a most won-
derful family medicine. It takes out all kinds of poisons from the blood, fills it
with life-giving power, and is the strongest nerve-tonic you can take.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
A Splendid Medicine for Children.
The cure is hastened bv taking AYER’S PILLS, a pleasant and easy laxative.
•ih
Hi
mSM
m
MJM
J
HJ
«
*
jm,
'^m
m
26
YEARS’ SUCCESS
AS THE
UNIVERSAL REMEDY
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
lA sthma, Bronchitis, 1
influenza, Whooping -
Cough, Consumption,
HAS MADE
junglomc
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY IN THE HOME
08. KIT OF EVERY COLONIAL.
It saves many Lives.
There is no difficulty in obtaining it, so
when you ash for Owbridge’s Lung
Tonic, insist upon having it, as
i other so-called remedies are
often substituted
Prepared, by
W.T. OWBRIDSE, K.P.S., Chemist, Hull.
Sold in battles, at Is 1 id., 25.9 d., 45.6 d., & 11s.,
by all Colonial Medicine Vendors. ■*
COPYRIGHT.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
vmm
I?OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos-iveness, Blotdhes on «xe Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.” , , t . ...
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, ana
arousing with the Rosebud op Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame, lhese
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to t
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medume m
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECH AM, St Helens, Lancashire, ENCLAND-
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is l|d, and 2s 9d each.
A POLICY FOR TH€
COMMONWEALTH.
Bcios a series of articles rcpriQt'd
fron) “The Bfilletio,” v/itb ao
appendix dealing witb tb« Fiscal
QCieStiOQ-
PRICE 6d.; posted, Bd.
S. FREEMAN # SONS L!^
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S baking powder.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
head office WYNIA ED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
m
The Universal Remedy for Acidity oi the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Grout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS 1
MAGNESIA.
MAGNESIA
Sold Throughout the Worm.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEPORD’S MAGNESIA,
SELECTION
n
m
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
o
IRISH MOSS
GEORaf.'*BONN(NGTON H 5
5 els els e s
A A o »p> <*** «w * W
jfetjsem
•> » A «r» «
tttf
TDTQTX
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
uenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and
■
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
N.:-


RUBBER GOODS
Waterproof Coats, 15s to 705.,
Rubber Boots, 17s 6d to 20s.
Goloshes —Ladies’, 2s 6d and 3s.
Gentlemen’s, 4s and
4s 6d.
Leggings, 4s 6d, ss, and 6s 6d.
Driving Rugs,
10s Gd, 16s Gd, 21s, 30s
Hot- TV ater Rags, Best English
Rubber, 6s and upwards
PBRDRiAtJ & CO.,
RUBBER MANUFACTURERS & IMPORTERS,
(Catalogues Post Free) 270 G© Drgf© Street, Sydney.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOB THI LADIES.
w. c- lEXj-D-RTIDGKE & GO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOJLtiv STltliiliJ l\ SIDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Iiall).
Country Orders by post t rum all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
CEORQE & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY. ?
APARTMENTS : Bedroom (single), 3s. per Day, or 21s.
per Week ; Bedroom (double), 6s. per day, or Two
Guineas'per Week.
Breakfast, Luncheon, or Dinner from
ONE SHILLING upwards.
Letters and Telegrams addressed to “ The Manager"
will receive prompt attention.
PUMPS
All have Wrought Iron Valve Gear.
POM both Horizontal & Vertical,
. . . KEPT IN STOCK . . .
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives,
32 anci 34 QSarence Street, Sydney.
Send for Catalogue.
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
u
PLUNGER AND RING PATTERN
m
SPOONS
AT THE
<She
IlLUMttll
J. ft J. MAXFIELD. Proprs.. SHEFFIELD.
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at ,'
“THE BLOCK,"
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
TZE3ZZED ZPZE&i-DZE! OZF 1 CO<3-ZLnT.A.C.
otrrpjs«bram py.
ZE3ST-A.ZBTZiISZE3ZZEZD 1795.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COC 0 A
BREAKFAST- SUPPER.
ERASMIC
PEERLESS
Unequalled as a Preserver and
Beautifier of the Complexion. It diffuses an exquisite
odor, and imparts a stimulating and refreshing influence.
SOAP
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
intiAs
&
&
peg
THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
And entirely removes
All Rough ness, Redness,
lan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
So/e Makers —M. BEETHAM &.SON,
i-ADE & Co.,
Melbo¥RNE.;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
1
sd
ER
PARKE & LACY CO.
LIMITED,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of >
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
AGENTS FOR PELTON and LEFFEL WATER WHEELS.
I3XT STOCK:
S<
Knowles Steam Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors, Nagel Horizontal
and Vertical Engines and Boilers, Pennsylvania Return Tubular Boilers, Buffalo
Blowers and Exhaust Fans, Morris Dredging Pumps, Bullock Diamond Drills, Dodge
Rock Breakers, Roger Rolls, Gates Rock Breakers, Challenge Ore Feeders, Hunting-
ton Quartz Mills, Wood and Iron Working and Laundry Machinery, and Mine and
Min Supplies 60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
And at San Francisco and London.
—————■ : - ■ ■ g=
BLAKE DIRECT ACTING STEAM PUMPS
SINGLE and
DUPLEX.
:: ••
. ■
DUPLEX OUTSIDE PLUNGER PATTERN.
Pumps for Every Possible Pumping Purpose.
Boiler’ Feeders
Light Serwiee Pumps
twining Pump s
Vacuum Pumps
Air Pumps
Air Compressors
Sole Agents in Australasia* —
H. P. GREGOR Y & GO.,
Sydney # Melbourne.
m
wmmm.
mm
mm
DUPLEX PISTON PATTERN.
