

McE WAN’S ALE.
■
GAELIC WHISKY.
IRROY’S
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
The Lancet.
ś
Combines Perfection
of Quality with
Absolute Purity,
“D.C.L.”whisky,
In Bulk and
Black Bottle
Everywhere.
x A. *=;
m
%
y
u
r/y
i
id
lUniilll
lUu'U
'I
&
P
m
<Z-
a
//_
••My Lords and Gentlemen, this is undoubtedly the best • CASE ’ / ever opened.
CHRITMAS
NUMBER
OF THE BULLETIN
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vot. 22.—N0. 1138.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1901.
Price <srx


. s Eumenthol Jujubes
COUGHS, COL]
bronchitis;
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
‘SNIX
P 9
X*P
Wifi
'NO
•(aaaaisi
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
,G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q,
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE ; and FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., MELBOURNE, AGENTS.
a Tired Throat,
THE RED PAGE.
The Crown of Outn-Leaves.
THE little iron-grey man stood at the door of his
hostel, calmly eyeing the distance. In the direc-
tion in which he looked, toward Alice Springs,
nothing was visible but the stony floor of the
desert, shimmering under a sky of brilliant blue. Here
and there a clump of ragged mulgas dotted the expanse ;
the Mitchell-grass left by the rains had been scorched to
dry roots. He moved inside to cast a final glance at the
preparations which She had ordered. In the larger room
the massive table filled nearly the whole of the space.
Around it, on three sides, chairs were ranged so closely
that there was scarcely room to walk between
them ; and at the head, on a dais raised somewhat above
the floor, stood one chair alone. In such a place, these
chairs were remarkable ; for each was carved from a solid
block of wood, and their grotesque ornamentation seemed
to embody the oddest vagaries of aboriginal fancy.
Except for the table and the chairs, the room was empty
and the stone walls were uncoloured and bare. The
man surveyed anew the disposition of the chairs, found
nothing to alter, and returned to the door. It was not yet
ten o’clock, and She had told him to prepare all for Her
peculiar hour of noon. He filled his pipe and waited
calmly.
A stranger—and all white men were strangers in that
district in the heart of Australia—would have wondered
to see a stone house, solidly built, standing so far in the
desert. It was away from all roads, and even away from
the central telegraph line. No wheel-tracks were seen
near it; no path led from it in any direction. Appar-
ently none but wandering aboriginals could ever have
taken advantage of its shelter. Yet there it stood under
the fierce Sun, in the unbroken silence \ and. a sign which
seemed to mark it as a hostel swung 1 from a projecting 1
beam above the door. Upon one side of the sign was
written, in red letters, the word
Riot! ‘
Upon the other side was written, in black letters, the
word
Rest.
Beneath the sign the little iron-grey man smoked calmly.
His second pipe was half-finished when his attentive
e P erceive d upon the eastern horizon a blurred patch
which seemed to be detaching itself from the blurred
clumps of distant mulga. He watched with calm interest:
it was a year since he had seen a white face. The patch
quickly defined itself and took shape as a figure on horse-
back, which presently trotted up to the door and asked
for Scotch whisky. The little iron-grey man surveyed
the visitor calmly. He was a small, boyish fellow, with a
good-natured expression—his face told nothing in par-
ticular beyond good-nature; and he rode an old gray
horse which looked as if it had been hungry for soma
years. .
“I suppose this is the place?” he asked, with a light
smile. ®
The little iron-grey man took his pipe from his mouth
“ This is the place.”
“ And what about the whisky?"
“There is nothing but mulga rum ; you’re welcome to
that.
The visitor dismounted, and the gray horse immediately
lay down and made noises suggestive of hunger His
rider patted him kindly, and followed the little iron-
grey man inside to the smaller room, where a row of
wooden vats stood behind a carved wooden counter The
little iron-grey man filled a glass with fluid which 'shone
with the deep, intense blue of the sky without.
“ And this is mulga rum?”
“ Ay—distilled from the sap of the mulga ”
The visitor tasted it. “ Funny flavour ?” he smiled
“ The best flavour,” said the little iron-grey man.
The visitor drank, and presently asked for another
giass. The little iron-grey man shook his head. “ Better
not 1 he said, and went outside.
“ Hold on ! I have n’t paid you.”
The little iron-grey man took no notice. He was watch-
ing the arrival of tvyo more travellers, on foot.
“Now we’ll have an explanation of the mystery!”
said the leader of the two, a shortish fellow, with a brown
face framed m rusty-brown hair. “ Are you the pro-
prietor of this caravanserai ? . . . Hullo' You here'” He
shook hands with the first traveller without pausing in
his question. . s
The little iron-grey man nodded.
‘‘Then can you tell me why I and my friend here have
suddenly felt an irresistible impulse to come to this out-
landish place why we simply had to come—couldn’t
keep our feet away from it ?- and can you tell us, further
who paid our fares and smoothed away the obstacles of
the journey ?—and can you tell us, finally, why we both
had a premonition that we must bring a poem in our
pockets ?”
he iron-grey mhn paused in re-filling his pipe.
You will know later,” he said, calmly.
“You haven’t sampled the rum yet!” said the first
traveller, with his genial stnile.
“ Rum ! Good God ! where is it! Coine along 1 ” He
hurried inside, followed by his mate, a tall, silentious
person with a long head and eyes of faded blue.
“ Well, this is rum ! ” He held the glass admiringly to
the light and sniffed the pervasive odour. He tasted it.
“ Rum ! It is nectar—pure nectar ! This is the drink
that Ganymede gives to the gods. And as we are the
gods, you he took off his hat and bowed magnificently
to the little iron-grey man—“ must be Ganymede ! ” He
looked round triumphantly to mark his effecn-drank—
smacked his lips—and threw out commandingly the arm
which held the glass. “ Another glass, Ganymede ! ”
“ Bet ” commenced the little iron-grey man, and
checked himself, looking at his guest. He re-filled the
glasses, “ft’s good, isn’t it,” said the tall man tenta-
tively, resting himself loosely on the counter.
“Good!” The rusty-brown traveller flung out his
arms with a gesture of sweeping disdain. “Good!
Here is the best liquor in all the earth—in all the earth 1
—and a far better liquor than they have wit to concoct
in Heaven—and this man says it’s good ! Good ! My
God ! ” But seeing that there was no longer an audience
(for the little iron-grey man had returned to the door),
he dropped his voice and remarked meditatively, “I
wonder what we ’re here for ? There are more of them
’Hitside.”
Indeed, travellers were now fast arriving. The first
was a tallish, thinnish fellow on foot, with a sunken
visage lighted by soft, dark eyes. He slouched up to the
door with, “ Well, chaps, I see you ’re all here ! ’’—and was
immediately beckoned to the counter by the rusty-brown
man, who had already taken charge of the proceedings
and was playing the part of host with practised ease.
The next came ambling up on a good horse. He was a
muscular fellow, clean-shaven, with an anxious brow :
and he threw half-nods all round as he recognised the
company. Followed him a stoutish young man with a
florid complexion and a fine dome of skull. He padded
eisurely to the door, looking enquiringly around, but
vith the self-conscious expression of one who is master of
is fate and equal to any sj'mbol under cover of which
ortune may present herself. Then followed a tribe of
'hers wearing various aspects—all of them (with excep-
on of a lad of seventeen who walked with the air of
iditative seventy) being in turn introduced to the sap-
ire mulga-essence behind the carved counter,
t vvas now nearly noon. The little iron-grey man cast
eeisive glance at the sun, put his pipe in his pocket,
sed. the door, and calmly motioned the company into
larger room. No sootier were they seated than fche
ion of their presence seemed to become manifest simul-
aously to them all.
“Oh, that’s it, is it,” said the anxious-browed horse-
man. “ Then ”
“ Allow me ! ” interposed, the rusty-brown traveller,
rising m Ins seat with' the importance of a master of
ceremonies, and moving towards the unoccupied chair at
the head of the table. The Jittle iron-grey man, standing
beside it, shook his head; calmly. “ Oh, very well—no
matter—l can speak just as well where I am. Gentle-
nen !—We are met here, as I understand, at the invita-
ion of the Genius of Australia *he bowed graciously to-
rards the empty chair—“ to decide which of our number
hall be hailed arid acclaimed as ' Poet Laureate of this
lagnificent continent.”
paused. In the space upon the table directly
in front of the vacant chair,, there had’ become suddenly
visible a wreath of gum-leaves. No one had placed it
there ; it simply manifested ftself, like a Mahatma’s letter
arriving from unknown heights of space. All eyes turned
to it; even the elderly lad of seventeen regarded it with
mild curiosity. At the same moment there vvas a rustlin<>'
of silken garments as if some .person had occupied the
chair at the head of the table ; and all were conscious of
anew Presence in the room—a Presence intensely vital: ‘
splendidly imperious, distinctly feminine. The little iron- '
grey man bent in an attitude of worship.
Afteg, .a in a iowe>, ■
■voice : ‘>We-are here, gentlemen. I say; to 'declde whiefi
of our number shall be called—er—Laureate of Australia ;
and I doubt not that you have been impelled to bring—
er—as 1 have, some—er—testimonial of vour title to this
high and honourable office. I gather that it is the wish
ot the er—exalted Personage whauv llwiw understand
S® PfM T he looked inquiringly at the-Chair—
t S C fchese testimonials shall now be read, and'my own
Proceed to read to you. Possibly, when I have
{*"„ ed «T7 he invitingly at the wreath of giim-
f ,? s )( m may be thought—er—unnecessary to go any
* ‘ He looked round with an air of illumination,
a continued : It has this moment been made known to
ej.jrentlemen«, at the will of our gracious Hostess” —he
, Patronisingly to the Chair—“ and, doubtless, to
y u also, that should my—er—that should any of our
P°? v r seem to Her worthy, that wreath of
gum-leaves which we see before us will of its own motion
ascend to crown the brow of the Laureate. Well, then,”
—he smoothed his hair—“ ahem * ”
The rusty-brown traveller closed in a cadence of
ecstasy, with an expectant eye on the wreath of gum-
leaves. There was a little sigh from the Chair, followed
by a movement of impatience, and the wreath did not
move. “ Oh, very well, then—- ! ” He sat down
fioisily, and scowled as he pushed his manuscript about
on the table. The little iron-grey attendant nodded to
the wiry horseman, who commenced rather nervously :—
“ Y ou ’re out of it! ” cheerfully remarked the rusty-
brown traveller, who had recovered his natural good-
hiimour. “Who’s next?”
“I believe I am next,” said the traveller with the
Jovian brow, rising rather ponderously. “ The piece
which I am now about to read to you, Madam ” —he
addressed the Chair with dignity—“ may be considered
somewhat difficult of apprehension ; but that is a quality
which it shares in common with everything which repre-
sents the triumph of refined taste as opposed to that of
the gross herd— ‘ la multitude vile,’ as Baudelaire fitly
describes them. I admit, however, that the piece is not
designed to be ingested in the process of oral recita-
tion. Nevertheless •”
He paused. All eyes, and ears, were turned to the
Chair. Yes, there it came again—a sound scarcely
breathed, softly modulated ; yet a snore, a distinct,
unmistakeable Snore !
A hot-tempered poet rose, stuttering: “ B-b-but this
is m-m-monstrous ! I have n’t read m-m-mine yet! ”
“ Nor II” “ Nor me 1 ” “ We have n’t read ours ! ”
cried fourteen poets in chorus.
Everybody rose and gesticulated with the exception of
the traveller whose reading had be'-n interrupted. He
seated himself with the expression of Eugene Aram in
the condemned cell, equal to either fortune. The hubbub
grew around him. The rusty-brown traveller, expostu-
lating, “Gentlemen! Gentlemen!” was powerless to
quell the tumult. The little iron-grey man appeared
perplexed, but calm.
Suddenly there was silence. As mysteriously as She
had come, they felt the Presence vanish. For a moment
they were awed. Then a poet rose to his opportunity.
“I have not yet read mine,” he explained; “ but mine
is undoubtedly the best. Therefore——’ And he
stretched over the table and grasped the wreath of gum-
leaves.
That is, he grasped the space where the wreath had been.
For, even as he touched it, it disappeared beneath his
fingera: one would have said it had melted into air.
There remained—a single leaf.
Instantly the poets nearer to the leaf threw themselves
upon it. Those farther from the leaf threw themselves
upon the poets. There was combat and a scuffle. Loud
voices affirmed superiority; louder voices denied.
Several poets on the. outskirts of the struggling mass
commenced to read their pieces to each other. Then the
little iron-grey man perceived it was time to act.
Upon his hint several left the room. The others he
collared and took in turn to the door, kicking them forth
calmly, but not unskilfully. When all were out, he
closed the door.
No sooner had a poet reached the open air than he tot-
tered and fell, and slept instantly where he fell. Not one
who had partaken of the mulga rum escaped its potent
stupor. The youthful antique alone remained erect,
gazing pensively at the prone forms that strewed the
ground around him. ,While light remained, he busied
himself in inditing a poem descriptive of the scene.
When the light failed, he chose the plump and dignified
traveller for a pillow, and slept deliberatively. Above
him, in the newly-risen breeze of evening, the sign of the
hostel creaked backward and forward between its legends
of Riot and Rest—Riot, and Rest. And the vast wings
of Night drooped over all.
When the travellers woke at daylight, dishevelled but
buoyant, they stared round in surprise. They lay, or sat,
or stood, among the stones of the desert. The hostel had
vanished. The more curious searched for its site, but
found no trace that a building had stood where they
remembered it. Then —was Yesterday a dream ? No ;
for an ambient odour of mulga rum still remained like a
blessing upon the spot. “ The rum at least was real,”
muttered the rusty-brown traveller regretfully.
It was fortunate that some of them had sandwiches .in
their pockets ; and they remembered having passed a
waterhole not far away. Gradually they made their
way back to civilisation. Nobody yet wears the crown of
gum-leaves.
But the leaf remains in the possession of the poet with
the best right to it.
A.G.S.
AMARANTH.
rjlHE days rise up in argent pride,
The nights are steeped in purple dreams,
But not for me the radiant tide,
And not for me the poppied streams.
The cynic years have brought no calm ;
No glory dazzles through the haze ■
In vain I seek the ancient balm,
In vain the light of other days.
F? ufch dun £ Hrgesse to the winds
that brought new gifts from every clime,
a P er * Love attuned our minds,
And Beauty consecrated Time.
And hand-in-hand we wandered through
dlm ’ del icious orchard-close,
Where many a lovely flower blew
In fragrance to out-vie the Rose,
Who flaunted splendour all around
As never since the world began,
Save in the enchanted Persian ground
Of sweet-voiced Saadi’s Gulistan.
Yet when you stayed to pluck a flower
High-destined to a happier lot:
“This rose will not outlive the hour,
And even fades forget-me-not
You said,—“ but when this day has flown,
Ihat you may aye remember me
Through life, and death, and all, your own—
Take amaranth, and rosemary.”
Then in that shining orchard there
Our dreams made musi all the day.
With viol, lute, and dulcimer
We watched them pass in brave array.
And you were Queen of Phantasy,
And I was King of Fair Romanes t
To us the courtiers bent the knee,
For us the minstrel and the dance.
Our throne was one great amethyst
Shapen and carved with cunning arts,
The footstools that our suppliants kissed
Were opals shot with fiery darts.
The arras of our presence-hall,
Woven by looms of far Cathay,
Bade Life and Death in worship fall,—
So dark its shades, its hues so gay.
And pages, slashed and furbelowed,
' Sported with scarlet shoulder-knots
Where musical, sweet waters flowed
From sculptured founts and hidden grots ;
And Love and Joy, with hurrying feet,
Presided over all our hours,
Till came a gust of wintry sleet,
And birds were mute, and drooped the flowers.
And now, alas ! in exile old,
From that fond empire fallen low,
I mourn the days of rose-and-gold,
The halcyon prime of long ago.
I know not where your spirit flies,
In what dark realm for succour craves,
Or if in lost Atlantis sighs
And wanders far beneath the waves,
Or if in some Hesperides
Where blessed souls, divinely pure,
Beneath the golden-fruited trees
Walk in a peace for ever sure ;—
But wheresoever you may be,
I pray that God may give me grace
One day in far eternity
To gaze a moment on your face,
Come then the torment and the pain 1
Come then the tempest of the soul 1
I shall be bathed in bliss again
. Till Time shall wither like a scroll.
For sweet Adonis’ festival
The Greeks of old a garden grew,
Where lettuce twined with fennel tall,
But never came a slip of rue ;
For when the short-lived feast was o’er
The faded wreaths were thrown away,
And why remember, why deplore
(They said) the joys of Yesterday 1
I too grew for the feast of Life
Within my heart a garden rare,
Where Love and Fame, in friendly strife,
And every pleasing flower had share.
The rose, and royal hollyhock,
Blue lavender and lily, too,
I tended—and the Fates made mock,
For ah ! their roots were all in You.
I watched them one by one depart,
And of them all remains to me
This fadeless blossom of my heart,
The amaranth of Memory.
THE HONCUR OF THE DISTRICT.
' TTE was a noble Englishman—a-travelling round the
J - J *' earth
To cure incipient tendency to gout—-
1 so he said; and ten' portmanteaux guaranteed his
birth,
j But the Cooma district could n’t make him out.
- For he turned up at Kiandra, when the carnival was on,
And he won the champion snowsiioe-race with ease ;
The local heroes hung their heads and said, when he had
gone,
’T was plain the gout had never reached his knees !
His name was something-Cholmondeley; he w r as very
wide-awake;
: And all the girls admired his Alpine hat ;—
f But, you see, it was the honour of the district was at
, stake,
? And they p@uld n’t let him travel off with that.
He was heard of next at Jindabyne, duck-shooting in the
, spring, °
And he killed his birds without a single miss ; ■
And the veteran Jinda sportsmen, who “preferred a
' lively: wing,”
Opened eyes and muttered, “ What the gout is this < ”
He was asked to Adaminaby, to see some shearing done
(He grew fonder of the district every day),
And tlie boys all looked delighted when he said that iust
•for fun, - ■ J
He would shear a few to drive the gout away !
So they chose a heavy wether, with a real mountain
fleore,
And they showed him'hoW he ought to hold the shears
(The points away) and. how to pluck-the- wool (like
plucking geese),—
And they stood around prepared with cheerful jeers.
But the stranger gripped the wether like a workman with
his knees,
And his stroke was swift and clean—a ringer’s clip ;
He had finished that big wether in five minutes, if you
please !
And had pinked as if the boss was at his hip.
He said he felt that nothing helped like shearing for the
gout,
And he kept the pickers going all the day ;
The ringer had shorn eighty five, when Cholmondelev
with a .•vbmtt , y . .
Marked “Ninety !”—and'the bell rang—“ Wool away i ”
But he said, of course with practice he wouid really get
In love, and war, and sport, and work, an Englishman
could lead -. yj
If he only once made up his mind to try.
But the boys were very sulky, for they had n’t a reply,
And they put their heads together what to do,
When suddenly Wild Donegan jumps up and slaps his
thigh :
“ By Hokey ! lads, we’ll see the beggar through !
We’ll have a little steeplechase, a sweet three mile or so,
And set the course down Xungar mountain side ;
We’ll make a jolly day of it, and ask the girls below,
And we ’ll string my noble Johnny on to ride ! ”
A deputation went at once to state the little plan,
And the Englishman was willing—for, of course,
Though he wasn’t any horseman, he believed that any
man
With good English blood could sit upon a horse.
The day came round, and such a crowd was never seen
before, —
From every station round, from every town,
From Tumut, Gilmore, Adelong, they rallied by the score
To see the noble Englishman put down.
They gave him a young brumby that was only ridden
twice,
But he managed to stick on through all the chaff ;
And then the starter called them, and they cantered in a
trice,
While the girls picked places ready for the laugh.
The start was up among the clouds that hid the moun-
tain top,
And the riders all seemed dropping on your head ;
You’d think that once they tumbled they would never,
never stop
Till they landed in the rocky streamlet-bed.
They came down helter-skelter, and the stones flew in
their wake ;
And they risked their'necks, quite careless of a fall,
For they knew the tarnished honour of the district was
at stake—
But the Englishman rode straightest of them all !
He brought his mount in lengths ahead, a-tremble and
a-foam ;
When the others straggled after in a tail,
He was talking to the girls about, the hunting leaps “ at
home ”
Forty feet of ditch beyond a nine-foot rail 1
He feared he had done badly—since he saw they looked
askance,
But he wished he had his Shetland pony there
He had ridden when a youngster—that he might have
had a chance
To show the girls what Englishmen could dare 1
And the boys of Adaminaby, with faces long and glum,
Loosed bridles and rode silently away :
They felt too sick for cursing, but they wished in
Kingdom Come
The Johnny who had beaten them that day.
But jolly Jeanie Mackie was with indignation full,
And she gathered all the girls together there :
Says she, “The boys have failed to get this Johnny by
the wool,
So we girls will try and catoh him by the hair !
He put them down quite easily—no wonder that they
frown !
But the honour of the district is at stake ;
And there’s one thing, girls, I wager that he never will
put down—
And that’s a slice of Tumut Ohristmas-cake 1
Now, the Tumut cake is famous over all the country-side,
For the recipe is never known to fail :
’T was invented by a bushranger to welcome home his
bride,
And they hanged him for the crime in Wagga gaol.
It is tougher than the hair-ball that you find inside a cow,
And the currants break your teeth off when you bite :
There was no one ever heard of who could eat a slice,
they vow,
And a single crumb will turn a stranger white.
So they set to work and made it, and they mixed it
double strength,
’Stead of treacle using glue, to take no chance ;
They baked it for a week or more, and when ’t was done
at length
They invited all the district to a dance.
The noble Englishman came first: his dancing was
renowned ;
He put all the local steppers in the shade ;
And he held the girls so deftly that they never touched
the ground,
But flew like birds—no matter what they weighed !
So they felt a little sorry when the supper-bell rang out,
And even Jeanie’s voice commenced to shake
When she said, “Oh, Mister Oholmondeley, you are hungry
now, no doubt,
Won’t you try a slice of Tumut Ohristmas-cake ! ”
But he simply said “ With pleasure ! ” Lord ! that man
had pluck in stacks !
And she passed him a great slice upon a plate
(They’d chopped at it for half-an-hour, until they broke
the axe)
And all the people gathered round to wait.
They saw it was the real thing, as black as night inside,
With delusive sugar icing, pink and white ;
And strong men gasped and shuddered, and the women
nearly cried,
As the Englishman prepared to take a bite.
He took it, and it held his jaws as firmly as a vyce ;
But the courage of the dogged British race
Rose within-him, and he stiffened all his muscles to the
slice,
And he ate it without stirring from his place 1
But hardly had he finished when he gave a fearful yell,
And leapt in air eleven feet or more ;
He writhed, and squirmed, and fought, and tore, and
wriggled where he fell,
And his horrid groaning noises shook the floor.
They almost felt -remorseful as they watched the wreck
he made,
So they lifted him and put him in a bed ;
And all the girls stood round him with their handker-
chiefs displayed,
And when the spasms had left him, thus he said :
“ Here die I an Englishman, who loved his country well,
And my enemies I honestly forgive ; ,
But there’s no man born of woman, and no devil out of
hell,
Who could eat a slice of Tumut cake and live ! ”
So he died, as was expected, and the people all agreed
It was right the district honour so to save ;
And his funeral was elegant as any man could need,
And three parsons were discoursing at his grave.
And the boys all threw a clod upon the coffin—just for
luck,
And the girls sowed weeping willows for his sake ;
Though bonnie Jeanie Mackie lost her pride and lost her
pluck,
And cried at home as if her heart would break.
They got a Sydney tombstone up, with all his names in
full
(There were nine beside the Oholmondeley)—and a text;
For they knew a noble Englishman is pure merino wool,
And they did n’t want his mother to be vexed.
So the job was neatly finished; every man his shilling
gave, < .
For the honour of the district was at stake ;.
And they tell the stranger proudly : “ He was bravest of
the brave;
But we put him down—with Tumut Ohristmas-cake ! ”
There was a sound from the Ohair as of a half-suppressed
laugh—a laugh deliciously toned ; but the wreath did not
move. The tall, fair traveller, who had several times
half-risen from his seat, seized the opportunity, and read
in a dreamy, chanting voice some lines, of which only
here-and-there-a-one was audible :
The city lay a-swelter in the heat . . •
There came a wind, a lion-wind that leapt . . .
And little children gasped and strove for breath . • .
Drooped necks like weary lilies on their stalks . • •
Until—
. . . and eyes awoke to shine
And men praised God for life and love, fair women ana
red wine.
he ended, with impressive unction ; but the gum-leaves
only shivered slightly, as if a breeze had passed over
them. The little iron-grey man nodded to the first-
comer, who rose with an apologetic smile.
“ I’m afraid mine isn’t of very much account,” he said ,
“but of course I don’t take myself very seriously, and
I’d never dream of expecting any such honour as that
which is proposed for one of the others, whom I’m sure
are all very much better than I am.” This modesty being
greeted with encouraging cries of “ Go on ! ’’—and a
marked wave of sympathy proceeding from the Chair
the speaker was emboldened to read the following :
BEAUTY'S A-FLOWER!
mHE sun goes down in glory,
A- The long day’s toil is done :
’T is time to tell the story
That waits for set of sun.
Gray Ronald whinnies waiting ;
The good horse knows his task ;
For Night’s the time for mating,
And Love has but to ask.
So mount in haste, fond lover 1
And o’er the plain away ;
There’s fifteen miles to cover,
And back by break of day.
Through cabbage-gums a-blossom
In Springtide’s lavish dower :
With million-creaming bosom
The grey Bush is a-flower 1
So up the rocky ridges,
Along the silent creek
Where spiders build their bridges
And ghostly curlews shriek ;
Till, swift as Love’s own shallop,
We skirt the timber dead
And settle for the gallop—
The fence a mile ahead.
What fence would stop a lover
With Beauty waiting there 1
Sq off-.’. . and up . . . and over 1
With half-a-yard to spare.
Was ever good horse bolder! i •
What reck though. Fortune lower .
The foam-flecks gem his shoulder—
Gray Ronald is a-flower !
A mile, and then I wander
The garden path I know :
See ! in her window yonder
The trysting light burns low.
Hush, voice ! what need of token ?
Hush, heart! her pledge is true :
Such faith was never broken ;
She’s yours, and all for you . . .
A footstep patters lightly,
A face upturns to mine,
A snowdrift breast heaves whitely
And misty blue eyes shine ;
0, Love it is Life’s noon-light
And this Love’s day and hour—
Her lips meet mine in moonlight,
And Beauty is a-flower !


BEST AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
THE POETICAL WORKS OF BRUNTOIM STEPHENS.
Now and Enlarged Edition, with Photogravure Portrait. Cloth Gilt, Gilt Top, ss; by Post, 5s 6d. ( Uniform with “The Man from Snowy River.")
JOE WILSON AND HIS MATES. By Henry Lawson.
A New Volume of Stories, Just Published. Cloth, 3s 6d ; paper covers, 2s 6d (postage 6d).
The Commonwealth Series.
Is per vol.; by post, Is 3d.
No. 1. ON THE TRACK: New Stories. By Henry Lawson.
„ 2. OYER THE SLIPRAILS : New Stories. By Henry Lawson.
„ 3. POPULAR Y ERSES. By Henry Lawson.
„ 4. HUMOROUS YERSES. By Henry Lawson.
„ 5. WHILE THE BILLY BOILS : First Series. By Henry Lawson.
„ 6. WHILE THE BILLY BOILS : Second Series. By Henry Lawson.
„ 7. HISTORY OF AUSTRALASIA. By A. W. Jose.
With 70 Maps and Illustrations. (Also published in Cloth at Is. 6d.)
„ 8. AUSTRALIAN BUSHRANGING : The Early Days. By C. White.
„ 9. AUSTRALIAN BUSHRANGING: 1850 to 1862. By C. White.
„ 10. AUSTRALIAN BUSHRANGING : 1863 to 1869. By C. White.
Snowy River Series.
5s per vol.; by post, 5s sd.
THE MAN FROM SNOWY RIYER, and Other Verses. By A. B. Paterson.
WHEN THE WORLD WAS WIDE, and Other Verses. By Henry Lawson.
WHERE THE DEAD MEN LIE : Poems. By By Barcroft H. Boake.
RHYMES FROM THE MINES, and Other Lines. By Edward Dyson.
AT DAWN AND DUSK : Poems. By Victor J. Daley.
Billy Boils Series.
3s 6d per vol.; by post, 3s lid.
WHILE THE BILLY BOILS : Australian Stories. By Henry Lawson.
VERSES, POPULAR AND HUMOROUS. By Henry Lawson.
ON THE TRACK AND OVER THE SLIPRAILS : Stories. By H. Lawson.
LOVE AND LONGITUDE : A Story of the Pacific in 1900. By R. Scot Skirving. With 8 Plates Cloth gilt, gilt top. 5s ;by post, 5s 6d.
FOR THE TERM OF HIS NATURAL LIFE. By Marcus Clarke. Memoir of the Author by A. B. Paterson. With 16 Plates. Cloth gilt, gilt top, 3s 6d; by post, 4s.
AUSTRALIAN BUSHRANGING : The Early Days to 1862. By Charles White. Illustrated. Cloth, gilt, 3s 6d ; by post, 4s.
TEENS : A Story of Australian Schoolgirls. By Louise Mack (Mrs. J. Percy Creed). With 14 Plates by Mahony. Cloth, gilt, 2s 6d ; by post, 3s.
GIRLS TOGETHER : A Sequel to “ Teens.” By Louise Mack (Mr. J. Percy Creed). Illustrated by Lambert. Cloth, gilt, 2s 6d : by post, 2s lOd.
THE SPIRIT OF THE BUSH FIRE, and other Australian Fairy Tales. By J. M. Whitfeld. Illustrated by Lambert. Cloth, gilt, 2s 6d ; by post, 3s.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON,
89 Castlereagh St., Sydney, and 205 Swanston St., Melbourne,
and from all Booksellers, Stationers, Newsagents and Storekeepers throughout Australia and New Zealand.
ŝd
Amateur Photography
A CAMERA
Is essentially THE GIFT OF THE
SEASON, and our Showroom is
replete with various Styles, Sizes and
Grades of Cameras, all open for
inspection, and assistants ready to
give free instructions in their use.
PRICES : from 5/- up to £5O.
NOTICE
For the benefit of BEGINNERS in Photography,
we have arranged to give a series of Practical
Demonstrations, absolutey free of any charge
whatever —Mondays, Thursdays and Fridays, at 1.15 p.m.;
Wednesdays, at 3 p.m., at 66 King-street (between George
and York Streets).
fs
The Most
Healthy and
Popular
Pastime
for I
Ladies,
Gentlemen,
Girls and
Boys.
SEND FOR
Illustrated
Catalogue
FREE.
%
y
Nai)d Cameras
Staled Cameras
Pocket Cameras
Kodak Cameras
. . AND . .
€Vsry
PHOTO. REQUISITE
aryd NOVELTY.
HARRINGTON & CO., Ltd.
66 KING ST., SYDNEY.
Branch :
93 Quoen-at., Brisbane.
Agents :
Craven & Co., 179 Collins-st.?
Melbourne;
A> L. Tilly, 504 Hay-st, Perth;
P. Ash, Elizabeth-st., Hobart.
df


TATTERSALL’S.
Addresa s Car© CEO- ADAMS, Hobart.
Summer C, Dec. 26.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name.
Address.
s t
Carrington S. Dec. 28.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me.
Name
Address
.shares in the above.
Brighton P. Jan. 1,1902.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot mo.
Name __
shares in above.
«£
Address
s
s
Launceston C. Jan. 22.
60,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
.shares in above.
Name_
£ i *
Address^
Hobart C. Jan. 29.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.— shares in the above.
Name
Address
£ '
s
£,
Anniversary H. Jan. 27.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me, _shares in the above.
Name
Address
s
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tetter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


They come and go. A couple of years ago
the Rontgen rays came with a great blare of
trumpets as a supposed cure of absolute baldness j
then, later on, we heard some mumbling re an
oxygen cure —but nothing came of them ; and so
far, the only one that has stood its ground, backed
up bv a number of unique testimonials, is the
celebrated Capilla Hair Tonic. An advt. of an
extraordinary nature concerning it appears in our
business columns.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
oel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
sd
G-O TO ECKT.T-.-
IGOLANJ) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price*
lists gratis.
HATS.
HATS. HA .I§,
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes htted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
We learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attached to every bottle of Oondy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
curing most of the ailments and accidents
affecting Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry,
and Birds of all kinds.
Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses.—Scab, Foot Rot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Rinderpest, Hoove, Foul in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle. —Distemper
Mange, Canker, and Eczema in Dogs.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of local substitutes, all are
inferior. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have alwa3'B on hand
FOR AUCTION A FOR PRIVATE SALS
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SiLK S>Tripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Hal/'-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q'land
OR. pEARLY TEETH
Opopto
OR PEARL DENTIFRICE.
Known for 75 years to be the Best and
Purest Tooth Powder, as it contains no
acid or gritty substances which ruin the
Teeth and produce premature decay; it
WHITENS THE TEETH,
Prevents and arrests decay, strengthens the
gums, and gives a pleasing fragrance to the
breath. It penetrates to the hidden flaws
and crevices of the teeth, and preserves and
beautifies them for years. Ask Stores and
Chemists for ROWLAND’S ODONTO,
of 67, Hatton Garden, London.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Next Distribution of the Profits at 31st December, 1901.
Policies Effected before the close of the year will participate in the Bonus to be then allotted.
Amount of Cash Bonus divided among the participating Policyholders for the single year 1900 was £,537,895.
(All bonuses vest immediately on policies attaining a duration of two years.)
Intending Proposers should note the above carefully, and send in their applications early, either direct or through
any of the Society’s Agents, so as to reap the benefit of this year’s bonus.
DIRECTORS : Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman ; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman ; lhe
Hon. R. J Black, M.L.C. ; Benjamin Short, Esq.; Senator J. T. Walker; J. Abbott, Esq. ; and
P. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., h.S.b.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
KMOUfcSV,
Commercial
Bugrgry,
£l4 109 r
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
B3W Send for a
Catalogue.
sdf
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicle*
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Susaex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY,
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired bj
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
m
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria—
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Fhilp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand —
D. Ben : amin & Co.,
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchurch.
v.v
Highest Grade of Quality Finish.
ID* - Every Pipe Guaranteed.
PRIZE MEDAL, Paris Exhibition, 1900.
Australian Agents:
M. RUTTY & CO., New South Wales.
J. E. HUNT, Victoria.
THOMAS BROWN & SONS, LTD., Queensland.
HART LAWRENCE & CO. PROP. LTD., South Australia.
A. G. & F. T. KNOX, West Australia.
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When In town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? II so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
8-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 pet
cent more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-streot, Redfern, SYDNJBY
OUK SPECIAL No. 3
£8 18/6
sdf
Delivered at any Wlarf or-
HAlf. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
CD
c
/3s
'Vi
s
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Moving’ Scene.
Above a little seaside pier
Six piles arose in six lines clear
From out the sea:
111 f I I
Upon the landing they caressed
There came down two and sat to rest.
He | | | and f | f She.
Each felt how lonely was the view;
Unconsciously they closer drew:
IHe | | and | g She 0
The mermaids ’neath the ocean blue
Sang saddened lays that moved the two.
I IHe | and | She | |
When evening shadows closed around,
Two hearts that beat as one they found :
||| He and She | | |
N.S.W.
JACY HILL.
A Nip by the Way.
A “ cocky ” on a grass-fed nag,
Returning from his yearly “jag”
With aching head and weary,
Hummed softly to the Christmas stars
A few repeating staves and bars
Most bibulously beery.
When suddenly a thing in white
Came thro’ the trees upon his right
(It looked quite creepy-scarey),
And as it stayed the brumby’s course,
Made this remark across the horse,
“ I’m from the cemet-ary !
“ I cannot rest beneath the stone,”
It said—and full-stopped with a groan
Peculi-ar-ly dreary;
Then, leaning thro’ a leafless gum,
It did a yell and chattered some,
By way of being eerie.
But farmer Jones was full of spunk
(Or p’r’aps he was so extra drunk)
He (hie) he didn’t care—he
Just then gave not a single kick
For ghost or devil, goblinsh (hie)
Or even (hie) a fairy !
The spook continued : “ When a man
I earned the nick-name ‘ Spick and Span ’
Because it was my the’ry
To keep my clothing neat and clean,
My cottage, and the ground between
My milking-shed and dairy.
“ I laid down carpets on the way
To where I kept my heap of hay,
An’ I was very chary
Lest dirty boots should e’er offend,
So built a scraper at each end
For me and my wife Mary.
“ The pigs had curtains in their styes,
An’ marble baths and colored ties,
All nice and cheap and airy ;
My men wore cotton gloves to milk,
And roped the cows with shining silk
Because it was my the’ry.
“ And no man slipperless was seen
To help me work the chaff machine,
For I was very wary ;
We’d soap and combs in ev’ry shed
To wash the hands and brush the head
Of coves unclean and hairy. „
“ But soon a luckless day came by
When I resolved that I should die
Because I’d spoilt my the’ry.—
Some dust was on my horse’s ears ;
I dropped at once to other spheres
Without good-bye to Mary.
“ And now a tidy spirit, I
Beg ev’ry trav’ler passing by—
Both temperate and beery—
To weed the brambles round my stone,
Or listen ever to my groan
So hollow and so eerie.”
The spook stared hard at Farmer Jones,
And shook his upper-storey bones
To make him creepy-scarey ;
But Farmer Jones was full of pluck
And she-oak ; so the game old buck—
He (hie) he didn’t care—he
Was not “afeared.” He made reply :
“ I like neat spirits (hie), and I
Will shwallow you ! ” Oh, deary !
There yet was room for one inside ;
He gulped the ghost and on did ride,
Still bibulous and beery.
N.S.W.
TICKET-TAKER.


TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS.
SUMMER HOLIDAY EXCURSIONS^
V*
- - TO - -
Lake, River and Mountain Scenery; Russell, Columba and Montezuma Waterfalls;
Lakes stocked with Trout; River and Sea Fishing;
Tours through Appleland, Gold, Silver, Tin and Copper Mining Fields.
TASMANIA has long been noted as The Sanatorium
of the South,” and merits the title not only from the
salubrity of its climate, but from the numerous and
varied natural attractions it presents to the tourist.
The hot winds of Australia are unknown, and the sun’s heat
is tempered by sea breezes and mountains. In proportion
to its size, no State in the Australian Commonwealth pre-
sents such varied scenery as Tasmania, and, being a moun-
tainous country, a considerable change of temperature can
be obtained by a few hours’ journey. All English cereals,
fruits and flowers will grow in Tasmania, and many flowers
that in England are reared only in the greenhouse flourish
here in open garden-beds.
THE ISLAND is fortunately situated in being readily
accessible from the mainland of Australia, having several
ports and numerous and well-appointed inter-State steamer
services. Regular lines of steamers ply between Melbourne,
Sydney, and New Zealand ports to Hobart ; from Sydney
and Melbourne to Launceston and Devonport ; and from
Melbourne to Devonport, Burnie, and Strahan. During
the last few years the facilities for inland transport have
been greatly improved, and it is now possible to travel from
Melbourne v a Burnie to Zeehan or Strahan within 24
hours. The passenger fares on the Government Railway
lines are much lower than they were a few years ago. Rail-
way extension has made the overland journey to the West
Coast a pleasure excursion, there being now through Rail-
way communication from Hobart or Launceston to Burnie
(Emu Bay), and thence to Mt. Bishop, Rosebery, Mt. Read,
Zeehan, Strahan, Queenstown, and Gormanston. A town-
ship called Pillinger has sprung up at Kelly’s Basin, in
Macquarie Harbour, 18 miles from Strahan, and steam
launches now ply on this great land-locked sheet of water.
" ' . ' ; *4'
. .'v ■ : .
* rp : . • -jMrit,- ■•> • v •* x* ■
\. >£
i-Cv*
•‘ ’" '-’ ’ i • f:' ' v ** -v * >*»» ' *-
'.•* " ■ "*'i ' ': ' . . • ?. f % • ' '
•;■ .: ; . ' •- : Vj ; • yv "r ' ■ 4 ' Vf •
% * * ' . ' • ' f\. ';' ,\j ■ ij ' .
-' w> <'*’ ’ 4 l% t -1. ' •
• • • M r ~, '
~7•ZE^ r ~ •'"
P^lt>v>^ V
___ y r r ; r '■'■4' •"
: -
r j/ ■ .' V . •*■'*-. v ';. .V~ *’''*•
:.' V V" . . ; 'v .'•*■"■ ;£*■
_____
King River, West Coast, Tasmania.
IN ADDITION to improved transport, a superior class of accommodation is now obtainable, even in outlying districts.
This is particularly noticeable on the important mineral fields of the West Coast ; in the Huon District, the “ Appleland of
Tasmania ; on Tasman’s Peninsula, where are the natural wonders of the Blowhole, Tasman’s Arch, and Tesselated Pavement, and
he ruins of historic Port Arthur ; and at Burnie and other centres.
„ •
\|. #&iiif * m. ?&k , 4
IS*
*
? :n
■
t h
| -f,.. •
I /|VI * ■ fp t 1
. t '»■ ‘
„ « 4- J* *
V v ~ ' % '
m - "i .
.« .. , '
. \ ,
;«(& #'* s'¥ , sr*
> <£
. M
■
' ■ ' : ,
•-
*. f>i * mm
. , ' « j A
, Mm
<1 lit i ;
V* J
•' ;
•■ H*
<; r ••
' - >•;'■** * JSi&i‘ I it3s ‘ *
f* < -• % ,&s*< * «* ' ‘-W * <* / I >y . -- .. ?i h v%« at.. • v*
*/1h J|| 1 1
'TJF'S ~ „„, I I ■ I
* 1:
# - W< - > Vwlk lr?%y - ; */ mP * •
' ’ $•/ *" ' < <%♦ «„ 4t. 1 ' / Jk ,
v f ; <• • ( ''« . i 1 / | « " : ;
. V / -
•n.-3
••:
am *j
' *%*» 'urn* _- * £,?•»!
y ,/-,<!»'
♦X--
“ ■ Ws
I i
I#"
i ‘j
< ’ ‘ / l '
. ‘ ■*-
t , t*
# - V ';
«► V*"' '|« 4 '
Montezuma Falls—North Bast Dundas Tram.
The INLAND RIVERS and LAKES have been stocked with Brown Trout, Loch Leven
Trout, Migratory Trout, and American Rainbow Trout. The Great Lake, noted' for the large
Brown Trout captured there, will in future have a formidable rival in Lake Echo, which
has been recently found to be plentifully stocked, fish up to 201bs. weight having been
caught. The route to Lake Echo is by the Derwent Valley Line, and coach and vehicle via
the Ouse to Dee Bridge, where there is good accommodation. Native fish are plentiful,
and the Bream fishing in the Scamander and Little Swanport Rivers is an increasing
attraction to visitors.
THE RAIL JOURNEY from Launceston to Hobart by the Main Line is done under
six hours, and Lakes Sorell and Crescent are within 20 miles of Parattah Station. The
Western Line has been extended through the fertile districts of the North-West Coast to
Burnie. The North-Eastern Tin Fields, the Coast resorts of George’s Bay and Scamander
River, the famous St. Mary's Pass, and the Valley of the South Esk are rendered acces-
sible by the Scottsdale and Fingal Lines, with coach connection between Scottsdale and
St. Mary’s.
TASMANIA is within fourteen hours’ steam of Victoria, and forty-eight
hours from New South Wales. Visitors will find AMPLE ACCOMMODATION
at HOTELS, COEEEE PALACES, BOARDING HOUSES, and FARMS at
from 20s. to 635. per week.
EXCURSION TICKETS WILL BE ISSUED during the CHRISTMAS
HOLIDAYS from all stations.
SPECIAL EXCURSION TRIPS will be run at CHEAP EXCURSION
RATES at intervals during the summer months to NEW NORFOLK,
GLENORA, DENISON GORGE, and other popular resorts.
RAILWAY TIMETABLES, MAPS and PAMPHLETS descriptive of the
various places of interest, cost of transport, and list of Hotels, Boarding Houses, &c.>
with their tariffs, can be obtained gratis from any of THOS. COOK & SON S
AGENCIES, and at the offices of the UNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY, Ltd.,
and MESSRS. HUDDART PARKER & COMPANY PROPRIETARY, Ltd.,
at SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and the principal seaports in NEW ZEALAND.
Posters—giving
railway stations.
times of departure and arrival of all ordinary and special trains, and passenger fares —are exhibited at all
C. HUDSON, General Manager.


VICTORIAN m RAILWAYS.
1901 1902.
SUMMER EXCURSIONS
Seaside and Gippsland Lakes Excursions.
FROM 15th November, 1901, till 30th April, 1902, Seaside
Excursion Tickets at Holiday Excursion Eares will be issued
at the principal stations to G-eelong, Queenscliff, Dean’s Marsh,
Eorrest, Timboon, Portland, Warrnambool, Port Eairy, Erankston,
Hastings, Bittern, Mornington, Stony Point, Sale, Bairnsdale,
Poster, Toora, Welshpool, Alberton, or Port Albert, and combined
railway and steamboat tickets for the Gippsland Lakes. The
tickets will be available for return for Ihree months, and the
journey may be broken at Melbourne for three days going and
returning. Purchasers of seaside tickets to Queenscliff or to
Warrnambool and Port Eairy (via Penshurst), and Port Eairy
(via Terang), may make Drysdale, or Marcus Hill, or Koroit
respectively their destination instead. Eor full particulars see
posters at all stations.
Mountainous District Excursion Tickets.
Return Tickets will be issued at Melbourne to stations as under from 15th
November, 1901, to 30th April, 1902, available for three months from date of
issue:—
Toongabbie
Briagolong
Beechworth
Y ackandandah
Bright
Huon Lane
Tallangatta
Mansfield
Holders of Bright tickets may terminate their journey at, or commence the
return journey from, any station, Myrtleford to Bright inclusive.
Melbourne to Beechworth and Bright tickets are available for return from
Bairnsdale.
Toongabbie tickets are available for return from Traralgon, latter station
to stamp tickets.
These tickets will also be issued daily as under, available for return within
three months:—
To Beechworth. To Bright.
The journey cannot be broken on any of these tickets, except on those issued
at Warrnambool, Port Fairy and Portland, holders of which may break their
journey at Melbourne (but not elsewhere) for three days, both going and returning,
and before the return journey is commenced they must be presented at the Booking
Office to be stamped, and no tickets will be recognised unless they have been first
so stamped.
Friday to Monday Excursions.
Holiday Excursion tickets will be issued by last trains on Fridays and by all
trains on Saturdays, available for return till the following Monday to and from all
stations outside a radius of 9 miles of each other, provided the return journey can
be completed within the time for which the ticket is available.
These tickets are also to be issued by the following trains from Melbourne on
Fridays:—
Bendigo Line
Ballarat
Warrnambool and Queenscliff Lines
Seymour Line
Bairnsdale Line
Frankston and Mornington Line
And by the following trains to Melbourne on Fridays: Kyneton, 5.28 p.m.;
Geelong, 6 p.m.; Warragul, 4 p.m. ; Mornington, 5.30 p.m. ; Frankston, 6.8 p.m.
Combined Rail and Steamer Tickets.
Melbourne anil Queenscliff • —During the summer months combined Rail
and Boat First-class Return Tickets between Melbourne and Queenscliff are issued
in connection with P.S.S. Hygeia and Ozone at 7s. 6d. each. Melbourne and
Queenscliff issue these tickets on Fridays and Saturdays; and Messrs. Huddart,
Parker and Co. and the Bay Excursion Co. on Saturdays and Sundays.
Tickets are available for return till the following Monday. Passengers going
by rail return by steamer and vice versa. The journey cannot be broken.
Melbourne and Mornington. —During the summer months combined Rail
and Boat First-class Return Tickets are issued in connection with the pleasure
steamers Hygeia and Ozone, at 6s. 6d. each. The tickets are issued at Prince’s
Bridge and Mornington on Fridays and Saturdays, and by Messrs. Huddart, Parker
and Co. and the Bay Excursion Company on Saturdays and Sundays. They are
available for return till the following Monday. Passengers going by rail return by
steamer, and vice versa; or if a passenger travel by rail to Mornington or Prince’s
Bridge on the combined ticket, and desire to return by rail, he may do so without
extra payment. The journey cannot be broken.
Cowes and San Remo> —Combined Rail and Steamer Tickets to Cowes and
San Remo, via Stony Point, are issued at Melbourne, Geelong, Ballarat, and Bendigo
at the following fares :
COWES. SAN REMO.
Ist Return. 2nd Return. Ist Return. 2nd Return.
Melbourne ... ... 10s. 6d. ... Bs. Od. ... 14s. 6d. ... 12s. Od.
Geelong ... ... 19s. 6d. ... 14s. Od. ... 235. 6d. ... 18s. Od.
Ballarat 255. 6d. ... 18s. Od. ... 295. 6d. ... 225. Od.
Bendigo ... ... 31s. Od. ... 225. Od. ... 355. Od. ... 265. Od.
Steamer proportions :—Cowes, 4s. 6d.; San Remo, 9s.
Available for return for three months. The journey cannot be broken on these
tickets except at Melbourne, where passengers from Geelong, Ballarat, and Bendigo
may break for three days, either going or returning. Tickets must be presented to
be stamped at the Booking Office, Stony Point, before starting on the return journey,
and no ticket will be recognised unless so stamped.
Combined Rail and Coach Tickets.
(A.)— Combined Rail and Coach Return Tickets, as under, will be issued at Melbourne from 15th
November, 1901, to 30th April, 1902 :
Spencer-street and Prince’s Bridge will issue these tickets to stations on lines leading out of theit
respective stations. The Central Booki"" Wlll maces named.
Rah, to
Bayswater ...
Healesville ...
Alexandra Road
Bright
Baimsdale ...
Dean’s Marsh
Timbopn
Bittern
Outtrim
Coach THENCE TO
Forest Road
Sassafras
The Hermitage
Narbethong
St. Filian’s
Marysville
Buxton
Marysville
Jamieson
Bousteads
Omeo ...
Brutlien
Omeo ...
Buchan
Lorne ...
Port Campbell
Princetown
Peterborough
Flinders
Inverloch
at 19s. sd. First Class, and 16s. sd. Second Class.
The Tickets to Forrest-road and Sassafras will be available for return for one week ; and to other
places for three months.
The journey cannot be broken on the rail portion of the route, except on the Dean’s Marsh and
Timboon tickets, on which the same break as is allowed on Sea-side tickets will be permitted.
Combined Rail and Coach Circular Tickets will also be issued as follows, available for
three months ; journey cannot be broken on Rail portion of route.
1. Melbourne to Healesville (bv rail), then to Marysville and Alexandra Road (by coach),
and Alexandra Road to Melbourne (by rail); also the reverse route.
FARES : Rail Proportion. Coach
Ist 2nd Ist 2nd proportion.
265. 21s. 14s. 9s. 12s.
2. Melbourne to Bright (by rail), thence to Omeo and Bairnsdale (by coach), thence to Mel
bourne (by rail); also the reverse route.
FARES: — Rail Proportion. Coach
Ist 2nd Ist 2nd proportion.
995. 86s. 6d. 375. 245. 6d. 625.
Combined Rail and Coach Tickets will also be issued as follows :
1. Bright to Melbourne and Bairnsdale (by rail), thence to Omeo (by coach).
FARES: — Rail proportion. Coach
Ist 2nd Ist 2nd proportion.
645. 51s. 6d. 375. 245. 6d. 275.
2. Bairnsdale to Melbourne and Bright (by rail), then to Omeo (by coach).
FARES : Rail proportion Coach
Ist 2nd Ist 2nd proportion.
725. 595. 6d. 375. 245. 6d. 355.
Residents of Omeo who take advantage of these tickets will require to pay the Coach fare to
Bright or Bairnsdale (according to the route travelled) in addition to the above fares. The Coach
fares are :
Omeo to Bright 355.
Omeo to Bairnsdale ... ... ... ... 275.
3. Beechworth to Melbourne and Bairnsdale (by rail), thence to Bright (by coach), thence to
Beechworth (by rail),
Rail proportion. Coach
Ist 2nd Ist 2nd proportion.
101 s. 6d. 88s. 39s 6d. 265. 625.
4. Beechworth to Bright (by rail), thence to Bairnsdale (by coach), thence to Melbourne and
Beechworth (by rail).
Rail proportion. Coach
Ist 2nd Ist 2nd proportion.
101 s. 6d. 88s. 395. 6d. 265. 625.
Passengers travelling by Coach on Return Tickets from the places named on the list of Combined
Rail and Coach Tickets (see Clause A above), and purchasing Friday and Saturday to Monday Holi-
day Excursion Tickets to Melbourne, may have their Holiday Tickets Excursion endorsed as available
for three months by the Stationmaster issuing the tickets, who will require to first sight the Coach
Return Ticket held by the passenger— e.ff., a passenger holding a Coach Return Ticket to Narbethong
to Healesville, may be issued a Holiday Excursion Ticket Healesville to Melbourne by the last train
on Friday or any train on Saturday, endorsed as available for three months on the Stationmaster,
Healesville, first sighting the Narbethong to Healesville Coach Return Ticket.
Cheap Combined Rail and Coach Tickets will be issued as under by the Western Stage
Company and Mr. Chas. A. Rice (Torquay only) from 15th November, 1901, to 30th April, 1902


A Few Things to make You
o . . Happy at Christmas . . .
Charles Heidsieck Champagne
Gonzalez Byass & Cos Port Wine
Gordons Dry Cin
Peter Heerinc’s Cherry Brandy
All Information from
SWIFT & COMPANY, 7 Spring Street, Sydney.
Representatives for Australia and New Zealand.
sdf
HOTELKEEPERS!
MAKE YOUR OWN
DERATED WATERS.
rpHE “AUSTRAL” AERATED WATER MACHINE occu-
pies only Four Feet Square, will produce 150 Dozen per day ot
Finest Waters (LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, SODAWATER, <fec.)
at a Cost below Fourpence per Dozen. This machine
supersedes all others for SIMPLICITY and USEFULNESS, as it
requires no skilled labor to work it.
Statistical reference proves that we have “10 times as many
of the Austral /Erated Water Machines In use in Australasia as
that of any other manufacturer.”
IN TESTIMONY WHEREO F
From H.M.S. PHCEBE, Sydney, 26/8/’Ol. —“ The wardroom officers are very satisfied with the machine you
supplied, and consider that it fully meets all your prospectus claims for it.”
(Signed) A. W. OLAXTON, Paymaster.
From It. M. KOSMINSKY, Commercial Hotel, Nhill.—“ The quality of the aerated waters produced by your
machine surpasses anything I can get here. ... I estimate my saving by using your machine at not less
than £lOO per annum."
From R. G. DRUMMOND, Kovorte Inn, Coleraine.—“ Machine works splendidly, and lam perfectly satisfied
with my purchase.”
From W. SOHOLZ, Oulcairn Hotel, Culcalm, N.S.W.—“ Strongly recommend your machine to the hotel
trade.”
From WHITCOMBE & 00., Hillston, N.S.W.—“ Highly satisfied with results from your machine."
.Sportsman’s Arms Hotel, Star of the East, Murchison, W. A., lfi/11/Dl.
Messrs. Eckersley & Sons, Melbourne.
Dear Sirs.—Received Austral /Erated Water Machine, and has given me every satisfaction. We have
another hotel, and require a machine for that place, so I want you to repeat the order the same as you sent me.
Send on the machine through same agents soon as possible.—Yours faithfully, S. J. OARBERRY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE OF PRICES, AND PAMPHLET OF TESTIMONIALS FROM
CLIENTS FROM ALL PARTS OF AUSTRALASIA.
Solo Proprietors and Patentees . . .
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
E.
Mining
10*7 Kent Street, Sydney,
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining- Requisites,
E^2^ rVES > BUILDERS* AMD GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
wm
»iitffiS
*Snl
RUSTON’S Compound Dredge Engine
WINE !
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST ViYHZMs*
AUSTRALIA.
t3T Send for Samples and Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
PETTY’S HOTEL
IS UNSURPASSED
by that of any other in Sydney for
Comfort, Privacy, Convenience and
Healthy Situation.
The Banltary Arrangements are of the
most perfect description.
The Hotel is under the Direct Management and
Supervision of
MRS. WILLIAM GANNON, Proprietress,
Telephone 274. Ohui'ch Mill, Sydney.
108. per Day or £3 3s. per week.
SPECIAL TERMS CAN BE ARRANGED FOR
FAMILIES AND PRIVATE APARTMENTS
srr
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2i 8 3* 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
-fJ -/9 -flOi I/- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWiCI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Fair girls and gray horses
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 86 «« street , SYDNEY
Have in Stock and to arrive, the 'following: : Ruston, Proctor & Co.’s Compound Dredge Engines and Boilers, Centrifugal
Pumps, Steel Wire .Ropes, Bucket Lip Bteel, Tyre Steel, Mild Steel, Manganese Steel for Pins and Bushes, &c.
Buckets,, Grab Hooks, Links, Grab Hook Points, Tumblers, Ac., made to order. OSBORN’B STEEL£CASTINGB.
ENGINES & BOILERS, &c., FOR GOLD DREDGING
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY.
HELIDON SPA
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd., Agenta, Sydney.
sdf
ds
RACKAROCK
I? /CL
★
AR^C £S!
JOHN JAMESON
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents ; J. BARRE JOHNSTON & CO., Loftus Street, Sydney.
EMPIRE HOTEL, SYDNEY
3VEOST CE3sTI , B,.A.XjXi n g' SITITATED.
OIARD-DUPUY
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
m
k
m
PROOF
A
£a/eY*S
USE
V » in ri mu rt.
Office:
10 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY
When buying: a Waterbury
see that it bears the
WATCH
WORDS
WATERBURY WATCH CO.,
as a Guarantee of its Genuineness.
——
Hadley s Orient [jotel.
PENFOLD’S
I wine's
Haoelaides Purest
■M Pen fold's Wines are
■9THE SAFEST STIMULANT
|||D P Andrew Wilson.
H F R S.E&c LONDON.
fsd
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10hS. CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
EDI SWAN
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIEE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthiest
Imitations.
TEE EDM & SWAM
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Bulletin s Edward-st., Brisbane


Banking. Public Companies, fto.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
jxr.s.sjv.
IDont depiete fl.A|.Co>Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174 CASTEEREAGH ST., 74
' SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
-THE-
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 106 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robert*,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372— assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of [|orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director -JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 100
£350.000
Queensland Smelting (Jompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-tj Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 62 Market-street, Melbourne.
|)eui Zealand Insurance Jo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J A 81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Tb€ Tr(ist€€s, €x€ctitorS,
AND
Conjpai)Y Liii)it€d,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £160,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP . £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... £BB5B 7 3
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901 16,388,976 5 3
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMIT JUT). J
CAPITAL PAID-UP £385,187
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 245,119
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 55,000
£685,306
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Ass. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks.
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq. Wellington : H.
Beauchamp, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynb ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Established 1879.
THE
Ijnited Australian mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital ... £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
vire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance.
aOENTS REQUIRED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
Alfred Webster, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £3OOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West&South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
’WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, Dec. 7,12 Noon.
Buninyong, Tues., Dec. 10, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat,, Dec. 14, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early
ALBANY
Fremantle
Steamer Early
Leura, Saturday, Dec. 7,12 Noon.
Burwah, T 'sday, Dec. 10, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Dec. 14,12 Noon.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
I Leura,
i Tyrian,
Saturday, Dec. 7,12 Noon.
Saturday, Dec. 14, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and r eights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King-street.
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
PERSIC. 12,000 tons, to Sail 21st DECEMBER,
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC, and SUEVIC.
The. attention of the travelling- public and shippers
general y is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout.
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS IN AITSTR, ALTA__
Kuddart, parker & Co’s tine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Eatss.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
ci
LINE
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA **
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 426 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., ITT).
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
TIME TABLE.
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
THE “ALL RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OF THE
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
Connecting at Vancouver with the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 days, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world —over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, G-eorge Street.
Four per cent;. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government. ~ .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital ... .. £2,600,000
Hank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. ~ .. 1,270,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 6,270,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Chas. K. Mackellar, M.L.C., President.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
William Alfred Cotter, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLairin, M.L.O.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L 0.
Auditors :
A. G. Milson, Esq. J. S. Harrison, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
Tne Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
United li;S<iraQC€ Co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
Marine Risks
ture, etc. Bents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Rates very Lore.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
Wanted.
Banking.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
E. W. Knox, Esq.
Auditors :
E. S. Cape, Esq. Hon. F. T. Hhmphery, M.L.C.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B.Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H S
Littleton Manager, Nathaniel Cork
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
Publications.
NOW READY at Turner & Henderson, SYDNEY.
Toilet & Troubles of the Skin & Hair
by Dr. ALFRED NEALE ; new edition, post Is Id.
TRICHOLOGY, a. Study of the Hair, post 7d.
THE BALLET GIRL
fsd
fsd
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza, -
913, G-P.0., SYDNEY.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
Am ms mi
HEAP SETS.— 40 Japan, Is 6d ;
47 Spain, 2s ; 10 Bulgaria, 6d ;
16 Heligoland, Is : 8 Egypt, 6d ; 30
French, 9d ; 12 Indian Telegraghs,
6d ; 9 Labuan Pictorial, 2s 6d; 11
Canada, 6d; 9 Canada Duty, 6d; 6
Bolivia,4d. Packets 60, ls;100,2s 6d.
Stamps Purchased. New Catalogue
of Stamps, Albums, etc., Gratis.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
jfHlan&Ce,
Melbourne
Jhe best House for
tllusic.PiamVioims and
all THust'cal sundries
Collins St..
Xo Music Teachers.
A TTENTION is invited to the following publications:
New Century Edition of Hemy’s Pianoforte Tutor,
brought up-to-date by Claude Ridley. Farmer’s Violin
Tutor. The original work, with the addition of six
studies by Bernhard Carrodus ; these editions are
unrivalled. New Century Pianoforte Tutor, by W. A.
Jefferson, M.R.0.0., rapidly gaining popularity "from its
simplicity and comprehensiveness. Ballantine’s Mandolin
Tutor. Bulch’s Cornet Tutor, and Dipple’s Flute Tutor,
all of the very first style of production.
W. PAXTON and CO., London and Melbourne.
Shipping.
theadelaide; steamship co.
(MM'ITUD).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Quoensiand Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PI HIE
And OULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Warrego,
Friday, December 13.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
December 21.
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cai
S.S. Adelaide,
(Captain D. P. Davies),
Saturday, Dec. 14.
Jlest and C/u-a/iest Haute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to he ascertained on application.
G. S. YU9LL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. IN. Coy Ltd
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THU POPULAR PASS ENG HR LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships, as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON —Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Islam!,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenf/er A ero ni in odation., A then fiance anti
Cnisi.ne unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. 11. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application
For Adelaide and VV. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, In Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
D AND O. COMPANY’S
*■ ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £l7
Ditto Ditto Return, £7llos to £l2l
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific, and
Messageries Maritimes Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, wider Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched-MONTHLY, as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage t hrough the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS * (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydnev.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. RHP a.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. fTns. Commander. (Leave Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN .. 3000 P. T. Helms .. December 7
GUTHRIE .. 2500 W. G. M‘Arthur .. 'January 4
EASTERN .. 3600 Winthrop Ellis ..'January 25
AIRLIE 2500 St. John George.. February 16
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
(D‘|luiraith, f!)‘ESacharn ft go.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALGOOELIE, 4500 TONS,
COOLGABDIB, 3500 TONS,
SAIL, FORTNIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
M‘ILWRAITH, M'EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.
GENTS. v
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
A POLICY FOR TNE"«^'
Price fid, ;
Potted, Bd.
COUMONWCALTN


WOOL, PRODUCE. DRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
AOI* AS selling BROKERS 03WL-ST.
Consignors art absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb •
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
. under
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing". Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement, is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company.
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, B.akes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills, Buncle and Sons’ Chaffcutters.
Donald’s Patent Woolpress.
AGENTS POE, McDOUG ALL’S FHEEP DIP.
London Tailoring depot!
fsd
|)othing Succeeds [ike Appearance.
UP-TO-DATE STYLE FOR UP-TO-DATE PEOPLE.
The Suit
To Order
42s
With
Evctra Trousers
Holds the Commonwealth’s Record
..FOR..
STYLE, FIT » FINISH.
Send for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms to our only address —
OPP. G.P.0., BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
THE MICA LUBRICANT CO., SOUTH SHIELDS, ENG.
Lubricants and Packings for all purposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 90% in cost of lubrication, and keens
bearings Perfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice as long as ordinary, and are 25% lighter. They do
nor score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate.
Solegent for Australasia : R. A. HERVEY. Depot, 171 Clarenee-st., Sydne y> N.S.W
Evil Effects of
Some Soaps on
the Complexion.
PREMIER VINOLIA SOAP is not colored with
poisons, rendered transparent with Chemi-
cals, or semi-transparent with resin and
sugar, nor does it turn yellow in spots,
revealing putrid fats. It is not charged
with powerful penetrating perfumes that
gratify the sense of smell to the detriment
and injury of the skin. VINOLIA is purest,
safest and best. Laundry soaps should
never be used on the skin.
Five Kinds : Sold Everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES .and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITIOU.
WINES m Bat « SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS r‘ , .‘ ,oe “
French’s Acting Edition.
f
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
lioohs Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
■afttes
mmm
n -“ULII II II ID^.
G
iEftectiveCii
BUCHTIHFLAMfDEmStIDS
Weak Eyes Dimness ET?
S3I CEORCC ST _
afeVsTAßuiwtp lasy^jU
BBD. LABEL.
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
. . FOR . .
ALL EYE COMPLALNTS
- -i"j"p- from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE for Sandy Blight, Granulations, Bunged Eyes,
Dimness of Sight, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes caused by
Dust, Sun-Glare, Overwork, &c., Swelling Blight resulting from stings
of flies and insects.
Used with equal success on the Kyes of Cattle, Sheep, Poultry, Ac.
Largely used by Rifle-Shooters and Literary Men.
Testimonials from leading Commercial and Professional Men throughout Australia.
Sole Proprietor . . .
H. A. ROSE
Dispensing'
Chemist,
531 George St., Sydney
So 72 by all Chemists and Storekeepers. AST Beware of Imitations.
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
TERMS.—The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
LETTERS and TELEGRAMS ADDRESSED to “ THE
MANAGER” will RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
YOU ENJOY YOUR LUNCH
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.30 —from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
f 2
The “Ifolcanic” I rating
MACHINE.
A GREAT SAVING TO
Hotelkeepers, Cafe Proprietjrs,
&c.
ASrated Waters of the highest quality produced with
the utmost rapidity without skilled labor. A ? r<o-
lutely the best and simplest Machine in the market.
• PRICES GitEATLY REDUCED •
Write for descriptive Pamphlets with tes'.imsnials
from people who have used the Machine for years.
W. JAMES, Proprietor
/Office : 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURE.
\ Depot : 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
DA.PXO (Lake Illawarra), near SYDNEY,
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PROIDTJCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
■
B
i , vftvi
■
MAKERS OF
“S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILL AW ARK, A
• • BRAND OF*.
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of *ll classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CTANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS' SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT el ASSAYS,
all information regarding Rates, eto,, apply to P. S. Morse, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, NJ3.W.


ARE YOU BALD?
C API LLA
HAIR
TONIC
(Registered wider the Provisions of the Trades Marks Act of 1900).
ASTOUNDING CHALLENGE.
rriHE Proprietor of Capilla Hair Tonic being desirous of having a public test made to prove the infallibility of his now
I famous Hair Restorer, known as Capilla Hair Tonic, is prepared to treat any gentleman troubled with absolute
J- Baldness (it is immaterial of how long standing) Free of Charge for a period of 12 or 16 weeks, and guarantees
in that time to produce Hair l£in. long (by the aid of Capilla alone, used according to the Direction supplied with
every bottle) on the scalp affected by Baldness. Failing which, he is prepared to forfeit to the Sydney Hospital the
sum of £25 sterling.
The conditions to be:—lst. That a committee of six Sydney medical men, or well known Sydney gentlemen, be
appointed to substantiate the fact of CAPILLA having done what we olaim for it. 2nd. That the gentleman upon whom
tne test is to be made has upon the scalp a down or slight fluff. It is immaterial whether it is discernible with the naked
eye or not, so long as a microscopical examination proves it to exist. *
We can produce actual living Proof of Capilla having cured
actual Baldness.
If the above challenge be accepted, we particularly request the attendance of Newspaper Reporters, Medical Gentlemen,
or any person interested, to watch the progress made day by day.
CAPILLA TTATR. TONIC will make Ladies’ Hair increase in length and strength, by about 1 inch
to li inches per month-
CAPILLA Is not a dye, containing no oils or injurious ingredients.
TESTIMONIALS from leading Sydney Solicitors, international Footballers and Cricketers, leading Actor* and well-known
Sydney Gentlemen, wrapped round each bottle, or will be posted free on application.
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC, 2s. 6d. per bottle. Your chemist or storekeeper stocks CAPILLA. If not obtainable locally, we will
forward one (1) bottle to any address in N.S. Wales for 3s. 2d., or the full course of six (6) bottles for 17s. 2d., interstate
19s. 2d., international JGI 55., post free (under cover).
W. RICHARDS,
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer,
168 PITT ST., and 14 IMPERIAL ARCADE, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TAKE InTO SUBSTITUTE.
an
5
,1
a
'
h m
s
i'
I
V:".
J
•• _ i •'’«
rjt. ' ' "€\ '%,
„ *
■~«* w <&r i> ' • .'X.
mft*^r¥T
’ ■ ' /’ fii ~'
> ; - -•-.-
Certain Remedy
FOR
' : -
WEAK, THIN A FALLING
’
mm,
DANDRUFF, etc.
PREVENTS THE HAIR
FROM DOING
PREMATURELY GREY
' - ~
, .
ftM Muiltt xcl .[ im
W. 0. RICHARDS
m PUT sr.
SYDNEY, NSW.
I'rico - ‘.s*. Cxi.
j'Vi'ir .•
To prevent fraud we reproduce facsimile of front
pa net of Capilla Box (exact size) printed »n two
blues (dark and light). - i
J. A. WILKINSON’S
V
V
V
y /f*s
a. M.S. OPHIR
Jk & %LyC,
y*
T
SS&
0
£*d. ***'
<?. ,
£■&.%. £• -<t
£*y


—SIMPSON BROTHERS—
Sole Australasian Representatives for
WORTHINGTON PUMPING ENGINE GO.
32 and 34 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
Pumping
-- IN STOCK
YJaghinery
SUITABLE FOR ■- -
9
Boiler Feed Pump.
ffl
cot! I
Admiralty.
Hydraulic Pressure
Air and Circulating
Ballast
Ammonia
Brewery
Irrigation
Mining
Marine
Sugar Refining
Tannery
Water Supply
Boiler Feeding
&c., &c.
A gencies:
Melbourne
Adelaide
Brisbane
Fremantle
Auckland
Christchurch
Launceston
Vertical Marine Pump.
m
Jet Condenser.
Catalogues Sent on Application.
Estimates Given.


COMPARE «»MESSA(SERIES MARITIMES
Rapid Service to London Colombo] Marseilles and Paris.
M.M. Freocb Mail SUanjers.
Australia, to London
In 30 Days!
Opportunity Offered of Visiting
Paris.
Steamers
Australien .. .. 6507 tons
Polynesian .. .. 6506 „
Armand Behic .. 6539 „
Vil.'e de la Ciotat .. 6531 „
One of the above Fast and
Splendid Steamships leaves
Sydney every Four Weeks.
Rates of Passage Money.
£27 to £77.
Return Tickets, available for
12 Months, at Reduced Rates.
P ASSENGERS’Iuggage is
conveyed free from
Marseilles to London
by sea. Passengers, too,
have an advantage that should
be noted—their heavy luggage
is available on any day. On
arrival at Marseilles, through
Passengers for London are met
on board by English interpre-
ters, who accompany them to
Paris and Calais.
Railway coupons from Mar-
seilles to London are available
for four weeks, allowing pas-
sengers to break the journey
at most interesting places on
the route.
):(
Passengers Booked at
through rates from all
Australian Colonies.
»3*93MA’ibS' k s't* 'i
Intercolonial return
Ist Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with
P- & 0. and Orient
Steamers having room.
——
Accommodation un-
surpassed. Large and
lofty cabins, with
berths of exceptional
width. Electric light through-
out. Superior cuisine service
a special feature, carried out
on the plan of the best Conti-
nental Hotels. Table Wines,
Sherry, Marsala and Cognac
are supplied free at meals to
First-class passengers ; Claret
to Second-class and Third-
class. Extra Wines, Liqueurs,
and Spirits can be purchased on
board the Steamers at Mode-
rate prices. English Stewards
and Stewardesses are carried.
For the convenience of First-
class passengers, Breakfast and
Lunch are served on board, a la
carte, the latter at any time
between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m.
Two Boats
Leave Sydney
for Noumea
every
Four Weeks.
Any further information as r oute will be given on application to the Offices of the Company
Marseilles
/Direction : 2 Quai de la Joliette.
(Passenger Office: 16 Eue Oannebiere.
Paris
(Head Office: 1 Rue Vignon.
(Freight Office • 10 Place de la Republique-
London : 97 Cannon St-, EO-, and 51 Pall Mall, S-W-
Sydney
BRASIER de THUY, Agent Principal
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street-
Melbourne
{478
H. de POSSEL, Agent
Collins Street-
Adelaide
f DALGETY & Co., Limited, Agents,
96 King William Street.
° (Near South Australian Insurance (Jo.)
Fremantle and Perth, W.A.: Messrs. Dalgety & Co., Limited. Goldfields: F. A. Davis.
P.D
MANUFACTURES
ROYALES DE CORSETS.
P.D
-r-
The Celebrated P.D. Corset is universally recog-
nised as the representative High-class Corset in
the trade throughout the world
At all the important Exhibitions held during the last 25
years this Corset has invariably obtained the highest awards,
including
The grand prix at the parts Exhibition of 1899.
Avoid inferior imitations, and see that each pair bears
this Trade Mark on band inside: —
Trade Mark
sdf
sdf
Marque Deposee.
Obtainable from all leading Drapers everywhere,
in many varieties of Shape and Style.
Sole Agents for Australia
BORSDORFF & CO.
257 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
89 York Street, Sydney.
sd


$
5?
(sa
0®
(5)
@ms
s
$
0©
Sag 'UiiMw»»/i»»i/»i»rm
oA?
: mmm ,
&
arm,,
$
Si
C®
HENNESSY’S
Jas- Hennessy & 00. sßrandy
has the largest Sale in the
World- It is Genuine Brandy
THREE STAR
BRANDY


CHRITMAS
NUMBER
OF THE BULLETIN
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 22.—N0. 1138.
SATURD \Y, DECEMBER 7, 1901.
Price 6©.
BACCHANALIAN
fds
pity him who has not swung
1 if The thyrsus in the air;
T And followed blithe andyoung,
l ''°p\ with vine-leaves in his hair?
And heard the Maenads sing,,
arH And the mad cymbals ring,.
Ipity those who have to walk
|n sober ways and sad,
And keep a guard upon their talk
Lest men should think them mad,
or careless speech should show
The felon thought belo\y.
When in my goblet, bfithe and gay,
The bearded bubbles wink,
por all poor souls like this j pray
ThaUhey may learn to drink
And, like a rose in rain,
Open shut heart and brain.
Who does not drink he does n»t know,
/\nd he will never find,
V/hat merry fellows live below
The surface of his mind*.
These other men to me r
Are right good company. JmWY r
If beings of mythology M\y -
Could live at my commands
Briareus j’d choose to be,
Y/ho had a hundred hands*.
And every hand of mine
W°uld hold a pint of wine g
And of those beakers ninety-nine !
i w*lh white wine and with red
Should brim for dear old friends °f
•phe living and the dead, (mine,
gy pluto there would be
/V noble revelry !
Then let us unto Bacchus sm4>
gvoef up and down
por Bacchus is (he wisest Kin#
VVho ever wore a crown •.
\\\s vine leaves hide from view
More wiljhagggjalp knew.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
BACCHANALIAN.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.**
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
211 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBS CRT BE US
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and IMnoriland.
Tn consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of\\d. postage, the subscription
to Tire Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
Tn ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
Tty sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you ran have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article,, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence" column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding tivo columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MB.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street Jk Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa.— R. A. Thompson ami Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1901.
The Restoration of Jane.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nature had been very hard on poor Jane, and
when Nature is hard on a girl, she is hard with
emphasis and anathema. Jane was born tongue-
tied ; she grew up with what her father, Andy
Quinlan, called “ the stringhalt in her speech.’
Jane was hare-lipped. She early displayed a tend-
ency to baldness, and at 16 had not a single hair
on her head, excepting such as remained in the
old ’possum-skin cap, designed by Andy to conceal
her natural deficiency. Jane was freckled, and
had teeth that imparted to her smile the nature
of a shameful revelation. The vindictiveness of
Nature was supplemented by the malignancy of
Fate. Jane at 17 was affected by a fever that
destroyed the sight of one eye, and the blind
organ had to be removed to encourage the other.
By reason of this loss Jape failed to notice when
trees were falling in her direction, and at 20 shei
hobbled out of hospital ‘on one leg and a cheap
pine crutch. At this point, Nature and Fate
wearied of their poor joke, and left Jane with all
her imperfections and deficiencies to a dull and
uneventful existence for five years or more.
The Quinlans lived on a selection. Andy had
held his land for over a generation, and had
worked at it continuously hard and early, but it
had never risen to the dignity of a farm. The
land was always one too many for Andy, and at
no time could he afford to pay for help. Then
the only child was a girl, and a girl that could
neither wield an axe nor show any reasonable
dexterity in a cow-yard. This was a great dis-
appointment to Quinlan, but with a potato-patch,
a few fruit-trees, a few cows, a few pigs, a horse,
and some assorted poultry the family contrived to
keep body and soul together, year in and year
out, although there were days when Andy could
have eaten about four times as much as he got
without running any risks.
Andy was a thin, dry man, with bent shoulders
and a projecting head ; all his small features-
seemed to run into a feeble grin that never
deserted his face. The grin might at one time
have been the natural expression of a happy,
exuberant spirit, but anxieties and disappoint-
ments had given it a vague and pitiful weakness—
it was the smile of a beaten man. Mrs. Quinlan
was a little, thin, fretful woman, who made a
great noise about her misfortunes, and realised
them but dimly. She was too stupid to feel any-
thing but actual pain, and she did not feel that
keenly while she could talk about it.
Jane had inherited some of the characteristics
of both parents. While still too young to appre-
ciate her misfortunes, and make the worst of them
after the manner of man, she had all the gaiety
that might have been Andy’s. At 16 she had dis.
covered her ugliness, and was no longer glad ; at
22 she was dull and often sullen, and more exacting
than the imperious beauty in a romantic
novelette. Despite the ridiculous ’possum-skin
wig, her solitary eye, and her departed leg, Jane
participated in the gaieties of the district, and
took her part in the social amusements peculiar to
Waddy and “ round about ” with a sort of half-
angry vehemence that strangers could not under-
stand. Residents could not understand it either,
but then they never tried.
-The girl was fortunate in having been born into
a small, scattered, and entirely matter-of-fact
community. Most of the young people of the dis-
trict had grown up with Jane Quinlan ; she had
been broken to them gently, and neither her
appearance nor her conduct astonished them.
Like the five-legged cow in Cadden’s paddock,
with a ridiculously superfluous limb growing from
between its shoulders, custom had made her com-
monplace, and nobody laughed even when her
crutch stuck in the crack in Hanlan’s floor during
blindman s-buff at Eva’s christening.
Jane was wonderfully agile on her crutch, and
gambolled like a colt in all the favorite games at
the picnics, the parties, and the Saturday-night
raffles, displaying tremendous energy, but not a
vestige of joy. It was at the dances, however,
that Miss Quinlan astonished the visitors most.
She hopped through the sets on her sound leg
with marvellous precision. Using her timber sup-
port as a pivot, she would swing like a top, and
in the polka she rapped out the time with wood
and boot as smartly as the soundest dancer on the
floor.
As a matter of honor tacitly understood, every
man danced at least once in the evening with Jane
Quinlan, and it was an amazing sight to see Jane
gripping her partner with her left hand, her right
clasping the crutch tenaciously, her ’possum-skin
cap slightly awry, her good eye blazing with a
sort of fine frenzy in her pale, ugly, impassionate
face, jigging vigorously up and down the room to
the wailing music of Billy Pete’s three-stringed
fiddle.
When Ben Kyley first saw Jane she was dancing
the three-hop polka with William Ginn—com-
monly called ‘ ‘ Old Tom at Pete’s. The second
birthday of Mrs. Pete’s second son was being
celebrated with a raffle and a dance. Billy was
playing with great fury, and Jane Quinlan and
William Ginn had thrown themselves into the
movement with complete abandon at the moment
of Ben’s entrance. Kyley gasped at the spectacle ;
bis eyes grew large and wild in his head, bis hat
fell unheeded to the floor, and he stood like a man
petrified in an attitude of dumb wonder, watching
Jane and her partner as they hopped and revolved.
After that dance was done Kyley picked up his
hat in a dazed way, and drifted to a seat in the
corner, but never once during the rest of the
evening did he take his eyes off Jane. He was
mesmerised by her calamitous ugliness, her wooden
leg, and her fantastical cap, which, after- all,
covered only a part of her baldness. Ben had but
small sense of the ridiculous, and that little
was not stirred by the sight of Jane; he was
startled by her extraordinary appearance, and
filled with admiration by her agility. She fas-
cinated him, and his feelings found vent in ejacu-
lations, grunts, and gasps of eloquent appreciation,
addressed to nobody in particular.
Ben Kyley was a stranger ; he had come to the
district a week earlier with a big reputation as an
axeman, and was working out in the paddocks,
cutting five-foot wood for Hughes, who had a
three years’ contract with the Common Lot G.M.
Co. Ben was a very ordinary sort of young bush-
man of that type which is slightly warped with
labor, and always seems dressed in such a desul-
tory way as to be continually on the point of
dropping its clothes. He had a narrow, brick-red
face, sandy hair, small blue eyes, with deep tribu-
tary wrinkles, a mouth that was open in repose,
and a thin, pale moustache in four parts. Through
his face glowed an amiable inability, and he had
that trusting disposition that justifies the confi-
dence-man’s faith in Providence.
Once while Jane was dancing with Kiah Olden
her fur-cap fell off; Jane let it lie, and continued
her wild career, stumping her crutch with even
more than her usual vehemence, her small bald
head bobbing up and down excitedly beside the
large bald head of Kiah. The sight so. wrought
upon Ben that he sprang to his feet and glared
like a man who sees visions.
“By gosh!” ejaculated Kyley, and he stood
staring stupidly after Jane, murmuring, “By
gosh ! ” mechanically at intervals in an appalled
whisper.
“ She’s a champion fer one leg, ain’t she ? ” said
Ginn, soberly.
“ What I can’t make out is why ain’t she in a
cirkis,” answered Ben, still deeply impressed and
still intent on Jane. The remark was a tribute of
respect for Miss Quinlan’s acrobatic waltz, but it
was her astounding personal appearance that en-
thralled him for the moment.
Ben Kyley danced once with Jane that night.
He was a long time screwing his courage up to
speaking point; but at length he approached her
awkwardly with the usual formula :
“’R yer engyged fer this darnce, Miss Quin-
lan?”
Jane, as was her wont, made no reply, but
simply grasped him, and they danced. Ben was
afraid of the crutch at first, and trembled with
anxiety, but his confidence in his partner was
soon established. Jane needed only a man’s arm
to preserve her equilibrium. She asked no more
help than the bipeds, and for horse-power in the
dance no woman in the room could approach her.
She kicked her whole limb with unimaginable dex-
terity, while the crutch rapped out the time on the
polished floor. The pale face was set stiffly at an
absurd angle, with the ’possum-skin covering
drawn rakishly down to the right eye, and the
absorbed expression she wore quite hypnotised
Kyley. Finding himself more at his ease pre-
sently, he ventured a remark :
“ Beautiful floor, ain’t it, Miss Quinlan ?”
“Yeuh!” grunted Jane. The grunt was not
encouraging, and Ben waited a few minutes
before venturing again.
“Awful fond o’darncin, ain’t yer?”
“Oh, shut up gabbin’ and darnce!” answered
his partner shortly. Her face had not lost its
absorbed expression ; she threw even a little fresh
energy into her movements, and the dance was
continued in silence.
From that night, Ben Kyley paid Jane marked
attention. The interest he felt in her partook
largely of that which a man feels in a natural
curiosity. He would sit near her at parties or at
church, and watch her, open-eyed, open-mouthed,
as if she were a live moa. He cultivated Andy
Quinlan’s acquaintance, and hung about the selec-
tion a good deal in the evenings. He was Jane’s
squire at the picnics and in all the jaunts, and
was always at hand to assist her when her crutch
bogged in the soft clay, or when she needed help
over a fence. Jane accepted his attentions as
quite her due and a mere matter of course. She
never exhibited the faintest trace of gratitude,
and presently demanded service at Ben’s hands
with a confidence that was lacking in the prettiest
girls in the neighborhood. She ordered him to
fetch and carry with stupid assurance. He was ex-
pected to come and go accordingtoher pleasure, and
at the selection she set him chopping wood, milking
cows, wiping dishes, and never seemed to think
for a moment that she was exacting more than
her due or that Ben might expect anything from
her in return, —a little interest in his existence,
for instance, or some relaxation of her normal
sullen manner.
No words ofjove ever passed between Ben and
Jane. The former’s attitude retained its element
of curious surprise, but of late a new concern had
manifested itself. The young man had conceived
an idea, and the unaccustomed thing worried him
a good deal. He had encumbered himself with an
object in life, and was struggling manfully to
give his good intentions shape and form. One
Monday night Ben, who had been “up to town,”
appeared at Quinlan’s kitchen door looking ex-
tremely guilty and diffident. Andy and his wife
were sitting by the fire. Jane was sewing at the
table.
“ Evenin’ all! ” said Ben from the door.
“ Good evenin’ to you, Ben,” answered Quinlan
encouragingly. “ Won’t you step in ? ”
“ S’pose I might’s well for a minit.” Ben
slouched in, and stood leaning against the table,
intensely self-conscious and ill-at-ease. After a
painful interview he continued: “ Your birthday’s
somewhere handy, ain’t it, Jane ?”
“ Well—if it is ? ” grunted Jane.
“ Oh, well, nothin’ much. On’y I—er—thought
I might take the liberty, so to speak.” Ben had
drawn a small parcel in tissue-paper from his
breast, and was fumbling it awkwardly. Mr. and
Mrs. Quinlan were frankly curious. Jane looked
up from her work, and a gleam of interest flitted
over her dull face.
“Fer me?” she said, and seized the parcel
without further ceremony.
The tissue paper contained a strange object, at
which the Quinlans gazed open-mouthed, while
Jane turned it about in her hands. It was a well-
made wig of fair hair.
“ What’s it fer ? ” she asked, disappointedly.
“ Why, to wear, o’ course.”
“To wear ? ” Jane turned it oyer and over, and
examined it in and out. “ ’Ow ? ” she asked.
Ben took the wig nervously, and placed it in
position on Jane’s bare head.
“It’s a present of a ’ead of ’air,” he said.
Jane snatched the folding mirror from its
nail, and gazed at herself, gazed long and eagerly,
amazed at the alteration in her appearance, and
little grunts and gurglings of admiration and joy
broke from her agitated breast. She was pro-
foundly moved. Ben Kyley remained for three-
quarters of an hour, but he never got a glance or a
word from J ane; she remained absorbed in the
mirror. Out in the yard Quinlan shook him
warmly by the hand.
“It was mighty good o’ yer, Ben, to buy that
hair hat for my little girl, ” he said.
“Oh, that’s all right,” answered Kyley with a
fine assumption of unconcern.
The Quinlans were immensely delighted with
the wig—so much so that they resolved to give a
party to celebrate Jane’s birthday, and introduce
the new head of hair to the neighbors. The
prime he-pig of the last litter was raffled, 50
members at 2s a member, to defray expenses, and
the party was a real success. The wig created
the most gratifying enthusiasm. It vastly
improved Jane’s appearance, being a beautiful
wig of the gayest golden hue and the fluffiest
texture, and it fitted to perfection. One or two of
the girls with very ordinary natural hair were
consumed with envy when they beheld the
brilliancy, the beauty, and the luxuriance of Jane
Quinlan’s coiffure, and Jane was actually happy.
Her success stirred her out of herself. She was
heard to laugh aloud more than once, and even
displayed a crude cumbersome coquettishnesa
towards the younger and better-looking men.
As for Ben Kyley, he was enraptured ; this was
the happiest night of his life. He derived a
poignant delight from the effect produced by his
present, and half-a-score of times during the
evening was discovered standing stock-still at
close quarters, staring at Jane, radiant with
satisfaction.
“ Ain’t she lookin’ great ?” was his continuous
appeal. “Look here,” he said confidentially to
Ginn, “with a few more fittin’s an’ a few quid
spent in alterations, she’ll take the shine out o’
thesleepin’ beauty at the Waxworks.”
“My oath !” said Ginn, approvingly.
For a time Ben was content with the great
improvement in Jane, but his object was not yet
accomplished. He worked early and late, his
axe was heard going merrily at all hours. He
was up at daylight, and even worked by the light
of the moon. Hughes, the contractor, had never
paid such cheques as Kyley earned. Ben’s
enthusiasm, like his ambition, was boundless. He
had entered into a pleasant conspiracy with
Quinlan, which, at the end of about three months
took Andy and Jane to town on a mysterious
mission.
When Jane returned miracles had been worked.
There now remained only a hint of the hare lip,
and she wore a new eye, a splendid eye of tender
blue, much brighter and prettier than the old one.
Also she came back in a new dress of city make,
and a most fashionable hat.
Jane Quinlan’s appearance at Pete’s next raffle,
in all the glory of her new clothes and her
astonishing eye, created a sensation even greater
than that provoked by the wig, and Ben Kyley
was beside himself.
“We’ll make somethin’ o’ that girl yet,” he
chuckled ecstatically to Kiah.
Jane was belle of the party ; no girl there could
come near her for style. She was a new creature,
and the men no longer asked her to dance from a
sense of duty ; there was a clamorous competition
for her favors. The revolution was not only
physical, it was spiritual too. Jane was become a
veritable butterfly. Her conceit was sublime. She
carried a small mirror with her wherever she went,
and spent half her time gazing on her reflection
with fondest joy. She openly invited admiration,
drawing attention to her new beauties with brazen
complaisance, and she flirted outrageously with
all the men who were “ otherwise engaged,” under
the noses of the sweethearts and wives.
The neighbours were now prepared for any
developments in Jane, and there was no surprise
when she displayed a valuable set of small,
pearly, exquisite teeth. By this time the change
in Miss Quinlan was nothing short of miraculous ;
she was found to be handsome ; her restoration
was quite artistic, and almost complete.
“ We’re gettin’ on ! ” said Ben Kyley to Andy
—“ we’re gettin’ on amazin’! ” He went to work
again, chopping like a man inspired, too absorbed
in the restoration of Jane to trouble himself about
his rivals.
There was yet another excursion for Andy and
Jane. This time they went to Melbourne, and
were absent for weeks, and Jane came back to
Waddy without her crutch, walking upright and
unsupported. Her restoration was now complete.
She was provided with the most perfect
mechanical leg procurable for love and money,
and a city surgeon with a small operation had
freed her tongue of its fetters, and she was
rapidly acquiring a surprising glibness of speech.
William Ginn gave a party at his mother’s
house, and again Jane Quinlan was belle. True,
she had not yet learned to dance with her old
abandon on the unfamiliar limb, and true also
that under the stress of a lively polka her wig
worked askew, her new eye became somewhat
cocked, and even her teeth were thrown out of
gear, and she looked like the ruin of herself. But
in repose the men thought her (“harming.
Her face had found color, tier eyes sparkled, her
heart was gay—she was a woman born again.
Ben Kyley, gazing upon the perfected Jane,
experienced all the raptures of a creator ; like an
artist standing before his masterpiece, he gloated
upon her, feeling that she was in a manner largely
his own handiwork. Had he not chopped this
beautiful creature out of the gum-butts with his
own axe !
“Look at her ! ” he said to Pete one night m a
burst of rapture. Then he added confidentially :
“Would you believe it—she didn’t come to
more’n forty quid ! ”
Ben was in love now, head over ears, and he
found Jane the most capricious flirt in the
district.
Kylev’s camp had been shifted two or throe
miles out from the settlement, and, calling at
Quinlan’s one Sunday afternoon about three
months after the complete restoration of Jane, he
was met at the sliprails by Andy. Quinlan
barred his way, and faced Ben, fidgetting with
his hands, and trembling in a condition of abject
perturbation. Presently he stammered meekly :
“Was yer wantin’ to see Jane, Mis—mister
Kyley?”
“ Yes, that was the idea,” answered Ben
anxiously.
“Well, yer carn’t, then.”
“Can’t?”
“No. ’Cause why—she ain’t here to be seen.”
Then, with the air of a man doing his worst:
“She’s married to Mr. William Ginn, and they’re
up to Ballarat doin’ the honeymoon.”
Ben Kyley’s tanned face paled to the grey of
wood-ashes, and he stood for several minutes like
a man stunned, staring straight before him. Then
he turned on his heel and walked quietly away,
plunged in thought.
Mr. and Mrs. William Ginn heard from Ben
Kyley shortly after their return from the honey-
moon, when William received a letter containing
this bill: —
Mr. William Ginn, Esq., Bettor to Benjamin Kyley to
repair of your missis— ’
1 wigg .. ..£5OO
leye.. .. .. 1 l o
1 set teeth .. ..550
1 hare lipp cured ..550
1 tongue-tie „ ..550
1 dress, 1 hat.. \ ..' 3 7 6
Heg.. ... .. 15 0 0
Total .. ..£4O 3 6
But Ginn was never man enough to pay for the
restoration of Jane, and Ben was too much a gen-
tleman to press his case. 8
EDWARD DYSON.


BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY, LIMITED,
EESC
igrrfai
Have JUST LANDED the Celebrated
No. 15 Pooy Prcnjo
This is a Camera we can thoroughly recommend,
and can safely say that no Amateur should be
ivithout one.
Send for Catalogue.
Price £4.
375 fieorge St., Sydney,
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, and Brisbane,
A Seafaring Spook.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the yarn of the ghost seen by me, Thomas
Dana, late master-mariner. Landsmen mayn t
believe it, not knowing how common ghosts used
to be at sea, but there’s a skipper commands a
steamer on this Australian coast, my shipmate at
the time, who could swear to the truth of this
story.
• * * *
Though Australasian born, I served my time at
sea in London (or Blaekwall) ships, as midship-
man, fourth, and third mate, in old Duncan
Dunbar’s employ Dunbar, who owned sixty
wooden foreign-going vessels of tonnage, and
didn’t know the names of half of them, and who
spent most of his time in the Jerusalem Coffee
House, Cornhill, London, propping his great bulk
on three chairs, no matter who was seatless ; with
three morning papers as cushion and one in hand,
no matter who wanted to read. That was his
ship, named after him, piled up here in the Gap,
one stormy night, more years ago than I, even
then sailing the seas, care to count. Gone is
old Dunbar, these forty years, to the limbo
of shipowners, and all his great ships and
barques, where are they ? Some few, mayhap,
sheer hulks, their bottoms barnacle-bound, their
sides coal-encrusted, lie in strange harbors; one
or two, under other names and flags, still sail the
salt seas, for they were staunch as teak, copper,
and iron could make them ; but the rest of that
now phantom fleet rot below the ocean, or, dere-
lict, not even yet at rest, are
“ Ever drifting, drifting, drifting
On the shifting
Currents of the restless main.”
» • * *
I made my first voyage (London to Hong Kong)
and saw my first ghost aboard Dunbar’s tea-
clipper, Northfleet, 950 tons burden, counted a
big merchantman then, Thames-built, a witch to
sail; with topsail and square lower stu’n’sails set,
and half a westerly gale abaft, little afloat could
overhaul her. She was run into and sunk at her
anchor, in the Downs, by a lubberly Spaniard, the
Murillo, steamer, that snorted on in the black of
night, heaving never hencoop nor life-line to
drowning passengers and crew. That, however,
was long after the voyage of which I now tell. On
that trip I was one of eight midshipmen, all first
voyagers ; we, with the third and fourth mates,
bunked in the port awning cabin. We paid
big premiums for three voyages if so long
we lasted —and, in harbor, wore gilt but-
tons to our clothes, brass bands to our
caps, and more swagger than an admiral. At
sea we were disguised in tar, slush, oil, and iron
rust ; and, if we felt like swaggering, old Porter,
the first mate, helped us with a bit of nine-thread.
He was a Scotchman; sailorman of the ancient
school; he had never met midshipmen before,
and, being pious, and of a moroseness no amount
of ship’s rum could attenuate, regarded us as
designed by Satan, and tried to lose us overboard
from royal and to’gallant yards accordingly. In
port, the Powers, with cynical politeness, would
inquire, “Where are the young gentlemen?”
In blue water it was, “ Send those d—d young
guinea-pigs here ! ”
* * * *
Every hair of our skipper’s head was a rope-
yarn, his blood pure Stockholm tar ; but all Dun-
bar’s masters were so built. They had to be.
Those were the days of whole-topsails, rope-rig-
ging, and old-fashioned purchases, when men
cracked on sail, carried away spars, and made
passages; when all hands were often a long-night-
through close-reefing a frozen topsail. To do
those and other things in a wooden wind-jammer
called for seamanship not needed by the sea
dandies, who, in these days, turn a brass handle
in brass-bound clothes and kid gloves,
aboard a floating pub., all gilt, glitter, and stink
of oil. The biggest man aboard that hooker was
the 'cuddy steward—■'‘captain’s steward,” he
called himself ; a small man as to figure, but as
swollen with pomposity as a month-drowned pig
when it comes up to blow. Wrench was his
name. The old man thought a lot of Wrench ;
had picked him up, a ragged orphan, in Lime-
house, trained him, and they’d been shipmates all
the years since. A woman old enough to be his
mother, with a bit of money, had married Wrench,
and what with that, his pay and scrapings, h<J
was “ well in.” The facts have, as will be seen, a
bearing on what comes later. I his steward
bossed the captain and all hands, and the cook —•
bar the midshipmen. When we had lifted his
keys once or twice, he sleeping, and cleared his
pantry of bite and drop, and many times slung
ourselves outside the pantry port, and looted legs
of mutton and half-wrecked fowls, as they came
off the cabin table, he realised he was only
human, which was good for his soul. The crew
hated him, partly because they suspected him of
short-weighing the ship’s stores, and partly
because, alike in calms or gales, in tropics or
channel soundings, he wore the black livery and
white choker of a ’long-shore waiter. They swore
he was a “half-bred parson,” and that no ship,
with such cargo, could hope for luck.
* * * *
That voyage out, save for its fastness, was much
like other voyages—storm and shine sandwiched.
We began discharging cargo almost as soon as we
let go anchor in Hong Kong harbor—the first of
the new season’s tea awaiting our shipment at
Whampoa. Cargo out, the crew had liberty for
the shore, one watch at a time. Then the music
began to play. Except for a Creole boatswain s
mate, a West African cook, black as the hobs of
hell, and with a profound disgust for all “niggers,”
and a Dago named Schwerzguth, known to the
hands as “Swishguts,” we had not a foreigner
aboard. English crews, best in the world when
there’s whips of work and weather, are first to
play the giddy goat, times easy and grog-shops
a-lee. Our crew had signed articles for grog—a
BUSH FUNERAL.—A BAD BIT.-(From actual sketch.)
tot a day and an extra nip when “all hands”
reefed topsails. That grog was the cause of the
ghost. When the first gang of the liberty-men
came from shore they went aft for their grog,
though full to their hatches with sarnshu. Wrench
refused them, and we of the afterguard just
missed a free fight with the hands by the
skin of our eyelids. Next night the port watch
had leave, and there was trouble. Belsey, A. 13.,
was in that watch, and Belsey, A. 8., was a bad
sort to have trouble with. About 40 years old, a
magnificent sailorman, the strongest fellow I ever
saw outside a show, and as active as an ape, he
was nigh as taciturn. Even old Porter went slow
with Belsey ; the crew were dead scared of him.
Yet he quarrelled with none, did four men’s work,
and was first aloft, reefing/* handing, or overside
to make fast wreckage when spars carried away.
Belsey returned, then', in the afternoon from
shore sober, and stoiid as usual. He waited near
the cuddy till Wrench came out.
“What do yovf want?” said the steward to
him, uncivilly—he always spoke as if blue-mouldy „
for a kicking. .
“Day’s grog.’,' . ■ ..
“Well, you won’t get it—grog, indeed ! Like
your cheek.” /
“Grog.” > , .
“ No, I tell you ; go for’ard ; you ve no business
aft at all.” r
“Grog ! ” wi(,'u emphasis.
Then that fool steward tried to push the man
away. Belsey straightened his arm, and Wrench
flew up in the air backwards, landing with a thud
under the cuddy table, where he lay, howling.
Belsey, his hands deep in his breeches-pockets,
contemplated his adversary critically, then calmly
turned and regarded mates, middies and boatswain
coming aft at the run.
We all hated Wrench, but he was afterguard,
and had to be avenged for discipline’s sake.
“This way the afterguard !” shouted the second
mate, who’d been watching, “ Put Belsey in
irons ! ”
The second dashed into the cabin for handcuffs,
and then he, the two junior mates, an assortment
of middies, the boatswain, and carpenter gathered
round Belsey.
“Put out your hands,” said the second mate to
the man. “Mr. Tait” (to the third mate) “put
the handcuffs on him.”
Tait clasped a beautifully-polished pair of new,
extra strong bracelets on Belsey, who submitted,
speechless. But when they were snapped he in-
quired, ‘ ‘ All fast ? ”
“ Yes, get up on the poop.”
Belsey lifted his hands, surveyed their orna-
ments, gave them a sharp twist, and the handcuffs
snapped like rotten twigs.
“Try again,” he observed cheerfully.
“Get hold of him,” said the second, losing his
temper, and setting the example.
We flung ourselves on the seaman.
“ Are you all fast ?” he asked again; then shook
us off, as a mastiff might lap-dogs.
Just then Porter stepped up from the after-
hatch. “Take ’em away,” said Belsey to him,
indicating our crowd—we were mostly rubbing
knees and elbows—with a contemptuous jerk of
his big thumb.
“Take ’em away; I might get riled.”
The second mate, who’d fared worst in the brief
tussle, was very wroth; he breathlessly ex-
plained the situation to the chief.
“Come away from the man,” roared Porter.
“ Belsey, go on the poop as a prisoner.”
“ The sailor nodded and leisurely ascended the
poop-ladder.
Just then Wrench emerged from the cabin,
very white.
Belsey stopped, looked at the steward with a
particularly evil expression, and, pointing a tarry
and threatening forefinger at him, said, “ I
haven’t done with you yet.”
And no one who heard Belsey thought him
likely to forget or forgive.
The middies, having satisfied the claims of
discipline, took care that Belsey had his grog, and
next morning the man turned to his work, and the
whole thing was forgotten—for a time.
* • * *
We were two or three weeks waiting, with
clean-swept hold, orders to sail to Whampoa,
there to ship our cargo of tea. Meanwhile, I had
a bad turn of Hong Kong fever. I was in my
bmik, the middies’ cabin deserted, one night about
two bells of the second dog-watch, uncommonly
weak, but free from fever, when Wrench stalked
in with a tray holding cold chicken and ham,
rolls, and a small decanter half-full of sherry.
“ Thought, perhaps, you could pick a bit,” he
explained, quite amiably.
In my deranged state of health the shock ot
such sudden civility and generosity—there was
absolutely no record of Wrench ever having given
anything away—might have proved dangerous. I
bore up nobly, however, and attacked the fowl.
Wrench watched me in silence, while I took the
rough edge olf my fingers, and then suddenly in-
quired,
“ Do you believe in dreams ?
“ No,” I replied, going for the sherry.
But I saw he had more to say, and that the
supper was the price paid for my attention.
“ Have you been dreaming, then ? ” I asked.
“Yes'; last night” (here his tones became
sepulchral) “ I had the same dream three times. I
had to attend a funeral —my own, it seemed —and
I’d no black clothes to go in. It was awful.”
“Don’t see much in that,” I observed; “a
man generally does attend his own funeral, and
not in a black swallow-tailed bergee.”
“Ah ! but I feel sure it is a warning. I shall
never reach home again.”
I’d finished the chicken and sherry by this tune,
and there was no more sympathy in me. I ad-
vised Wrench to sample the ship’s medicine chest
‘Yn the interests of his little liver, and he departed,
wrapped in funereal gloom.
* * * *
I lay and dozed. One bell of the first night-
watch struck. Then Pitch, midshipman on anchor-
watch, standing at break of the poop, just over
my head, sung out:
“ Who’s that bathing there ? Come aboard !
There were strict orders, carefully disobeyed by
the middies, against night bathing, for fear of
sharks.
Then another voice from the waist:
“ Captain’s boat alongside ! ”
Pitch tore over to starboard and rattled down
the ladder to receive the skipper at the gangway.
Presently the captain called, impatiently,
“ Steward! ”
No answer.
“ Pass the word for the steward.”
The cry ran forward and echoed aft.
Search, fore-and-aft. Pitch, the forecastle
lookout, and others, catechised. No boat had
been near the ship. Besides, Wrench never went
Then Pitch remembered seeing and hailing
someone in the water—Wrench couldn’t swim a
stroke. The boatswain had seen the steward,
only a few minutes before the captain’s arrival,
sitting in the port gangway, his legs overside, his
back inboard.
Lanterns were brought. Under the port gang-
way—there was no ladder shipped—an old grat-
ing was triced, as fender. Half-way down a nail
protruded ; sticking thereto was a shred of black
broadcloth !
Drags were used, then, and days afterwards.
No Wrench !
There never was any Wrench —until
• • • *
The police were called. Wrench’s books, money
and personal property examined. Everything
scrupulously correct. The captain had a large
sum of the steward’s in safe keeping, so desertion
was out of the question.
Later, it was whispered aboard that while
Wrench sat with his feet over the side, Belsey
paced the main-deck behind him—Belsey the
saturnine, who had threatened him !
**' * *
A week later we were anchored at Whampoa,
on the Canton River. The Cantonese are boss
thieves of the universe. They would sneak along-
side in narrow-gutted canoes, paddled by foot at
great speed, and rip off a sheet of copper—real
copper in those days—while you were scratching
your last mosquito-bite. We middies at night
kept anchor-watch aft, struck the poop bell half-
hourly, made the forecastle look-out repeat on his
bell, and saw that he kept awake. Holystones,
wherewith to sink, and lanterns to detect the
river-thieves, were ranged at intervals fore'and aft,
and both lower stu’n’-sail booms were out. As old
Porter, with his unfailing bit of nine-thread, made
a surprise-party of one at all hours, the middies
knew too much even to doze at night, on watch.
* * * *
It was my anchor-watch, from midnight to 2
a.m. It had been raining; the moon fitfully
gleamed from out black clouds, the temperature
was that of a damp stokehole in the Red Sea ; the
awful stench of China, vile enough to destroy any
white man’s moral sense, and a thick silence—e\ en
the swift river flowed dumb as oil —brooded over
all.
The look-out-man on the fo’castle happened to
be Schwerzguth, the Dago, and my hammock-
man. , ,
I struck one bell. No response. I stole for ard
on the port side.
The Dago, awake, was standing to starboard, at
break of the fo’castle, staring aft, looking half-
scared.
“ Why didn’t you strike the bell ?”
‘ ‘ Dere’s somepody valkin’ de deck rait black
does on him. I vatch him. Look ! —dere he
goes ! ” .
There was someone, turning to port, just abaft
the mainmast. “ One of the hands ! What’s he
doing aft?” I said. .
“No, [ count de hands ; dey vas all schleepin .
“Then it’s the mate ; I’ll get aft.”
“ No, sir, de mate he vas pig, and vear white
does ; this is schmall man mit black does.”
I hurried aft, port-side. When abreast the
galley I made out a small, dark figure, standing
by the main fife-rail, h'is back towards me.
“ Who goes there ? ” I hailed.
No answer. The figure moved quicklv up the
port poop-ladder. I followed. No one there ! ,
I looked everywhere, took a lantern to the ship’s
side, jumped up and looked on top of the awn-
ings, which were spread fore and aft. No one !
I nipped down into the saloon. The skipper
was sound asleep, all in white, in the starboard
after cabin.
Porter’s familiar snore was in fullest blast. He,
also, was in white.
Idem, the second mate, the junior mates, and
all the midshipmen. I went on deck puzzled.
♦** * '
Two bells ! As I waited for the repeat, I saw
the figure in black apparently gazing over the
port gangway. I quietly kicked off my shoes and
shot down the poop-ladder. Quick as I was, the
figure was quicker, and vanished.
Running on the fo’castle I told the look-out to
take a lantern and nip out to the end of the star-
board lower boom to see if any boat was alongside.
I went out on the port boom.
Nothing ! . (
As we came inboard one of the boatswain’s
mates came up the fo’castle ladder.
“ Is that the officer of the watch ? ” he asked.
“Yes.”
“ Mr. Dana, there’s someone playing the fool
down below; he’s dressed in black and keeps
coming in the fo’castle and lookin’ in the chaps’
faces.”
“Who is it?” '
“Don’t know, sir; can’t see his face—but he’s
none of the crew ; they’re all present and asleep.”
Schwerzguth, the boatswain’s mate, and myself
compared notes. We agreed it was no one up
to any good, and that an iron belaying-pin, neatly
aimed at the back of his head, would conduce to
his temporal and eternal welfare. We armed our-
selves accordingly, and I went aft again, the
boatswain’s mate, a quiet but determined old
file, promising to keep awake in his bunk.
* * * *
Three bells ! “ All’s well! ”
* * * »
Some 15 minutes later there was a hail from the
fo’castle. I felt scared somehow, but went for’ard
quickly.
Schwerzguth and the boatswain’s mate were
together, both excited. y The figure had been in
the fo’castle, looking in tit Belsey’s bunk. _ Belsey
had given a smothered scream, which had
awakened several of the hands, but remained
asleep. The boatswain’s mate had tried to seize
the figure, but “the blarsted thing wauished,
Muster Dana! ”
With this Holmes went below again, vowing
vengeance.
I stood for a moment talking to Schwerzguth.
Suddenly he emitted a startling yell, and pointed,
shivering, to the foot of the ladder.
There, his face upturned, and horribly ghastly
in the sickly moonlight, stood
Wrench, the steward ! !
* * * *
It was not pluck, but the desperation of
cowardice gone mad that made me leap down the
ladder right at that dreadful face. Even a,s I
jumped, however, the figure flitted aft, and sped
up the poop-ladder. The courageous reader
would, no doubt, have followed. I didn’t. . I
rushed into the middy’s berth and literally hauled
Williams, next for anchor-watch, out of his bunk.
Though it was not quite four bells I had been
calling him for the last half-hour. I also explained
that a ghost had charge of the deck. At this?
moment the skipper’s voice was heard from the
poop, roaring,
“ Who’s the midshipman of the watch ? ”
Williams and I both ran up.
“ There’s been someone masquerading about
the deck. Do you know anything about it, Mr.
Dana ? ” the captain said. . _
I told him what I had seen, but did not say it
was Wrench.
“ Gall all hands ! ” was his comment.
Telling the officers to search the ship fore and
aft, the skipper himself called the roll. All were
psesent. Then he merely remarked that someone
had been playing the fool, and that, if he caught
that someone another night, he would “shoot him
like a dog.” The crew indignantly denied that
they had any hand in the matter. This, Holmes
corroborated.
Next night Belsey disappeared and was never
traced.
* * * *
We were getting into soundings on the home-
ward voyage ; it was the first watch ; old Porter
had gone below for his grog; the skipper, in charge
of the deck, called me to windward.
“ Tell me,” he said, “ who was that you saw in
Whampoa ? ”
“ The steward, sir.”
“My God ! yes. I woke up; he was standing
over my bunk, looking into my face.”
N.S.W.
J. SPENCE EVISON.


Solid Gold Brooch, 7s 6d.
freetrade prices.
We landed many Thousands of Pounds of
Stock before the duties and are selling it
a t the old Freetrade Prices—at London
Solid Silver
SERVIETTE RING.
5s 6d.
Afternoon TEA SET and
TRAY, Electro Silver,
20 years’ wear, 72s 6d.
10c., 12s 6d ;
15c., 225.
Choice Pearls, set in
15c. Gold, 15s Cd.
NECK ORNAMENT.
PURSE and CARD CASE
Combined, Silver Mounts,
real Crocodile Skin, 5s 6d.
WE GUARANTEE every Watch we sell lor 15 years,
and keep it in order without charge for two years
(breakages excepted).
The FX. & R. Lever is unrivalled for value.
IT HAS 10 jewels, which are countersunk.
IT IS a stem-winder, and has all the latest improvements.
IT IS a three-quarter plate Lever.
IT HAS ruby roller jewel.
IT HAS Brequet hair spring.
IT HAS compensated aud adjusted balance.
IT WILL stand HARD RIDING and KNOCKING
ABOUT, and go with profound accuracy.
IT IS made in every style of case.
IS HAS a good heavy case, and will wear a lifetime.
f-Lever, 14ct. Gold Case, £6 6s.
BUTTON HOOKS, 5 inches long,
Gold, 7s 6d ; Silver, Is.
FAIRFAX aijd ROBERTS,
Buying: Office:
36 BASINCHALL ST., LONDON, E.C.
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 HUNTER ST,, SYDNEY
A Page of Verses Written for the Bulletin
Sheedy was Dying.
V.
Grey as a rising ghost,
Helpless and dumb ;
This he had feared the most —
Now it had come ;
Through the tent door,
Mocking, defying,
The Thirsty Land lay,
And Slieedy was dying !
Why should he ever
Keep turning, keep turning
All his thoughts over
To quicken their burning ?
Why should the North wind speak,
Creeping and crying ?
—Who else could mourn for him ?
Sheedy was dying!
Ay ! he had travelled far—
Homeless, a rover ;
Drunk his good share, and more
Half the world over ;
So now had ended
All toiling and trying ;
Out in his tent alone
Sheedy was dying !
Never a priest to say
Where he is going ;
Ah ! he shall take the road,
As he is knowing.
So !—to his rest—
And the North wind is crying:
Who else should mourn for him ?
—Sheedy was dying !
Kind, in a surly way,
Somewhat rough-spoken;
Truth to his fellow-men
Keeping unbroken ;
With a strong man’s contempt
For the world and its lying—
Now, on his bunk alone,
Sheedy was dying !
Birds of the Thirsty Land
In the dull grey . . .
Mist of the even-time
Floating away . . .
Still did the North wind speak,
Creeping and crying :
White, with his mouth agape,
Sheedy was dying!
SHAW NELLSON.
Tryst.
IF it be foul or be fair,
If the wind has bewildered the hours
With eternal despoil of the flowers;
Or a calm has encompassed the air
Like the moon rising slow over towers, —
It is tryst-day, and I shall be there.
As I pass by the moss-girdled posts
A butterfly wavers beyond,
Slow piloting green shoals and coasts
Of branches whose blossoms respond
To the glance of my soul with a scent
That for Love its arcana has spent.
If Love’s shadow lay over the rose,
Then the sun were no more her desire;
So my heart with its melody goes
From the world to the shade of the briar,
Where a bird that has fluttered the field
In his flight folds of joy has unreeled.
* * • •
0 heart so full of sunshine and of rain,
Joy and pain,
The cloud pavilions of the gods are strewn
With the moon,
A canopy for Love that trailing bends
Tasselled ends . . .
All the light that palpitates through fretted waves
Into caves,
All the songs the mermaids sing where the weeds
Are their bredes,
All the magic of the turret cliffs that sleep
In the deep,—
All are gathered in the cloudy tents above,
Dear, and Love
Who irradiates the lowliest and least
Is their priest;
And lie beckons down his blessing if we twin
Enter in . . .
M. L.
HUBERT CHURCH.
Blanchelys.
WITH little hands all filled with bloom,
The rose-tree wakes from her long
trance;
And from my heart, as from a tomb,
Steals forth the ghost of dead Romance.
I know not whether wave or clay,
Or living lips your sweet lips kiss;
But you are mine alone to-day,
As in the old days, Blanchelys !
Yea, you are mine to clasp and hold,
In your young loveliness aglow,
As in the time of rose-and-gold
That faded, long and long ago.
Upon the moonlit balcony
We stand once more in silvered shade;
The perfume of the red rose-tree
Floats upward like a serenade:
A faery music, faint and fine,
A scented song, a tender tune ;
It is the melody divine
That lovers hear beneath the moon.
The air is full of incense spilled
From censers of the seraphim,
The Chalice of the Night is filled
With Wine of Magic to the brim.
Your heart is trembling, like a dove
New-caught, within your breast—as though,
With struggling pinions, rosy Love
Were prisoned in a drift of snow.
Beyond us lies the purple sea ;
Your red geranium-mouth I kiss ...
Alas, alas, that ever we
Beheld the morning, Blanchelys 1
•n
That night of nights I held—and thrilled
With rapture that was close to pain—
The Cup of Love that once is filled,
And nevermore is filled again.
Whoso the Wine of Passion sips,
At him the gods have ever laughed:
The Cup of Love was at my lips—
Would I had drained it at a draught!
There is a Death more sad than Death
That comes to every mortal born,
And takes away the panting breath—
The Death that leaves the heart forlorn.
The banner of my hope is furled ;
For fame or name I care no more;
The world is still a goodly world,
But not the world I knew of yore.
Then Beauty trembled in the air,
And burned and sparkled in the sea,
And common things seemed rich and rare,
Arid Love turned Life to Ecstasy.
The hates have neither ruth nor grace
For weak or strong, for low or high ;
The dust of dead worlds blows through space—
And dust, and less than dust, am I.
The dead men sleeping on the hill
That overlooks the ocean grey,
They lived their lives, and now are still:
Would I could sleep as sound as they.
I walked with fair Philosophy,
Whose eyes are like two holy wells,
In gardens where the Attic bee
Makes honey from the asphodels.
Her speech was slow and silver-clear,
A river flowing full and deep,
She said that Love, divine and dear,
Was but a dream of fevered sleep.
But Memory, with tender sighs,
Breathed softly in the myrtle blooms ;
And Passion with her glowing eyes
Stared at me from the pine-tree glooms.
All ballads of true lovers sung,
All stories of true lovers told,
Bring back the days when I was young—
The vanished days of rose-and-gold.
And, in the falling of the year,
Dead leaves beneath the poplar tree
Like old love-letters, worn and sere,
Their mournful stories tell to me.
I sat me down on many a night
When gilded lamps like moons did shine,
And cheeks were flushed, and eyes were bright,
To drown my thoughts in crimson wine.
In vain : there never grew the grape,
On Greek or Lusitanian shoie,
Whose juice can help us to escape
The thought of days that are no more.
In visions of the night I take
Your heart to my heart, lover-wise ;
And, in the morning, I awake
With empty hands and burning eyes.
Life yet within me pulses strong,
And in my veins the blood runs red,
But O, dear God ! the days are long,
And all the world to me is dead.
I had a dream of wringing hands,
And tear-wet eyes, and faces wan,
And heard a cry from all the lands—
“ O where have our Beloved gone ? ”
Of all that once to me you were
In years of yore, I hold but this—
A silken tress of tawny hair :
Come back, come back, O Blanchelys !
N.S.W.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Some Mulga Maxims.
IF the cattle-pup’s careless at heeling, get
him kicked if you possibly can;
An occasional heels-over-header is good for
a dog and a man.
If there s doubt of the breed of the yearling, put
the circle anvl bar on his rump;
For the man that “ has ” others is clever, but the
man that is “ had ”’s a chump.
If he bucks with the tackling, get on him and ride
him : there’s nothing to fear;
But beware of the colt who will watch you and
stand when you’ve bucklied the gear.
A leader’s a good thing to follow, in scrub or in
life, I allow;
But don’t come too closely behind him—you might
get the swing of a bough.
When long-’Sd& get g>ing in /timber, when wives
set their tongues ou if. s'? ip,
Don’t harass yourself or a good horse, but fill up
your pipe—let ’em rip I
If the sheep-pup cuts in on the wethers and splits
them, be kind to him, please ;
We, too, have run riot as youngsters and scattered
our charge to the breeze.
Hurry home when the revel i 3 over; when it’s
cold and the moon going down,
One light in the horse-paddock timber is better
than ten in the town.
To steer by the stars up above you on bush-tracks
is all very well,
But his course is erratic who follows the twinkling
three-star of Martell.
If a fellow talks fight after whisky, let him talk,
there is nothing to blame;
But keep wide of the beggar at polo, he’s too hot
of head for the game.
If you want to get rid of a rival, don’t shoot him or
poison his grub,
But shout for him twice in succession at any
known Warrego pub.
Don’t trust to a light-coloured chestnut, keep wide
of a red-headed dame,
If you don’t want to carry your saddle, and don’t
want to fall in the flame.
If the Boss’s girl gives you a rosebud, fling it out—
you are fooling with Fate ;
If the stockman’s young wife is the donor, doff
your hat to The Devil, and wait.
If it rains on the eve of a journey, that journey
had best be delayed,
For the man that drives out on the blacksoil' is
hired for a day with a spade.
Don’t be foolish in yards full of cattle—’t will win
you no medals or stars,
And bad-tempered heifers, like barmaids, are
safest at back of the bars.
Run the team off its legs if it need be, flog the
fall off the whip if you must ;
But keep to the front on the roadway and never
take any man’s dust.
N.S.W.
WILL OGILVIE.
Caesar Britannicus.
I.
I DREAMED I saw a monarch throned ; hit
seat
Pillared on continents ; the boundless sea
The purple mantle of his empery :
Through the high halls a fiery music beat
Its resonance of triumph: countless feet
Made loud his corridors : the brave, the free,
The mightiest in all human majesty,
Ranged thither in magnificence complete.
Then my heart cried, in that triumphant hour—
“ O fearless greatness amid perilous power !
What manner of man is He, to whom is given
Such pomp of homage ? Man, indeed, or God ? ”
My sense affrayed was from its function riven
And dared not look, for terror of his nod !
ii.
Till suddenly my vision lost its cloud,
Touched by Truth’s finger: and my opened eyes
Saw through the glamour and the golden lies
Of all that palace : then my spirit proud
Mocked at its sham ; for in the gleaming crowd
One half was like a swarm of foolish flies
Who danced to penny tunes (bidding arise
Their chosen minstrel, one who screamed aloud
The toneless jargon of the music-halls),
And half hung out the sign of Three Gilt Balls ;
And the great King, while tongue-in-cheek they
came
To pray the grace of his imperial look—
Poor silent pawn in all that gibbering game !
Looked dully upward from a betting-book.
▼.
M.
The Murder-Night.
THE tree-frogs sing in the rain;
The stars are caught in the pines ;
The wind has fled up the lane,
And a sick man’s window shines.
A loose horse neighs at the night;
A housed horse stamps in his stall;
A swallow flutters with fright
And dies at the top of the wall.
The paddocks are striped with flood,
And under the barn-door creeps
A silent gutter of blood
In queer little jerks and leaps.
And the nested rain-drops plash
And mix with the sinful stream,
That writhes in the lightning flash
Like a snake in a fearsome dream.
And up on the bald wet hill
A gibbering madman stands,
And sniffs his horrible fill
Of the rose in his shaking hands.
N.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE.
The Camp.
FROM she-oak logs the flaming golden spears
And scimitars assailed the midnight blue,
Then sinking down, as if oppressed by fears
Into their core withdrew.
Within the wavering circle of the glow
The weary dogs were stretched ; in blankets
rolled
My comrades slept : in grim and silent row
The guns were touched with gold.
A sadness from the very heart of things,
Vague, weird, and vast, rose to the quiet moon;
I seemed to hear the rustle of dim wings
Afloat on night’s still noon.
I thought, the lips are dust I loved so well,
The tender heart that beat for me alone
Afar lies, underneath forgotten spell,
Beneath a graven stone.
And for a space I lost the law and will
That flow from limits known—from hope re-
signed ;
But for a space : I conquered and was still,
My heart in bands confined.
So girded up, I listened to the hours,
When, lo ! the old earth -sweetness, like a tide,
Broke in with all its passioned foam of flowers,
And on my love I cried :
“ 0 love ! my love, lean to my cheek, my breast :
My lips seek thine; 0 press thy lips to mine !
Enter again, as long ago, thy rest
In silence deep, divine ! ”
T.
JAMES HEBBLETHWAITE.


The “New” Sphinx.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We’ve studied y’ with thought intense for twenty
years, come Friday,
And do admire the ancients’ sense, who made
the Sphinx a lydy.
The desert Sphinx, who loved to shout her awful
riddles to y’,
And if y’ couldn’t find ’em out, the Sphinx would
rend an’ chew y\
Sphinxy sport, sweet girls !
Why wimmins so contrarywise no man can
figure out or guess.
She mostly loves him she decries, her “ No ” most
often stands for “ Yes ” ;
Like playful puss with mouse or bird, y’ wound
’em, then y’ play ’em ;
Y’r answer lies not in y’r words, it’s in the way
y’ say ’em.
Till he’s caught, sweet girls !
In dress, dear girls, stark-mad you’ve gone—no
wonder men deride it!
Y’ll put your prettiest garment on, then wobbly
skirts to hide it.
All tucks an’ frills an’ bulges new (some stick out
something awful)
Y’ll lace up till y’r nose turns blue —that should
be made unlawful!
“ Slack away ! ” sweet girls.
Y’ll preach to us in accents sweet about the Chows
celestial,
The way they squeeze their ladies’ feet is
worst of crimes terrestrial.
But mention “stays ” in manner bland, we catch
a lecture drastic
About “things men don’t understand” most
bitterly sarcastic.
“ Slack away ! ” sweet girls.
To save a child you’ll Death defy, and rush in
fire or river;
Bear bitter pain without a cry ; but mouse !—you
scream an’ shiver.
Why mice should fill you with such fear to guess
no man is able.
Such nerves would drive a man to beer; they
drive you to the table.
Y’ got a rat, sweet girls !
We’ve known y’ jilt a giant strong (a strong—but
mild an’ meek ’un),
One who could push the pram along, to wed—a
poor, sick, weak ’un !
We’ve known y’ toil long, weary days in mercy,
love and pity,
Yet hide some cruel, tigerish ways ’neath face an’
form so pretty.
There ! that’s flat, sweet girls !
See ! on the beach a maiden sweet is paddling in
the briny,
The wavelets race to kiss her feet along the shingle
shiny;
Take that direction if you can ; she’ll scamper off,
she’ll scoot; she’s
Fit, oh ! to faint for fear “that man” should see
her trilby tootsies.
What’s in that, sweet girls ?
In ev’ning dress y’ll show the north (love’s inno-
cent exciter),
Y’ll show the south for all it’s worth, in tights
that can’t be tighter;
Y’ll dance, cavort the stage upon, the bald-pate’s
joy-creator;
Y’ll pose, high-kick, “mid nodings on,” except
round the equator —
Shameless cat, sweet girls !
Behold her now : she’s going to vote away all
“sin” and “folly ” ;
She’ll be the angel antidote to make life “pure”
and “jolly.”
And yet, and yet, it’s but too true, since Eve stole
fruit —for Adam —
The motive of most sins men do’s some pretty
Miss or Madam.
Chew this fact, sweet girls 1
A HAPPY DEATH.
A rich citizen of a small town was on terms of deadly hatred with the two local lawyers,
whom he accused of having robbed him. He fell sick, and found death coming, whereupon he
sent word to the lawyers that he wished to see them instantly. They hurried to his apartment,
and were motioned by him to seats on either side of his bed. Then he took a hand of each.
“My friends ,” he gasped, “I dare say you will wonder what —I want with you to-day. Perhaps ,”
he slowly said, “you think—l have brought you hither—for a reconciliation, But no—that is
not so; I — merely—desire to — die —like our Blessed Lord — between—two thieves .” And then he
died happy.
She’ll “throw all liquor in the sea,” both bottle,
bung and barrel;
Our soothing smoke must ended be if we would
save a quarrel.
She’ll build th’ nation up on tea; she’ll make th’
pace a cracker;
She’ll purify our progeny by stopping their
terbacker.
Think y’r cracked, sweet girls !
She’ll have no staying-out at night except at
prayerful meetings;
She’ll stop th’ starlight courting “blight,” and
eonfratvivial greetings ;
With goggled eyes and swirling gamp she’ll point
the way to Heaven ;
Yea, ev’ry man must scoot for camp and be in bed
by seven.
Happy time, sweet girls !
O woman, you’re a windy wreck, unless you own
some sinner
To kiss and coax and keep in check and deal him
out his dinner;
O man, who hast no girl to guide his love to its
fruition,
Y’r wobbling on an ocean wide in pitiful con-
dition.
Ne’er a dime, sweet girls !
Dear hearts, with fears we needn’t vex our souls
(with sorrows sated),
If law of Being’s built on sex—well, sexes must be
mated ;
Whilst dear old Earth in daily whirls rolls on her
way a-sporting,
All, young and ancient, boys and girls, must play
the game of courting ;
Hooray ! sweet girls.
So ev’ry simple single man who dreams of driving
tandem
Is druv to study all he can, in hope to understand
’em;
But studying girls just ends in smoke or melts
like sugar-candy—
When bright eyes beam upon a bloke, it knocks
all studying bandy.
Wish y’ luck, sweet girls !
v.
ALONE.
Judy Feeney.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Uncle Jim was leaning against the verandah-post,
watching Bobbie trying to ride a calf. Judy
Feeney came cantering down the homestead-track
on her fiddle-headed camp-horse. Uncle dodged
into the house sharply, seized his hat, and hurried
out per back-door towards the creek.
“Do you want me to quarrel with the woman ? ”
Aunt stood near the fence, s aking her hand at
him. “ She can see you running away ! ”
Uncle Jim spat as he ran, jerking his arm for
me to follow.
Judy Feeney is a big-boned woman, with a
man’s face, black hair and eyebrows that are like
two liquorice-stains. When she looks at you side-
ways a sour taste creeps into your throat. Three
such glances on a hot day would make a nervous
man cry “ Police ! ”
Barrigool, her father’s station, is four miles
from our paddock-gate. Judy is a born cattle-
woman—you know that by the way her dogs
double back when she whistles, and by the way
she punches her milkers over the Castlereagh.
“Why don’t you like Judy?” I asked as we
tramped to the bit of shade near the creek. Uncle
spat again and looked back at the house. One of
the kids was opening the gate for Judy. Uncle
squirmed. “If th’ flat-chested banshee was ter
come down here I’d give her a wash in th’ crik fer
nothin’.”
Few of the cookies around Barrigool station loved
the Feeneys. During the last bush-fires Feeney’s
prize-rams perished in dozens for want of helping
hands: the hands were there, but the bodies
seemed unwilling. When the floods ripped away
his fences and drowned his fat wethers old Feeney
A LEGACY .
OLD BOY: “ See here, Mab, you're making a fool of my hoy, just as you used
to do with me. An' I won't have it l Why, you're old enough to be
his mother !”
MAB: “ I nearly was !”
merely said, “Hell, byes, look ut that neow!”
but in the hot loneliness of his verandah he com-
plained bitterly of the want of public sympathy.
A few questions concerning Judy set Uncle Jim
going. He sat on the creek-bank pitching stones
into the water as he spoke.
“ Judy’s gittin’old now, but thear was a time
when she busted her saddle-girths lookin’ for a
husband. She uster sneak inter th’ huts after th’
chaps had done shearin’, gammonin’ ter listen ter
th’ banjo. She’d ask about th’ dogs an’ th’ tallies
an’ th’ tucker, an’ ull th’ while her eyes was lookin’
fer Mr. Wright with the fair mustaches an’ long
legs. She was a corker fer scootin’ about. But
thear wasn’t a cove this side of Bathurst what’d
pick her out of a sheep-dip. An’ her ole man’s
got stuff. He’s cuttin’ inter this country with his
fences, dummyin’ the good land right up to Dubbo.
He lends money ter people like me an’ O’Shea,
an’ squeezes us to bits on th’ strength of it.
Tyson was a perfick angel: old Feeney’s a perfick
angel too, when he’s ridin a horse yer can see two
tails instead of one.
“Shearers ain’t particular, they’ll marry gins
an’ Chows’ widders —anything with three long
haii-s and a pinnyfore, but there wasn’t one of ’em
would take Judy on. An’ she ran about.
showin’ her paces, till they got sick of her.
When she’d enter a hut they’d slink out
one at a time an’ loaf about the shed. N -
body likes to insult women.
“ A little feller named Possum M‘Gin ty
came up from Sydney an’ opened a ter-
bacconist an’ hairdresser’s shop on the flat.
He was about 17 ; had a lot of nice curly
liair ; uster part it down this side one day
and th’ other side the next day. Yer
couldn’t help likin’ him, though, even when
yer’d see him lookin’ at himself in th’ glass
all th’ afternoon. He could have had the
pick of half th’ gels this side. Some of ’em
uster ride over from Conroy’s ter buy scent
an’ cigarettes from his shop. They’d hang
about tryin’ ter coax him out fer a ride. He
was a good-lookin’ little chap; it was a plea-
sure ter git yer hair shore at his place.
“Judy Feeney uster wait round, stickin’
her hard face agin his winder an’ breathin’
on th’ glass till it uster nearly melt; but
Possum wasn’t havin’ any Judy Feeney.
“ One night thear was a row over at Barri-
gool. That h ussy”—U ncle j erked his th umb tov» ards
the homestead —“ was screamin’in her room, an’
old Feeney was runnin’ about like a broody hen.
Next day trooper Johnson arrested Possum
M'Ginty on a charge of assaultin’Judy Feeney.
They locked Possum in the station, an’ th’ same
night th’ sergeant came over ter th’ flat an’ said
somethin’ ter Hardman the lawyer, an’ Hardman
nearly fell off his stool laughin’. Hardman took
up th’ case fer Possum.
“The P.M. heerd the case. Judy got inter th’
box an’ swore Possum had follered her in her
father’s paddick, an’ so on, an’ she never winked
nor stammered, n’ yer could see th’ lies failin’
out one over th’ other.
“The beak sat thear like an’ old piker,
mumblin’ an’ scratchin’ down th’.lies with his pen.
Hardman let th’ case go on ; he was pickin’ his
teeth with a nail, an’ I saw him once kick a
feller’s leg under th’ table.
“Then the P.M. begins ter pint out what
a terrible offence had bin committed, an’ hint
in the questions he asked what a nice
respectable girl Judy was; how thear wasn’t a
blemish on her character ; how she looked after her
old father an’ th’ cattle, an’ was a credit ter th’
district. You could see a committal coinin’, an’
quick, for the
P.M. wanted
to do a bit of
shootin’ up the
river, an’ was
anxious to git
away.
“Then Hard
man putsdown
his nail an’
chips in.
‘ Your Wor -
ship,’ he sez,
* I’m afraid
you’ll have to
prefer another
charge against
my client.’
“ ‘ What do
you mean, sir?’
sez the P.M.,
hot an’ nasty.
“‘Your
Worship,’ sez
Hardman,
holdin’ a hand-
kerchief to his
mou t h, ‘I
mean that my
client, ’Pos-
sum M'Ginty,
is a lady.’
“The people
all stood up,
men an’ wim-
meu.
“ ‘What?’
sez the P.M.
‘ What ? ’
“‘ My cli-
e n t,’ says
Hard m a n
pickin’ up his
nail, ‘came in-
ter th’ district
ter earn a liv-
in’, your Wor-
ship,. an’ she
couldn’t do it
as a single
woman ; so she
tookth’liberty
o f temperily
changin’ her sex, an’ started in th’ hairdressin’ busi-
ness. Therefore, yer honor, in absence of legil presi-
dence, thear isn’t sufficient evidence ter continue the
prosecution. P’raps,’ he sez, still keepin’ th’
handkerchief ter his mouth, ‘the prosecutrix
might prefer ter alter th’ charge to one more
probable—piracy on th’ high seas, yer honor, bar-
ratry on th’ Castlereagh—somethin’, yer Worship,
that has legil presidence behind it.’
“ An’ thear was little Possum in th’ dock red as
a cherry. Damn it! when yer looked at her yer
could see she was a woman !”
Uncle Jim scratched his head ; and blinked at
the sky.
“ And Judy Feeney went home that day
without turnin’ a hair. Don’t know what be-
came of Possum; she cleared-out. A shearer-
cove told me that she married a schoolmaster
down Bathurst way.”
Turning towards the homestead we saw Aunt
holding back the gate while black-haired Judy
Feeney cantered into the road towards Barrigool.
Uncle gazed after her tenderly. “I’d like ter
wash her in th’ crik, lad,”’ he
said, dreamfully.
MOST UNCALLED-FOR.
PROPRIETOR OF BOXING HALL (speaking from the
ring before the commencement of hostilities to
an assembly of the usual sort): “Gen'el-
men, I wish ter warn yer. There are criminals
present."
No parson, “Cecil P.” declares to The
Bulletin, should preach to men till he’s 35 at
least. Before that time he is practically address-
ing women only. A parson’s career should be
divided : 21 to 28 (women only)—deep solemnity
of manner, “flowers,” “stars,” “our last mo-
ments,” “the little ones we have lost”; girly-
girly adjectives, many words, thin thought—a
bonnet of a sermon, in fact. And the women say,
“ How sweet! ” If the women declare him unin-
teresting he may become a great preacher; and,
if very deep and very eloquent, he may, after 50,
be effective in addressing children. Sometimes
the first stage lasts through life. Then that which
was natural and laughable in the young man
becomes monstrous. The affectation, the mouth-
ing, the mechanical emotion, the feeble thought
for ever flapping to and fro in the same place like
a worn-out and forgotten flag, must be ghastly
wearisome to a yawning God. Hell would be toe
high-class and toney for such creatures. The
devil will simply shovel them underneath as
fourth-grade fuel with which to roast more robus;
sinners.


Hash.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Something masculine swaggered in, and said
slowly, “I ordered a steak here three years ago
Can I get it now ? ”
He could not just then, because
the younger of the two wait-
resses screamed out “Joe!”
and fainted heavily across “one
roast, without.” The elder
lumbered to her assistance,
while the boss faced the
stranger, and curtly
wanted to know what
the devil his game
was. Without waiting
to explain, the stranger
walked across to the
fainting girl, pushed
her assistant aside, and
kissed the senseless one
on the mouth, till she opened
her eyes and again said
“ Joe ! ” in a loving,
pathetic little way, with
just a trace of tears in
it.
Joe had just managed
to murmur, “Jess, dear!”
when the boss pulled him
roughly away, and said, with
lurid embellishment.
“So you're Joe, are you? Joe
1 )awson, I s’pose ? ”
J oe nodded.
“Well, look here, Mr. Joe, if you
was St. Peter himself you ain’t goin’ to
kiss my wife without gettin’ hurt.”
Joe whipped out a startled curse, and turning
to Jess, said :
“ His what ? ”
“Yes, Joe,” she stammered, “ his wife in—in a
sort of way.”
“In a sort of way! yes, but wliat sort of a
way ? ”
“ Lorful marridge,” interposed the boss; ‘.‘tied
by a dooly qualificated parson, in the presence of
two highly respective ratepayers. She’s got the
lines; she’ll show you.”
“ Lawful marriage be damned! ” said Joe.
“She can’t have two husbands living, and I’ll
swear she’s my wife, ain’t you, Jess?”
“ But you went away, Joe, and I thought you
was dead,” said Jess, “and—and—”
“And—and—” repeated Joe, bitterly. “You
didn’t know I was dead ; you knew I was alive
and kicking, and I’ll be kicking this old Mister of
yours if he tries to keep me from taking you
home.”
The face of the old Mister waxed grim as he let
loose a few badly-chosen remarks, the gist of
which was that he would stand by Jess against
any Joe in the world.
“Let her choose,” said Joe. “I can’t lose by
it, because I know what she’ll say. D’ye love
me, Jess ? ”
“Yes, Joe,” she promptly replied ; “I love
you right enough.”
“Better than this?” indicating the boss.
“Better than anybody, Joe; better than any-
body in the world,” she said.
“Well, then, put on your hat and come along,”
said Joe.
“I can’t, Joe, 1 can’t,” she sobbed. “ I can’t
leave the child.”
“What child?” asked he, once more amazed.
“Our little boy,” she answered.
“ Our little boy,” reiterated Joe. “ Yours and
“ RICh
REV. SNOOKEE
(to ticket-sel-
ler): “Er,
I am gather-
ing material
for a course
of lectures on
‘The Pernicious
Influence of the Stage,’
and I want to know if you
would he good enough to give
me a ticket!”
FROM A COLLARENDABLANKYBI
BALLROOM.
HE (to the new station governess): “ Can I have
this darnee, Miss?”
“ No, thank you.”
“ Why?”
“I don't happen to know you.”
“ That's all right, my dear. You’re running no
bigger risk than me—I don't know YOU.”
this chap’s, or yours and mine ? ”
“ Yours and mine, Joe,” she replied. “There’s
—there’s only one.”
“What! little Joe?” the boss chipped in.
“ He’s mine ; didn’t you tell me so lots of times,
J ess ? ”
“Yes, I told you so,” she said; “ but he isn’t —
he’s Joe’s little Joe.”
“ Well, of course, you ought to know,” said her
old Mister, glumly; “but if I’d known that I
wasn’t dad to my own son all this time I’d ha’ in-
fected a change, by hookity, I would.”
“ I told you about Joe,” said Jess.
“Yes,” replied he, “you told me about Joe,
but you didn’t tell me he was Father Joe to little
Joe, and it’s bloomin vexatin’ to find my son
ain’t my son, and can’t never be. And I always
felt so fatherish to him, too. I was lookin’ ahead
to bringin’ him up to chops and steaks, and beef
underdone for one, and oxtail, and plum-pudden,
and all the rest of it. You know, Jess, how I’ve
spoke about my distentions towards him. Let
me stick to him, Jess, will you ? I can’t replace
him.”
“ Yes, you can,” said Joe ; “ get another wife.
Perhaps Missie here will suit you, if she is
Missie. ”
“Don’t want no ’usban’,”
said the elder waitress. “Al-
ways kep’ orf marryin’, ’cause
I couldn’t see no good in it,
’cept kids, ’n’ they ain’t cer-
tain.”
“Well, Jess,” said Joe,
“trot out the boy, and come
along with me.”
Jess hesitated and colored,
finally stammering :
“I can’t go along with you,
Joe. I-I-I’m too much struck
on you.”
“What’re you talking
about?” cried Joe. “Can’t
come back to me because
you’re too fond of me 1 What
tommy tripe 1 ”
“It’s not tommy,” she said,
reddening still deeper. “I
love you too much to put
another man’s child on to
you.”
“But you said he was mine,”
Joe said.
“Little Joe is ; but I don’t
mean little Joe,” she said,
not coloring any deeper be-
cause she had reached the
limit.
“Don’t mean little Joe!”
exclaimed Joe, “but you said
there wasn’t another.”
“Well, there isn’t another
just yet, but ”
“By hookity!” broke in
her old Mister, “ you don’t
mean it, Jess, does you ?
Blow little Joe 1 The other’ll
do for me, whether it’s a
waiter or a waitress. It’s
gratifactory to know that I’m
to be an unexpected father,
p after all.”
f ' “ Is it true, Jess ? ” asked Joe,
“ Yes, it’s true enough, I’m sorry to say,” she
replied. “Now, don’t you believe I believed
you’d threw in your toe, Joe?”
“ Yes,” he said; “ but it’s a pretty fix all round.
You can’t come with me because of this old
Mister’s child, and you can’t stay with him
because you’re my wife. What’s the way out of
it?”
“Easy enough,” said the boss. “I
only want the waiter or waitress.
Jess can go and live by herself
till then ; you can take little Joe
now; I’ll take the one what
won’t be little Joe presently,
and then Jess can go back
to you. That’s the rye-
buckest derangement we
can make s’long’s Jess
- don’t disappoint me.”
“Yes, I don’t see
anything else for it,”
said Joe, after reflec-
tion. “It’s roughest
on me, though, for I’ve
Y already waited three years to get
\ Jess back with me, and now I’ve
got to go on waiting. How does
it strike you, Jess ? ”
“ I think it’s best, Joe dear.”
“ And you’ll come back to me then ? ”
“Rather! And —Joe—”
“Yes, Jess.”
“Don’t be impatient, dear. You
you won’t have to wait so very
long.”
It was a waitress.
VIO.
L.L.
Omissions from Interviews.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I went to see Mark Twain and sent my card up
to his room by the hotel boy. Twain wrote a note
back : “ I am in bod and I like it, and I’m going
to stay here all day.” I replied : “As you leave
to-morrow, and as I have to interview you,
wouldn’t it be as well for you to be present—at
any rate some of the time ? ” He answered, also
in writing : “It is kind of you to point that out;
perhaps it would be as well. Let us say after the
lecture this evening.”
A judge who is now dead said to me: “The
jury in a sheep-stealing case in the country had
evidently made up their minds that the accused
man was guilty ; and I had no doubt of his guilt
myself. But just before I began to sum-up, the
man’s mother came into court, and the first thing
I caught sight of, as I raised my head to speak,
was her tear-stricken face.
I am afraid that I some-
what turned the evidence
round and led the jury to
bring in a verdict of not
guilty ; it was a weak mo-
ment of mine—that poor
old woman’s face was too
much for me.”
Peart, the diver, said:
“ I don’t want the public to
know that one of my eyes is
a glass eye.”
A very popular actress
remarked, “ Let me see my
interview before it appears,
will you ? I’m so nervous
of what I say to the pub-
lic.” Another actress struck
a defiant attitude and said,
“Tell your lady-correspon-
dent to come and see my
legs before she throws out
any more insinuations.
There’s no cotton-wool or
sawdust about me, and I’d
like the public to feel sure
about it. ' My legs are all
right, I tell you.”
A famous editor finished
his remarks with, “Jour-
nalism, Music, Mining,
Medicine, Law, Drama, Art
—all are Vanity ! Vanity !
Vanity ! Vanity ! always
Vanity ! Nothing pays like
a public-house. All my
money is invested in tied-
houses.”
I went to see a man
who had won a big prize in
a Tattersall’s sweep. He was in hospital. “Oh
mate,” he said, “ I can’t tell you anything ; except
that it was the worst bit of bad luck I ever had,
winnin’ all that money. A poor devil like me,
who never had more than 25 bob a-week in the
bush, didn’t know what to do with 3000 quid. So
I started drinkin’, and I drank till the grog burnt
the inside clean out of me. I’m just as holler as a
holler log. But don’t say anything about it till
after I’m dead.” He is dead—died five days after
I saw him.
A champion footballer said : “ Women beat the
best of ’em, but don’t say I said so, or I’ll get
killed.” A baritone remarked: “Through con-
tinually associating with women, we actors
become as clever as women ; if I liked I could pay
for my board nearly always with kisses—but don’t
publish that statement as mine, for goodness
sake.” A champion sculler said : “ This is not for
publication, but there’s no doubt about it, the man
who wants to win must leave his wife at home.
Women will either love a man or fight with him,
or talk to him, and one is as mom ‘■onous and
worrisome as the other.” A prize-fighter told me :
“ On the day of the fight I put in my time spoon-
ing with my wife; it quietens my nerves and
keeps me bright and lively.” A champion swim-
mer said : “My best wins were secured w'on a
Scotch girl was in love with me.” A great bats-
man informed me: “If I’m on bad terms with my
girl when I go in to bat, then I break myself in
half trying to stop a steady straight ball; but if
I’m on good terms with her, I can see the ball all
the way as big as a pumpkin.” Overhearing
which, an old cricket identity, ejaculated : “ Well,
you’d better wear one of your girl’s stockings
round your neck next time you go in, for you’ve
only made 24 the last three innings.” The
cricketer replied : “ I’ll hit one of the first three
balls out of the ground, and make over 100.” And
he did.
I called on an American actor. It was evening,
and I found him on the balcony of his hotel, gaz-
ing skywards. I stood, wondering whether he
was an astronomer or a Yankee comedian given to
devotions in the twilight. When he turned he
said, “Can you see it?” “No,” I said as I
searched the sky—“what are you looking for—a
comet?” “No,” he answered, “ the Southern
Cross.” “Oh, that’s the Southern Cross up
there,” I said, pointing. He put his eye near my
hand and followed the direction of my finger.
“That!” he cried—“ Bless me! why, the way
they talked about it at luncheon made me expect
a cross of fire. Why, I thought the sight of it
would make a man so thirsty that I got a big
bottle put on ice to cool me down after looking at
it. Well, well ! Why, we’ve got a sky chockfull
of better stars than that in ’Murka. But don’t
say I said so—oh, no !it wouldn’t do for the Aus-
tralian public, you know. Say that when you
found me I was looking at the Southern Cross,
and I was lost in admiration of its beauty. And
(he cast his eyes heavenwards) it is a very beauti-
ful constellation now that I come to look at it.
It’s the most conspicuous thing in the way of stars
I ever saw—and I’ve been all round the world ;
seen all the stars this side Paradise.”
There was a famous woman-performer whose
feats—l don’t say feet—made a big stir in Aus-
tralia. I interviewed her, after her performance,
immediately she had finished dressing. She bent
her right arm as the athletes do, and said (J la
Meston): “ Feel my muscle ! ” I felt her biceps.
It was as tough and springy as the hard
india-rubber ball that youngsters play cricket
with. “ And feel my neck-muscles ! ” She turned
her head, making the muscles of her neck stand
out like ropes. I was hesitating as to whether it
wasn’t more polite to decline than to feel, when
the lady caught hold of my hand, placed it on her
neck, and said : “ There ! that is the muscle lam
so proud of.” Before I could compliment her
there was a frightful snort and stamp, and a large,
hairy man, with eyes like a mad lion, advanced
upon us. “Ah ! ” cried the lady, running to him,
“My dear—let me present you : Monsieur Bulle-
tin—my husband.” He calmed down at once—
HIS GENEROSITY.
MADAM: “So Eve caught you kissing the housemaid.”
HE: “Look here, Maria, you hiss her too, and well call
square.”
was delighted to see me—so he said, and I’m sure
he believed he was, for he not only smiled most
affably but lifted his wife’s dress for me to feel
her calf! “Monsieur,” he said, “feel —ze
wondairful development.” “Yes,” I said, “I
can sec it’s very rem irkable indeed.” And I was
just comparing it in my mind with a few famous
football calves, when Madame ejaculated:
“Modesty, Jean ! —Monsieur Bulletin is so ver’
young 1 ”
S. A. MILLS.
IN DRY COUNTRY.
Total abstinence scores one in securing the more peaceful
mind.
At the ooze-patch over yonder—
That’s the shanty off the river
Where the grog is flavoured barb-wire,
And the water is cement—
Did he drink, and did he squander
Till an alcoholic shiver
Shooting shudders through his liver,
lie subsided somnolent.
Near the ooze-patch over yonder
Is a grave the cattle trample
And the name of him who sleeps tnere
Is ne’er mentioned by a soul.
If, perchance, that way you wander,
And you’re guided by example—
Well, the only sober citizen
Was planted in that hole.
N.S.W
NARRANGIN BOORI.


His Uncle’s Luck.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The landlord dropped into the bar-parlour and
said if there wasn’t more drinking and less “ mag ”
they could all clear. At this large hint they did
“clear”—all but the man who had been talking
for two hours about how Glencoe won the Cup.
He glared sulkily into the fire, but eventually
came to the conclusion that an audience of one
was better than none, so he started to entertain
me. His voice was level and monotonous, he had
no punctuation worth speaking of, and he drifted
along with the boundless irrelevance of an ancient
Anglo-Saxon manuscript. This is his tale con-
densed :
“My Uncle Bill caught two snakes once and
made a pair of waterproof boots out of the skins.
He was very fond of fishing —liked it better’n
work. In fact he never, as you may say, took on
serious to work. He was a delicate boy, his
mother said, so she wouldn’t let him. He could
eat all right, though, my word ! He was very
fond of eggs, and his mother thought she’d try
him one morning, so she put a dozen in front of
him, and sat down herself to a cup of tea and
toast. Bill wades in till he’s done-in 11 of them,
then his mother says : ‘ Billy, ain’t you going to
give any to mother ? ’
“Then he chucks the last egg over and says:
‘ Take it, greedy, and let yer pore little boy
starve.’
“ When a man don’t tackle work young, it’s like
breaking in a ten-year-old colt to get him to take
it on when he grows up, so Uncle used to fool
round the river while his wife kept pigs and
chickens for a living. He was great on all kinds
of animals and snakes, but he used to tell the boys
about them so quiet, never put on no side ; just
buzzed along like a sausage-machine, and because
he put on no side, nor said ‘ s’elp me tater,’ or any
dashed thing, the boys wouldn’t believe him. That
broke him all up, because he was that truthful that
a boy of fourteen could do him bad in a horse-
trade.
“ At last he gets a chance to put them all down.
One day he was laying on the bank of the Murrum-
bidgee, having a sleepafter a swim, with nothing on
but a pair of trunks and a shirt. He felt a cold,
damp feel in one leg, and when he woke-up he
found a big snake trying to swallow him, but with
the general foolishness of snakes it had started at
the wrong end. He had tackled the right
leg and swallowed away till he got stuck
up near Uncle Bill’s waistcoat, and while
A CHANGE NECESSARY.
EDITOR OF “ TARPEENA TRIBUNE” (to foreman of composing-depart-
ment): “ I'd like you to understand when you are making-up
the paper that this article entitled, ‘ How Mr. Thomas Jones
was Cured of Obstinate Action of the Liver,' is not to appear
as the leading-article every week.”
he was wondering what to do about it
Uncle woke up. He knew that snakes can’t get rid
of anything they swallow without turning them-
selves inside out, so he reached around quiet for
some long grass, and tied a knot just above his
knee around the snake’s neck so he could’nt get
away, no matter how he wriggled. Then he lay
back, and bleated like a kid stuck in a fence,
Then, sure enougn, out came the snake’s mate,
and says‘Hello, what have you found ?’and the
old snake says, ‘ I dunno—have one yourself.’ So
she gets to work and swallows the other leg. A
bit more grass fixed her so she couldn’t get off, and
Uncle got up to walk home, but found it hard
work because the slack of the snakes got twisted
around his feet and tripped him up By-and-by,
the rough road wore the snakes through, so he put
the spare bits in his coat-pocket for sausage-skins
and went on to the pub. with the curiousest pair of
trousers ever seen. When he got near the pub.
he pushed back one snake’s jaw, which reached
right up to his vest, like a pocket-flap, and put
his knife and tobacco into its mouth, so when the
jaw flapped back like a spring it held them tight
against his leg. Then he put his matches and
pipe in the other snake’s jaw, and walked in with-
out saying a word. The chaps were clean knocked
out, but he said nothing, as if he always wore
pants like that. He set-up drinks for all hands,
and the publican was that paralysed he gave him
tick, and forgot to chalk it up.
“While they were gazing he flipped back one
snake’s jaw, took out his knife and tobacco and
cut a pipeful; then he opened the other jaw,
loaded his pipe, struck a match on the snake’s
teeth, and started a smoke, cool as you like.
“‘Them’s a nice pair of trousers you
got on,’ says Gilly Snodgrass. ‘ Yes;
I wear ’em when I go down to the
Melbin Cup—keeps my ter-
baker moist, and them pick-
pockets can’t get their hands
in to rob me,’ says Bill.
“ ‘There’s no pickpocket
clever enough to rob you, Bill,
’nless he put the stuff in your
pocket first,’ says Gilly, and
they all laughed and admired
the pants, and set-up drinks,
while Uncle told how he cap-
tured them. Then he got so
full, taking whisky as a kind
of antidote for snake-bites,
that he had to be took home.
The chaps told his missus that
he had the two biggest snake-
bites on record, but that they
had ’nokilated him, and he’d
be all right in the morning.
“ She told them it was a pity
they didn’t mind their own
business, and skipped back to
bed without looking at Bill in
the least.
“The snakes by this time
was both dead of indigestion,
and shrunk up so tight that
Uncle couldn’t get them off,
so he went to bed as he was.
In the morning, his missus
woke first and when she
started to throw some water
over Uncle Bill so he’d get
up quick and chop wood, she
saw what she thought was two
big snakes chewing hor hus-
band’s legs olf. She gave a
scream and rousted-out the
neighbors, who brought in
clubs and hammered away till they near
broke his legs, Uncle howling for them to
stop, and they thinking he was singing-out
because the snakes were biting him. At
last, when they left-off and his wife
heard he was wearing them of his own
accord for trousers, she got that wild she
wouldn’t occupy the same room with
him, but put him in the fowl-house so he wouldn’t
scare the children.
“ Uncle got his back up at this treatment, and,
as he couldn’t take the snakes off without tearing
them, he wouldn’t have them cut off, but wore
them night and day
for months.”
“That was a bit of
bad luck,” I said.
“Well, no. Y< u
see, he didn’t have to
work at all now, as all
the publicans strug
gled for the chance of
keeping him free, on
account of the custom
he drew, and people
shouted for him till
he got fair weary of
giving it a name.
“At last six or
seven kookaburras,
who had been shep-
herding him for weeks,
took advantage of his
having a few extry
beers in, so they
swooped down on him
when he was having
a sleep down by the
river, and before you
could cough his in-
come was gone, for
they tore his snake-
skin trousers into bits,
thinking they were
two live snakes, of
course—and he had to
paint his legs with
black mud and get
home after dark.
“ When he cot the
mud washed off he found that the black and
yaller diamonds from the snakes’ skins had
struck through into his legs, and he was stamped
just like Injun ink with the funniest pattern ever
seen.”
“ That was a bit of bad luck,” I said,
“Well, not so bad. You see his wife was
barely speaking to him before, and when she saw
hi s legs she chucked him out altogether—said it
was like being married to a Syrian ‘£o
he took a job with a circus asTtheYattooed-man
a t £5 g week.”
“ That was good luck,” I murmured.
“No! not so good. He had to take his turn
clowning, and the ringmaster used to make the
people laugh by flicking him on the legs with the
whip—sometimes taking bits of skin off and
spoiling his pattern. One day the whole circus
company got an invite to sample a brewery,
Uncle had a few pints and started to do a ramble
on his own. He got into a tannery next dsor by
mistake, and seeing a large kind of'lake of brown
stuff he leaned over to get a'drink in his pannikin
of what he thought was beer. He lost his balance
and fell into it, and instead of beer it was a vat of
this here quick-tanning stuff made of acid and
things.
“When they fished him out he had no more
pattern on him than tripe.”
I thought I had now got his uncle into such a
tight place as to justify me in saying it was bad
luck !
“ Well, no ! As it turned out he sued the tan-
nery for negligence and got a thousand quid
damages. Then he bought the biggest pub. in
town and done splendid biz.”
A SUCCESSFUL
TRAGEDIAN.
THESPIAN: “Yes, we
have a mission.
As my friend Bar-
rett remarked, our aim
is ‘to make people feel better
when they have left the theatre.’ ”
MERE MORTAL : “ Well, you succeed. One re-
covers quickly in the open air.”
“ That was good ”
“No ! ’Twould have been, but you see he had a
barman who managed biz. while Uncle jist set
round playin’ euchre and drinking with the boys.
In a year he was broke, and the barman bought
him out.”
“ I thought his Uncle was done-for now, and I
started to remark that this was a serious misfor-
tune.
“ Well, no ! You see, he got a billet as barman
in the same hotel what he owned before, and the
old barman, being boss, sat around playing euchre
and drinking with customers. Uncle was such a
good barman that in 12 months he saved enough
of the boss’s money to buy the hotel off him, and
as the boss was broke he asked to be took on as
barman again, but Uncle says : ‘ No, I got the
dasht pub. back, and I’ll stick to it.’ ”
“ That was good ”
“ No it wasn’t, because ”
“ Oh, go to blazes ! ” ... *
I must have been dozing and said it in my
sleep, for when I looked around I was alone by
the fire, and the boss was behind the bar pouring
the lees and heeltaps of a dozen bottles of Eng-
lish into one to make a full bottle for the first fel-
low in the morning who said: “ English—near
the cork, please ! ”
W.A.
PERCY ABBOTT.
The Protest.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I say ’e isn't Remorse !
’Ow do I know ?
Saw ’im on Riccarton course
Two year ago !
Think I’d forget any ’orse ?
Course ’e’s The Crow !
Bumper Maginnis and I,
After a “ go,”
Walkin’ our ’orses to dry,
I says “ Hello !
What’s that old black goin’ by ? ”
Bumper says “ Oh !
That’s an old cuddy of Flanagan’s
—Runs as The Crow ! ”
Now they make out ’e’s Remorse.
Well, but I know.
Soon as I came on the course
I says “ ’Elio !
’Ere’s the old Crow.’ -
Once a man’s seen any ’orse,
’Course ’e must know.
Sure as there’s wood in this table,
I say ’e’s The Crow.
(Cross-examined by the Com-
mittee.)
’0 w do I know the moke
After one sight ?
S’po3in’ you met a bloke
Down town at night,
Wouldn’t you know ’im again
when you met ’im ?
That’s ’ im all right!
What was the brand on ’is ’ide ?
I couldn’t say.
Brands can be transmogrified.
That ain’t the way—
It’s the look of a ’orse and the
way that ’e moves
That I’d know any day.
What was the boy on ’is back ?
Why, ’e went past
All of a minute, and off down the track.
—“ The ’orse went as fast ? ”
True, so ’e did ! But, my eyes, what a treat!
’Ow can I notice the ’ands and the seat
Of each bumble-faced kid of a boy that I
meet ?
Lor’ ! What a question to ast !
(Protest dismissed.)
N.s.w.
THE BANJO.
“J.D.”: My experience is that Austra-
lians are seldom beer-soakers. Dropped across the
inevitable exception recently in a Tas. West Coast
pub. Three friends entered for a drink. The
Confirmed Soak sat by the fire. He had two very
long beers on the mantel-shelf, the proceeds of
previous “shouts” by casual callers. “Have
one ? ” suggested a newcomer. The Soak glanced
uneasily at his two full glasses, and murmured a
careless refusal. The others proceeded to irrigate.
The Soak’s thirst fought and conquered his bash-
fulness. He repented. “ Oh,” he sang out to the
barman, “ I s’pose I might as well ’ave one. I’ll
’ave a small beer, and (here he paused to again
contemplate his stored-up long ’uns) not too
blanky small cither 1 ”
HER PENALTY
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
K /^nofk er l°ver mope , phz. ;
* /\notker c°mra.de H\«. k<^!
\ l£ vt , Ike lke g'reedy-eyed,
\To cursing' vkere ke would
' = |k!ey follow me wilk rewenmo eyec,
ilr"T^ e Y >p wilk irej
1-f Key fkwrx flatter bind lky,
' dru r\k witk cleytre.
< 3 ) ''.
ke - <xnd he-* k°wke pkyed pAtT!
w
he sKould poison
||l|k /A And hiyf&ce was wkife, S°
wklft- ■* „ ,
kf\C-W if" cc? ufcJ noNo*. Y^l
>T4 lover Ik*. mor«
k y nicikl'
\ AnolWr friend^‘p
le^!
VON KOTZE.


A Letter from the Bush.
To the Edditer Bullitean
Dear Ser
I goto Ballymundulik School. Our schoolmas-
ter he maiks his livin ritin to your paipir. He
thinks he’s the Lord Muck does our school master
because he rites to a papir. Its “ Hear, is that
the shaip I told you to maik that B ? How meny
s es do you put in posesion you little begir ” 1
Th at Is wot I get from him. He thinks nobody
else can rite only him, but wont it be a rorty start
when he opens his Bullitean Saturday ! !
Ritin aint so hard as sum peaple think. You
just have to sit down and think of something you
sor happin or of something you’d like to happin
only it dusent. Then you get a dictionry and
chuse out sum tillin words and begin to rite it
down. How does this go for a start ?
HOW I FOOZLED THE DOOD.
The shadders of evening were lengthening
graddualy and silently over the plane, the
herds wer singin there eavenin song in the lims of
the trees over head, a sweat purfume of wild
flowers was worfted from the scrub to me noze as
I wended me weary way homeward to Ballymun-
dulick Sudenly a slimb wite figger abstracted
the thurrerfair rite in frunt ov me. Before you
could say winkin two rooby lips opened and sed
“Sir could you direct me to the ressidense of
Mister Devon. Ime a strainger hear and ive got
lorst.” I sez “ With the utmost pleasure Madam.
You take the ferst turnin to the left, procead
three hundred paises and turn down to your
write and follow your noze until the humble roof
of Mister Devon preasents it’s self to view. But
permit me madam I sez (seain that her eyes was
blew and her golden hair clusterin in wringlits
around a luvly oval face) to offer meself as a
escourt. These wilds are beset with daingers to
unprotected booty.”
“ I thank you Ser” she sez ‘but it is quite un-
necessiry ”
“But sutch a pleasure madam ”
“ But so unnecessiry Sir”
“ But the dainger madam "
“I knowhow to taik cair of meself” (with a
meanin glance at me) “ Permit me ser to expres
my obligation to yon and to wish you good evenin
in the same breth, also to pass.”
She passed. A soft glow lingered in my bosum.
Never before had i beheld such rooby lips, such
luvly eyes such clustering wringlits. Evry curve
of the graseful form lingered in mi hart. Never
before had I been so coldly resisted. Her indifer-
ance bewildired me.
Sleap dident visit my lids that night. We
werent speekin to the Devons because our pigs
et a paddik of turnips they mint for there cows.
I coodint go over to Devons only wen there horse
go into our oats.
I waited a long time but i t dident get in. I
dident sleap. I was waisting away to a shadder.
I must bring this agenny of mind to a close at any
cost. At larst one mornin I crept out in the early
dawn with an ax and broke down a panel of the
fence that intervened between Devons horse and
oar oat paddick. Later In the day I went over
to Devons Mi hart went womp, womp against the
walls of flech which confined its boundings as mi
eyes eagerly scanned the verander the garden
parths and every window of the house as I
aproached. I arrived at the house and nocked at
the doar. Young Devon came saunterin down
the hall in a stand up coller and a scarf pin
danglin a cigar in his lips as he sed
“To what do we owe the pleasure of a visit
from Mister Turvy this mornin.”
Immediately I perceaved it all. This high
cohered segar suckin puppy luvved my angel.
I sed “You owe my visit to a visit your horse
payed to our oat paddick which you may remove
upon payment of the small some of ten shillings
for depradations comited. If not it would be
sent to the pound.”
He sed he’d send a man over to sea and why
didnt I go to sea the oversear about bisines like
that.
I sed “I had the pleasure of directin a young
laidy to your humble roof larst Mundy. I hope
she got here and is well.”
He sez “That was Miss Jackson shes gone
home to Burrumputtee.”
“Oh” I sez (very casual cos I dident wont him
to think I was goin thare) that must be a long
way away I never heard the name before.”
Oh its some twenty miles as the crow flies—
sez he.
But you’ll have the goodness to remember
mister Devon ” sez I with dignity “ that Ime not
a blumin crow.”
At that a look of suspishion flashed acrorse his
fais.
“But I dident understand Mister Turvy ” he sed
“ that you wair inquiring with a view of maiking
the journey.”
Nex day I set off for Burrumputtee it was a
long way moren twenty miles by the road but I
got thare at larst. i went to the publick and
ordered a bier. “ A long bier ” she saz. “As
mutch bier sez I as you can get fer a tanner.”
I then lit me pipe and while drinkin’ the bier
and smokin’ I sez “I suppose theres no body of
the naim of Johnson or Jackson or Dickson livin’
around hear.” She sez “Oh yes theres Mister
Jackson wot lives down at the bottom of this hill
you parst the plais cumming up it stands back orf
the rode among the treas. Mister Jackson he’s a
preacher do you no ’im ? ”
No sez I tryin’ hard to earm meself. But theres
always a Jackson or a Dickson or a Johnson at
every plais I strike in me travels.” I then sank
down on a stule.
Could this thing be dun. Never before had a
scion of the house of Turvy stooped to deseat.
Never before had I formed a morganatic atach-
ment. Mi horse won the Ballymundulik steaple-
chaise two years running my dog won larst corsing
and I had a book on the cup. Could I deseave
this honest preacher.
At larst it was discided I’d cut out that crorlin’
sneakin’ coler wearin puppy.
I put my horse in the stabel and waited till it
was nearly dark and then sallyed fourth I road
round the bush to the back of the parson’s plaise
and then aproached the gleamin’ light, likely in-
deed lit by the slender hand of my angle. Then
gettin orf me horse at the back garden I went up
the parth. Sum dogs barked, a door opened, and
without pretendin’ to noatis the Agger of a man
in the doorway I sed, “ Now thank the dear lord
that he has gided his servant to a plaise of
shelter.” “ A man of God,” sed the preacher, “as
sure as eggs ; Maria, put the cettle on, get some
shugger out of the cubberd, put some lemons on
the parler taible, I’ll get out the rest wen I cum.
Violet, put my sorftest slippers to worm at the
A BIRD'S-EYE VIEW.
THE KOOKABURRA : “ What strange creatures these men are! Now, I could understand that
sort of thing over a worm; but, politics—are they worth it?"
fier. Come
in, thou man
of God, come
in.”
He grasped
my hand with
or 1 the
wormpth of a
nohel naitch-
er, and then
his wife, and
then o blessed
wraptcher I
grasped the
hand of Vio-
let, for that
was the naim
of mi darling.
After these
friendly
greating wair
over we sat
down near
the tier. The
worter sune
got hot, and
the parson
took a ke out
of his weskit
pocket and
opened a cub-
berd and
brought out
a bottel of
scotch. The
punch went
orl rite and
I began to
tell him orl
about meself.
I was a
strainger in
the naiber-
hood travel-
lin from Mel-
bourneto Sid-
ny sellin bi-
bels at corst
price. I’d got
lorst in the
naborin for-
ist. Violet
was looltin at
me orl the
time with
mingled ex-
pressions of
reproach and
admeration. I
sed I’d left
the bib els
back in the
bush just wile I climed a bit of a tree to sea wair
I was and coodent find them agen in the growin
dusk.
Nex day Violet caim with me to find the bibels
but we coodent find them. So we sat down by
the banks of a murmurin stream and I told her
how I coodent sleap since I sor her that eavenin
until I sor her agen and told her how her winnin
looks and ways had appealed to a hart never
before tuched by the luveliness of woman.
She sed she was mutch struck that same time
with my manly apearance and engaigin maner,
but dident rearly luv me until I apeared en the
sene larst night and she hurd me tell her farther
those orful stories about the bibels and then
seaing wot I could go throo for her saik her hart
expanded with a gratified affection and she luved
me with a luv that ud never die. I sed “ How
about that coller wairin pig of a Devon man ? ”
She sed that the very larst shadow of his
memry had faided from her bosum.
She now sits and smiles at me acrors the taibel
as I rite this and I’d of rote it better but for the
little ones a hoppin about the floor and climin up
me leg.
W. Turvy.
P.S. —W. Turvy aint mi real naim its the real
naim of Billy the turky cock, wot comes to our
school and got me a leatherin yestoday. Mi real
naim’s on the back here of not for you to put in
the paiper for obvious reasens but so that you can
sand check by return post.
The Dog at Dunn’s.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was a small, two-roomed, stringy shanty, built
near the foot-track between a miserable Gippsland
township and an active new mining field. Across
the front was the legend : —-
DUNN’S COFFEE PALACE.
Bware the Dors.
I struck the place when almost done-up on the
afternoon of a sweltering day, and after dropping
bluey in the bar, which was furnished with a
packing-case counter and a long, ricketty bush
stool, went in quest of the manager. There wss
nobody in sight. A call excited no response.
Three crows on a limb were the only living things
visible at the back, but a coo-ee provoked mys-
terious growlings from an old cement-barrel lying
near.
Remembering the admonition conspicuously
painted on the front elevation of Dunn’s palace,
I investigated gingerly, and found a man with a
bushy head and dirty red whiskers crouched in the
kennel. About the man’s neck was a leather
collar, and with a stout chain he was securely
tethered to the butt of a young gum. The man
sprawled in the barrel on his stomach, and be-
tween his extended arms lay the best part of a
roast shoulder of lamb, at which he was gnawing,
and as he gnawed his eyes turned up to me, and
he growled ominously.
“ What the deuce are you doing there, mate ? ”
I cried.
The man showed his teeth and snarled in reply.
“ Here, come !” I said, “no funny business. 1
want something to eat and drink.”
With a growl and a bark the man jumped at me,
and then for two or three minutes he tugged and
tore at his chain, rearing and tumbling in his fury,
and evi lently determined to tear me limb from
limb. Watching my opportunity, I planted a
thumping kick where it would do most good, and
the dog-man suddenly abandoned his aggressive
tactics, and howled dismally. I kicked him again,
and he fled into his kennel head-first. It seemed
to do him so much good that I continued kicking,
and muffled howlings of the most dolorous kind
arose from the barrel. But at this point a shrill
voice created a diversion.
“Hi, you, come away from that dorg ! ”
A tall, stout woman, carrying a bucket of
water, was hurrying up from the direction of the
creek.
“ What d’ yer wanter tease him fer ? ” she asked
fiercely. “ Ain’t yer got no more sense ?”
“Tease, be hanged!” I said. “What sort of
monkey-tricks are these ? ”
The woman put her bucket down, and shook a
formidable fist in my face.
“ See here, young man, don’t think you can do
as you like with my Joe ’cause he’s got a drop
o’ drink in him.”
“ Drink ? He’s mad, woman ! ”
“No madder’n you. It’s just the drink—no
more. He’s been on it for a week, an’ I always
know when he’s had the drop too much, ’cause
then he begins to fancy he’s a red dog with white
eyes, an’ to humor him I chain him up an’ call
him Toby. Poor ole boy ! ” She patted Dunn’s
red head soothingly, and Dunn capered and
frisked like an idiot, and made clumsy efforts to
wag a tail he never possessed.
I took a drink of water, and moved on in quest
of better company and liquor that might have a
less devastating effect on the human under-
standing.
SILAS SNELL.
By the Old Toll-Bar.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
77 VERY Sunday evening when the sun is sinking
low,
And the tom-tits are a-voicing any passions that
they know,
And the (foamin’s coming over from the gloomy
range afar,
Then she meets me at the culvert by the old toll-
bar.
And we talk mayhap of tribes, but we haven’t
many wot d ;
As we nestle close together and we listen to the
birds;
For tongues' are apt to blunder silly sentences that
jar,
B it our eyes are full of language by the old toll-
bar.
There are many blissful places that a man may
occupy,
Where the senses all are sated, and he needn’t
reason why,
B it there isn’t one existing ’neath the sun or any
star
That I’d swap on Sunday evenings for the old toll-
bar.
BEN SUN.


A Preacher of Peace.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Chapel was over and we were home again.
I was up in my mother’s room, watching her
untie her bonnet-strings, and revelling dreamily
in the charm of seeing her peel her Sunday black
kid gloves off her warm, white fingers, when one
of the boys came in and informed us :
“ Pa’s home. He’s brought a man with him.”
“ What sort of a man ? ”
“ A Preacher.”
“Oh !”
And our mother sighed —-let us suppose with
relief.
“ Don’t think Pa likes him much,” went on the
herald. “ He’s gone out in the stable to feed
Creamy, and the Preacher’s walkin’ about the
parlor by himself.”
“ Is he? ” observed our mother, absently, brush-
ing the two dark horns of hair on either side her
parting, that had been the fashion when she
married, and were her fashion still.
Now this seems the place where I ought to
remark that we were often very much annoyed
with our mother. She would take things so coolly.
We, with all the active and unemployed wisdom
of childhood, had gathered that this calm, superior
manner of hers was noticed by the people who
came to our chapel, noticed and talked about, and
we used to wish our mother would change her
ways.
We would have liked her to stop and gossip to
everyone in the graveyard, as Mrs. Foggal, the
Presbyterian clergyman’s wife, did. We wanted
her to walk home with Mrs. Neate and Alice, who
kept a lolly-and-cabbage shop near our house.
'We desired her to shake hands and say a lot of
mice things to Tommy Lawler’s mother. We
longed for her to hobnob a little with Mrs. Bird,
•.the butcher's wife, and the M‘Crackens, who sup-
plied us with bread and sold cakes.
Instead of that, she would make an unloitering
exit from the chapel door, gathering us along with
her, and never going out of her way to look for
grocers and butchers and bakers, but turning her
face straight homewards, and wondering if Baby
would be awake.
I often used to think, in those days, what a
much better parson’s wife I would make myself.
And this particular .Sunday there she stood,
brushing her shining dark horns, half-smiling at
herself in the glass, and not making any haste to
go down and gush over the visitor in the parlour.
Yes, (jush. That was what we were always
longing for her to do. That was our secret
grievance against her. That was what annoyed
us, although none of us ever spoke of it to the
other. She never would gush over anyone.
Except Us. But we were 12 other stories.
“Aren’t you coming down, mother?” asked
Eddie, impatiently.
“Run along and talk to him,” said mother,
sweetly. “ I’ll be down presently. Oh, there’s
Baby ! ”
She put the brush down and hastened over to a
little cot in the corner. We gave up hope then.
We knew there was no chance of our presenting
the Preacher with our ideal gushing mother that
day.
So Eddie and I went down as bidden, ? .ad also
out of curiosity. Preachers had a great fasoina-
tion for us. Perhaps it was not a very profound
fascination. None of the boys are preachers to-
day. But it was strong in these times, and its
essence was mystery.
I had never opened my lips to a man in my life,
and yet I knew that Preachers were different
from men in shops and banks and offices. They
came to dinner without being asked;
they wore long, black coats ; their wives
had to iron white ties for them;
they had “studies”; they called your
father “ Brother ” ; they always
asked you “and what school do
you go to? ” and they never knew
you when they saw you in the
street.
Eddie went first, and I fol-
lowed. I stood just inside
the door and stared, but
Eddie walked up to the guest
and said “ Dinner’ll be ready
soon.” The guest said “ llow
do you do,” then added,
“ What’s your name, my man ;
what school do you go to ? ”
But Eddie was above telling
people his name, and passed
the questions over in
silence, merely kicking
the leg of a chair to
prevent the silence /
from being too con-
spicuous.
The guest took no
notice of me.
However, I was a
charitable child, and
did not visit his in-
difference on his head.
I stood and stared at
him, and took all the
notice any
little girl
with long
curls fall-
ing over her
eyes could
possibly take.
I noticed
that he had two
teeth out in front
and said “Whafs
fschool” through the gap. I
had been that way myself. We all had. And I
saw that he wore laced-up shoes. Our father wore
boots. I also noted that he had on cream socks,
and had a big border round his handkerchief, and
blew his nose in a series of little short barks not
in the least like our father’s fine, satisfactory
blows. And I saw that he had a very wide back
in a black alpaca coat.
I was insensible to the other details. But
although I did not observe the colour of his hair,
or his height, or the features of his face, I judged
him summarily. He was “nasty.” I did not
like him. He had come without being asked, and
I saw something antagonistic to our parlour, to
Eddie, to me, and jumping on in quick apprehen-
sion, to our mother, who would be down presently
and wouldn’t gush.
Eddie crumpled himself into the armchair. I
remained standing. The guest began to walk-
POINTS OF VIEW.
THE MISSUS: “Fancy the butcher-boy takiny me
for a servant! The impertinence!”
THE SERVANT-GIRL: “ Fancy the butcher-boy
takiny me for the missus! What an
insult !”
about, looking round all the while.
We had horse-hair chairs in our parlour, and a
big, round table covered with books. The horse-
hair belonged to the parsonage, but the books
were ours, and I saw the visitor suck in his upper
lip as he picked up volume after volume and read
their titles.
Well, there were five Bibles and seven hymn-
books there. I had dusted the table myself that
morning, and knew.
And then, too, there were “Crumbs Swept
Up,” and vols. IV. ancl XIX. of “Lectures to
Young Men”; and “Pilgrim’s Progress”; and
“Keble’s Poems”; and Eddie’s red and gold
Milton for Geography; and my “Marcella of
Rome” for Improvement; and Bertie’s “Seven
Churches of Ephesus ” for Greek ; and Bertie’s
Kingsley’s “Heroes” for Latin, and Bertie’s
“ Tom Browne’s School-days ” for top of the class,
and Willy’s (poor Willy, a book that none of us
would read) “Men who were Earnest” for spel-
ling, and a nice book full of talking called
“Young .Mrs. Jardine,” and another nice book
called “ Christie’s Marriage,” and five funny kind
of books in little print that made people laugh (I
never could see why), and “Idyls of the King,”
and “Talmage’s sermons,” and two “Quivers,”
and one “ Good Words.”
I knew the names of them all by heart, and
where each lay under or over the other.
But the guest turned from them with a little
click of the tongue. Perhaps he had opened at
Mr. Mantalini, or perhaps inside the cover of the
“Seven Churches ” he had come on a thin paper
book called “Jack Harkaway among the Indians.”
Nothing was said, but I knew my mother and
my father and us had all been weighed and found
wanting. He went over in the direction of the
piano then, and as I watched him my warm young
blood went suddenly cold.
The piano was open, the music-holder was
down, and a heavy piece, of yellow music stood
brazenly up in its receiver. And it was Sunday,
oh-h ! it was Sunday.
I knew in a moment it was Alfred.
He was suffering from an undiscovered malady
in one leg and stayed at home from chapel that
morning, and that meant he had been at the
piano, all the time we were away, playing— what ?
I knew Alfred, and I never dreamed of answer-
ing “ Hymns.”
Mose in Egitto, rolling up and down the piano
with that great, rich, padded touch that sent
floods of music through a parsonage that should
have been wrapped in the silence of church-time.
A great, horrible concerto that we all hated. The
“ Harmonious Blacksmith,” the “ Gipsy Rondo,”
that rollicking Tarantelle that we called “ Hey
Diddleums Wagums Tails,” and Chopin’s waltzes
and nocturnes and mazurkas— these were what
Alfred would be playing that Sunday morning.
turned the title-page of the yellow
music towards him. Our luck was dead-out!
Mazurkas and waltzes by one Chopin.
He looked at it for two or three minutes, inside
and out, and his under-lip disappeared altogether,
and my little heart beat hard. Would he tell ?
Would there be a whipping ? He lifted the yellow
serpent from its lair, and laid it on the top of the
piano. Then he undid his upper-lip, and let it
out, and, looking straight at Eddie, half-groaned,
half-cried,
“ Shecular music in this house on the Lord’s
Day ! ”
Eddie said, “ What ? ”
But the Preacher only shook his head, and to
wipe out the memory of his horror he screwed the
music-stool down, and pulled his trousers up over
his cream socks, and began to play “Abide with
me, fast falls the Eventide,” making the bass the
same as the treble.
About then it was dinner-time.
Pa came in, then mother, smiling, and un-
ashamed of her ungushingness ; the dinner-bell
rang, and we all went into the dining-room, and
Sunday dinner began.
We had roast-beef and beans for dinner
that day. I remember the beans because
I was vaingloriously exhibiting a dirty
bit of rag round the finger I had cut
peeling beans the night before. And
I remember the roast-beef because
i the Preacher was there, the nasty
I Preacher !
He said such a long Grace, a
regular hymn, about two verses
long. While Annie was ap-
proaching to take the covers
away, pa said, trying to be
nice, although we could see he
did not like him much :
“ What train did you come
by this morning, Mr.
Smith ? ” (It was a sensa-
tional Sunday, indeed.)
“I’m surprised at you,”
was the answer. “ Me,
break the Sabbath in a
train ! ”
It was a grievous
mistake, and the offen-
der hastened to sup-
pose the Preacher had
been driven over.
That was even
t worse. The Preacher
had walked every step
of the way. He would
never enter a carriage
drawn by horses, or a train
worked by steam, or any sort of
any Known conveyance whatsoever, while the
Lord’s Day was there to be broken, and he was
there to keep it holy.
“ If the fiery chariot came down for you on
Sunday,” asked Bertie, “ would you go up in it ? ”
“Hold your tongue, sir!” was the parental
reward for this brilliant sarcasm.
“ ’Lijali didn’t go up in a fiery chariot,” said
Eddie at this juncture.
“ Yes, he did,” said Willy.
“Did he, mother?” said Eddie.
“ Didn’t he, mother ? ” said Willie.
“No, dear,” said mother, calmly.
“Did I hear you say that Elijah didn’t go up
in a fiery chariot ? ” called-out the Preacher.
“Well, but he didn’t,” said mother, from be-
hind the beans.
“ I-ftea-your-pardon,” said the Preacher, as if to
say, “ What are you giving us? ”
Pa was noisily sharpening his carver against the
steel as if he heard and saw nothing. Our mother
was quite enough for us, though. The stars might
go out of their courses, but she could not make a
mistake. We knew there was nothing she did not
know, and we listened with absolute faith and
open mouths, sure and safe in her coming victory.
“ What’s your authority for saying that ? ” went
on the Preacher, flushing round his cheek-bones.
“The Bible,” said mother, in that calm, in-
effable way of hers.
“ The Word of God is my authority,” said the
Preacher.
“Yes, the Bible,” said mother, tucking a little
tape down my back. “ Elijah went up in a whirl-
wind. A great many people make that mistake.”
“Do you mean to infer,” said the Preacher,
“ that the Scriptures do not decidedly state that
Elijah went up in a fiery chariot ? ”
“Yes,” said mother.
Of course a Bible had to be fetched, and, of
course, our mother was right. At the heading of
the chapter were the words, “ Elijah Taken up in
a Fiery Chariot.” But the Bible itself said,
“ There appeared a chariot of fire and horses of
fire, and parted them both asunder; and Elijah
went up by a whirlwind into Heaven .”
And the Preacher was silent for want of some-
thing to say.
But there was such a mighty upheaval ready by
that time that trains and chariots passed rapidly
into oblivion, crushed out by a new, colossal evil.
Annie had lifted the covers, and dinner was
revealed smoking.
Hot roast sirloin, hot Yorkshire-pudding, hot
baked potatoes, hot mashed potatoes, hot boiled
beans with butter on them.
What was there in this to freeze the Preacher
to his marrow and cause him to choke himself
with great gulps of water ere he found his voice ?
And when he did speak, these were strange
words to issue from a guest’s lips :
“ I’m shocked ! Oh brother, sister, I’m scandal-
ized at this meal. I’m shocked and horrified to see
hot meat on your table on the Sabbath day. A
hot dinner on the Lord’s day 1 Brother, I’m sur-
prised at you, with all your olive-branches looking
to you to be led to the Lord ! ”
There was no denying that the dinner was hot
that day. Everything was in a ferment, the
Preacher preaching away, and our hearts jumping
into our mouths for fear anything were to happen
to our dinners.
“Do you make a practice of this?” asked the
Preacher.
Papa remarked that he never believed in cold
dinner on a Sunday. He had three sermons to
preach, and required a good dinner. He was
hungry by then, and was giving us all Lig help-
ings with delightful alacrity.
MASHED
FOR THE BULLETIN
U/E meet and we pass .'—not a word
At the turn of the street,
The beat of my heart she had heard
’Mid the patter of feet.
And I fancied her own must have stirr. ’
But the red lips are firm—not a word
As we pass in the street.
Nine o’clock every morn she is there,
At the turn of the street,
A cluster of bonny brown hair,
A face pure and sweet ;
A figure of shapeliness rare,
And I smile, and I nod, or I stare
As we pass in the street.
Some morn, should I speak to her there,
At the turn of the street—
There are times when all Fate I would dare
For a treasure so sweet—
For the touch of a tress of brown hair,
For a smile from the rich lips and rare
As we pass in the street.
She would pass as before—that I know—
At the turn of the street,
And her eyes with contempt for me glow—
Who would mash in the street.
Yet I think if she didn’t mean “No!”
I might think something less of her. So
Let us pass in the street!
L.M.D.


“Send for some jam for Mr. Smith, my dear,”
he said, cutting furiously for everyone but the
guest. Mother told Annie to bring in some grape-
jam, and the guest found bread and butter placed
in front of him, and a jam dish at his elbow, while
we rejoiced in Yorkshire pudding and old Bird’s
beef. But even then it seemed that we were not
m,iking the visitor happy, for I saw his eyes
watching the boys’ mouths as they opened and
closed over their iniquitous smoking food.
I was seated opposite to him, and I could not
e.it for looking at him. Something told me that
it was not all disgust that drew his glances to our
plates. I said to myself : “ He wants some himself,
but he thinks God would be cross.” Then I
began to feel sorry for him, especially as pa was
too angry to speak to him, and mother was doin nr
nothing but talk to Bertie and Alfred, and he had
to eat bread and grape-jam all alone all the time.
1 & rew more and more sorry, and at last my
sorrow overcame my reserve. I looked at him
until I caught his eye, and I put my head on one
side and said out loud, by way of consolation :
“ Ma’s name’s Jemima.”
Then my curls fell over my eyes, and I heard
the boys giggling, and I heard papa shout with
A LIFE BILLET.
“ Garni a big cigar like that'll make a little kid
like you sick.”
“Bet cher it won't , and I'll smoke it to the end.”
“Garn! when yer’ve smoked it to the end yer'll
be growed up”
laughter, and I heard mother’s exclamation, and I
just had presence of mind enough to peep through
my curls and see that the Preacher was getting so
blazing red that he might have eaten all our four-
teen hot dinners and still looked cooler.
Bertie said to Eddie that afternoon, when the
Preacher had gone away to preach peace at an
afternoon service,
“ He made things twice as hot as they were.”
“ I’ll sool Rover on to him if he comes here
again, said Eddie, with the ferocity of a boy who
says Pater and Mater to other boys, and had been
asked, “ What’s your name, my man ? ”
"I’m glad I’m not a minister,” said the usually
laconic Alfred.
“ ’Cause you mightn’t get a hot dinner,” said
Willy.
“Because I couldn’t swear” said Alfred, and
that was really magnificent, considering that we
were olive-branches, and not supposed to know
that there was such a thing as a swear.
LOUISE MACK.
"Some Forgive, or Say So.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some forgive, or say so.
Forgive? I o.ice forgave,
I once forgave. The way to.
Was harder than the grave.
If you would seek or summon
A ghost with deadly breath
Try to forgive, and fail to,
And you have tasted Death.
For som,e cannot forgive,
And some cannot forget.
On,e way with Thorns is set,
Rut one brings Death to live.
Som,e forget, or say so,
And some cannot forget.
Ah, to forget ! The way to
By me was never met.
If you would wipe all whitely
Your memory, friend of mine,
What of the Hour that ever
Will keep my heart ashine ?
For some cannot forget ,
And some can love—and we !
And you, my Memory,
Have never left me yet.
Some forget, or try to.
But I will never try.
Fow may forget. Should I too
Forget, then all would die.
Lest you should weep to find not
Some day that shining hour,
I’ll not forget, or try to,
Midnight, the Bush in flower.
For some know but one Song,
And some forget,—not I.
The Hour will never die,
And yet, how long, hoiv long !
N.3.W.
LOUISE MACK.
For the Sake o’ the Kids.
A BUSHMAN’S LOVE-STORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yers, he said, “ there’s no doubt you ketehed
us this mornin’ all right; but, anyways, it don’t
matter much, seein’ it’s only you. It was the old
woman s fault. She would have the biz fixed-up
in reg lation style—made me wear a coat and
collar and all them things, so I knowed in a
minute you d tumble : but we done it for the sake
of the kids more’n anythin’.
No, we ortenter done it before, and you’ll say
so when I’ve done.
( I don’t s’pose you seen in the paper as Sam
M Cool, of the Ellenborough, got drownded the
other day, trvin’ to cross when he wHs in licker,
and I s’pect it’ll surprise you a bit to know that
my missus is his widder; but it’s true, all the
same.
“It’s a good whiles ago since I was on the
Ellenboiough. I uster own a s’lection a few miles
below M‘Cool’s, but I quitted sudden, an’ ain’t
been back since.
Mary that s my old woman—was a fine
stamp of a girl them days, and the chaps from
both rivers uster ride over to Anderson’s store of
a Sunday, an’ sit an’ blow about their horses an’
their ridin , an’ all that; but Mary wouldn’t have
nothin to do with any of ’em—only me an’ Sam
M'Cool had any encouragement at all, an’ even we
couldn t brag about much. We didn’t love one
another too well, didn’t Sam an’ me, though ud to
the time I speak of, we had no actial quarrel, an’
uster be terrible civil to one another about
passin’ the time o’ day an’ sich like.
‘ One day a couple of the boys ast me to make
a third in a cedar-party. As I was none too flush
of funds, I joined ’em and we went up to the head
of the river, intendin to stay six or seven weeks,
cuttin’ and drawin’ to the river, so as to be ready
to float down with the first rains.
“When I said good-bye to Mary she made
some laffin remark about havin’ a nice cedar punt
to row about in, and I made some laffin’ reply, but
settled in my mind all the same that she should
have a punt if I was man enough to make it.
When the rains came and we was ready to
float the logs—which was nearer ten weeks than
six the punt was made, and I arranged to go on
down to land the logs and get the pit ready,
though, as a matter o’ fact, I thought a deal more
of makin’ the presentation to Mary than of shovin’
myself in for the log-landin’.
“Well, I started down one mornin’, and was
gettin’ along all right until I got to the first falls,
where I shipped some water and nearly turned
turtle. This made me a bit careful; so, when I
got near the last falls, I took off my clothes, put
them in my blanket, wrapped that in the oilskin,
and jammed the bundle under the front seat,
hopin’ to spend the evenin’ with Mary in dry
togs, even if the punt should capsize.
“ I had hardly got fixed before we was in the
falls, and, somehow or other, the thing got side-
ways, and me and the punt took separate dives
before I knew where I was.
“When I had scooped the froth out of my eyes,
the punt was clean gone. You can bet your life
I got out pretty smart, and run down along the
river, looking my hardest, but not a sign of that
punt could I see. I poked about lookin’ for it,
until I was half mad with rushin’ through burrs
and nettles. I knowed the punt couldn’t a-sunk,
and yet it certainly wasn’t floating.
“I s’pose you don’t know the kinder feelin’
SCENE, MAORILAND: CROSSING THE BOUNDARY . FRESH FROM
PR OHIBITION DISTRICT.
comes over a feller when lie’s standin’ by hisself,
six miles from home without a rag of clothes on ?
It’s not a nice feelin’. His mind’s divided, a-won-
derin’ if the neighbor’s dogs’ll recognise him. and
a-countin’ up the wimmin folk on rhe s’lections he
has to pass through.
“ I sat down to think things out, and decided
to wait till dark, then foot it home. I calkerlated
without one thing, howsever, that’s muskeeters.
I stood ’em for a good while, but when the sun
got behind the ridge the darned insecks got too
hot for me, and I started for home, wavin’ one
bunch of ferns and wearin’ another tied on with a
sars’prilla vine.
“ When I come in sight of M‘Cool’s cottage,
the thought struck me all at oncet, if Sam hap-
pened to be home he wouldn’t see me stuck for a
few duds, even if we wasn’t the best of friends.
It was cettin’ dark before I had got myself
A SYDNEY ZOO ITEM: “DARBY AND JOANN."
planted behind a tree near the cottage. Sam’s
sister had been a-going to stay with him, and
besides that, I thought of the cattle-pups.
It was lucky, too, as the first coo-ee brought out
both a woman and the pups. ‘ Don’t come any
closer, and keep the dogs round you, miss,’ I said.
‘ Just get some of Sam’s clothes and plant them
behind that stump,’ I said, with only my head and
arm showin’ round the tree ; ‘ then go inside and
shut the door, Miss, and, for the love of heaven,
take the dogs in with you,’ said I. ‘ There’s been
an accident, and I’ll give you full particulars when
I’m dressed.’ While I was sayin’ all this she had
all her work cut-out to keep the dogs off me, but
after a while she understood, and done every-
thin’ as I ast her. I felt real thankful oncet I’d
made the crouchin’ run to the stump and put
Sam’s clothes ’on ; but when the door opened I
got the biggest surprise of the day, for there stood
Mary.
“ ‘ Why, Mary,’ I says, ‘ what brings ’
“ 1 1 beg your pardon ; Mrs. M‘Cool, now,’ she
says, stand-offish-like.
“ When a man has lived in the bush as long as
I have it don’t come hard for him to keep his face
from givin’ him away ; but somehows or other I
couldn’t keep my mouth shut or my throat from
gettin’ dry and hard, occasionin’ a lot of swal-
lerin’, before I could ast her the meanin’ of
it all.
“ Anyways, she seen what I meant, and up and
told me how her dad’ud been took with a stroke
soon after I left, and wanted, right or wrong, to
see her married and settled afore he pegged-out ;
and how Sam kep’ hangin’ about, and in the end
she’d got tied-up to him the day afore her dad
died, which was three weeks ago. When slic’d
done tellin’ me about this, I told her about the fix
I’d got into, and she told me to go into
the room and put Sam’s boots on, to walk
home in.
“You can guess the rest, of course. Sam came
in just as I was puttin’ ’em on, and says to her,
snarlin’ like: ‘lt seems you didn’t expect me
home quite so soon.’ Then he used a word I can’t
stand hearin’ any woman called, an’ the next
minit we was in holts. We struggled about, an’
just as I was feelin’ ’is back givin’, an’ feelin’ the
game was mine, my foot slipped on a rough floor-
slab, an’ I came down, souse, on the back of my
head, with Sam top o’ me.
“The moon was up when I got my senses again,
an’ Mary was a-pourin’ water over me an’ cryin’ fit
to break her heart. She said Sam had dragged
me out to the wood-heap an’ shut the door, at the
same time tellin’ her lie would shoot her if she
ever crossed his door again.
“As soon as I could stand I went over to the
door, and shouted out the whole explanation ; but
whether Sam was in, or had eleared-out by the
back-way, 1 don’t know to this day. Anyways, I
got no answer; so, after some persuadin’, Mary
came home with me, where she has bin ever since,
and the only serious trouble she has had was the
thought of the kidsgrowin’ up and finditi’ out. So
for their sakes we was married this mornin’.
“Oh, yers, the punt was found when the river
fell, jammed under the roots of a big water-oak
at the foot of the falls.”
WARATAH
Sally’s Golden Eggs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Emus?” said Bill. “Oh, they’re common
ernuff. Seen the plains black with ’em. Say,
did I ever tell yer about Sally, the tame emu we
’ad on Gumflat, up near Gundabluey? No!
Well, she was a fair terror. When we first got
er she was only a chicken, so to speak, about 3ft.
’igh, so we reckoned to tame ’er. Tom Biggs
kidded ’e knew all about tamin’ birds ; said ’e’d
tamed eagles till they’d come an’ feed out of ’is ’and,
though I believe that’s a darn lie. ’Owever, we
give ’im the emu to tame, an’ I must say as he.
made a fair job of it. She got that tame she ful-
lered us about everywhere on the off-chance of a
feed. Eat! You should’a seen’er. Why, she’d
give a bloomin’ alderman at a Commonwealth feed
14 pound an’ lose ’im.
“ One day she got into the men’s ’ut, an’ scoffed
a pair of Tom’s old pants, three boots, a cake o’
weed, an’ arf-a-dozen of matches, an’ Tom’s gold
watch an’ chain ; at least he called it gold, but I
seen ’im give a ’awker ten bob an’ a blind moke
for it. Any’ow she ate the watch right enuff, ’cos
when we caught ’er an’ tied ’er up we cud ’ear it
tickin’ in ’er chest.
“ Well, Tom was pretty mad. Called ’is
bloomin’ watch a ’airloom or somethin’, an’ got
fishin’ down Sally’s neck with a bit of bent wire
till she started corfin’ in ’is face an’ made’im leave
orf. ’E never got ’is blinded ’airloom, though ’e
tried the fishin’ dodge agin with a stick an’ a bent
pin, cos she ups an’ picks arf ’is left ear off, an’
that discouraged ’im.
“ It was just about this time there was a ’ell of a
row on the station. It appeared as some bloke ’ad
got into the manager’s orfis and shook about 50
sovrins tied up in a bag. Of course we was all
searched, but they couldn’t find no trace, an’ the
book-keeper got the run, as ’e was the larst one
seen in the orfis.
“ Now I’d seen Sally buzzackin’ ’round there, an’
it struck me as she might a shoved ’er ’ead through
the winder an’ scorffed the gonce, so I told dim
Riley what I thought.
“ Jim wanted to shoot ’er, accidently-like, on
the orf-chance, but I says: ‘Let’errip a bit till
the row blows over, an’ then maybe we’ll find some
way of ’ookin’ on to that stuff, if it’s there.’
“ A day or two after this Sally laid ’er fust egg,
an’ made ’nuff fuss, too, with ’er cacklin’ an’ snort-
in’ like a injin blowin’ off steam, an’ I collared the
egg an’ got it biled in the shell for me dinner. I
ud got through about arf of it when I noticed
somethin’ shiny in the spoonful of egg I was going
to scoff, an’ I looks close at it, an’, spare me days !
it was a quid !
“Well, that gave me an idea, so I never said
nothin’, but just puts the lot in me mouth an’ went
outside ’urriedly, in a manner of speakin’. I was
afraid I’d swaller that quid, yer see, an’ a quid in
the ’and’s worth two in the stomach. Jim Riley
must ’er seen somethin’, for ’e comes out too,
just as I was lookin’ at the quid. “‘Hello!’
says ’e. •
“ ‘What?’ says I.
“ ‘That bloomin’ emu’s took to lay in’ quids in ’er
e &g s ,’ says ’e, an’ then I knew it was all up an’
I’d ’ave to let ’im in.
“You bet your socks me an’Jim was all there
the mornin’ the second egg was due. When I
went round to where ’er nest was, Jim was there
lookin’ pale an’ sleepy like, an’ ’e was oldin’ ’is
’and to catch the egg. ’E’d been there nearly all
night waitin’. No, there warn’t no flies on Jim.
“Well, we didn’t wait to get that egg cooked,
but smashed it at oncet, an’ strike me paralytic,
boys, there was a quid in that egg, too, an’ part of
Tom’s watch-chain, all green ; so Jim, ’e stuck
to that quid.
“ But that sort o’ thing was too good to larst.
When I’d raked in three quid an’ a bone stud, an’
Jim’d the same an’ a lot o’ scrap iron, we missed
the emu. It was ’er layin’ mornin’ too, and the
Chow cook wasn’t about either. Thinks I, this is
mighty funny, an’, knowin’ what artful cusses
them Chows is, I connected Sally’s disappearance
with the Chow’s, an’ I looks around for tracks.
“You know I’m a pretty fair tracker, an’ it
wasn’t long afore I found the marks of emu’s an’
Chow’s hoofs leadin’ into the scrub. So I toilers
’em till I meets the Chow coinin’ back, an’ ’e starts
an’ turns green when ’e sees me. I goes up to ’im
an’ cops ’old of ’is pigtail, an’ I says to ’im
‘ Where’s that blanky emu, or I’ll murder yer,’ an’
I kicked ’im till ’e led me to where Sally was tied
up, and there was a squashed emu egg on the
ground. ‘ Where’ o that quid yer got out of that
egg’? Isays.
“Well, strike me if that blessed Cho-rv didn’t
swear the emu only laid five bob that mornin’, an’
’e wanted to shove me off with that; an’ I ’ad to let
’’m keep the rest ; else ’e’d ’ave gorn an’ blown the
gait.
“ I left Sally tied up, an’ me an’ Jim made it up
to go an’ stiffen ’er next day, an’ get the bal-
ance of them quids. When we got there next
mornin’ she was tied up all right, an’ there was an
awful marine store in front of ’er—nails, an’ bits
of glass, an’ bones, an’ old boots, though we didn’t
notice that till afterwards.
“ Well, we cut ’er throat an’ ripped ’er up, an’
blow me if she warn’t as empty as an old cask, an’
then we knew what the trouble was. That there
Chow ’ad got there before us, an’ given ’er an
emu-etic, till she threw up all the gonce, an’ then
’e must ’ave collared it an’ cleared-out. Any’ow
we never see that thief of a Chow agin.” ’
G. N P.


The Double-Contra Posaune.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ In the Sydney Town Hall organ is a reed stop with
wood pipes 64ft. long—the only one in the world.
Saxon’s Cyclopaedia of Music. ,
“ It is said thev are never played on account ot uanger
to the building.”— Melbourne tradition.
The hall was gay with electric light, and the pre-
sence of 4000 people ; with 50 violins and 30
’cellos and double-basses and harps to match ;
with 250 men-singers in black, and as many
women in angel-white. (Pretty fat angels some
of ’em—especially amongst the contraltos.)
The great cantatrice was there —Sidna who
had made the name of her native city famous.
Also, Sterardi, the tenor. Sterardi of the fine
presence, the olive face with the large, lecherous,
expressive Italian eves, and the black glossy hair
worn long.
And when, presently, these two proceeded to
blend their voices into delicious harmony, the
people listed rapturously to the exquisite vocalisa-
tion, incredible agility, perfection of expression,
elegance of ornamentation, and all the rest of it.
A well-matched pair of animals were these
—to be seen sometimes in the afternoons parading
the streets together arm-in-arm ; and for the lady s
part, everyone knew she was head over ears in love
with the man.
And they stood there now before those thou-
sands, like a couple of love-birds, pouring out
their passion, and answering each other in fervent
ritornello.
And Weddels, playing the grand organ and
listening to it all —what did he think ! Thin,
spare, intellectual Weddels, with the high cheek-
bones and the inevitable bald patch. Weddels,
R.A.M., Mus. Bac. Oxon., &e.
Weddels had discovered the lady years back.
If there had been no Weddels there might have
been no Sidna ; and he had said in his heart that
she more than half belonged to him. And now—
the plum that he had so carefully tended and
watched—for that greasy Italian to pluck !
That’s what he said to himself now as he stared
at his stops; and in his bosom there arose sud-
denly a mighty mingling of wrath and jealousy.
Suddenly, right in the track of his abstracted
gaze he became aware of a large, red knob in-
scribed, “Double-Contra Posaune ” and around it
was a circle of letters |in. long—“ Not to be
used.” And, as Weddels looked, the vagueness
went out of his eyes; they concentrated them-
selves with sudden particularity on this thing.
He knew all about it—the forbidden stop that
communicated with the huge 64 feet pipes, the
vibration of which could bring down the building
about their ear 3 !
There is visible a patclied-up crack in that far-
off cornice. The D.C.P. did that years ago when
the concern was new ; and the stop had never
been tried since. The addition of it to the organ,
in fact, had been tacitly acknowledged an expen-
sive mistake —a monument of civic folly. No
other organ in the world had such a thing ; there-
fore they got it—simply for that reason.
And now Weddels, contemplating it, became
possessed of a devil. He went hot and cold by
turns ; his limbs trembled ; he perspired, and the
strength went from his fingers, so that he couldn’t
press the keys down. This was the first effect of
his consciousness that he had suddenly conceived
a crime. Then, however, he looked up into his
mirror, and saw therein Sidna s beautiful white
neck and shoulders and the broad back and ample
mane of Sterardi as the two stood together, sing-
ing. The sight acted on him like a glass of raw
spirits ; and again the blood rushed fiercely
through his veins. A crescendo was approaching;
the chorus rose to join ; everybody braced-up for
it.
No nervousness in Weddels’ fingers now ! He
kneaded the keyboard with claws of iron and
pedalled like a fiend. He teas a devil for tli.e
time, and his face was a devil’s face, and not
Weddels’—a face of hard-set savagery, with furi-
ous eyeballs glaring out of it on
that fatal D.C.P. knob.
The cardinal moment
came, and out he plucked
the knob with a
snatchy animal’s
clutch. He could
hear the varnish
that had caked
round it with dis-
use go off like a
cracker as he
pulled.
Then he pushed
in all his other
stops, and turned
his hydraulic full-
on, planting his
feet on all the
pedals he could
cover at the same
time. Not yet
satisfied, he hauled
down two thick
music-quartos from
the shelf, and
throwing them on
the levers, stood on
them and “ let her
go.” By this time
orchestra and chorus
were drowned in a
diabolical resonance as
of the ripping-up of
some giant fabric —say
cloth made of ships’-
eables. Then followed a sen-
sation as of a deep-seated
earthquake. Chandeliers danced,
seats trembled, and shattered glass
showered from the skylights. Wild
confusion followed amongst the audience ;
screams and rushes for the doors, while someone
kept madly shouting —“ Weddels on the pedals !
Weddels on
the pedals ! ”
The organ-
ist was seen
to be pulled
from his
place, but in
the confusion
one of the two
b’g books was
overlooked.
It got well
jammed un-
d e r the
spreader, held
some levers
down, and
kept some of
the 64 - foot
pipes going.
Then, ’mid
wails and
shrieks, hun-
dredsofhands
pointed to a
widening fis-
sure in the
wall—a ghast-
ly develop-
ment of that
old-time crack
—from which
cakes of plas-
ter and even
disengaged
bricks were
coming down
on the people
below. And
the Double-
Contra Po-
saune, after
long years of
disuse, 1) a d
blown away
its dust and
cobwebs, and
was filling all
space with a
stiffening
blast that
seemed to
come from the
bowels of the
earth.
A strange
thing was the
behaviour of
Sterardi. He .
stood, apparently calm and self-possessed, m
the centre of the platform, gracefully supporting
the swooned Sidna, and carrying his public form
to the last. It was exactly as if he were doing the
“Prophete” in Meyerbeer’s opera, wherein the
last grand scene he stands, an unflinching central
figure, amidst the descending ruins of his palace.
Sterardi had played the r6le with Sidna many a
time, and, as they had stood in mimicry before,
so now they stood there in awful earnest, with the
same desperate defiance on the upturned face
of the man. , ,
Then came the final crash ! The side-walls
disintegrated along most of their length at about
the floor-line, and, parting from the basement
fell in, one over the other, en bloc—the arched roof
of girders coming down nearly intact over the
whole, so that outside, when the dust had cleared
away, the place looked like a colossal dish-cover
set upon the ground.
And, through it all, those Tartarean Trumpets
never stopped. The fall of all things had not
silenced them. Their ends could be seen sticking
up through the darkness, and their noise boomed
out high over the huge destruction, suggesting
some stupendous beast roaring out in fury over
the crushed remains of its victims.
At last, a space was cleared in the street around
a plug, and a turncock appeared, and, as lie swung
his handle round and turned the water off, the
Double-Contra Posaune, having no more wind
pumped into it, tailed-off to a ridiculous whine,
and finally stopped, leaving a stillness that was,
bv contrast, almost as horrible as the preceding
noise.
When, after a time, men got to clearing away,
OBVIOUS.
“ Gran’ma! the Bottle-o’ man wants ter know if
yer ’ave any bones?”
NOT ABOUT.
SWAGGIE (who has inadvertently struck the policeman's residence): “ Can you
gimme a bit of grub, missus?
MISSUS: “ Shan't! You're on the vag. If me husband was about he'd take
yous up."
SWAGGIE: “ Oh-h!... I reckon your husband wasn't about when he took you
up! Good morning, and many thanks, ma'am."
they found, in a protected space in front of the
keyboard, a miserable object, moaning and running
aimlessly round and round. It was Weddels —a
hopeless lunatic !
SMILAX.
Among the Cookies.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I landed at Coraki dead-broke, and started up
the Richmond to exploit the cockies. The south
bank wasn’t so well lined with farms then as it is
now; and very few would give me anything,
barring pumpkin or a cob or two of boiled green
corn. At some places I got a few
spuds, and one old woman gave
me the leg of a baked bandicoot.
This didn’t fit one for tramping
over blacksoil plains and boggy
flats where the foxtail grass grew
six feet high and the seeds got
in your eyes. There were belts
of scrub, too, and ti-tree swamps,
where your wet boots kept up a
tune of “ swish-swtyop ” as you
plodded along.
So, one dinner-time, when
Burke offered me 15s. a week to
chip corn I was glad enough to
take the job. He didn’t offer me
any dinner, but said I could give
him a hand “to put in the after-
noon.” I thought it was some
crop he was going to put in ; but
it turned out to be a chock-and-
log pig-sty.
It was dark when we finished-
after working like Kanakas. Then
we chased pigs about for an hour
in the dark, as there would be no
time to “ sty ’em to-morrer.” When
I had fed and watered them, Burke
asked me to come and hold the slush-lamp
for him. He wanted to see if “ Speckley ”
had all her chicks under her, and if the ducks had
come up from the river, and the black pullet and
the red rooster hadn’t got the nightmare. Then
“would I mind fetchin’in a armful o’ wood for
the mornin’ ? ” I fetched it —and the afternoon
was put in.
We had tea—salt-junk, scones, and cold pump-
kin ; and while Burke filled his pipe, he said :
“Ye’ll find it a bit lonely ’ere by yerself.
Maybe as ye’d like to go down to the barn wid
us ? ”
I didn’t like to refuse, and seeing Miss Burke
following the old couple, I took her in tow.
There was a fine big heap of early corn stowed
in the barn. We husked at it till eleven o’clock.
By the time we had cleaned the husks out with
bush forks and burnt them, it was midnight.
Before he went to bed Burke said: “Ye can
sthart work in the mornin’. Are ye an early
riser '! ”
“Yes,” said I. “I get up every morning at
nine, sunrise or not.” I wa3 getting full of
Burke.
Sometime in the night I heard an awful rattling
of chains and other things in the harness-room,
which adjoined mine, mingled with shouts of
“ Whoa there!— d yer, can’t yer stand a
minute ! to the horses which Miss Burke hadn’t
run up yet. I was too sleepy to take the hint.
It was so nice and cosy in bed, and it seemed only
five minutes since I had turned in.
Presently Mrs. Burke began rattling the
crockery, and dropping tin-dishes all over the
place. Now and again she called loudly to the
fowls, which wouldn’t leave the roost; and hunted
away the pigs, which were shut up in the sty. For
shame’s sake I got up. It was four o clock.
“ It’s late ye are, bhoy,” Mrs. Burke said. " Av
coorse, Paddy will excuse ye, seein’itsyer fu st
mornin’. But, for Iliven’s sake, kape the back o
the fince as ye go to work, lest M'Guires min
should observe ye. They do be pokin’ it at us whin
we overslape ourselves. M‘Cfuire’s min will be
cornin’ in to breakfast as ye go out.”
Burke came running up. He gave me a rusty
hoe with a crooked handle. “Ye’ll find Miss
Burke down the farm,” he said. “She 11 have
about siven rows chipped by this time. Just
sthart forninst her in the one beyant, an’ chip it
clane as ye may see her doin’.
Miss Burke was a gawky, bare-legged girl of 17,
who chipped right and left at a rattling pace. In
trying to keep up with her, I left a lot of uncut
weeds covered up with cut ones, and nicked off a
plant or two out of nearly every stool. These I
stood upright, or buried, when Miss Burke wasn’t
looking.
She informed me that M‘Quire’s men were the
best on the river. One was a stunner. Her father
would like to have him. He woke M'Guire up
one midnight after working very late, and asked
for the loan of an axe to pass away a little while
chopping wood till it was time to go to work
again. “Father never got hold of any willin’
coves like that.”
After breakfast Burke told me I could have 10
minutes smoke-ho —while I was going back to
work. On Sunday Burke said we’d have some
sport —shooting paddy-melons. The farm was
overrun with them, which meant destruction to
the young crops. We hunted through the scrub
all day, which was mighty hard work, and re-
turned after dark, dead tired.
Burke had great respect for a sporting man, and
would even let him wash his dirty clothes on
Sunday night instead of working. If he got hold
of one who didn’t care to chase paddy-melons on
the Sabbath he’d sack him on Saturday night, and
put him on again on Monday morning. That
saved three meals.
I had just got a week in when Burke, one after-
noon, saw me walking back about ten yards for my
pipe. He came over to me.
“ Ye seem to be doin’ a lot o’ walkin’ about,” he
said. “Do I pay ye to walk about ? ”
“ Am I to crawl or stand still ? ” I asked him.
“It’s work ye ’ave to do, an’ work ’ard,” he
said. “ Shure, it’s the.aisy billet ye’ve been used
to, I’m thinkin’.”
“Don’t I suit you? ”
“Faith, ye don’t.”
“ Then why do you keep me ? ”
“It’s the fool lam for kapin’ ye. Come arn,'
now, an’ I’ll pay ye for the week’s work ye haven’t
done.”
He paid me, and with bluey up again, I
set off up river for Tomki. At the dairy
I was offered a job—at 12s. 6d. a week. All
I had to do was to milk 60 cows before break-
IT WAS ALWAYS NIPPED IN THE BUD
LOZA (excitedly): “Oh, Bill, there’s a trap at
the door with a warrant for you!”
BILL (disgustedly): “ It’s just my luck. When-
ever me bloomin’ ‘mo ’ is coming on I yets
lumbered”
fast in a boggy yard. After breakfast, feed 200
pigs and 90 poddy calves ; after which I would be
required to work in the canefield till 4. Then I’d
milk the 60 cows, and feed the 200 pigs and the 90
poddy calves all over again.
Old Crampy was explaining how easy it was
when one of his men came up and asked for a
holiday to go to town. “ I want to sell my blan-
kets,” he said. “ I’ve got no use for ’em ’ere.”
Crampy asked for an explanation with, his eyes.
“I’ve been used to proper hours and regular
meals,” the man said. “Two suppers a night
seems to be the custom hereabouts—one after dark
an’ one before daylight. Better gimme my
cheque.”
“Which way are you going?” I asked him
when Crampy had bounced away in high dudgeon.
“Straight blanky bang to the back o’Queens-
land, where there’s no cookies nor dairies,” he
answered.
“ Right,” said I, “ I’m with you,” and, shoulder-
ing bluey again, I streaked it for the Logan River.
EDWARD S. SORKNSKN.


ltj«, rja.mA^
.(er'c'Y^^
Ot'A'ycs
Jf> '^yj
i >17porter?'']
p&r'i'irj
Wkpbwse
V-x°)” ft ll
j
dvfolp /
0 0-txjuoy /
■&c
i|e tien/otj sei^
Ctfow Va^o/e
cross ivc,
tfa A*b
'\' i< ' e 7c hfcwf'
ftKi* is
i \ ls _
€ **y'7*Ko 7 .
Hje OrcljeJrA
AW mi^
A Mo r -ft:i
'v o*7
J *Th £
CeL£.ST»A,i-
B&X**'
y fs yy*r*usi
TVe
SlA^e
l^tl^waße*
■l ?
"4 e
k w fW®*!
fcSy
,s
s\>» fev t
A^ ; '.
Wi*..
'Hfrelfrfee gft> c g£.
IMPRESSIONS OF CHINESE “OPERA” AT THE MELBOURNE DEMOCRATIC CLUB.


I'r'oYY',
“ANY CHANCE OF A FEED HERE, BOSS?”


Maoriland.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Maoriland is a realm of wind and running water,
greenness and snow-dappled mountains'. The
wind is of a kind that savagely wars against all
settlement, and the plains are spread with trees
ranged like soldiers to resist it in rank and file—•
or maybe four deep—battalions of them stretching
across the flat country. You see blue-gums,
pines, lignums, and poplars ; these are the break-
winds. The water is always in a hurry—noisy,
gurgling streams and rivers incontinently rushing
to the sea as fast as they can.
It is also a land of mountains you can’t climb,
and forests you can’t walk through. The Maoris
say that the North Island was caught and dragged
up by a god who went fishing. When you look at
those hills and mountains you can see the dying
agony still in them : they are jagged and gapped
and peaked and chipped, their old wounds some-
times wooded with skeletons of trees which have
taken on the shame of their nakedness, and grown
gi-gi which reminds me of the bushy end of the
bullock's tail that the Centralian gin wears.
Again, you see them bare except for pale golden
grass and a few cabbage-trees ; and then it is that
the torn and tortured expression of the country
shows more clearly than ever, and you know that
the land died in travail. You never grow tired of
looking at those hills and mountains. You do
not look in admiration, but as at some historical
spot invested with romance, —only here the
history is unknown, but told as an old soldier’s
history is told by the wounds and scars on his
body.
The forests oppose impenetrable depths, and
you must take an axe with you to get in. Under-
growth is for ever barring the way, and when you
cut away the supple-jacks and maze of creepers
the trees die. You get glimpses of what it is like
as you slip past in the train —beautiful, shimmer-
ing, green foliage sparkling with dew, and native
totara, white pine, tree-ferns and toi-toi. In the
swamps are the wild-flax plants with the red-
tipped spears, and all the time toi-toi with its
beautiful feathery flags waving.
The rivers rarely have banks, but spread out
over a few hundred yards of shingle. They are
treacherous rivers which come flooding down in
fine weather when the heat has melted the snows
on the ranges. They are wonderful trout-streams.
* • * *
It is a land of villages. All the time the train
is speeding through small, quaint hamlets half-
concealed by English and Australian trees —
willow, cypress, poplar, blue-gum, and wattle,
and also hawthorn and briar and gorse hedges.
There are villages which seem to have gone to
sleep, where experience teaches you the weekly
dissipation is to walk in the cemetery—where the
rising generation plays on the graves of the
departed.
Living Nature seems dead, but for the birds and
animals men have brought here—the sparrow and
the minah. Occasionally you see wild duck and
black swan, and a pigeon-hawk or a parrot-like
bird called the ka-ka. When you walk into the
wilder places you are surrounded by silence, saving
for the rare cry of the tui or bell-bird. We hear
about the kiwi, the weka, and other native birds ;
but these the tourist never sees. All living Nature
seems to have taken growth in one large speci-
men, the moa, and died with it.
And you dare not lie spread out on the grass in
the shade or the sun in this humid land. It is the
AMBITIOUS.
SMALL BOY (when his sister’s fianed is talcing tea with the family): “I wish you would hurry
up and get married, Nell.”
SISTER (sweetly): “ Why, dear?” SMALL BOY: “Oh! ’cos I want to he an uncle.”
clime of Never-Sit-Down. If you do, you will be
punished by lumbago or rheumatism of some kind,
If you grow tired on these country hedge-lined
roads, you must keep for ever moving unless you
chance on a log, and logs are rare in those timber-
less plains where they have had to get their trees
from England and Australia. You go through a
hedge or over a fence to get to a hill or a beach
(and all the hills and beaches appear to be fenced
from you), and you cannot reach it for a swamp or
a morass, or a running stream too sedgy to cross,
As far as you can go there is never a lizard, or a
snake, or a bush creature to start from your feet,
I asked a boy in a small town where the Zoo. was.
He said they
didn’t “g’ow
in Zealand.”
I explained
that a Zoo.
was a place
where they kept
wild animals, and he said, “ Dere’s only pigs in
Zealand.” There is also a lizard which is “ tapu ”
by the Maoris, but I never saw it.
There is nothing beautiful in the typical Maori
land scenery. It is too ghastly—a sort of Lac*
Macbeth crying “ Out damned spot!” kind f
landscape ; but here and there you get glimpses
of fairyland. Such a glimpse is obtained in the
New Plymouth Gardens, looking towards Mount
Egmont on a sunny day. This is the most beauti-
ful sight I have ever seen. The Gardens are set
in among a number of hummocks and round about
a clear, jug-shaped lake, and across the neck is a
little rustic bridge. The water mirrors English
oak and holly, pine, she-oak, blue gum and wattle,
cabbage-trees and cypresses and toi-toi; and,
standing by the bathing-house, you see two Mount
Egmonts with their snow-caps—one above you
and one beneath, as if Mount Egmont was en-
closed in the Garden bounds. And you just want
to stop there.
As I stood there in the early morning, a small
boy came down one of the walks. He was carry-
ing two milk-cans, and as he walked the milk
splashed out and covered his trousers and stock-
ings with cream. “Good morning!” he said;
“ Come here for the pices ? Gimme a Christmas-
box, will you ? Oh, 1 don’t mean that; I mean a
present. Oh, threepence will do. I know where
you can get change of a five-pound note, then.”
And he went on, the milk still splashing, and he
panting, and there were still two Mount Egmonts
and the Recreation Grounds left with me. I
went there again and again, but the sun did not
shine for me; Mount Egmont was for ever
wrapped in the clouds. The stage-manager of
that scenic effect kept the drop-scene down. That
is the worst of Maoriland compared with Aus-
tralia —the sun shines too little. It is a land of
cloud, as well as of wind and running water.
• * • »
And this grand country is populated by a brainy
energetic fellow, who is a strange combination of
simplicity and shrewdness. He does well for
himself in a small way. There is no poverty in
Maoriland, and there is no great wealth, and
every man has a few pounds to spend on his own
pleasure, and you are continually meeting him in
the train or in the towns spending it. He comes
crowding in at show-time, or to the race-meetings,
in such numbers that all accommodation-houses
are filled, and the early bird tells me that you see
him sleeping out on the doorsteps wrapped up in
a greatcoat. lam continually reaching the towns
and villages on such occasions and being eom-
polled to content myself with a shake-down in
the bar-parlor or in the billiard-room with a dozen
more, or else go on and leave my work there for a
future date.
The Maorilander is a free-and-easy fellow who
strikes up a friendship sud-
denly, and you enter into
his confidence before you realise
it. You sit down on a platform,
and he is next to you asking your
opinion on “ Is Marriage a Failure ? ” You
enter a carriage where there are twenty to forty
people (long, sociable, seated-all-round carriages)
and you all jein in a discussion on Federation
/ the War. Even the little fat man who has
made a sling of his hands to support his stomach,
and whose only trouble seems to be “ Between
meals,” notices that the open window causes you
to sneeze. “ Sneezin’ !” he asks sympathisingly,
and you say “Yes,” and he would talk, too, only
he has that trouble of “ Between meals ” to think
about.
The Maorilander mostly runs to bone; he is
broad-shouldered, short, with a fair amount of
meat about him, rather handsome of face, nice
eyes, but no figure. He is the antithesis of the
weedy Queenslander. Put a Marie Brizard bottle
of rum or a bottle of Champion’s vinegar beside
a bottle of Gaelic whisky, and there you have the
nature of Queensland and Maoriland. Bub the
Maorilander is full and overflowing with energy ;
the Queenslander is wondering “ What’s the good
of anything ! ”
When you get to know the Maorilander well,
you find in his nice polite talk a big lot of patriotic
swell-headedness. He believes that Maoriland
leads the universe ; and there is a growing belief
that Maoriland should federate with Australia
because Maoriland must become “ supreme.”
Hard-headed business men say so. A Maori re-
presentative says, “We’ve annexed the Cook
Group, and now we’re going to annex Fiji, and
after that we are going to annex Australia.”
When Maorilanders were made a lot of in
Sydney at the Commonwealth Festival the people
here argued, not that the Australians were hospit-
able, but that they did homage to the residents of
a superior country. In the matter of federation
Maoriland stands coyly like a beautiful virgin be-
side an unworthy suitor. She believes that she
may become “mated to a clown, and the gross-
ness of his nature will have weight to bear her
down.” But at the same time “ She must be
Supreme ” if she does federate.
And yet this does not jar on an Australian, You
don’t go mad about it, because a Maorilander is
such a delightfully fine fellow that you love him
for his very simplicßv.
Considering how the country
has progressed in politics, you
wonder how it is you never
hear the man in the street
talking politics, as you do in
Australia. It seems to me
that the people have gone to
sleep and left everything to
Seddon and Ward. The only
question discussed is Prohibi-
tion, and the Prohibitionists
are disliked by all level-headed
men. The average man would
like to see the people sober,
but hates the methods adopted
to force-on sobriety. A few
publicans are making fortunes,
and hosts of others are driven
to sly-grog selling, and the
latter have the sympathy of
the people. “ Why did you
take away their licenses ? ”
they say.
And then what a loyal fellow
the Maorilander is ! When
“God Save the Queen” is
played you see him take off
his hat as it is never doffed
in Australia. At Masterton I
got on the fringe of the crowd
to hear the King proclaimed,
and all the time the men stood
with their hats raised two
inches from their heads, and you would think they
were at a burial. What reverence was displayed !
At last the Town Clerk called for three cheers for
the King,—and how they yelled ! It seemed
to me that they were relieved to know they could
be noisy on such an occasion without being dis-
loyal.
* * * *
The typical Maoriland girl is a brown-faced,
rosy-cheeked, brown-eyed creature with more
freedom in her actions than you will ever find in
Australia. She is everlastingly putting back a
stray lock of hair behind her ear, and she has a
trick of doing it which is one of her charms. In
that land of wind you can imagine that her hair is
never tidy, but maybe that untidiness improves
her. She likes flowing be-ribboned dress like the
Melbourne girl, and inclines to the quiet shades
of material of the Sydney girl. She is not parti-
eular in weai'ing gloves, and seldom carries a
parasol, but in its place she may use a walk-
ing-stick. Wind does not favor parasols, and
for the same reason she does not
mind having legs, the bold
wind having taken so many
liberties with them.
When you sit beside her,
travelling, she is just as likely
to speak to you first, and she
is bold and intellectual in
conversation. She rarely sits
firm and erect, but takes
little outings on to the plat-
form, where the wind towsles
her hair more, and she gets
the grit and grime of the
engine on her face; but she
doesn’t care. She is not as good-
looking for a woman as the Maorilander is for a
man ; but the franchise (or the country) has evi-
dently made her just as self-reliant.
And this reminds me that I have formed the
impression that woman is too much boss in Maori-
land. I have asked several travellers who have
to do with door-to-door business, and they tell
me that if a man and wife should come to the
door together you should ignore the man alto-
gether and direct all your magnetic power on the
woman. Then you will rarely fail to do business.
In Victoria you will nearly always see a man and
his family out for the afternoon somehow like
this : The woman is half-a-pace in front, shoul-
ders square, swinging a little in her gait, and eyes
straight before her ; man a little bowed about the
shoulders, leading a child, and looking altogether
as if he wished he were with the boys in a bar par-
lor. In Maoriland you don’t see husband and
wife out together much. The man goes one way,
the woman another. The woman goes off for a
week’s holiday on her own, and sometimes there
come rumors ; but I suppose that she is well able
to take care of herself, especially as she is a Maori-
land woman. Yet if I were her husband I think
I wouldn’t like her getting so chummy with other
fellows on the trip.
The children are the dearest little ones in crea-
CAUGHT AGAIN.
AMELIA'S PAW-PAW: “Ex-case me, do I ‘pro-
trude? ’”
tion. As you go along the street they call out to
you, and will take your hand and come for a little
walk with you ; or they will perch up behind the
hedge and say “ Hullo ! ” or ask you if you like
apples, and throw you one from the tree near by—
and all the time so merry and confiding, and truly
childlike. They are never rude by any manner of
means.
Another feature is the Maorilander’s politeness.
Mind you, he is not good-mannered ; but his con-
versation bristles with polite mannerisms. If you
want to get past him, or her, they will never shift;
or if you get in a three-parts-filled railway com-
partment they won’t make room unasked ; and
yet if you got saved from death by any of them
they would thank you for the chance you gave
them of saving you. Everybody I ask where
“ Smith ” lives will tell me of all the Smiths in the
town but the Smith, and wait, and when they can
do no more they give me a polite little nod of the
chin and say “ Thank you!” as I move off. Some-
times I wish they wouldn’t be quite so grateful for
the chance I give them to do me a service.
Then, again, there is no dust to speak of in Maori-
land. After seeing the willy-willy of Kalgoorlie,
or the red dust-storm of Broken Hill, or the
“ Darling showers ” of Cobar or Bourke, you can
appreciate a land of no dust. When I was going
to Wanganui a man said, “ The worst of Wanganui
is that it is such a dusty place.” One evening,
as I sat in the vestibule of the hotel there, I felt a
severe shock of earthquake. The building creaked
and groaned, and I thought it must fall. Next
morning I looked at the local paper to read about
the earthquake, and found it recorded intwo-and-
a-half lines. Near by, in big, black headlines, I
saw, “ The Dust-Fiend again in Wanganui ” ; and
I read a couple of paragraphs about the dust-
storm prevailing the day before. “ There was no
dust-storm,” I said ; and I had been out all day.
Then I remembered that I had got a bit of grit in
my eye, and that a few more bits of grit had been
flying round from the black sand-hills. So this
was dust ! Going up the Taranaki line you see
dozens of rounded mouse-colored hillocks. It is
black sand, and the wind gets it up and blows it
about. You can scarcely see it, but it gets into
your eyes if you are not careful, and this is what
the Maorilander calls “ the Dust-Fiend” !
You never see the slab home of the Australian
cookie across here, or the bark humpy. The far-
mer builds himself neat weatherboard cottages
such as you see in Sydney suburbs, and grows
flowers about them, and vines, and English
and Australian trees for breakwinds ; and people
often say that he spends more on his home than lie
puts into the land, where it would be better
invested. lie has probably won this land at the
AN ADVT OF THE "AGE'
I'OITVG WOM VN, 25. eft -tin., domesticated, neat appearance,
I correspond tradesman* 30. view marriage. Matrimonial
Agency. 182 Lygun-street. Carlton.
J-he's apt °f tf\fc 'hklerhooel
_ ®l°osllt>s, flaf 3v\s! antiquated -
put a darli/v^, qeat apd (food ;
IgPvind a/\d do/AtJ heated
[fortunate the /pan uih° /i\ay
|a Ihe et\s,injfe<3il°c-k bi/\d her
Il\e f>c\'\l°/’i\i/T\e. or play
Jlifewont have to jit behind her
ijffis i%i<3l of six four
7 . \ ok a
P>oej shfc wcv\l a ''B°/v\°r; or,
Infill c\° o se or * st\ort ciAd e!»


price of broken health ; and, before the road was
made up to his gate, he was often his own
horse and cart, when in wet weather he carried
the provisions and other necessaries on his back
for miles, the soil being too boggy for the vehicle.
Or, when his child has been taken ill, he carried
it to town rather than pay the 10 or 20 guineas
the cast-iron doctor would charge for his attend-
ance. These were the pioneers of Maoriland.
Their homes are never out of sight as you travel
by train.
• * * *
But the one great and significant feature which
must strike the travelling Australian is the power
and übiquity of the country press. Every little
town and village runs its daily or tri-weekly, and,
saysaM.L. pressman to me, “There’s money in
them.” As you pass by each station the news-
vendor boards the train and shoves the local
paper under your nose, for sale. You get the
latest news red-hot. A paper issued from a small
village on the New Plymouth line recently sold
for £7OOO, and the purchaser told me he would
have gone higher. It is issued three times a day
six days a week. The same man leases another
paper 60 miles away for £lO a week to his late
foreman.
And in this point we probably strike the key-
note to Maoriland prosperity. It is clannishness.
The smallest village battles against being strangled
by the octopus-like suction of the larger towns,
and the larger towns are striving equally against
the absorption of the cities. The Maorilander
believes in his own little hamlet first and foremost;
then he lauds his district; after that his country.
The butcher, the baker, the candlestick-maker,
EPICUREAN.
“Moonlight of my soul,” said the cannibal king, with that ill-concealed egotism
of a man who will insist on doing the cooking at the family picnic, “ will
you try a little of the breast of this missionary-bird? You will find it
done to perfection, I think.”
“No, my liege,” replied Her Majesty, “not the breast; but you may save me
the parson’s nose.”
the tailor, the draper, the grocer, the chemist,
and the newspaper—they all do well in the town
they open business in. “You may get goods
cheaper and maybe better in Wellington or
Auckland ; but let us be provincial and stick to
one another,” says the typical Maorilander.
That is why every fifteen miles or so of railway
passes by a thriving village. You hear the knock-
ing of the hammer, the buzzing of the saw, the
ringing of the anvil, and the village carts are all
running, and everyone has a £5 note to spend on
himself in the way of pleasure.
Having looked upon that picture, look at this.
Take Bathurst in New South Wales. Its popula-
tion is something like 15,000, and it is a dead
town Fifteen thousand Maorilanders would
have made that town the finest city in the Southern
Hemisphere; they would not let Sydney over-
shadow it. Everybody in Bathurst saves-up to
take his pleasure in Sydney, and while he is there
he buys stores to pay the expenses of the trip.
The money “saved” is not really saved; but
Bathurst make itself believe it is, and all the
time the local businesses and industries suffer.
People get their Daily Telegraph or Sydney
Morning Herald and buy political opinion for
one penny; and thus it happens that those two
organs do more to crush progress than any
despotism in the world. Nearly every town in
New South Wales is crushed by Sydney in the
same way that Bathurst is, and what Sydney does
for that State Melbourne is doing for Victoria.
The Miorilander is even going to be nation il
in his dress. He. favors knickerbockers ; and the
time is probably not far distant when almost
everyone in this country will be dressed in pants
fastened at the knee, and will wear knitted stock-
ings. No garb is more suitable for the cold, bleak
climate 'One of my first impressions of Maori-
land was the boy in knickerbockers Mothers
appear to keep their lad in short trouSers till he
shaves. The boy of the Land of the Moa doe 3 not
mind, however; he does not always look nice in
those’ knee-breeches, especially when his legs are
thin and his feet big ; but he seems perfectly un-
conscious of appearances, and everybody else
thinks it is suitable, and the men are beginning
to think that they too would like to go into short
pants. So the Scotchmen of the Southern Hemis-
phere" won’t wear kilts, but will lie pretty well as
characteristic in dress for all that. There are men
in Maoriland who know that Maoriland will never
dominate Australia, and the Maorilander wants
to be a nation to himself and rule the Pacific.
That is what he is going to try to do, and with his
superabundance of energy he will come pretty
near doing it.
U.h.
ROBERT BROTHERS.
Justice on the Barwee.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The Coort,” announced the strong Celtic accents
of Sergeant Daley, “ is now open.”
The “ Sargint ” had made the same announce-
ment from the Courthouse steps at 10.30 on every
alternate Friday morning for yearp and with the
same regularity old “ Mick ” Dalton, J.P., had,
some ten minutes prior to the announcement,
washed, let down his shirt-sleeves, donned his
black tail-coat, left the bar of the “Shamrock” in
charge of Norah, and taken his place on “ The
Bench ” to mete out, aided by a large pen and two
dog-eared law books, the law of the land.
And we, the elect of the “Shamrock,” having
nothing better to do, invariably followed Mr.
Michael Dalton, J.P.
“ Mornin’, Sargint,” says Mr. Dalton affably,
on taking his place in the judicial arm-chair (it was
“ Paddy” on ordinary occasions.)
“ Good day t’ye, surr,” answers Sergeant Daley.
(Outside the sacred precincts it was “ Mick.”)
Then the Bench gave three loud and intimida-
ting dips of the pen in the pewter ink-pot, noisily
opened the largest of the law-books, and proceeded
to business.
“Read the charge-sheet, Sargint.”
The Sargint unfolded a large blue paper and
read in measured tones —“The Crown versus
Andrew Moylan.”
“Who?” enquired the Bench, sharply.
“ Andrew Moylan, surr.”
“What’s it for ?”
“ Dhrunk,” continued Sergeant Daley, impres-
sively. “Dis-
ordherly, re-
sistin’ the
p’lice, an’
lavin’ his
team wan-
derin’ round
Main - street
all night to
the incon-
v a y mence
an’ dangerof
the thravei-
lin’ pooblic.”
(This last
sentence in
one breath.)
“Aha!”
exclaimed
the Bench ;
“ Moylan,
what’s this
I’m hear-
in’ ? ”
“Don’t you
blanky well
‘Moyla n’
me ! I’m as
good as you
are, mebbe
better —if
everybod y
’ad their
doos.” (Loud
laughter
from the
body of the
court.)
“ Soilence
in the coort ! ” from Sergeant Daley.
“ You shut yer mouth,” retorted the accused.
“Unless y’ want it shut fer yer,” he added,
aggressively.
“Order!” said the Bench. “What’s your
name ? ”
“You know as well as I do,” answered the
accused.
“Well, whin did ye get drunk—an’ where?”
inquired the Bench.
“Las’ night—in yer own blasted pub ! ” (More
laughter.)
“ Soi-lence in the Coo-r-rt! ” again from the
Sergeant.
“Can’t y’ say no-
think else but that ? ”
inquired the. accused,
sarcastically.
“What about re-
sistin’ the p’lice ? ”
demanded the Bench.
“ Well— wot about
it ? ” returned the ac-
cused, calmly.
“ Did ye resist the
Sargint ? ”
“Now, look here,
Mick, it’s no damn
good you tryin’ t’
come this ’ere gag on
me. You know me
—don’t y’ ? ”
The Bench half-
heartedly admitted
that it did.
“ Ryebuck, then !
Many’s the flamin’ good quid I’ve
blued in your ’ouse —more’n ’e’ll
ever spend. Aint I? ”
Further reluctant admission from
the Bench.
“I come out of i the pub las’
night,” continued the accused, “an’,
’avin’ a drop, I goes overth’ trough.
Never ’urt nobody but me own shins. Up ’e
comes an’ starts maulin’ me about. Was I goin’
t’crawl down t’ the blanky ‘logs’ just to suit
’im? Not me—so lup and welted ’im over the
jawr—an’ I’ll do it agen, thet’s more ! ”
The accused’s preparations for immediate re-
sumption of hostilities caused the Bench to stand
up excitedly.
“ Andy ! Andy ! I’ll commit ye ! Sure as that
pen’s in me hand I’ll commit ye for Common As-
sault accordin’ t’ th’ Act —to come up for thrial
before the P.M.”
“Well, take ’m away, then, so as
I can’t see ’im ! ”
“It’s ’is juty t’ be here,”
said the Bench.
“Well, let ’im shut up,
then. I’ll fight ’im fer
a quid after this lot’s
through with ! ”
“ What about your bul-
locks bein’ wanderin’
round Main-street ? ” con-
tinued the Bench.
“You let my blanky
bulls alone. They know
a bloomin’ sight more’n ’e
does—or you either.”
“Where are they
now ? ”
“ Ain’t set eyes on ’em
since las’ night; but I’ll
take my oath they’re in
the best bit o’ crop around
this blanky town, any-
how.” (Hurried exit from
the court of several small
holders in the vicinity of
the town.)
“ An’ wot’s more,” continued the accused, “if
any ’arm comes to ’em I’ll come to this ’ere court
fer damages—take it fr’m me ! ”
“ Is this all the evidence ? ” inquired the Bench.
No answer
“Very well, then.” The Bench solemnly
referred to a sheet of paper —on whicli appeared
various hieroglyphics supposed to be notes of the
case —-while the accused expectorated contemptu-
ously from the Chair of Guilt into the middle of
the floor.
“ From th’ ividence heard on the first charge,' 5
continued the Bench at length, “ I find that the
accused was dhrunk ; but that he was not so far
gone as to interfere wid annybo ly or become a
nuisance.”
“ You oughter know—-you served me!” from
the accused.
“On the siccond charge, I find that the accused,
bein’ dhrunk and not responsible for his actions,
can’t be hild t’ ’ave known that it was the Sar-
gint he sthruck, and therefore can’t be hild t’ ’ave
wilfully resisted the p’lice. Ividence goes to show
that if he hadn’t been interfered with by nobody
he would have laid where he fell till he got sobe v .
On the third charge, I find that the accused, havin’
been took by force from his team, cannot be held to
’ave left it. In fao’, he was med be the p’lice to
do what they charges him wid doin’. The accused
is discharged, and the Court is adjourned to this
day fortnight. I’m goin’ over t’ break-down some
bulk-stuff. Come an’ ’ave a drink.”
We adjourned to the bar of the “Shamrock,”
and the Bench shouted. Then, the Court being
closed, we were joined by the Serge int, and Andy
and he having, at the express comm ind of Norah,
solemnly shaken hands, Andy shouted. Then the
“ Sargint ” shouted.
“ Andy,” said the Bench, “here’s luck. Niver
let the law interfere with friendship or business.”
“ G’d luck ! ” said Andy.
Then we all went out to hunt up the team.
JOHN LACKLANOS.
A small N.S.W. schoolgirl’s essay on
Dogs
Sum Dogs are very good watch Dogs. Sum are hease
and sum are shees. And sum are very lasy. Sum dogs
bight and sum dont. The shees dogs lay litty puppys.
The Dogs get the eggs in the bush. They Carrie their
little puppys in their mouth. And sum are kind and sum
are not. Their are Colly Dogs and Cangroo Dogs. Pud-
dle dogs are very nice. There are Teryor Dogs and
Engleshteryor Dogs, and Pug dogs, and Sinbernid dogs,
And the Sinbernid dogs are very usful when you are in
the snow they come and ly down beside you and warm
you, then they stand up as if to say get on my back ahd
I will bring you home. Dogs are puppys for a while then
they grow up and have little puppys.
His Tragedy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HIS OPPORTUNITY.
BIG DENIS: “Shtrokes me, Dooley, these floies
must take me fur a shlaughter-house.”
LITTLE DOOLEY : “ An’ ye can take it from me,
Denny, that it’s moighty hard t' decaive a floi."
A woRSE-assorted couple of drovers than old
Hinckman and I never smoked by a camp-
fire. It was black night ; I thought of turning-in,
and tapped the ashes out of my pipe.
“ Seen you talkin’ to the veller-headed girl down
at Blinkers ; ” snarled Hinckman, suddenly.
I slowly refilled my pipe and gazed at him ; for
he was sparing of words, and not given to wasting
them on women. “ What’s wrong in that ? ” said
I.
“Yah ! Wrong? I could tell you somethin’
about ’em —you bet! ”
In my mind old Hinckman and women were as
nearly allied as stars and mud, but here I scented
a bark-hut romance.
“You and yer yeller-haired piece ! ” he went on
fiercely. “Think I don’t know nothin’, young
feller? Yes! I’m a married man —or used to be.
I’ll tell you about it if you like—jest to show }’ou
wot a bit o’ fancy skirt can do. Yes ! yellcr-heads
and black ’uns, too.
“Fifteen year ago I went an’ got married, and
thought I was in for a happy time, like ’em all.
For six months I worked wet weather and cold—
thinkin’ to meself every day of the cosy room, the
white tablecloth, and the steaming hot pie the
missus alwus ’ad for me. She soon found out
I liked that pie, and every night I’d find one
waiting for me. Brown crust an’ thick gravy—l
can see them pies as plain as fifteen years ago.
“One day I ’ad been workin’ in the wet, an’
was fair dog-tired ; but I jest thought of that pie !
When I got ’ome there was a man there—a friend
of ours—who the missus ’ad asked to stay to tea.
I sat down as ’ungry as a rabbit in drought-time ;
but the missus ses : ‘ Mr. Blossom, you’ll’ave this
pie; an’, John, you’ll ’ave some cold meat with
me, dear.’ An’ so she shoved the pie on Blossom’s
plate; an’, though I was near burstin’, I got
through the cold meat.
“ It jest maddened me to see that pie goin’, an’
Blossom smilin’ an’ gruntin’ over it. ’E must ’ave
seen somethin’ was wrong, for ’e cleared out early.
Then I up an’ talked to the missus. I was fair
mad ; an’ the end of it was I told ’er I would go
after a job I ’ad ’eard of in N.S. Wales—an’ I
went. . . . Never seen ’er agen, either ! That
shows you wot women is—cheatin’ of their lawful
’usbands of ’ot meat for strangers ! That filled
me fair up of them—it did.”
‘ ‘ I suppose Blossom cleared out with her ? ” I
asked.
“ ’lm ! Why, ’e was bald - ’eaded, with red
whiskers —and seven kids at that. No-o. It was
her ’ard-’eartedness that knocked me. She knew
I was death on them pies ! ”
ONLYS.
MY SHAKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ A penny for your thoughts!” she said,
And coyly tossed her golden head.
The moon was full, the hour was late,
I swallowed eagerly the bait.
“ T think,” said I, “ my charming fair,
Of your sweet Ups and shining hair;
“ And underneath that dainty hem—
If sinners thrill, could saints condemn ?
“ Through mocking whiteness peeping there
I think I see an ankle bare."
“ Then think, you tout!" she laughing cried,
“ For that’s your share"—and off she hied.
The moon was full, the hour was late,
I wandered home disconsolate.
YIC.
J.O.M.


The Letter That Came.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In a four-roomed, skillion-roofed, red-brick dwell-
in &i upon a “donkey” sofa, sat a woman with an
unopened letter in her hand. She was grey-
haired, wrinkled, bent-shouldered—and a widow.
The letter was from her boy, her only son—a
man who had recently earned the prefix “Re-
verend ”to his name. For him the wrinkles had
multiplied, the grey hair increased, and the bent
shoulders grown more crooked ; and now, believing
the harvest of her sacrifice and toil was at hand,
her fingers trembled in her tender eagerness to
break the envelope. She could neither read nor
write, but she yearned to see, even while she
could not comprehend, the words her boy had
written.
The one desire of her life had been to “ make a
gentleman of him,” and now the happy hour had
come. Her dreams were realised ; she was the
proud mother of the Reverend Joseph Joshua
Sandon. Her lack of education had never troubled
her, but now her futile yearning to read her boy’s
letter was bordering on painfulness.
Her boy’s letter that would raise her to the
desire of her lifetime, to the proud position of his
housekeeper and economical guardian of his finan-
cial affairs. Her faded eyes were misty with
proud tears.
“ Has the postman been, Aunt ? ” interrupted a
soft voice.
The woman held the letter towards a brown-
haired, mild-eyed girl.
“ Yer better read it, Meg—Margaret, I mean—
my eyesight’s failin’ fast.”
The girl forbore a smile at the little fiction ; it
had been so oft-repeated as to lose its force. .She
was hardly less eager than the mother. Her own
sweet secret she hoped soon would
be a secret no longer.
“ No letter for me ? ”
she whispered shyly in
tones denoting dis-
appointment.
“There’s news,
maybe, for both
in that ’un,” re-
plied the
mother, proud-
ly. “ Read it
and see.”
The girl be-
gan. It was
a moment to
be remembered
in the life of
each. Neither
had doubts of
approacl) ing
felicity. Their
faith in the
sender was
mighty.
“ Dear Mother,
Doubtless you
have been looking
for news from
me
“ Not us, Meg !
We knows how his
time must be took
up ”
“ But I waited to write
until my position was
less unsettled ’ —-
“ I knew when the hoy had
done wi’ learnin’—studyin’,
I mean—he’d show how he’d repay our time o
waitin’ ”
“ And now the news I have to send will, I am sure, be
pleasing to all my friends in Murrandanah, and to you
and cousin Margaret in particular.”
The girl’s voice trembled. The woman’s was
exultant. “ Bless him ! but he remembers every-
body.”
“ I have received a call to Beulah Plains.”
“ That’s a long way back ! my dear.”
“ Which after long and prayerful consideration I feel it
my duty to accept. I start to-morrow —and—by the time
this reaches you ”
The girl’s voice was almost inaudible.
“ I shall almost be at my destination.”
“ I hope as he’s sent us full instructions for the
journey. And, my dear, I’ve got over £2O saved
up to buy extra furnishin’s becomin’ a minister’s
house.” The girl coughed and went on.
“ Another matter of importance is the news that after
due consideration I have decided to marry.”
“ Come, Meg, read up. If it is yer first offer,
it’ll maybe be yer last, so make the most of it.”
“ Conscious of the seriousness of this latter under-
taking, I have only decided, after continued and sus-
tained determination to do right even at the cost of my
own individual feeling. So this evening lam to marry a
young lady—Miss Emily Denton—who is eminently fitted
for the wife of a minister of religion, a lady well edu-
cated and accomplished and well-connected. ”
“ Read it slowly, Meg; I can’t quite get the
hang of it—it seems strange. I think if she’s so
fine, Meg, that his old mother’ll seem a bit behind
the times.”
“ It would have added to my happiness to have you and
Cousin Margaret”—the reader’s voice was harsh and
husky—“present at my wedding, but, all things con-
sidered, I thought it wisest to carry out the arrangements
unostentatiously. None but my wife’s relatives and
immediate friends will be with us. It has always been a
habit of my life to count the probable cost of every action,
and, thinking ahead, I cannot fail to see how a man’ s
early surroundings may hamper him and ruin his career,
and have determined to stifle my own feelings and sacri-
fice myself still further to benefit the calling I would give
my life to honor.”
“Yes, yes, Meg ! Read quicker.”
“ Though naturally at first it caused me a bitter pang
to relinquish my former idea of having you and Cousin
Margaret to live with me, under existing circumstances
I am grateful that, in forming my present plans, I am
depriving you of nothing that your manner of living has
accustomed you to.”
The reader’s voice grew harsher and the listener
kept silent.
“ Your present mode of living is so much apart of your
life that to remove you from it would possibly pain you.
As for myself, I have commenced housekeeping on modest
lines and, except where absolutely necessary, incurred no
debt. This has left me almost penniless, so that if I am
not depriving you of accustomed necessaries in asking
for a trifling loan, you would be conferring an ever-
lasting benefit on one whose gratitude is already yours.
1 have a hard pull before me, but with mv heart
in my work, fortified by my faith in Providence, I hope to
come through the rough waters safely. My best regards
to Cousin Margaret, and tell her the remembrance of her
womanly and sympathetic help in the past will always be
among the sweet memories of my life. And to you, the
best of mothers, words cannot express the grateful love I
send, but perhaps you, who have so often revelled in the
happiness that falls to the lot of the willing giver, may in
a measure understand the gratitude that permeates mv
filial love. Do not be disappointed if this should be the
last letter from me for some time, for my work, my time,
and my life will be given entirely to mv sacred calling’.
God bless you and keep you. Your name will ever be in
my prayers, and your well-being in my thoughts.—Your
affectionate son,
J. J. Sandon, B.A.
“That’s all, Aunt,” said the girl, folding the
letter and placing it on the faded red cloth that
covered the square pine table.
“He’s got on mighty fine,” commented the
mother in pensive voice.
The girl made no reply. She took up a thimble
and a piece of plain sewing—apil’ow-slip in which
she was working buttonholes. Each stitch in it
hitherto had been the building of a dream—a
dream which the passing of a letter had dispelled.
The woman, m uital'y immersed in her own
affairs, found no room for the girl in her thoughts.
After a time she looked up.
“ I ve been thinkin’ the old house is shabby.
I’ll draw out the savin’s
and send him a trifle
for a weddin’ gift, and
buy somethin’ new
ter brighten up the
old place. Him and
his grand wife might
come to visit some
HOPELESS CASE.
The “Beat”: “ Captain,
I’m (hic) past mending , but can you save me
duwy? ”
day, and we must have it fittin’ his callin’.
Being a parson ”
She paused a moment, and looked with wistful
earnestness at the silent girl.
“ When yer write, child, tell him I send the
money for a weddin’ gift; it’ll sound better. And
yer might tell him as how we’re going to furnish
throughout —and—and yer might give a hint that
I’d like ter see her—his wife I mean.”
The girl broke a thread from an unfinished
button-hole, and began to fold her work.
“That’s done, anyhow,” she said, slowly. “I
hate buttonholes.”
“Yer may be disappointed, Meg,” began the
woman.
Meg, thinking of unredeemed pledges of faith-
fulness, answered brusquely : “If you don’t com-
plain, why should I ?”
“ He ain’t done it without thought and prayer.
He says so in his letter.”
‘ ‘ Prayer’s easy to them that knows the answer’ll
bid them take the best-buttered piece of bread.”
N.S.W.
E. B. HODGE.
Two Opinions.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She.
What’s the use o’ lovin’ ?
If my love’s a rover
’N’ love goes a-rovin’,
What’s the use o’ lovin’ ?
Seas ’n’ seasons shovin’
’Twixt me ’n’ my lover—
What’s the use o’ lovin’
If my love’s a rover ?
He.
If a man’s a rover
’N’ his love is lovin’,
Love is never over—■
If a man’s a rover.
Love, that dies in clover,
Lives for ever rovin’
If a man’s a rover
’N’ his love is lovin’!
N.s.w.
JOHN DRAYMAN.
Nancy’s Boy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I drew up at the slip-rails and asked the old
man if I was on the right track.
He took his burnt-out pipe from hi 3
mouth, tapped it meditatively on his palm
to empty it, shifted himself to a comfort-
able position on the top of the rail with his
back against the post, and said :
“ G’day ! Nice moke yer got ther’.”
“Not bad,” I assented; “a bit tired,
though. How far to Murphy’s did you
say ? ”
“You'll be the machine-agent, won’t
yer ? Now, I’ll give yer the straight tip.
Murphy’s old woman done-in the last
machine people. Yer young, an’ I don’t
mind givin’ yer the straight tip.”
I wasn’t the machine-agent and said so,
and again asked the direction and distance
to the selection I was bound for.
“ Pict’resque Atlas ? ” he queried.
I sighed. “No, Government valuator.
Will this track get me to Murphy’s before
I’m middle-aged ? ”
“In the Gover’ment, are yer?” He
stepped down from the rails quite briskly
and called to a vicious-looking, weedy
youth, who, sitting on a log with his back
against the fence, was wearily stirring up
a colony of small black ants with a stick.
“Hey, Aubrey—Aub., come ’ere. ’Ere’s
a cove belongs to the Gover’ment ! ” He
waved aside my attempted explanation of
the difference between a member of the
Government and an unimportant servant
thereof; and as the exhausted youth
only stared lazily at me and then resumed
his interesting occupation, the old man con-
tinued: “He’s a bit shy, is Aub., but he’s been
pretty well eddicated. The boss up at the half-
time said he couldn’t teach him no more, an’ he’s
a bit above the other chaps about here—his
brothers an’ the Murphy kids an’ them others.
An’ he’s set on gettin’ a job in the Guv’ment.
An’ he don’t hit it with ’is ma —his step-ma—or
his double step-ma, I’d oughter call ’er.”
“ His what ?” I interrupted.
“Well, yer see,” he explained, “my missus—
the one I got now—she’s my third, an’ there’s no
denyin’ she don’t take to Aub. Not that she’s a
bad sort in lots o’ ways, but it seems to rile her
hat I favour Aub. more’n her young ’uns. Funny
thing, Ruby—that was the last one ; she on’y had
one of ’er own— she useter say the same. Allers
down on Nancy’s boy.”
“ Was Nancy your first wife ? ” I asked.
“Y—yers,” he said slowly. “That’s ter say,
in a sort o’ way she was. Parsons didn’t come
roand here much them times, an’ I was busy
clearin’ an’ stockin’ an’ ploughin’, an’ one thing or
another. We was allers intendin’ ter go ter town
some day an’ git hitched legal, an’ we would’ve
too, on’y she died when Aub. ther’ was born. She
was sort of high-toned, was Nancy—sort of—er—
romantical, i f yer understand ; an’ after the boy
was born an’ I’d fixed her up—God knows I done
my best, but she’d orter had a woman with ’er,
an’ the on’y ones about ’ere was all married re-
pectable, an’ wouldn’t come. After I’d done wot
I could, an’ wrapped the babby up warm an’ soft,
an’ put it on ’er arm like she wanted, an’ got ’er a
strong cup o’ tea an’ a bit o’ fresh damper, ther’
w is a nice color in ’er pretty face, an’ ’er eyes was
shinin’ first rate, an’ I was just sayin’ thet soon’s
ever she could get about we’d go to town fer
certain an’ get fixed legal. All at wunst
she puts ’er arm roun’ my neck—she was
allers soft-like and romantical, was Nancy—
an’says, ‘Jim,’she says, ‘lt’s too late, dear. I
don’t care one bit, an’ you’ve been the best
’usband in the world, spite o’ no parson.’ Yes,
she said that; it’s God’s truth I’m tellin’ yer.
THE SOCIAL PURIST.
‘ The best ’usband in the world,’ she says ; ‘ but
I’m goin’, Jim ; I’m dyin’, dear.’ She looked
that well that I laughed at ’er. But about an
hour after she says to me, ‘ Allers look after the
boy, Jim, dear—make him somethin’ better ’n
just a rouseabout. W’en he’s big get ’im inter
the Guv’ment; make ’im respectable, so’s people
won’t know we wasn’t married legal. An’ I’d like
yer ter call ’im Aubrey. Ther’s a Lord Aubrey
in the last jernil yer got me, an’ it’s a pretty soft-
soundin’ name.’ Then she says, ‘Good-bye, Jim.’
“ Well, I’m tellin’ yer all this so’s yer’ll under-
stand why these others is a bit down on Aub., an’
why I sort of look high for ’im. An’ he’s above
the work ’ere, too—wants somethin’ better. Most
like he gets it from’s mother ; she wasn’t near as
handy with a broom, nor nothin’ like the grafter
these last two was— is, I mean, for Minnie’s alive
an’ doin’ well, though I buried Ruby five years
ago. She had little ’ands, Nancy ’ad, an’
“Well, anyway,” he pulled up short and re-
turned to his perch on the rail, “ I’ve told yer, an’
if yer could get Nancy’s boy inter a decent Gov’-
ment billet—well, yer’ll find I don’t ferget them
as does me a favor.”
Once more I explained my social and political
insignificance, but he only thought I was “ tryin’
ter back out of it.” And, at last, in return for in-
formation as regards the track to Murphy’s, I pro-
mised that, on my return to Sydney, I would
write out the facts as plainly as I could, publish
them in The Bulletin, and so force the Govern-
ment of New South Wales to find a billet for
Aubrey.
JILL.
A dead-beat once accosted a well known
Christchurch M.L. hotelkeeper, reputedly deaf
as the pavement. He bellowed in his left ear:
“ Will you oblige me with the loan of half-a-
crown?” Bung shakes his head : “Can’t hear a
word you say.” Dead-beat tries his right ear:
“Will you oblige me with the loan of five
shillings?” Bung looks at him sadly for about
five minutes, then murmurs softly: “ Try the
half-crown side again.”
JACKY’S ALTERNATIVE.
(Scene! A country courthouse.)
MAGISTRATE (addressing “Jacky) a blackfellow): “ I fine you 7s. 6d. or a month. Will you
take the month?”
JACKY (promptly): “No thanks, boss, mine think it I take the seben ’n six, and tchout for
all hands.”


Prehistoric
CARICATURE
CONDENSED FETUS
PREHISTORIC CARICATURE.
BY HOP.
I.—ln the foreground of this picture the Car-
toonist is seen fulminating one of his political satires
tinder circumstances peculiar to the period. He is
drawing it upon a piece of bark with a charred stick, for paper and nencils had not c
This was ages iind ages ago—long before you were born or thought of rav child • 1,6611 '" ventfld
the pterodactyl, and the megalonyx, and other creatures with hard names, gaily cavoXu^r
z Europ ”' (it
«o, ) These MSS
ot the S reat antiquity of pictorial jokes. **
2—There being no paper on which to print them, there were, of course no
newspapers so the artist merely left his sketches about in likely places, trusting
the C m a h Ce ? 6 George ! { "' d ° f thG period havin g “ attention called ”to
late Mr y Darwin to be the original tgflD)
ftpp ars to be watching the issue ot events would seem to prove Darwin’s theory „p to the hilt. “* C6r amly the m^clous satisfaction with which the “critter”
”■—Well, there being no lawyers, there was no libel law,
but there was plenty of good hard flint.
4.,—And being a gafiie that two could play at, the paleolithic?
politician did not always come out on top.


The Bulloch.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Having written of the Merino Sheep, it is time to
treat of the other great Australian delusion —the
Bullock. The true typical Australian bullock—
long-horned, sullen eyed, stupid, and vindictive—
is bred away out in Queensland, on remote sta-
tions in the Never Never land, where the men live
on damper and beef exclusively, and occasionally
eat a whole bottleof hot pickles at a sitting, without
other refreshment, simply to satisfy their craving
for vegetable food. Here, under the blazing
tropic sun, among flies and dust and loneliness,
they struggle with the bullock from year’s end to
year’s end. It is not to be supposed that they
take up this kind of thing for fun. The man who
worked cattle for sport would wheel bricks for
amusement. The fact is, that on paper there is
a fortune in nearly every cattle-station. At
periodical intervals a boom in cattle-country
arises in the cities, and syndicates are formed to
take up country and stock it with cattle. It
looks so beautifully simple—on paper. You get
your country, thousands of miles of it, for next to
nothing. You buy your breeding herd for a
ridiculously low price, on long-dated bills. Your
A SAFEGUARD.
W IFE: “ What did you briny the kiddie here for?”
HUSBAND : “ To prove to some of these bounders that you ain’t
exactly a single woman!”
expenses consist of a manager, who toils for a
share of the profits, a couple of half-civilised white
stockmen at low wages, and a handful of blacks,
who work harder for opium-ash than for money,
Plant costs nothing, improvements nothing—no
woolshed is needed, there are no shearers to pay,
no carriage to market, as the bullock walks him-
self down to his own doom. Granted that prices
are low, still it is obvious that there must be huge
profits in the business. So the cattle start away
out to “the country,” where they are supposed to
increase and multiply and enrich their owners,
Alas ! for such hopes. There is„a curse on cattle.
* * * *
No one has ever yet been able to explain exactly
how the deficit gets in. Put the figures before
the oldest and most experienced cattle-man, and
lie will fail to show why they don’t work out
right. And yet they never do. No one ever yet
made any money out of cattle. It is not exactly
the fault of the animals themselves. Sheep would
sooner die than live, and when one comes to think
of the life they lead, one can easily understand
their preference for death ; but cattle, if given half
a chance, will do their best to prolong existence.
If they are running on flooded country and are
driven off when a flood comes, they will probably
walk back into the flood-water and get drowned
as soon as their owner turns his back. But, as a
rule, they are not suicidal. They sort themselves
into their own mobs, they pick out the best bits of
country, they find their way to the water, they
breed habitually, but it always ends in the same
way. The hand of fate is against them. If a
drought comes, they eat off all the grass near the
water and have to travel far out for a feed after
getting a drink. Then they fall away and get
weak, and when they come down to drink they
bog in the muddy waterholes and die there. Or
else Providence sends the pleuro, and the big,
strong cattle slink away by themselves and stand
under trees glaring savagely till death comes. Or
else the tick attacks them, and soon a fine, strong
beast is a miserable, shrunken, tottering wreck,
Once cattle get really low in condition they are
done-for. Sheep can be shifted when their pas-
ture fails, but you can’t shift cattle. They would
die quicker on the roads than on their own run.
The only thing is to watch and pray for rain. It
always comes after the cattle are dead. There
is a curse on cattle.
* * * *
As for describing the animals themselves, it
would need volumes. Sheep are all alike, but
cattle are all different. The drovers on the road
witli a mob of cattle get to know the habits and
tendencies of each particular bullock. The one-
eyed bullock that always pokes away out to the
side of the mob, the inquisitive bullock that is
always walking over towards the drover as if he
were going to speak to him, the agitator bullock
who is always trying to get up a stampede and
prodding the others with his horns. In poor
Boake’s “ Where the Dead Men Lie ” he says—
Only the hand of ni_cht can free them,
That’s when the dead men fly ;
Only the frightened cattle see them,
See the dead men go by.
C oven hoofs beating out one measure,
Balding the drovers know no leisure,
That’s when the dead men take their pleasure,
That’s when the dead men fly.
Cattle on a camp see ghosts, sure enough—else,
why is it that, when hundreds of cattle are in
camp at night, some standing, some lying asleep,
all facing different ways, in an instant, at some
invisible cause of alarm, the whole mob are on
their feet and all racing in the same direction,
away from some unseen terror ? It doesn’t do to
sneak round cattle at night; it is better to whistle
and sing, and let them know somebody is there,
than to surprise them by a noiseless appearance.
Anyone sneaking about frightens them, and the
next thing is that they charge right fair over the
top of somebody on the opposite side of them, and
away into the darkness, frightening themselves
more and more as they go, smashing against trees
and stumps, breaking legs and
ribs, and playing the dickens
with themselves generally.
Cattle “on the road” are un-
accountable animals ; one can-
not even say for certain what
they will do, and in this respect
they differ from sheep, whose
movements can be predicted to
an absolute certainty.
The cow is the mother of the
bullock. All the cussedness of
the bovine race is centred in
the cow. In Australia the
most opprobrious epithet one
can apply to a man or other
object is “cow.” In the whole
range of a bullock-driver’s
vocabulary there is no word
that expresses his blistering
scorn so well as “ cow.” To a
species of feminine perversity a
cow adds a fiendish ingenuity
in making trouble. A quiet
milking-cow will “plant” a
young calf with such skill
that 10 stockmen cannot find
him in a one-mile paddock.
While the search goes on the
cow grazes unconcernedly, as
if she never had a calf in her
life. By Onance he may be
discovered and then one notices
a curious thing. The very
youngest calf, the merest stag-
gering-Bob two days old, will
lie as close as a snake in cover
if left in hiding by his mother.
He will not move till the old
lady gives him orders to do so.
One may handle him and pull
him about without getting a
move out of him. Now, how
does he learn this trick, for a calf is a horn
fool if ever there was one ? If sufficiently
persecuted he will at last sing-out for help,
and the cow will arrive full-gallop, charge
at men and horses indiscriminately, and clear out
with her calf for the thickest timber in the most
rugged part of the creek-bed, defying man to get
her to the yard. The calf seconds her efforts
with great judgment. But if the calf be separated
from the cow he loses all his sense. He will fol-
low a horse and rider up to the yard thinking he
is after his mother, though she bellow instructions
to him from the rear. Then the guileless agricul-
turist, having got the calf penned-up, sets a dog
011 bbn ’ aud b * s Cldes soon fetch the old cow full-
run to 1,18 assistance. Once in the yard she is
10p3 ’ lau fed into the bail, propped-up
1 to prevent her throwing herself
r own ’ aild . mdked fey sheer brute-force,
ter a while she steadies down and will
w,dk . lrdo be bad > knowing her turn and
j )J having like a decent animal. Cows and calves
'aveno idea of sound or distance. If a cow is on the
°PP OS *fe side of the fence from her calf, and wishes
communicate with him, she will put her head
* irough the fence, place her mouth against his ear,
as sbe were going to whisper, and then utter a
roar iat can be heard two miles off. It would
stun a butnan being on the spot ; but the calf
it over for a moment, and then answers
wkb a Prolonged yell in the old cow’s ear. So the
dialogue goes on for a half-day without either
P art y dropping dead,
• » * •
There is an element of danger in dealing with
cattle that makes men smart and self-reliant and
independent. Men who deal with sheep get
gloomy and morbid, and are for ever striking,
Nobody ever heard of a stockman’s strike. The
true stockrider thinks himself just as good a man
as his boss, and inasmuch as “ the boss ” never
makes any money out of cattle, while the stockman
gets his wages, the latter may be considered as
having the better position of the two. Sheepmen
like to think that they know all about cattle, and
could work them if they chose. A Queensland'
drover once took a big mob from the Gulf right
down through New South Wales, selling various
lots as he went, till at last he had to deliver the
remnant to a small sheep-man near Braid wood who
was buying a few hundred cattle as a spec. By the
time they arrived, the cattle had been on the road
eight months and were quiet as milkers. But the
sheepman and his satellites came out, all riding
stable-fed horses and brandishing twenty-foot
whips, determined to sell their lives dearly,
They galloped round the astonished cattle
and cracked their whips and spurred their
horses till they roused the
weary mob to a fair amount
of excitement. Then they
started to cut-out some that
they wanted. The horses
rushed and pulled, and
the whips maddened (he
cattle, and all was turmoil
and confusion. The Queens-
land drovers looked on
amazed, sitting on their
patient leg-weary horses,
resting on the saddles they
had occupied almost con-
tinuously for eight months.
At last, seeing the hash the
sheep-men were making of
the cutting-out, the drovers
set to work, and in a little
while, without crack of
whip or shout of voice,
their well-trained camp-
horses had cut out the re-
quired number. These the
head-drover delivered to
the buyer, simply remark-
ing, “ Many’s the time you
never cut-out cattle.”
* * *
And now, as I write,
there rises a vision of a
cattle-camp on an open
plain, the blue sky overhead, the long grass
rustling below, the great mob of parti-co’ored
cattle eddying restlessly about, thrusting at
each other with their horns, and in among
the sullen, half-savage animals go the light,
wiry stock-riders, horse and man working toge-
gether, watchful, quick and resolute. A bullock
is wi ited that is right in among a throng of others.
Wa l ! —make way ! and the horse and rider edge
into the restless sea of cattle, the man with
his eye fixed on the selected animal, the horse
glancing eagerly about him trying to discover
which is the one wanted ; he half starts towards a
big bald-faced bullock, but is at once checked. The
press divides and the white steer that is wanted
scuttles along the edge of the mob trying to force
his way in again among the others. Suddenly he
and two or three others are momentarily eddied
out on to the outskirts of the mob, and in that
second the stockman dashes his horse in between
them and the main body. The lumbering beasts
rush hurriedly hither and thither trying to return
to their comrades. Those not wanted are allowed
to run back, but the white steer finds, to his dis-
may, that wherever he turns the man and horse
are confronting him with the dreaded whip. He
doubles and dodges and makes feints to charge,
but the horse anticipates every movement and
wheels quicker than the bullock and blocks his
ALL'S FAIR IN LOVE AND WAR.
D ODGER: “ Yers, yous women's fair tricks. When me brother
went ter the war yer said we wuz er fambly of 'eroes, and
yer'd lav me fer ever. Now 'e's back yer says we’re a
farnbly of loafers, and yer ain’t got no time fer me.”
return. At last the bullock sees the outlying
mob which he is required to join, and trots off to
them quite happy, while the horse and rider return
to cut-out another.
♦ * * *
It is a pretty exhibition of skill and intelligence,
doubly pleasant to watch because of the undoubted
interest that the horse takes in it. Every animal
has his own amount of brain-power, and seems to
take pleasure from exercising it. A collie puppy
will amuse himself by yarding fowls into a stable,
‘'working” them with a knowledge which was
instilled into his mother, and his mother’s mother,
before him ; and the horses—big, stupid creatures
that they are, cursed with highly-strung nerves,
and blessed with little sense—they are pathetically
anxious to do such work as they can understand.
So they go into the cutting out camp with a zest,
and toil all day dodging the lumbering bul-
locks out of the mob; and the moment that a bad
rider gets on them and begins to haul their mouths
about, their nerves overcome them, they get awk-
ward and frightened, and a horse that is a
crack camp-horse in one man’s hands is- a hope-
less brute in the hands of another.
» » ■* *
Which reminds me that, having dealt with the
Sheep and the Bullock, by the grace of the editor
I will some day write a treatise on the ’Orse. It
will be a labor of love.
The Banjo.
“IRISH LORDS.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The clover-burr was two feet high, and the billabongs were full,
The brolgas danced a minuet , and the ivorld seemed made of wool !
The nights were never wearisome, and the days were never slow,
When first we came to ‘ ‘ Irish Lords, ” on the road to Ivanhoe !
The rime was on the bar-ley-grass as we passed the homestead rails,
A Darling jackass piped us in, with his tr ills and turns and scales,
And youth and health and carelessness sat on the saddle-bow,
—And Mary lived at “Irish Lords,” on the road to Ivanhoe!
On every hand was loveliness, and the Fates were fair and kind ;
We drank the very wine of life, and ice never looked behind ;
And Mary ! Mary everywhere went flitting to and fro
When first we came to “ Irish Lords,” on the road to Ivanhoe.
The window of her dainty bower where the golden banksia grew
Stared like a dead man’s glazing eye, and the roof had Ruttn through.
No violets in her garden-bed, and her voice ! Hushed, long ago !
When last ice camped at “ Irish Lords,” on the road to Ivanhoe.
NIL.


The Bad Luck of Parson
Fig-gens.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN THE BUSH.
TOWN GIRL : “Are you looking under the Led, dear, for a man?”
COUNTRY GIRL : “ No, I am looking for a snake."
“ Well, I don’t go much on parsons,” said
Blaggers, “but there’s one rev’rend gent as has
my sympathy for Ids rotten luck.
“There was a bloke useter live up Warialcla
way—some of yer might know him —Bill Peters,
his name was—wot got a settin’ of game eggs
from his missus’s people in the Gulf country. He
reckoned they was a champion breed an’ borrowed
a broody lien to set ’em under.
“One of the eggs was a bit bigger'n the rest,
an’ Bill’s missus tole him as how it wouldn’t be no
good to set, ’cos it was a double-yol'ked un an’
wouldn’t hatch.
“Bill knew as much about fowls as me foot,
but didn’t want to show his ignorance, so tole her
it were a rooster-egg. So, of course, she ups an
calls him a fool. However, when the row was
over, Bill had his own way an’ shoved it in with
the rest.
“Well, I tell yer, Bill got a bit of a surprise
when them eggs was hatched, to find one of ’em
was trottin’ about on four legs.
“ ‘ Hello !’ says he, ‘ this bloke’s a bit diff’rent
from the others,’ an’ he takes it inter the missus.
“ ‘ Oh, what’s that ?’ says she.
“ ‘ Bio wed if—l know,’ says he —looks like a
SHE DIDN'T WORRY.
HE: “ You must be very lonely now your husband
is away.”
THE WIDOW : “I am; but I have none of the
worry I had during his previous absences—I
know where he is!"
young goanna;
anyhow, it was
goin’ about, quite
contented - like,
with the old hen.
Must er come
outer that big
egg,’ says he.
“ ‘ Oh, kill the
narsty thing,’ says
she; ‘I know
what it is now ;
it’s a halligator !’
“ 1 Well, I’m
’anged ! ’ says
he, an’ drops it
mighty sudden —
was afraid it ud
bite him, ye r
know. So it
cleared-out to join
the others.
‘‘lt was sur-
prising, Bill said,
how the hen use-
ter skirmish for
that there alliga-
tor. ’Spose she
thort it was a
kind o’ king.
Anyhow, they
couldn’t ever
ketch it, though
it did get pretty
tame, ’cos the ole
hen ’ud fly at ’em
when they went
to touch it.
“ They got used
to seein’ the thing
about at larst, an’
didn’t take much
notice. It grew
like a house afire,
an’ got that big
the hen couldn’t
brood all of it at
once ; could only
cover part of its
back, an’ there’d
be the tail stickin’
out behind, an’ the head ’ud be out about a foot
in front, with the mouth open ketchin’ flies.
“One day, when Bill was out, the missus heard
a funny row in the yard, an’, when she looked,
there was the alligator a-scorfin’ one of the chicks.
It had bolted the hen, an’ all the other chicks,
too, ’cos she cud hear ’em inside, squawkin’ an’
chirpin’, tryin’ to get out.
“ You can guess the missus was pretty mad, an’
she chased it all round the yard with the axe, but
site didn’t have no show ; it was alligator first,
rest nowhere.
‘ ‘ Just as she got near enough to sling the axe
at it, Bill comes home. He’d been soakin’, an’
was fuller’n a tick.
“ ‘ Wash marrer ? ’ says he.
“ ’ Carn’t yer see, yer rum-swillin’ hound ! ’ says
she. ‘ Yer beastly halligator’s gorn an’ scorffed-up
his mother an’ the chicks, while I’m slavin’ here
an’ washin’ an’ ironin’ an’ manglin’, an’ scrubbin’
an’ cookin’ an’ cleanin’, an’ you’re drinkin’ an’
guzzlin’ rum by the bucket. Curse yer halligator !
I wish he’d scorff you!'
“ ‘Alligator’s all ri’,’ says Bill, an’ he manages
to bail it up in a comer and ketch hold of it, an’
starts strokin’ it.
“‘Prerry lille sing,’ says he, an’then all of a
sudden he lets out a terrible yell The alligator
had nipped orf the tops of his thumb and two of
his fingers.
“Well, you never see such a hullabaloo. There
was Bill chasin’ the alligator with
the axe, an’ swearin’ an’ cursin’ worse
’n a bogged bullocky, with his hand
all bleedin’, an’ stagg’rin’ an’ failin’
about; the missus screamin’, and the
alligator racin’ round an’ round the
yard like a Melbun Oup horse. At
larst the alligator gets a bit pumped,
an’ Bill manages to ketch up, an’ lets
drive fair on the head.
“Crash! went the axe, an’ the
handle fell to bits, an’ Bill yells out
louder ’n ever. Swore the jar had
broke his arm. Then the alligator
makes a fresh bolt an’ flops down the
well, what happened to be open, and
the missus runs an’ shuts the trap, an’
piles harf a ton o’ wood on it, an’ so
they had him a pris’ner.
“Well, they kept him down there
fourteen weeks. He must er got a
livin’ chasin’ frogs an’ things, ’cos
they cud hear him splashin’. They
dursn’t open the trap, ’cos one day
Bill opened it cautious-like, an’ nearly
got his leg took orf.
“All this time Bill had to hump
water about two miles, an’ got thin as
a h errin’.
“ He got that sick of it that one
moonlight night he was lyin’ awake
thinkin’ of them three or four buckets
o’ water he’d have to hump before
brekfust next mornin’, an’ he reckoned
he’d get up an’ let the brute out an’
chanst it. So he goes out in his shirt,
an’ creeps up to the well, and ties a
rope to the ringbolt in the cover, and
scoots inside with the other end of
the rope. And then he pulls the
well-cover up and stands at the win-
der to watch him come out.
“He hadn’t waited long when he sees the
alligator cornin’ out, and as soon as it was right
out, Bill nearly larfed himself sick. The bloomin’
reptile was a-walkin’ on his tail an’ his hind-legs ;
he’d got that used to an upright position in the
well—’cos it wasn’t wide ernuff to hold him
horizontal-like—that he’d got a sort er kink in his
back an’ had to walk straight up.
“ Bill tole me it put him in mind of Figgens,
the parson, who useter walk with his head a one
side, and take long, slow steps.
“Soon as the alligator walked outer the open
gate an’ went away, Bill opened a bottle o’ rum
an’ drunk himself paralytic for joy.
“It was a pecooliar thing, Bill noticing the
alligator walked like the parson, ’cos somebody
else noticed it, too. Ole Miss Sourfiz, wot’s got
whips o’ tin an’ is a bit blind—though she won’t
own-up an’ wear gig-lamps—was takin’ a walk
before brekfust the mornin’ after Bill had let his
alligator out, when she sees the parson cornin’, an’
walks up to him an’ says : ‘ Good-mornin’, Mr.
Figgens,’ an’ shakes hands. ‘Why, how cold yer
hands is ! ’ says she, when, to her surprise, she
found herself bein’ pulled to’rds the parson, an’
him bendin’ over her, like’s if he was goin’ to mug
her.
“‘Leggo, yer disgustin’ brute!’ says she;
‘ you’ve been drinkin’; I can smell it’; an’ with
that she lets drive at him with her gingham, an’ y
belts him over the head till he let go, an’ then she
went home an’ told everyone she’d seen the parson
drunk in broad daylight, an’ he’d insulted her, an’
—well, yer know what country-towns is.
“Anyhow, Figgens had been in Maguire’s pub.
that mornin’ for whisky for his toothache, but he
swore he hadn’t met Miss Sourfiz. The ole girl
reckoned he was a liar; said he smelt like a
boilin’-down works an’ had ernuff grog in him to
cure all the toothache in the Commonwealth.
“So the parson, who was booked to splice the
ole girl’s niece as soon as the aunt pegged-out, got
the boot an’ had to leave Warialda.
“ But it warn’t the parson, arfter all, cos a kid
wot had seen the alligator grippin’ hold of the ole
girl’s hand, went home an’ told his mother he’d
seen a thund’ring big goanna tryin’ to bite Miss
Sourfiz, an’ got the father of a hidin’ for tellin’
lies.
“ So, yer see, the parson had rotten luck, an’ so
had the kid, too.”
G.A.P.
“ A.P.” : Be carnivorous horses (8.,
8/6/’01). Once, during a drought out West,
writer taught his solitary nag to eat meat and
damper, in default of grass. The nag would also
chew up old boots and saddle-straps, and, used to
run down wallabies like a kangaroo-dog, catching
them by the back of the neck. One day I caught
him killing a sheep. Had to sell him at last, as
he bit a piece off my toe, which was protruding
from the blankets one morning.
Knocking Around.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Weary old wife, with the bucket and cow,
“ How’s your son James, and where is he now ? ”
Haggard old eyes that turn to the west:
“ Boys will be boys, and he’s gone with the rest.”
Grief without tears, and grief without sound —
“ Somewheres up country he’s knocking around.”
Knocking around with a vagabond crew,
Does for himself what a mother would do ;
Maybe in want of a bite or a sup ;
Maybe in trouble or maybe hard-up—
Down with the fever or lost in the drought:
Anxious old mother ! he’s knocking about.
Wiry old dad at the tail of the plough :
“ Heard of Jim lately, and where is he now .
Pauses a moment, his forehead to wipe ;
Drops the rope-reins while he feels for his pipe
Scratches his old head in sorrow or doubt:
“ Somewheres or other lie’s knocking about.
Knocking about on the runs of the west,
Holding his own with the worst and the best ;
Ringing the shearing-sheds, making a cheque ;
Breaking in horses and risking his neck ;
Straight as a ramrod, six-foot and sound
Jim is all right when he’s knocking around !
Drover turned “ cocky”—old mate of Jim,
Married and settled and out of the swim,
Drags his mind painfully back from the past—
“ Heerd o’ Jim ? Le’s see '.—the Christmas fore
Glances a thousand miles north through the
drought—
iC Somewhere in Queensland he s knocking about.
Droving along on the fringe of the runs,
Camping along by the setting of suns.
Cook for surveyors and clerk for the boss,
Catching the early sheds—working across.
Rover turned farmer when pinched for a pound—
Oh, what would you give to be knocking around ?
Girl from the neighbour’s, defiant or shy,
With a jest on her lip and a tear m her eye ;
You mav let her go past, or not ask her of him,
For she’d stare in your face and she’d ask you
“Who’s Jim?”
(There are girls in the west, in the north and the
south,
And who was the last one he kissed on the mouth !)
Oh, they lightly ride “ in ” and they lightly ride
“ out” —
So don’t fall in love with a knocker-about !
He will come back again, but he’ll go back again,
And long may you wait by the slip-rails in vain.
And the house-mongrel sits by the slip-rails at
night,
With his nose to the Gulf, or his nose to the Bight;
And he howls for an hour—they are used to the
sound —
’Tis a call or a dirge for the Knocker Around.
HENRY LAWSON.
THE SMART SERVANT .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ My darling,” said Brown to his dutiful wife,
“ These slaveys are truly enraging;
They worry and bother you out of your life—
P’r’aps I’d better do the 'engaging.'
1 think I can pick up the right sort of girl
When I’ve questioned and looked at a few,
love.”
Mrs. Brown, smoothing back a refractory curl,
Responded, “How thoughtful of you, love!”
The servants till then had been ugly as sin,
So he picked out a new sort of Mary-
Such a fine pair of eyes, such a delicate skin,
And the gait of a pantomime-fairy.
She waited at table in excellent style,
And Brown gazed upon her with pleasure;
Yet the wife wore a rather, peculiar smile
When he muttered, “By Jove! she’s a treasure.':
She stayed for a week (that’s the limit, they say,
For a girl whom, the master engages);
Then the treasure was told to pack up and away,
With her “warning” allowed for in wages.
Poor Brown thought “ Hullo! ” when he came home
to tea,
“ I’m afraid there’s a hit of a storm on;’’
But his wise little spouse merely sat on his knee,
Saying, “ John, have I married a Mormon V’
“ Sweet angel! ” he cried, as he hugged her again—
For he felt he was getting off lightly—
“ Pick the servants yourself; let their faces he plain,
And their figures absurdly unsightly,
I have chosen a ‘ missis,’ and here is her place
In the arms where I’m happy to hold her."
So she settled the trouble by patting his face
And dropping a tear on his shoulder.
VIC.
EDMUND FISHER.


The Bush Samaritan.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He staggered to the station with his toe-rag 3
sticking out,
And doggedly he chucked his bluey down ;
He cursed the flies, and asked us was the manager
about,
And we told him that the boss had gone to town.
Then up and spoke the poisoner : “ You’d better
stop the night,
And wait and hear what Grindstone has to say.
You put your bloomin’ swag in there;
I'll see you through all right ;
I never turned a blanky man away ! ”
On Saturday the manager got back and
looked around,
And cookie begged a billet for his
friend—
“ Say twenty bob.” The boss said,
“ What ! You couldn’t find a
pound
If you stood the blessed station up on
end !
But, all the same, I’m not the sort
of chap to hunt a man,
I’ll give him lodgings while he likes
to stay ;
And on Sundays let him snare some
blanky ’possums—if he can ;
I never turned a blanky man away ! ”
The stranger took the offer, and he
toiled among the sheep,
And they worked him like a drill
upon a rock;
Till one night his spirit wandered
’cross the boundary in his sleep
To take a hand at tending Peter’s flock.
And/«ne owner of the station heard the news and
gave command
That the stranger should be buried on the place ;
“ He was just a dirty loafer, and a nuisance, but —
be damned !
I will stick to the traditions of my race.
Take him down around the corner where you
plant the rotten sheep—
Wa’ll put in oats and barley there some day ;
Expenses now are heavy, every man must earn
his keep;
And I never turned a blanky man away ! ”
N.S.W.
ROBERT ALLAN.
“D.B.G.”: Let other folk sing of the
bull frog’s lullaby, or the “ caw-caw-curl-url-oo ”
of the accursed crow. Let them go crazy over the
prolonged and melting wail of the old-man dingo ;
the roar of a thousand head of yarded bullocks
(with the inevitable “ bugler ” three octaves over
the fifth rail). Give the cocky the merry grunting
of his sow. Give the poet his “ creaking of the
saddle ” —he’s welcome to it. Give the swaddy a
lively band and a thumping drum. Give the
niggers their erratic corroborree chant. But give
me the soul-stirring song of the dolly-pot, with its
“hum-tackle-hum-tackle-hum”; (“not a darned
color”) with its clanking ring ; (Oh, a ’weight to
the pound is a glorious song!) with its “thud-
tackle-thud-tackle-thud.” Ah ! that sets the blood
galloping—“ thud-thud-thud.” There are castles
away in the sky, and marriages bre wing— “ tackle-
thud ” —barrels of beer, and weeks of good boozing.
“Thud-tackle-thud.” The cocoa-tin’s full—
“thud-thud.” In pieces like half-crowns, and
shillings and sixpences. The cocoa-tin’s full.
All right. Kerosene-tins will do—wheel-
barrows, drays, waggons. Fetch up the “Great
Eastern.” There is fun in the camp when it’s
“ thud-tackle-thud.” Mullocky leaders and iron-
stone specimens ! Let the 50-head roar on its reef
of good buck. Give me my old silver-bottle, my
pestle and dry-blowing dishes, and I’ll play you a
tune that will set your heart beating. For the
sweetest of sounds is the hum of the dolly-pot,
with its clank and its ring—“hum-tackle-hum-
tackle-hum.”
(5) v ( as S r A-
y? W ol «- duirvcr lay .
pp-tioi; fe jjii brdiicje Saf!
J9 J ttbte Sairayd cru\la.K
c -3ouYli[tihm Wicked/: w/iffa rirf
*•, Hf bul'asa Qirisriatj dil ”
APtK .ola mafij reply .
5J9 \f ft? sctrtje to you.,
1 Idlilje io 4ie "
]T
parrot) railedJis jjajtls in air,
s r JJ CLt ]’ bquiare!
Trli njz fruly
yie ajaij J«n) ? "
Old %l)rnjla.ij njci.de refill)
(A inhiijjluiujif
" 1 fernk a ftm'ili) - l
Ccfd dieajeul 1 njicffjfi ypd njtrjcL
V. J. DALEY.
Jampot’s Chance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was known as “Jampot,” but his real name
was Marmaduke Howard-Warrington, and he was
a new-chum. I don t mean that he had only just
arrived in Australia—he had been here for years ;
but in speech, dress, manners, thoughts, and,
above all, in his air of lofty superiority to all per-
sons who had not been born in England, he was
as unmistak ibly a new-chum as on the day he
landed at Circular Quay, with one pound tliree-
A WHITE AUSTRALIA.
MIKEY: “’Oo wus it won yer Modder , and yer Belmant? Why the Enniskillens—and ’oo’s
been doin' yer dirty work orl atony? ”
CHORUS: “ Yah! yer Fenian; as blanky Australians, of course.”
and-sixpence in his pockets. His small portman-
teau contained chiefly the notification of the
appointment which private influence had gained
for him, a few legal-looking books, his B.A. gown
and hood, and the wig and gown of a barrister of
the Inner Temple.
Next morning saw him, with threepence in
silver and two coppers in his waistcoat pocket, in
a first-class compartment of the train journeying
to the country town where he was to be installed
as head-master of a boys’ school. “ Head-master! ”
It sounded well. In a country town, certainly;
but still “ Head-master ! ” He had an idea that
Australian country towns and English provincial
cities were one and the same thing. He would
probably be a person of very great importance in
the eyes of these ignorant colonials; he would
show them how they did things in England.
Time passed in that monotonous country town,
making many changes in the views of the head-
master of the Boys’ Grammar School, but not
materially altering his nature. He no longer
considered himself, by right of his Oxford degree,
the only scholar in the country. He found that,
no matter what he might think about it, the
people whom he had come amongst regarded a
Sydney B.A. in exactly the same light as an
Oxford one—and B. A.’s, or, for the matter of that,
M.A.’s, were by no means rare. Some of
them were engaged in cooking for shearers. A
delighted populace had not rushed at the first
opportunity to offer him the highest educational
position in the province ; in fact, the province
had apparently never awakened to the fact that
Mr. Marmaduke Howard-Warrington, 8.A., of
Oxford University, was in it. Perhaps that was
due to the fact that he very, very seldom received
that distinguished appellation. Harry Creevin,
once his assistant, now classical master in a
Sydney school, had idly nicknamed him, “Jam-
pot,” and Jampot he remained.
And he always remained a new-chum. No one
really liked him; his boys laughed at him
openly, for he was old-fashioned, pompous, and
“ English,” and tried to train them in the English
style of 50 years ago. He hated Australia and
Australians —all but one; and earned a large
amount of half-angry, half-contemptuous dislike
for his uninformed, sweeping assertions about the
new country in which he earned a living denied
him in the old.
So Jampot lived alone in a town that would
willingly have been friendly and hospitable to a
more adaptable new-chum, and he read and re-
read his big calf-bound law-books, and frequented
the court-house like an unquiet spirit when the
Circuit Judge held the assizes. There were no
pictures in those big books ; but sometimes, after
hours of reading, he would sit gazing at the open
page as though it contained a beautiful illustra-
tion. And so it did ; but only for him. No
other eyes could see the pictures at which he
gazed so lovingly. On one page, wherever he
opened his book, was the picture of a man in wig
and gown—himself, a barrister, addressing an
awestruck jury in a case which should interest the
world. That was the picture on one page. On
the other—the laughing face of Dulcie Grey,
Harry Creevin’s sweetheart.
The last picture had no business there at all;
it had nothing to do with criminal law, or any-
body’s Equity ; and it certainly didn’t belong to
him. Jampot had never even said anything to
pretty Dulcie Grey, and he knew, as well as
everyone else, that she was only waiting for
Harry Creevin to attain a better position to become
his wife. He knew, too, that things were
approaching a crisis with the young lovers.
Dulcie’s father had no idea of an engagement
which should drag on indefinitely for years
and years, and Harry believed himself to be
cut out for success as a barrister. So far,
he had succeeded only in getting the
right to practise. His one chance was
to be appointed associate to some Judge,
for the ordinary course was far too long and
expensive for so poor a man. But that chance
seemed almost out of his reach. All the Judges
had sons, or nephews, to whom they gave each
vacant post; and, what was more, he never
seemed able to learn in time when there was a
vacancy.
So Harry taught classics, read law, and thought
of Dulcie in Sydney; and Jampot taught all
sorts of things, studied law, and thought of Dulcie
in Bundagoota; and, after a while, the post of
associate to the Judge who generally took the
Bundagoota circuit fell vacant. The Judge,
curiously enough, had no son nor near male rela-
tion, so there was hope for other men; and,
among the many applications which he received,
were two which he selected from the others for
reconsideration. One was signed “ Henry James
Creevin ; ” the other, “ Marmaduke Howard-
Warrington, 8.A., of Oxford University, and
head-master of Bundagoota Boys’ Grammar
School.”
The Judge smiled at the magnificent title ; but,
nevertheless, he kept Jampot’s letter in his hand
when he had laid Harry’s aside. Both applicants
were known to him. The Judge was English
himself, and an Oxford man—of a different type
from Jampot. He had once been poor, and had
longed for and obtained an associateship. He
had often met Jampot in Bundagoota, and, strange
to say, had understood and liked the constrained,
affected master of the Boys’ Grammar School.
So the Judge thought for sometime, and then
“I like young Creevin,” he murmured to him-
self. “A nice lad, and clever —sure to get on
and make his way in
the world. That’s just
it. He will get on
sooner or later; while
Warringto n —er—
Howard - Warrington
—well, this will pro-
bably be his one
chance. He is clever
too, but no go— no
push ! If I give him
this he’ll get on at the
Bar ; if I don’t—poor
beggar!”
So the Judge wrote
to Harry, saying that
he “regretted, etc.”;
and he wrote to Jam-
pot accepting his ap-
plication, and Jampot
rejoiced. For years
he had worked and
longed for his chance,
and it had come at
last. But Harry
Creevin had lost his;
and as the midwinter
holidays had just be-
gun, he took a run up
to Bundagoota to seek
comfort from Dulcie.
That night Jam-
pot’s happiness had
so far thawed him that
he felt he would like
to tell someone of his
good fortune; so he
strolled down to Mr.
Grey’s, sure of sym-
pathy from kind-
hearted Dulcie. Not
that he had ever con-
fided in her at all.
Anyone would have
thought from his man-
ner that he regarded
her as a mere child—
and an Australian
child at that! No
one could have guessed
when he coldly shook
hands, and turned
away immediately to
speak to her father in the stiff manner habitual
to him, that he was longing to catch her in his
arms and hold her there for ever. No, Jampot’s
manner was against him.
He was stiffer and colder than ever that night,
for he found himself in the midst of a heated
family discussion, and no one thought of stopping
it in deference to old Jampot. Dulcie was sobbing
bitterly. His heart bled when he saw her, but he
only looked disgusted ; her mother, with her hand
on the girl’s shoulder, locked distressed and
anxious. Harry Creevin was white as a ghost
and Mr. Grey stood with his back to the fireplace
and reasoned with him.
“You must see yourself, Harry,” he said, “ that
lam doing my best for Dulcie. If you bad got
the associateship, now, it would have been dif-
ferent ; but as it is—why, surely you must see that
it’s out of the question. I can’t allow Dulcie to
engage herself to a man who might never be able
to support her properly.”
“ I sup-suppose-I ought-to-to have a-say in it,”
sobbed Dulcie. “ I don’t care-one bit-how long-I-I
wait.”
“ Nonsense !” said Mr. Grey.
“It’s no use, dear,” said poor Harry, despair-
ingly. “ Your father’s quite right. But it’s
damned hard to think that I was so near it.”
“What did he say?” asked Mr. Grey, alluding
to the Judge’s letter.
“Oh, he wrote very kindly,” replied Harry,
grudgingly. “ Said he should have liked to give
me the billet—knew my father and all the rest of
it—but that I had youth and ability enough to get
on without it, so he was appointing a man who
needed it more than I. Some idiot, I expect,”
he added, fiercely, “ who doesn’t need it half as
much.”
Jampot rose. “I am intruding, I think,” he
said stiffly, “and I have work to do at home.
Good evening, Mr. Grey.”
He walked back to the school, where he had no
friend among the crowd of hero-loving sleepers in
the dormitories, locked himself in his room,
and drew a chair to the table, on which lay,
besides the usual big law-book, the Judge’s letter
of appointment. Opening the book, he laid the
letter on the page and stared at it steadily. He
wasn’t reading it. He was only looking at those
two pictures—himself in the legal wig and gown
on one page ; on the other, Dulcie, crying miser-
ably.
It was daylight when Jampot threw himself on
his bed, and then he didn’t sleep. The stiff,
supercilious new-chum buried his face in his pillows
and lay motionless for hours. But on his table,
beside the big law-book and the letter containing
notice of that long-hoped-for appointment, lay
another letter, signed, sealed and addressed to his
Honor, the Judge.
* * * •
The next afternoon the Judge received that
letter. He read it over two or three times, and
then delivered himself as follows :
“ The man’s a fool! ”
“My dear ! ” exclaimed his wife.
“Well, he is. Look here: I told you I had
appointed that schoolmaster at Bundagoota my
associate —at his own urgent request, mind you,
his own request; and here I have a letter from
him refusing the appointment—refusing it point-
blank ! Why, he’ll never have such a chance
again—never ! ”
“ The man is certainly a fool,” replied Mrs.
Judge. “To whom will you give it now ? ” She
took very little interest in poor old Jampot.
“Oh, as for that, I am only too pleased to be
HE HAD AN EXCUSE .
MRS. BROWN : “ You have no excuse for coming in at this time of
the night."
MR. BROWN : “ Haven’t I. What d’you s’pose I’ve been standing
round the corner this last half-hour thinking of, then?”
able to give it to young Creevin—a clever fellow
and bound to get on.”
* • * *
Harry Creevin has got on—rapidly, brilliantly.
He is a shining light at the Bar; and, in
oj^theCß : ssmn, they regard him as sure of a seat
, ,
Bur Xgoota Boys^'GTamSrSchooL
reads his big law-books ; but there are no pictures
in them now, even for him.
N.s.w.
DAISY MYERS.


YOU KNOW
WOOLGROWERS!
John Bridge and Company, Limited,
WHO OF YOUR MAKING
Are to-day The LARCEST BROKERS in Hew South Wales.
SUPPORT
the Firm whose Energy, Determination and Knowledge of their business,
work in conjunction with the Best Staff procurable; and whose unceasing efforts
on your behalf have caused you to stick to them during 31 years of criticism.
Directors: CLARENCE WALTER BRIDGE, JOSEPH FRANCES HAYES, LIONEL JAMES A. BRIDGE,
FINANCIERS, WOOL, HIDE, TALLOW, AND SKIN SALESMEN.
sdf
OLFE’S
V*
(
YZ*
AUSTRALIA’S
LEADING TONIC
BEVERAGE .
5c hNAPPS
V
Solid RubbcrVchick Tyres
SHOULD BE FITTED TO ALL VEHICLES. r *
They Stop all IVioise and Vibration BESIDK ,...
Doubling the Life of your Vehicle.
Our lyres contain absolutely the finest rubber procurable, and WILL LAST
FIVE YEARS on a private Conveyance.
Send or Ca.ll at once for Artistic Catalogue
and Price List. Kown»M
m
-m
j
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Australasia, Ltd
j*»_lso CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
And at 108 Flinders-street, Melbourne; 59 Franklin-street, Adelaide; 29 Adelaide-street, Brisbane; 154 Barrack-street, Perth;
and 128 Lichfield-street, Christchurch, N.Z.


N. GUTHRIDGE Limited
71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
214 High Street, Fremantle. Kalgoorlie, W.A.
Cuba Street Extension, Wellington, N.Z.
Mining Machinery and Supplies a Specialty.
Dealers
in
Explosives
Manufacturers and
Proprietors of
“ PACK A ROCK ” and “ RENDROCK.”
Indents Executed J
from any
part of the World.
sdf
A Dainty
Wheel
for
Ladies
A Profitable
Wheel for
Business
Men
She : Won’t you take your repair kit 9
He : No, thanks I _ Massey-Harris Bicycles
require no repairs.
A Reliable
Wheel
for the
Tourist
A Run Easy
Wheel for
Racing
Men
SYDNEY SHOWROOMS ! 385 GEORGE STREET. Branches i Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, Wellington, N.Z., Launceston, Perth and Kalgoorlie, W A.
sd
uns Rings Round Rivals.
Why You
" J should
Purchase
a
Red Bird
In th© first plcic© Red Bird Bicycles are
liberally guaranteed by a solid firm. Both on road
and track the Red Bird has demonstrated its
reliability and easy-pedalling qualities. The frame,
bearings, and every detail-part are of the finest
quality, material and workmanship. To buyers,
who wish it, we offer exceptionally easy gradual
payment terms.
Send for Particulars of our Model 59.
HEADQUARTERS SHOW ROOMS: 64 King Street, Sydney.
AGENOIE3 AT Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Wellington, N.Z., Perth and Kalgoorlle, W.A.
The Ready Lover.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My love above me bendeth as a god ;
I shut my eyes, but still I feel his breath,
And in my hair Lis hands : if he who trod
Beside me after this were even Death,
What should I care ?
My love, he knoweth every song and tale
That sprang to life between an earth and sky
Of most surpassing wonder, —in whose pale
Moved men arid maids, fairest of gods on high,
Of mortals under.
Yea, and he telleth with a ready tongue
Of pageantry, and Heaven-descended joy ;
Or what unbounded grief there slid among
Those careless trysting lovers, girl and boy . . .
’T is past belief !
I shut my eyes ; delicious is the thrill
Of his warm arm : I look, and lo ! his lips,
Mild or severe, as it is well or ill
With them, —and even from me a sigh there slips
For Galatea.
Yea, and as I were Psyche I am his;
Tho’ he is manlier than that god of hearts :
Content I would recline, sharing his bliss,
Or bear with Venus and her jealous arts ;
He is all mine !
Let floods arise, and monsters on their crest,
Andromedas for sacrifice ; let sea
Rive earth amain : there ’ll rise upon her breast
Another Pyrrha and Deucalion, —we
Being those twain.
Which of them all did give as I shall give?
10, (Fnono, Ariadne ? —nay,
No lords were theirs like my lord, as I live ;
While night is night I’m his ; while day is day ;
Through joys—or woes.
I will be to him as a tale that’s told ;
Even as one that he himself can tell;
Let him his love declare —a shower of gold,
A snowy swan —so Love’s alive and well,
What should I care ?
Bend over me as Heaven over earth, —
Thine eyes my stars, thy lips the radiant west ;
Thy breath the winds of eve, one all-sweet birth
Thou faiherest —the love within my breast:
And shall I grieve ?
M.L.
AHAU.
The Salvation of Ben Jago.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Now Jago’s is a case where I consider they will
do good,” said M'Allister, the storekeeper ; “not
that I hold with the Army as a general thing—
too much drum and tin-kettle —but they are better
than the police for drunks and loafers —and
cheaper.”
This, as the procession passed by to the blare of
brass instruments and the thud, thud of the show-
man’s drum. There was quite a crowd in the
hall to hear the testimony of the new convert, a
short, bovine stock of a man with mental horizon
of meals, work and potential spree, who shifted his
pose restlessly as he surged forth his experience
witli jerky interjection.
“You all know me, chaps. I’ve been a bad
’un, I have ; swimming in sin and filth like a pig
in a sty—a shafter in the Devil’s team —every-
thing that’s wicked I’ve done. Why, I never
passed a pub. with a penny in my pocket —the
Devil had that penny every time. But now,
thank God, I’m saved—limewashed with Grace.
Hallelujah !—and the Devil will harness me no
more. For twenty years I knocked ther missus
about something cruel—not a week but I bashed
her. Once a week I was drunk and full o’ rum ;
but now I’m full o’ glory and drunk all ther time,
and happy as can be with Salvation ”
The crowd clapped and applauded with ejacula-
tion, shouts, and stamping of feet ; a fever
swayed them. Jago’s delirium was contagious—
there was something in the voice, the twitching
face, the convulsive movement of the limbs, and
the faith-gleam in the eye that carried the
audience out of themselves in gregarious emotion
to a sensuous forgetfulness. And yet Jago had
overstated ; for he was a good husband, as
husbands go. True, on pay-days they lifted him
from the last pub., tipped him to the bottom of his
dray, and started his patient horses, who, an hour
later, would be met at the slip-rails by the Waiting
wife, and unharnessed. As for Ben, he would be
left to slumber till morning. This was the
normal, eleven-nobbler drunk, but at rarer times
the liquor would be less potent, or extend to fewer
drinks, leaving Jago only loving-drunk. Then it
was he wanted to kiss his wife, his child, to talk
of his poor, dear old mothfer, and ask a general
forgiveness, concluding with bad language and a
blackening of his wife’s eye. i
The rejoicing over Ben’s conversion in the Jago
family was great. The torpid bush blood pulsed
with fresh life. It was to them the great happen-
ing ; for, into their stagnant lives, blotted only
by gossip and black tea, there entered the boom
of the big drum, the measure of marching music,
and the magic of uniform. They felt the vibrating
of a new sensation, striking chords unknown in
their experience, and opening vistas of joyful
self-forgetfulness.
Ben held his head high when he put on the red
guernsey. He would go miles and miles to sell a
Cry. He had a serene and perfect faith in the
smudgy printed page. Meeting a drunken man
on the road, he would contrive to conceal a Cry
about his clothes; or, in case of bereavement,
Ben’s consolation for all ills was a Cry.
The wife had misgivings. The purse bulked no
larger than in the old days. The constant contri-
butions, the collections for social and mission
work, the week of self-denial, the hospitality to
ever-needy officers, and the stream of coin that
fell as regularly on the drum as in other times on
the publican’s counter, had no pause. Her
feminine mind hungered for tangible result.
There were time 3 when her pretty daughter,
Susan, would go alone to the meetings, and the
custom grew for the Captain to accompany her on
her return. This preference was welcomed as a
family triumph, a culmination, for the Captain
was to them the visible minister of the new hap-
piness. But a day came when Susan, without a
word of farewell, suddenly departed, leaving in
her room a letter of tears, blots, and despair.
That night Ben came home radiant, the ground
springing to his feet. The Captain had been
“great” that evening; “ such a meeting and
flowing out of grace.” “ What volleys had been
fired ! What knee-drill! The Devil worsted as
never before.” Ben moved on air, singing as he
strode along in the starlit bush of the “ Cross of
Calvary,” to the tune of a music-hall melody.
Nearing the house he felt a chill, as of a gully-
mist. His song stopped on his lips as he noticed
an unaccustomed stillness, and the absence of all
light in the windows. Nor did the wife, as was
usual, come to open the door. Groping his way in
the dark house, he found her motionless, crouched
over the expiring fire. By the stirred blaze he
looked at her. “My God, mother! What’s the
matter ? Why do you look so white ? ”
“ Susie’s gone ! Read that! ” In the voice of
a stranger, the mother pointed to a letter on the
floor; then, bowing her head to her clasped
knees, rocked her tearless sobs.
At dawn, Ben was on the road, his face set
firm, his eyes seeing blood ; from time to time he
muttered as he swung along : “A married man !
a married man ! Curse him ! ” Moved by sudden
impulse, he paused at the Four-mile, and called
for a nobbier at the bar he used to know so
well. He drank rapidly—one, two, three—with a
flourish of the hand like a challenge. A lounger
sniggerßd ; the sight of a red guernsey drinking
rum consoled his own lapses, but he received
so menacing a glare that the incident lost its
humor.
Of a sudden, the tippler started back ; in the
smiling face of the publican he saw the leer of the
demon, an actual, visible devil grinning at him >
reaching out with clawed hand not for the silver
coin, but for a damned and branded soul. With a
shriek he dashed the glass of whisky to the floor,
and rushed away up the road shaking his hands to
the sky.
• * * *
The Captain was alone, busy decorating the
hall, a fair young man with large, moist eyes,
loose, fruity lips, a brow without a thought, a face
without lines.
“Glory to God, brother-Jagd ! just' in time to
give us a hand. I’m fixing up for the Harvest
festival —make a boom —bring a big push—bring
the dollars—fill the penitent-form. Hand up those
nails—sold any more Crys ?
Ben oould not speak ; he could only fumble with
his hands and hold out the letter. As he read it
the Captain’s ruddy face blanched ; a hunted,
fearful look came in his eyes as they turned rest-
lessly this way and that. Jago put forth his hand ;
ho thought the man would run ; but, instead, he
fell on his knees groaning, sobbing, crying, beating
his breast in a fury of passion.
“ It’s true, I’m a sinner as black as Hell—l’ve
been a beast, a vile thing—the Devil tempted us,
lay in ambush as a serpent, and sprang on us
unawares. Oh, will the demon never be conquered ;
will he strive for ever for my soul? Curse him !
Curse the Devil! Let us fight, brother, and get
the victory !”
By some magic stronger than will Jago bent to
the flow of words ; his rage turning from the
visible man to the invisible demon. The ex-
planation was complete and satisfactory, so that
his wrath turned to comforting the maudlin
officer, and joining in the wild carousal of
vehement appeal. The moment came when the
two men staggered to their feet, jumping and
shouting like demented things “ Victory !
victory ! the enemy is conquered See ! the Devil
lies dead ! ”
Thus Ben healed his quarrel with the Army,
and returned to the old groove. There were
neighbours who saw Susan in Sydney, but under
such conditions that not one dared mention
the meeting to the old people. The mother and
father did not speak of her, waiting silently,
putting her place at the table and setting aside
her portion of the daily meals : “ Because Susie
will be hungry when she comes in.”
But at last in an altercation with a neighbour
something of the truth was told to Mrs. Jago, and
from that time she seemed to wither. Once she
said to her husband : “ I used to curse the drink,
and thought it the blight of the world ; but God
knows a black eye once in a way was better than
this. We’d be far better, I’m thinking, minding
pur own affairs than worriting after other folk’s
souls. Curse the Army, I say ! Curse it! ”
“Don’t, Mother! The Devil’s tempting you,
striving for your soul. Fight the Devil, tramp on
him, stamp him into hell! ”
Gradually he persuaded her, and,“tis of old time,
they sang and prayed for victory, the glint of
assurance coming to her eyes ; but still she failed
rapidly, and Jago was soon a solitary man.
It was a real Army funeral meeting, and it made
quite a stir in those parts. Such a crowd and such
a show had not been since the last circus. And by
general consent the Captain was “real great”
at the graveside. “Thisday,”hesaid, “wepartwith
a comrade slain in the good fight. In life she was
ever to the front where the enemy was thickest,
and on many a battlefield she carried the
cross of victory against the devil. Now, our dear
sister has received her reward ; the Great General
above has called her out for decoration, and in a
fiery chariot has promoted her to Glory. Halle-
lujah ! Fire a volley ! ”
The officers were jubilant. There was ten-and-
ninepence-halfpenny on the big drum.
HENEY FLETCHER.


(Nord-Deutscher Lloyd)
N. D.
Imperial Mail Steamers
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE to England and the Continent, via Fremantle, Colombo, Naples, Genoa and Southampton, Antwerp and Bremen, comprising 129
modern Steamers, aggregating over 506,754 tons registered. Mileage run in 1900 = 4,707,000, conveying 253,225 passengers, and carrying 2,707,218 tons cargo.
The Imperial Mail Steamers of this Company include in their Australian service EIGHT of the LARGEST and BEST-EQUIPPED NEW FAST TWIN-SCREW
STEAMERS in the World, viz.:
I.M.S. GROSSER KURFURST ... 13,182 Tons
» BREMEN ... ... u,500 „
„ BARBAROSSA ... ... 10,767 „
„ KONIGIN LUISE ... ... 10,566
I.M.S. FRIEDRICH DER GROSSE ... 10,831 Tons
„ NECKAR ... ... ... 10,067 „
„ RHEIN ... ... ... 10,058 „
„ PRINZ-REGENT LUITPOLD ... 6,288 „
These leviathans of the ocean are remarkable for their splendid sea-going qualities, reducing motion at sea to a minimum in all weathers.
Cuisin e and providori ng
of the highest possible
standard. Spacious
accommodation, com-
fort, civility, and
prompt attention to
passengers’ wants.
Linen -washed on board
during the voyage if
required.
English, spoken on
board.
The services of a duly
qualified doctor, as
well as mendicaments,
gratuitously given.
String and brass Band
for all classes.
Several Stewardesses
carried in all classes.
Staterooms fitted with
sofa, wardrobes,
chests of drawers and
toilet conveniences.
Airy bathrooms with
diverse kinds of
douches, &c.
Second-Class accommo-
dation and deck space
unique and unsur-
passed.
d
. .
tLM
: -*r
F*±em
~ ■ ■ "~♦ •- ...
- -
**»?*& *£s?K«yj
-
Comfortable daily access
to luggage not in
cabin.
Stop-over privileges
granted at any port,
without extra charge.
Cabins being all on the
upper decks, are cool
and airy, portholes
not having to be closed
unless in exceptionally
bad weather.
Suites of rooms luxuri-
ously furnished to be
had on application.
Cabines de luxe and Pull-
man state rooms at
special rates.
Single Berth state
rooms—or in any case
only two berthed in a
cabin in first-class,
readily accommodating
four.
The quality and mode-
rate prices of Wines,
Spirits and Cigars
carried, has earned the
company a world-wide
reputation.
Up-to-date barber si op
and library.
Deck chairs can be hired
for the voyage.
1.M.8. KONICIN LUISE, 10,566 tons registered, as Flagship at the Sydney Anniversary Regatta, 26th January, 1899.
The N.D.L. s.s. Dresden (4527 tons) and s.s. “Stettin” (2478 tons) maintain a regular six-weekly service to New Britain and New Guinea, thence alternately
to Hongkong and Singapore, connecting there with with the fortnighly China Express Mail service of the N.D.L. to Europe.
The Company s regular routes over the globe total 72,468 miles. The N.D.L. since being established in 1857, has safely transported over thfl OCeasi 4,160,431
passengers, and has gained the highest reputation for Safety, Speed, Comfort and Civility, the Accommodation and Cuisine being ORDINARY
’ CRN IICIvEIS (hirst-class) between Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide are interchangeable by rail or sea. For further particulars, apply to
Weber, Lehmann and Co., Ltd., 1 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Ostermeyer Dewez van Rompaey, Collins-street, Melbourne.
Burns, Philp and Co. Ltd., Brisbane.
H. Muecke and Co., Adelaide,
Ratazzi Lurman and Co., Premantle.
W. B. Bartlam and Co., Townsville.
tffa (VoOtMCU PfTlNTit
Work 3
HR*
STANDARD
EWERY
HiS#Y6rvS
fog
j.TjW
.toohey
Mil
J.T&J
ill
B ! 5
gHy
mr-it
J. T. & J. TOOEEY, Ltd.
BREWERS,
/Erated Waters and
r \
Cordial Manufacturers,
MALSTERS,
Wine and Spirit
Merchants.


Christinas Present
"5^7
POR.
YOUR WIFE,
YOUR MOTHER,
YOUR FRIEND.
Gan anything be more suitable, more useful, or more likely to be
appreciated than a Box of Choice
GLOBE TEA?
Begin the New Year well by using
CHOICE (aLOBE TEA
Special Handsome
FXESEimmon cudisters of globe tbb
3s. ss. 17s 6d.
ATCHERLCY & DAWSON
Tea Mercliants,
284 George Street, Sydney.
<sr
GLO
GLO
i»
Love in the Old Spring-Cart.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ If I take the girl to the ball to-night
It is time that I made a start ”
And he smiled as he thought of the time in sight
With the girl in the old spring-cart.
As the love-thought crept to his manly eye
’T would have gladdened your heart to see
How he got the right hitch on his new green tie,
Exclaiming, “ That’s R.I.T. !”
With fencing-wire he fixed the tyre,
And hay-roped the tailboard part;
And away to the tryst of his heart’s desire
He drove in the old spring-cart.
About two miles down by a dog-leg fence,
By a stump near an old dry well,
He pulled up short with a brisk “Good-night,”
And a “Right you are —jump up, Nell ! ”
“Oh, look where yer drivin’! Oh, mind the
stumps!
Look out for yer reins ! ” she said.
But he only answered—“ Wot ho, she bumps ! ”
As he stuck to his sweetheart’s head.
O’er the gravelly rises, with half a moon,
Where the houses were miles apart—
’Twas a beautiful chance for the man to spoon
With the girl in the old spring-cart.
Such a cup of joy he had never quaffed,
As she laughed at his rustic jokes,
As they talked an I rocked and mugged and
laughed
To the tune of the rattling spokes.
Then a ten-chain silence at last he broke,
With a—“ Say—will you have me, Nell ? ”
Then her eyes, and her heart, and her red lips
spoke—
“ Why, Billie, of course I will ! ”
And a smack that resounded the wild bush
through
Gave a mopoke a dreadful start;
Then it saw, and said to a scared curlew :
“ It’s a pair in an old spring-cart.”
V.
HOPELESS.
It was the reformed Sunday-school teacher
who said these things to The Bulletin as he
wiped away the mark of a furtive beer
Matrimony is the Capua of brains. Even if you are
Hannibal only in a small way, beware the Italian city of
Double Bed.
One grain of sense is worth a barrow-load of innocence.
When the chorus-girl marries the manager, the wages
of shin are the part of Lady Macbeth.
Pronounce it ltcs-pectability if you like ; it always
spells Dress-pectability.
There is no such thing as Original Sin : our vices, like
our religions, are second-hand Egyptian.
The object of Democracy is a moral maxim : the result
is still the greasy happiness of the greasy number.
The modern religionist is Sisyphus with a bun.
A Latent Force.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I want you to come and see my ‘ play-place,’”
and she led me out to the quiet, moonlit verandah.
My first glance along it suggested the thought of
a veritable lover’s nook, stolen from some South
Sea Island fairy tale. The soft, feathery ferns, the
glossy, fan-like palms, the shapely, silver-tipped
miniature pines, all so deftly arranged, seemed
irresistibly seductive. I almost wished that we
two friends were lovers.
I asked her if she ever went fern-hunting now.
But she laughed. No ! She had grown too old
for such pastimes; she had other interests—her
husband, her children.
Then we started to recall the past—the boating
trips, birds-nesting excursions, fern - gathering
expeditions we had shared together years before —
shared as mates, true “ pals,” without a thought
of love-making to spoil our palship.
“It is ten years ago, this month, since we last
met,” she said. “Do you remember it ? ”
“Oh, yes; I recollect. That was at —let me
see ? ”
“At Manly.”
“Of course. By Jove ! yes; the blessed boat-
man hadn’t got the yacht ready, and we were done
out of our final sail.”
“Is that all you remember about the day ? ”
She asked the question very softly, leaning over
her chair towards me, and I looked inquisitively
at her before replying.
“Yes, I think so. Why?”
“ Don’t you remember the big ant that ran up
my arm ? ” Her voice had resumed its natural
tone.
“Of course, I do. What a stupid lam ! And
I had to cut your sleeve open to get him out. You
tvere frightened, weren’t you; thought it was a
centipede. And, by Jove, I wanted to say all
sorts of nice things to you just then about that
same white arm, only you were so flustered and
woebegone.”
“Flustered? Woebegone? I never was more
happy in my life than I was for a few moments
then! ”
I looked at her in astonishment.
“We are old now, and demure and sensible,”
she continued, “so I may as well tell you. I let
that ant crawl up my arm.” Again her words
came softly.
“ You—let—that—ant crawl up your arm ?”
“ Yes; I saw him get on me, but I—l wanted—
yOU—to—see —to touch my Oh, I must not
tell you ! ” and her sweet-scented hair brushed
against my throat. .
I did not need any more telling. Eagerly 1
seized her hand, and instinctively raised the
sleeve of her dress.
“Oh, no ! you must not do that 1 I’m too —I m
past foolishness now .”
But she wasn’t!
LESLIE OAKES.
“Dobbin the Dog.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The possessor of this name was a nice-looking
young man, who had been despatched, fare-paid,
from town, to act as overseer and storekeeper on
Dooallah Downs station. It was the lamb-
marking time, and one of the new man’s first
duties was to do a little superintending. If his
manner of giving orders went for anything, he
evidently mistook the men for sheep-dogs or
niggers, and a strike might have ensued had not
old Ben Mac audaciously turned things into
another vein by baptising the newcomer with
lamb’s blood as “Dobbin the Dog,” by which
sobriquet he was thenceforth known in Dooallah
hut.
At the house, however, he fared differently.
There, his aristocratic vowel-turns gained him
the gushes of the ladies. Besides, he had moved
in society, which also gave him a leg-up. At
dinner, you had to put up with something like
the following :
“Do you know the Clives, of Molkah, Mrs. J. ?”
“No, but I’ve heard of them.
“The pater, you know, owns the adjoining
place, Yc ■ ..hboonah.”
“Is your father much interested in station pro-
property, Mr. Dobbin?”
“Not so much as formerly. I believe he has
only about three or four hundred thousand acres
left. He is at present acting in conjunction with
Mr. M’Brindle, of Yanirah. Of course, you know
the M’Brindles? ”
“I can’t say I do.”
“ Ethel Mac and my sister went home together
to be presented.”
“ It’s a wonder you came so far back when your
pa has runs so convenient to town.”
“Well, you see, I wish to acquiah an insight
into the working of stations in general, so that
before taking over my patrimony I shall possess
all-round experience. That is the reason I am
heah.
Every night it was the same thing. Some
adornment of society—So-and-So, of Such-and-
Such —would be dragged forth and criticised by
the great man, till the ladies came to look upon
him as a kind of Fourth Person of tlr Trinity.
* • * *
After Dobbin had spent a month or so on
Dooallah, one day he and the boss were returning
in the buggy from a visit of inspection, when
away ahead could be seen a bundle of rags plough-
ing through Dooallah dust.
“Another traveller!” said the “Dog.” “By
Jove ! these fellows are becoming a regular pest to
pastoralists. If I had my way I’d put an end to
this ration business.”
“Oh no,” returned old J. “There are some
very deserving men on the roads.”
Whereupon the young man doubled back,
saying “ I mean I would not give out stores in
cases where I suspected imposition.”
“You cannot discriminate,” said the other.
By this time they had come up with the
traveller—-an old parchment-faced fellow.
“ Good-day, mate,” he said. “Am lon the
road to Dooallah Downs ? ”
“Yes; you’re about three miles from the
homestead.”
“ Are you the boss ? ”
“ I am.”
“Well, I’ll see you later. So-long !
The trap drove on. Old J. chatted away,
got no reply at first, and then only silly observa-
tions. There seemed to be something wrong witn
Dobbin, and the other held his tongue.
An hour after their arrival the roadster turned
up with his tucker-bags. Dobbin could not Da
found, so the boss had to open the store-room witn
his private key and deal out the traveller s Ii e
bit of flour and sugar. “Any chance of gra ,
boss ? ” said the latter. “I’m a good hand amongs
stock. I’m a butcher by trade, and had a grand
business down in Victoria at one time. Lve
heard there’s a lot of new meat-works starting
round here, and I’m tracking up to see if 1 can
get anything out of them.” .
“ How did you manage to lose your business .
“7 didn’t lose it. My youngest boy did Ahal
for me ; and, by Jove ! if I didn’t think that was
him you had in the trap with you ! ”
“Oh no. He’s one of the Dobbins, of Youlah
boonah.” _ n
“ He’s a bit like my son, anyhow ; but 1
take young chaps for him. Any chance of graft
then, boss?” ...
“ I’ll take you on for a week or two, if you like.
We have some boiling-duwn.”
“Right! I’ll wait, and make a start.
At tea that night, there was no society talk.
Dobbin the Dog was missing; and he has not
been seen since at Dooallah Downs.
YACKY.
Maxim Shot.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nietzsche —the modern Narcissus madly enam-
ored of his own reflections.
The softer sex is paradoxical—the more it knows
the less it conceives.
Woman does not love virtue in a man, but she
tolerates it in a husband.
Men cast diamonds at Magdalen, so women
throw stones.
In summing-up the woman, we are apt to credit
to depth what is due to density.
The modern confessional is afternoon-tea. lliere
the guests confess all their neighbors’ sins.
Constancy is the name we give our gyves.
V.
EDWARD DYSON.
Tale of our hash-house :
The New Boarder sidled up to the boarders' usual
supper of bread, butter, cheese and water.
The Old Lady who advocates temperance among young
men produced her private bottle of “ old vatted and
helped herself. , , ,
The New Boarder cast wistful but unheeded glances.
The Old Lady supped, re-corked her bottle, and retired.
“ No good, old man, you can’t strike Aer.”
“ Half-a-sov. Ido it within twenty-four hours. Three
wagers booked. .
Twenty-four hours later. Same company. Similar
SU New Boarder : “ Allow me to cut the bread, Madame !’
Old Lady : “ Thank you, young man.”
Bread shoots across floor, and knife falls heavily. New
Boarder frantically grabs serviette to cover fearful gash
“ Brandy ! Brandy ! ”
The Old Lady forces whisky between his teeth.
“ Thanks, I feel much better now.”
“ Begad, it’s only a tomato I’ve cut 1 "
Collection—Thirty bob.


■
V
&
A
m
i
V
N <327.
STANDARD
of Excellence is
unapproachable.
I * l l»/ T 1 is our
Watchword. For over
a quarter of a century
our Food Supplies have
stood alone as the Stan-
dard of Quality for others
to copy, but never to excel.
Our PA STP UP IS ED
MILK has the largest sale
because it is the Purest, Richest
and Best. The “Golden Star”
PASTEURISED BUTTER
made by us is the very Acme of
Perfection.
To learn about the other Home Neces-
saries that we supply by the aid of Re-
frigeration, send for our Booklet, which
illustrates and describes the working
of one of the most important and
interesting manufacturing indus-
tries in Australia. It is an aid to
economical Housekeeping.
Sent free on application.
THE N.S.W.
FRESH FOOD i ICE CO.,
LIMITED,
Head Office and
Refrigerating Works:
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY.
The Potheen-Maker.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He is an old friend of mine, the black-bearded,
fierce-moustached, glittering-eyed pirate who was
once a potheen-maker. I was living in another
State at the time when he was engaged in de-
frauding the revenue, and, therefore, knew
nothing about his adventures beyond the fact that
they included getting into gaol once or twice.
I met him the other evening, and we had some
whisky together.
“ It’s not so bad, this stuff,” he said, setting
down his empty glass on the marble table ; “it’s
not bad at all—but it isn’t a patch on the stuff I
used to make in my little still. You would have
enjoyed that whisky, I promise you.”
His eyes gleamed with enthusiasm as he spoke.
The subject was evidently one that was near his
heart.
“ Was it a good business ? ” I inquired.
“I was never in a better one,” he replied, with
emphasis. “Risks? Of course, there were risks.
Big profits mean big risks in any business. But
there was plenty of excitement and plenty of
money. Smuggling—the mean kind of smuggling
carried on in these days—is a poor, paltry game
compared with making illicit whisky under the
nose of the Government. I never took so much
interest in anything since I was ” He paused
abruptly, and then laughed, showing two rows of
strong smoke-yellowed teeth.
“I forgot, for a moment, that you knew all about
the story. Well, then, since I was blackbirding in
the Islands. In fact, I think that potheen-making is
the more fascinating game of the two. While you
are carrying it on you never know the hour of the
day or night when you may be caught. And that
meang a fine of £lOO for the first offence.”
• • • •
“There was a Sergeant of Police—a mighty
smart man—who came very near to catching me
on one occasion. He had a strong suspicion that
I was working a still in a certain out-of-the-way
house in a remote suburb, but he knew that if he
called there himself he would find nothing for his
pains. So he cast about for a likely decoy, and
found a party who went by the name of ‘Jap.’
He felt sure that ‘Jap.’ was the right man for
the business. ‘Would you like to earn £25 ? ’ says
the Sergeant to the man. ‘Would I not!’ says the
man, who had never had so much money in a lump
in the whole course of his life. ‘ Well,’ says the
sergeant, ‘ Government gives a reward of £5O to
.anybody who discovers an illicit still. I think I
know where there is one, but am not quite sure,
and I can’t go spying around myself, because the
parties who are running it would know me. But
I can tell you where to look, and, if you can find
out for certain that the still is there, I’ll give you
a half-share of the reward.’ * Good iron ! ’ says
Jap, ‘but how am Ito find out?’ ‘Easy,’says
the sergeant; * go there after dark, lie down by the
side of the house, and put your ear to the wall.
Then, if you hear a bubble-bubble sort of sound,
and you smell whisky, it’s all right. The
still is there. Come and let me know first
thing in the morning, and you will be
£25 richer before the week is out.’ ‘Jap’ faith-
fully carried out his instructions up to a certain
point. He heard the bubble-bubble, and he smelt
the whisky. Then he came and knocked at my
door. ‘Who’s there?’ says I. ‘A friend,’ says
he. ‘ What do you want ? ’ says I. ‘ Open the
door for the sake of your soul,’ says he. ‘ What
the h—l do you mean,’ says I. ‘lf you won’t
open it for the sake of your soul, open it for the
sake of your spirit ,’ says he. I knew at once by
the way he hissed out the word ‘ spirit ’ that he
knew more than was good for us, and (here the
Pirate smiled darkly), possibly more than was
good for himself. So I opened the door, and
he came in, and we soon had the whole
story from him. Of course, we carted away the
still and the other appliances, and put them in a
safe place without delay. Next morning the
detectives came —seven of them —and turned the
place inside out. They found nothing, and I
swore I would take an action against them for
trespass and house-breaking. They went away
cursing all fizgigs, and informers, and blanky
idiots of Police Sergeants. We gave‘Jap.’ £6O
for that little tip of his—and he didn’t share the
money with*hispal the Sergeant.”
“But you got caught in the end, I believe?”
said I.
“ I got caught twice—second time I was sent to
gaol. Twelve months. But I had privileges. In
fact, I was treated more like a high-class political
prisoner than an ordinary law-breaker. My
meals were sent in from outside, and members
of Parliament, and other old customers of mine,
used to come to see me and cheer me up. Fre-
quently they would bring flasks of whisky with
them in their coat-tail pockets. But the time
came when I could have offered them a drink of
as good liquor as any they could get outside.”
“ Do you mean to say you made it in the gaol?’’
I asked, in an awe-struck tone.
“I do that / ” lightly replied the Pirate. “ You
see, as I said before, I had privileges. I had not
been long inside before they set me to work at
repairing an engine. Nobody but myself and a
light-sentence man used to go into the place
where I was working, except now and then,
when the warders would drop in and
chat for a few minutes. Well, the wife used
to send me in soup every day at dinner-time. I
told her to make it as rich as she could, and she
did. I skimmed the fat off and planted it m the
workshop. The misuss also sent me in plenty of
sugar and molasses. I got, from the bookbinders
in the prison, paste which I used for making
yeast. I stuck a wick into the tin of fat —and
there was my little distillery fire! Over it I fixed
a neat wire stand, upon which stood my billycan
with its contents. Nobody knew that a miniature
distillery was in full working order inside the
walls of the gaol, because the plant was snugly
hidden away behind a pile of lumber in the corner
of the workshop. It was the sweetest little plant
you ever saw, and I am not ashamed to say that
the tears came into my eyes when I had to
destroy it.”
Even as he spoke the fierce, bright eyes of the
Pirate became clouded with moisture. “It was
my pet—my plaything,” he said ; “all that stood
to me in the place of wife, and children, and
friends, and books, and living interests of all kinds
inside those dreary walls. You remember the
story of ‘ Picciola, or the Prison Flower ’ ? Well,
that little plant was my Prison Flower.”
“How came you to have to destroy it?” I
enquired.
“A light-sentence man gave me away thought-
lessly. His time was up, and, as he was going
through the gates, one of the warders said,
jokingly, ‘Well, Jack, you’ll be able to get a
drink of rum, now.’ ‘ I hadn’t to get out of gaol
to get that,’ said Jack with a derisive laugh.
The other light-sentence man who was my mate
in the workshop happened to overhear this con-
versation, and he came and told me about it at
once. I knew then that the game was up. The
warders would be sure to suspect me, as I was the
only distiller in the gaol at the time. I took my
pretty little plant from its hiding-place, battered
it out of shape with a hammei', and buried it
under the clay-floor of the workshop, and my
mate and I tramped on its grave till the floor was
hard and flat as before it had been disturbed.
The warders came, sure enough, and searched the
workshop but found nothing illegal—not even
three bottles of excellent rum which were stowed
away at the back of a shelf. They may be there
still, but I have my doubts.”
* • * •
It was time to have another drink, and we had
it. Then the Pirate continued : —“ When I came
out I soon saw that potheen-making was a played-
out game as far as I was concerned. Detectives
shadowed me wherever I went. They seemed to
believe that, in one respect, a potheen-maker was
like a priest—once a potheen-maker always a
potheen-maker. I invented a new boot-polish,
and used to sell it by the demijohn. One day I
was riding into town on the tram. I noticed, as I
got in, that the same Police Sergeant who tried to
trap me before was in the carriage. He cocked
his eye at the demijohn, which I had placed on
the seat beside me. ‘ Same old game, Colonel!’
he said with a wink. ‘ Same old game, Sergeant,’
says I, with another wink. ‘We’ll have you
again,’ says he. ‘lt’s your dirty business,’
says I. When I got off the tram with my
demijohn I knew that he would follow me,
to see where I left it. Of course, he was dead
certain that it contained spirits. That same day—
while I was in the city—twelve detectives went
out to my house and formed a cordon around it.
They searched all over the place, and, of course,
came across the boot-polish plant. But even the
thickest-witted detective could not mistake this
for a private still. Just then my partner came
up from the garden with a hive of bees in his
hands. The detectives were disappointed and
angry, and they told him that they had their eye
on him. ‘My God !’ he exclaimed, pretending
to be scared to death, and dropped the hive on the
ground. The bees swarmed out and did the rest.
There wasn’t a detective in sight two minutes
afterwards.
• * • *
The Pirate chuckled over this pleasant conver-
sation.
We had another drink.
“You are out of the business, now,” I remarked,
“ so it will do you no harm to give me some par-
ticulars of the profits you made.”
“ With pleasure,” said the affable Pirate.
I took paper and pencil, and set down the fol-
lowing figures:—
Cost of making U5O gallons of rum, the quantity manu-
factured every week by my friend the Pirate.
5 tons molasses at £2 10s. per ton .. £l2 10 0
Yeast .. .. .. .. 10 0
Gas, rent, and board of Pirate and
assistants .. .. 8 0 0
Sundries .. .. .. .. 310 0
£25 0 0
“I sold the rum at the rate of 12s. 6d. per
gallon, which made my weekly turnover £2Bl ss.
Take £25 expenses from that, and you have £256
ss. net profit. It was a fine trade,” said the
Pirate.
“But were you always sure of customers?”
“ Well, you can judge for yourself. The rum I
made was 30 o.p. This means that the publican
could safely dilute it to the extent of its own bulk
—a gallon of water to a gallon of rum. He sold
this mixture at the rate of 15s. per gallon, and as
every gallon of my stuff became two in his hands,
he made a profit of 17s. 6d. per gallon. Was that
not good enough to justify taking a few chances ? ”
* * * *
I was speechless. The thought of this ever-
flowing Pactolus of liquor—this river of rum
turning into gold as it ran—almost paralysed me.
I came to myself on the crest of a great sigh—
“ What a pity that you are out of the business,
Colonel ? ”
His eyes flashed, and then grew sad again.
“ I made a vow never to touch it any more,” he
said ; “and I am a man of my word.”
“ Of course,” I observed ; “ but still it’s a pity.”
“Yes, it’s a pity ! The cost of starting a little
still is so small—a mere bagatelle. But it’s no
use talking about that now.”
“No,” I sighed, “I suppose it’s no use.”
“ And I know where there is the neatest little
plant you ever saw,” he went on, musingly. “ I
could get it for an old song. But it’s no use.”
“No, it’s no use.”
We looked at each other very earnestly for a
moment.
“ Still ” said the Pirate.
“ Who knows ?” said I.
Then we shook hands and parted.
CREEVE ROE.


App,
o
'V
03
M°oii|
r
(CHAMPAGNE
A
&
O
2&
m 3
9
e
SYDNEY
<r
<c
C/EN VAt®
s
C>
BROS
<C
SB
2
O/v
a
o
<^>
\0
<o
o
&
SO/
o
$
VT*
c -o
merchants
fsd
fsd
fsd
f
sdf
o
Q-
WHISKY
JRD
£
\
SYDNEY
8>
4>
O
TO
wjS
XMAS GIFTS AT FREETRADE PRICES.
ART JEWELLERS,
90 KING STREET, SYDNEY-
Gem Safety Pin, with 1 Fly
» » » » 2 „
.. „ „ 3 „
Twin Fly Pins, with Chains
2s each.
3s each.
4s each.
4s each.
New Gold Brooch, 15s, set with Pearls and
lied or Blue Stones.
Gold Bird Brooch, with Bell, Heart and
Bean Pendant, 8s 6d.
sdf
Gold Bird Brooch, with Bell, Heart and
Bean Pendant, 8s Cd.
JS>
Ileal
Turquoise.
Silver
Gilt.
Butterfly Bar Brooch, 6s 6d.
New Gold Oomet Brooch, 15s, set with
Pearls and Bed or Blue Stones.
Solid Gold Bamboo Bangles, 21s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d, 32s 6d,
355, 40s, 50s, 57s 6d.
Children’s Size - - - -17 s 6d.
Gold Xmas Bell Brooch, 10s 6d.
New Gold Brooch, Gem Set, lls 6d.
ALL GOODS POST FREE.
Gold Bow Brooch, 5s ;
without Heart, 3s 6d.
Latest Gem Set Gold Brooch, 14s 6d.
ALL GOODS POST FREE.
Diamond Kings, from £3 to
£5O.
9c., 17s 6d, 20s, 25s ; 15c., 355,
40s, 455. Silver, ss. ,
With Monogram, 2s 6d extra.
Best Silver-Plated Belts, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d each. In Endless Variety.
.
Latest Novelty Gold Brooch, set with Rubies and
Diamonds, 21s.
Please send for our Illustrated
Slips of Novelties.
n
Solid Gold, 14s pair ;
with any Monogram.
50 Patterns.
Solid Gold Bet with Pearls, or Pearls and
Turquoise, 18s.
Without Chain and Heart, or Bell, 16s 6d.
Opal Rings, from 20s
to £5.
Hundreds of Other
Designs in Stock.
Silver Button-Hook and Shoe Lift, in
Velvet Case, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s each.
A Question
Answered.
If the Pianola ena-
bles those who
have absolutely no
musical knowledge
to play the piano,
of what interest is
it to those who are
able to play ?
This is often asked, and when asked in our showrooms, generally results in the
purchase of a Pianola ; but more often the question finds expression only in
thought, and offers no opportunity for an answer.
PADEREWSKI HAS A PIANOLA in his home.
ROSENTHAL HAS ONE.
SAUER HAS ONE.
and only recently has ordered two more for friends in Germany, who are themselves
eminent musical critics. This certainly disposes of the question, although it fails to
give the reason. The reason is equally clear.
_ The Pianola increases the
sd
fds
fsd
f
repertory of even these musi-
cians from twenty-five to fifty
compositions which they can
play in concert form, to prac-
tically everything they may
desire to play. It increases
the repertory of every skilled
musician, and gives a reper-
tory to the novice.
The Pianola does not mar
the piano, as it may be moved
up to or away from the key-
board at will.
The Pianola does not mar
the playing, as artistic taste
receives full opportunity for
expression to which the player
can give his undivided atten-
tion.
The Pianola offers relaxa-
tion from the technical and
Pianola being placed in position to play Upright Piano. enjoyment of the musical.
It is true, since the player
controls the expression, the great musician obtains a more artistic result from the
Pianola than the novice, because he is more critical, but in this very point lies the
secret of the Pianola’s fascination. ,
The player, whoever he may be, gives his own individuality to his rendition.
This causes the musical taste to develop, and it is not long before the veriest novice
finds his own playing preferable to many of the pianistic efforts in the average concert.
Expression-marks appear on the music as it unrolls, for the guidance of those who
may be unfamiliar with the selection.
In this article there has been little attempt to explain how the Pianola is manipu-
lated, the principal object being to show the desirability of the Pianola for every one
who owns a piano, whether he be skilled in its use or not.-
We shall be pleased to mail a complete description of the instrument upon request,
although we uge all who have the opportunity to hear the Pianola for themselves.
Can be bought by instalments if desired. Send for Catalogue.C.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO
Sole Agents for Australasia.
The Pianola is sold ai no other
Address in Sydney.
323 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY


iIIDI. government Railways
* "V ♦
< »
Christmas and New Year
Holiday Excursions
TO THE
Blue Mountains,
Jenolan Caves,
Berrima Hill District,
Wombeyan Caves,
Snowy Mountains,
The Hawkesbury River,
The Northern Lakes,
Xllawarra District.
n.
mm,
m
1 £
“ i
• .
=
*
■ $
is
ST - i
m
mmm®
..... s§|
B
• /L />
I'-# X '
’ WHE fr ?>
:■• *
if
m
> ■-«
i
H - • I
THE WILLOWS, JENCLAN CAVES.
THE approach of Christmas and New Year
heralds not only the tidings of goodwill,
but also the advent of the holiday season,
and for weeks beforehand the difficulty
is to select a choice from the many picturesque
and health-giving resorts that Nature has so
bountifully provided contiguous to Sydney.
HOLIDAY EXCURSION TICKETS, and a
convenient Train Service, afford abundant
facilities for meeting the requirements of holiday-
makers, both in town and country. The resident
in the Metropolitan District is enabled to escape
for a time from the routine of city life to the cool
atmosphere of the charming mountain region that
lies So close to Sydney, or the more distant, but
still | easily-accessible, snow country—the Aus-
tralian Alps.
The inland dweller finds the change equally
pleasant in leaving his wide and silent areas to
seek pleasure in the many holiday attractions pro-
vided in the metropolis, or to enjoy the charms of
the seaside.
SYDNEY forms the main starting-point for
holiday-makers, most of the leading pleasure-
resorts being readily and cheaply accessible from
the metropolis ; but the system of Holiday Excur-
sion Tickets enables the country dwellers also to
visit the beauty-spots in their own districts. Thus,
pleasure-seekers living in GOULBURN can enjoy
the beauties of the lovely country in which the
FITZROY, the MERYLA and other WATER-
FALLS are situated, or make a trip to MOUNT
KOSCIUSKO, via COOMA or GUNDAGAI;
while those residing in BATHURST may proceed
to the JENOLAN CAVES or to the BLUE
MOUNTAINS.
SPECIAL EXCURSION TICKETS FROM
SYDNEY enable most of the picturesque localities
within easy reach of the metropolis to be con-
veniently and economically visited.
T RE WESTERN LINE, running from Sydney
to Bourke, abounds with interesting features.
Passing through one of the most fertile districts
of the State, it reaches the NEPEAN RIVER
at Penrith, 34 miles from Sydney, where a
delightful trip by steamer can be made up the
river to its junction with the Warragamba. Cross-
ing the Nepean and Emu Plains, the BLUE
MOUNTAINS are ascended, and for many miles
the train runs along the summit of the celebrated
range. The stoppages being frequent, the tourist
is enabled to select almost any point he may pre-
fer for enjoying the magnificent scenery by which
he is everywhere surrounded.
Among the numerous- sights are the SAS-
SAFRAS GULLY, near Springwood, the
TERRACE FALLS, near Hazelbrook, WENT-
WORTH FALLS, LEURA, ICATOOMBA
FALLS, GOVETT’S LEAP, and many others.
Weeks can he spent in this charming district
without exhausting the list of scenic and other
attractions. FROAI KATOOMBA or MOUNT
VICTORIAatrip may be made to the JENOLAN
CAVES, the grandest and most extensive in
Australia. THE MOUNT VICTORIA ROUTE
is the more favoured, for, although the distance
I
mmmm
m
- . ■
m
mm,
hawkesbjry rivet? bridge.
is nearly one-tnird longer, the travelling is easier
and the scenery more varied.
ON THE MAIN SOUTHERN LINE is the
BERRIMA HILL DISTRICT, lying between
Mittagong and Goulburn. The charm of this
district lies principally in the country between
BOWRAL, MOSS YALE and the ILLA-
SWT
W'
'!
:V,«*V >•* * 3
U r - i ' V '. ? '
o£g&£@>l&‘ •■ -jg
r --i ' / , ' :•' ‘ Vr
tC&
MSPNEPkIi
*■
*
y@S
'»SS
IP
£1
45"5!
■ •• ii. .•'.’
r . v*
< jflgSV- : .
ifr£Usw; A :^s&i
*f?
«r
- k
£Er
ms
SS
5rA
cM
0i
sp£
Sfc2
/iP
n;. 1 g*
*
Ssr* ®R
&
*
xi
51 •«¥ >
,'■4 "5
K£
8*
■ " :
-Ar
m
lr<9&
/®£
ffjl
'
■
SC
',*;l|Sfei
mi
SSI
msm
rim
Mk ili
TREE FERNB, CAMBEWARRA MOUNTAINS (South Coast Ranges).
WARRALINE; one of the most interesting
drives in the State being that from either
BOWRAL or MOSS YALE to ROBERTSON,
distant about 16 miles. From MOSS V ALE, the
FITZROY, the MERYLA, the BELMORE and
other picturesque Waterfalls may be visited, the
locality of which is truly described as one of the
beauty-spots of Australia. The most popular
tourist trips through the Berrima Districts are
those that cover the road journey from BOWRAL
or MOSS VALE to ALBfON PARK, KIAMA
or NOWRA railway stations on the Illawarra
Line. The distances are from 30 to 35 miles, but
the journey throughout is through soenes that are
exceptionally picturesque and change in interest
every mile.
FROM GOULBURN, the WOMBEYAN
CAVES and LAKE BATHURST, and also
LAKE GEORGE (via Bungendore), can be
visited ; while COOMA i i the starting-point for
the YARRANGOBILLY CAVES, the most
extensive in Australia, fairly
rivalling the beauty of those of
Jenolan ; and also for the
SNOWY MOUNTAINS, with
their lofty peaks glistening in the
bright sunshine, where, on the
summit of MOUNT KOS-
CIUSKO, the visitor may enjoy
the refreshing coolness of an
Alpine climate during the hottest
months of the year—a pleasure
unique in Australian Tourist
travel.
THE NORTHERN LINE also
offers many attractions to the
Holiday seeker. From Colah to
near Hawkesbury extends the new
National Park, KURRINGGAT
CHASE, in the heart of which
COWAN CREEK, with its un-
limited facilities for boating and
fishing. Further on is the
HAWKESBURY RIVER, the
Queen of Australian streams, on
which delightful trips may be
made by the commodious steamer,
General Gordon. Beyond the
Hawkesbury is WOY WOY, a
famous fishing resort, and the
NORTHERN LAKE REGION,
including- BRISBANE WATER,
the TUGGERAH LAKES and
LAKE MACQUARIE, all of
which possess numerous attrac-
tions for both the tourists and
sportsmen, and are much fre-
quented bv holidav makers during
the summer months.
THE ILLAWARRA DIS-
TRICT, the Garden of New South
Wales—with its many enjoyable
views of the ocean on the one side
and glimpses of charming regions
of fern and palm on the other—is
within easy reach of Sydney. The
line skirts the National Park,
and, after passing through
several tunnels, reaches the
luxuriant semi-tropical country of
which CLIFTON, BULLI, and
WOLLONGONG are the principal points.
Further on, the line passes LAKE ILLA-
WARRA, and through KIAMA to NOWRA ;
from either of which two plac'-s enjoyable excur-
sions may be made into the mountainous districts
beyond, or by way of KANGAROO VALLEY
to MOSS VALE or BOWRAL.
HOLIDAY EXCUE SION TICKETS
will be issued during- the Holiday
Season from all Stations to all Stations,
available for return by ordinary trains
until the 31st January, 1902.
SPECIAL EXCURSION TICKETS
will be issued during the Holidays by
certain specified trains at 2d. per mile
first-class and Id. per mile second-class
return from Sydney and Suburban
Stations to Goulburn, Esktank, New-
castle, Nowra, and intermediate Sta-
tions, and also to Sydney from Orange,
Goulburn, Nowra, Newcastle, and
intermediate Stations.
HANDBILLS giving particulars of arrangements, times
of departure, and return of additional trains, &c., can be
obtained at all Railway Stations, and at the Central Booking
Office, George Street, Sydney.
By order of the Commissioners,
H. M‘LACHLAN, Secretary.


THE BEST
XMAS GIFTS
are those bought from us. Every
year we give the problem “What
to give” weeks of study, and every
year we r closer to the correct
solution c? that problem. Goods
suitable for Xmas abound here.
Such elegance and choice as our
stock presents can be found no-
where else in Sydney. Out of the
many articles worthy of mention
we quote these
No. 365.—18 e. GOLD, DIA-
MOND and SAPPHIRE
RING,
£3 10s ; larger, £5 10s.
No. 84890.—18 c. DIAMOND
and RUBY MARQUISE
RING, £3 10s.
FINE DIAMOND J-HOOP
EINGS, £8 10s, £lO 10s,
£l2 10s up to £l5.
18c. FINE OPAL RING,
£2 10s ; larger stones, £3 10s
and £4 10s.
F 3( 73.—PEARL and PLATED BREAD FORK,
15s 6d ; others, 4s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d.
SOLID SILVER SHAVING BRUSH
lls 6d ; others, 12s 6d and 14s 6d.
SILVER COMBINATION SHOE HORN and BUTTON HOOK, 9b 6d, 15s 6d, 18s (id.
No. JV2252. —FINE PEARL and 15c. GOLD
BROOCH, £1 15s.
No. F976.—FINE PEARL, and I6c. GOLD
BROOCH, £1 15s.
MANICURE SCISSORS,
Best Steel anrl Solid Silver,
7s 6d.
No. F5594.—9c. GOLD
PKNDANT, 255;
15c., £1 IBs.
ROUP SILVER and BEST
STEEL I’OCKET KNIVES,
4s 6d, (is 6d, and 8s 6d.
No. E5629.-9C. GOLD BELL BROOCH,
XOs Cd.
No. F4299.—15c. <' , OT/» SWALLOW
BROOCH, £1 ss.
No. Wl7. FINE I’I.ATED
HAIR-PIN BOX, 8s Gd.
SOLID SILVER GLOVE HOOKS, Many Styles, at ls6d, 2s 6d, 3s, 3s 6d-
No. FII72.—FINE SILVER
PLATED CANDLESTICK,
17s 6d ; larger, £1 2s 6d.
m
SILVER MATCH-BOXES, Plain
or Engraved,
PHOTO. FRAMES.
Midget, 4s fid, 5s ;
O. de V., 7s 61 and 9s 6d ;
Cabinet, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 21s.
No. F 1863.— MEDAL, 9c.
Gold, £1 2s 6d ; Silver,
3s 6d.
SILVER CARD-OASES, Ladies’ sizes, £2 ss,
£2 15s, £3 3s ; Solid Gold, £lB 10s.
No. F4BSI.—FINE PEARL and 15c. GOLD
BROOCH, £3 15s.
No. 127 —FINE DIAMON ' and Lsc. GOLD
BROOCH, a 2 17s 6d.
No. N.SI2O.—NEW ZEALAND GREENSTONE PENDANT,
Gold Mounted, 13s 6d.
No. E94I4.—DOUBLE HEART OF FINE
PEARLS and 15c. GOLD BROOCH,
£1 12s 6d.
INK STANDS. Well-Plated,
Pretty Glass Wells, 14s 6d,
lCs 6d, 18s 6d and 21s.
No. W2OIB.—JEWEL CASE, Egg
Sliape, Satin-lined, and Silver-
plated, £1 Is.
SHALE, CIGARETTE CASES,
255, ■’"< » R c
CIGAR CASES, 45s and 635.
No. W 8 Satin-lined
JEWEL CASE, Best Plate, £1 Is.
m
m
SOLID SILVER MATOH-BOX HOLDERS
10s 6d and 12s 6d.
Large Size, 14s 6d and 16s 6d.
No. F 106. GOLD
LINKS, 9c., 21s;
Silver, 4s.
No. J 5898.
GOLD PEARL
and AMETHYST
PENDANT,
11s 6d.
FIO9.—LINKS, 9c. GOLD
16s 6d ; Silver, 4s.
No. E 8897.— PEARL and
AMETHYST PENDANT
9c. Gold, 18s 6d.
No. FI 26.—9 c. GOLD
LINKS, 14s 6d ;
Silver, 3s.
TIE CLIPS,
Silver, Is 6d ; 9c.
Gold6s6d,los6d,
12s 6d and 14s 6d.
No. FIIB7.—LINES, 9c. Gold,
22s 6d ; Silver, 4s.
Saves the Table Many a Scorching.
This Pretty TILED and SILVER-PLATED
TEA POT STAND. 9s 6d.
No. F 3990.— SILVER - PLATED
BREAKFAST CRUET, £1 Is.
No. F 3342.— ENGRAVED and SILVER-PLATED
TEA POT, £1 128 6d.
aps
mm
No. WII.—SILVER-PLATED and SATIN-LINED
JEWEL CASE, ISs 6d.
If we have not told you on this page about the things
you want to know, get our New Booklet and prices. W e
have a marvellous variety of goods, and oar prices arc
universally lower than elsewhere. IVi'ite for oar A mas
Boole now; we send it free to all.
me*
'ament


The Model Brewery »f the Commonwealth
BREWERS
AND
BOTTLERS
OF
ALE *
STOUT
ENGLISH
ALE
SPECIAL
STOCK
ALE
AND
LAGER.
TELEPHONE:
No. 162 Paddington
No. 206 Central
S tf
j >•
I
CI * ? ;
m
ill g II i
Hi * <*
Ml JLJS A
Wx*.
ayyyyyH
joi
. * t
K 1
a a
immJL
I
* I . •***f‘’!
i i 8
JLJL 8
i
IP
]
4S -4 ■'; ' , I
*S i
I EESCH
Agent, for
Watsop’S
Whiskies
Saz^rac
Brandies
JCibelcf
Sebpapps
Bol&’ (Sips
Bitters
LiqC^Ors
Ncpry(SoGl?t
Cbarppagpc.
All Brands of Wines * Spirits in Stoek.
— _


A. SAUNDERS’ XMAS PRESENTS.
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE!
Save 25 to 50 per cent. Worth considering.
Black or
Nickel
20s.
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE.
A. SAUNDERS’ Unrivalled Keyless LEVER,
Perfect Timekeeper, 20s ;
Solid Silver, 355.
Cheaper, 10s, 15r, and 16s 6d.
Written Certificate.
Silver,
355.
Blackor
Nickel,
255.
A. SAUNDERS.
NO ADVANCE IN PRICES.
Extra Finished, f-DEVER, Full Chronometer
Balance, Dust and Water Tight Screw Cases
255; Silver, £2 2s ;
Silver Hunting Cases, £2 10s and £3.
Silver,
£2 2s.
Key,
£3 los,
• A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS.
ROTHERHAM SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS. Full Cap, Hand Finished, Extra
Jewelled Works, Perfect Timekeeper, with Pure
Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight, £3 10s.
Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance, £4
10s, £5, £5 10s, £6, £7, £8 ; Solid Gold, £lO,
£l5, £2O. A written certificate for 3,4, and 5
years. Try one; you will not regret it.
Keyless,
£5.
Solid
Silver,
<£2 10s.
ERIC
■ 'A-, 1
: 'M
.
M
DM
WALTHAM LEVEES.
We are Special Direct Agents.
Pure Solid Silver Hunting Cases, Extra Quality
Movements, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ;
Gold Patent Cases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5 ss;
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5,
£2O, and £25.
Gold
Cases,
.£4 4s.
Black or
Nickel,
30s.
PS
se-
W*> '>
n ' im
“ELY-BaCK chronometers.”
These we have at Every Price and Style. In Solid
Nickel or Black, 30s ; Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s ;
Split Seconds, £3 10s. Pure Solid Silver, £5, £6, £7,
£3, and £10; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O, £25, and £3O.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years.
TRY ONE.
Silver,
£5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold CHAIN (Single or Double), ■ £3, £3 10s, £4,
£4 10s, £5. 15ct. 'Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver. 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Motto Registered Gold “Dinna Forget
BROOCH and Amethysts, 9ct. Gold, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 30s; 18ct. Gold, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Scroll and Spray BROOCH, Pearls,
and Turquoise, £2 10s.
Gold 2-Bar BBOOCH, Scroll, Pearl Set, with
Bed Stone, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BROOCH, 2 Bars 3 Scrolls, Set with
Red, White, and Blue Stone, 20s.
m
mpgsailH
ms
A. SAUNDERS
Gold Bar, Raised Flowers, 5s 6d.
Larger, 6s 6d ; largest size, 7s 6d.
These are indeed very pretty.
Ut-a
el
A. SAUNDERS.
loot. Gold BROOCH, 2 Diamonds, Ruby,
or Sapphire and Ivy Leaves, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid Gold Name BROOCH, 7s 6d •
with Raised Flowers each side (Any Name)
15ct. Gold, 15s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. 2-Bar Pure Diamond Double Cut, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Extra Strong 15ct. Gold, Diamonds, Rubies,
and Pearls, £3 ss; Five Diamonds, £4, £5.
sdf
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain, Snap Padlock,
255, 80s, 355, £2 ss, £3;
15ct. £2 ;10s, £3, £4,
£4 10s, £5, £6, £710?,,
£B, £9, £lO. 10s Extra
for Key Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Diamond and Opal, 15ct. Gold BRACELET, £l2 10s ;
Extra Strong and Heavy, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
20 Pure Diamonds, 8 Opals or Sapphires, 15ct. Gold, £l3 10s
A NICE XMAS PRESENT.
„ A. SAUNDERS.
Nicely Chased Gold BRACELET, 255; very neat and pretty.
A. SAUNDERS.
,sct. Gold Spray BROOCH, Turquoise
and Pearls, £3.
Set with 7 Diamonds, £8 10s and £lO.
Price According to size of Diamonds.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BROOCH, 3-Bar Diamond,
very neat, 12s 6d.
48 Pure Diamonds and 8 Sapphires, £l5 15s,
15ct. Gold. A Nice Xmas Present.
Two Heart and Orescent 15ct. Gold BROOCH,
26 Diamonds, 14 Rubies, £25.
Pearls, Diamonds, and Rubies, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Solid Gold Spray BROOCH, Diamonds
and Rubies, £l2 10s. All Diamonds, £l5.
dsf
15
10 11 12 13 14
A. SAUNDERS’
FREETRADE PRICES.
10. —Round LINK, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; 15ct., £4, £5.
11. —Rope Pattern, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; 15et., £4, £5.
12. —Curb Pattern, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3; 15ct.. £4, £5.
13. —Rope and Ball, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3 ; 15ct., £4, £5.
14. —Curb and Link, £3, £4, £5, £6.
15. —Chain and Rondell, £4 to £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Gold 2-Bird 2-Heart Amethyst
BROOCH, 20s ;
Pearl Set Bird, 22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, £2.
15s.
20s.
5=3
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Keyless WATCH,
Good Timekeeper, 15s ;
Extra Quality, 20s ; guaranteed.
Post Card Gold CHARM, 10s.
Any Name Free.
Silver, gilt, 5s 6d.
Charm, New Gold
BELL, 7s 6d.
Mizpah Gold
CHARM, 4s.
/
-l— - -* ~-‘ug
Keyless WATCH,
Full-Jewelled, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s,
£3, £4.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4 years.
9et. Solid Gold LINKS.
Plain 17s 6d, 20s, 25s ;
15ct. Gold, £2, £2 ss, £2 10s.
Monogram, 2s 6d extra.
Gt
Fo<4
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget, 10s 6d.
Our Own Registered Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and
Turquoise Floral and
Ribbon BROOCH,
£2 10s.
London’s Newest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautifully Chased,
9ct. Gold, large size
LINKS, 22s 6d.
Plain, 21s,
or with initials, nicely
chased, 22s 6d.
15ct. Gold, £2;
Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield LINKS,
10s 6d ; Silver, 2s 6d.
Solid
Gold,
£6 10s.
Solid
Silver,
£3.
-
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ -WALTHAM SOLID GOLD
KEYLESS,
f-Movement, Chronometer Balance,
Jewelled, Perfect Timekeeper,
Extra Strong Cases.
E]jill Size, £6 10s; Small Size, £slos.
Pure Solid Silver, same works,
£B.
Guaranteed 4 Years to keep in
Thorough Repair.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Heart and Dumbbell LINKS,
12s 6dj
15ct., 25s ; Silver, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and Turquoise
Heart BROOCH,
£2 2s.
The Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS
(Registered).
Gold LINKS, 20s :
15ct. Gold, 32s 6d;
Silver and Gold, 10s;
all Silver, ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Solid Gold Opal
LINKS,
with Initial, £2 10s.
Extra Strong.
18ct.
Solid \
Gold, £lO.
„ A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold Keyless WALTHAM
LEVER, Full Jewelled Woi’ks, Patent
Action, New Model £lO, £l2 10s.
You Can’t Get a Better Watch.
14ct. Solid Gold, £8 10s.
Extra
Strong,
£l2los
18ct.
Gold,
£5 10s,
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold, Full Jewelled |-
WATCH, Most Reliable Timekeeper,
£5 I>s ; Large Size, £6. In Solid
Silver, £2; Large Size, £2 10s.
These Watches are beautifully chased,
and guaranteed for 3 years.
Silver,
£2 10s.
18et. Gold Buckle RING,
Diamond, and 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Band, Opal,
17s 6d ; 15ct. Gold, 30s ;
18ct. Gold, £2.
sdf
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold RING,
8 Stones, 255. Very Neat.
GENT.’S RING.
Bolid Gold, Amethyst,
255;
sd
A. SAUNDERS.
Name Band RINGS,
9ct. Solid Gold, 12s 6d, 15s;
15ct. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
18ct. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2
18ct. Solid Gold Diamond
Band, £2, £2 10s, £3:
15ct. Gold, 80s.
fsd
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold
Diamond and 2 Rubies,
or Sapphires, £2;
Extra Heavy, £3.
A. SAUNDEBS.
18ct. Gold,
8 Pure Diamonds,
2 Opal Hearts, £4los.
Latest Style.
18ct. Solid Gold, 5 Pure
Double Cut Diamonds,
£l5; Similar, £lO,
£l2 10s.
Call and See Our
Jewellery Exhibition.
A Splendid Display.
A. SATJNDEKS.
18ct. Gold. 5 Opals,
i-Hoop, £2, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s.
Send for Onr 1901
Complete Illustrated
Catalogue Book.
Post Free Anywhere.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS.
9ct. Solid Gold, 7s 6d, 10s each. 15ct. Gold, 15s.
Extra Heavy, 255; 18ct. Gold, 20s.
Extra Heavy, 80s, 85s, 40s, 50s. Send for Card.
• 18ct. Solid Gold, 5 Pure
Osmonds, £5 ; Diamond
and Rubies or Sapphires,
A. SAUNDERS.
LEADING ART JEWELLER,
815 & 817 GEORGE-STREET,
Nearly Opposite
Bailway Station,
SYDNEY.


“6x8”: In inv time on the Darling,
N.S.W., an old swaggie (“Crutchie”) humped his
swag up and down the river on crutches, at the
rate of 10 and 12 miles a day ! All the Darling
whalers knew him, and, if one of them overtook
him, he would carry Crutchie’s little bundle to the
next camping-ground. At the huts they boiled
his billy, cooked his meat, baked his damper, and
went up to the station for his rations. If he was
short, they shared their own tucker and tobacco
with him, while the warmest bunk in winter, and
the coolest in summer, was always vacated immedi-
ately on Crutchie’s arrival. On very cold nights
have even seen swaggies give the old fellow part
of their own blankets. Crutchie seemed to take
all this as a matter of course. Owning a very
nasty and soured disposition (bushmen term it
“a dead nark ”) he was continually growling and
cursing at everything and everybody ; of this,
however, swaggies took very little notice. Again,
at a Gippsland saw-mill, some years ago, I came
across a young fellow with a wooden leg and
wooden arm. He had lost the originals through
being caught by the fly-wheel belt and dragged
twice through the mill. He was employed in the
log-yard, rolling red gum giants to the vertical-
saw skids with screw-jacks, and the mill-manager
told me that he was worth to him two whole men.
He knew exactly where to put the screw-jack, and
where it would have the most leverage, and would
turn a big log easier, and in a shorter time, than
two burly men who depended solely upon strength.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don't say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
ilousemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •• ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers snould
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
fHLOROPYNE.
yAlfiV
Oaution.—Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—•
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ot
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
" If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
fsd
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
A TELIA NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our“ELEC-
TIUC ERA.” Our Electric
Holts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wi arer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
I’.eltsgive a s'eady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Relt, that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
G-erman Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
S. FREEMAN »• SONS L!^
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAR BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
BEAD OFFICE : WTNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
*
PLAIN NOME TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questibns that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Foktunb Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic, Is 6d, post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevassf.’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, Is 3d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid.’
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
PA, Ma and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Metal Working, Brazing, etc., Is 3d.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 18 Park-st., Sydney.
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Belt,
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the hlood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Ore-ans is frnlv wonderful
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. ais iruiy wonaerruu
Price —ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
oallorwrite- o'WT. DK.XJG STORE.
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
fsd
Now
Ready.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMON WEALTH
Price 6d Posted Bd.
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers frc m Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia, iEnemia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
tawmsn
¥3Nil*jl|
(Tumtifiy
i.W<MWn«
>c«»«
ALFALINE
HERBM
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS CHIEF LABORATORY,
ALFA LINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Affections, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- Ac 12/-. Course, 28/6.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases, Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
Anemia, Wasting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys.
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
BOXES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfalitie Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A
Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
posted, 35., 65., 12s. and 235. 6d.
Electric Belts —Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
cure for all Spinal and Kidney Affections ;
425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addi esses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Kassmussen’s full
name — Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Correspondence held confidential.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/•
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
CORN CURE, !/••
OINTMENT, 1/-.
' m
RAM
HfIMIMMUKPUB
[RIASSM
2£si
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and hit
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke-st.
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen-st.
ADELAIDE-15 Pulteney-st.
W. A-PERTH, 481 Hay-st.
K ALGOORLIE—Hannan - st.
BOULDER ClTY—Piesse-st.
N.Z—9l LambtonQuay,Wellington. FREMANTLE—Henry-st
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of tho ALFALINE REMEDIES.


RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME
SAN DEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
241 E»IXX STREET, SYUTVEY.
NEVER
FREE FROM PAIN
Till the Panacea was bought
Which soon restored his health.
The Cate of
MR. C. J. LENTON.
(by our reporter.)
Our reporter was specially commissioned
to take a journey to Redfern and find out
if the info i mation received about Mr.
Lenton’s sufferings from neuralgia, and
subsequent cure by Clements Tonic, wore
exactedly as had been stated, and on alight-
ing from the tram he walked down Elizabeth-
street until he reached No. 30, where, upon
entering, he was met by Mr. Lenton, who
good naturcdly commenced a conversation
on the subject of his neuralgic troubles.
“I can trace the origin of my neuralgia to
a cricket match in which I took part on the
Redfern Park, between eight and nine years
ago. I have good cause to remember the
occasion. It was on a Queen’s Birthday,
and a dreadful day it was for playing
cricket. The weather was bitterly cold, and
vve were running about and standing at
intervals in the mud. My feet got wet, and
I sustained a severe chill into the bargain.
Those were the days when I was a member
of the Surrey United Cricket Club, which I
belonged to for about sixteen years, and had
the honour of acting as captain and secretary
for a portion of that time. But the majority
of young fellows never think of the risks
they run of catching various complaints
when a game of cricket is at stake, and I
suppose I was like the rest of them. Those
trophies you see over there represent many
a happy hour on the cricket-field; but I
have spent many a painful one indoors
through playing.”
“ Were you attacked suddenly?”
“Yes; it did not take very long to
develop, and there was no chance of mis-
taking it for toothache, the pains being so
acute that they would dart through my head
with agonising persistence. If ever there
was a brief lull in the torturing shafts that
I was a victim to, there was always a dull
headache instead. I was never free from
pain, and my jaws became so badly affected
that I could not eat with any degree of
freedom. That did not prove a great hard-
ship, because I was always afraid of eating
in case it might start the neuralgia at work
again On retiring to bed at night I would
hoodwink myself into the belief that sleep
would drive the enemy away; but to my
utter disappointment and dismay there was
very little rest for me, and I would harness
myself up for business in the mornings with
great reluctance, feeling tired, weak, and
miserable. My face was a good index as to
my condition, for it became haggard and
drawn, and bore the imprint of torture on
every outline. I had always been a strong,
healthy man, and the way I w is falling off
used to cause me a deal of anxiety. I often
wished it was toothache instead of neuralgia,
because I would have had every one of them
drawn out, if necessary, to get rid of the
pain. It was only to be expected that
under these trying circumstances it would
take very little to make me irritable, and I
could not attend to the duties of a superin-
tendent of an infants’ Sunday school with
as much good grace and pleasure as I do
now. As time dragged wretchedly on, the
excruciating pains became worse, and I must
confess that I considered it was owing to
my teeth getting very bad. I could feel
something forming on the left corner of my
lips, which made me feel very depressed. I
could not make out what it was, but it
added greatly to my neuralgia pains when-
ever I tried to force myself to eat.”
“Were you making any effort to get rid
of the neuralgia?”
“Well, rather; I gave nearly every
mixture and pill I knew of a trial; but they
proved to be rank failures. Not one of
them gave me relief or ease from pain. I
could have done just as well without them
—in fact, better, because they all cost
money, you know. It is some considerable
time ago now, and I am not quite sure how
it cam© about—whether it was through
something I had read or not; but I think an
acquaintance told me Clements Tonic
would cure me, and sure enough it did. I
was in the same state as a drowning man
catching a straw; I had in vain taken so
many alleged remedies, but all were unable
to release me from pain. I found that
Clements Tonic would fix me up after taking
a reasonable course of it, for there was a
marked decrease in my agony when
only a few doses had been taken. I used to
take it as though I was thirsty, knowing
that it was only a question of a little time
when it would put me to rights As the
Eain became less and less I could sleep much
etter; then I had more of a craving for my
food. About the end of the first bottle the
neuralgia was conquered, and the restless,
nervous feeling which had enshrouded my
existence for so long was supplanted by my
usual calm and steady disposition. In due
course I could command a sound night’s
rest, and would get up and enjoy my break-
fast in the morning. Headaches and their
depressing influences were quickly made
strangers to me, and when the third bottle
was placed by the side of its empty
predecessors I was fit to play cricket in the
mud again; although my prudence will deter
me from running the risk of a repetition of
my suffering.”
“Have you been free from neuralgia ever
since?”
“I am thankful to say that I have ; but
the growth under the tooth which I have
previously referred to was a cancer, and last
Christmas I had it cut out. I spent the
whole of that day in bed, so you may
depend I did not enjoy myself. The
operation was very trying to my strength,
but a bottle of Clements Tonic soon brought
back my energy, and all that remains of the
cancer now is a feeling as though a plaster
of ice was put on the side of my face when I
go out into the cold. I can honestly say
that Clements Tonic performed a radical
cure of my neuralgia, and I may also state
that when one of my sisters was almost
paralysed through a domestic affliction
which occurred, it was with the same
remedy that we brought her round My
wife has every reason to speak in the
highest terms of its wonderful strengthening
attributes, for she is indebted to Clements
Tonic for bringing back her strength after a
serious mishap. When anything goes
wrong in the way of sickness it is the first
thing we go for. We have so much faith
in its reliability. I have lived in Redfern
and Waterloo for about thirty-five years
altogether, and you may guess I am very
well-known.”
“Can we publish the opinion you so
candidly express?”
“Certainly you can; and you may publish
'over the country as you desire.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Charles Joseph Lenton, of 30 Elizabeth-street,
Redfern, Sydney, in the colony of New South
Wales, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I
hive carefully read the annexed document, consist-
ing of four folios, and consecutively numbered from
one to four, and that it contains and is a true and
faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements
Tonic, and also contains my full permission to pub-
lish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment;
and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of an Act made and passed in the ninth
year of the reign of her present Majesty, intituled “ An
Act for the more effectual abolition of Oaths and
Affirmations taken and made in the various Depart-
ments of the Government of New South Wales, and to
substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and for the
suppression of voluntary and extra-judicial Oaths
and Affidavits.”
Declared at Waterloo, this 30th day of July,
one thousand nine hundred, before me,
WILLIAM ALLEN, J.P
J.
AFTER TYPHOID.
WEAK, WEARY AND WORN.
A Complete Resuscitation.
The cat* of
MRS. E. S. GLENN.
(Reported for The Journal,.)
In consequence of hearing a few remarks
anent the indisposition of a lady residing at
78 Cleveland-street, Sydney, our repre-
sentative called at that address and ex-
pressed a desire to her husband, who
answered the door, to be granted the favor
of an interview with Mrs. Glenn on the
subject. “By all means,” replied Mr. Glenn.
“Just step inside, and I’m sure my wife
will be glad to tell you all about it.” The
invita'tion was accepted, and the erstwhile
patient related her story in the following
manner:—
< “ Some time ago—between two and three
years, it must be—l became conscious of the
fact that an illness of some kind was
creeping on me, almost imperceptibly. It
was quite clear to me that I was becoming
unwell, because of a most unpleasant sense of
general lassitude, a feeling of lack of interest
and absolute indifference to everything that
previously absorbed my attention, a feeling
of unusual languor and depression. I was
always ill at ease, being so restless and dull.
A sensation of drowsiness was continually
upon me, but yet my days and flights were
nearly always sleepless. What little sleep
I did manage to obtain was not at all refresh-
ing, as I would awake just as weary as
before. The work of the day, which hitherto
had been a pleasure to me, gradually became
an aversion. Everything I tried to do
speedily developed itself into a monotony,
and had the effect of dragging out what
little strength remained in my body, I was
altogether exhausted, and the listlessness
and apathy that had seized hold of me was
made more unbearable by the incessant pre-
sence of dull frontal headaches. I became
weaker and weaker through a total loss of
appetite, and lost flesh rapidly. At times
I had a strange ringing sensation in the
ears, and would feel chilly at regular inter-
vals. My state of prostration was now so
complete that the mere action of raising my
head from the pillow produced a feeling of
dizziness and sickness at the stomach. At
other times I lay in a state of utter stupe-
faction, not even being able to engage
myself in thought, and would remain for
long periods gazing into vacancy. I would
arouse myself from this predicament after a
•while, but only to realise more clearly ,the
weak condition I was in. ” )
You had a doctor’s attention, surely?”
enjoined the reporter.
“ Oh, of course ; and my case was pro-
nounced to be one of typhoid fever. Ido
Jiot know whether such a thing is customary
fn typhoid fever cases, but I had swellings
of various sizes all over my body. They
caused me no end of anxiety and pain, and I
*was afraid of other complications setting in,
although ray medical attendant at length
per? uaded me there was no reason to be
unnecessarily alarmed. To add to the long
list of other ailments, I must not forget to
tell you that on numerous occasions I was
suddenly made aware of dull, heavy pains in
the chest, as though it were indigestion •
but considering that I could not eat I do nob
think it could have been that. Well, this
state of affairs went on for ten weeks, and
during that time I was just about as bad as
you can imagine a patient could be reduced
to. The doctor’s medicines I drank during
my term of sickness would surprise you ;
but they evidently did not suit my case.
They made me no stronger, and did nob
remove any of my distressing symptoms.
At length I got tired of taking physic, and
decided to act upon the advice of a friend
who was continually advocating the ex-
cellence of Clements Tonic. This gentleman
acquaintance had himself suffered from the
same complaint as my own, and he was so
enthusiastic regarding the amount of benefit
he had derived from Clements Tonic, and
the way it restored his lost vitality, that he
convinced me there mast he something in its
preparation which would do me good.
Without any more delay I procured a bottle,
and discarded the doctor’s medicine alto-
gether, being quite satisfied that the stuff
he had ordered was not doing me an atom of
good, although his instructions were care-
fully carried out. I had been almost desti-
tute of hope for a thorough recovery from
my long and serious illness, even after the
fever had left me, until the necessary
assistance arrived in the form of Clements
Tonic; and my feelings of gratification can
be more easily imagined than described
when I found the great amount of benefit
which had accrued from the consumption of
the first bottle.”
“ What effect did it have upon you ? ”
“ The most noticeable result of my first
bottle of Clements Tonic was a marked
decrease in the swellings on my body, which
clung to me in spite of my convalescence ;
and the agonising pains in my head, which
had been the cause of so much torture and
anguish to me, soon left me altogether, and
I was then in such a happy frame of mind
that my prospects of regaining strength
soon became quite bright. I could also par-
take of the nourishing food which mv
enfeebled condition so much required, and
which for weeks had been returned un-
tasted. And after eating there was an
absence of that dull, heavy feeling on the
stomach which I had previously experienced,
and I knew that my meals were being
properly digested. I continued Clements
Tonic, and I seemed to reap advantage from
each dose. My cheeks began to display a
healthy colour, and each day added more
strength and vigor. By the time I had
arrived at the bottom of the second bottle
the swellings had gone down entirely, and I
was able to go about the house with an
appreciable degree of comfort and energy.
With my daily increasing appetite came an
increase is flesh, and I could now take an
interest in my household arrangements,
having sufficient vitality to do my work
with feelings of mingled interest and
pleasure. When night arrived I could look
forward to have plenty of rest, for I no
longer turned from one side to another in
the vain hope of gaining repose. No ; I could
always feel sure of a good sleep, and would
arise in the morning feeling very much
better for it.”
“You appear to have made a complete
recovery ? ”
“ Yes ; I am thankful to say that
Clements Tonic has restored me to the best
of health, although when I sometimes catch
a chill I get an attack of neuralgia ; but I
always keep to the one remedy, and after
taking two or three doses of Clements Tonic
the neuralgia leaves me.”
“May I make your case known? ”
“ Indeed you can, and I trust it may be the
means of alleviating the suffering of other
people.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
f, Elizabeth Sarah Glenn, of 78 Cleveland-street,
Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have care-
fully read the annexed document, consisting of five
folios and consecutively numbered from one to five,
and that it contains and is a true andfaithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any way
my statements—which f give voluntarily, and without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn de-
claration concientiously believing the same to be true,
and by virtue of the provisions of an Act made and
passed in the ninth year of the reign of her present
Majesty, intituled ** An Act for the more effects*,
abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken and'made
in the various Departments of the Government of
New South wiles, and to substitute Declarations in
lieu thereof, and for the suppression of voluntary
and Extra-judicial Oiths and Affidavits.”
Declared at Sydney, this 28th day of Ju
thousand nine hundred, before me,
F. McKENNA
McCrackens
FINEST TABLE BEERS
MELBOURNE.
SIMPSON’S SULKIES & BUGGIES
Good Work
Lowest Price
Cash Only
Factory and Showroom ; 73 KING STREET, NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.


SUNSHINE AND WATER.
Plenty of both is what YOUR GARDEN wants.
You needn’t bother about the Sun —THAT’S ALL RIGHT —
IT’S THE WATER!
GARDEN HOSE.
We’ve been selling
Garden Hose for
20 years, but never
so cheap as we in-
tend selling this
season.
OUR PRICE list:
I x 3 Ply-Rubber Hose, 50ft. Coils, 235, 255, 30s, 365, 42s per CoiL
, 1 Cotton-covered (Eureka) 50ft. Coils, 15s, 20s, 22s 6d per Coil.
Controlling Nozzles, Is 9d ; Hose Unions, Reels, &c.
The Ball Nozzle Sprinkler, Is 6d each.
PERDRIAU and CO.,
Samples of Hose
Post Free.
ONLY
ADDRESS
270 George Street, Sydney
60
YEARS DYEIHG
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C- BXjD'RIIDGB & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOltli STlfc 111 liM', S YDiVI ll Y
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Coiu< try Orders by post Ira ni all the colonies pro mptly
attended 10.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILOA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
THE WONDERFUL PERFECTED
THE MOST
MARVELLOUS
MUSICAL
INSTRUMENT
IN THE WORLD.
n
c
A 50/- INSTRUMENT
FOR
ONLY 32/6
DUTY FREE
CARRIAGE PAID.
'T'HIS WONDERFUL ORGANETTE Is a Reed Instrument, constructed on the same principle as an Organ, with Bellows
J- and Full Sized Roeds. The musio consists of perforated sheets, which are put into the Organette, furnishing either a
Finished Solo Performance, a Rich Accompaniment to the Voice, or Harmonious Orchestral Effects. It is a marvel of
Musical Invention, and combines in itself all the principles upon which Automatic Organs, Organettes, Ac., are now being
made, requiring no skill in the performer. Any child old enough to use its hands intelligently can play, and the Range of
Music is absolutely unlimited. Our list includes hundreds of popular airs, hymn tunes, dances, Ac., costing only a few
pence per piece. We wish to introduce these Organettes everywhere, and in order to do so speedily have decided to sell
a Limited Number to the readers of this paper at Only 32 J 6 each, but your order must be received before the 28th
February next, as we shall place the Organette at £2los. each after that date. We make this special offer to introduce this First-
Class Organette, well knowing that after one is received in a neighbourhood we will sell several at Our Regular Price. We are
the Sole proprietors of The Wonderful Peerless Organette. and you must order divect from us or our Authorised Agents.
Remember, the Wonderful Peerless Organettes are Very Powerful Instruments, built in the most durable Btyle, highly
polished, and decorated in gold, the reeds being so powerful that they prottuce sufficient volume of music for the Cliapel, Parlour,
Lodge, Ball Room, or Picnic Party. There is nothing about them to get out of order; in fact they produce a richer and a sweeter
sound after having been used a few years. For Home Entertainments they are unsurpassed. The illustration gives you but a
faint idea of the Size and Finish of this beautiful instrument, but we will return the money and pay carriage to any one
who is not perfectly satisfied upon receiving it. It Sings its Own Praises. With each Organette we give a selection of
favorite tunes, free, and pack all in a strong box. If yon wish to act as an agent for us send At Once and secure the agency for
your district. You can easily sell the instruments at £3 each. Hundreds of Testimonials received Cut this adver-
tisement out at once, as it may not appear again, and send it with your order. WE PAY ALL CUSTOMS DUTY, and
there is no extra charge of any kind, as the price stated, 32 6, includes all cost of delivery at any address in Australia,
Tasmania, or New Zealand, if ordered not later than 28th February next. Send money in Registered Letter by Postal
Order or Cheque, crossed “ London Bank of Australia,”
The following are extracts from recent letters:—Mr. P. P. Thomas, of Scales Bay, S.A„ writes—“ I purchased an
Organette from you some eight vears ago, and It is still in good order. Please forward me your latest list of music.” Mr.
C. Sawxrs, of Cobrico, Vic., writes—“ I am highly pleased with the Organette. It is a wonderful instrument, and I can
highly recommend it to anyone as a nice entertainment for an evening's amusement.’’ Mrs. G. Lapslby, of Buln Bum, Vic.,
writes—" lam pleased with the Organette. It is really a wonderful instrument. My friends are very much taken with it.”
The Union Manufacturing & Agency Co.. 359-361 Coiiins Street, Melbourne.
Good Tailoring
SUMMER
WORSTEDS,
TWEEDS,
SERGrES,
&c., &c.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Mercers,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
Castro’s Last Sacrament
By ALBERT DORRINGTON. 4s 6d.
MAM MATT’S
SPOONS
& FORKS
m
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK.
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS,
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.i
SYDNEY.
A’ao at
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
J. & J. MAXFTFXD, Propiis.. SHEFFIELD.
NEWMAN’S
ANTISEPTIC
THROAT PASTILLES.
NEWMAN’S
in King St.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
grateful-comforting.
COCOA
BREAKFAST SUPPER.
ERASMIC
PEERLESS
eoAP
An A «*. wa/jw m ■
Unequalled as a Preserver and
Beautifier of the Complexion. It diffuses an exquisite
odor, and imparts a stimulating and refreshing influence.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
f
sdf
sdf
sdf
ds
f
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL' AND
REFRESHED
r in
HOT WEATHER,
W And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers— M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
AIR
COMPRESSORS.
i
I ngerso 11-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors hold the highest
average records throughout the world. They have met and defeated in fair competition
every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain their reputation for
doing the most work at the least expense. Write for Catalogue to
The Representatives in Australia of
ROCK
DRILLS
“ New Ingersoll.
THE INGERSOLL-SERGEANT DRILL CO.,
PARKE & LACY C°. Y . L T . D .
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
74 Clarence Street SYDNEY &
MELBOURNE 435 Bourke Street
sdf
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES:
Blake Steam Pumps
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery
Tanite Emery Wheels
Sturtevant’s Fans and Forges
Pickering Governors
Ludlow Valves
Schuttes’ Korting Injectors
“Champion” Lubricating Oils
Hoyts’ Leather Belting
Genuine “ Atlas ” Metal
Empire Laundry Machinery
Stratton’s Steam Separators
American Tool Co’s Lathes
Goubert’s Eeed Water Heaters
sdf


ALSTON’S Patent Steel
Windmills made in all sizes, from 6ft. to 30ft., for
Pumping or Power Purposes.
WINDMILLS
A SPECIAL LINE—
Not a Side-Show.
The LARGEST MANUFACTURER in the Australian Colonies. It you have
Water to Lift, write your requirements.
Thousands In use, Send for Descriptive Catalssruo,
903G818S
-jX&r-m.
SfeSii
Queen’s Bridge, Melbourne.
MELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS
FOOD
AND INVALIDS.
Is adapted for use from birth.
Bend for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLT.IN & CO., 562-4, Bourke Street, Melbourne,
172, Clarence Street, Sydney, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, and Wellington:-
Mellln’s Food Company for Australia and New Zealand, Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, London, Eng.
NOW!
■k. this is the time to send orders for your
STTXTS Fort OHR.ISTMAS,
C. G. HATTE
has enlarged the TAILORING DEPARTMENT and increased the staff to cope with the
trade for the Season.
Gent.’s Tweed Suits— to measure—fit guaranteed, the best value procurable— 42/-
Gent-’s West of England Serge Suits, fast colors, perfect fitting— 63/-
(ALSO IN FANCY WORSETS, SCOTCH TWEED or YACUNA.)
Fancy Stripe Trousers— hundreds of patterns to select from—fashionable designs, only 12/6
Also thb Latest and Best in Shirts, Hats and Boots.
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms Free. Having purchased before the Federal Tariff
was announced, all our Goods are DUTY FREE.
O. Gr. HATTE, Newtown
CHARLES READ & CO.,
BUSHMAN WATCH.
mlm
k'. OU'R FAITHFU
Wi- timekeeper
nsi^g? 1 _
Will run for 20years
"$5
m
Camden Buildings,
420 George St., Sydney.
Three Doors from A Saving of
Strand Arcade. 25 per cent.
JEWELLERY, ~
SOLID SILVER GOODS,
SILVER-PLATED WARE
Write for 80-Paged Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S)
Circular-Pointed Pens. *
Seven Prize Medals Awarded.
Neither scratch nor spurt, the
points being: rounded by a new
process.
Attention it alto
drawn to their
new
‘MSRADUATED
SERIES Of PENS/’
Each pattern being made in four degrees
r.fflexibility and Foints.
isk your Store keener for an Assorted Sample Box of either aeries.
Works: BIRMINGHAM. ENCLAND.
sdf
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
the famous remedy for.
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing Hoarseness Pain o
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure It is most com
fortmg in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. ‘Consumption ha
never been known to exist where “ Coughs have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient
and a Complete Cure is certain. , ° ° J
BEWARE OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
Df London, England, from which you will glean that
pour medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
;olds aud bronchial asthma. I do not wish any names to
ae mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
aortion of this letter’you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
apd. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cnee really excellent. I was very bad when it
irrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
Much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
>ff the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
Iroin a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
tupplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE'S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
lerful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
nonths, and the cough was so distressing!}' bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. ’ I had medical
idvice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
fours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
Irst dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
tm a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
nay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
vonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
learne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
ectly and rnpldlv successful under circumstances which
indoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
he Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
Ifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
"I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie's Creek, Victoria.”
Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. MCDONALD Trinkev via
Quirindi, N.S.W." ’
“Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.-A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.— R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford.
Victoria.”
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me. —(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
‘ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone. —J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W."
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W."
‘Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.-(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” • 6
‘Your medicine for asthma is worth JEI a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to evervbodv —S
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New Sleuth Wales.” “ j j- •
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of inv brief trial.—JOHN o’
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria."
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—OH AS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria."
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
••The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
"Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Vi 'torii
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work
mg for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchiti'
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“ This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom
mended to try your Bronohitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ao
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was sc
marked that he has ever since been continually recom
mending it to others.
"We are glad to add this our testimony to the value o(
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchir.is Cure, which has easec
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people evef
In our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony.
PROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose out
cheque to cover amount of order.
"We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OP THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertise*."
“Upon looking through our books we are struok with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure."-ELLIOTT BRoa, Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.VY.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
..AMOK depot,, offi ce . jf o Fi rs t ]7i oor) Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Email SIZGs 2a sd ; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally .


Health * (Health
■ ■ ~
FREEMAN & WALLACE
El«ctro-fl?dical &
SOrg'cal li)Stittit€.
The Two Men of Especial Eminence in
Pathological Problems who have the
Largest Practice in Australasia.
To the Readers of the Common-
wealth.
It is always necessary, when introducing to the
public notice any new subject, that the introduc-
tion should be clear and complete. In calling
your attention to the literature of this page, our
I
m
.
4
it
1
ft
HOWARD FREEMAN,
Member Dr. Harmon's College, Washing-
ion, Cor., Cal., U.S.A.; Professor of
Electricity; Founder and Director of
the Institute.
course is more than clear. Messes. Fbeeman
and Wallace have long ago been introduced to
the populace of Australia, but there are many
matters connected with the great Institute con-
trolled by them of which the public have not the
most intimate acquaintance. We are desirous of
describing to you the outward appearance and
the inner workings of their great national establish-
ment, the Electro-Medical and Suegical Insti-
tute, a splendid photograph of which is here dis-
played. In addition, a few words will not be too
reiterative, explanatory of the international
eminence enjoyed by its governing staff of
Specialists.
There are two well and widely known men con-
nected with this great Institute.
The handsome illustrations will afford the
reader an opportunity of judging them, and a
glance at the qualifications will complete the con-
viction that their eminence has been gained by a
life-long study in the dark pathways of human
suffering and devastating disease. It is in these
dark pathways of existence that true Experience
is gained, it is there Theory shows its uselessness,
and Practice its utility. Practice embodies Ex-
perience ; Experience, Success; and Success,
Eminence. Thus we have Messes. Ebeeman and
Wallace standing pre-eminent in the Southern
world as Medical Specialists in Neeve, Beain,
Livee, Heabt, Lung and Cheonic Blood
Diseases. Their fame is essentially an evolution
of profound individual research and refined in-
tellectual thought of a most advanced and prac-
tically scientific nature.
The experience and popularity enjoyed by
Messes. Feeeman and Wallace is not evolved
by the passage of a few days. Although a man
may awake to find himself famous, that fame is
always the result of great application and
patient endeavour. Many long and arduous
days, nights, and years of earnest toil and hopeful
research lead up to the dawn of the final famous
morning. This has been the case with these great
Specialists ; they have been for a great number of
years before the public of Australasia, to whom
they are as well known as the Premiers and high
political luminaries of each Fedeeated State.
There is no doubt as to their skill; no question
of their eminence ; their ability in healing certain
r,lasses of diseases each day ensures their deathless
popularity.
Conjunctive with the great international posi-
tions attained by them in the fields of Specialism,
is the scene of their scientific labors, the Electbo-
Medical and Suegical Institute. This great
and imposing building is an exposition of the
Specialist’s skill, as well as an impressive struc-
tural admission of their abilities. It is handsome,
pretentious, elegant; splendidly adorned exter-
nally and internally ; it is replete with all modern
facilities, its usefulness and necessity is charac-
terised by great popularity and professional
renown. This is a renown which has arisen from
the efforts of two scientific lives which have
never known one failure in the treatment of a
pathological disease, or in the elucidation of a
pathological problem.
To accurately describe so immense an Institu-
tion would infringe upon our limited space, but
to satisfy the curiosity of the reader, a few of its
chief features will be treated. The accompanying
illustration, etched by one of Sydney’s leading
photo-artists, will show that the building is three-
storied, occupying a large area of ground, and is
pleasantly situated beside the most picturesque
floral domain of Sydney—Hyde Park. Here
thousands of people congregate for recreative
purposes during the hot summer months, and in
the calm of the twilight evenings, and as they rest
beneath the calm glory of the Southern stars,
their attention is attracted to the great Institute
adjacent, which tells them of a way of escape
from physical torment, and which points out to
them the paths to follow to obtain bodily peace
and mental rest.
The outward appearance of the Institute is
always superlatively grand, the various entab-
latures of blue and gold and silver which adorn
the numerous facades, standing out in handsome
and well-assumed relief. Artistic taste and
execution dominates the entire external adorn-
ment upon which the names of the Specialists
stand out in letters of gold and blue. The
base of the building contains the Pharmacy,
known to the public as the Owl Drug Store,
where the medicines inquired by the Institute are
dispensed. This department, which contains all
the drugs which a first-class Pharmacy requires,
is supervised by a member of the Pharmaceutical
Society of N.S. Wales, under whom is a staff of
assistants. All the drugs are imported by the
Institute. The Pharmacy is handsomely decorated
in blue and gold, the ceiling being a work of art
in the above charming colors. Plate-glass mirrors
gleam from the surrounding walls, while the front
of the Pharmacy, with its massive white marble
pillars and vestibule, calls for general admiration.
On entering the vestibule, through stained-glass
doorways, with its tessilated mosaic pavement,
we are prepared in a manner for better things
upstairs. On ascending these stairs, covered with
rich, soft Brussell’s carpeting, we find ourselves on
the first floor landing, which comprises the waiting-
room, the consulting-room, and laboratory. The
telephone department is also on this floor, as well
as an office for a typewriter immediately in
attendance on the Specialists. The waiting-room is
quietly and tastily furnished, there being nothing
of a gaudy nature, but everything of the best and
choicest quality. A few good paintings adorn the
walls, whilst the mantelpiece is surmounted by an
elaborate mirror, which imparts a pleasing air to
the scene.
Leaving the waiting-room, we find ourselves
requiring minute observation, and one of the
finest instruments for this purpose of exploration,
manufactured by Arnold, of London, occupies a
conspicuous position on a moveable platform so
that it can be available for use during night or
day. Space will not admit of further details of.
this department, but the order and cleanliness
patent to the most casual observer cannot fail to
strike the eye ; and we feel as we reluctantly quit
this room that everything that can be done to
further scientific research has been accom-
plished.
On the next floor, approached by an elegant
flight of stairs, is situated the office of the
manager, with his staff, and the department
where the correspondence is carried out. This is,
of course, the most busy-looking room in the
building—if, indeed, any room can in a sense be
called more busy than another —where all are en-
gaged in faithfully carrying out their various
duties; still, one is struck with the active energy
which pervades the scene. Quite a number of type-
writers are at work, and these wonderful machines,
clicking beneath the nimble fingers of the clerks,
produce a sound indicative of cheerful alacrity.
Some idea of the amount of correspondence car-
ried on in this department may be gained from the
fact that the seven type-writing machines are
actively in use. No such word as procrastination
is known. Quite recently one mail brought letters
from patients at Hong Kong, Suva (in the Fiji
Group), Glasgow (in Scotland), Gibraltar, South
Africa, and Newhaven (England). This will at
once demonstrate that the ends of the earth, so to
speak, are in communication with these celebrated
Sydney Specialists. The public has no idea of
the augmentation of the correspondence during
the last few years, but, when the above facts
are considered, the realisation of this assertion
will be comparatively easy.
All branches of the building are in communica-
tion by telephone with the staff of Specialists.
One important department is the Operative
Theatre, where the most delicate operations take
place daily. This chamber is replete with all the
most modern requirements tending to successful
and efficient operative skill.
The packing department is a wonder in itself ;
each week sees hundreds of bottles of valuable
medicines transferred through the post from the
Institute. So careful is the packing and trans-
fer executed that no breakages are ever reported,
and no one but the persons to whom they are ad-
dressed have the least knowledge of what the
package contains. This is a fact worth remem-
bering by those ivho do not care for publicity of
their ailments.
mm
mm, m i
>
■
m m
TRAMS STOP AT THE DOOR.
in the sanctum of the presiding Specialists,
Messrs. FREEMAN AND WALLACE. An
elegant apartment, indeed, with its numerous
desks, and glass-cases filled with all the most
modern requirements for surgical as well as
electrical work. A magnificent multiple-celled
battery catches the eye—by Gaiffe, of Paris a
scientific expert in the manufacture of such
powerful machines, and another by Fleming, the
famous American Electrician. We cannot enter
into details of this chamber, but the hand of the
art decorator, as well as that of the artistic
upholsterer, is evident on all sides. We must not
omit to mention a most importarft factor here, we
allude to the Medical and Sur-
gical Diplomas which hang on
the walls, bearing testimony to
the skill of the Physician-in-
Chief, Db. Wallace, and which
afford convincing proof that we
are in the presence of one in
every respect qualified for _ the
position which he has gained
in Medical and Scientific
circles. Certificates of Registra-
tion by the Government Medical
Board accompany these and attest
the legality of qualification, and
the rights of those possessing
them.
The analytical laboratory is de-
serving of special attention, as
here are conducted operations of
vital importance, both chemical
and microscopical, the various in-
struments and test-tubes neces-
sary for chemical analysis have
each their particular location here,
while retorts, sand baths and
chemical troughs, denote the
labors carried on.
Analysis, whether qualitive or quantitive are
leading features in this establishment, so that
nothing escapes the watchful eye of the operator;
the “ spectrum ” even, being frequently called into
use, when a diagnosis respecting minute mineral
substances, such as arsenic, antimony, and mer-
cury are required.
We have been informed that mercury in no
shape or form is used in any preparation leaving
this establishment, and the importance of this
assertion will be readily understood by sufferers.
The microscope also finds its place here, as
chemical analysis is not deemed sufficient in eases
M
o< k
J^ical
Stitut!
(f$t lAN
YlA\>yp
500-page Medical Work-
An Xmas Literary Present-
Since the inception of the Institute, it has been
famous for its medical publications. Several
editions of “Rescued at Last,” an exhaustive
and profusely illustrated work were sold out.
This treatise was followed by “ Clinical Experi-
ences,” of which several thousand volumes in
several editions were circulated throughout
Australia. Both these works were well re-
ceived by the public and press, but useful
and instructive as they undoubtedly were, they
stand but poor comparison beside
the HANDSOME AND VALUABLE
edition which is now in the press,
and which will shortly be placed
before the public. This work, of
which the accompanying illustra-
tion affords a faithful pictorial
view, will retain the title ‘ ‘Clinical
Experiences,” of which previous
work it is a greatly enlarged and
revised edition. Its revision is
according to the requirements of
the law, which forbids, in the
interest of the public, any men-
tion of certain classes of diseases
which are termed private.
This great work is handsome
in appearance, bound in blue cloth
with gold embossed reliefs, and
will make a pretty and useful addi-
tion to all household libraries. It
will be The Chief Book in any
house where it may enter. A
child may read it, the most
fastidious may peruse, its pages,
while those who are ignorant of
the pathological conditions of
their systems may become enlightened by
reading its instructive letter-press. It con-
tains 500 pages and 100 illustrations, showing
the internal organs in various positions ; together
with a description of the ravages of disease
affecting them. Several full-page plates show-
ing the muscular, nervous, and bone systems,
with twenty pleasing and artistic illustrations
of the exterior and interior of the Institute are
enclosed within the pages. Ti.ese will impress
the reader with the vastness of the Institute,
and will show the various departments in which
the Specialists pursue their important studies.
In addition to a review of almost every disease
man is heir to, the book contains useful chapters
upon certain subjects, the information imparted
being of a most valuable nature. These chapters
teach the reader how to manage a sick-room,
what to do in cases of drowning, suffocation, bums
and scalds, accidents, snake-bites, sunstroke,
apoplexy, plague, etc., etc. There is no gauging
the benefit such a work must confer upon any
person fortunate enough to possess it.
A Gift to the People.
The Specialists of the Institute, recognising
that persons who live in the remote portions of
Australia, where medical aid is unavailable, re-
quire a work of this character, have resolved to
publish it and present it to their patrons Peacti-
cally Fkee of Charge. It is a handsome literary
Christmas present to the patrons of the Institute
from its Proprietors, and copies of this most valu-
able work will be posted free to Any Address in
the Commonwealth on receipt of sixpence in
stamps. There is no question that it is a hand-
some and most instructive presentation book, the
best of its kind ever published in Australia, and
as orders are rapidly rolling in, no time should be
lost in applying for a copy of its first edition.
All applications should be sent direct to the
Institute, addressed to Messrs. FREEMAN
AND WALLACE, Australia’s Leading
Specialists.
{(III
.vy;
RICHARD WALLACE,
M.D., L.R.C.P., L.F.P.S., L.M.R.C.E,; late of
the Medical Staff, British Army; and
late Consulting 1 Staff, Homcepathic
Hospital, Melbourne.
A little while ago we spoke of Electricity as an
adjunct to the medical treatment of diseases, and
as Messrs. FREEMAN AND WALLACE are
devout believers in the efficacy of Electricity as
a remedial agent, they have fitted up an entirely
new instalment of Electricity in connection with
medical baths. It has been found that in a variety
of chronic cases, when the condition of the patient,
so to speak, is one that the regular medical reme-
dies will not effect a cure, that something extra
is required in order to cause the necessary absorp-
tion of the medical agents. For this reason Elec-
tricity has been found to act admirably in
conjunction with medicines. Messrs. FREE-
MAN AND WALLACE were the first Specialists
to introduce moist and dry Electricity into their
business, the results of which have been very
gratifying to the patients and to the Specialists.
In cases of Indigestion or Dyspepsia, arising
in many instances from an altered condition of
the nerve centres supplying the Stomach, Pan-
creas, and Spleen, and extending to the Liver,
and very often implicating the Kidneys and
causing any amount of DEPRESSION OF
SPIRITS, with melancholic tendencies; Elec-
tricity again finds a large field for its benefi-
cial influences. Hence, when during an altered
condition of the nerves of digestion, the power to
dissolve the food, so that the nutritious portions
are rendered fit for absorption into the blood, is
interfered with, often to an alarming extent,
we can artificially supply the required nerve power
by introducing Electricity into the system.
This subject is so full of interest that much
more might be said concerning its influence, and
the book already referred to, “Clinical Experi-
ences,” contains, amongst many interesting sub-
jects, a chapter alone dedicated to Electricity.
Anyone suffering in a way which may lead him
to believe that Electricity may assist his vital
powers, should send for one of the famous Electric
belts which are kept in store by the Specialists,
and which have been guaranteed in accordance
with a most rigid electrical test. They will revive
the drooping spirits, re-strengthen the nervous
system, revitalize degenerating powers, and im-
part vigor and happiness where often the sufferer’s
case has appeared hopeless. The prices are
reasonable, and the electrical influences great and
permanently effective.
Professional Jealousy.
It is a fact that jealousy arises from a vivid
cause. Many members of the medical profession
of Sydney evince their dislike of the modus
operandi of Specialists and their doctrine,
Specialism. It is the proudest moment in the
Specialist’s life when he knows that he has
caused a professional jealousy to exist through his
superior knowledge and treatment of pernicious
and problematical diseases. The INSTITUTE
has always excelled in this superiority. A proof of
excellence iseontainedin thevaluabletestimonialof
Sir Dominic Corrigan, Bart., late Physician to
the Queen, who knew personally one of the lead-
ing Specialists of the Institute. Sir Dominic
says : —“ I entertain a high opinion of Dr.
Wallace, both personally and in respect of his
professional attainments.” While such profes-
sional asservations are given, professional jealousy
is easily accounted for.
The Freeman & Wallace
Electro-Medical and
Surgical Institute
Comer of .. .
Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
For privacy, patients may address “ F. & W.”
corner Elizabeth and Bathurst St., Sydney.
SSf Mention this Paper when writing.


3
*y.i
«
? s
A
Wife
, >A
fIIF
Hi
I
1
1
m
I
• V
1
H
1 •
’£>
: 'SggSSiSr, */
WWL y .
. . IS HIGH STREET
K,'3(M
s&
HANDEL FESTIVAL, 12C3.
This picture of one-half of the colossal choir and orchestra of 4000 performers at this year’s Handel Festival at the Crystal Palace was forwarded by the last mail to
Concert-goers in Australia, where the great soprano was hailed with such overwhelming enthusiasm, will easily recognise the star, who is singing, as she informs us
air of the immortal work, “The Messiah.”
Mr. G. Marr Thompson, of this city, by Mme. Albani-Gye.
in her own handwriting, beneath the picture, the last great
MADAME ALBANI'S
UNSOLICITED TESTIMONY
IN FAVOR OF
MIGHTY “ALOK.”
yjy
-K-i*
'~Z?7zZc-<3
*+oc
$~
/t—C-
&£
C^i
- 4Z c
£->*se - -'^
/" ~y *~~ ■ '
-^7 Zcg^c^.
7
-
ERNEST GYE, Esq., Madame Albani’s husband, thus
writes nearly a month subsequent to Madame Albani’s
letter :
The Australia, Sydney,
17th April, 1898.
M essrs. Fisher & Co.,
337 George Street.
Dear Sirs, —
Would you please write your Mel-
bourne agent to send 6 Bottles of your
“ Mighty Alok ” on hoard the s.s.
Narrung (Lund Line) for the use of
Madame Albani.
The ship left here yesterday, and will
leave Melbourne on the 22nd.
Yours truly,
ERNEST GYE.
A GOOD THING TO TAKE
Every Morning and Before each Meal.
It makes you eat and makes you strong.
IT SAVES DOCTORS’ BILLS.
UNINTOXICATING, YET CONTAINING MORE SUSTAINING
POWER THAN ALCOHOL OR SPIRITS.
WHEN YOU ARE OUT OP SORTS YOU CANNOT DO BETTER
THAN TAKE A DRINK OF MIGHTY “ AT,OK,”
Awarded Gold Medal at the Royal
Ayricultxiral Show, Sydney.
To be obtained at EVERY HOTEL and REFRESHMENT
ROOM, with Soda Water, at 6d. per Glass.
Ask your Chemist-ask your Grocer- For a Bottle.
2s. 6dL. AND 4s. 6ti.
MIGHTY
ALOK
Freshly Prepared from the Celebrated African Kola Nuts (Cola Acuminata) is the Registere 1 Trade Mark for
FISHER & COMPANY’S FAMOUS TONIC.
• ASK FOR ALOK “USUAL” OR “EXTRA BITTER.” •
INSIST ON BEING SERVED WITH “ ALOK,” OTHERWISE YOU WILL NOT OBTAIN OUR ORIGINAL AND GENUINE TONIC.
It is prepared in Both Form 3, each containing the SAME THERAPEUTIC and WONDERFUL VIRTUES.
Manufacturing Pharmacy, 337 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
/NEARLY OPPOSITE THE\
VGENERAL POST OFFICE .)
><
Melbourne Laboratory—
-407 COLLINS ST.


Cures all Diseases of the Skin
Eczema, Salt-rheum, Tetter, Rashes, Pimples,
Blackheads, Boils, Ulcers All Due to Impure Blood*
Read how this young girl was cured with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
'A
A
Mrs. May Watson, 9 Rose Road, Surry Hills, Sydney, Hew So. Wales, sends
us the above photograph of her daughter, together with the following testi-
monial: °
‘‘My daughter was suffering terribly from eczema on both her hands and feet.
I had tried many remedies without success. Remembering I had received great
help from Dp. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla myself, I began to give it to my daughter*
boon she showed signs of improvement, and after taking a few bottles the sores
disappeared and she is now free from the slightest symptom of the old complaint,
bhe is as fresh and healthy as any girl could wish to be. This makes me strongly
recommend this wonderful medicine to any one needing a good blood-purifier.”
Such cures always follow the use of
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
You cannot feel welLunless your blood is pure, and it must be rich, too. Dr
Ayer s Sarsaparilla willgive you both of these, pure blood, rich blood. That
is what you need and what you can quickly have if you will only give this old,
reliable remedy a good trial. Get your blood right and you will no longer suffer
with depression, nervousness, general debility, or some form of skin disease.
AYER’S Sarsapari Ila
Brings Comfort and Good Cheer.
is your tongue coated? Are your bowels constipated? AYER’S PILLS.
sdf
sd
ft F'
PHOSPHATIDE:
FAUERES
xSZrt
Food
For INFANTS and
INVALIDS.
fsd
f
Re
by
jSg
of
:■ as
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON.
HAVING had 30 years experience in all parts of the
world, and also having lately made an extended trip
through Europe and America, he is in a position to
treat every case submitted to him according to the
methods of the most recent and eminent Specialists.
Every Case treated on its own Merits.
_ Sufferers at a distance, unable to describe their cases to
heir own satisfaction, should write for Dr. Watson’s
“Guide to Diagnosis B.”
POST FREE Is.,
which will enable them to give exact and full particulars, so as
to enable him to report fully as to the disease and its radical
and rational method of treatment.
Consultation Free K*2fi %
The publication of crowds of symptoms, testimonials and
puffs of one’s skill and attainments savours too much of self-
—■'"?; so the public should look with a doubtful eye upon all
-whef “ doth protest too much,” ,•* =. -
Watson does hot pretend to say that “ One Pound is
to .send,” as stated in certain advertisements, for; he
,j that the public are fpn'te satisned topay a fair p'rice
and legitimate treatment.
m
137 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
» Please mention this Paper when writing:.
sdf
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PILLS
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nerwaus and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be ‘‘ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will .quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world . Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is ljd, and 2s 9d each.
STRENGTH for the WEAK
and NERVOUS.
“THE MEDICAL MONTHLY,” August, 1893, says : “The firm of Arthur Hale
and Son, of 106 Regent Street, London, W., has distinguished itself in the develop-
ment of electrical science as a medical agent. By an entirely new method of applica-
tion they have succeeded in producing an Electric Body Belt, which for comfort,
efficacy, and genuineness, is unquestionably far superior to any previous invention.*’
WE INVITE ALL intending purchasers of our IMPROVED and
PATENTED ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES
to a FAIR TRIAL and TEST before payment. Call upon us if possible.
If it is not convenient for you to call at our offices, request a friend or an
acquaintance in this city, or one coming from your own town, to do so for
you. We will first show you that our IMPROVED and PATENTED
ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES are genuine pro-
ducers of a continuous GALVANIC CURRENT by a MOST CRITICAL
TEST with the GALVANOMETER. And if you or your representative
cannot * 1 the ELECTRIC CURRENT from the GALVANIC
CHAIM. !' our ELECTRIC BELTS and APPLIANCES, we are will-
ing to place £lO 10s. to the credit of each of any two Charities you may
mention, either in this city or your own town or city.
We most cordially and respectfully invite any PHYSICIAN or
ELECTRICIAN to inspect our IMPROVED and PATENTED
ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES, which we are
now offering for sale to the AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC.
tm#
Hale & Son’s Improved and Patented Electro-Galvanic Belts and Appliances are
Nature’s Chief Restorers. Our, Plain Belt, our Special Belt and Suspensor for Gentlemen,
and our Abdominal Belt for ladies are guaranteed to be the most Scientific and Genuine
Electric Appliances yet produced. They will speedily relieve and Cure Nervous Exhaus-
tion, Rheumatism, Pain and Weakness in the Back, impart tone and vigor to the whole nervous
system, and make life a pleasure. We invite all sufferers, no matter what the disease or ailment may be,
to call or send for our Free Book, entitled, “ Modern Treatment of Disease toy Electricity.”
Consultation Free. .
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
105 Begent St., London, W., and 44 OASTLEEEAGH ST., SYDNEY.
Please mention this paper.
mgXi
UTH'AW
C. L.
la
m
w
......
. .
is an oil dressing which so softens the leather that
smaller sized shoes can be worn with perfect comfort.
“ Peerless Gloss ” is the great dressing triumph of the
world, as it imparts a brilliant and.permanenbpolish to
sdf
shoes that outrivals all other dressings, and yetitdoesnot
contain anything injurious to the leather. Beware of
imitations. Demand Hauthaway’s “Peerless Gloss,” and
take no substitute. For sale nearly everywhere. Made
only by C. h. Hauthaway & Sons, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
8
IRISH MOSS
FOR
-The besf reffiedy-
INFLUENZA, >,
CO
J G Ss' ,S^V
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS.
ASTHMA.
Ask for Bonn 1 ng ton’s
and see that you get it,


\NEST\NGH OUSE
ENGINES, DYNAMOS
JS.ISTJD
MOTORS
SUPPLIED FROM STOCK.
COMPLETE ELECTRIC PLANTS
FOR
TRACTION-LIGHTING-POWER.
NAAr
&
ELECTRIC MINING MACHINERY.
STORAGE BATTERIES.
KRUPP BALL MILLS,
STAMPER BATTERIES & CRUSHING MACHINERY.
NOYES BROS.
ENGINEERS
SYDNEY
109 Pitt St.
sd
MELBOURNE
15 & 17 Queen St.
