

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. BEAVER STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
R. G. WATHUOffg «St CO.,
107 . Kent Street, 537*c3.ti1037*,
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BUSTON’S Compound Dredge Engina
AMUSEMENT for OLO and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character), That Hideous
Dancing Skeleton (turns himself inside out), Mafeking
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Spider and the Fly
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
VBSBTORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBfMS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KIL.DA.
'THE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than' licensed hotels. City,
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 85 p itt ««*, SYDNEY
Have In Stock and to arrive, the following: Ruston, Proctor & Co.’s Compound Dredge Engines and Boilers, Centrifuge
Pumps, Steel Wire Ropes, Bucket Lip Steel, Tyre Steel, Mild Steel, Manganese Steel for Pins and Bushes, &c.
Buckets, Grab Hooks, Links, Grab Hook Points, Tumblers, &c., made to order. OSBORN’S STEEL"CASTINGS.
ENGINES & BOILERS, &c., FOR GOLD DREDGING
THORNE’S
That’s Alii
WHISKY.
HELIDON
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH 00. Ltcl., Agents, S3y«3.xxe'y.
,
A
JE
i
m
' 4 #k
'■■■y‘spk<
rEgcotTre-A.-fFe.-r.
Hadley s Orient |oteS.
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS*
wmPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. ' INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per W<
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME
SAN DEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
241 PIXT STREET, S-SrDKrJHT'.
Tails. Plaits.
%
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6,6/6,
7/6, 'B/6, 10/6 each. TAILS' and PLAITS,
20in. Ion*;, 5/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6 ; 24in.,
10/6 i Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oe.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. ‘‘ Only ONE
Address”:— W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLIAIf-ST., Corner of Palmer-H.,
Sydney. Cable tramn will Hop at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to eoun-
Wig» made on shortest notice.
PIONEER
LEATHER
ONIII3B
The Leading Beit of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches:—P. Frankel & 00., Ed ward-at., Brisbane, Q. ;
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. F.vsh and
00., Coliins-et., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Oa®hel-st., Christclmrch, N.Z.
Fair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
JOHN JAMESON
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents : J. BARBE JOHNSTON & CO., lioffcns Street, Sydney.
Estbd. 1795.
DUPUY
25 Years BRANDY.
m
PROOF
w
USE
Head Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
By Steele Rudd.”
AT THE CLUB, IN THE HOME,
FOR THE SICK AND THE SOUND,
EVERYWHERE, AND FOR EVERYBODY,
BOOME
.IS THE BEST..
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. IOhS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Catered for
on Most
Eeasonable
Terms.
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Ctybrpcatiofy
for Cuts, Sprains, Braises, .Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s Crpbrocatioi).
The Ways of Many Waters
Collects the dashing ballads and verses of sailor-men a
and wharf-men’s life which E. J. Brady has contributed
to Tub BuLLKTisand the Sunday Timbs, Sydney It is
the first attempt on the part of an Australian verse-
writer to chant the life on the sea and the margins of
the sea ; though there is one horse-poem—the storv of
“ How Jack Bowlin Steered ‘ Jones.’ ” The volume is
bound in buckram, with gilt top, in a size that wiU iro
into a pocket without squeezing; and the price is 5s
post-free. 1
The Bulletin
?01. 22.— N0. 1121. j
[ Saturday, August 10, 1901.
PpoVered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The Bulletin publications.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories:'
By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cvoth, decorated; price 4s. 6d. post free;
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“ Steele Rudd ”). New
Issue. With about eighty illustrations by
Mahony, Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher
and Full wood ; 6s. post-free. *** “The
jolliest book yet printed in Australia.”
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait; ss.
post free. *** A charming presentation
volume.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free. *** Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
A Hose of Regret:
Verses by James Hebblethwaite ; being
No. 11. of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is'. 9d. post free.
Tales of the Convict System:
By “ Price Warung.” Paper covers, 193
pp. ; 6d., post free.
The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Fa vend. Paper covers, 141 pp.; 6d. post
free.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. *** The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
The Circling Hearths :
By Roderic Quinn. No. 11l of The
Bulletin Booklets. Enveloped, Is. 9d.
post free.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Now. Ready. Price, 6d. ; posted, Bd.
Forwarded by return mail from The Bulletin
office in exchange for postal notes or stamps of
any Australasian State or Province.
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs ! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
Pt 3 V
The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
The Trachea or windpipe.
The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous dray . .
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, 1s 6d ; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland—post
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN S PLACE.
THE RED RAGE.
Dossier 14.—Scholars and Teachers.
f IHIE1 HIE contents are submitted for inspection—
I. —Article on “Education and Atmosphere,”
by James Hebblethwaite. (Here printed
June 15, 1901.)
11. —Diatribe (=l. A continued discourse which
wastes aivay much time — No ! 2. A strain of
reproach—Yes !) entitled “What -are
Schools For ? ” By J. Le Gay Brereton.
Followeth—
James Hebblethwaite’s note on “ Education and Atmo-
sphere” (15/6/1) inclines the heart to charity. The
average pedagogue’s life is wasted but for its accidents
and its seprets. He is an enemy to progress. But, like
nearly all criminals, he takes up his position in self-
defence. If it be possible to reclaim a schoolmaster, Ido
not think he should be put to death.
Education should be voluntary—not compulsory. The
learner experiences too much force and too little sym-
pathy. We hear too much of duty and too little of
privilege.
Every man, woman, and child should have free oppor-
tunity of learning whatever men and books can teach.
Willing experts should be paid by the State (or should
undertake without fee) to devote a certain proportion of
their time to the tuition of those who require their ser-
vices. Those who prefer ignorance should be allowed to
enjoy their darkness : better Egyptian blackness than the
doubtful gloom. Better that a man should be unable to
write than he should be a scribbling journalist, for
example. Demi-semi-education is one of the horrors of
our age.
' In an ordinary school the “ latent fire of insurrection ”
is fanned to a raging flame. The boys and girls are
right, and it is time we acknowledged it. Their
cause is vital, and we are fools. Consider the
matter personally. At least two-thirds of my school-
time were spent in resistance of magisterial authority,
although I was willing enough to give my energy to ra-
tional seif-development. I was one of a “ class,” and we
were all treated as “average boys.” There is no average
boy. Masters try to treat the natural enmity of cram-
mers and crammed as an exploded idea : facts are agains
them. Boys want to know why they must spend weary
hours upon distasteful and apparently useless work, and
the masters cannot tell them. “ When you grow up,
you’ll be glad you took advantage of (sorry you neglected)
your opportunities.” It is all a lie. (I’ve been a school-
boy and a schoolmaster, and I want to tell the boys that
if their master is not a fool, he’s probably a hypocrite.)
We tell boys and girls that they don’t know when they
are happy (or “ well-off,” whatever else that may mean),
and that their real troubles are all to come. It may be
true in particular cases, but often it is sheer nonsense. If
I had believed it—and, thank God, no child does believe
it —I shouldn’t have had the courage to live.
But there is much pleasure, and some valuable mental
training, in the resistance and circumvention of paradigm-
mouthing prigs in authority. I’ve taken and given good
opportunities in ray time. On a fine sunny day
I have sat in an inky room trying to induce a
crowd of boys to learn nonsense, which they had
not yet been drilled into thinking fine stuff ;
and I have felt so ashamed of myself that I could
have chewed the book to a pulp, and kicked
the blackboard into matchwood. Outside there were
wind and water, sunlight and waving trees. Under the
desks there wfere honest, enjoyable story-books here and
there; and I had to threaten confiscation if they were
opened. I was paid eighty pounds a year to be a gaoler
and a hypocrite. (“ Thy business is with the action only,
never with its fruits.”) And yet the boys did not hate
me. Their instincts led them to the open air and free
exercise of expanding mind and growing body, and they
felt in some incommunicable way that I sympathised. I
hope they have been discontented and insubordinate
under my successors.
In real education the part of the teacher is twofold,
and comprises the stimulation of intelligent interest and
the satisfying of pertinent curiosity. Justice and love
are indispensable. There must be no competition, no
cramming. Dr. Johnson thought that knowledge should
be hammered into children. He imagined that there was
only one other alternative —namely, the pitting of one
against another—and he saw clearly that “ by exciting
emulation and comparisons of superiority, you lay the
foundation of lasting mischief.” But the foundations of
a co-operative social system are being laid in the kinder-
garten.
111. Pamphlet-, “The Public School System
op New South Wales,” by Francis
Anderson, M.A.
TV. — Clipping from Bathurst (N.S.W.) “Free
Press,” dated 31st January, 1894. Thus:—
Before they go back in the pigeon-hole : what
is the country going to do with the Lesson taught
by documents such as these ?—learn it ? or ignore
it? The documents are subject to criticism, of
course ; but they are suggestive and stimulating.
For Hebblethwaite: the contrast between the
educational value of the old grandmother croon-
ing a song as she spins, and the educational value
of “the length of the Amazon,” for example,
should never be forgotten; but, after all, the
length of the Amazon, taken typically, is the
modern substitute for the old grandmother, and,
properly considered, is at least as efficacious edu-
cationally. Even in the old grandmother’s hey-
day, there was never enough of her to supply the
demand ; she existed and spun only in favoured
spots, —and many children never had any “ prac-
ticable ” old grandmother to croon. The old
grandmother was always caviare; the length of
the Amazon is bread for all. The length of the
Amazon ! Why, ten thousand old grandmothers
could not recite its romance. All the legends of
Ireland are less enthralling than the story of
the Amazon—how it came, why it stays, what it
is, where it flows, —through what picturesque
splendours of scenery, among what trees and
animals, by the homes of what absorbingly in-
teresting races of men, creating every day the
material for a legion of old grandmothers to croon
down the coming centuries! Hebblethwaite
seems to conceive the Country of Romance as a
land apart from the barren Land ’of Fact ; but,
lo ! the Romance is in the Fact. There is no
study or detail of study so abstruse or barren that
it may not be tilled with poetry, suffused with
glory, by the simple process of considering it, not
as isolated, but in all its relations to the human
universe. Hitch your educational waggon to a
star : if you can’t find a hitching-strap, depend
upon it the fault is in you ; for waggon and star
are one in essence.
The not-gay Brereton’s complaint is similarly
helpful, and not dissimilarly vicious. All these
individual pleas must be tested by the doctrine of
averages. Human progress has been voluntary to
a very small extent, if at all; almost always it is
the pressure of circumstances that has driven the
race up. Men like Brereton and Hebblethwaite
are very far from representing the mass of pupils
—who are not content to love knowledge for its
own sake, and who cannot always be stimulated to
acquire knowledge, or to strengthen will,
or to form character, —no matter how
dexterously the educational hook is baited.
We are all apt to forget, in the pride of
our little bit of acquirement, our slender power of
philosophy, how very slight is the barrier which
separates civilisation from savagery, and with
what incessant effort it is maintained. The aver-
age boy is nothing but. a young savage; and
for a long time to come his education must
remain, not only a “leading-out” of potentialities,
but a systematic mental discipline—with a reserve
argumentum baculinum in some shape or form.
Father Stick is still indispensable to the race and
to a majority of individuals. His authority may
be exercised by various means from Necessity to
tawse ; but its essence is still compulsion—the
mighty Must. Lucky boys like Hebblethwaite
and Brereton may be born with the wish to learn,
the will to know; but these volitions are not
generic—for most boys they have to be created.
The parent who “ does n’t see the good of school ”
for nis child is paralleled by the child who
“ doesn’t see the good of school” for himself; and
in both cases education must be compulsory.
Upon the community which enforces the compul-
sion falls the responsibility of devising the best
attainable system of education.
Theories and generalities? True; but just as
essential as figures and facts, since they must
form the basis of future figures and facts. A few
more figures and facts, Retails and references,
would have helped Francis Anderson’s pamphlet
—representing an address delivered at N.S.W.
Public School Teachers’ Conference on 20th .7 une
last. Francis Anderson is professor of logic and
mental philosophy in the University of Sydney ;
and the assembled teachers were so surprised that
a representative of the University of Sydney
should take an active interest in their pro-
ceedings that their enthusiasm was vented
in audible cheers —an earnest “Skall!” to
the academic Viking who left his shel-
tered harbour to explore their foreign coast.
Foreign—for, since Dr. Badham died, Sydney
University has yielded little or no stimulus to
N.S.W. educational system : it has remained a
thing apart, content to give more or less efficient
aid to the not-too-numerous students who pre-
sented themselves, and to hold yearly examina-
tions which, despite Professor Anderson’s
eulogy, have little value as a test of the
work of the mass of pupils in primary
and secondary schools, no value as a test,
of pupils. Professor Anderson inferred to the
favouritism shown to Fort-street school —that
excrescence on N.S.W. educational system ; but
even more favoritism has been shown to Sydney
University, which, from some points of view, is
no less an excrescence. And it is while
Professor Anderson expresses just condemna-
tion of the under-staffing of N.S.W. primary
schools and the under-payment of teachers
and inspectors, that Sydney University-
still heavily subsidised by Govt., despite
the Challis bequest of £150,000 —pleads for a
grant of some £30,000 for a library ; though the
people’s library is badly and insufficiently housed,
and Sydney University has received in all £BOO,OOO
from the taxpayer 1
Professor Anderson said nothing which is very
new, but most of what he said Was good and valu-
able : it cannot be said too often. He advocated—
1. That boys and girls should be taught together.
2. That compulsory education should be enforced.
3. That primary -school fees should be abolished.
4. That the Fort-Street favouritism should be ended.
5. That the number Of pupils per primary teacher
should be reduced to a proper number ; that inspectors
be better paid ; that head-masters be set free to become
something more than head-teaohers ; that the examina-
tion system be reformed ; that teachers be adequately
trained.
6. That the Sloyd system of manual training be intro-
duced.
Probably all these things are desirable; but
items 2,3, 4, 5 are the first to strive for. They
should be attained simultaneously with a better
classification of primary and secondary (or tech-
nical) schools ; and if Sydney, University is to
continue to receive subsidy from the State, then
Sydney University should be made an integral
part of the State educational system, and should
be directed by the Education Department for the
benefit of the State, instead of being controlled as
a close corporation for the benefit of professors
and a special class of students. The burden of a
thorough primary education is the limit of burden
which the community can fairly be asked to bear,
or indeed, is able to bear; and Univer-
sity education should be paid for by those who
receive it—always given a liberal series of second-
ary and technical scholarships by which talent
may climb from the lowest rung to the highest.
That is an ideal; but how much labour before it
can be reached ! Look at the Parliament of
hustling, self-seeking politicians on which we
must rely ! Look at the Ministry ! —showering
money in every direction but the one direction in
which io is hardly possible to spend too much
money. _ While the title-hunting See flings away
half-a-million in illuminating Sydney, in making
foreign war, and in buying a luxurious yacht, the
vocal O’Sullivan scatters roads and bridges to
placate voters, and spoon-feeds the unemployed
in a manner which turns the sore of the
body politic into a cancer; the versatile
Wise emplo3 T S the mendicant tribe of local
painters to perpetuate the picturesque of “the
Rocks ’’; and the ingenious Perry, while his own
educational house is in shameful disorder, en-
dorsf Sydney University’s attack on the Treasury,
and i indignant at remonstrance. How long,
how scqep the road of N.S. W. educational reform !
And N.S.W. Education Department is itself so
swathed in red-tape, so profoundly self-satisfied,
so incapable of effort for amendment. Will the
parents of the 233,000 children in N.S. W. State
schools aid—each in his own place, and as far as
his own power extends—the movement for reform ?
Two or three energetic spirits in every township
could do a great deal. The system of Party
Government seems to preclude present hope of
securing a capable Minister of Education, but
even with bad tools much may be achieved. For
the education question is so vital, and interest in
it is so general, that the country reacts at once to
an appeal for better ways and means of education.
Surely, even in the Parliament we have, there is
some member who may be tempted to identify
himself with the cause of reform, to make it his
hobby, and press action to success ?
A.G.S.
The furfurous bread taken away, here’s the fur
furious dripping:—
Dear Bookfellow. —You have quite converted me to
literary honesty. I shall steal no more. The following
verse is my first absolutely original piece of work :
Zaqr bmt elly opm ;
Bze Imtrr sstvaf
Ffw U'l, orhlpmqjdtxz hhht,
Hobeq npsrvyt.qj l
Jwm yly pmjtuhlxazt u om Bfe telqjy.
I do not think you will be able to trace the ideas
emotions, or metre, of the above lines to any other
writer. The forms of the letters are, I regretfully admit
borrowed from works which I studied with great—and’
alas ! I now see—misspent—pains in tenderer years. If
this little venture into originality wins your approval, I
may be encouraged to go further and invent an alphabet
of my own. The meaning of my versicle is, perhaps, some-
what obscure; but lam sure you will agree that its sterling
honesty is ample compensation to a high-minded reader.
So far from the cessation of plagiarism limiting the out'-
put of poetry, 1 assure you that I could write reams of
original verse like the above in less time than it formerly
took me to weld t igether a column of phrases, fancies or
stories, culled from sources which are themselves tainted
with the crime of larceny. Those sources lam now trying
to forget, for, thanks to your fearless exposition of the
truth, I know myself superior to Homer, Chaucer,
Shakespeare, Burns, Lowell, Tennyson and all the sorry
thieving crew who have been honoured too long. One
problem still troubles me, and I beg you to solve it. Must
pure literature entirely dispense with facts, on the ground
that, where not plagiarised from books or newspapers,
they are plagiarised from real life ?—I am, yours in lasting
gratitude, A Converted Thief.
Dear, innocent fellow !
“This song was old when Adam was a boy, and I
think that all the pieces such as ‘ The Old Stable
Jacket,’ etc., are parodies of it.” Hm ! Adam’s
boyhood is a vague date; can anybody trace this
piece to a broadsheet ? Almost certainly Whyte-
Melville had some basis. Friend Dobbs might
state the case for Notes and Queries.
Some correspondents—
“ Cuss” : Right— -and “ J.R.” wrong (6/7/1). Quite evi-
dent from Kipling’s context that policeman spoke to
lama. ‘‘J.R.” spoke so authoritatively that we trusted
him—and fell in. Comes of neglecting the end of a jour-
nalist’s alphabet— Omega, : Verify your contributor’s quo-
tations. The beginning, of course, is Alpha : Verify your
quotations. Some of these days when we feel bright
(don’t stab the unguarded side !) we ’ll invent tags for all
the other letters. Or you can do it, when you feel
brighter. Ancient Pistol’s last word to his wife ought to
come somewhere about Epsilon, and might be repeated
towards liho
Trust none:
,For oaths are straws, men’s faiths are wafer-cakes,
And hold-fast is the only dog, my duck !
Grand N.S.W. politician Pistol would have made!
P.T.H. : Nat Gould, c/o Routledge, Publisher, Ludgate
Hill, London.
A N.S.W. Bush School.
(For the "Free Press”)
There it stands, alongside the road, in the
middle of the wilderness —built on part of a
squatter’s run, rent for its site, one peppercorn
per annum. It is about eighteen feet long, four-
teen feet wide, stringy-bark roof, slab walls, un-
even floor raised on piles so as to be out of the
flooded back-wash from the creek where the chil-
dren get water, and the frogs chorus all day. The
slabs forming the walls and the rough floor have
been put together green, and have shrunk, leaving
cracks where pencils and pens are lost, and the
wind comes through. A spasmodic attempt to
provide rough bag lining, which goes only half-
way round, has been contemptuously treated by
the school-imps while under lax discipline. Cuts
have been made with knives, and patches have
been entirely removed to clean slates with, since
the scathing remarks at the last inspection on the
dirty habit of spitting on the slates and rubbing
hands in it. The fireplace which runs along the
whole breath of the room sometimes catches
alight, but this is a phenomenon, for the smoke
generally goes everywhere but up the chimney.
Nine a.m., and here comes the teacher. lie
Has trudged three miles through wet grass (and
in wet weather, over swampy ground), and his
trousers and boots are soaked. He is a Sydney
lad, just out of training; he has been here two
months, and he has had enough. He is pale and
thin —his jaws are unshaven—and a cough racks
his frame as be walks. He is disgusted, ill, and
homesick. He got his present appointment after
repeated applications for removal from a marshy
island in the Manning. His salary is £96 a year ;
he can’t afford a horse out of this, and there is no
fence round the school to keep one in if ho had it.
His board and lodging cost £1 a week ; and suck
board—fit only for men with cast-iron stomachs.
He unlocks the door, and gropes under a pile of
old coats for a pair of boots and socks, then goes
dejectedly out search of a stray youngster to
get some wood Vo one about; must get it him-
self. A couple tff handfuls of stringy-bark and a
few damp sticks, and with these he attempts to
light a fire. It proves almost a dismal failure, for
the smoke chokes everything. He then attempts
to sweep the floor, but very little of the dirt
reaches the door ; it gets away down the cracks.
A yell in the distance betokens the coming of
some more pupils. About 9.30 a score of assorted
young cookies” put in an appearance. “Fall
m . (Owing to the department’s scheme of re-
trenchment no bell is provided.) They have had
? l oSs ons in drill, and know how
a • i lr V-,, . S°ds, a motley assortment truly !
A girl of 16 big boned, largely developed, spotted
face, barefooted—heads the line of girls. The
mud has squeezed up between her toes, and her
ugly toe-nails are black. The teacher’s eye does
not linger upon her charms with admiration.
Nearly all are barefooted, and some have hard
faces. There is very little intelligence in their
faces, and it seems almost as hopeless for the
teacher to make decent scholars of them as it was
for Governor Iking to make farmers out of pick-
pockets. There is a smell of sheep-pens and pig-
styes, and the odour of new, damp moleskins is
not pleasant. “March!” They straggle out of
step into the smoky den, where they will drag out
live hours. The frowsy hats are thrown down in
a heap, and the sheep-ticks, and others of that ilk,
exchange confidences.
The school-work, which the teacher has mapped
out m a systematic manner, is wearisome and
heavy, ranging, as it does, from that of youngsters
in the first primer to those in the fourth reader.
I\o one but those who have been through the
p a n have much idea of what the teacher’s
’ i i IS . ' u places like this. No matter how
well educated he is, or how gentlemanly he may
be in his manners, he seems to sink almost to the
level of those around him. All the children read
in a dull, measured cadence, without inflection or
intelligence, faltering over long words, and disre-
garding the punctuation marks. There is no dis-
order, but there is no animation. Nearly all the
lessons are gone through in the same spiritless
fashion, except when the teacher pulls himself
together and forgets his miseries for half an hour.
But the comfortless hole has too firm a “ drop ” on
his spirits, and he sinks back into the apathy that
now cramps his faculties,-content only if there is
no undue noise. And the day drags wearily along,
while the cold wind through the floor makes his
legs ache, and the bitter smoke cuts his throat and
smarts his eyes.
Back to the lodgings at .sunset. He eats his tea
what a tea !—and goes to bed for the rest that
now never comes. Rest in a musty, damp room,
while the vermin run riot ! Rest with that cough
and the nightmares that haunt him. He does not
study now. He did once. His ambition is killed,
for the regulations preclude him from another ex-
amination until hp has obtained an impossible
skill-mark three years in succession.
One quarter more and he will either be on a sick
bed or will have gone back to his people in Sydney
—a physical wreck. An over-drawn picture, you
say ? X have seen it often; not once but many
times. And for all this he gets £96 per year,
minus 4 per cent, for superannuation fund, which
is simply paid away to keep a lot of old loafers in
Sydney ; and 5 per cent, which a far-seeing and
extremely generous Minister has “ docked ” off, in
order that lie may be enabled to show the country
that he at least knows how to retrench. What
matter to him what unfortunate teachers have to
endure, as long as he is able to show Parliament
that he can retrench to the extent of £70,000 per
annum ? The teachers ,of the colony have plenty
of hard and thankless work to do, and are worse
paid than any other class of civil servants, yet
they find it pays best to keep their tongues quiet.
The picture I have drawn in this sketch is quite
common in the bush ; I have experienced a good
deal of it myself, and, knowing what I do, teaching
is the last game I would choose, if the hands of
time could be turned back twenty years.
J UNIUS.
OLD ROSIN THE BEAU.
E Walsh sends another variant of f ‘ Tarpaulin
Jacket” —
I’ve travelled this wide world over,
And now to another I’ll go,
For I know that good quarters are waiting
To welcome old Rosin the Beau.
When I’m dead and laid under the counter,
A voice you will hear from below,
Calling for whiskey and water
To drink to old Rosin the Beau.
And when I am dead, I reckon
The )o,.dies will want to, I know,
Just lift up the lid of the coffin,
And peep at old Rosin the Beau.
You must get half-a-dozen stout fellows
. And stand them all round in a row,
And drink out of half-gallon bottles
A health to old Rosin the Beau.
Just get four jovial young fellows
And let them all staggering go,
And dig a deep hole in the meadow
And in it toss Rosin the Beau.
You must get a pair of white tomb-stones,
Place one at m3' head and my toe,
And do not fail to scratch on ’em
The name of old Rosin the Beau.


New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED CHARGES ON
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over 6d. per lb. f
the charges will be
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb.
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under ... ...
WAY BILLS sent on application.
WOOL:
| per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
WHEAT.
SALES last season show an increase of 25 per cent, as compared with previous years. Unrivalled
10 PT??n tlon ' T . h l ee months’ free storage.
fullest particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired,
this Compa are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s WindmiUs; Buncle & Sons’ Chaffcutters.
Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
AGENTS FOR McDOU GALL’S SHEEP DIP.
CB B
SB 0 *
SB 00
5f107
©•wananffeed nor fo or boro.
CERTIFICATE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
application. Thousands Selling- Daily.
r CBB
BRIAR
SBOUIIMS mild
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
*//
w#
Crozine Blacking
is a waterproof polish that produces a brilliant and permanent
gloss, which will not rub off. Shoes polished with “ Crozine
Blacking ” wear long, because it is an oil dressing, which softens J| s
the leather. “ Crozine Blacking ”is guaranteed to be absolutely W
free from all harmful substances, and will be found to be the
most satisfactory dressing made for all walking boots and shoes.
Sold almost everywhere. If not found, write at once to
C. L. fIAUTHAWAY £» SONS, Boston, Mass., I.SA.
Va
vVhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomioal Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
IDO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
! LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life oaq
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
' Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the oheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 8 8 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 16s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Eleotrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgioal Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &o.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
HAVE THE
BEST.
li i
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operated, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
r . , „ re two-vlv cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Steel Pickets
Securely interwoven at any desired distance apart, perfect Web Fence which will hold
securely all kinds of Stock.
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE PENCE
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
CO.,
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL coivuvrowr SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 86 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, bub about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest song's,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.— SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY
SKINS
Send Youb Consignments op
KANGAROO,
WALLABY,
RABBIT,
OPOSSUM SKINS
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
They obtain the Highest Possible Prices.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, to the Q-rower a.
BONUS 3 PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTB last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
Dr. Clarkaon’a Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkaon’s Re-Invlgorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
.To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON'S RE-INVIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. The °TO ETIO erves anc * Organs is truly wonderful.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
GALL OR WRITE—
own-
CUT
RATE
DRUG STORE
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
IF YOU WIBH TO SUCCEED
IN LIFE,
CULTIVATE YOUR MEMORY.
•-.x THE PELMAN SYSTEM
*7? OF MEMORY TRAINING
ENSURES
SUCCESS AT EXAMS.
CURE OF MIND WANDERING.
SPEAKING WITHOUT NOTES.
BOOKS MASTERED IN ONE READING.
HUNDREDS OF TESTIMONIALS FROM SUCCESSFUL
PUPILS ALL OVER THE WORLD.
PT- BASED ON SOUND PRINCIPLES. TEg
A DOCTOR WRITES :—“ I can strongly recommend
Pelman’s System to anyone whose memory is bad or
defective. It is based on sound principles.”—Allan Perry
Stinson, L.R.O.P. and S., Edin.
THE SYSTEM IS TAUGHT THOROUGHLY BY
CORRESPONDENCE LESSONS.
Send To-day for Free Explanatory Brochure and Pros-
pectus Giving Full Particulars.
Address- THE SECRETARY,
The Pelman School of Memory Training-,
Q.P.O. Box 402, MELBOURNE.
MOTOR CARS.
For Business or Pleasure. v Electric or Gasoline.
TTTE have the LARGEST DISPLAY of Motor Vehicles
“ ’ of all types in Australia. The Public are Specially
Invited to visit our SHOWROOMS and inspect our
magnificent display of Motor Vehicles.
The WOODS is constructed on the Eleotrlo, and the
WINTON on the Gasoline principle.
Acknowledged to be the Standard Cars of the World.
SST WRITE FOR CATALOGUES,
The Woods feWlnton Automobile Coe.
(or Ambrioa),
22 A. 24 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY.


TATTERSALL’S
Address: Car© GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
Spring H. (Special) Aug. 24.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS All*
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name.
Address.
Metropolitan S. Sept. 9.
50,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL,
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
£
t
Address
Metropolitan S. Sept. 9.
(SPECIAL)
50,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot m©_
-shares in above.
Name
£ i t
Address.
Demonstration H. Oct. 1
50,000 Subscriber* at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_
Name.
Address.
.shares in the above
Caulfield C. Oct. 19.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Kamo.
Address.
Melbourne C. Nov. 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
.shares in above.
Name,
* X S
Address,
Melbourne C. Nov. 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATT&RSAIXk
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Kama.
Address
Melbourne C. (Special)
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALI*.
Please allot me nhanw in the above.
Kama
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circular.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Ctoo. Adams, Hobart.


tn
ss
GT»
K i
s*.
t/fc
HVPopHospHins,
FOR
WEAK LUNGS
AND ALL CHRONIC
Lung Affections.
THE best proof of the value of Angler’s
Petroleum Emulsion in the treat-
ment of Consumption and Chronic
Lung Affections is the fact that it is
prescribed extensively by eminent lung
specialists and is used in the large con-
sumption hospitals. Under its use appe-
tite is healthfully stimulated, digestion,
assimilation and nutrition greatly im-
proved, and a greater vitality and power
of resisting disease secured. It has also
great power to relieve the distressing
symptoms of Phthisis, such as coughs,
night sweats, and diarrhcea. We con-
fidently claim that it will do more to
prevent and cure Consumption than any
other remedy. Unlike Cod Liver Oil, it is
pleasant to take and agrees with and
benefits the most delicate stomach.
A FREE SAMPLE
On receipt of 4d. for postage.
Mention SYDNEY BULLETIN.
Do not accept inferior imitations made with
ordinary Petroleum.
BE SURE TO GET ANGIER’S.
Of all Chemists & drug Stores.
TMF ANGIFR CHEMICAL CO., LTD., SYDNEY, N.B.W.
Like the flight of the
swiftest bird is the prog-
ress of a hacking cough
into consumption. First
a cold, then a settled cough, then slow
fever, night sweats, and hemorrhages.
Don’t neglect your cough. Stop it
at once and drive away all thought of
consumption. Begin as early as possi-
ble — the sopner the better —to take
Ayers
Cherry Pectoral
the most effective remedy for coughs
of every kind and in every stage.
One of the most annoying coughs is
a throat cough, where you have that
constant tickling in your throat. It
comes on worse at night, keeps you
awake, and makes you have that
smothered feeling in the chest. It
hardly seems possible what one dose
of Cherry Pectoral will do for this
kind of a cough, it brings such marked
relief.
Put up in large and small bottles.
When the cough gets down deep in
the chest and the lungs are painful,
put one of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Plasters directly over the tender lung.
It will draw out all the soreness.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
0
PARfcoT
SWof.LVi.lWj
jo 3^iVj»gg]
(UEI J
J? Solo) SW9OO>,
SaM°M,teir*JC
N/iilvWw's, a
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
AvHtt-LD.1.1 800 Oollins St.. Melbourne
SHIRTS.
V ( ,r Station and Out-door work our Silk &THIPJ
Mattalasse and other Unshuinkablk Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by poet throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SOUS, Brisbane, Qi'land
AOstraliai) tytittial ProVidegt Society,
On securit
Or on
MONET TO LEND
urity of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN raOPERTIES
FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LAJNDo
At Lowest Current Kates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment ot any tine.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HMOU&V.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 108 r
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
gSg" Send for a
Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Beat and Cheapest.
H. HII/LIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works :MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY,
Buyers of Bight Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired oy
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
M
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & GO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria—
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Co. Ld.,
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
Ne w Zealand —
D. Benjamin & Co.,
Dunedin and Wellington
o^^cb
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUC
•cashes
SAUCE.
SAUC
in™
AGENTS
VIRGOE, SON & CHAPMAN, _ Kir . w
& D. COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
THE HEALTHIEST
TOBACCO.
In
three
Strengths.
9
os
&
tv
ml,
fisS
ABSOLUTELY
PURE.”
Mild
Medium &
Full.
rr V
Name of nearest Agent post free from M. RUTTY & Co. Sydney.
“On Our Selection.” By “Steele Rudd.”
~ «w. Carriage & Sa,<3Lcai©«rsr »£**f*s* Cc>g*.j£»a.xxy
1 »» r vl r *r sr. € ""“ --,^, 52£ Sss*«
SULKY? U “ 00-sT'WHEELS, «' w d.rerlptlon ol
SADDLERY? It so, send tor our Pnoe List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying froni us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spnng Slates, £7 ,
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
the best and strongest m Australia, £LL
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard. Bugi« hem »
10s Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carte,
and every descriptio nof vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order 0 HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
oription at the very Lowest Prices. &end us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price Liet. NOTICE.-Do no* be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we oan. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 pe*
man wo u»u. : . ■
o«nt more lor your roquirtments.
OUB SPECIAL No. 8
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Winter Verses.
Dearest, when the sun was twining
Fallen leaves in cloth of gold,
And the summer moon was shining
Over scented wood and wold,
In a measure, quaint and olden,
I was wont to sing to you
Songs you used to say were golden,
Strung with pearls and tipped with dew.
Now, ah ! now, the sleet is falling
Into waters winter-grey,
And I hear the east-wind calling,
As I gaze across the bay.
But it calls like someone moaning
Through the sobbing of the sea,
Till of sins that need atoning,
Lo, it brings me memory !
Here and there the white gulls, flying,
Vanish in the veil of doubt,
Bringing thoughts of dear ones dying,
And of souls that journey out;
And I know the mournful wailing
Of the surf upon the shore
Is the speech of unavailing
Search for rest —ah, evermore 1
But the gloom grows deeper, deeper,
And the voices of the sea
Sound afar —as to a sleeper
Dreaming of infinity.
Grey ! all grey ! A mist unfolding
From the land-line, dread and d oar,
Chills me till my heart seems holding
Commune with the Ghosts of Fear —
Chills me till the long swell, breaking
On the rocks with loom of white,
Sets my cheerless heart an-aching—
Aching for the birth of night,
When your lips will give me greeting,
And the phantoms of the mist
Shall give place to love-lights meeting
In your eyes of amethyst;
When your soft arms shall enfold me
While you nestle by my side,
And your sweet enchantments hold me
As a lover deified !
For the gods have sent you, dearest,
As a beacon warm and bright
To illume the pathways drearest —
Phantomed of the inner sight;
And my terrors shall go fleeing—
Like the childish fears they are—
In the human joy of being
Mate of thine, my Evening Star !
V.
MILKY WHITE.
A Bird’s-eye View.
I like the world and all it does contain—
’Cepting, of course, a few things here and there—
I like good living, women, seeing plays ;
I like to read good yarns and poems, too ;
I’d like to know the earth and all its ways,
But fear I’ll have to take a bird’s-eye view.
Penned in the dullest corner of the earth,
Hemmed-in by seas too deep for me to wade,
Fettered by poverty too strong to burst,
How can I see how Life’s great game is played ?
Far from the voices of the things that teach,
Too poor to buy the work that great pens do,
The earth spins round and moves beyond my reach
To see it—l must take a bird’s-eye view.
No heaven for me —unless it’s near the earth,
Where I can hear and see what’s going on ;
Nor rest I need—l’ve had too much of that,
I want to feel the universe roll on.
Of course, I’d like to take a hand myself,
But, being here, there’s nothing I can do,
And so I think I’ll have to shift my camp
And, from some cloudlet, take a bird s-eye view.
N.Q.
THE WRECK.
Take it Kindly.
When the lights of guide-stars wane
Thro’ the aftermath of pain,
Take it kindly, brother ; brother, take it kindly !
Drink and riot never yet
Made a man his grief forget,
Take it kindly, brother; brother, take it kindly !
After all, the True Romance is only Mother
Nature’s cheat,
And she hides a lot of bitter, tho’ she shows a
little sweet;
Still, if love must have its way, phrhaps, another
girl you’ll meet
Who will treat you kindly, brother, very kindly.
When your castles, frail tho’ fair,
Fall and shatter past repair,
Take it kindly, sister ; sister, take it kindly !
There are braver lands than Spain,
You, perchance, may build again,—
Take it kindly, sister ; sister, take it kindly !
Love means life ! Ah, yes! but duty has its
mournful meaning too;
And a thousand things are hidden from a maiden’s
modest view:
Try to fathom not the faithless—it may be, in love
to you
They have acted kindly, sister, very kindly.
N.S.VV.
W. HENRY WILSON.


MONKEY
BRAND
SOAP
Makes Tin like Silver
Copper like Gold;
Grass like Mirrors;
Windows like Crystal;
Crockery like Marble.
Cleanses and polishes at one and the same time.
Does not polish the dirt in, polishes the dirt out.
Cleans and Brightens everything, but
Won't Wash Clothes *
SOLID GOLD BROOCH,
Any Name or Motto, with Raised Lucky
Wishbone and Bell and Chain Pendant,
or with Heart Pendant, 10s. 6d.
"gIT-
SOLID GOLD BROOCH,
Plain, 6s. ; with any Name or Motto,
6s. 6d. Post Free.
SOLID GOLD
same Brooches.
Art
Jewellers
Ac.,
y'
90 Kinc ST
Sydney.
PLEASE SEND
FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED SLIPS
of NOVELTIES.
Solid Gold Motto BROOCH, Ug. 6d.
Also, same style in Souvenir, Regard,
Good Luck, and Mizpah. Post Free.
W
Gold Name or Motto BROOCH, Bs. 6d.
Plain, without Name, 7s. 6d.
Post Free.
n
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
A. BOWMAN’S
We do One Line—Gentlemen’s Boots—only.
That one we do Well.
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St., and
145 KING ST., op. Theatre Royal, SYDNEY
Also 294 Collins St., Melbourne.
Yon Can Have
English Boots
.. AT ..
London Prices.
Best Style.
Best Quality.
No
Better
Made.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
A
World-wide
Reputation
Unapproached
and
Unsullied
from
Generation
to
Generation.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
S 5
it,
w
J»
■1
£
o
CIGARETTES
A ROOF FOR
UNDER
YOUR
ARM
WHAT MQRE HO YOU WANT 2
One Poll of One-Ply
RUBEROID ROOFING weighs 601 b,
Covers 200 square feet, and
costs 21/6 in-Sydney.
E ROLL OF TWO-PLY weighs 801 b.
and OOStS 29/- in Sydney.
E. RICH & CO. LTD., Agts.
Three Gold Medals awarded at the last Royal Agricultural Society's Exhibition.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Voi. 22.—N0. 1121.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 10, 1001.
Pbios fin.
OLD AGE PENSIONS AND THE FEDERAL PARLIAMENT.
Toby Barton is here seen (say 20 years hence) applying for his pension.
THE THEN PREMIER : “I intend to introduce an Old Age Pension Bill just as soon as I can do it without imposing direct taxation.”
BARTON : “I seem to have heard those words before. Meantime, old men do not get any younger!”


The Bulletin
Ihe National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 £
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 1% 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Entice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Wrstralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of\\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —l \&. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to XfiE Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required —•
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and gfl Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence’’ column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Shoi-t Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are. specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Itlaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit, and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be rc-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — B. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
HelSzzZZe&Ti.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 10, 1901.
Federal Old Age Pensions.
In the opinion of this House, it is desirable, in the inter-
ests of the deserving aged poor, that the Government
should, without unnecessary delay, formulate a national
scheme for the payment of Old Age Pensions ; and that
this motion, when carried, be an instruction to the
Attorney-General to draft the necessary measure.— Motion
by King O’Malley, in Federal Parliament.
One night last week the Untamed Terror of
Tasmania submitted the above motion in the
House of Representatives, and its reception
by Premier Barton was a shock to those
who have hitherto tried to look on “ Aus-
tralia’s noblest son ” as a promising demo-
crat. The Bulletin never did look upon
him in that light ; in fact, New South Wales
is just now quite run out of able, fighting
democrats with a reputation big enough to
stand in the front of all-Australian politics,
and it was for that reason that this paper
urged, in season and out of season and at
other times as well, that Charles Cameron
Kingston should be the head of the first
Federal Ministry. As it is, Barton, the
able Tory who has spasms of Liberalism and
the somnolent man who has spasms of
activity, is at the head of affairs, and though,
considering the other materials in it, the
Federal Ministry can’t be Tory, it is some-
what less progressive than it would be if the
right man was on top. Premier Barton
flatly refused to accept the proposed direc-
tion that an Old Age Pension Bill should be
drafted at present. And this, according to
the condensed newspaper report, is his ex-
planation :
Mr. Barton indicated that it would be impossible for
the Commonwealth to undertake an Old Age Pensions
scheme until their financial position enabled them to do
so. They had to remember that individual States looked
to the Commonwealth Government for a return of revenue
sufficient to enable them to pay their way. The Com-
monwealth Government could not resort to direct taxa-
tion, and, moreover, if it did so resort, it would trench
upon the ground to which the State Governments looked
for the making up of any deficiency. Undoubtedly the
Commonwealth Government warmly approved of the Old
Age Pensions. They were unanimous on this point, but
all along he had insisted that they must first be in a posi-
tion to deal with such a scheme before introducing it.
He did not see how it could be introduced within the
book-keeping period, and no matter what Government
was in power, the same difficulty would present itself.
Mr. Thomas (N.S.W.): Why did you not say that at
Maitland ? (Cheers.)
Mr. Barton had said it. It was, in effect, what he had
said. The fact was that even after the book-keeping
years it would be impossible to admit Old Age Pensions
until the Commonwealth was in a better financial posi-
tion.
Mr. Watkins (N.S.W.) : Do you mean to say that it will
be impossible to have Old Age Pensions until after five
years ?
Several Members : Ten years 1
Mr. Barton : The difficulty of carrying out any scheme
now was a constitutional one.
Mr. Thomas : Then, why did you promise in the Mait-
land speech, and in the Governor-General’s speech ?
Mr. Barton : I shall certainly not accept the dictation
of the last part of the motion.
» * * •
This explanation is an absurdity. Cer-
tainly no reasonable being expects that the
Federal Parliament will start an Old Age
Pension system this session, and to that
extent O’Malley’s motion was inopportune.
There are dozens of huge, elaborate, dreary,
yet absolutely necessary measures to prepare
merely to get the machine of Government in
working order. The average person, who
never saw a new State started, takes it for
granted that these thingsgrow spontaneously,
and doesn’t understand the need for Civil
Service Bills, Acts Interpretation Bills, Bills
authorising the collection of customs and ex-
cise and directing how they are to be col-
lected, Service and Execution of Process
Bills, Audit Bills, Parliamentary Elections
Bills, Judiciary Bills, and scores of like
things. He has been accustomed to see the
engineer turn a handle, whereupon the engine
goes, and the large, dull, heavy job of
making the engine is not included in the
scheme of his philosophy. Even so far as
things have got one or two Federal Ministers
—the two notoriously hard workers of the
Cabinet especially—have been toiling some
14 hours a day, and to demand that
they shall devise more great and intri-
cate Bills immediately, in addition to what
they have on hand, is absurd. But there
is no reason why the Old Age Pensions
Act should not be set in motion just as soon
as the measure can be prepared without too
grievously infringing the blessings of the 12-
hour system. There is no financial difficulty
in the way that will be any less of a difficulty
ten years hence than it is now. The book-
keeping system makes no difference. The
alleged Braddon Blot makes no difference.
The good old Blot is the undeserved bearer
of ifiany burdens, but it has absolutely noth-
ing to do with the case.
* * * •
Under the Blot clause the Federal Govern-
ment must, for a certain number of years,
return to the States three-fourths of the cus-
toms and excise revenue, or (if it takes over
the State debts) set that amount aside to pay
interest with. If the Federal tariff produces
£8,000,000 a year this leaves the Federal
Government £2,000,000. When it has paid
its own expenses, the deficit on the posts
and telegraphs, interest on debt incurred in
paying the States for works and buildings
taken over, military expenses, Judges’
salaries, maintenance of beacons and light-
houses, and many other things, there won t
be enough over to pay Old Age Pensions
with—unless the Commonwealth levies
direct taxation. It has unlimited power to
do so, and there is no visible reason why it
shouldn’t, except that Barton and Lyne say
that the thing can't be done. And why 1 it
can’t is never explained.
♦ ‘ * * •
If there was no Braddon clause things
would be exactly the same so far as concerns
the taxpayer. The same tariff which yields
£8,000,000 a year with the Blot clause would
yield £8,000,000 without the Blot. If there
was no Blot the Federal Government could
certainly pay its Old Age Pensions (say
£1,000,000 a year) out of customs and excise
revenue, and return to the States £5,000,000
instead of the £6,000,000 it has to hand back
now. But the States would have to levy
extradirect taxation to make upthedifference,
just as the Federal Government would have
to do now, and the situation as regards the
man who finds the money wouldn’t be altered
by a single copper. Assuming that the tariff
yielded £8,000,000 a year ; that the Federal
Government already requires £2,000,000 a
year—the full amount of tariff revenue it is
now authorised to retain ; that the States
require the other £6,000,000, which is a dead
certainty ; and that the Old Age Pensions
would absorb £1,000,000 a year —we get
these results. With the Blot or “ book-
keeping clause ” the Federal Government,
in order to pay Old Age Pensions,
would need to raise another million by direct
taxation. Without the said Blot the States
would require to raise exactly the same
extra million from exactly the same people
by exactly the same process. If the Federal
Government only requires £1,500,000 for its
own charges, then with the Blot it needs to
raise an extra half-million by direct taxation
and without the Blot the States require to
raise the same amount from the same people
by the same process. Where is the alleged
insuperable difficulty l
• * • 0
Of course it may be alleged that States
like N.S.W. and Victoria can pay their Old
Age Pensions without extra direct taxation
If N.S.W. can pay them with its existing
income-tax of 6cl. in the £, and the Federal
Government, because of the Blot clause, had
to levy another 6d. in the £ income-tax with
one hand to pay pensions, while it was com-
pelled with the other to return to N.S.W.
£2,000,000 a year customs revenue, when
that State only required £1,500,000, the
situation might be regarded by shallow people
as somewhat ridiculous. But there is nothing
in the world to prevent N.S.W., under these
conditions, abolishing its State incoine-tax.
Then the situation would simply be that, in-
stead of its pensions being paid out of a State
income-tax of 6d. in the £, the same pen-
sions would be paid to the same people out
of a Federal income-tax (levied on the same
people) of 6d. in the £. Again, where is the
alleged insuperable difficulty ?
* • * *
Next to the statements of Lyne and
Barton that the Braddon clause—the one
which enforces a return to the States of three-
fourths of the tariff revenue—makes Fede-
ral Old Age Pensions at present impossible,
the palm for supreme drivel must be
awarded to M'Lean, of N.S.W., who pro-
posed putting things right by amending that
clause out of the Constitution. Its excision
would simply amount to the cowardly expe-
dient of the Commonwealth shunting the
difficulty on to the States. When there is
inter-State Freetrade, and the large border-
tariff revenues are lost, no tariff that the in-
genuity of man can devise is likely to yield
much over £8,000,000 or £9,000,000. Every
penny of that, and more, is wanted to cover
State and Federal expenditure. When a
huge new expenditure is added in the shape
of Old Age Pensions for all Australia, extra
revenue must be raised somehow if the
country is to keep solvent. The Federal
Government has every source of revenue
open to it that the States possess, and some
more besides ; and if it can’t face the ques-
tion, who can 1 M‘Lean proposes to pass
the difficulty on to the States note by abolish-
ing the Braddon clause. Barton and
Lyne propose to do the same thing later on
by waiting till the Braddon clause expires.
As regards the four States which have no
Old Age Pensions M‘Lean’s proposal is
simply that the Commonwealth should
saddle them with a heavy extra burden, and
leave them to find their own way of meeting
it, because the Commonwealth itself, which
made the burden, hadn’t the courage or wit
to face its own emergency. The Federal
politician is to have the kudos of granting
the pensions, while the State politician has
the unpopular job of raising the extra money
to pay them.
• • - * * •
Ten years hence, when the Braddon
clause expires, it is a hundred chances to one
that the Commonwealth will be in no better
a situation. It may be in aworse one. By that
time it is almost certain that it will have
taken over the State debts. The interest on
these will absorb the three-fourths of the
tariff revenue which is now absorbed by pay-
ments to the States, and the Government
will be no more able to pay Old Age Pen-
sions without levying direct taxation than it
is to-day. In any case the provision that the
Federal Government must repay to the
Spates 75 per cent, of the tariff revenue is
not a fixture for ten years—nor even for ten
days. As soon as the Commonwealth takes
over the State debts it ceases to make this
payment, and instead applies the money to
cover the interest bill. If the Braddon
clause was abolished, and the Federal
Government annexed a large part of the
tariff receipts to pay Old Age Pensions with,
the only result would be that it would either
have to levy direct taxation when it took
over the State debts because it wouldn’t
have enough tariff revenue left, when the
pensions were paid, to cover the interest
bill with, or else it would have to abandon
the idea of consolidating the debts, and one
of the greatest advantages expected from the
Federal Union would be lost.
* * * *
So the whole matter may be summarised
thus:—
(1) Ths Federal Government, apparently, can’t pay Old
Age Pensions without levying direct taxation during the
ten years that the Braddon clause will last if it runs its
full course.
(2) The Federal Government, apparently, can’t pay Old
Age Pensions without direct taxation when the Braddon
clause expires or is abolished, unless it abandons the
equally essential matter of taking over and consolidating
the State debts.
(3) If it pays Old Age Pensions without levying direct
taxation, after the Braddon clause expires or is abolished,
by the simple process of not taking over, or only taking
over in part, the State debts, then the only difference is
that the States must levy the direct taxation instead of
the Commonwealth.
(4) The Federal Constitution fully and completely
authorises the levying of Federal direct taxation. The
only difficulty in the way is that Premier Barton says he
won’t do it. And it was never contemplated that Premier
Barton should be greater than the Federal Constitution.
* * * »
It is absolutely essential that the Federal
Government should take this matter over.
It is the only authority which can grant a
pension to every aged and necessitous citizen
who has put in a sufficient term of residence
in Australia. When a solitary State takes
the matter up it can only pension those who
have a sufficient period of residence in that
State, and the great nomadic population of
old pioneers—the men who, for 30 or 40 or
50 years, wandered from State to State, pros-
necting, cattle-droving, shearing, pearl-
shelling, opening new stock-routes, building
railways and telegraphs and opening up the
country generally —are disqualified every-
where. And the only difficulty that appears
to be in the road is Premier Barton.
The Victorian Minimum Wage Difficulty.
The fact that Victoria’s splendidly democratic
Minimum Wage Law may have to go for a time
when the border tariff disappears is one that can’t
be ignored. It isn’t a matter of certainty as yet,
but the probability is always there. Victoria
under its minimum wage law pays higher wages
than N.S.W., Queensland, Tasmania, or South
Australia do for similar work. It is at a
disadvantage as compared with N.S.W., Southern
Queensland and Tasmania, because it is short of
good and accessible coal, and having to import
this chief essential of industry it pays more for it.
Dear coal and dear labor are two serious handi-
caps. Yet, despite these two heavy drawbacks,
the Vic. manufacturers, by reason of their scien-
tific Protectionist tariff, still keep ahead of
N.S.W., not only in their own markets, but in
the N.S.W. markets and the markets of other
States. But when the Federal tariff comes in
force this advantage, as against the other
States, will be lost. The Victorian manufac-
turer, with dear labor and dear coal, will have to
compete against the cheap coal and cheap wages
of his neighbors, and it isn’t at all certain that
he can do it. If he can’t, the alternative lies be-
tween going back to the old low-wage principles,
and keeping Victorian industries going until an
all-Australian minimum wage and factory law is
established, or else going ahead on present prin-
ciples, till the industries are killed by the sweat-
ing competition of the adjacent States, and then
having no wage at all. There is only one way by
which the all-Australian wage and factory law can
be established—and that is by the States handing
the matter over to the Federal Parliament. It is a
matter which the Federal Parliament can’t deal
with unless the State Legislatures, or a number of
them, empower it to do so. Yet it is absolutely
essential that the Federal Parliament should get
power to deal with it, otherwise one of the greatest
democratic ideas that the world has seen is in
serious danger of going broke.
* • * *
But if it proves necessary to suspend the Vic-
torian minimum wage law lillthe uniform system
comes in sight, every possible care should be
taken as to the manner of its suspension. The
Tory party—the House of 48 Rich Landlords and
its satellites—simply wants to suspend and be
done with it. It doesn’t want to empower the
Federal Parliament to take over the question of
Factory legislation so far as Victoria is concerned.
Its bright and simple idea is to abolish the exist-
ing State Factory legislation from the noblest
alleged motives —to pass no more State Factory
legislation—and not to empower the Common-
wealth Government to pass Federal Factory legis-
lation. And that isn’t what the people want by a
long way.
* * * *
The other alternative is something like this:
(1) That the Peacock Government should, without any
loss of time, ascertain if the other States, or the principal
ones among them, will join it in handing over the whole
question of Factory legislation to the Federal Parliament.
(2) That meanwhile, by way of setting a good example,
it should introduce a Bill into the State Legislature at
Melbourne declaring that Victoria hands over the whole
question of Shops, Factories and Minimum-Wage legisla-
tion —all industrial legislation, in fact —so far as its terri-
tory is concerned, to the Federal Government for ever,
with the sole condition that the surrender does not
become operative until N.S.W. and one other State does
likewise.
(3) N.S.W. might then be induced to pass a similar Act,
with the proviso that its surrender would not become
operative until one other State, beside Victoria, does
likewise.
(4) Then, when Victoria, N.S.W., and (say) S.A. as the
most probable third party, had come in, the Federal Par-
liament could pass a Factory Act and Wages Law dealing
with these three, and with any others that might follow
their example. The three great industrial States could
hold their own, even paying higher wages, against the
comparatively unimportant competition of W.A., Tas-
mania, and Queensland.
(5) And when the Victorian Act above-mentioned was
passed—not before—it would be a fair thing to pass an
Act authorising the suspension of the Vic. Minimum-Wage
law if, after three months’ experience of a uniform
Federal tariff and no border duties, it was found that the
manufacturing industries and export business of the
country were suffering through competition with adjacent
low-wage States. Said suspension not to apply to com-
positors, proof-readers, corporation laborers, wharf-
laborers, railway and tramway employds, road-makers,
fencers, bank-clerks —in fact, to anybody who was en-
gaged in an industry which couldn’t be affected by out-
side competition.
(6) And if the House of Landlords won’t pass the mea-
sure handing over industrial legislation to the Federal
Parliament, then let the question hang up and take its
chance till the House of Landlords thinks better of it.
To give up the State Minimum Wage, without providing
any prospect of getting a Federal one instead, would be
sheer insanity.
* * » »
Meanwhile, the Federal Parliament can do
something on its own. It already has power,
under the Constitution, to make laws for any
extraneous races. Let it pass a law fixing a good
high minimum-wage for Chinamen, Kanakas,
Malays, Hindoos, Japanese, Javanese, Syrians,
Africans, and all promiscuous blacks, browns, and
yellow. (Penalty for breach of law not less than
£5O, half to go to informer.) Let it also enact
that piece-work and contract work must be so
arranged that the nigger can earn the minimum-
wage (same penalty attached). The nigger’s
cheapness helps to make the white man super-
fluous, and that helps to keep the white man’s
wages low. Therefore let the Federal Parliament
give the brown brother a great friendly lift, so
that he won’t be cheap any longer, and the white
man will benefit. It may seem a weird idea to
order that a strange nigger shall get 7s. 6d. a day
while a white man may work for 4s. 6d., but,
until the Federal Parliament gets power to legis-
late for the white man also, it can do good service
by elevating the cheap brown one to a point
where the white man can compete with him and
still earn a living wage. Further, let the Federal
Government, out of its unlimited powers of legis-
lating for alien races, prohibit the issue or re-
newal of hawkers’ licenses to any Asiatic, African,
or Polynesian whatever. And when the Federal
Government sets to -work on legislation of this
kind it will soon be necessary for it to take over
the control of the police and magistracy, to prevent
the State “cop” receiving instructions from his
State bosses to be looking the other way when
breaches of the Federal law are happening—bu )
that is another matter. One thing must be dealt
with at a time. The thing to be dealt with is the
wages and factory problem, and the time to deal
with it is as soon as possible.
The Bogus Label.
“King of the British Dominions beyond the
Seas” —and what then? Will the addition of
titles make him one whit the more a King of
Britons? Will it increase his stature, magnif*
his intellect, solidify his power? They think
superficially who think so. The accumulation of
titles did not save the neck of Charles the First.
Inheritance from le grand Monarque did not sav;
the neck of Louis the Sixteenth. The flag of
monarchy covers no merchandise nowadays,
When ever were shoddy goods bettered by bogus
labels ?
* • * *
To be nominally “King of the British
Dominions ” —that is one thing. To be really
King of Britons —that is another, that is very
different. Britain, rapax et uudax, may adi
territory to territory, may destroy savage races,
may attack the freedom, of weaker nations, may
annex Africa and partition China, may make the
Transvaal a wilderness and call it peace, and with
each new aggrandisement the British Crown may
acquire a new title—but what will titles and dig-
nities avail in the imperial day of trouble ? Will
India, bled like veal to nourish the British official,
the British manufacturer, count it compensation
to pay tribute to a foreign Emperor rather than to
a native prince ? Will the African Dutch forget
their wrongs because their country is ostensibly


to , t ] le Br itish car of triumph? Will
f a and Australia value the British dominion
f?,®'°I t tittle if servitude be increased be-
yond the featherweight owed to the Past ?
* *
* * *
As regards Australia The Bulletin— which
welcomes the British alliance but detests the
British supremacy—has no fears. Vainly, vainly
do the Jingoes, endeavouring to milk all the world
into the bucket of Britain, pursue Australia with
bribes, and blandishments, and diplomatic ter-
giversation. Our nation will one day rend these
bonds as Samson rent Delilah’s withes; —
nut there will be no final triumph for Delilah.
lne bktant “loyalty” of to-day is merely the
teething-fever of infancy. The time-serving poli-
ticians, the Dynes and Bartons and Peacocks,
are evanescent pustules. Read the lesson
of history. The old-time loyalists of the American
colonies were notoriously more loyal to Britain
than the British themselves. The “good Vir-
ginians” copied British manners, aped British
fashions, crawled before the British throne with a
proud joy in humiliation greater than even the
greatest “loyalist” in Australia now exhibits.
Then—the self-interest of the American colonies
was touched ; and from the clear sky a thunder-
bolt the Declaration of Independence ! Britain
has learnt her lesson ; the bonds are no longer
iron, but cotton-elastic ; yet the Future will snap
them none the less. The British-born population
of Australasia naturally clings to its native land,
and that population numbers still probably
25 per cent, of the whole—possibly 40 per cent, of
our adult male population. But every decade the
British element diminishes proportionately, every
decade sees a proportionate increase of the num-
ber _ who call Australia “Our Country.” The
national motto of “ Alliance, not Dependence ” is
heavily underscored by Time.
* • * *
Time —and Space : all the Jingoism in Britain
cannot refute those irrefutables. The interests of
the British colonies in Australia were once iden-
tical with Britain’s ; the interests of the Com-
monwealth are divergent from, may soon be
antagonistic to, Britain’s. How is it possible, as
Time goes on, that we shall be governed from the
Antipodes, for the benefit of the Antipodes?—
how is it desirable ? Can anybody seriously think
that the Australia of 100 years hence will neglect
her own vital interests in order to prop the decay-
ing grandeur of Britain ? Independence ! Time
cries it; Space echoes it.
* * * *
Meanwhile, give King Edward his label.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Those “Allowances."
The disturbance in the Federal House of Repre-
sentatives re the payment of allowances to civil
servants wasn’t nearly so large an affair as it was
painted by sundry papers—especially that in-
veterate perverter, Sydney Telegraph, which
longs to get rid of the Barton Government for
purely Calico Jimmy reasons. The Barton
Government, no doubt, struck a foolish idea when
it decided to make allowances. Certain Federal
public servants, mostly from N.S.W., have been
put to extra expense through having to move to
the temporary Federal headquarters in Mel-
bourne, and the fact that they can’t permanently
settle there, because they will have to shortly
move again to the Federal capital, is supposed to
have involved more expense. In considera-
tion of this they were allowed something
over and above their salaries. Barton learned
this dubious practice in N.S.W., where
the civil service bristles with allowances for
rent, gas, coal, horse-feed and all manner of
things—the allowances, in the military depart-
ment, being almost equal to the salaries. The
Federal Parliament voted the objectionable
amounts; they appeared in a lump as “allow-
ances” and other things, and Parliament didn’t
inquire into particulars. Treasurer Turner says
he intended to explain the matter fully in his
financial statement, but overlooked it, and, dis-
covering afterwards that he had done so, the
Ministry got out of the awkward situation by
abolishing the nefarious system. It was really
abolished almost as soon as started. And about
three weeks after it was all over, Fuller,
M.H.R., dropped on the matter, and the House,
which had voted the allowances without asking
what they were, made a fuss. Part of the row
was over the £2 2s. a day granted to Federal
Ministers when travelling on official business, in
order to cover their expenses. Seeing that the
corresponding allowance for N.S.W. State
Ministers is £3 3s. a day, the figure doesn’t seem
extraordinary. If a Minister travelled on Govern-
ment business at his own expense there wouldn’t
be very much left to him of his salary.
And if the country expected him to pay all his
own expenses when travelling on Government
business, then the country would be meaner than
the ordinary boss is to his ordinary bagman. The
trouble was chiefly interesting as showing over
again the need of an elective Ministry in place of
the old ridiculous party system. The central idea
about the elective Mi nistry system, as practised
by the logical Switzers, is that the Government
holds office for a fixed period, that it isn’t
expected to “possess the confidence of the House”
in the present absurd sense, and that the House
has power to reverse any specific act of the
Cabinet without ejecting it from office. As
matters stand, if the Barton Government had
declared that it intended adhering to the allow-
ance system, and the House of Representatives
disapproved, then all the House could do would
be to pass a vote of censure, whereupon the
Barton Government must needs resign. Then
Reid (who was thrown out of his last billet for a
far worse offence of the very same kind, inasmuch
as the allowance he paid to Jawbone Neild was
not sanctioned by Parliament in any shape or
form, and was paid after Parliament had
received a specific promise that it wouldn’t
be paid) would get office ! And if Reid was
found paying some more objectionable allowances
all that the House could do would be to throw his
Ministry out. And having, in these two operations,
thrown out all the leading men of the House, the
only thing would be for the House to stultify it-
self by putting the Barton crowd, or a great part
of it, in again, just as if it hadn’t recently been
fired out as unfit to govern the country. Yet if
the Federal House of Representatives disapproved
of the allowances paid by the Barton Government,
and at the same time didn’t want to exchange it for
a Reid Government which, judging by its past
record, would inevitably be a great deal worse, it
could only express itself by voting that it cordially
approved of the allowances, and thus encouraging
the Ministry to go on with its ill-judged policy.
A political system which puts the House into that
situation is a fool of a system. It either compels
a large part of the House to be a good deal of a
liar, or it makes it necessary to change the Govern-
ment about once a month, which would block all
possibility of doing business; and as an inevit-
able result, many evils which the House would put
a stop to if it could do so without sacrificing a
Ministry which may be, after all, the best one
then obtainable are permitted to continue. The
whole ridiculous device is based on the assumption
that the Cabinet must be either quite infallible or
else quite incapable of holding its billet, and as
there never was an infallible Cabinet, the present
disorder of things starts from an absurd hypo-
thesis, and arrives nowhere in particular.
The N.S.W. Asylumed Poor.
Here is a piteous letter from Rookwood
Asylum :
Editor Bulletin. —Your article on N.S.W. asylums
(B. 20/7/’l) dealt with a group of institutions which
greatly need reform. But the places were treated from
the higher administrative viewpoint. I am an inmate —
will you allow me to state some of the closer evils that
bear on our lives ? The greatest is the infrequency of
bathing. M.v block (4) bathed May 18, June 18, July IS ;
there were 31 days between first and second, and 27 be-
tween second and third baths ! ! The clothing is common
to all, and this helps to spread vermin. So many become
verminous who are old and feeble that to escape this
detestation requires the utmost care. The laundry is
not large enough for the place—there are 1200 (twelve
hundred) of us now as against 650 three years ago; and
there is no drying-room, so that in wet weather the
whole asylum holds its bathing in suspension. Second
matter is the diet. It reads well in official print, but it
isn’t worth anything. All the cooking is done by
two or three cooks, and the whole kitchen staff,
cooks included, get collectively about two shil-
lings per day! What can be expected ? Apart
from the bad and slovenly preparation of the food
there is its want of variety. Dinners make one think of
A and B, B and O, 0 and A, and so on. Teas are always
the same—bowl or mug of tea, piece of bread, a sugges-
tion of glucose, treacle, or (weekly) jam. Breakfasts
vary a little ; coffee-poor enough—with dry bread, and
porridge without milk : next morning—bread, with beef
or mutton fat skimmed from the soup, and coffee. On
cold mornings the mutton-fat is so hard that one has to
place it between the backs of two plates and put the
weight of one’s body to the business. Then—it will not
spread—it may be chawed in pieces. Tons of butter
leave the State ; we inmates of the yard never see any.
Those matters—bathing and dieting—are the worst,
but there are many. To be brief, I will just submit the
following as containing the larger reforms which a humane
Directorate should strive for ;
1. Weekly bath and change of clothing.
2. Abolition of common clothing. Every inmate to
have a complete numbered outfit.
3. (a) A liberalised diet, (b) Better preparation of
food. To this end place in charge of the present inmate
staff a salaried cook who shall be responsible for all food
leaving his kitchen.
4. Better messing accommodation and arrangements.
The messroom is too small, and there is much pushing
and jostling.
5. Postal control only of postal matter. All the out-
ward letters have been kept back four or five days, at in-
tervals. There are several petty restrictions which only
serve to make the writing And despatching of a letter a
tedious and harassing thing. It is certain, too, that letters
are sometimes suppressed by officialdom. We want a
street pillar erected, away from the office altogether, to
which only a postman should have access. He alone
should clear and deliver mails.
6. A decent library. There are a very few good novels
among shelves of rubbish—and these are so old and worn
that many of them are falling apart.
7. An entertainment (say) once a month, the enter-
tainers to be paid for their services, so that fair ability
may be secured. Something to take us out o’ nights is a
GoD-send.
If these changes were brought about, the place would
be wonderfully brightened—and cleansed.—W.R.O.
*
The Westralian Slave-holder gets Angry.
The motion of Mahon, M.H.R., for a Federal
Parliamentary Commission to inquire into the
state of the enslaved and flogged and murdered
aborigines of N.W. Westralia, has moved the
infuriated Gropers to point out that the Federal
Parliament has no power to make laws as regards
aborigines. The alien nigger is within its pro-
vince, but not the home nigger. Which is ap-
parently quite truei But, though the Federal
Parliament may not have power to do anything
for the enslaved nigger of Westralia, it can inquire
about him—it can inquire about anything. And
as the result of its inquiries, it can hold up the
Westralian slave-owner and nigger-dogger and
nigger-stealer-and-murderer to the scorn and
execration of every decent white man on earth.
Also, it can unearth things which may make even
the torpid Westralian law hang a few north-
western squatters, in order to put up a pretence
of not having known of these things before.
It may even make the Westralian courts hang
a M.L. A., and perhaps two or three ex-M’sL.A.
It may also justify the Federal Parliament in
expelling some future Westralian Federal member
on the ground that the other Federal legislators
draw the line at sitting side by side with a mur-
derer and outrager of aboriginal girls, and that
the hon. member gives them an unpleasant feeling
at dinner-time as if they saw blood dripping from
his hands into the soup. It may even shame the
awful Groper into abolishing slavery. There is
plenty to be gained by the inquiry that Mahon
demands, even though no direct legislation can
result from it; and every man who isn’t afraid
of the truth coming out will vote that such an
inquiry be held.
4
The Real Soldier, and the Fitch itt
variety.
“ Veteran ” on the Soldier in War-Time :
The popular fancy, stimulated by W. H. Fitciiett’s
battle-books and similar literature, represents war as a
perpetual series of Homeric battles, in which every man
on one side is a hero, and on the other a despicable
coward, a weakling, or a fool. That is not like the
reality. Nine-tenths of the soldier’s life in war-time is
spent in marching, guard-mounting, loading and unloading
waggons or pulling them out of the mud, digging, road-
making or mending, and trying to cook rations that never
satisfy with wood that will not kindle. When such an
occasional dangerous episode as a fight occurs, it is mostly
a miserable delusion—a petty, inconclusive skirmish in
which the enemy comes up quietly with afewmen, peppers
you with bullets so as to make you turn out every man you
can get together—makes you show your strength, and then
vanishes, followed by the curses of the guards and working-
parties just come off duty and dying for a sleep.
When the battle—not skirmish, mind, but one of
Fitchett’s battles, like Salamanca, Oorunna, or Waterloo
—comes, it is a horribly disappointing affair. Here is
Wellington’s description of his way of fighting battles
“ I have at all times been in the habit of covering as much
as possible the troops exposed to the fire of cannon. I
place them behind the top of a rising ground, and make
them sit or lie down.” What; the soldier—the individual
soldier —really sees of a battle is not much. If his army
is attacking, he goes forward with his regiment, and is
shot at. The bullets come thicker and thicker, till the
regiment can get no further, and then the men lie down
and shoot in their turn, if they can see anything to shoot
at, till something happens to make the other side move
out of the way. If nothing of the sort happens this
soldier’s regiment will have either to hold its ground as
best it can, or to make the best of its way back to the
place it came from with a hail of bullets following it.
Now, as to the sensations of that soldier. Is he afraid?
Perhaps ; but he sees that the men on his right and left
keep their places. He knows them. He eats and drinks
with them, and he knows that he is at least as safe as
they are. If one of them is killed or wounded, he has a
sort of feeling that that improves his own chance of
escape, as it really does, according to the doctrine of
chances. Why doesn’t the whole regiment run away ?
That would not make them any safer, and they know it.
Long before the fire of the men in front has become
deadly they have entered the dangerous zone, and before
they could get out of it many of them would fall, no
matter how fast they ran. Still there is a point beyond
which men must not be tried. Those who have seen hard
fighting know the signs that show when that point is
reached, and no sane man who sees them would try to
push men beyond it. The advance stops. Then the line
sways back and forward and wavers. The very brave, or
the less experienced men—often the same thing—go for-
ward a little, while the majority, who have had enough,
hang back. Then some, the least brave or least zealous,
get a little behind the line, and it is only a ques-
tion of time and handling whether the whole line
will make a clean bolt of it, the bravest carried away with
the rest. Is it cowardice ? Call it so if you like, but in
all assemblages of men and animals panics of that sort
occur. There is the historic story of Gardiner’s Dragoons
at Prestonpans, and Braddock’s defeat at Fort Duquesne,
where Pittsburg now stands. The simple truth is that
even the bravest men may be too highly tried, and then
they fail. It is a question how far anyone can be relied
on in unexpected and unaccustomed circumstances of
danger ; but one thing is certain. The oldest soldiers
are least forward in war.
♦
The Road and Bridge Economist.
Sydney Telegraph arose in great anger in its
misleading column last Friday because the See
Government objected to be accused of extrava-
gance by members in whose electorates much
public money had been spent. Yet why shouldn’t
the See Government object? The typical mem-
ber is solid on two points : that at least £200,000 a
year of public money should be spent in his
electorate, and that the gross extravagance of the
Government is most reprehensible. The typical
member yells for economy in the House by night,
and spends his days on the Ministerial doormat
calling through the keyhole for the Government
to hand out eight or ten dozen large bridges im-
mediately. He proudly tells his constituents of
the enormous sums he got spent in the electorate
(cheers), and of how he always supported a
system of severe economy (loud cheers),
and how the conduct of the Ministry in not paying
still higher wages to the returned contingenters
was a breach of faith (cheers), and states that he
is strongly in favor of a minimum wage of Bs. a
day for Government employees (cheers), and
taxation should be reduced in order to “ease the
burdens of the people ” (tremendous enthusiasm),
and the Ministry should be thrown out by reason
of the deficit (cheers and vote of thanks). This
sort of politician always approves openly of a
complete system of local Government because it is
fashionable to do so, and he objects inwardly with
all his heart, because if his district had to pay for
its own roads and bridges out of local taxation, it
would have no more use for a roads-and-bridges
member. A year or so ago he strongly urged that
the Government should compensate those Sydney
shopkeepers around Erskine, Sussex, and Mar-
garet streets, whose business was destroyed for
five or six weeks because during the plague period
all ferry steamers were sent - round to Circular
Quay, and traffic entirely stopped in their locality.
The Government compensated accordingly. And
the same person who gained popularity by
advocating that liberal policy has lately
been using language in the House about
the shameful waste of money over- that same
compensation and gaining more kudos for his
advocacy of “a policy of wise economy.” And
he is gaining a little extra kudos at the same time
by looking with a kindly eye on a proposal that
the Government should compensate the shop-
keepers in George st., Sydney, who lost trade
through the blocking of the street for a day or
two at the time of Hordern’s fire. No wonder
the See Government gave way to unchristian
anger and said things. It has been a weak
Government with a fatal facility for giving way
to the legislative bounder of the moment, but that
same bounder is the last individual who has a
right to reproach it for its weakness.
♦
A Tasmanian sends along this sample of justice
as it is in the Isle of Apples and Sleep :
The s.s. Jeanara, which has commenced trading
between South Africa and the N.W. ports of Tasmania,
put in at Devonport a week or so back for a cargo of hay,
&c., and, while loading, a charge was brought against her
eight firemen of refusal of duty. The case was heard
before a bench of Devonport J’s.P., another of the tribe
appearing for the shipowners. It appears that the men
signed articles in Scotland for three years at £4 per
month, but they state they had no idea of trading to these
parts, and they refused to work any longer until they
were paid the usual wage of fireifien in Australasian
waters. The sentence of the Court was eight weeks im-
prisonment with hard labor and the forfeiture of all
arrears of wages due, amounting in some instances to £8
and £lO per man. The local paper stated that “ the men
S med surprised at the verdict.”
uf course, the men were technically in the wrong,
but morally they were .certainly in the right.
Every year there are many cases on these
coasts similar to this. The only possible object
the shipowner can have in concealing from the
men their real destination is to get them at less
than the rate of wages current in these waters.
He is a sweater, also an indirect swiudler within
the bounds of the law. Also he does grievous and
sinful damage to capital. The Australian coastal
shipowner, paying the local rate of wages, has to
compete against these cheap interlopers who come
out here with low-wage crews on a long agreement,
and take a turn at the coastal trade; and it is a
very bad kind of competition for him. And until
the Federal Parliament enacts that Australian
wages shall be paid in Australian waters, despite
all agreements, subservient and foolish “beaks”
will continue to give the sailor-man eight weeks’
hard, and to damage the capital invested in Aus-
tralian shipping. It is a dismal ..thing to see a
blinded but well-meaning J.P. thus knocking
Capital on the head.
Ten years ago the Labor leaders of Australia
looked upon the power of the Governments to
block correspondence as an ever-present menace
to the liberties of trade-unionists. It was felt that
in times of strike a capitalistic Ministry would
not hesitate to use the means suggested in order to
prove “conspiracy.” In Queensland, especially,
it was considered unsafe to trust the Postal Dept.,
and in strike-time cypher or word of mouth were
the favored means of communication between agi-
tators. To-day some of the Q. Labor-members
are the strongest supporters of the proposal to
wipe out “ Tattersall ” by means of the Federal
Postal Department. Which seems to argue either
that Labor leaders have very short memories, or
the arrival of One-Man-One-Vote has removed all
fear of the Commonwealth Government ever
becoming a “capitalistic” junta. This latter
position is logical, for in a community where every
man has a direct say in the making of laws, for
one section to yell too loudly anent the “sacred-
ness ” of its correspondence, is practically an
admission of treasonable intent. Still, for all
that, this paper mildly wonders that no Labor
M.P. or Senator has, so far, dragged in the
decrepit argument as a reason for voting against
the post-official decapitation of Tasmania’s only
“ Tattersall.”
♦
Dear Bulletin,— Mrs. Ceoile Anderson, the
woman who was found guilty of murdering a man
named Fraser in the parlor of a Melbourne hotel,
has suffered seven years imprisonment, and her
release would not hurt the feelings of anybody
save the Law and—perhaps— Fraser’s relatives.
But for anyone to say “the verdict was an out-
rage when viewed in the light of the old facts ” is
to slander the jury who sat upon the case. Also,
it is unfair to suggest that Vic. Solicitor-General
Wynne is cold-blooded and cruel because he asks
for new reasons why he should set Mrs. Ander-
son at liberty. As a matter of fact, Vic. Crown
Law Dept, knows more about the Anderson
case to-day than it knew at the time of the
unfortunate woman’s conviction. It knows
that the man Fraser was not as mean
as he was painted by prisoner’s counsel at the
trial. It lias learned, too, that Mrs. Anderson’s
shooting of Fraser was a premeditated crime.
The case against the woman was strong enough to
secure her conviction years ago, since when new
light shed upon “extenuating circumstances”
shows them to have been misrepresented in favor
of the prisoner. Mrs. Anderson’s sex accounts
for most of the nonsense talked about her by unin-
formed orself-deceivingsympathisers. The justly-
punished woman has a host of champions, whilst
the unjustly gaoled man works out his sentence
—forgotten.— Selborne Chambers.
♦
Premier Seddon went up to Pahiatua the other
day, and showed that there is a heap of organising
power left in him yet. In his old age, and with
his legs bending beneath the weight of his huge
corporation, he told the farmers that they were
paying about 25 per cent, more for shipping-
freights than they should do. The profits made
by shipping, cold-storage and other middlemen
companies were a serious handicap on the pro-
ducing industries of Maoriland, and the Seddon
Govt, was determined to remedy it, even if it had
to start a State line of steamers and State stores
and retail depots in Britain. If private enter-
prise could run steamers and maintain these
other institutions at a profit the Govt, could do
it better, and save some of the profits for the
producers. And he held out a vision of the M.L.
Govt, picking up its farmers’ produce at the
lonely bush railway siding, and keeping it in its
own hands till it disappeared down the neck of
the British consumer. All of which is very
feasible and exceedingly sensible and statesman-
like. If by organisation, and by owning his own
lines and distributing-centres, King Dick can
bring Maoriland as close, in freights and expenses,
to Britain as are Argentina and the U.S., the
quality and the State guarantee of genuineness
will do the rest. At present Canada does some-
thing of the kind with poultry and dairy produce.
The Government has an arrangement with a cer-
tain line of steamers, which keeps freights at bed-
rock prices in return for the whole of the Export
Dept.’s freight. And the fowls, butter, eggs, and
cream are sold throughout Britain in Dominion-
owned shops, where the consumer knows he is
buying the genuine grain-fed Canadian chicken,
instead of paying for one and receiving only a
Continental fowl of uncertain age, which had
passed its misspent life on a dust-heap. (p
♦
This is a story of the Victorian Lands Dept., as
set forth by the pushful Frank Geach, in Melb.
Age. Ralph Tanner for 10 years held land in
Allambee parish on a grazing area, and on 27th
Oct., ’99, applied for an ante-dated license which
would give him his Crown lease straightway. At
the request of the Department he sent in three
applications, all identical, before Dec., ’99. The
Department then awoke to the fact that somebody
was applying for something, and sat down to
think it over. In May, 1900, a declaration of
residence was sworn, thus completing all essen-
tials. It took the Department three months to
grasp this simple item, but on 7th August, 1900,
Tanner was notified that his declaration was
accepted. Tanner then expected he would get
his license forthwith, but the Department wasn’t
doing business that way. It wasn’t going to be
rushed for all the Tanners in the State. After a
comfortable snooze of nine months, it suddenly
asked Tanner to pay some rent just due. He
complied. Two months later, on July sth, ’Ol,
the grazing area or original title was cancelled.
That’s as far as the matter has got. There is still
the gazetting of the ante-dated license, then at
least a month’s wait for approval of lease by
the board, then the preparation of the lease, then
the signing of it by the proper official, and finally
the handing of it to Ralph Tanner. And Ralph
Tanner, who has already been two years on the
job, and isn’t half through, is understood to ex-
plain, per medium of Geach, that he is tired.
♦
Just how anxious directors of BuLL-owned W.A-
mines are to reduce the “ princely ” rate of miners’
wages ruling in that State was shown by the fact
that, before the railway strike was a day old, cables
from boards to managers and attorneys (and vice-
versa) discussed the chances of reduction. Some
excuse (to offer the public who supply the funds)
for shutting down mines, thus hiding non-produc-
tiveness and helping to tide over present stagnant
market period, has long been prayed for by some
directorates. The lower wages were to be offered
when the mines re-opened. Kalgoorlie Mine
Managers’ Association discussed the matter on
the third day of the strike. Some, presumably
under orders, were for closing all shows at once,
on the plea of short wood supplies, but more
level-headed, long-sighted counsellors prevailed,
and the majority agreed to keep going as long as
possible. Lowering miners’ wages means even-
tually lowering the boss’s salary. Had the strike
been prolonged, directors could have followed out
their plan with good chance of success, as many a
poor wretch would have been stranded by a few
weeks’ stoppage of pay, and, with a family depen-
dent on him, would be forced to take whatever he
could get. By Bull mining boards the W.A.
miner’s “princely” pay is contrasted with the3os.
a month nigger-rate of S’Africa, but as they can’t
afford to knock a weak market right out of exist-
ence by causing a miners’ strike, they patiently
wait their opportunity.
♦
Sydney Daily Telegraph reprints from Melb.
Age a list of the salaries paid to the more im-
portant Federal officers, and a comparison list of
the screws paid by the Various State Govts, to
them severally. No comment is made, and the
average anti-Commonwealth reader will pass it
over with the idea that the Barton Govt, is paying
needlessly high for the services of the officers
named. But it must be remembered that most
of the transferred men are promoted. No one
would consent to leave Sydney, Brisbane, or Ade-
laide with all the accrued rights of long service in
his respective State, for a billet in Melbourne,
unless at increased salary. The salaries paid for
the positions do not compare extravagantly with
the corresponding State ones. For instance, the
Under-Secretaries in N.S.W. are paid £lOOO
each ; £9OO is the Federal limit so far. In no case
has the man transferred taken a similar office to
the one he vacated. For instance, the leader of
Hansard staff in N.S.W. gets the same as the
Federal officer. Of course, it would not pay him
to break up his home, &c., simply for the fun of
the thing, so the second-in-command got the offer,
at an increase for him , though the amount paid
for the position he takes is not excessive. Summed
up. A or Bis paid more perhaps as a Federal
officer than as a State one, out he is doing higher
work in the former than in the latter.


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STANDING
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S. W. D’ARCY-IRVINE, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney ; or to
G. G. MoCOLL and B. H. PASCOE, Managersfor Victoria, S. Australia and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
D
THEY
RUN a
INTO
ONE ANOTHER
When reading at night.
Do you find the letters
run into one another
and confuse you ? If so,
it’s time you called on
us and had your eyes
tested and examined,
for which no charge is
made.
WOOD, “The Optician,*’
Equitable Buildings,9s Elizabeth St., Melbourne,
and 299 George Street, Sydney,
OPPOSITE HUNTER STREET.
N.B.—Our New Self-Testing Chart posted free to any
country address. Write for particulars.
Sulphide Corporation
LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Gold, Silver, Lead,
and
or
Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought—^
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for harrye Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A E. SAVAGE,
Manaobb.
CIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ Mrs. Dane’s Defence.”
Lyceum “ Mariners of England.”
Criterion “ When London Sleeps.”
Her Majesty’s Italian Opera.
Empire Fuller Co.
Tivoli Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Why Smith Left Home.”
Her Majesty’s Wilson Barrett Season.
Theatre Royal “ The White Heather.”
Bijou Rickards Variety Co.
“ A'ida,” a story of the time when Egyp-
tian drawing-room furniture consisted mainly of
pillars, and art of angular-looking gentlemen,
resembling problems of Euclid, outlined on said
structures, began its Sydney career at Her
Majesty’s Theatre on Saturday night. The three
galleries were so crowded with musical culture
and erudition that it is a wonder a serious
collapse was not the result of this importation of
genuine Italian genius. The few who had no
musical culture worth mentioning, and who pre-
ferred to study the story, found out pretty soon
that the man with the tinware round his ankles
and wrists is loved by the Egyptian Princess in
the modern evening dress that is Egyptian only
at the edges. He is also loved by the Ethiopian
slave-girl, whom uncultured people in the audi-
ence affectionately allude to as Ada, and whose
countrymen the ankled gentleman is going out to
conquer. Matters are in this state when a num-
ber of Egyptian priests and other people come in,
and waving some feather-dusters at the hero, sing
the Egyptian Absent-Minded Beggar ditty of
that epoch. The Egyptian attire is a very
simple affair, and consists mostly of a towel round
the head, and a long wrapper embroidered with
remarks in shorthand. Sometimes they go boat-
ing in this garb, when it is particularly appro-
priate, the towel being handy to dry any
Egyptian who falls overboard. When the
hero returns, he is offered the white hand
of Miss Pharaoh, the Princess, but preferring
the brown one of the Ethiopian girl, he
informs the Princess of this fact melodiously.
The Princess thereupon gets annoyed in a musical
manner, and arranges matters so that the con-
queror is buried alive in a vault below the temple.
She closes the aperture, and gets on top of it so
that he can’t possibly get out again, and as she is,
like all great songstresses, a lady of healthy pro-
portions, it is probable that she is successful
in her manoeuvre. At the same time she prays
for the buried one’s soul, which shows the for-
giveness of woman in an unmistakeable manner.
Meanwhile Aida, having made her appearance in
the vault below, sings a duet or two with her
lover, and dies of starvation in five minutes.
• • * *
This first effort of the Italian opera season
is splendidly staged and riohly mounted, and
generally heaped on with a large disregard of cost.
Even people who know little music and less
Italian, and who care not much about the love
troubles of alleged Egyptians whose rumored
bones have probably blown all over the habitable
globe by now, find the show worth a visit. The
bluish moon that shone over the Pyramids in the
days when these structures were comparatively
new, and the blue-green Egyptian sky—-it seems
to have been that color then; and the great white
arches—doubtless left over since the recent visit
of the Duke of Memphis ; and many other things
are pleasing to the artistic eye. The olden land
of Khem may not have looked like that, but
scenic-artist Gordon, and somebody from Milan
with a name that looks like Chappy, who supplied
the clothes, and stage-manager Bracy contrive
among them to make it look as if it ought to have
looked like that. It seems to be ancient without
being mouldy. The return of the Egyptian contin-
genterstodemand civilservice billets from Pharaoh
is signalised by a curious procession, in which
the feather-dusters are waved over again, and
the triumphant Larizza is also hailed with
tinware and small fire-screens carried on long
poles. It is an imposing reception, and the
Egyptian soldier returns quite sober. Many
bright Egyptian girls and small blackish boys
dance in this pageant, and Pharaoh is carried
forth in a wobbly chair to see the show.
* * • +
Signora de Benedetto, as Aida, the lady
for whose brown hand the paler extremity of the
Princess is rejected, became a favorite almost im-
mediately. She is a massive lady, and a less
weighty one might look the part better, but her
voice is excellent, and she is an artist of great
dramatic force. “ Commendatore ” Larizza, as
Radames, has enough voice to endow three ordi-
nary Australian geniuses, and something over to
take back with him to Italy. He has an
imposing stage - appearance, and is a fine
actor, but that tremendous voice of his is the
recollection that remains longest. The rejected
Princess who sits upon his tomb is represented by
Signorina Marcomini, and with her also there is
little fault to be found. The biggest voices of
the co. have been put on for this opening per-
formance, and the orchestra fully matches the
voices, both in quality and quantity. “Aida”
and. “ Rigoletto ” will fill in the first week —the
latter production introducing most of the other
half of the company.
** m *
The revival, at Sydney Criterion, of
“When London Sleeps” is not altogether up
to the acting of the same play when staged a
short time ago. The strongest impression that
it leaves behind it is that the parts have been
wrongly allotted. Miss Ida Gresham should
have been the bad girl who makes the usual
wearisome statement that if there were not men
like the villain there would not be women like
her. And clever Miss Helene Burdette should
have been the good lady whose bedroom is in-
truded upon by the bad man with the top hat, and
who repels him with the pistol that she keeps in a
casual manner among her hairpins, and afterwards
walks the telegraph wire by propping herself
against the midnight sky. There is a very pretty
ballet gone through in the gambling hell, into
which the heroine, as usual, manages to stray.
There is also a dreadful child that is obliged by
the dramatist to make the most unnatural state-
ments concerning its comparative indifference to
life, and its readiness to be dropped through trap-
doors, or similarly disposed of, if it will give any
satisfaction to anybody. In other respects, by
means of blazing homesteads and literary effects
of that sort, “ London Sleeping ” is quite capable
of keeping Sydney awake for some hours nightly.
** * *
“ Mrs. Dane’s Defence ” did not transpire
at Sydney Royal on Saturday. Robert Brough
has been ill and lying low with a mustard plaster
and unanimous public sympathy on his chest.
Percy Walshe, best remembered in Sydney for his
excellent rendering of the dilapidated actor in
Hawtrey’s “ Highland Legacy,” has been filling
the vacant place and supplying to the public a
Christopher Binks that was almost as good as the
original. Under these trying circumstances it was
considered advisable to let the large Duke go on
bestowing the V.C. on Binks for three nights
longer. The new piece was re-fixed for Wednes-
day night, and a notice of it will appear in next
issue, by which time the public will know as much
about it as this paper does.
** * *
The departure of Bertram, the Conjuror,
has also been postponed for a week, and he has
put on a few new tricks in these latter days, and
materially brightened his show. It was always a
wonderful show ; the trouble is that wonders are
not always interesting. The most wonderful thing
in the world, in this writer’s idea, is how anybody
ever had the monumental patience to write
Matthew Henry’s commentary on the Bible.
Bertram really and definitely exits on Friday, and
the “World’s Entertainers” take possession of
the Palace, Saturday night. Their show is de-
scribed as “Polite Vaudeville.” If it is too
polite the unanimity with which Sydney
stays away will probably surprise the World’s
Entertainers.
** * *
At Sydney Lyceum the neat, bright-red
and blue soldiers who come in at every murder to
the tick of the clock, as if they had waited outside
the door in order to be ready in time, will cease
from their mechanical punctuality after this week.
At the same time the large white hand of the
hero will also rest from strangling the informer,
and the hero himself will stop rolling down the
steps mortally wounded every night, to arise at the
foot of the same steps and harangue about his lost
wife before finally quitting this sphere. The
“Mariners of England” are due to replace the
soldiers of France next week. This drama pur-
ports to belong to the days of Nelson, so there
will likely be some allusion to the Boer war in it.
Also the weedy resident in the top-gallery will
probably grow a deafening thirst through cheering
at the circumstance that he belongs to the bull-
dog breed. No matter how short and thick the
bull-dog may be, the weedy youth with the shamb-
ling feet always grows excited at the thought
that he is that square-built animal.
*# * *
Sydney Tivoli is still in the same place.
Ernest Swallow, the “lightning ban joist,’’handles
his perky instrument in a rapid and effective
manner; and the two Hymans and one Lennon
have a whole chapter of revelations as to what
may happen to a man in a restaurant manned by
acrobatic waiters. Albert Whelan has a budget
of fresh imitations—this is absolutely his last
week in Sydney prior to his departure for the
principal town in a small island off the French
coast. Next week Miss Marie Lloyd will re-
appear with her husband, Alec Hurley.
«# * *
After this Saturday the Union liner that
has been anchored, several weeks in Sydney Em-
pire Theatre, owing to the passengers and crew
having “Fun on the Jetty,” will depart. It will
take with it a lot of artists, including the dainty,
dashing Elmores. Lena Carmichael sings a song
about an Old Album, and sings it very nicely, but
the vocal gem of the show at present is the duet,
“ The Moon has raised her Lamp above,” by Will
Daly and John Fuller. The Leslie Brothers have
a sketch re waiting for the train at a bush station,
which is brighter than most sketches. Till
the useful but dangerous means of convey-
ance comes along the Brothers play solos on
empty barrels, and duets on other people’s lug-
gage, and develop the musical resources of the
railway department in a surprising way.
** * *
At Melb. Opera House t’other night
Jingoism got its leg pulled by the somewhat inane
Bain, who introduced his small son into his hoax.
Parent Bain made an announcement, as coming
from the management, that De Wet had been
captured, whereupon the gallery whistled, and
some of the people downstairs clapped their hands.
Then the juvenile Bain took his cue from Dad to
rush on and shriek, “It’s only a rumor,” and the
indignity of being made to feel foolish by this
grinning kid riled the disillusioned audience. A
good many of them squirmed, and went away to
moisten their language at the bar. Bain might
have saved, the situation by calling for three cheers
for De Wet, captive or otherwise, but he hadn’t
sense enough for that; and next day the name of
Bain pere et fils was taken off the programme. The
next mummer who perpetrates a silly joke on such
a sore subject as De Wet will know what to
expect.
** * *
The energetic Wilson Barrett and the
bulk of his imported co. came to light at Her Ma-
jesty’s (Melb.) last Saturday in “Man and his
Makers,” which turns out to be a drama with a
purpose. A good enough drama in its heavy,
stagey, sermonic way, but so very full of one
man’s talk, and so lacking in humor and side in-
terests, that even if the one man were altogether
suited to his character, the effect would be rather
dull. Still, it is calculated to please people who
found comfort and joy in “ The Sign of the Cross,”
and the name of those people is many.
♦ * * *
The ancestors of some of the characters in
“ Man and his Makers ” contracted bad habits, it
seems. For instance, Wilson Barrett’s great-
grandfather was a famous 6-bottle man; conse-
quently the taste for stimulants got into the
family. The son of this historic toper died in a
lunatic asylum, and his son took a large dose of
chloral to end his days. These things are known
only to a dreary scientist in a kharki suit, whose
daughter loves gallant Wilson Barrett unknown
to her pa. So when the young man wants to
marry his girl, the scientist tells him he is fore-
doomed to neurosis by the law of heredity, and
reminds him that although he wears an ingenious
straw hat, and an air of innocence, he has
already broken out in verse, poetry being
just a safety - valve for his unsuspected
family complaint. The scientist, who has evi-
dently swallowed Ibsen without a grain of salt,
refuses to consign his offspring to a foredoomed
husband. Then Wilson Barrett, who is a barrister,
goes away and justifies the unpleasant warnings
of the scientist by taking to morphia, or some
other pick-me-up, and his girl discovers him in the
act of dashing off jim-jam poetry. Also, he is
visited on legal business by another girl who says
she was foredoomed to go astray, and stare glassily
across the footlights, and swing her umbrella in a
disrespectable manner, because her mother had
forgotten to get married. In their mutual despair
the two foredooms take up arms against heredity,
and help one another to put the scientist to con-
fusion. The drama diverges into a shabby, un-
convincing criminal court where Wilson Barrett
defends the other girl’s brother on an idiotic
charge of robbery by predestination, and delivers
a long address to the jury, proving that the law of
heredity is a hass. After which the girl who took
after her mother becomes a reformed doom. The
feathers 'of her hat are no longer dissipated,
neither does she stare over the orchestra, or swing
her ’brella as of yore. And Wilson Barrett finally
hugs the scientist’s daughter with the approval
of that dejected prophet, and “Everything in
the Garden’s lovely .”
* * • #
There are 22 names on the programme of
“ Man and his Makers,” but about 90 per cent, of
the dialogue and action of the play are absorbed by
four principals. Wilson Barrett’s share, at a
rough estimate, is 62| per cent. His performance
of the hero part is strong, intelligent, clever,
weighty, but never persuasive. He looks far too
thoughtful and experienced to let his life be
blighted for a while by the dogmas of the elderly
gentleman in kharki. His style is buoyant, but old.
Pretty Miss Lillah M‘Garthy, much thinner than
she was four years ago, is attractively unnatural
in the hysterical part of the girl who thought she
was foredoomed. J. Carter-Edwards, an old
member of Mr. Barrett’s co., is a cold, preachy
scientist. Ambrose Manning and Horace Hodges
make their first Australian i - e-appearance as two
sketchy lawyers of the kind that Dickens invented;
and Edyth Latimer, a Sydney girl and a pupil of
W. 8., impersonates the Sylvia to whom he plights
his troth. Judging from her effort on Saturday,
when she was, perhaps, too nervous to do her
best, Miss Latimer is a promising pupil with an
earnest desire to act like Miss Maud Jeffries, but
her imitation of the former leading lady is rather
young at present. George Barrett, nephew of
W. 8., shapes well in an unimportant capacity,
and some of the others shape otherwise.
## # *
At Melb. Princess the reason “ Why
Smith Left Home ” was divulged on Saturday to
the delight of local Philistines, steeped for nearly
a year past in operatic woe. They overcrowded
the house, and “ larfed feelingly ” all the time. So
far as narrative goes, Arnold’s current joke is less
a consecutive story than a group of “ House that
Jack Built ” items, something to this effect :
This is sordid bridegroom Smith (Geo. Willoughby), too
busy to take a honeymoon trip.
This is his aunt-in-law (Mrs. Walter Hill), who, presum-
ably egged on by offended Venu3, billeted herself unasked
on the connubial Smiths when they should have been
alone with their happiness.
This is the old frock, given away by the ruffled bride
when her brute of a John refused her a new one on the
score of an expensive visit from dear Auntie, plus her
second husband, General Billetdoux (Fred. Lester).
This is the pretty parlor-maid (Dot Frederics), who,
wearing Missus’discarded frock, was erroneously kissed
by Smith in the presence of witnesses.
This is 500 dollars, the price paid by compromised Smith
for his taste of parlormaid.
Another instrument, appointed by Fate to drive
the Smiths forth to coo, quarrel, bill, and bite in
some rural district, is the mature Juliet Smith
(Ada Lee), who comes to stay, wrangles with her
sister-in-law, and necessitates board and lodging
for the senile Romeo who pursues her. While the
unhoneymooned Smith bewails himself that by
sacrificing his trip to a rush of business he has
come in for a rush of relations, his wife’s slim
young brother (Frank Denton) elopes with Hope
Mayne, and heads straight fpr Smith’s. The
penniless babes can’t be turned into the street, so
Mrs. Smith passes them off on her husband as
Italian teachers, and locks them up to spend their
wedding-day without food, while, through key-
holes, they can see and smell Smith dining sump-
tuously on the sly, he having bribed Sallie
Booth (Secretary of Lady Cooks’ Union)
to scare his aunt-in-law off the premises
by malignant cookery in general. Various
herrings, salt and fresh, are dragged across
the trail in the shape of flirtations between Smith’s
male guests and maid-servants. Also, Charles
Arnold suddenly splashes into the complications
with a quick and lively study of a susceptible
German, who mixes up Mrs. Smith (Agnes
Knights) with her spinster relative, Juliet, and
falls in love with the wrong one. Valuable Sallie
Booth is convincing as an Irish emancipated cook;
Willoughby makes a cheery, well-fed Smith ; and
Miss Frederics is, as usual, a bright, ’cute little
Dot, whose kiss ought to be worth at least one
dollar of the price she charges for it.
• • • •
In the curtain-raiser, “ The Gray Parrot,”
Inez Bensusan seems a little too sharp and
superior for the merchant mate’s “ pretty Mary,”
and Edwin Lester is a commendable sea-dawg.
“ Smith ” and the curtain-raiser are, seemingly,
limited to a run of five or six weeks. Judging
from the start made on Saturday, they will get
over the ground in prosperous time.
** * *
“ White Heather ” revival at Melb. Royal
shows all that is best in 4-act melodrama and
Bland Holt’s mounting thereof. The amphibious
narrative is well written and constructed. None
of the mortals who live to see the finish, or die
during the evening, are aggressively virtuous or
unreasonably otherwise. Seeing them again after
a lapse of two or three years one remembers some
of the men and women of “ The White Heather”
clan, and believes in them considerably. The
cold, speculative Joe Chamberlain type of lord,
who keeps his monocle fixed on the main chance ;
the exceptional stockbroker who contrives to seem
pathetic in his fatal slump ; Lady Janet, so
wealthy “on her own” that she can afford to
amuse herself with active sympathy for an
ill-used but undesirable member of the Family—
these items look very real. Also the sassiety
amateurs taking instructions from Bland Holt re
“Wiggetty ” and “ Jiggetty ” are an appropriate
extravagance, and among the little character
parts there is a strictly human yachtsman, who
tells all he knows about Walter Baker’s marriage,
until he suddenly discovers the cash value of a
profound ignorance of the matter. Brunton’s
scene-painting in the “ White Heather” is beauti-
ful at many points. The stock exchange sensa-
tion, and the goblinesque struggle of the rival
divers, are notable features, and the costumes of
sundry daughters of Britain’s blessed peerage are
as handsome as before, or even handsomer.
Moreover, the acting of Walter Baker, Charles
Brown, and the Bland Holts is brighter than it
was, although they were always very satisfactory
in this drama. Miss Ireland, Miss Ross, and
most of the others do credit to the spectacle, but
Albert Norman needs another jar concerning his
smile, which is first cousin to a grimace.
* *
At Rickards’ Opera House, the last appear-
ance of Marie Lloyd happens to-night. The advt.
doesn’t state whether it is an absolutely final last
or only an ordinary last appearance, but in any
case the function is fraught with sadness. Austin
Rudd came back to the Opera House last Satur-
day and sang once again of the restless polony
that bobbed within him. Arnoldi, Zobedie, and
the poor old bear are progressing favorably, and
somebody will come along when Marie aforesaid
has gone away.
Since Mr. J. Smith took the managership
of the Australia Hotel many improvements have
been instituted ; the latest being an upstairs bil-
liard-room for the use of guests and their lady
friends.
The Victorian hangman, a portly, genial,
severely-respectable-looking, middle-aged man,
whom everybody takes for a Legislative Councillor,
now awaits trial on a charge of assaulting two
little girls. Which recalls that a previous Melb.
man-butcher—“ Jones,” —who suicided so dramati-
cally rather than hang Mrs. Knorr, -once received
25 lashes for an offence similar to those charged
against his successor.
Two Perth(W.A.) celebration-week advts. :
f'tOAT (Frock), and Tall Hat, wanted to hire. Apply
G.N., this office.
BIRTH.
ROBERTS.—On the 21st inst., at five minutes to 12
o’clock, at Kensington House, opposite the East
Perth station, just before the train came steaming
into the station with our illustrious Duke and
Duchess, the wife of VV. A. Roberts of a son. Both
doing well.
The invariable 16 ye- • :ld girl broke out in
a new form at Port Melbourne last week, and in
a form even more dangerous than ever, seeing that
it included the corroboration of another female.
The 16-year-old female had been in the employ-
ment of a local hotelkeeper, and told the police
that she had been criminally assaulted by him,
and that she had immediately afterwards told the
barmaid, who had commented that the boss had
tried the same game with her. The police duly
proceeded against the publican by summons, a
magistrate with more sense than usual declining
to issue a warrant. The hotelkeeper did not run
away ; he came into court, and after the young
lady had told her dramatic story of wrong, the
barmaid was put into the box. Her evidence, as
reported in the Argus, should be framed and hung
up in every Australian jury-room :
Mary Augusta Sheedy, barmaid at the hotel, said Mr.
Fisher had frequently scolded her, and was abusing her
all day on the day of the alleged offence. She went into
the bar between 4 and 5 o’clock, and Fisher went upstairs.
Some time afterwards Minnie Yeoman came to her and
said, “ Gus, don’t say anything, but the ‘ boss ’ has tried
to ill-use me in the room upstairs.” Witness replied,
“ You are only having a lark. Do you really mean it ? ”
The girl then said, “ I am going to say that he assaulted
me, and I want you to say that you heard me scream-
ing.” Witness agreed to do so, and said that she would
also state that he had tried to do the same to her, but it
was not true. After this, the girl went away to tell her
aunt of the circumstance, and she did not go back to the
hotel. When Senior-constable Lynch spoke to her on
Saturday, she felt inclined to say anything that would
make the case look black for Fisher, because she was on
bad terms with him. She also told the senior-constable
that she heard the girl calling out, but she now admitted
that this was not the truth.
The Bench decided to discharge the accused.
So far, nothing has happened to Miss Yeoman.


■ ■ ■
RAND
air compressors
ROCK DRILLS
“Ivanhoe” Mining Steel
Explosives
Lubricating Oils
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
7 1 Clarence St., Sydney.
TRAMWAYS. TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., Sydney
Representing ORENSTEIH & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material. Locomotives from 10 to SSO h.p.
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers, Turntables, Switches,
Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys
arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photographic Albums showing Tramways constructed in- different parts
of the World, upon application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
The Insurance News of Ist August, 1900,
writes: “We have faith that the Colonial Mutual with its
many advantages of position and organisation, and its
manifest decision to cultivate only safe and high class
business, will secure its full share of business. *
•** . *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Go., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue ot an
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them tor
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gi -
Allan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The Age of 24th October, 1900, writes regarding
the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited:
“ The results of the investigation of its affairs for the
quinquennium ending the 31st December last show that
the Society is in a very sound position.”*
» * * •
The Austral Otis Engineering Company have
now delivered one of the water-ends in connection with
their contract with the Melbourne and Metropolitan
Board of Works. The second water-end will be delivered
within a week or two. These water-ends are a very
massive piece of work and. reflect credit on the makers.
They are made of a special mixture of iron, which was
subjected to severe tests before being put into the work
and gave highly satisfactory results. Each water-end
weighs about 70 tons.*
• • • *
John W. H. Piper, C.E., M.A.1.M.E.,
M Am 1.M.E., &c., Australian representative of Cutten
Bros., Dunedin, mining and dredging engineers, is leaving
for London about the end of August to establish a Home
Office for the firm, the increase of foreign business
necessitating this action. Mr. Piper will be pleased to
undertake any commissions that may be entrusted to him.
Equitable Buildings, George-street, Sydney.*
* ■ * "
Ward off influenza by taking
Bow’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Bock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
If further proof is needed that Luhrig Vanners
are the best and most economical machines for dressing
fines and slimes, it will be found in the fact that the Tas-
mania gold mine, Beaconsfield, Tasmania, has decided to
increase the number of these machines in the extension
of the present mill and reduction works. When com-
pleted it will have over 100 head of stampers at work, and
60 Luhrig Vanners, including the additional 24 of the
large type. Before finally adopting plans the Tasmania
board sent its manager to inspect the chief reduction
works in other States. Messrs. W. and J. Lerr.priere, of
Melbourne, are the Sole Agents for the Luhrig appli-
ances.*
• * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for ail sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
* » * •
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Bow’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• * * *
Mine-manager J. E. Downey, of the Mt. Bulga
Copper Co., is pushing on with sinking of main shaft and
erection of machinery. At the pumping station, boiler
and pumps have been fitted and given a trial run. The
Band Compressor (supplied by N. Guthridge, Ltd.), air-
receiver, winding-engine, and 30 h.p. Multi-tubular boiler,
have all been placed in position, and it is expected to
have the whole of the plant running in about a week’s
time. Main shaft is down 120 ft., and with the rock-drills
at work, it is hoped that the lode will be cut in seven or
eight weeks. Quite a number of mines are erecting Band
machines, and N. Guthridge, Ltd., sole agents for the
Band Drill Co., of New York, report being very busy.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM,
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ;68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per oent.
pure), Bleaching Powder, Mining Requisites,
Candles, etc.
“WILD CAT” BRIAR PIPES Wild
8
D.
ea.
IN A. DOZEN DIFFERENT SHAPES.
Posted, lOd.; 6s. per Dozen—posted, 6s. Bd.; 725. per Gross—Carriage Free to any
Railway Station in New South Wales.
8
D.
ea.
Cat
•V" * >
TT. WOOLF & 00., 376 Oeorge-atreet (next Q.F.0.), SYDNEY.
#
The Wild Cat Column.
The N.S.W. Government has wisely decided to
raise the interest on future local issues of inscribed stock
to 3£ per cent. At 3 per cent, it got a considerable
amount of money, but not nearly so much as it wanted,
and the spectacle of a Government almost simultaneously
offering inscribed stock in Sydney at 3 per cent.,
Treasury bills in Sydney at 3£ per cent., and Treasury
bills in London at 4 per cent, was confusing. The idea of
issuing short-dated Treasury bills at 3£ and 4 per cent,
was that, when they fell due three or four or five years
hence, it might be possible to convert them into long-
dated inscribed stock at 3 per cent. Judging from the
appearance of things, however, it may be many a long
day before any Australian State will be able to get money
at 3 per cent, again.
• * * •
Some answers to correspondents :—A. J.L. :
Know of no 6d. or Is. g.m. shares with any prospects of
divs Richard C. (G.) : The mine is prospecting for the
Garden Gully run of stone, but that mine’s best gold is
now coming from the northern end of the leases.. .E.W. :
If in or near the main street it should be worth the
money ; but if soihe distance away it isn’t Barcoo : (1)
7s. paids, 3s. 6d. contrib. ; (2) Some months ago; (3)
Anything but good ; (4) No T.L.P. : Write to Hay and
Co., or some other metal firm, who will give you full par-
ticulars C.F. : There is a broker in Melbourne of that
name. Write to Secretary of Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
H.H.: It is a low-grade tin property. It may be
paying, but it isn’t making much profit. Cannot tell
value of shares.
» * * *
The N.S.W. pastoralists threaten to rise in a
long-postponed revolt against Sydney Meat Preserving
Co. That institution, for reasons difficult to discover,
gets a bonus of 10s. per cent, on the value of all, or
practically all, the stock sold at Homebush. If the co.
were an enormous concern whose purchases were so great
as to appreciably keep up the price of stock this would
be understandable, but it is hardly that. For instance,
these are its purchases as shown in its own balance-sheet,
compared with total sales :
The Sydney Meat Preserving Cos. practically lives on the
subsidy which it gets from the pastoralists. For in-
stance, here are the figures for two years to December,
1900 (the balance-sheet for June, 1901, is not yet to
hand) :
Loss on Subsidy
Business. Received. Ke3ervea '
Dec., 1898 £66,474
June, 1899 .. £2,136 ... £2,346 .. 66,684
Dec., 1899 .. 2,714 ... 3,726 .. 67,696
June, 1900 .. 5,526 .. 4,074 .. 66,244
Dec., 1900 .. 8,011 .. 6,514 .. 64,747
Of these reserves it would seem that £52,631 are accu-
mulated subsidies. The co. certainly pays no dividends—
still, according to its balance-sheet, if it was sold up now
the shareholders would get their capital back four times
over, and that in itself is equal to nearly 5 per cent, divi-
dend on the co.’s capital, accumulated at compound in-
terest ever since the concern started, so the shareholders
might have done worse. The points for the pastoralists
to consider are these:—(l) The Sydney Meat 00.
appears to have grown so accustomed to living on the
subsidy that it doesn’t make any great effort
to work its business on a paying basis. (2)
Being thus aided it can, whenever necessary, under-
sell other concerns in the same line ; if it wasn’t
that new co.’s are handicapped by this unfair competi-
tion they might be more numerous than they are, and
the pastoralist might have more outlets for his stock than
he has. In other words, if he saved the subsidy alto-
gether, the demand might be better instead of worse. For
the last two years the subsidy has averaged 40 per cent,
per annum on the Sydney Meat Co.’s capital, and it is
very difficult for new co’s. (which might absorb a lot of
the pastoralists’ stock, and thereby improve business) to
struggle against a concern to which 40 per cent, profit
comes in its sleep. (3) If the subsidy is really necessary to
keep afloat the meat-preserving industry, then it should
be divided among the co’s. in order to keep as large an
industry afloat as possible for the pastoralists’ benefit.
If it isn’t necessary, then the Sydney Meat Cos. (seeing
that it isn’t making profits just now) apparently either
wastes it by bad management—which does the pastoralist
no good, or uses it to needlessly cut down prices—which
does the pastoralist direct harm, as tending to lower the
price of stock. Either way the pastoralist appears to be
doing a very foolish thing.
* * • *
The affairs of the prosperous Victoria Life and
General Insurance 00. (Melbourne) were dealt with in
last issue. The other two Victorias—there are three, all
managed by the same people at the same office—are re-
viewed hereunder.
The Victoria Insurance Cos. (paid-up capital
£50,181) shows these results from 1893 to date :
Year Total
to June. Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
1893 £34,085 45 per cent. = £22,468 £78,602
1894 24,400 45 „ „ 22,468 80,534
1895 .. 20,741 40£ „ ~ 20,221 81,054
1896 .. 17,058 36 ~ „ 17,974 80,138
1897 .. 18,010 36 „ „ 17,974 80,174
Loss. J Depreciation of assets)
1898 .. 23,336 (written off .. 20,000 / 36,838
Profit.
1899 .. 14,597 9 „ =» 4,494 46,941
1900 .. 19,046 22£ „ „ 11,234 54,753
1901 .. 17,374 27 „ „ 13,481 58,646
The Victoria Insurance Cos. has done a good deal to re-
pair the disaster of 1898, but even now its position
looks hardly good enough to justify the 27 per cent, divi-
dend. The reserves consist of undivided profit, £9808;
ordinary reserve, £25,000; reinsurance fund, £11,838;
and contingency fund, £12,000. The last-named has been
all built up in 1900 and 1901, and the haste to re-con-
struct this fund after the heavy writing-off in ’9B suggests
the possibility that there may be still more depreciation
of assets to provide for. Again the reinsurance fund of
£11,838 can hardly, by any possibility, represent the un-
expired premiums, considering that the net premium
income, after allowing for all discounts and reinsurances,
is over £82,000. This fund represents barely 15 per cent.,
and 30 per cent, would be much more like a fair thing;—
or even 40 per cent. On the 40 per cent, basis the Vic-
toria’s entire reserves would equal the liability under its
unexpired premiums and £26,000 over; on the 30 per
cent, basis it would have a net reserve, after providing
for liability under unexpired premiums, of £34,000
—less any provision necessary for depreciation. Under
these conditions the reserves seem wholly inade
quate for a business of such magnitude —the gross pre-
mium income is no less than £143,000 a year—and the
haste with which the management has reverted to the
policy of huge dividends is quite unjustifiable, despite
the great improvement in the business. The Victoria has
one of the finest fire insurance businesses in Australia,
but it has always hankered too violently after big divi-
dends.
• • * *
The Victoria General Insurance and Guarantee
Co. (Melbourne) is onlyJ.2 years old. This is its complete
record :—
Year to Total
June Profits. Dividends. Beserves.
1890 .. £9,170 10 per cent. = £2,000 £7,170
1891 .. 843 10 „ „ 2,000 6,013
1892 .. 6,426 10 ,, „ 2,000 10,439
1893 .. 6,283 15 „ „ 3,000 13,722
1894 .. 6,477 20 „ „ 4,000 16,199
1895 .. 5,629 20 „ „ 4,000 17,828
1896 .. 4,988 25 „ „ 5,000 17,816
1897 .. 3,689 20 „ „ 4,COO 17,505
Loss
1898 .. 5,011 10 „ „ 2,000 10,494
Profits
1899 .. 4,511 15 „ „ 3,000 12,005
1900 .. 3,233 20 „ „ 4,000 11,238
1901 .. 4,741 20 ,, ,, 4,000 11,979
The Victoria General Insurance and Guarantee Co. has
faded away most lamentably since 1895. It has had
splendid luck, and if it had paid 10 per cent, dividends
all along, instead of an average of 16£ per cent., and
invested its pile wholly in State and good municipal
securities, it would already be a strong concern, instead
of the rather ordinary-looking institution it is—with total
funds (paid-up capital and reserves) of £31,979.
The Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melb.) shows rather
better returns than for the corresponding half-year (which
is also the less profitable half) of 1900 :—
Considering the curious position of the co. the raising of
the dividend seems very dubious policy. Its power of
borrowing on debentures is limited to £857,210 —equal to
its capital. It has already borrowed £848,000. The
capital (£857,210), debenture loans (£848,000), and the
principal reserve (£466,535, raised by sale of shares at
a premium) is almost wholly invested in fixed works.
At June, 1900, £48,506 of these funds remained to pay
for extensions; at June, 1901, so much capital had
been invested in extending the co.’s operations that
only £31,918 was left to pay for further expansion. The
increase in the total funds is largely an increase in fixed
works ; the cash and liquid securities are only £6OOO
more than at June, 1900, and after paying the
dividend they represent about £14,000. The co. has
£560,000 of 5 per cent, debentures falling due between
1908 and 1912, and if it proposes to repay part of them
out of its own funds, and thus reduce the load of debt
and the heavy interest burden, it is necessary to accu-
mulate funds. The increase of dividend suggests that
the co. doesn’t intend doing this, and is quite content to
let the debt stand. Yet a reduction of the debt is badly
needed ; if it wasn’t for the £40,770 a year that goes out
in interest, the Melbourne Gas Co. could easily pay 15 per
cent.
• * * *
The Australian Gas Light Co. (Sydney):
Profits. Dividends. .. , Reserves.
Dec., 1896 .. £54,898 15 per cent. = £51,135 £116,178
June, 1897.. 48,436 15 „ ~ 51,135 113,479
Deo., 1897 .. 54,743 16 „ „ 51,135 117,087
June, 1898 .. 47,923 15 „ „ 51,135 113,875
Dec., 1898 .. 54,156 15 „ „ 51,135 116,896
June, 1899 .. 46,995 15 „ „ 51,135 112,756
Dec., 1899 .. 55,628 15 „ „ 61,135 117,249
June, 1900 .. 47,879 15 „ „ 51,135 113,993
Dec., 1900 .. 54,033 15 „ „ 51,135 116,891
June, 1901 .. 48,352 15 „ „ 51,135 114,108
The Australian Gaslight Co.’s existing capital consists of
113,633 shares of £6 each—£6Bl,79B. It is now proposed
to create 11,367 new shares (making 125,000 in all), to be
issued at a premium of £6 a share. This will create
£68,202 of new capital, and £68,202 will be received as
premiums, and, presumably, added to the reserves, which
will then stand at about £183,000. .It is understood, in a
general sort of way, that the extra money is wanted to
extend the business and also to pay off debentures that
are falling due. The co.’s huge 15 per cent, dividend
absorbs everything as it goes along, and leaves no margin
to meet the debentures or to pay for extensions. How
much the debentures amount to the very reticent
balance-sheet doesn’t show. They are lumped in with
“ sundry creditors ’’ and “ temporary loans.”
• * ♦ *
Elder, Smith and Co., the great Adelaide wool
and produce concern, formerly Elder’s Wool and Produce
Co. (capital £1,000,000, of which £190,000 is paid up) :
Reserves
(Goodwill
not
Year reckoned
to as an
June Profits. Dividends. asset).
1898 £14,722
1899 .. £20,601 .. 6 per cent. = £11,400 .. 23,923
1900 .. 28,631 ..9 „ = 17,100 .. 35,454
f 9 „ = 17,100 .."I
1901 .. 25,283 ..-{Written off 5-38,637
premises .. 5,000 .. J
The goodwill item disappeared from the balance-sheet
last year. Elder, Smith and Co. has now larger reserves
than at any previous period in its history. In 1892 there
were nominal reserves of £44,081, and at June, 1893, just
before the great writing-off, they were £66,781. But
these consisted largely of goodwill, which is a mere paper
item, and, as it proved, of other dubious assets. In
1893, £78,982 was written off, and the co. started afresh
with a nominal deficit of £12,201, but if the
goodwill item had been taken out of the assets,
the real shortage would have been very much larger.
With the goodwill written off, over £BO,OOO provided' for
depreciation, and the visible reserves nearly back to the
’92 figure, the co. is vastly stronger than evOr before.
* * * „'* ■
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors, and Agency
Co. (Ballarat, Victoria) is making good progress since it
finished writing off that large dead horse, “Goodwill,
£4500,” with which its career commenced in 1888. Recent
proceedings are these :
Profits, less Total deficit
deprecia- Divid ends. feoodwillnot
tion written reckoned as
off. an asset.)
December, 1895 £787 5 per cent. = £375 £3,199
June, 1896 .. 952 5 „ „ 375 2,622
December, 1896 881 5 „ „ 375 2,116
June, 1897 .. 835 5 „ „ 375 1,656
December, 1897 708 7 „ „ 525 1,473
June, 1898 .. 740 5 „ „ 375 1,102
December, 1898 949 7 ~ ~ 525 678
June, 1899 .. 1,071 7 „ „ 525 132
Total
December, 1899 1,042 7 „ „ 525 385
June, 1900 .. 941 8 „ „ 600 726
December, 1900 1,090 8 „ „ 600 1,216
June, 1901 .. 1,113 8 „ „ 600 1,729
The profits are equal to £l3 14s. 6d. per cent, per annum
on the shareholders’ funds as at the beginning of the
half-year. If the Ballarat Trustees keeps its dividend at
the present level—which is the highest rate paid by any
Australian trustee co. —and the. business is.maintained,
and the co. invests its savings in State and good muni-
cipal securities so that it can’t be wrecked some day by a
falling property market, it should have a big future.
» * * *
Some recent figures relating to the North Coast
Steam Navigation 00. (Sydney): — Total
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
June 1899 .. .. • - £23,818
Dec.,’1899 .‘.’£7201 .. 8 per cent. =£5250 .. 25.769
June, 1900 .. 6244 ~8 „ „ 5250 .. 26,763
Dec., 1900 .. 6254 ..8 „ „ 5250 .. 27,767
June, 1901 .; 6485 ..8 „ ~ 5250 .. 28,002
Reserves consist of insurance fund, £17,538, and reserve
for equalisation of dividends, £10,464. The latter, as Tub
Bulletin has before mentioned, is a ridiculous designa-
tion ; the co. couldn’t use this fund for equalising
dividends without reducing its resources to an absurdly
low point, and the affair should be called a plain,
ordinary reserve and treated as such. The co. doesn t
show its gross earnings or its .working expenses,
but simply states that the net profit is so much. There-
fore it is impossible to say from the balance-sheet whether
the business of late isn’t quite what it was, or whether
the reduction arises through an increase in the
expenses. But either way it looks as if the bonus of 2 per
cent, (the co. pays 6 per cent, dividend and 2 per cent,
bonus) should be reduced. For some years previous to
1898 only 6 per cent, was paid, and a return to that rate
might be beneficial unless trade improves.
A brilliantly vague and ingenious scheme for
acquiring great riches in one act has arisen in Melbourne.
It calls itself the “ Mutual Financial and Assets Develop-
ment 00., Ltd.,” with an authorised capital of £25,000.
Its literature sets forth that anybody can borrow from it
from £2 upwards, for long or short periods, on any kind
of security that is regarded as satisfactory, provided he
holds at least floe shares of ss. each, fully paid up. If a
man wants to borrow £2 he must first spend £l.ss. on the
purchase of shares. Probably a whole multitude of
people will buy shares with an idea that they will thereby .
be able to borrow in a large, loose, general way, and it
is quite possible that shares will sell which,
under a different system, would not sell at all. What
kind of success people will meet with at borrowing
after they have bought the shares is quite another
matter. The prospectus which reached this office
doesn’t give the names of any boa.rd of direc-
tors, any banker, any solicitor, anything except a
man who calls himself “ Secretary.” It isn’t stated who
appointed the secretary, what salary he gets for lending
people their own money, who fixed the salary, what
interest is to be charged on loans, what dividend (if any)
the co. expects to pay, how often it will issue its balance-
sheet, when the shareholders will get a chance to meet
and elect their directors, or how long the co. has existed
—the prospectus, however, speaks of it being in the first
stage of its development,” so apparently it is quite hew.
For all that the prospectus shows to the contrary the
public just goes into a small office, and leaves its money
with a strange man, and waits to see what will happen
next.
* • » *
The Civil Service Mutual Building and Invest-
ment Societv (Sydney), a very small affair with paid-up
capital of £i5,170, continues to get along in its small way.
The allusion to “Apparent Profits” hereunder is based
on the fact that the Contingency Reserve has increased at
various times without any explanation as to where the
money came from, and these increases are included in the
profits:
Apparent JNet
June Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
1895 £2054
««
1897 601 per cent. = 379 2084
1898 613 2£ „ „ 379 2318
1899 486 2£ „ „ 379 2425
1900 463 {written ofi ” 1501} 1202
1901 *76 ‘ lS} »
As far as can be gathered these are not new losses, but
rather a cleaning-up of the debris of past years, but that
doesn’t make the situation much the less dispiriting.
The total earnings for the year just closed only equal
about 3 per cent, on capital. Yet the gross earnings are
rather better than the average, being equal to nearly 7
per cent, on the society’s assets, which suggests that the
properties are now about worth the values set against
them. But in so small an institution the cost of the
paraphernalia of a full-blown office and management
swallows up an excessive proportion of the earnings. If
the Civil Service Building Society could take over two
more institutions of about its own size, and run them all
from the one office, things might improve materially.
* * * *
Adelaide’s latest ’Change fever results from the
discovery of kerosene shale in Tas. Mountains of it, of
course. Certainly,-the stuff gets good analysts’ reports ;
but of the quantity and other things little definite is yet
known.
*•* - *
“ Carolo ” : Accounts as to the pay-ore avail-
able at the Briseis vary considerably, but all agree that
the prospect is more than excellent, so far as tin in sight
is concerned. The fly in the ointment is, or may be,
this: According to some disinterested mining men the
most important water channels of this mine, which have
been dammed, will silt up ere the co. has been long at
work, and this and other disabilities make the Briseis a
doubtful proposition.
• * • *
“Euroa” writes: “What has become of the
Cooma (N.S.W.) Copper-Mining Co. ? The manager’s re-
ports of work and ore in sight were always very encour-
aging, especially when calls were made ; but for long
total silence has reigned. Is the mine still at work ? and
if not, what are the directors doing ? A meeting should
be called at once to take steps to raise capital to develop
the property or to liquidate altogether.”
* * * *
Figured out that, whereas the B.H. Prop.’s
margin of profit in ’94, when lead got down to £9 12s. per
ton, was el Is. Id. per ton of ore, the margin is nowa-
days 3s. 9d., with lead at £l2 per ton. The difference is
partly due to reduced metallic contents, but mainly to
the more refractory character of the ore. About the
same quantity is being Jaandled.
B.H. North, which stopped its mill when five
out of the six months in its half-year were through, went
back to the extent of about £looo—that includes income-
tax on last year’s profits, but no allowance for deprecia-
tion of plant. The co. started the half-year with a
surplus of liquid assets over liabilities of £2027. As, how-
ever, in addition to the loss on working, there was an
outlay of £12,705 on plant—most of it milling plant—the
co. is now obliged to enter upon a course of quick-and-
lively call paying. Still, shareholders haven’t much to
complain of. They got the mine for a song ; the paid-up
capital was only £lO,OOO, with which they bought the
mine, put up a ramshackle plant, paid nearly £20,000
divs. in 2J years, partly paid for a decent plant, and have
still exposed over 200,000 tons of rather better than
average-grade ore. ,
Believing that, though probably lead will not
rise to much above £l3, the present fall to under £l2 is
due to an American lead-combine’s squeezing operations,
some big Australian share-dealers are working a “ bear ”
on their own account. And it’s pretty easy to work, too,
just now—and likewise pretty risky. But if there ts
anything- in the combine yarn, and if on top of the re-
action the co.’s get to work on the zinc, there’ll be a pot
of money in it.
• * * *
A Melbourne paper : ‘ 1 The directors of Brown-
hill Extended have determined that the main shaft shall
be sunk 200 ft. The policy of deep-sinking in this mine is
the correct one, and if a few other co’s. on the Golden
Belt were to follow the example thus set, the value of
several of the mines would stand a much better chance of
being proved than by merely pottering about at a short
distance from the surface. Unfortunately want of capital
prevents proper prospecting and developing in many
cases on this great field.” And this is mining news .
Had the author of it ever been to the field, or remem-
bered what he had been told about it, he would know
that more deep-sinking has been done during the last
five years on this particular field than on any other in
Australia. Why, more money has been spent in prospect-
ing and sinking of main shafts in that time at Kalgoorlie
than in all Victoria during the last 10 years.
* • ♦ *
Resolutions in favor of the amalgamation of
Brookman’s Boulder and the North Kalgurli passed in
London. Enough work has been done and money spent
on both mines to prove them non-paying concerns. What
they want is not amalgamation, but amalgam.


Complete
Outfits.
AN ORIENT BOOT
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT^
63/
• •?%*&
TO MEASURE
ALL CLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE ..
“Orient To measure” Clothing
.. AT ..
PRICES-'
II rite for Particulars and Patterns.
PAVIP JON€S & COMPANY
8, Barrack Sts., Sydney
■' V - ■
66 KING
5
T
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjcj aient of
HOME CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
Here is a delightful instance of the grovel-
boomerang returning to hit its thrower in the eye.
With the idea of adding eclat to the annual Com-
memoration of Sydney University this year, the
senators resolved to imitate Melbourne and bestow
on the Duke of York an honorary degree. They
were thus enabled to invite the Royal party to
the show and turn the annual event into a
Function. (In parenthesis it may be mentioned
that the hideous row and senseless din indulged
in by the undergrade.—iaid row and din carefully
ignored by the press in the interests of the annual
grant by Parliament—quite spoilt the idea.)
Quidnuncs at the time disputed the right of
Sydney University to confer a purely honorary
degree, and, of course, no one ever supposed
the Duke had qualified for the real tiling.
But the senate was determined to have the
Duke on parade, and he was solemnly admitted
“ad eundern gradum ” to the degrees of LL.D.
and D.C.L. The unhappy little man already has
the LL.D. of Cambridge and D.C.L. of Oxford—
honorary, of course. The difficulties foreseen by
the know-alls have to be faced, and the authorities
find that they have, ridiculously enough, pre-
sented the Duke with what was not theirs to
give ! Anyhow, the Calendar for 1901 has ap-
peared, and the exalted name of York has no
place therein. Neither have the fees been paid.
The hitch seems to be that Sydney University
charter makes no provision for the bestowal of a
purely-honorary degree, and the English Univer-
sities decline to acknowledge the power of an
outside body to admit ad cundern gradum to their
honorary degrees. The University Calendar is
the “blue book ” of the institution, and if the
Duke’s name is not published in it, it can only
mean that he is not the possessor of a degree of
the Sydney University. All of which places the
senate in an inexpressibly foolish position. And
serve ’em right.
♦ * * *
The Jookoyork’s host, Lord Ranfurly,
took occasion to ask his Shortness, on his .arrival
at Wellington, how he had enjoyed his trip, so
far. “Oh, all right,” said the Jook, “if you call
it enjoyment to be carted about like a stuffed
goose for people to stare at.” And now the Jook
is uniformly referred to by loyal Maorilanders as
“ the stuffed goose.”
Little York is a stuffed goose, right
enough. No one suspects him of brains, and
everyone feels that not one line of that pretentious
and carefully-compiled farewell letter of his was
THE BRAKE.—(A sketch in Upper William-street, Sydney.)
THE CAPTAIN (in front): “ Tell Mickey to take the brake off, an' stop actin' the goat!”
written or even inspired by himself. It was all
stuffed into the goose.
* * * *
The Sydney Herald fare welling the
Duke
We were faithful and loyal subjects before ever a royal
prince visited our shores, and, so long as the relations
between the British Government and Australia remain as
they have been since the granting of Responsible Govern-
ment, loyal and faithful subjects of the British Crown we
shall always remain.
Just so. But Granny leaves us to take our choice
as to whether she is purposely non-committal or
merely stupid as usual.
• * * *
The aggressive jingoism of Vic. Chief-
Justice Madden is taking the bit in its ln
appointing a certain Boer-slayer to he' a Com-
missioner for Affidavits Mr. Madden had the
front to state that there were others on the list,
and it ivas usual to appoint according to seniority
and fitness, but in consideration of the hero’s
public - spirit and patriotism in volunteering
for S’Africa he had departed from the usual cus-
tom. A distinct act of unfair patronage and an
avowed adoption of a vicious principle by one who,
by virtue of his office, is sworn to administer jus-
tice without fear or favor.
* * * *
They put up a beautiful brass slab in
Adelaide Cathedral “to the memory of the fallen
brave,” and the Jook unveiled it ; and they
inscribed upon it the name of Trooper C.
H. M‘Guire, among others. And now the
M'Gruire writes out to say that he is progressing
satisfactorily, begorra, and is to be invalided
home shortly. Even Cathedral brasses lie about
this war!
* * * *
The returned contingenter is “ a whale ”
for effect. When the last batch from Africa was
standing round absorbing admiration of several
domestic servants and a few vagrant shop-boys
the Argus discovered Lieut.-Colonel Kelly feed-
ing his horse with sugar whilst the animal
“nestled his head beside his owner’s cheek affec-
tionately.” Picture!
♦ * • *
The Vic. Government which lost its head
in an endeavour to suppress “ foul libels on the
Kang ” certainly ought to protect the public from
the bad influence of such Aug us paragraphs as
this: “ Janet Lady Clarke, who has been absent
from Melbourne for a week, returns to-morrow
evening. She has been staying at Thule, a station
property in liiverina, the house party consisting
of Miss Vera Clarke, Mrs. Charles Ryan, Mr.
and Mrs. &c., &c., and Major So-and-So.” Solemn
announcements in daily papers of the social
goings, and stayings, and returnings of a baronet’s
widow merely because she is a baronet’s widow
are an insult to the other sort of Unemployed
members of the Commonwealth. Also they are
demoralising to the snobocracy which doesn’t feel
insulted, and they lack the excuse of being read-
able. Dull grovel in,a “ great ” daily paper being
more pernicious in its effects than foul libel in a
small weekly. The Bulletin herewith moves
that the Argus be excluded from the Vic. Parlia-
ment without the option of a fine.
• '* * *
Mr. Sam Leon’s appointment to a
Victorian Grown Prosecutorship ended the dis-
graceful competition for the job which had been
going on for twelve months. The Law authorities
selected aspiring barristers month and month
about to relieve Finlavson, K.C., of some of his
work. Only natural that each should try to “pot”
more accused than the others, and so wedge him-
self into the eventual billet.
**' • •
The sending of an anonymous letter to a
Judge may be as technically serious as Chief
Justice Dailey declared it to be the other day, but
in reality the offence is small—if Judges would
treat anonymous letters as ordinary men do. And
it is notable that while Judge Darley makes a
heinous crime of the deed, N.S.W. Justice G-. B.
Simpson, sitting ifa Divorce, has more than once
assured the public that anonymous letters sent to
him often prevent the defeat”of justice.
» • • *
Two N.S.W. State children were re-
cently boarded-out to a family, of which the
father, a son, and a daughter had died of consump-
tion. Another daughter was ill with the same
disease when the children became inmates of the
house, and has since died. Now one more of the
GRANDAD'S RECOLLECTIONS, AS REPORTED BY “HOP'S” UNDERSTUDY.
family has developed consumption. Does the
State consider the health as well as the morals
of families to which it entrusts its stock of
orphans ?
Once more “the long
arm.” A Sydney suburb
gives an annual ball, at
which last year one of those
present received news that
his brother had died in
S’Africa. He attended the
ball again this year, and
during the evening the news was brought to
him of his father’s sudden demise.
• * '» •
Melbourne is even better provided than
Sydney with death-traps. Chief-fireman Stein
declines to guarantee the safety of dwellers in any
of the sky-scrapers. Says he has no escapes to
reach above 85ft., and some of the ten-storey
blocks run up to 170 ft. Not one in a hundred has
an outside iron staircase, and most of them are
simply huge flues with rooms and a spiral stair-
way built round the lift-well. Stein thinks fusible
sprinklers would have saved Hordern’s—at any
rate, they saved the Mutual Store, a block right
in the middle of Melbourne’s big blaze of ’97.
* * * *
The world never grows quite weary of the
perpetual-motion craze. A few months ago the
Australian daily papers reported quite seriously
that the old, worn-out impossibility had been dis-
covered again, and the Melbourne crank who
invented it got £2OOO cash assistance from various
people of deficient knowledge to develop his delu-
sion. It wasn’t much, considering the millions
that have already gone the same road. Then the
Melbourne genius got a huge iron wheel built on
one of the two thousand busted-up principles
which anyone can find depicted in Henry Dircks’
“Perpetual Mobile,” or book of dead-and-gone
mechanical charlatans—a volume which records the
dreams and wasted scrap-iron of three centuries.
The discoverer and all the enthusiastic share-
holders met the other day at the foundry to see
the monster start, but even violent shoving
wouldn’t make it do more than a quarter of a
revolution. The discoverer then seized his hat
and fled, leaving the wheel and the shareholders—
one of whom had put up £5OO “on his own ” —to
console each other. Probably there is hardly a
big foundry in the world that hasn’t seen a
bowled-out discoverer of perpetual motion sprint-
ing through its gate in like manner. Something
like one in a hundred, or one in a thousand, of
such machines get the length of being patented,
yet in Belgium alone, in the single year 1857, four
different crazed scientists took out patents for the
same chronic mental disease, and nine patented it
in Belgium during four consecutive years. Other
countries have very similar records. Even a large
porous-plaster on the back seems to have no
effect on this complaint.
* * • *
Concerning a hospital matter :
Dear Bulletin.— A controversy re the election of the
medical staff of the Women’s Hospital is raging in Mel-
bourne, and critics of that somewhat cattishly conducted
institution protest against “faggot” voting and can-
vassing, and other so-called abuses, as though the value
of the hospital, as a hospital, were deeply affected
thereby. The suggestions for a reform of the existing
election system appear to emanate from two lots of
medical men, viz., those who are already on the working
staff, and others who seek to displace them. The men in
possession naturally don’t wish to have the size of the
constituency increased by a new influx of “ faggot ” votes
for next election. The 'men who want to get there are
seemingly divided in their clamor. Such as can
spend money in buying “ faggots,” or have a large
following of friends willing to become annual subscribers,
are not anxious for any alteration of the present system.
But the candidates who have the support of the older
subscribers would like to disfranchise all who have been
enrolled within the past three years. In fact, the whole
trouble is nothing more than a conflict of professional
interests and jealousies. The public in general— i.e., the
possible future patients at the Women’s Hospital for
“maternity” or other troubles—will view the alleged un-
fairness of the medical staff elections with philosophical
unconcern. One doctor is likely to be just as good as
another in his killing or curing. Anyway, he is equally
entitled, by virtue of his diploma, to practise on thepatients.
And to say that any medical man takes a mean advantage of
his rivals by stuffing the roll with his sworn adherents, or
by bouncing Dick, Tom, or Mary into a promise to vote
for him, is to echo the babble of angry, interested parties.
Nobody hurls a charge of meanness at the fellow who
employs cash and personal influence to push him forward
in any other profession where a great name is not always
a guarantee of great talent. When doctors differ—and
thev are always differing—who shall decide as to which
of them ought to head the poll at a hospital election ?
The “ faggot : vote ” deserves no more disrespect than the
vote of social influence or unintelligent prejudice. At
the least it is wor th £1 to the hospital.—E.F.
* » * *
“Fax ” writes :
After all, where’s the much-talked-about “harshness”
of putting the accepted names of patients over their beds
in the maternity ward at Melbourne Women’s Hospital?
One patient is properly described as Mrs. Binks, for that’s
the name the world knows her by ; and the spinster in
next bed is just as properly ticketted Jane Jinks. It
wouldn’t improve matters to call her “ Miss Jane Jinks,”
or “ Miss Jinks ” without the Jane. Nor would the other
woman who has practically dropped her Christian name,
approve of a proposal to call her plain “Binks” as evi-
dence of her married state, or “Lucy Binks,” seeing that
she]wouldn’t be sostvledon her visitingcard, if shehadone.
A lot of unjust abuse is hurled at the Women’s Hospital
because the rule of naming patients in the maternity
wards is the same as in the other wards where baby cases
are not admitted. Why don’t the fault-finders turn their
attention to the glaring public advertisement of “frailty”
Here is a flower you dropped
(I lay it low)
The day I kissed you first—
Long, long ago.
This is the cloak you wore
The day we wed—
Soft, soft and crushed
I lay it by the dead.
Here is a letter, blurr’d,
O, Sweet! with tears.
How the words warm and glow
Back through the years !
Flower and cloak go down
Where sun and shadows part ;
Letter of love and tears
Break on my heart!
JOHN WARD.


j.d.h.z. cm.
Only a little higher in price than other gm,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
on l y _l ar gest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16'5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
FINE PRODUCTS. Simple, Sure, and Swift.
Destroying Catarrh and Influenza Bacteria.
gaffan’s Catarrh gemedy M
When sick enough to feel Heavy-headed, Lazy, and
Shiftless, with no Appetite, when what you eat feels
like lead in your stomach —not sick enough to take to
bed or to call a doctor —TRY IT !
s*r- Why risk your Life for a quarter
R RA.FFA 3XT, PHARMACIST,
3 GARROWAY’S, QUEEN’S WALK, MELB.,
OR 55 ELGIN ST., CARLTON.
The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World • . •
GEO. ROE & CO.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
, . ALWAYS PURE and FRESH . .
HARPER'S
u
if
omieh
Sold in 71b. Bags.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
BEANS
Troubles.
m the washerwomen at a Melbourne institution which
sends carts around town bearing this inscription— “ Mag-
dalen Laundry. Convent of the Good Shepherd ”?I am
not suggesting that the word “Magdalen” applied to a
laundry, open all day long- to the inspection of any
visitor who wants to see the alleged Magdalenes at work,
is an outrage on the feelings of womanhood, but I do say
that it looks d d harsh when painted in big letters
upon the cart that brings one’s linen home.
* * * *
Attention was drawn a few days ago to a
most remarkable N.S.W. Government Depart-
ment. The registers of land-titles are kept in
Sydney, in a building which doesn’t even pretend
to be fireproof and which is simply a mass of fuel.
It isn’t even an isolated building, and the docu-
ments are not specially protected. One cheerful
blaze, and the record of every land-transaction
that has ever been in N.S.W. from the Year One
would be just as useful as the ashes of a burnt
heretic. . Morever, the public is allowed access to
the original documents —not merely to copies—
and in addition to the wear and tear of the docu-
ments and the tendency to make them unreadable
in time, it is alleged that the handy forger makes
alterations with his fountain pen which will lead
to dramatic consequences later on ! ! Years ago
the disadvantages of the present system were
reported on by Justice Stephen, who pro-
posed that the original documents should be
put away in impregnable iron premises, and
the public should have access to certified
copies only; but nobody took any special
notice. The idea had this merit, that it would
make it impossible for the whole evidence to go
off with a “whoosh” in one act, and a less per-
functory community might possibly have noticed
the point.
If there had ever been any practical working
Anarchist in Australia —the only known specimen
went to South America and died there —what an
upheaval he could have made in that building !
Imagine a fat man paying his search fee and
going into the sacred repository of documents—
writer has been there often, and though he was a
complete stranger, and with no more than the
usual semblance of respectability, he was left
alone with valuable papers as freely as if he had
brought a letter of introduction from F. Abigail,
Fancy the fat man, when he was unobserved,
producing from under his coat the end of a
sort of hose wound serpent-fashion round his body
—which would account for his fat—and spraying
an odorless oil around the premises. Then
imagine a silent safety-match struck, a blaze, a
yell, a thin man sprinting for the door, probably
unnoticed in the general rush of all kinds of men
for the door, and the land system of N.S.W. going
off like a Chinese cracker ! Whole multitudes of
people have lost their deeds,'“and are dependent
on these eogibustible records, and, when they dis-
appeared, what a chance for the person who could
swear hardest, and what an opportunity for
lawyers to make costs in endeavoring to establish
J. Smith’s title, and what a stupendous oppor-
LIKE THE MEN.
MRS. ONE: “ My husband said he couldn’t buy
me that hat because, he’d taken out an
accident-policy.”
MRS. TWO: “ For himself, I suppose?”
MRS. ONE: “ Who else l And he’s such a careful
old fossil that he’ll never get into a railway-
collision, I’m sure.”
tunity for the junior Bar to get up with a five-
guinea brief in its hand and ask his ’Onah to direct
that so-and-so should be done. For years after
that episode the junior Bar would be appearing
before his ’Onah all day and far into the night
to ask for directions, till his ’Onah became
demented or was gathered to his fathers through
overwork. There would be a harvest also for
clerks, private-inquiry men, doctors, lunatic
asylums—a new kind of lunatic would arise who
would be always climbing the trees in the asylum
grounds and looking for his lost title in the birds -
nests; but the legal profession would benefit most.
Therefore if the N.S.W. Titles Office does take
fire (not by accident) there are about 99 chances
that it is burnt by a lawyer for one that it is set
alight by an anarchist. Lawyers are practical
people, while anarchists are long-haired and wild-
eyed dreamers. The Bulletin proposes in haste
that a law he passed prohibiting the sale of com-
bustibles to the legal fraternity until the records
are put in a safe place and out of the public reach.
Also that all persons desiring to inspect
documents should do so in a completely nude
state, as a guarantee that they don’t remove any-
thing and that they have no nefarious implements
about them. The spectacle of, say, lawyer Charley
Lawrence with nothing on, inspecting the records
and affably passing the time of day to. lawyer
Baxter-Bruce similarly attired, would be interest-
ing. And as there are, of course, no fires on the
premises, the various degrees of blueness among
the various lawyers on a cold day would itself be
a matter worth considering. A prize might even
be offered for the bluest attorney in winter ana
the reddest conveyancer in summer —the legal
gentleman with most hair on his body to get ten
yards’ start in the winter competition.
The cook at the Broughton (Sydney eccle-
siastical) Club, run by the. St. James Church
crowd in Phillip-street, is paid 20s. per week of 84
to 90 hours ; the bedroom steward at that impec-
cable institution, the Union Club, is worked 100
hours per week ; and kitchen-men are employed
there for 90 hours at 12s. and board. These state-
ments were made by a deputation to Premier
See, who passed them on to Minister Perry, the
matter being in latter’s department. Perry re-
grets that the Early Closing Act cannot help the
cook or kitchen-man, but has hopes that arbitra-
tion or limitation of hours legislation will. Be
the charge that well-paid Civil servants act as
waiters at night, the Minister says that the
Public Service Act will stop that. But they turn
out to be porters and messengers, mostly out of
control of the Public Service Board.
* * * *
Even S.M. Herald moves. It now keeps
the contemptuous adjective “ so-called ” to chuck
at the Independent party in the State Parliament.,
Ten years ago it was the “ so-called Labor party.”
4< G.B.” : Met a man t’other day whom
I hadn’t seen for years. Talked over old times
in the street for a few minutes. Then he
picked up a stone. Told me to wait while he
went up a lane. Watched him, and saw him
take a tin box from his pocket, set it on the
kerb, and smash it up. Then he came back
radiant. “Fifteen years, isn’t it, since we
met? Well, here are 15 sixpences, old
man, and we’ll bust ’em up in honor of the
occasion.” He had been working the
automatic savings-bank system, and
until he met me was fast becoming rich
beyond the dreams of avarice. Knew
another case of the failure of this
economic dodge. A man with a pretty
wife used to stock savings-bank’s auto-
matic cylinders with 3d.-bits, careful,
however, to miss the final deposit,
which brings about the opening of
the bank. Pretty wife got to know;
and, when she ran short of pocket-
money, used to drop the necessary
coin into the bank, and so collar
the whole capital. Went on till
the man thought he’d count his
wealth. Tears, curses, aiid a
break up of the thrift-principle.
* * *
In a N.S.W. South Coast
town, recently, when a farmer was
charged before certain newly-fledged
J.sP. with using an unregistered cattle-
brand, the Inspector asked merely for a
nominal penalty. Whereupon the Bench retired
to “consider their verdict,” and, after due de-
liberation, returned, and “ dismissed the charge,
under the First Offenders Act, owing to previous
good character ! ”
• * * *
At a Sydney furniture warehouse t’other
dav a short-sighted man asked to be shown some
book cases. Shopman : “Yes sir, this way, sir ! ”
Leads him to ornate lift cage. Short-sighted one:
“Too large, have you nothing smaller?”
A PARTING SHOT.
MISTRESS: "Good-bye, Mary. I hope you will yet a good place. You
know you have greatly improved since you left your home six
months ago to come into my service.”
MARY: “ Yes, mum. Plain living, I must say, has worked wonders in me."
The Salvation Army has won its Full
Court appeal against the decision of Justice A.
H. Simpson, upsetting the will of the late Eliza-
beth Jenkins (an eccentric spinster of 80 years,
daughter of an Imperial private soldier, who got a
large Crown land-grant at Narrabeen, near Sydney,
in the early days). Miss Jenkins bequeathed a big
and valuable property to the Army. The land, of
which Booth and co. have now apparently got final
possession, includes “Long Reef,” one of the most
lovely seaside sites on earth,
* * * »
Deeds of heroism at fires and shipwrecks
should, when the heroes are in poor financial cir-
cumstances, be rewarded by something more sub-
stantial than a Humane Society medal. Governor
Hercules Robinson stoutly insisted on this and ; on
one occasion so exerted himself that Lady Robin-
son was able to hand seaman John Bennett 1000
sovereigns.
Latest phase of the confidence-trick,
means of which over £7O was obtained in two
cases reported last week. Spieler No. 1 boards
steamer on sailing-day, accosts marked passenger
and asks if he has seen the purser. Explains that
he wants to give purser his money to mind on the
voyage, and expatiates on the advantages of such
a plan in defeating spielers, ship-robbers and sich.
While they are talking Spieler No. 2, elaborately
uniformed as a ship’s officer, passes and, of course,
on inquiry turns out to be the wanted purser.
Spieler No. 1 confides vast sums in notes to his
care, and the unsuspecting dupe, following suit,
only discovers the genuine purser when the ship
is out at sea.
Sometimes poor
Lazarus lands Dives
one in the eye.
T’other day a bat-
tered “boozer” got
into a railway com-
partment full of
shocked Melbour-
nians. At Haw-
thorn he roused
from his snoring
torpor and asked,
“Is this Elstern-
wick ?” (miles away
on a different line).
Informed of his
error he tumbled
out in a hurry,
dropping a half-
eaten pig’s trotter
as he went ; where-
upon the smuggest,
cleanest, most dig-
nified wag in the
compartment
shouted, “Hi! my
Lord, you’ve left
yourlunch!” “You
can have it, Son-
nie ! ” bawled the
Insolent, sprinting
up the steps to get
a train back to
Richmond -i unction
“ the toes is the
tenderest part.”
* • *
For some time
peop'e wandering
on the beach at
Middle Park, near
Melbourne, in the
early afternoon,
have been edified
by a charming cheap
show. It is provided
by an eccentric and
rather buxom lady
of about 45, who
drives up in a welb
appointed carriage,
steps down, walks
deliberately pn tp
the sand, and turps
head - over - heels
three times, with as
much dignity as is
possible to a stout,
fashionably - dressed
female of 45, in such
an attitude. Then she goes quietly back to her car-
riage and is driven away. The S. Melb. beach
has its familiar crank too. Every morning, wet,
fine, or middling, he wades barefoot in the water
for about 15min. ; then, after solemnly rubbing
a handful of wet sand on his bald head, he marches
off with the air of a man whose day’s work is done.
Residents suspect him of developing a cure for
corns and baldness.
» * • *
g. A. Goyt. is considering the question of
reducing the wages of future Governors. Tenny-
son’s appointment only brings him in £4OOO, out of
which he has to pay his private soc., A.D.C., and
all servants ; and he has never been rich. Years
ago, Kingston wanted tp make Governors locally-
electfye, and considering how the citizens scramble
for Parliamentary billets at £2OO, there is no
; reason why a good man should not be secured for,
say, £l5OO a year, especially if the gorgeous
A.D.C. and liveried menials were dispensed with.
FOR THE MENU.
Brightening the lives of the heathen with a little
touch of Christianity.
KING KOOKADINNER ( to queen): “ The missionary,
my dear, is a vegetarian; therefore, I have
ordered that he be served up to us as vegetable-
soup.”
Stated that the owners of Sydney Daily
Telegraph lately refused an offer of £400,000 for
that newspaper.
HAND-IN-HAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Linked by Fate, not caring whether
Mammon deigns to smile or sigh,
Thro’ the corn, or thro’ the heather,
Down Life’s road we’ll go together,
Hand-in-hand, Love, you and I.
Should our love by foes be flaunted,
Or more-dreaded friends should lie
Of a Past by rumors haunted—
Friend or foe we’ll face undaunted,
Hand-in-hand, Love, you and I.
FRANK BELLMAN.
HERZELIED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ah, my heart, the storm and sadness t
Wind that moans, uncomforted,
Requiem for Love that’s dead,
Love that’s dead !
Leafless trees that sough and sigh,
Gloom of earth and grey of sky,
Ah, my heart, the storm and sadness 1
Ah, my heart, those sweet Septembers !
And the glory and the glow
Of the springtides long ago,
Long ago !
Gleam of gold and glint of green,
On the grassy hillsides seen,
Ah, my heart, those sweet Septembers 1
Ah, my heart, on sweet soft pinions
Spring, the loved one, hovers nigh,
She shall settle by and by,
By and by !
But the hills shall shine in vain,
Love, alas, comes not again ;
Ah, my heart, on sweet soft pinions !
m.l.
DORA WILCOX.


The Magic Words.
MARK FOY’S FAIR
IS NOW ON.
For Sixteen Days Only.
Do you like Coffee ?
Perfect, Pure,
Fragrant, Exhilarating Coffee
; Then Try
r T.(H. SMITH’S'
Medal Coffee Essence
Winners of the GRAND PRIX against all
other makers at the PARIS EXHIBI-
TION, 1900.
Australian Representatives:
SWI FT & COMPANY,
7 Spring Street,
Sydney
GLOBE TEAS
ATCHERLEY
Twice as good as other Teas!
Half the Price of other Teas !
241 b. Canisters @ 7d, B£d, 10|d.
THE BEST IN AUSTRALIA @ Is 9d.
DAWSON, 284 George Street, SYDNEY.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, August 6, 1901.
My Deab Abini,—
Aida, the amber-hued Ethiopian slave, and
Pharaoh’s heiress, with Signor Hazon and many
others, were rapturously welcomed by a musical
circle on Saturday night at Her Majesty’s. The
d.c. was densely inhabited by musical profs, and
amateurs and dowagers with daughters—daughters
who believe, even if they believe in nothing else,
in the saintliness of St. Cecilia. It was the kind
of audience that stays to the end of a grand opera
rather than leave a little earlier to browse in town,
but not of the brand that goes three nights a week
to Florodera.” The two circles above the circle
were packed with men—all men, silent, staring,
with elbows on knees and chins on palms. Later,
I remarked to a friend who had been up there on
“the strained attention,” and he told me he had
heard only one remark alien to the music of the
opera. It was when the handcuffed Ethiopian
prisoners appear in the triumph of the victorious
general: “ Wonder what they ” (nodding to the
circle) “think of that way of fixin’ the darbies?”
But it wasn’t a First Family kind of audience
at all.
Egypt must have been a good place to live in if
you belonged to the house of Pharaoh. While
your hair was being dressed little black imps
danced for you, and wherever you went slaves
with feather dusters long enough to sweep the
cobwebs out of the sky preceded you, and the
trumpets that heralded your approach—they were
of the very same pattern as the trump which the
angel will blow on the Last Day of all. I have
seen that trump and the angelic blower often in
Italian pictures of Apocalypse items. By the
way, why have not some patches of the Apoca-
lypse been operated on for grand opera ?
After you’ve greeted Isis and Osiris, what a
job-lot the rest of the divinities look ! There’s
one figure on the left-hand pillar that grows on
you as inexpressibly comical if you gaze long
enough. _ He has the head of an Indian game-cock,
and carries a cork-screw (yes, it is a cork-screw).
But how you nudge yourself and say, “This is a
solemn High Church service in spots,” when, in
the Temple of Vulcan, General Radames is pre-
sented with the sacred sword, “ tempered by the
hand of God Himself.” No less ! The High
Priest—he has a fine presence, and puts on more
peacock than the Pharaoh—wears vestments with
gold fringe, and the chanting and responses sound
as in a cathedral of our day. I can well believe
that men were better temple-goers in those days
than in these for you see a ballet formed part of
the service. The priestess ballet in “ Aida ” does
not make you lift up your hearts, nor yet cast
down your eyes. It is very pretty, and the
priestesses do not dress as heavily as the Esqui-
maux.
If I saw “ A'ida ” for several consecutive nights
I’d dream for ever after that I was a cat-faced
Egyptian sitting with my hands on my knees, by
Nile’s banks amongst the lotus, under a full moon,
with the Pyramids looming over against me.
Signora Lina de Benedetto and Signorina Elisa
Marcomini have very sweet faces, and they are
no plumper than the average grand operatic
women.
Mrs. J. C. Williamson, just back from England,
Paris, Pompeii, and other outrinner selections was
in her box on Saturday night, wearing a Paris
frock of pink silk covered with white crepe die
chine, panelled with point lace and flounced again
and yet again with white chiffon. Crowds invaded
the box and asked her how she did, of the welfare
of little Marjory, and if Australians in London
were making fortunes, and if she liked Brown-
Potter’s house, which Mr. Williamson had rented,
and what was Edna May really like, and was
Parisian dressing much better than that of
Sydney ?
An extra special thing in the way of long coats
is one which Mrs. Williamson has brought from
Paris for Mrs. “Dick” Rowe, of Melbourne. It
is as long as the dress, of a fine stone-grey,
strapped with itself, and lined with pearl and
heliotrope silk. The wide collar is faced with
white Persian lamb’s fur, and edged with another
fur of dark brown—marten, I think.
In “ A'ida,” you’ll see some really up-to-date
necklaces on the necks of the chorus-girls— up-to-
date because barbaric. The wearing of bead neck-
laces will probably go out of fashion soon because
imitations of gems and swell glass are putting
them within reach of quite poor and therefore
common persons. Amongst some London novel-
ties shown me the other day were coral necklaces
at 155., and their imitations at 3s. Unless you
were in the trade, or saw with a microscope, you
couldn’t well say which was the real. Amongst
the novelties was a purse that can’t be burgled.
It is well fitted for the present pocketless condition
of women, and is always at hand —at palm, I
should say—yet you haven’t the worry of clutch-
ing it. A strap round your middle finger and
another round your wrist, and —there you are ! I
mention it more particularly because a woman,
one be-honorabled Mrs. Perry, invented it, and
has already made a big fortune out of her royalty
of threepence on every purse sold.
In “San Toy”—which will be staged early
next year by Mr. Williamson—there is one of the
most fascinating parts of its kind ever written.
And whilst the chance of getting that part is
within sight, it is not likely that clever Carrie
Moore will go on a wild swan chase to London,
where things are in a parlous way for hundreds of
well-known and capable actors and actresses.
I had a letter the other day from a friend
who sings on a very high branch in-
deed of the lyric tree, and she says
Mr. Williamson was “fairly mobbed by people
who wanted to go to Australia. Many of
them real stars, not atoms of star-dust. He really
had his pick here in London.” Miss Moore, by
the way, has served the writ in her breach-of-
promise action ; she claims £5OOO.
The aim of the really cultured necklaced woman
is to have her beads more barbaric than the other
woman’s. In London, crude jewels, lumps of
uncut turquoise, and strings of golden skulls are
fashionable dangles. Sydney women take what
Birmingham sends them, when they might easily
outdo the bead barbarians of the mother country
by wearing strings of sharks’ teeth as the wahines
do yet in M.L. Greenstone could be used with
them, or slug gold. I saw one saurian tooth
tipped with gold in a string of pearls. It was
wickedly out of place, but makes one conjure up
a funny picture of a shark in a dentist’s chair. Of
pearls: I saw a pearl as big as a pigeon’s egg at
Fairfax and Roberts’. It weighs 240 grains, and
if, when the outer skins are chiselled off, the gem
fulfils its promise, it will be worth £15,000.
The oyster which slaved thus to make a fortune
for someone was found in Torres Straits.
Pearls suggest necks. Necks remind me of the
frank brutality of Nature’s methods. At all our
nice balls you’ll see women whose figures, shoul-
ders, and arms are quite as youthful-looking,
round, and white as those of their own grown-up
daughters, yet whose necks are remorselessly
dated with the year of their nativity.
At dinner t’other night at the Australia I saw
three brides, and thought of Lauri’s delighted ex-
clamation at sight of his new batch of wives in
the “Casino Girl”—“’Ow someone must have
shaken a peach-tree! ” Cotton, Faithfull, and
Finney were the brides born. Clarke, Wilkin-
son, and _ Pope are they now indexed. The
Clarke bride is the peachiest of the trio, and she
can wear a wide blue sash as gracefully as a baby.
If you glance through her printed list of wedding-
presents (it is better reading than a bill-of-fare or
a time-table) you will notice that silver photo.-
frames predominate. So Mrs. Clarke can afford
to give even the nobody-photos, a silver shrine. I
don’t suppose there is an institution here such as
that in London which keeps an eagle eye on your
published wedding-presents, and if it sees that you
have quite 200 butter-knives, or more than 50
card-trays, it calls when you are back from the
honeymoon, and suggests that it will buy some
scores of the knives and at least three-fourths of
your trays at a lower rate than the original cost.
Whilst on such a low-down topic as what things
cost: Wasn’t £25 a good price to pay for the
bouquet handed by Mr. Barton to the Duchess at
Melbourne State concert? Another presented
to Lady Hopetoun ran to £l5. Forty pounds for
two posies ! But I’m told they were not all
flowers —that there were trinkets in them. I know
the York posy had the apparent anomaly Of three
white ostrich feathers. But the jewellery ? Who
on earth was responsible for the hideous bettise of
tendering jewellery in bouquets to ladies in such
positions—just as if they were Dolly Pinklegs, of
the Variety stage, or Tottie Fewclothes, the
comic-opera star ! Did the Duchess and Lady
Hopetoun look for notes, I wonder, when they
discovered the other plant—notes saying when and
where the supper would be, and mentioning the
brand of champagne, and the Johnnies who would
be there, don’t you know ? Mr. Barton could not
have known “ it was loaded ” when he handed up
those beautifully-arranged specimens of bad taste.
The York posy, by the way, was principally of
mauve orchids—the Hopetoun one of white flowers,
and (squalid episode), up to a week or so ago, the
florists who supplied them had not been paid, and
were howling for their money.
Hotel Australia employees’ annual ball was
held at Leigh House last week, and was a big suc-
cess in point of frocking, attendance, and supper.
The manager and Mrs. Smith and several guests
from the hotel were present. Mr. R. H. Bradley
and Mr. H. Mitchell were respectively hon. sec.
and treasurer; Messrs. H. Adams, J. M‘Cut-
cheon, T. Brown, and V. King were the com-
mittee ; and Messrs. B. Alexander and T. Brown
acted as M.C.’s.
Hon. Judith Harbord, who married Parson
Sullivan the other day, is 20 years younger than
her sister, Lady Carrington. Portraits show her
to be very like another sister, Mrs. Derek Keppel,
who was here with the YorKs. Another fashion-
able marriage to come off in London will be that
of “Moira,” a daughter of the Earl of Inchiquin.
She was very poor, and used to make and trim
hats and sell them to her friends ; later, by means
of a small present of money, she went into the
millinery business properly in Sloane Square. She
marries some one in the army.
A group of engagements Miss Queenie Le-
vien, daughter of Mr. Levien, solicitor, to
Mr. E. K. Tully, solicitor, of Brisbane; Miss
Aggie Kirkpatrick, the Under-Secretar.y’s daugh-
ter, to Mr. W. Passmore, of M.L. ; Miss Con-
stapce Newman, of Neutral Bay, to Lieutenant
Thresher, of the Boomerang.
Roman Catholic aristocracy is said by recent
English society papers to be knocked silly by the
’version of one of its number. Lady O’Hagan, a
member of the eminent Towneley family, and
widow of Mr. Gladstone’s Lord Chancellor of
Ireland, has married a dissenting Minister and
joined his church.
An advertisement has been in the Times to the
effect that an American wants to find an English
lady of title to take his daughter into society.
Honorarium for three months, £5000! Your
Akenehi guesses that the advertiser’s mail was a
heavy one the morning after that advt. appeared.
A home paper tells us that the Governor’s resi-
dence in Victoria is named Toorak, and that it
has been described as a house with a ballroom
attached.
The other day was auctioned an historic spot—the
first 30-acre grant issued by Gov. Phillip, and
called Experiment Farm, near Parramatta. The
grant was issued to a convict, and on the farm was
sown the first grain. In 1793 Dr. Harris became
the purchaser and it remained in his family until
it was cut up and sold on Monday week. Not
many Australian families can boast such a tenure
of land-owning. At Hornsby a beautiful area in
the hollow of the hills, known simply as “ The
Valley,” has been in the same family for close
upon 100 years. At the North Shore some
members of the Milson family live in a house built
by their father over 80 years ago. And the house
doesn’t need tinkering either, as do the “ villas ”
and “gentlemen’s residences” built as late this
century.
A woman barber lias hung out her pole in Too-
woomba (Q.), and so successful is she that the
business of the male hair-mowers has gone off.
One of them is coaching his wife in the trade now,
and expects to live easily after she has mastered it.
Mdlle. Soubeiran, who has had the distinction
of “0111061' d’ Academie ” conferred on her by
the French Government, is a well-known teacher
who has a finishing school at Belle Vue Hill.
Hordern Brothers, of Pitt-st., are sending out a
Booklet of Spring and Summer Fashion Plates.
There are coats and skirts in light materials with
soft lace fronts ( “creations” for the Melbourne
Cup, and amongst others a very pretty gown
something like those yellow frocks worn in the
first act of “ Casino Girl ” by the eight stranded
opera damsels. You can order from a distance any
frock you like by quoting its name.
Lieutenant W. J. S. Rundle, who died in S.A.
of wounds received in battle, makes the eighth
man of my comparatively small circle of personal
acquaintances who has been cut off in the
S’African struggle. Six of these men were officers.
Mr. Rundle was a fine young fellow and noted
athlete, and had gone through some of the most
exciting episodes of the campaign. He was a son
of Dr. G. E. Rundle, of Rooty Hill, and when he
died was an A.D C. to General French.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“An exciting incident, so far unpublished,
occurred during the Duke’s shooting excur-
sion to Sale, Victoria. The shooters had
arrived on the ground at Kilmany Park,
and the guns were being distributed, when
a field-mouse ran up inside the trousers of one of
the pressmen present. As became the rep. of a
loyal and conservative journal, the scribe should
have acted like the Spartan youth of history, and
smiled on the Duke while the mouse ate out his
heart. .But ’twas not to be. Emitting a loud
shriek, which made the Jook think anarchists had
pierced the cordon of detectives, he threw himself
forward and tore off his pants, holding the mouse
tightly while he hopped round on one leg. The
shooting proceeded without further misadventure,
but the pressman was in fear and trembling for
several days later. He knew not what penalty
might be exacted by A. Jay Peacock for undress-
ing his legs in the royal presence.
“We were just learning to love Italian opera
when we lost it. Most of the farewell enthusiasm
was lavished on Dani, who, only three years ago,
’tis said, was ‘ discovered ’ at a cycle sing-song.
Judging from this favorite tenor’s unimpaired
comeliness, ‘ bike-hump ’ and ‘sprint nose’ are
not equally prevalent all the world over. Porta
may be cited as another Italian wheelman who
has not left all his looks on the track.
“As for singing, . I don’t fancy many of our local
cyclists shine as song-birds. At a minor meeting
scribe once chanced upon ‘ Plugger Bill ’ holding
forth after a win to an admiring circle. It was
enough to make the whole world of women squirm
as one to hear those saw-like tones announce com-
placently : ‘See here, boys. When ole Bill
marries, he marries a young girl, a sensible girl,
a pretty girl, a healthy girl! ’ Outsiders won-
dered what ‘ ole Bill ’ proposed to offer in exchange
for feminine youth, health, beauty and brains. Of
course, he’ll get them fast enough when it suits
him, but that’s not the point. One can buy a
natty print blouse all ready to put on for Is. lid.,
but it’s not an equitable transaction, all the same.
“ Last performance of the opera but one, J. G.
Williamson, back from ’Ome, heard ‘Rigoletto’
from his box along with Wilson Barrett, who, to a
casual observer, looked quite a young man with a
large nose—a large nose keeps a man young—far
more juvenile than last time he came. Probably
the evergreen one found Bozzoli rather tame in
the scene with his dying daughter. Under the
same circumstances, W.B. would most likely
have wound up with something more resembling
an epileptic fit. He suffered that way, remem-
ber, in ‘ Virginius,’ and also in the ‘Manxman.’
Except for said gibbering attack, Barrett’s Manx
Pete was really simple and touching, and one looks
forward to a second sample of the scene where he
dictates a letter to his wife Kate, Kate’s betrayer
acting as amanuensis. Another inmate of the
William son box at ‘ Rigoletto ’ was Mrs. Menzies
(Dorothy Vane) in pink coat, and her head tied up
m blue chiffon, ala Juliet. Plump M. Boffard
joined the group, and seemed as happy as he
always does when perched in the glare of the
public eye.
“Be genial society leaders: One of them,
t’other Saturday night, treated beholders to a
lesson in the art of administering the ‘snub
genial.’ A decorative warbler beholding said per-
sonage, who is on bowing terms with most local
artists, seated at the theatre with a batch of girls
minus a man, placed himself near, and essayed
with sweet smile and honeyed greeting to supply
the missing male conversational element. Herself
nodded, smiled expansively, but said nothing.
Another remark met with no response beyond a
beaming bow, Miladi continuing to lean back
languidly. The experimenter grew pink, and the
thought, ‘how shall I escape to my own seat?’
seemed blazoned in blushes on his brow. Soon as
the lights were turned down he fled, whereupon
Madame turned to her friends and laughed
heartily.
“ ‘ Wilful Willie ’ is the pet name of a certain
Sydney youth who has been as constant an appen-
dage as a muff of more than one smart Melbourne
girl since the Royal shivoo. The ‘ Nicest ’ here
didn’t take much notice of Willie till they saw
him hook his arm in that of the magnificent Vis-
count Crichton, apd slap the heavy-jawed Duke
of Roxburgh on the shoulder, before a full grand-
stand at the races ; now there are many candidates
for the privilege of rapping him on the knuckles,
and calling him ‘ boy.’
“Mrs. Bland Holt has developed of late the
craze for great, conspicuous ornaments. She has
all kinds —Egyptian, Indian, Spanish, besides the
more massive of the ordinary pearl-pendants. In
bright colors, high spirits, and these remarkable
ear-tailings, Mrs. Holt is often a gleam of gladness
in Collins-street, when womankind is mostly red-
nosed, dull-eyed, and choked up with furs these
unattractive fog-mornings.
“ Saturday night (Aug. 3) a relieved crowd wel-
comed back Arnold and frivolity, and coming out
told one another hilariously they ‘ were jolly
glad ’ to be done with grand opera and ‘ the
miserables ’ for the time being. On the stage
Agnes Knights, as Mrs. Smith, monopolises all
the fine feathers. A nice white frock with hints
of black prolongs the front of its Eton jacket
into graceful stole-ends of lace. A white silk
dinner gown is hand-painted with rose-sprays tied
together with gold lovers’-knots. A purple house
frock has belt and under-flounce of Paddy-green.
Miss Knights’ little way of smiling through thick
and thin aggravates one a bit. It makes one
think of Sunday-school-book heroines, who too
often are described as ‘ seated with the head
touching her husband’s arm, her tenderly-smiling
mouth and tearful, earnest eyes unconsciously
vouching for the power of the discourse he read
aloud.’ Don’t imagine there is anything queer in
the attitude of the parson’s wife, as above de-
scribed. She sits on a stool at her lord’s feet darn-
ing socks, you see, and her soft brown (always
‘ brown ’; peroxide or blue black are not clerical)
braids just brush his reverence’s elbow.
“The moral of ‘Why Smith Left Home ’ is
never go and stay with newly-married people.
They don’t give you any thanks, though you’re
having a deathly time just through their tom-
foolishness in inveigling you into their half-baked
household. Then they generally quarrel a lot;
that wouldn’t matter so much, only they make
the wretched visitor a bone of contention. Bride
accuses hubby of not inviting bachelors to the
place to entertain her bridesmaids. Himself
answers back, implying that he wasn’t married
to play the part of man-catcher for strange girls.
“The suburbs have started massage parlors.
Small dress-makers are letting screened-off cor-
ners of the fitting rooms for a ‘ Beauty Salon.’
Soon it will be every girl her own beautifier.
Small Susettes are selling old clo’ and the medi-
cine bottles that they may buy the grease-pots
with the proceeds, and emulate the gifts of Venus.
“ Mrs. L. 0. Carter lectured the Austral Salon
on Marriage the other evening, and told the men
who were not there all about the girls they should
not marry, depicting in moving language the sad
fate of various hubbies who married girls who had
beautiful eyes, lovely hair, fine teeth, or a small
waist. Then the lecturer told the vast throng of
bachelors who were unavoidably absent what sort
of girl they ought to marry, and it was not strange,
perhaps, that she proved to be the Austral Salon
sort of girl. Which recalls that all sorts of mar-
riages succeed, and all sorts go wrong, and there
is no recipe possible in heaven or under it fora
happy marriage. The most promising hatchings
sometimes come to an early and disastrous end,
while unions that seem like the starting of a sprint
to the Divorce Court have been known to succeed
like success. Probably the kind of marriage
these lecturing experts fix up would be the most
disastrous of all. Anyhow, the very worst mess
in the way of a marriage that I wot of was en-
gineered by the young man’s ma, an authority who
had herself been married three times. And, fur-
thermore, the present system of taking a wife is
likely to survive as long as man retains his pas-
sion for gambling.
“ Mrs. Claude Macdonald swooped down upon
Melbourne the other day in Sydney spring attire
—quite the smartest street apparition that has
been abroad for some time. She was all in cream,
rich cream cloth, helped on to distinction by
piping lines of black and silver braid. Her toque
ran wild in a crop of cornflowers. She must have
been cold in her spotless garb.
“A smart Melbourne girl doing Sydney just
now writes in a disgusted strain of the opening of
N.S. W. Parliament. ‘ It’s such a queer old place,
and terribly musty, ’ she complains ; ‘ and Heavens!
—the frocking of the women! A Collingwood
Social would be a smarter show than it in the
Stygian gloom that reigns. Oh, the dowdiness of
the “smart set”! One woman came in violet,
with trimmings of coral-pink chiffon and pale-blue
“accidentals.” It made my blood run cold ; and
the members of the Lower House were the un-
tidiest, hungriest-looking lot you could see any-
where. Judge Darley is a grand-seigneur, but
the majority of men at the show were unspeakably
bob-tail.’
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
In 97 ex-Commandant Holled-Smith—
since fighting in S’Africa—was bitterly hostile to
Australians volunteering for England’s wars.
“Time enough for them to do so when they had
to, ” said Smith.
“ Major W. Karri Davis has resigned his
Companionship of the Bath, wishing to "serve his
Majesty the King without reward.” But how
would it read if it were put like this: “ Major
Karri Davis wishes to serve the King without
advertisement ! ”
Percy, it seems, begins to fear the threat-
ened ascendency of Angelina. He recognises that
her natural beauty, assisted by the P.D. Corset,
will bind him in silken bonds to the mystic allure-
ments of a perfect figure—which is a rather absurd
metaphor—but no matter. As he cannot very
well take to P.D.’s himself, Percy must put up
with the bonds after putting up the banns. He
must relinquish all ideas of his own superiority
and become a willing worshipper at the shrine of
the P.D. figure; realising how truly the P.D. is
Percy’s delight.*


How to Become Amiable.
Whenever a. man or woman is in the enjoyment
of perfect health lie, or she, is u sually amiable and
happy, and these without effort. The contrary is
not necessarily the case, bu t anyone whose health
is poor is heavily handicapped in the attempt to
secure enjoyment from life, so that when we meet
a person who is amiable it is ajmost certain that
we have met one who is also healthy.
Sickness is due to many causes, but the great
majority of prevalent diseases- arise from our
neglecting to take sufficient care of ourselves.
Indigestion, dyspepsia, rheumatism, neuralgia,
gout, biliousness, sick-headache, gravel, anaemia,
debility, and most blood disorders proceed from a
defective action of the kidneys and liver If these
vital organs, whose function it is to keep clean the
interior of the body, are doing their work properly,
then all these afflictions are non-existent. There-
fore, the great secret of health, and consequent
amiability, is to watch the kidneys and liver care-
fully and see that they are in good working order.
Warner’s Safe Cure is a specific for all diseases
arising from an inefficient action of the kidneys
and liver, for the simple reason that no matter
how deranged and diseased are these important
parts of the human mechanism, Warner’s Safe
Cure will restore them to health.
Queen Victoria Markets,
Sydney, N.S.W.,
March 12th, 1901.
Sirs, —
Just a few lines to tell you how grateful I am
for all the good your wonderful medicine has done
for me.
Some years ago I was almost a wreck and
suffered the torments of every complaint arising
from dyspepsia. Try what I would, nothing did
me any good. Some of the best Sydney doctors
prescribed for me, but all without effect. One
day I was strongly recommended to try Warner’s
Safe Cure, and I yielded to my friend’s wish,
although not placing any reliance in the result.
The first few doses affected me straight away, and
when I had finished one bottle it seemed as if I
had gained a new lease of life. I took four
bottles, and became quite well and strong again,
and can safely say that it was Warner’s Safe Cure
to which I owe this change in my health. I often
take One or two of Warner’s Safe Pills, which are
a splendid and effective medicine.
I must again thank you for making life worth
living for me.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY B. JAMIESON.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.*
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refresning as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for Netr South Wales —
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
■
.
HIS EXCELLENCY THE EARL OF HOPETOUN
Has APPOINTED Mr. JT. A.. WILKIKTSON
OF THE
COOLALTA WINES
(Offices— 374 George Street, Sydney)
HIS WINE MERCHANT.
H.R.H. the DUKE of CORNWALL and YORK, per his A.D.C. Lord Crichton, writes from New Zealand to
say “the Coolalta Wines supplied to H.M.S. Ophir were very much appreciated.”
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM
BUCHANAN WHISKY
BLACK and WHITE.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
They now call him A. Jay Peacock, with
the accent on the Jay.
K.C.M.G. kills colonial ministers gradu-
ually. P’raps that’s why Dry Dog Rsid stands
off the grass.
As The Bulletin predicted long ago, a
howl is arising in the press that the Federal capi-
tal be named “ Alexandra.”
Oar Deutscher Freetrade brudder, Max
Hirseh, it appears, now provides the Federal
gallery notes for Sydney Evening News.
A defeated candidate at the election for
the Federal Senate, three or four months ago, is
now a waiter at a fashionable Sydney restaurant
for ladies.
The heights and depths which the “Per-
sonal ” column has reached in S. A. Register :
Mr. Blank, well-known to. travellers on the Melbourne
express as conductor of the boudoirs, resumed duty on
Friday, after indisposition.
Public attention in Vie. is again drawn to
the fact that Theatrical-Gov. Madden is getting
over £lO,OOO annually out of the Treasury besides
houses and allowances. Who says his Honor has
no profit in his own country ?
One man who made tons of money out of
Broken Hill, holds, or lately held, 60,000 or so
Chillagoe scrip, and declared (when they were
saleable at well over 405.) that he meant to hold,
as they would see £5. They now see “ten bob.”
Theophilus Cooper, the recently-ap-
pointed M.L. Supreme Court Judge, began life
as “reading-boy” on Auckland Southern Cross,
and afterwards became a compositor. Later on
he was articled to a solicitor, and was admitted to
M.L. Bar in ’7B.
John Norton told a recent Melbourne
audience that he intended to set another Truth
going down there. The threat has not added to the
comfort of several people who have been making
fat things out of the Melbourne Credulous since
John bull-dogged them out of Sydney.
Senator R. E. O’Connor, K.C., turned the
half-oentury on Sunday last. Born in Sydney ;
passed through Grammar School to Sydney Uni-
versity; thence to a clerkship in N.S.W. Leg.
Assembly ; thence to the law-chambers of Chief
Justice Darley ; and everyone knows the rest.
Duke Joseph Piduington Mills is the name
of an infant born about the time George
and May were in Melb., and he has already been
UP-TO-DATE IN LONDON—AS VIEWED BY A “ BULLETIN ” ARTIST.
the cause of several court-cases and a quantity of
apparent perjury. JLt doesn’t follow that the
name is the cause ofall this, but it looksas if it
might bo.
The other day Vic. Leg. Assemb'y was
.... , -S . T v/i .TV.,,™,,,!, in of
petitioned for ad y* • • T’.T ■t
survivor of the Bourke and Wills expedition
M Donough pleads old age, destitution and past
promises, and Ins case is under consideration
along with that of the returned cohentingenters
probably.
. ~r r t ,
Ex-Premier W. J. Lyne s patronage or
“morning” newspaper men is an old passion.
Lyne was the first N.S.W. Minister to put on a
morning train at the taxpayers’ expense to carry
S.M. Herald and D.f. to tlie border, ihat
train caused the row between him and the late
Alfred Bennett.
Cabled that it is proposed to call Edward
VII “ King of the British Dominions beyond the
Seal” A good, safe title. Other sovereigns have
specified their dominions, and thendooki
when they lost them, but as long as
remains to the empire King Edward s
hold water.
Dr. Kelly, the coadjutor to Cardinal
Moran, was born in 1849. He will be con
crated Archbishop in Rome, and on succeeding to
the Sydney diocese will be made Cardinal, the
Irish College in Rome fathers Moran, Kelly,
O’Haran, and Verdon, all associated with &t.
Mary’s, Sydney.
Again the Long Arm ! :
M'Gillivray and Archibald are the two
Port Adelaide in S.A. Assembly. There s a dangerous
crossing in their constituency, which they have: Orten
tried to get protected. The other day, yet another man
was run over and killed there ; and the name of the
engine-driver was Archibald M'Gillivray .
Kanakalanders visiting Melbourne are
much amused at the change that has come over
Postmaster-General Drake. Until picked up by
the Barton Govt. Drake dressed unostentatiously,
as befitted an ally of the Brisbane Labor crowd.
He is now invariably the sprucest tailor s example
among Barton’s henchmen.
While busy shoving J. F. Deegan into
Parliament for E. Melbourne, Premier Peacock
landed on the odd coincidence that Deegan, one ot
the cracks of Melb. Shakespeare Club, owes much
of his acquaintance with “ the divine William
to old-man Peacock, who used to teach an up-
country school in far-back days.
The selection of capable Dr. Wollaston, of
Victoria, for the chief Customs billet under
Kingston, was mutually assented to by depart-
mental heads in other States. The N.S. W. chief,
Lockyer, was alleged to be in the running, but as
he and the doctor’s daughter are to marry shortly
he would hardly be likely to trip up poor pa.
The whirligig of time. An English paper:
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Rasp, of Victoria, have been
spending some time in Vienna and Paris, en route to
England. While in Vienna they attended a ball arranged
by the Princess of Metternich.
Charles will be remembered as the lucky station-
hand who accidentally discovered Broken Hills
treasure chest.
The rumor that the Federal High Com-
missioner in London will be an ex-Australian
Governor is not pooh-poohed as wild imagina-
tion among official circles. It is rather taken as
the shadow of the coming event. The little
trimming and manoeuvring which, a few years
ago, made ex-Gov. Norman Agent-General for
Q. should be recalled to memory.
Returned cohentingenters are derisive
about a certain Horsetralian officer of rather hig.i
degree. “Boys,” he was fond of saying, “if I
am wounded don’t carry me to the rear. Keep
mo in the front rank where I can at least cheer
my brave men on to victory.” Soon afterwards
the officer blundered into an ambuscade. Several
of his brave men dropped dead and wounded, and
—well, the cohentingenters will tell you the rest
of the story.
Father Rouillac, the sailor-priest, who
had a benefit-concert in Sydney Town Hall last
week to enable him to mend his 19-ton schooner
for more adventurous work in the South Seas,
treads closely in the footsteps, as regards methods
of business, of the late Bishop Salvado, of New
Norcia (VV. A.). When difficulties beset the latter
he invariably fell back on a concert, or musical
entertainment of some kind.
The dismal Whiddon can tliank temper-
ance-advocate George Perry’s-oft-repeated phrase
“I’ve got ’em dog-walloped ! ” for his return to
N.S.W. Assembly. The aforesaid euphonism
much hurt the sensibilities of a large lot of the
Sunday-go-to-meeting party who had begun to
think Perry was quite respectable after Premier
See and B. R. Wise had spoken on his behalf.
Lady O’Connell, who met the Duke and
Duchess the other week in Brisbane, is widow of
that old identity, Maurice O’Connell, born in the
barracks in Wynyard-square, Sydney, 89 years
ago. Maurice was a sort of half-nephew of the
great Dan, but an Imperialist to the backbone.
He held office in the Parliaments of both N.S.W.
and Queensland, and was Acting-Governor on
several occasions. Lady O’Connell, then Miss
Le Geyt, married him in 1835.
Dr. Cockburn, it now transpires, received
the first news of his displacement as S.A. Agent-
General through a Times cable, and he is, of
course, disgusted at the action of his old colleagues.
Almost simultaneously with Grainger’s arrival in
London came the sudden death of Wicksteed, the
real head of the Dept. ; and the long, lean
Grainger, who has always been much over-rated
as a financier, will now have an excellent chance
of making a muddle of things.
Peter Airey—the Q. schoolmaster who, by
a German pun on his name, has become so well
known to Bulletin readers as “ P. Luftig ’’—has
taken for Labor the Flinders seat in Q. Legisla-
ture ; and is likely to do good work. He impresses
audiences as a smallish, wiry man with a bald,
high-domed head and colorless complexion; a
man chock-full of something to say ; a man worth
listening to. Ministerial press and party praise
him openly, which shows their appreciation of a
dangerous factor.
Captain Collins has collared Big Forrest
as completely as he collared all the Victorian
Ministers for Defence since the time of flannelette
Sargood. Collins was known as the dandy of the
Victorian service. He wears clothes straight from
the press with a large flower in his button-hole.
In times past he was something in the navy, and
it is admitted by everyone, except Collins, that he
has no knowledge of military matters. His
cleverness consists of being able to get on the
blind side of his Minister. As Forrest has a quick
eye for anyone trying to get on his blind side,
Collins beat Forrest through petticoat influence.
A gumsucker’s impressions of Jawbone
Neild ;
Senator Neild is a remarkable instance of the advan-
tages of having a fine presence. Tall, good-looking,
broad-shouldered, and deep-chested, a man of Neild’s
appearance needs only have a bull-like voice and a brain
approaching the mediocre to become a leader of men.
Jawbone has not the bull-voice, but he has this sort of
brain, so he has come to be something a bit below a
leader—one of a half-dozen politicians chosen by N.S.W.
for Australia’s first Parliament. Personally a good
fellow, nobody deals cruelly with Neild, and he is per-
mitted to make a fool of himself without attention being
drawn to the fact in any marked way. As a politician,
Neild is nothing but a huge joke. His presence in any
deliberative body is a standing- satire on democracy, and
it is only when one remembers other and infinitely worse
members of the Senate that his presence can be under-
stood ; to explain it would be a task beyond CEdipus
himself.
Little Dr. Maloney, the most implacable
radical in Vic. Leg. Assembly, now sits cheek by
jowl with Duncan Gillies, the most crusted Tory
of that chamber. He left the ranks of Peacock’s
supporters because of the attitude of the Govern-
ment on the wretched Findley case. What be
hopes to gain for his cause by sitting in Opposi-
tion only his own illogical brain can conceive.
Maloney is one of the biggest-hearted men in
Vic. Assembly, but he is a positive danger to the
cause he so vehemently espouses. Carried away
by impulses and passions his speeches are marvels
of incoherence. He has never been known to
make a speech without bringing in a reference to
George Higinbotham.
Peacock, Victoria’s laughing premier,
begins to feel the strain of being at one and the
same time head of a Cabinet of mediocrities, boss
of the Masons, chief adviser to the A.N. A. board
of directors, legal manager of a large number of
mines having offices in Melbourne, Ballarat and
Greswick, and secretary to the local branch of the
A.N. A. His fa;oe becomes paler day by day, and
his hair whiter. Crows’ feet gather thicker around
his eyes and he smokes incessantly. Jjj the House
he is nervous and irritable, and when he rises to
make a speech of any importance his voice takes
on a peculiar uncertain tremor. He has confided
to more than one of his friends that he is heartily
sick of politics, and that, since he became Premier,
he has lost heavily on the Exchange through being
unable to give bis attention to the business.
The newly-enrolled N.S.W. Assembly is a
“ Young Men’s Parliament.” Grey beads may be
counted on one’s fingers, and bald heads are con-
spicuously few. Dark-brown hair predominates, and
there are almost as many beards as shaven faces. It
is a blue-eyed Parliament, and by no means a sad-
visaged one. See is the darkest, Ferguson the
fairest member. The most youthful-looking is
little Dan Levy, and the most venerable in aspect,
Dr. Ross, now shrivelled more than ever. The
most robust, physically, is Walter Bennett,
honorary Minister, while the hardest-featured is
probably “Willie” Affleck. Arthur Griffith is
still the best-dressed man, and Crick the least
conventionally clad. Ashton is the calmest, and
Price the most volatile. Kidd has the gentlest
voice, E. M. Clark the loudest and most raucous.
The most aggressive person is Norton, the
demurest, Anderson. The readiest of the elect is
Sleath, the most ponderous, Meagher. Quinn is
the most precise, Dan O’Connor the most verbally
involved. The best-tempered man is “Tom”
Fitzpatrick, the most irascible, J. C. L. Fitz-
patrick. The cocksurest is David Storey, the
least pretentious, Nelson.
VERY TRUE.
B OREMALL: “ S’pose yer didn't hear, dear boy,
that I was presented to the Duke?"
THE OTHER : “ Pity he hasn't taken away all the
things presented to him."
Died at Hobart, July 19, George Langridge,
editor Tasmanian Mail and late chief of Tas.
Parliamentary reporting staff for the Mercury.
After beinga stenographer in London, where he was
born 53 years ago, he came to Australia and put
in time on Queensland Hansard and Melbourne
papers ere finally drifting to Tasmania upwards
of 12 years ago. For many years deceased had
been a martyr to asthma, but stuck to work with
a courage that compelled the admiration of all
who knew him. A capable pressman and a kindly
man, “Lynx” Langridge's departure dulls the
one bright spot in the Tas. Maij. and the precincts
thereof.


TRY »
MACONOCHIE’S
S’
CELEBRATED
Worcestershire
Sauce.^=g —
Most Delicious
and Cheapest.
SOLD E Y Elt Y WIIIJ HE.
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT & CO.,
7 Spring Street, Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
DAVID STOKER & SONS’ ln Three Colors -BiACK, «ed and blue
Rbointerki)
Trade
Mabk. .
TATTOO OIL
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker. BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Hotel
Australia
Bates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
The AUSTRALIA HOTEL is fireproof
from tower to basement.
Rapid elevators run day and night, and
an efficient night-staff regularly patrols
the building.
Hot and cold water are in every room.
Private suites, combining bedroom,
sitting-room and bath-room, are one
of the most attractive features of the
hotel, and a post office, telegraph
office, hair-dressing sa'oon, bookstall
and cigar-divan, are included in the
building.
J. SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriglnalities.
to Contributors.— ln the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
The greatest stock-growing country in the
world is not Australia, nor is it Argentina.
No, siree, the Transvaal is easily first. Just
reckon up the number of sheep and cattle cap-
tured (by cable) by the British during the last six
months. Oxen in millions.
* * * *
“Louis M.” : He Robert Brothers on
Australian hotels, I am reminded of a pub.
out from Adavale (Q.) which I struck one blazing
summer day. I was biking it, and had done 40
miles against a head wind. On arrival, I invited
“ mine host ” to join ine in a drink—2s. (“ Bob a
nip,"’ thinks I—“smoke!”) I then asked for a
feed, but “ Got nuthen,” was the answer.
“ What! not even a bit of bread or brownie?” I
cried. “No, nuthen,” says the landlord. After
much persuasion, however, he bade the “missus”
make me a “drink o’ tea,” and while waiting for
this I searched the out-buildings and discovered
three eggs which I told the woman to boil for me,
threatening to wreck the shanty were they not
forthcoming with the tea. Upon this slight repast
I had to do another 23 miles.
+ * * *
Ed. Bulletin.— Your correspondent from
this end asks what would the Charters Towers
white man do without the Chinese vegetable
growers? What does “ Bob ” Collins, keeper of
biggest hotel in N.Q., do? Why, he owns the
finest farm and garden in the district, works it
profitably himself with white labor, pays a fair
wage, and grows successfully every known kind of
vegetable and sub-tropical fruit —this within seven
miles of the field.—N.Q.
* * * *
Almost the last of the West Bogan
(N.S.W.) aboriginals, Jimmy Martell, whose age
was unknown by the oldest inhabitant, died not
long ago at Orange Plains Station. Jimmy had a
fine physique, but was subject to periodical fits of
intemperance which usually ended in pneumonia,
the complaint that finally carried him off. Many
years ago Jimmy was accused of killing his gin
with a tomahawk, after which, it was supposed,
he placed the neck between the wires of a fence
and threw the body over the top to make it appear
that the woman had been, in some mysterious
manner,- accidentally strangled. When on the
way to Dubbo Gaol in charge of a single
trooper, Jimmy refused to cross the Mac-
quarie, alleging that it was too deep, and
when the trooper rode into the water to prove
the contrary, Jimmy promptly bolted. Getting rid
of the handcuffs, his thorough knowledge of the
country and of bush-craft enabled him to avoid
recapture, and he was at last outlawed. Some
years later, however, he appeared at Dandaloo
police station, and said to the. man in charge,
“You take me, me tired ! ” He was tried for the
murder, but through some technicality, escaped
conviction. After his death, and before the body
was cold, his kin prepared it for burial by bending
the knees and placing the hands over the face, and
a fire was made in such a position that clouds of
smoke might drift continually over the spot where
the body lay. To satisfy the blacks, a sort of
inquiry into the cause of death was held, and
Jimmy’s body was then rolled up in his Govern-
ment blanket and buried, a few boards being care-
fully placed to keep the earth from touching the
remains,
* * ♦ •
“Gilaomi”: Coming from Queensland
once with cattle we had one bullock in the mob
that would eat anything. Have seen him
apparently enjoy the carcase of a ’possum that
had been dead for a very long time. Passing
through a scrub where some cutters were at work
a yell went up from one of them, and we saw our
MAKING HENS MEAT.
MRS. O'RAGAN : “ Ain’t them Foley’s hens in
the yar-r-den, Mike? If wan is hurted by
you, drivin’ ’em out divil a scrap more ’n a
leg an’ a bit o’ the breast will you get , you
bla’guard.”
omnivorous friend with his head in the air and a
waistcoat in his mouth. He had snatched it from
the bough on which it was hanging, and he
swallowed it before we could intervene. The
scrub-cutter was inconsolable over the loss of his
watch, which he declared was in the waistcoat
pocket, and as we wanted beef we killed that par-
ticular bullock to oblige him. We got the gar-
ment and some green-hide hobble-straps, but no
watch. Bill said the bullock had digested it, and
quoted the case of a cow that ate an eight-day
clock. Sam said there never was any watch, and
he and the scrub-cutter fought eight rounds over
it. In the middle of the ninth round the scrub-
cutter remembered he had lost the watch in
Hobart two years before.
* * * *
According to the good people of the
Papuan Anglican mission, the natives of New
Guinea manufacture a curiouq ornament, in the
shape of a necklace of black ants. This necklace
is sometimes as much as lift, long, and contains
the bodies of as many as 1800 ants. Bits of shell
and bead intersoersed add variety to the effect,
and so light is the whole concern that it often
weighs less than three drachms. The native
women catch the black ants that invade the
gardens, pull off the head, bite off the tail, and
thread the remainder. Price of the whole beastly
thing, one penny.
• * • *
“Tim”: At Lawler’s (W.A.) the local
barber, a collector of native weapons, was sur-
prised one day when an aboriginal walked in and
wanted to buy a boomerang. Sold him one for Is.
We wondered if the blacks were getting too lazy
to make their own weapons, but found that the
nigger made straight for a pub., where he had a
buyer,»who parted half-a-crown for the article.
* * • *
“Jar.” : Our cockies are not cruel—only
careless. A cow I saw sneaking about a bare tim-
ber paddock lately was adorned with a yoke, a
bell, front hobbles, and a teat-defending appara-
tus. All that because the fence was allowed to
totter.
A SLIPPERY CUSTOMER.
1ST. SHEAKER : "Seen the new cook?”
2ND SHEARER: “No; can’t get a look at him.
He’s that greasy me eyes keeps slippin’ off
’im.”
“ D.H.R. ” : About aboriginal doctors.
The Crodgey, or medicine man, of the blacks is
very clever at setting broken limbs.
In case of sickness be has three
medicines, which are called re-
spectively “ Barkal,” “Borygar,”
and “Bumbleum.” The first is
made from the concentrated essence
of gum-leaves and horehound, and
is used for colds. The second is
made from emu oil and gum-
leaves, and is a cure for sprains,
bruises, or wounds. The third is
a compound of gum-leaves mixed
with an oil obtained from codfish,
and is given in many different
kinds of sickness. The blacks are
great believers in gum-leaves.
When a blackfellow gets wounded
in battle the Crodgey stuffs the
wound with mud, and as a rule it
soon heals. [But why send this
without naming district ? It is not
true of aU Australia.—Ed. B.]
* * *
“ X ” : Saw a group of horse-
and-cattle men puzzled t’other day
at the query: “ What is the differ-
ence between the getting up of a
horse and a bullock ? ” The differ-
ence is that a horse rises bow first and a bullock
stern first; that is, the horse puts his two fore
hoofs square on the ground in front of him and
lifts his hind quarters with a vast heave, whilst
the bullock gets his hind quarters up first, and
then, after planting knees in position, heaves up
his thinking-end. Among ten horse-and-cattle
men of long experience in drinking their cheques
not one had ever noticed the point.
THE MARE OF DISFAVOR.
BULLY : “ She’s mine, I tell yer.” Buck : “I tell yer she’s mine.”
BULLY : “ Gam! she gimme ’er photo.” Buck : “ Yah! same as the
Duchess. Bob er dozen, en’ carn't yit rid of them quick enough.”
“Pyalla”: “ Inirav ” asks (B. 20/4/'l)
“ What is the blow-fly before he is a blow-fly,
and what becomes of the maggots?” Well,
simply the maggots become blow-flies—which
answers both questions at once. But there are
various blow-flies. The principal are the com-
mon bluebottle (Callipliora), the largest indoor
species of fly, and the “flesh-fly” (Sarcopkaya
Carnaria). The former (the only kind known in
Britain) lays eggs which are hatched into
maggots or larvte in a few hours, but the
flesh-fly is viviparous, the eggs being
hatched inside the female and the living
maggots deposited to the number of from
300 to 600. This maggotty or larval stage
lasts about a week, after which the
maggot passes into the pupa condition
—comparable somewhat to the chrysalis
—which in about another week gives
place to the perfect fly. As a rule,
the imago, or perfect fly, lives but a
few days. Its chief function is to breed,
while that of the maggot is to feed ; and
after the egg or maggot-laying the
parents, their work being done, may as
well die.
* * * *
Dr. Roth, protector of North
Queensland aborigines, estimates his flock
at about 16,000, of whom some 6000 are
suffering from virulent contagious disease
obtained originally by contact with the
noble white man. It is impossible, the
doctor says, to persuade them to take the
necessary drugs regularly over a period.
The stricken creatures either dread the
medicine bottle as a sort of demon, or go
to the other extreme and take a month’s supply
in one dose.
* * * *
“ Herberton ” : Up this way (N.Q.) the
aborigines are fast dying out; opium, or rather
opium-charcoal, being the chief enemy. What
were a few years ago mere youths are now miser-
able-looking old men. The law of the State is
particularly severe on the opium-traffic (on paper),
yet no steps are taken to stop the business, which
is chiefly carried on by Chows.
“W.S.T.”: “Wat T.’s” so-called “in-
digenous bee” (8., 20/7/T) is the English bee,
which undoubtedly does, as now found in the
bush, show the Italian strain. The true Austra-
lian bee is about the size of a house-fly, and to my
knowledge has not altered in the least during the
last 40 years. A wild-bees’ nest, by-the-way, ean
be seen in Sydney Botanical Gardens, near the
aviaries, and is placed, with curious appropriate-
ness, in the hollow trunk of a stinging- tree (urti-
caria.)
“Right Angle :
Re station-tucker (8.,
6/7/T). At very long
intervals pickles and
jam are hoisted on to
the station-hand. They
fill him with joy—for
a while. Then, when
jam on brownie loses
its charm (or wind on
the stomach sets in)
thestation-hand growls
about the “blanky
awful tucker ! ” The
boss gets a whisper, m
consequence of which
the bread-and-mutton
horror sets in again
violently, and blas-
phemy curls round the
head of the cook. I
know of a station near
Molong whereat the
hands are fat and slow-
moving. They are well-
fed, and know it !
Cakes and puddings
unlimited, with occa-
sional pies for tea!
The chef is quite a pro-
fessional; puts sugared
tops to the pastry,
and supplies afternoon
tea to a choice few.
Was given to under-
stand by one of my
fellow - gorgers that
this fare, like unto the
drought, very seldom
breaks - up. By - the-
way, the old-fashioned sort of cook is fast dying
out. The cook, now, is mostly young and hardy,
and can fight /
“Med.”: Re tattooing (B. 20/7/’l) of
Maori chief. I knew a white man, born in
Sydney, who had such disgusting figures, etc.,
tattooed all over him that he was debarred from
entering any of the public baths.
* * * »
“Bushwhacker”: Re recent rainfall in
Gerald ton (N.Q.) —over 140 in is no exagge-
ration. According to a letter I recently received,
dated late in June, the rain had never ceased since
January. In fact, it never does cease till about
July. I have known telegraph-poles, in hollows
near the river, to be almost covered with water.
During the flood of five years ago the country was
a vast sea, and hundreds of cattle and horses were
drowned. In the wet season thereabouts people
keep a boat tied up to the verandah-post, to be
used instead of a stock-horse.
* * • *
Talking of jam (“ Rewi,” 8., 25/1/T),
the writer works in a country post and telegraph
office. The local factory hands in a wire ordering
two tons of pumpkins and scwt. of carrots, and
same day their traveller calls on the missus, soli-
citing an order for their famous apricot jam and
apple jelly. Why haven’t these people sense
enough to use a cipher?
* * • *
“ Batcher ” : The calmest and most level-
headed animal going is the ordinary barn-door
rat. Made some “ moleskin tarts ” the other day ;
leaned them up against the sugar-tin, four deep,
and went on shift. When I got back a rat had
driven a tunnel through one, and was well into
another. When I disturbed him he made a rush
back, but had got his front paws through No. 1
THE LAST DAY: FLIGHT OF "THE
BULLETIN" STAFF.—(A drawing re
jected by a denominational contemporary.)
tart, the result being that it surrounded him. I
thought he was euchred ; but he walked away
on his hind legs with the crust of the tart
round him like a skirt, picking off pieces with his
front paws and eating them as he went.
SOLITUDE.
Theme of the poet’s twaddle and parson’s gush ;
Dorado of the city man’s desire,
Who yearns to leave the turmoil and the rush
Which thrills his brain and sets his pulse afire 1
We’ve tried you now for many weary years,
We’ve sampled you on hill and camp and plain,
’Mongst men whose conversation seldom cheers,
But merely tends to make the wise insane.
Your art is subtly cruel, seeming kind,
You lure your victim ’neath the guise of Best,
Then, having his ambition undermined, '
You start your murderous work upon your
guest.
And so he stays and hovers round your door,
Shunning the towns where dwell his fellow
men ;
Forgets his speech, his language and its lore—
A beast that dully mumbles in a den.
Tell out your story, land of human wrecks 1
O dreary bush! O maddening sun-cursed
plain !
There are your victims hanging by their necks
To tree or tentpole—there they walk insane--
A greyish, weary, muttering multitude
Of ghosts that gibber in this solitude.
THE WRECK.


A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
genis, and consignors will find it to tlieir advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Janos
For LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, Ac.
The VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS” says:-
“ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Eote the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor!
' ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
The servile Pecksniff Government is send-
ing emissaries round the Vic. Departments and
sternly demanding of civil servants if any one of
them wrote that famous article in the Tocsin.
There is one place in Sydney where the
business of money-lending is carried on in an
equitable manner and where those in need of
financial accommodation can rely on being
decently treated. The sensible man who wishes
to get rid of his monetary worries at a minimum
of cost and trouble to himself goes to the offices of
the Australian Equitable Investment Co., Ltd.
The co. has a large capital for investment at low
interest, and is always open to advance money on
risks which the banks would decline; and acts
generally as a medium between the banks and
ordinary money-lenders. Men in business can
obtain assistance for their venture at a figure
which will leave them a fair profit for themselves.
The co. advances money to any extent on deeds of
land, bond warrants, merchandise, stock in trade,
scrip, interests under wills, furniture and all classes
of security. Press notices which have been pub-
lished from time to time express the favorable
opinion which generally exists regarding the co.
Mr. J. E. O’Brien is the Managing Director, and
the co.’s offices are at 45 Elizabeth-street, between
King and Hunter-streets.*
A Chat with “the Great Detective. 1
Those who have lately visited the Criterion
Theatre and seen Mr. Charles Holloway’s
Company in that excellently staged and exciting
play “Dangerous Women,” will remember Mr.
George Carey’s representation of “ Smudge, the
Great Detective,” as one of the brightest items
amidst some good acting. As Mr. Carey is such
an old favorite, a reporter had a short chat with
him with a view to publication.
“Of recent years,” said Mr. Carey, “a great
change has come over my life. You will remember
that in ’97, when I visited Australia with the
Brough Comedy Co. (now playing at the Sydney
Theatre Royal), I was seldom able to go about
without the aid of a stick. My face appeared
pinched and haggard as though I was in severe
pain, and I had the appearance of a man whose
system was completely ‘ run down. ’ The fact is
I was a victim to severe attacks of gout and
rheumatism, from which I suffered for many
years. The sharp, excruciating pains of gout, and
the wearying ache of rheumatism interfered both
with my sleep and appetite.”
“ Your life as a comedian was certainly tinged
witli tragedy ?”
“Indeed, it was,” said Mr. Carey. “At last
several friends advised me to take Dr. Williams’
pink pills. I had not too much faith in them, but
after using them for a short time I found they
were undoubtedly benefiting me. The attacks of
gout and rheumatism became less severe, and I
felt better in spirits. I continued taking them
regularly for several months, and at last was able
to throw away my stick, as I found it unnecessary.
My improved appearance and evident activity tell
better than words how successful Dr. Williams’
pink pills have been in my case. I can con-
scientiously recommend them.”
It is by purifying and enriching the blood that
Dr. Williams’ pink pills cure rheumatism,
rheumatic gout and sciatica, for these ailments
are really caused by impure blood. Then come
the cold and wet, and the pains begin. As Dr.
Williams’ pink pills are a blood-builder and
nerve-tonic they cure these ailments in addition
to neuralgia, bronchitis, consumption, paralysis,
locomotor ataxia, skin diseases, hysteria, St.
Vitus’ dance, etc. Sold by chemists and store-
keepers and by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
Queen’s Place, Sydney, two and nine, six boxes
fifteen and three, post free. Substitutes are
valueless.*'
USED IN THE RO/AL HOUSEHOLDS.
“CEREBOS SALT
Besides being the most Dainty, Dry, and Economical
Table Salt, “Cerebos” contains the strengthening and
constitution building properties which are wanting
in White Bread, owing to the removal of the Bran.
It is, therefore, invaluable in the daily food of
growing children, delicate mothers, and all brain
workers.
Wholesale Agents .’-HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 334 and 336, George Street, SYDNEY.
Sold by Grocers and Stores.
A blind horse was lately driven in a buggy
from Kempsey to Cowra (N.S.W.), the journey
occupying two weeks. Until the horse lost his
sight he was most unreliable ; now he is docile as
a lamb, and never stumbles or refuses to plod
along. He is absolutely blind, and has to be led
to his food. More than once he has fallen down
drains in a paddock and had to be lifted out
again. But guide him along a road, and he steps
out with the greatest confidence.
* * * *
“ E. A 0.E.” : Jack Hamilton never said
anything so absurd as the statement attributed to
him (in B. 3rd Aug.) re divers and sharks. As
there is no air line at the wrist, the diver couldn’t
very well cut it there, and if he did achieve the
impossible, while he might possibly frighten the
shark, he would also effectually settle himself.
Mr. Hamilton, it is safe to bet, described the
practice accurately. The sleeve of the diving-
dress ends at the wrist in a strong rubber band,
which keeps it air-tight. When a shark proves
too inquisitive the diver, inserting a finger under
this band, causes a jet or rush of air which
disturbs the water, and generally scares six
months’ growth out of all the fish in the
neighborhood. The water, of course, is very
clear in those latitudes, and besides the noise
of the air - rush, there are the bubbles
caused by it; apparently these also have effect.
When a boy, the writer used to go swimming
with some expert South Sea islanders. These
asserted that they could frighten any shark—if
they knew one to be about —by making a noise
with the mouth under the surface, somewhat
similar to a man gargling his throat. By sinking
some feet under the surface, writer found he could
hear this noise when made by a companion some
400 yards away, but has never yet proved its
efficacy as a shark-scarer. Perhaps some Sydney
swimmer will experiment—and report.
* * * *
“A. A. A.”: Re divining-rod. Recently a
Wa'gett (N.S.W.) farmer, in order to prevent a
fence-breaking steer from trespassing, placed a
forked willow-tree bough around its neck, securing
it by fastening a piece of board across widest part.
Afterwards, whilst driving his stock to water,
he noticed that the steer in question, when
passing a certain place, always had its head
dragged towards the earth as if by magnetic force.
This was also observed by a visitor, who told the
steer’s owner that the collar was a divining-rod,
and that water was not far from the surface at the
place in question. At first the idea was ridiculed,
but the farmer ultimately tried the experiment
and struck a splendid supply of good water after
sinking a few feet. The above can be verified by
the Mayor of Muswellbrook. [Really ! —Ed. B.].
Talk about “plurality!” I
know a man who, besides being news-agent, book-
seller, fancy-goods dealer, &c., is also sec. to the
local gas co. ; sec. and collector to the district
hospital; agent for a leading life-assurance office ;
Registrar of Births, Marriages, and Deaths —also,
some other little things too numerous to mention.
And yet I heard his wife once lamenting the diffi-
culty young people have now in obtaining em-
ployment.
An old Ballarat identity, John Van Buren,
died in the local Benevolent Asylum last week,
aged 88 years. In the early gold days he was a
driver for Cobb and Co. between Geelong and
Ballarat and was known to travellers as “ Gin and
Bitters.” Like many of Cobb and Co.’s early
drivers Van Buren was an American. He claimed
relationship to Martin Van Buren, a former U.S.
President.
A MAORI LAND SKETCH.
Carlton (Vic.) (the place where the magis-
trate fines the larrikin ss. for jumping on his old
mother with all his hob-nails) has a new organ of
public opinion, which shows its acquaintance with
its surroundings by informing prospective contri-
butors that their effusions will be published if
“no innuendoes or recriminatory language is in-
dulged in.” “Coarse invective and brutal per-
sonalities,” it is thoughtfully added, “ will not be
allowed.” In apologising for its modest size the
new paper says in a charmingly ingenuous way :
These are the days when Science shows us the amazing
potentialities and the big results achieved by the infini-
tesimally small ! A fly may slay an elephant; a mosquito
inoculate a man with deadly disease.
And what mischief may the smallest paper not
do !
TO A BAKERS DAUGHTER
no DAY. SWEET LASS, I BEGGED A
LOAF FROM YOU:
you CAVE IT, BUT IN YOUR SWEET
EYES 1 SAW
IMPATIENCE AND CONTEMPT
—_J THAT PIERCED ME THRO 1
Wggf) AND'MADE ME CURSE TBE FACT THAT
] WAS POOR-
BUT THAT I KNEW YOU’D .TAKE FTY PRAYER AMISS
[N SOOTH DEAR, t HAD SOONER BEGGED A KISS
gfSJHlNK NOT, SWEETHEART, I BEAR THIS SWAC FROM
njjf'pis the spasmodic cauling i pursue - (choice)
DULL SORDID TO|E WITH SCANTY RECOMPENCE
THEN weary months with nothing good to do.
HAD | A STEADY JOB THE WHOLE YEAR THROUGH
I’D MARRY SOME SWEET MAIDEN-PERCHANCE YOU
"%M n TOR A LODGE IN SOME GREAT WILDERNESS
Pp] WROTE £t>vipER (HE OF VACUOUS NIGHTCAPPED FACE
BETTER POET. | MUST FAIN CONFESS,
UUT IN AUSTRALIA RATHER OUT OF PLACE
[SJO WILDERNESS FOR ME- GIVE ME THE STRIPE
OF SOME GREAT CITY WITH A HOME AND WIFE
m DRINK? OF COURSE. WHAT ELSE HAVE | TO DO?
SAVE UP AND MARRY? LET THE MISSUS WORK*?
JsJO THANKS, SUCH LIFE MAY SUIT THE SORDID FEW
I like VARIETY /VS DOES THE TURK-
LOVING ALL PRETTY WOMEN NEATH THE SUN,
SURELY YOU WOULD NOT HAVE ME TIED TO,ONE
THE WRECK.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
H. Lane: They might “amuse the boys out-
back,” but they would also get us six months. That,
no doubt, would also amuse the boys out-back J.N.D.
(Geelong): Wanted larger items in a more condensed
form. News-lozenges, spiced Pioro : We printed a
small fragment of yours ; at once you send us MS. weigh-
ing 31b. 6oz. Heaven help us !.. . .O.L.L. : Name of
writer must appear on first slip of every item A. Hen-
shaw : There is no novel of that name—thank goodness.
Why didn’t you just put on your dress-suit and say,
“ Oui.” Then you could represent “A Gentleman of
France.” J.W. :As it happens, most of the authority
proposed to be conferred by the Post and Telegraph Bill
is already exercised by the Postm isters-General in at
least three Australian States, and was conferred on them
by the people’s representatives in Parliament. As for the
Inter-State Commission Bill, it is rather a good
democratic measure in the main. You probably
never read it, but accepted the shouts and
groans of some Tory papers as gospel
Golden Wattle : No dreams or ghosts unless tip-t0p....
A.P.W. : Attach stamps to copy ; and don’t write letters
of apology and explanation Judas : Weave your
rhymes round Australian topics, and omit fleshly detail.
..'..Spinner (Vic.): Will print both.... Alphonse :We
regret to sav that you cannot get an old-age pension in
N.S.W. unless (in addition to the other conditions laid
down) you have lived in the State for 10 years after being
naturalised. (2) A person naturalised as a British sub-
ject, but so naturalised outside the State, is also ineligible
for a pension.... E. P. Clark: Yet with all her own
brutal iniquities of aboriginal slavery your nigger-flog-
ging State has the front to assert that a love of Liberty
impelled her to send soldiers to make war upon the
tyrannic 80er.... Aoba: Yes, see what a sensitive, tender-
hearted mummer the good Mr. (name suppressed),
tragedian, is—prices as usual. When newspapers are
fully awake to their own interests all speeches of that
kind will be reported by the advt. canvasser at special
rates N.F. : A Man’s Incon. for print B. Umber:
Why, oh, why do all your, and all other, newspaper art
critics speak of president John Ford Paterson’s “ mystic”
pictures? Vide notices of Vic. Art Society’s recent show.
They see mist, and call it mysticism... .Nicotine : Can’t
say for certain how that difficult subject should be
handled, but your way isn’t convincing, anyhow.... M
Gartin : There is something of a story in it, but the boy
is painfully unnatural.... 1 libbs : You went in haste on a
cold night to see a dying relative, but she was dead before
you arrived. And it would be just about the same kind of
story if she had died after you arrived... .P.H.L. : Don’t
think so. The tobacco-growing industry and woollen and
linen industries and the export of cattle were
all prohibited at different times, and all trade,
except through England, was prohibited. Don’t re-
member about coal, though it may have been....
Cosmos : Yes, it was this paper which originally printed
those verses—after a long struggle between its modesty
and its appreciation of a good thing... .Echo : Anyhow
The Bulletin helped on Federation in order that
Australia might be able to stand alone ..H.A.W.: You
insist on preaching, do you?... . Russon : Too dull —even
with “ the joke in the last line.”... .E.M.D. : 7d. due on
your insufficiently-stamped packet... .B.Y. : Don’t care
for parodies, unless with the force of original work.
Abo, : Caldwell’s “poem” moves us to beers. ..
Ishmsel: That yarn about Saul and his father’s asses is
the grandfather of all the chestnuts F.H.W. : Non-
sense ! If you will dissect a mother-marsupial, you will
see that there is absolutely no communication betw. en
uterus and mammae. Hence your suggested mode of
birth is physically impossible M A.B. : Would have
been pleased to inform you, but could not ascertain....
Med. : Savours of invention A. W. Mac.: If he died
intestate and left a wife but no children, the wife takes
all the estate ; if he left a wife and children, wife takes
one-third and the children two-thirds Old Grimes :
Unless the bridegroom is indisposed through horrors or
something equally remarkable, there is very little in it.
Joseph J. : Everything is more or less incongruous.
The most disreputable dog-fight writer ever saw was being
conducted on the doorstep of the Society for the Promotion
of Christian Knowledge, and it was the Methodist Book
Depot dog fighting the dog from the Peace Society’s office..
R.O. : Alas, you are nearly all “ palpable imitations.”....
Zadig : Perhaps one N.M.R. : Wants more life and
humor H.E.S.: Too faint Honey: Not up A.G. :
Idea too old A.M.B. : Inquiry into the loss of the
Alexander Berry should have ascertained why a vessel is
allowed to cruise along a dangerous coast with only one
cable Bookworm : No cheap editions of Froude’s or
Buckle’s histories. Why not buy second-hand copies?
H.R.B. : Will bear in mind when re-printing J.O.G.
(M.L.): Too 510 w.... A.F.J. :No connection M.M.B. :
Unusable Ticket: W.P. not g00d... .R.A.K. : Interest
not strong enough S.T.B. : Well jingled ; get a better
motive Barry Sprayton : “Battler” is good. Will
print G. Bro. : Yes, and don’t forget that the
Broken Hill mine - controllers are probably praying
for a big shut- down in order that they may get
rid of all obnoxious Laborites and cut wages....
Telsihc : Hardly good enough... .Fairlie : A poor story
well told.... The Gadfly: Thanks... .Zeb. : Well tried;
but too stiff altogether... .Aleck B. : Get somebody who
knows more about it to give you a few hints Pan:
Too faint; wants interest... .Swaggie: When did it
happen?... .T.G.F. : Neddy threw you and cut out bul-
lock on his own —h’m ! Did he handle the whip well 1....
M.B. : Cricket news that has already been told in the
cables is not interesting... .A.C. : That tale should have
been told more briefly in a readable round-hand
Staff : And so you really think we propose to have that
’roo subject discussed here ? Some people have indeed a
fine genius for killing a paper in one act... .L.L. : Name
of writer should be on each typed slip, in the case of
separate items. It is not enough to write your name on
an accompanying slip, which gets detached and lost,
leaving no clue to authorship... .I.W. (Fiji) : Please call
when you come to Sydney... .Mel. O. : Interesting read-
ing, but you are so hopelessly inaccurate tnat we have
given you up in despair....A Correspondent: H.C.O.’s
verses, “ The Earth is the Lord’s,” first appeared in The
Bulletin in Sept, or Oct. of 1895.... Yaamba : Notice the
mice have nibbled your poem. More than we’d do
A.R. : No good at present; but not unpromising
Mopoke : Nothing for it but practice.... J. Trotter:
“ Poetry ritten on a spree ” has finally sobered down....
Shaw N. : Good ; will use... .John Carew : Some usable ;
keep on.. .G.H.G.: Too crude and improving.. .Norton M.:
Possibly one.. .Ernest 0.: Doubtful... A.C.H.: Flat echo...
Galvanii : Don’t know anything definite about them, but
strongly recommend you to consult a reputable doctor.
Te Whai : Thanks A.B.S. (M.L.) : Such details
don’t look well in a paper of general circulation. Anec-
dote, of course, unprintable John W. : May d 0....
D.F.H. : Too fearfully long-winded Sandy : Not quite
up L.A.: No fun James Stez : Put your experience
in prose T. Granim : Considering... .0.H.0. (Eng.):
Thanks, but we have no use for vast m isses of news-
cuttings. Anything of special Australian interest we are
always glad to see.. ..E.L.O. : “ And yet a little, pea-sized
blood-clot on his brain may make the most intellectual
man into a gibbering idiot.” Read it again.... C. 0.: B. is a
bit slow . A.E.O. (M.L.): Too reminiscent; returned....
Point Blank : Good.. ..E.T.H. : Who wrote it? Name and
address? 0.8. : “Don’t Understand ”is too “steep.
0 F.S. : Topic exhausted A True Briton : Too
labored... .Tse Tse : Too much space for point... .Lilian :
What’s not weak is trite... .First Attempt: Will possibly
use Wonoka: Not much in them Inquirer: Cant
say You don’t give enough details as to the respective
positions.... Oobar: More dull than irreverent. ...W.A. :
Unusable.... Pinnabar : Tale drags heavily.. L.M.D. .
“Finger” wants interest Jack A. Clubs: You want
three years’ practice—elsewhere. Try it on the dog
H.L.A.: Alas, we have a huge pile of unread MS. !....
L W • When sending MS. please don’t send a long letter
with it. Let the MS. speak for itself. It always does in
the lona run Waka-para : Some good items among
them.... .T. Grinan : Declined.... Woothen Yunga : Not
acceptable matter.. ..Emb. :An innocent advt. enough.
Yar: “Peter” drags painfully X.X. :We have
heard it well spoken of. But, tell us—what treatment
have you had so far?... .F.M.N. (M.L.): Will print
“Monkey.” G.C.F. (M.L.) : Too long drawn-out
J.D. : Considering “ W 001.”... .Jack o’ Clubs : Form too
bad; go and educate yourself.... Jas. Stey : No show
whatever..... Percy M. : Annotated and returned.....
TOD.: Not up Paterfam. : One howl declined
George 11. : Worthless without names F.F. (W.A.):
Good idea ; poorly handled T.E.R. : Flat Hope-
less : Little bit brighter, please Glengariff: Long—
and uninteresting Esmi: No story.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
O. Quibell: We don’t want suggestions that are not
obviously -original—and it is all the better if they’re topi-
cal. To accept things of the sort you send would be
simply to invite the whole world to bombard us with
stealings from thief-papers of back dates. Send us some-
thing Australian, so that we’ll have a reasonable show of
sizing it up Sunburyite : Why not write to him per-
sonally ? We can’t tell you from this end. Bulletin s
Melbourne address is369oollins-st. .. W.J.P.: Too ancient.
M.J.H.: You can’t draw, but you’ve got ideas. You
should study drawing A.K.L.: Why not try some
obviously-original Australian subject? We are so tired of
stolen alleged jokes and variants thereof Sausage Man
(H.M. ?): You are the makings of a good draughtsman,
and, if you are still young, should study hard. No legend
with sketch. Unavailable : Richd. P., Ben S., Wm.
Mac., Charlie B. (we don’t want scrap-paper themes), W.
O’B. (G.), J.W.8., Henry E. O.


WESTRALIAN BLACKS.-HOW THEY ARE TREATED.
PERTH Monday.-An ex-policeman, who has had some years experience in the Kimberley districs, writing in the MORNING HERALD on treatment of aboriginals in the north-west, states that he
has seen many cason of grat cruelty inflicted by whites on lachks, and that traps have been set for natives in order to convict them of stealing meat, The blacks working on atations are, be says, he sya, ill-fed
and misenhly clad, white the other are driven right out when there is no food. Great evils, he declares, attend the indenturing system, and natives are frequently flogged on any pretext. Lubras
are often run down on horseback by white men and taken to station, where they are detained for immoral parposes, One woman was captured in this way, white her husband was driven off the
station After months she esciped, She again was tracked down, brought back and Ilogged. The writer duals with the administration of justice where the natives are concerned, stating that in one
district a paid flogger gets 10s a head for every black he flogs-using a brulaly-cruel cat, When such matters leak out, the offenders against the blacks are sufficiently powerful to get them hushed up
JUSTICE: "Don't I hear cries for help?"


THAT OLD AGE PENSION.
Daughter of the House : “ Pa’s coming
into property.” /
I Youthful Neighbor : “’Ow’sthat?"
Daughter of the House : “ He’s gettin’ ’is ma’s ma outer
Newington ’Sylum, and his pa’s coming to our place
[ too.”
DOGS ON THE CHAIN
M.RO." writes directing attention to the cruelty in-
volved in the practice followed by some people of keeping |
dogs on the chain continuously for long periods. Our cor-
respondent writes “ I beg to protest against a very preva-
lent form of cruelty to dogs. I refer to the practice, which
is a'very frequent one among dog-owners, of keeping their
poor dogs chained continually without, in some cases, ever
'letting them loose. I have known iq,any cases where these
unfortunate animals have been kept on the chain for months
without intermission. I find that a large proportion of dogs
are treated in this inhuman manner. The torture of this
treatment must be patent to all who have any power of
imagining themselves in the same position as the poor
dog. Besides feeling all the effects of a general
degeneration of health from this cruel confinement,
the poor animals must suffer terribly from the
cold. To warm themselves by movement, is
denied them, and in many cases the chained
dog is not even provided with a
in which to shelter. It takes only a
very moderate flight of fancy to
realise what sad misery from cold,
hunger, diseased joints, and thwarted
instincts many a poor helpless dog
endures in this way at the hands of
his callous oppressors until death at
length releases him.”.— S. M. Herald.
The Sydney D.T.’s little dog was let ofT the chain last week
for a moment, proposed a want-of-confidence motion, and was
defeated by 38 votes. Then the D.T. told him it was - pre-
mature—might have been expected,” and he went back
“on the chain.”
FINANCES OF THE STATE.
STRONG SPEECH BY MR.
BRUNKER.
GOING it BLIND— Or the present attitude
OP THE ’ROO.
King Edward considers it desirable that
the views of the colonies should be re-
ceived before arriving
at a final decision
with regard to the
addition to his
titles.
IMAGINE HIM CONSULTING COPELAND.
Tag ‘‘l see! your Majesty, that ‘"King of the British Dominions over
xne oeas has been suggested, and it strikes me as rather happy.”
Edward : “ Never do; why y OU r comic paper (Sydney Morning Herald, I think
j Would fl>PP*w»tly refer to me as ‘ King Edward half seas over ’
and the name would stick. No, give mtfan easier one
"Speaking' yesterday relative to the 1
telegram published from Perth (W.A.),
stating that three suspected anarchists
were detained, in Sydney Quarantine
Station from the time of the arrival of
the Ormuz in May until June ‘25, the
Inspector-General of Police, Mr. E.
Fosbery, said that no persons were kept
in quarantine unless they were patients
or contacts. The Italians who came to
Sydney by the steamer, added Mr.
Fosbery, since being discharged from
quarantine, had entered business, and
that was, so far as he .knew, their main
object in coming to Australia.
The Duke of York, Ac., imitating
the example of his late illustrious
uncle, has bequeathed a spook to
Australia, and the Quarantine Spec-
tre will now take its place in history
side-by-side with the Kiama Ghost!
This “strong speech,” according
to the Sydney D.T., was made in
Maitland “agin the Government.”
A strong speech by Sunday Brun-
ker! Can partisan journalism go
further 1
CARTOONLETS.


A. SAUNDERS’
SOLID SILVER SHOWROOM DISPLAY.
THE LARGEST AND MOST COMPREHENSIVE STOCK IN AUSTRALIA.
6ggi
fuEsS^ls
fu£o
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s COMPANION CALENDER and LETTER
HOLDER, 12s 6d, IBs, 20s, 255.
Most Useful Present.
Cheaper Styles, 7s 6d, 10s.
A. SADNDKR3.
SOLID SILVER Gent.’s SHAVER SOAP STICK,
BRUSH, PUFF BOX. in Silk-lined Case, £2 109.
A Nice Present,
A. SAUNDERS’
Latest Style in Ladies' PURE SILVER-CHASED Watteau
Design, HAIR BRUSH, 85s; Cheaper Styles, 15s 6d,18s 6d, 20s,
255. Send for 1901 Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silrer-mounted MANICURE SET, 20s, in Silk-lined Case.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 255, 80s, £2,
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver-mounted SHO LIFT, BOOT and
GLOVE FASTENER, and GLOVE STRETCHER,
in Nice Leather Case, 22s 6d
1 lilllß
i wttmm 1,1
A. BAUNDEKS.
SMELLING BALTS BOTTLE. Pure Solid Silver, Plain or Chased
Tops, ss, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 2Cs.
Other styles, 2s 6d and 8s 6a.
A, SAUNDERS
Ladijs’Silver-mounted WALLET
CARD CASE, 20a.
Similar style, 15a,
Solid Silver Swan PIN-
CUSHION, 7s 6d.
PURSES, Pure Silver-mounted as above,
15s and 20s ;
similar lines, Ts 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADlEjji’ FRIEND, Pure Silver-mounted,
m Bilk-lined Case, 18a 6d.
Smaller, 16s Bd.
A. SAU NDJSBS.
SERVIETTE RINGS, Pure Solid Silver,
Diamond Cut, 8a 6d, 10s, and 12s 6d.
In three widths.
A. SAUNDERS.
MIRROR, Pure Bilver,
Watteau Design,
£B.
Other styles, 80s, £2, £2 10s.
GUM POT.
Pure Silver-mounted,
6s 6d.
SPECTACLE
CHATELAINE
CASE,
Solid Silver,
80s, £2.
Silver-plated,
;i2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver 4 o’clock TEA SPOONS, in Case, 16s, 20s j
with TONGS, 20s, 255, 80s. £2 :
Silver Electro-plated, with TONGS, 12s Hd, 16s, 20s,
All in Silk-lined Cases. Post Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER, Pure Solid Silver, as above, 20s;
with Solid Silver KNIFE and Silk Case, 30s, Complete.
A. SAUNDERS,
Ladies’ Pure Silver Complete TOILET REQUISITES, in Silk-lined case.
2 HAIR BRUSHES, MIRROR, HAT and CLOTH BRUSH, MANICURE SET,
GLOVE STRETCHER, SHOE LIFT and BUTTON HOOK.
IS Articles in all, £l2 10s.
Ufc A
m s
mt
liiiiiiniiiiiiimiuiiiimiiuiiiUiUi
a ■ SAUNDERS,
Ladies’ Pure Solid Silver-mounted TULET SET : HAIR PIN HOLDI R,
BOTTLE, PUFF BOX, an 1 POMADE POT, £2. Very Useful.
-CENT
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver RATTL E, Pearl Ring and End, 12s 6d and 10s 6d; other styles, 4s 6d, ss, 7s 6d.
ism
L Hls little pig •• ‘A
SUL to MftS
A. SAUNDERS.
Child’s SPOON, Solid Silver, Chased, 7s 6d. The Latest and Newest Designs,
COMBS. —Pure Solid Silver-mounted,
Real TORTOISESHELL, 20s; Imitation Shell,
10s 6d; Similar, 6s 6d and 7s 6d.
CLOTH or HAT BRUSH,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d,
Price to Style.
Pure Silver,
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ or Gent.’s TRA VELLING ROLLS,
as above, 12s 6d. Other Styles, similar,
10s, 15s, 20s, 255, HOs, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted SHAVING
CUP, 7s 6d.
In Silver plate, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted Gent.’a
HAIR BRUSH, 15 each.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted
MIRR' >R, 15s; Heart Shape,
12s 6d. Splendid Value,
Pure Silver-
mounted.
HAIB PIN
HOLDER, ss.
Pure Solid Silver
Badger Hair
SHAVING
BBUSH, 12s 6d.
Other styles,
15s and 20s.
A Nice Present.
Pure Sliver
BOOK MARK,
2s 6d,
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGARETTE or CIGAR OASES,
Various Colours, Silver-mounted,
10s 6d, 12s 6a, 16s, 20s, 255.
A. 8 XUNDERS.
Tare Silver-mounted KNIFE RESTS,
in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNTERS.
Pure Silver Cabinet PHOTO. FRAME,
12s 6d.
Other styles, 10s, 16s, 20s, 265, 30s;
small, 13 6d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, ss.
A. SAUNDSKS.
CHILD’S CUPS, Pure Solid Silver, in Silk C
80s, 85s, £2, £2 10s ;
Silver Electro-plated, 10s, 12s 6d 15°, 20 <•
A Nice Presen
SQ
mQ
mm
sab
O'i
m
A. SAUNDERS.
PUFF BOX, Solid Silver Co vers, Cut Glass,
10s, 12s od, 15s, 17s 01, 2Ds.
A Most Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
Two Pure Silver-mounted BRUSHES and COMB,
in Silk Case, £3. Other styles, £2, £2 10s.
ng ||
'fym
A. SAUNDEKS.
SALTS, Pure Silver-mounted, 16s 6d,
White Cut Glass, in Silk-lined Case,
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWELLER anca. SILVERSMITH.
A BEAUIIFUL D.SPI.AY OF PRESENTS.
Mind. 815 GEORG E-STREET,
NEARLY OFPO 'ITE
KAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY-


The
POWDER.
It was Plato who said, “To educate the mind and neglect the body is to produce a,
cripple.” Be careful not to cripple the action of the Stomach, Liver, Kidneys, an
Bowels by neglecting the periodical cleansing of the human machinery, which is so
necessary at this season of the year.
Hature’B grand pick-(l|e-||p Free
TAKEN IMMEDIATELY ON RISING IN THE MORNING a dessertspoonful of Kutnow’s Powder
in fresh-drawn spring water will be found delightfully refreshing. A cup of hot tea fifteen minutes later wi 1
hasten its beneficial action. During spring time two or three doses a week will so regulate the'System (by
cleansing it of all impurities and by expelling the excessive THm Acid) as tc.absolutely ensure a continuance
good health and thereby prolong the span of life. HEADACHE, BILIOUbNESb, INDIGESIIO ,
STIPATION and KIDNEY DISORDERS cannot stand against the marvellous beneficial action ot Kutnow s
Powder. It is the most gentle of all aperients, no pain can possibly ensue, not even m the case of the most
delicate invalid. Griping is unknown, the laxative effect is perfect and unlike ordinary salines or salts,
Kutnow’s Powder possesses distinct medicinal properties, which eliminate all poisonous and putri y g
deposits in the system, and at the same time invigorates and restores the organs to healthy activity, thereby
rejuvenating enervated nature.
Ijonest Testimony to |!|erit.
THE MEDICAL JOURNAL (April, 1901) says:
AS A SUBSTITUTE for the European medicinal spring trea -
ment, many eminent medical men and the most prominent medic 1
journals have recommended KUTNOW’S improved effervesce t
POWDER, as the same is a portable, economical, reliable, and ve y
agreeable remedy, extensively employed by the profession, to who e
further attention it is recommended. It exercises a beneficial effc t
on the liver, gall-bladder, kidneys, and stomach. The flavour s
refreshing, and it is readily taken by women and children. It has aho
been successfully prescribed in diabetes, and for the correction of t e
lithic and uric acid diathesis, with or without jaundice, constipation,
acid dyspepsia, and hemorrhoids. “ Its advantages,” says a medical cov-
respondent, “ appear to arise from its possessing the power to eliminate
from the body the excess of bile and acids, thereby purifying the blood
and strengthening the general tone by improving the assimilative pro-
cesses of the debilitated system. Consequently, it has a salutary effect
in cases of hypochondriasis associated with low spirits and general
depression.”
For the above reasons KUTNOW’S effervescent Carlsbad POW-
DER has been employed, under the highest medical authorities, for
patients leading sedentary lives, and those suffering from abnormal
accumulations of fat. For corpulent women, in particular, physicians
will find it a pleasant remedy when aided by the appropriate diet. The
well-to-do classes, with leisure to command, periodically seek the
cleansing and health-restoring medicinal spas of the Continent. Of the
millions of sufferers, however, only comparatively very few are favored
by such fortunate circumstances as to enable them to indulge in the
luxury of a trip to the Continent. Therefore, as a boon to suffering
humanity, Kutnow’s effervescent Powder won by sheer sterling merit
the approval of such authorities as Sir Spencer Wells, M.D., Professor
Lawson Tait, M.D., Sir Morrell Mackenzie, M.D., Sir Andrew Clark,
M.D., and the most eminent physicians everywhere.
CONSTIPATION.
“ To educate the mind and neglect the body is
to produce a cripple.” The neglect of constipa-
tion until it practically becomes habitual, is
responsible for most of the ills which flesh is heir
to. It is the foundation of disease by the storing
of foetid putrifying matter. It renders the man,
woman, or child a predisposed subject for the ac-
ceptance of typhoid and all contagious disease.
Constipation is no respecter of persons, everyone
is liable to the blocking-up of the natural sewer of
the body. The insidious trouble accumulates
quietly a storehouse of blood poison, the first
warning note of which is given by the exudation
on the skin of the hateful pimple, the painful boil,
or the more serious carbuncle. At this season of
the year (spring-time) you meet people who dis-
play a mass of skin eruptions, the evidence of un-
clean blood. The victim might think there is
something wrong with the air or that the weather
has broken its record. He has sick-headache, loss
of appetite, a foetid breath, a-foul tongue, rest dis-
turbed, nightmare, fidgety, irritable, palpitation,
and bladder troubles. What is the remedy?
KUTNOW’S POWDER, and the way to be abso-
lutely convinced of its sterling merit is to send to
the nearest chemist for a trial bottle.
KUTNOW’S POWDER can be obtained in
capsuled bottles at any chemist or medicine
vendor. Insist on Kutnow’s, and see that you get
it. Any suggested substitute is absolutely worth-
less.
CONVINCING TESTIMONY.
“ Addinghara Vicarage, Langwathby, R. 5.0., Cumberland.
“I am much obliged for the sample of your powder. I have already
tried it, procuring it locally from my chemist. I consider it an excel-
lent remedy in all troubles connected with the Liver, etc. It has the
great advantage of being pleasant to take.
B “(Rev,) T. W. STEPHENSON (Vicar).”
“ Berry Head Cottage, Brixham, Devonshire.
“ I consider I have now given your powder a fair trial, and beg to
say I consider it the most agreeable, and at the same time distinctly
the most efficient, aperient I have ever used. “W. MUNRO.’
“ Whitecliffe, Monks Risboro’, Tring.
“ I beg to thank you for the sample bottle of your Carlsbad
Powder. I have been suffering from the effects of a sluggish liver, and
I have derived great benefit from the short course of the powder, night
and morning. I have ordered a boUlefrom the „
“ 8, St. Catherine’s Road, Perth.
“ X have derived so much benefit from the use of your Carlsbad
Powder that I shall never be without it. I feel as if I had got ar new
lease of life. I cannot speak too highly of it, and shall certainly do all
in my power to make known the value ”
“ 22, Lewis Crescent, Brighton.
“ Nurse COLLEY thanks Messrs. Kutnow for the sample and has
found it excellent. She will be pleased to recommend it whenever
she can.”
“71, Eastern Road, Romford, Essex.
“ Many thanks for sample of your Effervescent Powder. I have
found it a great boon, and shall certainly continue its use during the
summer. -BKYAJNI.
“ 14, Wellington Road, Old Charlton.
“The few times I have taken your Powder proved its worth
already. Eor the future I shall not like to be without it in the house.
It not only acts rapidly, but produces a feeling of brightness after.^
Jdj. DAY 10.
Farringdon Street, London, E.G. Proprietors in. U.S.A. : KUTNOW BROS., Ltd.., 853 Broadway, New York.
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW and GO., Ltd., 41
UNDER THE ROYAL PATRONAGE OF
H.R.H. THE QUEEN OF GREECE.
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE.
H.R.H. THE PUKE OF SPARTA.
H.R.H. THE DUCHESS OF SPARTA.
H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHENLOHE.
H.R.H. PRINCE GEORGE OF GREECE,
(High Commissioner of Crete, &c., &c.)
EDWARDS’
99
FOR
THE
Photo d specially for the " Garleue ” Co., by Langfler, Bond St., W >
Haymarket rheatre, London.
Miss JULIA NEiLSON
writes —
“ / e.m at present trying your ' Harlene' for my
hair, and / find, it one of the best Hair Tonics and
Restorers I have ever used, and l have tried many.
Will you kindly send me two more bottles."
THE GREAT HAIR
PRODUCER and RESTORER.
THE FINEST DRESSING SPECIALLY PREPARED AND
DELICATELY PERFUMED.
A«LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EVERY MODERN TOILET
** Harlefte ” Produces Luxuriant Hair. Prevent its Falling Off and Turning -
Grey. Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the Beard and Moustache,
The World Renowned Remedy for Baldness. For Preserving, Strengthening*
/ and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft, for Removing Scurf Dandruff, &c.,
*also for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour.
Crown Prince’s Palace, Athens, f
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE
wr ites—“ Messrs. Edwards’ Preparation, ‘Harlene’ for the Hair, has Riven cmtire
satisfaction. H.R.H. wishes six more bottles of ‘ Harlene ’ sent as soon as possible.
Kitegyhaza, County Bikis, Hungary.
COUNTESS DENIS ALMASY
-writes —“ Please forward me three more bottles of ‘ Harlene,' as lam particularly satisfied
with the two bottles sent me to Switzerland, and have been using it ever since.”
Tull Description and Directions for use in Twenty Languages supplied with every
'Bottle. 1/-. 2/6, and (three times 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle, from Druggists, '&<s.,
all over the World.
A
V
Plioto’d specially lor the “Harlene Co., by Langfier, Bond St., tv.
Ganick Theatre, London.
IVliss VIOLET VANBRUGH
wi ties —
“/ am very pleased to testify to the excellent
qualities 0/ 'Harlene.' it is most refreshing and
invigorating and I have found it very Stimulating
to the Growth o 1 my Hair.
«< P.S.— I hope fate will never take me to any
quarter of the where l should be unable
to procure ' Harlene.' "
EDWARDS’
HARLENE” Co., 95 & 96, High Holborn, London, W.C.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
-We learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attached to every bottle of Condy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
curing most of the ailments and accidents
affecting Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry,
and Birds of all kinds.
Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
.Fever in Horses.—Scab, Foot Rot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Rinderpest, Hoove, Foul in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle.—Distemper
Mange, Canker, and Eczema in Dogs.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of local substitutes, all are
inferior. Insist on having Condv’s Fluid
GrO TO HELL-
1U GRAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 i-.lizafceth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lis gratis.
HATS. HATS. + HATS.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes tatted with this
valuable invention.
Catalogue to B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTCR BRAPLCY # CO.,
J- iir /# itlive and /« /ue Avt Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydnoy»
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction ICooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-sfc
For the Hair
It is the most reliable and the best
preparation for the hair, you can obtain*
no years success proves this. It
PRESERVES THE HAIR
restores it when thin or withered, cures
baldness, eradicates scurf, is specially
adapted for Ladies* and Childrens’ Hair,
and is also sold in a
GOLDEN COLOUR
for fair or grey hair, which does not
stain or darken the hair, or linen.
Sold by Stores or Chemists. Ask for
Rowlands ,67, Hatton Garden, London.
high-grade
farm—-
rag
1| Ua:
KSjJsS ” r " 1 “‘“TSSBi
«=
NT
3111
RKSB
Z~r-:^;y, :
ym
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd
35 BROADWAY,
Ceorge-street West, Sydney,
POLITICAL
POINTS
It will, to quote W.A. Senator Smith, be
a disgrace to our nationhood if we appoint as High
Commissioner anyone but an Australian-born,
with all his interests in our country.
How much—if anything—has “President”
Major Randal Carey drawn as salary in his late
N.S.W. State billet? The whole matter is so
phenomenal that this little item should be placed
on top as a sort of beacon.
The leading Tasmanian church debating-
society has just decided that the projected pro-
hibition of colored races to Australia is immoral.
Tasmania is the State that boasts 8000 Chinamen
and only eight Chin ese women. “ Immoral ! ”
After the hurricane of Jingoism one
watches the straws to know the direction of the
wind. Sydney Debating Club decided the other
night “that in the best interests of Australia the
Commonwealth should be merged into a Re-
public.”
TOADYISM.
There is a horrihle disease
That robs clean men of honest shame,
And sends them tottering at the knees,
With dripping chins and whispered pleas—
King’s Evil is its name 1
Bananaland Parliament closes for nearly
seven months of the year. Then it opens with a
wild flourish of trumpets for only three days in the
week, and shuts up shop with a dreary, drowsy
yawn at 10 p.m. Next morning the Govt, organs
vehemently denounce the Labor-party for wasting
time.
The sweeping victory of the See party in
that want-of-confidence motion means several
things. But it chiefly means a necessitous lot of
M’s.P. who depend upon their seats for the where-
with to buy mutton-chops and bell-toppers, and
are not such born fools as to bring about a general
election.
Someone gravely proposes a new electoral
scheme for Queensland —a man to have one vote
for one year’s residence; two votes for 10 years ;
three votes for 20 years—and so on. So that the
nearer the elector approached the extreme of
senile imbecility the more politically-powerful
would he become.
Barber, elected for Bundaberg (Q.) in
Glassey’s place, is an ex-Salvarmy captain who
backslid into Lal>or-in-Politics, and now does a
further slide into Parliament. His election is the
grandest instance of political mob loyalty. Per-
sonally not popular, politically identified with
FLAYING AT RECIPROCITY WITH BRITAIN.
A Warning from Esop: The iron pot and the earthenware pot again.
Glassey’s recantation, yet the straight Labor-vote
bucked him in for the sake of the cause.
The wicked and disloyal Melb. Argus
allows its “ own correspondent ” in Africa to tell
how news is spread there, under the Kitchener
rule. Re the Wilmansrust disaster :
Thanks to the hole-and-corner system that prevails, it
Is not even now supposed to be known in this part of the
world, and the “ official ” answer given to any inquiry
on the subject is that the whole thing is a Boer fabrica-
tion.
After this, pause to consider the righteous, honor-
able, and extremely British indignation of the
Argus over the scandalous and wicked lies circu-
lated by the enemy to maintain a hopeless and
iniquitous war 1 De Wet lies, Kitchener is diplo-
matic. Of course, the recording angel appreciates
the difference.
Maoriland legislators have decided to give
up all-night sessions, and are going to cease work
at 10.30 sharp, putting in a forenoon sitting to
make up time. It was not too soon. At the end
of last session they were so tired as to pass the
Municipal Corporations Act with a clause which
means that within certain city limits streets of
40ft. width may be made, provided they are 60ft.
wide.
The motion of censure brought by Twee-
dle-Lee against Tweedle-See perished miserably
in N.S.W. Assembly in the grey hours of Friday
morning. See got 66 votes, and the man on the
other side mustered only 28. How does the awful
Telegraph’s morning-after-the-election shout
about the Defeated Ministry read in the light of
these figures ?
No tenders, as might be expected, for
O’Sullivan’s steel rails. The offer that, if some-
body would put up large works in N.S.W., and
pay the union rate of wages, and work reasonable
hours, and yet make steel rails as cheaply as they
could be obtained from England, he would be
assured of one comparatively small order, didn’t
fetch a rush of capitalists somehow.
A tendency towards an agitation for the
annexation of Fiji to the Commonwealth begins
to appear since Maoriland’s reacli-out for tlie
Islands fell through. Surely Australia has a
large-enough nigger problem without taking over
120,000 more coloured fellow-citizens ! Let Maori-
land have Fiji if it wants the place ! Never let it
be said that we meanly deprived any adjacent
friendly State of its nigger.
It is cabled that the British authorities
have abolished the Boer law which allows of the
flogging of niggers. If the British authorities
would also begin to take an interest in the atrocious
Westralian law under which niggers are flogged
daily for absconding from their slave-owners, or
even smaller offences, and which allows the “cat”
to be used on the bare backs of boys of 13 and 14,
it might do some further good.
Some Australian States publish the ex-
penses of contesting a Parliamentary seat, and
others don’t—an anomaly which needs adjust-
ment. If Bonython pays two years’ salary for a
seat, and Mahon climbs into the same House for
£5, the men have totally different representative
values. One got in on the public appreciation of
his merits. The other may have got in on the
public appreciation of his money.
The slump in the birth-rate seems to con-
tinue. Melbourne June returns show a serious
falling-off from those of June, 1900, the figures
being 1064 and 1628. The Registrar adds that the
total is the lowest for 11 years, and is 245 below
the average. If the increase in population be
taken into account the decrease is equal to 314.
The Melb. papers have now given up the practice
of referring to the stationary condition of the
population of France.
The most vigorous defence of Lascar labor
in the Senate’s postal discussion was made by the
gilded Walker, of N.S.W., who asked reverently,
“ Are they not God’s creatures, the same as our-
selves ? The same Hand that painted us white
painted them black.” All the same, The Bulle-
tin would like to know how Senator Walker would
like one of these God’s creatures for a son-in-law
or a brother-in-law ? That's the point —would you
like to see your sister marry a nigger ? Granted
Propinquity, anyone's sister is liable to marry a
nigger.
For the
hundredth
time: When
are Ministers
of the Grown
to be pr e-
vented from
practising
before police
magistrates
whose official
positions are
utterly at
the disposal
of the Minis-
try ? Ho w
can you ex-
pect an offi-
cial who may
be for ever
ruined by the
scratch of a
Minister’s
pen, whose
fate may de-
pend upon
the quiver of
a Minister’s
eyelash or a
curlofhislip,
to dispense
unadulter-
ated justice
in cases
where that Minister appears before him as an
overbearing advocate? The system constitutes
a monstrous scandal, and should be at once
smashed up, either by the withdrawal of Ministers
from the police courts, or making P.M.’s remov-
able only at the will of Parliament.
It is suggested that the Leader of the
Opposition should be a salaried officer; £lOOO a
year is the pay suggested. The Bulletin has an
idea that the Leader of the Opposition should
always be Treasurer ; then he would get about
£l5OO a year. If Lee were Treasurer in See’s
Ministry then we might know the solid truth
about Lee’s finances. And when See was thrown
out through Lee’s exposure of his finances Lee
would become Premier with See as Treasurer in
his Ministry.
VERY LIKELY.
FARE: “Nice horse that, cabby; fancy Eve ridden behind him before.”
CABBY (dissatisfied with amount of fare): “Very likely—he used to be in
the perleece-van.”
A little while ago the Maoriland Govern-
ment was induced to take the duty off kerosene
and various products of paraffin, with a view to
reducing prices to the consumer. The Govern-
ment lost some revenue thereby—and prices have
gone up, though there is no rise in the outside
world to account for the change. The importer is
the only man who has profited so far, and the
blessings of Freetrade have gone askew as usual.
The Queensland Govt.’s only remedy for
the existing deficit is—an issue of Treasury bills
and (to quote the Governor’s speech) “a trust in
Divine Providence.” One able Bananaland
financier remarked happily there could be no
objection to Treasury .bills for we should “only
have to pay the interest.” Quite so. And only
having to pay the interest already costs Queens-
land over £1,300,000 a year—say £l2 10s. a year
for an ordinary family, or nearly ss. a week.
State coal-mines, to supply the State rail-
ways with coal at cost price, are an item in the
programme laid before Maoriland Parliament this
session. It looks a radical idea, but as usual the
intensely-practical German got there first. Prussia
supplies its railways from State coal-mines, and
finds a material saving thereby. The Prussian
isn’t a violently socialistic person, but few people
have a keener knowledge of' how many beans
make five, or a keener desire to make these same
beans count six.
The tendency displayed by Queensland’s
Federal representatives to make political capital
out of their method of disposing of the State
salary they have been receiving along with the
Federal screw is not altogether creditable. Sena-
tor Higgs awards his surplus £4O to his old Forti-
tude v alley Political Organisation ; W. H. Groom
promises his to Toowoomba Hospital. Now, if it
was morally wrong to make a private use of the
extra salary, it was surely equally wrong to make
political capital out of it.
Certain of Bananaland’s legislative Fat
Men just now show huge enthusiasm for the
abolition of payment of members, and for a reduc-
tion of seats in the Leg. Assembly. All, of course,
on the score of economy. But any mention of
abolishing the Upper Chamber or reducing the
salary of the provincial Governor goads them to
fury. “ Why,” said one recently, “If we did—
we’d never get a man like Lord Lamington
again ! ” And the country shivered at the very
idea of such a calamity.
Victorian legislators now have their lives
embittered by the pertinacious returned soldier
who wants to get into the Govt, service. Most of
those who went away imagine that the Govt, pro-
mised them billets unconditionally—which is not
far out —and they are now trying to dodge exami-
nations and chasing the local member instead.
Every man in Vic. Assembly who swears is con-
sequently saying, “Damn the Contingents!”
when nobody is listening, and the others are
signifying the same in the usual manner.
The Queensland Government has been
offering to send back to S’Africa any returned
contingenters who would volunteer, and actively
started to enroll men, regardless of the fact that
only the Federal Government has power to enroll
troops now or despatch contingents. The Federal
Government promptly notified the officer in
charge of the business (who is under its sole con-
trol, and has no right to take orders from the
Queensland Ministry) to leaving off enrolling, and
now it is proposed to make a row about “ undue
interference with State rights ! ”
There is no more disconsolate man in
N.S.W. than Edward Terry, ex-M.L. A. forßyde.
So fully was he persuaded that the “Independent”
party in last Parliament exercised a potent influ-
ence through his leadership, that he is heart-
broken at the sight of the party, so largely
augmented as it is, bereft of his strong arm to
guide it. As a matter of fact, the party in last
Parliament consisted of Terry himself, who, for
the sake of his wealth, was flattered and cajoled
by half the Legislature into the belief that his
opinion and vote swayed a caucus.
William Wilks,
M. informs
the House of Re-
presentatives that,
though the Con-
stitution only says
that the Federal
capital must be at
least 100 miles from
Sydney, “the
people of N.S.W.
expect, all things-
being equal, that it
shall be as near
that line as pos-
sible.” The Bul-
letin begs to draw
the attention of
William Wilks to
the fact that the
people of N.S.W.
gave a large majo-
rity for accepting,
t h e Constitution
when it didn’t con-
tain a word of as-
surance that the
capital would be in
N. at all.
They accepted it
again with the
proviso that the
capital should be
at least 100 miles
from Sydney with-
out saying •any-
thing about expect-
ing it to be close to the 100-mile line. If the people
of N.S.W. aren’t dead tired of the ruinous policy
of bringing everything to Sydney, they certainly
should be. Anyhow no ridiculous William Wilks,
representing a dingy back suburb of Sydney, has
a right to speak for the people of all N.S.W.
And William Wilks’s assurance that N.S.W.
wants the capital as near William Wilks’s door as-
possible is insufficient evidence.
Probabilities point to the Reduction of
Members Reform as the rock on which the See
State ship may split. The Laborites are solid
against it, and will fight the Bill to the end. It is-
much easier to abolish the electorate you are de-
sirous of representing than to efface the consti-
tuency you represent in Parliament. Many mem-
bers who, before polling-day, were ready enough
to reduce the number of legislators, have percep-
tibly cooled now that they are safe in the Assem-
bly. So that Premier See will get scant encourage-
ment from within to proceed with the Bill. Still,
if v he is suspected of dodging it, things will go>
hard with him from without. If the present
Assembly does not deal drastically with the mea-
sure public opinion will go dead against the
Government.
Printed that—
Premier Barton indicates that the suggestion of the
Colonial Office was that the King’s title should be “ King
of Great Britain and Ireland and of Greater Britain be-
yond the Seas.” The Government of the Commonwealth
was asked if it would prefer anv other title, such as
“ King of Australia.” To this Mr. Barton, with the con-
currence of the Cabinet, sent a reply to the effect that
Australia would prefer to see the titles “ King of Great
Britain and Ireland, Defender of the Faith, Emperor of
India, and Lord of the British Realms beyond the Sea.”
Good ! The first discernible assertion of Aus-
tralia’s ultimate destiny to go alone was made
when we labelled the Federation “Common-
wealth ” ; and we keep to the track, and concede-
as little as possible to the Imperial idea in saying
“Lord” (which smacks of mere suzerainty) instead
of Emperor or King.
Queensland’s private railway Acts mostly
contained a clause to the effect that, for 30 or 40-
or 50 years, or some such period, the private co,
might charge 50 per cent, higher rates than those
charged on adjacent State lines at the time the pri-
vate go. started. So where £2 per ton was charged
on the Cairns railway the adjacent syndicate-
owned Chillagoe line can oharge £3. But since-
the latter started the State has cut down its rates
on the Cairns line one-half, so now where the-
State charges £1 per ton freight the private syndi-
cate can charge £3! When the State makes
another reduction the discrepancy will be still
greater—and, of course, the end will be an agita-
tion for the State to buy up the syndicate line at
more than the State could have built it for ori-
ginally, in order to let the oppressed inhabitants
have reduced rates.
The programme of the See
as laid before N.S.W. Parliament:—
An elected Convention to draft a new State Constitu-
tion.
Compulsory Arbitration in industrial disputes.
A new Land Bill (variety not stated).
Some further strong measures to be taken with regard-
to the weary old rabbit.
An amended Factories Act (contents unmentioned as-
yet).
Extension of Local Government in a small way.
Female Suffrage.
Forest Conservation.
State lands in the vicinity of towns to be set apart fo-
working men’s homes.
The two insolvent Superannuation Funds to be put o
a sound basis (whether out of revenue or loans nc
stated).
A progressive policy of public works (which, presum-
ably, means large loans and a more violent building of*
everything on tick).
Also, the “ development of the resources of the coun-
try ” in the good old large general way to which that
good old large general wheeze is addicted.


CDaSSenet, the Great
French Composer, gives the
following description of
The /EOLISN
GIVE to a musical work ar absolute and exact interpreta-
tion ;to make clear the composer’s most intimate thoughts; to
bring into play a wealth of execution which only the orchestra
can give—in a word, to translate all the shades of coloring intended
by the composer—this is the achievement of the — Massenet.
The claims we
make for the
lian are strong, but
not stronger than the
evidence we offer in
support of them. The
patronage and en-
dorsements the Alo-
lian has received tes-
tify to its merits,
and make it worthy
the investigation of
all music lovers.
The yEolian plays all classes of music,
making instantly and always accessible any
selection you may desire to hear, played just
as you desire to hear it played, for the ex-
pression is under the absolute control of
the player. The can be played
by any one. It requires no musical know-
ledge whatever on the part of the per-
former.
The cheapest iEolian plays nearly seven
thousand pieces—and plays them well, too.
iaiaai»
booooooooooooooooocooo
iEoLiAN Grand.
KM m. Biige 4 Co.,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
323 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Send for Catalogue
trations and
c
containing Illus-
full particulars.
The iEolian is sold at no other
address in Sydney.
Read 'Wlia.t
VITADATIO
nirT IS Doing-
ANOTHER CANCER CURE.
73 YEARS OF AGE.
Doctors did Nothing. Vitadatio Cured.
BEAD WHAT MBS. BOSE SAYS.
New Glenelg,
26th July, 1900.
Mr. S. A. PALMEE.
Dear Sir, —I am pleased to say that I have tried your
VITADATIO, and have received great benefit from its
use. lam 73 years of age. Two years ago I was suffering
severe internal pains, and seeking medical advice was
told mine was a case of cancer, and was advised to go
into the hospital for an operation, which I did, but my
age being so great, it was not thought advisable to do
anything, so I left, feeling that I would not live many
weeks. I was in a very low condition. I could not sweep
my room or do any of my usual work, and was expected
by neighbors to soon pass away, when I was advised by a
lady who had a relative cured of tumor to try VITA-
DATIO. I have done so, and now I feel as well as I did
10 years ago. I can do all my own housework. I can
walk miles now where I could not walk 100 yards for the
pain before, and feel generally well and hearty, to the
great satisfaction of myself and relatives around me.
You are at liberty to publish this, as it may be of use to
others who suffer. lam thankful VITADATIO came to
Adelaide.—l remain, yours truly,
EMILY ANN BOSE,
New Glenelg.
Witness : M. P. Murphy, Storekeeper, Glenelg.
„ Geo. B. Davie, Adelaide.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
“SANITAS”
NATURE’S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Nan-Poisonousm
Does Not Stain Linen *
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, &C.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Valuable book, “HOW TO DISINFECT,”
tree on application.
The “SANITAS” Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
I Cure Fits
You are
not asked
*to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Pits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottle of medi=
cine and to try it. 1 am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
i APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
1 H.G. ROOT, *B, Endsleigh Gdns., LON DON.
GHNTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
.I.j 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Address. —L.D,
REST THE BURDEN
ofyowr correspondence
on the
New Century
Typewriter, instead of on your steno-
grapher, and you will get more work,
cleaner work, better work. It has no
equal for speed, lightness of touch and
durability. Fine new catalogue sent
free.
United Typewriter & Supplies Co.,
UU Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W., Aus.
[[[[orld’s Record Qrder T
The LARGEST TYPEWRITER ORDER
for the WHOLE WORLD . . .
Has recently been placed with UNITED TYPEWRITER
and SUPPLIES CO. by the Austro-Hungarian Govern-
ment for
500 New Oenturys
The New Century has been extensively ordered by N.S.W.
Government Departments, and is the Machine adopted by
His Excellency the GOVERNOR-GENERAL, and also
the State Governor, Sir Frederick Darley, K.C.M.G.
V.SEND FOR CATALOGUE^
United Typewriter Supplies go.,
(By appointment to His Excellency the Governor-General)
114 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
The Fat Men of Victoria’s House of 48
Rich Landlords are mostly Freetraders, as all
good Fat Men should be. In their shoddy
capacity they have declared until now that wages
were higher in Freetrade N.S.W. than in
Protected Victoria, despite the latter’s Minimum
Wage Law. Now, like the ridiculous Fat Men
they are, they want the Minimum Wage Law
suspended because, when border tariffs are na
more, the extra-high wages paid in Victoria will
wreck that State’s industries—low-wage N.S.W.
will undersell them everywhere. This sort of thing
makes the House of 48 Rich Landlords look
rather ridiculous, but as it was born ridiculous it
is probably used to that now.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITED.
THIRTY-FIRST REPORT
Adopted by the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held at the Banking House,
Queen Street, Brisbane, on Tuesday, 16th July, 1901.
The Net Profits for the half-year, after deducting Rebate on Bills, Interest
on Deposits, providing for Contingencies, payment of all charges, and
reduoing valuation of Bank Furniture and Fittings, amounted to ...£8,657 3 11
To whioh is to be added the amount carried forward from last half-year ... 1,800 12 6
Giving an available balance of ... ••• ••• ••• ••• £10,457 16 6
To be distributed as follows :—
To Dividend for the half-year at the rate of 2| per cent, per annum
„ Dividend duty on above
„ Reserve Fund
„ Balance carried forward to next half-year
By Order of the Board,
...£4,814 16 9
... 240 14 10
... 3,000 0 0
... 2,402 4 10
£10,457 16 5
EDWD. D. DAY,
General Manager.
AGGREGATE BALANGE-SHEET OF THE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND LTD.,
30th JUNE, 1901.
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Profit and Loss
LIABILITIES.
..£385,187 0 0
.. 50,000 0 0
.. 10,457 16 5
Bills Payable .. .. 8,771 11 8
Liability to Treasury for
Notes held in reserve .. 33,500 0 0
Deposits q,nd other Lia-
bilities .. .. 932,178 8 0
£445,044 16 5
974,449 19 8
£1,420,094 16 1
ASSETS.
Coin on hand and Cash at
Bankers £208,028 3 10
Bullion .. .. .. 50,509 14 0
Treasury Notes on hand .. 48,262 0 0
Government Stock.. .. 59,918 5 0
£366,718 3 4
Bank Premises, Furniture, &c 62,153 14 11
Bills discounted and all other Debts due
to the Bank.. .. 991,222-17 10
£1,420,094 16 1
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT, 30th JUNE, 1901.
To Salaries, Rent, and other
Expenses at Head Office
and 15 Branches .. .. £9,012 2 8
~ Interest paid and accrued
on Fixed Deposits, Rebate
and Exchange Paid .. 10,446 1 1
£19,458 3 9
„ Balance .. » .. .. .. 10,457 16 5
£29,916 0 2
By Balance brought forward.. .. » £l,BOO 12 6
„ Gross Profit for the half-year M «. 28,116 7 8
£29,916 0 2
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance. . u M m
..£53,000 0 0
£53,0000 ’0 0
By Balance invested in Government Stock £60,000 0 0
„ Proposed transfer from Profit and Loss
Account .. 8,000 0 0
£53,000 0 0
Audited and found correct.
THOS. WELSBY, F.I.A.Q .
GEO. FRED. SCOTT., 8.A., F t.A.Q.,
Auditors.
P. L. CARDEW, Chairman.
EDWD. D. DAY., General Manages.
Brisbane, Uth July, 1901,
THE
O'™-”?!'
is thei
Hardest to wear out
and the Easiest
to repair.
&
is.
*
Of J
o„ e %
>»>
V 6 ® <s*
***■&
%
©/.
H
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre*Co. of Australasia Limited,
150 Clarence-st., Sydney.
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane,
and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &o.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3JO-.5..-W.
fflont de piete o.«| |. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
'—THE—.
Colonial Mutual I>ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Bohns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Mili.br.
Accumulated Funds, €2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 —assuring €26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, €2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction' as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —eouitably distributed.
Head Office :
418 & 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
REGISTERED CAPITAL .. .. i 1.500.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital £3,210,885 0 0
Di rectors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman ; J. C. Syme,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embllnjr, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornier, M.L.C.
General Manager : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Streets Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London- OJjice: 1 liinhopsrjate Street Within
corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
mw south wales:
SYI>NIOy - 27 it GEORGE STIIHKT.
Acting Manager : J. It. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyongl, New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
The Bank of ||ortli Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director -JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&to. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL *.706,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 000 ... £350,000
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks,
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide, W.
N. M‘Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montepiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Compy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
•pUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
|)eui Zealand Insurance |}o.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Tl)€ Trustees, €x€c(itors,
" AND
AgtQCV Conjpaov Linjited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business)
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1001
£150,000 0 0
‘.'90,000 0 0
£150,000 0 0
£BB5B 7 3
6,385,976 5 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROYVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manage!
lio. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE'.
GEELONG
PORTLAND I 1
WARRNAMBOOL J
Tyrian, Saturday, Aug. 10,12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, Aug. 17, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Gabo, Saturday, Aug. 10, 12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tues., Aug. 13, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Aug. 17, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Gabo, Saturday, Aug-. 10, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., Aug. 17, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT/
GERALDTON l
CAIRNS. &c. (
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked throuirh.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
THE “ALL BED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LOUDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OP THE
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
Connecting at Vancouver with the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceana (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 davs, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world—over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have, the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
’ Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equi'able Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ... ..£2,500,000
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
|| I THE
United Ipstiraocc Co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL *500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels,' Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Rates very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS :
G. J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
E. W. Knox, Esq.
. Auditors :
E. S. Cape, Esq. Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton. Manager, Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
Is your Hus-
band, Son,
Brother, or
Father a
DRUNKARD
If so, send us your Name and Address, with 4d. to cover
postage, and we will send you in a plain envelope our
Booklet giving full particulars how to give EUCRASY
secretly in Tea, Coffee, Food, .etc. It is odorless and
tasteless, and will cure this dreadful habit quietly and
permanently without the Patient’s knowledge or consent.
GOOD FOR BOTH SEXES.
Write THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney
Shipping
TN€ AB€RP€€N LINC.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL. CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-elass passengers carried.
Dalyefy and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
KT. 33. L
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, 2478 Tons,
Captain Niedermeyer,
LEAVING SYDNEY, 21st AUGUST NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Publications.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza, -
FORE I G N SX A ,jp s.
llkW
FuURjPE
mrnm
/"IHEAP SETS.—4O Japan, Is 6d ;
47 Spain, 2s ; 4 Tientsin, 3d ;
16 Heligoland, Is ; 8 Egypt, 6d ;
30 French, 9d ; 7 Iceland, 9d ; 9
Labuan Pictorial, 2s Od; 11 Canada,
6d; 9 Canada Du tv, 6d ; 5 Bolivia, 4d
Packets 50, Is ; 10 ', 2s 6d. Stamps
Purchased. New Catalogue of
Stamps, Albums, etc., Gratis.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
Tracy
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, By Dr.
ALFRED NEALE. Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers
Turner
and
Henderson, SYDNEY.
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Chic; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets- or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque on London.
English, French, and German Rare Books.
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GENNERT,
Bgo_Faubourg St., Martin, PdPla, France.
A SILVER WATCH
FOR NOTHING.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE of OUR
FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s (Lady’s
and Gentlemen’s) to EVERY MAN, WOMAN or CHILD
who sends the CORRECT READING of the following
puzzle
N*V*R, LAS* Y**R T*MP*R.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct you
purchase one of our Solid Silver Chains to wear with'the
Watch.
SEND NO MONEY ; simply forward your answer, and
enclose stamp and addressed envelope," so that we may
inform you if you have won the Watch. We are making
this offer solely with the object of introducing and
advertising our Goods.
Address— THE MANAGER,
The LONDON WATCH & JEWELLERY CO.
13 CENTRAL ARCADE, CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Government Notices.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
Sydney, 29th July, 1901.
TMIE attention of Trustees and others having funds for
J investment is drawn to the fact that, on and after Ist
August, 1901, “New South Wales Funded Stock,” bearing
interest at the rate of per cent., payable half-yearly,
will be purchasable at the Stock Office, The Treasury, at
par.
The Stock has a fixed currency until 1912, after which
it is repayable at the option of the Government, up' n
giving twelve months’ notice.
Forms of applications for Stock and all particulars mav
be obtained upon application at the Stock Office, The
Treasury.
2a2. T. WADDELL.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
p ORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports J
S.S. Cintra, Fnday,
Aug. 9, at 5 p.ra., connecting
with S.S. Wollowra at
Melbourne.
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairna
S.S. Allinga, Friday,
August 9, at 5 p.m.
Rest, and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
nrst I ort between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
' 1 * v ■ V? ■
royal mail
THU POPULAR
Ml. WOY. L.TD.
COASTAL SERVICE.
PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
AND ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, JNEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST
Fortnightly.
Monthly.
AUSTRALIA,
Pnsaenyer Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port betvveen Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application,
ror Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 111 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
The Company’s steamers now call at Fremantlp
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return fc'7l 10s to till
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon)between intercolonial po.' a
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having- room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in ; Am-
tralia. Exchange Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets
lVlessageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling- at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS hooked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room;
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
_R- BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
Hiddart, Parker § go’s tine
—TO— •
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST A CSTKALIA,
NEW ZIC A LAN I) PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Ratoi.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN
Touching- at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Reui-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, Unite-1
States of America-and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALGOOBLIE, 4500 To.\
COOLGAEOIE, 3500 TON.!.
SAIL FOIiTN IG lI'I'LY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, ar.ri
West Australian Ports.
rasken^ei-Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
IVS ‘IL WRAITH, M‘EACHARN AND CO,,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantia
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.


A civil servant tells this :
This is a story of A. B. and 0., three N.S.W. civil ser-
vants. A., the executive head of an important sub-divi-
sion of the Chief-Secretary’s Department, has long: asked
to be translated to another sphere of usefulness, and re-
cently he exchanged with B., from another Ministerial
Department. C. is a colleague of B.’s, and, to mainta n
his seniority, he was given an increment to place him over
A., a new arrival. A. and B. each received the send-off
and presentations stereotyped on these occasions, and,
as usual, notices of the testimonials appeared in the press.
Three days after B. had assumed his new duties, he an-
nounced to the Board that it was quite impossible for him
to go on. His reason was the intractability of a well-
known public official in the dept. So he quietly went
back to his old job ; but A., whose reasons for
leaving his billet were identical with the reasons
which made B. leave it also, declines to go
back. So he remains to help B. with his work. The
first thing the P.S. Board did was to cancel C.’s pro-
motion, althou h it had been granted under the Board’s
hand and'seal. So C. is “ mad.” What makes B. wild is
having A. interfering with him in what he calls his duties.
A. maintains that they are his duties because he was
appointed to do them, and fails to see why B. can’t go
and look after his own job. The Board can’t fill up the
important post vacated by A, because B. is supposed to
have it, and yet if B. is sent there something will break.
Its failure to keep its contract with 0. does not trouble
it, and no one thinks of reasoning with the intractable
and important high official.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joinlß being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
ifallow'ed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALPERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
Al BERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper oii a
gieen label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, <kc.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
v Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin -fl /
Nasal Ointment, only ■ Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
DON’T POISON'
YOURSELF
WITH DRUGS when our ELECTRIC BELT (with or
without suspensor) will CURE YOU. |3F“ ELECTRIC
CURRENT GUARANTEED. Pamphlet and Consulta-
tion Free. HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists, 105 Regent-
street, London W., and 44 Castlereagli-street, Sydney.
We givea fair trial before payment.
m
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BERTS and
AEELIA NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our“ELEC-
TlilC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give_ a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly’ return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
THE
DEAFI
by using Wilson’s Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
They restore the hearing, and
relieve singing, roaring, and
buzzing noises in the ears.
Many benefited after trying
other remedies without success.
Testimonials from all the States.
Send a post-card to-day for
illustrated book, FREE.
Address, J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
~ t
Caution.—Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for GOUGHS, GOLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHGbA, &<>•» bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
ULQ
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
[Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
'how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Dr-. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A TESTED AND INFALLIBLE REMEDY,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
HAIR TONIC.
The Guaranteed Remedy for
Weak, Thin, and Falling' Hair.
Testimonials from International Cricketers and
Footballers, Leading Sydney Solicitors, Business.
Men, and from Parliament House with each bottle
2/6 per bottle, post 3/2 ; Intercolonial, 3/6 ; 4 bottles (posted under cover) which will effect a cure in the
most obstinate case, posted free for 10/-. Intercolonial, 11/-.
W. RICHARDS, Proprietor, 168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK ought to contain A BOTTLE of
ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’
&
For Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
TESTIMONIAL. —“ I have been a nurse for ten years, and have nursed cases
of soarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles, gangrene, cancer, and almost every
mentionable disease. During this time I have not been ill for a single day, and
this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a
pure state. I recommend it to all my patients during convalescence. Its
value as a means of health cannot be overestimated.” —A Professional
Nurse ( Qualified ).
THE EFFECT OF ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ on a DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It IS, IN fact, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION.—Nee capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it, you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘ FRUIT S ALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Ik
X
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnece ; sary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers from Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, lidluenza, Melancholia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
K
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S CHIEP LABORATORY.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Affections, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Course, 23/6.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases, Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
AESnemia, Waiting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOXES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills - Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A
Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
posted, 35., 65., 12s. and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Electric Belts —Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
cure for all Spinal and Kidney Affections;
425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Correspondence held confidential.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/• and 6/-
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3 ( - and 6/-
CORN CURE, 1
OINTMENT, 1/-.
m
i
mmmuuwxrn
HER
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASBMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST„ SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and hi*
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES ;
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke-st. W. A,—PERTH, 481 Hay-st.
BRISBANE-309 Gueen-st KALGOORLIE-Hannan - st.
ADELAIDE—IS BOULDER ClTY—Piesse-st.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Guay, Wellington, FREMANTLE—Henry-st.
A BOOK §ENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and fast of the ALFALINE REMEDIES.


Take
REUTER’S LITTLE PILLS:
For all LIVER complaints-
Zeal, the utterly crushed ex-President of
Vic. Leg. Council, did a pathetic thing last week.
From his obscurity in the Federal Senate, where
he might as well be dead, the little man wrote to
his successor, Henry Wrixon, offering to “pre-
sent to the Council a photograph of each of the
four Presidents, including himself, who had pre
sided over the Chamber in the past.” All he asked
in return was a promise that the illustrious by-
gones—three dead and one surviving—should be
hung in “one of the large committee rooms of the
Council.” Poor old Zeal!
Governor O’Brien, of Fiji, who spent a
few days of last week in Sydney, on his way to
England, was a hard, unbroken frost to the in-
quisitive newspaper man. Card after card w out
into him at the Metropole ; card after card came
out. Then attempts to waylay were tried. Then
letters with “pointers” were sent. But O’Brien
was adamant. Gov. O’Brien is an Irishman, a
son of the Anglican Bishop of Ossory, his mother
a daughter of the late Chief-Justice Penne-
father. He is consequently related to the fighting
Pennefathers of Melbourne and Perth.
N.S.W. ex-Minister Hassall, the famous
Cow-Shaking Man, has been assuring the people
of England that “ the public feeling in the colonies
will allow Britain, in time of need, to call upon
Australasia for her very last man.” But what’s
the good of calling unless there is an answer; and
what’s the good of the last man if the previous
men aren’t forthcoming? So far, it is proved that
Australasia will provide a certain number of men,
if the men get 4s. 6d. a day and the rich classes
are assured that they won't be called on to pay
any extra taxes to cover the war-bill —and that
isn’t much to prove. Hassall himself certainly
didn’t go to the war.
It isn’t every day that one has a chance of
securing a regular income for nothing, but that is
practically what is offered by the proprietors of
the well-known Globe Teas. We all drink our
tea daily all the year round, and in the 12 months
consume a great deal. If you buy Atcherley and
Dawson’s Globe brand and save even the sixpence
per pound, you have quite a respectable income as
the result.*
Apart from the now historic matter of
“ allowances,” the extravagance of the Federal
Government is attracting attention in Victoria.
It is noticed that everything at the Federal Parlia-
ment House is done in most elaborate fashion.
Rooms are being fitted up with the luxuriance of
those in an Eastern prince’s palace. Bedrooms
are being set apart for Ministers and their
satellites in the Federal departmental offices
rented from the State Government, and already
Treasurer Turner is beginning to shake his head
at what he has privately said is wasteful expen-
diture.
“ S.S.” : Re the power of Vic. Parliament
to do as it pleased with Findley for his alleged
iniquities, I have just struck a speech by Lord
Abingdon before the Peers, in 1780 or thereabouts,
disputing the right of Parliament to deal sum-
marily with a printer under similar circumstances.
Here is an item :
My lords, the King cannot touch the hair of any man’s
head in this country, though he be guilty of high treason,
but by means of the law. It is the law that creates the
offence ;itis a jury that must determine the guilt. It is
the law that affixes the punishment, and all other modes
of proceeding are illegal. The means here proposed take
away the trial by jury, which King, Lords, and Commons
have not a right to do. They make us accusers, judges,
jury, and executioners, too. Precedents cannot make
that legal and constitutional, which is in itself illegal and
unconstitutional. If the precedents of this reign are to
be received as precedents in the next, the Lord have
mercy on those who have to come after us.
This was the reign of ratty George 111, and there
is a deal of good horse sense in Abingdon’s talk,
even if it is not echoed in the laws of our time.
“Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled “ Piles and the Wav to
Cure Them,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.*
3 3
i
bMBMsJiM
AND SUPPLIES
66 Kino St Sydney. I
The presentation to Premier Peacock of
his portrait in oils by Melb. Trades Council seems
to have been a very quiet function, and not any-
thing like the gorgeous splash it was originally
intended to be. The thing was to have happened
the week after delegate Findley was expelled
Parliament by Premier Jackass’s motion. Pre-
sumably the presentation was made, but absence
of newspaper announcement sets one wondering
whether, after all, Melb. Trades Hall may not
contain more real trades-unionists than time-
servers. If so, the portrait of Peacock has, per-
haps, been boiled in oil.
The influenza germ, in its latest develop-
ments, doesn’t play the game. It has taken to dis-
guising itself in strange symptoms, and ambushing
the unsuspecting, against all idea of “British
fair play.” In fact, theCflu germ is horribly un-
Hinglish. .Numbers of people, however, have
managed to repel its attacks by reinforcements of
D.C.L. Whisky. Taken at the right moment,
when the vitality is at low ebb and needs recruit-
ing, D.C.L. will fight off the foe every time —the
whisky of the wise.*
The sale of Segenhoe Estate, Scone-
(N.S.W.), demonstrates the demand for land for
closer settlement. The estate consisted of 9423 f
acres and was bought four years ago by the late
W. R. Wilson for £2 an acre. It was cut up into
29 farms and averaged £4 17s. Bd. an acre. Total
sales brought £46,024. While' on the point
Premier See should bring in a Closer Settlement
Bill, and resume such estates as the A. A. Co.’s at
Willow Tree and P.R.L. and M. Co.’s at Tam-
worth. The land which these English companies
hold is some of the finest in Australia, also the com-
panies got it for practically nothing. Closer
settlement in the fertile Eastern division is a far
more urgent matter than the opening up of the
Western Sahara to selectors. The East should be
filled before N.S.W. begins to crowd its farmers
out into the dreadful West.
Badly Crippled.
K
f
9
P
Rheumatism, at its worst,
is a sort of Living Death,
It chains a man to a chair,
or binds him to a bed, and
metes out to him a daily
martyrdom. At the best,
rheumatism is a painful
malady, interfering alike
with pleasure and business.
To cure rheumatism it is
necessary to eliminate from
the blood, the acid poisons
which are the cause of the
disease. This is effectively
done by the use of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
They carry out of the blood
the corrupt and poisonous
accumulations which breed
and feed disease. They in-
crease the activity of the
blood-making glands, and
send an increased supply of
rich, pure blood through
every vein and artery, to
strengthen every organ of
the Body. Mr. j ohn Boyce,
of Hunter street, Stockton,
Newcastle, N.S.W., writes:
“I write to inform you of
my case. I am well-known
in this district. For some
months I was laid up with
rheumatism, which confined
me to my house, being
practically a cripple. I
could not lift my hand to my
head. I suffered untold agony. I tried several
remedies, but of no avail. I lastly tried your
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and was astonished
at the result. The first bottle gave me real
relief ; I then took the second bottle and was then
able to resume my daily work.” Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier and a
positive cure for biliousness, indigestion, con-
stipation, headaches, sallow complexion, liver
and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils,
blotches, and female ailments. Sold by chemists
and storekeepers, Is ljd per bottle, or six bottles
6s 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the j full
name blown thereon.*
FOR the person who Is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
W.W. GREENER’S NEW RIFLE
Made expressly for Cadet Corps.
An entirely New & Exclusive Design.
The new Rifle has been produced
solely to supply the wants of Cadet
Corps for a REALLY RELIABLE
and ACCURATE RIFLE at a low
price, 3s. “WH
Ten Shots in 3 inch Square at 100 yards. *
GENUINE ENGLISH MANUFACTURE THROUGHOUT
Every Rifle guaranteed and named
W. GREENER, Birmingham, England.
On Hand—Greener’s Guns from 9 to 30 Guineas ; Lee
Enfield and Metford Rifles, Govt, viewed ; Greener’s New
Bools, “Sharpshooting for Sport or War,” 1/- net,
posted 1/2. Stamps from other States not accepted.
£3P All Rifle Shots should read this Book. 131
Chas. "W". Buckl a.xxd.
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
i
PO you KNOW WHY Everybody is talking about the
RED BIRD BICYCLE?
BECAUSE
It is distinctly the bicycle of the future. It’s quality and stability is unquestioned.
It makes wheeling a positive pleasure. SOLD ON EASY BUYING TERMS.
branches in EVERY state. &OOID BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Shown fit the V.R.Q, annual meeting, Monday,
ihatj.bsgidgg & 10,090 mmUngelloy fund, £1673 stood to
iredit of sinking fundi Stakes paid during the year
£44,090) exceeded previous season’s total by £2OOO.
Last <4:M: ’Qhase meeting produced a profit of £6OO.
improvements had been effected.
Receipts on Caulfield Q-. N. Hurdles, Saturday,
6300 better than same day previous year.
For Saturday s Caulfield G.N. Hurdles, 1150
iovs. prlae, only 16 lined up. Poor as it looked, the field
.ins only been solipsed twice—in ’B7 with 18 and ’9l
rvith 20.
< « * *
Repeater’s running in Epsom Handicap put the
public off him for the Caulfield G.N. Hurdles, and when
ie won, the firmament was split by the solid collective
jurse. He probably would not have won but for Low-
and Chief’s fall at the last jump. Time (7.2£) compares
'avorably with Redeemer’s 7.5£ last year, and Chrysolite’s
L2J in ’99. Said that owner Row had only £2O on him,
Jut as Mo lost heavily, someone knew something.
Beloka’s rider, T. O’Brien, had his collar-bone broken,
ind Boonal’s jock, Mr. Evans, sustained severe injuries
about the head.
• » * *
Three-year-old filly Cretonne, by Bill of Portland
>ut of Chintz, is worth watching during coming season.
She recently beat 3-year-old Bonnie Chield in the finish-
ng furlong of seven, giving him 41b. Last Saturday she
annexed Balaclava Stakes at Caulfield, for which she
itarted favorite. In A.J.O. Epsom and Metrop. her
weight is 6.12 and 6.9 respectively; (Jsulfield Cup, 7.2;
ind Melb. Cup, 7.11. Jimmy Wilson, jun., owns Cre-
tonne, and is evidently in possession of the best 3-year-
>ld handicap performer in Victoria, though she is “ only
a handful.”
* • • •
Vic. turfite J. Leek’s bad luck at Caulfield,
Saturday: Lowland Chief would likely have won G.N.
Hurdles but for blundering to his knees over the last
jump, whilst Ingliston, winner of last Caulfield Cup,
broke his leg in Balaclava Stakes, and had to be shot.
• * • «
“ Sporting Notions ” of July 13 said : “ The
punter talks of his fancy gee-gee as being bound to win
next Melbourne Cup, and Ikey thinks of the animal as
likely to be broken down or dead by the first week in
Nov.” A few days later Sagacity, the first favorite for
Caulfield Cup and the popular pick of all the “ double ”-
backers, broke his shoulder through falling in a race and
was shot. Ikey’s “ double ’’-book has never had a more
satisfactory beginning—for him. Two choicest-looking
investments for Caulfield Cup—Sagacity and Ingliston—
have had to be destroyed within a few days of each other
as the result of accidents.
* ■» • *
Country performer, Biraganbi I—Ladybird 11.
aged gelding, Linden (9.6 up), “ lepped ” the first time in
Sydney on Saturday, and won Canterbury Park Hurdles
easily. Linden is finely set-up, well-legged, and strong-
lookirjg, and suggests the likelihood of his doing good
jumping later on. He cleared the sticks in fine form,
and disclosed pace and bottom much in excess of those
opposed to him.
* » * *
Raid on Oxenham’s and Dalveen’s betting-shops
last week landed 135 punters of all ages. Police swooped
about 8 p.m. when things were humming over Canterbury
Park, Warwick Farm, and Caulfield G.N. Hurdles. A
crowd of 5000 people jeered and chaffed the police while
Mo. in Tatt.’s Club immediately opposite, swarmed out
on the balcony chuckling gleefully. It was right into his
hands and what he has been working tooth and nail for
ever since shop-betting began. Shop-business will go to
club-Mo if shops can be wiped out; but they can’t,
though operations may be narrowed down considerably.
Suburban pony and horse course proprietors also hate the
shops, as most who bet in town would attend race-
meetings and swell gate money if they were closed. With
all these influences against him, it’s marvellous how the
shop-man has survived so long ; and that he has waxed
fat shows what a profitable game it must be. This was
the biggest and most successful raid on the continent,
and would have been bigger but for a handy lane at the
back. Very little money materialised : probably owing
to trap-bottomed drawers.
* * * *
While police were raiding Sydney betting-
shops last Friday night thieves got clear with £lOO from
a city hotel. Daily papers referred to both raid and
robbery as well-planned coups. Some suburban residences
were also burgled same evening.
• * • •
For the racing season concluded 31st July, 1901,
the appended list shows all successful registered N.S.W.
jockeys in their respective order :—Frank Kuhn, 62 wins;
L. Bushell, 22 ; W. H. Smith, 21; E. Courtney, T. Wood-
gate, 20 ; J. Barden, C. T. D. Godby, J. Hartigan, 19; O.
M. Godby, A. Quinn, 18 ; D. M’Carthy, A. Richardson, 17 ;
F. Simmons, 14; E. Cleal, 13; A. M’Crimmon, 12; W.
Delaney, H. Laycock, T. Nerricker, 11; W. Bennett, W.
Burke, E. Hurley, O. Parker, S, Tucker, 10 ; P. Callinan,
L. Kuhn, G. Osborne, 9; J. Callinan, J. Gilmour, V.
Bushell, 8 ; S. Bennett, J. Kenny, 7 ; J. Chevalley, A. H.
Cush, H. B. M’Lachlan, J. Vanderwarden, 6 ; J. Cameron,
G. Champion, H. Farrell, A. Gorman, P. Houseman, F.
Hickey, T. Johnson, J. M’Ourley, J. Phoenix, 6; J. B.
Barclay, W. Bradshaw, M. Cherry, E. Clancy, John
Gough, E. Humphries, W. Leadbeater, J. Montgomery,
0. Pratt, 4 ; R. Brennan, P. Fallon, W. Gilmour, J. Gains-
ford, J. Gorman, W. M’Greal, W. E. M’lnnis, R. M’Nally,
G. Phillips, P. Regan, V. P. Smith, H. Underwood, J. J.
Walker, 3 ; A. Colley, T. Cunningham, H. Freeland, J.
Freeland, J. Hurley, W. Jennings, E. Lawler, J.
M'Mahon, H. Radford, J. Reid, R. Shoesmith,
A. Thorley, G. Wickey, 2; W. Atkins, D. Callinan,
T. Clayton, H. Cook, O. A. Dean, F. Gray, M. Harris, T.
Hardiman, A. Hood, G. Hough, B. Howarth, J. Leonard,
J. M’Hugh, S. M’Mahon, D. Morgan, F. Richardson and
B. Whalley, one each.
• * * m
Auckland (M.L.) R.C.’s four meets during the
past season extended over 13 days. £20,000 went
away in stakes, and £153,339 passed through the
tote, averaging £11,799 a day. Good as this is, Can-
terbury (M.L.) J.O.’s average of £11,826 goes slightly
better, and tops the best shown by any other club in the
province.
* • • •
Top-notch M.L. ’chaser Moifaa is booked for
’Ome, Spencer Gollan having given IOOOgs. for him and
603 more if he gets away with the Grand National.
Moifaa’s record is, out of 16 starts, 11 firsts, 3 seconds and
twice unplaced. His latest win was Hawke’s Bay steeple,
humping 13st. Originally dubbed Moifad the name got
corrupted to Moifa and Moifaa, neither of which are right
though the last has apparently stuck.
• • • •
St. Leger again heads the winning-stallion list
with £9999. Then come Dreadnought, £7515 ; Stepniak,
£6960 ; Vanguard, £5867 ; and Seaton Delaval, £5206. This
is the seventh time in 11 years that St. Leger has led.
Among winning nags Renown, £3185, has done best, with
Menschikoff, £2515, next, and Moifaa, £1903 ; Pampere,
£1625 ; Cruciform, £1515 ; Beddington, £1458; and Ad-
vance, £1450. Successful owners rank : Messrs. G. Stead,
£7135 ; J. D. Ormond, £5552 ; D. Gordon, £4000; J. Watt,
£3600 ; and Nathan, 3116.
• * *
English turf winning lists demonstrate what a
growing power Australian nags are “ down under.” The
desire for them only made itself apparent in ’96. A year
later two closed on five races worth £2571 ; ’9B saw five
win nine events totalling £6297 ; five appropriated £7477
through 13 races in ’99 ; last season seven got away with
eight firsts, for which prize-money totted up £8227 ; and,
during the present season, Australians at ’Ome have
already secured £6OOO. M.L. nags are not included in
any of these calculations.
* • * *
At the inquest on Otto Cribb, who died a few
hours after his glove-fight with boxer Mick Dunn, at
Sydney, Dr. Sydney Jamieson deposed that the cause of
death was cerebral hemorrhage caused by concussion :
“ The deceased man suffered from a disease which would
predispose the blood vessels of the brain to hemorrhage'
from slighter violence than would occasion it in a man of
good health.” That disease saps the health even of the
gladiator. The world never openly talks of it, for the
world is too prudish ; the world never takes its sont o the
morgue or the hospital and gets him told all about that dis-
ease. And so the world’s son contracts that disease and
grows up, half-cured, only to eventually blossom into a
fat man-of-the-world who one day suddenly bursts a
brain vessel after eating a good breakfast. And then the
world knows nothing of that disease—it is simply told
that the respected gentleman succumbed to apoplexy.
• * * *
M'Kell-Sturgeon glove fight, long looked for-
ward to in Sydney as something skilful and exciting,
seems doomed never to eventuate. First postponement
was through Sturgeon getting influenza. Now M'Kell is
just coming round from an acute attack of enteritis,
which looked serious for a day or two. No new date has,
so far, been notified.
• • * •
Grizzly bruiser, Joe Goddard, has written de-
manding a match with ’Murkan O’Brien, now heavy-
weight premier of England, “ for the title of champion of
England and Australia.” Cool, seeing that Australia
hasn’t known the sometime “ Barrier Boy ” for years and
doesn’t seem likely to have him again. Joe further offers
to stop O’Brien in 10 rounds or forfeit all the purse if
O’Brien will wager £5OO to £3OO that he (Joe) can’t do it.
Joe, a back number and dead to the athletic world at
least a couple of years, had for months previously been
hitching on to anything, winning occasionally, but
mostly going down, though not without having pre-
viously arranged that the purse should be split, win or
lose. As a publican and an athletic-hall proprietor in the
U.S., Joe failed badly. The hall business lasted only one
night, when the crowd smashed the place up and com-
pelled Joe to try something somewhere else.
* * * •
Second last round of Sydney Rugby first-grade
competition was decided Monday. Through the half-
hearted nature of the holiday, attendances were poor,
and teams—in most instances —unrepresentative. North
Sydney, unable to play through influenza, forfeited to
Glebe. South Sydney romped away from Newtown—l4
to 4. ’Varsity barely beat Eastern Suburbs by 6to 5, after
being kept on defensive for some time before the close.
Balmain accounted for Western Suburbs (8 to 5), thus
securing its second win this season. ’Varsity and Glebe
now top the list (20 each), with South Sydney 19 and
Eastern Suburbs 16. Final round occurs this Saturday.
If leading clubs triumph, a match between them will be
necessary to decide absolute supremacy.
* * * •
N.S.W. Rugby team for M.L. is so weak ’tis
hardly worth sending. Selection committee was ham-
pered by good men being unable to get away for six’
weeks, incapacitation of the few who could, and the fact
that a N.S.W. team is due in Bananaland next week.
Two stronger sides could be chosen from the unavailables.
Suggested that some good men be sent for last match at
Wellington.
• * * *
Victoria’s football downfall in Adelaide (on
Saturday) was, to some extent; indicated by form of S.A.
team in Melbourne last June. Difference’ between con-
FRANK KUHN, premier jockey for 1901 in
N.S.W., rides chiefly for the Randiuick
trainer-owner Tom Payten. Kuhn’s progress:
In 1899 he came third with 18 wins ; in 1900,
32 wins, and ranked second; whilst he topped
the list last season with 62.
Photo, by Brand, Park-st. , Sydney.
ditions of latest match and previous one was much in
favor of S.A., which had the others away from home this
time. Adelaide has rarely played a finer team, and a
huge attendance,saw a brilliant and complete victory of
6 goals 11 behinds to 5 goals 5 behinds. Victoria will need
her very finest to have a show of winning the next match.
• • * *
S.A. easily holds the lacrosse belt. Victoria
was beaten in June by 5 goals, and N.S.W., besides being
beaten by a senior team by 9 goals to 2, went down
t’other day to a combined junior team by 2 goals. N.S.W.
team was very weak, however, many good players finding
it impossible to travel so far. S.A. visits Sydney next
winter.
• - • • *
Consider the pro-golfer’s yarns and keep the
salt handy. Britisher Taylor recently spurned an offer
from Harper Bros, of £2OOO if he’d remain in the U.S. a
year, and also related that ex-’Ome champion Vardon
accumulated £16,000 during a -not over-lengthy tour of
the land of skite and bluster.
* * * *
B. R. Wise (oddly described in London papers
as “ for some time past Attorney-General of Australia ”)
was chairman of the meeting at Oxford in 1880, which
started the British Amateur Athletic Association. Lord
Jersey was the first president, and only resigned on
being sent to N.S.W. as Governor. The A. A.A. recently
held a dinner to celebrate its coming of age. The Lord
Chief Justice is the present president.
* * * •
“ S.M.P.” (Richmond): “ Length of stride while
covering 100yds. in even time” depends entirely on the
man—some clear less ground than others. Again, all
stride longer near the finish than in the earlier stages of
a race. It was said that Hutchens (among the speediest
sprinters known) got over 10ft., but the statement lacks
authentication ; 7ft. would probably be nearer the mark.
m * • •
The probability of Maclaren being able to ship
a fairly strong All-England Eleven has dwindled down to
almost a certainty that he can’t do it. There has been
influential antagonism to Mao.’s undertaking from the
outset, and now the refusal of the Yorkshire County Club
to countenance the inclusion of its bowlers in the team
suggests pre-arranged boycott. Maclaren is not the right
man for the job. As a captain he was a failure in test-
matches here and in England. As a batsman, he is a
brilliant “ cocktail ” at the best, but this season he is not
even brilliant.
* * * *
The English professional bowling talent this
season shows nothing better than Mead and Rhodes, of
whom the Australians stand in no dread when the wicket
is good. And the amateur bowling looks a little weaker
than usual. For instance, on June 27th the two Univer-
sities were polished off with the greatest ease by county
teams. Surrey, which had scored 497, beat Oxford in one
innings with 119 to spare, and Sussex, with the loss of but
five wickets for 571. finished 73 runs ahead of Cambridge’s
grand total. In this match C. B. Fry made 241. Fry is
a great punisher of soft stuff, but as a test-match player
he proved an utter failure against the last Austr dian XU
« • * ♦
“W.G.” is coming on again as a bowler—in
his 53rd year. At latest advices, he stood fifth on the
averages (Mold, Rhodes, Mead, and Hirst ahead of him),
with 40 wickets at 15J. Trott was overworking himself,
as usual. He had played more innings than any other
batsman, and sent down far more overs than any other
bowlei. Result: A batting average of 18 and bowling of
20 (but he had taken 94 wickets, far more than anyone
else, save Rhodes).
*»• * *
Given a good road, 50 miles per hour is the rate
of speed expected from the 12 h.p. Pan hard-Levassar
motor-car, which is being imported by Mr. Mark Foy, of
Sydney.
* * * *
Sept. 8 is fixed for world’s sculling supremacy
struggle between Canuck Gaudaur and Australian Towns.
Latter-day scullers have favored September more than
any other month for racing. Beach and Teemer, Beach
and Gaudaur, Beach and Wallace Ross, Searle and O’Con-
nor, Stanbury and Gaudaur, Sullivan and Bubear (cham-
pionship of England), Barry and Towns, Towns and
Wray, and Kemp and Hanlan, all decided their matches
during September.
m■* * *
Billiard-champion Roberts is now 54, and has
been absolute champion of England for nearly 20 years.
His highest break (1392) was made in ’94, at Manchester,
against Diggle, but the “ push ” cannon wasn’t barred
then.
* * * *
Though not over at time of writing, N.S.W.
Chess Premiership is a certainty for Mr. J. L. Jacobson ;
it’s impossible to beat him. His list shows 71 wins to
£ loss.


5-Si’rT* Cold Pendant- - 60/-
Oxidised Silver Cendant- - 12/6
THE LEADERS OF FASHION
In Paris and London are unanimous in
thei'f appreciation of the New Style of
Antique Jewellery, of which we are now
showing some fine samples —
Antique C»!d and Silver Drees Buttons
|f „ „ Sash Buckles
, f „ Neck Chains
f „ Brooches
„ Pendants.
15-carat Gold Pendant- -40/-
Oxidised Silver Pendant- 5/-
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY CO.
187 Pitt-st.
Sydney.
Paris exhibition, 1900 -British Awards
The Only
Grand
Prix
highest Rivard
ever made!
FOR TOILET SOAP
HAS BEEN AWARDED TO
(Established 1789.)
> BRITT REC T D,
BP
llppointmem
to
Tea
fit fife
fkr Ittajestp Cbe Queen and B.R.fi. Cbe prince oT Wales.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1900 inclusive.
Victorian Art Society shocked the Scawtch-
byterians by opening its Exhibition on Sundays.
j t was feared in Calvinistic circles that the show
would keep the godly from kirk. But there was
really only one nude hung, and that was a modest
back view.
“Federal Cartoons’’
byH.W. Cotton,
from Bulletin,
Punch,
Telegraph, &c.
Printed on Art Paper. “An excellent memento of one of
the most important events in Australian History.”—
(V.A.A.) Price 6d., posted Bd. NS W. Bookstall Coy.
Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITED. W
CAPITAL PAID-UP £385,187
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 245,119
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 55,000
£685,306
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Ass. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
wm
hMBMsJiW
supplies
66 King St Sydney.. s
Those
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
use -
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MICA LUBRICANT CO., SOUTH SHIELDS, ENG.
Lubricants and Packings for all purposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 90% in cost of lubrication, and keeps
bearings perfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice as long as ordinary, and are 25% lighter. They do
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate.
Sole Agent for Australasia : R. A. HERVEY. Depot, 171 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S. W
CENT’S
COLD
ALBERTS
England’s Best Goods. 15ct. Solid Alberts, £3 3s. to £7 7s.
London’s Finest Finish—each link Hall-marked. Each chain any length desired, as we import the chain by
the vard. Many Birmingham chains remind one of blacksmith’s iron work, so badly finished are they.
Our Chains are all solid throughout, and of the finest London finish. We sell them at LONDON PRICES
for Cash only.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
(The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney)
*23 HUNTER BTREitT,
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Tb«
CallagbaQ
Boot
HooeSt Wear
it? every pair.
Our Boots can be
exchanged if not
correct, as we wish
distant customers
to be as pleased as
those in town. Yojur
money returned if you
are not satisfied with
the Boots.
Fine French Calf Button, full goloshed, calf-kid legs, 22/6 ; post paid, 23/6
„ Lace, „ „ „ 21/-; „ 22/-
Why not mail
your order TO-DAY ?
CALLAGHAN & SON} 395 George St., Sydney.
At Poverty Point.
The new school of Italian opera has wrought a wonder-
ful development in the histrionic art of the vocalists.
Williamson’s co. doesn’t include one really incapable
mummer among the whole 14. They can all play
their parts acceptably, and in some cases the combination
of singing and acting talent is a great surprise to people
who remember the stereo’d mannerisms of Simonsen’s
three Italian co’s. Both the tenors are forcible, Larizza
in particular. The heavy ladies are emotional actresses,
and the two light sopranos, who didn’t appear in the
earlier shows, have turned out to be specially pleasing.
They look their parts. Each is a success in “La Boheme,”
which opera presents the most simpl.v-pathetic death-
scene imaginable. Signorina Bassich may be only a >
one-part artist, in a critical way of speaking, but as the
sweet-voiced Mimi, who passes hence whilst the orchestra
records her decease, she is an Event. The audience doesn’t
know how sincerely they believed in the live Mimi until
they see her lying dead.
Dani was one of the luckiest engagements for William
son’s Italian Opera Co. He would not have come to
Australia but for Hazon and George Allan being “ slipped
up” by another tenor after the contract was signed.
This previous selection had an altogether impossible
spouse, who first of all wouldn’t hear of her husband
going to a foreign land without her, and subsequently
declined to join the expedition herself lest she should get
eaten by the Australian native cannibals. Mrs. Hazon
was called in to soothe the lady’s alarms re the prevalence
of cannibalism in the musical centres of this country.
Then the difficulty seemed to have been overcome by
Allan undertaking to advance 4000 francs for the support
and solace of the tenor’s missis during his absence. 4000
francs on account sounded very like a guarantee that the
warbler would be safeguarded from the spears and arrows
of the savages until he had earned his salary, anyhow.
The wife had almost made up her mind to rest content
for a time with the hard cash instead of her human
treasure, but she suffered a sudden relapse. She threw her-
self down on the floor and vowed she would commit
suicide the day her husband left her. Then the wearied
diplomatists shook the dust of that tenor’s domestic circle
from their feet and were fortunate enough to book Dani,
who brought his wife with him.
“ Smilax ” : Re “La Boheme.” The latter half of the
first act introduces the heroine and the love story, and is
the sweetest and most sentimental part of the opera. All
through the first act—the fun-in-a-garret scene—you are
waiting for the opera to commence. The evening’s busi-
ness generally smacks of opera-bouffe and seems got up
with the idea that half the audience started out to go to
Rickards’, but couldn’t get in and had to take grand
opera instead. This sort could be catered for in a canvas
caboose separately in the back-yard, and the rest could
then have grand opera in the theatre. But afterwards
comes delicious music, and everything is forgiven—even
the unnecessarily frowsy and ugly costumes of the four
men principals ; and, from that on, you are prepared to
hug all and sundry concerned until the death-bed scene
comes on. Then occurs the most shocking finish
imaginable. A white light plays on the girl’s features
while Dani is away at the window. Suddenly, from the
behaviour of the others, he suspects she is dead-rushes
to the bed, grabs the corpse, shakes it, stares into its
face, throws it back to the pillow, and so on da capo.
Some of the audience shout, “ Don’t! don’t! ” and when
the curtain comes down and the lights go up there is only
just enough applause for the final recall —the people were
so sick. First time I ever came away from the Dani
crowd with a bad taste in my mouth.
“Melborno” : Have seen that death-scene in “La
Boheme ” four times, and each time there were shouts of
“ Bravo ! ” from all parts of the house after the curtain
fell. It is, perhaps, a little overdone. Bernhardt’s stage
demises are open to the same objection from people who
object to striking pictures of death. I left the theatre
with tears in my ej'es. Took my wife, and she wept
copiously. A realistic death-scene and violent display of
grief by the surviving lover only sickens them whose souls
are situated in the stomach.
When the Broughs were out bey ant they sub-leased a
certain alleged theatre which has a bag roof and a clay
floor. The white-ant plague was exceptionally bad at the
time. The first night of the performance of “ The Liars ”
the pests were so thick that Mrs. Brough had to dispense
with gesture, it taking her all her time to brush them off
her bare neck and chest. One of the “iners remarked
that--" She dunno how to act; she s always beatin her
buzzum!” ,
“Napoli”: The custom of paying compliments to
operatic singers in Italian theatres is curious Noticed m
mv travels not long ago that when a singer got to the end
of what he or she considered a good effort, a super, ap-
peared at the wings and presented the v °cahst with a
magnificent wreath or bouquet of flowers. In Australia
they still struggle to maintain the fiction that the ege
tables wafted over the footlights are the spon-
taneous gifts of the audience. The Italian frankly buys
his own vegetable and lets his own hireling bring it in to
him. .
The professional dressers of a Thespian couple who
toured Australia a year or two ago were paralysed by
the quaint methods adopted by their employers in
assuming their stage-attire. They had separate dressing-
rooms with a communicating door, and the female dresser,
used as she was to stage customs, was astounded when
this door suddenly opened and the gentleman entered,
clad in the altogether, and began in the most matter-of-
fact way to rummage in a trunk. The lady artist was
disrobing meanwhile, and was as nude as her husband by
the time the dresser had recovered her breath sufficiently
to begin a protest against the intrusion. But ere she
could voice her denunciation of the insult, the K er l} ; J e ™ al ?
looked up and, calling to his male dresser, brought that
astounded individual into the same room as his lily-white
Eve-like spouse, to assist in the search for the missing
article 1
“Haresfoot” : Dampier, in Melb., was lately playing
Friday Hamlets. The Closet Pundits, in blue spectacles,
shook last year’s mosquitos out of their great coats, and
stumbled along to the stalls, and it is not unlikely that
on Saturdays the actor received epistles beginning with,
“ Esteemed Sir, and Brother Humble Student. I had
not thought to witness again a Thespian Rendition of the
Masterpiece of Our Immortal Bard ” . Dampier plays
Hamlet, apparently, on exact mathematical lines postu-
lated by Shakespeare himself, and from which any devia-
tion might be as fatal as Shylock’s cutting a hair-breadth
extra would be—to Shylock. Nevertheless my taste is
for another guess at Hamlet. I want the impulsive one.
Wilson Barrett tried to be impulsive, but unfortunately
he is a staccato actor, like Dampier, and his Hamlet, as
Australia saw it, only amounted to Dampier with a little
more ginger. Even as a young man, without
experience of the stage, Barrett could never
be better than a fair Hamlet. I want a Hamlet
that Lets Go. The absurdities, or rather incongruities,
with which the text is replete, should be carried off by
hurry and rush in the action. [Well, Australia has seen
one good, commanding actor of the hurry-and-rush type
who used to Let Go as Hamlet. That was Charles War-
ner.—Ed. B.]
How on earth do paragraphs like this get into the Syd-
ney papers?: “Mr. Marcus William Oldham, honorary
inspector of Victorian fisheries, arrived here by yester-
day’s express. Mr. Oldham was the gentleman who, some
time ago, purchased a seat in the Princess Theatre, Mel-
bourne, for £4O, to witness a matinee in aid of the Old
Actors’ Fund there. He intends to be present at the
matinee at her Majesty’s next Monday.”
It would vastly entertain Mrs. Grundy to read private
letters which have lately reached Sydney from England,
detailing the amatory doings of certain well and persist-
ently advertised Australian singers who have for a con-
siderable time been located in the Bi g Smoke.
Sydney Newsletter, which has a fine free gibe every
now and then at the inaccuracies of various papers, in-
formed its readers t’other day that Ida Osborne was to
appear as “ Pasquita,” which is evidently meant for
Paquita ; that Harrv Ingham is billed for “ Moujouk,
and that something or other is going to happen in con-
nection with what must be a new opera 4 Girolfe
Girolfa.” These were a good many wild statements for
one small par, and if the writer had ended with an
erudite allusion to the “ Closhes de Cockroache,’ all
would have been symmetrically rounded off.


“E.Gr.B.” concerning a memorable Aus-
tralian political event:—
What was the cause of Higinbotham’s defeat by market-
gardener Tom Bent at the Brighton election of 71,
by which that great Democrat was lost to Victorian
politics ? Present scribe s father, who was a member of
the Legislature of that time, said it was brought about in
this way. The burning national question then was the
dispute with Downing-street, and Higinbotham was
making those celebrated speeches about “ that
man Rogers.” At one meeting, after Higinbotham
had spoken with much passion on this subject, a
market-gardener elector arose, and said, “Mr. Chair-
man what Mr. Higinbotham has been saying is all very
fine for those who take an interest in it: but what we
want to know is—is the candidate in favor of the aboli-
tion of tolls ? The great Democrat was flabbergasted
and said he had not given the subject any attention. But
this was the Brighton cabbage-growers’ burning ques-
tion, and through his answer the late Chief Justice met
his political Waterloo.
Jlffaft $ c?«
nief bourne
best House for
and
d H*usical sundries
CoUins St..
J. J. MILLER’S SPORTING PAMPHLET.
Illustrated. Now Ready.
The most reliable reference on all sporting- matters
of iff'ho nom,nafclona > weights and full performances
Cum fl nS engaged « ‘ he Cau,field and Melbourne
Cups, and other races. Post free, 1/1. All Booksellers
Yic. Govt, has a Bill that, if passed, will
make things particularly hot for the defaulting
husband and father. For failing to find surety on
a maintenance order a defendant may be sentenced
U P 12 months forthwith, though (the sarcasm of
the Law !) he may demand his immediate dis-
charge if he finds the security while in gaol. If
defendant leaves, or attempts to leave, or lives
temporarily or permanently out of the State, he
may be summarily ordered to gaol for over one
but under two years should he be convicted of
wife-desertion, neglect, or failure to provide
adequate maintenance for his wife, or of desertion
or failure to adequately provide for children
(legitimate or other) under 14—this also even
(should they be his wife’s illegitimate youngsters.
Also any youngster committed to the Neglected
Children’s Dept, is to be deemed so deserted and
fetch these penalties down on the father. Like-
wise a wife who deserts (or fails, &c.,) is to be
dealt with just as suddenly.
Never lock yourself in ! Yic. papers tell
of the experience of a young man, on a mine. He
batched ” in the office with a mate, and, one
night recently, the mate went to a “darnc-e,”
and the stay-at-home partner 1 eked the door ere
crawling into his bunk, and pushed the key under-
neath, so that his mate could let, himself in on re-
turning, it seemingly not occurring to the former
that it. would amount to almost exactly the same
thing if he left the door unlocked. Towards
morning, Bill awakened and found the room in
flames. Jim had not returned from the “ darnce, ”
and the key was beyond the reach of the frantic
prisoner, whose shirt was already smouldering.
Bill then made a serious assault on the window, but
it was an extra powerful and well-guarded window,
and when at length Bill hammered his way out,
the neckband of his shirt was all that remained to
him, and it was smouldering, and he was so burnt
and lacerated that he had to be rushed off to hos-
pital.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue *
QUALITY IS HIGHER
as Low as elsewhere for humdrum
styles. —That is one of the advantages of buying from us.
No. W 7. Silver-Plated Hair-Pin
Box, 8s 6d.
W 9. Silver-Plated Jewel-Case
Satin-lined, £1 is. ’
No. W 24. Embossed and Silver-
Plated Hair-Pin Box, 10s 6d.
No. F5173A. Silver-
Plated Spectacle
Case, 10s 6d.
No. F 839. Silver-Plated Butter Dish,
with Knife, 9s 6d.
No. W2OlB. Egg-Shape Satin-lined
Jewel-Oase, best Silver-Plated, £1 is.
No. F 4457. Silver-Plated Ink
Stand, ,18s 6d.
No. W 36. Best Silver-Plated
Shaving Mug, £1 2s 6d.
No. F 4587. Leather
Spectacle Case,
Plated Mounts,
7s 6d.
No. F 4707. Carved Ivory Handle Bread Fork, 11s 6d.
No. F 4588. Silver Glove Button-Hook, 2s.
No. E 9070. Combination Egg- Frame and
Cruet, Cut-Glass and Best Silver-Plate,
£1 15s.
T
1
No. F 4709. Carved Pearl
Handle Bread Fork, 13/6.
No. F 4849. Silver-Plated Fern Pot
Height, 8 inches, £3.
Write -For our Illustrated Catalogue.
Stewart Dawson & Co
4:12 GEORGE STREET and SI'RAND. SYDNEY.
E PWARDS’
FOR
THE
X 3
(0
f fn
H
f§ B*. ■"
&|rri
£• g. w
!.?**
US'®*
r Q(* 3
P A
sg*«S
» g »
f*f~ O 2.
crc v
-I "-I zz ~-
o .=■'**■
c o
crtj
e 2-S> <5
«■ 3 3 2
ZjK av;
on § J
<JS
<3o* a
o- Si
' P m te
3 *
o 3><
w 2
"■ 2-r
o - -
?S
s
< 3 C
{? a-
-1
Monsieur Philosophow is commanded by
HER MAJESTY
T HE OF GREECE
to forward cheque for the six bottles of
Harlene duly received.
H.R.Hi Princess Marie of Greece wishes K i v
“ Harlene" for the Hair sent Edwapds ’
m»n m ■ nn ._ , _ M C'T'O'WTt P 7"2 TIC 6 S PtzluC6, A tJICfIS , CrT'CCCC
H.R.H. PR NOSBS marie OF GREECE Ed tL-
Preparation, Harlene for the Hair, has given entire satisfaction.
H,R,H, The PUKE OF SPARTA
Harlene for the Hair sent by express parcel post.
Palace of Prince Royal, Athens.
requires six bottles of Edwards’
h.r.h. princess hohinlohe
of “ Harlene ” for the Hair by return. '
Esterhazy Uteza,so, Buda-Pest.
writes : Please send me three bottles
H.R.H. PRINCE GEORGE of GREECE (*** Co^LZZofCrete)
writes: Please to forward three bottles of Harlene "'fOTthTHair at once.
!•/*» 2,6 » and (3 times z/6 size), 4/6 per Bottle, everywhere.
STEAM
ENGINES
FROM 5 HP, TO 100 H.P.
DYNAMOS
MOTORS
FROM 1 H.P. TO 60 HP.
CAN BE SUPPLIED PROMPTLY
FROM STOCK.
NOYES BROS.
1 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; 17 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
Now
Ready.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH
Price Qc3L; Posted. Bcl.
t)APTO (La.ke
(U MIT 1C I)),
jllawarra,),
iiear SYD3XTEY.
SMELTERS,
REFINERS
PRomrcEßs
OF
fine silver.
MAKERS OP
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
ILLAWARRA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes
f aOI,D ’ SIL HIGHEST PRICES PA nT^ ORES ’ CYANIDE SLAGS - JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BELLI JN
. HIGHEST PRICES PAID for ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT Of ASSAYS. S
or all information regar nig Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Mokse, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.


THE NEWEST OF THE NEW.
If you Buy it from us iVs all rigiit.
No. F27B7.—New Twin Heart and Arrow
Brooch, 9c. Gold, 8s 6d.
No. F37o4.—New Lucky Bell and Leaf
Brooch, 9c. Gold, 11s 6d.
Brooch, 9c. Gold, 11s 6d.
No. F 593.
-Fine Pearl New Moon and Spray
Brooch, 15c. Gold, £5.
No. F 4299. —15c. Gold Bird and Leaf
Brooch, £1 ss.
No. F 2691. —Strong Bar Brooch, New Design,
9c. Gold, 13s 6d.
No. F; 51. Fine Pearl and 15c. Gold
Brooch, £3 15s.
No. E 8739.— Fine Dia-
mond and 18c. Gold
Bing, £i 10s.
Magnificent Diamond
and Opal Cluster Ring,
£l7 10s.
N0.F4540—15c. Gold
and Pearl Pendant,
£2 10s.
No. EB6OO. —Pair of 9c.
Gold Tie Clips, 5s 6d.
Heayy Make, 10s 6d.
No. F2254.—15c. Gold Brooch, Ruby
Centre, £1 10s.
No. F3ss3.—New Bell Brooch, 9c. Gold,
l-2s 6d.
No. Fls46.—Fine Quality Pearl and 15c. Gold Spray
Brooch, £9 10s.
No. Es629.—New Bar and Bell Brooch,
9c. Gold, 10s 6d.
Cjk*
€> fb &
No. F 976. —Fine Pearl Scroll Brooch, 15c. Gold,
£1 15s.
No. F 2252. —Fine Pearl and 15c. Gold
Shamrock Brooch, £1 15s.
Illustrated Catalogue
Free to all.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 GEORGE ST. and
STRAND, SYDNEY
GALKIN CUPEL MACHINES.
Callin's Automatic Cap el Machine.
Will fflftlfg 000 cupels ©f uniform size
and density in an hour,
The only absolutely satisfactory machine
made.
Made in three designs—Automatic, Table
and Wall.
The au ' '.tic machines will make five sizes.
The tabj.e and wall m chines from one to
three sizes, depending on dies furnished-
Machines for one size only at propor-
tionately less price.
Write for full particulars to
SOLE AGENTS-
pike i tics comply dtd
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
Importer - •'f mor e n ; pliances for Assayers—Furnaces,
BSowors, Sam ■> 'rr hines, Ore Crushers, etc., etc.
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Fre a.
PLAYS
French’s Acting Edition.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Books Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes ot any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE . . .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO COIVIFJHTXTIOIXr.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
Price SIXPEJVCJE!=F*oated, Od..
FREEMAN
ELECTRO-MEDICAL & SURGICAL INSTITUTE.
The Two Eminent Specialists
who have the Largest Practice
in Australasia.
And the Only Specialists
Received Hiqhly Commendable Press jxov c
Me in Leading Australian Journals.
Specialties = Nervous
Heart, Kidney,
and Chronic Complaints, Blood and Skin Diseases,
Liver, Bladder, Rheumatism, Sciatica, (fee., (fee.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of [it^Ha, 6 Great
Consulting fiooms
hv our physician-in-Chier.
Fis an acknowledged fact the world-wide over that no
single individual or combination of men can be ab-
solute masters of every phase and branch of art, science,
medicine, or other professed avocation of a limitless
sphere of operation and At best the greatest
scientists of the day—men like Lord Kelvin and lull son.
■
Yours truly . . .
HOWARD FREEMAN,
Sydney's Leading Specialist.
Professor of Electricity as applied Medically, Member
Dr. Harmon’s College, Washington Cor., Cal., U.S.A.
Director and Founder of the Institute,
for instance, whose fame is universally known—class
themselves as infants in scientific invention and research
and modestly tell us that they have but a smattering of
knowledge of the possibilities, extent, and development
We have only to look at the fine buildings that occupy
thecorner of Elizabeth and Bathurststreetsto gain sotm
idea of the extent and importance of their profession
work. But to have the privilege of being shown through
the building by the Specialists themselves, and to see and
learn something of the real character of tout vrOev •
tice, is a treat that only comes the way of a fortunate
dividual like the writer. nf i-iarticular
The instrument-room was as of particular
curiosity. Lavmen always have a penchant for eyeing
and examining the polished steel articles> withwlhich so
many extraordinary acts are performed upon the .human
body. The collection in this room is in every way up-to-
date Whenever a new instrument comes to
and its worth is proved beyond question Jt is added to
this rare assortment. Another room fullof absorbing m
terest is that devoted to the galvanic of which
there are several magnificent kinds. The noted O-aitte
batteries, the finest French makes, are here in perfection,
irrespective of their high cost. If any article or raechtoi-
cal and electric contrivance is found main
taining the fame of this institution, the price is never
allowed to stand in the way. . pvp .
The correspondence department is a veritable eve
opener. Its sacredness is a bar to a stranger sadmission
but a full view of the work going on is had through the
glass doors. Half-a-dozen typists are seen driving their
machine-writers at electric speed. To the principals only
are known the names of the persons throughout Austra, a
who are being treated as skilfully in their homes about
the metropolis and away in the interior as if they were
present in personal consultation at the institution.
P The packing-rooms are likewise shut off from curious
and prying glances, and the work of one department is a
mystery to the others. No better system for holding
secret the nature of sufferers’ troubles, for safe-guarding
their interests, and giving due heed to the feelings and
sensitiveness of patients, could be imagined, packages
are not plastered with advertising labels, they are put up
in such a way that only the names and addresses are in
V 1 What a practice is here revealed and what a consola-
tion must it be to these eminent specialists to know that
they are permanently curing and restoring to health and
happiness thousands of people whose lives were a burden
to them. The young, the middle-aged, and the healthy
are treated with the same amount of success. The pro-
digious nature of the work accompli shed by these
specialists necessitates—not the stereotype*'morning and
evening two hours’ consultation ticket, but their constant
attention at the institution from early morning till late
into the night. “I can assure you, said Dr. Wallace,
“ we don’t put in these long houra because we are fonder
■HP
Premises: Oor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts (Opp. Hyde Park, Sydney
(All Trains Stop »t the Door).
of electricity, and only a fringe of imagination of the un-
told stores of strength and wealth wrapt up m this
phenomenal power.
Therefore it requires no argument to convince tne
most pronounced of optimists that the field in any one of
the great and honored professions of the day is far too
vast for the thorough comprehension of the most per-
fectly brain-endowed man, or body of naturally-gifted
men Yet in respect of the most delicate and difficult of
all professions-that of prescribing for the ills and
diseases of mankind—we find doctors, scattered over the
globe, off-handedly and without careful, minute, and
searching examination and diagnosis—without any know-
ledge of the past lives of patients—flippantlYdashing off
prescriptions for every class of complaint, as if a cure was
as simple as falling over the proverbial log.
Thanks to the march of civilisation, culture, and edu-
cation, people are getting to know that modern medical
men who are worth consulting confine their practice to a
certain class of cases. Realising the utter hopelessness of
mastering and curing everything under the sun, and find-
ing that “gullibles ” are not so plentiful as they used to
be, the wise and progressive men of medicine devote
themselves to one or other class of cases, and work out
the remedies for them to the best of their skill and
ability. .
What better and more striking illustration of the suc-
cess of Specialists in Skin Diseases, Heart, Kidney, Liver-
Affections, Rheumatics, Sciatica, Nervous Diseases, could
the people of this magnificent continent, Australia, have
than the enormous practice of the famous practitioners of
the Electro-Medical Institute. Their skill, attainments,
position, and renowned reputation stamp them as the un-
doubted masters of the classes of diseases and complaints
which have been the study of their professional lives.
When we speak of electricity we think of Edison. Why ?
Because he dwarfs other men in this branch of science.
In the same way, when we talk of specialists, we at once
associate the names of the Freeman and Wallace Insti-
tute. So it is in every branch of scientific medicine;
some one or two men stand head and shoulders above
their fellows.
It is the aim, object, and devotion of certain doctors to
be pre-eminent in some defined class of disease rather
than to tinker with a host of complaints about which
they can have but a hazy notion, and superficial know-
ledge. To use a hackneyed but expressive phrase, they
are “ Jacks of all trades and masters of none.” Never
since the time of Ricord, the noted French Specialist,
have any men conducted so gigantic and successful a
practice as that conducted by the Freeman-M allace
Electro Medical and Surgical Institute.
of hard work than any other medical men ; we do it in
the best interests of sufferers. We don’t keep them
waiting longer than we can help, and we suffer many in-
conveniences for our patients’ sakes.”
Noble sentiments, thought the writer, as the time came
for his departure, and the Specialists returning to their
Yours truly . . .
RICHARD WALLACE,
Physician-in-Chief,
M.D., L.R.C.P. , L.F.P.S., L.M.,
Late Medical Staff , British Array; late Consulting
Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne.
consulting-room. How many doctors in our midst can
we bracket in this category ? Dinners and drives and
conversaziones are more frequently uppermost in the
mind of top-loftical medicos than the speedy treatment
of sad and suffering patients.


amusements.
E M ?' RE d , I L i H f A . TRE * SYDNEY.
, (Late Royal Standard, Castlereagh-street.)
22nd WEEK. (Still, More Novelties.) 22nd WEEK
JOHN FULLER’S EMPIRE GO.
CHAS. FAN INC, “ Australia’s Comedian.”
DENIS CARNEY, the “Yorkshire Comedian.”
Enormous Success of the LESLIE BROS. (Fred, and Will)
First Appearance of CLINTON SISTERS, HARRY HART,
Tenor, RUBY SPARKES, Serio, &c.
Prices—2s., Is., and 6d.
r h
Open at 7.15.
T, R E ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Under the Management of Mr. Robert Brough
Representative .. .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
THE BROUCH COMEDY COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY EVENING
MRS. PANE’S DEFENCE,
An Original Play in Four Acts, by Henry Arthur
Jones, Author of “ The Liars,” &c.
Box Plan at Elvy’s, George-st. Prices as Usual.
the AT R E, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager
LAST 2
.. .. William Anderson.
NIGHTS of
THE KINS OF CRIME.
MR. WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION is WELL WORTH SEEING.
SATURDAY, AUG. 10, THE MARINERS OF ENGLAND.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
ft RITE R I O N THEATRE, SYDNEY.
v Under the Direction of Mr. Charles Holloway.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING, at a quarter to 8
Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S ’
POPULAR COTERIE OF PLAYERS,
in the Great Sensational Drama, entitled,
WHEN LONDON SLEEPS.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.55:
ordinary doors, 7.30. Plan at Nicholson’s
UER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■■ Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutr’ie
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S ITALIAN OPERA COMPANY
THURSDAY and SATURDAY, AUGUST 8 and 10,
RIGOLETTO.
FRIDAY, AUGUST 9, /V TTI
Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Stalls, 4s •
Family Circle, 25.; Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.’
pALACE THEATRE, BYDNEY.
Henry Lee and J. G. Rial
Jas. H. Love .. .. ..
Lessees.
General Manager.
EVERY NIGHT
(Except Sunday),
And at the WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY MATINEES,
COMMENCING AUGUST 10,
“THE WORLD’S ENTERTAINERS”
(POLITE VAUDEVILLE).
PRICES—Is., 2s. and 3s.
Seats at Elvy’s, George-street.
Amusements.
DICKARDB’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■» Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
MARIE LLOYD. ALEC, HURLEY.
TED HANLEY.
CELINA BOBE (Xylophone Expert aud Violiniste).
ERNEST SWALLOW (Lightning Banjoist).
LENNON, HYMAN & LENNON (Acrobatic Comedians).
MDLLE. LUCRETIA (Burlesque Artist).
MISS MARY LYNNE (Operatic Contralto).
ADELE LIBRA (Wire-Walker and Globe-Runner).
The American Bioscope, and all Our Great Double Co.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays.
Y.M.C.A. HALL, WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 14,
Or and llecital. Grand Recital.
Miss SHADFORTH HOOPER
Miss S’IADFORTH HOOPER I
Miss S lADFORTH HOOPER f
Miss SHADFORTH HOOPER J
Solo I’ianiate.
Elocutionist#.
{Miss FRANCES HOOPER
Miss FRANCES HOOPER
Miss FRANCES HOOPER
Miss FRANCES HOOPER
Mr. BURNS-WALKER V ° CallSt '
Mr. BURNS-WALKER.
Plan at Paling’s. Bs., 25., Is.
J. EDWARD SYKES.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY
COMPANY.
Re-appearance for a Short Farewell Season of Mr.
AUSTIN RUDD.
The Wonderful ZOBEDIE, the World’s Greatest Hand
Balancer, Ascensionist, and Equilibrist, and
ARNOLDI, the Clever Young Juggler and Equilibrist,
and all Our Great Co.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. E. J. Tait.
Enthusiastic Reception of MR. WILSON BARRETT,
Supported by his own Complete London Co., in the Great
Play by Mr. Wilson Barrett and Louis N. Parker, entitled,
MAN AND HIS MAKERS.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE ? OF THE HOUR 5
WHY SMITH LEFT HOMEI
EVERY EVENING.
CHARLES ARNOLD’S LONDON COMEDY COMPANY
. . in . .
WHY SMITH LEFT NOM€,
Preceded by THE GREY PARROT.
Simply an Enormous Success /~»1 Manager, L. J. Lohr.
H£ATRE r OYA l, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING,
The Greatest Picturesque and Unique Drama,
THE WHITE HEATHER,
One of Bland Holt’s Most Marvellous Productions.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d.,'25., Is. 6d. and la. Box
Plan at Allan’s CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
BUSHMAN WATCH.
am
k OUR FAITHFUL
PI TIMEKEEPER
i METAL
i» 10/6 CASE
Will rur)'for2oYEßß^
I
EAR?
m
Camden Buildings,
420 Ceorge St., Sydney.
Three Doors from A Saving of
Strand Arcade. 25 per cent.
JEWELLERY,
SOLID SILVER GOODS,
SILVER-PLATED WARE
Write for 80- Paged Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
TN€
SPRING
FASHIONS
Hats and Toques
Silks and Dress
Mantles and Costumes
Ribbons and Laces, &c., &c.
ARE NOW OPENED OUT READY FOR YOUR INSPECTION.
An Engrossing and Bewildering Display l
Everything Satisfactorily Priced and Alluringly Beautiful /
Your Early Attendance is Respectfully Solicited.
203, 205, 207, 209, 211
PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
HORPCRN BROTHERS
SYDNEY’S LEADERS OF FASHIONS.
(If you cannot come out shopping please write for Patterns and Illustrations,
which we send FREE to any part of Australia or Tasmania.)
Federal pm™** Suits
In All-Wool Colonial
or Imported Tweed
Navy Serge, Blue or
Black Vicuna, &c.
Well Cut and Trim-
med.... Properly
Tailored and thor-
oughly dependable.
To measure,
Extra Pair of
Trousers with
Every Suit
40/
Carriage Paid to any
address in the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth
or New Zealand.
ZV
Patterns and Self-
Measurement Forms
Post Free.
GREAT VALUE.
Our Famous Ready-
made Federal sac Suit
in good colonial or im-
ported Tweed, All-Wool
Navy Serge, Navy or Black
Vicuna. Special tailor-
make, fitted-up with Italian
cloth linings, padded shoul-
ders, in and out breast and
ticket pockets, etc. Car-
riage paid to any Australian
address for 20/-; any size
from 3 to 7.
Don Cash Trading Co.
173 a to 214 JOHNSTON STREET
COLLING WOOD, MELBOURNE
When ordering be sure and give this number —No. 012 i
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
Price SlXE*EKrCß=r»oateci, Bcl.
KEMP’S PATENTSHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being nsed by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long: as required. It will NOT injure the wool. It will dissolve out under
the ordinary scouring: process.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FECTOD, GRinUBDE * CO, BIEEBOBME.
BLACK, BED, and BLTJE (in 8-gallon Cases)-
PRICE IN MELBOURNE
„ SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.)
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.)
„ HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.)
3/6 per Gallon.
3/6
3/6
4/3
i
PHYSICIAN
Registered by the
Medical Board
of N.S.W.
SURGEON
HAVING had 30 years experience in all parts of the world, and also having lately made an extended trip through Europe and America, he
is in a position to treat every case submitted to him according to the methods of the most recent and eminent Specialists of the
whole world.
Every Case treated on its own Merits.
Sufferers at a distance, unable to describe their cases to their own satisfaction, should write for Dr. Watson’s
“Guide to Diagnosis,”
which will allow them to give exact and full particulars, so as to enable him to report fully as to the disease and its radical and rational
method of treatment.
COIVTSULTATIOUNT !-■* m-fr '|-«S (Personally, or by Letter).
The publication of crowds of symptoms, testimonials and puffs of one’s skill and attainments savours too much of self-praise ; so the publio
should look with a doubtful eye upon all those who “ doth protest too much.”
Dr. Watson does not pretend to say that “ One Pound is sufficient to send,” as stated in certain advertisements, for he considers that the
public are quite satisfied to pay a fair price for fair and legitimate treatment.
Write for small
“Guide to Health,”
and Method for Self-Diagnosis.
(Please mention this paper when writing.)
137 Elizabeth-St.
SYDNEY.
D*HS


Three Years
Liver Trouble.
CLEMENTS TONIC SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR CURE.
The Case of
Mrs. KATHERINE GARLAND.
!
(BY our special reporter.)
“ Your visit has come as a pleasant
surprise to me,” was the remark with which
Mrs. Garland, of No. 4 Denham-street,
Surry Hill <, greeted the reporter from this
journal, as it saves me the trouble of
writing to you about my bad attack of liver
complaint, from which I suffered terribly.
I am a very poor correspondent at the best
of times, preferring like most members of
my sex, to receive letters rather than write
them ; but I am so conscious of a deep
obligation to Clements Tonic for restoring
me to health that I made up my mind to
write expressing my gratitude, and as you
have obviated that duty I will gladly give
the fullest details.
“ How long did your liver trouble afflict
you ? ” asked the reporter.
“For fully three years, and I hope it will
never come on again. Do you know, I
believe I would rather be dead than
continue like I was then. The first sign of
my failing health was an unaccountable
fastidiousness regarding my food. I some-
times felt like eating a little, and as soon as
it was before me I should turn right against
it, and do nothing but mince and turn it
over, then finally leave it alone. There
was always a sickly, sour taste in my mouth,
my tongue being so dry and rough,
particularly in the morning, and I was often
seized with a fit of vomiting, which was
invariably followed by the act of belching
distasteful gases from the stomach. The
operation of ridding myself of the bile and
soar wind from the stomach caused me no
end of discomfort and pain, and blinding
headaches were frequently experienced
after I had been retching. Heavy pains in
the shoulders, and sometimes in the chest,
often paid me more attention than was
agreeable, as they made me form the
opinion that I was slowly falling into the
clutches of some dreadful disease. Indeed,
this idea was made all the more likely by
the yellowish hue of my skin, and my eyes
became a dirty green colour. Liver spots
also came out on my chest. Besides the
pains in the chest and shoulders, I would
have severe attacks in the side, and they
were so excessively tormenting that I had
to apply hot fomentations, but they only
gave temporary relief, and made the next
attack more acute. It was next door to
impossible to ever get a brief respite from
my many ailments, for 1 could scarcely ever
get to sleep, and the little repose that did
occasionally come to me was marked by
unpleasant dreams and restlessness. On
awakening it required a great stretch of
imagination to believe I had slept at all,
so weary and fatigued would I feel. My
limbs ached with sheer weakness, and I’m
sure I was an object deserving compassion
when crawling about the house in my vain
efforts to do a little housework, only to sit
down quite exhausted and fret for hours.
When I wanted to stand up I had to do so
carefully and steadily, otherwise a fainting
giddiness would take charge of me, and my
head would whirl round like a spinning-
wheel. These fainting sensations left me
dreadfully depressed and low-spirited, and
I sat or lay brooding over my misfortunes
till I got very melancholy. There. was not
an ounce of flesh on my bones. So weak and
debilitated had I become that I was almost
afraid to look in the glass.”
“You look remarkably well now, how-
ever, Mrs. Garland.”
“ Yes, thank God, I am like I used to be
before my three years’ sickness. But you
have not learned all my troubles. The
worst and most terrifying thing has yet to
be described. I have not yet mentioned the
anxiety my heart used to cause me. You
do not think I look like a woman whose
heart is diseased, do you ? No ; I’m sure
I don’t. But I was almost worried to death
with that thought when I was so ill. My
heart used to start suddenly beating with
such violence that I dreaded it stopping or
easing off, in case it would stop for ever.
But it would quieten down after nearly
scaring the life out of me, only to start
again with renewed rapidity. I have since
learned that palpitation of the heart occurs
in liver disease cases when they are very
serious, so mine must have been a very bad
case.”
“ And what treatment did you receive
from yotir doctor 1 ”
“ Oh, the usual—medicines and pills, and
I don’t mind telling you that the liquids
they termed medicines did me no end of
injury. Why, I used to loathe the thought
of swallowing it; the smell was offensive
and the taste was disgusting. But I
persevered with them for three years’ all to
no purpose. Then a friend told me that
Clements Tonic was the best thing for me to
take, which I did, and you can see the
result for yourself. Clements Tonic seemed
a little bitter at first, but I could soon drink
it like water, without any reluctance what-
ever. But even if it had been gall I would
have drank it, because it brought about my
convalescence in no time. I told my doctor
I would rather have Clements Tonic than all
his stuff, as it was doing me good, and his
physic had completely failed. He replied:
‘ Well, I’ll not make much out of you now.’
And he spoke truthfully, for I can be
independent of all doctors now. I rapidly
experienced ease from pains in the stomach,
chest and shoulders, and the easing of pains
in the head brought delightful, soothing
sleep. My appetite came back, and I did
not notice any discomfort after eating. The
liver spots were eradicated, and my skin
recovered its usual colour. No more fears
of heart disease worried me, as the palpit-
ation disappeared with the other disagree-
able symptoms. To be as brief as possible,
I must candidly admit that Clements Tonic
is solely responsible for my cure. When my
son-in-law was up in the mountains he wrote
saying he was sick, and I sent him a couple
of bottles of Clements Tonic to Katoomba.
He subsequently thanked me, stating that
the medicine I had forwarded had cured
him. One of my daughters has been under
treatment during the past twelve months
for asthmatical bronchitis (another doctor
says it is heart disease she has got). They
have not done her the least good with their
Ph. sic, so lately she has been taking
Clements Tonic. She has had three bottles
up to now, and she is making good progress
in the right direction. I believe Clements
Tonic will make a woman of her again. My
faith in it is without limit, and I am so
grateful for its effect upon myself and
relatives that you can publish my testimony
as much as you please.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Katherine Garland, of No. 4 Denham-street,
Surry Hill*, Sydney, in the Colony of New South
Wales, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consisting of
five folios, and consecutively numbered from one to
five, and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic,
and also contains my full permission to publish in any
way my statements—which I give voluntarily, without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act made
and passed in the ninth year of the reign of her
present Majesty, intituled "An Ant for the more
effectual abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken
and made in the various Departments of the Govern-
ment of New South Wales, and to substitute Declara-
tions in lieu thereof, and for the suppression of
voluntary and Extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits."
Declared at Surry Hills, this 11th day of August,
one thousand nine hundred, before me,
A. DAVIDSON, J.P.
ERASMIC —^
PERFUME
Is delightfully fragrant and pleasant to use.
A DAINTY, DELICIOUS DELICACY.
. . . ASK YOUR CHEMIST FOR IT . . . *
mv
nod hivh aooo
m,
m
O'
*
3s
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
ggg’ For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
Kg' For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR* It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H, Sooj, $ Go.
Pitt'Stn&et, Sydney..
CONSULT m . HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
L HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
Business Announcements.
(aood Tailoriog-
WINTER.
Warm Tweeds and Worsteds.
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
TO STAND ALL WEATHERS.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &C.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole /(gents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
AWARDED “GRAND PRIX,” 1900.
See the Marvellous results obtained with th
No. 1 Panoram
KODAK
Which takes Wide Panoramic Pictures, 7in.
x 2Jin., and is Loaded, and Un-
loaded in Daylight; also the
No. 3 Folding Pocket
KODAK
Taking Pictures 3£in. x 4jin„ fitted with
Rapid Rectilinear Lens, Brilliant View
Finder, made of aluminium.
Send for Illustrated Leaflets, and
mention this Paper.
To be obtained of all Dealers throughout
Australasia, or of—
KODAK Ltd.
THE BLOCK,
284 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Medical.
* NOTICE «
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstrk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys 1
all Parasites of Head or Body. i
w SOLD IN TWO SIZES, 9d. <fc Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all <
Chemists in the Australian Colonies. ,
POWELL’S BALSAM
%
•«>
%qTS^**
OF ANISEED
WILL CURE YOUR COUGH
All the world over, it has been the recognised
Cough Remedy for the past 75 years, and is
to-day the Safe and Reliable Cure for
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and all Lung Troubles.
Loosens the Phlegm immediately, and re-
moves the tickling sensation in the Throat,
which deprives so many of rest curing the
night. It Strengthens the Voice.
WARNING .—When purchasing
Powell’s Balsam of Aniseed
see the above Trade Mark on each wi apper
and beware of Imitations.
Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers through-
out the world. Prepared only by Thomas
Powell, Ld,, Blackfriars, London, S.E.
D*
SIR,— I ftaye been cured of Weakness and De.
' r»y » simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
lto send tbe means of cure to all sufferers. J
entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
ever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
. PABkHUiaT, Ktt-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise, ■■ nd
Buy the Best, Cheapest and Most
Stylish Clothing In Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & Co.
PROP.
LTD.
252-254 Flinders St., Melbourne
(Opp. Station).
Our Buit to Order at
42/-. is marvelous
value, perfect fitting
and beautifully flnish-
ed.
Trousers. 12/6.
Dress and Clerical Suits#
to order, £s*
Biding Breeches, 25/-
Men’s buits, Beady for
Wear, 25/-
Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indig>dye, 25/-
Lonsr Chesterfields, 30/-
Tweed Overcoats 21/-
Waterproof Coats, full
capes. 18/6.
Tweed orSerge Trousers,
5/11.
Travelling Bugs, 10/6
13/9.
Black and Blue Vicuna
l oats and Vests, 19/6.
Undressed White Shirts,
2/6.3/6, 4/6. 5/6
Crimean Shirts, 5/6.
7/6.
Gent’s Splendid Bal-
moral Boots .6/9.9/6
We like to write letters,
so don’t be afraid to
ask for any informa-
tion. Our book 7 hi
Ph ilosophy of D ess .
patterns of all kinds
and SHlf-measuroment
forms post free. Write
for them.
Don’t Forget to Write for Patterns.
ASK YOUR JEWELLER TO SHOW YOU
' The Patent Unbreakable
‘ONE-PIECE’ STUDS
Masterpieces of mechanical skill,
Made in Gold, Silver, and Gold-Cased.
Once
Worn
Always
Worn.
Beauty of
Contour
& Finish.
Avoid
imitations
None
genuine
unless
stamped
‘ Patent.’
If damaged from ANY cause, a new
one given in exchange.
Wholesale only:
SAUNDERS & SHEPHERD, LTD,,
279, GEORGE St., SYDNEY, & London, Eng
gOLARINE
Absolutely the Best
METAL POLISH.
N. <S(JTHRIP6€ Ltd.,
SOLE AGENTS for N.S.W., Queensland & New Caledonia,
71 Clarence St., Sydney.
P| AID’Q
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
PILLS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist, or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
EVERY MAN NEEDS IT.
QOME interesting information is disclosed in the book
published by the Electro-Botanic Institute, of
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney, It dis-
cusses the private side of life in such a way as to cause
most men to pause and think as to whether they are just
what they ought to be physically. The book is sent free,
in plain, sealed wrapper.—.Medical Review,
CURES COUGH.
• Cured my son of a dreadful Cough.’
Mrs. JOHNSTON, Belleek, Fermanagh.
GIVES REST & SLEEP.
HAYMAN’S
BALSAM
of Herehound
Safa and Pleasant for Children.
* NOTHING LIKE IT FOR A COLD/
Mr. W. HIM, Norwich.
STOPS COLD.


1 ‘ Steff Cassander *’ on the boarding-house
infant: —
The unfinished human being at my hash-house is
always called “Bumpy." He is aged years. It’s
astonishing how every boarding-house proprietress has a
“ little nephew ” that is allowed the run of the house.
Bumpy defies all nurse-girls ; he has played out four ; ho
won’t go in any pram. He seldom talks ; he won’t ory ;
just laughs ; laughs at everything, anything, and nothing.
He won’t wear a hat, so he is freckled from neck to Bcalp.
You couldn’t call him ugly or pretty, he has such a sunny
(ace, with a chronic scraped nose and sturdy brown legs.
If he didn’t laugh several of the boarders would have
killed him ere now. He gets up in the morning about 4
a,m. and falls down stairs (I think that’s how he got his
name). He never seems hurt. He chases the cat all over
the ground-floor until somebody lets him out. He brings
into the house pickaxes, muddy long-handled shovels—
anything awkward-looking he can put his hands on. He
generally plants his collection outside the landlady’s
door, bo that she oan trip over same. About
midday he goes to sleep in the bathroom, in the
coal-house, anywhere but a bed. In the afternoon he is
washed and polished and goes out on “ his own." He
often loses himself down town and has been brought
home smiling by six different policemen. At tea-time he
startles diners by bringing out of his scanty costume
dried locusts and other similar insects : he is a great en-
tomologist. He always goes to sleep in the men’s
smoking-room, and from there is carried up to bed. The
only occasion he spoke to me was when I was shaving.
He wanted to borrow my razor to shave pussy. He said
he would make her look “ booful.” Another, time we
were discussing as to what ought to be done with him —
some suggested a home for incurables—when he kicked
from the table his high chair and fell plump into the
large open fireplace. When hoisted out and blown out
and smothered out, he simply shrieked with laughter.
As soon as he can be got to wear boots, our landlady pro-
mises with tearful eyes he is to go to school.
Tell your Tailor
that your clothes must be made with
Belwarp Clotb
and see for yourself that the TRADE MARK is stamped on the back of every
yard. It is a guarantee that the cloth is made from Pure Wool,
unshrinkable, and that the colour will never fade. Insist on
seeing your tailor is not deceived by spurious imitations of this range of cloths,
in no way equal to the original goods which come from the famous Mills of . .
Sir Titas Salt, Baft., Sons & Co., LtJ>., Saltaire.
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.
“BELWARPS” can only be obtained from
and their Agents,
Messrs. LUCGOCK, LUPTON & Co., Bradford;
Messrs. Metcalfe & Barnard, Melbourne, Sydney, & Brisbane.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
TECE FATVrnTT 18 * DEtJESUMCSSSJOTST FOR.
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BE3WA.RB OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I becaiiie very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLA'IR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OP VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Lleuwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to mv mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“ Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.’
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her 6on, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNES BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply."
12 Tears’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales."
A Pive Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for night# in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILEDI
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes “ After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearoe’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 16 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states“ I
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch D..OT- office : No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
Infants
9
BENQER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BERBER'S FOOD it told in Tint by Chemittt, Ae., ovary w her a.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has,
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
, AND
THE AGED.


CAUTION.
GENUINE PHOSFERINE
♦l+
Ashton & Parsons, Ld., 17, Farringdonßoad, London,
the original and only genuine makers of Phosferine find it
necessary to put the public on their guard against mendacious
imitations of their well-known medicine, that are being offered
for the sake of extra profit.
It is necessary when purchasing Phosferine, to see that it
bears the name of the genuine makers, viz.:
ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD., LONDON.
Phosferine was first prepared by Ashton & Parsons in the
the year 1867 ; its marvellous curative properties were at once
recognised by the public, and by the personal recommendations
of grateful patients it has worked its way into every corner of
the globe, and its praises are sung in all parts of the world.
ROYAL COMMANDS.
Phosferine eniovs the distinguished honour of having been supplied by commands to
MEMBERS OF THE BRITISH ROYAL FAMILY.
H.I.M. the Empress of Russia.
H.M. the King of Greece.
H.M. the Queen of Roumania.
H.I.M. the Dowager Empress of Russia
H.S.H. the Hereditary Princess otLeiningen
H M H M M
►H ►!< hH HH
.I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of Russia.
.R.H. the Crown Princess of Rouinania.
.I.H. the Grand Duchess Serge of Russia.
.R.H. fhe Grand Duchess of Hesse.
.I.H. the Grand Duchess Xenia of Russia.
And the principal Royalty and Aristocracy throughout the World.
Indeed such has been its fame and recommendations, that
there is scarcely a Royal residence in which Phosferine is
not well-known and favourably spoken of.
No other Medicine has been awarded this unique distinction
of Royal favour, and it speaks volumes for its wonderful
restorative properties.
PHOSFERINE
The Greatest of all Tonics.
Is the most powerful Nerve and Recuperative Tonic known.
It removes Mental Depression, want of Tone and Nerve Power.
It has remarkable Health-giving, Strength-giving, Energising,
and Rejuvenating properties.
No other Medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions,
and in giving back to the prematurely aged New Life and Energy.
It is an unfailing remedy for Neuralgia, Nervous Dys=
pepsia, Anaemia, Brain-fag, Depression, Impoverished
Blood, Rheumatism, Sleeplessness, Indigestion,
Influenza, Nervous Headaches, Debility, and all disorders
consequent upon a reduced state of the nervous system.
Remember.
Imitations of Phosferine are similar only, as regards the name, as the mode
of preparation and the unique ingredients are known only to
Ashton & Parsons, Ltd., 17, Farringdon Road, London.
Price in Great Britain, Bottles, 1/IJ, 2/9 and 4/6.
The 2/9 size contains nearly four times the size.
TO BE SURE YOU GET THE RIGHT ARTICLE JAKE THIS NOTICE WITH YOU.
The Genuine Phosferine can be obtained from Washington H.
Soul & Co., Pitt Street, Sydney, and all respectable Chemists.
Wholesale Agents :—SAYERS, ALLPORT & CO., SYDNEY.
THE
‘PLUM’
THE
‘PLUM’
/'"'l ENTLEMEN.— This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow rings
(jr i;v p „ bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge ttls requ'redTo ensure an e g asy shfve, and g h|vinghad them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7ft fld.
“ RAZOLEB ” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
( Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a.
{ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 308.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
pgr* Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEIM, 680 George-st., Sydney.
I'll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
gapillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Ourly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
CRAIG &■ AITKEIM4:
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDN z
M’Bride’s Sugar-Carriers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Yous coves is fine liars, an’ no mistake,” said
M‘Bride ; “ yer must be givin’ that there record-
in’ angil a fair cow-time (puff, puff); but jister
give ’im a chance o’ listenin', I’ll tell yer wot
’appened ter me.
“ Me an’ th’ missis wos sortin’ spuds wen th’
post comes over ter our place, an’ says ’e as a
letter fer me, so w’en ’e 'ands ’im over we goes in
ter ’ave a look.
“ * Who’s it from ? ’ sez she.
“ ‘You’ve got me,’ sez I.
‘‘So we turns ’im over an’ ’as a look at th’
writin’ in them black rings at the back, an’ then
we ’olds ’im up ter th’ light, an’ tl en she ’as a
squint inter th’ crack, but it all wasn’t no good.
“ * Better open ’im ? ’ sez she.
“ ‘ Y-yes. . . I s’pose we’d better,’ sez I.
“So she goes an’ gits th’ sisers an’ me specks,
an’ after she cuts a ’ole out in top, I ’awls ’im out
an’ ’as a look.
‘ * ‘ Who’s it from ? ’ sez she.
“ ‘ P. Dinnis,’ sez I.
“ ‘ An’ who’s ’e ? ’ sez she.
“ ‘ Yer’ve got me agen ,’ sez I.
“ ‘ I only know one be th’ name o’ Dinnis,’ sez
she, ‘ an’ that’s ’is riverince as wos up ’ere larst
year,’sez she.
“‘That’s ’im,’ sez I ; ‘P. Dinnis,’ sez I. P
stands fer praste, o’ course,’ sez I.
“ ‘O’ course,’ sez she ; ‘an’ wot’s ’e say ?’ sez
she.
‘“’E sez,’ sez I: ‘As I’m a-comin up your
way nex Sundee, I’d be obliged if ye’d open yer
’ospital ’earts an’ recave a humble praste inter yer
’ome fer a few days,’ sez I, readin’.
‘“’Oly Mother!’ sez she—‘that’s ter-morrer,
sez she.
“ ‘ So it is,’ sez I.
“ ‘ An’ look at th’ state o’ the place ! ’ sez she ;
‘an’ not a drop o’ sugar in th’ place ! ’ sez she—
‘ an’ Mollie wid pups in th’ spare-room ! ’ sez
she. ‘Di vil a ’ospital ’eart ’e’ll find, I’m thinkm’,’
sez she.
“‘ Be aisy now,’ sez I ; 1 I’ll go fer th sugar
this minuet,’ sez I ; ‘ yer can put Mollie’s pups in
th’ boiler till ’e’s gorn,’ sez I. ‘ Call in them kids,’
sez I, ‘ an’ if I can’t lick me dinner orf enny part
o’ this ’ouse by I come back ’ —sez I—‘ I’ll stiffen
’em,’ sez I.
“So I goes and fixes up th’ ole ’oss, an after I d
given them kids fair warnin’, orf I starts.
“ ‘ ’Elio ! ’ sez Boulton ter me when I pulls up
at his place, sweatin’ —‘ wot’s th’ ’urry ? ’ sez ’e.
“ ‘’ls riverince ’ll be over at our place ter-
morrer,’ sez I.
“ ‘ Lord,’ sez ’e, ‘ come an’ ’ave a drink while I
tell th’ missis,’ sez ’e. .. . _
“‘You’ll be ’aving Mass in th’ shed behint,
most like ? ’ sez ’is missis, cornin’ inter me.
“ * So ’is riverince sez in ’is letter to me,’ sez I.
“ ‘We’ll be over, thin,’sez she.
“ ‘Do ! ’ sez I.
“ ‘ Early ! ’ sez she.
“ * Yer make me ’appy,’ sez I, bowin’. ‘I want
a bag o’ sugar,’ sez I, ‘ an’ one o’ them shillin’ cur-
rant cakes,’ sez I; ‘ an’ yer might give me a pound
o’them mixed lollies,’ sez I, ‘seein’ yer ’ave ter
receave ’is riverince wid respect,’ sez I.
“Well, I sticks th’ cake an’ lollies in me pockets,
an’ after I gits on agen, Boulton sticks th’ suga
up in front.
“Seventy pound o’ sugar aint no aisy ridir’,
mate, I tell yer, so me an’ th’ ole ’oss takes it aisy
fer awhile, an’ we’d done about three mile wen I
suddenly goes as stiffers a poker, chucks up me
’ands like a pareyletic, an’ flop goes th’ sugar in
th’ road.
“ * Hang me liver ! ’ sez I, wen I gits steady
agen—Oh, I know it was me liver, seein’ them pill-
books sez if yer feels like that yer liver an’ blood
is out o’ order !
“ Well, I gits down, an there’s that bag busted
an’ them seventy pounds o’ sugar a-layin’. in th’
road; so, seein’ it aint no youse tryin’ ter
git ’em in agen, I give the ole ’oss a kick
an’ sends ’im ’ome, thinkin’ th’ ole woman
’ud come an’ see wot’s up, an’ I goes an’
sits on a log an’ starts thinkin’ wot I’d ’eard other
coves do in fixes.
“ Well, it was ’ot, an’ thinkin does make a cove
tired, an’ so afore I knows wot’s up, I was ’avin’ a
snooze. I dunno ’ow long it wos, but wen I wakes
up agen, yer could ’a’ shook me ’at, I wos that
flabbergasted ! Them seventy-pounds o’ sugar as
wos there wen I went orf, mind yer, wasn't there
—not a smell —wen I comes to agen !
“‘ By cripes !’ sez I; ‘ that’s pec-ule-ya ! ’ sez I;
an’ I starts lookin’ round, an’ about fifty yards orf
I spots an ant-bed, so I goes over an’ kicks th’ top
or f— ft nd what d’yer think I seen? There’s th’
boss female ant a’sittin’ on a stone in th middle,
and cornin’ out ’er oles an’ cornin’ out ’er cracks
millyons an’ millyon o’ ants, an’ everyone o’ them
millyons ’ad a junk o’ sugar in ’is mouth an’ come
an’ laid it in a ’eap round th’ Queen !
“‘ By cripes ! ’ sez I, ‘ you cow I It’s you as
put ’em up ter this ’ere trick ! ’ sez I, so I cops ’er
round th’ waist an’ chucks ’er as ’ard as I could
an’ she drops in a ’eap ’bout fifty yards orf.
“ Soon as she lands, every one o’ them millyons
o’ ants grabs a junk o’ sugar an’ makes after ’er as
’ard as they could rip, and’ in about two shakes
they starts an’ makes the ’eap ’round ’er agen.’
“‘By gum!’sez I, ‘that’s pec-ule-ya!’ an’
I picks ’er up an’ chucks ’er another fifty, an’ soon
as she lands agen they grabs the sugar agen an’
starts orf an’ makes another ’eap !
“Well, I kept chuckin’ that Mrs.-boss-ant, an
them ants kept follerin’ and makin’ ’eaps fer
about three mile, wen I sees them chucks wos
makin’ ’er peg-out, so I rips up me shirt an’ gets
a lump o’ cotton an’ ties it round er waist an jist
’awls ’er along comfortable an’ all them ants toilers
with th’ sugar in a black streak two yards wide
an’ a quarter o’ a mile long.
“Wen I gits into the big paddick I sees th ole
woman startin’ out ter see wot’s up, so wen I
gits ter th’ edge o’ th’ sand I stops and I calls
out : . , , , T
“‘ Is th’ ole oss back ! sez I.
“ ‘ ’E is that,’ sez she. .
“ ‘ An’ ’ave them kids taken fair warnm ?
89 They ’as,’ sez she; ‘an’ where’s th’ sugar
yerself ? ’ sez she.
“ ‘ Cornin’,’ sez I.
“ ‘ Shure it’s blind I am ! ’ sez she.
“‘True for yer!’ sez I, and I starts to.walk
across th’ sand, an’ soon as she sees them ants
follerin’ she nearly ’ad a fit.
“ ‘Out of th’ way ! ’ sez I, ‘an’ open that ere
bin quick ! ’ sez I; so I ’awls that principal she-
ant’ through th’ door an’ all them ants follers,
then I ’awls ’er up th’ bin an’ all them ants follers,
then I chucks ’er in an’ all them ants follers an’
lays that sugar in a ’eap all round ’er.
“Well, after tea, wen th’ lads was in bed, me
an’ th’ missis takes th’ bin an’ sticks ’im near th’
fire, an’ soon as it gits a bit ’ot them ants clears
like smoke, an’ soon as we gits, ’em all out we
weighs that sugar, an’ there was sixty-nine pounds
fif-teen ounces and a-’alf in that bin as didn’t ’ave
a blessed drop in before ! ”
“I s’pose some o’ them ants pegged-out cornin’
along ? ” said Paddy Burke from his seat on the
table. “ Terrible pity yer lorst that ’ere ’alf-
ounce, though ! ”
“ Well, no—yer see we found that in the corner
o’ th’ bag !” said M‘Bride.
N.S.W.
VULCAN.
The Artist’s Dream.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The artist and the lady-journalist were ohums;
indeed they displayed such open regard for each
other that the boarders smiled suggestively
and talked softly of diamonds and orange-
blossom. But as a matter of fact the artist was
deeply in love with a memory quite unconnected
with the lady-journalist—the memory of his first
model. His first model, almost his first picture.
It hung in his studio now, and in contemplation
of the innocent-eyed bush nymph there depicted
and labelled “ Queen Mab ” his jaded spirit found
a never-failing reviver. There was no earthly
reason why the pretty child-face should have
inspired enduring love, but the ways of the affec-
tions are mysterious and the artist is not an
essentially rational animal, anyhow. And so he
battled grimly on until he won fame and patron-
age, and then he set out to seek his lady-love.
At her old home his troubles began. The aunt
with whom Mabel used to live was dead, they
told him, and Mabel was back in her parental
home at an almost unlocatable settlement in the
heart of a balah-scrub. The artist weakened. He
hadn’t anticipated parents-in-law.
When he sighted the unwholesome bark house,
the makeshift fences, and the crowd of staring,
heavy-featured children who thronged about him,
he weakened again. He noted the large, shapeless
woman standing in the doorway and emptying
the contents of a tin mug into the vast interior of
a huge baby, and would have fled, but the woman
hailed him with a gruff “ Hullo, you ! ” So he
introduced himself and asked for Mabel instead.
The woman took him inside, and, hanging
Clarence Claud over one arm, reached a box with
the other, and told him to sit down. Then she sat
down herself and talked to the baby. Two un-
principled small boys climbed about the artist,
spoiling available pockets and pawing his imma-
culate tie and shirt-front. A larger boy was
aggravating a tabby cat. Outside a quartette of
screaming girls were quarrelling over a defunct
jew-lizard.
Someone cried, “ Here’s Mabel,’ and with a
prayer of thanksgiving the artist turned and
faced a grinning apparition, with hair indeed a
little brighter and eyes a clearer blue, but with
the same sloppy figure, heavy features, and cow-
like expression (or lack of it) that characterised
the rest of the family. The disconcerted artist
murmured a confused “ How-d’ye-do,” and Mabel
said “Orlright,” and stood about awkwardly. A
big boy went by swearing fluently at a disreputable
cow. Soon “ Father ” came in and was introduced
with an indicatory hand-flourish to “ The man
what drawed Mabel.” He was followed by a red-
visaged, undersized youth, who went to Mabel
and whispered in her ear. Presently they went
outside and exchanged audible love-tokens. The
little boys chuckled. “’E’s ’er bloke,” one of
them volunteered, and chuckled again. The
artist fled. . .
A few weeks later he married the lady-jour-
nalist. But first he sent the picture entitled
“Queen Mab” as a present to the family that
lived in the scrub, and Clarence Claud improves
it with the end of a burnt stick when he feels so
inclined.
WALLAROO.
The veteran Dr. Ross, for 21 years member
for Molong (N.S W.), evidently has no intention
of abandoning his “ Juvenile-Smoking Suppres-
sion Bill,” which past Parliaments would not
take seriously. Here is the Doctor, up to date:
The wicked, accursed and diabolical evils and malignant
diseases arising from the use and abuse of tobacco and
cigarettes—a more heinous, deleterious and accursed
source of crime and disease and wickedness in the sight
of God, I believe, than the use of alcohol. When it
pleases God in His infinite goodness, wisdom and mercy
to restore me to my ordinary state of health, I hope to be
able to follow up as hitherto this sadly-neglected most
vital question—more especially in the interest and wel-
fare of the rising generation. A man —a public man —
must first be true to himself and his God before he can
undertake to espouse the cause of his fellow creatures,
be it on the public platform, pulpit, press, bar, or in the
amphitheatre of creation.
If this does not move members, then dynamite
would not shift them.
Customs Minister Kingston as described
by Sydney Telegkaph :
Mr. Kingston has about the oddest attitude of anyman
in the Chamber. Wearing a short, closely-buttoned coat,
he stands with his hands tightly thrust into his pockets,
his shoulders thrown back, and his head forward. He
assumes a grizzly, sardonic humor that is probably
the quality of a masterful man, but is calculated to
excite dismay in the breasts of timid legislators. As he
talks he wheels round on one foot. He jerks out his sen-
tences like a pump, and at the close of each frowns
menacingly at the Opposition bench in front. His manner
in detailed explanations is furiously emphatic. When a
member interjects he drawls out a long “yes,” and
breaks into a few sharp sentences of the pattern that
made “Jingle” famous. This peculiarity is noticeable
even in his drafting of the Bill. Nearly every clause is a
model of brevity and conciseness. Half the clauses con-
tain not more than three lines, some of them only a line
and a-half. If there is a penalty for a breach of the
clause it is stated at the bottom in a single line, thus :
“ Penalty, twenty pounds.” This is what might be
expected from Mr. Kingston. He has never been noted
for any blind reverence for formalities. He has been
noted, though, for skill in modern draftsmanship. Here
is a sample clause No prohibited exports shall be ex-
ported ; penalty, twenty pounds.” This is bringing Acts
of Parliament within the vicinity of common sense.
Instead of declaring in the customary formula “ The
Minister may, by notice published in the Government
Gazette,” the Bill says:-—“The Minister, by Gazette
notice, may,” &c. In a word, the Bill has been drafted
with the sole object of being readily understood and
quickly interpreted. Mr. Kingston’s explanatory speech
was in consonance with the brevity, the completeness,
and the simplicity of the Bill. It was not a literary
oration. It was not such an elaborate stream of verbal
brilliancy as Mr. Deakin would have poured out, or such
a mass of ingenious perplexity as Mr. Barton would have
furnished. It was just what was necessary. Everybody
understood the statement. This is supposed to be the
aim of Ministerial explanations. It is an aim that is very
seldom reached. Anybody who heard Henry Parkes ex-
pound a Bill in which he took a personal interest can
appreciate the ideal of Ministerial exposition. Anybody
who has heard some Ministers that everybody knows can
realise how easy it is to sink to deeper than the lowest
depths of incomprehensibility.


FACE TO FACE WITH FACTS
Most all the Aches of Kidney Ills start with
FACTS.
A lame back is a bad back.
A weak back is a bad back.
An aching back is a bad back.
Bad Backs come from sick
kidneys.
Sick kidneys cause backache.
Backache is the first step.
The first ache of kidney ills.
Urinary troubles come next.
Disturb your night's rest.
Annoy you all day.
Dangerous Diabetes sets in.
Then Bright’s Disease.
The end is near then.
J 1 Bad Back.
Every Case of Back-
ache, Diabetes, or
any Kidney Ills can
be Cured by
MORE FACTS .
Don't pay to experiment.
Kidney trouble is too serious.
Delays are dangerous.
Experiment means delay.
Take a remedy that’s endorsed.
But get good endorsement.
A stranger’s word isn’t sufficient.
Hard to prove testimonials from a
distance.
Take the word of people you know.
Of friends and neighbors.
Easy to prove such evidence.
Ask them about it.
Local testimony is the best.
DOAN’S
Backache Kidney Fills
No other Kidney Remedy has ever received such emphatic
endorsement. Read the testimony of
SYDNEY PEOPLE.
Ml
)
KT-
n
9
.
J
c.
L*
I©
l
is
*1
•j. -*• *« ft • • •*
3
|v*?
FROM LEICHHARDT.
Mr. J. Cameron, 297 Balmain-road, Leichhardt, this city,
says“ For a few years I had been trying to get the upper hand
of kidney trouble, but all my efforts were futile until I used Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. I used to have pains in the back, and
these were so bad I had to lie about pretty well helpless, which
will give you a better idea of the serious condition I was in than
any other illustration. I had begun to imagine that it was not in
the power of medicine to bring me relief, when I got a box of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills at Newman’s Pharmacy, Kmg-
street. This remedy began to do that which so many had failed
to do A few doses gave me an immense amount of relief, and in
a little while cured me completely of pains in the back, and put
mv kidneys in perfect order. I can give these pills a first-rate
recommendation; I know others who have been cured by their
use.”
.FROM GLEBE
Mr. William Greenland, who is a printer, lives at 22 Forsyth-
street, Glebe. He says :—“ For some considerable time I suf-
fered from backache and kidney complaint, having a heavy aching
pain in the small of my back just over the kidneys, which troubled
me a good deal. The secretions were very much disordered, con-
taining a large amount of sediment. I procured some of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills at Newman’s Pharmacy in King-street,
and now I have pleasure in stating that they did me a great deal
of good, completely removing my trouble and putting the kidneys
in a healthy state. Although I had previously tried a number of
other remedies I failed to get any benefit from them. I have
recommended Doan’s Pills to a number of people, some of whom
I know have tried them, and, like myself, have derived great
benefit from them.”
Get what you ask for. Get DOAN’S.
Don’t accept something just a's good. All
Chemists sell DOAN’S Backache Kidney
Pills and will give you what you call for.
Some may attempt to substitute an article
they make more profit on. Insist on
having DOAN’S. Price 2s. 9d. per box
(six boxes 15s. 3d.) Posted on receipt
of price by the proprietors, Foster
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
The Happiest Angel.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Stiller than silence was the Jasper Sea;
No tide arose or fell
Upon its shores where bloomed immortally
Lily and asphodel.
No little breeze upon its surface played
With fitful melody,
For there is never change of light and shade
Upon the Jasper Sea.
But far away I saw them shining bright
As summer, one by one,
The fishing-boats with sails of chrysolite
Like clouds that face the sun.
And in those fishing-boats were souls redeemed
Of sailors, man and boy,
Herring and whaler-men. Methought they seemed
Not all too full of joy.
The Fish rose to their baits without a pause,
Not as they used to do
On earth; the Sport was without end because
The Fish were angels too.
The foolish ferry-boats went flashing by
Like shuttles to and fro ;
They had no hurrying passengers. For why ?
There was nowhere to go.
The seeker always found the thing he sought;
All things were in his ken;
And Here was There the moment when he thought,
And Now was always Then.
And angels who were business men on earth
No fortunes there could gain—
There was no joy of traffic, and no mirth,
No bargains, no champagne.
What use was gold when gold they trod upon ?
What use were jewels there —
When all the battlements of Heaven shone
With jewels rich and rare ?
“What angel here enjoys himself the most ?”
My guide said, “ Foolish man,
That angel leaning ’gainst the sapphire post—
He’s an Australian ! ”
N.S.W.
Y.J.D.
The demand for compensation by the
debenture-holders of Maoriland Midland Railway,
taken over by Govt, by reason of the private co.’s
collapse, has led to these results : The line has
been carefully valued, and the verdict is that it is
worth rather less than the amount which the
State contributed in cash and land towards its
construction. For all the co.’s paid-up capital
and debenture-money there is nothing to show
but costly offices, big salaries to useless persons in
London, champagne, muddle, boodle and riot.
In other words, if the co. had finished the line, it
would have cost the State about as much as if the
State had built the line itself —with this differ-
ence, that the State wouldn’t have had any line to
show for its money.
Black Slavery in Westralia.
Dear Bulletin. —Here are a few clauses and
conditions of the Acts and laws of Westralia.
All of them can be read in Melbourne Public
Library from the various volumes presented to
that institution by the Westralian Government.
I only give a few extracts and somewhat shorten
the language, but the meaning is unaltered.
These are the laws that enslave this people, and
I let them speak for themselves. I also give a
few extracts from the debates of We.stralia’s Par-
liament, for the enlightenment of the civilised
world. This is from the 1880 Act : “To Provide
for the Better Protection and Management of the
Aboriginal Natives of Western Australia, and to
amend the law relating to certain Contracts with
such Natives.”
Clause 18 (with several specified conditions attached) :
No contract with any aboriginal for any service or em-
ployment shall be of any force or validity, as against such
aboriginal, unless the same be in writing, and the aborigi-
nal be of the age of 14 years or upwards.
Condition (a) : Not valid “ unless explained to aborigi-
nal and he appears to be of the age of 14 or upwards,
and he fully understands the same,” &c.
Condition ( d ) : Not valid unless it shall stipulate for
the supply by the employer, to the aboriginal, of
substantial, good and sufficient rations, clothing and
blankets, and also medicines and medical attendance
when practicable and necessary, unless the illness of
the aboriginal be caused by his own improper act or
default.
In that case he can die as he pleases. If the
same rule were applied to white people about half
of them would die without medical aid.
Clause 26 : Any employer of aboriginal not able to pro-
duce for J.P. or Protector of Aborigines a contract for
native employed by him is liable to fine of £lO.
Clause 36, re Apprentices: Any Res. Magistrate acting
under instructions of Aboriginal Board can apprentice
any half-caste or aboriginal child having attained a suit-
able age as apprentice to master or mistress wanting him
for any suitable trade, business or employment whatso-
ever, until he reaches 21 years.
Clause 45 : Every aboriginal of Australia and aboriginal
half-caste or child of half-caste shall be deemed an abori-
ginal within the meaning of this Act.
Even if he is three-quarters white he is still a
slave under W. A. law.
Clause 44 : No aboriginal shall be liable under the pro-
visions of the Masters and Servants Amendment Act,
1886, to any penalty exceeding the sum of £lO, nor to any
term of imprisonment exceeding one month, with or
without hard labor, in case of breach of engagement,
contract or service, &c.
Compare condition of Clause 18, and you’ll see
that the Westralian Govt, binds the native to
labor for nothing in shape of cash, and fines him
only £lO or a month if he breaks any part of the
slavish laws.
* - v m m
And this is the amendment assented to by
Westralian Parliament, 18th March, 1892. It is
described as an “Act to amend the Aboriginal
Offenders Act, 1883, and to authorise the Whip-
ping of Aboriginal Offenders ” :
Clause 1 : It shall be lawful for any Magistrate alone,
or with one or more Justices, or for any one Justice,
exercising jurisdiction under Section 7 of the Aboriginal
Offenders Act, 1883, hereinafter called the Principal Act,
upon the conviction of an aboriginal native of any offence
made summarily triable under the Principal Act, to sen-
tence such native to be imprisoned, with or without hard
labor, for any term not exceeding two years, and in case
of a male with or without whipping, or to be whipped
without imprisonment.
Now if you tear away the flowery language this
simply means that any ordinary >J.ir. can give
a native two years hard labor, with a flogging. Ur,
if his master wants the use of his slave, he can
order him to be flogged without imprisonment.
Clause 3, re Whipping : Strokes not to exceed 25, or, in
case of a male apparently under 16, not to exceed 12,
and the instrument to be used to be specified in the sen-
*’®, nce ‘ . ... , ,
There is no restriction at all here as to the nature of
the instrument so long as it is specified. And a
child of twelve or thirteen years may be sentenced
to 25 lashes with almost any weapon one J.P.
I Thp, T p hn, nn l v a nv tlmt in
likes to select 1 Ihe J has only to say that in
his judgment the child appeared to be over 16.
Anyhow what kind of law is it which authorises
25 lashes, with the heaviest cat-of-nine-tails that a
brutal J.P. likes to choose, for a boy a few days
over 16 years? Then we come to “An Act to
fL„ Ahnrio-mal Protection Act 1886 and
amend the Aboriginal Protection Act, 188 b, and
to Provide a Summary Remedy for Breach of
Contract by Aborigines, ’ assented to 18th March,
1872 :
Clause 2: Subject to the provisions of part 11. of the
Principal Act, any aboriginal who shall neglect or refuse
to enter upon, or commence his service, according to the
contract, or shall absent himself from his service, or shall
refuse or neglect to work in the capacity in which he has
been engaged, or shall desert or quit his work, without
the consent of his employer, or shall commit any other
breach of his contract, shall be guilty of an offence, and
shall be liable, upon conviction of any such offence before
any Justice of the Peace, to be imprisoned for any term
not exceeding three months, with or without hard labor,
I give you this clause in full. I think the spec-
tacle of a J.P. reading this lot out in a hurry to
one of the Perth Morning Herald’s “savages”
is a sight no other civilised country in the world
can offer. Of course, the nigger fully understands
it all.
* * * *
Here are some extracts from a highly inter-
esting work (no, not “Deadwood Dick,” but
from the Westralian Government volumes of
parliamentary speeches). Take page 249, West
Australian Legislative Assembly, Jan. 14, 1892:
Mr. Darlot : With regard to this question of punishing
native offenders, I should be very glad to see the Govt,
doing away with the native prison at Rottnest. In my
opinion it is nothing but a hotbed of evil and vices. I
know this for a fact, that last May, as I was proceeding
to the Murchison, I passed 15 natives that I had sentenced
with a brother magistrate to 12 months for cattle-stealing
the previous July. I passed these 15 natives close to
Mullewa. When I had last seen them they were simply
miserable specimens of humanity , but when I passed
them at Mullewa they were all sleek and fat—each man
had a very nice shirt on him, and on his head 10 or 121 b.
of flour. I asked one of them his name, and then found
that this was the very gang I had sentenced to 12 months,
But instead of being the miserable and emaciated sped-
mens who had been tried, they were now fine, stout men.
Mr. Simpson (page 255): I think that Rottnest estab-
lishment is about the most grandmotherly thing, and the
rn-fed niggerT’ ny Can sh ° W ’ Wlth ltB sleek>
Mr. Richardson (page 253): I think that what the
settlers are suffering from is the result of an excess of
humanity.
Mr. Piesse (page 252): As to the natives sentenced by
the hon. member for the Murchison, and who, he says,
were in* an emaciated condition when sentenced, after-
wards coming out of prison sleek and fat,” that does not
say much for the Murchison, for the natives must have
been short of food when brought up for trial. They must
have been robbed of their natural food, or they would not
have been in the emaciated condition they were in, and
pC uu aP A 3 , W v 3^t y „S to eXP A m f d fP re . dat } onB - ,
Mr. Alex. Forrest (same day and place): I will not
go so far as my hon. friend (Mr. Simpson) in condemning
the natives. In many parts of the colony and especially
in the North, they are very useful to the settlers. The
natives in the district I refer to are a good class o
natives, and the trouble with them on the whole, small—
except when you get into the mountains. In the low
lands the natives are a most useful lot of men, and I
should be sorry for it to go forth that there is any neces-
sity for those drastic measures referred to by my hon.
friend on the right. There is no fear for those stations
within reasonable distance of the coast. The natives
there are very peaceful and very useful. lam speaking
specially of Kimberley, where they mind all the sheep and
do nearly all the work on nearly all the stations between
Kimberley and the Gascoyne.”
Mr. Simpson (p. 1129 in the 1896 vol. Westralian Govt,
debates) : “ We find that the treatment of natives of this
colony is alluded to by persons in high places who have
lately come amongst us (Bishop Reilly) as a form of
slavery ; and in another part we are told, or, rather, the
Secretary of State is told, by an authority holding a very
high position in this colony (the Governor of the colony—
then Sir Gerard Smith) —we are told that we are flogging
and imprisoning the natives out of all proportion to the
nature of the offences committed. I say it is a base
slander on the people of this colony.
Ex-Premier John Forrest, page 1135 : At any rate
these are the laws of the country, which have been
approved of, and these laws allow the castigation of
natives, but a certain instrument has to be used, and from
information I have gained, I find that, as a general rule,
it’s not very severe punishment. A native is exposed to
the weather, for he does not wear clothing, and his skin
gets hard, and in consequence the cat-o’-nine-tails has not
much effect on him.
There is an interesting point in Bigjohn’s ex-
planation. Evidently the native who is exposed to
the weather doesn't get the clothing which his
kind master is bound by the law to supply.
* • * •
There are some further interesting points to be
gathered from these debates. Alexander For-
rest, one of the largest station-owners in Wes-
tralia, and the first white man to explore the Kim-
berley country, gave the aborigines rather a good
character on the whole. By the showing of Dar-
LOT, the natives are so well cared for by their
humane white bosses that they degenerate into
miserable and emaciated specimens of humanity.
The same Darlot complained bitterly because
they weren’t sufficiently starved in gaol to keep
them miserable and emaciated. And when un-
biassed strangers, like Bishop Reilly and Gover-
nor Smith, see the Westralian system of dealing
with the aboriginals, it doesn’t strike them favour-
ably—it struck one of them as plain Slavery, and
the other as an inhuman system of hard flogging.
—Walter Malcolmson.
Just after N.S.W. State Elections, Sydney’s
Consecrated Press left off stirring up sectarian
bitterness to advise N.S.W. Labor party “to
hasten slowly.” In fact, the party was generally
advised to do nothing, in case while trying to do
something it destroyed its influence by foroing
the other parties to combine against it. Strange
to say, the Holy Printer pointed to the case of
Maoriland as a sample of creeping forward inch
by inch. “They convinced the country that one
experiment was successful before they took
another in hand. . . The result was the country
came to trust them, realised that their aims were
for the general welfare, and gave them the reins
of power.” Rats ! The party responsible for
Maoriland’s labor legislation came with about the
most tremendous sprint on record, and smashed
the old Continuous Ministry and Squatter Parlia-
ment with one blow. It didn’t hasten slowly,
but rushed along with headlong speed as fast as
itß measures could be thought out, drafted, and
read. What delay there was came from the long
talking of the fragmentary Opposition. Moral:
Go the right way —and go fast.


The Father of Wellington
Eighty-eight Years of Age; Cured of Rheumatism
One Bottle Made the Cure,
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Mr. John Plimmer, of Wellington, New Zealand, sends us his photograph,
from which the above illustration was made. He is known as the “Father of
Wellington.” He is eighty-eight years of age and one of the best-known residents
of the city. His letter, which we give below, was written in a strong, clear, bold
hand. He says :
“ I consider Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla a great remedy for the rheumatism. I had suffered
from that painful disease for many years. I was asked to try Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and so l
purchased a bottle. This one bottle of it cured me and I have not felt the slightest return of
the trouble since. I always keep a bottle of it in the house, for I find it a very refreshing remedy
for many conditions.”
After reading this letter you are certainly not surprised that in all parts of
the civilized world people call Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
“ Thq-World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
This great remedy takes out all poisons from the system and makes the
blood pure and rich. You cannot have rheumatism, scrofula, boils, pimples,
nervous exhaustion, and general debility if you will use Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
During the trying hot summers a few doses of it will rest and refresh you.
It is a wonderful medicine for weak and delicate children, too ; it gives them all
the strength and vigor that belong to youth.
r
AYER’S P
the Sic_
ie best
‘ •
26
YEARS' SUCCESS
as the
UNIVERSAL REMEDY
FOB
Coughs, Colds,
r Asthma,Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Consumption,
HAS MADE
by
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY IN THE HOME
OR KIT OF EVERY COLONIAL.
It saves many Lives.
There is no difficulty in obtaining it, so
when you ask for Owbridge’s Lung
Tome , insist upon having it, as
other so-called remedies are
often substituted .
Prepared, by
W.T.OWBRIDQE, M.P.S., Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at ls.l±d., 25.9 d., 45.6 d., & 11s
' all Colonial Medicine Vendors.
m
m
m
OOPTEIGHT.
’S
UEECHAM
PILLS
f&T, PATENT dv
. PIU'US -
E*S?,IC33 IS. Is 33-
Soid W th* Prowriei*r.
ST. HELiEWS
xamcaskim. kwclanp.
hi
AND WILL BEING
The BLUSH of HEALTH
To PALLID CHEEKS.
Are SPECIALLY SUITABLE
for the DISEASES and AIL-
MENTS common to FEMALES
of all Ages .
I-IJ
iCilci
Everywhere, in Boxes, 1/1 \ (56 Pills) and 2/9 each,
6,000,000 BOXES SOLD ANNUALLY.
Beecham’s TOOTH FASTE
RECOMMENDS ITSELF. ■'
It is Efficacious, Economical. Cleanses the Teeth, Perfumes
the Breath, and, is a Reliable and Pleasant Dentifrice.
Collapsible Tubes, ONE SHILLING each.
S. FREEMAN * SONS L!^
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAP OFFICE : WTHTABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
y for Acidity ox ixe Storuacu,
Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
is Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for G-out, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel ; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFQRDS]
MAGNESIA^
Sold Throughout the Woiiti.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
O^INGTo/v,
8
IRISH MOSS
-The best remedy -
—' INFLUENZA, "
COUGHS,
COLDS,
[Ask for Banning ton's
[and s'eettiatyou aet it.
BRONCHITIS.
ASTHMA.


SITBITEY
Rubber Works
MANUFACTURERS OF
Sheet Rubber, Rubber Rings,
Washers, Rollers,
Valves, _ Buffers,
Gas Tubing*. aiKl Ever y description of
o* Mechanical Rubber Goods.
Works :
CAREY STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
Citt Office :
PERDRIAU and CO.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
so
TEARS DTEIWG
FOK THE LADIES.
w_ c. Sc GO.,
DYERS '& CLEANERS,
40 YOltll STREIil’, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by . pout from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
CE3RC5E & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Apartments: Bedroom (single), 3s. per Day, or 21s.
per Week ; Bedroom (double), 6s. per Bay, or Two
Guineas per week.
BreakfasLuncheon, or Dinner from
ONE upwards.
Letters and Telegrams addressed to “The Manager”
will receive prompt attention.
NOW READY.
A POLICY
FOR THE
COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d; posted, 8du
All have Wrought Iron Valve Gear.
PUPS, both Horizontal & Vertical,
. . . KEPT IN STOCK . . .
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives,
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
italogne.
u'TO H
OKI
TRADE MARK.
z ;
DIMNCFR and ring pattern
TANGYES.
DUPLEX PUMPS ARE UP TO PATE.
BENNIE, TEARE& GO.
HAVE DEPOTS IN
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, COOLCARDIE,
And carry Stocks of Materials and Furnishings for
MINING. ENGINEERING, IMPLEMENT-
MAKING and IRRIGATING.
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES IN AUSTRALIA OF
S LIMITED.
NEWMAN’S
ANTISEPTIC
NEWMAN’S
in King St,
1/- a. 3ox
THROAT PASTILLES.
N-S-W- Fresh Food & ice Co. ltd
Fish anti! hard frozen and well packed, forwarded to all parts of the State.
People' residing in distant localities where G@ed Blitter is unobtainable, are recommended to obtain their supply from the above Company, proprietors of the
well-known “ Golden Star ” brand, and Sole Agents for the famous “ Berry ” brand. Both kinds are Pasteurised, and have excellent keeping quahties.
Our Bakehouse Goods, for Balls, Parties, <fcc., are conceded to be the finest manufactured. Sent well-packed to any town in N.S.W.
Head Office : HARBOUR ST., SYDNEY.'
Mr ice Lists and Particulars sent to any Enquirers.
LANCE,
PARKE & LACY CO.
LIMITED,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
HIKING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
AGENTS FOR FELTON and LEFFEL WATER WHEELS.
IKT STOCK:
Knowles Stfeam Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors, Nagel Horizontal
and Vertical Engines and Boilers, Pennsylvania Return Tubular Boilers, Buffalo
Blowers and Exhaust Fans, Morris Dredging Pumps, Bullock Diamond Drills, Dodge
Rock Breakers, Roger Rolls, Gates Rock Breakers, Challenge Ore Feeders, Hunting-
ton Quartz Mills, Wood and Iron Working, and Laundry Machinery, and Mine and
Mill Supplies. 60 C | arence street, SYDNEY.
And at
Francisco and London.
E DIRECT
SINGLE A ,
DUPLEX.
i®"
DUPLEX OUTSIDE PLUNGER PATTERN
Possible Pumping Purpose.
Boiler Feeders
Light Service Pumps
lining Pumps
Vacuum Pumps
Air Pumps
Air Compressors
Hole A greats iu Australasia —
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
Sydney 1P Melbourne.
DUPLEX PISTON PATTERN.
