

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
Pure,
therefore
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.*
The Lancet,
JBEmfim
Mining
107 Kent StT-oot, Sydney,
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
2*70
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
Engines
AiTD PARTICULARS
emu FOR WK€3BS
WINE!
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLPEST
AUSTRALIA.
tS" Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
JEloo
uston, Proctor
STEAM ENGINES
ntrio MTotion Xliraaliizig
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE — PORTABLE,
VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
AND
Ma.cla.ixi
AND
Saw Bencb.es,
&o.
itr
THORNE’S
That’s All!
NOW READY,
NOW READY.
A POLICY FOE THE COMMONWEALTH.
A Reprint of articles from
r’rice eca.
Sole Wholesale Agents: EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
H
BCOBARX.
■ -
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
RESERVE SPECIAL.
tVE EXTRA SPECIAL.
241 PITT JSTTIFijesIEIT,
£3 "Sr 33 XVT JES 3T.
AMZfSEMENT for OZD and TIOVNG.
Wonderful Value —a Packet; of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, lilondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
XH. L. HUTCHINSON Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. c. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches:—P. Frankel & Co., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q. ;
H, Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
00., Cellins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter&Co., Auckland ;
Biackburne & Smith, Cashel-st-., Christchurch, N.Z.
es of the System.”
FRIGE I*.
per Post Is. Sd.
Fair girls
Snd Edition.
AND G :LY HORSES.
Price 4/6.
“ABBOTT”
WHY not drink
■ PURE WATER ■
FILTERS.
IS ONLY ONE BEST TOBACCO A
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10/tS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS by
far the largest and most complete in ’the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bail;
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS'
of various sizes supplied.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
BH4'
1
- 1 1 '1
economy in -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light,
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthtem
Imitations.
ii ee¥ a m
United. Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-strcet.
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY
Depot Central Baildin s Edward-st., Brieba*..
The Bulletin
Yol. 22—No. 1106. j
[Saturday, April 27, 1901.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


* A -Mdb. contributor lo Thr, HuUetiu 'affirmed' that
Kipling’s line “ Dominion over palm and pine,” was
taken from Emerson ; but gave no reference. Whence ?
The Bulletin Publications.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will IT. Ooit.vie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, With portrait ; ss.
post free: *** .A charming presentation
volume.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
btories:
By Albert Do rkington (“ Alba Dorion ”).
A handsome Volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated ; price 4s. 6d. post free.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). With
about eighty illustrations by Mahony,
Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher and
Full wood' ; 6s. post-free. %* “ The j oiliest
book yet printed in Australia.”
A Hose of Regret:
Verses by James Tlebblethwaite ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 9d. post free.
The Circling Hearths:
By Roperic Quinn. No. 11l of The
Bulletin Booklets, Enveloped, Is. 9d.
post free. -
Sole Wholesale Agents
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Limited, Sydney and Brisbane.
Hudson’s
©1
Eumenthol Jujubes
(REGISTERED).
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
IN TINS, Is. 6d,
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,.
Gr. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia,
THE RED PAGE.
When ’.Onier smote ’is bloomin’ lyre,
He’d 'eard men sing by ’land an’ sea ;
An’ what he thought ’e might require,
’H went an’ took—the same as me !
The market-girls an’ fishermen,
The shepherds an’ the sailors, too,
They ’eard old songs turn up again,
But hep’ it quiet—same as you !
They knew ’e stole ; 'e knew they knowed,
They did n’t tell, nor make a fuss,
But winked at ’Oilier down the road,
And 'e winked back—the same as us l
Rudyard Ruling.
THERE you have, in Kipling’s own
words, Kipling’s own idea of his
writer’s privilege. He has realised
that no man works for himself or by
himself. We all build our palaces or hovels
with the materials which other men have
collected ; and the most we can hope to do
is to bring a little, a very little, fresh
material which our own hands have felled
from the unexplored forest or dug from the
virgin mine. Originality comes chiefly in
the use of the tools and materials, in the
shaping and plan of the edifice.
But there are three ways of dealing with
our debt to predecessors. We can amuiow-
ledge the debt; we can ignore it; or we can
repudiate it outright. The first way is
honest;- the last way is knavish ; the middle
way is the way of compromise with con-
science so as to get all possible credit at
the least possible cost of principle.
It is the middle way that Kipling has
chosen. His tine talent, his splendid indus-
try, would not by themselves have raised
the pile of excellent work which stands to
his profit and reputation. Kipling has
realised that to be exploiter pays better
than to be inventor ; arid he has
become a capitalist of other men’s
brains, developing facts and ideas which
would be for the most part useless without
his intelligent control. But the labourers
get no share of the profits of Kipling’s in-
dustry : perhaps they do not deserve a
share, seeing that they contribute so little to
make the product marketable ; and the
whole credit of the enterprise goes to
Kipling. For answer to objectors, there is
printed with Kipling’s work the frank
•declaration, the cynical confession, at the
head of this column.
* * * *
Kipling’s way is open to thousands of men
who have so far mastered the technic of
tneir art that they can take a vital idea, pass
it through their own minds, and so
transform it with their own language
that, it appears positively new, only
the indispensable kernel being bor-
rowed. If a man of Daley’s skill with
rhymes chose to go to the Elizabethan song-
books and poetry-books, he would find hun-
dreds of bright fancies, quaint conceptions, ;
which needed only re-writing with the art at
his disposal in order to be modernised and
re-vitalised. There are scores of paragraphs
in The Buhet-in every week, contributed by
obscure seers, which only require Dorring-
;ton’s labour to become brilliant short stories.
But it is a good thing for literature that
there are few writers so entirely unscrupu-
lous as Kipling. The unwritten literary
law, based upon majority-ideas of honesty,
says that you shall not deliberately take
another man’s work as the essential founda-
tion of your own without giving that other
credit for his transferred value, in his indi-
vidual degree.
Doubtless Kipling has exceptional talent
for this business of literary assimilation ;
and his own roots also blossom in his work.
He can fairly claim that, but for his seeing
eye, his ready hand, many of the flowers
which he has gathered would have wasted
their sweetness, or never would have
bloomed at all. His quick recognition of
“points” of phrase, or rhythm, or colour,
or plot, is perhaps his most excellent faculty.
When Kipling wrote “ Bill ’Awkins ”
“ ’As anybody seen Bill ’Awkins ? ”
“Now, ’ow in the devil would I know?”
“’E’s taken my girl out walkin’,
An’ I’ve got to tell ’im so—
Gawd—bless —’im !
I’ve got to tell ’im so ”
New Orleans people said at once it was
modelled on a familiar negro ditty :
“ Hab any o’ yo’ seen my Lulu ? ”
“ How in de debbil would you know her ?”
“ T’d know her by her apurn-strings
’N’ her shoe-strings a-flangin’ on de flo’,
Gol —darn—her !
’N’ her shoe-strings a-hangin’ on de flo’.”
But the New Orleans ditty had only a local
audience, Kipling’s an international. And
of the thousands who admired the verna-
cular force of “Bill ’Awkins ” only a com-
parative two or three knew that its vigour
was born in some humble negro brain on the
banks of Mississippi.
» * * *
Kipling prend son bien oil il le trouve; and
as he has read more than most men, and
travelled much more than most, no single
brain can track him to all his sources. But
when he wrote “Recessional,” the cry was
instant that he had borrowed the germ-idea
from Cardinal Newman’s “England.”
Comparison will show that he borrowed a
good deal more than the germ. Here is
Newman’s verse :
England.
Tyre of the West, and glorying in the name
More than in Faith’s pure fame !
0 trust not crafty fort nor rock renown’d
Earn’d upon hostile ground ;
Wielding Trade’s master-keys, at thy proud will
To lock or loose its waters, England ! trust not
still.
Dread thine own power ! Since haughty Babel’s
prime
High towers have been man’s crime.
Since her hoar age, when the huge moat lay bare,
Strongholds have been men’s snare.
Thy nest is in the crags; ah, refuge frail!
Mad counsel in its hour, or traitors, will prevail.
He who scann’d Sodom for its righteous men
Still spares thee for tliy ten ;
But, should vain tongues the Bride of Heaven
defy,
He will not pass thee by ;
For, as earth’s Kings welcome their spotless guest,
So gives he them by turn, to suffer or be blest.
Let any skilled verse-writer throw New-
man’s ideas into a metre of Quarles’
“ Divine Emblems ” —a book still read and
treasured in many English homes, and con-
taining verses like these—
Lord God of Gods, before whose throne
Stand storms and fire, O what shall we
Return to Heaven that is our own,
When all the world belongs to thee ?
We have no offering to impart
But praises and a wounded heart.
Great God, whose kingdom hath no end,
Into whose secrets none can dive,
Whose mercy none can apprehend,
Whose justice none can feel, and live, —
What my dull heart cannot aspire
To know, Lord, teach me to admire——
add a few phrases of his own,* a few
familiar tags ; and if he does not get the fol-
lowing, with the topic of the British naval
review for a text, he will get something very
like it
Recessional.
God of our fathers, known of old,
Lord of our far-flung battle-line—
Beneath whose awful hand we hold
Dominion over palm and pine—
Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet,
Lest we forget—lest we forget !
The tumult and the shouting dies,
The captains and the kings depart;
Still stands thine ancient sacrifice.
An humble and a contrite heart.
Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet,
Lest we forget—lest we forget l
Far-called our navies melt away—
On dune and headland sinks the fire j,
Lo, all our pomp of yesterday
Is one with Nineveh and Tyre !
Judge of the Nations, spare us yet,
Lest we forget—lest we forget! .. .
And so on. Kipling took his emotion and
attitude from Newman, his metre from
Quarles, and the rest from his memory and
the daily newspapers. Is it any wonder
that he flung “Recessional ” into the waste-
basket ?—to be fished out by Mrs. Kipling,
blissfully ignorant how shoddy “ poetry ” is
made. That is indeed a befitting connec-
tion which links Kipling, as Imperialistic
poet, with the shoddy union of races called
“ Imperialism, ” —the poetical bagman of the
shoddy-exporters of Manchester! Give
Kipling all credit for being the only mhn to
see the “ Recessional” chance, and the only
man to take it, the only man to fake it : he
is an artisan who knows his business. But,
on the weakness of “Recessional,” to call
Kipling a supreme artist, and to hail his
product as belonging to the highest class of
original art —that is indeed a confusion of
categories into which only the ignorant and
uncritical can fall.
* * * *
Nowadays everything which Kipling pub-
lishes is to be read with suspicion to the
sound of “ ’Omer’s bloomin’ lyre.” A couple
of years ago a New York society asked Kip-
ling for a piece of verse to put on a social
programme. There was sent to them this
previously-published piece “with a cordial
note from the poet’s wife ” —who seems
innocently to act the part of a “ fence ” for-
getting rid of doubtful property :
Love and Death once ceased .their strife
At the Tavern of Man’s Life,
Called for wine and threw, alas !
Each his quiver on the grass.
When the bout was o’er they found
Mingled arrows strewed the ground :
Hastily they gathered then
Each the loves and lives of men.
Ah ! the fateful dawn deceived —
Mingled arrows each one sheaved !
Death’s dread armoury was stored
With the shafts he most abhorred ;
Love’s light quiver groaned beneath
Venom-headed darts of death,
Save ye, maidens ! This is why
Old men love while young men die.
Unluckily, while the N.Y. society was still
being congratulated on its autograph copy
and its good fortune, some nuisance of a
bookworm turned up these lines in the work
of Richard Flecknoe, a third-rate English
poet and dramatist in the reign of Charles 11.
Love and Death o’ th ; way once meeting,
Having passed a friendly greeting,
Sleep their weary eye-lids closing,
Lay them down, themselves reposing ;
When this fortune did befall ’em,
Which after did so much appal ’em ;
Love, whom clivers cares molested,
Could not sleep, but while Death rested,
All in haste away he posts him :
But his haste full dearly costs him ;
For it chanced, that going to sleeping,
Both had given their darts in keeping
Unto Night ; who (Error’s mother)
Blindly knowing not th’ one from th’ other,
Gave Love Death’s, and ne’er perceived it,
Whilst as blindly Love received it;
Since which time, their darts confounding,
Love now kills instead of wounding ;
Deatii, our hearts with sweetness filling,
Gently wounds, instead of killing.
Some journals appealed to Kipling for ail ex-
planation why he had passed off these verses
without a hint that they were Elecknoe’s ;
but the oracle, having.spoken once (see head
of this page) wis mute. Oracles are usually
sparing of their words;; and Kipling pre--
sumably contented himself with winking
cheerfully, same as ’Oiner.
+
Kipling's “omniscience” astounds com-
monplace readers no less than his versa-
tility : he is so wonderfully “crammed.”
As the Pall Mail Gazette sang :
The secrets of the sea are his; the mysteries of
Tnd,
He knows minutely every way in which mankind
has sinned ;
He has by heart the lightships ’twixt the Good-
wins and the Cape,
The language of the elephant, the ethics of the
ape;
He knows the slang of Silver Street, the horrors
of Lahore,
And how the man-seal breasts the waves that
buffet Labrador, ...
He knows each fine gradation ’twixt the General
and the sub.,
The terms employed by Atkins when they fling
him from a pub. ;
He knows an Ekka pony’s points, the leper’s
drear albode,
The seamy side of Simla, the flaring Mile End
road;
He knows the Devil’s tone to souls too pitiful to
damn,
He knows the taste of every regimental mess in
“ cham ” ;
He knows enough to annotate the Bible verse by
verse,
And how to draw the shekels from the British
public’s verse
Or seems to know. For if is a remarkable
thing that Kipling’s local reference hardly
ever passes muster with the local resident ;
his technical jargon hardly ever rings
truly to the technical expert. Kipling’s
description of every place most impresses
the people who do not live there ; his use of
trade terms appears wonderful to the men
in every other trade. He sketches Australia
in a few liues, and Ernest Favenc comments
on his inaccuracy ; he pictures an artist at
work, and D. H. Souter objects to his
phrasing, and re-writes his stanzas. The
inexplicable jumble of “The Young Queen,”
with its misapplied “ Kaikouras,” is a recent
case in point. How could it be otherwise?
how expect the swift Kipling method to be
also sure ? For, as Bedford wrote of
Kipling—
I put on my specs in Port Phillip, and I spat on
Sydney Quay,
For I’m the bloke that hits it in once—no serving
my time for me !
And I cleaned my nails over Brisbane, and I
sneezed for an hour at Perth.
And then I came home on the English mail and I
wrote of the.. Big Wide-Earthi
Kipling knows a great deal, especially about
India and about Painting—as shown in the
Indian stories andin “The Light that Failed”;
but his knowledge even of Painting and of
India is superficial, and in other things he
does not go even surface-deep. The allega-
tion that the Indian work was revised by
Kipling’s father, J. Lockwood Kipling, and
that “The Light that Failed” was over-
seen by Poynter, R.A., who married Kip-
ling’s aunt, may or may not be correct ; but
undoubtedly Kipling’s other work, for the
most part, is in glaring need of such skilled
revision by a man who knows the subject
through and through.
* * * *
For Australian cavils are paralleled every-
where. When Kipling published his story
of “An Unqualified Pilot” on the
Hughli River, the Calcutta Englishman
smote him hip and thigh to show that
even India alone was too vast for Kip-
ling to know, and pilloried some score of con-
spicuous errors in fact and inference. When
he published “ Captains Courageous” every-
body was amazed at the book’s verisimilitude
to the life of the cod-fishers—every body but
the cod-fishers. One of their mouthpieces
pointed out that “ to anyone who is used to
sniff salt water the production smells of the
lamp; and he has ruined the talk.” The
composition of his crew was criticised ; and,
as for the kel lick in the hands of a boy out
on the Banks—“l don’t know what one
could do with it out there,” said a cod-
fisher ; “I suppose Kipling saw it on shore
at Gloucester.”
Similarly, this is how the American rail-
road story—“ ‘OO7 ”—strikes an American
railroad-man—
Mr. Kipling is a keen observer, and writes
pretty good American for an outsider ; but if he
had spent a night in a roundhouse with his ears
open he would never have used “loco” for loco-
motive, or have omitted the familiar “engine”
altogether ; he would not have said “ bogie ” when
he meant “truck” ; he would not have allowed a
parlor-car to be hitched to a suburban commuter’s
train “ ahead of the caboose ” ; he would not have
made his engines speak of themselves as “ Ameri-
cans” (in the sense of pattern), or painted his
hero pea-green with a red “buffer-bar.”
Further, no American writer would use as a
simile for brilliancy “a fireman’s helmet, in a
street parade,” as few of his countrymen have
ever seen a fireman in a metallic lead-covering
such as is worn in London.
I suppose it’s all rig-lit to strengthen a situation
by omitting the guard rail from an eighty-foot
bridge—it gives, a pleasant,, breezy, western,
get-there-or-bust, nigger-on-the-safety-valve move-
ment ; and maybe it’s good fiction to bring about
the catastrophe with a hundred-pound piglet who
“rolled right under the pilot” and thereby
caused the “ bogies” to lift; but on plain, every-
day railroads there is a guard-rail at every open
culvert, and even the illustrations to Mr, Kipling’s
story admit Cow-catchers.
I’ve learned a good deal about India from
Kudyard ; but when I read h s Yankee stories I
wonder if, perhaps, I haven’t learned some things
that aren’t so.
* * * *
That is what most readers fail to wonder.
The engineer who finds fault with the
machinery in “ McAndrews’ Hymn ” sees as
little wrong with “ Stalky and Co.” as Eng-
lish public-school masters may see with
“ McAndrews’ Hymn.” We can all under-
stand a caricature of our own profession ;
but the caricature of another man’s profes-
sion, when vigorously made, is apt to be
taken for truth. Thus “A Farmer’s Son,”
writing to Literature (31/12/’9B), did not
notice the school characters of “ Stalky and
Co.” : he complained that Kipling had mis-
used the term “ milk-fever that manure
is not manipulated with a two-pronged,
long-handled “ pitchfork,” but with a three-
or four-pronged, short-handled, dung-fork ;
and that farm-labourers, used to cattle,
would not run from them in a panic as repre-
sented by Kipling.
Again, the Indian officer who finds faults
with minute details of Kipling’s soldier
stories may be supposed to take the nautical
Kipling for gospel—not knowing that in
the “ Ballad of Paul Jones ” Kipling intro-
duces a ship of a rating till then unknown
to the navies of the world—a “seventy-
three.” Or that
in the “ Clampflerdown ” ballad Kipling makes
a battleship “open fire at seven miles” on a light
cruiser, armed with the most awful little Hotch-
kiss gun, with which the cruiser walloped the
battleship ; and then the battleship’s crew, as she
was going down, stopped aboard the cruiser,
which was grinding against the battleship’s side,
and the cruiser’s company all lay down and died
of astonishment; and then, without being in the
least affected by the. big battleship’s suction, the
cruiser sheered off, defying all the laws of physics
as she had defied those of the universe, to say
nothing of the naval regulations.
Por that is criticism by a naval officer who
possibly believes- that Midvaney, Learoyd,
aud Ortheris are correct to the last atom of
pipeclay.. • - _
' ' --- —♦ —— , ;
Remains to say that, in spite of all,
Kipling is for the most part an original
observer, an original writer ; that some of
his verses will linger long, and that some of
his stories are imperishable ; and that, be-
cause his work is so good,' and some of it is
in its way so great, it is all the more pity
that he should become official pander to
“ the baser,military and commercial spirit ” ;
all the more pity that his writings should be
marked by so many lapses of taste and exe-
cution, of truth and honesty. This note of
some of Kipling's shortcomings is written to
assist in “ putting him where he belongs,”
and to serve as counterblast, to the rabid
adulation of the mob. That he should be
praised as one of the most forcible writers
of the last, century, in prose and in verse, is
no less his desert ; though his verse is rarely
poetry, and often his prose is merely
vigorous journalese.
THE BOOKFELLOW.


PRICES
FOR
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN
OBTAINED BY CONSIGNING TO
Goldsbrough, Mori* Co.
Circular Quay, Sydney,
Who render PROMPT RETURNS and safeguard your
Proceeds by their TRUST ACCOUNT System.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
C B B
\
|ys«j
jsK. 580(5
\d>
s&<*
sfioo
5007
m
(su&raofeecl 001~ lo or boro.
CERTIFICA TE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
application.
Thousands Selling: Daily.
aviua
.aaoy
suouiuiis m
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST
Of TRICKS, PUZZLES, Etc.,
Etc., FREE.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books
for
the
Married
EXTRA SPECIAL CATALOGUE
OF BOOKS FREE.
STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTES OF ANY COLONY TAKEN.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE,
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
SOAP
Unequalled as a Preserver and
Beautifler of the Complexion. It diffuses an exquisite
odor, and imparts a stimulating 1 and refreshing influence.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
SY USING
&k
V*
V
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers— M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
NOTHING
SUCCEEDS
LIKE
SUCCESS.
Hence the
Good
Reputation
of
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents-VIRGOE, SON & CHAPMAN »nd DAVID COHEN * CO., Sydney.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED CHARGES ON WOOL .
| per Cent.
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over od. per lb.
the charges will be
On Wools realising fid. and over 4d. per lb.
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under ... **
WAY BILLS sent on application.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. fid. per Bale.
Is. fid. per Bale.
WHEAT.
SALES lost season show an increase of 25 per cent, as compared with previous years. Unnvailea
accommodation. Three months’ free storage. , , , . ,
CIRCULAR giving fullest particulars as to charges etc., forwarded when desired.
CONSIGNORS are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association
this Company.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Buncle & Sons’ Chaffcutters.
Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
AGENTS FOR McDOU GALL’S SHEEP DIP.
SKINS
Send Your Consignments op
KANGAROO,
WALLABY,
RABBIT,
OPOSSUM SKINS
TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
They obtain the Uiyhest Possible Prices.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 O’CONNELL STREET,
Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole
Charge : 3 Per Cent, -fco the Growers.
BONUS 3 PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge \d. per lb. to the Buyers.
fii LAWRUS ”
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS A STOREKEEPERS.
f ** EVERY YARD IS BTAMPED
(/atfiui
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
STOGDALE & DUFFUS, Finks Buildings, Corner of Elizabeth & Flinders
Melbourne; and 422 George St., Sydney.
Sts.,
Dr. Clarlcaon’s Electric Belt
will All your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is tmlv wonderful
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. u urgans is truly wonaerruL
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
V
CALL OR WRITE—
o wx_» r c a u t t e drug store,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
0 Dp
fee
4
v^
L
►VJs
Vfhen
writing
please
mention
Tub
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
i
If you are tired o< STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
• ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
[strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
J CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
! they make perfect men.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
i LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
' Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands. i
THEY WILL DURE YOU.
£ s. a.
I’lain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extrn powerful, with suspensory
av,i« jhruents 8 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to— i
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney i


TATTERSA
Adaress
Celt*© CEO. ADAMS,
Hotoart.
MfpMK
1
ADELAIDE
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
May 1.
shares in the
above.
Name
Address
TUEF CLUB H. May 25.
(Altered from Birthday Gup owing to the Queen's Death)
100,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in above.
Name
£
Address
Ellesmere Stakes. Ist June.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares
in the above.
Name ___
Address
NEW CASTLE CUP. June 15.
25,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me _ shares in the
above.
N ame .
Address
£
For full particulars road our Printed Circular.
.....Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Ailains, Hobart.


MGIERS
EIIULSIOH
WITH
FOR
BRONCHITIS
AND
STUBBORN COUGHS.
ANGIER’S Petroleum Emulsion not
only quickly relieves the most ob-
stinate cough, and soothes and heals
the throat and lungs, but at the same time
it promotes appetite, aids digestion, and
greatly improves the general health. It is
equally good for the cough of chronic
bronchitis with profuse expectoration; the
dry, harsh, throat cough; the irritating
cough of influenza; and for whooping
cough and croupy coughs of children. To
those who are subject to bronchial attacks
it is an especial boon. The cough and
breathing are made easier, the irritation in
throat and bronchial tubes is soothed, the
character of the expectoration is altered,
and a general improvement effected in all
the symptoms. We have had hundreds of
reports from all parts of the English-
speaking World attesting its remarkable
power to relieve and cure troublesome
coughs.
A FREE SAMPLE
On receipt of 4d. for postage.
Mention SYDNEY BULLETIN,
DO NOT accept inferior imitations made with ordinary
Petroleum.
BE SURE TO GET ANGIER’S.
OF ALL CHEMISTS & DRUG STORKS.
The ANQIEft CHEMICAL Co., Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
Losing your hair ? Do you bring out
a combful each morning ? Has it lost
Its natural brightness ? Is it beginning
to look faded and dead ?
Do you like this condition of things ?
Certainly not. Then stop this falling of
the hair at once. Stop it before your hair
is thin, short, and lifeless. Make your
hair beautiful, glossy, silky, abundant.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
Is a Hair Food.
When your hair is well nourished it
does not come out. ’Tis weak hair,
starved hair, that falls. It’s just so
with thin hair, short hair, rough hair.
Such hair needs feeding. This is why
Ayer’s Hair Vigor stops falling of the
hair.
If your hair is gray, and you don’t
care to look at thirty as if you were
sixty, then you should use Ayer’s Hair
Vigor. It always restores color to gray
hair, all the dark, rich, beautiful color
It had when you were young.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A,
*
*
Y> V
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk bTUIFiJ
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Brisbane, Q’laid
Australia!) Prov/idcpt Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or or^SUBTOB AN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL comb
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying
•p to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
fy vwwu^sv.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 IQSr
H. Hill?er,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
Bgg~ Send for a
Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Right Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. l3O Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
YORKSHIRE
RELISH
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
BEWARE OK SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Hall the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed R ce.
DELIC OUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS aloue.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete iu themselves in the
following flavours :—Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd,Subiaco,Perth,W.A.&6S,King St.,Melbourne
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
0&M
k
«
Reduced Facsimile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
W 1
REPDBIIQB
FRANgAISE
A.&F. PEARS
SOAP MAKERS,
BY
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
•T .S.W. Carriage & SaddLlery 3Vta,n f Com.paxl.37
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEV
When in town, pay ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY ’ If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man -Sulky, £5 •; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7:
3-Spring Sulkies, ) 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
IDs. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Bards of the Backblocks
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A certain intensely-Jingo M.L. paper
comes nearer to the truth than it imagines by
continually referring to the York trip as “ the
Royal Visitation.”
Concerning Port Augusta, to which John
Forrest hopes to bring a railway from Kal-
goorlie :
There is no more melancholy-looking spectacle in
Australia than Port Augusta, at the head of Spencer’s
Gulf— the deep and narrow waterway which runs up
hundreds of miles into S.A. On the map its position
seems unrivalled; it looks as though it must command
more of the trade of Central Australia than any other
port. And, as a port, too, it was found remarkably well-
favored ; the biggest ships could come alongside. So 20
years ago it had a memorable boom ; it was placarded
everywhere as the coming “ Liverpool of the South.”
Wool-growing was at its best ; wheat-growing in the
north was giving phenomenal results ; there was talk of
vast mineral fields in the little-explored beyond. The
Govt, built large wharves ; the banks built pretentious
offices ; merchants lined the streets with warehouses ;
flour-mills and breweries followed ; squatting syndicates
established depots. Then drought knocked out
the squatting and farming, and in later years
has practically killed both. Port Pirie, lower down
the Gulf, collared the Broken Hi 1 trade, and
Govt, spent there enough money to make of it a
decent shipping place, wherefore what little trade was
still left for Pt. Augusta slipped away to the newer place;
and the Centralian mines refused to pay divs. So Pt.
Augusta’s trade dropped from hundreds of thousands to
thousands, whereas every provision had been made for it
to go to millions. To-day the town is almost deserted ;
one can rent a squatter’s dismantled mansion or a ware-
house, whichever one pleases, for a crown a week. The
score or so of tired people who still maunder in and out of
-the ruins survive on the hope that Someday the overland
line to Westralia will pass that way ; though how that is
going to fill their pockets they are much too far-gone to
either think or tell.
Threshing.
“What pressure?” “r u.jl sixty.” “Blow-up! ”
and the ricketty thresher’s a-hum ;
The bandcutters’ knives are a-gleaming, the feede
leans over the drum.
Buzz-z — Boom ! and a thump, and she’s going
“Shut-off, there ! she’s cracking the grain !
“ Quick ! here with the blessed screw-wrenches !
—and now she’s adjusted again.
“ All right! ” And again she is going; the cock; s
a-hunt for a flaw,
And out at the old elevator he’s doubtfully feelii f
the straw.
“No drink ! Oh, the drought of Gehenna is bad,
but ’tis certainly less . . .
Where the devil and snakes is the water ? —wha!
consciences cookies possess ! ”
But it’s fork-in the sheaves, and it’s fill her ; the
owner on profit is keen,
And the cocky is fain to be rid of the men with
the threshing-machine.
The feeder is growling at random, and cursing the
thistles and docks;
“Belt’s broken !’’—the flywheel is spinning
“Shut-off ! or she’ll loosen the chocks.”
But nvetted-up and well resined the belt’s in
position again,
And it’s ram the stuff in till the riddles are
choked with the rush of the grain.
The strawstack’s a wonderful stru3ture, and
threatens each minute to fall,
Yet the cocky’s commanding tie builder; “Go
on ! it must carry it all.”
Then the stacker commences to “ grow it,” the
cocky instructing him how—
“ Look out !” And they’ve got a foundation fo
carry it easily now.
And owner and cocky in concert can vent on the
stacker their spleen;
Though doubtful’s the wisdom of cursing a man
with a threshing-machine.
A whistle. “Lunch, oh!” —and we’re rushing
like demons set suddenly free—
Grab pannikins; dip in the bucket, and greedily ,
swallow the tea.
And tucker and tea disappear at a rate that nigh
threatens to choke;
For some of the coveted “ spell-oh ! ” is wanted
by most for a smoke.
And some are a-talking of pleasure, and more are
a-talking of graft, I
And one sits away from the crowd till the others
aver that he’s daft;
While down upon all is a-blazing the sun from the j
pitiless blue,
And rises and fences shim-shimmer away to the
limit of view.
“Time’s up !” And once more we are grafting,
but fun is where curses have been,
For a full stomach sweetens the tempers of men
with a threshing-machine.
And so the day goes, and for supper more tea and
salt junk we devour ;
And then with the timekeeper tally our totals at
sixpence an hour.
Then off to the stable or strawstack, or under the
stars for the night ;
Our camp doesn’t trouble the cocky as long as
we’re back by the light.
Or perhaps—it depends on “ permission it’s
dance in the kitchen awhile—
Where, spite of the graft of the daytime, we foot
it in rollicking style.
And seekers of pleasure saw never a brighter or
happier throng
Than trips to the old concertina, or listens to
somebody’s song.
Let them sneer—in their envy—the cynics of cold,
hypocritical mien,
As we waltz with the cocky’s plump daughters,
we men of the threshing-machine !
v.
BEN SUN.


V.DO33GH3.
WOOD
SPLIT
PULUES
Guaranteed to transmit from 25 (
to 60 per cent, more power than
any iron pulley made with same 1
tension of belt. i
70 per cent. Lighter than cast
iron. I
40 , h n wrought ,
iron or steel. 1
No Key Seat to cut.
No Set Screw to twist off. 1
No Shaft to take down.
Perfect Balance. 1
Perfect Shaft Fastening.
Writs for Prices and Particulars to Sole Agents
for Australasia—
PARKE & LflCy
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
Telephone 364=2.
12/6
Oct. Gold, 12/8.
20 Patterns. With Mono-
gram, 2/- extra.
13/6
Cartridge k Torpedo,
Solid Gold, 13 6 pair.
14/
Solid Gold, 14/- pair ;
with any Monogram.
60 other Patterns.
17/6
Solid Gold and Beal
Opal, 17/C ; with Bubj*
or Sapphire, 20/-.
Telephone 3042.
NOTICE.
Kindly cut out this Ad-
vertisement and forward
when ordering.
Art Jewellers, 90 King-st., Sydney.
PLEASE
Send for our Illustrated
Sheets of
Novelties.
Links and
Post Free.
it
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
A. BOWMAN’S
Yon Can Havb
English Boots at
14/6 per pair.
Tan Boots at
16/6 per pair.
Porpoise Hide at
17/6 per pair
Best Style.
Best Quality.
No
Better
Made.
We do One Line—Gentlemen’s Boots—only.
That one we do Well.
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St.,
also 145 KING ST., opp. Theatre Royal.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
One Star
and
Three Star
Brandy
Has
the
Largest Sale
in
the World.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
METTZS.
YANKEE BOODLE
Is well in front in New South Wales, and forging ahead in
the other Australian States.
The Free Voice of the People is the Strongest Proof possible.
Customs figures show the Yearly Increase in the Sales of DIXSON’S TOBACCO
in NEW SOUTH WALES ALONE to be
1898 INCREASE - - 109,397 lbs.
1899 INCREASE - - 173,332 lbs
1900 INCREASE - - 228,263 lbs.
Over 100 TONS more Last Year than during 1899.
YANKEE DOODLE (LIGHT and DARK) The Great Mild Smoke
AND IS THE TOBACCO OF THE DAY I
CONQUEROR: Dark, Rich, Good —For Smoking and Chewing.
CHAMPION Gold Leaf, Plug 1 and Cut —Choicest Natural Flavor —CUT, in Hermetically Sealed Patent
Tins. Champion Blended Stock Yankee Doodle.
BONANZA CIGARS— 4 for 6d. in packets. Best value of any cigar.
MONO POLE— The ORIGINAL ROTHSCHILD, and above all Imitations.
ptpes AND TOBACCO WARE OF AI.Ii irTurns
DIXSON & SONS LTD., PARK STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office , Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 22.—N0. 1106.
SATURDAY, APRIL 27, 1001.
Prick 6d.
JONAH UP TO DATE.
SKIPPER BARTON (to Jonah Fegan): “Very sorry, Jonah, old man, but all this row has been kicked up because we took you on board; so overboard you go—only
we were a-thinking whether it would be more agreeable to your feelings to be chucked over, or to quietly step over yourself. Good-bye; dare say you’ll
find it more comfortable inside the whale than here!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the A ustrtil tuns. 91
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for r IHE Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.b. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• £
Half-yearly ... ... ••• 0 ‘j. 6
Quarterly ... ... ••• U b b
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and ifno rif and.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postaqe on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. I Vales (except Queensland) is now
■Bl, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can he sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Oioi.ng to the imposition of l£d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamp's of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with. Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient,
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2h6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
SATURDAY, APRIL 27, 1901.
“The Bulletin’s” Reverence for
England.
Editor Bulletin Your constant carping at
everything English disgusts me, and many others like me.
What is the cause of your undying hatred of the English
people and English institutions? Is it not possible for
anything English to please your bilious intelligence, or
to be good enough to meet your lofty approval ?—Extract
from indignant Jingo letter received at this office.
• • • •
The above letter, which dropped in the
other day, and occasional letters of the same
tenor which have dropped in on occasional
previous days, set this paper thinking hard.
Especially they set it thinking hard on the
grievous lack of intelligence that character-
ises its fellow-creatures. The Bulletin., as
far as it can find out, after close and careful
observation, is about the only consistent
admirer that Britain possesses in the Seven
States of Australasia. It is not an indis-
criminating admirer, certainly. It has never
alleged that everything Britain is or
does is good, and everything it isn't or
doesn’t is bad. That kind of admiration
is of no use to anybody. But this paper’s
voice has grown hoarse with constantly urging
the Australian people for 10 years back to
follow the admirable example of Britain on
many points, and its failure to induce them
to do so is probably owing to the fact that it
has been, and still is, a lone and solitary
admirer. A solitary admirer, however
powerful, isn’t sufficient in such a case. The
Bulletin has had to struggle against the
causeless, unreasoning, brutish and incurable
hatred of British policy, British institutions
and British example manifested on almost
every point by such men as Paukes, McMil-
lan, Bruce Smith, Reid, Sedoon, Philp,
Nelson, Forrest, Braddon. Fysh, Gillies,
and practically all the other old-rut poli-
ticians of Australasia. They have manife? 1
it, not by words, which matter 1 ; ‘
nothing, but by deeds, which matt
deal; and this paper, as Britai olitary
but discriminating admirer, : eary of
knocking-up against ignorant prejudices and
-nreasoning hatreds.
* * * •
The British characteristic which this paper
most reverences is a certain inveterate ten-
dency towards honesty in matters of public
finance. Such men as Reid, Gillies,
Philp, Lyne, Forrest, and Braddols would
be impossible at the British Treasury, and
the most impossible of them all would be
Reid. In England, instead of being leader
of the Opposition, with the possible rever-
sion of the Premiership in view, his awful
politico-financial record (if a man could have
such a record in the British House of Com-
mons) would almost certainly have led by
this time to his expulsion from the House.
It would certainly have led to a state of
things in which the meanest constituency in
the three kingdoms would hesitate to return
him as its member. The Briton doesn’t
understand Australia’s shiftless, dishonest
policy of making the accounts balance by
paying a great part of the ordinary
daily expenditure out of foreign loans,
and assuring the public that road-re-
pairs and forest-thinning and sand-shifting
and pauper-relief are “permanent and
reproductive works.” In all such matters
the British Government pays its way by
taxation, and if it can’t pay its way out of
existing taxation it levies more taxation.
And there is no reason why Australasia should
not do likewise, unless it be that to men
like Reid and Lyne and Philp and Nelson
and all the ruck of loud-mouthed Jingo poli-
ticians a good example becomes bad when it
is British. All these men and their kind
protest their admiration for Britain and its
institutions loudly enough in words, but
their absolute refusal to adopt even one of
the good principles of Britain’s policy adver-
tises, in deeds that speak more vociferously
than words, their hatred of, or indifference
to, all British examples and institutions.
The Bulletin admires the cleanliness and
honesty of Britain’s national finance, and
the public spirit which compels it to be
clean and honest ; and its admiration is of
that practical kind which makes it quite
ready to pay its share of the extra expense
required to place Australia's affairs on the
same footing. Australia’s financial principles
are a mixture of a stink-pot and a three-card
trick—but they are anti-British, and that is
apparently good enough for the average
Australian politician.
• • * •
Britain, like Australia, has a huge debt,
much of it created by processes whose folly
is too painful to be alluded to now. But
however foolish Britain might have been in
building up its debt, its courage in facing
the burden is magnificent. Almost every
year for the past three-quarters of a century,
Britain, by a dogged process of enormous
taxation, has paid something off its past ob-
ligations and done something to make the
burden lighter for its posterity. The process
of reduction has been interrupted over and
over again by new wars and new war-bills,
but still the tendency has always been
towards improvement. Britain has fought
fully fifty campaigns, large and small, in-
cluding the hideously expensive Crimean
and Transvaal experiences, since the late
Queen Victoria attained the throne, and its
public debt is smaller now than it was then.
It has met all this tremendous outlay out of
taxation, and still found means to reduce its
old liabilities. The Bulletin utterly
loathes the policy which led to many of these
wars, but it has nothing but respect for the
pluck of the nation which was resolved to
pay for its own sins, and not charge them to
posterity. The present South African war
has spread into three financial years, and
twice the British Government has made
great additions to the public taxation—the
second one was equal in itself to 10 per cent,
added to all the previous heavy burdens. If
Britain had a few more admirers like The
Bulletin, this country’s debt would be
much lighter and its future prospects a good
deal more hopeful.
* * • *
Britain is a Freetrade country in theory,
just as is New South Wales. But Britain is
also a Freetrade country in practice—at
least to this extent, that every Customs
duty levied on any article which can be
locally manufactured is counterbalanced by
an equivalent excise duty on the local pro-
duct. The Bulletin has no faith in Free-
trade, but at least it can admire a country
which has the courage of its opinions. No
British Chancellor of the Exchequer ever
preached Freetrade while protecting almost
every important local industry, as did
Parkes, M'Millan, Bruce Smith, and in a
less degree, George Reid, in New South
Wales. There is sufficient sense of
honesty or sense of consistency in the
British community to make such lamentable
political frauds impossible. No British
paper preaches Freetrade as do the Sydney
Herald, News, and Telegraph, while
enjoying and truculently demanding 50 per
cent. Protection under the postal regula-
tions. The British public is probably honest
enough to put its great aggregate boot
through any such journal. And no British
Government whines that, though It be-
lieves in Freetrade, it is (fltompblled to levy
Protectionist duties foil revenue purposes ;
if reveuue is needed, it puts up the
income tax to Is. 2d. in the £, and gets
the cash without outraging its alleged prin-
ts for years been
f its profound
eo ...■ . ... i. J,. .u . c and if it
had been backed by one adi of equal
weight it is just possible t, N.S.W.
finance would not be the laughing-stock it
has been.
* * * *
Also, there are other matters in which
this paper has been a lonesome voice in a
public wilderness, expressing its deep respect
for Britain and its people and its institu-
tions, and trying in vain to make headway
against the general contempt for the distant
land’s good example. Sydney, the city of
less than 500,000 people, which is governed
by 43 mayors and corporations, is an ab-
surdity which has no counterpart in the pro-
gressive land from which our progenitors
came—at their own or the public expense.
The awful municipal misgovernments of
Brisbane, Melbourne and Adelaide would
be equally impossible there ; large cities are
not run in that fashion nowadays
in the United Kingdom. The Bulle-
tin has wasted quarts of good ink in
pointing to such good examples as Glasgow
and Birmingham, and explaining to the
Legislature that it is hopeless to wait until
42 out of the 43 mayors and corporations
agree to abolish themselves for the sake of
unity, and urging that the Legislatures
should abolish the whole crowd and make
one sane municipal government on British
principles for all Sydney and its environs,
and do likewise in regard to the other
capitals. Likewise this paper has become
somewhat hoarse with explaining that in no
decent British city are the streets allowed to
go to rack and ruin, and slums go from bad
to worse, and huge deficits to pile up, merely
in order that the fatted landlord may not pay
a higher rate than Is. 4d. in the £. The
municipalities which are doing great work in
Britain realise that an old city can’t be made
new without money. And even when the
improvement schemes of their municipal
rulers have forced up the rates to 6s. Bd. in
the £ the people don’t cast them out with
the contumely which generally falls on the
Australian alderman who proposes a penny
increase in order to pay for shifting dead
animals off the highway.
* * * ♦
Also the roads-and-bridges member does
not flourish in the United Kingdom. The
local bodies build their own culverts* and
don’t spend £4O on a deputation to London
to ask for a £2O drain-pipe out of the con-
solidated revenue. British municipalities
much smaller than Sydney build far larger
works than the North Shore bridge, and pay
interest and sinking-fund out of the rates
without turning a hair, instead of weeping
for 35 years in the ear of the Government
for assistance. Britain has no such infamy
as the hanging laws of New South Wales ;
it outgrew them 30 or 40 years ago. And
no civilised and educated Englishman would
believe his ears if he were told that, during
the last 10 years, in Australia—a land
alleged to be peopled by people of his own
race—there had been about 200 cases
wherein dirty minded females brought capi-
tal charges against men, and were proved to
have done so by means of the grossest
perjury, and yet in not one case did the
law interfere to put down this rampant ini-
quity. The Bulletin has no reverence at all
for any single one of those British institu-
tions which Australian Jingoes worship ;
the Australian Jingo worships only those
features of the British character which won’t
cost him any money, and which may lead
him to a title. Its opinion of the monarchial
idea, and the House of Peers, and the big
landlord system, and the blatant land-steal
system, and the morals of the London stock
exchange, is very much akin to its opinion of
Sodom and Gomorrah. But, on the other
hand, it reverences a great many British ideas
which are honest and useful instead of large
and glaring and bounceable. And setting one
set of ideas against the other, The Bulletin
reckons that it reverences and desires to
perpetuate in Australasia more British in-
stitutions than does almost any other person
or paper in Australasia. It may have a
whole-souled contempt for Britain’s South
African war-policy and for the Australian
Fat Men who want to transplant that spirit
of butchery and boodle to these shores. But
against this it yields to no one in its admira-
tion of Britain’s income tax of Is. or
Is. 2d. in the £, and its local taxation
of, say, 6s. in the £, and the other means
by which it persistently toils at paying
off its debt burdens, and this paper is grieved
in its inmost soul to find that the
disloyal Fat Man of this country shows an
insensate hatred of British institutions when
these tilings are mentioned, and absolutely
foams at the mouth when it is proposed to
express our loyalty to the mother-land by
following its example in these matters. The
Bulletin lias serious thoughts of being the
founder and chief patron of a new loyal
institution—a British Admiration Society
whose business it will be to grovel to British
ideas, and urge this country to adopt them
in a spirit of servile reverence. And the
first British idea that the new society will
grovel to will be that of paying for all un-
productive public works—fortifications and
the like—out of taxation, and putting up
the income-tax to at least Is. in the £, in
order to create a fund for the repayment of
the public debt. Notice of other British
ideas to be grovelled to will be given in due
course.
The Grave Cradle Question.
A recent number of the Australasian Medi-
cal Gazette, referring to the gradual falling-
off of the N.S.W. birth-rate, advocates the em-
ployment of scientific means to obtain an increase
of population through a diminished death-rate.
It points but that the decline in the birth-rate a
due to the use of preventive checks to concep-
tion ; And that artificial prevention of con-
sequences ” will grow by spread of knowledge.
With the process of the suns the birth-rate will
fall to the level of that of France, in which country
Government endeavours to stimulate population
by giving bonuses to the parents of large families.
The journal just referred to quotes certain figures
from N.S.W. Statistician CoGHLAN'S recently-
published “Vital Statistics,” a very valuable
book of tables, with an exhaustive introduction
by way of commentary. This publication, the
first of its kind in Australasia, is not to be con-
founded with the “Vital Statistics” number of
the “ Statistical R gister” ; for the new book is
an absolute survey, and not merely a summary, of
the thousand and one items of information com-
prising this interesting branch of economic-social
inquiry.
The Australasian Medical Gazette shows
that in 1890 the total births in N.S. Wales
numbered 38,960; while in 1899 they numbered
36,461. During this period of a decade the
population had increased from 1,121,000 to
1,345,000 ; but the birth-rate had fallen from 35
per thousand living in 1890 to 27 per thousand
living in 1899. There were actually 2500 fewer
children born in 1899 than in 1890 ; while in 1899
there were 4329 deaths of infants who had not
reached the first year of life, and 5762 who
had not reached their fifth year. The Medical
Gazette insists that it is certain that half of these
perished from preventible causes. If, therefore,
2500 could have been saved, something would have
been done to counterbalance the decrease in the
birth-rate.
* * * *
The Government Statistician’s figures show that
of the whole number of deaths those of children
under five years is proportionately much more
than half the total mortality of persons of all ages
above five years. This is better realised from a
short table:—
Deaths Under Deaths Under Deaths all Ages
One Year. 6 Years. Over 5 veara,
1890 „ 4,072 5,776 .. 8,442
1891 .. 4,691 .. 6,5X0 .. 9,776
1892 .. 4,245 .. 6,827 .. 8,583
1893 .. 4,640 .. 7,072 .. 8,950
1894 .. 4,248 .. 6,913 .. 9,257
1895 .. 4,106 .. 5,548 .. 9,366
1896 .. 4,435 .. 6,925 .. 9,914
1897 .. 3,801 .. 4,940 9,324
1898 .. 4,418 6,288 10,373
1899 .. 4,329 .. 5,762 ~ 10,139
• * * *
From the foregoing it will be seen that in 1899
the number of deaths in N.S. Wales of persons of
all ages over five years was 10,139 ; and the num-
ber of deaths Of infants under five years was 5762;
but, while the ratio was ih the first case only B'sB
per one thousand of the population over five, it
was in the second case 35‘21 per thousand of the
population under five. Is it possible to save any
of these thirty-five minus-five-year-olds in every
thousand from their almost consistently average
doom ?
« * • •
From 1890 to 1899 (both years inclusive) the
deaths of children under five ranged from 4940 to
7072 per annum, or from 29.17 to 39’94 per thou-
sand of all children under five ; while, for the
same period, the deaths of persons of all ages
above five ranged from 8442 to 10,373, or from 8 '54
to 8 ’97 per thousand of all persons above five.
The year of least infantile mortality was 1897 ; of
greatest, 1893. The year of least actual mortality
among persons above five was 1890; of greatest,
1898; however, the least ratio per thousand in this
group was in the year 1897, when it was 8'25 ; of
greatest ratio, 1891, when it was 10'03. During
the same period there died annually from 3801 to
4691 infants who had not reached the first year of
life (vide years 1897 and 1891), representing res-
pectively 102 and 118'9 per one thousand births.
The lowest ratio of deaths per thousand births of
minus-one-year-old infants was in the year 1897,
just quoted; the highest in the year 1898, when it
was 121 ’9. These figures are painful, both in fact
and in recital, but they are absolutely necessary
in order to understand the situation ; and from
them may be seen the terrific waste there is going
on in the infant-feeder to population in a country
with a steadily-decreasing birth-rate. After the
first year the trouble of rearing children gradually
diminishes. The figures representing the deaths
occurring during the year 1899 are eloquent of
this fact. Here they are: —
Under one year 4,329
One year, of age 844
Two years of age .. .. .. 282
Three years of age 174
Four years of age 133
Five and under ten years 374
All ages above ten ye ars 9,765
Total deaths 15,901
The excess of births over deaths was, in 1880,
2'39 ; in 1890, 2'29 ; in 1899, 1*54 ; or, taking the
mean annual excess of births over deaths in five-
year periods:—lBBo-4, 2'3; 1885-9, 2*27 ; 1890-4,
211; and 1890 onwards, 1'67. Actual excess of
births over deaths was, in 1890, 24,742; and in
1899, 20,560 —always diminishing. There is a
greater mortality of adult males over adult
females, and of male children over female children.
During the ten years which closed with 1899 the
number of females added to the population by
excess of births over deaths exceeded that of the
males by 15,041, or a trifle over 14 per cent. The
reason of this is that males, particularly in
country districts, are more greatly exposed to risk
by accident than are females ; while male infants
are more delicate than female infants, and are
more difficult to rear.
• * * *
Stress is laid by Mr, Coghlan on the effects of
illegitimacy on infantile mortality. Of the 4329
infants who died in 1899 before reaching the
first year of life, 3584 were legitimate and 745
were illegitimate; and of the 5762 children who
died in the same year before reaching the fifth
year of life, 4940 were legitimate and 822 illegiti-
mate. The proportional death-rate per one thou-
sandliving of each class was, therefore: Under
one year, legitimate, 105‘9; illegitimate, 285‘6;
total, 1187: under five years, legitimate 32;
illegitimate, 86'4; total, 35'2. These figures show
that at each age the death-rate of the illegitimates
was nearly three times as high as that of the legiti-
mates ! These figures are sufficiently appalling ;
nevertheless, illegitimacy fails to account for the
deaths of 4940 infants under five years of age.
* * * *
The number of illegitimate births in 1899 was
2609, equal to 7.16 per cent, of the total number
of births. Illegitimacy in N.S. Wales is making
big strides. In 1871 it was 3'88; in 1876, 4 - 08;
in 1881, 4’36; in 1886, 4’65 ;in 1891, 5 ’36 ;in 1896,
670; and in 1899, 7'16. Concurrently with ille-
fitimaey pure and simple, “undesirables” are
roug'nt into the world through the medium of
ante-nuptial conceptions. If all illegitimates are
taken as first-births, then of 56,163 first births re-
corded during the six years. 1893-8, the post
nuptial conceptions contributed 28,018, or 49'89
per cent; ante nuptial conceptions, 13,366, or
23'8; and illegitimates, 14,779, or 2331 percent.
There is little doubt that many of the ante-


nuptially-conceived are sedulously “not” pre
vented from dying, if they show any grave
tendencies towards surcease of sorrow in the realm
of the cold and silent.
• • * *
France, ever careful of her children, as befits a
country steadily becoming sterilised, manages
this question in a very public-spirited fashion.
Children are National Capital which she cannot
afford to waste. In all the great cities are huge
Government asylums designed for the reception
of “any” children —“and no questions asked.”
The despairing mother —whether deceived country
girl, abandoned mistress, deserted wife, hopeless
widow—can find a refuge for her child without
revealing her own identity. A little alcove in a
blank wall, a tiny turnstile that revolves inward,
and a bell-rope. Date, tattoo, or other
mark, description, name, any information
may be affixed, if desired, to substantiate
a future claim to the foundling—or no
information. And the child is taken, and
fed, and reared, and educated, and taught a trade
by a maternal government which acts as a foster-
parent to the baby derelicts. And thus might
N.S.W. settle the foundling difficulty, and save
much wasted population, if her Governments were
not so aggressively righteous and bound up
with the red-tape of soggy British tradition.
But still, even a very “righteous” Government
might do something by the passing of an Act
making it penal to feed babies on solid food,
patent slushes, and the contents of the iniquitous
feeding-bottle. Illegitimates die by their hun-
dreds, but legitimates by their thousands. Help-
less and ignorant mothers have, too, the abomin-
able vice of “ feeding ” the empty-bowelled infant
with a fiendish india-rubber arrangement inflated
with air, and called a “comforter,” at which the
poor little wretch sucks and draws with des-
perate energy, and bellies itself out thereby
with copious draughts of the circumambient air.
The chemist, or other tradesman, who sold such
an invention of Satan to a fool-woman should be
suspended—suspended any way the Law might
choose to direct. Thus something might be done
for the lives of even the legitimately born—and
done, too, by Act of Parliament.
* * * *
But illegitimacy is on the increase, and the life
of the illegitimate child is threatened as three to
one in the legitimate baby’s case. The old King
of Prussia, father of Frederick the Great, was
wont to scour the eartli for gigantic Guardsmen.
He placed all races and creeds under tribute, and
fought his battles with his foemen’s own blood
and bone. If militarism still continues to lift its
crimson crest, and the flesh-food for powder con-
tinues in some countries, and for various reasons,
to diminish ; mayhap, someday, a great statesman
may grasp the situation, and send his emissaries
far and wide, picking up the sturdy waifs of the
world’s breeding, whereof to make soldiers and
soldiers’ wives. The raw material, thus collected
in countless thousands, and with secret despatch,
would be trained in depots till ready for drafting
into army-corps. Battles could then be fought
without spilth of the blood of one’s own kinsmen,
and pleasure given to all. The Turks knew all
about it, and the famed Janissaries were among
the finest of European troops.
* * • *
But that day is not yet. Meanwhile the camp-
kettle of Death is daily filled with the tender
flesh of the “ not-wanted ” on the voyage of life.
What is now required is a mighty-brained crank,
a millionaire who would spend his wealth, not in
the collection of rare china, or rare buildings, or
yachts, or banquets, or the entertaining of princes
and other gilt rubbish ; but in the care and nur-
ture and education of the unnecessary waif.
There is a loud call on the part of humanity for a
Collector of Children, a Miser in the Conservation
of Infancy. Find this man we must ; and surely
among the multitudes of the faddists he can
be found, and with wealth, too, to give concretion
to his benevolent insanity ; and the waif-waste is
as good as dammed at its source.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Old Age Pensions.
N.S.W. Old Age Pension application forms are
now being distributed, and are obtainable at any
court-house, police-station or P.O. throughout the
State. After being filled up they can be lodged
with any clerk of petty sessions. As in Vic-
toria, the granting of a pension is hedged
around with many qualifications and reserva-
tions. The technicalities involved are quite
drastic enough to prevent many deserving old
people receiving a little necessary assistance in
their declining years, and more than sufficient to
unduly swell the cost of administering the law.
No one can obtain a pension if he or she has been
absent from the State more than two years in the
last 25 ; has deserted his or her lawful mate for
six months or upwards ; has been gaoled for five
years during the 25 years’ residence in
the State ; has been imprisoned for four months,
or four times, during the 12 years immediately
preceding the application ; is not of good moral
character—whatever that may mean ; has not led
a sober or reputable life for the last.five years—
whatever the legal definition of sobriety may be ;
has a yearly income over £52 per annum, or pro-
perty worth £390 nett; has transferred property
or income to a relative in order to qualify for a
pension ; or is a naturalised subject of less than 10
years standing before applying for a pension. In
addition to all these reservations there is a whole
list of deductions to be made should applicant
have anything at all saved, or have arranged for
board or lodging by living with a son or daughter,
or any other relative. Most of the deductions arc
direct penalties for thrift, and one wonders where
Fatman (who is always talking about encourage-
ment for ther-rift) was when those regulations
went through. In ICO years’ time people will
probably lay down their history books to marvel
that men were ever so barbaric as to put such
restrictions on the means of life and comfort in
old age. Just now the Old Age Pension idea is
new. In a little while the view will broaden, and
people will realise that it is a useless sort of
foolishness to waste money employing an army of
spies and officials to prevent some unfortunate
wretch who has saved a few pounds getting an
extra week. To enforce these restric-
tions “and prevent the Treasury being looted,”
Vic. Premier Peacock has enlisted a horde of
long-nosed females of jagged virtue, who will
prove a curse and a plague to the people who
have failed to provide for their old age. What
step will be taken to prevent N.S.W. Treasury
being looted is not yet known. Probably an army
of clerks and investigators will be engaged and paid
out of borrowed money, till the cost of protecting
the virtuous Treasury will be more than it would
have lost had it not been safeguarded. Under
present circumstances, it is certain much injustice
will be inflicted, and many old people, too proud,
or without the nerve or knowledge to push their
claims, will be bluffed out of the assistance they
are entitled to. In Victoria, hosts of them will
lose it through failing to takeoff their hats quickly
enough, or not addressing the Benevolent Society
lady investigator with the respect due to a person
of her pomp and circumstance. The whole tenor
of the proceedings in both Vic. and N.S.W.
shows that those who are administering the Act
regard it as another form of charitable relief, and
granted as a benevolent favor by the taxpayer.
Which is utterly wrong. There’s no charity in it.
It’s a provision made by the whole community for
the whole community’s old age. It is Old Age
Endowment without a costly system of book-
keeping to ensure that each member of the com-
munity shall pay his full contribution and no
more or no less. If the pensions are paid out of
revenue and spent in the country, the necessary
taxation to raise the means to pay them will lose
half its sting. Every man, pauper or millionaire,
is entitled to an old age pension from the
state if the whole community is taxed to raise
the money. Therefore, let him have it, and let
the scheme be what it was intended to be—a
system of national old age assurance. If a man
pays into an ordinary Assurance Society no one
dreams of deducting a pound from his endowment
for every pound he may have saved up; why
should it be done because the State collects from
each a premium according to his means, on the
understanding that he shall be insured against
want and privation in his last stage?
—-
The Mildura Grovel Agent.
The Bulletin has received some printed matter
relating to the l)uke of York, the Mildura (Vic.)
Irrigation Settlement, J. F. Hogan, M.P., and
other persons whose bearing on the matter seems
rather mixed. The one document which can be
understood at a glance is a circular addressed by
John Vincent to the Duke aforesaid, informing
him that the Mildura scheme “signalised Her
Majesty’s Jubilee year in the annals of Australian
colonisation.” Also the circular begs to remind
the Duke of York that some five or six years ago
he acknowledged “in very kind terms” a com-
munication from John Vincent (of England)
offering an orange plantation of 20 acres at Mil-
dura to the Duke’s newly-born son, in order to
associate the “Royal House at so auspicious a
time with the agricultural prosperity of Australia
in connection with an enterprise ... of
almost imperial value and importance, &c.,
&c.” Then the circular goes on to state
that Mildura, including the 20 acres dedicated
to the Royal House, is in such a prosperous con-
dition that the loyal settlers have no need to
apologise for their temerity. The offer was
“ tendered in the firmest conviction of the success
of the undertaking,” for indeed, says John
Edwaud M. Vincent, “such a sincere belief, I
fully appreciated, could alone have justified that
offer, or even the association of the enterprise in
any way with the deeply revered name of Her
Late Majesty, which is so loyally borne by the
colony in which the undertaking was inaugurated.”
The final paragraph of this deplorable address
assumes a probability of “ Ybrk” going down to
Mildura to receive a “ hearty British greeting ”
from the inhabitants “ most of whom went out
directly from Great Britain &c.” (whatever “ &c.”
may mean in that connection) and inspect the 20
acres set apart for his Royal Infant Son. This
will explain why the poor, worried little “Duke”
visits the place where the dried apricots come
from—if he should visit it. J. E. M. Vincent,
“ late Chief Commissioner in Europe for
the Australian Irrigation Colonies ” is the
Power behind the Grovel. It is he who has dis-
covered that Ciiaffey Bros., the Canadian specu-
lators and founders of Mildura, were actuated by
a noble desire to “signalise Her Majesty’s Jubilee
year.” He, J. E. M. Vincent, was the man who
prepared in 1888 “an illustrated publication, of
which Her Majesty graciously received a special
copy,” containing loyal quotations “from the
vice-regal speech of Sir Henry Loch ” ; and if
there is a blessed Mildura knighthood among
York’s big bundle of ennobblements, Vincent is
the person who certainly ought to get it.
The Sydney Octopus.
The details of the Senate poll in N.S.W. give
some hard knocks to the great Freetrade victory.
To begin with, J. T. Walker, who topped the poll
with 80,000 votes, had over 102,000 votes cast
against him. Pulsford’s name appeared on
70,000 formal ballot-papers, and was omitted on
112,000. Yet he was elected. A very different
conclusion to Barton’s return for the Federal
Convention when he polled 100,000 out of 147,000
recorded. The big majority vote in Sydney and
environs forbade any hope for the Govt. Bunch.
In the city constituencies O’Connor was beaten
by J. P. Gray, the unsuccessful man of the Free-
trade bunch, by more than 10,000, and only his
well-known personality saved him in the country.
It would have taken Barton himself to have suc-
cessfully combated such a plump. View the re-
sult this way. Walker headed the poll in ten
constituencies (mostly urban), O’Connor in nine
(all country), and John Norton in four. Gould
was first in Werriwa, Neild in Wentworth
(his own patch), and the Labor candi-
dates in the Barrier. Thus the Freetraders
only headed the voting in 12 electorates out of
2G. A small table will show more clearly how
Sydney ruled the roost. This table gives the total
votes in the 11 districts! governed by the Metro-
politan majority—Sydney E., W., N. and S.,
Parkes, Parramatta, Illawarra, Wentworth, Dai-
ley, Lang and Werriwa. If the last is objected
to as not being a strictly city constituency
the result is practically unaltered. The four
candidates compared are Walker, who polled the
highest among the Freetraders ; O’Connor, ditto
of the Protectionists; Pulsford, who was the
lowest of the selected Freetraders to win a seat;
and W. P. Manning, the highest defeated Pro-
tectionist :
Town Votes, Total.
Walker .. .. 44,939 33,061 78,000
O’Consor .. .. 28.359 44,497 72,858
Pulsford .. .. 42,565 27,903 70,468
Manning .. .. 16,650 31,460 45,110
This clearly shows the Great Sydney Swamp.
O‘Connor is over 11,000 votes ahead of Walker
in the country, yet has to be content with fourth
place on the list. Manning, beaten out of sight
by over 20,000 for a place, polled 3000 votes more
outside Sydney and its influence than did Puls-
ford. In any future election for the Senate,
the Hare system or some such expedient will
be necessary in order that the country constitu-
encies may have some share of representation.
♦
Tlie Fegan Scandal.
It is reported at time of writing that the Barton
Cabinet will take the discreet course ; and that J.
Lionel Fegan —the tricky political hack who
jumped-into the post of Federal Internal Under-
secretary, over the heads of able public employes
of long service in six States, because of Minister
Dyne's gratitude for his political utility—will re-
tire as gracefully as may be. Sydney Telegraph
attempts to make REiD-capital out of the report
by saying the Cabinet is in an awkward posi-
tion. There is no awkwardness worth mention—
certainly none which need go beyond the Cabinet
table. The Cabinet was not consulted when
Minister Lynk made the appointment; and the
Cabinet has a perfect right to tell Minister
Lyne that, in consequence of what has
happened, or may happen, the appointment
was unwise. Then Minister Lyne can
appoint a better man, without Fegan’s
disqualifications, and with the approval of the
Cabinet. So far from such action showing Cabinet
weakness, it will show Cabinet strength ; because
it will prove to the public that, one of its members
having blundered, the Cabinet as a whole desires
to set the blunder right. And the public; will
accept the action as a proof that it is not intended
to belie election promises, and that honest ad-
ministration is honestly desired. Fegan’s reten -
tion will certainly weaken the Barton Cabinet.
Fegan’s replacement by a more suitable man will
tend to strengthen the Cabinet more than if
Fegan had never been appointed ; because it will
show that the Cabinet is determined to go straight
in defiance of any crooked member.
+
Pertinently writes Wellington (M.L.) Evening
Post : —“ The language of exaggeration is now so
commonly employed by some leading personages
in the community and their immediate followers
in regard to all matters relating to the
Royal family that instead of stimulating
loyalty, they are repelling it
The principal offender against good taste and
commonsense in this matter,” proceeds the plain-
spoken Post, “is the Premier, and perhaps the
worst specimen of his pompous grandiloquence is
to be found in his cabled message of condolence to
the British Nation : —‘ Sad tidings reached us.
Grief, profound sorrow; we must bow sub-
missively ; God’s will be done ; terrestrial crown
surrendered, assured crown glory won ; heart-
felt sympathy all peoples will go forth bereaved
Royal Family ; earnest prayers offered our
Divine Master, strengthen them great hour
trial; they have lost loving mother, human-
ity true noble friend ; grief sorrow world-
wide prevails irreparable loss.— Seddon.’ This,”
concludes the Post, “is the language of ex-
travagance and insincerity, and is degrading to
the loyalty of a self-respecting people.” The
Bulletin says Amen—and finds it hard moreover
to conceive of anything more preposterously gro-
tesque than this attempt to pack profound affliction
and the loftiest of sentiments into the jerky utter-
ances of the economy-seeking telegram. Fervour
and frugality—a People’s Sorrow fired-off by
machine-gun, and the Patriot’s Lofty Soul
with one eye on the bawbees! What a
saving grace is a sense of Humour ! And
what revolting muck is produced by the cold-
blooded stringing-together, especially on such
an occasion as that of Seddon’s cablegram, of the
pharisaic shibboleths of the bourgeois politician
with the Sunday-school education ! How the
scholarly Agent-General Reeves, on whom, no
doubt, devolved at the other end the hideous task
of knocking his boss’s hypocrisies into shape,
must have grinned !
♦
N.S. W. State Labor-party loses another of its
brainier men—chased out by a crowd jealous of
his reputation and hungry for his seat. Fergu-
son, M.P. for one of the Broken Hill seats, is the
victim this time. He committed two crimes :
First, he accepted by wire the Labor nomination
for Kalgoorlie (W.A.) in the House of Reps., and
a few days later withdrew ; then he went up to
Bathurst to fight Pumpkin Smith as the Protection-
ist candidate. There wasn’t anything serious in
either charge, and, anyway, Ferguson bad a com-
plete answer to both. As to the Kalgoo/lie busi-
ness, he wanted to say that he withdrew because
he received information that there was no effective
Labor organisation there, and that Kirwan, a
good Democrat, with a powerful paper and a
thorough canvass at his back, had a mort-
gage on the seat. And as to the Bathurst
business, he wanted to say that the man
who ran on the labor ticket alone didn’t have a
dog’s chance of winning; and so, while signing
the Labor pledge, he also accepted the policy of
the Government, which, if it includes Barton and
Forrest, also includes Kingston and Turnfr.
He wanted to say these things in his defence ; but
the local Laborite bosses, nearly every one of
whom is seeking the Party’s nomination for one or
other of the Barrier seats, got in ahead of him
with a rule that candidates for the nomination
must not canvass; and they ruled that if Fer-
guson answered the widely-circulated charges he
would, according to the rule, be disqualified.
Whereupon he did the only thing he could —he
refused to be judged when only his accusers had
spoken ; he defied the local P.L.L., he answered
the charges, and he carried with him one of the
biggest and most enthusiastic meetings held at
Broken Hill. But the machine Labor-vote there
is exceedingly powerful; and though Ferguson
will win in the end, it will only be after a hard
and bitter fight.
♦
The Commission appointed, at the instance of
sundry Fatman representatives, to inquire into
the working of the Vic. Factories Act, got to
work the other day. Not one opponent of the
Act came forward voluntarily, but as the Com-
mission wanted to get both sides of the case—if
there were two sides—the Chief Secretary’s de-
partment’ kindly rounded up a few of that kidney.
They were an amusing crowd, and the most the
worst of them could say was that they had lost a
little casual, floating trade through having to
close their shops at a civilised hour. One enter-
taining draper-man objected to restrictive legis-
lation because he once wanted to get some pork-
sausages at 9.30 p.m., and the Act had closed
the shop at 9. This witness thought 10 hours’
work a day “ extremely reasonable,” also he
solemnly assured the Commission that when
a draper closed early the evening business
mostly vanished, and the people did without the
clothes they formerly bought after dark, which
indicates a thrifty but indecorous tendency on the
part of Melbourne citizens. Further, he would
allow shops to keep open all night as long as they
could do any business, though he objected
to extending the same privilege to hotels ;
and, finally, he shocked "his hearers by
asserting (what is quite true) that Great
Britain had been “ built up on unrestricted
sweating.” Next came a butcher, and several of
the biggest city tailors and drapers. These testi-
fied that the Act “ had caused a slight rise in
wages” (this was for shops only, which don’t
come under the minimum-wage clauses); “ that
early closing causes no loss of business, that time
being past ” ; “ that the fixing of a standard wage
would have no ill effect on the employer if every-
one were compelled to pay the same”; and,
lastly, from the largest tailor and men’s mercer in
Bourke-street, that “the Act had not only not
injured his business, it had done him good.”
Then the Commission adjourned to give the objec-
tors time to get their second wind.
Victorian employers evidently intend making a
concerted attempt to nullify the S' ite's Factories
Act. Following on the withdrawal of the woollen-
mill employers' delegates from the Wages Board,
their delegates on the Fel 1 mongers’ Board have
now withdrawn, because the chairman, by his
casting vote, reduced the houi’s from GO to 48 par
week. As the wages have not yet been fixed by
this Board, and as it is open to any employer who
wishes to work long hours to either pay overtime
rates or to employ double shifts, the fictitious
nature of the excuse is apparent. Lastly the
Clothing Employers omitted to nominate dele-
gates at all, without giving any reason. Mani-
festly the average Vic. manufacturer is a firm
believer in free labor and freedom of contract
—for the other fellow. He votes for Protection
every time, and takes full advantage of the policy
to protect himself against the cheap labor of
foreign countries, but, when it comes to extending
a share of that protection to his worker, he has a
pressing engagement elsewhere. Wherefore it
cannot be too strongly laid down that the policy
of Protection—to which the Barton Government
stands committed—includes equal protection to
worker and manufacturers. The natural corollary
of a Protective Tariff is a Minimum Wage. It
matters little to the worker whether he is sweated
by a foreign importer or a local manufacturer;
the only difference is that in the one case he can’t
get at the sweater, in the other he can or should,
and the Federal Parliament which legislatively
protects the employer must, if its professions are
to be of any account whatever, protect the worker
also.
4
This is how Brisbane Courier explains the white
victory in the Herbert electorate :
The Herbert consists of seven electorates —Bowen,
Cairns, Cook, Herbert, Mackay, Townsville, YVoothakata.
All of these electorates (two of them double seats) are
held by Ministerialists, with the single exception of
Cairns. The plain inference is that the Labor partisans
came to the poll and the electors of the other side largely
absented themselves.
There are several other plain inferences that the
Courier has (apparently) forgotten. One is that
a great many people beside the Laborites don’t
believe in a piebald Australia. Another is that
the sheet-anchor of the present rotten Govt, of
Bananaland is the property-vote, and that if that
property-vote be abolished the Philp Govt, will
go down like a house of cards. Another inference
neglected by the Courier is the very patent one
that the nearer you are to black labor the more
it stinks. The great support of the Kanaka,
during the late contest, came from Brisbane
where there isn’t any Kanaka; while the big
blows and most determined opposition to the
alien came from the workers of Wide Bay and
the Herbert, who have seen drunken Tommy
Tanna rioting down the streets, raising hell upon
earth.
Queensland Worker (April 6th)
Tiie Bulletin has no sympathy with the Labor move-
ment. The only one of the Queensland anti-Ivanaka
party for whom it said a word was M‘Donald,” &c., &c.
A very interesting statement —and an absolutely
untrue one. In the Bulletin issue of March
30th, for instance, occurs this passage :
To the people of Queensland the best possible advice is
to abjure the whole crowd of Kanaka advocates—Kanaka
Cowley most of all.
If this be not inciting the Queensland elector to
vote for the anti-Kanaka party, what is it ? The
Worker will find ample room for the exercise of
its powers of language in worrying the Northern
syndicates and endeavoring to push the Philp
Govt, into the paths of political rectitude, without
making abusive and mendacious statements about
other Democratic journals. The Worker is
highly delighted at the recent Labor victories in
Queensland ; but that organ must remember that
without Federation those victories were not
possible, and The Worker from first to last
denounced Federation as a system under which
Democratic victories were impossible.
♦
Complaining of the prevalent scarcity of labor in
country districts and its superabundance in
Melbourne, a dairy-farmer writes to the Age
wanting to know why, as the Factories Act has
put a minimum price on labor, the Govt, doesn't
fix a minimum price for butter, say 9d. per lb. The
inquiry is a trifle previous, but that doesn’t affect
the argument. Parliament has fixed a minimum
wage for labor of certain classes only, but it hasn’t
protected all workers by any means. It hasn’t,
so far, protected the farm laborers or the butter-
factory employes, and that is the chief reason
why the farming person cannot just now get
enough assistance at the irnpe he paps. But Par-
liament protected him and his butter industry,
by means of bonuses, long enough to establish it
so firmly that he now obtains a steady and higher
average price all the year round than he did when
lie ran things in the old free-and-easy style. Also,
it still protects him by instructing him in the
manufacture and supervising the shipment of
butter, and in other ways preventing him from
spoiling the sweet thing he has got. And, as this
protection and State organisation and supervision
has raised his profits while increasing the supply,
it wouldn’t be a bad notion to apply the same
remedy to his helot —the agricultural worker.
4
“ Karnie ” on a vital question :
Dear Bulletin. — The Commonwealth riot, the visit of
the gaudily-dressed Imperial troops, and the despatch of
the various contingents for S’Africa, has swelled the ranks
of Sydney prostitutes to an extraordinary extent, but
a still greater social scandal is the city’s child-
prostitution. Recently (March 13) while passing
the corner of Bridge and George sts. about 10.30
p.m., I saw a couple of lusty brutes of “jack-tars”
bundling four little “ flower-girls,” all of tender age, into
a couple of cabs. The sailors jumped in with the girls,
and the cabbies drove swiftly away. I walked over to a
policeman watching from the opposite corner. Said to
him, “This is something awful.” “Yes,” he said.
“ Have you no power to interfere?” “No, I could not
say for what purpose they were being driven off, and
unless they were followed, no case could be made out
against any of the parties concerned.” Now, I heard
some of the conversation between the sailors and the
girls, and certainly it was from no philanthropic motives
that they were bundled into the cabs. Again, some days
before, a little after 9 o’clock, myself and a friend, on re-
turning from a walk along the sea-wall past Circular Quay,
observed a diminutive girl sitting under the rocks sur-
rounded by three greasy Lascar seamen, one of them on each
side of her, and the other in front, trying to hide her
from our view. My friend rushed across the road, and
dragged the little girl out of their midst. On question-
ing the child, she said that one of the lascars had first
given her sixpence to buy some fruit, and then afterwards
offered her half-a-crown to go up the steps of the “ Tar-
peian Way,” one of them to go ahead and watch, while
the other remained on the steps for the same purpose.
The girl said she refused to go up the steps into the lane
with them, and they then induced her to sit down where
we discovered them, and behaved indecently to her.
Questioned farther, she said she lived with her mother,
had no father, didn’t get too much to eat, had only dry
bread for breakfast and nothing since but the fruit she
had bought with the sixpence! Said she was 12 years
old, seemed rather an intelligent child, with nothing of
the slum look about her, and rather pretty. Going home
by tram we told several passengers all this. They treated
it lightly, and some said that the mothers of' some of
these children are in the habit of hawking them round
the streets nightly for purposes of prostitution. And the
N.S.W. churches send missionaries to China 1


THE ROYAL VISIT
PREMO CAMERAS
PERFECT PICTURES
And you can rely upon getting good results of
the festivities if armed with one of our
K& No. 15 PONY PREMOS.
The Latest and Most TJp-to-Date Cameras.
Price, from 255. up to £2O.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue to
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.
375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and at Melbourne, Adelaide & Brisbane.
HELiDON SPA WATER
NATURAL
NERAL WATER
K
A
&
Sulphide Corporation
LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, lead, a 0 Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Large Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek
A E. SAVAGE,
Manager
CIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Lyceum. “ My Jack.”
Palace “ Why Smith Left Home. -
Theatre Royal “ Cinderella.”
Her Majesty’s “ Florodora.”
Empire Fuller Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's Grand Opera Season.
Her Majesty’s “Macbeth.”
Theatre Royal “The World."
Bijou Rickards Variety Co.
ATHEN.EUM Hall G.B. Biograph.
On Saturday night Miss Antonia Dolores
gave the last of her Sydney Song Recitals in the
Centennial Hall. The audience was vast, and
when Miss Dolores came out from under the
great organ she looked like a rather plump
girl standing on the steps of a gigantic wedding
cake. Organist Sykes sat him down at the grand
piano, there was a ripple of music, and Miss
Dolores commenced to sing an aria of Massenet’s,
in which Salome, the wicked daughter of
Herodias, tells of her burning passion for the
doomed John the Baptist. A song of in-
tense passion passion that had never
known restraint, and was capable of any-
thing. Salome was evidently a very excitable
woman. When the clear, crystal notes had
died away applause stormed through the vast
hall like the beating of the surf. Then
came the Song of the Cross, from far away down
the dead centuries, when in 1095 the Crusaders
started for Jerusalem. ’Twas a sombre, terrible
creation, and as it flowed forth from the lips of
the singer it breathed of the resolution of
fods and the ferocity of devils. Sung by
lolores it was grand—sung by an army of
dour fanatics it must have sounded absolutely
terrible, and filled with awe the lands through
which the wild and holy hordes passed
on their way to Jerusalem. But there is
a dismal probability that these hordes didn’t
sing at all, and that the Song of the
Cross is a purely modern imposture—though being
devoid of musical culture, the present pen-person
advances this opinion with humility. Mr. Clar-
ence Newall gave several effective piano solos.
On Sunday night Miss Dolores left for Adelaide,
where she will warble from April 24th to May
3rd. She will then go to Melbourne and Sydney
to sing at the State Concerts till the 31st, after
which she will tour the piebald State of Queens-
land.
* * * *
The announcement that Prince Charming
and Cinderella will cease to pantomime at Sydney
Royal early in May is causing a considerable rush
to view the gorgeous dresses, the winged ballet,
and the shapely figure of the gemmed poten-
tate whose wedding fills the theatre with the
odors of Araby. The Butterfly ballet is the sort
of thing a man of taste would like to keep on the
premises to brighten up wet Sunday afternoons.
Those butterflies are of an interesting species.
This paper really grieves that the songs and book
are not up to the hand-painted drapery and
ch-'rminr' pink letrs and other outward attrac-
tions. George Musgrove has done a good thing
tor the play-goer, and an evil one for the play-
manager. Unless future draperies and legs, are
up to the Musgrove standard they will be sniffed
at. And the Musgrove standard is exacting and
costly. It will take a lot of cash to maintain
shows on that glimmering pinnacle.
* * * *
Nellie Stewart will signalise the close of
her “ Cinderella ” season in Sydney in a manner
that should win her the respect and love of every-
body. To-day (Saturday, April 27) Prince Charm-
ing gives a matinee for the benefit of the Poor
Children of Sydney. With a large and generous
liberality Miss Stewart will give, not merely the
profits, but the gross receipts of the show to those
charities that are maintained for the benefit of
the young. All the expenses are to be paid by the
Lady of the Turquoises. On the same night, in the
Centennial Hall, the artists and singers of Sydney
will tender Mr. Tenor Woodhoiiso the Night in
Bohemia,” mentioned in last issue. Mr. Pack’s
benefit eventuates at Sydney Palace on the after-
noon of Thursday (25th).
# * # »
The story of “ Florodora ” is another ex-
aTriple of the great truth that success is a matter
of luck, and that luck generally falls on the
shoulders of the undeserving and foolish—where-
fore this scribe has great hopes. In “ Florodora ”
all the people who plot and scheme and work get
next to nothing, while those who “ let her slide ”
get everything. Brownlow Abercoed ;s a most
unenterprising individual, and yet he gets the
Briton’s share of the boodle in the shape of a
charming bundle of drapery known as Dolores, a
vast fortune, and a fine island, and he recovers
his ancestral halls, which had been bought
by robber Gilfain. Widow Palotta Holy-
rood works as a Kanaka is supposed
to work in a canefield, and if she gets any-
thing it is only old, worn-out Gilfain when he has
presumably lost his money. Miss Chetwynd Gil-
fain, truly, gets the penniless guardsman she
hungers for, but then, her dancing is a dream, and
entitles her to receive anything she can wish for.
Presumably daughter Gilfain inherits her floating
grace from old man Gilfain, who shakes a respect-
able leg when he likes, and he generally likes
between 9.30 and 10 p.m. every evening, just
in front of Abercoed Castle. There are points
about Gilfain as an employer, and his thoughtful
action in providing six nicely-dressed English
ladies to sing “I must love somebody, and it
might as well be you ” to his six dapper secre-
taries, is much appreciated.
# # * *
While the melodrama still goes on show-
ing us pictures of the faithful old servant who
attends the defrauded hero into exile without
wages or beer, the comedy drama, as in “ Why
Smith Left Home,” takes a leap into the future
and reveals how the servant who has learnt the
merits of trades-unionism will hold a rebellious
family in subjection by the mere possession of a
platform and the frequent enunciation of its many
ptanks. Thus, in the Palace the d.c. trembles for
the lessons which are nightly conned by the gal-
lery up above. Probably, when the Duke and
Duchess come to this country, and the poor rela-
tion in the backblocks begins to trouble the land
and worry his town brother for the loan of the
best bedroom, the astute local relative will apply
to the registry for a cook warranted to kill an
aunt in two meals and a mother-in-law in three or
four, like the treasure that rejoiced the heart of
the much-enduring Smith at the Palace Theatre,
adjacent to the Marble Bar, in Pitt-st., Sydney.
** * *
Sydney Lyceum still continues with the
badly-jointed play wherein the good old squire
allows the faithful servant to insult his guests and
use the drawing:-room as a study and a convenient
place for dressing-up and frightening the other
menials with ghost tricks. The stage keeps re-
ligiously to the manners of some twenty years
back, as when the massive adventuress curtseys
to the floor when introduced to the gentleman she
is about to poison. In the average melodrama
there is always one person who says, “I pray, sir,”
whereas nobody ever preys nowadays except with
an “e.” The maniac’s den which the wicked
husband thinks suitable as a rendezvous for his
wife still fails to excite much horror in the heart
of the audience, as the knife which descends, with
intervals for rests, is obviously something that
would crumple up at the edges when it touched
the neck of the lady below. It isn’t a realistic
knife, and its edge was obviously made in
Germany.
** * *
Sydney Empire issued a long proclama-
tion of the company’s intention to give its audi-
ence “ wit without vulgarity and fun without
coarseness,” afte% which certain people discuss
the boarding-house flea, an animal that doubtless
forms the staple subject of conversation in polite
society, and is constantly discussed in the gilded
halls of the nobility. Fred. Bluett, a new
importation, is after the style of the
Tivoli hero famed for stretching his neck
out to fathoms five or thereabouts, save that
Bluett leaves the neck-stretching out. Heba
Barlow as yet makes an indefinite impression, but
seems a nice girl on the whole. Will Stevens’
“ Soldier’s Story ” is a good item, knocking hard
at the Jingo who does brave deeds at the war to
which he doesn’t go. This sort of thing is much
to be preferred to the boarding-house flea item.
The Empire is advised to adopt the moral of that
legend so well rendered by its own John Fuller
and Amy Blackie, and like the young man with
the flag—go higher. The young man aforesaid
was no doubt a very impractical person, but,
any way, in the vast elevation at which he perished
there were no fleas.
** * *
The funeral of Queen Victoria proceshed
on its canvas background in Sydney for the last
time on Saturday night, when ladies wept loyally
in bright-hued evening-dresses and with their hair
done up in the newest style—that is to say, the
style which makes the head at the back look like
a well-grown onion. The hall was dark and the
cinematographic pictures were dark, and the rain
pattered drearily outside while somebody on the
platform described the wanderings of what he
called the “ cauffin ” round various parts of
London. An hour or so of funeral procession is
about the most melancholy entertainment pos-
sible, and it is sad to realise that the people who
tried to brighten the dirge-like music with
applause were rebuked by the man who said
“cauffin.” Later, the Queen of Holland was
married per Cin., and the social atmosphere
oleared somewhat.
* * *
At Sydney Tivoli, Miss Maggie Fraser
does some decent footwork, that occasionally wins
her something like a demonstration. The Clarence
Sisters, two nice little girls who have grown up in
the Tivoli, are now ripe for careful training how
to use their undeniably good arms and feet; at
present, they are rather wooden. Marie Lloyd’s
experiences as idol of the Rose and Crown, where
an admiring coster described her as “a rorty
Eiece of crackling,” are as popular as ever. Her
usband’s sketch, “ The Lambeth Walk,” is clear
proof that Mr. Alec Hurley is not like the usual
star’s husband, who manages for her by collecting
her screw and licking the luggage labels. The
new feature at the House of the Curtain is the
Les Theires family—four clever children, who
do contortion business and bicycle tricks.
** * *
The Monologue Man at Queen’s Hall,
Sydney, is neither remarkably bad nor singularly
good, but the show upon the whole displays con-
siderable staying-power of a kind. It may not be
brilliant, but it is plodding and persevering.
Rodney led off his entertainment by what lie
referred to as some of “that patriotic business”
in a tone that would have drawn bricks from the
audience a few months back. His song, “York,
you’re wanted,” was, if not a courtly, at least a
police-courtly, manner of expressing to the heir of
the Empire this nation’s desire to see him step
forward and show himself. Some of Rodney’s
pantomimic sketches, more especially those of
Eersons swimming, are capitally done, but his
urlescpie of the “Six Hundred” is ancient fun,
and his mock ventriloquism is not only ancient
but poor. Rodney is a hard-working and indus-
trious entertainer, but some entertainers who toil
far less are quite as well appreciated.
*# * *
Miss Bertha Dickens, a Queensland young
lady with a promising soprano voice, will make her
debut in the Centenary Hall, York-street, on
Saturday evening next. Miss Dickens has been
studying with Mr. Bethune, the well-known
singing-master. She will be supported by well-
known artists: Mr. Henry Weir, M. Henri
Staell, Herr Gerard Vollmar, and also by her
sister, a promising violiniste.
A scoffer tells about the recent Wagner
concert at Melbourne Town Hall: —
It was the drollest study in human self-deception. It
started with tremendous applause for Marshall-Hall as
the inflexible German school-master took the platform.
The youngest of the crowd —limp maidens and pale-faced
boys in the incipient moustache stage—roared and
shrieked at their pedant saint, like Salvationists adoring
General Booth. Then they settled down to discover
something beautiful in that dreariest of funeral
items, the Trauermarsch, from “ Gotterdammerung,”
given as a belated reminder of Queen Victoria’s decease.
The overture from “Tannhaiiser” lessened the strain
upon their make-believe, for “ Tannhaiiser’s ” intentions
are melodious as a rule, and when treated by 100 instru-
mentalists (of very various quality) it grows exciting
towards the finish. Besides, Marshall-Hall supplied a Key
to the Overture in 40 lines of small print, as for instance :
—“The wild throng then disperses, and their commotion
ceases ; a voluptuous plaintive whirling alone now stirs
the air, and a horrible murmur now pervades the spot
where the enrapturing magic spell had shown itself, and
which now again is overshadowed by darkness.” The
audience read the conductor’s narrative in a furtive man-
ner, and appeared to take it all for Gospel. Therefore, when
the brass-band had finished blaring, and God and Nature
had ceased to “embrace each other in the holy uniting kiss
of Love” their enthusiasm grew frantic. Next came a
truly agonising experience Wotan’s Asbchied from
“ Die Walkilre.” Charles Tilbury, looking like a puffy
little man in a frock-coat, rather than a German god,
asbehieded in English, or what sounded like English, to
those at the far end of the hall, although his broken
dirge words were printed in German on the programme.
Apart from Tilbury’s dull solo, this fragment of a musical
narrative was a mere piece of orchestration, as far as 49
out of every 50 of the listening ears could possibly under-
stand it. The few accomplished musicians present, other
than bigoted Wagnerites, would willingly admit the
fact. And yet the multitude professed to feel happy
whilst Wagner’s skilfully-manufactured yards of dingy
sound were being uttered to the glory of Cant.
* * * *
“Lady Inger of Ostrat,” for the first time
on the English-speaking stage—so the advt. said,
and it probably spoke truth—came to pass at Her
Majesty’s, Melbourne, last Saturday. Inveterate
theatre-goers, and others not inveterate, who take
an interest in dramatic novelties, supplied a large
first-night audience for this soporific example of
“ Ibsen’s early style.” Up to the time when the
present scribe reached for his hat and made a bee
line for the last train, the patience of that audience
seemed deserving of praise. Ibsen’s early style is
pretty much what might be expected from his
later style. Tediously dramatic, oddly humorless,
and organically diseased, “Lady Inger” was
written before Ibsen had fairly started to re-
construct human nature. In its native Norway
this long-winded tragedy has a historical meaning,
and the names of the characters are familiar to the
ear, and their expletives fit the case; even as
“Marry, come up” and “Grammercy” seem
suitable to an Elizabethan discussion in English
drama. Also, the mummers have the true mea-
sure of their parts, no doubt, and the stage
manager gives the narrative a chance to make
itself intelligible.
* * * *
“ Lady Inger,” as produced on Saturday,
was all words and no sense, for which this scribe
blames the performance rather than the author.
Ibsen’s weighty dialogue was well-translated, one
supposes, and in that case the Nance O’Neil Co.,
or the stage manager, must have maltreated it.
“A definite story” is claimed for “Lady
Inger,” but the plot that dragged its weary
length from act to act on Saturday—five
acts, with very short intervals for yawning—was
blurred and indistinct. The points were not
accentuated. The situation at 11.25 p.m., when
this scribe left Miss Crawford in night gear sitting
upon the knee of a mailed knight in a banquet
hall, was exceedingly cuddlesome but quite un-
accountable. If her mother, Nance O’Neil, came
along to banquet, and caught the giddy girl on
the hug, so to speak, there must have been a hor-
rible explosion at Ostrat Manor. Nance’s part
was adorned with much violent language, includ-
ing a loud, conventional “Jesus Christ!” which
sounded like the cry of a perturbed spirit on
washing-day. Nance was mistaken for a ghost
as she walked into the first act.
* * * *
An air of superfluous mystery pervaded
the performance throughout. M ‘Kee Rankin even
was a seeming spectre until the drama unfolded
the secret of his exuberant identity. He popped
up suddenly in a corridor when Nance was talking
to herself about her ancestors, whereupon she
shrieked “Bleeding Saints!” or words to that
effect, and brought the curtain down. Ibsen, in his
early days, was evidently crude in his objurgations.
Subsequently Rankin evolved himself into a well-
fed conspirator, who lay dormant in the attic or
somewhere for 30 years. He was plotting to throw
off the Danish yoke, as far as one could understand
the purpose of the drama. Kingston impersonated
a Danish agent for the Yoke with a terrible name
among the ladies. There had been some talk of
him having ruined one of Nance’s daughters, and
the sole surviving daughter was undoubtedly
mashing him under questionable circumstances
when this report closed. As to whether Nance
intended to slay Kingston for the good of her dis-
tressful Norway, or was going to relent for the
sake of her illegitimate son Plimmer (if Plimmer
was illegitimate) or show mercy on account of the
erring spinster who sat on the Danish deceiver’s
knee, the present scribe can say nothing. More-
over, he isn’t deeply interested.
* * * *
“Lady Inger,” for the first time on the
English-speaking stage, will not run later than
Friday, if it lasts until then. There are three
big parts, of the most conflicting emotional order,
in Ibsen’s tragedy, and perhaps they were sanely
constructed, but, anyway, the three principal
artists —Nance O’Neil, Kingston and Miss Alice
Crawford —didn’t hold their respective characters
together on Saturday. The last-named damsel
has no pretensions, as yet, to undertake a task
which demands great physical strength and a
thorough experience in stage business. She cannot
even “walk the stage” for romantic tragedy
purposes, and yet she has the dramatic in-
stinct, which the tutored Nance lacks, and her
performance of unsophisticated Mabel Vane m
“ Peg Woffington ” was admirable for its natural-
ness.
* * * *
On Saturday they produce “ Macbeth ” at
Her Majesty’s, and then all the faults of Nance
O’Neil's starring in other tragedies will be for-
given her. “Macbeth” is a matter of scenery,
supers, music and Shakespeare, and it seems
bound to draw good houses for a few weeks in a
city which hasn’t seen King Duncan more than
once during the last 20 years.
“ The World ” of Bland Holt is fulfilling
his fondest expectations at Melb. Royal. “ The
World” belongs to the ancient order of melo-
drama which strove to be consistently improbable
all the way through. Modern Drury Lane plays
have their literary leanings, but B.H.’s latest re-
vival simply revolves on an axis of untruth, and
the gods see that it is good. John Brunton con-
tributes largely to the general effect. His rolling
sea, threatening to slop into the orchestra and
rock the fiddlers on its cold damp bosom, is quite
a masterpiece of deceit, also the conversion of the
dim Pacific Ocean into a bright dry Garden Fete
is cleverly managed. Likewise the lunatic asylum,
where patients get driven mad by special con-
tract, is an impressive scene owing to the
desperate character of Albert Norman’s escape.
Four warders bar the way to Albert’s liberty, and
for some time he can’t do more than overthrow
them in detail, but at last he knocks them all
down at once, and is free to prove his long-lost
identity in the eyes of God and man. The
defeat of those four Boer warders by a gallant
British hero would not have been possible if the
bad young brother and the joyful bill discounter
had taken the precaution to chain their victim to
his bed-post in the refractory ward. That was
where their villainy showed its weakness. They
desired to be moderately merciful, and because
they were infirm of purpose Nemesis overtook
them and virtue triumphed in the end. Painful
to notice how the miscreants of melodrama in-
variably come to grief through neglecting to do
their very worst when the occasion warrants it.
** * *
At Melb. Princess’s, where the sacred
lamp of grand-opera burns unsteadily, and the
“ Lohengrin ” chorus sometimes needs shaking up,
Miss Ella Russell strikes a rather high note of suc-
cess in “IlTrovatore.” The newprima-donnais not
so young and slender as she was. A good deal of
the original color has departed from her respected
voice, and she sings nowadays with more care
than fluency, but she is an Artist who makes a
decided change for the better in “ Trovatore,” and
puts a little new life into “ Faust.” Seeing that
Miss Coomber, the one really sweet and interest-
ing member of Musgrove’s co., has dropped out
of all the bills since she scored a success as
Elsa, The Bulletin feels grateful for Miss
Russell. Also, this journal continues to
approve of tenor Berthald, who makes musi-
cal love to the Wagnerian heroines more
effectively than Louis Arens could make it.
Lempriere Pringle, the new Tasmanian basso
from England, is likewise acceptable on account
of his tall figure and good vocal range, although
his singing hasn’t the roundness and smoothness
of Tilbury’s. To-night (Thursday) “Lohen-
grin” is the bill, to-morrow “Maritana,” with
Madame Slapoffski in the name part, and on
Saturday—but the production of “LaTraviata”
is probably doubtful. On Wednesday (May Ist)
veteran Armes Beaumont, a warrior who has the
scalps of many benefits dangling from his girdle,
will be given a complimentary benefit by the full
strength of the Princess’s forces. _
** * *
Frank Latona, the musical tramp, is the
latest personage at Rickards’ Bijou, and the
tramping of Francis will be kept under observa-
tion for a week before this journal passes judg-
ment. Two or three people who went away some
months ago have returned to duty at the Bijou,
whereas Box is now numbered with the missing.
** * *
At the Athenaeum Hall the G. B. Bio-
graph will work its present series of pictures for
another week, and when the programme is
changed the Pope will perhaps be a leading fea-
ture on the screen. The G. 8.8. is known to have
had some sittings from the exclusive potentate of
the Vatican, and a good many people would be
glad to see the result; also they wonder what tune
the band plays when the spiritual presence is
being reeled off the cylinder.
** * *
A Townsville (Q.) correspondent writes :
The Hawtrey Oomedy Co. has been playing in “ The
Message from Mars ” and “ Tom, Dick and Harry ” for a
week and has done fairly good business. You might not
know that we have a brand-new theatre, which, however,
does not meet with Hawtrey’s approval, as you can’t hear
very well in the back seats (the pit). In order to remedy
this defect William had sounding wires installed. The
curtain is a glaring atrocity of advertisements, intimating
where you can get the best boots to drink, and how you
can buy whisky that will require to be re-soled and
heeled after six months wear. “ Mars ” was a little above
the heads of certain Bananalanders. They wanted the
play explained to them, and the serio-comical, imagina-
tive, metaphysical play in which the large grey man
exercises a spell over Horace Parker is too soulful to stand
explanation. Hawtrey was wise in producing “ Mars’.’first
as it might not have survived after “Tom, Dick and Harry,”
which was put up on Wednesday and finished the season
to good houses. The three red-headed, red-bearded,
blue-eyed men who are responsible for all the trouble in
this terrible farce were in the best of form and lived up


Deui york [ife Insurance On.
Special Representatives Wanted.
GOOD CONTRACTS.
Apply- THOB, P. PURVES, General Manager,
76 PITT STREET, BYDNEY
“ENGLAND'S FAVORITE.”
PLAYER’S
mi.... »mriirnrmTrwr'TY*tii’ t'litf
NAVY CUT
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
5S*
The Financier and Bullionist of 2nd August,
1900, writes re the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited : “ Considering the world wide operations of the
Society, it is astounding that, with all its gigantic rami-
fications and temptations to accept new business ot a
risky nature, it has passed through the ordeal not only
scathTess but with almost unparalleled progress.*
« * * *
The Austral Otis Engineering Co. have now
completed and handed over their contract for the supply
and erection of a bucket dredging plant for the Ovens
Valley Gold Dredging Co., Pore Punkah, Victoria. The
work was done in record time, and the plant started off
and has continued to work without a hitch. Messis.
Richardson and Blair, the engineers for the Ovens Valley
Co., express themselves delighted with the class of
machinery supplied and the expeditious and satisfactory
manner in which the contract has been carried out.*
* * * *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings,
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
Most readers of The Bulletin will have heard
that Luhrig Vanners have proved a phenomenal success
on Broken Hill sulphides as also on low grade gold and
copper ores. All Barrier Mines remodelling their mills on
up-to-date lines include a number of them. The South
and Junction companies each have about a dozen, no
slime treatment plant being now considered complete
without these excellent machines. In Queensland tin
concentration is the latest accomplishment, the Irvine-
bank Mill having introduced Luhrig Vanners with success-
ful results, the example having been followed by the well-
known Ooolgarra Tin Mining Co., who are installing a
number of Luhrig Vanners in connection with their new
Tin Dressing Mill. Messrs. W. &J. Lempriere, Melbourne,
are the general agents for the Luhrig Appliances.*
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * • •
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts, forgings, andallsortsof iron-work.*
* * » «
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Waihi (M.L.) G.M. Co. is raising its capital to
£500,000, and will have in hand £250,000 for development
of the mine and the treatment-plant.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
11S WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per cent,
pure), Bleaching Powder, Mining Requisite*
Candles, eto.
to the reputation that preceded them from Sydney. Haw-
trey, as the dyspeptic, full-blooded Colonel, was immense,
and the well-froeked ladies who kissed the Johnnies one
after the other carried all before them. We liked the
“ Highland Legacy,” but several real Scotchmen I spoke
to said that Hawtrey’s Highland brogue hadn’t the ring
of true metal about it.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Royal Bank of Australia (Melbourne) again
shows, in its balance-sheet for the half-year ended 30th
March, 1901, a material improvement. This institution
wrote off £150,000 capital (out of £300,000 paid up) and
£26,521 reserves between 1892 and 1896, and paid no
dividends during the four years 1893,1894,1895, and 1896.
Starting fair at the end of 1896, it has since progressed as
follows:
Total
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
March, 1897 .. £3398 3 per cent. = £2250 .. £ll4B
September, 1897 .. 3625 3 „ 2250 .. 2523
March, 1898 .. 3865 3 „ = 2250.. 4138
September, 1898 .. 4088 3 „ 2250 .. 5976
March, 1899 .. 4315 3 „ = 2250 .. 8041
September, 1899 .. 4624 3 „ = 2250.. 10,415
March, 1900 .. 5843 4 „ = 3000 .. 13,258
September, 1900 .. 5863 4 ~ = 3000 .. 16,121
March, 1901 .. 6488 5 „ = 3750 .. 18,859
The profits are equal to £7 16s. 3d. per cent, per annum
on the shareholders’ funds as at the beginning of the half-
year (capital £150,000, and reserves £16,121). Under the
circumstances, the further increase of the dividend to 5
per cent, is probably justifiable, though great caution is
still necessary, and no further increase should be thought
of until the profits show a very material further improve-
ment. When the Royal Bank paid its last dividend
before the great cataclysm (in September, 1892), it had
£307,659 of shareholders’ funds (capital, £300,000;
reserve fund, £5OOO ; and undivided profit, £2659). The
shareholders’ funds are now £168,859 (capital, £150,000 ;
reserve fund, £15,000 ; and undivided profit, £3859).
The earnings are now much larger in proportion to the
capital than they were in 1892, and they are almost as
large in the aggregate ; the reserves are more than twice
as strong ; also, much more attention seems to be paid to
the necessity for strengthening the institution. But, all
the same, the shareholders’ funds are £138,800 less than
they were before the year of the great breakage (the
Royal itself didn’t break, but it felt the disaster none the
less), and the need for making good this loss should
always be kept in view.
As compared with previous half-year the Royal
Bank shows a large increase in note and bill circulation,
deposits, advances, cash reserves, reserves of State securi-
ties—in fact, it shows a very material improvement all
round. State and municipal securities (£30,000) repre-
sent much more than the whole reserves, and if this
means that it is intended to keep the reserve fund
separately invested, it is a highly commendable idea.
Total of cash and liquid securities is £2os,s6o—equal to
over 36 per cent, on all direct liabilities to the public.
Affairs are looking remarkably well with this little bank,
as with a good many other banks just now ; and if only
sufficient preparation is made for the next lean year—for
the next repetition of 1893 —there is no reason why its
prosperity should not be permanent. The same remark
applies to a good many other banks.
• * * •
The Bank of Adelaide, whose returns are con-
sistently good, shows an unexpected outbreak of extra
prosperity for the year which closed on 25th March, 1901
—why any bank’s accounts should close on the 25th of a
month is mysterious. The year’s profits and dividend
compare with previous returns after this fashion :
Total
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
March, 1892 .. £31,116 7 per cent. = £28,000 £155,501
„ 1893 .. 30,976 7 „ = 28,000 158,477
„ 1894 .. 30,763 7 „ = 28,000 161,240
„ 1895 .. 31,049 7 „ 28,000 164,289
„ 1896 .. 31,225 7 „ 28,000 167,514
„ 1897 .. 31,047 7 „ 28,000 170,561
~ 1898 .. 33,401 7 „ = 28,000 175,962
„ 1899 .. 33,026 7 „ = 28,000 180,988
„ 1900 .. 38,413 8 32,000 187,401
„ 1901 .. 48,097 8 32,000 203,498
Profits are equivalent to £8 3s. 9d. per cent, per annum
on the shareholders’ funds as at the beginning of the half-
year (paid-up capital £400,000; reserves £187,401); which
is a very handsome figure and much above the usual level.
The Bank of Adelaide didn’t suspend in 1893—in fact it
went on paying its regular dividend and increasing its
reserves, and didn’t turn a hair in the great downfall.
It has liquid securities (of which £400,021 are State
securities) amounting to £1,187,568, which is equivalent
to nearly 53 per cent, on all liabilities to the public, cash
and State debentures alone representing 33 per cent.
This is a record such as hardly any other financial insti-
tution in Australasia can equal, and in its small way the
Bank of Adelaide certainly looks something far beyond
the average in the way of solidity. The policy of keep-
ing such a very substantial second reserve of State
securities is especially commendable ; not only is the
whole reserve fund thus invested, but nearly half the
capital as well.
« * * *
The Colonial Bank (Melbourne), for the half-
year to 31st March, 1901, shows a further expansion of
profits; and raises the dividend on preference shares to 5
per cent. The Colonial Bank reconstructed in 1893, and
agreed to pay 4) per cent, interest on its extended
deposits. In March, 1895, interest was reduced to 2j per
cent., and after March, 1898, things so far improved, that
the rate was raised to 3 per cent., at which figure it still
remains. In 1899, dividends began to be paid on prefer-
ence shares. The record during the 3 per cent, interest
period has been as follows: —
p Preference Share Total
.fronts. Dividends, &c. Reserves.
Sept., 1898 .. £853 Written off = £853
March, 1899 .. 5,601 3 per cent. = 4561 £1,040
Sept., 1899 •■7,078) 3 = 4561 6,617
Forfeited Capital 3,060 / ”
March, 1900 ..11,472 4 „ =* 6081 12,008
Sept., 1900 ..12,019 4 6081 17,946
March, 1901 ..13,718 5 „ = 7601 24,063
The reserves are certainly increasing with some rapidity,
and the profits are equivalent to £6 6s. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ funds as at the beginning of
the half-year (preference capital, £304,044; ordinary
capital, £116,876 ; reserve fund, £15,000 ; and undivided
profit, £2946). The ordinary shareholders’ capital is
now such a mere shadow (this half-year it stands at
£126,497) that it would only require £10,764 to pay a 5
per cent, dividend to ordinary and preference share-
holders alike, and as the earnings would cover this and
leave £2954 over it i 3 probable that the ordinary people
will shortly receive some reward for their long waiting.
They have lost their old reserve fund of £287,500 ; their
original capital of £406,250 ; about £170,000 (the writer
speaks from memory) of new capital which they paid
up ; about seven years’ dividends ; the greater part
of their interest in the bank (which now belongs
mainly to the new preference shareholders);
and the £126,497 of additional new capital which
they have put up and which is now intact
has, as yet, brought them no return whatever. Certainly
the old shareholders of the Colonial Bank have had a bad
time. And they never got any very large dividends in tne
good days as a set-off against these later losses.
If the management adheres to its present cautious
policy, there is no apparent reason why the Oo
should not become a really strong bank. It never
very strong one before 1893 ; the capital of £406,
reserve of £287,500 were nothing remarkable for an affair
of its size ; but a continuance of the existing system
might make it, inside another 20 years, something
far more substantial than it ever was. During .
half-year another £240,000 or so of reconstructed deposits
have been paid, and only £123,991 remain to •
Long before the end of 1901 the Colonial should
to clear off this balance. Despite this large repayment
deposits are about £llO,OOO more than they were six
months ago. There is a reasonably solid cash reserve o
£485,526 and a very weak second line of defence in the
shape of £13,920 worth of State and municipal securities.
The reserve fund isn’t separately invested in State
securities, but, to a great extent, mixed up in the gene
business. Taking one thing with another, however, t
Colonial Bank looks better than it has done at any time
since 1893, and certainly no sacrifices have been spared in
wiping off the loss made in that memorable disaster.
Some recent figures re the Assets Purchase and
Realisation 00. of Australasia (Melbourne) :
Working Trading Loss by Total
Income. Expenses. Loss. Bad Debts, Deficit
i year to &c - m
August, 1896 „„ i
February, 1897 £4 £712 £7OB £3,/52 15,796
August, 1897 179 305 126 3 15,925
Year to
August, 1898 2 344 342 25,623 41,790
i year to _
February, 1899 10 240 230 2,505 44,525
August, 1899 26 181 155 44,680
February, 1900 94 151 57 44,737
At this date certain re-arrangements were made
which wiped off £18,228 of liabilities, reducing
the deficit to .. •• •• 26,509
August, 1900 260 307 47 26,556
February, 1901 14 246 232 2,638 29,426
Less Forfeited Shares .. 13,339
Present Deficit - • £16,087
The Assets Purchase and Realisation 00. has a paid-up
capital of £22,603, so if the values put on its assets are
reliable £6516 of this capital is still intact, and its assets
exceed its liabilities to outside creditors (or rather to its
solitary outside creditor, the Land Mortgage Bank) by that
amount. How long it will be before further disaster
overtakes this surplus is another question. The assets
are valued at 110,530, but £6028 consists of an “interest
under will at book value ” which apparently yields
nothing at present, and some £2500 of property only pro-
duced last year £l2. The other £2 of income was
“ commission.” And the directors who supervised the
earning of this £l4 got £5O in fees for doing it.
* * * *
The season fights for the B.H. Water Supply
00., lately in great danger of Govt, opposition—the
matter is, in fact, still before the Public Works Committee.
From 25 million gallons a month the consumption has
gone down to nine millions, the local rains having
knocked kite-high most of the figures furnished to the
P. W. Committee, which were calculated on the then-ex-
isting drought-basis. Same committee has lately decided
that the far more awful monopoly of the Silverton Tram
00. (dividends = 45 per cent, per annum) ought not to be
disturbed. All Broken Hill’s anti-monopoly schemes, in
fact, seem to be going wrong, and the moral of it all is—
don’t embrace the syndicate unless you are satisfied to
have the syndicate always with you.
* • » *
The periodic gold-robbery happened on the
German liner Kaiser Wilhelm der Grosse this time, some-
where between New York and Cherbourg. The cracks-
men got away with £12,000, which is a record swag since
the gold-lifting began in ’77. Previous to this, £5OOO was
the usual sum, but apparently the thieves have improved
their transport and are going in for a small fortune at a
stroke. Since cabled, however, that a steward found the
cash or most of it behind the cornice in the second
saloon. Mail-steamer gold-robberies will no doubt con-
tinue, till, as advocated in this paper when £5OOO
mysteriously took unto itself legs and quietly walked off
the Alameda, the treasure is carried in the most public
place in the ship—the saloon—in two or three steel cages
one within the other, with brilliant electric light playing
through the bars by which the gold-prison is surrounded.
By the way, the Kaiser Wilhelm gold has been found-
hidden in the second saloon.
• * • »
Editor Bulletin. — The recent case of bullion-
snatching ex N.D.L. s.s. Friedrich der Grosse again calls
attention to the injustice of making the ship’s officers re-
sponsible for safe delivery. Instead of shipping the trea-
sure at night with the utmost secrecy, a dapper bank-
clerk drives up to the wharf in broad daylight and full
view of all loafers, and with much show of key-
production the precious freight is locked away out of
sight. Then as if this publicity was not enough, the
press on the following day announces the amount
of the shipment. In the case of Australian shipments
made in Melb. and Sydney, intending snatchers have
(supposing no previous knowledge existed) two to four
days respectively in which to catch the vessel carry-
ing the “ splosh.” Owners and agents are always ready
to ship these consignments on account of a freight
amounting in some instances to 1 per cent., but, should
delivery not be made, the unlucky skipper bears the
blame, and the “sack” usually follows. What with
running to time-tables, and responsibility for lives and
vessel, the shipmaster of to-day has quite enough on his
mind without adding responsibility for treasure-ship-
ments. Again, of all the places to bestow treasure, the
usual ship’s specie-room is about the worst. Buried down
the after ’tween decks, out of sight of everybody for
hours at a stretch, it’s no wonder locks are picked. Why
not, as a Bulletin correspondent once suggested, build a
strong iron cage on deck, or put it even on the upper
bridge, in full and constant view of the officer of the watch?
As things are at present, the wonder is not that the stuff
occasionally gets “ nicked,” hut that it so frequently
escapes. Skippers would at all events be thankful for
the stoppage of the newspaper announcements about
shipments of specie and bullion.—H.B.T. [May be some-
thing in it; though the artists who do these things have
carefully-arranged sources of information—outside any
press announcement or publicity of shipment. ]
* * * *
“Esmi” : Be bank-clerks’ salaries (B. 13/4/’01).
The Dec. previous to closing its doors in the Great Smash,
one of the reconstructed banks granted close on £lOOO in
increases of salary to its manager, inspector of branches,
accountant, and sub-accountant. Not one penny increase
was given to anyone else in the service. Deputationised,
the manager blandly explained that the claims of the staff
would be considered at the end of the following half-year.
In the interval, the bank went bung, and no increases
were granted up to the time I left the institution. This
bank prided itself on its unparalleled generosity in not
reducing salaries when some kindred institutions did ;
hut, seeing that such a proceeding meant relinquishment
by the bosses of their newly-acquired rises, their large-
souled benevolence may reasonably be doubted.
« * * •
E.F. : Considering that hundreds of shopkeepers
don’t issue coupons, that deputation to Vic. State Premier
denouncing the system would naturally be large, more
especially if each active protestor brought his family with
him. Perhaps The Bulletin, which disapproves of
coupons, will kindly let me remark, in a soft English
whisper, that shopkeepers seem to prosper by devouring
their competitors. The coupon-discount allowance to
customers is a fair square deal. Likewise the counter-
lunch at pubs., and any other candid policy of beggar-
your-neighbor. Instead of encouraging certain shop-
keepers to howl against the coupon system, why not
start a crusade against excessive gas-jets and expensive
advts., whereby Jones flares and fibs Brown into the
Bankruptcy Court?
* * * •
Broken Hill milling plants, the best of them,
have not been saving more than 70 per cent, of the lead
and 35 per cent of the silver ; and some of them have not
saved more than 55 per cent, of the lead. The rest of
these metals, with about 92 per cent, of the zinc, ha 3 gone
into the tailings and slimes. So long as zinc sold at £2O
or more most attention was given to making some use of
this metal, though without much practical success.
Lately, when the slump in zinc and the raising of ocean
freights put an end to the zinc experiments for a time,
attention was turned to getting out some of the wasted
silver and lead from the tailings; and nearly every
B.H. mine is putting in “tables” (of about a dozen
different patterns) and vanners for this purpose. These,
in the jargon of the newspaper report, constitute the re-
treatment plants. Some of the poorer mines are basing
their future almost wholly upon these mill-extensions —
the Junction, for instance. Tailings which have been
re-treated at this mine (its re-treating plant has been
started, though the main works are still idle) retain only
4 per cent, lead, 2oz. silver, and 4 per cent. zinc. This re-
treating is a slow process, though not very expensive ; as
a rule, no further crushing is required, and it is the
crushing that costs the money. Block 14, Block 10, the
South, and the North are working in the same direction.
* * * •
One explanation given of the prolonged slump
in lead—the price keeps well under £l3, as against £lB
during part of last year—is that some Spanish mines
are held under lease from the Govt., and that as the
leases are about to expire the output is being increased,
and other steps taken to depress the market in order that
the royalty, or whatever it is that the Govt, gets, may be
reduced. Writer doesn’t know anything about this.
Statistics, however, show that the output for Spanish
mines in the first half of 1900 (later are not available) was
lower and not higher than it had been. That the lead
market is easily knocked out has been proved many
times; not later than towards the end of last year the
market was beared as soon as Block 10, the third biggest
producer at B. Hill, invited tenders for its output for 12
months or more. Meantime, as there seems no likelihood
of an early rise much beyond £l3, work at the B.H. mines
is being remodelled. In addition to the re-treatment plants
which are being put in most of the co.’s are taking
men off the poorer ore-faces ; and some of them —Block
14 especially—are sorting the ore before hauling it. Block
14 can thus keep its mill going only two shifts instead of
three. The South, whose recent developments have been
good, has fortunately a large number of good ore-faces
available, so that it is maintaining an output of ore worth
22£ per cent, lead and 10 or lloz. silver. Though the
profits of the B.H. Prop., Block 10, and the Sulphide Cor-
poration are most seriously affected, these mines are not
troubled as the others are. Of the two mines that are
shut down, or nearly so—the Junction and Junction
North—the former, helped by its small output of first-
class stuff and its new plant, may be able to make ends
meet ; but, on its past record, the Junction North (still
in the labors of reconstruction) seems quite hopeless until
either the markets move or somebody finds out more
about sulphide-treatment than is known so far.
* * * *
B.H. Prop, has the masonry work of its coke-
ovens at Bellambi finished, and is hurrying on this and
other schemes designed to reduce costs.
* • * *
White Cliffs opal miners have got the all-round
decrease in tribute for which they have been battling;
instead of 25 per cent, they are now to pay the co. which
owns most of the best blocks 15 per cent, of gross receipts.
Not that this fully satisfies them. The fact that the field
can only be worked by entirely independent tribute
parties of two or three men, proves that it ought never to
have been leased—it ought to have been treated just like
an alluvial goldfield. And so the men will not be satisfied
until the leases are cancelled, whether with or without
compensation is locally the most-debated point.
* * * *
N.S.W. coal estimates : Twenty-three years
ago, by the late O. S. Wilkinson, Govt. Geologist : Ex-
cluding seams under 2£ft. thick, and allowing one-fifth
for loss in working, 78,198,000,000 tons within 4000 ft. from
surface. Ten years ago, by Prof. David : Including only
the unworked areas of the Palaeozoic fields, and excluding
seams under 3ft. thick, between 130,000,000,000 and
150,000,000,000 tons within 4000 ft. from surface (the coal-
measures west of Gunnedah are Triassic). Present, by
Govt. Geologist Pitman : Assuming a thickness of only
10ft., deducting one-third for losses, 115,346,880,000 tons.
* • * »
“ L. J.F.” : There is nothing the matter with
the Cobar Occidental but want of water. The remarks
in J. Palmer and Co.’s circular are all fudge. The shares
at present price are an honest investment—nothing sensa-
tional, but very safe. Present writer has held them for
years—as an investment, and will go on doing so.
* * * *
“ S.S.” : The trouble over the appointment of
a searcher at the Clarence United mine, Eaglehawk, is
only a repetition of an old grievance that has cropped up
on Vic. fields a thousand times since the searching of
miners was first introduced at Ballarat about 30 years
ago. As a precaution against gold-stealing it has not
been found worth the trouble. To be effective, it would
have to he as thorough as the searching of niggers in
African diamond-mines, and if that plan were attempted
Australian miners would probably start hanging directors
to gum-trees. In some cases the establishment of a
searcher only led gold-stealers to adopt cuter strategies,
in others it meant squaring the searcher and stealing
with impunity. At mines I have worked in the searching
was a mere perfunctory pawing of the men’s working
clothes in the dressing-room by a sullen who
needed all his faculties to dodge the vicious practical
jokes of which he was the standing victim, and meanwhile
those who wished to get away with shotty, waterworn
gold could do so with little or no trouble. It was in this
district that a cute “ K.G.” (Cousin Jack) lifted much
alluvial gold with the assistance of an imitation wen
attached to his head behind his ear. The real gold-stealer
never kicks up a row about the searcher; he has no par-
ticular sensibilities, and the searcher doesn’t interfere
with his pickings and stealings
* * * *
Westralia has a Sunday Labor and Mines Act.
But when the other day the Workers’ Union, at Kal-
goorlie, drew attention of the Mines Department to many
local infringements, it was staggered by the reply that,
“ while the Minister regrets to hear that the provisions
of this Act are not being complied with, it does not ap-
pear that it was the intention of the Legislature that this
dept, should he responsible for seeing that the
provisions are carried out 1 ” And the dept, pro-
ceeds :—“ Indeed, as the inspector of mines would in all
probability be called upon as a witness in any prosecu-
tions, it seems undesirable that he should take the initial
proceedings.” On the same principle, of course, no
policeman should arrest any drunk, because he probably
would be a witness ; the policeman should always, there-
fore, wait for somebody to arrest the drunk. without
seeing him.
* * * *
The latest solver of the Westralian gold-sul-
phide problem is Mr. Honnens, for years gold-smelter for
the Bank of N.S.W. in Sydney, but lately a rover on many
fields. Capt. Oats, mine manager and M.P.,hashim in
hand. The process aims at desulphidising the ore by a
chemical treatment combined with kiln-roasting ; cost is
said to be about ss. a ton. Tall talk ; though they claim
that a 30-ton parcel provides the basis of the figure
quoted.
“On the occasion of the citizens’ concert
in Sydney, the Town Hall will be draped with
crimson and blue silk.” What, not plush ! Not
yellow plush ? By St. Jeames! the footman’s
soul will surely miss the footman’s livery.
Mayor Brookman, of Perth, W.A., isn’t
considered to have a dog’s-show of a knighthood
from “the Duke,” although he made a big bid
for it. His elections for Mayor and M.P. cost
him something like £2OOO, and the exclusives of
Perth were almost beginning to think they might
attend the receptions, garden-parties, and other
Mayoral-party functions. But W.G. has officially
made such an unholy hash of things that Perth in
general is more off him than ever—excepting sun-
dry Philistines who have ulterior motives. Only
about 300 persons turned up at a gorgeous garden-
party for which 2000 invitations were issued.
Brookman, however, is going to “play” the
Dook with a magnificent ball when he arrives—
which, by reason of the Plague, he almost cer-
tainly won’t do.
Minister Lyne, evidently with The Bul-
letin’s remarks on the Fegan scandal under his
eye, makes brave professions—
“ I am determined,” said Mr. Lyne, “to dissociate the
Federal service from the time-serving indifference which
has been so characteristic of the State services.”
And how does he begin? By appointing an
indifferent time-server, name o’ Fegan, to a first-
class billet. What an incitement to time-servers ?
What an excuse for indifference among those who
realise that no zeal will serve you if you are not a
Minister’s friend !
It is insufficient, he holds, to pompously declare that
there must be no political influence, and that intelligence
and attention to duty will lead to promotion.
Well, The Bulletin is not a Minister ; it can
only talk, and point out the right principles to
follow. It remains for Minister Lyne to act —on
the wrong principle of Fegan.
Federal Ministers thoroughly recognise the fact that
political patronage and promotions on a basis of seniority
alone must be firmly shut-down upon. William Lyne
goes further. He desires to organise a Federal service
that will be free from the many obvious blemishes of the
State services. He recognises that there are many good
officers in the departments taken over, and that they
should be given an opportunity of showing their abilities,
hut he is far from believing that all the organising and
administrative capacity and intelligence ip Australia are
monopolised by the civil service.
The Bulletin is glad to find Minister Lyne’s
voice endorsing its own expressed sentiments.
But, unluckily, while Minister Lyne’s voice is the
voice of honest Esau, his hands are the hands of
crooked Jacob appointing Fegan.


Complete
Outfits.
AN ORIENT
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT-^
ALL GLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE ..
“Orient To measure” Clothing
.. AT ..
PRICES^
H rite for Particulars and Patterns.
DBVID JOM€S & COMPANY,
Cagorge & Barrack Sts., Sydoey
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjoyment of
HOME CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
The pick of the S’African war-docorations
doled out to .Australians has come to Surgeon
Fitzgerald, of Melb., who gets the eminently-
faslnonable K.C.B. Surgeon - colonel “Billy”
Williams, of N.S.W., gets a C. 8., as do Col.
j£enneth Mackav and Major Antill, likewise of
N.S.W. A number of other Australian colonels
on service, including Tom Fire-low Price, of Vic.,
also get C. 13 s, and Col. Ricardo, of Q., acquires
that distinction, which looks like a very complete
answer to the malicious imputations privately cir-
culated about his conduct in the held. The
plucky and enthusiastic Dr. Fiaschi, of N.S.W.,
for whom much more was expected by the popu-
lace, gets the D. 5.0., which has also been given
to, among others, Drs. Roth, Perkins, and Green,
and to Don Quixote -Lieut. “ Bdly ” Cope, of
N.S. W. A number of officers are insulted with
C.M.G s., and there is terrible outcry over the
fact that nothing has come the way of the N.S.W.
Lancers. A number of explanations are circu-
lated, but the real reason, of course, is the fatal
beauty of that corps. To decorate ’em would
have been to paint the lily.
* * » *
Why not induce the Jookoyork, who has a
batch of honors ’ in his bag, to recognise sport-
ing and athletic celebrities? Plugger Bill, Clem.
Hill, Ben. Wardill, Larry Foley, and other
prominent “ jokers,” are quite as good as Sargood,
Bonython and Co. The Jook will be in Australia
at the start of the football season, and one or two
knighthoods for the Gorblime blokes, with their
hair parted in the middle, would bind the silken
bonds in Colliiyewood, Footscray, and Woolloo-
mooloo.
* * * *
ihe Chief Justice of Tasmania gave a
wholesome “jar” to Waxellency Madden and
others by remarking, the other' week, that he
didn t take kindly to the position of Government
Administrator, and would deprecate any proposal
to make the union of the two offices a permanent
arrangement. It would be interesting to hear the
gaudy Madden talk for an hour on this peculi-
arly Australian subject. The tight-buttoned
tonguestcr with the highly educated moustache,
reckons that the majesty of the Law appears most
majestic when it is identified with knee breeches
and a sassiety smirk.
* * * *
The presence of the plague has caused
Duke George to abandon any visit to S’Africa.
Which sets one thinking how the insidious ad-
vance of the disease in Perth (W.A.)at one end of
this continent and at Brisbane at the other
will strike the Roval visitor and the authorities
who control his movements. The Duke's em-
phatic instructions that every stoker on board the
Ophir should be vaccinated caused serious trouble
m Portsmouth. And if he dreads small-pox, how
will he regard the plague ?
* * * *
Extract from order of proceedings at the
proclamation of Malvern (Melb.) as a town, on
24th April, 1901
1.45 p.m.—Councillors and Residents meet Their Excel-
lencies the Lieutenant-Governor and Lady Madden at
corner of Dandenong and Kooyong Roads.
3.30 p.m.—Her Excellency Lady Madden will start the
Minniehaha Fountain.
If these people only could!
• •» * »
The coming visit of the Yorks has had one
good effect, anyhow'. Not long ago Melbourne’s
handsome Yarra Boulevard was at a standstill
and, apparently, likely to remain an eyesore for
about a generation. Now all is in apple-pie order.
Flower and shrub-covered rockeries border the
drives and approaches, with green plots planted
about here and there, and seats under healthy
young trees. The old swamp above the bridge
has been turned into a trim lawn, the factories on
the West side are all hidden, and even the boat-
houses are be-flowered and painted.
* « * *
Melbourne is not “ doing it handsomely ”
for its inter-State visitors as Svdney did.
All but a fraction of the visitors have
to hustle for themselves, and accommo-
dation in the leading hotels has gone to
as high as £2 2s. a day. Melbourne lias the bene-
fit of Sydney’s experience in this respect, and
recognises that, no matter what is done for people,
they always consider that more should have been
done. An important notability from one of
the States (not Leg. Council President
Zeal), visiting Sydney in January, lived
like a fighting-cock, at the public expense,
for about a fortnight. When his visit was
over he forwarded to the Treasury a claim for
every penny he had squandered in cabs and tram-
tares during his stay, and was much annoved when
payment was refused.
a•* • *
A Grievance in Sydney over the Melbourne
invitations is the ignoring of the inviteds’ women-
kind more especmliy in the cases of public officials.
Ihe director of this and the inspector-general of
® ven chairman of the Public Service
■tsoaid himself, did not receive invitations for their
wives. As the invites have to find their own
tares and hotel expenses, the feminine portion of
their households “struck” in most cases, and
nubby will stay at home in consequence.
* * * *'
. -According to latest reports, the chief items
m the coming Melbourne high-jinks are to be re-
served for the Very Naicest, and all the popu-
lace get for their £lOO,OOO or so will be a glimose
of an English duke and duchess and a couple of
firework displays. The latest notion is to charge
admission to the review at Flemington—proceeds
to go to equipping the Fever Hospital. Probably
the thrifty Kookaburra Govt, would charge to
see the illuminations were that possible.
Meanwhile, money is lavished on banquets, a con-
cert, receptions, and expensive invitation-card
tor the favored few, while those who pav the oil
may not even stand afar off.
* . * * *
The vociferous Jingoes of the M.L. capital
are evidently not satisfied with having made a
snow of their shallowness in connection with the
Qseen s statue fiasco. For several weeks they
wrangled about the expense of entertaining the
Duke of York ; and at last, for very shame’s sake,
tne City Council decided to bear the brunt, on
Govt, promising an indemnifying Bill in the event
of the cost exceeding the legal limit.
* • * *
Hie collapse of the Jingo boom in Maori-
land is in many respects deplorable Virile
youths who left last year for S’Africa amid the
approving yells of a beery crowd and the empty
adulation of gushing politicians are now returning
unnoticed, and the p ipers are appealing for “light
employment” for the disabled. Sad as it is, the
lesson should not be without good effect, if, on
any future occasion, fools are called on in the
name of Patriotism to do the dirty work of
capitalistic brigands.
* * * •
The directors of the Sydney Alfred Hos-
pital have announced that there are to be no “ pri-
vate wards . in the new buildings. The private
wards are single rooms which patients can some-
times secure on payment of a high tariff. The
honorary operating-surgeons naturally desire that
well-to-do patients should go for treatment to the
AN INFLATED NOTION.
“Horror of Horrors!” thought our artist token
he saw the above; “Can it be that crinoline
has come in again!” But she was only
standing over a grating, and a strong draught
from below caused the startling effect.'
surgeons’ own private hospitals. It is to the pri-
vate hospitals also that the nurses look for remu-
nerative employment after their hospital course,
and it is owing to tlie combined protest that an
effort is being made to abolish private wards
altogether.
* * * *
A youth arrested in the N.S.YV. wayback
forshootingat his father escaped fromgaol. A fort.
IN THE GREEK KALENDS.
“ I'm sure your father objects to me because I'm
in his employ.”
“ Perhaps he docs—but didn't he say he'd consent
to our enywtement as soon as he took you
into the firm?”
night later a party of police and a black-tracker
found him with a fair companion hiding in a cave
in the bush. He was sentenced to “ two years ” ;
but was released that he might accompany his
father to S’Africa. At Capetown he left the old
man, worked his passage back, and the other day
turned up at his old haunts in search of his lady
love and ready for more mischief. This beautiful
specimen of the precocity of the Australian youth
is yet in his teens.
“Some country medicos evade
their responsponsibilities in a curious
way,” writes an embittered back-
blocks correspondent. “ When they
have a serious case, where the pay is
not very certain, and it is inconvenient
to send the patient to hospital, they
wire to Sydney for a trained nurse to
come up at once. Nurse arrives to
find the case (typhoid) in a two-roomed
hut occupied by the rest of the family ;
no convenience of any sort; and most
meagre instructions from the doctor,
except to follow the usual course till
he comes in 10 days or so. The case
may last a month or six weeks, and the
nurse has to put up with all the respon-
sibility lone-handed ; do all the wash-
ing ; live on salt beef and damper (or
thereabouts); and in the end if she gets
her railway fare she thinks herself
lucky. Yet doctors consider they are
often sweated!
- * « * *
Dear Bulletin. —Why isn’t a
little patch for a public burial-ground
left in the country districts ; or if there
is, why is it not made use of ? Here in
Bangalow (N.S.W.) is a privately-
owned R.C. cemetery with about half-a-
dozen graves in it. The other day an
old man died, but being a Lutheran and
poor, of course he couldn't go in with
the rest, so—not to handicap him too
much, I suppose—they dug a hole out-
side the fence on the public road and
covered him up without ceremony or
service. We still missionise the hea-
then, you know.—A.B.
Another death under chloroform. This
time it was the result of a throat operation in a
Sydney private hospital of high repute. The iden-
tity of the eminent medical practitioners concerned
in the accident, as well as the precise locale of the
hospital, was considerately suppressed by the
daily papers —which presumably mean to hence-
forth deal with every chloroform fatality in the
same kind way.
* * • *
“A boom in feminine smoking is spread-
ing in the West End,” writes The Bulletin’s
London correspondent—“all owing to the ex-
ample of Royalty. The late Queen abhorred the
smell of tobacco, and many a laughable story is
told of the devices attempted by her guests to
interview ‘Lady Nicotine ’ ‘unbeknownst’to their
hostess. By a reflex action. Queen Alexandra is
heavy smoker —for a woman. She is credited
with 10 or 12 cigarettes daily, and I have good
authority for saying that her Majesty never visits
the theatre without enjoying a cigarette between
the acts ; not, of course, in the Royal box, but in
the ante-room which is always set apart for the
regal visitor. The Princess Christian and the
Duchess of Saxe-Coburg are her sister-devotees.
What a shock to the popular impression of the
Queen’s rigid propriety ! ”
* * * •
When the local draft for the first M.L.
contingent left one of the towns for Wellington,
the Mayor went round the train giving a cigar to
each man. When the second batch left, he gave
each man a cigarette. After that he stopped
away.
* * * *
Jingo madness takes longer to die in
Maoriland than elsewhere, but it is dying. Shortly
before the departure of the last contingent from
Wellington, the Mayor called a public meeting to
arrange for a demonstration. Hix persons at-
tended. Although the day of departure was a
Saturday, few turned up at the wharf to see them
off. According to Wellington Post : “ Ran furl y
and Seddon were received by soldiers and civilians
without a cheer, and the whole proceedings wore
a subdued air.”
Concerning
barber esses
(8., 30/3/’01).
There was one,
13 years ago, in
Broken Hilf, then
the roughest of rough
lining camps/ But
she didn’t lose either her
heart or hand ; for one
thing, she was an im-
ported black beauty, and
for another, she kept
strictly to the business
of cutting hair and shav-
ing stubble and you
don’t take unwelcome
liberties with a lady who
plays round your wind-
pipe with a razor. She
wasn’t a success. Also,
by the way, Broken
Hill’s old-time “public
scribe” was a “cull’ed
geuiman.” Often the
writer malevolently tried
to get from his rival
serine the secrets poured
into his ear by his un-
lettered clients; but the
old chap would draw him-
self up and protest, “Sah,
dem are de secrets of
my profession. ” Curi-
ously enough, his stand
was just where the
B. H. post-office now
6tands.
* *
moters of a proposed
The pro-
new religious paper have placarded Mel-
bourne with a picture oi the Crucifixion.
• * • *
The movement inaugurated by Gov. Ran-
furly for the erection of a statue of the late Queen
iu Wellington (M.L.) has fallen so fiat that all
hopes of raising the amount required—about
£3ooo—have been abandoned. Despite the appeals
of ilis Ex., backed up by the local press, barely
£lOOO lias been collected; and so hopeless is the
prospect of raising more that the Evening Post
now advises the City to “ make the best of it ” by
procuring the best replica obtainable for the
money. Now, if it could be officially hinted that
a knighthood would go to the man providing the
balance
Tas; Mercury fund, for a similar object, fares
much worse. Though all the comps, were rounded
up on pay-day, outsiders wouldn't subscribe ; and,
when last heard of, the total fund hadn’t reached
£lOO. In these circumstances, it would be a
graceful thing for the Davies crowd to keep the
£lOO, and present the Mercury. That ougiit to
earn a title.
* * * •
Sydney Morning Herald —commenting
on the proposed introduction of swagmen into the
Melbourne York-reception-pageati try—-doesn’t see
why shearers, boundary-riders, and “other typical
Austraii,ui-products ” shouldn’t in that case also
have a show ; and certainly scores with the
observation that “these men, interesting and pic-
turesque in their natural surroundings, only
appear grotesque when dragged into the atmos-
phere of city life.” And very rarely then.
* » * *
Under ail Act passed in Maoriknd last
session every town, district, or borough having a
population of 2000 or more persons, is compelled to
erect public abattoirs within a year after March
31st. The Act also encourages other local bodies
to do likewise, and its evident purpose is to reduce
the number of private slaughter-houses to the
lowest practicable minimum. Despite its excel-
lent climate tubercular diseases claim by far the
largest share of victims in Maoriland, and it is
rightly presumed that carelessness in the slaughter
and disposal of meat is largely the cause. Hence
the legislation.
A number of the Brunswick (Melb.) bacon-
curing and pig-slaughtering establishments con-
demned by the Board of Public Health are bring-
ing political influence to bear on the Vic. Govern-
ment to over-ride the decision of the Board. The
Brunswick Council has been telling the Minister
that it sees no reason for closing up these filthy
disease-beds. The Council argues, with typical
stupidity, that if the places were as bad as the
Board of Health made out, the Council’s health-
officer would have reported the matter. They
don’t say that one of the health-officers of another
council sometime ago informed the Board that if
he wanted to keep nis billet lie dare not condemn
places he knew were spreading corruption through-
out the city. Health matters should be taken
right out of the hands of councils, many of the
members of which are interested in piggeries and
slaughter-houses. Dr. Gresswell, the chairman
of the Health Board, was present when the Bruns-
wick councillors tried to hustle the Minister, and
he remarked that some of the premises in question
were so utterly filthy that he could not under-
stand any councillors defending them. If Dr.
Gresswell knew a little more about councillors lie
would be astounded if they did not defend them.
* » * »
Sydney is threatened with the abolition of
the hotel counter-lunch. Hard on the swell who
invests fid. on a pint of ale and a couple of
shillings’ worth of “tucker” ; but it will not be
an unmixed evil. The archaic boiled horse and
the alleged German sausage will disappear; and
the 3d. hash-emporiums will come to the fore.
Seriously, the London system, whereunder you
get at any public-house counter neither more
nor less than what you pay for, and where you have
a large assortment of light refreshments to choose
from, would be infinitely better for the hotel trade
and the self-respect of the public than present
Sydney methods. Perhaps someone will try it
presently.
* * * *
Victoria’s late Excellency expatiates prosily
in a hitherto-unsuspected English maga.—the
Empire Review. Chiefly, the great faller-off
wants Melbourne beautified a la Tuileries and
Kensington-gardens. He shows his intimate
knowledge of Yarra-town, by calling the Govt.
Domain, the —ahem—Royal Demesne, and Princes’
Bridge the Albert Bridge. Uncle Tom is evi-
dently ageing.
• * * *
Q. Taxing-Master cut down with unspar-
ing hand the fees and refreshers of counsel em-
ployed in the Tyson case. One legal gentleman
had all his little bills set aside. The Devil’s
Brigade are ropeable just now.


The PUREST WHISKFY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO.
. JOHN MEAGHER & CO.
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing List with map’
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Colline-st., Melbourne; 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
M. Gin.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16‘5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N. LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
A copy of “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” The Bulletin’s particularly suc-
cessful pamphlet, will be posted from this office to
any Australian address on receipt of Bd. in stamps
(of any State).
Our Tan or Black
for Gentlemen, at
VICI-KID BOOTS
235. 6d. a pair, are
delightfully restful for the feet ; whilst the
leather, though soft and pliable, has the tenacity
of steel. THEY TAKE A LOT OF WEARING
OUT!
595 GEO. ST., SYDNEY.
CALLAGHAN & SON.
Areally “sudden” occurrence happened
in Melbourne lately. A young woman, wishing
to dispose of the customary undesirable in-
fant, took tram to a distant suburb
immediately after her confinement, left
the just-born baby (of course it died)
on a vacant allotment, and went
home to continue washing the
breakfast-things and getting the
dinner ready. The newly-born
was promptly discovered and
detectives laid on the trail.
A shopkeeper’s name on some
wrappings gave a clue, and
on calling at the correct
house the damsel herself
opened the door. She was
hardly more surprised than
the policemen, who were
so demoralised by the
rapidity of the whole pro-
ceeding that they took
her to the Women’s Hos-
pital instead of to the
lock-up. Also, a day or
two later, a casual sort of
girl was out with her young
man for an evening stroll,
in Castlemaine, when she
complained of illness
and sent the youth
for help. On his
return she carelessly
remarked that he
needn’t worry, “as
she was all right
now.” She had been
confined in the in-
terim, the youngster
being afterwards
found, quite naked,
in a drain near by.
She, too, proceeded home
and got the family supper
as usual, an accouchement being
evidently no more of an
“event” than breaking*
a plate or killing a fly.
Unfortunate selec-
tion by a Sydney mili-
tary band when return-
ing from a funeral: “’E
duuno where ’e are ! ”
Noticeable how unanimously and fre-
quently the Melb. dailies refer to “that dis-
tinguished rascal” since C. J. Madden thus
characterised lawyer Grey (who has now been
brought to Australia from Fiji, where he
was captured). But they said precious little
about the gentleman till a private victim
forced the law into action. And now they are
doing their best to render Grey’s chance of a fair
trial a trifle worse than “Buckley’s.” By the
way, Vic Crown Law authorities, who for two
years carefully ignored the alleged swindles of
lawyer Grey—of Geelong—the other day went to
great expense in prosecuting an old-age pensioner
at Prahran for alleged misrepresentation. The
case fell through ; but it came out in evidence that
the ancient’s pension had already been cancelled !
The law is severe upon “ false pretences ” exactly
in proportion to the degree to which poverty
might be pleaded as an excuse.
Commentary on the Salvarmy’s treatment
of those whom it “ rescues ” by a young woman at
Fitzroy (Melb.) Court : Relegated to a Rescue
Home previously, she had run away on account of
the too-copious hymn and over-frequent prayer.
Charged with having neither billet nor private
income, she was quite willing to go to service with
civilised people; but the beak was shocked at her in-
gratitude and sent her to gaol for threemonths right
off. If the performing animal known as the Jay
Pee is allowed to fill Melb. gaols with people like
this, there will be no room for the crowds of mags-
men and spielers who are to accompany the Jook.
* * * *
For the Chapter of St. Paul’s Cathedral,
Melbourne :—“ My House shall be called a House
of Prayer, but ye have made it a roost of syndi-
cates.”
* * * *
One of those old women so shamelessly
and frequently gaoled in Victoria, during the last
few years, for the crime of poverty (and deprived
of pension rights) turned up at Melb. City Court
t’other day, on the old charge of “no lawful
means.” There is plenty room now at the
Benevolent Asylum ; but the P.M. put her away
for six months “as a kindness.” “ Blessed are
the merciful! ”
* • * *
The Law in Victoria has hitched up its
pants, tightened its belt, and started after a missing
delinquent at a forty-knot rate. The man in
question was to have married his girl last January,
but melted away a few days “ previous.” Later
eventuated the customary baby—only obis time it
was twins—and as the poor mother died the State
became compulsory foster-mother. Just here
arise several nice points. The absentee—when
he becomes a presentee —can’t be charged with
deserting his children, because when he started
migrating there weren’t any youngsters to desert;
also he can’t be sued for maintenance, because
the infants have no certain knowledge as to
their parentage, and anyhow they as yet don’t
understand the nature of an oath. Altogether,
the Law seems to have taken on a tough contract,
but it is pleasant to see it hustle itself sometimes
—even if the quarry doesn’t happen to be a de-
faulting Gent One or an absconding trustee.
• * * *
Regret is expressed in Melbourne because
the presenc e of the State Parliament in the Exhi-
bition Building will interfere with the annual
dog-show fixture usually held there. An effort is
to be made to shift Parliament.
The seemingly interminable Mercadool
land case, now referred back by the Privy Council,
resolved itself, when it came before N.S.W. Full
SENSIBLE REASON,
SQUINTY: “ Cheer up, Ocorge, yer're gettin' quite
ill and worried-lookin'.”
GEORGE: “ That's just what Em worried about.”
Court, into four intricate questions. The Full
Court consisted of C.-J. Darley and Justices Owen
and Simpson. As illustrating how judges differ :
Darley answered 1, 2 and 4 in the affirmative and
3in the negative ; Owen, 1 and 2 in the affirma-
tive, and no answer to 3 and 4 ; Simpson, 1 and 2
in the affirmative, no answer to 4, and thought 3
“impossible.” Lord Macnaghten, delivering the
judgment of the Privy Council, answered 1, 3 and
4 in the affirmative, and 2 conditionally in the
affirmative. Costs of the Supreme Court appeal
and of the P.C. appeal were ordered to be paid by
the respondent, the Minister for Lands.
A desire at present simmering in the
minds of a small extra-zealotish class of Sydney
Woman reformers is to create a crusade against
the State running smoking-carriages.
The Greek Archbishop of Jerusalem has
started for Australia. Branches of his church
now exist in several Australian capitals, and he
desires to establish them in due form. As regards
garments and entourage he will fill society’s eye.
Archimandrites and other solemn dignitaries will
accompany him, and gold and silver vestments
will make a dazzling spectacle.
• * • *
Melbourne Argus, railing against the
rascally unemployed for refusing work, quotes an
instance afforded by Andrew Rowan. This
wealthy vigneron wanted 20 men for grape-pick-
ing, and out of 150 at the Labor Bureau only eight
were so pressed by poverty that they accepted the
wages offered—nine whole shillings a week and
found. Making the extremely-liberal allowance
of 15s. (Bs. would be nearer the mark) for “found,”
this works out at 4s. a day for about 12 hours’
work. And Eatman’s organ abuses these
dainty unemployed for declining to try and keep
a wife and family on 9s. a week !
* » * *
Callousness and meanness marked the
attitude of the authorities in regard to the recent
disaster to the s.s. Federal. When news of
the wreck reached Melbourne everyone was
too busy preparing paper arches and
tawdry decorations for the reception of the
Yorks to think about the unfortunates who
might be battling with the sea in little boats, or
perishing on the barren beach of Gippsland. A
few policeman stationed a hundred miles apart
were asked to search along the coast, although it
is well-known by the police and harbor authorities
that none of them could get within scores of miles
of where the men would be likely to come ashore.
The facts which have turned up lately go to show
conclusively that some of the men did reach
shore alive, and that others may have been
tossing about for days before they were swallowed
up.
* * » *
“ G.J.M.” : The objection to The Bulle-
tin’s proposed word “airgram” (30/3/1) is that
scientists generally have agreed that Marconi’s
method transmits the message by means of the
“ ether ” the continuous perfectly-elastic fluid
which (theoretically proved to exist) permeates the
known universe. Wherefore, Ethergram.
* ♦ ♦ *
The trustees of Vic. National Gallery are
mad over Mackennal’s financial move, and
t.iey think they are giving the sculptor a nasty ja.r
by offering Pinschof £l3OO for “Circe.” It is
rumored that some wealthy Maorilander has
offered £l5OO for the model —a pull quite beyond
the Gallery people.
* • * *
In Wilcannia (N.S.W.) gaol there is at
present but one prisoner (never more than three
or four), yet there are a gaoler and four warders
drawing salary—recently raised in the former’s
case. Some 18 months ago there was talk of clos-
ing the establishment —whereupon some prisoners
were transferred thither from Broken Hill —with
the view of keeping these fat billets open ?
THE WAY TO CATCH 'EM.
MISS DEAPES: “I thought you said, when you
joined the co., that nothing would ever induce
you to wear tights!”
MDLLES SHAPES: “No I did , but I'm wiser
now; and Eve made up my mind to marry a
K.C.”
“Brew” (a surgeon) on a recent Sydney
daily-newspaper paragraph :
Yet another “ cancer cure ” —the list stretches out
towards infinity 1 This time it is the “ sun-glass treat-
ment” of a certain Dr. H. T. Webster, who claims to be
able to destroy cancerous growth by “ the concentrated
rays of the sun.” In other words, a burning-glass is
focussed upon the growth, and a somewhat milder edition
of the old cauterisation treatment (long discarded as
actually injurious) is placarded forth under a new name
to attract the wretched victims of a horrible disease to
yield up their last coppers in the futile hope of cure. Not
only is the treatment useless from a curative or amelio-
rating point of view, but it is actively injurious. Every
surgeon knows that irritation produces rapid growth in
such tumours, and it does not make any difference
whether such irritation comes from caustic dressings, the
knife, or the latest “ sun cure.” An unsuccessful opera-
tion for removal is almost invariably followed by enor-
mously rapid increase of growth, and the repeated burn-
ings would produce a similar effect °" an £T. "
ing malignant tumour. Small growths of a
nature might possibly disappear under such treatment,
but at present the only hope for the victims of mal b
growths lies in free excision by the knife.
The fine old house known as Toxteth
Mansion, near Glebe Point, Sydney, hw been
bought bv the Samaritan nuns of Pitt-streer,
whose present house and school have
for the new railway extension. Toxteth Mansion
was built by Wigram Allen, wealthy solicitor, and
long' Speaker of N.S.W. Legislative Assembly
who possessed himself of nearly all the lan
Glebe, and laid out streets and avenues in true
English fashion. His idea was to P la Y th ®
lisli squire in the centre of long lines of ‘
Of late years, the house has been conducted as a
boarding-house. Allen was an active P olltl °F“
for part of his time, but he did little from the day
Edmund Barton defeated him m a contest tor
the Speakership.
Under* M.L. Shorthand Reporters Act,
providing for reporting evidence and aigument
m law-courts, candidates for appointment must
not be under 21 ; must furnish certificates ot
character ; pay £2 2s. exam, fee ; write at least
150 words a minute ; read notes at sight witn
reasonable facility ; transcribe rapidly and accu-
rately ; and possess fair general education.
* * * *
Concerning dogs in Sydney :
Dear 8.,-You say (29/12/’.00): “What is wanted in
Sydney is a still stricter administration of the Dog Act.
Right. At present it isn’t administered at all. lhe ac®
requires every C.P.S., under a penalty, to keep a list or
dogs registered in his district hanging in his office tor
public reference, so that anyone annoyed by his neigh-
bor’s cur can see for himself whether the brute is regis-
tered. Yet not a O.P.S. in or about Sydney keeps such a
list, failing which the police have to go round once a year
from door to door asking to be shown registration re-
ceipts If the list were kept, the man on the beat, when
he finds a dog or dogs are kept on certain premises, could
see at once by the list whether or not they were regis-
tered The fact is, the Act should be strictly adminis-
tered' all the year round, and not merely for a week or
two in Nov. or Dec., and the officials of all grades should
be made do their duty, or be fined as the law directs.
The Sydney street dog is indeed a curse ; but a yearly
fortnight of police hard swearing will neither abate it nor
make people register their dogs, which are now turned
into the street when the raid begins and taken back when
it is over, thus being safe for another year. It s not
the administration of the Dog Act, but its non-adminis
tration, that’s the cause of the trouble.—D.G.
• • * *
“F.R.” : In a down-South train the other
day a pompous doctor concluded an eloquent
address to a young man on the evils of smoking
with the remark —“ And, mark this, lam a medi-
cal man, and I say that in nine cases out of ten
you will find that the diseases of smokers are due
to the use of tobacco.” Removing his briar from
his mouth the young man replied : “And 1 think
you will also find, doctor, when you see a man
with a black eye, that in nine cases out of ten it is
due to not minding his own business.” a *\ en
there was a deep silence till somebody asked for
the loan of a match.
* *
South Melbourne, Albert Park,
South Yarra, and St. Kilda are being
haunted by an eccentric with long fair
hair, a roving eye, and a winning smile,
who has developed an original kind of
craziness. The crank’s clothes are old,
but in excellent repair, and he displays
the gallantry of a beau of ye olden time.
He knocks casually at the front door of
a house—any house, humble or palatial
—and, if a woman answers his sum-
mons, he throws his whole soul into a
profound bow and a smile of beatitude
and admiration, and incontinently offers
her his hand and heart, proposing an
early marriage, and a honeymoon trip
to Atlantis or somewhere therearound.
If a male answers the door, he politely
asks to be introduced to the lady of the
house, and he makes his honorable pro-
posal in the presence of a husband with
the airy complacency of an agent who
is trying to sell a sewing-machine or
persuade the housewife to have her
photo, enlarged. If the poor devil is
kicked out, as sometimes happens, he
quietly gathers himself out of the dust,
carefully rearranges his toilet, and tries
next door. Really, the gentle maniac
is a boon and a blessing to many spin-
sters in the suburb mentioned, whose
previous prospects were much out of
date, and the real wonder is that the
cracked knight - errant has not been
snapped-up by some neglected virgin.
• * * •
A pious local-preacher has just
had, at Wellington (M.L.), to answer
nine charges of theft and eight of for-
gery. The young man with a “mis-
sion ” chiefly affected tablecloths, books and um-
brellas ; and in the forgery department the
signature he most affected was his revered pastor’s.
But he was a beautiful preacher 1
* * * *
At a recent “Hospital Sunday” in a
N.S.W. town speeches were made by all local
political aspirants and others. A high civic
functionary started off in great form, but having
unfortunately left his documentary oration at home
he suddenly collapsed and finished up thus: “ The
r— Hospital is a grand place. You can get
anything you want there; in fact, ’tis as good as a
“pub.”
A CLEAN SWEEP.
“To shut off the rather unpleasant view of the
west side of the St. Kilda Road, the City Corpora-
tion has erected a bank and planted it with
various shrubs, plants, etc., the whole being sur-
mounted by a tasteful green fence. These im-
provements have been accompanied by the raising
of the tram-track.” —Daily Paper.
The St. Kilda Road is handsome with the mansions of the
rich,
And its flower-banks in their towering eminence ;
And they’re so proud of the d n track
Now they’ve gone and raised the tram-track,
All unpleasant views they’ve shut out with a fence ;
Just a simple little garden paling fence.
Since a Royal Duke is coming and his Royal Duchess too,
We must have a show regardless of expense ;
So the Fatman and the Sweater will both wish for nothing
better
Than to shut off all their factories with a fence:
Hide their overworked employes with a fence.
Happy thought ! They’ve found the secret—how to hide
their dirty clothes,
Lest they give His Royal Highness some offence
Let them stow away by sections the result of their
elections,
Hiding Fraser and M'Eacharn with a fence.
Putting Knox and Sargood safe behind a fence.
In New South Wales, at any rate, they’ve never need to
hide
One man whose deeds are always Future Tense,
George Reid, although a sly dog, too long has nursed his
Dry Dog,
He is pretty safely hidden on the fence
He is pretty well forgotten on his fence.
When the Jook goes off to Queensland
There they’ll be no whit behind
In showing everything—but common sense ;
But the Public men who’re blacker than JFEacharn’s
loved Kanaka,
Can they shield them with a greenish-tinted fence ?
Put them safe behind a badly needed fence.
One last word—it may be useful, just to show the Royal
way,
If the princeling with those knighthoods would commence,
Then each M.L.C. who slumbers, and political back
numbers
Might be Sirred and safely put behind the fence ;
For the country’s sake might sleep behind the fence.
M. M.


“ He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’S success is a. Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY’B.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun of the thing t
MARK FOY, SYDNEY.
Bame prices and attswtls«i as If you bought amongst the dally crowds at the oountors.
The Govt. Prizes
Three
Firsts
were Awarded to
Coolalta Claret
AT THE
COMMONWEALTH SHOW.
GLOB 6 T6lS have 110 Eqßal '
Atcherley & Dawson, 284 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMANS LETTER.
Sydney, April 23, 1901.
My Dear Arini,—
Nine-tenths of the Sydneysiders asked to
Melbourne to help worry the Yorks at functions
are wondering as to the why and wherefore of
their inviteß. Some of them never got asked to
anything bigger than a church social before and
some never went to anything so respectable. The
Citizens’ Committee, here in Sydney, has been
asked by Govt, to help decorate the streets.
Why can’t Govt, and a committee let the Duke
see our streets? Why disguise them in drapery
(and champagne)? C.C. has now £l3OO in hand,
and has allotted seats for the State concert.
I have seen the album to be presented to the
Yorks (“amidst intense silence and strained
attention ”), and am now wearing smoked glasses
in consequence. The dazzling thing’s outside is of
solid gold 12in. x 18in. Running from end to end
and side to side is the Southern Cross in blue
enamel. Kangaroos and emus embellish the bind-
ing. Inside are views of Australia, and the cost
of the whole is 400 guineas.
Coonong Station, where the Duke will shoot,
belongs to one of the biggest wool-kings in the
world. He, M‘Caughey, is also a big man with a
big moustache, and his sheep are of a big breed,
and he’s in the big Upper House. That part of
the Murrumbidgee land on the edge of the salt-
bush country grows everything on a big scale. One
thing the Duke will have, and that’s range. The
country is as flat as a tennis-court. What will
he shoot ? Rabbits, hares, and wild birds on the
lagoons, probably. It will be very tame. What a
good thing no one thought of National Park, or his
Mildness might have been taken there to kill deer.
I think I can hear some of the Coonong party
talking to the Duke. “ Your ’lghness, I went over
this country in the old lonely coaching days,
when I’ve been the only passenger, and I’ve been
that lonely that I’ve talked to an imaginary per-
son on the opposite seat, then changed to that side
and replied to myself.” “Is it possible,” says the
Duke, feeling for his return ticket “Yes, your
’lghness, and when I got to an hotel and got to
bed, I had to spring out with a yell and my hair
on end. Up comes the landlady very apologetic,
‘I quite forgot,’ she says, ‘that I put that hen
and clutch of eggs to set in that bed. There, I’ve
taken her out, Mister, you get in again.’ “ Hope-
toun,” says the Duke, “ where have you put the
flask?”
The Duke of York is a sufferer from the brain
trouble known as philately. It impels you to
collect stamps and paste them in books, and you
dream and talk and think stamps. Sydney
Philatelic Asylum—Club I mean—is in a fine
frenzy over the Duke’s “ gracious condescension ”
in becoming a patron of the institution. Members
are going to signify their gratitude by an address,
and will lay their rarest stamps at the ducal feet.
Gentlemen presenting the address will each wear
a rare stamp pasted on the forehead.
Concerning the invitation cards to be issued by
the Commonwealth Government when the Yorko-
logical time arrives : I have seen the keyblocks of
two designed by Ashton et ills and Longstaff et cie.
The first you will get for the evening reception at
Exhibition Buildings, Melbourne, the second for
a grand concert. Ashton’s design shows a
matronly Britannia and a maidenly Australia
in robes of, respectively, crimson and gold,
and blue, fronting each other from opposite
sides of the invitation sentence. All the
lettering is of gold, and bearing in mind the fes-
tive objective of the card, the artists have used as
background trailing grape-vines. Longstaff’s
(Norman Lindsay is the co.) design lets you into
the opening of Parliament. Britannia again, but
standing against the cliffs of Dover ; girlish Aus-
tralia again, but backgrounded by a section of the
Old Man Plain, with one gum and a few sheep.
The colors are mostly weary pinks arid fainting
greys and ochres. Such a modest-looking card,
and we ought not to affect too much of the simple
dandelion when we know that we shall be a bold,
bright sunflower under the sun of York.
The much-admired new chrysanthemums at the
recent annual Sydney Show were Lady Lygon
and Success. The first is a big white flower, which
is only “new” by virtueof certain tiny horns on the
petals. “Success” —a dense, yellow dahlia-like
flower—is mathematical in the regularity, curve,
and position of its petals. Chrysanthemum-
ming becomes a sort of religion, and its
decidedly funny to hear a group of solid
beefy-looking men prating of “depth,” and
“cup” and “heart,” and wrangling over the
momentous fact that one petal in a “sport” of
“ golden gate ” (one petal out of perhaps 6000) was
“ straggling.” The prize-table—pink roses, white
chrysanthemums, and maiden-hair fern—looked
cold and elegant, but under its cloth was show-
ing some hideous pink calico, a hint of purple,
which completely spoilt the pink of the roses.
Antonia Dolores —what a satire is that second
name on her laughing, sunny face ! —sang to a big
afternoon audience last week. The programme
was again strictly classical, the kind of programme
to which some listen in rapturous silence, and
which others those with souls that grovel
—wish was more intelligible and ballady.
Whilst the musical Elect are listening with
closed eyes, slightly-dropped jaws, and fingers
tightly clenched round their programmes,
the Philistine is counting the organ-pipes.
She counts them accurately, then multiplies the
sum by the six pot-plants on either side of the
Stein way, and just as her arithmetic is about to
end in headache she begins to worry over the
inner meaning of some of the ears of the people
in the front seats. (Max Nordau' has said such
things about those kind of ears.) Or she starts
glancing backwards and sees what seems in-
separable to a matinee recital—straps of library
books, grass-bags, fancy-baskets, and parcels and
mushroom hats. Sometimes the looking back-
ward will be in fancy only. When Mdlle.
Dolores thrilled “.Ah, lo so ” from “The Magic
j lute the Philistine saw herself, a child of nine
having a music lesson on that very air from a lady
™than incipient beard, a long wooden knitting-
needle and a Skye terrier. Every few minutes
she would . crack the pupil hard on the knuckles
with the timber needle and kiss the terrier loudly
t .^ ee . n his ambushed eyes. To this day that
Philistine hates Magic Flutes, Skye terriers, and
ladies with incipient beards.
But there was no soul in that audience so low as
not to be thrilled by the Echo Song and Pensee
D Automne. After hearing Mdlle’s. I’ll flout
that hitherto wonderful echo at Leura for ever-
more.
Mdlle’s. dress of buttercup brocade had a
yoke of pale blue A large jet butterfly
with outstretched wings shivered and shimmered
on her bosom. She wears her hair Madonna-wise,
and so adds an apparent eight or ten years to her
appearance. To every good there’s a recoil of evil.
If you guard against going bald by plastering your
hair down, not frizzing and building it up on top,
you look middle-aged when you’re still under
twenty-five.
I see that Sydney Comedy Club is advertising
that it will give performances in aid of charities.
If it would do something for that most worthy
charity, the Women’s Hospital, the players might
have a good chance of a nimbus each in the great
Hereafter. Six years ago this hospital started
with one bed in a four-roomed house. Now it’s
only a terrace house, in Crown-street, with about
20 beds, and it’s very poor. It has no hot-
water service, and it does its sterilising in a fish-
kettle, and it’s not. rent free. Six hundred babies
have started life in this hospital, and scores of
poor women’s lives have been saved by its surgical
ward. The other day, it got £6O from a garden
fete at Mrs. G-eorge Cruickshanks’. That means
another £6O from Govt., which is generous of the
Govt. (I wonder what it costs to obstruct the
streets with the horrors known as Venetian masts).
Mrs. Wood, whom we so loved as Essie .Tenyns,
sends the institution a case of fruit every week,
and Mrs. Baumann gave it the latest thing in
operating-tables—all heavy plate-glass and bronze.
Our medical Mayor and Dr. Watson Munro have
given it their services from the first, and the
matron—the last I saw of her she was cuddling a set
of week-old twins, just the length of a tablespoon,
and looking hurt because the visitor said they
weren’t pretty.
A burst blood vessel and a stringent medical
command to take a year’s rest, are the reasons for
Tenor Wood house’s “Bohemian Night.” The
night will occur this Saturday, at the Town Hall,
and promises much. Everyone who can sing,
dance, act, and lightning-sketch better than any-
one else of the same name will contribute. And
the Mayoress is taking an arduous interest in the
ticket selling.
Sydney must have been short of medical attend-
ance during the four hours that 112 doctors were
dining at the Australia last week in honor of their
colleagues who had served in S’Africa. Dr.
Sydney Jones was in the chair, and grouped
around him were Drs. Fiaschi, Thomson, Roth,
Foreman, Perkins, Mullins, Graham, Bundle,
Prof. Wilson, Major Evans and Dr. Creed. Dr.
(Mayor) Graham’s speech was forcible and pa-
thetic. Dr. Beattie balanced it with a humorous
one. The menu was not ornamented with red-
crosses and ambulance waggons, as some persons
averred. The browse started with Canapes au
Caviare (which sounds nice), the toasts were few,
and the music was of a throw-down-the-gauntlet-
who’s-afraid character. “Ye Gallants of Eng-
land,” “Lo’, My Courage,” and “The Toreador.”
Friends of the manager of the Federal line of
steamers, who is going for a trip, banquetted him
the other night to the music of bagpipes, and
one of the after-dinner speakers told a bagpipe
story. . A young Highland soldier, shot all over,
lay dying in a crowded hospital tent on the veldt.
His commanding officer said in effect, “ Anything
I can do for you shall be done.” “ I hae but one
wish,” replied the Scotsman—“to hear the skirl
of the pipes once mair.” A piper was ordered to
skirl up and down outside the tent, and he skirled
and skirled, and the thistle lad got better and
better. By dawn the piper was played-out and
the wounded man was out of danger and asking
for parritch. But—oh, the pathos of this but !
all the other patients were Dead. Now’s the time
for a Scotch doctor to start the bagpipe cure.
Last week Sydney insurance-managers, sixty
strong, revived their custom of an annual picnic
by going to National Park. The chairman and
secretary of the outing put their managerial
freight into a special train at Redfern, then went
to look for stragglers. In their absence the Purple
Moth—the name of the special—flew off and the
innocents inside knowing nothing of the arrange-
ments, and scarcely sure of their destination, got
the Moth tethered up at Sutherland and tele-
phoned back for their leaders. They were
answered, “We’ll truck them in a horse-box.”
One of the managers raced down from town to the
Park in his motor car at 20 miles an hour. Mr.
St. Vincent Welch was chairman at the luncheon,
Mr. Danvers was in the vice-chair, and the chief
amusement of all these very solid gentlemen was
to watch the motor race round and round the
oval, and then do stump-jumping tricks.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The distribution of invites to the ‘ Yorkeries’
promises to be a matter for angry inquiry
when the Jookanjuchess have departed, and
when the whole work of the Reception Committee
is judged by certain personal results. Already
one hears two or three committeemen named as
‘ working the pasteboards ’ for their own little
ends. If some of the Melbourne guests of the
Government happen to get ‘ spotted ’ by the more
influential of the rejected ticket claimants, the
fat will be in the fire, that’s certain. The eye of
righteous indignation is not likely to miss many
opportunities for complaint. Somebody will have
to explain the appearance of Blank, Dash, and
Asterisk among the chosen ones in the event of
them turning up at the various functions. But in
scores of cases the tickets which ought not to have
been issued will simply be framed by their proud
possessors.
“ A Government Inquiry Bureau for invited
guests— i.e., guests who are strangers to Mel-
bourne —has been opened on the ground floor of
Prell’s Building in Collins-street, at the corner of
Queen-street. This seems to be the one item of
Govt, hospitality that can claim the virtue of
economy, thanks to the business tact of its origin-
ator, Mr. Moore aforesaid. In the first place,
Mr. Prell let the suite of rooms to the Bureau for
a nominal sum. Then they were furnished on the
hire system—reception-room, ladies’ boudoir, and
writing-room, with attendant attached. A clerk
and a type-writer represent the only other work-
ing expenses, and the smart little show has an
honorary manager in Mr. J. A. Levey, youngest
brother of the almost-forgotten George Collins
Levey.
“ Jenkins of the Beard groans that he will be
reduced to the size of a bodkin if people keep on
pestering him for invitations to the May shows.
He seems to have a really bad time, for the
majority hold that the opening of the Federal
Parliament will eclipse all other York displays—
and if it doesn’t it ought to. Shoals of letters
reach the bearded one’s private residence, his
club, his various places of call in the city, and
arrive in cart-loads at Parliament House impor-
tuning dear Mr. Jenkins not to forget his faithful
old friend so-and-so.
“A letter to the Herald from Mr. Byron
Moore disturbed the equanimity of a good many
city speculators who have been fixing seats over
the verandahs on the line of the York procession
route. These stand-builders, as a rule, forgot to
give them the necessary slope, or ‘pitch.’ Early
birds who booked front-row places can make their
minds easy, of course, for they will be perched
over the outer margin of the verandah where they
can look down upon the street by simply tucking
in their chins. Folks on the second line of obser-
vation will need to crane their necks a little, and
as for the others they will see no procession at all
unless the angle of the structure is scientifically
acuted. The standlords must consider the re-
quirements of their back-row tenants, or there
will be weeping and wailing and gnashing of
teeth when tne pageant comes to pass, and much
employment for the lawyers afterwards. Some
of the seat-holders who do obtain a full view of
the Jookanjuchess will probably bemoan the cost
of the entertainment, but how about the unfor-
tunates who part with 20s. a head and get never
a glimpse of a future Sovereign in return for their
outlay ?
“The Governor-General and Her Ex. have had
the regular vice regal carriage accident in Mel-
bourne. Ever since Lady Barkly died, as the
result of a carriage accident in ’57, it has been the
correct thing for every Governor’s wife to
have, at least, one chance of sudden death from
this cause. Lady Brassey had a good old smash-
up ; her hubby had several. Lady Hopetoun,
during her first term in Melbourne, had a first-
class accident. Now she has had another accident
—at the corner of Princes Bridge and Swanston-
street, only a few yards from where Gov. Barkly’s
wife received her death blow. Following pre-
cedent, there is a fair chance of the Yorks giving
the newspapers a sensation to write up from the
same cause. Nobody can represent the Crown in
Victoria without a carriage accident.
“ With black frocks for indoor or out the Coun-
tess of Hopetoun is wearing scarlet posies.
Already this tip has gone the rounds, and the
fashionables of metamorphosed Melbourne have
deposed the chic cluster of violets for the red
blossom. In the same way, Mrs. Corbett’s tulle
cravat has found a thousand imitators, and now
there’s not a smart chin in Toorak without its
under-frame of white or black tulle.
“Local women apparently pine to pose as dis-
tant connections or near friends of mourning
Royalty, so determined are they to sadden Com-
monwealth pageants by supererogatory trappings
of woe. The Governor-General’s cheerful voice
crying in a funereal dress-scape preaches that,
though widow-like weeds are free to all, still
official marms alone are expected to luxuriate in
full sartorial grief. However, official or not, Vic-
toriennes as a rule scorn mere complimentary half-
measures, and will greet the Cornwalls in Welcome
toilettes of all-black, piebald, or steel-grey. If
we’re nbt careful we’ll end by out-mourning the
Departed’s own relations. Mrs. Cornwall herself
is provided with white skirts for the tropics, a
suit of softest grey cashmere, its grey silk vest
appliqued with white, and its Empire belt caught
with a buckle of mauve enamel. By the way, the
Visitor’s Australian outfit seems rich in boleros,
almost every gown boasting a fanciful little mem-
ber of the coated family.
“ By this time the elder Hope boy under his
tutor’s wing will have started back to school at
Eton. The military doctor who pulled the then
very-ill Governor-General through the trying
journey from Madras to Australia goes with the
travellers as far as India. If Hopey, junior,
stayed here long his head would swell beyond hat
size. Local scribes write up the youngster’s
‘chubbiness,’ and his pony, Sundowner, and
chronicle solemnly how, when the family were
travelling from N.S.W., the engine had to halt
near Melb. because ‘ the children ’ had neglected
to move into the car where attendants were
waiting to get them out of travelling clothes
into festive toilettes. The younger boy is a quaint
miniature of his dad. In pompous photographic
groups wherein ‘ Lord Hope ’ looms large as the
heir, younger son ‘ Charlie, ’ seated on the ground
hugging his small knees, looks exactly like little
Paul Dotnbey. The first Sunday in Melbourne,
the diplomatic Earl took both his lads to Scots
Church, and afterwards led them behind the
scenes and re-introduced them to Meenister
Marshall, who some years back, baptised ‘ Charles
Melbourne.’ Can one picture a scene more after
Sandy’s heart ? There was kirk intilt, Sawbath,
Meenister, Cairns catechism, ‘ the quality,’ siller
—wi’ whusky and bonnie lassies, ft would have
been from a Scotch point of view a very heaven
on earth.
“ Two or three paragraphs in the Australasian
have suggested that the Cabinet’s selection of
Stonington (the late Mr. Wagner’s place) as a
home for the new State Governor was influenced
by Mr. M'Culloch, whose handsome son, Sam,
married into the Wagner family. But it is well-
known that Stonington recommended itself. Mr.
Wagner spent £BO,OOO on the property, and the
Government, in beating the rental down to £lOOO
a year, with the option of purchase for £40,000,
drove a hard bargain with the trustees. None of
the other properties on the list of proposals were
at all tempting.
“On the principle of ‘throw plenty of mud
and some of it’s sure to stick,’ some Meib. people
have been writing their names in Hopetoun’s
visiting-book over and over again. The hope is
that by ‘ calling often ’ they will not fail to be in-
vited to some function while the .Took is on
exhibit. But, in fact, the oft-callers only make
themselves a nuisance, and Wallington’s soul
groaneth from its overburdened depth, ‘ Better
Not! ’ All who have called more than once have
been put in a black-list. At Govt. House, people
with two entries in the book are known by the
name by which Ada Reeve used to call her plush
cycling knickers— ‘ Twicers.’
“ A young matron on Melbourne Block exhibits
a costume which at first sight paralyses the male
person. Like the mass of fashionable Melb.
women to-day, she wears no corsets, and her blouse
consists of alternate rows of opaque and trans-
parent material. The two upper spaces of lace
follow the usual custom and allow a liberal allow-
ance of the lady’s shoulders and bust to be seen,
but beneath the lower ones is placed some material
the exact tint of her skin, so that the effect is
that of a woman with the upper half attired in one
semi-transparent garment and nothing else.
“ The cou pies that canoodled at the moonlight
M.C.C. concerts are repining that by an inexor-
able decree they are declared ‘off.’ Such an
opportunity as it gave even the Naicest and best
brought-up ! It was so simple to say ‘as we have
the tickets, and there’s really a good programme
we may as well go, ’ and it was as easy as sneezing
to pair-off at once to the grounds, and wander to
Yarra’s brink in the mellowy light. A programme
was secured and taken home to musical parents—
and that closed the evidence for the defence. Only
the cold silent stars know the amount of spooning
that went on at these alfresco nocturnes.
“A returned Yictorienne has been treating
cronies to a peep at her complimentary half-
mourning, prescribed by London experts. A
skirt, meant for small dinners, is thick, of heavy
black satin, plain to the knees, from there to the
feet all broad, flat tucks hemmed with white silk,
while an inner flounce of white silk peeps occa-
sionally from under its train. Two bodices were
sent home with this skirt. Of these the black
satin one, liberally treated with black lisse, em-
broidered in seed-jet and silver, has a filmy, float-
ing Empire scarf, ending in fairy-like fringe.
Here and there on the chemisette and under-
sleeves of white silk-muslin gleam small buckles of
black enamel, with a crystal in the heart of each.
“The second blouse, built to look cool, is
creamy lace, put on loosely over ivory satin.
Narrow white ribbons thread the lace, and a wide
black-lisse sash, knotted on the hip, falls to the
skirt-hem, in broad ends, embroidered with
raised roses of white chiffon.
“ The trinkets worn with these costumes are a
long fine chain of gold and black enamel links,
black enamel ring with diamonds and small side-
combs to match. Or else necklet, crown-brooch
and bangle of ebony and pearls. White shoes
have their toes delicately embroidered with seed-
jet, and black ones are similarly treated with
‘ pearls.’ A sable cape is lined with deep purple
velvet. The tall fair, slim wearer of these win-
some weeds is accused by the envious of smiling
through her patriotic tears, whenever she nears a
looking-glass.
“Prof. Franklin Peterson, Marshall Hall’s suc-
cessor, has accepted the position, evidently, and
begins to direct a few round-arm blows at. the
martial bard. He talks, in his lectures, of some
vague person with ‘ opinions exaggerated and dis-
torted by the want of historical study,’ ‘ looking
upon himself as the apostle of light in a dark age,
and his disciples and admirers as the followers
and worshippers of the only true God,’&c., &c.
Musical circles look for quite an interesting and
instructive time between the rivals. A bored
people are always ready to cry, ‘ Blessed is the
pacemaker.’
“ Melbourne’s middle life has furnished a
humorous romance. A pretty and popular girl
was leaving home just before Easter on a visit
(ostensibly) to a relative up-country. Mater-
familias saw her off, gave her her blessing and a
large cheque, and enjoined her to write soon. She
did, too soon almost. The artless young thing
changed lines at Ballarat and proceeded to an-
other part of the country, whence she wrote her
mother to announce that she had joined her hus-
band in her ‘ new home.’ After this bolt from the
blue, she proceeded to say that she had been
married three years, but had waited till her
youthful spouse got his final degree (in his pro-
fession) before she ‘ let on. ’ Tableau !
“Mrs. 0. Vallange, wrapped up in profuse fox
furs, was the one occupant of the Vice-Regal box
at the Flemington races on Saturday. The
“ Cliveden” and Byron Moore’s parties excepted,
all the fairest frockers sported the colors of the
rainbow—Mrs. Herbert Power gleaming in a
splashy frock of black, blue, and pink. Mrs.
Lloyd was foremost with a brick-red cloth winter
frock. The dressy Dowager had her model figure
encased in an uncreasingly-fitting frock of black
and white with a heavy frosting of sequins.
Captain Wallington, swagger in greys and fawns,
looked in at the race-meeting before the finish.
He was rushed on the terrace and pump-handled
to such an extent that he grew weary of raising
his tiny boxer (that looked like a pimple on his
lean head).
(Continued on page 25.)


THE POKE OF
YOU ]{] te to take Photographs of the functions and decorations in con-
nection with the Royal visit, picnics, holiday resorts, your family or friends ?
Iff so, Visit . . .
Harrington’s
Photographic
Showrooms
Bar - Only one of its kind in Australasia where every Description of Camera
is open for inspection and Competent Assistants to instruct how to use them
without Charge.
Up-to-date Cameras are, however, extremely simple, and range in price from ss. to £25.
HARRINGTON AND CO., LTD.,
Photographic Merchants,
Agencies Throughout Australasia.
66 KING ST., SYDNEY
Branch—93 Queen St., Brisbane
QitiZ6lls’Pe]|ssDranee Company Qimited.
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
POLICIES IKT FORCE EXCEED 216,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Absolute Security.
Moore and Castlercayh Streets,
Sydney.
Annual Bonuses.
Rhsipkxt Skcketaky,
W. J. BLOOMFIELD, 8.A., L.L.B.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Cardinal Moran declines the invitation to
Melbourne to bow to the Duke. Primate Smith
and precedence are again the trouble.
A Melbourne apothecary boasts that he
has recently reduced a certain very fat N.S.W.
Freetrader’s avoirdupois 22lbs. in a month by
means of his anti-fat specifio.
In S. Australia they still write Q.C. and
not K.C., in consequence of Judge Boucaut’s dic-
tum that the little bit of alphabet remains for six
months after the sovereign’s death.
J. J. Miller, the “ Ironbark Bishop,” who
has so often worried Lyne and others at election-
times, has fallen again—at the hands of young
M’Laurin—at The Hume. J. J. Millar and F. B.
Freehill are the champion election-losers of
N.S.W.
The most incredible thing The Bulletin
has heard for a long while is that Baxter Bruce,
the cheerful Sydney solicitor, so well-known in
north and south, once upon a time recited tem-
perance pieces and was the prize youth of a
Brisbane Band of Hope.
The fist of S. W. Griffith, Queensland's
C.J., constitutes the champion puzzle. Recently
two barristers in open court got His Honor’s notes
to read, but mournfully passed them back to S.G.
The Chief blandly explained “ They are my rough
notes.” He was quite right.
None of the Gavan Dutfies are absolute
duffers, as is usual with the progeny of jaynius.
There is Attorney J. G. Duffy, a member of Vic.
Cabinet; Barrister F. G. Duffy, K.C.; and the
third, C. G. Duffy, has just vaulted into the clerk-
ship of’the Australian Senate.
John Forrest having intimated that, as the
Commander-in-Chief will have a salary of £l5OO
and travelling-expenses, a man of S’African ex-
perience may be induced to accept the position, a
coterie of Sydney busy-bodies are pantingly
hoping that Baden-Powell will fill the bill.
Robertson, M.H.R. for Robertson,
N.S.W., returning thanks for his election :—“ He
was sorry that the editor of that poor, miserable
little sheet, the Gulgong Advertiser, was not
present. That ignorant individual, like his supe-
rior officer, Mephistopheles, had evidently gone
down to hell again.” Does this forecast the tone
of the House of Reps. ?
That good journalist, Mr. A. S. Rathbone,
for years London correspondent of Sydney D.T.,
died there last week. He was formerly editor
and proprietor of Auckland (M.L.) Observer,
which he founded, and up to the time of his death
was connected with the London representatives
of Maoriland Associated Press. Mr. Rathbone
came of the well-known Liverpool mercantile
family of that name.
HIGH ART, AS AT PRESENT IN
MELBOURNE.
The dust-box of genius is seen in Sum-
mers’s colossal sitting statues of Victoria, Albert,
Albert Edward,. and Alexandra, at Melbourne
Public Library. He got his two thou., and Big
Clarke got his bart’ey. After that, Summers
would be. quite content to see the statues relegated
to the lumber-hole would indeed prefer it.
Poor little Queen Victoria is a Minerva, King
Edward an Achilles. Nordau’s “ lie of monarchy”
is perpetuated by the fiction of monarchy’s
sculptors.
The Bulletin’s old friend, Blessings-of-
Poverty Jefferis, one-time shepherd of the Pitt-
street (Sydney) flock, wherewith is mustered
“Mister James” Fairfax, has just retired from
the pulpit of Adelaide’s chief Congregational
Church. The ancient platitudinarian, after 25
years’ service with a long break a little past half-
way, had become too deadly-dull and Conserva-
tive even for the pulpit. So he goes back where
he can sit near the House of Lords.
Empress Frederick (daughter of the late
Queen Victoria, is slowly dying of cancer in the
uterus and the kidneys. Her husband died cf cancer
in the larynx. The old Empress Augusta (wife of
William I.) of cancer in the stomach. And the
present ruler of Germany (it as as yet only
whispered) suffers from the same terrible com-
plaint. The diseased part is placed by his loyal
subjects mostly somewhere about the brain ; but
the fact seems indisputable.
The main reason for electing C. A. Lee
(who, by the way, is on the brink of 60, and a
native of Balmain) to lead N.S.W. Opposition,
with the probability of early landing in the State
Premiership, was his pelf. Mr. Lee made money
at Maitland and Tenterfield, and is now able to
devote all his time to politics. A well-to-do Free-
trade politician in active service is a rarity. Most
of them spoon-feed the country with one hand
and fight for their own tucker with the other.
One of the penalties a Premier pays for
owning or controlling a newspaper is that its
constant adulation of him turns his friends into
disgusted foes. “The distinguished Mr. See.”
“Mr. See, with that wisdom which has charac-
terised all his utterances since the first day
N.S.W. had the good fortune to receive him as a
member of its Parliament.” “ Mr. See, as every-
one knows, stands immeasurably above Mr. Reid
in ability and good sense.” And all that sort of
thing.
About a candidate for President of the
Senate :
Chaffey Baker is playing a deep game for a billet, and
expects Bartonian support for the Senate Presidency.
All the deadly enmity towards Kingston vanished some
months ago, and the chief boss of S.A. National Ass even
had the audacity to adopt an ultra-Radical ticket at the
recent election, including adult-suffrage and a “ White
Australia.” Baker’s somersault has disgusted his friends,
particularly the Nat. Ass. He is sacrificing-LC(K) a year
as President of S.A. teg. Council for the chance of a simi-
lar billet in the Senate. Baker is just 60, intensely ambi-
tious, and personally unpopular.
Premier Seddon lias never yet been ad-
mitted to membership of that very select coterie,
Wellington Club. Since the outburst of Jingo
fever, however, a strong section, including some
of the very bluest-blooded, has declared for his
election. The Premier was actually invited
recently to a quasi-military function at the Club,
but he didn’t attend, although so certain was his
presence regarded that a most exalted Person was
purposely absent lest precedence would have to
be yielded to King Dick.
John Norton’s residence at Randwick ad-
joins that of cricket-celebrity Harry
Moses, a fact which John was not aware
of when he first honored the racing
suburb with his household gods. John
Norton’s bull-pup is also named Moses,
and one day when the gentle creature
annoyed the erudite John, the latter
talked to him for some minutes in Nor-
tonian language. Mr. Moses, on the
other side of the fence, being unaware
of the Christian name of Norton’s
beauty, took it all to himself, and
poking his head over wanted to know
what the deuce he had done to rouse
the wild man of King-street. Explana-
tions followed.
“ Arthur Wellesley Beaconsfield
Brown, charged with false pre-
tences ” . This sort of thing is
now a common feature of police-court
reports, and points painfully to a
connection between the high-falutin
name and the erring way. Arthur
is usually an elaborately-dressed youth
with a large bump on the rear-head
and looking for all the world as if he
had christened himself. His mother
was probably a vain and silly person
who endowed him with her weaknesses
as well as with the overwhelming name.
And in trying to live up to said
name and his own conception of him-
self Arthur is compelled to hunt up the
needful on the “ crook,” to get it fast
enough. And then cometh the sprint-
iug copper and the iron bars from be-
hind which the dull red eye of repent-
ance looketh out.
Salomons, K.C., moving from
the Bar-table (having just concluded a
case), to Pilcher, K.C. (about to com-
mence the next case): “ I’ll leave you
now. I am not interested in this action.
I don’t know whether you have ever
noticed, Pilcher, what a disgraceful
waste of time takes place in those cases
you are not engaged in ?”
A quarter of a century ago Archdeacon
Wilson, who died lately at Dubbo, N.S.W., was
an energetic and able Sydney pressman. He was
more literary than journalistic, and at that early
period worked hard to make a “picture” paper
popular. The Illustrated Sydney News, whose
chequered career yielded many good numbers, was
edited by him with something approaching enthu-
siasm. He took to the church,'however, and pro-
bably to surer peace of mind. In later years he
generally tried to persuade journalistic aspirants
to devote themselves to some other walk.
Acting-Justice Sly is the only LL.D. on
N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench. N.S.W. has
not so far in judicial
shown appreciation of
demic dignity. The ■
LL.D.,such as Judge
was, has sat on the
but the LL.D. by
ation has only in-
luck.
appointments
that a ca-
ll onorary
Windeyer
Bench,
examin-
different
A SKETCH AT THE BALLARAT MINERS’
TURF CLUB MEET. TWO WELL-
KNOWN IDENTITIES.
Brainy little Wallace Nelson, of the
People’s Newspaper, Q., and a defeated Federal
candidate, doesn’t take a licking philosophically,
He thus addresses his chief press opponentkno
Sir,—l used to view you with some degree of respect,
because I regarded you as intellectually honest if not
intellectually brilliant. I am now persuaded that your
heart is as mean as your intellect ; that you are a bigot of
the lowest type ; that you can stoop to the journalism of
the gutter. And I deem it at once my right and my
duty to hold you up to the detestation of your fellow-
creatures,
Alas •
Rarely is a public deputation introduced
by such a practical suppoiter as was the one which
waited on the N.S. W. Railway Commissioners, to
urge the abolition of the Great Zig-zag and the
duplication of the Western railway-line across the
Blue Mountains, at a cost of £700,000. W. W.
Young, M.L.A. for Bathurst, who spoke for the
interests of his own town, explained to the Com-
missioners that, having driven their locomotives
for 19 years, and many of them across the line of
which the deputation was complaining, he was
quite acquainted with the difficulties and dangers
ot tle ra c.
Died recently from the effects of exposure to
the recent heavy tropical rains, Lindsay Crawford,
a man with as varied an experience as anyone of
the Northern Territory. Successively he was
bushman, in charge of a section of “the over-
land,” pioneer cattle-farmer on the marvellously-
grassed Victoria River Downs, cattle-shipper to
Java and Singapore, and manager for the mys-
sterious Anglo-French Exploration Syndicate. A
magnificent specimen of a man, on whose broad
shoulders financial ill-luck seemed to have made a
permanent residence.
mi <■ , , ~ i • 1 c
The fact that the Lmpiess Frederick of
Germany is dying of the disease (cancer) that
killed her husband is written of, in S.M. Herald,
as “one more link in the chain of evidence that
this terrible scourge is more contagious than is
generally admitted.” But this is not necessarily
a case of direct contagion, since both the late
Emperor and the Empress may have derived the
disease from a common source. The Bulletin
hears of a house, in a fashionable but low-lying
Sydney suburb, in which three successive occu-
pants have died from cancer.
,d, T ,
About Senator John Downer :
Perhaps the liomeliest-looking mail in the Federal
Legislature will be John Downer, who facially is almost
milk-white skin and blood-shot eyes. Nature built John
Downer for a champion bruiser, but circumstances made
him, like three other brothers, a lawyer. John has been
a prominent S.A politician for *23 years, representing the
same district from the very start, and he became a Q.O.
in 1877. An absolutely straight man of great grit,
he never loses a personal friend. He has been thrice
Premier of S.A., and it was his Ministry which carried a
Protective tariff in 1335 Though just on 6J, Downer
married a handsome and charming Sydney girl two years
ago, and has fully determined to live on until he is 100.
’ ‘ c , . . .
The captain or a certain big passenger-
steamer trading in Australian waters was much
harassed by the eternal complaints of a couple of
drummers as to the food provided on board. For
instance, the eggs were bad. “Bring me here,”
he said to the steward, “doze boiled eggs!” (off
whicli the tops had been chipped by the com-
plainants). The eggs were brought and duly
smelt by the venerable skipper. “Look, my
man, he said right out loud in the presence of
the commercial gourmets, “you are a tam fool.
Ven next you have bad eggs, nefer you boil dem.
Dey must be scrambled. Now, you hear !
A certain Wollongong stock-agent had a
pretty wit—for a stock-agent. Giving evidence
once at Quarter Sessions, in a cattle-stealing case,
he made the audience grin by saying that a certain
thing was of “no comportance.” “No what,
sir?” thundered his Honor. “No quenseconse,
your Honor,” was the reply. The bewigged one
puffed indignantly, then said, “You’d better be
careful, sir ! ” “Yes, your Honor —I ajollopize.
I’ll endeavor to be more swearory—hem! casso-
wary—tut! tut! cursory, I meant.” Judex
verged on apoplexy, and a friendly constable
hustled the humorist out of the box.
“S.S.”: Talking of the peculiarities of
orators. I struck an eccentric during the Com-
monwealth election campaign. Put up to do the
talking for a giftless and shiftless candidate in
the vicinity of Melbourne, he took the plat-
form in a tightly buttoned-up condition,
and opened out on the audience
with some effect. Presently,
he began to unbutton in ner-
vous unconsciousness. He
unbuttoned his coat m the
first 10 min., un-buttoned
his vest in the next seven,
then loosed a brace or
two, and still in the
ardor of his elo-
quence his fingers
wandered uncon-
sciously i n search
of more buttons,
and the meet-
ing lost all
interest in
what he
was saying
in its anxiety
over his ac-
tions, wonder-
ing feverishly
what he would un-
button next. A
timely yell from
the chairman saved
the situation, and
recalled the orator
to a sense of his
condition. During
the rest of his
speech the
speaker
automa-
tically but-
toned - u p
again, finish-
ing tightly but-
toned and triumphant.
“H.” : Looking over Pope’s “lliad,”l
apply these lines to Higinbotham. At all events.
they bring that master of oratory again before my
mind’s eye. The quotation has never, to my
wledge, been linked with the name ot the
great and beloved democrat : •
But when Ulysses rose, in thought profound,
His modest eyes he fixed upon the ground ;
As one unskilled, or dumb, he seem’d to stand,
Nor raised his head, nor stretched his sceptred hand ;
But when he speaks, what elocution flows !
Soft as the fleeces of desr ending snows.
“King Edward VII. is going to "be ‘jolly r
popular,” writes The Bulletin's London corre-
spondent. “He has that ‘gift of the gods’ in
kings—a grain of humor. The clubs are laughing
over his gentle ‘touch’ at Mrs. Cornwallis West
apropos of DeWet’s uncatchableness. “I know
how we could catch him,” said K.E. “Let us
send Mrs. C.W. out to the Transvaal. She had
two unmarried daughters, -and caught a Prince
with one and a Duke with the other. She couldn’t
fail with De Wet. But Lady Randolph
Churchill caught her pet son.”
“Old Jack”: Present writer and recently-
deceased « Bob » Whitworth once wanted to raip
the wind. Usual resources dried up ; nothing in
shape of personal property to mortgage; very
blue look-out. Bob, however, had upon him, as
usual, the MS. of a story. And he considered if
a certain pawnbroker known to both scribes
would “ take it in.” Tossed up who should in
terview old B——. Bob lost, faced the task
heroically, and, in about 10 minutes, came forth
beaming. He had raised half-a-sov. on the screed,
Six months thereafter— “ Veil are you goin’ :o
redeem yer manuscript, Whitworth?” says old
B. . “Don’t worry, B ,” said Bob; ‘I
can get along without it.” “ But I don’t vant it,”
cries the Oriental gentleman. “No more do J”
Ba ys Bob. And that ended the matter.
.
lie the rumor that Christian de Wet has
gone crazy, it is curious to consider how many
great captains have been a “bitoff.” Alexander
of Macedon and Julius Caesar were epileptics;
and the early 18th century saw a life-and-death
struggle between two undoubted madmen, Peter I
of Russia and Charles XII of Sweden. Frederick
the Great was, at least, eccentric ; and Wolfe, the
victor of Quebec, was, according to contemporary
memoirs, very mad at times. George 111, when
told this, said: “Then I wish he’d bite some of
my other generals!” Lombroso says plainly
that all the available evidence shows Napoleon to
have been mad. “Stonewall” Jackson, Grant,
Sherman a»d Sl.erid™, . before the A ra erio„
Civil War, always had, in Jme L/.S. Army, the
reputation of being 4 cracked,
“The latest ‘Gaiety Girl-Peeress,”’
.. r n -r> ~ T ■% , ’ ,
writes _LHE BULLETIN S London correspondent,
“who has been honored by being selected to
‘ buck up ’ the ranks of the ‘ splendid paupers ’
with healthy virility and fascinating vivacity, is a
bright-eyed', black-haired eider-down-cushiony,
rp- ° „„ 1’ „ » ,r r , .
Tipperary lass, yclept Rosie Boote (The wed
ding took place last week.) Ihe Marquis o'
Headfort is likewise shamrocky, twenty-three, and
has a commission in the Ist Life Guards. He is
very rich—has splendid estates and tons of money,
R os i e ’s mother, Marie Hassell, is herself a fine
imposing mother-in-law who would be an orna-
ment to any son-in-law’s household. She is tour-
j nff j n * The Dandy Fifth.’ Rosie will have as
actress-pal-peeress Dolly Tester, Connie Gilchrist,
Belle Bilton, Lil Johnson and May Yohe, who
are respectively and respectably Marchioness of
Ailesbury, Countess of Orkney, Countess of Clan-
earty> Lady Elliot, and Lady Francis Hope, pro-
bable Duchess of Newcastle.”


For
that
Tired
Feeling
take
WOLFES
''SCHNAPPS.
WATSON’S WHISKY
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Aboriginallties .
giw emct rfafg and ac<
f; aCe f experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value,
The (immigrant) girl whom I got from
the ship Duke of Norfolk,” writes the wife of the
owner of a Q. wayback station, “was just too
superior for anything—very pretty, and with hair
done in the latest style, and given to borrowing
Keats or Shelley in her spare moments. She
tended the children fairly well, but complained
bitterly of Australia. ‘ Then why did you
come out here—lowering the wages, and taking
bread out of our mouths ? ’ demanded the cook,
who had views on immigration. ‘ You’ll have a
lot more of us as long as the lying advertisements
appear in “our” papers.’ retorted the girl.
‘ Come to Queensland ! Our young men want
wives. There are happy homes waiting for enter-
prising girls,’ &c., <fec. And she showed me some
clippings from an English paper to that effect.
However, she married very soon, a strapping
young ring-barker, and _moved «on with him and
his tent to the next station. One can foresee what
she will be in a few years’ time—sunburnt, weary-
eyed, the mother of many children, the baker of
bad bread in heavy-lidded camp-ovens, and no
time for Shelley or Keats and day-dreams. But
her children will have the most poetical names in
the world.”
* » * *
“Imray”: The “traveller” came up to
the station, arid sitting heavily on the edge of the
verandah explained in a casual way that he had
seen a large snake crawling into a hollow log, off
HEADS AND HEELS.
“There are blacksmiths practising dentistry in N.S.W., and under the provisions of the Dentistry Bill these would become legally
qualified practitioners.”— N.S. Wales M.P.
BUSH S MITH: “ This core’s a bit hard in the mouth, Jack, but Til be ready to stick yer shoes on in a minit.”
which snake he had shot a foot or more of the tail.
He badly wanted to get the rest of the snake, so
carefully putting down the broken neck of a
bottle he was carrying he proceeded to split the
cracked log with impromptu stone wedges. Look-
ing inside after a bit he saw a horde of young-
snakes running into their parent’s mouth for pro-
tection, but as the damaged end of the old one
was out of gear and leaking, they kept crawling
right through and round again to be swallowed.
This worried the traveller, and he sat down and
thought violently. Then lie -went away to look for
a cork to keep the young ones inside with. After a
bit he forgot what he was looking for, and coming
back to the log, from which the snake had now
crawled out, he was surprised to see that the
reptile had tied a knot on its own tail to get over
the difficulty. Waving the old bottle-neck to us
aa satisfactory evidence of something or the other,
the traveller went further West.
* * * *
“ Imray ” ; Dr. Roth (B. 22/12/'0)
bitterly complains of “criminal assaults on young
aboriginal girls of 15 or 16.” He ought to step up
this way (Nor’-West, W.A) ; 5 or 6 is the
age up here. One station-manager sleeps in a
koj sta^e y ar d with from 12 to 20 female
children, none of them over ten. Another gentle-
man employs a white woman to shepherd his
colored-infants’ harem.
* • * «r
“D.C.”: Near Healesville (Vic,) last
summer, came across a pair of snakes in the
road. Killed the male, but female got away. Re-
turning along the track half-an-hour later, found
that the dead snake had disappeared. Fol-
lowed a broadly-marked track across the road and
found that female had returned and had dragged
her mate into a hollow log. Seems to show that,
during pairing season at least, snakes are sensib’e
to feelings of affection.
* * * »
“A.M.” to The Bulletin, from Maori-
land:—
The M.E. butter-factory boom is not such an all-round
blessing as it seems. It pays the capitalist who owns
the land all right, but means the very worst kind of
slavery to the actual producer. Before the boom, farm
hands were paid £1 weekly and board for working eight
hours a day ; now the same class of hands get from 10s. to
15s. weekly, working 14 hours a day in all weathers. On
the other hand, land that cost from £4 to £6 an acre for
grazing purposes, now lets for £1 an acre yearly for milk-
ing. It is not a pleasant fact that many settlers’ children
get up before daylight, milk until breakfast, travel three
or four miles to school and back, milking again until dark,
and, as often as not, ankle-keep in mud in both stock-
yard and paddock. Small wonder that the poor little
morsels of sweated humanity often fall asleep over their
evening meal. There was some talk of legislation in their
favour, but it died out. When a settler has to pay heavy
rent, and interest on his stock and plant, he gets too
tired to agitate about anything.
Serve them both right. The “hands” should
start a union, and use the Arbitration Court,
while the selectors should agitate, tired or not, for
a gentle application of the Closer Settlement Act.
People who are too tired to agitate deserve all
they get.
• * * »
From a coal-mine on the Illavvarra line,
N.S.W., 14 men were riding homewards on a
skip, provided, by way of break, with a wooden
lever and a wire on the front wheel. The way
was all down-grade, and the break gave way,
whereupon the skip went off with a jump, and
gained headway at every yard. About a quarter of
a mile on was a “flat,” or siding, on which stood
a “set” of 14 empty skips. A young engine-
driver who was on the travelling skip knew the
points were open on to the flat, and balancing
himself on the edge as it approached, bounded off
the skip, actually raced and heat it for 15 vards,
and threw up the points-lever in the nick of time.
The skip pulled up safely a mile on. The 13 men
(lucky 13 for once) whom he had delivered from
death presented him with a gold watch and chain.
* * * *
Re horse-sense. I know of an ancient
moke in a N.S.W. colliery that was very intelli-
gent, but nevertheless through getting a sudden
kink in his intellect caused a bad smash. He
answered to the name of “ Soldier,” and was used
for bringing out the loaded skips. As each set
came out he would range up alongside and move
at whatever pace was required, while his driver
shifted the big engine-rope from its hook and
hooked Soldier on instead to take the set away.
Sometimes the skips would come out fast, and
then it was smart work to snap the catch open,
release the rope, and hook Soldier on. Soldier
was considered infallible, however, and so he was
for over eight years. Then one morning, instead
of ranging up as usual, he wheeled round, let fly
both heels into his driver’s stomach, and dropped
him insensible across the line in front of the
rapidly-moving, loaded skips. The skips reached
the man before his mates, and they buried his
dismembered remains next day in a blanket,
there is a profound moral in this for every citizen
who employs a soldier.— Bags.
* » * *
“ VV.H.I.” : Be R. L. Ste reason's mystical
phenomenon (“Vale,” B. 26/l/’01). There is a
scientific explanation of this. When at rest, the
beating of the heart becomes slower and the body-
temperature sensibly declines—markedly so with
Europeans who have lived for some time in the
tropics, and whose normal temperature is half a
degree above the European normal. But, about
an hour before dawn, both temperature and
number of heart-beats increase, and it is at this
DROUGHT-TIME AT DIRRANBANDI: “THE GENERAL MANAGER INSPECTING
THE RUNS.”
juncture—the physiological “dead-point”—that
very aged persons and those suffering from wasting
disease usually expire. Again, the earth-tempera-
ture (under normal conditions of cloudless sky and
absence of wind) gradually sinks from radiation,
but this thermometrical depression ceases when
the refracted heat-rays from the still unseen sun
begin to warm the atmosphere, accompanied by
an almost imperceptible wind. When the physio-
logical and phy'siographical dead-centre occur at
approximately the same time, the curious sensa-
tion mentioned by Stevenson and others is experi-
enced. Naturally, in heated rooms, or on cloudy
or windy nights, the conditions are unfavorable to
the chilly, shivering sensation referred to.
• * * *
“ Yarrum ” : Wollongong, for the size of
it, has fewer pubs, than any other town in
N.S. W. Certain leading lights there —for reasons
unconnected with Cold-Tea—oppose the granting
of every license asked for. Consequently,
accommodation is inadequate, and holiday-people
give the place the go-by. By the way, Temora —
on a population-basis—is the best pubbed of all
N.S.W. towns.
* * * •
A middle-aged Austrian (a recent immi-
grant) turned up the other day at Woolerina
Station (Q.). He was unable to speak English ;
his clothes were in tatters, and his feet bandaged
with old bags in lieu of boots. He had been
three days without solid food, and was refused
tucker at an adjacent station. He carried a
crumpled piece of paper on which was written in
English, “ This man’s an Austrian, direct him to
Grenvelle.” He presented it to an employe of
that station, who showed his Christian fellowship
by adorning it with this scrawl:
This feller is a turner, sind him on to ell.
No wonder Australia sends contingents to
slaughter Boers!
* * » «
At the District Court in Rockhampton
(Q.), recently, while a Chinaman was being tried
for perjury, another Chow was being examined
through an interpreter. “ Ask the witness,” said
the barrister, “did he say this in the lower court ”
—intending to read extract from depositions.
But the interpreter at once rattled off a question
to the witness, despite the frantic efforts of Judge
and counsel to stop him, and to explain that he
hadn’t yet heard what he was supposed to have
said. Then the witness plaintively warbled some-
thing in reply, and the interpreter turned to the
barrister and said, “He says yes.”
A daring and successful
gaol-breaker of the early N.S. W.
days was one Wilson. Once
while he and several other con-
victs were being conveyed from
Portland to Melbourne in a
schooner, Wilson succeeded in
tampering with the irons of all
to such an extent that, by the
removal of a piece of wood
(painted black) which had been
placed in the severed portion of
the link, every man would be
free. When the vessel reached
Warrnambool (where she was to
ship another batch) Wilson and
the others were lodged in the
local gaol; but during the night
Wilson cut a hole in the cell-
door (three thicknesses of hard-
wood) large enough to allow of
the passage of a man’s body, and
by the morning they had all
flown. Wilson could have eluded
pursuit easily enough had he been
by himself ; but his fellow-esca-
pees, trusting to his knowledge
of the bush, hung so closely to
him that the whole batch was
caught soon afterwards. On
another occasion, when being
brought to Melbourne in charge
of four policemen, he jumped
overboard as the boat was com-
ing up the Yarra, and, carrying
281 b. irons, was caught in the
reeds and perished. Had he
managed to get into clear water he would pro-
bably have got away, as his arms were free and he
was a strong swimmer.
* » * »
“X.X.X.”: T’other day, fishing on the
Hawkesbury (N.S.W.), I picked up a lost heavy
line. When I hauled the whole tackle on board
the jaws of a well-matured shark were hanging in
grim death to the hook. The rest of the brute was
absent, and seemed to have been just severed.
Shark had eaten shark.
“ A.E.G.” to The Bulletin :
In cases of abdominal inflammation, the following hint
might be useful to bushmen and others far from medical
aid. Split a chicken in halves ; and, whilst the halves
are still hot clap them on the abdomen. In a short time
it (the poultice) will be quite green. Repeat applications
until there is no greenness observable —when the in-
flammation will be gone. Once, came upon a blackfellow
at last gasp, and cured him with a chook and a half. I
got the tip from an English whilom medical-man for —
poor devil! —a glass of rum !
The foregoing smacks more of Celestial than of
English methods—despite the beef-steak cure
for black-eye. Split rats, chickens, frogs, mice,
&c., are great applications in Chinese medi-
cine for inflammatory conditions of all kinds, and
whether by reason of the faith element or of the
slight counter-irritation produced, they seem to
have held favor from time immemorial. The
theory that they ' “ draw out the inflammation ” is
utter bosh, but the continued warmth may do
some good. Writer has seen a poultice of split
mice in a Chow’s rheumatic elbow, but hot fomen-
tations would have cured it quicker. In bowel
inflammation the bushman had better use the
chicken for soup, and pin his abdominal faith to
a rousing mustard poultice, with a dose of castor-
oil or Mr. Cockle, and subsequent flannel belts.
* * * ♦
“A.A.A.”: Boss-Casey sent “just-out”
Dempsey over to “most-particular” MacDonald
for the loan of his roller (a splendid long stone
one). “Be shure an’ fetch it in the car-rt, me
malm ; an’ be very, very careful wid it!” were the
parting instructions. But Dempsey thought it
too much trouble. “ Oi’ll dhrag the bloomin’
thing over wid th’ hoa-rse.” He did, and on the
road back ran over a big stone lying on the track ;
and the roller snapped in two. “ Fwhere is ut ? ”
asked Casey when the “just-out” gent returned
roller-less. “Whoy, sir, she broke cornin’ over
th’ rise beyant.” “ Broke ! ” roared Casey in a
voice of thunder. “Yis, sOrr,” said Dempsey,
trembling all oyer. “Whoy, the blissed ould
consarn was all moth-aten, sorr-r 1 ”
F. R. WOODHOUSE.
Photo, by The Falk Studios, Sydney.
“ Ita ” : Travelling once in the West, I
happened upon a writing tacked to a tree about
100 yds. in front of a selector’s hut; and was sur-
prised to find it was a marriage certificate. Fur-
ther on I came on a man pulling a bullock out of
a water-hole, and he told me that the placard wa3
the “ marriage lines ” of himself and wife, and
had been posted up to rebut a slanderous state-
ment that the two were only “living together,”
and so clear their characters before the public.
Inquired about said public; and found that the
only neighbours within a radiuslif 20 miles were
a German couple, who were frankly “ living to-
gether,” and a bachelor cow-stealer.
* * * •
One of the most remarkable results of the
present protracted drought is that a leading
N.S.W.- stock-and-station agent has on his hands
for sale 5000/oi<7 - -year-old maiden ewes. Such a
thing has never previously happened within his
experience.
The N.S. W. Aborigines’ Board reports
“ that a full-blooded black has just secured a
divorce from his wife, also a full-blood.” And a
few years ago the blackfellow was his own divorce
judicature, and his trusty waddy would have been
his “ decree absolute.”
THE SWEET BACK-COUNTRY TOWNSHIPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh ! the sweet Australian townships, lying, scented on
the plains
Green and verdant. Rivers foaming, brimming with the
plenteous rains 1
Oh ! the sweet back-country townships, quivering in my
reeling brain,
lixed and rooted there for ever, festering in the endless
train.
Milparinka, Tibooburra, Oobar, Louth, and Gunnigal,
\ antabulla, Purnamoota, Gol Gol, Moorna, Booligal,
bus ton, Ivanhoe, Wanaaring, Parlamutty, Pooncarie,
Pitarpunga, Goombalia, Barringun and Mootherie.
Goats and jam-tins, flies and cursings, heat like Hell, and
dirt and sand—
Sand in waving, quivering ridges, stretching out on either
hand.
Crows in dozens perched around you, croaking at a dying
lamb. '
Arid, God-forsaken country, all summed up in one bitr
D— n. 6
(Please excuse a fresh lot of townships here-r-by a special
dispensation of Providence, the supply is limited—
about one to 10,000 sq. miles.)
In my dreams ye haunt me ever, and I start up in the
night.
Eyeballs glaring, lists fast clenching, life-blood freezing
with the fright.
Dreaming I am still firm planted in that brazen, blinding
glare.
May such phantoms fade for ever is my fervent, heart-felt
prayer.
Booroondarra, Willyama, Tilpa, Toorale, Buckanbe,
Girilambone, Bulla Bulla, Nyngan, Hillston, Nymagee,
Tarrawingee, Timbirebungie, Tooraweenah, Tocumwal.
May the Heavenly Powers above us send down fire and
blast you all.
N.B. w.
YARRAN.


THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes —
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose :— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par’
of the Label.
THE NEW CABINET.
It is safe to say that public opinion is divider!
as to the merits of the Cabinet just completed by
John See to the order of N.S.W. We ourselves
think that, though it is by no means perfect, it
might be much worse. We must admit, however,
that we have seen much better Cabinets in Sydney
lately, viz., at Sada’s Sale of Eastern Novelties
now on at 197 Pitt-street. Pretty Cabinets,
handsome Whatnots, Bamboo Suites, Fancy
Screens, Carpet Squares, and about thirteen
hundred and twenty-seven pretty and quaint
Oriental Ornaments are here marked at figures
that must command a ready sale. Therefore, we
say, ’Urry up ! P. O. Sada and Co.’s Showrooms
are just opposite the Imperial Arcade, in Pitt-
street.*
ROWLANDS
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLANDS
ODONTO
FOR THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland’s ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
Order
SCHWEPPE’S
DRY QINGER ALE
A LIKELY TALE .
WOULD-BK SELLER: “Shure it’s a ehplindid mare she it, intirel y!”
POSSIBLE P URCHASER: “ Don't like maret—nuitanoe, havin' foals."
W.B.S.: “Foals is it! Whoy, man, she nivir had a foal! She comes of a "barren family—her
mother nivir had a foal ayther!"
“ T.G.F." : Be tame ’roos (“Sydney
Side,” B. 23/3/1). At Nanonia Station was a
pet kangaroo that was very fond of his cup of tea.
This was given him on the floor, as otherwise he
would have been responsible for a large crockery-
bill. When he found the dogs asleep he
would hop up to them, playfully smack one on
the nose and bound off. The dogs would follow
full speed, and “Paddy” would be pace-maker
for a quarter of an hour or so. He went out one
morning, however, and made the pace for some
strange dogs ; but they were “playing for keeps,”
and when they collared Paddy they slew him.
* » * *
“R. Mac”: Talk about miracles! Two
men were well-sinking recently on the Downs
(Q.); and, one day, when they were down 100 ft.,
the bucket was being sent up, when in some unac-
countable manner one of the iron drills (3ft. long
and 2in. thick) became exactly balanced on the
small hook attached to the end of the rope, and
was thus drawn safely up the 100 ft. Imagine the
consternation of the man at the windlass when he
discovered what he was hauling up !
* * * *
“ Wallaroo ” : Two Mew England (N.S. W.)
border-farmers, weary of the
drought and lured by the pros-
pect of 235. per bag, hired wag-
gons, loaded-up with. unpaid-for
corn, and started over the worst
road in Australia for the Sun-
baked west. Then it rained ; and
when, after mishaps innumerable,
they finally attained their goal,
the grass was everywhere so
luxuriant that they couldn’t sell.
Left the grain in storage and
hurried home to plough their land
with horses so reduced by the trip
as to be practicallv useless. The
cocky-carrier and his team are a
sight to remember. He invari-
ably moves in wet weather and
persistently overloads. Gets stuck.
Other men come and together they
attack the overtaxed animals with spreaders,
saplings and “language.” Have known them
not make 12 miles in 3 days ! The Govt,
road men are the most consistently cruel to
horses. A party of them, lately camped near
Inverell, had to cover their animals with
bags to hide great raw holes into which a man
could thrust his fist—the result of repeated
thrashings with shovel and spreader. Though
the brutality of these men was several times
reported, the police stolidly refrained from
interference. Saw one batter-victim turned
out to starve with raw fly-infested patches
everywhere, and a great evil-smelling hole
over the root of the tail —a sight I will never
forget 1
“D.H.R.” : I know a man who was once
minding a flock of ewes and green lambs, when a
black boy ran up and said that a big snake had
taken a lamb and crawled up a dead stump with
it. Took an axe, felled the stump, and found
therein a carpet snake 12ft. 3in. long, and a small
lamb, dead. The stump was 14ft. high and 2ft. in
diameter.
• * * *
“Go West, young man ” ; and Br’er
Rabbit goes. Full-grown, he has been caught
now at Kanowna. But the lonely digger, fed up
on tinned-dog, instead of dreading the invasion,
thinks seriously of petitioning for a close season
to give nature a chance.
* * * *
The Afghan moves on—he has become a
teamster now in Westralia, and takes to the horse
far better than the average bushman does to the
camel.
* 9 * *
In spite of “the break-up of the drought,”
as the fall of patch)’ thunderstorms is always
called in the city paper, the Darling from Bourke
down is abormally low—a mere gutter in many
places.
The prayer of the N.S.W. oyster-bed
lessees : “ Give us, 0 Minister! a datum-post and a
licensed surveyor.”
An incident suggestive of hideous possi-
bilities occurred during the journey of a special
train near Benalla (Vic.) on April 9. The fireman
went mad and attacked the driver, who stopped
the train the better to defend himself. The
lunatic —one of the oldest and most efficient em-
ployes in the service—was secured with difficulty.
The Gainsborough Duchess (whose picture,
stolen long ago, has just been recovered in
America) was one of the two intimate friends,
Georgiana and Bessie, both of whom had the luck
of wedding the same Duke of Devonshire.
Georgiana was the heroine of the stolen picture, but
Bessie Was yet handsomer. Once she spoke en-
thusiastically to Gibbon about his history. There-
upon he flopped down and proposed. Historians
are poor game, but a Duke is snapped like a bird.
AN AGNOSTIC.
THE GRASSHOPPER: "Ha, ha! my laughing
friend; I never did put much faith in that
snake-killing yarn of yours !”
Another mock pearl of history gone. It
transpires that Kitchener wanted to give Cronje
time, but Roberts wouldn’t.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the Well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the iargest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned, un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
C.C.W.: The absent Colonels Mackay and
Lassetter were defeated, but the stay-at-home warriors
Neild and Gould got in by machine voting A.O’S. :
Jack Want is not in need of any advt., but he may con-
gratulate himself on his connection with the case. And
it is mighty few who can say that... .0. Hammett : Not
so ; M'Gregor practically lost his sight through a blast-
ing accident when quite a young man.. . .Myra : A jim
is Sydney slang for a sovereign ; though why one James
should be worth 20 Roberts does not appear Macolo :
You’ve got a hair in your pen. This is strictly meta-
phorical Lens: No", you could not depend upon get-
ting in Sydney, or anywhere else in Australasia, a decent
price for’even a first-class drawing. Nearly all picture-
sales are mere slaughters A.K.A. : Selling a safe and
then robbing it by means of duplicate keys is an old
game. That was the method of the big S’African
diamond-theft years ago V.Q. : That’s all right. It
used to be urged by the employers in N.Q. that the
Islanders always spent their wages in the country and
thus circulated the coin. As a matter of fact Tommy
Tanna religiously spends his cash with John Chinaman
or the little brown man (and woman), and it seldom sees
light again this side of Yokohama or Hongkong
Brenda : But then no public service in Victoria could ever
hope to get on long without a Gavan Duffy somewhere on
the premises F.J.P.S. : Thanks ; write again
Mikoro : The knack of real verbatim reporting is a special
gift, like a cast in the eye. Not one short-hander out of
fifty, however practised, would ever be fit for Hansard,
or question-and-answer committee reporting. To be a
real stenographic dab you must write far over 150
words a minute when needful, and have a Chinese ner-
vous system The Wreck : Will print shortly
Bourdon : “ Biting your lug ” is slang for trying to borrow
—the reference presumably being to the close approach
of the one man’s mouth to the other’s ear Cowan :
Seems to us a very fair paper, if designed to test general
knowledge of intelligent students of 18 or so A.J.G. :
You have glimmerings, but no light A.E.W. : Par-
nassus is no home for you... .Nella : Was and is flat....
Willewang: “ And thus I wander, wander.” Alas, yes !
but not into Tub Bulletin. . :.F. L. Mac. : We don’t want
information—clipped from the local dailies—about Queen
Alexandra’s “ bourdoir ” ; also, your opinion about opertic
matters would carry more weight if you didn’t write “ Mas-
chiero.” .. .C.T.F. : You confuse degree with kind. Bitter
beer may be as good in its way as Imperial Tokay is in its
way Lance : Too magniloquent. Why write “of no
inconsiderable dimensions” when you mean “pretty
big?” J.H.R. (and others) :If you’re not paid, it’s
your own fault. Cut your matter out; date it; and send
clippings to Bulletin accountant whenever worth while ;
and money will be remitted. Editorial staff can’t afford
to lose its broken sleep of nights to chase 1000 contributors
with coin Bee. (M.L.): You can’t hide dulness with
verbiage Kelpie : Give us points, not masses Aga :
Right; die quickly E.M'.A. : You are one of those
people who consider it absolutely necessary to make every
subject a full page. 18 subjects, 18 full pages—not one of
them worth six lines D.H.R. : Pars, passable ; verse,
vile. Fancy this from a soldier dying in the field—
This hateful war of Chamberlain’s,
And the London Stock Exchange,
Will, oh darling mother, dear,
For ever us estrange.
Patient: Your unpleasant experiences of that particular
hospital are not those of others who’ve been patients
therein. But probably you’re not a “ ladies’ man ” —that
makes a lot of difference with the average
“ ministering angel ” .... J.O.J. : Can’t see any-
thing in it, except, perhaps, a faint absurdity
Trotter : Too long-winded. Good stuff enough, but
would need too much time to condense for print
A.L. : Nothing very hair-raising in all that G.M.H. :
Can’t see the overpowering humor you find in it
Jimmy S. : Would require too much alteration She-
Oak: Has humor and some skill; but hardly enough in
it for Bulletin R.S.B. : Notenough “story.” Rek :
Rather careless work, but has pith ; will consider
Hurst R. : Still suggestive of undeveloped possibili-
ties Prospect G. : “Lights” artificial and sugges-
tive of verse-cobbling E.F.L.: Don’t seem to have
any definite ideas behind them *. Boko : Name
and address wanted. Name should appear on
every separate slip Chas. F. (W.A.) : About ten
times too long for Bulletin—and desperately prosy at
that Remus: Letter to hand. Don’t remember others
you mention Ronchietto : Many variants of that yarn.
G.S. : Not enough in them Audax : Yes, a little
bit that way—considering there’s absolutely nothing in
the screed Fairfield: No literary skill at present....
J.H.J. (Tyrone Power, as Svengali, plays a real piano.
Reuben Fax, the Svengali of five years ago, banged a
dummy piano, whilst a professional artist supplied the
music from the wings. To tell the truth, the Fax fake
was more effective than Power’s genuine performance
.1.0.: A Melbourne man and his wife ride a companion
bicycle which you call a “ multicycle,” or a multicycle
which you call a “ bicycle.” Which is it ? And what’s
the odd's as long as they’re happy? F. L. Mac.: The
gist of the acceptable part has nearly all been printed in
these columns G.A.P. :It may be sultry, but it’s as
old as the hills. Originally attributed to the late Jas.
MTlain, of Victoria Machaon : Substance of it already
here printed Gumbean :To tell you the truth, we
know nothing about him Harriet B.: You wouldn’t
have to wait a moment if you gave the porter a tip. Of
course, railway porters are forbidden to take tips
F.W.M. : It doesn’t cap the climax of its text.
Ahenobarbus : Good—but no name or address E.J.O. :
J. A. Clubs: Hardly worth illustrating, even if you are
competent to the task F.R.C. : We’ve had that yarn
in various versions G.O.C. : Thanks; but it is practi-
cally so near the truth as hardly to call for comment
Will Mac : Has a good stream of humour, but it is too
slight. Yarran : “ Liars,” not good enough F. :
“ What war ? ” has a good point at the end, but the lead-
up is very wooden W.F : Idea trite and handling
crude A.B.C. : To hand ; may use A.V.L. : Rhyme
unspeakable, illustration to match C. D. Mac. : Not
much in either Veritas : Scribble too painful
W.M. : Merely a parrot-repetition of what is only true of
a few. The people who’ve most to say on the point, any-
how, are those who know least about it Reuben R. :
None of it above mediocre O.C.C. : Wooden-legged
kind of thing A.G.P. : Merely verges on the pictur-
esque, and lacks vigor and movement Quilp N. : Very
good in parts ; will consider Fairplay : Sorry couldn’t
give more than about a tenth of the space to it
Point Blank: Good “Homeward”: Good sentiment;
bad verse 0.8.H.8. : Fair verse ; bad sentiment
F.M.N. : Not stuff enough R.M.D. : Keep it for the
camp-fire O. : “Art Disease” pretentious and dull.
R.B.R. : Don’t worry us with doggerel T.H.M. :
Want interest R. : Thanks for Goulburn Herald of
Feb. 22. While not always agreeing, we read with plea-
sure that thoughtful leader.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
E.S. : Will have two re-drawn... .D.G.R. : Themes too
slim.... Chis : Your horses are as stumpy as your men ;
also your fist is well-nigh illegible T.H.B. : One sub-
mitted to artist Zif : One perhaps as suggestion
Louis M. : Your subjects are so good that wo wish the
drawing fitted them W. Downey : May do, but not for
direct reproduction Joss (M.L.) : Don’t see point of
Maori’s remark Red. N. : Snake-jackass item all right,
but cow subject impossible... .Fitz : None acceptable.
On publication of clerical item this office would be pulled
down.... Geo. S. : If it is used, she will be paid....
Unavailable :—Guzzler, Percy C., A.J.G., P.W.R. (subject
too odorous), A.H.M., T.P. (Queensland)—your drawing
broke in half in course of transit—Cerne, R. 0., Overland
Cyclist.
MISS BERTHA DICKENS, A QUEENS
LAND SOPRANO.
Cabled that an ambushed Boer, nea
Petersburg, “ got the drop ” on a party of six Tas-
manians—killing two lieutenants with successive
shots. He was himself afterwards killed.
The Norddeutscher-Lloyd S.S. Co. con-
tinues to build ocean-monsters. The 15,000-ton
Kronprinz Wilhelm, now well-advanced, is to be
followed by a 19,500-tonner, 707 ft. long, and of
38,000 h.p. The White Star Line, however, still
holds, with its 20,800-tonner, the size-record.
From N.Z. Times :
The yacht Ariadne, ashore at the mouth of the Waitaki,
would have fared no worse had she stranded within reach
of the natives of New Guinea. The hundreds of sight-
seers who have visited the vessel have rifled her from
stem to stern, and helped themselves to “souvenirs” of
their visit. Many portable and attractive articles, from
brackets to binnacle lamps, have been openly carried off
by these freebooters. The owner, on arrival at the scene
of the wreck, will be painfully apprised that he is in a
free country.
Martin Place, Sydney, is to be finished off
at last. The Bank of Australasia, having bought
the big oorner which the Equitable would have
grabbed had Yankee cuteness been only half what
it is cracked up to be, is about to erect thereon a
palatial building, designed by the same architect
(Mr. Edward E. Baht) who designed the Equit-
able buildings in both Sydney and Melb. The
pile is to be 87ft. high, 20 less than the Equitable,
which will tower up behind it like a great central
keep. The style is to be Italian renaissance ;
material, rock-faced trachyte, with polished
columns on the upper floors. The Bank
will occupy the ground floor and the
basements, and the other three storeys
will be let for offices. The windows are
to be a special feature, but the massive entrance
from -George-street is to be sublime. Great
trachyte steps, flanked with two huge columns of
Swedish granite 21ft. high and 3ft. in diameter,
hewn out of the solid rock. From turret to foun-
dation the building is to be fire-proof, and the
most modern and comfortable of elevators will
whisk passengers from floor to floor.
Editor Bulletin. —Some members of the
N.S.W. force here in China, have been boasting
to us Brtish Tommies about drawing 7s. 6d. per
day pay. as against our poor Is. 6d. Yet these
same men have also been bragging about how they
robbed the store in which the collected loot is
kept to be sold, later on, for the benefit of all the
British forces that took part in the relief and
defence of Pekin and Tientsin. Thus, these
gentry were not above robbing the men whom
they contemptuously call “common soldiers.”
Pekin, 26/2/1. 12 Bat, R.F.A.


A GOOD FISH YARN
Frida y—The cause of the
fault in the cable which the Recorder repaired
“Jr t h r . tae " ““-'j
tamed "lhe electricians on the shin
closely examined the piece of cable
t wh t f t th r^ ad
) that a hsh-bite had nearly cut the
I wire through. Half an inch of a
I tooth was found firmly embedded,
in the core of the cable. ]
If you don’t believe it, here is a
picture of the fish showing missing
tooth. This fish was lately caught
by our Religious Editor with a
thread line and a silk-twist hook.
In ns stomach were found several
lalf-digested cable-messages to the
effect that the war in Africa was
practically over.” e
Our Religious Editor is a bit. of I
a har himself. 5§
PRACTICAL POLITICS'.
Minister : “You are highly re-
commended. I presume you
are one of our opponents ? ”
Applicant : " Oh, no , T have
been a Protectionist and a con-
sistent supporter for years. - ’
Minister : “Ah ! that’s most
1 unfortunate. You see, we
never run after a ’bus when
we’ve caught it Good morn-
ing."
It has been decided in Melbourne that distinguished invited guests from
other States will not be given free passes.
All the same, we distinguished (ahem !) guests from Sydney arc XLo^> *'°
choused out of our free drinks. No, not if we have to walk all the way !
» Look, Bill, them blokes is deaf and dumb."
«• Git out » That’s somebody tryin* to show Geo. Bold how
many beans make five!"
Wellington (M.L.), Thursday.—The Maori*
land contingent for the opening of the Federal
Parliament sail about the 22nd inst. It will be
a- corps of giants, all the members being over
6ft. in height,
This contingent will, of course, include Premier Seddonwho measures more tbaa
six feet—one way.
THEM TITLES.
What we ina> expect after the visit of the
Duke of York
CARTOONLETS.


co
SS^^TT ATr
«*• *«S£2&*
’***<*
OWS v/ v] oU
\e bes*" Judq*
Two brother* bn mod A rider
wn „„ned , sheen station .ailed Pendhu.
the nor.h-i.eo. of Western Austral..-.,
which, like mo., of the «.|»oUer.
district, they worked with aboriginal labor
In save expense of fencing. The nat.'c
allowed a few sheen >o stray and. becoming
afraid ran o.vav. leaving ’l' c rest of the
flock to their fate. The Anderson, tracked
them on horseback to the adjoining station,
forty miles 08. and dragged back the whole.
(ivo of them, ehntnet) together en <l ucuc
to .ho saddles of the horses. No water va*
.Uhved .lea. on -he way. or even when
lh-y lescboi* .heir destination. Uiey sere
then (logged bv the Andersens, who used a
knelled rope w„b sod. severi.y that three
of them-, man aod .wo ..omen-hod;
Xjqe P\Q?
jourjcr v'C : /
" Oc\!
Corses "To
v/itfy
'rtje poet's Caoi'f’
candle "to
Vote's ,'n J7 £
W<?sV". G lowed J f J 7
A»s' rv fcli*fls *or«irT t>esT *Tevpr-ytyi^
election slander action.
MB. MADDEN SUCCEEDS
main STATEMENT JUSTIFIED
| .HUY UNANIMOUS as , ' < 'y r
Well,
njorejetj-lT'
'liKe4>s IW ..
"to be
MV. Peecoclr, the Premier, baa been
credited with the peculiar statement that
if he had to live on £2 a week be would
drown himself. Thu statement was put
,h<, mouth of the Premier by a la
hour agitator while a deputation from
Ihe unemployed «» waiting on the <-><v
J vernor-Gcneral Mr Peacock declares i a
/ he never made use of sorb an expression.
/ apd that as a matter of fact he has lived on
KteVe, lvi<Te7C^
v,. p • K if- y°* doakr
me l°°K msr b*?
*s
J-
awhisks
BOMT ,
YOU FELL
.’WELL YOUNC
\ HAH CON s u il\
' ol " Tn |STsij
\jMLt rats
N^4P R P |NK
raoNS
Tbe <ntv surveyor, Mr. Mountain,
written to Mr. D. Buzolioh. hon. *oret«y
of the citizens' committee, exprewun* fall,
concurrence with the tUt
obtrusive trade sign* »tould ‘“"jM
r ,rily removed from street# which
being de “”,^ 1 <! - di rection!
,K>weru in this direc a decorations,
proceeeion.
S"Wr *-»«? ,1
k w l,K !_
\&LL
* JxjjjuUv*
dviouT” I *7 Melbourve fet Hj^ e
gjorifjed Wk*3 P°I«S _ 1
Collin'S S* V*. .
W j>uT Ho"H£T S Uje.
!
MELBOURNIAN A.


YOUR Wedding Presents can be Supplied by A- SAUNDERS,
The
Reliable
Jeweller & Silversmith.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT.—FIoraI China, real
Silver-plated Mounts, 20s.
Similar designs, 16s, 265, 30s. Very
pretty ana acceptable present.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER.— Beautifully Chased and Orna-
mented pure Silver, Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, 16s 6d. Large size, 20s.
9
aw
C j -
Four o’clock TEA SET with Covers, pure Silver Eiectro-plated on White
Metal, first-class English Make, £2 10s.
Similar Styles, £2, £2 15s, £3, £3los, £4.
Ladles kindly call and see our Beautifully-stocked Showrooms.
cr~
A. BAUNDERS.
EGG CRUETS, pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, beautifully
Chased, 30s, 355, £2, and £2 10s.
Cheaper Style, 20s and 25b.
HAHDBOMB and Usbful PRI'SRKT.
A. SAUNDERS.
1-bottle Lunch or Dinner CRUET, pure
Silver Electro-plated on hard White
Metal, 21s. Similar Styles, 255, 30s, 355.
A. BAUNOERS.
LADIES’ FRIEND.—Pure SoUd Silver
Mounts, 18a fid.
Very useful and acceptable presents.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAKE DISHES. —The very best finished pure
Silver Electro-plate, in various patterns.
20s, 22s fid, 265, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
■ r ■
mm
■
■ * ' i' ,i” ■
il' , “ .45 K ,
E,
A. SAUNDERS,
A o’e’.dc'TEA SPOONS and TONGS in Silk-Lined Case
kinomed, 12s 6d. Extra Quality, 15s, 20s, 255.
The SPer-plate we guarantee to give every satisfaction
»d [Pens Solid Silver, 0 Spoons n M lv 265, with Tongs
80s. 85s, £2, £2 10*.
A. SAUNDERS.
iTOLiDrNO BISCUITS. -Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, £3, £3 tus, t 4
Can he used lor Cake or Sandwiches.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK BlSCUlT.—Silver-
plated Rims and Lids, with
Enamelled Lining, 15s 6d ;
with Ornamented Fluted
Rims, 20s; Plain, with Shield
only, I2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALAD BOWL and SERVERS, with Silver-
plated Mounts and Handles, 30s.
Similar, 20s and 255.
Pretty Floral China, 255, 30s, £2 and £2 10a.
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SETS.—Pure Solid Silver, Chased
Mounts, 15s; larger sizes, 20s, 255, and 30s.
m
H
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS.—Pure Bilver Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, nicely Chased with pretty Red
Glass 12s 6d ; with Fluted Edges, 16s 6d ;
Double Jam, 255.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE.—Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, 16s 6d ; Chased as
above, 20s, 255, and 30s. Post free.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER.—Pure Silver Electro-plated on
White Metal, nicely chased, 8s 6d. Round, 10s
S3*
A. SAUNDERS.
SALTS. —Silver-plated Stand, Colored Glass,
with Spoons, 6s 6d," 8s 6d, 10s pair.
PRMPjW
iwtflWtillWhHuanw
ft ill!
mm m
utau
■m
■
"Jurt What I Want!” SPOONS AND FORKS. A. SAUNDERS can fill that want with a First-Class, Rsllabls Article.
EXTRA STRONG. Guaranteed to give you every satisfaction.
A 1 QUALITY is the very Highest Standard. Pure Silver Electro-plated on Hard White Metal. DINNER Spoons or Forks. 17s fid half-
■D /-.T7,T ™° z ? n ’ P ESSERT Spoons or Forks, 12s 6d half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, 7s 6d half-dozen.
B QUALITY is a Second Quality. Pure Silver Electro plated on Hard White Metal. DINNER Spoons or Forks, 12s 0d half-dozen :
or»T in ... DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 10s half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, 5s half dozen.
SOLID WHITE NICKEL SILVER, Wear White throughout. A Splendid Knockabout Spoon to save the Better Article. DINNER
Spoons O" Forks, 4s half-dozen ; DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 3s half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, Is 6d half-dozen.
Packed and Sent post free to all parts of the World. Kindly send your Orders to A. SAUNDERS.
Old Plate
Made
Equal
To New.
A. SAUNDERS.
Small Size BUTTER.—AII Metal, Pure
Silver-plated, beautifully cbased, 20s.
Extra ornamented, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, Makes Two Dishes, Pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, 3Ss. A Useful and Acceptable
Present. SHALL WE SEND YOU ONE ?
A. SAUNDERS.
CRUET (Breakfast). —Pure
Silver Electro-plated on White
Metal, 10b 6d ; with 4 Bottles,
16s 6d and 17s 6d.
Makes a very nice present.
Call and See our
Displayed Showrooms!
WHISKY FLASK. ]
Silver-plated Hot- 1
tom and Patent !
Top, 10s 6d, 12s I
6d, 15s, 20s, 258. '
A Warming Friend.
SERVIETTE RINGS, Pure
Silver-plated, 3s 6d. Simi-
lar Patterns, 2s 6d and 3s.
Wish Bone Design, 4s 6d,
5s 6d, and 6s 6d. Solid
Silver, similar to Pattern,
7s 6d, 10s, and 12s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
BIJTTER KNIVES.—Two Silver-plated, with Pearl
Handles, in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d. Other styles, 7s 6d,
10s 6d, and 12s 6d, in cases. JAM SPOONS.—Same
price; without case, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d ‘v sd, 6s 6d and
6s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK.—Pure Silver Electro-plated
on Hard White Metal, 125.6 d. Other styles,
similar, 8s 6d, 40s, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA POTS.—Pure Silver Electro-plated, on White
Metal, as pattern, 26s and 30s.
Different Pattern, 365, £2, £2 10s.
K
tnr
m
m
m
rtt
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUETS.—First-class Pure Silver on
Hard White Metal, as pattern, with Shield,
£2 10s ; extra quality, £3, £3 10», and £4.
Other patterns without Shields, 355, £2.
S 3
iF:
m
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS. Fiord China. Pretty Desijrn, with pur;
Silver Electro-plated Stand, 15s 6d ; double, 255.
Latest Designs.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND,
can tie need asa Teapot.—Pure Silver-
plan ft on White Metal, Beautifully
f Chased and Ornamented, 355.
Embossed and Extra Chased, £2 £2
10s. Other Styles, £3 and £3 10a.
Handsome and Useful Article.
Jeweller & Sllversmim,
A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PRESENTS.
MIND
Nearly
Opposite
Railway
Station,
Sydney
GWvea..
OTj ' r> PIjATJEJ MA.D3E3 EQUAL TO KTBW. Bend
Your Addre


IMPORTANT !!!
Everyone
Can Secure
Interesting
Photographs
Of the
Royal Visit
With a
UMS.
No Previous Knowledge
. . op . .
Photography Required.
KODAKS AT ALL Prices from
ss. to £7 15 0.
Write for ILLUSTRATED PRICE-LIST, Post
Free, and Mention this Paper, to —
KODAK uMiTEP
THE BLOCK,
284 Collins-st., MELBOURNE.
And of all Photographic Dealers.
Publications.
THE BALLET GIRL
! t
\ I
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, le.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
To be had only of
Madame Panza,—*
913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
lARIOND SONG BOOK,
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long'since out of print, priceless on ac
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d«. posted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing
A RATIONAL REFORM IN TEACHING
FRENCH.
Teachers must bear in mind that it is a gross mistake,
as well as a mere waste of time and labor, to land pupils
on the grammatical and literary stages of the study before
the first stage (Phonetic and Mechanical) has thoroughly
been mastered. (Dr. Henry Sweet, Oxford.) .
Therefore use PERI E It’S FRENCH METHOD (Is. 6d )
and its PHONETIC COMPANION (Is. 3d.). All book-
sellers. Copies are sent, post free, by sending postage
stamps to A. C. GAERTNER, Sole Agent,
32 Norwich Chambers, Hunter-street, Sydney.
ELECTRIC
MINING
MACHINERY
> r ■
OP EVERY DESCRIPTION.
KRUPP
MILL
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; and 15 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
THE CONINGHAM CASE
The Suppressed Book of the First Trial.
Together with the report of the SECOND TRIAL,
with its exciting and dramatic ending and subse-
quent developments.
A Complete History from Start to Finish.—lllustra-
ted with Photos and Sketches of Principals.—A
Fair, Unvarnished Account.
THE BOOK IS NOT FAKED
The Parties to the Suit.
The Abigail Case.
Private Detectives at Work.
Petitioner’s Story.
The Written Confession.
The Baby in Question !
Co-respondent’s Denial.
“ I’ll be a Protestant in the Morning
The Teachings of Liguori.
Who’s Zero ?
Jury Addresses.
The Second Trial.
Spies Galore !
The Relief of “ Burrilda ! ”
Drugged Colonial.
The Mysterious Mrs. B .
The Dinal Verdict!
Subsequent Developments.
Price SEVEN PENCE (posted anywhere).
ALL BOOKSELLERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA, OR
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
SIX SOLD MEDALS.
The repeated success of the
MARRICKVILLE TWEEDS,
year after year gaining full honours at the
GREAT SHOW,
is a clear index to their excellence.
VISITORS FROM ALL PARTS were struck
with their choice designs, the clean finish, and
attractive appearance of the
MARRICKVILLE TWEEDS
exhibited at the Showgrounds, and many have
decided to
“ WEAR MARRICKVILLE.”
HORDERN’S IN PITT STREET
keep a full range of these Famous Tweeds in
stock, and supply
Suits to Order
for 455., 555., 655.
Trousers to Order
from 12s. 6d. pair.
You can see all the SHOW PATTERNS in our
Tailoring Department.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADERS OF FASHIONS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
(Samples of Marrickville Twee'ls Posted
Free to Any Address.)
THE WORD
i
is a guarantee of soundness of
Material and Quality of Dye of all
Worstel
Coatings,
SergasaTweedS
on which it is stamped.
pox’s pare 3n*%o.
As the result of many years of ex-
perience, FOX’S PURE INDIGO
DYE is recognised as the Lest
in the Market.
All Fox’s standard cloths are
stamped e ery two yards on the
back ....
FOX'S PURE INDIGO,
and without this stamp a e not
genuine.
fox Brothers & Co., £tD.,
Wellington, Somerset, €ng.
Makars of Worsted Coatings, Vicunas,
SBrgss, Twaads, Tennis and Costume
Cloths. Contractors to the English
Admiralty, War Office, India Officej Crown
Cohn as, and Metropolitan Pslice.
THEIR MILLS are capable of an
annual production of 2,000,000 yards of
material, and find emyloyment for 1,200
hands. Reliable records show that the
business at Wellington was foun ed
early in the eighteenth century, and the
present Company have in their posses-
sion a balance sheet dated 1733.
O
These celebrated Serges can be obtained
from the leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Australian Colonies.
O
Australian Agents for the Wholesale
Trade only : —
STOGDALE & DUFFUS,
Finks Buildings, Corner of Eliza
beth & Flinders Sts., Melbourne,
. . AND ..
422 George St., Sydney.
A POLICY
FOR THE
COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d; posted, Bd.
(fiTMITBIi)
DA.FTO (Lake Illawarra), near SYDKTEY
MAKERS OF
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OB'
FINE SILVER.
iiljiiifwtn:
■
S. Co. of A, SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILLAWARM"
..BRAND OF.,
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COFFEE, ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEF REriNERS of SILVER LEAD SITLLtrw
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETfLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding R&ttsif, etc., a#ft tfc TP, Si IlMsl, Managed, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.&W. ; or Martin Place, SYDNEY


In America, four States legislated against
Trading Stamps, or, as they are more generally
known here—coupons—but the Supreme Court
ruled that such Legislation was unconstitutional.
An Act was passed in Illinois, making it illegal
to use the National flag in advertising. This Act
was also declared unconstitutional. The Supreme-
Courts of United States carefully guard against
interference with the liberty of the subject.*
VETERINARY BOOK FREE
On every Bottle of Condy’s Fluid.
This Book contains instructions by
eminent Veterinary Surgeons for the
treatment and cure pf si§§ases of
Sheep/.Qattle. Pegs,' ftp.
Sonny 8 r'iuiti is noil-poisonous, and is
the safest and best Veterinary Remedy.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Insist on having “ CoSDY’S FLUID.”
Beware of Australian Substitutes.
The name.Condy & Mitchell, of England,
should be at foot of Label.
HALFPENNY
rw:
<3-0 TO TTTiT.T-
-0 I(JOI<ANI> for Prelty Stamps, but
if you want real g-ood stamps, send to
Fred. Hagco,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizateth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price*
, lists gratis.
HATS. HATS. HATS.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
for a pearly skin and brilliant
Complexion. Chemis s sell it.
NOTHING ELSE LIKE IT.
Used by the Elite of English
Society. S. Harvey, Limtd.,
London Bridge SE.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City' or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction llooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sala.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
HIGH-GRADE
FARM—^
Sfo...
i
■m
a
sfis
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd
35 BROADWAY,
George-strcet West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
R. E. O’Connor and John Norton were
the only N.S.W. Senate candidates who polled
over 1000 in each Federal electorate.
Several defeated Senatorial candidates
intimate that their crowds, being the less intelli'
gent, gave most of the 38,000 odd informal votes.
It may be so, but there is acid in the consolation.
The Federal election returns offered a
good many insults to the personal character of
Australian Liberalism in permitting a number of
notorious “rotter” candidates to save their
deposits.
Out-back in N.S.W., where a letter or two
is neither here nor there, it is plain that in the
ballot for senators Socialist Moiling polled scores
of votes that were intended for Millen—who, with
Donald Macdonell, was about the best-known
wayback man on the paper,
1 The cost of subjugating my country will
stagger humanity,” said Kruger. The.cable tells
that the Boer war has already cost one hundred
and forty-nine millions sterling. Before it is
done, it will probably cost £200,000,000, not to
mention the price in blood.
The Lyne-Fegan stench is another proof
that it is better for a Cabinet to be cursed with a
clever rogue than a blundering fool. The former
at least has the sense to run straight when it pays
to do so ; while the latter is certain to do the
wrong thing at the worst possible time.
Lieiit-Col. Byron, late of Queensland, now
on York’s staff as an extra A.D.C., writes to
British Imperial Review advocating the imme-
diate raising of Australian military and naval
corps to an offensive footing. The Boer racket
makes some people think they own the earth.
If Kooyong (Vic.) election had been a
duel between Knox and Rogers, writes a Bulle-
tin correspondent, the latter would have attained
the majority that Knox won by, owing to his
being a “Holy Roman,” but in the fear of Fink
the R.C. vote was ordered solid for Knox, thus
throwing out Rogers. “Mysterious are thy ways
O Lord ! ”
The fact that Thomas Grlassey found a
place in the array of Queensland Senators was
due to the peculiar pickle in which Q. Democrats
found themselves. If they did not put in Glassey
they knew perfectly well they would, by neglect-
ing him, put in Cowley or Thynne or Annear, or
some other of the alien-coddling gang. Conse-
quently they gave the old shuffler another chance.
IN THE FEDERAL ARENA.
THE ARAD: "'Ere yer are, sir; the Twister.
Full account of Fegan’s appointment.”
THE REID: “ What, so soon? Hooray! I knew
that fool Lyne would make the ‘ bloomer ’ of
the Cabinet. He’ll be my Federal dad yet.”
Sydney and suburban population has in-
creased to 488,968 —a gain of 102,109, or 26‘39 per
cent, in ten years! Sydney is a great non-pro-
ducing institution, steadily sucking the life-blood
which should go to nourish the producing indus-
tries in the country; and, once the stream of
borrowed money stops, the country will find it out.
Federal elections left 11 vacancies in S.A.
Parliament, and already about 30 candidates are
out for the seats. Seven vacancies are in the
Assembly, and the remainder in the Council. So
far a great majority of candidates are Tories, and
the Labor Party has therefore a better chance of
capturing a majority of the seats for Democratic
nominees—who, unfortunately, are a very poor lot
just now.
A political prophet, in Drake’s Progress,
forecasted Bananaland’s senatorial election with
much accuracy. The prophet tipped Daw-
son, Drake, Higgs, Ferguson, Glassev and
I hynne, adding a footnote to the effect that the
Ja,st might be rejected owing to his black-labour
advocacy. The six prophesied -(with the excep-
tion of I hynne, who was replaced by Stewart),
won easily.
The principle of rating on the unimproved
value of land is making rapid headway in Maori
land. By the present law, a certain number of
the ratepayers of any rating district may demand
a poll on the question ; and if a majority votes for
the system it is put into operation. Already
several counties have decided in its favor. The
first few boroughs in which it was proposed
rejected the idea, but latterly several have
adopted it,
Lithgow (N.S.W.) Sandford, the plucky
candidate whom Joe Cook knocked out in the
late contest for the House of RepS, is' under'
written agreement with his workmen (iron-
workers) to advance their wages from the date
the Commonwealth applies a protective duty to
their products ; and it is stated in the agreement
that the advance is to equal the percentage of the
duty imposed.
Immediately C. A. Lee, M.L.A., for Ten-
terfield, had been elected Leader of N.S.W.
Opposition, it was found that he had publicly
declared against any reduction of the number of
Members in the State Legislature. Which was
awkward, in that both the “Great Dailies” had
already insisted on this reform. However, the
new Leader politely withdrew all his previous
utterances on this subject, and the Party became
united again.
S.A. Education Minister Batchelor was
Leader of the Labor Party when he joined
Holder’s Ministry, and now resigns a billet of
£lOOO a year to go into Federal politics. Batchelor
is one of the few S.A. politicians who make a
financial sacrifice in entering the Federal Legis-
lature. In all probability Tom Price, the present
Labor Leader, will succeed him by joining Jen-
kins’ Cabinet.
The S. Aus. National Ass was cocksure
that its deity R. Chaffey Baker would top the
poll for the Senate ; and it was a bitter pill when
Symon, whom the Ass had thrown over, landed
easily on top. But now they are explaining that
H. Chaffey Baker, the big man’s little kinsman,
a candidate for the other House, got lots of votes
that were intended for R. Chaffey B.—in fact,
H. Chaffey B. himself magnanimously made that
explanation when the poll was declared.
“ Where the carcase is,” &c. Two Labor
candidates for the State Parliament, in addition
to Cann, M.P., were wanted at Broken Hill; and
15 men were nominated—only one of whom is a
working miner. His chance from the start was
Buckley’s ! For the rest there were the Labor-
party’s salaried Mayor, and the Labor-party’s
municipal stink-inspector and his assistant, and
the ditto’s ex Mayor, and the man who does odd
jobs about the Labor-party’s offices, and a salaried
Labor secretary or two, and the man who runs
the ditto’s local weekly paper, and the man who
canvasses for advts. for it, and several barnacles
who do still less.
There is no
disguising the
fact that the
men who have
first grasped the
handle of the
C ommon weal t li
windlass are al-
most all Impe-
rialist in word
and deed. Says
Internal-Minis-
ter Lyne:
“ This new na
tioti is riot only
willing, but
eager to help to
bear the heavy
burden of em-
pire.” Says Ex-
ternal-Minister
Barton : “ The
firm of John
Bull Liability
Limited is now
John Bull and
Family, Liabi-
lity Unlimited ”
—which is some-
thing to chew over. And so on, with most of the
rest. This does not necessarily prove that the
Commonweath has been called into existence to
give effect to the desires of Jingoes or Imperial-
ists—who have simply rushed the handle, just as
bounders rush victuals at social functions. Memo :
We’ve seen a handle lay a man stiff when the
windlass got away from him.
Mournful wail of Brisbane Courier :
“The deplorable fact has to be admitted that
Queensland’s representatives in the Common-
wealth will, by a majority, support the hostile
attitude of the ignorant southerner.” That is to
say—the well-informed Queenslander will back up
the ignorant foreigner. When the well-informed
and the ignorant agree upon a matter surely the
verdict can’t be very far wrong.
John Haynes, Archer, and J. C. L. Fitz-
patrick, M’s.L.A., all three of whom were sup-
porters of the Lyne administration last session,
were present at the election of C. A. Lee as leader
of N.S.W. Opposition. As they naturally will
be members of his following, this defection will
count a loss of six votes to Premier See on a divi-
sion. Added to which the new member for the
ORTHODOX ABSURDITIES.
TRANSMONGRIFIED F ATMAN: “ Shop! Laryest size
winys and halo, please.”
Hume, G. N. M'Laurin, is an alleged Opposi-
tionist.
Editor Bulletin. —Re site for Federal
capital: one important matter has not received
sufficient consideration, I refer to the water supply
for a great city. Orange with its altitude is com-
pletely out of it; in fact, Bombala is the only lofty
place where a pressure for fountains with an un-
limited supply can be obtained at reasonable cost.
The whole of the upper waters of the finest stream
in the Commonwealth, the Snowy, are there avail-
able, and the high watershed, I presume, still
belongs to the State. —B.
That lovely North Australian League has
actually got as far as interviewing the Melb.
Russian Consul with a request that the White
Tsar should be urged to subsidise a line of steamers
from Port Arthur (where Chow labor is wonder-
fully cheap) to Port Darwin. A list of the
“qualifications” of these syndicators shows they
have already mopped up a large portion of this
much-exploited country. Bradshaw holds 5,000,000
acres, Gum: a whole large island, the N. Aus.
Syndicate 2,000,000 acres, the Western Roper Syn-
dicate 2,000,000 acres, and so forth. If the Federal
Govt., as an administrative act, doesn’t take over
the N.T. very promptly there will soon be nothing
but the blacks and the boundary lines to take.
Most N.S.W. country members owe their
seats (this is a direct consequence of the absence
of a Local Govt. Act) to the amount of work they
put in, not only in the Govt, departments, but
actual favors done in the city for their constitu-
ents. As for big jobs, there are scattered over
N.S.W., gaols and other buildings procured by
log-rolling M.’sL. A., for which there is no use
whatever. Cooma gaol cost £40,000 originally,
and has never been asked to contain a single
prisoner ! A hospital was erected three years ago
in the north of the State, with Govt, assistance.
With sick people all round, it has not yet been
occupied by a solitary patient. But the member
got the money “ circulated in the district,” which
was “one to him.” No wonder the country mem-
bers write to Sydney Telegraph protesting
against upsetting the system by which they politi-
cally live. - -
Though widely reported lately that J. H.
Carruthers had refused the leadership of N.S.W.
Opposition, he was finally a candidate for the job
and bitterly resents the election of C. A. Lee,
M.L.A. for Tenterfield, over his head. The
alleged reason for passing him over was that he had
listened to the voice of the charmer in the person
of Premier See in the latter’s efforts to form a
Coalition Govt. But as the cabal against him was
prior to the negotiations objected to, it is under-
stood that the reason for his rejection was not
that which is alleged. One thing is evident. If
the remnant of the Great Freetrade Party now
in the Assembly desire to form a Govt, after
the approaching general election, it would, on
the face of things, have a much better chance of
success under Carruthers than under Lee. If
the whole of the engineering since the demise
of the Lyne Cabinet were made public, it
would furnish edifying reading. It seems a far-
fetched idea to cast off a man because he had
refused to cross the floor of. the House when
offered the bait of office. Surely such a refusal
mast indicate the loyalty of the individual con-
cerned. But, as stated, the “ unanimous ” choice
of C. A. Lee was arrived at on account of reasons
very different to the ones reported to the press at
the end of the meeting.
Bananaland is a neat little country.
Just at present a considerable section of
the Federal election results is unsettled,
simply because Bedourie (near S.A. border)
results are unattainable. Bedourie was
visited some weeks ago by a flood that
broke up approaches and destroyed the
telegraph line, and it is calculated that
about eight weeks must elapse before
tidings can be obtained from that charming
village. Consequently the fate of six sena-
tors and one representative (Maranoa)
hangs in the balance. Bedourie, by the
way, polled 12 votes last State election.
“ The Old Cove ” to The Bulletin :
“ Remarkable allegations ” in connection with
the N.S.W. land administration should surprise
no one. They are but the inevitable sequence of
our later legislation, which has substituted govern-
ment by administration for government by-
statute. The wide powers of discrimination—
without appeal —now wielded by the Lands Minis-
ter and his nominees have rendered suspicions in-
evitable, and have stifled that free expression of
opinion and fact, by the governed, which is our
only safeguard for just administration. No man
interested in land matters knows when this dis-
crimination may have personal application, and
from prudential motives “lies low.” Whatever
disadvantages attach to hard and fast administra-
tion bv statute, in land affairs, are more than com-
pensated by the manifest advantages of fixed
statute law ; and the sooner the wings of the
administrators are clipped by Parliament the
better for the independence of the community,
and the honesty, morality, and efficiency of the
Lands Department.
The Queensland Commonwealth
elections have settled permanently the
chances of one-man-one-vote in that State
so long as the gang in possession can help
it. The Federal figures show that at least
15 seats in the State Parliament would go
to the Democrats on an equal-value vote.
Signatures to requisitions have not
been particularly expensive in Melbourne,
of late. Seven-and-six per 100 is now the ruling
rate.
With the multiplicity of elections looming
ahead, the State legislatures should give early
attention to the S.A. enactment that all elections
shall be held on Saturdays—in the country at
least. Men working in the bush and on the roads
almost invariably resort to their nearest township
for Saturday evenings and Sundays. The recent
Federal election was held in several States on a
Friday. Either these men must lose a day and
a-half. or ride back miles on Friday night for the
half-day’s work. If elections were held on
Saturday such voters would lose only the half-
day, and have Sunday for recovery after “signi-
fying the same in the usual manner.” Also, why
should civil servants, already well favored with
holidays, and mostly residing next door to the
polling-booth, have a full day at public expense ?
S.A. Federal returns, on completion, show
that all over the State just 40 per cent, of those
on the rolls voted. Nowhere did half of those
entitled to the vote use it (though one country
district came within a fraction). The Northern
Territory polled only 30 per cent. This is ex-
pected, owing to distance and difficulty of travel,
but it is strange to find East Adelaide, which
comprises half of the city itself, coming next to
lowest. The informal vote all over the State (which
voted as one district) was only two per cent.
But then S.A. has the sensible “make-a-cross-
opposite-your-name ” system, which requires &
thick-head to go wrong, instead of the “strike-
out-all-the-other-men ” plan, which needs an
almost-genius to go right when there are 44 to be
struck.
Dan O’Connor’s apology for the Fega.,
appointment is more than a defence of Fegan— it
is a beatification of D. O’Connor.
Just on 12 years ago I had the honor to accompany
Lord and Lady Jersey on a northern tour. We spent
three days in Newcastle, during which time we visited all
the public buildings and all their great operative indus-
tries—principally connected with coal-mining. Among
those great industries was a large smelting works. I
shall never forget, on entering the place, the intensity of
the all-prevalent heat, and much I marvelled at the
physical endurance that could live and seen) to grow
healthier under such tropical conditions. Yet, beside the
very mouth of the furnace stood a sturdy, square-
built man, in the bloom of health and youth— Mr.
J. L. Fegan, to wit. An interesting conversation
took place between her ladyship, the Countess of Jersey,
and this gentleman, Mr. J. L. Fegan, in singlet and mole-
skin breeches, relative to social conditions. After her
ladyship had shaken hands with Mr. Fegan and thanked
him for his courtesy and information, she remarked to
me, “That is a man of no ordinary intelligence, and I
would expect to see him at no distant date occupying a
seat for a working man’s constituency.” And thus things
happened. Her ladyship was a prophetess, for two years,
afterwards Sir. Fegan was elected for the electorate of
Witfkham, and this seat he has triumphantly held for a
decade of years, till he resigned to fulfil the high position
which he now occupies.
[But he doesn’t yet occupy it—and may never do so. J
“ The objections to Mr. Fegan’s appointment,”
proceeds Daniel, “which have emanated from
Mr. Ashton, appear to me to proceed from Potts-
Point and Darling Point. Can it be that so pro-
fessedly a thorough-paced democrat as Mr.
Ashton will, for one moment, take exception to
the appointment of a fellow democrat?” Now,
Dan O’Connor professes to be a democrat, and
suppose Lyne had appointed him as Under-Secre-
tary for Home affairs ! Would it have been a
crime to object ?


Australia*
greatest
IDusic
House
Undbr Vice-Regal Patronage.
We can meet your wishes as to
PRICE
STYLE
AND
QUALITY
Our 50 years ’ reputation
and experience are at your
disposal • • •
inspection Invited, Correspondence Solicited.
Catalogues Free
■ ■ ■
Established 1853
■ ■ ■
PALING’S
SOLE AGENTS FOR
PIANOS
Stein way Brinsmead Lipp
Feurich Uebel “Victor”
Belling 1 and Estey Organs
Largest & Most Complete Stock
. . . Off . . .
Band & Orchestral
Instruments
Cornets Flutes Mandolins
Violins ’Cellos Accordeons
Banjos Guitars Concertinas
etc., etc.
PIANOS
ORGANS
. AND ALL . •
musical
Instruments
High Grade
Low Prices
Latest Styles
Strings & Fittings
for all
Instruments.
r
W. H. PALIN6 A CO., Ltd.
338 (acorgg St., Sydpgy
BRISBANE.
NEWCASTLE.
Chamberlain, who is suffering from some-
malady or other, the other day prepared to visit a
German watering place, He had to be officially
warned not to insist in his determination, as the
Govt, would not be responsible for preserving
him safely from the infuriated mob. “Judas” is
a name to swear at, on the continent just now.
W. R. Boothby, S.A.’s chief refcurning-
officer, has conducted every election in S.A. his-
tory. He worked the first election under
responsible government 47 years ago. Only one
of the candidates, Samuel Davenport, is now
alive. Boothby has also outlived the staff which
worked under him on that occasion, save only one
—Ebenezer Ward.
Read what VITADATIO is Doing.
A Woi)d«rf6l CAre.
VITADATIO
SCORES AGA.IKT.
One Year and Ten Months
a Sufferer.
BEAD THIS TESTIMONIAL.
Adelaide, July 12, 1900.
Mr. S. A. Palmer.
Dear Sir,—lt is with great satisfaction I give you this
testimony to the curative powers of VITADATIO. I have
had a long and complicated illness, which kept me on my
back for one year and ten months. My illness commenced
with what the doctor pronounced to be Gastric Catarrh,
then the result of a severe crushing I had
received from a horse I had previously been shoeing
developed itself, and my condition was as follows:—I
suffered severe internal pains. My stomach would not
retain any food I swallowed, but would throw it up again.
A clot of blood formed in one of the veins in my leg, and,
gradually working its way upwards, finally settled in the
region of my right groin. My body and legs now became
terribly swollen, my right thigh hard and knotted, and I
became quite helpless and unable to move. Medical skill
and attention did not seem able to relieve my condition,
so a friend advised me to try VITADATIO. Soon after
taking it a quantity of dark, offensive matter was brought
away'from me, and I felt that VITADATIO was going to
do me good, so continued taking it, the swelling of my
body and legs began gradually to go down. I then
doubled the quantity of each dose, and the improvement
was more rapid, and I was able to get about on crutches,
then with two sticks. Now I am able to attend to
business matters, and feel really splendid. Many who
saw me during my illness never expected to see me re-
cover, and I think after my case VITADATIO will cure
almost anything. I feel the pleasure of being restored to
health very keenly, and trust my experience with VITA-
DATIO will be the means of other sufferers trying it and
being cured like myself.—l remain, yours truly,
B FREDERICK TOWNSEND,
Blacksmith, Lower Mitcham.
Witness : Joseph Tyler, Lower Mitcham, Adelaide.
12 July, 1900.
For further particulars,
S- A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
uorrespondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
H. NEWMAN’S
SILVER KEYLESS
WALTHAM
WATCH
£2 10s.
FOB
FOB
m
A Splendid Timekeeper, with Beautifully Finished
Nickel Movement: Three-quarter Plate ; Compensation
Balance ; Seven Jewels ; in Heavy English Hall-marked
Silver Cases.
On Receipt of Remittance one of these Watches will be
forwarded, securely packed, carriage paid, and at our
risk, to any part of Australasia.
H. NEWMAN,
The Waltham Watch Agency,
175 & 177 Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
TALKING MACHINES!
p- Great It eduction in Prices
EDISON PHONOGRAPHS—
IMPERIAL, £2 17s 6d
STANDARD, £4 10s.
HOME, £6 10s
CONCERT and 12 RECORDS, £2B,
GRAPHOPHONES-
OOLUMBIA, £5
UNIVERSAL, £lO
COIN SLOT, £5
RECORDS REDUCED to 2s Each.
Edison Electric Co. j 1 Rowe-at., Sydney.
♦
OREM OSS
An Important Query!
When purchasing a cycle be sure and ask
IF
Duniop Tyres
are fitted. If not, reject the machine, for no cycle will give
satisfactory results on our roads unless these reliable and
- durable tyres are fitted.
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed for 12 Months.
Cyclists Please Note!
Many riders are disposed to ride
their “ D unlops ” too slack —a
practice that leads to Sidß Slip,
Punctures and Cut Tyres. The
illustrations herewith depict the
wrong and right way of riding
tyres. Fig. 1 shows the tyre
almost devoid of air ; Fig. 2 re-
presents the tyre as it is, alas !
too often ridden—insufficiently
inflated; whilst Fig. 3 SHOWS
how the tyre should appear
hearing its full load and pro-
perly inflated. If cylists will
pay a little more attention to
this important matter, they will find that their tyres will give
far better results, besides wearing nearly as long again.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus. Ltd.
150 Clarence Street, SYDNEY;
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
AND AT


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all -
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS
WE
BILLS
discounted.
IV.S.A7V-
Hlant deplete DJl.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*7 A
'
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
*7 Q.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
Assurance
Limited. . .
Society
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Manager.
--THE-
Colonial Bfutnal Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Brock Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,60:) assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
-THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
ILIMITED).
Registered Capital £4.800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. £3,216,885 0 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman ; J. C. Syme,
Esq., J.P. ; lion. W. H. Entitling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J. P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street. Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London O/jice: 1 Itishopar/ate Street Within
corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH wales:
SYDNEY - 273 GKOUG E STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket., Gosfcrd (with aircicy at Wyong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers —£3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Established 1879.
THE “
(|n!ted Australian Mutual fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices:
n Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required ivhere not represented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
Pe Bank of (jortb Queensland
I.IAIITKII.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Go. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250100 ... £350,000
Shipp:ng.
THOgWAROMTfH lime.
TO
V\Test& South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, April 27,12 Noon.
■Gabo, Wednesday, May 1, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Friday, May 3, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early.
ALBANY
PREMANTLE
Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDAHERG
Leura, Saturday, April 27,12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tues., April 30, 6 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, May 4,12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, April 27, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, May 4,12N00n.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
co onial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Unices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
MTiarv^s—FootjT^King-street.
THE “ALL RED "MAIL ROUTE TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OP THE
CANADIAM-AUSTRA'JAN LINE
(C. &. A. LINE)
u " f J e i r contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Svdney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
Connecting at Vancouver with the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about five days, and is made
AVITHOCJT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world—over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway .Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP OOMPAN*/ OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
_ Banking, Public Companies, Sic.
the Trustees, Cxc^titorS,
AND
Lifijitcd,
.1150,000 0 0
1 00,000 0 0
PI 50.000 0 0
£8312
0 0
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED..
CAPITAL PAID-UP
Reserve liability
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business)
Amount at Credit of Estates. Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1900 16,326,343 0 0
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R, Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq •
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWM AN. Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne,
Bank of Hew Zeal and.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building’s, George Street.
Four per ceiit. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount, of Capital payable l>v Shareholders 500/100
Total Capital .. .. £2,."00.000
Bank of Xew South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office GEORG® STREET, SYDNEY.
2,000,000 0 01
1,250,000 0 O'
2,000,000 0 O'
Total 5,250,000 0 0>
Directors :
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C. .
Hon. Henry Normand MacLai rin, M.L.C.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors:
F. W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq..
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Brandies in all the Australian Colonies arid New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular-
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
Ocean
:/ ■ l > V
A eeldent
and
Guarantee
Co. TAd. of London.
[The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks,
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M‘Farlaxk ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiorb.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY".
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"OUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
eto. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch ,
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Shipping
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of t he Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalyety and. Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
]xr. n>. l.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000 ; Over 3f million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE TO HONGKONG, via BRIS-
BANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, and YAP.
The fine new N.D.L. fast twin screw.
S.S. NUEN TUNG, 1341 tons,
Captain Gosewisch,
Leaving SYDNEY APRIL 24th NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOIIMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Medical.
Will Develop or Reduce
any part of the Body.
A PERFECT COMPLEXION
BEAUTIFIER and
Remover of Wrinkles.
Dr. JOHN WILSON GIBBS'
THE ONLY
Electric
Massage
Roller
(Patented
United States.
Europe,
Canada.
“Its work is
not confined to
the face alone,
but will do good
to any part of the
body to which it is
applied, developing or
reducing as desired. It
is a very pretty addition
to the toilet table.”
—Chicago Tribune.
“ This delicate Electric Beauti-
fier removes all facial blemishes.
It is the only positive remover of
wrinkles and crow’s feet. It never
fails to perform all that is expected.”
—Chicago Times Herald
“ The Electric Roller is certainly productive of good
•results. I believe it the best of any appliances. It is safe
and effective.”—Harriet Hubbard Ayer, New York World.
For Massage and Curative Purposes
An Electric Roller is all the term implies. The invention
of a physician and electrician known throughout America
and Europe. A perfect complexion beautifier. Will re-
move wrinkles, “crow’s feet” (premature or from age),
and all facial blemishes. Whenever electricity is to be
used for massaging or curative purposes, it has' no equal.
No charging. Always ready for use on all parts of the
body, for all diseases. For Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neural-
gia, Nervous and Circulatory Diseases, a specific.
Price—Gold, 21/-; Silver, 16/- PAMPHLETS FREE.
Sole Agent tor Australasia —
229
J. CHM.MERS,
Col I ins-street,
Melbourne.
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
DON’T POISON*
YOURSELF
With DRUGS. All Diseases of the Nervous System'
Lame Back, Sciatica, Liver C'o.mtlai.nt, Dyste. sia, Des-
pondency, Brain Fag, and, in fact, all chronic weaknesses
and ailments can now be Speedily Relieved and Cured
without Drugs or Medicine of any kind. Address—
ARTHUR HALE, 44 Castlcreagrh-st., Sydney.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole A gents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, <Scc.
D'ENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 CEORQE ST.,SYJNEY, and at Melbourne.
TIEAR SIR, —I h ive been cured of Weakness and De-
- LJ bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAM Ji. l/ 3 CO.
(i,imm:i >.
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Quoensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE '
ADELAIDE
p ORT I’IRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Adelaide, Fliday,
May 3.
S.S. Marloo (from Mel-
bourne), Tuesday,
May 7.
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
April 20.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
nrst Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A. U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and VV.A. all tickets are inter*
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. C“
_’oy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
cvn\Tirv ANI) ®OCKIfAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
®£££EY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passe ntf er A cconnnodafion 9 Attendance and
Cuisine tin rivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and \Y- H. Smith and Sons,
subject, to conditions to be ascertained on application,
ror Adelaide and VV. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHIIfP and CO, Ltd., Agents, lit Bridge-
* tr '■ii’mii7nM~ V ' ;m<l Agellcies at all Australasian Ports '
P. AND O. COMPANY^
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
_ . .X 1 ' m-vnuicio urn, uau uv p reniancie
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON —Single, £3B 10 s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return £7llosto 1:121
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
trnlim_F\ change Corner. Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries lVlaritinies
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will he dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R- BRASIER DE TIIUY, Principal Agent.
Huddart, parker & Go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, IfOBA RT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rataa.
“E. AND R.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, AIN o JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special Tates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents.
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-slreet, Sydney.
|iniiuraith,ffl‘Eacliarn&C°'
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
4500 TONS,
COOLG-AEDIE, 3500 TONS,
SAIL FORTNIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
MHL.WRAITH, M'EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and FratnanU*.
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.


At a London fire King Edward offered
a reporter a cigar. The scribe put it in his
pocket. H.R.H.: “ Don’t you smoke ? ’ ‘‘ Yes ;
but it’s not every day I get one of your R.H. s
oigars.’’ Whereupon lie got another.
There are still 400 U.S. military pensioners
living in Ireland, the bulk, of course, being men
who fought in the Civil War. Their scale of pen-
sion is infinitely better than that paid by Britain.
One man who lost a leg, for instance, gets £!• a
month, and every three years a grant of £lO to buy
a new artificial one. And why not ?
Writes “ Puyyaka” to The Bulletin
In reply to “ Medi-Cuss ” (8., 23/3/’01) : The injection of
cocaine and other anaesthetics into the sciatic nerve is,
and has been for some years, a well-known mode of treat-
ment for sciatica. Whitta and Gowers use a large injec-
tion-the full contents of an ordinary hypodermic syringe
—containing a moderate dose of either morphia or
cocaine, according to circumstances, and distributed in
four or five places along the nerve. Billroth, the German
surgeon, lias used large-volume injections of osmic acid
in similar fashion witn excellent results. The action is
threefold, embodying in one operation the good effects
of acupuncture, of local-pressure ansesthesia, and of local
and some general drug ansesthesia. Sciatica being due
to inflammation of the nervi nervorum —tensory filaments
distributed over the surface of the great sciatic nerve,
which itself is mainly muscle-governing in its functions—
and not to interior disturbance of the main trunk,
stretching of the whole nerve is probably the
most efficacious treatment in the long run, but the
writer has seen excellent effects from intra-neural injec-
tions. Distilled water will often give as good results as
an anaesthetic solution, thereby proving that the puncture
and intra-neural pressure are important factors in the
treatment. This scribe has seen few cases of sciatica
which have resisted a course of treatment beginning with
thorough blistering along the nerve-track, going on if
necessary to intra-neural injection, and if the trouble
persists terminating by a surgical operation where the
sciatic nerve is exposed and thoroughly stretched for ten
minutes or so. Any return after this probably means
some central mischief, such as tumour-pressure. The
sciatic nerve can also be stretched without cutting down
on it, by certain movements of the leg effected by the
surgeon, the object in both cases being to tear down
adhesions of the nervi nervorum aforesaid.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
pre s your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies j r ou have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the jointß being
ulcerated ; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if ahowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. Yor may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit toamputa'ion ; hut do not, for I CAN
CURb \()U. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have fai ed is no reason for not now being cured,
cendatonce for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore 'I
Bunions, and Bin.worm. Of all
&c. Price, in Great Bri ain, 1/Ud. per
AIBERi, 73, Farringdon-street, I
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney
look foi the registered trad* mark of th
s: een la el on each box. (Regd. oopyri
moat, iironchitis,
Chemists. Store*,
b x. Prepared by
.ondon, England.
Purchasers shou d
<• Grasshopper on a
lit).
FRINGES,
tfutnrsJ Curly, from 3/0 eatfe,
PLATTS and TAILS,
KHn. long, f>/o. at] real
CUTTINOS « COMBUtea
•orlte'l up, 2/<i per oz.
w« ore the cneapp&tiß
for all IJair Worfe.
Color of 11*4#.
W. H. Wigzgll,
110 William Strf.kt,
corner of I'uhner ntreot
SV'DNKY.
Cubic Train will elop at !>aos
stampi* for full Price
attention iiivcn to Ooniiity OrOwfc
t( COMMON SENSE EA II T>KUM”
mm
(COMPLETELY restore ihe
. Hearing- and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
oilier remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne,
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOOTH
POWDER
IS THE BEST DENTAL
PRESERVATIVE.
Has the Largest Sale of any Dentifrice.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Ohio; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and iM matures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque on London.
English, French, and German Rare Books.
Explain wishes and requirements, and fqll satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GENNERT,
89c Faubourg St., Martin, Paris, Francs.
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers fr; m Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia, iEnemia,
can rely on a (Jure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
m
HIUMNpSUS
i(nmnu)
Iwune4
HttlAllWß
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S CHIEF LABORATORY,
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous AfF ctions, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor
Memory, Tired Peeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Course, 23/6.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases. Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs. Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
AEnemia, Wa ting Diseases iD Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatalencf Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOXES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
-1 ago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A
Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
posted, 35., 65., 12s and 235. 6d.
Electric Belts —Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
cure for all Spinal and Kidnev Affections ;
425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Correspondence held confidential.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3, - and 6/-
CORN CURE, 1/-.
OINTMENT, 1/-.
HlttMßffiSa
HcßSflAlrAlJfltPm
HEARRASSMUsSiNs
13
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and his
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
MELBOURNE, 150 Bourke-street.
BRISBANE, 309 Queen-street
ADELAIDE, 154 Rund/e-st.
N.Z., 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A.^—PERTH, 481 Hay-street
KALGOORLIE, Hannan-street.
BOULDER CITY, Piesse-street.
FREMANTLE, Henry-street
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALFALINE REMEDIES.
CR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rKLORODYNE
Caution. —Genuine Clilorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, be*™ 011
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—•
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ot
Sept. 28, 1805, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIO
BELTS and
A BP LI A N CES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electrio Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel*
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
sound Inhalent, and 1 tin
S T asal Ointment, only
10-
Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO..
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Dr. LANGSTON'S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A TESTED AND INFALLIBLE REMEDY,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C-S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS. M.D.
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
inventor op Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Byes, &o.
use Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
J'or all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. and 2s. od. each of all Drug
Stores.
Sole Makers. BEACH & BARNICOTT, LtcL
BRIDPORT, England.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
tTHESE Famous Pills are now universally used through
- 1 - out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posted, ss. 6d. per
box. Write to A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street North,
Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-street, Prahran’,
Melb. says: “Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
diate relief, although I had during two months previous
tried all sorts of remedies without success."
utr
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Show long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address. —L.D.l., 300 Collins Bt., Melbourne


W. Martin won the 5-miles International
Scratch Race at the Show Sports, Melb., on the same
Red Bird on which he has secured all the Australasian
records and over £7OO in prizes this season.*
sets
That lump in a man s
stomach which makes him
irritable and miserable
and unfit for busi-
ness or pleasure is caused
by indigestion. Indiges-
tion, like charity, covers a
multitude of sins. The
trouble may be in the
stomach, liver, or bowels.
Wherever it is it is paused
by the presence of poisonous
refuse matter, which Nature
has been unable to rid her-
self of unaided. In such
cases wise people send down
a health officer, personified
by one of Dr. Morse's Indian
Root Pills, to search out
the seat of trouble and re-
move the cause. One of
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills will remove a very big
lump and act as a gentle
laxative. A short course of
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills will cure indigestion
(permanently). They also
cure constipation. Dr
Morse’s Indian Hoot Pills cure Biliousness,
Indigestion, Constipation, Dyspepsia, Headaches,
Liver and Kidney Complaints, Piles, Pimples and
Blotches. Sold by chemists and storekeepers,
price Is. lid. per bottle, or six bottles 6s. 6d., or
same will be mailed, post paid, upon receipt of
price. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Packed in amber bottles and the full
name blown thereon.*
The Bulletin knew it would come ! Dr.
Ross, M.L.A. for Molong in N.S.W. Assembly,
writes to Sydney E. News proposing that the
Jook of York, out of his boundless ignorance of
Australian geography, shall select the site of the
Federal capital :
Now that the Duke and Duchess of York are shortly to
arrive on the shores of Australia (where, no doubt, a
hearty and loyal welcome awaits them), to open the
Commonwealth Parliament of Australia in Melbourne, it
would not only be a noble, but even a graceful and
deservedly dignified, befitting, and becoming act on
the part of our authorities and the Commonwealth
to invite and leave the settlement of this important
matter in the hands of the Duke and Duchess of York (to
be known as the “ City of Clarence ”or York)—an act and
public function that would tend more to cement the
Empire and to commemorate their visit to these colonies
for all time to come, one of tenfold more general and en-
during importance.
And yet a day or two later the same Andrew
Ross, M.D. wrote a letter to the press girding at
titles !
Patents for Inventions —Arthur Griffith,
International Patent Agent and Consulting
Engineer, University Chambers, Phillip-street,
Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights,
obtained throughout the world.
Westralia sends to the Senate one of its
orators in “Ned” Harney, whose flow of language
even Dan O’Connor might envy. He won the
gold-medal for oratory at Trinity College, Dublin,
and hasn’t much brogue. Kirwan (editor of Kal-
goorlie Miner), representative for Kalgoorlie, is
a dull and humorless speaker, but he is a good
democrat, and has done a lot for the digger—
especially the alluvial man ; and he certainly did
more than anyone else to bring Westralia
into the Federal States. Ewing, of the State
Assembly (brother of Tom Ewing, of N.S.W.),
is a pedantic but able debater and close reasoner.
His brother is one of the N.S.W. members
of the House of Representatives. He married
Chief Justice Stone’s daughter, and has ambi-
tions. Alex. Matheson has improved greatly in
his speaking, but his high Scotch birth makes
some people chary of him as a Democrat, though it
was under that designation he won a Senate seat.
To his credit be it said, he has voted solidly for
all democratic measures in Groper Land’s Upper
House. Solomon, member for Fremantle, is a
decent Hebrew, and that is all. He has lived
there from the Flood, been its Mayor innumerable
times, and knows all the electors by their Chris-
tian names. He is a poor politician, and as to the
others none of them are likely to emerge from the
ruck.
Somebody writes in M.A.P. that he used,
30 years ago, to meet in a London pub. billiard-
room a mild middle-aged person whom everybody
called “champion,” and whom he erroneously
supposed to be the local John Roberts, until he
discovered that the man couldn’t play for sour
apples, and that he was, in fact, no less a personage
than Mr. Dymoke, Hereditary Champion of
England. The present holder of the “office” is
a young farmer; but, in the face of innumerable
stalwart policemen, it was not necessary for him
to battle for King Ned’s diadem.
Piles and their Cure. —The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp of Sydney, entitled, “Piles, and
the Way to Cure Them,” without operation, sent
free, on application to the Depdt, 257 George-
street, Sydney, or Frank Buckhurst, chemist,
Melbourne.*
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor -
GEO. W. ELLIS.
LA.DJCJE33 WHO CYCLE must be well mounted.
IS SPECIALLY DESIGNED FOR LADIES. The frame is so built that the skirt hangs gracefully and
the rider can command a pleasing and comfortable pose when awheel. The terms are long and easy Write
or call at our
.SYDNEY DEPOT; 385 GEORGE STREET.
-jb YOU WILL FIND THE DIFFERENCE
r ' When you ride a
<\ BIRD BICYCLE
THE RED BIRD RUNS along: SO SMOOTHLY. THERE IS NO RATTLE. The ADJUSTED PARTS
STAY ADJUSTED. YOU NEVER HAVE TO TROUBLE ALL DAY LONG. Why not buy a Red Bird?
branches in every state. GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney.
reuiSuO
«hH
JOHN JJUKESON WHISKY
Agents:
J. Barre Johnston & Co.,
Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
G. G. Stead has a couple of fliers in Cruciform
and Neuschikoff, who notched Ist and 2nd money in Can-
terbury (M.L.) Champagne Stakes and Challenge Stakes.
Stead has had wonderful success in these two classic
races, having won the “Champagne” nine years in suc-
cession, and 12 times in all, and the “ Challenge ” six
times since it was established nine years ago.
• * • *
Boreas, who accompanied Advance to Melb.,
just missed Auckland R.C. Century Stakes (1000 sovs.) on
his returning to M.L. Battleaxe snatched the Purse on
the post, paying £lB 15s in a field of six. Big gun Sea-
horse hadn’t been up long enough to last a strong mile
and a half. As sound as a bell, old Nelson’s son should
be nice and mellow by next Cup time.
* * » *
After years of battling M.L. odds-and-tote-
betting fraternity has triumphed over Canterbury
Jockey Club. Latter forcibly ejected the undesirable
parties, and proceeded against them on summons for
trespass, but defendants escaped on ground that they had
“a color of right” to visit the property. Then the club
proceeded civiily against one Patterson and got a small
damages verdict; whereupon, bookie appealed. Point is,
that the racecourse is a reserve vested in trustees, who
leased it to the 0.J.C., ordaining that charge could be
made for admission, &c. The club drew up a regulation
prohibiting bookies, but, as the trustees in their deed
didn’t bar anyone, the Full Court, by a majority, upheld
the appeal with costs of two courts.
• * * *
The most humorous decision of recent M.L.
Trades and Labor conference was its objection (based on
a desire to ensure greater attendances at the T. and L.
sports) to the granting by Govt, of tote-permits for
races on Labor Day. To be consistent, the Col. Sec.
would have to decline to sanction the ’orny ’anded’s
own great shilling art-unions, drawn on demonstration
days and served up as a special attraction.
» * » *
Prosser, trainer of M.L. champion, Advance,
showed sound judgment in securing yearlings at recent
Sydney sales. He got seven fine colts bred as follow :
Lochiel—Fiancee, Gaulus—Lady Mildred, Grafton—La
Vivandiere, Medallion—Gavotte, Cydnus—Lass of Linne,
Kussley—Spice, and Medallion—Nereid, for a total of
775g5., and could easily have got a big profit on the
spec, a few days subsequently had he felt inclined.
Sydney owner-trainer, “ Teddy ” Keys, secured the well-
bred Positano—Recline colt for M.L. sport Mr. J. B.
Reid, cheap at 60gs.
• • * •
Recently-dead M.L. crack colt, Nobility, was
by St. Leger—Lady Emily, and belonged to Mr. E. J.
Watt, who got him as a yearling for 125 gs. Nobility
gathered in Egmont Cup, Normanby Stakes, and Wan-
ganui Cup, Said that running him last Spring while
suffering from severe influenza was the primary cause of
his death.
*** • •
Handicapper Henrys, who acts for a host of
M.L. clubs, big and small, is one of the best-paid racing-
officials in Australasia, his income aggregating £l4OO a-
year.
* * * »
Teddy Hodgkins, killed at Adelaide, was best
known as John Crozier’s jockey, though as a lad he
rode for W. A. Long’s stable in N.S.W., and also in
Wimmera district. Deceased was admittedly the best
horseman in the Wheat State. Among many races won
by him was Adelaide Cup (in ’9O) on Shootover, Onkapar-
inga Cup (’9B) on, Gnullo, S.A.J.C. Derby (’99) on Gunga
Din, A.R.C. City Handicap (’99) on Security, S.A.J.C.
Goodwood Handicap (’93) on Britisher, V.A.T.C. St. Kilda
Cup (’99) on Security, and V.A.T.C. South Yarra Handi-
cap on Bloodstone. “ Teddy ” was up on Dick Hammer-
hand, who ran fourth in last Melb. Cup. Hodgkins, by
the way, affected the Tod Sloan forward crouch, and
always finished in the centre of the track, thus minimis-
ing'the possibility of being blocked. His funeral was an
immense one, and was largely attended by fellow-riders
in their colors. The five chief clubs in the State have
undertaken to provide for the widow.
• * * •
Toryism and big-liead seem nigh akin. At
Rosehill and HaWkesbury racecourses, on each horse-box
is painted the name of the occupier, a piece of attention
much appreciated by racegoers. Randwick, so far, has
not followed suit, a fact much commented upon at
A.J.C. autumn meeting. But it is perhaps too much to
expect the A.J.C. pure merinos to follow the lead of the
proprietary track.
• * * *
Crack lepper Skylark made new figures for
Sydney Agri. Society’s Ground last day of show. With
Mrs. Elliott up, he “ took off ” about 10ft. from the brush-
wood hurdle, cleared the water as if propelled by a cata-
pult, and landed well—3lft. 9in. from the take-off. Pre-
vious “ best” was Greygown’s 31ft. 4in., four years ago.
*•■ * *
At recent N.S.W. Agricultural Society’s show
at least 200,000 people paid during the seven days. Gate
totalled £7282, as against £4723 for ten days last year.
* * * *
What a lot of Millers are racing now ! There’s
Sep. Miller, the V.R.C. chairman. E. H. Miller, the owner
of Hautaine ; W. Miller and G. Miller, whose colors ran
first and second for the Welter Handicap, at Randwick
the other Saturday. Albert Miller, the somewhat Welling-
tonian brother of Sep., and how many more ?
Variation : Pastoralists’ Review puts it this
way. The servant girl at a bush pub. asked a bookmaker,
“ How much will I get if I put a shilling on San Fran ? ”
Book : “If he starts at sto 1 you’ll get six bob.” Girl :
f‘ But suppose he starts at I o’clock ? ”
* • • *
’Tis said that Frisco (winner of Sydney Cup in
’B7), despite his 18 years of life, still renders good service
between the shafts of a buggy at Nowra (N.S.W.) What
a falling-off ! but it might have been worse ; equally good
nags have ended their days drawing a city ’ansoin or
hauling a ’bus along.
* • • •
A N.S.W. shopkeeper advertises that cus-
tomers spending a certain amount of money with him
during the next few months will have a share in some
Tattersall-sweep tickets he is to purchase. Does the
anti-gambling law cover this scheme ?
* • • »
It is regrettable to notice that jockey Tom
Hales, through ill-health, has placed his beautiful Moonee
Ponds homestead in the market.
* • * *
Frank Leleu, just dead in London at 73, was
one of the old school of racing-men. He was credited
with having, when younger, picked up a notoriously bank-
rupt acquaintance - in the small hours of the morning,
taken him to a coffee-house, and lent him a few shillings
to play hazard, no other opponent being available.
Result—Leleu, without possibility of winning anything
except a bad debt—lost £2OOO.
* • * »
“Sport ” under English Hunt Club rules : Two-
days’ meeting at Derby in March, 14 races, six of them
selling races (any surplus on sale of winner divided equally
between owner" of second horse and promoting Co.)
Two races out of the 14 worth as much as £lOO. First
day, not a steward on the ground, second day, two
present, but left early, so that a glaring case of pulling in
the last race went without inquiry. Result, handsome
div. to the Limited Liability Co. that owns the course.
Following upon Levanter’s appropriation of
Hurst Park (Eng.) Steeple last month, owner (Major
Edwardes) secured £lO,OOO to £BOO about the old M.L.
lepper s chance in Liverpool Grand National (4J miles)
and many judges tipped him certain to fill a place ; but
he finished fourth. That the wager was justified is evi-
denced by London Referee saying “ Levanter now
fences like an Englishman ” —a big compliment, as ’Ome
sporting scribes are not over-addicted to marmalading
foreign products. The club-footed Oban (same stable)
scored at s£’s in the Brook Hurdles at Gatwick. How
Oban chucked up .his dead-sure “ Cambridgeshire ” and
downed the ultra-clever Robinson ring will not soon be
forgotten.
* * * *
Cabled that Australian Star was favorite at
fives for City and Suburban Handicap, run at Epsom this
Wednesday. Other Australian nags still in when last
mail left were Muir’s Parthian II and The Tola, Clarke’s
The Grafter, Loder’s Sibold, and Vincent’s Syerla.
*.* * m
Tj l6 bruising match, Lenton v. Bob Turner,
filled Golden Gate A. C. (Sydney), Saturday, and caused
hundreds to crowd out on the footpath and into the road,
after the gates were closed, clamoring for admission.
Lenton was tipped as a “ cert.,” and heaps of money went
on him at two’s, but after the first round he wasn’t in it
for points, though he stood much hard thumping. He
turned out to be a second “ Ironbark ” Burge, for often,
when appearing to go completely, he’d come again and
show up as fresh as at the start. His backers must have
depended upon this to win their money, or at worst save
it, for the conditions insisted upon provided that
only a knock-out or one combatant withdrawing
should decide. The way articles were drawn up abso-
lutely deprived the referee of power, and he
would have been almost as much use miles away, yet the
two parties worked up a “ barney ” as to who should act,
that lasted long and sickened everyone present. The
police intervened in 16th round, whereupon the exciting
but all one-sided mill ended without a verdict. Waterloo
(Lenton) and Pyrmont (Turner) suburbs were in oppo-
sition, hence the big house and extraordinary interest.
Turner never fought better, and should have knocked his
man out had there been enough powder in his punches.
Ooach-builder bulky Tom Taylor (once Peter Jackson’s
pet pupil) had Lenton in hand, and tipped him a “ moral,”
but fighters themselves are notoriously bad judges in this
respect.
* • • •
The black man would have a big grip on Aus-
tralian bruiserdom if allowed his own way. Felix claims
the heavyweight, ‘‘Starlight” the middleweight, and
Tom Mitchell, the lightweight supremacies. Modesty
never has been a conspicuous characteristic of the son of
Ham—especially the pug son—bar Peter Jackson.
• * • *
“Jab.”: Much of world’s champion-bruiser
Jeffries’success is due to the fact that his methods are
more defensive than aggressive, though he’s not at all
averse to cutting loose occasionally. lie mostly lets the
other man do the rushing and the swinging, and has
found these tactics highly profitable. It was freckle-
fisted Fitz who did all the fighting in their match, until
he got one on the “ point. Sharkey operated in like
fashion till successive heavy counters doubled him up.
Against Oorbett the huge boilermaker had to act differ-
ently, because of C.’s extreme mobility ; besides, Oor-
bett is a typical defensive pug. who has consistently
fenced slugging and mix-ups, and is eternally jigging
out of harm’s way. In the art of blocking and dodging
punches the Beau Brummel of the Yankee ring has
no equal. ’Tis positively asserted that all through his
career nobody has brought blood from his nose. Sharkey,
Fitzsimmons, Maher and 00. are not so careful of that
organ, for they charge-in on a knocking-out mission
utterly regardless of wiiat might come to them. Ruhlin
jf a . c * oss between the offensive and defensive fighter.
“Kid”,M‘Coy, if his prospects seem good, always takes
chances, but, opposed to a dangerous man, he invariably
adopts a “ ware-hawk ” attitude. The most aggressive
pug in the ring to-day is ’Murkan Terry M'Govern, who
isn’t stopped by a punch or two when he starts his
cyclone act. Black George Dixon, when in his prime,
alwa3's set the pace. Most of those at the game to-day
hate to have their faces marked, but there are still some
who look for “ cauliflower” ears, broken noses, and facial
scars generally.
• • m *
One-time possible Australian middleweight
premier pug., Jem Ryan, got a parlous time from Yankee
bruiser Hart at Louisville (Ky.), Feb. 28. Ryan, in
desperate straits, fouled glaringly and often, but ulti-
mately went out in the eighth round, consequent upon a
right hook on the “point.” Jem was a good man when
the best at the game Australia ever saw were here, but
couldn’t be relied upon. He and George Dawson used to
put up the prettiest “ spars ” seen at the famous old York-
street Club of a dozen years ago. Big Ned Ryan, who
fought Joe Goddard, Steve O’Donnell, and others, and
died at Auburn (Sydney) two or three years ago, was a
brother of Jem’s.
• * * *
A quiet little fight with mittens went wrong in
Melbourne recently, and there is a disagreement as to the
disposal of the stakes. One expert amateur undertook to
knockout another amateur, who is not particularly expert,
in the third round for a £lO note or some similar trophy.
Elaborate arrangements were made, and the parties met.
The inexpert amateur was knocked clean out in Act 1,
Scene 1, and now lays vehement claim to the spoil, de-
claring that the document stated quite specifically that
he was to be “knocked out in the third round.” Judg-
ment deferred pending legal advice.
* * * •
Sydney amateur bikists Kershaw and Turnbull
failed to score at M.L. League of Wheelmen’s Champion-
ship meeting. Kershaw didn’t ride on opening day,
owing to a cropper when training. Turnbull jumped
into second place with a vigorous final kick in mile cham-
pionship, won by W. Reynolds (Auckland), but made no
showing at the finish in the three-mile dart. On second
day, he won his heat in the half-mile, but was passed-out
for interference, and the race was given to mate Kershaw,
who came to ground in the final, won by Reynolds.
Latter, in great form, also notched the five-mile go, the
Sydney pair being outed.
* <* ♦ m
Two miles wheel premiership of M.L., with
attendant £lOO Enfield Challenge Cup, was secured by
Geo. Sutherland t’other day.
* * * *
G. Sutherland (who left subsequently for Melb.)
didn’t have things all his own way in the cash champion-
ships at M.L. wheel gathering. The five and one-mile
events fell to his little lot, but he went under in the half-
mile and three miles. The surprise of the meeting was
Ralston’s victory in last-named event. While others were
almost stationary at the start, waiting for each other to
go ahead, he shot off, got a 30.vds. lead, yelled to the
pacer to put on steam, went ahead, and won by nearly
a quarter of a mile. The outwitted “push ” tumbled to
the game when too late, and the crowd keenly relished
Ralston’s generalship.
• * • •
Bikists Englishman Green and ex-Australian
champion Walne go to “ Murka” Tuesday next, looking
for dollars and glory. Green has dropped money during
his stay, and says a cyclist wants to be at high pitch
form to prosper in Australia.
* * * *
“ Inquirer ” (Ohura) : Write to S. Kirby,
George-street, Sydney.
♦ * * •
Canterbury (M.L.) Rugby Union has adopted
an insurance scheme for the benefit of members of
affiliated clubs who get flattened out. Union provides
doctor, and pays the victim £1 a week up to 10 weeks.
Schoolboys receive same amount as players in receipt of
big salaries. Senior clubs participate on payment of £3,
the unions for £2, and half-holiday clubs for £l.
* * * *
“Eller”: Re that recent cricket decision.
There is nothing in the rules of cricket to meet the case.
In inter-State matches such a difficulty is guarded against
by changing the ball every 200 runs (or before if showing
signs of wear). I consider the ball should have been
taken as “ dead.” ’Twas not a ball that was caught, but
a piece ; and, as the batsman usually gets the benefit of
the doubt, ’twould favor him in this instance.
* * » *
Top-notcher schoolboy swimmer Claude Cor-
bett finished up the season Saturday at N.S.W. Public
Schools A.A. A. Championships with a big flourish. He
secured 100yds. all schools’ supremacy (paddling 80yds.
of the way) ; and, with nearest opposing lad 4sec. ahead
of him, took up the going in last lap (50yds.), and won
200yds. all schools’ “ Flying Squadron ” Team premier-
ship for his school—Cleveland-st. Young Corbett (still
under 16) has put up a record this season, winning over
£5O worth of prizes, besides two Commonwealth gold
medals in Jan. last for the 100yds. and Half-mile School-
boy Championships of Australasia. He only needs to
winter well, and he’ll be with Read, Cavill, Lane and
Co. next year. As it is he could surely win the absolute
championships of Q., Vic., S.A., or M.L.
* * * »
Interest in coming inter-State 8-oar race on the
Parramatta (May 4) increases. Vic. reps., whose stan-
dard is very high, have every confidence in their ability
to win. The N.S.W. men have unusual power and
physique. They average 11.8, and five of them stand
6ft. high.
• • • *
Hunter River (N.S.W.) is the only Australian
locale where prof, sculling flourishes. Matches are
frequently contested, talked-of, or pending. Latest is
between Chapman and Campbell, for June 1. Stake, £5O
a-side, and Raymond Terrace publicans have agreed to
subscribe something towards training exs., &c. Chap-
man concedes ssec., and a hot tussle threatens. Camp-
bell is 38, and among the oldest at the game on the river.
Twenty years back he gave promise of getting atop of the
heap, but, unfortunately, never aimed at anything
beyond regattas.
« * * *
Late ’Ome news is that Hunter River sculler
Geo. Towns is doing all possible to lure Canadian Gaudaur
into a match, and offers to row on Toronto Bay, Canada
(Jake’s own back-yard), but the wily Canuck is silent.
Failing connection this time the Australian says he’ll
close on the world’s supremacy himself. Others would
have done so long ago.
* * * *
Individual bowling supremacy of N.S.W. went
to “Jim” Hogue, M.P (City), on Balmain green (Sydney)
Friday last week, when he accounted for Capt. Kondio
(Waverley) by 21 to 16. Hogue has scored several suc-
cesses this season, but neither he nor Kondio evidenced
championship form in the final of the big thing. Blue
funk or something happened both. Kondio’s last failed
to reach within 6ft. of the “jack,” and left Hogue lying
the four necessary to win. It was much the softest
championship writer ever saw won. Kondio was runner
up last year, too, but shaped much better then.
m * * *
Betting at N.S.W. Gun Club shoots during
Easter week was reminiscent of its palmy days years ago,
and Mo. benefited accordingly. Odds totalling close to
hundreds were often laid in one hand. One punter is said
to have had £3OO to £l2O in one shot —and he landed the
bet. Sixties to twenties were common. Heigho 1 The
writer could point out two men, still surviving (and that’s
about all) who dropped the best part of their lost fortunes,
aggregating, perhaps, £150,000, in Sydney Gun Club
grounds.
In 1860, King Edward, as Prince of Wales,
had a day’s shooting between Chicago and St.
Louis. The Duke of Newcastle was with the
party. They arrived at a farmhouse pretty tired,
and the farmer came out, an unmistakeable
English yeoman. Says he, “ The Prince is wel-
come ; but as for you, Newcastle, I used to be one
of your tenants, and have sworn you shall never
enter my house.” The shooters passed on.
“ A Professional Criminal ” to The Bul-
letin :
You once said you’d buy copy from a lunatic, a
murderer, or Satan, if it were worth it. Buy some from
me now, and help me to turn an “ honest ” penny. Your
category of commentators is cosmopolitan. Why shouldn’t
one of us have a “ say”? I write truth.
There is a strong fascination in crime which few writers
understand, though Charles Reade did. We follow crime
as you follow your vocation. Ours is another world than
yours. That world is gaol—its environments and associa-
tions —its blood and its tears. We play a losing game
and know it. We gain to-day and lose for years, and we
walk into gaol as unconcernedly and mechanically as we
walk out. We are fulfilling our destinies. Most of us are
fatalists and grim ones. Our arguments: Excite-
ment and romance in preference to some dull
round of monotonous toil. Life is a chess-board.
Why restrict one’s-self to one set of squares—black or
white. Nothing like variety ! Excitement, romance,
danger, and a decent living, all going begging together
for the sake of a little pluck and the discarding of a little
sentiment. We can’t all be moralists ; we can’t all go
Boer-hunting.
The term “ criminal ” requires defining. Some of your
“ experts” opine that we are not born but made. Right
and wrong. Many of us are born and many made. The
born-criminal has the criminal head. There is no mis-
taking it. Take half-a-hundred of our regular gaol-birds
and put them in a row, or walk into a big prison’s
chapel, and there are the heads—to say nought of the
faces —before jmu. Born criminals these.
Each of us has his own particular line in crime, and
invariably clings to it—a fact which greatly assists the
detectives. We have the forger (the “checker”), the
burglar (the “ buster ”), the confidence man (the “ mags-
man ”), the pickpocket (the “ hook ”), the general spieler
and the sneak-thief. The checker despises the burglar,
the burglar the pickpocket, the pickpocket the sneak-
thief, and the magsman despises the lot of them. He
scorns a man who has to use his hands instead of his
brains and his tongue to get money.
Criminals are mostly lacking in anything like manli-
ness, and 9-10ths of them are ill-informed brutes, though
some, in time, become <?<sM>?-edueated.
Speaking professionally, there are few genuine success-
ful criminals ( artists in their work) in Australia. We
can’t in this respect approach the States, or France, which
two countries produce the world’s leading criminals. Of
educated “ crooks ”we haven’t sin 1000. The successful
“artist” has to be of good address, honest and intelli-
gent-looking, and well-informed. In fact, the majority of
criminals are not criminals—only “ scrouchers,” apologies,
blights, and eyesores.
Honor among thieves? Yes; but it’s limited. Our
slang is crude and uninteresting. A sample: “ Dear
Dago,—The sheeney has chatted me to smoke to the old
plotch with the splosh. I jerry to the bluff and duck.
My mouthpiece pulled the box for Paroo, and he got a
tray bit. Thought he was dead for a lin. Jo-Jo rapped,
and biff it must be when the talent rocker.—Yours,
Rajah.” Translated: “Dear Dago,—The Jew advises me
to go to the old place with the money. I understand his
dodge, and act accordingly. My lawyer talked the
Judge over for Paroo, and got him three years. Thought
he was sure to get five. Jo-Jo went hard against us, and
as soon as the boys know it he will get a hiding.”


P'r-A
(JVy
LO^
Rotherham English LeVer Watches.
Silver Hunting Keyless - - - £5 0 0
Gold Hunting Keyless- - - - £l6 15 0
NotbiQg b6t tb€ BgSt 3CiitS (i$
, , i Because ...
Oi)ly the Bt&t s<iits yo«-
Reliable Timekeepers
And the Latest Creations of the Jewellers’ Art.
ALL OUR GOODS ARE MARKED
IN PLAIN FIGURES.
Write for our Illustrated Souvenir Catalogue Mailed
Free.
Vie are open all Wednesday till 0 pm.
Saturdays from 6 p.m. till 9.30 p.m.
The Modern Art Jewellery Co.
Telephone 3490. V.IS7 PITT STREET.
The Foundering of the “Federal” —absit
omen!
In another column appears an advt. calling
attention to a book entitled “The Secret History
of the Coningham Case.” If the “History” is
half as sensational as the advt. it will be a startler.
The subdivisions of the book include such headings
as “ The Waddy Fiasco,” “A Game of Euchre,”
“The Romeo of Glenmore Road,” (the most un-
romatic ’bus-route in the eastern suburbs), “A
Belated Wedding,” “Coningham’s Body-guard” ;
“Dill Macky’s Revolver”; the “Story of the
Necklet”; and the “Relief of Burrilda” “The
trail of Zero” “and Zero No 2”, are mysterious
and quakeful.*
BROOCHES
Should be in exquisite taste, and
bear the impress of quality and
refinement.
All the latest London Goods we
receive by mail each week.
Fine Gold, 27 White Diamonds,
2 Choice Pearls, £5.
We sell for Cash, and at
London Prices.
Fairfax & Roberts,
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Choicest Pearls, 48s.
msm
cog*
m
All Drapers Everywhere.
It was a chiel frae Caledon,
Who, when he tasted Helidon—
The famous and unequalled Spa—
Cried out—“Eh, mon, this licks them a’! ” *
One of the sights of George-street, Sydney,
is the display of deftly-made artificial limbs at
No. 281, where Denyer Bros, also supply trusses,
belts, elastic-ware, deformity-rectifiers, and sur-
gical-appliances of every kind.*
" Janet Lady Clarke and most of the fluttered
at Flemington wore the Hopetoun scarlet posy.
The scarlet coat of a Surrey Hills golfer lent
another splash of vivid color to the scene.
“ Miss Lorna Price was one of the smartest of
the Toorakites at the races. The usual black
outfit was chastened with tulle neckband and
large rosette. Also a twin of Miss Price is the
wealthy Miss Robertson (step-daughter of Hon.
Agar Wynne), who turned out m almost similar
style to her duplicate.
‘ ‘ Cecilie Lorraine, fair, fat, and five-and-twenty,
looked on at the emotional Russell cuddling oalvi
in ‘II Trovatore ’ with deep interest. Someone
during the interval asked her what she thought
of the active Ella. ‘ Great,’ replied Cecilie.^
‘ There is much to learn from her performance,
she added, and went on to enumerate some of the
most telling points of her impassioned Leonore.
No professional jealousy here.
“Louis Arens’ love-making, which was the
deadliest and woodenest thing on record, annoyed
all the women with whom he acted. In .Lonen-
grin 5 one particular star used to have to remind,
him of his tin-soldier clasps, and crossly demand
of him to kiss her hand —‘or else he'd have left it
out,’ she dramatically adds.
“It is awkward when the call-boy appears and
demands the presence of the star before she is
quite dressed. Last week, in ‘Faust, Agnes
Jansen, as Siebel, came on to the stage in her
boy’s dress without her cloak, and without her
tunic being fastened properly up the back. While
she did her bit, Gilbert King, as Wagner fastened
her clothes up the back, and at the first chance
she slipped into the wings and reappeared pro-
perly cloaked. But something always goes wrong
m ‘ Faust ’. It is a tradition of the French stage
that, when the Devil is played on the boards, the
real old Nick watches the show critically from the
big house rolled up to sample Ibsen’s ‘Lady
Inger, of Ostrat,’ on the first night (April 20), but
never again, I guess. When last-trainers left at
11.30, the thing was still going strong—m fact,
seemed to have taken out a new lease of life. Not
a bad play, I thought—the plot rather Shake-
spearian, the dialogue terribly twaddlish and in
want of pruning. Besides, Shakespeare woulun t
have reformed his villain at the last minute
it’s unnatural. Kingston livened up things
whenever he came on. Nance couldn t
get into her part, but one can t blame
her. Lady Inger, after raising great expectations
as an enigmatical heroine, turns out to be merely
a person with a Past. Lady Macbeth is coupled
by some people with Lady Inger, but thank good-
ness her author didn’t drag in a squalid, secret
baby as the motive of her ambition.
“ At that Lottie Collins matinee (funds handed
to current shipwreck funds), Mdme. Slap, m
blue blouse, black skirt and gold ear-studs, gave a
hand. Salvi, with pink roses in his coat, followed
suit, and then came Charles _ Tilbury with his
spectacles and queer arm-actions. In operatic
get-up one doesn’t notice these flourishes quite so
much —they only look as if the gymnast never
ceased trying to clasp his arms tightly round a
huge, slippery ball. But it seems such a pathetic
waste of squeeze when a singer, in ordinary street-
wear, and nothing in his hand but a programme,
constantly stimulates empty embraces.
“Lottie herself got lots of flowers, and she
deserved them, because of her generosity (shared
by Harry Rickards) to the shipwrecked. But,
nowadays, the Collins looks and sounds over-
mature for her girlish song-sentiments and kick-
ups.
“The death of Lieut. Creswell Walter, of the
Tas. Imperial Contingent, who was ‘ sniped ’ by
a Boer, has caused sincere regret in Melbourne.
The deceased was a great practical joker. ( Being
possessed of a particularly nice skin, he ‘ made-
up ’ very well as a girl, and on one occasion walked
the Block, hatted, veiled, and decently skirted.
He was introduced, by a conspiring sister, to a—
then —flirty young man about town, who straight-
way escorted the, as he thought, pretty girl to a
tea-room, and whispered sweet nothings in her
responsive ear.
“ One can’t buy a yard of tape these days with-
out its being recommended m the stereotyped
phrase, ‘ Just what the Duchess of York wears.’
As for heavier articles in the linen or mantle
department, one grows desperate at the oft re-
iterated, ‘ What the Duchess wears.’ How im-
Solitic to publish such lengthy details of the
(uchess’s dresses and mantles ! Every suburban
needle-dodger has the list pasted up on her wall with
pins and patterns for reference, and is intent on
turning every dress out in the exact manner of the
Duchess’s. W hat an awful spectacle awaits us in
a thousand editions (some very cheap and nasty)
of the said dresses in May !
“ A Melbourne family living in a lonely suburb
advertised for a housemaid. The choice was
made from the applicants, and her duties, &c.,
were laid down for her by the master of the house,
who in this family was really master. On asking
to be shown her quarters she was conducted past
the outhouses, to what proved to be an old omni-
bus ingeniously made into a bedroom. The house-
holder explained to the astonished girl that his
two sons were a bit wild, and he objected to them
staggering in at all hours of the night. Hence the
’bus for their accommodation. “But,” he went
on, “ I’ve told them that they must behave them-
selves properly from this out, and be home before
I lock up. The ’bus-room is to be kept strictly
for you ! ” And to the injured man’s indignation,
the housemaid asked when the next tram left for
town.
“Quiet stick-at-home women (wives of rural
councillors, etc.) invited to meet Royalty, resolve
for this fateful once to make a splash, and dazzle
less lucky neighbors now and for evermore by
flaunting the privileges of hubfly 8 position, 'th
lion in the path of these unsophisti-
cated marms is ‘something to wear, and it s a
treat to hear them nervously worrying poor little
dressmakers on the subject of gala rdbes. «u Dur-
ban modistes, firm on the point that all-black is
the only correct garb, are multiplying tucked,
black-silk bodices, constructed so as to close
by daylight and open in a Vee of even-
ings. With these are to go skirts, made
at home by the wearers themselves, of ,useful
alpaca or sich, and of ‘comfortable length, Ihe
description, ‘tucked all over,’ seemingly affords
wondrous satisfaction to women who, as a rule,
don’t ‘dress,’ finding it as much as they can do to
‘clothe.’ Of course, there are tucks and tucks.
All tucks are not ruses to veil poor ‘ cut and bad
‘ fit ’ Still, for the credit of Australian beauty,
let us be thankful that contracted bodice-chests
and half-mast skirts will give away their victims
less in black than in colors.
“ Women are warned to conduct their conver-
sations in the fitting-rooms of this much-timbered
city in a minor key —the secrets that have been
lately given away are as numerous and awtul as
the wives of Herod. In these fitting-rooms par-
titions half-way up only divide the compartments,
and as the conversations between customers and
the fitter, whose mouth is always filled with pins,
are mainly one-sided, familiar and abundant, the
women waiting in all the adjoining boxes have an
ear-wanning time.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
“ Bokeen,” from Far North :
Dear Bulletin, —Rumoured up here (Port Darwin) that
the SA and “Territory” Federal elections will be held
bn 30th March. So far, however (15/3/’01), no official no-
tification has been made here ; and, as it requires at least
a month to enable the news to reach some parts of the
w e NT. electorate, many voters will know nothing
about the election till it is all over, and many more won t
even know the names of the candidates till they
get into the polling-booth. There are in _ the N. 1.
about 800 voters; many of them doing their
best against heavy odds to make and keep a
“White Australia.” Cut off from the luxuries of a
civilised life, we feel that our future, and in fact our foot-
hold here, lies in the hands of our Federal Allies. And
now we find that owing to the carelessness (or worse) of
the Govt, we are practically disenfranchised at this most
important occasion. The Minister who (mis)controls the
N T. is also Premier of South Australia, and it is probably
he who has made that characteristic blunder; but the
fact that the voters here are mostly far apart or else in
Govt, employment prevents any open show of disapproval.
Australia, however, ought to know about the little tin
god who dares to interfere with the voting power of a
whole electorate, and to see that no further chance ol
doing injury is afforded him.
4
A lady correspondent of S. M. Herald —
after reverently describing her “ mournful plea-
sure ” in being permitted to handle one of the late
Queen’s cast-off gowns—proceeds to strip all the
poor little twopenny glamour off the incident by
giving the size of the waist as 4Gin., and the
length—or, rather, shortness—of the skirt as
36in.
MISS NELLIE STEWART, who gives a benefit for the poor children
of Sydney at the Theatre Royal on Saturday afternoon.
Photo, by Talma, Sydney and Melbourne.
Proposed by the Irish Nationalist M’sP.
that one of the party temporarily resign his seat
to allow John Xavier Merriman to be returned by
the electorate, so that he can address the Commons
and place on record the views of the Africander
Bond, in spite of Balfour, who has refused to
allow the delegates to be heard at the Bar. If
that stubborn old Englishman, J. X. M., is re-
metallic falsetto, and when howling audiences in
Cape Town refuse to hear him John simply keeps
them at it till their larynxes give out, whereupon
his weird screech sails on above all minor inter-
ruptions for a couple of hours at a stretch. He
has a good flow of language, and a rasp-
ing bitterness, and his speech on the
Jameson Raid in the Cape House is remem-
bersome—he had the Rhodesian jingoes foaming
at the mouth before it was finished. He spoke as
an Englishman who had to live in the country and
go about with the shame of the miserable, villain-
ous enterprise in question always hanging about
him. No doubt if he is elected the House will
listen to him in contemptuous silence, for it is too
much to hope that his word will have any effect
on the oourse of British S’African policy. Ihe
man who has done his utmost to heal the breach
between Briton and Africander is regarded by his
countrymen as a renegade.
A simple-minded back-blocker visited a
Ballarat (Vic.) registrar t’other day and got
united to the girl of his heart, cordially embrac-
ing the official after the ceremony for his kindness
in so speedily securing his happiness. A few
weeks later the officer got this letter
Dear Sir, —I am sorry to inform you the woman I
married turned out no use to me. I found out she was
not married, only living with a Chinaman before. She is
also a drunkard. In fact, I left her a few weeks ago. If
you will be so kind as to strike the marriage off the regis-
ter, as I will be clearing from her. Yours, . Pb-
She said she wants it struck off, so send me an answer as
soon as you can, as I want to be free from her sort.
“ Living with a Chinaman.” How The Bulletin
does smile !
Mrs. Charlotte La Mont, who lately died
near Melbourne, was probably one of the first
children born in Victoria. Her mother, wife of
Mr. John Manton, was the second woman who
rode across from Sydney to Poit Phillip district.
Barrister Ir-
vine’s election to the
leadership of the
Victorian Opposi-
tion gives Peacock’s
Govt, a new
of life. Irvine is
the dull Equity law-
yer who was Attor-
ney-General in the
half-and-half
M‘Lean Govt. Ever
since his entry into
politics, he has been
a devoted follower
of those grand old
Tories, Murray
Smith and Duncan
Gillies. The one
thing his admirers
had to advance in
his favor was that,
at all events, he
was a man who
never cast a vote
against his convic-
tions for place or
popularity. His at-
titude over the
Women’s Suffrage
question exploded
this little myth.
While in opposition
to Turner, Irvine
persistently voted
against the Wo-
men’s Suffrage Bill,
and, in the session
before he took office,
he rose and gravely
warned the House
that, in face of the
near approach of
Federation, the ex-
tension of the fran-
chise to women was
most dangerous.
Then he joined
M‘Lean and Shiels
and without a word
of explanation voted
with them for their
Women’s Suffrage
Bill. The election
of such an out-and-
out Tory, bitterly
opposed to social
legislation of all
kinds, means that
the few renegade
Liberals who went
into the ranks of the Tories for what they could
get will sneak back to the support of Peacock at
“ rst opportunity.
At Poverty Point.
Showman exhibiting cinematographic screen. Man in
the audience : “ Yah I why that war occurred before the
cinematograph was invented ! ” Showman : “ True, my
man, but nevertheless the pictures are perfectly accurate.
The representations I now submit are based upon slides
obtained per medium of the Rontgen rays operating upon
the medulla oblongata of a soldier who went all through
the most stirring fights of the campaign, and was de-
corated with the Victoria Cross by the fair hands of his
gracious Sovereign.”
The late W. S. Lyster and Armes Beaumont, when in
London in ’7B looking for musical compositions to pro-
duce in Australia, saw the first performance of “ H.M.S.
Pinafore.” .Both agreed, without hesitation, that it was
not worth touching!
The manager of the Waxworks Show sees a good deal of
human nature at times. The boss of a show now on
view in Sydney narrates how, on taking the wax present-
ment of a certain executed murderess to her native
town, he received letters from shoals of excited relatives
and friends asking : et Would he be so kind as to take the
figure of off his show during his stay and spare the
feelings, &c.” The manager did so, after which he
received about 30 secret visits from said relatives
and friends, each beseeching him as a special favor
to let him or her have a private view of poor at re-
duced rates ! On another occasion the widow of a gentle-
man who had decreased the population till the law in-
terrupted him was rather proud of seeing her deceased
spouse in the show, but insisted on dressing him in a
clean shirt and collar every week that he might look his
best. After a while, however, the inevitable occurred.
The widow annexed a flesh-and-blood husband and the
toilette of the wax predecessor was thenceforward neg-
lected.
“ H.” : Cannot help contrasting the cold, classic style
of the tributes to Queen Victoria in the English Parlia-
ment with the fashion in which the Italian Chambers,
both Senate and Assembly, received the news of the
passing of Verdi. The speeches were numerous, lengthy,
vivid, and passionate, interrupted by frequent bravos.
However, this was hot turkey instead of cold ham, and
Verdi’s not Victoria, nor was Victoria Verdi.
The late Edwin Kelly bore some resemblance to the
Duke of Wellington. The genial old gentleman was fond
of relating that, when walking as a four-year-old in Hyde
Park, the Iron Duke once stopped him, and, patting him
on the head, said to his mother, “ What a fine little
fellow 1 ”
“ What Happened to Jones” having been a great suc-
cess, an American writer promptly follows it up with
“ What Happened to Johnson.” Probably the series will
fo on till the public is weary, or till someone brings the
usiness to a natural end by writing “ What Happened
to Everybody."
The recently-dead G.O.M. of Music, Verdi, was, as a
youth, refused admission to Milan Conservatoriuin, on
the ground that “ he did not display a vestige of musical
talent! ” Verdi, besides being great as a composer, was
an excellent conductor and stage-manager, but he was
not suavitor in modo. At the final rehearsals of “ Aida,”
prior to its first production in Italy (the opera was first
presented in Cairo) the maestro “ performed ” so
vigorously that the orchestra sent him a “ round-robin,”
threatening to strike if he did not moderate
his expressions. The principals fared no better.
Verdi advised Waldmann, the contralto, to go
and take in washing, and told Fancelli
that he could carve a better tenor out of a log of wood.
But the “ first night ” was a great success, and then Verdi
wanted to hug everybody. Verdi’s only fiasco was “Un
Regno di Giorno ” (The King of a Day), an attempt at
comic opera—not repeated till, in his 80th year, he scored
an enormous success with “Falstaff.” Verdi began bybeing
parsimonious, but developed into great generosity. His
name used as a patriotic cry during the war of
Italian independence—had an esoteric meaning—“ Viva
V.E.R.D.1.,” standing for “ Viva Vittorio Emmanuele, Re
d’ltalia 1 ”
On the new act-drop at London Lyceum appears a
touching appeal to the ladies of the audience to remove
the “ matin6e hat.”
The American “ roof-garden,” for open-air shows, d la
ca/4 chantant, will shortly be introduced in London. The
idea should take well in Australia, the climate of which
lends itself specially to open-air entertainments.
The recent Australian production of “ Lohengrin ’’ re,
calls a Parisian story about the opera. A patient-
recovered from typhoid, found himself stone-deaf ; but
his doctor said he’d soon cure him of that, and next
evening he took his patient to hear “ Lohengrin.” They
sat the performance out in silence, but, getting outside
the theatre, the patient, overcome with joy, exclaimed
to the doctor that he had regained his hearing. But the
doctor took no notice, and the patient again cried out
that he was cured. But the doctor heard him not—for
he was now stone-deaf 1
Consider the mystic silliness of the “ Lohengrin ” plot.
A nice girl named Elsa is made miserable by the mys-
terious disappearance of her little brother, said relative
having been converted into a swan by a wicked aunt.
Elsa is in a fair way to be hanged or poisoned for murder-
iug the lost brother, when she is saved by the interven-
tion of the spook-like Lohengrin, who comes along in a
skiff drawn by a swan. Elsa loves Lohengrin and he
loves Elsa. All the same he uses her metamorphosed
brother as a skiff-puller. Furthermore, ere marrying the
girl, he exacts her solemn promise that she will
never want to know who he is, or where he came
from, which is about the cruellest condition that
any fleshly spook could impose on his bride-elect.
And because Elsa breaks her promise by asking Lohen-
grin to explain himself, the gallant knight breaks her
heart by returning to his bachelor guardianship of the
Holy Grail. But before making himself scarce he changes
his blessed swan back into the person of Elsa’s brother, a
simple act of justice that would have made the
happy if he had done it at the outset without introducing
love and marriage questions into the opera. Under the
circumstances, Elsa is sorry to see her brother again.
She would have preferred to keep her nice new husband,
and let the swan swim.
(Continued on page 28).


Whilst five policemen were vigilantly
watching a hotel in Lygon-street, Carlton (Vie.)
Che other night, to trap the proprietor trading
arter hours, the house next door was gutted bv
burglars. J
Information wanted bv H. Morris (Wattle-
street, Malvern, S.A.), as to whereabouts of the
children of Charles Johnstone, miner, killed some
years ago, at Blackman's Lead, Maryborough,
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
“ Aloes ” to The Bulletin :—
A couple of recent eases where persons have shown
signs of life after being pronounced dead hy medical men
have evoked much comment upon the professional know-
ledge of the medicoes in question. “ Can’t be much of a
«?u 0 V f he doesn’t know when a man’s dead,” is the gist
of the lay argument, amplified more or less according to
the personal itj' of the speaker. As a matter of fact, this
very question of a simple and rapid method for diagnosing
the cessation of life was for many years a vexed question
in medico-legal circles, and was only settled a few vears
back by the awarding of a Paris bequest for the most con-
vincing essay on the subject. The method adjudged best
consisted in ligaturing a finger, when, if any life
remained, swelling would occur from the checking of the
capillary flow. If dead, the finger does not swell. Another
test is the application of heat or irritants to the skin
which will produce redness or blistering if life is not ex-
tinct. The absolute cessation of respiration or heart-
action is hard to positively ascertain, and the alteration
1 ™ a ’I b6 i de J? yed - The popular idea that
death can he instantly diagnosed by the “ feel ” is alto-
gether unreliable, and the stage method of dropping the
corpse s hand while telling the limelight man that The
‘"'f u P er . fc Dfmbad has gone to meet its Maker” is
not at all advisable in private practice. Writer knows of
several cases of faulty diagnosis of the kind, in one of
which the supposed corpse is now a well-known
business-man in S Africa. Several stories are extant of
0 - 8howed . si «' n< < of life on the post-mortem
thii i there ,-£ k P artlcuIarl -V ghastly French varn with
this as motif), but present scribe has never heard of a
The chances are altogether against the
coffin-strugg es of fiction, as the closeness of the coffin
would rapidly induce asphyxia, and the after-supper
stories of dreadful shrieks heard at midnight from newly-
!^ci!w aV h S m0 *\ t . Iy ,iterar .V' “ gu.vver.” To prevent
accidents, however, those at all nermus on the subject
often leave directions that their bodies shall be kept
whfo q h U,V ° Ca 6viden f es of death a PPear. A curious
fact, which may be new to some, is the “death-smell ” in
those about to die It may appear several days before
the end, and is not evident to all, but once recognised
its meaning and significance are very clear. It is pro-
” ab . - v due to commencing putrefaction in the more
easily decomposed tissues, and is especially marked in
those suffering from rapidly-advancing diseases of the
abdominal cavity, or from septicaemia.
Publications.
New Pianoforte Album.
New Pianoforte Album.
New Pianoforte Album.
New Pianoforte Album.
. BEING
AUSTRALIAN MUSIC BOOK No. 54
AUSTRALIAN MUSIC BOOK No. 54
AUSTRALIAN MUSIC BOOK No. 54
i
TK
\3S
pAJS
BOO
f:
rce
V-
Jfeotjre
i £o. If. *w, JU&mxi
One of the Finest Albums of Easy Piano-
forte Pieces yet issued
ENTITLED—
Wild Flowers Album.
CONTENTS:
1. “ Clematis.” Graceful Dance
2. “ Wattle Blossom.” Valse
S. “The Pink Heath.” Barn Dance.
4. “ Waratah.” March Militaire
5. “ Boronia.” Valse
6. “ The Flannel Plant.” Barn Dan
7. “ White Heath.” Valse
8. “ Sassafras.” Gavotte
9. “ Golden Wattle.” Valsette
10. “ Gum Blossoms.” Polka ..
11. “ Acacia.” Valse
12. “ Silver Wattle.” Valse
.. Garfield
.. Garfield
Garfield
Garfield
Garfield
Garfield
Garfield
Garfield
.. A. Chanter
Garfield
Garfield
Garfield
Published by
ALLAN & CO. Prop. Ltd
276 & 278 Collins-st., Melbourne.
for sale by every Music-Seller in Australasia.
M.B. to The Bulletin :
ni^ yoU^ S u n f ibleleadingarfciCle 0n Brink WDVOU
them U th A r trUHanS drink more than is good for
them. During the plague scare last year the average
%*ssiE
alcohol decidedly^imD^r'^fh o th . e inclusions that
STuch lowered *"’? V™ lon S periods . vitality is very
Which seem ft a " d ~c hans es are produced in the body
eases Yet pred ' sp o se the animal to infectious dis-
wTthtn J f l\ Australla the consumption of whisky
hscett™ y ~?V has enormousli' increased-®
Whf=t?, , ltatlon of lnfluenza - But, of course
the k iill ble d nnhl ISe<l I,npud ently as an infallible cure, and
ment lnd P , C ’ a ® u ?. ual - first swallows the ad vtise-
wfataky e "’ obedientl y and unreasonably, the
Public Notices.
TO THE MEMBERS OF
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Permit me to intimate that I am one of your Directors
who, in accordance with the By-laws, retire on this occa
candidate ? ll B' ihJ « for RB-ELEOTJON, 1 am again a
candidate, and have the honor of respectfully soliciting
your vote and influence at the forthcoming election 1 *
claim '?ht r f eStS ln , the Socie, - v are large, and I think I may
" m y lon f experience in connection with the
nn , 'u!" Producing interests of the Colonies has
not been without benefit to the Institution.
attach n y r e ,°g" ise . the importance and responsibility
thmSm t 0 tbe l ! osltlon of a Birector, and should you
therefore again do me the honor of returning me, my
earnest efforts shall, as heretofore, be given to promote
the welfare of our Society. p t
Yours faithfully,
JOSEPH ABBOTT
(GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.)
Sydney, 10th April, 1901.
PRIMUS
Kerosene Bath Heater
HOT SHOWER INSTANTLY.
NO WICK. NO SMELL. From 753. Each.
1
im
NO PLUMBER’S WORK. FIX IT YOURSELF.
COSTS HALF THE PRICE OF GAS.
Large Stock BA TU HE A TEIiS for Gas and Wood.
Send for Catalogue.
BR A.NDT B R O S.,
236 PITT ST., SYDNEY, AND
422 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
THE SMARTEST MAN
OH EARTH.
Can t keep count of every detail in a business which
has a dozen, six, or even three assistants, but the
NATIONAL^
CASH REGISTER
Will do it for him, and do it
thoroughly, Keeping Record ■
every hour, Year in, Year out,
never getting sick or
“DOING A LOAF.”
Tt earns its own Cost in
tess than a year, and after
l hat still goes on saving
for you .
National CaSl) Register C°
335 Pitt Street, Sydney.
W. A. LIAGIIA M, General Manager for Austral asia.
JUlenburgs* Foods.
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique In providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS iron.
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs. u ie> iiom
The »AHenburys” Milk Food No. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
The “ AHenburys” Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of 111*.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water 0013%
The “ AHenburys” Malted Food no. 3
For rnfants over six months of age.
To be prepared for use bv the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Fool is strongly ..commended for <sMj.toM.to, invalids, .ho Agog, ,„d nil rogo.nng . and „ si , y ai£€Sted
The London Medical Record writes of it that— “No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, «Bf, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng-.
rz
'iiii
SANIES
/NON POISONOUS.
DOES NOT STAIN
DISINFECTANT, antiseptic.
AND; DEOPORANTcombined
APEOFIES HEALTH IS A NAT lONS WEALTH
....
' TI j E fANifAS COMPANY LIMITED
fi ETHNAL CREEN,’LONDON.t. (rj
FLUID
i
nimuumiiw
ALSO
Powder, Soaps,
Sulphur (Fumigating) Candles,
and all kinds of DiSWeCtaUtS.
tt “The list of ‘Sanitas’ preparat.i ns is now so great as to com-
prise a complete antiseptic and disinfectant armamentarium.
The composition of most of these is based on ‘Sanitas,’a
deservedly popular pleasant, and moreover active compound.”
—Lanckt. August 24th, 1895, p. 501,
“ HOW TO DISINFECT.”
Book sent FREE on application.
OF ALL CHEMISTS, AND
The “SANITAS” Co., Ltd., Bethnal Green, London-
THOMSON’S
NEW Model. “ GLOVE-FITTING *
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World-Renowned Corsets have been, entirely Re-
modelled, find ore now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long waist .
na
T"
W.
Thom
ONS
TUT) MOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST
N.B. —Old Model Corsets always in stock.
“X, A. KTOBLESSE”
A New and Elegant Series of Corsets. Ask to see them.
TO BE HAD OP ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & Co-, Ld-, London.
Watcli Repairs by Post
WATCHES Thoroughly Cleaned, 2s. 6d. ; best English
Mainspring, 2s. Od. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d.
• Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Ladies’ Gold Keyless WatGhes, Guaranteed five rears.
85s. Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send for catalogue.
D. S. MAIR,
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
684 Georgre-st. (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.


r/\\\
Ensures a
cHajafay
Old A4*
_. „ | e,.•-> froIVI THE KINDLY FRUITS OF THE EARTH.
OULUfcU r . . fh marvellous instinct of benevolence that animates an all-wise
It is a revelation in eg ~g ))een endeavouring to discover some really natural method of
healing,"it, arter’the teaching of nature. “Sanoalmus" is this remedy, being nothing more nor less
an extraction from FRUIT, HERBS AND SEAWEED.
* , e ’ nq imns ’’ do not profess to have found thereby the secret of perpetual
provided the means of perfect health. An elixir of health has been
established WIRELE SS TELEGRAPHY TEN YEARS AGO
would have been scoffed at as the suggestion of a lunatic, or perhaps regarded in the light of being a
CHAMPION FIRST-GLASS UP-TO-DATE LIE.
J qt the simplicity of its system of working. “Sanoalmus is equally simple,
sea, th'at we in our hitherto blind ignorance
BgEN TRAfVl p L , W G UNDER OUR FEET.
_ -i-u' Liver or Kidneys’’ Sanoalmus” will put such troubles right, tor
Anemia" Bulling! Weakness ’and Debility, it is a certain cure, in fact it puts such tone into the
system that anyone QK THE WO RLO IN THE FACE”
i ,™n Its influence on the blood is extraordinary. Two or three hollies of “ Sanoalmus”
wil do more in a case of impure blood than two years’ treatment by ordinary methods.
CONSUMPTIVES REJOICE
, • - of-Lire “Sanoalmus” will cure you—under any circumstances it will
unless ln * ™ L „ li{e Takinv “ Sanoalmus” at regular intervals not alone cures but protects
considerably pr g • Indicestioni Flatulence, Bad Breath, Headache, Ear-ache. Couglis, Colds,
« om Tm C nit Giddiness, Influenza, ftc. In Rheumatism and Sciatica it is most beneficial,
Sore Throat. NgL.o conquers Backache when all other treatment has failed
r ,d roUiSn i s action is simply perfect, and renders a healthy and regular working to the
? or Hon« of the bowels Last hut not least “Sanoalmus” must he welcomed as a divine blessing
or the relson S if persevered with regularly for a brief period it will entirely destroy
THAT HORRID BLOOD POISONING MICROBE,
recognised curse of humanity. Here you wi 1 assuredly realise the far-reaching effects of
, l ? S' Discovery,” and also the forethought Which recognising an evil furnishes the
antidote “ Sanoalnms” (fts before stated) renders the blood perfect ; consequently it ensures a
fov’ d .omplexion, does away entirely With all pimples, blushing, blotches, or red, rough skm ; a
uon/- uke bloom attends the use of “ Sanoalmus.’
rt-iE UNTUTORED SAVAGE WOUNDED BY POISONOUS SNAKE
or suear tufhs instinctively to certain herbs that not only relieve the pain but save his life.
“ Sanoalmus ” contains all tiie properties of these herbs. It is nature’s own remedy.
MOTHERS TAKE HEED.
When bah Vis teethin" a half teaspoonful of “ Sanoalmus "in milk will soothe, strengthen, and
comfort vour little darling. " Rememher, it is absolutely harmless to the smallest mite If it so please
von it is within your power to bask in the heavenly sunshine of perfect health, no longer need you
LANGUISH IN THE GLOOM OF SICKNESS AND DESPONDENCY
To be obtained from all chemists, price 3/6 per bottle, or direct from the proprietors,
Wells Strong * Coy. 10 Barrack Street opposite Savings Bank of New South Wales, Sydney.
MNT-«9-BAL»
*—•' CA PILL A
The only Hair Restorer on earth that you can obtain a written guarantee
with. When sill other Remedies fail, TRY IT !
You WILL BE MORE THAN SATISFIED with it !
For Weak. Thin, and Falling Hair it is Unsurpassed.
li restores Hair to Bald Patches and Prevents the Hair from going Qray.
Call ami See Testimonials. They will surprise you l
Leading Sydney Chemists and from the Proprietor—
W. RICHARD', 168 Pitt St, SYDNEY
(OPP. HORDERN BROS.) g«~2'6 per bottle, Post 3/2. Please mention The BPLtßTiNn^letter^
THE GREAT
DANDRUFF CURE.
THE
THE
ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
Ijr uvp „ K e i] and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR BHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
/Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ;
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Ras
Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 2ls.
irs, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
pgr" Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents : CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
I’ll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(Japiltarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLD AGENTS.
\m
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Guriy Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock. .
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
CRAIG & AITKEIVNC
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia
New South Wale 9 Barber’s Supply House,
RRfI.RK? REMISE STREET. SYDNEY
Visitors to the old country
SOUTH UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE\
KENSINGTON
CONSIDERABLY ENLARGED. NOTED
FOR ITS COMFORT S. CONVENIENCE.
QUEEN’S gate terrace.
LONDON. S.W.
ONE OF THE
MOST FASHIONABLE
HOTELS IN LONDON.
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This is the only Medical
Institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all contracts.
Electro-Medical apd
SOrgical IpStittitg.^
IN AN AGE which is so remarkable for its progress so deplorably in the rear, while thousands
m A Science it is surprising to find the practice, dMedicine j Aecessota _ The Freeman
of practitioners in the healing art prefer to remain in the con™go™ t 0 the false code of ethics which
and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical c°nsuH g t, al] spee i a l complaints they still con
tyrannically bind the ™dicaJ profession an Jj Bathurst Streets, Sydney,
tinue to be consulted by the afflicted at their old address, nor.
t z*
m
EXPERTS FREEMAN AND .
The Specialists who conduct the largest practise m Australasia.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
No one
person
should hesitate to consult us, as consultations either by J"
are given FREE OF CHARCE, and Strictest Privacy is always assured
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
-■* “ pr
•^-SPECIALITIES: «£r
Heart Kidnev. Liver Affections. Gravel, Bladder and Spinal Affections,
Nerve’ and Brain Complications. Rheumatism, Sciatica, |P' | epsv, eou t .
Rupture and Piles Cured without Operation. Blood and Skin Diseas,,...
Cfc
?UCE
M
1 p * p , wnuatt
tHf
wiEP
|iecX?»
P|P gTOf
Mk. . |
1 mm.
m;mt • IF.YP-J I
SP^Wflf- 5 * |l 1
a|,J iMll 111 1 * 1 ia
■
Ii VqicAL INSTITUTE. VIGOR *
■sp
; ' ..; ' t „ JH|
WHY WE ADVERTISE!
Because Advertising is the legitlma ,e means vouchsafed to enlighten people
to acquaint each other with th?ir avocations and wants If a man has a
• i-i hoc HAvntprl vpars of his life and expended large sums of money in studying that Speciality and in
Speciality, and has devoted y ears oi nis uei ana WO u\d be absurd for him not to announce
purchasing the necessary ’’ n i versa ll v " We have no apology to offer for informing the world through
the fact, ar )d disseniitiate tne
this advertisement and otherwise o me fchose of your , ne dical advisers, our method of treatment may
j! O The e fact Slemahis thatitis successful, and this is verified by the thousands of testimonials received from
be, the , Wp mnkp no secret of our mode of practice. We onlv claim to have utilised in a common-sense
gl ' at fhi result of experience. If you listen to the counsel of your sceptical friends and
remember if you allow the disease to run riot in your system, you
are'guilty of culpable negiect, and are alone responsible for your future pitiful condition. „ ,
wie Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government
Nine “Medical Boards of New Smith Wales, Victoria, • outh Australia,
Great Britain and America Open to Inspection.
Late Consulting Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne!
Late Medical Staff, British Army.
HOME treatment.
-If you live out of town and cannot visit us, this need not deprive you
of the benefits of our wonderful treatment, because in the nevv system
of combining' medicine and electricity a pe“ &&&
pftsses tbat tbe not reach u f d d - tl explain f ng your feelings and symptoms as clearly
Possible and frmtwe will be able to accurately diagnose .your case. It only costs you the trouble of writing,
and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia s Leading Specialists.
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS
w , r, there are so many quacks and impudent pretenders in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to them-
h e ™tros!tv o?gmng counsel and advice in matters of which they are profoundly ignorant, and who
havfnotWng to recom.nend S the m but their audacity, sufferers cannot be to:, careful
*uhei,<rh lihertv of choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessary. In consulting THh MILL main aa li
w at t APF b FLECTRO-MEUICAL AND SURGICAL INST, .’LTTE patients may feel assured that they shal
reeeivethe* fitted oy superior skill and education the result of special study. Our reputation and
recel unparalleled success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of the World—
CONTENTS FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
Sydney
For privacy Patients may address "Messrs. F. & W.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
N B OUEENSLANDERS are hereby informed that a person advertising as Dr. Wallaoe
MB. < J UEENBL^“ E ris ° banB js in wa y connected with the Institute


After all, the proper policy for the Com
monwealth is simple enough. The country cries out
for a population of clean-living white men of ele-
vated thought and ideals, who are themselves not
too often elevated. Sobriety is to a great degree
determined by the brand upon the bottle. The
D. O.Lj. brand is a guarantee of pure, good whisky,
a liquor conducive to clean living rather than
antagonistic to it. Men don’t “go wrong” on
D.O.L. It is the Whisky of the Wise and no
respectable man scowls at it.*
Bunny has a poor time of it now—quoted
m the London market as flat at7Jd., he is bundled
out of existence in Victoria wit if the assistance of
M Lean Bros, and Bigg, Ltd., the big iron-
mongers in Melbourne. That firm supplies guns,
ammunition and traps, and, in cases of dire need,
can turn on a full blast of destruction with Dixon
Goulds Vacuum Destroyer. This machine is the
■Jim Dandy of its kind, is beautifully made,
certain in operation as a Waterbury watch, and
counts its victims by thousands. Poor bunny !*
Mr. Oscar Gr. Roberts, of Fairfax and
Roberts, Sydney, delivered recently, at the Bal-
mam Town Hall, a lecture which was “all my
eye in a very different sense from that usually
associated with the slang use of that expression.
Ihe discourse was, in fact, a practical exposition
by a man who understands his subject, of the
nature, causes, and proper treatment of sight-
failure.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussgn’s advt. on page
23 of this issue *
three great champagnes
Used in all Clubs in England—including the
greatest Club in Europe, The House of Commons.
DOYEN
GHAS. FARRE
ROYAL CUVEE
T. CURRAN AND CO.,
TEMPLE COURT, SYDNEY.
Public Notice.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 18th April, 1901.
Devonshire Street Cemetery.
■\TOTICE is hereby given to approved applicants, their
undertakers and stonemasons, that the removal of
all remains, for which exhumation orders have been
obtained, together with the overground property relating
thereto, must be removed from the Cemetery not later
than the 18th proximo. All remains, &c., not so removed
by this date will be translated to the new Cemeterv at La
Perouse by the Department. J
90 30 - J- DAVIS, Under-Secretary.
NEWMAN’S
For Removing 1
Superfluous Hair.
SPECIAL
C. E. NEWMAN, Chemist,
52 King Street, Sydney.
DEPILATORY.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
( STBAKD.IrCADE). Camden Buildings, 420 George St., Sydney.
Write for our 80-page Illustrated Catalogue—POST FREE.
Silver-Plated Leaf Toast-Rack,
Price 10/8
H SAVINS OF 25 PER CENT
Gold Curb Chain Bangles
with Padlocks,
35/- 45/- 55/- 63 -
Gold Curb Chain Bangles
with Padlocks,
35/- 45/- 55/- 63/-
•Frame,
Silver-Plated 4-Cup Egg
Price 32/6
A BAVINC OF 25 PEB OEHtT
The Secret History
* . . OF THE . ,
QONINCHAM
—— CASE.
DO’HMIII'S IMCITIIII
AND HOW IT WAS BROUGHT ABOUT.
The Cause Celebre of the
New Century.
The Church Militant and
the Church Triumphant.
IT may be safely said that the people of Austra-
lia—Catholic and Protestant, Jew and Gentile
—have seldom, if ever, before taken so much
interest in any trial as they did in the Coning-
ham Case. And it may be added that a verdict
never gave greater satisfaction to all decent citi-
zens, irrespective of creed, throughout the Com-
monwealth than that which, at the end of the
Second Trial, sent Dr. O’Haran out of the Courts
of Law with a stainless reputation, and a soul
made stronger by the suspense and suffering of
many weary months. The true story of this
example of modern martyrdom should be read by
not only every Catholic but by every lover of
Justice in the land. It will be found to be full of
surprising incidents, of plots and counterplots,
curious episodes and cunning intrigues.
The Secret History of the Coningham
Case
Will contain all these, and will be illustrated with
PHOTOGRAPHIC FACSIMILES of the Docu-
ments quoted in the Case, and many others that
did not appear in Court, and have never before
been published. The sole right to publish these
rests with the Pbopbietob of this Wobk.
'
■'
■
A glance at the List of Contents will give an idea of the
quality of the book
Introduction and General Survey.
The E. R. Abigail Episode.
The First Trial.
The Waddy Fiasco.
Boomerang Strategy.
A Game of Euchre.
The Relief of “ Burrilda.”
Captain Smith, “ Agricultural Expert.”
Documentary Evidence
The Romeo of Glenmore Road.
A Belated Wedding.
Coningham’s “ Bodyguard.”
The Conversion of Exton.
The Trail of “Zero.”
“Zero” No. 2.
Dill-Macky’s Revolver.
The Story of the Necklet.
THE LAST STATUTORY DECLARATION
OF MRS. BONNER.
Foiled!
Collapse of Coningham.
Triumph of Dr. O’Haran.
As a guarantee of the truth and thoroughness the
clever writing and clear language of the work, it may be
mentioned that his Eminence Cardinal Moran and the
Prelates of the Australian States, Dr. O’Haran and all the
leading clerics, have sent large orders to the Publisher
The Hon. W. P. Crick, N.S.W. Minister of Lands, Hon
John Gavin Duffy, Hon. J. H. Want, K.C., M.L C Hon
T. M. Slattery, M.L.C., Alderman A. G. Kalston, Dr. Leo’
Kenny, and the leading professional and public men of
New South Wales and Victoria, as also prominent citizens
m all walks of life in the other States, have already be-
come subscribers.
The work will be published at
5/- per Copy ; 5/6, Post Free.
The work is issued solely to Subscribers, and early appli-
cation for copies is necessary to—
D. COOPER,
205* Sydney
Missing Friends.
A
J.T.—Send your address to 33 Reuss-street,
• Leichhardt, at once ; urgent.—E.M.A.
Amusements.
lALACE THEATRE,
SYDNEY.
LAST NIGHTS of LAST NIGHTS
CHARLES ARNOLD’S
ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
in Broadhurst’s Enormously Successful Farce Comedy,
the Great Anglo - American Success,
THE GLEEFUL PLENITUDE,
WHY SMITH LEFT NOM€.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
Manager, L. J. LOHR.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
tt , Lessee .. .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrovb.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45. EVERY EVENING at 746
WEDNESDAY MATINEES at 2.
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS IN SYDNEY
of one of the World’s Greatest and most Costly Spec-
tacular productions ever witnessed on any stage
CINDERELLA.
Interpreted by MISS NELLIE STEWART, MUSGROVE’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO., OPERA ORCHESTRA
and CHORUS.
PRICES OF ADMISSION—Dress Circle and Reserved
Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Early Door Amphitheatre (7 to
7.40), 2s. ; Amphitheatre, ONE SHILLING after 7.40.
Box Plan at the Theatre Royal (Dress Circle En-
trance), 10 to 5.
EMPIRE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
“ (Late Royal Standard, Castlereagh-street.)
COME TO STAY.
JOHN FULLER’S EMPIRE COMPANY.
Every Evening, at 8. Saturdays, 2.30.
Magnificent New First Part, THE ROSE BOWER.
New Artists Every Week. Change of Programme
Every Saturday.
PRICES—2s., Is. and 6d. Plan at Theatre.
ARNOLD DENHAM, Business Manager.
UER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, BYDNEY.
1 1 Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutiie.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
THE WILLIAMSON OPERA COMPANY.
AN IDEAL ATTRACTION,
FLO R O JO O R _A_.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, George-street. Prices as usual.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. William Anderson
THIRD WEEK and LAST TWO NIGHTS,
Tlae W orlti’a Verdict.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Famous Dramatic Organisation, headed by Miss
EUGENIE DUGGAN.
SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 27, “ MY JACK.”
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
QENTENARY HALL, YORK-ST., BYDNEY.
Saturday , April 27,
MISS BERTHA DICKENS
MISS BERTHA DICKENS
The Queensland Soprano.
J. EDWARD SYKES.
Plan at Paling’s. 35., 25., Is.
SNAZELLE, with soN®J AND
“OUR NAVY”
-A.uatralia’T. Tour.
OPENING PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY, MAY 4.
CHARLES MAOMAHON, Manager for Mr. SNAZELLE.
CAPTAIN EDWARDS, R.N., Manager for WEST & SON.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
11 Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
THIS SATURDAY, at the MATINEE, GIGANTIC
SUCCESS of the Great
MARIE LLOYD,
and the Coster King,
ALEC. HURLEY.
LES THEIRES, JOHNSON, RIANO and BENTLEY
GEO. D’ALBERT, MAGGIE FRASER, and all Our Great
00. MATINEE SATURDAY and WEDNESDAY.
DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE ~
■“* Sole Lessee And Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance ji Australia of the Great English
Tramp Musk in, MR. FRANK LATONA.
Magnificent Recep Jon of the Popular MR. AUSTIN RUDD.
Brilliant Reception of Mr. FRANK LEON, Miss
LIZZIE KIRK, Miss LULU ZESCH, DE WYNNE
BROS., ALBERT WHELAN, TED E. BOX, and all our
Great Co.
Box Plan at Allan & Co. Matinee Every Wednesday.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
FOURTH WEEK,
THE UNIVERSALLY FAMOUS MELODRAMA,
THE WORLD.
Received with Ever-Increasing Enthusiasm.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
AN ARTISTIC MUSICAL TRIUMPH of
Mr. George Musgrove’s GRAND ENGLISH OPERA 00.
First Appearance in Australia of ELLA RUSSELL
The Renowned Dramatic Soprano. ’
THURSDAY, 25th APRIL, “ LOHENGRIN.”
FRIDAY, 26th APRIL, “ MARITANA.”
PRICES OF ADMISSION—Dress Circle, 7s. 6d • Re-
served Stalls, 6s. The Box Plan at Allan’s.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. E. J. Tait.
EVERY EVENING,
Lad -y luger of Ostrat.
First Production on the English-speaking Stage.
LADY INGER NANCE O’NEIL.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is, Box Plan at Allan’s. 7
” ALL > MELBOURNE.
** Under Direction of Messrs. Wyld and Freedman.
Every Afternoon, at 3. Every Evening, at 8.
Immense Success of the GENUINE BRITISH BIOGRAPH.
Mr. H O Wyld will arrive per R.M.S. Victoria with
New and Vaned Pictures, including Vivid Reproductions
of the QUEEN’S FUNERAL PAGEANT.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is, Box Plan at Allan's.
Miss Alice Crawford, as Trie Bulletin feared, is under
rv^, eme rL t 0 kI ‘ Ree Rankin > and will accompany
? a " c . e 9 Neil andthe bulky manager on their expedition
to b Africa and other foreign parts. M<Kee’s gain is Aus-
tralia s loss. The gifted girl from Bendigo will do great
r t Tv, Qut ,,° f «“? country—if she doesn’t fall a victim
to tat, like Maud Jeffries, wliom she somewhat resembles
Bunng the Maoriland tour of the Nance 00., bonnie
Alice Crawford gained two stone in weight.
The recent death of Tyrone Power’s father will probably
mean the abandonment of his scheme for the formation of a
co. of his own until after his return from England
However he is determined to remain in the profession not-
withstanding that hew financial circumstances will render
him independent of it, and hopes to tour the Australian
states early next year With a caste “ Made in England.”
George Rignold had a royal welcome at Perth W A
Where the Mayor convened a meeting of the City Council
to thank George for “ the honor he was doing their city
in oomihg from the East, where they knew he had many
an< * remunerative engagements.” “ RWv ”
the Mayor added, is “ one of the greatest living exponents
of Shakespeare George, m reply, “chinned” that he
had always wished to see their fine city, but had till then
been prevented from doing so by the terms demanded for
the local theatre—£2so per week.
Alice Barnett, just dead in London, is affectionately re-
membered by lovers of Gilbert and Sullivan in Australia.
Gilbert circulated much of his peculiar humor about the
substantial Alice, and her parts lose much piquancy as
played now by actresses who are only fair to medium in the
material sense. The massive lady in Patience and Bear
h lt , tl ®.“ utt , ercu P» these were parts made for Alice Barnett,
but Gilbert overlooked the fact that Alice Barnett cannot
be made for the parts, and so points are lost. Writer first
saw Ahce as Buttercup, 24 or 25 years ago, when a local
critic praised her performance as “ a clever bit of female
impersonation. Also, once saw the big lady in Dorothy
SrlT 1 ' spiriting yarn by playfully gathering
little Billy Elton up in her apron like a pet kitten. 8
Kingston is to play Macbeth when Nance O’Neil puts
the play up in Melbourne, so Melbourne will get the anti-
thesis of the Sydney Macbeth—extremes in meat.
The exceeding heaviness of all the big singers who have
been introduced to Australia of late suggests curious re-
flections on the fatty degeneration of the art.
A performer in “ Tannhauser,” as presented bv Mus-
grove, who does not get anything like the credit she de-
serves from the critics, is Miss Lilian Boanas, a local pro-
duct She appears as the shepherd in the second scene of
and Sln f» B a lovely little lay in a sweet, rich voice
that has more natural charm than can be found in one or
two other rather important outcries that probably cost
20 times as much. J
Donald Macdonald touched Colombo on March 27th
and started (D.V.) a series of three lectures at the Public
Hall on April Ist. Mac’s advent was heralded bv lone-
newspaper notices of his success as a showman. Also the
local press reprinted on the morning of his arrival a
eulogistic criticism of his Ladysmith book by London
Spectator. Then Ceylon Observer gave the “ famous
Australian an interview, in which he stated that he had
boiled his original three lectures down to two, and would
supplement these with a new yarn—“ Australians : in the
Bush and at War’’—which would be tried on a Colombo
audience before he decided to let it go in London This
as a matter of fact, is likely to be Mac’s “ trade-mark ’’’
lecture.
Agent Geach wrote from Colombo “I am beginning-
to think that Macdonald was born under the proverbially
lucky star; for in addition to the impending arrival of
‘ the Dook,’ which is fairly booming the town we have
■truck the Gloster Regiment here. The Glosters fell-in
at Nicholson s Nek, and were sent to Pretoria, so it goes
without saying that I have them warmly interested in
Mac. and Ladysmith .. Success is assured. It is very nice
to take a 5000-mile trip to a comparatively strange land
and, on the morning of arrival, find your ‘ star ’ big-typed
in the papers as you buy them on the steamer. That’s
business.”
Recently-deceased journalist R. P. Whitworth who
possessed a-great fund of stage anecdote, had himself
been on.the “boards” with G. V. Brooke. Whitworth
pleased Chas. Kean so much with his notices, in Sydney
Empire of ’63, of K.’s performances, that the tragedian
presented him with a diamond ring. “ Bob ” had in his
time done some steeplechase riding, and never entirely re-
covered the effects of a fractured skull thus sustained.
As a dramatic^ author he made a fairly good hit in Mel-
bourne with a piece called “ Oatchinga Conspirator ” in
which Barry Sullivan was splendidly caricatured by
Harwood. The composition was a cento of extracts from
those of Shakespeare’s plays in which the tragedian had
appeared. Whitworth also wrote for Madame Celeste a
successful drama, founded on the execution of Max-
imilian, in Mexico, and the subsequent madness of his
wife. As a writer of short stories, Whitworth had con-
siderable success, and, in conjunction with J. J
Shillinglaw, he supplied the solid part of Marcus Clarke’s
school “History of Australia,” a work which the late Angus
Mackay, then Vic. Minister of Education, entrusted to
Clarke on the ground that “ it ought to be done by a
man who was good at fiction.”
Wizard Oil Weston is back in Melb., younger than ever,
his silk hat and patent-leathers even more shiny than of
yore.
If the Federal Parliament would pass a law that every-
body who enters a theatre after the curtain is up should
be fined a penny at the door, said copper to go towards
building the transcontinental railway, one of two things
would happen. Either this bright young country woufd
have a chance to know what the first act is about, or else
it would soon have its transcontinental railway.
“ Melb.” : Williamson’s Biograph having shown the
“Tell Me, Pretty Maiden,” from our “ Florodora,” the
rival Biograph (Wyld and Freedman’s) shows same scene
from London “Florodora,” at the Lyric. The ladies are
lymphatic, not so fruity as ours. Nor is the business as
good, and it does not look anything like so lively. The
ladies play too much at the audience with their nods.
Maybe the film was at a crude stage of the piece. In
Australia we get the benefit of London’s 300 nights.
Bland Holt’s revival of “The World” reminds that the
late Aug. Harris played the hero in the first Drury
Lane production of that massive melodrama. Many
people who remember the portraits of Gus Harris,
the portly, bald-headed alderman and operatic im-
presario, have forgotten—if they ever knew the fact—
that he one time posed as an actor-manager, as well as
part-author of his Drury Lane productions. ’Gustus
wasn’t a finished actor, but he had a good-enough appear-
ance and style in his young, slim days, and he played his
own heroes rather than pay £25 a week, or more, to
another fellow whose superior qualifications would have
made no difference to the takings at the door.
Olga Nethersole, the clingsome kisser, was, at latest
dates, preparing to undergo a “ dangerous operation ” of
some sort or other. Olga, nowadays, is the constant
subject of interesting puff-pars, and The Bulletin reckons
fw hoverb , etween life and death for at least a
“^ thafc m ® ans four alarming reports in the Yankee
weeklies-ere she recovers from the operation in question.
0" again, it might be mentioned that
the only Svengali in Europe who could really play the
withJuHusKnfght^ 8 Ga3fc ° n Mer ValC ’ Wh ° WaS ° Ut here
r,n N fh^v n fi er f S A Cie i ty ,. mumme rs are often inaudible
T °" their first Australian appearance, writes a Bul-
S P Tfv, po^ dent , from London. At London
west End theatres almost everybody books, every-
.2 Ulet -’ and well-behaved. The floors
are ell-carpeted, there is no music to take the curtain
upy and the players’ low, drawing-room tones are per-
fectly audible There is very little applause—an occa-
sional laugh at an epigram breaks the respectful silenee
ot a church, and the actor has every chance to hypnotise
himself into his part.
Here is why theatricals were stopped at Windsor
Lsstle. Jimmy Rogers appeared there, before his cele-
? lt y at the Strand. It was a professional grievance that
the Queen only gave the performers the exact amount of
their regular nightly pay. Next morning Jimmy ap-
peared in the Bow-st. Court, and said, “ Your Worship,
a donation for the poor box. I have much pleasure in
handing over the sum of thirteen shillings and fourpence,
the joint contribution of Her Gracious Majesty Queen
victoria and James Rogers, comedian.”
King Ned has been eminently sensible in patronising
Theatres. He went 67 times in the year 1900. Although
the National Anthemis played for all the Australian acting-
Lrovernors, and the audience rises, the Prince of Wales
wouldn t have any of this humbug. He always paid for
his seats, at the regular tariff. He would not allow the
raising of the curtain to be delayed for him. His practice
was to remain till the end of the play, unless there
was no private exit, and then he would leave a few
minutes before the finish.
The only chance of De Rougemont, the unblushing,
who rouges at naught, was to follow the lead of the
Davenport Brothers. They began as spiritualists, but when
young Henry Irving, the actor, and Fred. Maccabe ex-
posed their manifestations, they admitted the trick, and
only claimed to be smart deceivers.
One of the New York journals, says a Sydney paper,
compares Hilda Spong with Ada Cavendish, “ whom, in
■ point of dash, vivacity, and executive energy Miss Spong
resembles.” Any old Bulletin readers who may remem-
ber Cavendish firstly as a burlesque actress, and later, as
the original Mercy Merrick in “ The New Magdalene,”
will wonder at the comparison. Dash, vivacitv, and
energy in two actresses are not points of resemblance.
The old saying that the low comedian thinks he ought
l* P a -Y* n ? Hamlet, while the tragedian feels convinced
that he is cut out for farce, receives support from the
careers of Geo. Ooppin and Mark Last King, two leading
actors who were for years members of Vic. Parliament.
In the legislative hall, Coppin the comedian was always
intensely serious, while King the tragedian (his favorite
characters were Hamlet, Shylock, and Richard III) in-
variably imparted a strong element of low comedy to his
proceedings.


AFTER TYPHOID
• -V
WEAK, WEARY AND WORN.
A Complete Resuscitation.
The cnee of
MRS. E. S. GLENN.
(Reported for The Journal.)
foi consequence of hearing a few remarks
fcnent the indisposition of a lady residing at
78 Cleveland-street, Sydney, our repre-
sentative called at that address and ex-
pressed a desire to her husband, who
answered the door, to be granted the favor
of an interview with Mrs. Glenn on the
subject. “By all means,” replied Mr. Glenn.
“Just step inside, and I’m sure ray wife
will be glad to tell you all about it.” The
invitation was accepted, and the erstwhile
patient related her story in the following
manner•
£ “ Some time ago—-T«j«wwit two ana three
years, it must be—l became conscious of the
fact that an illness of some kind was
creeping on me, almost imperceptibly. It
Was quite clear to me that I was becoming
Unwell, because of a most unpleasant sense of
goneral lassitude, a feeling of lack of interest
and absolute indifference to everything that
previously absorbed ray attention, a feeling
of unusual languor and depression. I was
always ill at ease, being so restless and dull.
A sensation of drowsiness was continually
upon me, but yet my days and nights were
nearly always sleepless. What little sleep
i did manage to obtain.was not at all refresh-
ing as I would awake just as weary as
oefora The work of the day, which hitherto
had been a pleasure to me, gradually became
an aversion. Everything. X tried to do
speedily developed itself into a monotony,
and had the effect of dragging out what
little strength remained in my body. I was
altogether exhausted, and the listlessness
and apathy that had seized hold of me was
made mere unbearable by the incessant pre-
sence of dull frontal headaches. I became
veaker and weaker through a total loss of
vnpetite, aad lost flesh rapidly. At times
had a strange ringing sensation in the
irs, and would feel chilly at regular later-
als. My state of prostration was now so
complete that the mere action of raising my
head from the pillow produced a feeling of
dizziness and sickness at the stomach. At
other times I lay in a state of utter stupe-
faction, not even being able to engage
myself in thought, and would remain for
long periods gazing into vacancy. I would
arouse myself from this predicament after a
while, but only to realise more clearly the
weak condition I was in.”
You had a doctor’s attention, surely?”
enjoined the reporter.
“Oh, of course ; and my case was pro-
nounced to be one of typhoid fever. Ido
not know whether such a thing is customary
in typhoid fever cases, but I had swellings
of various sizes all over my body. They
caused me no end of anxiety and pain, and I
was afraid of other complications setting in,
although my medical attendant at length
persuaded me there was no reason to be
unnecessarily alarmed. To add to the long
list of other ailments, I must not forget to
tell you that on numerous occasions I was
suddenly made aware of duU, heavy pains in
the chest, as though it wese indigestion ;
but considering that I ceutd not eat I do not
think it could have been that. Well, this
state of affairs went on for ten weeks, and
during that time I was just about as bad as
you can imagine a patient could be reduoed
to. The doctor’s medicines I drank during
my term of sickness would surprise you ;
but they evidently did not suit my ease.
They made me no stronger, and aid nob
remove any of my distressing symptoms.
At length I got tired of taking physic, and
decided to act upon the advice of a friend
who was continually advocating the ex-
cellence of Clements Tonic. This gentleman
acquaintance had himself suffered from the
same ’oomplaint as my own, and he was so
enthusiastic regarding the amount of benefit
he had derived from Clemente Tonic, and
the way it restored his lost vitality, that he
convinced me there must De something In its
preparation which would do me good.
Without any more delay I procured a bottle,
and discarded the doctors medicine alto-i
gether, being quite satisfied that the stuhj
he had ordered was not doing me an atom of
good, although his instructions were care-
fully carried out. I had been almost desti-
tute of hope for a thorough recovery from
my long and serious illness, even after the
fever had left me, until the necessary
assistance arrived in the form of Clements
Tonic; and my feelings of gratification can
be more easily imagined than described
when I found the great amount of benefit
which had accrued from the consumption of
the first bottle.”
“ What effect did it have upon you ? ” d
“The most noticeable result of my first
bottle of Clements Tonic was a marked
decrease in the swellings on my body, which
clung to me in spite of my convalescence ;
and the agonising pains in my head, which
had been the cause of so much torture and
anguish to me, soon left me altogether, and
I was then in such a happy frame of mind
that my prospects of regaining strength
soon became quite bright. I could also par-
take of the nourishing food which im
enfeebled condition so much required, ano
which for weeks had been returned un-
tasted. And after eating there was ar
absence of that dull, heavy feeling on the
stomach which I had previously experienced.
and I knew that my meals were beint
‘ " LI ‘ “
properly digested. I continued Clements
Tonic, and I seemed to reap advantage from
each dose. My cheeks began to display a
healthy colour, and each day added more
strength and vigor. By the time I had
arrived at the bottom of the second bottle
the swellings had gone down entirely, and 1
was able to go about the house with an
appreciable degree of comfort and energy.
With my daily increasing appetite came an
increase in flesh, and I could now take an
interest in my household arrangements
having sufficient vitality to do my work
with feelings of mingled interest and
pleasure. When night arrived I could look
forward to have plenty of rest, for I no
longer turned from one side to another in
the vain hope of gaining repose. No ; I could
always feel sure of a good sleep, and would
arise in the morning feeling very much
better for it.”
“You appear to have made a complete
recovery ? ”
“ Yes; lam thankful to say that
Clements Tonic has restored me to the best
of health, although when I sometimes catch
a chill I get an attack of neuralgia ; but I
always keep to the one remedy, and after
taking two or three doses of Clements Tonic
the neuralgia leaves me,”
“May I make your case known?”
“ Indeed you can, and I trust it may be the
means of alleviating the suffering of other
people.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
r, Elizabeth Sarah Glenn, of 78 Cleveland-htreet,
Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have care-
fully read the annexed document, consisting of five
folios and oonseoßttrely numbered from one to five,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my.illness and ours by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any wav
my statements—which I give voluntarily, and without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn de
equation osnoientiously believing the same to be true,
and by viirtae of the provisions of an Act made anti
passed in the ninth year of the reign of her present
Majesty, intituled "An Act for the more efiectua
abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken and made
in the various Departments of the Government o!
New South wales, and to substitute Declarations in
lieu thereof, and tor the suppression of voluntary
and Extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits.”
Declared at Byd ney, this 18th day of Ju
thousand nine hundred, before me,
F. McKENNA
MOIR’S
FRESH HERRINGS.
In 1 lb. Round Flat Tins.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & so, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
Business Announcements.
<£ood Tailoriog-
AUTUMN.
Rough Tweeds and Worsteds.
PURE INDIUO SERGES,
TO STAND ALL WEATHERS.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &C.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
s>
m
w
Hypnotism
Reader, why net I>e able to nee the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By niy method you can learn
to H pnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
that are po-sible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hypuotism yon can cure disease
conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the' Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever publ shed. For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply.
Remember this costs you noth-
in r . A postal card will bring it.
Order to-day and learn to Hyp-j
noMze. It is a chance ol a
life-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdhstre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Sore Eyes! Blight!
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails . Restores Eyelashes .
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
ft RUMEN NESS
Positively CURED by Administering
It can be given in
drin k or food with-
EUCRASY
out the subject’s knowledge. Perfectly Harmless, and
will effect a Speedy Cure. Write TO-DA Y for Free Book.
Address THE EUCRABY 00., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Be"t,
Cheapest, and Most fetylish CLOTHING in Australia.
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
' BnoßnieWillV I lUll<fll
PROPRIRTAHT LIMITED,
262 k 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
Our Suit to order at Is
marvellous value; made from
a'l wool Tweeds.Vicunas,or last
White Shirts to measure.
(Js. 9d., 9s. (>d.
and beautifully Anisin d.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class v f material. £3 3s. To
measure, capital Trousers, *ery
good patterns, 12s. 6d.
Dress Suits, to measure. £**
Clerical Suits, to measure. £s*
Riding Breaches, 255.
Riding Habits, Ac. ,
We supply ready made. Men’s
[ capital T w eed Suits. 21s. & 255.
I Fam< us Ballarat Serge Suits,
' Indigo dye, 255.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergei ette suits, 3**s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss, lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests. 19s Otl.
Men's Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19 s. (id. W nite Drill
Sacs and Trousers. 10*. (id.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, l*,*s (id.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sees,
«s. 9d. White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9d., 4s 9d., ss. (id.
Travelling Trunks, Ba- 9 s and
Rugs in great variety.
Men’s White Shirts, colored
front and cuffs. 2s. 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. (id.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket, 3s. fid.
So t Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d., all
colors.
Hard Hats. 4*. (id. Caps. Is,
Merino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d. J .
Neckties, all shapes and colors.
Is.
Gents' splendid Balmoral Boots,
We like to write letters; so don't be afraid to ask for any
information. Our book, “The Philosophy of Dress’’ and
patterns of all kinds and self-mensurement forms posted True,
WOODHEAD’S^
ESC. CRAMP
SIMPLEST, FASTEST & MOST
EFFECTIVE EVER MADE for
FLOORING, CEILING, Ac.
No. 5, 355; No. 6,30 s; No.
7 (Ceiling;), 25s each.
If j'our Ironmonger or Storekeeper does not stock, send
direct to us—
PERRY RROS. K±S«, Rrisbane
Sole Agents for Australasia.
v
PILL S.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Procjt & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRA VAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingthc constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and interesting
preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-'*/* has all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth.”
soil! BY CHEMISTS AM, THE WORI.D OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’S €ti)brocatioij
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S €ii)brocatioo-


“ If I were asked what struck me as the
=hief characteristics of the Boer, I should say they
were the two qualities which the English have
always disallowed him : his simplicity rather than
his euteness, and his courtesy rather than his
boorishness. —Richard Harding Davis.
Australian loyalty is going to smash over
a matter of 3s. 4d. per day. Sydney D.T. lately
had a column-and-quarter yell from one Mark
Eaucett Story N 0.266,.266, “C.” Squadron, Patriotic
Bushmen, to the effect that the Rhodesian authori-
ties had tried to diddle the Patriotic Bushmen
out of somewhere about that amount. When the
corps left Capetown for Beira to march through a
country where there were hardly any Boers at
all, they were notified that they were to
receive the same wages as the Rhodesian Fietd
Force, to wit, 4s. 6d. per day. The Bush-
men considered that the amount was in addition
to their screw of 3s. 4d. paid out of the Patriotic
Bushmen’s Fund, subscribed by the war-crazy
Cornstalks. When the Fund ran out, the Bush-
men agitated for the Imperial Govt, or someone
else to take the matter up and keep the extra
3s. 4d. going, and N.S.W. Govt, was fool enough
to do so. But when the Rhodesian authorities
found out that the Patriotic N.S. W\ Bushman was
getting 3s. 4d. per day from his own mis-
led State they docked it out of the 4s. 6d.
they had been paying him, and continued
to pay only Is. 2d. To all protests the
Khodesian tyrants brutally reply, “You are getting
exactly the same screw the rest of the Rhodesian
toeld Force is getting, and if it’s enough for them
it s enough for you—you’re no better than any
a I Fom'-sticker.” And trooper Storey wants
w • to declare war on Rhodesia at once, unless
that 3s. 4d. per man per day is promptlv squared
U P- ' -The historian of the Decline and Fall of
the British Empire will probably conclude his
work with the sentence : “So perished one of the
most remarkable Empires the world has ever seen,
?y® r of 3s. 4d. per day in the screw of
N.S.W. Patriotic bushmen.” i
w
:
S 7&
Under Royal
Patronage.
f} 1 ? Hair is a tonic, cleansing, invigorat-
ing and delightfully cooling preparation, causes the
hair to grow luxuriantly, keeps it soft and pliant,
eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling and
turning grey, promotes growth, Contains no dye or
greasy substance* is the most cleanly of all hair
preparations, and is perfectly harmless. The unique
testimonials received prove it to be undoubtedly
the best dressing for the hair. 1/-, 2/6, and 4/6, of
all Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Australian Depot: Koko-Maricopas Co., JLd.,
14, Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
CAUTION.
See that this registered Trade
Mark is on every bottle.
HIGHEST AWARD-GOLD MEDAL—PARIS EXHIBITION, 1900.
%
FOOD
For INFANTS
and INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S FOOD yields a complete diet for the youngest
infants, in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD retains its properties for any length of
time and is adapted for use in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD when dissolved in milk, makes a simple
nutritious diet for growing children.
Samples etc., may be obtained of GOLLTN & Co., 172, Clarence Street, Svdtiey, =562 4, Bourke
Street, Melbourne, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, and Wellington.
Mellin’s Pood Company tor Australia and New Zealand Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, Loudon.
MELUN’S EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS,
mid BRONCHITIS.
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & CO., 172 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Heame’s Bronchitis Cure.
THCJB FA.MOXJS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“ Orange, N.S.W.
“ Mr. llearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which’ you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself v. ha't an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure realty excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and earned
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS' TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF TIEkRNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“ Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir,—l wish to add m.v testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. ’ I had medical
advice, and tried other - remedies,’without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderfulrremedy to anyone I see afflicted.
" Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We,- have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidlv successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
* nd * cma <• <«* ~*» «*»
<h» ::i?"L B, ' 0n , Chi v t - i \ C T Ure reli^ ed ” ly son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
Quirindt NSW ”’ bUt 1 *"* sendltlB ' for another b °ttle in ease I should want it.—D. M‘DONALD, Trinkey, via
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.-A # B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
My vvi , fe - is , years old, and I am 79, and I am glad io inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
Victoria' .? ndel ‘ ful deal of 8:ood ’ 11 quickly cured us bolh.-R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
tohn -*• -»•»** —■
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria ”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time The diffi
c«Uy of bread ling has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.” *'
t
"' aS ’ disappeared after two doses -C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
•
I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect The cure
absolutely miraculous.-F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.” -the cure was
‘‘Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.-C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria”
l aluabfe jnedidne!—CMrs.)^J. e, SLATERf Warragid^yicDiria?” 1^3 CUre Wifch ° Ut delay ’ M 1 finditto be a
G. SEYTEU, er Crke S , ed New h South wiles)'™ Th ; reSulfc was marvellous - Ik eased off at once-
“ Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
STEEL h Tankt d Sidfng? NX d touth b MUe°s U ” S *““ had ’ 1 recommendin Severybody.-S.
, 1 ® uff + ere , d fr °m Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
TRELAWNEY, y Se a vern a ßiveT InverclbKSA^” 36 ’ 11 fl ' eed ° ni ’ aS a dir6Ct reSU,t ° f l y brief A.-JOHN c!
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, a* the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas did not dn
me any good , but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well —II HOOD
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.” 4 HOOD,
•
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter and has
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.-A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria ” ’ " "
•
. Y °, Ur Broncldtis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I nreviouslv
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you hive ~u Y fP d
me through a long and dangerous ill ness.-HENRY WUKLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria" P “ ed
•
Point, T yfa Darlingfor^, r Victoria.”^ Ure 1 3 '° U WaS ,nagieal ™ its effects.-CPIAS. WHYBROW, Enoch's
Gratitude and Appreciation.
hundreds cured in their own
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
n tv t, “ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne,—The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and it there is anybody in Victoria
wno during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing Ihe praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked t hat he has ever since been continually recom-
; mending it to others.
VVe are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
tne sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
nr i~i “ Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 30
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
“THOMASON, CIIATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.’*
Cured in Ten Days.
the editor of the oldest newspaper
IN VICTORIA EXPRE.-SES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
W. G Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,-Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure 1 had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without le medicine in the
house, -and at the first indication of a cold it is taken
with immediate curative effect. ’
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“ Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”-ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W. oiesale
BRANCH DEPOT
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RET ATT. BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria,.
7 JffeiJt i !i r A S L F I 00r L. Gre ? r l s .Cbambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
1 orwm ded by Post to any Address token not obtainable Locally.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
Infants
3
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Ac., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has,
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own/’
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
AND
THE AGED.


THE TRUTH WILL ALWAYS PREVAIL.
>t> **** w ** m ***** > *°* m * >><tt
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦<
Names and Addresses of grateful persons residing In and around
Melbourne who have been Cured by
VITADATIO.
The History of a Great Remedy in Victoria.
Ladies and Gentlemen, . , wprp.tpr’R VTTADATIO to the people of
In March, 1897, I arrived in Melbourne£whwltt.e Head Victorian Insti-
Victoria. I started business in premises , VTT AT)ATIO as an every-day get up of medicine,
tute is still situated. At first the pubhcitSlftote? mile-worker, as those
10 tu ‘
Mrs. Burk, living at Yarraville, now of Bloomfleld Eoa4 Am* SuTrfby 1 'VrTADATiof°and sent
GAL ~ S JONf‘Js'ot. 6 MraeßOTk has not had any return complaint.
Mt“tTh. Bath, of'lo2 Lygon-street, Carlton,
s.ree^^^
f . , ]f
O^'the 6th May, 1889, Mr. Wm. Simmonds, of Warrein-Koad, Caulfield, sent me a test,mound for
a mire of RHEUMATISM, and is still free from pam. .
On the 10th May 1899, Mrs H. yjipij)ATlO of HYUATIDs"
fh”^«h^£^«ted e pious, and now, after three yearn, she had no return of
ULCERATION. There is still nl
return of her trouble. OURES 0 F HYDATIDS ARE LEGION.
_ ,4,„ ofitv, Tniv 1899 Mr Stephens Parker sent me a testimonial from Bairnsdale, certified to
Edward Veah’of thatdfstrict. Mr. Parker is now living in High Street, Kew, and is
enioying good health.
On September 19, 1899, Miss Carrie Hocking, of 29 Packington Street, St.-Hilda, sentatesti-
monial for”a cure of HYDATIDS, and a testimo „ iol
fiedby\h?Klv 6 H E Ho of HYDATIDS ON THE LIVER, and still
eni X‘iho*7*1900, Mrs. Coaheadof 5 White Street, Eootscray, sent a testimonial for a
cure of HYDATIDS. She is still in good health.
On the 7th March jjM,
THE SPINE. ef She good health after having been given up by two leading doctors
as incurable. , ftl q .frpet Richmond, is nothing short of a miracle. HE
S,S"s S eKo n A‘tom’Mr. MkiSn, on <*g>ber 2tst, 1900, certifying to its correctness, and to h,s
Mrs. Spencer, of 5 Wicklow Street South Yarra, has been cured of GRAVLL,
Testimonial to that effect on December 24th, 1900.
desiroUs^of^vestigatingThegenuineneL SfKiSnK wTJbon theTd^sgiven, th?y can
Drove for themselves that what is printed is true. .
prove roi biiem uvniTTm line Vippn certified to by four leading gentlemen m
My own remarkable curefromHYDA p f i 0 f Henry Berry, merchants of Collins
Invercargill, New Zealand. Mr. Howard W. Berry, o the farm r^_ z ., Ind when I called on
sss ffiSssftS*“ff sw'b-s- t y siid T^ng^my a Mr‘r'sri
Mi™ ag"X, after ‘saying good-bye to you a. Invercargill.”
■ , j, v VTT AT> ATTO the Citizens Life Assurance Company has accepted a
P-f that VITADATIO does Ml tha,
is claimed for it.
Head Institute for Victoria—
-45 & 47 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
Yours truly,
S- A-- I 3 A_Xji3VC!H33EI., _ _
Sole Distributor for Australasia.
The Conting enter’s Return.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wayback is the centre of a big agricultural dis-
trict • the Farmers’ Home Hotel is the centre o
Wayback ; and William Harrison became the cen-
tre of the Farmers’ Home. He was a butcher by
Lade exceedingly voluble, with a large fund of
more or less untrustworthy stories and uncertain
information. Yet he »» revered
as being the most generous “shouter in Wayback:.
Harrison had been out of town for several days
and on his return he made straight for the
Farmers’ Home, conjuring-up as he went pleasant
thoughts of the warm welcome which awaited him.
He could picture to himself the desolate bar, the
gloomy countenances and dry throats, the furtive
g ances cast in the direction of the door every
toe there rv>s a footfall outside. What a subjsmt
fnr a picture ! A smile on every face as he entered,
| S stretched out to welcome him, the
silence broken by a babel of aomee and hmown
voice saying majestically. Well, J ,
‘VncoSusly hl’quickened hie footsteps, and
re ihp lnnse silver in his pocket an extra jingle.
But he stopped almost paralysed within 20 yards
of the hotel, for there arose such a shout of
laughter from the bar that the baker s horse,
tethered outside, jerked up its head in alarm. A
few seconds, and the spasm had died away, but,
in«t as his hand was on the door, there arose
another shout— mightier, if possible, than the first.
As he went in the laughter died away, as if
extinguished by sudden dread. The bar was full
SS to overflowing, but a space was reserved
fora man who stood in front of the counter a
man in kharki, slouch-hat and putties. And Har-
rison groaned in spirit as he recognised lorn
Baggs, the returned contingenter.
There was an awkward silence. Those present
felt that they had been detected m an act of trea-
son of base injustice, for had they not made merry
in the absence of their benefactor; their fuend,
mentor and beer-provider? Harrison s surprise was
plainly visible, and only the boldest of those pre-
sent could muster up sufficient courage to stam-
mer out a few words of greeting. All this,
however, was lost on the returned soldier, who
had been a blacksmith’s assistant before leaving
for South Africa, and as such had had no stand-
ing whatever. But his turn was now come, and
he was determined to make the most oi it.
He nodded carelessly to Harrison and said:
“What will you have, old chap? And without
waiting for an answer he turned to the nymph
behind the bar : “A glass of ale, ducky, for Mr.
Harrison.” And the astonished butcher saw that
Miss Smith, whose bearing towards himself had
always been one of severe respect, was literally
aglow with pleasure and excitement. . .
Baggs waved his hand in the air as an mdica-
tion that he was about to resume the thread of his
yQu that I’d got the blanky Boer
a pris’ner. ‘ Hurry up, old man ! saysl, for the
beggar gammoned he was lame. But he wouldn t
hurry up, so I gives ’iin a prod m the back with
my gun. Gorstruth, you should have heard 1m
y< The kharki hero expected another burst of
laughter at this point; but the response was halt-
hearted, and he looked round in
with his glass half-way to his lips. IP r «“ n
with my gun,” he repeated defiantly , hum y,
it uas a joke ! ”
*** * ,
By this time Harrison had collected a por-
tio/of his scattered faculties He covdd see
that there was to be a duel f °r supremacy
but he had money, and Baggs, he felt
had not a sovereign to his name. So he s tePpea
to the front of the bar with an important air.
“ Drinks all round, Miss Smith ! Long-sleevers,
except Tom : a glass of whisky for him. .
He would be magnanimous and condescending ,
it was the proper game to play the on y >
fact There was a sigh of relief from twenty
throats, which the crisis of the last few minutes
had rendered parched and dry. „
“I am pleased to see you back again, lorn,
said Harrison, graciously
said, after a short pause, I saw a fuim X t^ g
while I was in Sydney. I was going down George-
street one day, when ” „ - r ■.
How the sentence was to have been finished
will never be known. As the butcher, started
speaking Tom Baggs gave a look of
cleared his throat ominously. Then he commenced
in a voice which was at least two notes higher
than Harrison’s: .. ~ ■ -r, »
“ I was telling you about this blanky Boer, tie
said ; and bestowed such a glare on Harrison that
the latter’s words froze on his lips.
“I didn’t tell you about the scrap we had at
Bloomingfontein. The Boers was pottm at us
all the raornin’, and we couldn t see blessed o
one of ’em ; the cowards were afraid to show them
selves And there was we a-laym on our stum
micks, and the ground mighty ro^, 1 can tell
you. At last the Lankysheers comes up, and the
Dragoons, and we executes a flankin move
ment !”
• • • *
Baggs stopped here very impressively, fixing
the butcher with his eye all the time, as if to say .
“ Now you ’old yer jaw !” But a diversion was
caused’ by Jim Wilks, the baker, with whom the
war had ways been an absorbing theme but
whose limited intelligence quite failedAo grasp
the military terms. “I can t quite make out
what you mean by these flankin moves, he said.
Baggs smiled, indulgently. Of course, you
was/t there, like I was. A flankin
when the cavalry spreads out and g i ycs
fits Well, as I was saying, we comes up with
the Boers, and gits ’em at close quarters O
course, thev had no chance then ; and they felt
mighty sorry they ever started the war, I can tell
you We killed 40, and wounded about a hundred,
Ld'collared all the rest. I counted Onrty-two of
’em myself. There wasn t a blarsted one of em
escaped. 361 Mr. Boer don’t stand no show when
he meets Mr. Britisher fair and square. ,
“There must have been a lot of
said Jim Wilks reflectively, with aU them
Lankysheers and Draggms and Artillerys.
“ Are vou telling this yere blanky story, or am
T?” And the contingenter’s tone was so tierce
that Jim instinctively shrank behind Harrisons
nortlv form Baggs gave an indignant snort, but
rSjMto eyfgf L butcher
ing himself for a fresh effort; and hurriedly
re “ Tl“ere’s e poor old Jack Binney, who come from
away 5 on the Buckoo; you know Jack, some of
y The’ hapless Jim Wilks had partly
from behind Harrison by tins time, and was
anxious to repair his previous blunder. Yes, 1
know him,” he said, “a little under-sized cl ap,
who looked about as much like a soldier as I do.
And as the unfortunate Jim again quailed before
the coritingenter’s fierce glance, it suddenly
dawned upon him that Baggs himself wa.. ?
means a giant, and had a chest expansion of about
ha<l ‘ f Poor 1 Jack!” said the returned hero, and it
was difficult to say whether the wobbie in his
voice was due to emotion or beer, he had his chest
cut open by a shell. I tell you, boys, that I faced
the Boers without a tremble, but the sight of poor
Jack nearly made me faint.”
• * * *
Baggs was weakening visibly, and showed a de-
cided gS tendency to maudle His extremity was
Harrison’s opportunity. The sight of blood d
make you a bit squeamish at first, he said. I
remember the first time I saw a bullock killed---
He would not have got so far as this had not the
angle of Baggs’s glass with the ground been grow-
iW greater and greater. The kharla-clad indi-
vidual wished to finish his beer before resuming,
and he was in such a hurry to intercept Harrison
that he tilted the glass to an alarming a £|>J e >
ing the remaining beer to rush into J inouth
faster than his throat could carry it away, tie
choked, and stood with his head down gasping for
br “You butcher ! ” he gasped at last, “ how
dare you have impert’nence compare me wiz you .
If hadsh my bay’nit-run you frew
There were sounds as of stifled
everyone seemed to be trying .to get behind ns
neighbour with his hand over his mouth. -*- he ex
plosion came at last, and the glasses on the ahelves
behind the bar rattled again and again, while Jim
Wilks’s horse outside gave one wild b<»nnd broke
2K&S3S&L Se
H.mson aj
but°in the utterance wasconceii-
trated venom with a pressure equal fo lOm to
the square inch. “ Damn ! And Damn .
ye And a within half-an-hour the hero had sunk to
his rest on the sawdust, with bis head in t e
spittoon. Behind the bar Miss Smith was
reckoning up on the slate the suin of 16s. 9d. for
drinks, to be duly required of the returned con-
tingenter.
J.H.
“ Veteran ” : Somebody writes to S.M.
Herald on behalf of N.S.W. Lancers that they
“have just taken part in what is admitted to be the
record march of the war—lBo miles m 8 days.
■What i—After all we’ve heard about horses being
ridden' to death by these men, and about the
40 000 horses French’s cavalry killed in the march
to Bloemfontein —the fastest.time that as been
made is 22i miles a day for 8 days ! Why, m Lidia,
S 1804 three British cavalry regiments of Lakes
command rode 73 miles in 24 hours! Also, for
straight-out, steady marching : m May, 5/
(height of the Indian Summer) the Guide Corps
cavalry and infantry—marching from Naoshera
upon Delhi, covered 621 miles m 23 days—average
27 miles a day-and 3 hours after arrival went into
notion Also in ’5B, Brigadier Park, with a mixed
column marched 240 miles in 9 days, having on
the last day to work through a thick jungle and
fight a battle (27 miles a day).
The danger to English Royalty is now
financial. Perhaps much over 100 millions for the
Boer war; expenditure that cannot be estimated
for China; the bloated cost of the fleet going up
two millions a year; the Army to be vastly in-
creased—how are the taxpayers to meet it unless a
knife be thrust into the rich ? Combine all this
with the dangers to trade, and the candle will
burn at both ends.
“ Ex-R.E.” : Wilson, in his recent
National Review paper, entirely misses the real
point when he says that the various bodies of
British who have surrendered m 8 Africa had,
“on an average, only lost 12 J P® r , cei ? '
casualties before giving in.” It is ,
men that causes soldiers to surrender in bodies
but want of sustenance or having their retreat
cut off. The Austrians at Ulm had lost none, an
the French at Sedan very few before they sur-
rendered. There is no recorded instance of any
bodv of soldiers surrendering through loss of men.
What is the matter in S’Africa is (1) gross l -
competence of the staff (2), subdivision of the
army into numerous small, widely-scattered
bodies and (3) want of supervision and organisa-
tion. It is absolutely impossible to keep all these
little roving detachments supplied with food.
The country has been deliberately stripped of
everything that will support life, so that when
one of these small commands encounters an enemy
it has simply either to surrender or starve. In fact^
the time may not be far distant when the British
army, as a whole, will have either to abandon th
desert it has made or leave its bones there .
“ Fuimus ” to The Bulletin concerning
an old-time Melbourne journalist
There are some inaccuracies in that paragraph ( ~ / / )
ahont Alfred Telo. I was personally acquainted with
Telo, having frequently met him in company
Clarke and other well-known pressmen of his peno
Whatever may have been the faults of Telo, h
kindly-hearted fellow, and posssessed that charity
which covers a multitude of.sins” T as was evidenced in
thp case of Marcus s accident in the hunting neia,
when his skull was fractured. While Marcus was con-
fined to bed Telo sat up with him night after
night, nursing him with all the care and tende
ness of a woman—which incident recalls at the
same time the constant and kindly attentions of George
Walstab who, in order that Marcus s serial story Long
Odds ” should not be delayed or fall into arrear, wrot
nuite a couple of chapters for him, which chapters, when
the book came to be reviewed, obtained particular notice
and the highest praise—everyone believed them irom
the pen of Marcus himself. Alfred Telo wa ®^° n ‘
angel, in Russia. His father was a wealthy m er c « a "<;
there and afterwards removed to Liverpool. In early
life Telo was an with one of the British Embassies
on the Continent: later on, he became a lieutenant in a
Prussian regiment of Guards, from which he retired owing
to having had one of his thighs badly broken inafal.
He was dead-lame all his life after, and h g
was quite a marked feature in his personality. . Of
Hebrew extraction possibly; but cveri at .
neither Spanish by birth nor descent-according to the
story of your correspondent it would seem as though
in a spirit of the purest fun, put his head out of the
window “ to oblige” Mr. Windsor and take the risk of a
“ loyalist ” missile or two which Mr. Windsor declined.
Telo was a highly-educated man and an excellent lin-
guist, and tokU story well, despite a certa,n n h ® s 1 1 ( tat ‘°.?
in his speech—altogether, a man who made a pleasant
first impression. I fancy I can see him now coming up
the street, with his jerky gait, his hatthrown
that always pleasant and quizzical smie- winch
were full and large and handsomely fringed, were nne
enough for a Jew’s, but they were grey The Preposterous
beard never existed in my time. It was just a, %rly
laro-e neatly-kept black beard, that went well with his
salfow complexion. The enormous nose is pure imagina-
tion.


Price Complete, Net £6 Cash.
RECORDS, Extra, 2s 6d each, Net Cash.
Other Styles, £2 10s, S 3 10s, £4 15s, £7, £B, £lO, £lO 10s
WITH TsT a m
OIE 1 OUE InTEAEEST
A GRAMOPHONE makes a capital
present. Welcome everywhere and by
everybody. Endless amusement for
the festive season. Pleases your family
and friends. It more than takes the
place of a piano, banjo, mandolin, or
cornet, for you hear not only one, but
all these instruments, and many more,
as they are played, not by amateurs,
but by the most celebrated artists. ISTo
matter how remote your habitation, it
brings within the family circle the
actual voices of orators, singers, come-
dians, and story-tellers, who perhaps at
that very moment are delighting
Metropolitan audiences with the same
eloquence, melody, humor, and dialect
that is coming from the Gramophone
in the quiet of a country home
hundreds of miles away.
m
.. ~
“ HIS MASTER’S VOICE.’
Go [imit to Selections
There is practically no limit, either
in number, quality, variety, or fresh-
ness. For instance, no sooner does an
artist become a popular favorite than
he or she is invited to sing or play for
us into a Gramophone. As many
reproductions are possible from one
such performance, we can secure the
very highest talent, and what costs us
originally £2O to £lOO can be sold for
2s. 6d.
fr 1i,A.3T0T > JJQ]V f?s can he seen,
heard, and pat chased at all Music
Shops, Fancy Beaters, Stores,
<M over the Colonies.
Man ufactu red
and
Guaranteed
by the
6RAfiOPHONE CO. Ltd., Laos, Straod, Loodoo, W.C.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia: 163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
White at the Core!
(Queensland Fed. Election Verdict, 1901.)
w *?T eytoldusa * ainand •«**-
at the Lord had intended our upland and plain
As a nest for the nigger, the Jap. and the Chow
Our land as a prize for old Greed and his plow. ’
We harked and we swore,
As they raved and they tore
ihe'core° W them ° Ur W&S White at
’Twas ruin (they bellowed) to give up the Black
ir life was the sweat of a poor nigger’s back • ’
t ni Race was too puny to grapple with cane
43 brain Wantlng in brawn and we hadn’t the
And they chanted it o’er,
As they’d chanted before,
NeV Cor d eT ming the CoUntry waa White at the
We listened -—we laughed, and we waited our Day
And marshalled our men up in battle array
Our bugles they blew, and this burden they bore:
Die Country we live in is White at the Core '
White evermore,
Inland and shore,
White in its dealings and White at the Core ! ”
Alack for the Coddlers of Black and of Brown ■
ltX° rS I lOVed ' and their colors are down.
Frl) i T a , race ln tl,e land at their side
kor the Freeman has proved that they damnably
He has settled the score
And the quarrel of yore
Corel"™ he em ° f “ White at the
White evermore,
Inland and shore,
White in our dealings and White at the Core !»
L.
California is developing a new industry in
the manipulation of fruit-pulps into “jam-bricks ”
WarOffT 7 e 7, lately submitted to the British
Var Office, for the use of the troops in S’Africa.
Writes “ H.8.T.” :
The little Port Darwin steamer, Tomaz Andrfea, on her
las voyage to the Victoria River had on board a complete
£ ZlrTli" ,h ' convictS
last j ear of the murder of a white man. This little vessel
(not nearly as big as a Sydney North Shore ferry-boatl
in h “™ be “ '° Un "“ i
wards ever since. The mv of fh« 2™ P ro^sf hack-
companies of artillery) is aenerallv ohn rr (half-a-dozen
arrears ; and present Kronce in
cash in Mexican dollars about 15 000 of elconie
arrival, the boxes were dumped into ’a lio-hrl h f m ’ ° n
a lot of miscellaneous good S P and conveved ’ l ° ng WUh
out any special guard. The onlv mtb '
is in the /lands If a couple of Chffie dT'
the time the next steamer called on her wa v Nor h %
per cent, of that coin would be shipped for Homrko™ 75
a ccount of said Chows. 1 Hongkong on
Doctor Dixon.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
halfo ntag : iT : bUyir,g and usin & the return
userhJ forT r 1 Sthat th 6 P urc^aß er and
* be P Urp ° 960 f the Passage, to adopt
to whoTUt A PerS ° nallty ’ of the individual
to whom the ticket was issued. Of course in the
ordinary way, when it is simply a matter of Mr
is Sntr f aSMr ' BlinkS ’ the
is infimtemmal compared to the consequent saving
tor fi° n d C ° m ' And When Riohard Mack ’ Ptospec
toi financier company-promoter and stroller over
1 nub ItT f he 6arth ’ b ° Ught fr ° m a stranger in
a pub. at Towlooroo a pale-green voucher entitling
to Sh h nto traVel fr ° m Tow l°oroo
to Portn by one of the Towlooroo and Perth Steam-
him S'i° W !f g St6am - tubs - he merely satisfied
himself that the date-limit had not been overrun
and congratulated himself on having saved £2 10s
m n,tL eW d ? S f b^ e< l uentl y he dumped his port-
manteau into the berth allotted him; succeeded,
y 'irtue of long usage to “commodious” coast-
ing steamers, in turning round and emerging from
the cabin (shared with three others) without bang-
J IIS h ® ad /gainst bunk, ceiling, or door, and
stood on the deck, casually watching the last few-
bags of ore being hoisted on board.
The passenger accommodation on the s.s Yalla-
haha was not extensive. She had been known to
_ iry hirty but otdy the steward knew where
rZ ; This time there were ten passengers.
1 hree of them were ladies.
* * . .
As the Yallahaha’s warps were cast off from the
bollards on the crazy wooden wharf, and her
Z:^ dUPthe Stinking .bellow river mud,
these three ladies sat together at the stern, and
found a bond of sympathy and friendship in their
ommon purpose in going down the coast to secure
the additional comforts procurable in comparative
civilisation during a trying time, and upon a cer-
tain interesting occasion.”
“Yes my dear,” said Mrs. Uriah Lennox, who
was making the voyage for the second time, to
Mrs. Michael Thorn, for whom the trip and its
purpose was new, “I’m sure it’s quite lucky for us
to ave a doctor on board, and he looks such a nice
one too, don’t you think.”
Mrs. Henry Higgins, none of whose family of
eleven had had the honour of coming into the
world under such favorable circumstances as pro-
mised for the twelfth, was also sympathetic. For
herself, she declared, thanking a beneficent Pro-
vidence, who apparently had exercised a particu-
lar concern m Mrs. Higgins’ family affairs, she’d
always managed very well without a meddling
doctor. Personally, she would have just as soon
stopped at riie mine, only her old man was better
°| ff Wh ‘ ch Vad alwiz ou ° ht to ’ave bin if
she d ad her doo, fer a better wife ter ’im ’e
couldnt ave’ad. Howsumever, my dear,” she
w - Th ? rn ’ graciously, “I ain’t a-sayin’
at all but wot, seem’ as ’ow you’ve left it
doctor ” ate ’ ** mightn,t be 88 weU as there is a
Mrs. Michael Thorn, meek as a novice must
always be in the presence of experience, but feel-
mg compelled to say something, could only timidly
tiafc Perhaps he had had no experience in
that direction.
“Don’t you fret!” replied Mrs. Higgins con-
vincingly. “They all’ave.”
Mrs. Thorn thought he did not look like a
family doctor anyway, and said so with an air of
requiring to be satisfied before she had anything
to do with him. J 6
• • - .
But Mr. Mack, knowing nothing of the
character attributed to him, only regretted that
there wasn’t a girl on board with whom he could
pass the time pleasantly ; and thought he would
have a drink. So he descended to the saloon and
secured a drmk, and the steward availed himself
of the opportunity to collect Dr. Dixon’s ticket.
Mr. Mack was momentarily puzzled, but remem-
bered in time that his ticket bore the name of Dr.
Dixon, and accordingly handed it over. The
steward deliberately read it, re-folded it and
smiled.
Ibis ain t exactly an invalid ship, doctor,” he
remarked, the smile spreading itself, “ but maybe
you 11 come in useful this voyage with three of ’em
on board. ’
Then it suddenly dawned upon Mr. Mack that
he would have to be careful. He climbed up on
to the hurricane deck, three strides long and one
wide, and whistled.
“Well, I’ll go !” he slowly muttered. “What
k-TT ~T~, 1 W !V, lt Ido ? It would be
a bit of a lark ! ”
He saw the possibilities before him with three
days at sea. For the present one thing only
seemed desirable—he would have another drink,
broing down, he met the captain, a short, red-brick
sort of man who affably shook hands with the
doctor, and the doctor lamely suggested whisky.
Phe skipper agreed; but Mr. Mack, who had
thought of explaining things, couldn’t remember
what the penalty was for travelling on another
man s ticket, and weakly kept silence. When
the whisky had gone its allotted path the skipper
casually remarked: “The wimmen are dashed
glad to have a doctor on board. If we’d only
thought of it we might have charged ’em more for
medical attendance. ’ He laughed, and Mr. Mack
laughed too, but not quite the same kind of laugh.
* * * *
And the little Yallahaha went on into the
night, and the seas tumbled her about. Mr.
Mack played euchre and drank whisky, and fortrot
he was a doctor. He was reminded of it when
the steward looked in the smoke-room door, pre-
sented the captain’s compliments to Dr. Dixon
Thorn° U d Dr ' DlX ° n kindly take a look at Ml "’
i Q £i hat f ste . ward smiled knowingly as he went
and k ’i| f ° r ri’ e f lad S , 9L ? th ? doctor’s portmanteau
and _ the doctor s belongings (largely mineral
SSEi” 61 )-i and ooofficially he knew that return-
tickets did sometimes change hands. But when
Dr. Dixon received the message he swore. The
otheis had met doctors before who preferred
prisedf 6UChre t 0 P atients > and were not sur-
“ Here I say, you know !” he shouted. But the
forTt l hm in d g ° lle ’ ar , ld , Mack could see nothing
tor it out to go and look into matters. He had
not really decided what to do when he got into
the pokey little saloon, and the steward, with aa
obvious dwelling on the title, “Doctor,” and a
marked politeness, showed him to the door of the
tour-berthed cabin reserved for the ladies,
a n £t ack was thirty-two and he had travelled
a bit. I here was nothing to absolutely alarm
1 ! n , one woman or three, especially when he
had had some whisky. And, as possibly the
™ Oro rn? Slde of ke Pt hira up, he went in
i-Us. lhorn was undoubtedly very ill, and Mrs.
o;m ggms was qualmish. Of course it was only sea-
sickness; but sea-sickness, added, to whisky and
the .d alarm of two stout ladies and a small
a dlfficu , lfc matter. Mack says himself he
y remembers what occurred except that he
telt one woman s pulse, or tried to, and promised
ber some medicine, and told another to try a
brandy-and-soda. ■
with rS ' Higgins ’ however , was not to be trifled
f.irj Th A”d RiS3iL SheBaid ’ " * hard "*• »'
She called the steward and imparted the same
rom m me” n £■ hin \.“ A , ud ? outell the ca P tai »
’ A® co V tmued > ln wrathful frenzy,
“f. ou f ht to b ? ishamed of ’isself, and I’ll
word indeed!” Pormitting ° f SUCh a tlling ’ My
“Steward!” yelled the voice of Dr. Dixon from
the men s cabin opposite.
“ Yes / ir > c °ra in g;’: replied that official, glad to
himself fr ° tn MlS ' HlgginS - He was thoroughly
tude C o h n r his?unk m a sitting atti-
> if a “ y °f tb ose infernal women want me, tell
em I m drunk—and now bring me a drink, quick.”
That drink Richard followed with several
others, and there can be no doubt that he was
drunk for the rest of the voyage. When inter
mittentty, he thought at all, he consoled himself
with the reflection that he was much too drunk to
be called upon to assist afflicted womanhood, and
got more drink because it would never do to risk
al'hostto ffiVi■ He f neve !' show u ud himself except for
a ghostly flitting from his cabin to the upper deck
the ladder to which was too near the perpendicu-
lar to be negotiated by women, even under
favorable circumstances.
The invalid ladies recovered without medicine
though Mrs Higgins and Mrs. Uriah Lennox
certainly had the brandv-and-soda. But Mrs
Uriah Lennox stated, with the bottle in her hand
that she personally knew the cousin of a woman
Sn/SViKff IhTOUBh * he d “ l »
“ I said from the first he didn’t look ex-
M , rs - Thorn complacently.
At the Perth wharf Mr. Richard Mack slunk
Bnt y h^ th °* U n fc inquiry after his patient’s health
he had f been’• ateward b r ont]y suggested that
j f 5 1 ! men ? e service to the doctor.
The doctor damned him, but paid ; especially as the
on the tT att f nt ° n , to tl,e Editions set forth
on the steamers tickets that they involved
f° r i eitu , r . e and ot her things if used by any other
person than the person to whom issued.
And when Mr. Mack reckoned up the cost of
that the , three-days drunk, and added to
that the steward s honorarium, he ferventlv ob-
jurgated the Yallahaha and everybody and every-
day? HtTthS T th her - I* wasn ’t tiU seventeen
aays Jater that he remembered that he misrht
have said he was a barrister and a Doctor of Law
to listen to Sdf thmgS that were shocking
T.H.B.


Cures all Diseases of the Skin
Eczema, Salt-rheum, Tetter, Rashes, Pimples,
Blackheads, Boils, Ulcers All Due to Impure Blood.
Read how this young girl was cured with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
1
t W
a
©
%ss
Wjm
Mrs. May Watson, 9 Rose Road, Surry Hills, Sydney, New So. Wales, sends
us the above photograph of her daughter, together with the following testi-
monial :
“My daughter was suffering terribly from eczema on both her hands and feet.
I had tried many remedies without success. Remembering I had received great
help from Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla myself, I began to give it to my daughter.
Soon she showed signs of improvement, and after taking a few bottles the sores
disappeared and she is now free from the slightest symptom of the old complaint.
She is as fresh and healthy as any girl could wish to be. This makes me strongly
recommend this wonderful medicine to any one needing a good blood-purifier.”
Such cures always follow the use of
“ The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
You cannot feel well unless your blood is pure, and it must be rich, too. Dr.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will give you both of these, pure blood, rich blood. That
is what you need and what you can quickly have if you will only give this old,
reliable remedy a good trial. Get your blood right and you will no longer suffer
with depression, nervousness, general debility, or some form of skin disease.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Brings Comfort and Good Cheer.
Is your tongue coated P Are your bowels constipated P AYER’S PILLS.
Q
■
“Steele Rudd’s” Book.
“ On Our Selection.”
Price: Six Shillings, Post Free*
——
IDaoriSand: and Other [jersea
By Arthur H. Adams.
The best book of verses Axaonland has
produced.
CONTENTS:
DEDICATION.
Mother o' Mine!
MAORILAND.
Maoriland.
On the Plains.
The Dwellings of Our Dead.
Rain in the Bush.
The Storm and the Bush.
The Coming of Te Raupa-
raha.
Written in Australia.
The Brave Days to be.
LOVE MOTIVES.
To You.
Lament.
On the Sands.
A Portrait.
After Long Years.
Song.
Blossom of Life.
The Goal.
Grey Eyes.
Just a Woman.
Lullaby.
Afterwards.
My Love.
The World has Grown so
Grey.
Satana.
A Woman’s Farewell.
And Yet !
SONNETS.
A.D. 19—?
My Land.
Love and Life.
The New Woman.
Reminiscence.
The Four Queens (MaoriUnd)
To My Love
The Stars.
The Girl at the Harp.
Sunset.
The Perfect Present.
Lovers.
China, 1899.
Antagonists.
Sydney.
Morning Peace.
To One Slain in Absence.
OTHER VERSES.
Myself—My Song.
The Poet to be Y
Man and Woman
Pansy : song-woros.
Blossom.
Sydney Nocturnes :
From the North Shore.
King Street
In Hyde Park.
The Australian.
Fancies :
From Wellington Terrace.
The Parade."
The Sculptor.
The Ebb of Day.
The Reaper.
A Child.
The Tui.
Dawn.
The Anarchist.
A Song of Failure.
The Garden of the Sea.
Bereft.
A Question.
EfWtaph.
THE MINSTREL.
Printed on deckle-edge antique paper, uniform
with Ogilvie’s and Brady's verses. Bound in
white buckram, gilt top.
Price: Five Shillings Post Free.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with Othe :
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait ; ss.
post free. %* A charming presentation
volume.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated ; price 4s. 6d. post free.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). With
about eighty illustrations by Mahony,
Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher and
Fullwood ; 6s. post-free. *** “The jolliest
book yet printed in Australia.”
A Hose of Regret:
Verses by James Hebblethwaite ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 9d. post free.
The Circling Hearths:
By Roderio Quinn. No. 11l of The
Bulletin Booklets. Enveloped, Is. 9d.
post free.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free. *** Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. *** The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
The Golden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Verse, by Bulletin Writers; Is. 3d.
post free.
Tales of the Convict System:
By “Price Warung.” Paper covers,' 193
pp. ; 6d., post free.
The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp.; 6d. post
free.
Obtainable from all Booksellers, or Post Free for P. 0.0., Postal Note,
or Stamps of any Australasian Province.
‘The Bulletin’ Newspaper Co. Ltd.
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
Sole Wholesale Agents : EDWARDS, DUNLOP & 00. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEftmgirs
17OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach Sick Headache
F Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals Di/./.mess and Drowsiness,'Gold Chdls, 1 insh
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath Cos ivenewblotches on fin. Skm ■
turbed Sleep and all Nervous and I remblmg Sensations, &c. lilt UKhl t»U,
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every suAerer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be WOS.H A.
®° BEECHAM’S'PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few dos<>s will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System • restoring the loi g-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appet „ >
uAltu the Whole Physical Dm.
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society and one of the be f S jw; line in
Nervous and Debilitated is that Barham s Pills have the Lamest Sale of any Patent Mediei
he world. Full directions with each Pox.
PR EP A RED ON L Y BY
IHOMAS BEECEAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Sold everywhere, in Boxes, 9£d, Is lid, and Us 9tl each.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TC*O IDJSiIirUK-
SPIRITS.
RDIALS, &o.
Kent .Brewery, SYDNEY.
IC B ran d s Only of
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
$. FREEMAN # SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SP-KCT A I.TIES :
BATHOS BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD_OFFICE : WTNYABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
m
1 ■ 1 1
The Universal Remedy for Acidity or the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for G-out, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
jyiedicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA]
Mil lA I
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
*2 ,p i iiiftf. §i
sMSti
sUIiP if
OEOROE 80Nf
IRISH
JDERFUL
MEDICINE.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


RUBBER COOPS.
Waterproof Coats
20s. to 70s
Rubber Boots—
17s. 6d. to 20s.
Goloshes—
Ladies ’ 2s. 6d., 3s.
_ Gentlemen’s ... 45., 4s. 6d.
4s. 6d., 55., Gs. 6d.
Driving- Rugs—
los. Gd„ 165., 215., 30s.
Hot-Water Bags—
Best English Rubber, 6s. to lOs. 6d.
PERDRIAU & GO.
rubber manufacturers
And IMPORTERS,
270 George Street, Sydney.
(Catalogues Post Free.)
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
WB
WORTHINGTON
COMPOUND.
. ... IS THE ORIGINAL....
DUPLEX PUMP.
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
SPOONS & FORKS
A.T THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
BBfiOT
J. A J. MAXFIHLD, PnOPiMi. • SHHPPIBLU
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
' SYDNEY.
Also at
“TUB BLOCK,"
Collins Strest, MELBOURNE.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O- BLI3EIDGE «5c GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 Y OUR ST It 111 IST, StfPrflSlT
(Opp. C*nt*n»rjr Hall).
Comitty Ordees by p**l from all the eolonie* promptly
attended to.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL
CEORCE & MARKET STREETS.
Board and Residence, Bs. per Day.
LUNCHEON
12 o’clock till 2.30.
DINNER, TEA
5.30 till 7.30.
ONE SHILLING UPWARDS.
Perfect Cuisine and First-class Attendance,
Special FISH LUNCHEON and DINNER on FRIDAYS
N.S.W. Fresh Food & ice Co. Ltd.
Fish and Game, hard frozen and well packed, forwarded to all parts of the State.
People residing in distant localities where Good Buttes’ is unobtainable, are recommended to obtain their supply from the above Company, proprietor* «f Ohe
well-known “ Golden Star ” brand, and Sole Agents for the famous “.Berry ” brand. Both kinds are Pasteurised, and have excellent keeping qtmlitse*.
Our Bakehouse Goods, for Balls, Parties, &c., are conceded to be the finest manufactured. Sent well-packed to any town in N.S.W.
Head Office s HARBOUR ST., SYBNiEY. Price Lists and Particulars sent to any Enquirers . H. PATESON, Manager.
HORSEPOWER . .
. . MINING WHIM
Will raise a load of from 5001bs. to 7001bs. at a speed of
from 60ft. to 70ft. per minute. Pitted with patent auto-
matic safety attachment. Drum will carry 500 ft. of fin.
steel wire rope. Weight 12001bs.
Price JB2B including
necessary sills, sweeps, extension rods, set of hand levers
with castings and bolts, and three sheaves.
WRITE FOR FURTHER PA RTICU LA RS_
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED,
Mi.NING MACHIHERY, STEAM ENG9NES and SGiIEHS,
San Francisco and London 60 Clarence St., SYDNEY
; :'v
K :V r,-J
74 Clarelioa St., SYDNEY; MELBOURNE, 435 Bourke st.,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS.
J. A. FAY & CO.’S Woodworking Machinery.
Jjaryest Stock of I!’ oodiuorkiny Machines in Australasia.
Baud Saw Machines
Circular Saw Benches
Tenoning Machines
Sandpapering Machines
Planing and
Vertical Shaping Machines
Mortising Machines
Scroll Sawing Machines.
Supplies and Furnishings of Every Description for above
and ASS Other Woodworking Machinery.
