

McEWIIN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
Mining
107 Kent
Sydney,
Street,
—FOR—
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
KXPI OSIVES, B\ ILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
, -
■*»!
Over 2700 Hyciro-iiixtraoturs bold and at worlr
WINE !
WINE ! ). :
• : _]WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849. V
OLPEST l
AUSTRALIAN
£3T Send for Samples and Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & €° ss
Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
ART'
SOLE AGENT!. FOR
BROADBENT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS,
machines have been successfully introduced throu
Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract;, etc.
momals and full particulars.
ghout the Australasian colonies for Prying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar
All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send fo;
THORNE’S
That’s All!
A 1 WHISKY.
HELIDON SPA.
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH & CO. X>tci., Agents, Sydney.
IMV<
RACKAROCK
f/Ct
★
s .
HOT! ATRT.
' ' ■ ""
Hadleys |rientpteS.
' '"V
JyJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS,.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite Sb.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trains. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME
SANDEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
PI 241 PITX STREET, SYDNEY. __
Telegraph—“ HERVEY, SYDNEY."
Mining & Contractors’
Machinery and
Explosives.
>1
if
Builders’ &
Engineers’
Sundries, Belting,
r Oils, Packings, &c.
« Campbell" Gas& Oil Engines.
171 Clarence St., Sydney.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING^
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. G. LUQ9WIGI & SON, LTD.
117 Yorlr-street, SYDNEY.
Branches :—P. Frankel & Co., Edward-sfe, Brisbane, Q.
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Pei;th, W.A. ;IB B. “j?.
Co., Collins-st,, Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter &Co., Auckland.
Blackbume & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, In.A
((
Tales of tile System.
.'RICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
GIRLS AND GRAY HORSI
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
JOHN JAMESON
W SISK Y.
Agents : J. BABBS JOHNSTON & CO.. Loftns Street, Sydney.
OTARD-DUPUY
Estbd.l79s. 25 Years BRANDY.
BALDNESS. -
(Registered.
) Hair-Tonic,
, Thp OaDtain of the New South Wales Cricket Team writes “ 51/01. Your ‘ Capilla ’is indeed a wonderful
ißemedy-it does all you claim for it. Can recommend it to anyone troubled with weak, thin, or falling
Wherever it is possible, CAPILLA will produce hair. None need despair of obtaining: a grood head of hair.
W. RICHARDS, IS3 Pitt-st., Sydney.
!/6 per bottle, post 3/2 ; 4 bottles, which will effect a cure in the most obstinate cases, posted free for 10/-.
NEVER!
NEVER!!
NEVER!!! -4
is a Common Watch.
It may be CHEAP, but it is also
Did you make a bigger mistake than in thinking that a
WAT
ACCURATE, RELIABLE, AND GOOD VALUE.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10h3. CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for'
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORB
of various sizes supplied.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswau - Lamp.
roiSWAN
W
ECONOMY TN -
- CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light,
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
imitations.
ibs ha mm
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildin s Edward-st., Brisbane
The Bulletin
Vol 22. \N" 1116 j
f Saturday, July 6, 1901.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Hudson’s Eurmnthol Jujubes
GOUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
(REGISTERED)
go u
Ms
sspr
m
mm
IN TINS,
is. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POSTIfREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT: 5 and!- QUEEN’S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helrfu! in indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE BED PAGE .
The Case of Kipling — Pro:
IF I understand you, probably your two
main charges are (1) that Kipling’s debts
to his predecessors are far too great and
should be acknowledged, and (2) that the
breaking down or alleged breaking down of his
“omniscience” is a serious blot on the value of
his work,
[For (1) read simply, Kipling is a plagiarist, and the
practice of plagiary is discreditable. For (2) Kipling
falsifies fact and phrase, and false art is bad art.]
The.first charge is almost as old as the world,
and my answer is “ the thought belongs to the
man who expresses it best.” Do you really think
it a matter of great importance that “Ye Gentle-
men of England ” was written before “Ye Mari-
ners of England ” ?
A verse from each is sufficient answer—
If enemies oppose us
When England is at war
With any foreign nation,
We fear not wounds or scar ;
Our roving guns shall teach ’em
Our valour for to know,
Whilst they reel on the keel,
And the stormy winds do blow.
Britannia needs no bulwarks,
No towers along the steep,
Her march is o’er the mountain waves,
Her home is on the deep.
With thunders from her native oak
She quells the floods below, —
As they roar on the shore,
When the stormy winds do blow ;
When the battle rages loud and long,
And the stormy winds do blow.
The one is mere verse writing, and poor at that;
the other is a trumpet-call that stirred the hearts of
Campbell’s countrymen, and still continues to do
so.
[’T was “ a matter of great importance ” to Campbell,
anyway, because without the original there could have
been no imitation.]
“Indeed, if the works of the great poets teach
anything, it is to hold mere invention somewhat
cheap. It is not the finding of a thing, but the
making something out of it after it is found, that
is of consequence,” says Lowell in his essay on
Chaucer. Again:—“Accordingly Chaucer, like
Shakespeare, invented almost nothing. Where-
ver he found anything directed to Geoffrey
Chaucer he took it and made the most of it. It
w(its not the subject treated, but himself that was the
new thing. ‘ Cela m’ appartient de droit,’ Moli&re
is reported to have said when accused of plagiar-
ism.”
[Lowell’s statements are loose and inaccurate. Moli&re’s
is impudent. Both “the finding ’’and “the makihg”
are of consequence. No finding—-no making.]
Tennyson, who, of course, has often been ac-
cused of plagiarism, once said, “They will not
allow one to say ‘ Ring the bells ’ without finding
we have taken it from Sir P. Sidney, or even to
use such a simple expression as the ocean ‘roars’
without finding out the precise verse in Homer or
Horace from which we have plagiarised it.”
[Yes, when Tennyson talked of plagiarism, Tennyson
knew what he was talking about. “ Courage, my com-
rades ; let us defend ourselves against these rascally
judges ; ” wrote one of Loinbroso’s criminals on his celi-
wall.j
But to come to a poem you have specially
singled out, “ Recessional.” “ His metre is
taken from Quarles, his emotion and attitude
from Newman.” Any special metre is no poet’s
close preserve ; and it cannot be denied that the
metre chosen was an excellent vehicle for what
Kipling had to say. The other charge is more
serious, but surely his “emotion” was that of a
level-headed man in a period of popular excite-
ment, his “attitude ” that of a patriotic man ; and
for his ideas he did not need to go to Newman.
Are they not written in the Old Testament and in
the history of the nations ? “ You admit he did
plagiarise it from somewhere, then ? ” No, I do
not. For it is not plagiarism to re-vitalise old
thoughts. And what is there new to write about
some things. Gould you express penitence with-
out trenching on the penitential psalms ?
[Point was that he did go to Newman, he “ went for ”
Newman like a kangaroo for green corn. As to “ re-
vitalising old thoughts ’’—come back to the point, com-
pare the verses.]
_ It is a question whether there is not a certain
littleness about the way we criticise and carp at
our great men. Cannot we be content to take a
good thing without looking for flaws in it ? I
wonder whether on a great occasion, when the
dumb was made to speak, some critics were found
to say, “Oh, yes, it certainly is very wonderful;
the man speaks quite plainly; but what a bad
accent he has ! ”
[No; must criticise; must point out flaws—otherwise
there’s no distinction between flawed and flawless—Bad
or Pretty-Good steals Good’s credit.]
Now, as regards the “ omniscience.” I regard
this as a much less important question, as Kipling’s
mistakes are usually m details which do not touch
the heart of the matter. It does not trouble me
very much that, in an American round-house, he
would not have heard loco, used for locomotive, or
have said bogie when he meant truck. His school-
boys are near enough to the mark for most people
(a little too diabolically clever, perhaps), and the
weather-stained and worn copy of “ Barrack-room
Ballads ” in front of me was for years the close
companion of a Scotch chief-engineer in the P.
and O. service, who had no little admiration for
the poem called “McAndrew’s Hymn,” and who,
in some ways, might have stood for the portrait of
McAndrew himself. —Percival Seele.
[All details touch the heart of the matter—for the man
who comprehends them. You can’t defend K. on the
ground that you are too ignorant to be offended.]
After all, are the ethics of Art comparable with
the ethics of Life ? Can any man claim specific
rights in an idea which may have come to him in
any one of a dozen ways, from the pure coinage of
his own brain to the plain filching from another
man’s. Once expressed, an idea becomes public
property; often it is public property before being
expressed, a sub-conscious embryo of thought
which the keen observer annexes and materialises
—nobody the wiser. The BookfcUours analogy is
not permissible, is even absurd. A theft of pro-
perty leaves the victim poorer while the community
at large remains untouched. A theft of ideas
(except in the rarest cases) does not impoverish
anyone, it may even enrich ; while undoubted gain
accrues to the community. , e
[As a rule, the man very well knows whether he earned
the idea or fi ched it,-Expressed ideas do not become
public property. There ,s legal copyright in the expres
sion—laws recognition of the author’s property - A fheft
of copyright ideas may impoverish so much that you can
sue for damages-community’s recognition of justice.]
ITow many dozens of obscure writers would
never have been heard of had not Shakespeare'
honoured them by occasional exploitations ” h,
consequence they have been unearthed by inde
fatigable students to loom large awhile in the
glory of a borrowed sunshine. Amidst their
interminable garbage, the poet found pearls (per-
chance they wot not of) which he polished and
reset to the profound content of subsequent
humanity. Where lies the immorality of such an
act which benefits everybody ? In a fable recently
quoted in if. the nightingale wisely comments
that even if the moon borrows its radiance, it does
so to advantage.
' S^ he o] d ar gument of rob to build a church, and
win salvation. Wrong s wrong, whatever accidental good
accrue. J ”
Undoubtedly Kipling invigorates Flecknoe’s
verse, and the excellent closing line is
entirely K’s. “Recessional” and New-
mans poem both express current ideas
i • „ s ß lrl^ sphere of thought. “Bill
Awlur.s is a complete transmutation. Plagiar-
is oft en unconscious. In to-day’s Bulletin
U/b/1) an idea, expressed by myself in conversa-
tion two days previously, in reference to the de-
corations, is formulated almost word for word as
1 uttered it. Has the B. a prior claim to that
idea because it got there first ?
[Defence of the Flecknoe theft makes one gasp ! For
the rest, look at the facts. Certainly the It. has a prior
claim to the expression of the idea. And this coincidence
was unconscious; Kipling’s transference was conscious
and deliberate.]
Kipling must be judged, as all other workers,
by the totality of his achievement, not by the
peccadilloes that blemish it. Such judgment
[Who thought of judging him otherwise ?]
j V rn ?^L l^n^cs ’ P^ ace him us the most vigorous
and healthy of modern literary forces, but as lack-
ing that universality which alone makes for im-
mortality. —Aletes.
Dear Bookfellow. —With reference to your dis-
cussion of Kipling’s plagiarism. There are two
ways of considering the question—one, from the
point of view of the literary artist; the other,
from that of the work of art itself. In estimating
the claims of any literary artist, the fact that he
has drawn upon others must not be overlooked.
But, on the other hand, is it not the aim to pro-
duce somehow or other great works of art? and
finally must they not be judged in and for them-
selves, _as assuredly they will when all else is
buned in the past ? Then, what does it matter
whether the material was supplied by one man
and the art by another ? If every literary artist
had to start with collecting his own material he
would never get to the working of it. If Phidias
had to quarry his own marble, would he be able
also to carve statues? In the world of science we
find men doing nothing more than collecting data
for the generalisations of future scientists. Would
you, on that account, object to the result of the
labour that has been necessarily distributed ? You
may say that Ptolemy, or Copernicus, or Newton,
or Bad was not this or that; yet it is not astrono-
mers we are aiming at, but astronomy.—Sincerely
yours, L. H. S. Brodzky, The University of Mel-
bourne, 17th May, 1901.
[Parallel denied. Put it this way. “If Phidias took an
obscure sculptor’s statues, and altered or improved them,
would he deserve as much original credit as if he had
hewn his own from the marble block?” “It is not in-
dividual wealth we are aiming at, but general prosperity.
That gives the community no right to steal the loose
change from my breeches-pocket.” Astronomy and
literature make no less progress by preventing one man
from cabbaging another’s credit.]
The Bookfellow’s application of the law of literary
honesty is too severe. Many of the speeches in
Shakespeare’s historical plays are mere]y slabs of
Holinshed’s imaginative “Chronicle” done into
blank verse. The famous “cloud-capped towers”
passage resembles some lines by Sir David Lind-
say as closely as Kipling’s “Love and Death”
verses resemble Flecknoe's. Another passage in the
“ Tempest ” is paraphrased from Montaigne, and
as for plots, it is doubtful if Shakespeare ever
invented one. Cray's “Elegy” was described by
Russell Lowell as a mosaic of choice phrases
culled from older writers, and in some editions of.
Cray’s poems many of these originals were
printed in footnotes to do honour to the poet’s
craftsmanship. Burns’s stanza, beginning—
My love is like a red, red rose,
That’s newly sprung in June ; ”
is a scrap of Scottish folk-song with far less altera-
tion than Kipling gave to “ Hab any o’ yo’ seen
my Lulu ? ”
[This is the MacOallum argument that if you multiply
one thief by fifty you make an honest man. Will’ the
deuce should live Smith be excused for stealing my coat
because dead Jones stole trousers?]
Goethe declared in his autobiography that he
had written nothing original ; whatever he had
written he had learnt from other men. In fact,
this “unwritten literary law,” under which Kip-
ling is sentenced to a back seat, is a latter-day
f“ Sentenced to a back seat ” is misrepresentation—
without warrant in the original article.]
notion born of modern self-consciousness and the
multiplication of ill-instructed scribes. The
Bookfellow accepts it and carries it to an extreme,
thinking shame of Kipling for casting his “Reces-
sional ” in a metre which old Francis Quarles had
[Misrepresentation. No “shame” was thought or
ascribed on this account solely. “Shame” was attri-
buted to K. as a conscious plagiarist only ; and his credit
as an original worker was impugned by showing the
extent of his imitations—Quarles’s metre being an inci-
dental part.]
used before him. If the poets agreed with The
>Bookfellow there would soon be no more poetry.
[lf the poets all stole from one another, instead of
trying to voice independent thought, there would soon
be no more poetry.]
The metre in question, bv the way, is also the
metre of Wordsworth’s poem on Daffodils, a
[Roughly speaking, it is. Critically speaking, it is not.
Kipling got “ Recessional” metre from Quarles, not from
Wordsworth, who handles it differently from both
Quarles and Kipling.]
clever parody of which, descriptive of Sydney
trams, appeared recently in The Bulletin with-
out acknowledgment.
[As a'parody. But Kipling’s “parodies” are put for-
ward as original work.]
After all, the principal source of “Recessional”
its attitude, emotion, ideas and phrases—is
neither in Newman, Quarles, Emerson, nor the
newspapers, but the Old Testament; and its imme-
diate effect was not unlike that sought by Hebrew
seers. It changed national sentiment from boast-
ing to prayer. Granted that the prayer was but a
muddle-headed thing and only half sincere, yet it
was better than the brag.—Vincent Naylor.
[Dunno. Prefer blatant brutality to smug hypocrisy.
It profits the Boers nothing that they are sandbagged
rather than dubbed.]
Dear Bookfellow,— “Jjff,” dealing with “The
Strange Ride of Morrowbie Jukes,” has gone
mare’s-nesting. Kipling is quite correct as to the
gun-barrel measurements. Naturally, the man
who is walking out of the quicksand turns to his
own left and right all the time ; and, when he
turns backward, his right and left become re-
versed. “Jiff” should have put himself in the
other fellow’s place. The course, if plotted out as
the man would have walked it, brings him out at
a point considerably beyond and to left of his
starting-point—as Kipling meant. And he does
not retrace his path.
Again, re Victoria “importing jarrah.” Vic.
has imported jarrah for years past, millions of
feet coming in from W.A.; and Maoriland is now
doing likewise. What is more, it is going through
Sydney, the home of superior hardwoods, as wit-
ness the “ Westralia” shipment of loth June, and
the “ Klingamite” of 26th.— Jeff.
(Similar corrections from Y.Y. ; Loafer; St. Araaud *
L.\V. ; Crosby’s. J
Contra:
RE Kipling. Here is an extract from
Ran Francisco Chronicle of April 29,
1901—
Every time Ernest Seton-Thompson appears in a citv
for the first time up comes the discussion as to whether
or not he or Rudyard Kipling was the first in the field
with animal stories. There is no personal controversy
between these two men, for each, of course, has an exact
understanding of his position, but the adherents of both
make merry war at times over their respective merits and
rights. The truth of the matter is that many of the best-
known animal stories by Seton were in print years before j
Kipling thought of his delightful tales of the jungle, and
Kipling very frankly told Seton within the past two years
that his pathetically human story of Molly Cottontail and
her little Raggylug was the inspiration for the Jungle
Books.
the confusion and the injustice come from the fact
that Seton’s stories were not generally known until after
the Jungle Books were the talk of the young and old on
two continents. Seton had not compiled his stories in
their present artistic form until 1893. Kipling copyrighted
his first Jungle Book in 1894. Seton had been writing
animal stories for publication in magazines since 1882, and
“ Molly ” and “ Rag” were given to the public in 1888.
Not until recently has Seton seen fit to make any formal
denial of statements which have affirmed that he took his
cue from Kipling. In referring to it he said :
“ There has been nothing very definite about this talk,
and I said nothing until 1 saw a statement in permanent
form. I immediately wrote to the publisher, and in the
next month’s edition of this publication the correction
will be made. The charge was direct, that I copied my
literary style directly after Kipling. That is not very
pleasant for me when my stories antedate Kipling’s byf
years.”
I have read Seton-Thompson’s book (“ Wild
Animals I Have Known”), and, on comparing it
with the Jungle Books, think it just possible that
Kipling may have obtained his inspiration thence-;
since the root idea is the same, although tlie
styles of the two writers are entirely dis-
similar. Kipling’s work is far more elabo-
rate than that of Thompson. In the latter
author’s book one story (“Lobo, the King Sf
Currumpaw”) deals with the career and exploits
of a pack of wolves in New Mexico, and may pos-
sibly have furnished the idea for Kipling’s
chronicles of the Seeonee Pack. The similarity
of the other stories consists in their description,
from the human standpoint, of the internal
economy of animal communities.
But in Kipling’s tales the naturalist’s hand is
not, so much in evidence as in those of Thompson.
The former writes “ from the inside,” as if he had
been born and bred with his beasts (if the expres-
sion be permissible), while the latter gives the im-
pression that he has been a close observer from the
outside. In short, you are in close companion-
ship with Kipling’s animals, and they are talking
to you, but in the other case, Thompson is there
all the time pointing out their habits and
peculiarities with a lecturer’s baton. As literary
matter, the Jungle Books are infinitely superior,
and, as I have said, the only point of similarity is
the root-idea. —A.M.
[Passed only as collateral evidence that there is such a
thing as “ ’Omer’s bloomin’ lyre. ’]
Kipling’s place in literature will not be defi-
nitely fixed till his claim to speak with authority
about Indian life and character —native and Euro-
pean—is settled once for all. His latest produc-
tion, “Kim,” now running as a serial in the
Australian daily press, will serve to fix him.
“ Kim ” is a type, the son of a European loafer—
the mean white in the coloured man’s country./
The action of the story opens at Lahore,)
the capital of tire Panjab, where Kipling
put in most of his Indian life; and
if he doesn’t know his Lahore he know/
nothing. He does know it on the surface, but hi
makes some wonderful mistakes that show he has
not gone beneath. He does not seem 'to knot
that there are relics of the old Sikh aristocrat
round their one-time capital. “Kim” isintßp
duced playing with some native children. Ther/i
is a native policeman close by. Writes Kipling
“Nay, nay,” said the policeman, shaking;hjs heaii, “
do not understand your talk.” The constable (spokt
Punjabi. |
Which means that street arabs in the capital of
the Panjab did not talk the language of the
country. Then there comes on the scene Kipling’s
idea of a Tibetan lama.
“ ‘ Oh, children, what is that big house? ’ he said, in
very fair Urdu.”
Kipling’s spelling is erratic. A little later he
spells it “ Oordoo.” What is meant is the “ Urdu
Zaban” (army tongue), the Court language of the
Mogul Empire, still, under the name of “Hin-
dustani,” commonly used by those natives
who have much to do with Europeans ; and
the latter, finding it in such general use
among those with whom they have dealings,
imagine it is the general vernacular. When
they step out of the track they find out their mis-
take. Where this lama learned his Urdu is not
stated. It is certainly not spoken in Tibet (a
name he would not recognise) or Ladukb, or even
in the Pamir country. In the Pamir the people
mostly talk Persian. The Tibetans call their
country Bod, and themselves Bod-pa.
The lama drifts into the Jjahore Museum, looks
at the Bud hist monumentfs there, and makes
friends with the Curator, it 1 hen he drifts out, and
suddenly adopts Kim as hi® “chela” (so Kipling
calls it) or disciple. Kim drets a mysterious com-
munication to carry from s»m Afglian horse-dealer
to some military person at/Uraballa. He and the
lama travel by rail in a or/nvded compartment in
which there are a “Sikh/artisan” and a “Dogra
soldier.” Kipling report® in wearisome detail the
talk that is supposed to h/ive gone on among them.
The same might be put/ into the mouths of any
set of countay people tra/velling by rail in any part
of the world. ft is /not the local colour in
Kipling’s dialogue, but fthe absence of local colour
that makes him attracti/ v e- When he tries to put
in an effective touch that sort ho generally
blunders. Here is an (Instance:
Dogra, loq. : “ ‘ We of (the Loodhiana Sikhs,’ he rolled
out sonorously, ‘do not Jrouble our heads with doctrine.
We fight.’ /
‘M.v sister’s brother’s I son is naik (corporal) in that
regiment,’ said the Siklfi craftsman quietly, ‘there are
some Dogra companies tfhere.’ The soldier collapsed, for
a Dogra is of lower cast/- than a Sikh.”
The absurdity of Ah is is made plain by the fact
that the Sikh rem/unces all claims to caste dis-
tinction ; and a DcJgra is, or claims to be, a Raj-
put, the highest of all secular castes. “Caste,”
in Kipling’s mou/b, means the same as social
rank, which is noifsense. The Maharajahs, Sitidia
of Gwalior, andl Holkar of Indore, are both
Sudras, shepherd# by caste. A late Judge of the
Calcutta Suprepi® Court, was a basket-maker by
caste —still lower/ Kipling really knows his In-
dia very imperfectly. He calls all religious
mendicants “ fkquirs,” which is an Arabic
word only applicable to a certain class of
Muslim devotees. The dexterous way in which
he throws in weirds not understood by the general
reader, and oftffcn not clearly by Kipling himself,,
gives bis absurfjS stories an appearanceof authority;
but his characters, whether Irish soldiers, bazaar-
women, cartels, cooks, or beggars, are all alike—
you can find just such people in hundreds about
Covent Garden or Ratcliff highway. It is not
his accurate delineation of character, or his
power of creating situations, that makes Kipling
popular, but the universality of his types.
Kipling is l easy to read because he is common- '
place. _ He makes- few calls on the imagination,
and still ffiwer on the intelligence. You can
always understand Ins characters, because you
can always find people exactly like them among
your own acquaintances. The strange outlandish
names are hardly sufficient to disguise them.
Kiplmjpi in presenting the common-
place under rh4 thinnest of disguises.—
J.R.
In Conclusion;
BEjP'OR'E Art, Justice. A man who sweats
jins brain has just as much right to the
f credit ahd\urofit of his labour as a man
| who sweats his body. The man who
steals the work of another's brain is just as con-
temptible a thief as the man who steals the work
of another’s hands.
Whrii one man sow?, and ploughs, and reaps,
the racial instinct affirms it unjust for another to
seize Ins crop—no matter whether his implements
?,re tie product of others’ invention, no matter
whewer tho. theft is turned to beneficent uses.
Theip is strict analogy 1 between the case of the
husbandman, in that respect, and the ease of the
Tie racial instinct of justice declines to believe
that because robbers formerly flourished, and the
fret of the husbandman’s labour was frequently
stolen by others more powerful, therefore robbery
sh/uld be abetted and legalised to-day. No prece-
ded; justifies an essential injustice.
/The writer’s claim to the fruit of his labour is
n't the less valid to-day because Shakespeare stole
3/0 years ago.
/The ideas of Shakespeare’s day were in many
bspects barbarous. In Shakespeare’s day, a
/vriter stole freely. True. And in Shakespeare’s
/lay £1 per head was paid for the discovery of
/witches, who were hanged duly. We have im-
proved upon Shakespeare’s day in both respects.
But barbarous conceptions still linger. Within
the last decade Irish peasants at Clonmel mur-
dered an old woman as a witch. Within the last
month voices from Sydney and Melbourne Uni-
versities have defended Kipling’s plagiary.
Let us stamp out those barbarous conceptions.
Civilised law, based on the racial sense of jus-
tice, now upholds an author’s property in
his original work for 42 years, and defends
him from piracy. There exists an increasing
body of opinion that, where copyright is clear, the
writer’s title to his property should be as per-
manent as a title to any other kind of property.
The fact that Shakespeare and Moliere took
other people’s property where they found it does
not appear to have' had weight with the enactors
of international copyright.
Thus the opinion of international jurists sup-
ports the racial sense of justice. And the influ-
ence of the best modern writers is thrown against
plagiary. It is the man with nothing to lose who
denounces Property. It is Usually the writer with
nothing to lose who denounces property in
writings.
Because of Art, Justice.
The best economical incentive to industry is
this : that a man shall receive the reward of his
labour.
The best incentive to artistic creation is this :
that the artist shall receive the credit and profit
jof his art. .
i In a community of thieves, industry decays. In
k community of plagiarists, Art decays,
j “ Stop thief ! ” Justice cries it. Art echoes it.
THE BOOKFELLOW.


New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED CHARGES ON
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING- (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over Gd. per lb.,
the charges will be
On Wools realising Gd. and over 4d. per lb.
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under
WAY BILLS sent on application.
WOOL:
£ per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. Gd. per Bale.
Is. Gd. per Bale.
WHEAT.
iccomtoSw Per CeUt ' °° mPared Wlth Pr6ViOUS year - ITnrivalled
OnwciVn''-MrvD R o V ' ng f , ullest particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired,
this Company al<3 abS ° lUtely pl ° teCted under a clause in the Memorandum of Association ol
« Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
v»
C B B
m
wm
m
ssoa
iTss:
mUIM
Vi 5807
58 00
mv.
±zz.
(s nan teed oof to or burn.
\
CERTIFICA TE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
application. Thousands Selling 1 Daily.
rCBB
BRIAR
SUOUIUIISI3IIO
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
PRIZE MEDAL DRESSING.
HAUTHAWAY’S
PEERLESS GLOSS
takes first prize medals at Boston, Vienna, London, Phila-
delphia, Melbourne, and all other leading cities, for pro-
ducing the finest possible polish, and absolute freedom
from all substances injurious to the leather.
It is the favorite dressing of the world for
UDIES’ and CHILDIIEN’S
shoes, as it is easily applied, retains its brilliancy, and will
not rub off and soil garments. Try it once and you will
use it always. Sold nearly everywhere. Made only by
C. L. HALTHAWAY & SONS, BOS I,?l: a. ass '
I to
UliiM
•m
v/x
K
ma
When
writing
please
mention
ELECTRICITY.
s
If you are tired ol STOMACH DRUGGING
. and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
- ELECTRICAL, APPLIANCES, invented by
> Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
sstrator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
£ CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
| THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
Ido not despair, do not suffer
5 LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
' Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.,
3 They impart vigor and potency to every function,
' brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and ,
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy? are light, comfortable, and ,
may be worn without the slightest possibility of 1
detection. They have cured thousands. j
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0 i
Extra powerful, with suspensory
a/oi&jhments 380 |
ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0 1
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and |
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, (
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &e. .
All communications should be addressed to— (
A. D. STEPHENSON, .
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney I
HAVE THE
BEST.
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operated, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR-
securely all kinds of stock.
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS"
“CYCLONE” WOVEN
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 14=3 Sussex St., Sydney.
WIRE FENCE CO
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
KMRRACINO
MEDICAL COIVIIVIOT'ff SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 86 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngaud old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers. ....
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
SPKECHEB and Toasts I'eady-niade for nil occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easv. is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is (id.
Dr. Carver's Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette—Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s Cd.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets op Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art op Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40illns. Is6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Whiter, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is Cd posted.
Editii O’Gorman’s Convent Like Unveiled, ls6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), IsOd post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), is 6d posted.
Ciievasse's Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted,
j Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.— STR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) thal
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any m particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Str€€t, SYPNEY
SKINS
Send Your Consignments op ... .
KANGAROO,
WALLABY,
RABBIT,
OPOSSUM SKINS,
TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. uo.
SYDNEY.
They obtain the Highest Possible Prices.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 O’CONNELL STREET. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, to the Growers,
BONUS 2 PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge \d. per lb. to the Buyers.
“LAWRUS” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest noYelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS A STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only ;
C&Uihltt
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
3TOGDALE & DUFFUS, Finks Buildings, Corner of Elizabeth & Flinders Sts.,
Melbourne; and 422 George St., Sydney.
WHITE’S
PATENT.
Cosset Attachment
WHITE’S
PATENT.
The “TITAN” (Regd.)
InJispensable with the present tight-
fitting skirt.
Produces straight front without in
creasing size of waist or impeding
action in walking, as it does not
require stocking - suspenders to
keep it in position.
Guaranteed not to ride up or wrinkle.
Idealists the symmetry of the figure and
gives indescribable elegance to the simplest
gown.
Reduces High Figures and Large Hips.
Restores the Figure after Confinement.
Affords great support with perfect ease and gives
permanent satisfaction to the wearer.
Can be attached without sewing to any corset. Underskirts
can also be attached without sewing to the lower edge, thus
further reducing size. Worn by Royalty.
Recoirnnendecl by the Medical Profession. Thousands of un-
Without Attachment sollclted Testimonials. To be obtained of all the best Drapers
H meat. and Ladies Outfitters throughout Australasia. With Attachment.
N.ti. When ordering, the size round largest part of hips should be given. Every Attachment is stamped “ TiTAW.'
In Black, White, and Ecru. Price 6/8.
soie a Ma n nufacturer, Mrs, A. WHITE, i, 2 & 3, Langley Court, Long Acre, London, W,G.
<ts- The Trade sullied through all thepriHcifal Wholesale House, in Australia and New Zealand.


TATTERSALL/S.
AdtSress: Care G3O. ADAMS, Hobart
SILYEB CITY C. July 31.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
above.
Please allot me
shares in the
Name
Address
£
Spring H. (Special) Aug. 10.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address,
Adelaide G.N.H. Aug. 10.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me ___shares in the above.
Name
Address
I
Metropolitan S.
Sept. 9.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name
Address __
Metropolitan S. Sept. 9.
(SPECIAL)
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me. shares in above.
Name
Address
Caulfield C., 10,903 at 5; Melbourne C., 10,000 each (new open) at 5 and 20.
For full particulars read our Printed Circular.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


EMULSION
WITH HVPOPHOSPHrraS
Cures Coughs
BUILDS UP THE SYSTEM.
IT is foolish to rely upon ordinary cough
mixtures for the cure of a really
troublesome cough. These mixtures
usually contain opiates that soothe and
quiet the cough temporarily, but do not
cure it. They also frequently disturb
digestion and thus do more harm than
good. What is needed is a remedy that
while having a soothing and healing effect
upon the mucous membrane of the lungs
and air passages, will at the same time
promote appetite, aid digestion, and build
up the health and strength, putting the
system in a condition to resist disease.
Nothing is equal to Angier’s Petroleum
Emulsion for accomplishing this result,
and we are constantly receiving reports
from all over the English speaking world,
showing its remarkable power to relieve
and cure coughs and colds and all chronic
lung affections.
A FREE SAMPLE
On receipt of 4d. for postage.
Mention Sydney Bulletin.
Do not accept inferior imitations made with
ordinary Petroleum.
BE SURE TO GET ANGIER’S.
Of all Chemists & Drug Stores.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., SYDNEY, N.B.W.
m
Losing yonr hair ? Do you bring out
(i combful each morning ? Has it lost
Its natural brightness ? Is it beginning
to look faded and dead ?
Do you like this condition of things ?
Certainly not. Then stop this falling of
tho hair at once. Stop it before your hair
is thin, short, and lifeless. Make your
hair beautiful, glossy, silky, abundant.
Ayer's Hair Vigor
Is a Hair Food.
When your hair is well nourished it
does not come out. ’Tis weak hair,
starved hair, that falls. It’s just so
with thin hair, short hair, rough hair.
Such hair needs feeding. This is why
Ayer’s Hair Vigor stops falling of the
hair.
If your hair is gray, and you don’t
care to look at thirty as if you were
sixty, then you should use Ayer’s Hair
V igor. It always restores color to gray
hair, all the dark, rich, beautiful color
it had when you were young.
prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass.,U. S. A
a
w
PMRoT
Br<we>
fapvOlUtt*
IVoONDC
(bO'&4s (OLPS n J
of”
V /MITATIO^S
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
OONOERNING YOURSELVES.
aoßEss L.D.1., 300 Collins St.. Melbourne
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk STRIPS
Matt a lasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Halt-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane, Q’land
Atistraliai) ProVidcot Society
MONEY TO I.END
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
RICHARD TEECE. General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney.
\yy HMouyf\,
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10Sr
H. Hilb'er,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
Send for a
Catalogue.
91
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Eight Vehicles
The Ilest and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
VVoiks : MELBOURNK-ST., CONCORD, SYDNKY
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
HIGHEST AWARD-SOLD MEDAL—PARIS EXHIBITION, 1900.
For INFANTS
and INVALIDST
MELON’S FOOD yields a complete diet for the youngest
infants, in all climates.
MELON’S FOOD retains its properties for any length of
time and is adapted for use in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD when dissolved in milk, makes a simple
nutritious diet for growing children.
Samples etc., may be obtained of GOLLTN &-Co., 172, Clarence Street, Sydney, 562 4, Bourke
Street, Melbourne, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, and Wellington.
Mellin’s'Food Company tor Australia and New Zealand Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, London.
MELLIM'S EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS,
and BRONCHITIS.
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & 00., 172 Clarence Street, Sydney.
C. BRAHDAUER & Go.’s)
Circular-Pointed Pens. J
Neither scratch nor spurt, the
points being rounded by a new
Seven Prize Medais Awarded
process.
Attention is also
drawn to their
•new
“GRADUATED
SERIES Of PENS.”
C. BRANDAUER & C os
Circular
pointed
■ V,
Each pattern being made in four degrees
of flexibility and Points.
Ask your Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either series.
Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENCLAND
ftsrroßs TO THE OLD COUNTRY
BAILEYS
GLOUCESTER ROAD,
SOUTH KE/SSIfiGTOfL
Under J&tronacje.
Lo/iDorissy.
THE NEW LOUNGE.
HOTEL
One of the FINEST examples
of modern OAK CARVING extant
Self-contained Suites .
Public Rooms opening on to
- PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON.
THE HIGHEST CLASS TOBACCO.
Jk ——
In Three Strengthss MILO, MEDIUM, FULL.
HAS NO EQUAL IN
QUALITY AND
AROMA.
Modern Scientific
Authorities declare
“ARDATH ”
The Healthiest Tobacco I
Name of rearest Agent post free on appl cation to
M. RUTTY & Co., Sydney.
Sole Proprietors: La Capa de la Habana &“ Aa dath ” Fac i ory
Mauufac urers of Pure Tobacco, 62, i eadenlia 1 treet, Loudon E> gland.
IPO •S-’W". Carriage &: Sacidlery 3VEetmf- Compaay
Note our New Address: 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
(close to Kedferu Kailway Station).
When In town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description or
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, i 7 15s. Our Speoial Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, Ell.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we oan. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 pel
oent more for your requirements.
OUK SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Delirered at any Wharf or-
>.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10J-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Large-Eyed Woman.
There is a large-eyed woman known to me,
Broad-browed and tall and good to look upon ;
A master-mind is hers, and quietly
She takes the world’s mischances, one by one;
A coldness wraps her round like icy air,
And, fixed by her great eyes, one scarce can
note
Her bosom’s amplitude that slopes to where
A velvet collar clasps her velvet throat.
The word of fire, the passion-word that burns
Reserve’s congealment and makes hot the blood,
Is quenched by her; so quietly she spurns
The proffered heart, one doubts her womanhood.
She does not yearn as yearned her kin of old,
Nor dream of new awakenings and dawn,
But stands remote from men—her beauty gold,
Rich gold from love’s bright currency with-
drawn.
Yet, while the world roll round, and till it cease,
Tin’s tale is told, told o’er and o’er again,
Though man may love, or love not, as he please,
A woman needs must love or live in vain.
It has been said that love concerns but two —
The lover and the mistress of his heart—
But whom love maketh wise, he knows ’tis true
That in his passion all the world takes part.
The stars are far aloof, the winds are dumb,
The unsealed heart may never guess their worth ;
A bright face opes the door, and in they come—
The sun, the moon, the lights of heaven and
earth.
The power that makes us Nature’s bosom-friend,
Her second self, daemonic or divine,
Is won in earth-near moments, when we bend
To drink emotion’s lava or its wine.
The sun that takes a red farewell, and dips
Beyond the rim, makes earth our fairyland ;
The trees that see the lovers’ meeting lips
Are privy to the kiss, and understand.
The large-eyed woman may be right to hold
Herself sufficient for her own heart-needs,
But when the noon is passed and youth’s fires
cold,
How shall she greet the night hour that
succeeds ?
Those night-hours with their memories old and
stark,
Their voices of the wind-grey ghosts that roam,
And, worst of all, that picture in the dark—
The empty cradle and the childless home.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
A Prayer.
“ More light ! ’’—Goethe.
Give me to see, O God, that I
May pierce the mists that round about me lie
And find, if not Infinity,
Something to grasp and hold until I die.
Give me a truth in clear and faultless form,
Free from the scars and dints of priests,
Undimmed by blood, unsullied by the storm
Of Christians wrangling like the beasts.
Write it, O Lord, in stars across the blue
That I, my brothers, all, may read.
Dispel the dogmas dark and drear that You
Must sure have shuddered at. Oh, lead
My struggling soul to know, Lord, and to see.
Give knowledge, God, ’tis all I ask of Thee.
v.
FRANK RADCLIFFE.
An Aspiration.
Music, with the tears in it,
Through my soul is ringing ;
Moods like bodies flame and flit
Through the spirit’s singing :
Dream-birds half-articulate,
Which no charms can capture,
Come by twos and nest and mate
In a moment’s rapture.
Now I seem to be upborne
On a starry pinion
Where the poet’s hope forlorn
Has divine dominion —
Where he sees the clouds of earth
Gather light and cluster,
As babes on the dawn of Birth
Watch the visions muster !
All that thought and feeling share
In a soul’s possession
To my singing seems to bear
A divine confession ;
As within my dreaming brain
Lips of inspiration
Breathe the beauty gone again
On a new creation.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.
Irrigation is getting on in this country.
For instance, Queensland had 9648 acres of irri-
gated land in 1898, and by 1900 the irrigated area
had declined to 6969 acres.
Bananaland Govt., frightened by Cen-
tralian agitation, withdrew some of the land
(Logan Downs) recently put up for sacrifice.
Huge blocks of the public estate, however, are to
be sold within the next few weeks both in town
and country.


CALKIN CUPEL MACHINES.
rT
iSiliUl
Calkin's Automatic Cupel Machine.
Will make 600 cupels of uniform size
and density in an hour.
The only absolutely satisfactory machine
made.
Made in three designs—Automatic, Table
and Wall.
The automatic machines will make five sizes.
The table and wall machines from one to
three sizes, depending on dies furnished.
Machines for one size only at propor-
tionately less price.
Write for full particulars to
SOLE AGENTS-
nHEiun company m.
60 Glarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
Importers of modern appliances for Assayers—Furnaces,
Blowers, Sampling 1 Machines, Ore Crushers, etc., etc.
Gentlemen’s^
GOLD . ■
ALBERTS
English Hall-Marked
and Stamped on
Every Part.
I Art
Jewellers
&c.
%
st I
Sydney.
Please send for our'lllustrated Sheets of Novelties.
All Goods Forwarded Post Free.
ENGLISH HALL-MARKED ALBERTS.
9c. Gold, Single
15c. Gold, Single -
Silver, Single -
9c. Gold, Double -
15c. Gold, Double -
Silver, Double
50/-,
95/-,
7/6,
60/-,
110/-,
10/-,
60/-,
110/-,
10/-,
75/-,
130/-,
12/6,
70/-
130/-
13/6
90/-
150/-
15/-
50 OTHER PATTERNS IN STOCK.
New Pattern, Gent.’s Hall-Marked ALBERT.
Silver, single, 7/6 ; double, 10/6.
Gold, single, 70/- ; double, 90/-.
((
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 63. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
A. BOWMAN’S
You Can Have
English Boots
.. AT . .
London Prices.
Best Style.
Best Quality.
No
Better
Made.
We do One Line—Gentlemen’s Boots—only.
That one we do Well.
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St., and
145 KING ST., op. Theatre Royal, SYDNEY
Also 294 Collins St., Melbourne.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
The *
Excellence
of
all
Bottled
Brandy
bearing
this
Label
is
Guaranteed.
BRANDY
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
a
\ .i-
a
m
rM
v.v 1
i-1
S'm
VjSi
';, i \ \ .' \
inkrt
mi®
me
V A
if
!3fe-
1/
EAfaS!
K$
UK*
VVi
%
\'i
r-.arw nri fa m. . ,
' ' T ■ * i
.
m
■ ■ it
§ SI
'
:
*% 'x> fiP I
sms^-n
M
' : 1
ii
- '
taasa*
So*
i
>
v
r!
. ; .. . .
5 i*
r>c#ri# ..-a»
I m
..
m
.ft
mm
91
■
m
ms.
Manufacturers of the Great
YAMKEE DOODLE light & dark tobacco.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 22.—N0. 1116.
SATURDAY, JULY 6, 1001.
Priob in.
THE TREASON LIBEL INCIDENT IN VIC. ASSEMBLY.
DE IMPERIAL PARLIAMENT (TO VICTORIAN ASSEMBLY ) : “ WHY, I’M BLEST IF YOU’RE NOT A BIGGER TOAD THAN I AM!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... ® 2
Half-yearly . ... ... ... 01% 6
Quarterly ... ... ... Poo
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Alaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
HI, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lid. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this numbers is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ’* column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns m length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2!£ Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
jß^^xilleZz/Ti.
SATURDAY, JULY 6, 1901.
Federal Life Assurance.
Whbj* the Federal House of Representatives
got as far as clause 43 of the Public Service
Bill—the clause which provides that every
Federal public servant must insure his life —
it naturally struck against the question of
Government v. private life assurance. Any-
body might have foreseen that clause 43
would necessarily raise this question, yet
apparently the Government hadn’t con-
sidered what course to adopt It had no
opinion ready, and nothing to propose.
Hume Cook, of Victoria, moved that there
should be a Federal Life Assurance Depart-
ment, in which every policy would be fully
guaranteed by the Commonwealth Go-
vernment ; and O’Malley, from Tas-
mania, proposed that instead there should
be careful Government audit and supervi-
sion of private offices, those which
could pass through the needle’s eye of a
rigid overhaul should be accepted under the
Act. It is difficult to see why this
should be regarded as an amendment
instead of an addition; a Government
office and Government supervision of
private offices are equally essential. But
the second proposal was apparently as
new to the Government as the first'one,
and all that William Lyne could do was to
promise that the Ministry would retire
within itself, in a manner of speaking, and
give way to deep contemplation. Appar-
ently the only idea up to then
was that it should be compulsory for
every civil servant to,pay his premiums to
some offiqe, good, bad, or awful ; yet that
the Commonwealth should give him no
advice or guidance or information as to the
best place to pay them, nor offer him any
guarantee whatever that his compulsory
policy would be worth its alleged value on
maturity.
This would be, in every respect, an un-
satisfactory arrangement. The Government
tias no right to compel its servants to pay
good money for a document which may, in
the end, prove almost valueless. In the
N.S.W. Public Service new appointees are
now required to insure in some office
approved by the Board, but as the Board
doesn’t audit the accounts of the offices
it approves, and as it approves of prac-
tically every office, the alleged safe-
guard thus afforded is worth about half
of nothing. When the Government compels
its servants to pay for a life policy
they have every right to demand that it shall
be not only the safest one that can be sup-
plied, but also the most economical. That
kind of policy can’t be supplied by any
private office, however well managed. In-
tense and costly competition makes it im-
possible.
* * • »
If the Federal Government founded a
Life Assurance Department of its own, and
compelled all its servants to insure therein,
all the cost of competition would be elimi-
nated. The department would start work
with a large and reliable connection ready
made. Its connection would be a constantly-
growing one, for the number of departments
transferred from the States to the Common-
wealth must increase, and the size of the
departments must increase also with the
growth of the nation. The Federal Life
Office needn’t advertise to any great extent.
It need pay no commission in order to get
business ; its business would be there, ready
to hand. It need pay nothing even for the
collection of premiums ; the Treasury would
collect its premiums by deduction from the
public servants’ salaries. It would require no
palatial offices to make itself known. It
could take what outside business came to it,
and probably a good deal would come in
course of time, for the intelligent man who
assures his life looks for an office which will
be perfectly safe; but, as it could dispense
with outside business, it wouldn’t need to hire
agents and other expensive appliances in
order to get it. It wouldn’t require branch
offices and branch staffs, secretaries and
managers. With the Treasury and all the
sub-Treasuries and the post-offices as its
agents, such things would be quite unneces-
sary. It could invest all its funds, except
those which went in advances on its own
policies, in State and good municipal securi-
ties. These are always obtainable and
always marketable, so it would need to keep
an infinitesimal cash - balance lying idle.
This form of investment would make it un-
necessary to maintain any large staff to look
after mortgages, advances and foreclosed
properties, aud w'ould save these heavy
periodical losses that arise through the
slumping of the property-market, so it is
quite probable that the Federal Life Assur-
ance Department w r ould realise almost as large
a net rate of interest as the average private
office does on much more risky securities.
And its expenses, with no commission to pay
and all these other economies in management,
should be less than 5 per cent, of total in-
come to begin with, with every probability
that they would get down, as the office
expanded, to 2or per cent. The Equit-
able (of England) is a mutual office which
pays no commission, just like the Federal
institution above suggested, and it is man-
aged (according to latest available balance-
sheet —that for 1899) at an expense rate of
3j per cent, on total income. The A.M.P.’s
rate is over 9 per cent. The average
expenses of the 12 existing large Australian
offices are 13j per cent, on total income ; if
all Australian offices were included it would
be rather more. And the proposed Federal
institution would have a huge advantage over
even the Equitable, for it wouldn’t require
the branches or the advertising that is neces-
sary to that office, and it would start with a
large and certain business which the Equit-
able didn’t. The Federal office, under its
novel conditions, would almost certainly be
able to pay larger bonuses than the best
existing life office, and give better security
—the security of all Australia—as well.
And the public servant, as a person with
whom life assurance is compulsory, has a
right to demand the best and cheapest kind
obtainable.
* * * *
These advantages can only be obtained
if he is compelled to insure in one specified
office. If he is simply compelled to insure
in some office, he will fall a prey, as usual, to
the horde of rival assurance agents ; their
commissions and expenses will come out of
his premium as usual ; the expense rate will
remain practically the same, and all the
economies which might be made to attach to
the compulsory system will be lost. Of
course, life assurance managers and agents
and experts will state, out of their years of
accumulated experience, that these theories
are incapable of being reduced to practice,
and. will give their unanimous opinion that
the idea of a Federal Life Assurance
Department is unworkable. Almost all the
available experts are engaged in private life
assurance, and can’t be expected to have any
other opinion of a scheme which will deprive
them of thousands of possible customers, and
set up a rival institution as well. Even that
usually stern democrat, O’Malley of the
Hat, as a man who has long been making a
good and honest living out of life assurance
commissions, can hardly take a perfectly
unbiassed view of a system which, however
good it may be for the assured, will pay no
commission to any persuasive individual in
a large hat. The only expert who can be
expected, to view the idea with general
favor is the one who sees a pros-
pect of being appointed to manage the
new office, and as he will also be an
interested party his approval will count for
just about as much as the other people s
condemnation. The question is one which
must be looked at in the light of arithmetic
and common-sense. The example of Maori-
land proves that a State Life Assurance
Department can be made a great success.
That of Queensland shows that a State note-
issue has none of the horrors attached it
which the banking “ expert ” foretold. The
State Banks of Sweden, Norway, Denmark,
&c., are evidences that State banking isn t
the wild impossibility the private banking
authority is apt to declare it. These are till
matters which the Federal Parliament will
have to consider, and they are all matters
with regard to which it will receive much
valuable misinformation from interested
persons of high commercial standing.
The Insolence of Self-Appointed
Persons.
“.I wish to warn the electors against the Independent
candidate. There is no room in Parliament for the inde-
pendent.”—One-time Labor-member Watson, M.U.R.
“ If on the high seas a British man-of-war meets a ship
which refuses to show its colors, the conclusion which
would he drawn would be that the ship in question is
engaged in some ambiguous design. In the same way the
candidate who poses as an independent, and refuses to
range himself under any banner, will generally be found
to be embarked on the enterprise of extracting funds
from the Treasury for roads and bridges for his con-
stituents.” — G. E. Rich, in S.M. Herald.
The above are fair samples of an immense body of
literature lately issued in the interests of Machine
Politics, and for the support of Machine Politics,
and the discouragement of the art of think-
ing for oneself. For many weeks past two
unspeakably insolent gangs of Self-Appointed
Persons have grabbed New South Wales by the
throat, and told it that if it dared to have any
opinion of its own apart from the opinion of See
or Lee, or if it dared to think for itself apart from
the thoughts of See or Lee, it was a traitor, a
blackguard, a pirate, an underhand person, and a
disgrace generally. These two gangs of Self-
Appointed Persons have formed themselves
into committees to which the people cer-
tainly never appointed them—and lectured the
community furiously about how it was its duty to
be wholly and completely devoted to See— or else
to Lee. They and their press organs formed tvyo
rival camps of ridiculous political bosses. One of
these held that the fifth-rate mediocrity, See,
never did anything wrong, and all his public
actions were quite defensible, while Lee never did
anything right. The other held that the tenth-
rate mediocrity, Lee, always had shown himself,
and always would show himself, a perfect legis-
lator, while every political action of See was only
another proof of his utter incapacity.
* * » *
And these two gatherings of Self-Appointed
Persons laid this alternative before New South
Wales: “ Here fire two dismally-commonplace
men. You didn’t appoint one of them to be pre-
sent Premier or the other to be Premier-elect.
One man took the billet of Premier because
another man dropped it and went away. The
other took the billet of Leader of the Opposition,
which carries with it, some day or other, the
inheritance of the Premiership, because another
man dropped it and went away. But, though you
didn’t select either of them to his high office, we,
the crowd of Self-Appointed Persons who are
running the political machine, demand that you
regard one or other of these dismally-common-
place men as a heaven-sent genius, and the
other as the last possibility in the way of a
fool—that you approve of everything one does
and disapprove of everything the other does—that
you get into a drivelling state of ecstasy and
superlatives about them, and ask for nothing
better than Lee— or else See. If you recognise
that they are two very ordinary men and that
there is little to choose between them, you are a
time-server and a hypocrite. If you think that
neither of them has any of the qualifications for a
leader, you are a ruffian. If you hold that it is
advisable to send men into Parliament who are
not pledged to blindly support every disastrous
project of one or other of these most incapable in-
dividuals, then there are no words strong enough
to express the just contempt of the committees of
Self-Appointed Persons. Lee represents the old
Reid crowd, which had visible deficits averaging
£196,838 per annum, and which had somewhere
between £200,000 and £500,000 a year of further
deficits, which it disguised by shamefully cooking
the accounts. See represents the Lyne crowd,
which had deficits for the past two years that look
like a good average of £368,000 a year, and which
also cooked the accounts. You have got to believe
that one of these parties never had, and never
could have, any serious deficit, and was quite in-
capable of cooking the accounts —you have got to
believe this despite the evidence of the Auditor-
General’s reports or any other testimony. If you
don’t, you are a disgrace to this great country.
Lee represents the crowd which, in its last year
of office, in addition to its other deficits and fakes,
used nearly £BOO,OOO of loan-money as revenue;
and See represents the other crowd which did the
same. If you want honest finance, and refuse to
support either of these spendthrifts, your iniquity
calls for the loathing of every good Machine Poli-
tician, and the utter contempt of the Gang of
Self-Appointed Persons who pull the party wires
will be rightfully poured on your head.”
• ♦ * •
The figure of speech about the suspicious char-
acter of the vessel, that is met with on the high
seas and won’t show its flag, has been worn thread-
bare. Also, it was a profoundly foolish metaphor
from the first. The Machine Politician starts
by assuming, on the evidence of his own unsup-
ported say-so, that there are only two possible
flags. He insists on his right to stop every vessel
on the political high seas and demand : “ Are you
Dutch or Greek? We have decided that you
must be one or the other. Show your flag as an
honest vessel should, and let us know which you
are.” And if the vessel is British, French, Ger-
man or American, and won’t show either of the
flags between which the committee of Self-
Appointed Persons declares that every vessel
must choose, the latter crowd goes away cursing
and says, “ This vessel is obviously a pirate with
bad intentions.” The Machine Politician claims
the right, conferred on himself by himself, to bail
up every citizen and truculently demand if he is a
Shaker or a Mormon, and to call him a truckler
and a time-server if—being neither of them—he
won’t say which of them he is. This is all very
amusing. It is also very pitiful.
* * » »
The existing Parliamentary system is built on
Machine Politics. It is based on the under-
standing that there are to be two parties in
Parliament, one of which will endorse everything
that See does, however foolish, shameful, or in-
jurious ; while the other will endorse everything
Lee does, even if it is worse than the things See
does. And if Lee tries to do something really
good it is the duty of the See party, in a general
way, to say it is bad; and if See tries to be of im-
mense benefit to the country it is the duty of the
Lee party, except in very exceptional cases, to be
convinced that his conduct is awful. In N.S.W.,
the fiscal fight has, for many years, made the
dividing line between parties unusually sharp,
and the slavish party feeling unusually strong.
The visible result isthatN.S.W. has the biggest
total debt, the most regular annual deficit, and the
largest accumulated deficit in the Commonwealth.
During the last dozen years or so it was hardly
worth trying to be honest. The man in power
knew that his party and his papers would swear
the finances were in excellent order however bad
they were, while the other party and the other
Eapers would swear they were utterly bankrupt
owever good they were. The man with most
papers, or the most unscrupulous papers, on his
side, was almost certain to win, therefore Dibbs,
the most careful Treasurer N.S.W. had for the
last fifteen years, is still held up—mainly by
reason of the loathsome Telegraph and Herald
—as the boss deficit-monger, and Reid, the very
worst one, is boomed as a kind of monetary arch-
angel. When the Lee crowd was in power
its majority refused to do anything to _ put
things right because it was its business
to swear, against all truth and evidence,
that things couldn't be wrong with the Lee crowd
in power. When the See crowd was in power,
its crowd swore the same way, with the same
result. The papers which supported each party
swore the same way also. See’s crowd or Lee’s
crowd couldn’t reject its leader’s financial schemes
and tell him that, though supporting him on other
matters and regarding him as the best man for
the office of Premier, it insisted on this matter
being put straight. As Parliamentary etiquette
goes, to admit that anything wanted to be put
straight, meant throwing out the Ministry and
Eutting the other crowd in office. That would
ave been an unpardonable breach of party
allegiance. It would have burst up Machine
Politics. The thing to do was to let the country
go from bad to worse, and manfully deny that it
was doing so. The party politician must either
be a traitor to his party, or a liar for his party.
♦ * * *
One way to begin putting things right is to
make the Premier an officer elected by the As-
sembly. At present things go something like
this. The Opposition loses its leader from some
cause or other, and has to elect a successor. It
may be a bad time with the Opposition, when some
of the leading men on its end of the political
machine are not in the House. It numbers, per-
haps, one-third of the Assembly. The new leader
—possibly the best man, or possibly only the fifth
best man, available —is elected by, say, a two-
thirds majority of the party. That means that he
gets 28 votes in a Rouse of 125 members. Then
it straightway becomes the business of the party,
and the papers which support it, to create a bogus
halo of intelligence round him—to prove that he
is the country’s greatest political genius—to show
that everything he does is right. To doubt or
criticise him becomes treason to the party and a
desertion of the party’s flag. The next election,
possibly, gives his party a majority. Say it
has 70 votes. Some of these who elected the
leader may have died or dropped out, and he
may hold the leadership of a party of 70 because
20 of them voted for him years previously, and he
Premier in a House of 125 by reason of these same
20 votes. The Machine System keeps him in
office, which is a ridiculous travesty on Govern-
ment by the People. In addition to making the
Premier an officer elected by the whole House at
the beginning of a new Parliament, it is necessary
to break up the absurd fiction by which the
Government is supposed to “ possess the full con-
fidence of the House.” Nobody in this world
possesses the full confidence of anybody without
somebody getting left. It is necessary to have it
understood that the House does not regard the
Government as infallible; that Ministers are not
expected to be gods or archangels at £l5OO a year;
that the House can amend or reject Government
measures to any extent without thereby declaring
it has lost confidence in the Ministry, unless it
declares its loss of confidence by a direct vote.
In short, it should be understood that the House
keeps the Ministry in office because it regards it
as a trifle better than any other possible
Ministry just then, and has just as much con-
fidence in it as in any other carefully-supervised
and audited fellow-creature.
* * • *
Further, there is badly wanted a system of
second and third ballots, or some other device
which will make it quite sure that no one who
doesn’t really represent a majority of the votes
polled will get into the House. Then there will
be a fair chance for the independent member. Ila
is the outward sign of a blessed, though it
may be only temporary, revolt against the
blatant insolence of Self-Appointed Persons.
Self-Appointed Persons supply the electorates
with candidates. They turn the handle of
the great cursing - machine which impresses
on the people the utter sinfulness of not
supporting these candidates. These candidates
are pledged to approve blindly of every-
thing that See or Lee does, and of everything
done by anybody on whom See or Lee may
confer a portfolio. The public is ordered to
vote blindly for the man who is going to approve
blindly of what See does, or of what Lee does.
The association of Self-Appointed Persons creates
See and Lee by a process of selection over which
the people have no direct, and very little indirect,
control. The Self-Appointed Persons issue their
ukase that the whole community must divide
itself into two sections—the one that approves
of See, and the one that approves of Lee.
The independent candidate is a protest against
this silly and sheep-like superstition. He
states his principles, or what he thinks are
his principles, and undertakes to go by
them, instead of being anybody’s blind idola-
ter, and he invites the public to do likewise.
And the rage of Self-Appointed Persons at the
uprising of certain people who don’t think that
the sun rises out of Lee’s hat and sets in See’s
tail-pocket is something tremendous tc look upon.
The Scapegoat of Hysteria.
Vic. Assembly’s expulsion of Labor-member
Findley was a typical example of mob law and a
lynching. The essence of mob law is that it dis-
penses with trial and anticipates justice. Premier
Peacock was so eager to prove liis “loyalty”
that he desired the Assembly to expel Findley on
his ex parte asseverations, in ignorance of the
facts; and the Assembly nearly did it. The
hysteria, the sheepishness, —all the concomitants
of mob law were present. And Findley, because
he was only an obscure Labor-member, was
lynched.


To any such body as Yio. Assembly must be
conoeded the right to expel any displeasing mem-
ber. But as a representative and public body
Vie. Assembly has to justify its employment of its
right. A Vic. Govt., and Vic. Assembly,
are not established to exercise judicial func-
tions ; they are not fitted to exercise
them. There is too much usurpation
of judicial functions by Australian Govt,
executives. Either Findley was guilty of an
offence at law, or he was not. If he was guilty,
his offence should have been legally proved before
he was punished. If he was not guilty, Vic.
Assembly was wrong to expel him. Even a Jingo
Ministry should not over-ride the law.
* * * *
The facts may be briefly stated. On 11th May
a newspaper, the Irish People, published a vio-
lent and abusive article against the British King.
There was little new in it; most of the statements
have appeared hundreds of times already ; some
of them seem to be essentially true. The article
was in no way obscene, as alleged. It was coarse
and unjustified ; there was some reason for its
publication, none for its tone. King Edward lias
probably used his opportunities, yielded to his
temptations, as most other men would have done
in his place. On the whole, his character seems
to The Bulletin better than that of any British
King for several centuries past ; though the
truth about Britisli Kings usually filters out
only when they are dead.
* * * *
It seems to The Bulletin that the Tocsin had
no right to appeal to the liberty of the press in
order to reprint an indefensible article. King
Edward, as a public person, is subject to public
criticism in the public interest ; and if his private
life were publicly and notoriously scandalous, in
the worst sense, then criticism of his private life
would be justified as a matter of public morals.
The Irish People did not produce any evidence
that King Edward is any worse than the average
man. It merely said abusive things, more or less
unwarranted by rumor.
* • * *
Then the British Govt, suppressed the Irish
People— a quite unwarrantable act. No Govern-
ment, in a free country, has a right to make itself
judge and jury, to supplant common justice, and
to supersede the ordinary process of law. That
is an offence against popular liberty much greater
than any possible offence which could be caused
by an alleged libel on the British monarch. It is
the thin end of the wedge of Tyranny, and
should be protested against by every man who
values his freedom. The British monarch is under
the law, or should be, just as much as the humblest
citizen. The British Govt, should have been the
last to bring the law into disrepute.
• * * *
Similarly with The Tocsin. If The Tocsin
broke the law, there was the law to punish it. If
in the opinion of Vic. Govt, and Vic. Assembly
the law was insufficient to punish it, then the law
could be amended. It is much better that 15,000
British monarchs should be the subject of alleged
libel than that popular liberty should be infringed
by one iota. And when Vic. Assembly usurps
the place of the Vic. judiciary, popular liberty is
attacked by those who should be first to uphold it.
* * * *
“ Alleged libel ’’—for, after all the fuss, that is
what it is. Until the matter has been decided by
a court of justice, it is impossible to reach that
finality of opinion which stands for judgment.
Premier Peacock, the Argus, and their cohort
have supplied, in the place of judgment, ideas,
prejudices, hysterics. And Labor-member Find-
ley is the scapegoat of hysteria.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Jingo Sacrifice.
Victoria's Legislative Assembly has once again
—as when in the boom days it got upon its hind
legs and roared “ God Save the Queen ” for the
space of five minutes —demonstrated its exceeding
loyalty to the Throne and Person, said demonstra-
tion being, as usual, at the expense of the other
fellow. The other fellow this time was Findley,
M.L.A., who—as nominal publisher of the Labor
paper, The Tocsin —was responsible for the
appearance of an article protesting against the
suppression of the Irish People, and quoting
therefrom the libellous article on Edward VII.
The Ar&US had persistently sooled on Premier
Peacock to violent action against Findley, and
the spineless Premier, having first cabled to Cham-
berlain and received his blessing, went ahead
and invited Findley to apologise. Findley
stated that—though nominal publisher—he had no
control over what went into the paper, that he
had neither written the article nor even read it
until the Argus started squealing, that he had
promptly stopped the sale of the paper and in-
tended to sever his connection therewith. Also,
he pointed out that The Tocsin made no charges
against the King, but had actually condemned
those made by the Irish People as mere abuse;
also, that the Argus itself, in its London
letters, had repeated some of the libels
without any word of condemnation. But
•this wasn’t enough. Peacock thought there
should be an unqualified disavowal and
disapproval of the sentiments, and Findley re-
plied, “ I regret that the article has given offence
to this House, and that it appeared, . . . Since,
in the opinion of the Cabinet and the House, it is
an article that should not have appeared, I am
sorry that it was published.” But Peacock broke
in that that was not sufficient, while Irvine, for
the Opposition, opined that no apology, however
abject, could be accepted. Once more Findley
addressed the House : “ I repeat, in all
sincerity, that I have no sympathy with
the article in question; I regret that it did
appear, and having taken the oath of allegiance to
the King, 1 say that oath was taken by me in all
sincerity.” He then retired, and while brave
Jack Murray, Sangster, Billson, and others
fought on his behalf the stolid Tories and the
Liberal Jingoes turned their faces to the floor, and
shut their ears till the vote was taken. Findley
was expelled by 04 votes to 17. The Bulletin
trusts that the Vic. Jingoes are proud of their
work; but, while they are still pluming themselves
on their loyalty, it would like to point out one or
two things. Nobody suggested that, as the
paper—of which Findley was merely nominal
publisher—was the offender, its owners should
be punished by a stiff fine. Nobody suggested that
The Tocsin should be suppressed. Nobody hinted
that the writer of the article should be made to
face the music. Nobody wrung from Peacock
the contents of the cable he sent to Joseph the
Screw-maker, or his reply. Murray- tried hard,
but the kookaburra was as close as “a sealed
oyster.” Wherefore The Bulletin concludes
that it wasn’t the Tocsin, or that paper’s editor,
or the person really responsible for the re-publica-
tua cf the alleged libel that the Jingoes were
after, out Findley -the democratic represen-
tative of Melbourne City—and they want to
have nim at any cost. If the Tocsin had libelled
King Edward, surely the Victorian Law was
strong enough and wide enough to have reaohed
the libeller. As it is, the Tocsin proceeds on its
course while Findley is sacrificed—an offering to
the self-esteem, the alleged dignity, of Vie. As-
sembly—-a House that has tolerated unspeakable
persons in its chair ; that was bossed by boomster
Jimmy Munro and by Patterson; that lost its
mace and sent the detectives hunting round
bawdy-houses to find it. The Dignity of the Vic-
torian Assembly ! !
+
More Federal Capital.
Senator Smith, of Westralia, last week moved
that the Federal Government should take over
1000 square miles of land to form a Federal Terri-
tory and capital, and be the sole and permanent
landlord of that area, so that the increased land
values created by the building of a new city with
the people’s money may remain the people’s
property, and not spread over the Federal border
to be grabbed by the private landlord outside.
For such a purpose 1000 square miles is an ab-
surdly inadequate area, though it is far better
than the miserable minimum of 100 square miles
mentioned in the Constitution Act. But even
this very moderate proposal aggravated the land-
syndicate gang and their sympathisers to great
bitterness, and it proceeded to demonstrate the
impossibility of the idea on the ground of expense.
Sydney Telegraph declared the proposal was
“ quixotic.” And Senator Jawbone Neild :
Pointed out that they could not find a thousand miles
of suitable territory in New South Wales for Federal
Capital purposes that would not involve the resumption
of so large an area of private property, which no member
and no self-respecting Government would be likely to look
at. (Cheers.)
Well, supposing the Federal Government, instead
of resuming 1000, resumed 5000 square miles.
If the site was in the Monaro district that area
might include the great and rising towns of
Cooma, Bombala, Delegate, Nimitybelle, Bibben-
luke and Buckley’s Crossing. Cooma and Bom-
bala together are valued, lock, stock and barrel, at
£200,800 (Cooma £218,100; Bombala £72,700).
This is the municipal valuation. The other places
have no municipal valuation, but they, and a few
other hamlets, would about make up another
Bombala. They might run up the valuation of
the town property to £370,000. If Eden, Bega, Can-
delo, Cathcart and Wyndham were thrown in the
town property would be worth less than a million.
Much of this proposed area of 5000 square miles—
the mountain part of it—is Crown land. But if
the whole of it was private land at an average
value of £2 an acre it wouldn’t cost over six
millions—unless the Government allowed itself to
be shamefully swindled in the process of re-
purchase. By adopting the Canadian banking
law, under which the banks are required to
hold at least 40 per cent, of their cash re-
serves in State notes, and by making the note
issue a Government monopoly, as in Queensland,
the Commonwealth could get the perpetual loan,
without interest, of twice that sum. And when it
built its Federal city on this bare land, the area
which is now worth £6,000,000 would soon be
worth £12,000,000. The theory of the Neild crowd
is that no self-respecting Government would make
a profit of £6,000,000. The theory of the Tele-
graph is that for the Commonwealth to make that
profit, instead of leaving it to private owners,
would be “quixotic.” The theory of the private
steal crowd in general is that, though private
landlords can afford to own this property, and
can get a decent return out of it without the ad-
vantage of any new city in their vicinity to make
a big increase in values, the Commonwealth can’t
afford to own it even with that advantage ! The
Commonwealth can’t afford to make money, in
fact, lest it shall be ruined. The very large
item of expense involved in the creation of
a Federal city will be the same whether the
Commonwealth takes over 100 square miles or
5000. The only difference will be that in the
latter case all the increased rentals created around
the city—created by the expenditure of the Com-
monwealth’s money—will go to the Common-
wealth, and help to pay for the city; in the
former case they won’t/ And the private-steal
crowd laments that, if the Commonwealth gets
these increased rentals, it will go broke. The
transaction which The Bulletin proposes—the
absolute resumption of 5000 square miles—is no
heavier a contract, in proportion to the resources
of the Commonwealth, than the Sydney city re-
sumptions were, in proportion to the resources of
N.S.W. And, if these latter resumptions are
quixotic and ruinous, and all that kind of thing,
the Sydney Telegraph’s big boss, Carey,
shouldn’t countenance them by taking a salary as
a member of the Resumption Board.
<+.
The Rage of Victoria’s 48 Rich
Landlords.
The Peacock Government met Victoria’s State
Parliament with a long programme of reforms,
but the one which obscured all others was the
proposal that a Convention should be elected by
the people to draft a new State Constitution.
Since then, the anger of the House of 48 Rich
Landlords has left a streak of sulphur over the
land. The House of Landlords has a creed which.
goes into three clauses, and these are the three :
(1) The Legislative Council is a perfectly satisfactory
body, with which the country is quite content.
(2) Any proposal to let the country have a chance to
freely express its contentment, and to sav clearly and
distinctly that it.wouldn’t be without its 48 Rich Land-
lords on any account, and to thank them cordially and
vote for their indefinite continuance, is a sin, a curse, an
outrage, a blot on the Constitution, and an invention of
the Devil.
(3) The reason why it isn’t necessary to let the people
have a chance to say how thoroughly satisfied they are
with the Upper House is simply that they are satisfied.
For the Upper House to say that the people are satisfied
is all right. To give the people a chance to say it them-
selves would be a disgrace, and would wreck the country
in six places
The Council’s special organ, Melbourne Argus, is
specially violent on these points. That heavy
mass of literature sets forth the position thus :
The Council exists for and represents all classes, ail in-
terests. If it be, in any sense, the special guardian of
the interests of property it is so only so far as these
specially concern the prosperity of the whole community.
... It has done its work so well that its constituents
have been generally satisfied.
And yet Peacock only proposes to let all classes
have a chance, in drafting a new Constitution, to
express their thorough admiration of the Council,
and to endorse the Argus’s assertion that they
are generally satisfied with it. And the Argus
is the maddest paper in Australia at the idea of
being allowed to put its assertions to the proof.
Yet even the Council has ideas about reform—or
what it calls reform, and it is faintly proposed
in its Halls of Sleep that the franchise should be so
widened as to give practically every male citizen
a vote at Council elections. This is the sort of
joke that the Council revels in. At present only
landowners, and only landowners on a very large
scale, are eligible to sit in the Council. There are
130,000 electors, mostly democrats, but they are
allowed to choose their M’s.L.C. from among a
small class of about 2000 —almost all bitter Tories.
And the Council proposes, by way of reform, to
let about 260,000 electors select their M’s.L.C.
from among the same 2000 bitter Tories. The
situation is about the same as if, instead of 130,000
Orangemen being allowed to decide which R.C.
priest shall represent them, and assure the coun-
try that they are all good Catholics who go to
mass regularly, the right of selection shall be ex-
tended to 260,000 Orangemen, other things re-
maining the same. If the House of Landlords
has a vestige of faith in its boasts of its own
popularity, even among its present constituents,
there is an easy way to prove it. Let it leave the
franchise as it is, and simply make every
one. of the existing 130,000 electors eligible to
sit in the Chamber which is said to represent
them instead of having 128,000 of them dis-
qualified as. at present. Let it represent even
I roperty fairly, by giving its propertied cousti-
™eri£S a * ree , f° choose their own members.
Ihe fact that it dare not do this is good evidence
that it is the best-hated gang of bigots in Aus-
tralia, and that it is aware of the painful fact.
The Adelaide Tramway Trouble.
For years Adelaide Advertiser, the daily news-
paper owned by Langdon Bonython, an
ambitious man with a small body and a big hat,
has been considered a democratic organ. It gained
this reputation mainly because Kingston adopted
it as his mouthpiece, and also because Bonython,
at best a man of only ordinary intelligence,
whooped for Kingston, apparently as a means of
advancing himself. The Tory crowd has again
and again alleged that most of the democratic
leaders in the Advertiser were written bv
Kingston. But Bonython’s knighthood came
along, and then the seat in the House of Repre-
sentatives, and now the democratic zeal of the
self-ADVERTiSER seems to have cooled. It recently
came out as an advocate of the Snow tramway
grab, a scheme which Kingston has again and
again denounced. This is the sort of thing the
Advertiser publishes nowadays (leader, June 1):
The nationalisation of the tramways is certainly a
chimera. Even those in authority who have given the
scheme some countenance as an alternative to munici-
palisation in the event of the local bodies failing to
agree, were careful not to hold out any strong hope that
Parliament would adopt their proposal; and this cautious
tone expresses a just sense of the difficulties in the way.
Tramways, if a public, are so plainly a municipal enter-
prise that there is no real chance of inducing a majority
of Parliament to pledge the public credit on behalf of a
costly scheme of improvement. Parliament, while will-
ing to facilitate a Greater Adelaide, will assuredly object
to substitute State for municipal action in a matter of
purely municipal importance ; but even were there the
desire to follow a different and less reasonable policy
than this, no Parliamentary action can be taken which
would provide electric tramways for Adelaide and its
suburbs within a reasonable period. Nearly five years
must elapse before the tramways could be taken over
unless there were a quite unthinkable cutting of the
statutory contract with the companies. For these
reasons nationalisation must be dismissed as iin practic-
able, and assuming that immediate municipalisation can-
not be agreed upon, the only alternative to private enter-
prise with provision for ultimate municipalisation on just
conditions is the indefinite continuance of the present
obsolete and unsatisfactory system.
The Advertiser is, therefore, with the Tory
Register, now an advocate of the Snow Monopoly
Bill, under which the community will hand over
its street tramway rights -to Snow’s London
syndicate for 40 years—an unspeakable scheme,
which even the Corporation of Adelaide, once
favorable, now declines to support ! And the
Advertiser’s alleged reasons are: (1) That
State-owned tramways are impossible, though
they exist in Sydney, where the fares are the
lowest in Australasia, and where they return 4J
per cent, a rate which pays all the interest on
borrowed money and leaves a handsome surplus ;
(2) That, though Snow’s syndicate can buy up the
tramways without waiting till the present conces-
sions expire, it is quite impossible for the State to
do so; (3) That, therefore, the State would have
to wait nearly five years (that’s all) till the present
private companies’ concessions expire. And,
having thus defined the largest period that it
could have to wait as five years, the Advertiser
yells about “an indefinite continuance of the
present obsolete and unsatisfactory system
—i.e., the unsatisfactory and obsolete system
created by private ownership the policy
which the Advertiser wants to perpetuate for
another 40 years. Judging by the experience of
Sydney, if S.A. Government took over the Ade-
laide tramways and created a new, up-to-date
system, they would not only pay interest on cost,
but yield a handsome profit to help cover the
deficits on other public works, and thus relieve
taxation. But though the Tory press can always
see hundreds of good reasons why unpayable
public works should be left to the State, its anger
when the State threatens to undertake one that is
certain to be highly payable, instead of leaving it
to a syndicate, is like unto the rage of 18,000
hungry lions.
♦
Concerning' Coupons.
Premier Peacock’s most recent nightmare is said
to take the form of huge placards whereon is writ
in every color known to the advertising fiend—
“ Trade where you see this Sign, Collect,” etc.
And it is all brought about by deputations and
counter-deputations to the Vic. Premier concern-
ing the “ coupons-for-cash ” trouble. Some Ben-
digo shopkeepers who started a coupon co. in
opposition to the original co. begged him to legis-
late against their venture and all such ven-
tures. This though their coupon business was
paying good dividends. It seems they have dis-
covered that their opposition has had no apparent
effect on the original parasite beyond making it more
lively than it used to be, and that they are only
spreading the plague to the discomfiture of the
host—the general body of shopkeepers. Then a
deputation of housewives swarmed into the Pea-
cock’s den and vociferously demanded that there
should be no legislative interference with coupon
companies whatever; that the system was a boon
to the consumers, &c., &c., &c. Next the original
Coupon Co.’s managers asked Peacock
whether, in the event of the Govt, taking over
the business of discount stamps, he was
prepared to compensate them for disturbance.
On the whole, the Premier has been having a
violent time, and doesn’t know rightly.
where he are or what to do. Though Maori-
land and Tasmania have legislated against
private coupon companies, the circumstances
in Victoria are vastly different. In the
former provinces the big merchants carried the
heaviest legislative artillery and the coupon co.s
were mostly concerns of one-man power. In
Victoria the Coupon Co. is a limited
liability concern of large calibre that looks
too formidable to be shoo’ed off the premises
with a broom. Peacock can’t even make the
“monopoly” argument an excuse for abolish-
ing the coupon folks’ little green sticker;
the success of the opposition coupon ven-
ture in Bendigo having demonstrated clearly
that there is no monopoly whatever in the
trade. It so happens that there is no business
in the world more susceptible to competition than
the same coupon trade, but the opposition to the
established company needs to be conducted by
somebody who understands the game. As far as
Melbourne is oonoerned, the Vio. Premier maj
with safety defer legislation against coupons, if
it is true that another company is on tne tapis
in that city, with ex-Tasmanian coupon experts
in charge. Should the new co. materialise it is
a pretty safe bet that all coupons will be waste
paper in twelve months. If Premier Peacock
could find some way of encouraging the new
company without compromising his Cabinet, it
would probably be the easiest way out of the
present nightmare, and his smile would split the
welkin as of yore.
♦
A Case for Inquiry.
“Frank Croson” writes about an old and sus-
picious ease :
A band, small but persistent, still tackles the thankless
task of trying: to release Mrs. Cecile Andersen from the
gfaol where she has been lying for nearly seven years,
the latest move takes the form of a petition asking an
inquiry into the evidence and a reconsideration of the
verdict and the evidence now available fully justifies
said request. The evidence given at the trial in ’94
showed that the room in which Cecile Andersen and
John Fraser talked for some hours before the shooting
was well-lit and open to the inquiring glance of every
passer-by ; that two shots were heard almost simultane-
ously ; that those immediately on the scene found two
bodies lying some feet apart ; that Mrs. Andersen’s cape
la.v over, and entirely covering, the right side of her head
(where the bullet entered) ; that there were no holes in
said cape ; that her wound was such as to cause instant
insensibility (Dr. Ohas. Ryan’s evidence); that Fraser
was shot on the left side of the head, behind the ear, the
course of the bullet showing he must have been shot at a
distance of Sin. from above and behind (Dr. 0. H. Mollison’s
evidence); that Mrs. Anderson was 6ft. in height, while
Fraser stood 6ft. 3|in. It was also sworn by Fraser’s
relatives that he was right-handed. Against this latter
assertion those who agitate for an inquiry hold sworn
statements from reputable citizens, who lived in Mrs.
Andersen’s boarding-house along with Fraser, for years,
that he was left-handed and habitually— among other
things—carved the meat at table with the left hand.
Lately the woman’s friends prepared a petition, bearing
1200 signatures, for presentation to the Duke, but, of
course, such a thing as a possible miscarriage of justice
could not be permitted to be suggested to a Royal Per-
sonage, so petitioners were carefully frozen out. This
petition set forth that Mrs. Andersen had now served 6 \
years and had always been an admirable woman of most
benevolent disposition, etc. All which is quite true
but has little to do with the case. The point is that on
the evidence given at the trial there is grave cause to
suspect that Mrs. Andersen was wrongly convicted. The
assumption of her guilt on that evidence demands thatshe,
a woman of sft., got on a chair or couch and shot down-
wards at the 6ft. 3in. man (what was he doing ?), that she
then shot herself, causing, according to expert medical
evidence, instant insensibility which lasted for many
hours, that she then placed the revolver at Fraser’s feet,
walked back to the other end of the couch and put her
cape over her head—all in a state of unconsciousness. A
likely yarn ! Had two dead bodies been found in that
room any coroner’s jury would have promptly verdicted
murder and suicide against the six-foot man, but, there
being a nice, soft, live neck to string a noose round, the
law promptly went for that neck with both hands, and
was much annoyed when it slipped through its grasp—
if the attitude of the Crown Law- Department be any
criterion. The C.L. Department takes the view (as it
always does) that the verdict was correct; and, urged on
by the Department, Solicitor-General Henry Cutiibert
had the face to tell a deputation in ’99 that “if
they could obtain the co-operation of the Fraser family
the matter might be arranged,” which was almost as
brutal and illogical a reply as that of his successor. Agar
Wynne, that the failure of juries to convict Mrs. Fraser
and Mrs. Wright made it impossible to consider whether
Mrs. Anderson was wrongly convicted or not. It is a
choice commentary on the relative values placed by Aus-
tralian law-makers on life and property that an aggrieved
defendant in an equity suit (above a certain value) may
appeal to the Full Court and to the Privy Council, thus
getting the advantage of having all evidence sifted and
weighed three times over ; but the defendant in a suit
where the plaintiff demands, not his property but his
neck or his liberty, has but the one chance—and a mighty
poor and perfunctory one at that.
_ +
The Bishop and the Prostitute.
Never has the press of London (writes The Bul-
letin’s London correspondent) so thoroughly
justified its claim to the title of the Daily Sup-
press—when prominent personages are concerned
—as it did over an extraordinary occurrence
at a recent public meeting to consider public
morality and the remedy. Dr. Winnington
Ingram, the new Bishop of London, presided,
and among those by his side were the R.C. Bishop
of Southwark, Sir Edward Clarke, and Mr. H.
H. Asquith. All was conventional until London’s
Bishop uprose, evidently in a condition of high
nervous tension, and, without any introduction,
abruptly started off:
I was in my brougham, driving along Piccadilly, this
evening. Now and then, I looked through the carriage
windows, and suddenly my eyes seemed to be opened
and I saw things as they really are. At first, I covered
my eyes with my hands to shut out the awful sight, and
then in the darkness the question came to me : What is
to be done? What is to be done? A little later, the
question came in another way : What would the Master
do ? and with the question a great light seemed to fill the
place, and I saw my duty sun-clear, as Saul saw his on
the way to Damascus. I stopped the carriage, got out
and, after a few minutes’ conversation, persuaded two of
the public women to come into the brougham with me.
If Jesus was right, these two unfortunates were my sis-
ters, and the only hope of their purification was in my
affection and tenderness. I took them to Fulham Palace
and they are going to stay with me. I hope to fill every
room in the Palace with such sisters as these.
At this point Sir Edward Clarke fled, much
upset, but the speaker, oblivious to all, con-
tinued :
Oh ! sisters and brothers, in this act of mine I find the
solution of all my difficulties. I didn’t know what
broughams were made for, but now I know. Thev are
made to carry the weak, the sick, and the aged ; they
are made to show honor to those who have lost the’sense
even of shame. I did not know what palaces were made
for, but now I have found a use for them. The palaces of
the Church should be hospitals and nurseries for those
who have fallen by the wayside and are perisbino-. [A
long pause.] lam not fit, dear brethren, to tell you any-
thing about morality. I have lived in shams and
hypocrisies too long to be able to help others ; but my
action of to-day shows me that the better way is very
easy to find. To those who believe in Jesus and His
Gospel there can be no other relation between man and
man but the relation of affection. Love alone is stronger
than sin—stronger than death. I therefore say to the
rich among you that it is their duty to do what I have
done and am doing. Let each one of you who is pro-
sperous take into his house some thief and treat him as
his brother, some unfortunate and treat her as his sister,
and London will need no police force, no magistrates ; the
prisons will be turned into hospitals, and the criminal
will disappear with his crime. We must give ourselves
and not our money alone.-’
At this point Mr. Asquith and Canon ScOtt-
Holland (a clerical giant) led the Bishop off the
platform, while the large and influential audience
sat breathless and paralysed. Cerebral collapse
under overwork and half-a-dozen explanations
have been put forward privately, but publicly—ex-
cluding one weekly—the silence has been thick as
a London fog at midnight. Perhaps Stead will
write : "‘lf Christ came to London.”
♦
N.S.W. would-be-Premier Lee stated the other
day that his policy was “first of all, to advance
the masses, and, secondly, to turn attention to the
great reproductive interests of the country.” This
about establishes a record as a flabby and mean-
ingless platitude. It has all the firmness and
distinctness of a boiled rumour or a fried dream.
Any benevolent fat gentleman is liable to say a
thing like that in a confused moist voice to a
letter-box as he goes home late at night. Tha
writer is dead sure he has heard the same


BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY, LIMITED,
Have JUST LANDED the Celebrated
No. B 5 Popy Prenjo
This is a Camera we can thoroughly recommend,
and can safely say that no Amateur should be
without one. m -
Send ■for Catalogue. —■ Pt*lC6
375 <S«org« St., SydQey,
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, and Brisbane.
Sulphide Corporation
” " LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead,
and
or
Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought—-*■
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Larr/e Parcels or
Hef/ular Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A E. SAVAGE,
Manager
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia.
fjhrase at a banquet. It was very, very
ate. Half what remained of the audience
was unconscious. Some of it was under
the table. The last waiter was asleep on
the stairs. All the good coats and umbrellas had
long since gone out of the cloak-room. At the
head of the table a little thick man spoke in a
thick voice, with his eyes closed, and his hand
reaching instinctively for a decanter, and a halo
of cigar-smoke round his head. And what he said
was : “ Firsh greadut-dutish advansh (hie)
massesh, and alsho tnn ’tenshun greaprodoosh’ng
countrish.” They always say things like that
about that hour.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Second in Command.”
Lyceum “ The Favourite.”
Criterion “ The Power and the Glory.”
Palace "In the Soup ” and “ For
Charity’s Sake.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Casino Girl.”
Empire Fuller Co.
Tivoli Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Nurse.”
Her Majesty’s Italian Opera.
Theatre Royal “ A Million of Money.”
Bijou Dampier Dramatic Co.
New Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
A most deserving show is to eventuate on
the afternoon of Saturday, Gth July, at Sydney
Lyceum Theatre. Its object is to raise a fund for
the aid of those of the wives and children of
the ironworkers now on strike, who, are in
want. Mr. Anderson most kindly lends the
theatre, and many notable artists are going
to bear a hand, and make the show
well worth the admission money, irrespective
of its object. And even the person who thinks
that wages should be cut down to “2s. 6d. a week
with a corresponding increase of hours can hardly
say anything very severe against an entertainment
which is for the benefit of the women and children
only. They, at all events, haven’t demanded any
increase of pay.
* Ht * *
“The Power and the Glory,” which visited
Sydney not long ago, and is now renewing itself
at the Criterion, is recalled to remembrance as the
drama which eschews the Lost Document and the
Missing Will, and deals mostly with the blind
child that dies in a garret and etherealises after-
wards as an angel vision in the midnight sky,
making the stars and the housetops look terribly
disproportionate. The child (born blind) is so
remarkably clever that the instant it gains its
eyesight, it makes its way about the house and
about the church as easily as anyone else, and
recognises without the least difficulty articles that
it never saw before. The heroine behaves with
the usual want of sense noticeable in her kind
when she pretends to be a statue in the church at
midnight. She has just previously been threatened
by the villain, and rescued just m time, and tied
up. and had her face smacked by another lady,
and it seems incredible that she should fall
asleep immediately afterwards in a church in
the cheerful society of tombs and burglars ; but
she evidently does it. The aim of the “ Power and
the Glory ” is even more than usual to hang a good
deal of spectacular display on a very thin thread
of story. This is especially noticeable in the last
scene where nobody speaks at all, but the hero
and heroine are shown freed from all their troubles
and raised to the giddy splendour of appearing in
a London panto.
* * * •
C. R. Stanford, as the villain, has some
excellently cynical tones in his voice, but he might
be a little more effective as the maniac who goes
about with a perpetual vision of the deceased
before his eyes. Miss Ida Gresham appears in
the first act in abject indigence, as is shown by
her graceful and neat-fitting, but collarless, brown
dress. All that a stage heroine ever does to prove
either poverty or repentance is to have her dresses
made without collars, though there is nothing
especially expensive about this item of a lady’s
wardrobe. Some dreadful humour is contributed
by a butcher who goes about at all hours of the
day and night with the same three chops glued to
his board. He never seems to deliver these chops
anywhere, and as the play extends over a period
of at least a few months, it is likely that the
householder who ordered the meat will refuse, for
hygienic reasons, to receive it when it arrives.
** # *
The long-absent and much-missed Broughs
open Sydney Royal on Saturday with a four-act
comedy, “The Second in Command.” London
papers speak kindly of the “Second in Com-
mand,” which may mean much or little, but the
fact that Brough has selected it as the piece with
which to open a new season means a great deal.
Brough is a war-worn stage veteran who seldom
makes bad mistakes. The new co. includes Mrs.
Brough, Miss Temple, Cecil Ward and a few old
names—also some new ones. Tho new ones will
be duly recited in next week’s issue, along with
any good, bad or indifferent language that the
case appears to call for.
** # *
“ The Casino Girl ” will be staged at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney) on Saturday. “Florodora”
has resided there so long that it has become
almost as much a part of the establishment as
Goodman himself, so the public will remember
with some difficulty that the endless opera of the
Scented Isle has really moved on. The “Casino
Girl” has not yet been seen in Australia. The
book is by Harry B. Smith, with whom present
writer is not acquainted ; and the music is sup-
plied by Ludwig Englander, whom he doesn’t
remember having heard of until now. But pro-
bably they are both eminent men, and their work
is worthy of them, and the writer’s ignorance of
them is therefore all the more deplorable.
* *
At Sydney Empire, John Fuller still
Struggles manfully with ti e problem of how to
squeeze a quart o ienoe ■nto a pint of theatre.
Charlie Fairing and Miss Devoe burlesque the
Relief of Mafeking and the capture of the fear-
some and slippery De Wet as well as it is possible
to burlesque anything that hasn’t yet come off.
Denis Carney, the Yorkshire comedian from the
French territories out west, has struck a very
large patch of public approval. Fuller’s foreign
talent is now beginning to come along, but even
if it didn't come his show is hardly likely to be
stuck as long as the electro-plating doesn’t wear
off his own silvery tenor, and the Sad-eyed Shriek
can keep his sorrowful optic in its present state.
*# * *
“In the Soup” is still received favorably
at Sydney Palace, though the last act gives an
impression of having violently wrenched itself
away from the other two. The invasion of the
lawyer’s office for divorces all round appears out
of gear with the rest of the performance. A mis-
take is made when the disguised waiter spills
nothing at all out of his upset dish. The hero
might well have been so excited as to have
carefully carried nothing in a covered dish into
the dining-room ; nevertheless a wooden chicken
or property turkey rolling down towards the
footlights would add realism to the scene.
“In the Soup ” deserves much praise, though the
last act, as before mentioned, gives the impression
of being the head of one animal on the body and
legs of another.
** * *
“The Favorite,” a drama with some
hypnotism and a good deal of horse in it, pro-
gresses favorably at Sydney Lyceum, and the
conduct of the people who have poison dashed
away from them, yet continue accepting it, is, as
usual, inexplicable. The lost child turns out to
be heir to a good stableful of horses, proof of his
identity being given by a piece of blue ribbon
which he wore the day he was stolen, and which
turns up again after long years. The ribbon is
not even found on the child, presuming a boy
were in the habit of wearing anything of that
nature so long ; it is merely given to the mother
by an irresponsible person, and alleged to have
been found on the infant. It looks exactly like
any other piece of blue ribbon, too. In this play,
even more than usual, the curtain has a habit of
falling on a beautiful row, and when it rises again
everybody seems to have forgotten that particular
trouble. Nothing is really satisfactory or finished-
looking till the large blue policeman appears at
the last, and conveys away the villain in an un-
mistakable manner for doing something just about
as bad as the things he did in all the previous acts,
without any notice being taken of him. Miss
Kathleen Duggan has ceased to sing her ditty,
but a dog called Laddie appears on the stage in a
casual manner. Laddie does not do all the things he
is billed as doing on the posters, and some nights
he does not cross the boards at all. He seems to
have had a row with the manager, or to have been
otherwise unreasonable.
*# # *
The “Merchant of Venice” was staged
for a few nights at Sydney Royal by Mr. F. M.
Alexander, Miss Edith Tasca Page, and a few
people of no great importance. Mr. Alexander’s
conception of the Jew who used his sole as a
grindstone in a public manner made very much
for ferocity. His Shylock was more violent and
shrielty than usual, and his anger was loud and
fierce when he was denied his enemy’s meat. A
Shylock with more dignity and pathos about him
would be more natural. It was a period when
Israel had learned to subdue its emotions —when
its hawk-like nose came down over its beard in a
dissembling smile, and it only raged inwardly
while it was under the Christian eye. The Shy-
lock supplied by Mr. Alexander was a mixture of
the pawnshop and the bravo. It was a fine piece
of work, yet it seemed to suggest a strong financial
warrior who advanced money with the security in
one hand, and a drawn sword in the other, and
who didn’t mind whether he charged a regiment or
60 per cent. Miss Tasca Page did her part well as
Portia ; and Jessica, after excusing herself at the
window for eloping in boy’s dress, eloped across
tiie stage in ordinary dress, as if the stage ward-
robe was limited. In the casket scene there
were some nice girls in evening dress, and
they cheered Bassanio considerably when he
chose the right box, one lady waving her handker-
chief at him as if he were a departing mail-boat.
J. Dorahy was really good as Gobbo, and various
people called Lorenzo and Bassanio and Gratiano
came on the stage occasionally, looking very well
in red and yellow and green legs respectively.
** « *
Sydney Tivoli is strong in Australasian
artists just now —the acrobatic Leopold Brothers
and Arnoldi, the clever juggler, were all born in
the land of the drought and the kangaroo. John
Coleman has some new songs, and Whelan, the
Australian mimic, has started to give the Brough
co. a lift up by imitating Robert himself. He
also appears as a Messenger from Mars, and re-
forms an imaginary Horace Parker inside three
minutes.
** * *
A photo, which appears in this issue
represents a young American actress, Miss Elsie
Lander, who opens at the Victoria Theatre, New-
castle, on Saturday, Cth July, under the manage-
ment of Mr. Fred. E. Hiscocks and Miss S. G.
Oliver. During the past three years Miss Lander
has been touring Australia with Wybert Reeve
the late Grattan Riggs, W. Anderson, and other
managers. Judging by her photo., she is fair to
look upon, and if her talents and her company are
in keeping with her outward semblance things
should go well.
** * *
When Musgtove started his plucky grand-
opera campaign in Melbourne, people who ought
to have known better expressed surprise at his
not changing the bills more rapidly. The same
complaint is made about the Italian opera season.
Why aren’t the unknown works “Otello,”
“Fedora,” and “La Boheme” produced right
away ? The answer is—Why isn’t this country,
like Italy, stocked with operatic chorus singers ?
New works have to await the education of the
chorus before they can be produced. The prin-
cipals of the Italian co. are ready to perform six
different operas in a week, but the chorus thus far
has not got the music of any six operas on the tips
of tongue. Next year the manager who comes
along with a new co, will have a valuable lot of
choristers ready for engagement, better voices,
though not better versed in the music, than
Lyster had at his command 20 years ago.
* * *
The second biggest crowd of the season
was drawn to Her Majesty’s (Melb ) on Saturday
by “ Pagliacci ” and “ Cavalleria Rusticana, the
two brief operas which came as novelties to the
Princess’s, some eight years ago, in conjunction
with the beauteous Blue Ballet.
“ Pagliacci,” by Leoncavallo, and “ Caval-
leria,” by Mascagni, are musical matters of
peculiar interest. They took the world by sur-
prise in ’9l or thereabouts. They were accepted
as first samples of a new, up-to-date, short-story
opera which would monopolise the market and
create a general dislike to the heavier works of
the older composers. Well, the samples have
retained their popularity ; it is possible that they
will live to be classics. But they are practically
alone in the world. Mascagni and Leoncavallo
seem unable to repeat their brilliant successes,
and no other short-story composer has scored any
success worth mentioning. Moreover, the world
is doubtful as to whether it really wants a large
number of meaty dramatic operas equal in merit
to those popular samples. Wagner, who repre-
sents long opera at its longest, has gained ground
since the comet Mascagni flashed his fiery tale;
and the brightest of Verdi’s works are still going
strong.
• • • *
“ Pagliacci ” is a flimsy little story with
novel effects in it. The villain of the piece is a
clown who bangs a drum outside a tent, and the
injured husband is another clown. Also, the
second tenor is a harlequin, and the prima donna
plays columbine in the show, which doesn’t
prevent her from acquiring a guilty passion
for a red-nosed villager. The chorus folks are
gaudy rustics who jubilate exceedingly at the
arrival of the four mummers in a cart,
and afterwards put 3d. per head into a
tambourine for the encouragement of travelling
drama. They get a good three penn’orth in this
case. The married clown varies the monotony of
his painted mummery by stabbing his nice young
wife with a stage dinner-knife, after which he
assassinates the red-nosed Lothario, and remarks
that the comedy is finished. “Pagliacci” is not
so neatly constructed or naturally tinted as
“Cavalleria Rusticana.” Everybody knows the
story of the erring spinster and the giddy matron
and the young man from the wine-shop. Mrs.
Potter and Bellew produced it in a purely
dramatic form during their last visit to Australia.
Besides, the sympathetic Intermezzo serves to
make people interested in the opera even if they
haven’t seen it staged.
* * * *
The company which introduced “Pag. ’
and “ Cav.” to Australiain daysof yore was picked
for the parts. The present company gives per-
formances not quite so realistic, but thoroughly
satisfactory, nevertheless. Tenor Dani, who
plays the husband in “ Pagliacci ” and the dandy
lover in the other tragedy, scores rather heavily
each time. His appearance when he wants to look
pretty is the appearance of Henry Plimmer.
Also, he acts much the same as Plimmer
would, and his voice fills the bill. It is
a pleasing tenor—a light robusto. For some un-
accountable reason the Melbourne press notices
agreed to lay stress upon its alleged “sweetness,”
as though it were suited to “ Sally in our Alley.”
As a matter of fact, Dani is never quite so sugary
as Salvi, but his notes are younger. Bozzoli, the
baritone, sings well and acts fairly in both operas.
Signora Sapio is a valuable Santuzza (in “ Caval-
leria”), and a new lady, Signorina Vaccari, ap-
pears as Nedda in “Pagliacci.” She is a very
young new lady, with a very pretty little voice
and very little Italian 'character in her acting.
Anyone would take her for an Australian. The
operas are artistically mounted, the orchestra
excellent (though the accompaniment in the soft
passages is rather too heavy), and the chorus quite
at home with the music. So much at home that
some of them sang what sounded like an English
translation of the lines. Un Ballo in Maschera ”
is in rehearsal.
*# * *
“ The Green Lanes of England,” wherein
Dampier wrecks his constitution with rum and
delivers sound moral precepts from under the
influence of liquor, is a drama that will probably
occur for the last time at Melbourne Bijou this
(Thursday) evening. Fridays at the Bijou are
devoted to the Bard, and Saturdays seem to bring
a weekly change of bill as regularly as the
grocer. Therefore the good points in Dampier’s
well known sketch of Gentleman George are
hardly worth mentioning as a matter of current
interest. They are here to-day and probably gone
to-morrow, along witli the respectable paternal
curse of old man Edmund Holloway. The curse
in question is a slow and weighty effort which no
ill-regulated daughter can approve of, but as an ex-
ample of how a stern, fat-headed parent ought to
curse, if nothing but a curse can relieve
his feelings, Holloway’s anathema is all right.
Also, it tends to justify the action of two
green-lane villains, who conspire to drop the
cursed daughter into a river. When a plump and
melancholy girl has experienced such awful
language as befalls Miss Lily Dampier, she is
prepared, as a rule, to wish that Death would
remove her from the drama, yet she objects to
being drowned when the opportunity offers.
Hamlet and the Ghost are due again to-morrow
(Friday), and the name of the next melodrama
will be duly stated in the ad.
»* * *
Bland Holt intends to change his drama
at the Royal, on Saturday, 6th. ‘‘ln London
Town ” has flourished for several weeks, and its
charm for the multitude is not quite as young as
it was, so the blind man will wallop the lame boy
for the last time on Friday. “ A Million of
Money ” is the forthcoming bill, and it will be
produced on a scale of suitable splendour.
«. * * *
A ,tall black bear, who raises a bottle to
his mouth and drinks the contents with great in-
telligence, also two bro\vn bears, whose education
is not so far advanced, are the latest arrivals at
Melb. Opera House. They have a gentleman in
attendance named Winschermaun, but Winscher-
maun contributes nothing to the gaiety of the
performance, lie doesn’t even attempt to drink
from the bear’s bottle. Little Eric is another new
turn. The Dartos and Austin Rudd are leaving
this week, and a considerable reformation of the
programme is promised for Saturday.
w* * *
On Saturday next (6tli) Melbourne Prin-
cess’s will break a long, cold silence. Miss
Jennie Maynard is to open the theatre for a flying
season of farcical comedy, society drama, senti-
mental comedietta, &c., and the first bill
of the season will be “ Nurse,” preceded by “ A
Bit of Old Chelsea.” Miss M., who was a
quite adorable little lady the last time Melbourne
saw her, appears as the dangerous female in the
white cap and apron, and Henry Ludlow, late of
London and other cities, is another special feature
in the cast. After Miss Maynard’s season of 12
nights, the Vic. Opera Society will come along
and produce “Girofle-Girofla.”
** * *
Williamson’s No. 2 “ Florodora ” co.,
lately performing at Bendigo, compares very
favorably with the No. 1 crowd. Fred. Graham
in Lauri’s part, Cecil Engleheart as a charming
Dolores, and Rose Musgrove as Lady Holyrood
are particular successes. The latter, however,
seems to have overtaxed her strength, and will be
off for a holiday this week if she isn’t already
resting.
■* * * *
Seems that Titheradge is to play Aubrey
Tanqueray to the Paula of Mrs. Pat. Campbell.
London will get Tith’s performance of this classic
comedy character seven years subsequent to his
i 4 creating ” it for Australia.
It is in Victoria, once leading democratic
State of Australia, that this recrudescence of
bigotry takes place ! And Reynolds's News-
paper, which sells by the hundred thousand in
England, is suppressed as treasonable in Victoria,
on the thin pretext that it contains indecent adver-
tisements ! Taken with Premier Peacock’s truck-
ling cablegram to Chamberlain, asking endorse-
ment for a suppression of the Tocsin, these facts
give fresh evidence that the Australian breed of
Jingoes are baser toadies to royalty than the
British Jingoes themselves. This business of the
alleged libel shows how rotten is the machinery of
local bureaucracy in the democratic view.
Rev. George Hay, having separated him-
self from the Presbyterian Church, had performed
numerous marriages at certain Sydney “matrimo-
nial bureaux,” and the regular parsons’ trade-union
—having signally failed to have said bureaux
suppressed by law—made afterwards, through the
Crown, a desperate attempt to prevent Mr. Hay’s
registration as a person entitled to celebrate
marriages, and to obtain at the same time some
judge-made law to the effect that the bureaux in
question should not be allowed to exist. N.S.W.
Supreme Court, however, has, by a majority,
granted a mandamus directing Mr. Hay’s regis-
tration as a minister entitled to celebrate mar-
riages ; and the Judges, though somewhat
deprecating the purely business-like methods of
the matrimonial agencies, declined to say that the
consequent facilitation of marriages is an evil in
itself.
Some of these days or nights it will
come: A comparatively light and under-
powered steamer will try to reach or get
away from Manly across the huge beam sea
raised by a heavy easterly or S.E. gale ; her
machinery will suddenly go wrong and she will
drift ashore on Dobroyd or Middle Head, and a
hundred or two people will be doomed to death as
certainly as if they went into the Gap on a Dun-
bar night. Then the A.M.P. (if the steamer hap-
pens to be the morning or evening “business”
boat) will have to shell out the biggest
cheque it has ever disbursed in all its life.
The nice, swift, corky little s.s. Manly and her
passengers had a marrow-freezing escape the other
night, when something went wrong with her
engines during a howling gale. She was within
an ace of drifting onjto the big Bombora or on to
Dobroyd. Her 50 passengers mainly owe their
lives to the prompt and nerveful assistance
rendered by the captain of the company’s big
steamer Brighton, who managed to get a line
aboard, and, after it had parted more than once,
towed the distressed boat pretty well out of
danger to a spot whence the Manly, unable to
hold on, was allowed to go ashore on a soft bit of
sand. Sooner or later, the man who has gone
through prize seas at Sydney Heads on his way to
Manly always arrives at the conclusion that the
only sort of ship he would care to cross the Heads
in during that sort of weather is a heavy, ruffianly,
powerfully-engined, whale-backed ocean-tug of
the sort which could take in 500 tons of coal and
steam right out of Port Jackson to sea in the teeth of
a Dandenong gale. Manly will never be worth liv-
ing in until it gets, to meet such occasions, a tram
right through from Sydney.
There’s a tinkle of bells in the air
As we think of the sweet Ballet Blue ;
And a vision enchanting
Of Bartho is haunting
The bardlet who loves her anew.
When lightly she turns on her toe—
A sudden sublime pirouette,!
The shows known as “ rotten ”
Are quickly forgotten,
But good things we never forget—
Never, never!
The good things we never forget.
There are ninety spry girls on the stage,,
Preparing to welcome the Bride.
They warble a chorus,
Then —Bartho’s before us !
She came with a fairy-like glide.
The date of the year’s ’93 ;
We are “ long way from forty” as yet.
0, the past is the present
In memories pleasant
Of things that we cannot forget.
Fill your glasses,
To the good things we cannot forget!


-
Gross
Earnings.
Working
Expenses.
4 per cent, on A and 8
percent, on B Deben-
tures.
Written off
U mouths to
£
£
£
£
March, 1898 ..
184,253
66,401
67,639
816
l percent
15s per c«nt.
on A
on B
Debentures.
Debentures.
Year to
March. 1807 ..
131.405
78.S02
44,670
9,258
676
„ 1 S!>3 ..
131,229
86,fc)>ti
44,742
f No 1
601
„ 1809 ..
121,109
76,921
44,742
-i Interest ]■
446
„ 1900 ..
138,331
70,993
69,686
l paid. ]
6,778
lbs. per cent.
interest on B
Total
Debentures.
Reserves.
„ 1901 ..
136,107
06,297
68,946
7,400
3,459
-
OroR?
Earnlnga.
'V'ofking
Expense
4 per cent, oo A end 3
per cent, on II 1 leben-
tures.
Written ofl.
!> month? to
£
£
£
March, 1896 ..
124,258
66,404
67,639
616
4 per cent. 158. per cent.
on A lichen-
on B lichen-
Year to
tores
tore*.
March, 1997
1<G, 319
76,802
£59,584
£9,258
£076
„ 1893 ..
146,143
SS.rsb
50,050
( No 'l
001
„ 1800 ,,
136,023
75.021
69,650
{ Interest >
446
„ 1900 ..
130,3*1
70.993
59,565
i. paid J
6,773
15s. per cent.
Total
on B Deben-
Reserve*
turcs.
„ 1901 ..
135,107
65,297
68,945
£7,406
£3,469
The Cobar Chesney mine, Cobar, have lately
placed an order with the Austral Otis Engineering Com-
pany for a pair of powerful windinir engines to haul from
2000 feet. These engines are rapidly approaching com-
pletion, and will be delivered about first of next month.
The same firm of engineers have also supplied the Occi-
dental mine, Cobar, with a handsome pair of winding
engines, as well as a boiler. This machineiy was delivered
in very quick time and should give great satisfaction.*
» * * *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
flllau and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* * * •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
About the best Brand for Sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich & Co.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* • * •
The Insurance Record of 20th July, 1900,
writes with reference to the Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society, Limited : “ The Society’s transactions
during 1899 are calculated to afford considerable satis-
faction to all connected with the institution and the
management are to be congratulated upon having brought
affairs to so successful an issue during troublous and un-
settled times.”*
* « • *
John W. H. Piper, C.E., M.A.1.M.E.,
M.Am.I.M.E., &c., Australian representative of Cutten
Bros., Dunedin, mining and dredging engineers, is leaving
for London about the end of August to establish a Home
Office for the firm, the increase of foreign business
necessitating this action. Mr. Piper will be pleased to
undertake any commissions that may be entrusted to him.
Equitable Buildings, Georg e-street, Sydney.*
• * * •
Ward off influenza bj’ taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* « * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * •
All Barrier Mines remodelling their mills on up-
to-date lines include a number of Luhrig vanners. The
South and Junction companies each have about a dozen,
no slime treatment plant being now considered complete
without these excellent machines. In Queensland tin
concentration is the latest accomplishment, the Irvine-
bank Mill having introduced Luhrig Vanners with success-
ful results, the example having been followed by the well-
known Coolgarra Tin Mining Co., who are installing a
number of Luhrig Vanners in connection with their new
Tin Dressing Mill. Messrs. W. &J. Lempriere, Melbourne,
are the general agents for the Luhrig Appliances.*
e » * »
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, ‘‘big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts,forgings, andallsortsof iron-work.*
■» * * *
Broken Hill Prop.’s coke-ovens at Bellambi,
N.S.W. coast, have been started ; the output is only for
the supply of the co.’s smelting furnaces at Port Pirie.
For some years past the coke bill has run from £90,000 to
£140,000 a year. Recent supplies have come mainly from
Germany, with a little from Wales. Eight years ago the
co. made an effort to use N.S.W. coke ; but it was not
persisted in on account of the excess of ash. The im-
ported stuff’s ash percentage runs from under 5 to 9 ; the
local from 7£ to over 14. Defective washing (or no wash-
ing at all) and old-fashioned ovens were said to be
responsible. The co. has now its own pit and plant.
“Rand” Rock Drills,
“Rand” Air Compressors.
“Wilfley” Concentrators.
“Ivanhoe” Mining Steel.
“Anchor” Brand Fuse.
Explosives, Lubricating Oils.
N. 6UTNRIP6C, Ltd.
71 Clarence St,, Sydney.
“ENGLAND'S FAVORITE.”
PLAYER’S
I ——CTmam-sagasy
NAVY CUT
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
3*
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting; Charges.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbournr ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; G 8 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Kajle-street,
Britsb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per cent
pure), Bleaching Powder, Mining Requisites,
Candles, eto.
• • • THE CELEBRATED . . .
WILD CAT” BRIAR PIPES
8
D.
ea.
IN A DOZEN DIFFERENT SHAPES.
Posted, lOd. j 6s. per Dozen—posted, 6s. Bd.; 725. per Gross- *®' Carriage Free to any
Railway Station in New South Wales.
8d.
ea.
Wild
Cat
Jr
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
S.M. Herald says:— “lt appears that the
Commonwealth civil-servants who have not already
assurance or pension rights number only about 1500.
It is held that the formation of a Department of Govern-
ment Assurance to deal with such a small number of
policies is a step that ought not to be taken without the
fullest inquiry and consideration.” That is to say, the
Federal Government Life Assurance Department would
have 1500 clients to start with, and could rely on issuing
about 1500 policies in its first year (probably far more for
the public servants under its control must increase greatly
before the year is up) apart from any business it might
do with the public. The Australian Widows’ Fund, in its
seventh year, had only got so far as to issue 622 policies as
its 12 months’ work. If the average premiums paid to
the Federal Government Life Assurance Office by each of
its 1500 sure clients only averaged £4 per man all round,
it would have a premium income of £6OOO in its first
year, apart from business done with the public. The
A.M.P. was in its seventh year before it collected £6OOO
premiums. It was in its twelfth year before it had 1500
policies on its books. It was 20 years old before it
issued 1500 policies in one year. And though the pro-
posed Government Life Office might start with only
1500 reliable clients, it would get more every year as
it took over new departments, as its own departments
grew larger, and as old officers (insured in private offices)
died off, and new ones (who would be insured in the
Government office) took their places. And all this would
be in addition to the business it would do with the public.
On the Herald’s own showing the Federal Government
Life Office has a gorgeous show. Lyne is the man who is
thinking hard and feeling very dubious over the matter.
Lyne is a director of the Citizens’ office, which started
with very much humbler prospects than those that lie
before tne proposed Federal office. Does Lyne feel any
doubts—especially on dividend day—whether it was worth
While starting the Citizens ?
* * * •
A conference of Australian bankers has kindly
drafted a banking law for the Commonwealth, and they
have offered their unbiassed opinion as to how the
Commonwealth should order things. The bankers desire
that the Queensland State note issue be abolished ; they
want no Federal note issue and no Government Bank. They
suggest that every bank should be allowed to issue notes
to the full amount of its cash reserves, which means that
the note issue may go up to about six times its present
amount. They also suggest that, though a bank may issue
notes at a hundred branch offices in a State, it shall only
be liable to cash them in gold at one office—its chief office
in the State capital. This would certainly be an
advantage to the banks, for the amount of gold it
would then be necessary at branch offices would
be reduced. And the banks offer to pay a tax of 2 per
cent, on their note issues.
All these proposals are good enough in a way ;
if the Federal Government is going to lose a splendid
opportunity, it may as well lose it that way as any other.
In Canada, they order things differently—though not so
differently as they might do. There, the banks are required
by law to keep at least 40 per cent, of their reserves in
Government notes, and, at latest advices, they held
Government notes to the extent of £4,000,000. Conse-
quently. the Government gets a perpetual loan of
£4,000,000 without interest. This is saying nothing of
Government notes in circulation. Also’ the banks have
£10,000,000 of their own notes in circulation. If the
Canadian Government had taken over the whole business
of note-issue, therfore, instead of taking half-measures,
it appears that it might get a perpetual loan,
without interest, of at least £10,000,000, allowing
that it kept a cash-reserve of £3,000,000 or £4,000,000
against its paper money. And there is no visible reason
why the Commonwealth Government should not do this,
and thereby find the money needed to acquire 5000 sq.
miles for a Federal territory, and build a Federal city
and get all these splendid assets absolutely gratis.
Sydney Telegraph lays it down on its own un-
supported authority that “ The Canadian system to hold
half the banking cash in coin and half in Commonwealth
noteswould be impossible in Australia. At present our Aus-
tralian banks hold over £20,000,000 in coin. The Federal
Parliament, if it legislated to take away half that coin
and to give the banks £10,000,000 in notes which would
not circulate to the extent of above one-tenth the
amount, would be locking up £9,000,000 of bank money,
and the banks would suffer very severely." This is a wildly
absurd view of the case. Under the proposed system each
hank would have to keep, say, half of its cash reserves in
the Commonwealth in State paper. If the B.N.S.W. had
£4,000,000 at its various offices in the Commonwealth
£2,000,000 would be cash and £2,000,000 Government
notes. It is simply proposed to enact that the gold
which is locked up and lying idle, and the Government
notes which are locked up and lying idle, shall be of equal
amount. One would be no more locked up than the
other. One would circulate just as much as the other.
The banks’ aggregate coin reserves don’t circulate to
one-tenth their amount- just as the Telegraph says
the notes wouldn’t; it is because they don’t circulate
that they are reserves. If the B.N.S.W.’s cash reserve
went down through the despatch of £1,000,000 of gold to
London, and it had £2,000,000 of Government notes left
against £1,000,000 in gold, it could circulate 1 500,000 of
these notes, or, if they wouldn’t circulate, or it didn’t
want to circulate them,’ it could demand £500,000 in gold
from the State in return for £500,000 in notes, and so
square the matter. If there was a run on it, it could pay
out gold and Government notes equally, or it could pay
out gold and as the proportion of notes grew larger in
comparison with what gold remained, it could cash the
surplus notes at the Treasury. There could be no locking
up under these conditions. Where the Government
would come in would be just here : The total cash reserves
of the banks vary to only a small extent, though the re-
serves of individual banks vary a great deal. The total
amount of Government notes in circulation would remain
much the same, though the amount held by any one bank
might vary; and a very small reserve of gold in the
Treasury would meet any possible demand. The balance
of the note issue would represent a large perpetual loan
without interest. The banks wouldn’t lock up a penny
of the coin that is in use ; the operation would only affect
the coin not in use.
Of course if the Australian people don’t like this
idea they have a perfect right to disapprove. In that
case the money which would thus be made available for
Federal Government purposes can easily be raised by loan
instead, and an extra income tax of 3d. in the £, or an
extra id. in the £ land-tax will be quite sufficient to pay
the interest.
* * * •
The Victorian Local Government Act makes it
illegal for any local governing body to close its financial
year with an overdraft, and holds the councillors per-
sonally responsible for any such overdraft. It is a simple
and dead-sure way to keep these institutions going
straight, and Parliament expresses its approval by keep-
ing the Act on the statute-book. No Vic. Govt, would
dare to propose its abolition. At the same time no Vic.
Govt, dares to enforce it. So the salutary law remains,
but every year a measure is hustled through to the effect
that those councils which have broken the law during
the preceding 12 months shall, just for this once, be re-
garded as not having broken the law. Why not have
the courage to either repeal the law, or enforce it ?
• * • •
An eminently wise proviso in the Bill dealing
with Acquisition of Property for Federal Purposes is to the
effect that all State property taken over will be paid for
either in 3 per cent. Federal securities, or by the Federal
Government taking over a corresponding amount of the
State debt. If the Federal Government borrowed the
money and paid cash for post-offices and the like (which
were built with borrowed money) the average State would
just treat that cash as ordinary revenue and use it to pay
off the old deficit, or something like that. The idea of
using the money obtained by the sale of the post-offices
or other works to pay off the debt incurred in their erec-
tion wouldn’t occur to the average Treasurer.
I # $ y
Federal Treasurer Turner, in his Audit Bill,
lays it down that the interest on Federal loans is to be
charged to the half-year in which the interest is incurred.
Which is Turner’s mild, business-like expression of
opinion upon Reid’s Cash Basis dodge, whereby the in-
terest for the half-year to 30th June (when the financial
year closes) is charged to next financial year, so that
there is always carried forward a huge unpaid and un-
provided-for liability.
* • * •
Haymarket Permanent Laud, Building, and
Investment Co. (Sydney):—
Year to Profits. Dividends. Re lervL
November, 1896 .. £39,682
„ 1897 .. £452 Nil 40,134
„ 1898.. 477 Nil 40,611
„ 1899.. 1,401 1J per cent. = £1,090 40,922
„ 1900.. 2,344 3 „ = 2,201 41,065
4-Year to
May, 1901.. .. 1,157 3 „ 1,140 41,082
The amount of dividend and total reserves for May, 1901,
are a close approximation only, for paid-up capital has
increased somewhat during the half-year, and how much
of the increase ranks for full dividend isn’t stated. If the
£1157 shown in the balance-sheet represents the entire
earnings (i.e., if none of the profits have been applied to
write down the value of properties) then they only repre-
sent £1 19s. 4d. per cent, per annum on the shareholders’
funds (paid-up capital, £76,489 ; reserve fund, £33,148 ;
contingent fund, £l6OO ; undivided profits, about £6434 ;
total, £117,571). This seems to suggest that the property
market is still getting along with difficulty, though the
Haymarket Co. (which has £108,193 —almost its whole
capital and reserve—invested in estates for sale) is doing
better at the business than most institutions in the same
line. It has been a pretty disastrous line in recent vears.
* * * *
Goldsborough, Mort and Co. had still another
re-arrangemsnt—its third—during the past year, and
still another heavy writing-down. Not only the share-
holders but also the debenture-holders suffer this time,
£493,740 being written off the B debentures, and nearly
£400,000 off capital. In all £887,736 was made available
for the purpose of writing down assets, and the manage-
ment is confident that the co. is now on a “ sound foot-
ing.” The balance-sheet hardly bears out this sanguine
view of things. The A debenture stock (£1,427,050) re-
ceives full interest (4 per cent.) hut there isn’t nearly
enough money left to pay the full 3 per cent, on what
remains of the B debentures—they now stand at £740,610,
£493,740 having been written-off. In fact, on the remain-
ing B stock only 15s. per cent, is paid. The progress of
Goldsborough, Mort and Co., since the second re-arrange-
ment in 1895. is shown in its balance-sheets as follows :
The results may be summarised thus: In 5j years the
B debenture-holders have only received 1$ years’ interest
and have lost £493,740 of their capital. Net earnings
will require to increase by about another £18,500 before
the co. can pay full interest on its debentures, despite
the writing down, and they will require to increase about
£46,000 or £47,000 before there will be sufficient to pay 5
per cent, dividend on the much written-down capital,
saying nothing of putting aside anything substantial for
reserves.
The gross earnings are less than in 1900, and
less than in 1896. Apparently, they are also less than in
1897-8-9. In these years it seems that, by a different
system of book-keeping, three months’ interest accrued
on A debentures was deducted from the gross profits on
one side of the profit and loss account, and only one
month’s interest appeared on the other side of the ac-
count, while in 1900 and 1901 there was no such deduc-
tion, and the whole year’s interest appeared among the
outgoings. If this is so, the situation, supposing a uni-
form book-keeping system had been adopted all along,
would have been something like this :
The reduction in gross earnings is more than com-
pensated by the decline in expenses through economies
and the repayment of a £70,000 mortgage, and through
a saving in interest by repayment of some A deben-
tures. The net result is £932 better than in 1897, and
£5092 better than in 1900 ; also, it is a very great im-
provement on 1898-9. At the same time, Goldsbrough,
Mort and Co. still earns a good deal less than nothing per
cent, for its shareholders, and it seems rather premature
to decide that it is on a “ sound footing.”
» * * *
The official returns of Queensland live stock for
1899 and 1900 are pitiable reading :
1899. 1900. Decrease.
Pigs .. 139,118 .. 122,187 .. 16,931
Horses .. 479,127 .. 456,788 .. 22,339
Cattle .. 5,053,836 .. 4,078,191 .. 975,645
Sheep ..15,226,479 .. 10,339,185 .. 4,887,294
20,898,560 14,996,351 6,902,209
In 1892 the numbers added up to 28,839,425. Very nearly
half of Queensland’s wealth in live stock has vanished in
eight years, all through the unfitness of a very large pro-
portion of this country for agricultural ml pastoral enter-
prise-more than half has disappeared, 4 if the deteriorated
condition of the survivors is taken into account. Yet the
Freetrader still assures us that manufactures don’t really
matter. The “great producing interests,” which seem
to consist very largely in driving demented bags of bones
over dry plains, are everything.
• * * •
The indignant American gentleman who took
proceedings against the Independent Order of Foresters,
alleging that its chief boss, an Indian with a very' long
name, and a clique of his friends, made serious and reck-
less misuse of the assurance funds, was badly beaten
when his case came into court. Judge Blanchard decided
that all the charges had been fully met, and that the
plaintiff had no evidence whatever to show. This
leaves the question as to whether the funds are anything
like sufficient to keep the institution in a state of sol-
vency just where it was. The decision is that what funds
there are are carefully invested and well taken care of.
Apropos to the above, The Bulletin received a
letter recently from the local office of the 1.0. F., and
found its notepaper still decorated with the old
misleading comparisons between its own rates and
those alleged to be charged by Australian offices. The
following is a sample of how it represents things :
Policy for £lOOO.
Total cost per quarter Average quarterly
Age last in 1.0. F.— Premiums Premium with
biithday. (ceasing at age 70) and Profits in
Court dues. Australian offices.
20 .. £2 16s. 3d. .. £4 19s. 2d.
30 .. £3 17s. 6d. .. £6 7s. 6d.
40 .. £5 11s. 3d. .. £8 12s. 6d.
50 .. £9 7s. Od. .. £l2 6s. Bd.
These look very beautiful and cheap and all that, but in
reality they are something very much akin to lying, or gross
misrepresentation, or getting the public’s premiums under
false pretences. The things that are suppressed are
these : (1) The 1.0. F. pays no bonuses ; it compares its
without-profit rates with the alleged with-profit rates in
Australia; (2) The Australian average rates are not
so high as represented; the A.M.P. is an office which
charges high rates and returns big profits, and even it
only charges £4 18s. 4d. instead of £4 19s. 2d. as alleged
above. (3) The Australian offices give surrender values ;
the man who can’t keep up his payments can return his
policy and get a large proportion of his premiums back.
The 1.0. F. gives nothing back in such cases ; (4) The 1.0. F.
also charges entrance fees and medical examination fees.
(5) The above rates are for £lOOO. But the average
policy is for much less than that. And the
1.0. F., in premiums and court dues, charge more
for a small without-profit policy than the most expen-
sive Australian office does. Its rates for large policies are
cheap ; its rates for small ones are exorbitant. Yet out
of this exorbitant charge so much goes in paying expenses
and “ court dues” that there is less left towards paying
the policy at maturity than in the Australian office—a
case of paying more money and getting far less security.
This is about how the case stands at age 20—the propor-
tions are much the same at all other ages.
Policy for £lOO without Profits—Age 20.
1.0. F. A.M.P.
Quarterly payment .. .. .. Bs. ljd. .. 7s. Gd.
Of which the A.M.P. appropriates for
expenses and the 1.0. F. for expenses
and court dues, about .. .. 3s. 4£d. .. Is. Id.
Leaving to accumulate towards paying
the policy .. .. .. 4s. 9d. .. 6s. sd.
That is how things are as regards the small policyholder,
and there are 10 or 20 of him to one large policyholder.
And when he insures in the A.M.P. he takes a share in an
office which, by its last valuation, should have had
£16,379.150 on hand to cover the present value of all
liabilities under its policies and which had £17,022,045-
surplus, £642,895. If he insures in the 1.0. F. he takes a
share in an office which, at the date of its last valuation
required to have £7,159,342 on hand to cover the present
value ot all liabilities under its existing policies, and
which had £518,724 —deficiency, £6,640,618. The 1.0.F.’s
sole hope of being able to pay more than a fraction of its
policies was that most of its policy-holders would fail
some day to pay their premiums, and lose their insurance
and every penny they had previously paid. The insurer
who wants to deliberately take a share in a shortage like
that deserves to get it.
* » * *
Ed. Bulletin.—“ Wild Cat” has not shown its
usual keenness in commenting upon the Bendigo Cash
Coupon Co. in last week’s issue. This co. was formed
(according to the secretary’s statement) to crush the
System, and so the figures published being biassed,
should have been more critically examined. The co., in
its first six months, issued 3,000,000 coupons, and
redeemed 800,000 ; therefore the clever Directors wish to
make the public believe that the 2,200,000 will not come
in, and the value is therefore reckoned as profit. A bank
might just as well credit its note-circulation as profit
account. The average time coupons remain in circulation
is about six months, but the Directors of the 8.0. Co.
knew that half of the unredeemed coupons were in the
hands of the traders (not yet issued to the public) while
the remaining half were in the hands of the public, w’ho
need some time to collect the minimum redeemable num-
ber. You also err in saying that the B.C. Co. makes a
profit on the goods given in exchange. It does not give
goods, but redeems in cash, giving 2s. per 100 coupons,
which it has sold for 2s. 6d. It is these misrepresenta-
tions and reservations which prejudice people against the
Coupon System, which, if honestly administered, is a
boon to the community.— Fair Play.
* ’• • •
B. : Your coal mine shares may be good enough
for you to hold, but the stock is not a tempting invest-
ment at present price.
(Continued, on page 25.)


Complete
Outfits.
AN ORIENT BOOT^-
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT-*-
ALL CLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE ..
‘ ‘Qrient To (i)easure” Clothing
.. AT ..
SPECIAL PRICES^
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
PAVIP JONCS & COMPANY,
orgs $ Barrack Sts., Sydpgy
S P E C T A. CJUES
wTOs
EYESIGHT TESTED THROUGH POST.
Self-Testing- Charts with full instructions
Posted FREE to any Country Address.
Write for Particulars to—
WOOD, “The Optician,”
299 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE HUNTER STREET,
and EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
95 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjc> .nent of
HOME CIGARETTES
Society
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRAMDY
A poor, squalid, undignified rotv about the
Invoice appears to follow every spontaneous out-
break of “loyalty” in this country. There is
always somebody scuffling about 2d., or even less,
on the steps of the temple, or trying to collect
l|d. under the shadow of the great god Jingo
himself. The latest clawing-match about the
Bill is painfully cheap and nasty. The story goes
that when fat Jenkins of the Beard was arranging
(or the trustees were arranging with Jenkins)
for the visit of the Yorks to Melbourne Exhibition
Building, it was decided that the trustees’ room
would do to receive them in. Whereupon the
trustees refurnished the room at a cost of £4SI,
and laid in £Bl worth of spirits, £l9 worth of
cigars, and some wine; alarming total, £596.
The liquor included nine cases champagne, two
cases brandy, one case port, one case ale, one
case porter, one case dry gin, and many
other drinks. (It wasn’t even reasonably certain
at the time that the Yorks would visit the build-
ing at all, though they did call in accidentally for
a few minutes). The trustees said that their war-
rant for all this expense lay in the fact that fat
Jenkins waved his fat hand and said, “Do
the thing properly.” Jenkins said he didn’t
wave anything ; that he merely offered to borrow
some new furniture if necessary. In the course of
the sore-headed wrangling about the sordid Bill
the way one gentleman calls another a liar is pain
ful to listen to. The trustees bailed up State
Premier Peacock with their invoice, and Peacock
cast them off as if they were a mouldy green
umbrella. Then they interviewed Federal Premier
Barton, who indignantly asked them if they
expected the Duke and Duchess to consume £9C>
worth of alcohol (including a case of dry gin), and
HAS IT COME TO THIS!
PHOTOGRAPHER (to sitter): “Excuse me, sit —I don't mean to be rude—but you're awfully like
the Duke of York.”
£l9 worth of cigars, and sit on £4Bl worth
of furniture, all in a few minutes, and prac-
tically bade them go and fight Jenkins for the
money. By this time they and Jenkins ought to
be well into the 15th round.
, , , •
Jerkins the irrepressible butfconholer,
,' jel , , 1
who got ‘ leave of absence f^ m his soft billetm
Yic. Leg. Council in order to sf !j™pe a .
appointment in the Cominonwea th Senate has
decided to toddle baex to t le p ace wiseei
came. lhe manoeuvres of Je v .
an object lesson m the art of working | '
By some unaccountable means he contrived to
loom so large at the time of the Commonwealth
celebia'ions in Melbourne that the Jook gave him
a trifle from the souvenir-bag. For about six
weeks be was understood to be an indispensable
nerson greasing the wheels of ceremonial with
neculiar skill. The sudden notoriety of Jenkins
appalled the public. He was to all appearances a
new man with a genius for organization, or some-
thing. And now that he has achieved a flaring
advt. and a gorgeous gold pencil-case, the oily
opportunist returns to his same old billet at the
same old salary and is happy as of yore. The idea
of Jenkins stopping for long in the service of the
Commonwealth House of Reps., where there is
work to be done, when he had the option of re-
turning to the Vic. Leg. Council for his usual
afternoon nap, was an absurd idea on the face of
* * * *
From the N.Z. Times, published on the
morning of the Juke’s arrival at Wellington :
One thing is certain—there will be no “ claque ” ot the
French style, and no “cheers to order” of the Russian,
description.
From same paper next day—
At first the men simply bared their heads as they
walked past, hut at the instance of Mr. John Holmes (the
Govt. Commissioner), who walked down the ranks, and
encouraged the men to cheer, they displayed more en-
thusiasm.
» • * *
The little Jook is to get an educational
trowel when he lays the foundation stone of some-
thing or' other at Hobart. The blade of the
deeply-honored implement will represent the map
of Tassy, with rivers and coast-line accurately
scaled, and the mallet is being modelled from a
eucalyptus-flower, the stem serving for handle.
Who’d have thought of Hobart having an inspira-
tion in silver trowel grovel !
• * • •
As soon as the Jook had left Melbourne
people began to remark a slump in the Argus’s
r< erence for Royalty. The Tory journal pre-
s mtly seemed to recover some of its lost hysterics,
and now allegations of eloquence and “charming
condescension ” and so forth are credited to
H.R.11. in the headings of its cable news from
Maoriland. But this awakening from a dull
stupor of disappointment to a proper Argus sense
of duty to the Throne has merely emphasised the
suspicion that somebody on the Argus made up
his mind to accept something which didn’t happen,
when the Jook was on the spot. He had dreamed
of a bended knee and a bauble, and the gentle,
pressure of a royal hand in his. But the dream
went by and stupefaction set in, and that also
passed in its turn. Everything passes here below,
except a Radical measure in Vic. Leg. Council.
The Argus boss picked up the broken pieces of
his Hope and bade the policy of the newspaper
be of good cheer. All the same, there is probably
a limit to the Argus’s endurance. It can’t go
hoping on for ever.
The visit of the Duchess of York and her
Duke has not served to strengthen the loyalty
even of the globular swell in Australia, chiefly
because the second-rate public personage didn’t
get a look-in. The other day, in Yic. Assembly,
T. Bent was speaking of the Royal Couple as the
“ Dook and Dookess” but Peacock who is trying
to live up to the Windsor uniform he bought for
arose at the massive man, and
indignantly reproached him for speaking of their
ffi f messe g “with such unseemly levity.” Bent,
ng, with consternation, the possibility of his
expulsion from Parliament, hastily apologised,
and the World, which had paused in breathless
ae - a in
expectation, gg * g ■ * *
i - Findlev a certain
Re tne expulsion of JDndley, a certain
Melbourne daily paper carefully didn t report
little Dr. Maloney’s quotations from its own
columns re King Edward’s relations with various
ladies in his enterprising youth. The London
muck-rake of that paper has for years past made
A REALISTIC SHOW.
MISS BLACK : “ How did you get that drcadim
black eye? ”
MR. WHITE : “ I got too near the screen at a
biographic prize-fight, and Fitzsimmons hit
me instead of Corbett.”
in its columns insinuations regarding the
King, and numbers of ladies prominent in Eng-
lish society have been the subjects of his gentle
hints as to their virtue.
* * *
More English geography: “The Duke
and Duchess of Cornwall and York,” says the
Sketch, “are likely to have an especially in-
teresting time at Sydney, the beautiful city of'
which Victorians are justly proud.”
* * * *
In Maoriland, as elsewhere, the returned
cohentingenters are “slumping badly.” M.L.’s
fourth and fifth shiploads, back this month,
tumble right up against the tail-end of the Colossal
Crawl, and will get killed in the crush. Thedemand
for “ light ” work for the poor returned 15-stoners
didn’t come off, and the interesting heroes have
had to doff girl-snaring kharki for lumper’s moles
and navvy’s knee-straps. Seddon has apparently
exhausted all the Jingo vote, and hasn’t even
enough to spare for the Volunteers. No camps have
been held this year at any of the big centres save
Wellington, and there the local paper complains
pathetically that although six or seven weeks have
elapsed since camp struck, the Defence Dept, has
not yet paid its accounts.
* * * *
Adelaide Advertiser, June 27 :
When our sons were called upon to fight, we dramati-
cally declared we should act very differently towards the
returning brave. They would he the recipients of a
nation’s tender care, and the noble deeds they had done
would always be held in admiring remembrance. . . .
Eighteen months ago, every man who volunteered for the
war was a laurel-crowned hero. Now, those who have
come home again seem to be regarded in the light of en-
cumbrances. What has become of our former pride and
patriotism ?
The Advertiser’s recovery from its debauch is
taking the same form as that of the rest of the
Jingo press. The “Encumbrances,” by the way,
are now celebrating their return to Adelaide by
advertising in the ’Tiser for any job they can get,
and dozens are walking the streets -shabby and
penniless.
* * • •
The same old story. This time, from
Lyttelton (M.L.) Times :
The carelessness of the Govt. (Seddon’s Govt. !!) is only
a reflection of the indifference of the public. When the
early contingents took the field, they were literally bur-
dened with “comforts” of one kind and another. We
should be afraid to say how many cases of clothing and
luxuries were sent to them last year. But now
Kitchener’s appeal is ignored, and the men are left to get
through a severe winter with none of the assistance con-
sidered so necessary 12 months ago.
It turns out that after all the big Maori
shivoo at Rotorua wasn’t too huge a success. The
weather wasn’t over-good; the beer had been
turned on too long before the Juke arrived ; and
the Maoris got “the spike ” because he persistently
refused to appear in uniform. Worst of all, he
offended their notions of etiquette by neglecting
to thank them personally for their exertions. One
influential chief sums up H.R.H. as “Ver’ ’fraid
(afraid) man I tink—too frighten talk.”
• * * *
From a letter written, by a Victorian war-
rior, named MTntosh, to the Mansfield paper :
We had some great sport looting the farm-houses ; we
lived on pork and fowls all the time we were out, and any
amount of oranges and watermelons for dessert, but we
are not allowed to touch any personal property, such as
money and jewellery. I reckon I will he an expert thief
when I return to Australia, as a man has to look out for
himself over here, and “nick” everything he
hands on.
No wonder some of the returned contingenters are
a bit slow in getting to work again in this country.
“ H.P.” : A phase of the S’African war hitherto
unnoticed. Writer knows at least one c-on-
tingenter whom the awful mess over there has
practically ruined. Before the “ call to arms,” he
was a hardworking young fellow, not afraid of
anything from wood-jamming to pick-and-shovel
work. Now, though back six months, he point-
blank refuses to work. Loafs on his parents, with
a turn amongst the rest of his relatives, for a
change. He was not “invalided home,” either,
but came back bigger and stronger than when lie
went away. There are probably many such. An-
other legacy for us.
* * * *
Two high-class young Maoris, one a Uni-
versity graduate and barrister, were lately refused
admission to the new baths at Rotorua, on the
score that they were “Natives.” When beautiful
phrases like “the Noble Maori,” “No Race
Feeling in Maoriland,” “Fellow Subjects of our
Beloved King,” come into contact with concrete
facts like the above, it’s bad for the phrases.
* « • *
Premier Seddon had an anxious time at
the Rotorua shivoo. There were Maoris there
from all parts of the country. Tribes that had
regularly eaten one another met in amity for the
first time in their history, and when the waipiro
began to flow there were indications that the .Took
might see the biggest scrap in recent Maori his-
tory. Seddon had a Maxim battery sent up just
to show the Maoris how the thing could shoot,
and when it arrived the detachment took it down
to the lake and made the water bubble and hiss
under the rain of bullets. The Maoris said
“ Ouwhee ! ” or something to that effect, and took
the hint. Since then there has been a regular
epidemic of pneumonia. It was raining most of
the time, and when the Maoris went back to the
mat and the blanket after several years of the
unpicturesque, but serviceable, sac suit and hard
hat, they caught colds by the hundred. A good
many deaths have already resulted —sneezed to
death to make a ducal holiday.
* * * *
The other s ; de of the story. Maoriland
Public Works Minister Hall-Jones, who refused
to give up his hotel-rooms to accommodate some
of the York suite, says he has occupied the rooms
in Searle’s hotel for years, and it was not pro-
posed to turn him out until after he had been
assured he would not he disturbed, and when it
was too late to get rooms elsewhere.
* » *
From the Undertaker's Review :
The undertaking trade is unique in being the only one
that has cause, from business, apart from political, mo-
tives, to regret that war has actually broken out. ... We
are somewhat inclined to ask if some scheme could not l>c
devised whereby the relatives of tiiose who fall in battle
might have the privilege of securing the transport and
burial of their loved ones to the home of their birth,
where, with such honors as are their due, they might be
laid to rest on their native soil.
Just think of it! —thousands of coffins that weren't
ordered for the loved ones who fell in Africa !
The thought might make even an undertaker sad
Just contemplate the calmness of the proposal
that shiploads of corpses should be carried from
Africa in order that Mr. Ghoul may have a good
time ! Yet that is what happened as regards the
Phillipines. Present scribe saw at San Francisco
a transport which had brought back from the
islands in one cargo the bodies of 700 American
soldiers!
+ » * *
In a Melb. sly-grog-selling case t’other
day lawyer David Gaunson told Judge Moles-
worth : “The Customs Department has actually
asked me NOT to prosecute in oases win re
informers have been committed for perjury, and I
have foolishly acceded to the requests.” So,
either David is confusing things a good deal, o •
the Customs Department deliberately encourages
perjury among its grog-informers by doing its best
to shield them from punishment when bowled ou f .
HUMORS OF AN OCEAN VOYAGE.
“The pryin y temperance advocate has an after-
noon nap on deck, and is duly waited on by
the ship’s joker.”
unspeakable toadies several of the
V ' M ". C iSV /• kk I . m- f a
Australian Education are afflicted
with in the persons of their chief officials . Hew
are the Westrahan Education bosses suggesting
to their teachers the collection (i.e., tlie levying of
a toll) of bd. per head among scholars to buy some
golden presents for the Duke of York s progeny .
This grovel-toll system has now reached unbear-
able limits without having actually driven the
shamefully underpaid and long-suflering teachers
into °P°- retellio.. «pu-» their greasy marten,.
MORNING AND EVENING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Happy eyes a-glint with laughter,
Cherry lips a-tune with song,
Feet a-music making after
Golden bubbles with the throng I
Morning is the time for singing—
All the day before us there ;
Evening, leisure hours for stringing
Beads of sorrow with a prayer.
Eyes grown bright with passion burnipg,
Pouting lips a-glow with youth,
Hearts a-throb with wine-fed yearning,
Seeking more for faith than tr uth !
Evening is the time for pleasure—
All the night before us there ;
Morning—just the time to measure
Stray strands of the best girl’s hair.
MILKY WHITE.


J.fI.K.Z. GID.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
buv absolutely the best in the world. One size
only —largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16'5 u.p. It is manu-
f." f ured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
JS.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
99
TheWhiskvof The Wise
BILE BEANS
Wii.
I|O US«S« t LIVER
anp * Troubles.
The Lord tempers the wind to the shorn
lamb. Adelaide’s Mayor—Kissy Ware—as his
share of the flight of stars when Cornwall’s Duke
was in Melbourne received a paltry C.M.G. Aa
a recompense it has been ukased that Royalty
cannot attend any mayoral reception while in
Adelaide, so that quite a respectable sum of money
will be saved to the new Native “ Companion.”
* * * *
Sergeant-Major De Passey, who went to
S’Africa with two S.A. contingents and while
there was made a lieutenant for excellent service
in camp and in field, has been reduced to his
old grade again by the Stay-at-Home Review
veterans of the Commandant’s staff, because they
do not consider him “toney ” enough to associate
with them. There is intense indignation in Ade-
laide over the matter, especially among the men
who fought with and under De Passey, who is
looked on as much better fitted for the duties of a
commissioned officer than many of his titular
superiors.
• * * *
The Sydney Sunday Servant Girl in
sanguinary tantrums:
Had the Imperial Government shot a few of the more
unprincipled pro-Boers in England early in the campaign,
there would have been far fewer Boers and British slain
in South Africa.
Then Mary Jane went on with her sweeping.
* * * *
One of those Victorian factory-owners
referred to by G. H. Reid in his election cam-
paign as employing six boys to one man, was
heard from t’other day in South Melb. He only
employed five boys to ten men, but the law said
that was three too many, and invited him to say
why he shouldn’t be fined. His explanation
showed him to be a close student of the remark-
able gentleman with the eye-glass and the Yes-
No. He said one of the three was office-boy, one
printer’s boy, and one fed the dog. The Dry Dog,
no doubt.
* * * •
“Vulcan”: Wrifceswre “ the early-closing
farce in Sydney ” :—
Called at the optician’s t’other Wednesday (half-holiday)
for repairs, but finding they could not be done in .the
morning said I’d call next day. “ Oh, call this after-
noon,” says he. “But you’re closed,” said I. “Well,
the door is,” he replied ; “ but you can knock ! ” A self-
satisfied Government fondly pictures opticians’ men
enjoying a hardly-earned half-holiday, nevertheless.
Know, also, of a shoddy-drapery house where about 20
employes (mostly young women) work from 9 a.m. till 6
P-m. at half-a-crown per week. Out of these daily nine
hours they are supposed to have one hour for lunch, but
if they get 20 minutes they are lucky. Recently they
have been preparing for a “ sale,” which obliges them to
stay back till between 9 and 10 p.m. They will be kept
at this for two or three weeks while the sale is on, and
A TELEPHONE INCIDENT.
for a week or so after it is over. For this extra work
they receive not a penny extra pay—they are not even
given “tea-money”—they are not given even tea! A
simple sum shows them to work about 70 hours for half-
a-crown—6o half-pence— think of it! not a half-penny
per hour! How the unfortunate girls exist after paying
for fares and a 7 o’clock pie occasionally is as great a
mystery as the pie itself. Of course the police are down
on this sort of thing with both feet—witness the quantity
of old-woman-who-employs-only-herself that is run-in for
selling the surplus banana to a greedy youngster after
hours. Don’t look further than the State of N.S. Wales
if you again want harrowing details of sweating and
sweaters.
♦ * * m
A Bulletin correspondent:—
Although the N.S.W. Early Closing Act is now in force
the amount of “working-back” that still exists unde-
tected by the law is really disgraceful. One of Sydney’s
leading costumiferes keeps her girls working till 10 and 11
p.m. during a busy season, and even grumbles at giving
the extra tea-money—sixpence—while she hauls in a big
cheque from a fashionable customer anxious to attend
festivities in a new gown. Most of these girls are afraid
to complain for fear of losing their chance of a livelihood
—not that the salary is enormous either, for one of those
girls, after two years’ experience, is now getting 6s. a
week.
Translation of a Melb. Chinese suicide’s
farewell letter: —
I tell you, like diving in water and dying, I go out of
the door and have no resource. Who cares about my
body ? I cannot avoid seeing Yim Wong (the King of
Darkness) during this month. . . . Who would think
that in this land I would scatter my family ? At first I
anticipated to do well in this country. Who could know
it would turn out like this? At home every day was
well; after leaving home every day was adverse. ... I
was foolish to come to this gold country. At home I was
pure and in repose. Tell my father and mother not to
grieve. Heaven caused me to be a male. Heaven neither
forgives nor pities me. 1 now die, and it is no matter. . .
My bitterness and sorrow are hard to bear.
Tread gently on your vegetable-John ; you may be
killing a poet.
“Yril” : The terrible infant has often
been written up; what about the terrible adult ?
I was at a “swagger” little afternoon tea in
Brisbane lately, and the talk ran on gypsies
and fortune-telling. Said the hostess: “My
' father’s first wife and my mother were
great friends. Shortly after the first
wife’s marriage my mother, then a
mere girl, was visiting at her house.
Well, one afternoon, father and
mother, whilst walking, were met
by a gypsy woman who wanted to
tell their fortunes. Mother would
not have hers told, but father did.
The gypsy said : “You will marry
the pretty lady who is with you,
but death will part you.” They
told father’s wife, who was aw-
fully amused. But three months
after father’s first wife was killed
in a carriage accident, and he
himself died five years later.”
Everyone was impressed with the
yarn, and said, “ How extra-
ordinary.” Then the query of a
small, soulful lady, with big eyes,
fell on the assembly like a large, cold
door-key dropped down the spine :
“ And tell us, dear. Was the gypsy
right ? Did he marry your mother ? ”
* * • •
Jtfo writteu examinations as a test of
fitness for promotion, the following remark
by a N.S.W. Public School teacher may point
a moral: “Some fellows,” he said, “are too
mean to tear up a book, but I’m not. Why, I’d
tear one up that cost a guinea, if I wanted some
bits of it in with me.”
Lawyer Grey, the Geelong forger, em-
bezzler, fraudulent trustee, and general humbug
in general, has been sentenced to five years’ hard
labor on one charge, which sentence was seemingly
intended by the Judge to cover all the charges
that might be brought against his fallen brother-
in-the-law. The punishment doesn’t fit the crime
nicely and easily—in fact, it is an absurdly tight
fit, yet it represents an advance in the direction
of comparative justice for roguish solicitors. And
considering that Grey’s crime was quite an old-
established fact before the Vic. Crown Law Dept,
got shamed into issuing a warrant for the man’s
arrest, the result is more satisfactory than was
expected. There is now a bare possibility of a
Victorian member of the legal profession being
hanged if he commits not less than, say, six
murders without extenuating circumstances. But
perhaps any murder by a learned amalgam would
he in itself an extenuating circumstance.
• * * *
Broken Hill has had a lady barber for
about a year. She was “off-sider” for hubby,
and now carries on the business with apparent
satisfaction to herself and numerous customers.
Sydney Catholic) Press (its machinery
was blessed by the Cardinal when it started) is the
latest paper to follow John Norton’s example of
printing sensationally-“spicy ” matter in the good
old guise of Moral Reform. “Girls and their
Boys! Company-Keeping ! The Road to Ruin!”
is the enticing heading of an article in that paper’s
current issue (23/6/’l). It contains a graphic
description of the doings of the girls and their
“boys” when spooning on the benches in the
parks. “The endearments common to sweet-
hearts,” moralises this consecrated purifier of the
social atmosphere, “follow as a matter of course,
and with the kisses and caresses the sweet bloom
of maiden modesty is blown away.” “If it ends
at this it is bad enough,” continues the Con-
secrated Press, “but in too many cases
this is only the prologue to many shameful
chapters. ... So they sit on the benches
in the darkest shade for hours at a
time. Human nature is only human nature.
Time, place, and opportunity are leagued against
virtue.” No doubt all this is true enough, but
why in the name of Morality does the Press
linger so over details calculated to fire the imagi-
nation of the girl still burdened with that “ bloom
of maiden modesty,” and make her curious as to
how and where she can have it blown off while she
waits ? This sort of godly literature is hardly
calculated to subserve its ostensible object. The
Bulletin will presently have to start a really
smart religious paper—one that’s not too trans-
parent.
* * * *
Wesleyan parson Edgar runs a brass-band
Gospel show at Melb. Gaiety Theatre on Sunday
nights, and
draws a
crowded house
every time.
The windy
instrumental-
ists —nearly a
score of them
—do their best
to enliven the
Word,
and Ed-
gar gives
his dear
brethren
and sis-
tern fre-
quently
to under-
s t and
that the
expenses
are heavy
and the
Lord loveth
a cheerful
giver. Nath-
less they don’t
bid high for the
Lord’s affection.
A diminutive sil-
ver coin is the
average offering.
The souls of some
sinners don’t rise
higher than a ha’-
penny. Discourag-
ing for the shepherd
who supplies the
music, but not unsatis-
factory from a humani-
tarian point of view. A
paltry cash offertory de-
notes a contented audi-
ence. If Rev. Edgar gave
them big doses of sulphur, and graphic descrip-
tions of the Worm that never dieth, and made
them shudder at their awful sins, they would fork-
out shillings without enjoying themselves a
threepenny bit. As it is, they get a shilling’s
worth of fun for threepence, and leave Providence
to make up any deficiency that may arise. The
fear of Hell is not in them. Hallelujah !
• * * *
M.L. pressmen have a healthy Journalists’
Institute composed of working pressmen and
editor-proprietors. Recently Wellington branch
carried a resolution to register the Institute under
the Arbitration Act—which means that disputes
with employers can be referred to a tribunal
presided over by a Supreme Court Judge for
compulsory settlement. This fell like a bomb
upon M.L. newspaper proprietors. Dunedin
branch threw out the same resolution ; but
Wellington says that if Auckland, Christchurch
and Dunedin don’t fall into line it will register
on its own.
A “She-Cat” sends from Melbourne thi»
good-humored and pointed letter: —
Dear Bulletin.—Some of your contributors appear to
enjoy anathematising the “ she-committee ” of Melbourne
Women’s Hospital with more vigor than veracity—to say
nothing of charity. It seems almost a pity to deprive the
writers of their cherished delusion that the “ tabbies ” in
question devote a day (some of them more) per week to
the work, solely with a desire to “ gloat ” over the mis-
fortunes of their erring sisters. Imagine experiencing
this joy weekly for 40 years—as some of the committee-
members have done I The committee’s principal offences
appear to be : Ist, the questioning of applicants for ad-
mission ; 2nd, the alleged “ branding ” of unmarried
mothers. Now, the most searching of the questions are
(as enclosed form shows) stipulated for by the Govern-
ment as a condition to the payment of the annual grant.
Also, as the applicants are far in excess of the available
accommodation, great care has to be taken that the most
indigent are not passed over in favour of those with
“ brass ”in their pockets and on their foreheads. And,
even with all the questioning, the institution is fre-
quently imposed on by those well able to pay—to the
detriment of those who cannot. As to the alleged
“branding” of unmarried mothers, there is really
nothing of the kind. But, as the Hospital was primarily
intended for married women, it is but fair—now that
single women are also admitted —that the former should
still have their wedded prefix on their cards; especially
as they constitute over two-thirds of the total number of
patients. At all events, the “Mrs.” has been thus used
for 44 years, without objection from the inmates them-
selves. _ Also, any attempt to deprive the married women
of the indication of their status would unquestionably
result in a violent counter-agitation. Briefly put, the
case stands thus. We cannot honestly label the un-
married mother “ Mrs.” and we have no right to deprive
the married one of her proper designation.
* » » *
“C.H.R.” discourses on an essential part
of the Royal show :
Have studied industriously all the leading illustrateds
re the coming of the Duke, and conclude that the two
angelic beings in the twin pot-hats who sit in the out-
rigger behind the sacred ear are the only objects who
have hitherto implicitly obeyed the camera fiend. No
matter what the scene—what the point of view—back,
front, sides, above or below—there sit those cheru-
bim, undismayed. The Dook in one page looks like an
old broom-handle surmounted by a cochin-china rooster,
and the Duchess, something between a book-case and an
old-fashioned hour-glass, while the princes and lords and
things are mere splashes in the dead of the surface. Yet
there they smile out of the waste, that lovely pair with
the white pants and the tall hats. They change not.
They have been to Brisbane—this scribe saw them. They
are on the water now ; they will he in Hobart soon. I
wouldn’t give a straw to see the show if York sacked
those two angels in the hats. They must be twins, or
shave with the same razor.
* * * *
Thus a writer in the Ayr (Lowerßurdekin,
Q.) Chronicle, describing a race meeting:— “The
attendance of the white plantation-hands was
very small but the colored gentlemen were very
much ‘ en evidence,’ and it seemed as if half those
present were Islanders, Chinamen or Japs.” Now,
the Ayr Chronicle is a pro-alien-labor organ and
therefore not likely to exaggerate in this respect.
The L.B. district is run for the benefit of a
southern syndicate of sugar capitalists which some
years ago squashed the efforts of the small farmers
to obtain a central mill there, and has been busy
ever since filling the district with Asiatic farmers
and laborers, weeding out dangerous white demo-
cratic voters, and otherwise acting in the manner
of capitalism run to seed. It was this district
that supplied the latest victim to leprosy—a white
child of 10 years who contracted it by frequenting
the Chinese shops of Ayr and the Kanaka quarters
on one of the sugar farms.
* * * *
At Melb. Criminal Court, t’other day, a
prisoner appeared in the witness-box to give evi-
dence for the defence, dressed in his gaol clothes.
IN GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
SHE (just from England): “ Now, Puppy, don 't
turn your head like those hawid colonials!”
Victoria is the only Australasian State in which
such an outrage is permitted. What weight could
the testimony of a man so branded have with any
jury?
» * * *
Writes “ Smilax " re the great Auckland
fire:—
The Grand Hotel, Auckland, unlike most N. Island
buildings, was not constructed of wood. It was one of
the finest houses in Auckland, and was a substantial
brick structure described as having every modern con-
venience, and presumably the usual precautions against
fire, and was by no means “an ancient wooden public-
house.” The occurrence seems to be another proof that
modern buildings, unless watched properly, are no safer
than the old ones.
PLIRS IN OINTMENP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the Other Oog that he
Must pat—in irder to bitten be
’This is the Maid who milks that Cow :
He must pay her a compliment somehow.
Now, these ure the Flies ip Ointment that
fhe Candidate must not shudder at
This is thn lienee that he must cal)
Strong and straight as an iron wall.
This is the Horse that he must say
fs a Steeplechaser any day.
(This u the Babe that he must not miss,
“Every time when he kiss.
This is the Water-Hole that tie
Must say is a little inland tew
.1
This is the Goat that the Candidate
Must *a> has come from Angora straight.
This is the Mother who'll say, with glee,
*•« That is the son of a 6lan for me! "
This is the Garden which, if wig*.
He will cal) a little Paradise.”
This is thn flow which he must coeds
Declare Shorthorn, and the best of breeds.
This is the Father "who owns the Vote, *
The Horse, Dog, Water-hole, Cow usd
Goat.
This is the Dog of a breed awry
That he must say is '* a perfect 8kye.'*
Thi* is (he who spake, tad
spat,
“Thank God. I have not oome down In
lull"
C.R.
FLIES IN OINTMENT.


The Charm of MARK FOY’S is the Price.
One of the keynotes of Mark Foy’s success is the working
up of the Men’s and Boys’ Outfitting Trade m
To young gentlemen in offices, students, apprentices, and others,
who wish to present a good appearance, we call special attention to
MARK FOY’S SMART SUITS for BUSINESS YOUTHS.
Every youth on entering his business career desires to be smartly
dressed, but the stern necessity of rigid economy with small
salaries necessitates care in spending the coin. . . .
MARK FOTS NAVY SEROE YOUTHS’ SUITS (Ready-Made)
but not what is known as slop-made. These are manufactured in
our own factory only, from ...
GUARANTEED PURE INDIGO DYED ALL-WOOL WORSTED SERGES.
and are sold at 25/-, 29/6, 35/- The cut, style, and finish are
perfect, and the value is unknown but at Mark Foy s.
The Govt. Prizes
Three
Firsts
were Awarded to
Coolalta Claret
.... at this ....
commonwealth show.
m
$
2 S;
All Drapers Everywhere.
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAB
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAB
GLOBE TEA 3
GLOBE TEAS
Have
Have
have
have
have
have
have
have
have
have
NO
UAL.
UAL.
EQUAL
UAL.
UAL.
UAL.
UAL.
UAL,
UAL,
UAL.
ATCHERLEY 4 DAWSON. ®u Mmohaotb.
The Best Tea in Australii
1/9 PER LB.
CHOICE FAMILY TEA,
84ft OANNISTERS @ 124d.*fl 6s. Od.
12ft CANNISTERS @ 13d, *> 13s. Od.
«b CADDIES @lBJd,=s 6a. O<L
SINGLE POUND, Is. Bd.
284 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, July 1, 1901.
Mr Dear Artn*t,—
Cares still infest the day, I suppose, but after
eight they fold those supposititious tents, and the
remainder of the night seems to be filled with
waltz-music. A lot of women I know began the
winter with physical-culture exercise, but dropped
it in favor of the fun and physical exercise to be
got out of a combination of a male partner, a band,
and a waxed floor. All the cycle clubs have given
balls. At some of these, I’m told, there was not
a single wall-flower, so well did the committees
manage the output of tickets. Bagpipes skirled
at tlie Scottish ball, uniforms whirled at the
military hops, girls danced with each other at
innumerable school-dances, most of the Some-
bodies and Anybodies have had dances in
their very own ballrooms, or they’ve driven
Pa mad by clearing out the dining-room
and hustling its furniture on to the ver-
andah. There’s been a “ Bachelor Girls’ ”
dance that sounds attractive at Needs’
Rooms, and the Artists’ Society Ball was a very
“hairy” one. The hairiness was in the coiffing
of the women—not the artist-women, mind. And
the male artists’ hair was short as even Lord
Roberts advises soldiers to wear theirs. The
long-woolled male in the Society’s pasture was not
an artist at all. Ever so many women who go to
artists’ dances and “at-homes” make frights of
themselves —on these occasions only ; they think it
Art-like. The idea is, of course, to please the
artists, who, they note, rarely put sleek-haired
women in their pictures.
The most important charity ball this season was
the Fresh Air Leaguers’. The charity will profit,
but would have profited more had Society not
spent all but its housekeeping money in Duking.
It was a young people’s ball, and the reason why
there were some wall-flowers was that the letter
inviting a drove of the Brooklyn’s officers mis-
carried or was delayed. So 14 young men waiting
for that letter and growing desperate as the night
waned, at length took headers—into their bunks.
Dressing at the F.A.L. b ill was good, and there
was a great display of single-stone diamond neck-
laces. Mrs. See’s was pre-eminent in sparkle.
Miss Littlebridge Harris’s was hardly a glitter
behind. Mrs. J. T. Thompson were turquoises
with her white-and-gold gown. Miss Ettie Hor-
dern’s eau-de-nil frock had a beautifully and won-
derfully-sequined bodice. Mrs. Richards and
Mrs. Cohen, the treasurers of the ball, were hand-
somely gowned. Misses Richards wore Paris
frocks of white lisse. Mrs. Caro (hon. sec.)
wore an oyster-white brocade, the flowered pat-
tern outlined with silver sequins.
Red is coming in with great eagerness. So glad
are people now to say “Get thee behind, black
and violet. Hail red ! ” that even a red rose isn’t
a horror to them as of yore. Parisian women
are wearing re 1 co its with colored skirts. At the
Brooklyn “At Home” there was quite the latest
Paris material on a returned wanderer —hailstone
grenadine—black grenadine with a red spot.
Another guest, who wore a fawn tailor-made with
green sdk vest, her hair tightly forward from the
back of her head, and on it a flat to jue with ripe
cherries, was pronounced by an authority on dress
to be on the very top rung of smartness.
York gossip continues to dribble me-ward. Of all
the (unconsciously) humorous printed proposals for
welcoming the Yorks t ie most comic was made by
a man in Auckland, M.L. Now Auckland city
has a fine view of its fine harbor, and this genius
suggested that, as the Op'iir steamed up the
water-way, all citizens should repair to their front
windows, and with the family looking-glasses
flash a welcome to their Royal visitors. M.L. is
very loyal—loyal to the dregs—of May’s tea.
She “was induced ” to attend a bazaar at Welling-
ton in aid of a hospital for incurables, and whilst
there drank a cup of tea. The cup and saucer,
spoon, and dregs were later put up to auction, and
after brisk competition kocked down for £5 ! I
wonder if M.L. will let its royal-welcome-obelisks
go at ss. each. I trow not! But one of the most
curious bits of Yorkiana is a table of the number
of times the Duke applauded the pro-
gramme of Sydney State Concert. It may
interest the performers. Item 6. Over-
ture (Tannhaiiser), Sydney A. Orchestral
Society, was rewarded by the Duke with eight tiny
slaps on the buck of his left hand. All the other
items were applauded by gently tapping the palm,
and perhaps we can judge which item pleased
H.R.H. by the number of taps. Item 7. Song.
“The Message,” Mr. P. Newbury, It! tips. Item
8. Song. “Creation’s Hymn,” Belle Cole, 12
taps. Item 10. Song. “Let me wander not
Unseen,” Dolores, 10 taps. Item 11. Hallelujah
Chorus, Philharmonic, 9 taps. The Liedertafel
when singing shut out the compiler’s view of the
Duke, therefore he couldn’t record the applause
they got. Haven’t some persons a mania for
noting trifles ! You remember the witness at
the last big Sydney railway-accident inquest who
had, with a stop-watch, timed the speed of every
one of his railway-jourpeys, and solemnly eutered
up the results in a note-book !
This isn’t quite all an age of harsh commercial-
ism. When the Oruba was leaving on her last
voyage two brothers made a long and painful
leave-taking of each other on the wharf. He who
was remaining behind was dying of consumption.
The liner drew out from the wharf, and the
departing brother, leaning over the side, strained
his gaze on the sick one until the agony of pro-
spective and, possibly, final parting, got to such a
tension that he jumped overboard and started to
swim for the wharf. Ropes were thrown to him,
and he was hauled in safely and his luggage
hastily collected and dropped into a lighter. One
is glad to think about a thing like this not write
about it.
“Good Clean Bedds-Sixpence a Night.” Until
& week or so ago that intimation used to hang
over a George-street North door, and I, being
Duchess worn, feel inclined to hang round its
memory because it is so infinitely removed from
things royal and ducal. The extra letter in beds
seemed to make them worth sevenpence a night.
You could be fed on the premises to four
courses, wine included, for ninepence.” Probably
after the wine you’d see three d’s in the bed.
Anyhow, right at the zenith of the York-worship,
bailiffs entered this Hotel Cecil, and I made the
acquaintance of the “clean bedds ” on the kerb-
stone. Stalactites a yard long, of dirty grey
fluff, drooped from the wire mattresses, the wood-
work was mined by white ants, weird moss was
on the blankets, strange lichens on the pillows.
How different from the “ bedds” on the Oplnr.
A good story is told of Lord Ranfurly, Gover-
nor of Maoriland, in connection with the recent
reception at Auckland, of the Duke and Duchess
of York. To get the grounds around Govt.
House trim for the expected royalties, a gang of
prisoners was employed and they did the work
smartly and well. Coming on the scene of their
operations as the time for the arrival of the Duke
and Duchess drew near, His Ex. was
prompted to “ treat ” the unfortunate men, m
honor of the occasion. He suggested “lemon-
ade,” but the warder in charge could not see lus
way to consent. It was barred by the regulations.
Then (so the story runs) said Ranfurly, “it must
be tea and chicken. Take them inside.” In they
went and had a real good meal, and they drank
the health of the Duke and Duchess and likewise
of Gov. Ranfurly in—well, they say it wasn’t tea,
and it wasn’t lemonade, but they felt all the
better for it and none the less loyal.
A group of women doctors are trying to found a
Worn in’s Club here. I have not heard what is the
proposed entrance-fee, but the originators want not
less than 100 members, and suggest locating them-
selves in the Victoria Markets. There’s a club
there already, the Pencil Club is it hight, and ltd.
Dekker of the E. Nisws is President. Pencil Club’s
rooms are decorated even to the skirting-boards
with terrific sunsets and sea scapes, and there s
a pair of human thigh-bones hanging on the wall
amongst portraits of members and painted
plaques. A horrid legend is to the effect that the
first owner of the bones was killed and eaten by
liungry fellow-pencillers. If you don’t pay your
subscription of sixpence a week for, say, 2b weeks,
the Committee (who all paint pictures and write
verse) draw caricatures of you and put them on
the wall—that’s a hint for you to leave. As many
man as women belong to the Pencil. It is
never locked. You can go in at any hour
of the day or night, and light the kerosene-
stove (it lights with a loud bang) and read books
and papers, and find a bottle of quince jam fast
growing a green beard, some pickles, and a eol-
leetion of sonnets in male hand writing addressed
to the foundress.
There’s a lovely club—a woman’s club—just
started in London on quite new lines. Members
have their faults told them “ frankly and without
prejudice.” In short, the members try to make
each other see themselves as others see them. I
have not heard if they come armed to the meet-
ings.
Duchess of Cornwall’s Women’s Welcome Com-
mittee has made a big success of its money-
gathering. It has £l4OO in hand, and the
money will be spent on a useful purpose—the out-
patient quarters of the Queen Victoria Hospital.
Mesdames See, Hugh Dixon, and Beaumont are
the now vice-presidents elected by the last half-
yearly meeting of the National Council
Miss Rose Scott read a paper on the “Economic
Independence of Married Women,” urging that a
married woman, being a working partner in a
firm, as it were, had a right to a share of the pro-
fits large enough to render her economically inde-
pendent of her husband. The theory is good,
but amongst the working classes, and even in
the houses of some struggling professional men,
the income is too small to bear a division
that would make the wife independent. Miss
Scott further urged that a wife should have just
as independent a position inside the home as she
bad prior to her marriage. But the great propor-
tion of women have no economic independence
before marriage. They are dependent, or partly
so, on fathers or brothers or other relatives.
On Saturday night I had a look at the play that
fills the Lyceum stage, and at the audience that
packed the auditorium. Audience was of the
family-party type. Grey-haired mother with
white or pink woollen “cloud” over her Sunday
“ black.” A married daughter, and an unmarried
one with her “boy.” All had the invisible
“Tattersall” brand. You knew they had been
syndicating their shillings for years in hope of
winning a big sweep. When the two race-horses
“with the clothes on” appeared the family
groups went wild with joy, yet a string of real
racers returning from a gallop on the tan wouldn’t
stir them. Live horses or a real cab in painted
landscape does exhilarate the sporting family
group. Miss Duggan’s pink satin evening gown
and smart race-dress made the women of the
group more than ever eager to win a sweep that
they might walk in such raiment. But her low-
cut'bodice, worn when returning from a drive in
the afternoon, gave them pause. Perhaps a
woman who owns the favorite for a classic race
may wear a cross between an evening and a street
gown in daylight. Leading man Willard only
wants a black cat on his shoulder to complete his
likeness to Awful Boothby’s Dr. Nikola.
The Broughs are rehearsing “Second in Com-
mand ” I had a look at a bit of the rehearsal and
the play seems full of “go” and epigram and
rollick and mess-unifonn. Miss Vaughan one of
the new importations, sister of the noted Rate, is
a stately-looking figure, as tall as Mrs. Brough.
Miss Chatteris is a pretty, little, symmetrical
irirl grey-eyed, brown-h&ired, with a smile that II
make the stalls abject. She has been playing two
years in London. Her first part was Gabriel in
the “ Three Musketeers.”
A writer in a Melb. paper, in mentioning the
engagement of Miss Dey, 8.A., to Dr. Stuckey,
of Adelaide, remarks that 31 of Sydney University
women graduates have got married. Uiat leaves,
I believe, about 119 who are still happily un-
married. Something over 150 women have been
mangled through the Uni. since it was opened to
them about the middle of the eighties, I hey
seem to marry their kind, too —the woman with a
degree marries the degreed male. But I know a
woman in an oversea province, one who passed her
exams, with all the colors of the spectrum, who
married a township small butcher. That is, his
business is small. He’s the other way, and red.
She keeps the books, and nearly killed her eldest
infant by feeding it on the strongest beef-tea. I
suppose having stacks of beef at hand was a
temptation.
University Sports Club ball will be held at Pad-
dington Town-hall thisevening. Special late trams,
trains, and boats will run. To-night also there s
an entertainment by the Hasluck Dramatic Club
at Queen’s Hall in aid of Children’s Hospital.
The late Mr. Thomas Dalton was one of the
most unostentatiously charitable of men. For-
tunately for those who need help, his widow is as
generous as he was. It was Mr. Dalton’s youngest
sister who married John Redmond, the Irish
M.P. and orator. His niece married William
Redmond. Mrs. Mark Sheldon, of Neutral Bay,
is the only daughter of the Daltons. One of their
sons married, a few months since, a Sydney belle,
Miss Annie Nugent.
Sydney is full of Abrahams (Abraham was the
great pioneer squatter) concentrating at the
sheep-snows and sales. I saw Loyalty 111, the
other day, at Goldsbrough-Mort’s rooms. He’s a
fearsome-looking ram belonging to Mr. Gibson, of
Tasmania, and has been sold for something under
500 guineas. His coat is quite rain-proof, so
dense is it, and he carries wool everywhere but on
his horns. I suppose he has eyes, for he offered
to rusli me, but I couldn’t see them. His ewes
are also clothed right up to the horns—no evening-
party business about them. Shearing these pure
merinos must be like shearing a concertina. All
around you’ll hear such phrases as “ very even,”
“great density,” “exceedingly fine,” “elastic,”
“good clippers,” from men who have put blue-
over-alls on their city clothes, and whose methods
are not quite so streaky as those of the other
Biblical squatter, Jacob.
For the first time on record an Englishwoman
of title has married an American. Lady Sybil
Cuffe is the ewe lamb of the Earl and Countess of
Desart, and her bridegroom is Mr. Bayard Cutting,
who is secretary to American Ambassador Choate.
Lady Sybil, in her portraits, looks a good-com-
plexioned, abundant-haired, thick-lipped damsel.
You’ll see now how the practice, once started, will
spread like spinifex.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ ‘ Pagliacci ’ and ‘Cavalleria’ brought together
an enormous crowd (June 30). The ordinary first-
night d.c. gang, which at any time includes
fashionable, flashy, foreign and Israelitic elements,
was on this occasion augmented by frugal souls,
tempted by the double-bill. Also in evidence
were shoals of Philistines who came expressly to
pose as musical experts on the strength of recog-
nising ‘the Intermezzo’ without prompting.
“Mascagni deserves gratitude for composing
said chestnut. With no more ear than a hen, one
can’t help getting to know the Cavalleria ‘ Ave,’
thanks to street-musicians, etc., and familiarity
with an ‘lntermezzo’ is worth airing. _ Saturday
night I ventured to look at the time, as I
would have done even had an archangel descended
in person to conduct the ‘ Hallelujah Chorus.’ A
woman sitting near by apparently lived in a spot
unaffected by last-tram considerations, so, in
reference to the faint click of the watch-lid,
she hissed ‘ Hush ! ’ Later she volunteered in
kindly patronising tones: ‘ That lovely thing they
were playing was the Intermezzo—the ‘ Ave
Maria’ from ‘Cavalleria Rusticana.” Anxious
to live up to my ignoramus aspect, I re-
sponded: ‘Crikey! Was that the “Havey
Mariar ! ” I’ve often ’eared of it! ’ Whereupon
the high-toned hearer nudged her friends and
spread the story. Soon the whole group were
craning their necks to simper at their verdant
neighbor.
“Now that mourning is done with, theatres
look gay again. Coiffures grow more stuffed-out
and substantial than ever. On Saturday the
Cliveden widow, a study in white, black, dia-
monds and smiles, brought along her tall, willowy,
second daughter, who wore a long pink-silk sash
witli her trailing white frock.
“ Dani makes an attractive Pagliacci, and first
night got a real ovation for his ‘On with the
motley ’ solo, when he mourns and rages, and
finally steals his neck-frill to his weeping eyes.
The new hand, Signorina Yaccari, not a strong
singer nor a great beauty, looks rather a dainty,
graceful little Nedda. Silvio, her strapping
peasant lover, is represented by Oattadori, wno, in
‘Aida,’as de Benedetto’s black father, was wont
to hustle his child too roughly. As Nedda’s wooer,
lie’s still so boisterous that he has the air of embit-
tering embrace-moments by trampling poor little
Columbine’s toes. Nervous Cannonieri is rather
nice as Harlequin, the would-be peace-maker. In
‘Lucia’ as the unloved bridegroom, he was so
agitated when led round in white-satin to be in-
troduced to the wedding guests that his black
bottle-brush habitually stood on end, and every
second step he doubled over on the high-heels of
his white shoes. The * Cavalleria ’ tragedy seems
more squalid than that of ‘Pagliacci.’
“Dani, as Turiddu, is rather a conceited, dis-
agreeable young man. Somehow he and Sapio
between them raised very little enthusiasm, though
Sapio looks well as Santuzza, a dark tragic sort ol
girl far too good for her plump flirtatious fiancA
The latter, like most Italians, fits very naturally
into the role of ‘Mammy’s bov,’ though people
laugh when he sings ‘Main ma i Mam ma ! ’
“ The Madden contingent, with Col. Campbell
in command, amused Her Majesty’s audience on
Saturday night. They occupied the manager’s
box, and were so eager to look round the house
that their glasses were fixed in position when the
tardy lights at length flared up in the interval.
Five fat figures seated in a row, with glasses
glued to their eyes, were focussed by an amused
audience. Heretofore, the Waxellency’s party
have sat in the front row of the circle, turning
cold shoulders to the rest of the frou-frouers. But
it is evident the box gives more satisfaction, for,
to judge from Saturday’s show, the Family of
second importance in the State is, after all, very
human and deeply concerned about more ordinary
people.
“ A bookie’s wife took the palm for smart
dressing. She had on an eye-smarting black frock
of moonlight spangle, covered with a shell-pink
cloak of mirror-velvet, ruched with black chiffon.
A diamond-winged bird quivered on the top of a
newly-tipped golden thatch.
“ Conjuror Bertram gives us more cry and less
wool than Dante and others. Those young, live
magicians, I suppose, annexed present visitor’s
best tricks and strung on novelties as well, but the
current plump wizard is richer in patter. Posing
as a ladies’ man, he wheedles some shy she-
spectator into naming a flower for the mango
trick. When the victim blurts out ‘ red rose ’ and
her tormentor responds in honey-balm tones ‘my
love is like the red, red rose,’ everybody laughs,
for by this time ‘my love,’ i.e., the sufferer, is
like a red, red tomato. The prettiest trick is done
with big rings, ‘wedding rings worn by diaphanous
dervishes,’—such nice loose wedding-rings, the
very thing for modern matrimony.
“A French girl, Mdlle. Du.et, delightfully
formed and colored, was the belle of an excep-
tionally choice lot of charmers at the i rank
Stephen musical ‘at home’ t’other day. The
lady in question is dark as a Spaniard, with melt-
ing black eyes, crimson lips, and the tones of a
pomegranate in her complexion. Many years in
Paris have transformed the lovely child Albert
Park used to know into a brilliant woman of
fashion—although now not much more than
twenty-one.
“A Toorak maiden electrified her Sunday
callers recently with a whirling, swirling, curling
pirouette by the Dartos. A Jewish dame out
Domain-road way has set a craze for Sunday
shivoos, and Ping-pong helps to wile away the
slow Sabbath hours for the smartest.
“ A choice bit of club scandal is being whispered
here. A young ‘Johnnie’ who arrived from
London some two years ago has been eased, by
fair means or foul—ho asserts the latter—of
£lO,OOO. The card-room of the club to which the
smart set introduced the new chum, was the place
in which, some years ago, a well-known territorial
magnate, since dead, lost £30,000 in one night at
unlimited 100.
“ Two cousins of some wealth joined their for
tunes and their hands at the altar of matrimony
last Wednesday. The pair were Miss Eily
O’Brien and Mr. Sydney Spark. The hitching-
up took place at St. Francis’ Church. Congratu-
lations and champagne followed after in Menzies’
Winter Lounge. The young couple in question
owe their handsome incomes to the extensive
estate and provision of the late Pat O’Brien, of
‘ Kinkora.’
- “ A swell Society is troubled in its mind, and i>
trying to think over a difficult situation.
gentleman it knows very well has a pretty partm .
to whom he seems devoted, but the Society ha.
an inkling that this attractive person is not a
bona-fide wife, but a substitute for one in a far-ofi
country. The respectable Society has gone so far
as to demand inspection of the marriage-lines,
and pending their production, it proposes to eye
both parties with a glance of grieved suspicion.
Grieved suspicion is a thing that such societies
seem to get on very small provocation.
“The latest grievance of the smart Melbourne
girl is that the other cats don’t rush to congratu-
late her when she becomes engaged. Several
instances in point have recently occurred. A
complainer points out it can’t be —dislike foi
the man, and the matter of an honest silence fol-
lowing on aversion, for she has reached her third
engagement, and records the same conspiracy of
speechlessness on the part of less successful char-
mers. Only old ‘ married frumps ’ write felicita-
tions, and the ‘ snags ’ who want to be asked to the
wedding. ‘ The smart crowd one must ask don’t
write,’ confesses one of the Chosen.
“ A party of girls interested in the tale of the
untamed King O’Malley went up to the House of
Reps, the other night, and instead of the brigand-
swashbuckler type of man they expected to see
were disgusted to find a quiet-looking Democrat
with spectacles and a respectable beard and a very
pious, almost Quakerish, expression. He wae
wearing on this occasion his ranter’s look, was
calm in demeanor, and only interjected once.
Occasionally he shook a Minister or a member by
the hand, addressing him as ‘brother,’and always
being cold-shouldered, or palpably endured. No,
King O’Malley is not of the stuff that dreams (or
darlings) are made.
(Continued on page 25.)


OitiZßDS’pfepsurance Company limited.
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
POLICIES X3W FORCE EXCEED 216,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Absolute Security. Annual Bonuses.
Moore and Castlereagh Streets,
Sydney.
Resident Secretary,
W. J. BLOOMFIELD, 8.A., L.L.B.
A Letter from Archdeacon Lin gar d.
Christchurch, N.Z.
February 25th, 1901.
Dear Sirs,—
I have much pleasure in testifying to the value
of Warner’s Safe Cure.
Nearly four years ago, after having tried several
remedies for diabetes without success, my medical
men consented to my trying Warner’s Safe Cure.
At that time there was no prospect of my living
above a few months. At first I took six table-
spoonfuls a day. I began to improve in health
immediately, and was soon able to undertake my
regular duties. During the last four years I have
never been without the Safe Cure in the house, at
times reducing the doses to one per diem, and
occasionally going without altogether for a month
or so.
At the present time, though not altogether
cured (at my age I can hardly expect it), I am
able to undertake the arduous duties of a large
parish single-handed and without much fatigue.
I have no hesitation in saying that my present
fairly good state of health is due to Warner’s Safe
Cure, and I shall ever feel grateful that it came
my way.
Yours &e.,
EDW. ATH. LINGARD
Archdeacon of Akaroa.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.
Warner’s Safe Cure is a specific for the cure of
all diseases of the kidneys and liver and for all
complaints arising from a disordered condition of
these vital organs, such as indigestion, rheu-
matism, gout, neuralgia, jaundice, biliousness,
ansemia, debility, most blood disorders and
Bright’s disease.*
FACILE PRIIMCE PS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BLACK and WHITE.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Kingston, as shown by a recent photo-
graph, is now quite grey of head and beard.
Died at Southern Cross, Wes ralia, the
other day, an old Eureka Stockader, George
Smith.
It is recorded that Premier Seddon once
spoke for a solid hour-and-a-half at a London city
1 lanquet.
Premier See was born at Yelling, in Eng-
land, and his first partner in business in N.S. W.
was named Nipper.
“My honorable and learned friend, the
sweet-smiling Senator John Downer.” — Senator
Dawson, of Queensland.
A noticeable fact—Barton gives the plums
of his Federal patronage to lawyers; and Lyne
the plums of his Federal patronage to pressmen.
Barton is a lawyer ; Lyne, a layman.
Ancient diplomas whose holders are still
battling in N.S. W. : Wm. Crooke, Woolloomooloo
(1839), W. F. Bassett, of Bathurst (1849), H. G.
A. Wright, York-street, Sydney (1850).
Good and bad luck come in all sorts of
guises. For instance, had B. R. Wise been elected
to the Federal Parliament, he might have had less
show for the High Gommissionership of the
Commonwealth.
Talk of Australian Heroes ! What of the
dauntless Burdekin (N.Q.) girl who recently con-
signed herself to a de.ith-in-life in order to minister
to the wants of her stricken brother, now in the
lepers’ lazaretto at Friday Island.
Rather notable that Speaker Holder,
President Chaffey Baker, and Chairman Chanter,
of the Federal Parliament, are all natives of poor
little S. A. And it looks as if the Federal Chief
Justiceship may go the same way.
The health of the veteran Dr. O’Doherty,
the Irish rebel of 1848, is giving concern to his
old Queensland friends. The Doctor has no male
heir. His four sons have all gone —three of them
suddenly.
Premiei Peacock, by expelling Labor-
member Findley from Vie. Assembly, on a charge
of libelling Royalty, has heaped coals of fire on
the head of Royalty. The Premier naturally
expected a Knighthood and only got two ten-
penny photographs, whereas the lamentable
Jenkins of the Beard got an 18s. fid. Royal
pencil-case, and the flunkeys at Govt.-house
each got the Duke’s photograph and 30s.
AN EXCHANGE OF
CIVILITIES.
MR. JONES: “ I should
be glad, Mr. Brown,
if you would shoot
your dog, us it dis-
turbs me at night.”
MR. BROWN: “ With pleasure,
Mr. Jones, if you will either burn your
piano or poison your daughter who disturbs
me day and night.”
It is “ Senator Major Gould ” in the
Commonwealth Hansard, also Senator Lieu-
tenant-Colonel Neild. To keep them company
Kingston might remember that he was once a
corporal, and instruct the reporters accordingly.
John Downer, Q. 0., was the first “ colon-
ial ’’-born youth to enter S. A. Parliament. King-
ston emerged from the State School at West
Adelaide and signalised his first session in tho
Lower House by entering as a full private in tho
local Volunteer Corps.
Died recently and suddenly, aged 77, 'V.
R. Batman, of Hazlewood, Dubbo, N.S. W. Mr.
Batman, who was a nephew of John Batman, of
early Melbourne fame, had a wonderful memory,
and was full of interesting reminiscences. He
leaves one son and three daughters.
B irnutu Powell has resigned his S African
constabulary comm md. Says a Vienna paper:
It is obvious that Biden-l’owell has been captured by
the Boers, and released on his word of honor not to take
up arms against them again. This is whv he is ooming
home. The same thing occurred to Buller.
The height of dignity iti Australasian
politics was probably reached by the first Super-
intendent of the Province of Nelson (M.L.-).
When his first Provincial Council assembled, he
came down and delivered the opening speech wita
his hat on, ala Royalty. Even Waxellency
Madden couldn’t beat th~l.
Generally rumored in Adelaide that
Justices Boucaut and Bundey (latter is in ill-health)
purpose early retirement from the Bench.. Judge
Boucaut is wealthy and much interested in horse-
breeding. As regards Bundey the difficulty is in a
pension, which necessitates 20 years of office, and
the Judge does not complete this term until July,
1904.
Ex-Speaker Bent, since his re-election to
Vic. Assembly, has once again become a promi-
nent figure in Melbourne dress-circles, where he
sits, ostentatiously and noisily munching masses of
lollies, for three solid hours. If he goes out in the
intervals it is to get more lollies. The man who
eats lollies rarely drinks.
The Republican soul of that good demo-
crat, Premier Jenkins (S.A.), revolts at the
thought of the coming grovel before the Duke,
and lie makes no secret of the gladness with which
he will see the Ophir sail away. Jenkins is a tee-
totaller, so that he shows no enthusiasm even in
signing orders for champagne and other patriotic
essences.
J. P. Stow, S’langdon Bonython’s pre-
decessor as editor of Adelaide Advertises, now
S. at Pt. Pirie (S.A.), has lately been so ill
that his retirement may come at any time. Stow,
the son of a Congregational parson, is reckoned
among the choicest yarn-spinners in his province.
Though so long a journalist, he gives people found
drunk on the Sawbath double fines.
Reminiscences signed with the well-known
initials “ V. J.D.” :
The tall, loose limbed, not unalert
Allerdale Grainger, wh) 1 aibeen
appoirited S. Australian State
Agent in London, was a
very raw person in 1879
when I was corres-
pondenee - clerk for
Harris, Scarfe and Co.
in Adelaide. He was
then editor of a rather
bright little evening
paper called the Star.
I sent him some verses
—first I had ever
written in Australia.
I remember that
they were some-
thing to the
effect that Love
and Fame and
Death, each
appropriately
a c e o lifted,
called at
the House
of the
Young
Man and
he chose
Death.
Allerdale
Grainger
replied
in his
Corres-
pondence
Column.
Said that
it was a
mistake,
anyhow,
for me
to write
verse, but
if wild
horses
and the
advice of
my elders
would
not pre-
vent me
from do-
ing so it
would be
well if I
studied
classical
models. The
other fellows
in the office
saw the re-
ply and
chaffed me
consider-
ably.
Worst of
all, the
grim
Mr. Scarfe
called me
into his pri-
vate office one
morning and showed
me a letter from a leading
customer of the firm in the
Northern Areas. The letter complimented
him upon the tact that he had an unrecognised Poet on
the premises. Mr. Scarfe handed me a large office-form
addressed by me to the Northern Area man. The front
part was filled with quotations for rivets and galvanised
iron. These were absolutely correct, but on the other
side of the page was the draft of a set of verses addressed
to “ Daphne,” the barmaid of the Red Lion Inn, which
was the nearest hostelry to the office. I wish I could feel
as much ashamed now as I fell ashamed then. “ Daphne ”
married years and years ago, and is very fat arid has many
children ; Scarfe is dead ; and Allerdale Grainger is going
to London as State Agent—and I am still making a so-
called living by writing paragraphs and rhymes.
AT THE GALLERY.—A
FRAUD.
MRS. PARSON TYME : “ This
must be one of those ‘ puzzle
pictures.’”
JOSIAH : “I can’t see any do[?].”
The Hon. Eric Lascelles, brother of Vis-
count Lascelles, and of the Earl of Harewood, who
has been travelling incog, as a showman for years,
died recently at Cheltenham, Eng. “Viscount
Lascelles ” is a title not unknown in Australia.
In 1883, John Dow, alias Lutterell, alias Edward
Lord, travelled N. 9. W., under the title as a Com-
missioner authorised by the British Govt, to
inquire into the condition of the prison popula-
tion. He “had” many worthy families in the
West before he was found out.
Mr. Kater, M.L.C., who gave £lOOO to
Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, the other day,
lost £6OOO worth of notes very softly at Cherry
Tree Hill in the early days. He left the bag of
notes in the coach and walked up the hill, but
Lowry and Foley, bushrangers, were on the alert
and collared the lot. One of the bushrangers,
when caught, gave up his share of the plunder,
but the balance was never recovered. Mr. Kater
was then a clerk in the A. J.S. Bank.
Premier Peacock has found his Free-
masonry of service in strengthening his reputation
as a business manager. Peacock is Grand High
Cockalorum of the Vic. Freemasons, and his way
of presiding over Grand Lodge meetings and
putting things through somewhat astonishes the
men who have had previous experience of two in-
competent stammerers in the chair. William
Clarke was for years a farcical figurehead of the
Craft, and after him came hum-haw Brassey. It
goes without saying that the spry Peacock shines
by comparison with his predecessors and is pretty
much of a Grandmaster of the Masonic vote in
Parliamentary elections when he speaks for a
particular candidate.
The Queensland Ministry is determined to
keep the status of Governor as it has been.
Attorney-General Rutledge has just said that the
country will be satisfied with nothing less than a
nobleman—as if there could (on the average
sample submitted to Australia) be anything less.
Chief-Justice Griffith, however able, does not
satisfy the snob-craving to rub sides with some-
thing born in the purple. And, indeed, Griffith
himself is willing to stand aside so that he also
may rub.
Apropos the cable announcing a fourth
daughter to the Czar and Czarina of Russia, it
would be interesting to know if in this case, as in
case of the third, the mother was under the dieting
supervision of the well-advertised . alleged pre-
natal-sex-decider: It was published in the Con-
tinental press that Nicholas 11. was so wild when
the third child of his marriage followed the first
two in sex, that he proved, by experience else-
where, that it wasn’t his fault ! “Uneasy lies
the (female) head that wears a crown.”
Pastor John Alex. “Zion” Dowie, of
faith-healing renown (recently acquitted in Chi-
cago on a manslaughter-charge), was well-known
in Melbourne at one time, and used to deliver red-
hot sermons in Fitzroy Tabernacle? He preached
annually a sermon on the Melbourne Cup—or
“ Cup of Devils,” as he called it ; and used to ex-
hibit in glass vessels on his platform table a col-
lection of tape-worms, cancers, hydatid cysts, and
all manner of horrors, said to have been removed
from the human body by the agency of prayer.
A Fiji pressman, writing to N.Z. Times
denouncing Gov. O’Brien, cites, as an instance of
the latter’s want of courtesy, his treatment of G.
H. Reid. When the latter was on his way home
from the Jubilee Drunk, the boat touched at Suva,
and the Dry Dog man went ashore early that
morning to call on O’Brien. His Ex. was still at
breakfast when Yes-No’s feet were on the door-
mat, and he, not wishing to let Reid see him with
his mouth full of buttered toast, sent out his
secretary to explain, and say he couldn’t receive
George. Whereat, according to the pressman,
the latter “performed” considerably. This, by
the way, is one of the few recorded occasions on
which Reid was too early, instead of too late.
Tasmanian obit. : On 4th June, William
Dry Landale, 53, son of Dr. Landale, long ago of
Launceston, and nephew of Richard Dry, one of
the “patriotic six.” W.D.L. wits, a few years
ago, the best and most graceful horseman in his
State, and amongst the first flight in Australia.
Some of his feats on Echo are still talked about.
Poor Landale went the pace in youth, and in
middle age was financially troubled. His body
was found at the bottom of the Cataract quarry ;
it was the most sensational leap he ever negoti-
ated, and his last. His two brothers both found
sad ends. David walked down into Waratah
Creek, Bischoff, on a day’s prospecting, and was
heard of no more. Clarence blundered over the
edge of Launceston wharf,, and his body was
dragged out next morning. -Another brother,
Dick” also dead, was well-known in the old days
with the sports who are no more.
When the Duke of York was at Wellington
(M.L.), he made a speech about the “hero of
Waterloo,” after whom the place is named. As a
matter of fact, Wellington never pretended to be
a “hero,” or thought much of Waterloo. His
pet battle was Vittoria, which he believed
caused the collapse of Napoleon in Germany
in 1813. The consequences of Vittoria were
thus infinitely greater than those of Waterloo.
In fact, had Wellington not fought, or had he
been beaten at Waterloo, Napoleo i had still the
Prussians (only half-beaten at Ligtiv) and the
Austrians and Russians to dispose of, and sooner
or later he would have been crushed, because he
had no second army to fall back upon.
The poor wretch who runs the Way back
Advocate deserves a lot of our pity, but not all ;
save some for the other po >r devil who grinds out
the uninfluential city rag. U landler, the Adelaide
press-worker, who is serving one sentence for
criminal libel, came out for an airing to receive
another six months, t’other day. “ I didn’t see it
before it was printed,” he said. “ I was out can-
vassing and collecting, and then I had to do the
type setting. There wasn’t any manuscript ;
Andrews, who ‘ worked ’ the information up, set
it up himself. We do the work between us. I
have tried to do two men’s work and failed.” In
the circumstances it seems absurd to inflict a
heavy fine as well as imprisonment.
The late missionary Chalmers, of Papua,
was always inclined to be jocular concerning can-
nibalism, yet lie was killed and eaten after all. On
being asked (writes a correspondent of West-
minster Gazette) if he was not afraid of being
put into the pot himself, he replied, “ Not a bit.
I once went so far as to ask the cannibals of Bald
Head Point, in the centre of the sago-producing
country—most agreeable fellows—if they had any
such intentions regarding me. The chief, with a
smile (not a hungry one), said that they did not
care for white man. They had tried him, but he
was not good. Of course,” added the missionary,
“ they might prefer white man to no man at all,
but, as a matter of fact, ‘ long-pig ’ orgies are not
common. They are, like plum-pudding at Christ-
mas, very good once a year.” Mr. Chalmers
stuck up manfully for the cannibals. “ They are
really a fine set of men,” he said. “ Their houses
and temples are remarkable structures. It is in
the temples that the banquets of human flesh are
held. When a number of bodies are taken, they
are brought into the temple one by one. At the
end of the temple is a dark recess, and into this
each body is taken. After the obsequies, the
body is dragged out into the open, the head is
carefully chopped off, and the body is cut up into
pieces, and thrown into the pot for dinner. The
flesh on the skull is very carefully taken off, until
the skull is clean. The hideous trophy is then
handed over to a skilled artificer, who carves and
paints it. It is then hung up on a peg in the
temple.”


SCHfIAPPS,
CLEARS
the BLOOD
through the
KIDNEYS
WATSON’S WHISKY.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —Always give, in ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., exact date and exact
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
“ Bull’s-Wool ” has a dream :—
Dreamt t’other night I was appointed manager of
“Dead Finish’ Station (owners, “The Australian Broke
and Reconstruction Co.”) and received the following
letter from the manager of the co. when I took charge,
viz. :—
PRIVATE.
Dear Sir.—You have been appointed manager of our
“ Dead Finish ” Station at a salary of £100 per annum. I
give these hints for your guidance and policy during your
term of management, viz. :
1. Beware of “ Big-head.”
2. Write plenty of letters to the co. Be as vague in
your statements as possible, taking the Governor-
General’s speech to Parliament as a model. Fill your
letters up with “ Garden Stuff.” The Directors have to
make some semblance of earning their fees and your
letters will give them something to talk about at the
“ Board ” meetings.
3. When you are asked for an estimate of “ Receipts and
Expenditure ” don’t write and say that it is all bosh and
that not being Wragge you can’t foretell a season, but
make receipts as small and expenditure as bigas possible.
We may remember it at the end of the year, and search
for it in the dust-heap for comparison with results. If
results are better than you prognosticated, the directors
will be pleased that, through their efforts, they have done
better than they thought they would. If results aren’t up
to your estimate, you will have to take the blame. You
are there for that purpose. You might write me a
“ private ” letter, telling me what the station is really
like. I can then tell the directors what 1 think. It will
add to my reputation, if it turns out as you say.
4. Do exactly as you are instructed by letter. Remem-
ber that the directors and myself, with the help of sundry
under-strappers in this office, and with some assistance
from the London board, are really managing the station.
You are there to take the blame if any of us make mis-
takes. Directois don’t like responsibility; neither do I.
The directors like all the credit; I like some, too, so there
won’t be much left for you You are called “The
Manager ” ; that’s your share.
5. Don’t buy whisky and have it put down in the in-
voices as flour. If you get drunk, don’t let me hear of it.
I get a bit full at tile club, with the directors, at times ;
but we are made of different clay. If I should come up
to the station, and we get tight together, that won’t
count, but it would be wiser for you to let me get drunk.
Then you can attend to me while I am suffering a re-
covery.
6. Don’t ask for a rise in salary. It might interfere
with a rise I want myself. If you really want a rise, you
had better come down and marry one of the daughters
of our principal director. I married one myself.
7. If you want “stud rams,” write to the “Board.”
They will write to the London directors, who always
purchase the studs, knowing the least about it. If they
turn out well (the stud rams I mean) the Board will take
great credit. If they are a failure, very likely you’ll get
the sack.
8. If you don’t get dismissed for one of my mistakes, or
for one of the directors’ mistakes, or for showing that you
know more than either of us, ami become old in our ser-
vice, or a blithering idiot from trying to do what half-a-
dozen people tell you about one tiling, and if you haven’t
married our boss director’s daughter, we will most pro-
bably sack you and put a younger man in your place.
Old beggars, as you will be . then, should have saved
enough money for their latter years.
Finally, remember the importance of your position as
manager of one of this co.’s stations (the co. has only re-
constructed once). Entertain freely (at your own
expense). The co. must be well represented. And do
things handsomely (they may want to float some more
debenture-stock).' Also, don’t forget me. Tell everyone
what a clever man I am. It might do me some good.
* * * *
“Gipps”: People are continually being
abused by the press and magistrates for
neglecting to cut down anyone they may find
hanging by the neck, but I can
sympathise with those people,
knowing it to be a thankless task
to interrupt any free and inde
pendent elector in the execution
of himself. I am “ off ” cutting
down the half-hanged since
my last experience. 1 was put-
ting up at a small Gfippslaml
bush pub., and arose early
witii the intention of having
a dip in the creek. On my
way to the secluded hole I
ran up against a fellow-
lodger, a long, hairy, red-
whiskered man, hanging by
a rope from a light-wood
limb, still squirming vigor-
ously. He was a morbid
man, with a bestial appe-
tite for poisonous whisky,
and he had eaten my
share of the wild duck at
dinner the day before. How-
ever, I am of a forgiving dis-
position, and I whipped out .my
knife and let him down with a
flop. He lay on the grass awhile, gasping,
and considering the situation. Then he
arose, and I prepared to receive in a proper
spirit his offers of eternal devotion. “ You
,” he said, “ why the —— don’t you mind
your own blank blank blank business '! ” Then
he struck, and my nose suddenly felt like a
lump of mud hurled against a brick fence. He
kept it up for two minutes, and I went to bed for
three days. Ere I could get about again the
morbid man with the red whiskers had gone off
in my best trousers, in the pockets of which were
£2 7s. in cash and my marriage-certificate.
* * • *
“ Hennidon ” sends a tough and pic-
turesque discourse concerning Luck : —
People say there’s no such thing as luck. Well, I once
saw a man lose his life in inches of water ; and I have
known a woman die from the effects of a pin-scratch.
But, on the ether hand, in Queensland last year I fell in
with a N.S.W. man who called himself Frank Drum.
Jointly we purchased a vehicle and all attachments, and
together set out from Longreach for Rockhampton.
Camping en route one afternoon during a heavy thunder-
storm, Drum was leading the horse to water, when a flash
of lightning struck man and beast, the animal being
killed outright, but the man escaping with two hours’
insensibility. A fortnight later he was bitten on the arm
by a black snake. After hacking the wound about with
a blunt knife, sucking it, and pouring a bottle of brandy
into the patient, I set out for the nearest doctor, some 14
miles off. What with driving a poor, knocked-up horse
and the task of keeping my mate awake, it would be hard
to say which of us, on arrival, needed medical attention
the more. After searching divers pubs., at each of
which Drum contrived to force down a couple of brandies,
we at length found the medico. The wound was duly
attended to, and another bottle of Hennessy found its
way into the snake-victim, who next morning declared
himself O.K. A month later found us gully-raking on an
abandoned goldfield. Opposite the tent was a tunnel
running through a hill. Into this Drum betook himself
during my illness, and as he did not return in reasonable
ing hard by, and we set to work to unearth the mangled
remains. Had shifted tons of stuff, and were half-dead
when from several feet above a voice star-
tied us. Drum had burrowed a hole between the debris
and the solid ground, and was anxiously waiting to be
extricated. It appears that he displaced a prop, brought
doum several sets of timber, and was for the time buried
alive. After that I resolved to part company with the
death-dodger, and accordingly, while he was mooning
about the old drives, I packed my belongings and
sneaked off like a thief in the night. Last 1 heard of
Drum was from Croydon, where he had had three fingers
a,l< !: ! j u . ear . .( I . llore . or * ess ) blown off by gelignite, his
lte bein ' kllled instantly,
* * * *
“ Coqual ” sends a Queensland society
item :
, ,
A Chinaman gardener, resident at Barcaldine for years,
an<l a colonist of 40 years’standing, took unto himself
n v e years ago, a half-caste gin arid has fed, housed, and
clothed her ever since. One child is the result. He lias
repeated y applied to the local clergy to marry him, but
they couldn t without the consent of the Govt., which is
tbe guardian of the aboriginals” (i.e., it steals their
ground and, in return, gives them one blanket per
a,,n ! jm > No , one interfered with the pair until a fevv
'Y eeks . when a black tracker wanted a wife, and
the , ldt j a « elzed the authorities that the Chinaman s gin
would just suit, and they forthwith summoned the Chow
J^? 1 harboring an aboriginal. Pending the arrival of
Jh e necessary documents from Brisbane, the girl lias been
, taken ! rou > her home and is not allowed to speak to her
lovey-dovey. One of the reasons given for this action is
she 18 21 -. Other little reasons are also whispered ill
connection with the case.
* * * *
“Abdul” : Be par. (BULLETIN 18/5/’01)
about children out West never having seen a
river Qr the sea _ Know of a marrie d woman,
e r j t • «i
years old, mother of a family, and living on the
Darling, who has never seen a tram or a two-
storey house. Another one, lower down the river,
in same state of ignorance, was married not long
ago. Eirst time she saw a train or a two-storey
house was when passing through Bourlte on her
, . ' rn] =• , , , .
honeymoon trip. They do say they had to pub
winkers on her to get her m the tram.
,** * *
“C.D.J.” sends a rabbit-perjury: Recently
... .. . a , l , J , / ~ , „„„
saw a rabbit making ineffectual attempts to sur-
mount a sft. netting-fence round a wheat crop.
Cow lying near fence meditatively ruminating,
Bunny approached and mounted upon her, but was
stfp some 30in. from top of fence. Sat quiet for a
f ew m i nu tes, evidently communing with himself ;
.v J ->
then suddenly commenced to scratch vigorously,
Cow rose hurriedly and bunny jumped easily on
to the top of a post and thence down on other
side.
» * * *
u vy a J. » . “A MN ” reinnrk« in Hitt r f.ttn
• A.IVI. S remarks in BULLETIN
(27/4/01), re the sweating of children on dairy-
farms, apply to N.S.W. as well as to Maoriland.
The four children of my nearest neighbor (the
eldest is 13 years) have to rise before daylight in
orc j er feed and milk upwards of 40 cows and
. .i :ii before enincr to school The
separate the milk Pelore going to senooi. lne
youngest, a little girl of six, has to do the bail-
ing-up.” Fancy such work daily, morning and
evening, in all sorts of weather for children, and
the above is only one case out of many I
cou ]j quote- Is ’it any wonder these children
j ]f ..n an d fail to make satis-
appear liall-clazect ail day, anti tail to make satk
factory progress at school ?
THE REVULSION
SETTING IN.
DEADBEAT : “ ’Struth!
We’re gettin' a real
skinful of the
D[?]ok.”
“ Serp ” : Was once
walking in the Vic. bush
with a pal when I spied a
tiger-snake 18in. in front
of him. Sang out to him,
and his eye fell on the
reptile at the same
moment. He was carry-
ing a sharp tomahawk
in his right hand, and
made such a vigorous
jump that he sliced off
the fleshy part of his
right heel, leaving it
hanging by a shred of
skin. Threw some saplings on the snake to
hold it while I bound up the wound, but the
“tiger” got away before I had finished.
Then carried my 14-stone friend on my back 3
miles to the nearest township. It was the hardest
tramp I ever had.
SPORTING INSTINCT.
COLONEL (to outpost on the veldt): “Have you seen anything?”
PRIVATE 48,499 (formerly kangaroo-shooter at Warramine): “Yes, had a shot at two small
animals, and thought I saw a rabbit."
COLONEL : “D the animals; did you see any Boers?”
P. 48,499 (thoughtfully): “Boers! I think I did see two or three hundred.”
COLONEL (bursting with rage): “ Which way did they go?”
PRIVATE 48,499: “ Dunno, but I could swear the rabbit went that way.”
COLONEL: “-,-,- !!-!!!"
The Hot Lakes (M.L.) News drew
Government’s attention to the necessity for an
apparatus for lifting helpless invalids in and out
of the local baths, whereupon an active and in-
telligent department forwarded gear capable of
lifting five tons. It would be difficult in that
sulphurous country to find a suitable founda-
tion for such machinery. If it is put into opera-
tion we may expect to learn per cable that the
mass of cog-wheels and chains has fallen on the
chest of some invalid bather and cured him of all
his earthly ailments in one act.
* * * *
“Werriwee” : Know a girl who sends
cards and writes letters to herself and ostenta-
tiously opens and pores over them in a public
place so that other minxes mav see and envy.
Which reminds me of one Bill who did the same.
Tom and he were rivals for the hand of Florrie
Blank. The old people professed great friend-
ship for Tom, and much contempt of Bill. Xmas
came, and Bill got a written invitation to dinner
from Florrie’s old man. Tom was so disgusted
that he went up country. A year later, when
Florrie had gone off with a drover, he found out
that Bill had written the invitation himself.
When last heard of Tom was looking for Bill with
a genuine invitation to a lively time by the road-
side.
* * * *
Mr. Cheeseman, of Brighton, Melbourne,
has lately been to the New Hebrides, and writes
thus, in Brighton Southern Cross :
Missionaries receive £2OO per annum ; all goods are de-
livered to them free of freight, so all goods are as cheap
to them as though they lived in Sydney or Melbourne.
They have free and, in most cases, very comfortable
quarters, although the completeness of their homes de-
pends largely on their own exertions. They also travel
free of fares, including their wives and families. ... A
missionary does not ask leave, but goes away for a trip
whenever he feels a change necessary, usually to one or
other of the Australian States. . . . Mission stations are
all established on the coast, mostly within a few yards of
the beach. This system is adopted for safety. ... No
mission stations exist in the interior of the islands, where
the natives are as primitive as when the islands were
discovered. The missionary conducts a morning school
for all ages, commencing at 6.30. The school is dismissed
at 7.3 C ; after this the missionary’s duties appear to end
for the day. Each station has a staff of native teachers,
who are paid a very small salary, and appear to do con-
siderable work lying at a distance, etc. On the whole, I
think the missionary has a very good time ; very different
from those who did the pioneering work 40 years ago.
The coast tribes are civilised and safe. There is plenty of
work still to do in the interior, but those parts seem to be
approached with much delicacy. The trader is more
venturesome ; his lot is anything but enviable. In most
cases he is the only white man for miles. Most traders
have from one to three native wives, but they are not
valued as domestics. The missionary is surrounded with
fervent adherents. The trader has to attract workers by
tact and fair dealing. He must be devoid of fear, as he is
always in danger. He deals direct with the hill tribes,
who collect and deliver cocoanuts, etc.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.— Be your par. (6/4/’01)
about power of modern firearms. Here are pre-
cise details : The bullet, fired from 200yds.,
Eierced in an oblique direction, lljin. of solid
ardwood, 2in. of hardwood batten, and two
thicknesses of galvanised iron, and then struck
the marker, severing the spinal cord.— A.C.M.
“She could saw, split, drive blanky
bullocks, hold up her blanky end in a scrap and
carry two blankv bags of flour—till she got bad,”
said the MTherson Range ring-barker, proudly—
not of his ox or his ass, but of his wife !
A DROUGHT TIME BAPTISM.
MISS MEEKS (to Parson Meeks, just returned
from out-back christening): “ How did the
ceremony go off, papa?”
PAPA : “ Very well, but for the fact that there
was not a drop of water in the town.”
MISS MEEKS : “How did you manage?”
PAPA : “Oh, we put him through by dry-
blowing.”
“ Esmi ” : Quite agree with “Louis M.”
(8., 13/4/T). Went to a dance at wayback town-
ship with squatter family party. Begged
introduction to very pretty girl, daughter
of local blacksmith, and danced with her. Re-
turning to my party, received a terrific snub from
Mrs. Squatter and daughters. Every time I
spotted a pretty girl after that I had to rush
wildly to Mama and crave permission to request
introduction to said p.g The local newspaper in
its next issue wanted to know “if squatterdom
wears gloves because its hands are not clean
enough to grasp the naked hand of an honest man ?”


A copy of “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” The Bulletin’s particularly suc-
cessful pamphlet, will be posted from this office to
any Australian address on receipt of Bd. in stamps
(of any State).
The Bulletin’s latest publication—
“ Dreams in Flower,” a book of verses by Louise
Mack —contains all the best poetical work of this
writer for the last ten years. Price half-a-crown,
post-free from this office.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Look-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
BAVID STOREB, & SONS’ ,n Three ColorB
Registered
Trade
Mark.
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking
or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker.
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
anos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes —
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose : — A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
“ D.S.A.D.” : Re ignorance of bush chil-
dren : A bushwacker brought his two youngsters to
spend a couple of days in a moderate-sized town.
Dad and youngsters strolled the street in the
evening, when one kid, looking up, said in sur-
prise : “ I’ll be hanged, Bill, if they’s ain’t got the
same moon as us ” ! Yet the bush children haven’t
a monopoly of ignorance. A newly-arrived Scotch
family took up residence here, in the Queensland
backblocks. One day a passer-by informed the
Vl’Dad that there was a telegram for him at the
post-office some miles distant. Dad told off son
Sandy to go for it. Something was puzzling
Sandy. Hte hung about the door a while. “I
thought I telt yer to gang awa’ for the telegram,”
said Dad. Then Sandy inquired if he should tak’
the dray, or if the horse was strong enough to
carry a telegram.
» * * *
Re station “ tucker ” :
Employes themselves are greatly to blame that an in-
different ration is becoming general “ out back.” I know
nothing about “ inside.” Any shearers’ cook will tell
you that men “off the track” will, for a week, gorge
themselves savagely, and waste good food scandalously.
After that their palates demand dainties, and the waste
increases, if anything—jam on “ brownie,” sauce and
pickles with their meat, and so on, so long as the boss
will stand it. Sauce and pickles they consume by the
half bottle at a time as a “ tonic ” or “ appetiser,” while
plums, currants, dried fruits, and white sugar they use
as lollies. Should the cook (who is, in a measure, re-
sponsible) remonstrate he is promptly voted “ a cow ” or
“smoodger.” The bosses, generally speaking, are only
“ strugglers ” on a little higher plane than their hands,
and, soured by ill-fortune and dyspepsia, “ nark ”
quickly. Then comes the “ mean tucker.” By-the-bye,
“ Station Manager’s” list (8., 6/15/’01) wants altering for
these parts ,N.W. N.S.W.). Prices here higher. During
the drought of the past seven years we have been paying
up to £lO per ton carriage from nearest railway
“ Bungarra ” : A man in a W. A.
goldfields town, recently, having a very
bad attack of d.t’s, was promptly
gathered in by the police, and chained
to the log. During his sufferings at
the log the prisoner contemplated sui-
cide, and the police-officer, being an
obliging fellow, released him from the
log and inquired how he wanted to die.
“I want to shoot myself,” said the
man. “Right!” said the officer;
“ but, to save the State expense, you
had better dig your grave first, so that
you can sit in it and shoot.” The
prisoner dug a 6ft. grave, of the right
width and length, a few yards away
from the log, and the officer handed
him a gun loaded with blank-car-
tridge. The sight of the gun sobered
the other, and he decided not to die
just then. When finally released, he
walked up town ; and, thinking it a
pity to waste such a fine new grave,
he offered to sell it to a friend whom
he met. Then trouble ensued; and
now it isn’t safe to offer to sell a
grave to either the “suicide” or his
friend unless your own is ready.
♦ + * *
“C.H.M.” : Re “Phoa’s” query
(8., 9/3/1) : The “conjevoi” plant is
identical with the “ conjcbah ” of this
N.Q. sciub, and is, as “ Bhoa ” says, the
most nourishing of the foods used by
the blacks. When prospecting and
short of flour I have always fallen back
upon it (after soaking it for 24 hours
in running water, then crushing on
stone). It is insipid, but adding a little
salt makes it palatable. “Phoa”was
lucky he did not swallow the raw “ conje,” or he
would have suffered intense agony.
* * • *
A Girl : When the water-hyacinth came
down in such masses during the last fresh in Bris-
bane River, looking like a wedge of solid green,
several enterprising boys swam out to it, and
actually walked over it, quite oblivious of the fact
that had they by chance fallen through, their fate
would have been akin to that of a man who falls
through ice.
* * * *
“ Granje ” : Have often noticed in this
(Goulburn) district heaps of grass-seeds collected
by ants (“D.8.” B. 13/4/T). The ant is a very
small one, and the seeds tiny, round and yellow.
The collections are made only in autumn, and I
always thought they were “ stacks ” prepared by
the farm-laborer ants for the home-workers to
stow away underneath.
* • * *
“ Xerxes ” : Re “ Tom Collins ” (B.
G/10/’00). Only one “ irresponsible paragrapher ”
(as Tommy calls us) appeared to regard the pro-
curing of fire by friction as an easy matter. T.C.
says that the process is “among primitive races
an arduous and momentous work.” So it is with
any race. Further, he says that “no man, black
or white, can produce ignition by any means
hitherto set forth in these columns.” Which is
rubbish, because fire can be produced by hand-
friction. T.C. might as well argue that a cold
convex lens could not generate heat enough to
produce fire, or that spontaneous ignition is im-
possible. Morever, he admits that the feat is
“barely possible”—and then denies its possi-
bility !
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
John B. : Writing-name-and-addreSs-on-your-
oopv is the beginning of wisdom. We’re the end....
Wolf an g: “Richard Yea-and-Nay” is type of the
brainy man whose head fights his heart, con-
tinuously. “Doth she pay, after all?” “Yea,
she doth—sometimes.” “Nay, she doesn’t —on thq
average.” Good hook. (No relation to George Yes-No.)
Zodiac : Leap-year has nothing to do with the Procession
of the Equinoxes. The Julian Calendar provided for the
addition of a 3(>oth day to every 4th year, simply to get
rid of the excess caused by taking the ordinary year as
365 solar days. No space to demonstrate your error
upon the other point.. Harpy : All your ideas are cribbed.
But, never mind, your spelling is original, at all events
R.A.K.: “Benjamin” is “Lear” re-written by Sliakes-
bacon’s un leistudy A.E.H. : “Romance of the
High Seas” is a dreadfully crude shipwreck, and
seems to have been punctuated by an albatross
An Australian Girl : Probably your local paper
won’t publish your letter on cruelty to animals
because it reads like a reflection on some of its
advertisers. Some papers are afraid even to speak about
bigamy for fear of hurting the feelings of an influential
advertiser. The safest thing a country editor can do
when he wants to be severe is to use crushing language
about the Czar E.A.P. : The distinction between the
t vo cases is that Mrs. Collins was tried once for poisoning
her first husband (Andrews) and three times for poisoning
her second husband (Collins) Milky W.: Will illustrate
“ Native-80rn.”... L.R.L. :We have not read your MS.,
but can tell you right away that anyone who can writ"
MISS ELSIE LANDER, of the Chicago Dramatic Co,
Photo, by Talma, Sydney,
poetry always modestly labels it “ verse.” P.S.—We have
now read your verses. They are not poetry, and they are
not interesting. Send them to the Sunday Times
Simple Child : (1) You are correct as to the B ier fran-
chise. (2) The Boers offered naturalisation and a vote
for both Houses after seven years’ residence and, of
course, taking oath of allegiance. The (Jutlanders who
ran the agitation wanted a vote without being naturalised
audwithout taking oath of allegiance—a thing granted in no
civilised country on earth. British residents who became
naturalised would, of course, have been liable as Trans-
vaal citizens for military service against Britain in case of
war. So they calmly demanded the privileges of citizen-
ship without its duties—they wanted to eat their cake
and have it too. (3) Just before the war the Boer State
schools were teaching 11,552 pupils—in fact, a larger pro-
portion of Boer than of N.S.W. children were attending
school. Of course, schools were taught in Dutch— you
don’t expect to find N.S.W. schools conducted in French
—but the English residents mostly sent their children to
English schools, of which there were a large number....
Moses: The parson’s symbol of spiritual prosperity in
any country is a full plate, so there is only one road ; it
leads either to church or to Hell—and the people won’t
go to church Warde : Mouth-breathing is a most
noxious habit, but the reason why so many athletes die
of consumption certainly isn’t that when “blown” by
over-exertion they breathe through the mouth. The
chief reason is simply that they, in the pride of their
strength, destroy their constitutions by gross physical
excesses... .C.D. (Melb.): Too much red anathema in the
tale of Bill, and if the anathema is taken out very little
remains in.. Val: There is no reason why The Bulletin’s
ideas should require centuries to take shape. Consider
what Ballance, Seddon and M'Keuzie did in M.L. in only
10 years. They made the pace of reform almost as fast as
the French Revolution did- only without the revolution...
Betrayer : Pars. good. “ Ship o’ Mine ” has excellent
lines here and there, and some dreadfully mechanical ones
in between.... W.J.T. and Wandering Jew : “ W.J.T.’s ”
letter cursing us for being absurdly violent against the
Kanaka, and “Wandering Jew’s” letter saying that the
feebleness of our opposition to the Kanaka shows that,
we are hired by the Philp gang, arrived by same
post. So we pinned them to “J. Hbrry’s” letter saying
there really isn’t any Kanaka, and burnt the 10t.'....
Tainbo : In almost all Greater Britain marriage with a
deceased wife’s sister is legal, and the offspring of the
marriage is legitimate. This state of things came about
because the British Crown gave its assent to the measures
passed by “ colonial ” Legislatures. But Britain still re-
fuses to legitimatise in Britain the offspring of such
marriages. So the«person who is legitimate in Australia
through the action of the British Govt, is illegitimate
in England through the inaction of the British Govt....
Odd Jottings: (No name or address). Vast mass of M.S.
utterly unfit for Bulletin. We long for diamonds ; you
send us ironbark pumpkins.... Andrew : “Plaint” flat.
Don’t care for plaints anyway. “ When you feel like
sighing, sing ! ”,... W.F.A. : Half-alive-now quite dead.
... .G.A.R. :As to denouncing cruelty to animals, we’re
with you, and will print forcible copy that isn’t mere
preacli-and-maunder. We rarely get such copy ; Aus-
tralia’s callous —that’s a fact. Why not begin a Howard-
crusade yourself, in all the papers?.. . .Mado : Shocking
thing, isn’t it, that an honest man with sixpence in his
pocket should be able to buy a glass of beer and a cigar
on Sunday—or purchase a glass of milk and a banana for
his kid. Such are the things for which the Almighty
frizzles people in Hell !... .Aristophanes : Chestnuts !...".
MORE MISSIONARIES WANTED.
“ London, June 18.—Sir H. H. Johnston, special commissioner for the Uganda Protectorate, has confirmed
Mr. Grogan’s discovery of ape-like men distinct from dwarfs on the verge of the Congo forests." — CABLE.
R.A.K. : Copy far too discursive. You must extensively
sub-edit yourself if you would please u 5.... Jack-a-Clubs :
Absolutely no merit Real Mackay : , Fair idea, not
well treated.... Bullaman : It may be “a true legion of
the bush,” but it’s painfully bad verse Buchanan :
Prosy in places, and lacks general finish Omine :
Mildly humorous, but rather crude F. Switzer: Con-
ventional in style and feeble of interest Alone : “Fat
of the Earth” labored and clumsy... Yarrum :To print
that would only give a general advt. to the “ fortune-
telling” swindle R.W. : There is always room in Aus-
tralia (and in almost every other white man’s country)
for the (iood reporter—not the mere shorthander, but the
man wlio, being able to take a verbatim note, is also a
smart paragraphist. The newspaper reporter is too often a
mere clerk. S’Africa is no place for an independent-
minded journalist, but anyone low-down enough
to act as greaser for the gang might get along
G. : Your Swanston-st. girl is a provincial fiction of,
apparently, American extraction. The ’Murlcan journalist
would have you believe that every local city has its own
particular breed of girl, whereas foreigners find one sort
only Norton Malvern : It doesn’t sound original
P. 8.0. : Too frisky Prospector: We don’t undertake
to acknowledge paragraphs. If they go in, they go in ;if
they don’t, there’s an end of them First Offence : No,
thinks Larrikin: Bootshop; respectable female buy-
ing boots ; fallen woman buying boots, and shuddered at
resp. fem. ; sodden child in trouble over sd. If she is
left in trouble, there is no story. If the respectable
female pays the 5d., then the fallen woman is an excres-
cence in the story. So the fallen woman pays the sd. and
swears. All purely mechanical Taiaro: Phil May is
not Australian-born. He is a native of Leeds, Eng., and
came to Australia under engagement to Tub Bulletin,
when a very young man....H. R. Me. : Please call re
yarn... .Veldt : Good ; but not very novel, you know—
E.L. : Out of print at present P.P. : Annotated and
returned... .G.E.M. :No points... .Natif : May pass....
Alone : “ Rose ” not quite up. Don’t strain for words
Ike “consonance.”.. .Judas: Improving.... Percy A. :
Too trivial.. ..Bouillabaisse : Dishwater.. ..R.S.B. : “The
sullen sky broods o’er the raging sea.” Let it br00d....
C. (Sydney) : Thanks F.H. : “ Darkness ” will d 0....
A.H.T. : Not in our way ; try the heavy weeklies
Hamer : Admire your persistence ; but you must im-
prove your story-style. Pars, all go in one-fifth your
words... .George k! : Annotated and returned
Minerva : We’re not angry—only grieved, grieved
Blanche W. : The unconscious blasphemies of
v >ur little innocent would not illustrate we 11....
Maoran : Perhaps it wasn’t original ; very likely it was a
clean steal. But that wasn’t our fault —it was the fault
of the man who cold-bloodedly stole it and traded it off
on us. The world turns out tens of thousands of news-
papers, to say nothing of magazines and books, and
we can’t read them all M. Grant : “ Spirit ’’—that’s
just what it lacks ! Other much improved ; will consider.
Bulloman : Lamentable doggerel J.B.D. : More
pathos than skill Viking: “Sick Leave” interesting
in a way, but only a drunk, after all The Eaves-
dropper': Good in a small way, but when we go dropping
we hope to strike some larger results—Nitellub : Funny,
but would need too much alteration C.W. : Not a
matter of much consequence Aristoph : Always give
dates of items referred to- and don’t send along chest-
nuts Alma: Yes; they are pretty venerable
R.G.T. : Item sent, is no good, at all events. .Rajay : When
we found the hero “deep in melanchofly (sic) thought ”
about “ dear old England”—we promptly “swam-out.”..
V.R.R. :' Modified, it would be spoilt ; and, wimiodified,
it is unprintable E. Vincent: Verse lame and
prose tame C.A.W. : Inauspicious initials! It is
like unto the sweet song of the crow
Betray er : “ Crucifixion ” funny ; but Bulletin doesn’t
want to insult anybody’s creed —as a creed... .Guy r :
Can’t do anything with such ignominious scribble D.
Simpson : The only decent one is too indecent for print.
J.S. (W.A.): Couldn’t stand the lady with “ thrilling
eyes and waivy auben hair.” Why will people scribble
alleged fiction instead of putting in the time at a night-
school? J.E. : Too fragmentary and personal....
L. : Verse conventionally erotic. Prose-sketch
better—though also a little too much on a beaten
track Hamblo (or something like that): MS. like
broken bottles along a wall - top... .8.0. C. : Rather
obscure ; and hardly worth while, in any case....
Seth P. : “ I’d sooner be a Jingo than a dingo-disparager
of my own breed.” Well, if, as we presume, you are a
Briton, you’d find it very hard to say what is your breed.
W.C.J. : No such paragraph ever appeared in The
Bulletin. If it had appeared it would have been utterly
untrue.. . .Annie H. : We get 1200 letters or so weekly,
and so can’t be expected to remember the receipt of any-
thing but pure works of genius. You don’t mention
name of story Roy D. : All such extreme views are
self-contradictor.y. Instance, Carlyle’s loquacity about
the merits of silence R.S.F. : Suggestive of a badly-
boozed citizen philosophising with the aid of a lamp-post.
Theo. G. : Nothing in it It.A.K. :“ En yueue” is too
illegible to bother with. People who won’t take time to
write can’t expect us to take time to read ’em 1... .Nil :
Exactly so ! Michod : Neither quite up to, mark
E.M. : He is a very satisafetory actor' within his
limits, but his departure for England or anywhere
else is not a matter to warrant a brief history
of his career in The Bulletin. As for the mummers who
can’t mum worth a cent, what's your excuse for talking
about their past, present, and future ? Choose interesting
subjects C.C. : How could Nance O’Neil appear here
as Paula in “Tanqueray” when Brough has the Aus-
tralian rights of the play. Perhaps Nance’s manager has
the S’African right ? Kiwi: Your MS. very difficult. Are
there no type-writers in M.L. ?... .Rioro : Anyhow, we
have seen it stated in a dozen papers, arid apparently by
several different writers, that the corpse of the Boer in
question was cut to bits with bayonets Boundary
Rider: You are quite incorrect in your statement as to
the class of advts. which the well-advertised personage in
question does not print. Look at his paper again
M. K.O. : Bulletin hears from a very well-informed quar-
ter, indeed, that there is no truth whatever in those
stories about hangings on the Russian warship Gromo-
boi... .W.H.R. : You evidently don’t read The Bulletin,
which thoroughly believes in and has industriously
advocated State monopolisation of the liquor-traffic
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Merico : As a rule, unfortunately, when an Australian
black-and-white artist finds himself able to draw some-
thing which really looks like a lady, he at once clears for
England—where there aren’t too many black-and-white
men who can draw a lady.... A. M‘C. : A poor subject
L.C. (H.E.): Will use if we find idea not to be too old
C.W.R. : It wouldn’t reproduce Unavailable : H.M.L.,
K.n. _
According to American General C’naffee,
the slaughter of inoffensive Chinese (including
many women and children) during the recent
troubles, has been 50 times greater than that of
belligerents. ‘ 1 Pacification ! ”
One Rev. Adrian Hofmeyr writes to the
Times, saying that he has visited th„ Boer
refugee camps, and that the arrangements are
good. Mr. Hofmeyr, it is cabled, “is an experi-
enced war-correspondent.”
An advertisement appeared in the issue of
the 22nd June, 1901, apparently under the
instructions of Mr. H. Weaver, solicitor, of
Armidale. Mr. Weaver writes us that he gave
no instructions for the advt., and as same is cal-
culated to cause him annoyance, we hasten to
notify his disclaimer of any connection with
same.
EFFECTIVE.
IST. NEWSPAPER MAN: “ Nice hold type, old
man?"
2ND DITTO: “Er- yes. Two-column ad.!”
Cabled that the new French submarine
boat “ Narval ” has been 12 hours under water,
but that after the first few hours exhaustion and
nausea attacked the crew. Something wrong
with the air-supply apparently ; but when the
chemist has got over that and found a way to
generate properly-diluted oxygen there will be
another difficulty to be overcome—keeping the
boat right side up when under water. When im-
mersed, by pumping certain tanks full, the boat’s
centre of gravity is raised, and its equilibrium
becomes “unstable' 1 so that the least change in
the disposition of the weights, or even a slight
movement by one of the crew, may suffice to turn
the boat on its side, or capsize it altogether. A
submarine boat, by the way, was tried in 1777 by
the Yankees, who, by its aid, came near blowing
a hole in the bottom of the British warship Asia
in the Hudson.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.


mn
I Do you understandP
| Fm fraid I don’t," said the infant, “do you
I gran'pa J”
f‘There now, run away to bed, and don’t ask
I any more foolish questions," said the old *■
I man sternly. A
xRy e*' •* , 'o <•>
\y^
V\ ' a
\
** The infant Commonwealth was rocked
in a cigar-box and nurtured on cham-
pagne."—Syd. E. Nuws.
Small' Box • " I hope you are pleased
with the toys I have given you l
The head of the Westrahan Education De-
partment has suggested in a circular to teachers
that children pay 3d. each to buy for the Jooko-
york’s nippers gold statuettes representing the
four characteristic animals of the State—swan, kangaroo, emu, and dingo.
One creature most characteristic of Australian officialdom having been by
some oversight omitted from the above list, our artist has supplied the
deficiency.
CARTOONLETS.


m
"Everyone who recognises the high T
mission of a free Press will be jealous
of the honor of that institution, \tfhat-
ever tends to lower journalism in the
inoral 9cale is a blow at its usefulness.”
r p Ac's.
n
||'r: I;®!;
X\& v \
on
FEOLRM-.
NAT\ON/\VJ
PROGRMI^
V--. ill
lIUII
U I liil j
i§fp
*' Anothor item the Government has not lost
sight of in the Woman Suffrage Bill, which will
naturally be deferred until tfte Convention pro-
posal has been thrashod opt.”
1 I 11 1 1 i p i I
i Illil 1 Ilia W 1 1 1 i
m
MELBOURNIANA.


|A, SAUNDERS’
THE*LARGEST STOCK IN AUSTRALIA
m
'urn
msS-
A. SAUNDERS. TW n, TPII
, . , roMPANION CALENDER and LETTER
9ent. * COMPANI DN i2g 2Q 28 ,.
Most Useful Present.
Cheaper Styles, 7s 6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS. csrrTPTT
SOLID SILVER Gent.'s SHAVER SOAP STICK,
BRUSH, PUFF BOX, in bilk-lined Case, £-
A Nice Present.
A. SAUNDERS’ A .
Latest Style in Ladies' PURE SILVER-CHASED Watteau
Design, HAIR BLiUBH, 355; Cheaper Styles, 15s 6d,18s 6d, 20s,
B 255. • Send for 1901 Illu trated Booh.
a
SMB& I *
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted MANICURE SET, 20s, in Silk-lined Case.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 255, 80s, £2,
A. SAUNDERS. a
Ladies’ Solid Silver-mounted SHO LIFT, BOOT and
GLOVE FASTENER, and GLOVE STRETCHE3,
in Nice Leather Case, 22s 6d.
.fiaiiifl
dB
A. SAUNDERS.
SMELLING SALTS BOTTLE, Pure Solid Silver, Plain or Chased
Tops, ss, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 2Cs.
Other styles, 2s 6d and 3s 6d.
Sills
i
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladijs' Silver-mounted WALLET
CARD CASE, 20s.
'Similar style, 15s,
Solid Silver Swan PIN-
CUSHION, 7s 6d.
fisggmma
s-sLr: -jAk.
rUIISES, Pure Silver-mounted as above,
15s and 20s ;
similar lines, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ EMEND, Pure Silver-mounted,
in Silk-iined Case, 18a 6d.
Smallelss 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE RINGS, Pure Solid Silver,
Diamond Cut, 8s 6d, 10s, and 12s 6d.
In three widths.
A. SAUNDERS.
MI K ROE, Pure Silver,
Watteau Design,
£3.
Other styles, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
gum pot.
Pure Silver-mounted,
6s 6d.
SPECTACLE
CHATELAINE
CASE,
Solid Silver,
30s, £2.
Silver-plated,
;i2s 6d.
Send for list.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver 4 o’clock TEA SPOONS, it. Case, 16s, 20s
with TONGS, 20s, 255, 30s. £2 j
Silver Electro-plated, with TONGS, I2s6d, 15s, 20s.
All in Silk-lined Cases. Post Ereo.
A. SAUNDEBS.
BUTTER, Pure Solid Silver, as above, 20s;
with Solid Silver KNIFE and Silk Case, 30s, Complete.
-r'% W: @ !;
m
3/C
%:?c
VA
t' I
Lot
*->. *. »‘VS£*3^v.
Ssg
cr>-
is a
efts
7 nV' * a /'VTT 3 '
(<^t.
7:s?
_ .',r?W
:_t3
V7©:
«Wt?s
:!| •
44 :.. .
-
“ TTV’S
IgS
fesMi
I'/?
i§ mi
Mgg
A. SAUNDERS, . ,
, H “> t,
2 HAIR SHOE IIFTai.I BUTTON HOOE.
18 Articles in all, £l2 10s.
uiiiimmiumiiLiu
muimiim
ZftkSSi&S Ver/Wi™® 1
-Sr
an
m
Silver RATTLE, Pearl Bing and End, 12s 6d and 10s 6d; other styles, 4s 6d, ss, 7s 6d.
Pure
This
little
&LKIMT
PIG
A. SAUNDERS. „■ t .
Child’s SPOON, Solid Silver, Chased, 7s 6d. The Latest and Newest Designs.
COMBS.—Pure Solid Silver-mounted,
Real TORTOISESHELL, 20s; Imitation She I,
10s 6d; Similar, 5s 6d and 7s 6d.
CLOTH or HAT BRUSH, Pure Silver,
12s 63, 16s, 17s 6d, 20s,
Price to Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ orGent.'s TRAVELLING ROLLS,
as above, 12s 6d. Other Stales, simil ir,
10<, 15s, 20s, 255, HOs, £2, £2 10s.
iSSb ii mi Waosi
uuuuuw
A. SAUNDEfiS.
Pure Silver-mounted SHAVING
CUP, 7s 6<l.
In Silver plite, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted Gent.’s
H AIR BRUSH, 15 each.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted
MIBR ’R. 15s; Heart Shape,
12s 6d. Splendid Value,
Pure Silver*
• mounted
HAIK PIN
HOLDER, 5s
Pure Solid Silver
Badger Hair
SHAVING
BBTJSH, 123 6d.
Other styles,
15s and 20s.
A Nice Present.
Pure Silver
BOOK MARK,
2s 6(3.
A. S WINDERS.
CIGARETTE or CIGAR CASES,
Various Col lurs, Silver-mountei,
10s 63,12 s 6d, 16s, 20s, 255.
A. SVUNDERB.
rure Silver-mounted KNIFE BESTS,
in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDEBS.
Pure Silver Cabinet PHOTO. FRAME,
12n 6d.
Other styles, 10s, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s;
small, 13 6d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, ss.
A. SAUND SRS.
CHILD’S GUPS, Pure Solid Silver, in Silk Case,
30s, 355, £2, £2 10s ;
S Iv.t Electro-plated, 10s, 12s 6d 15", 20 ■.
A Nice PresinG
tern
ms.
A. SAUNDERS.
PUFF BOX, Solid Silver Covers, Cut Glass,
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6 20-.
A Most Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
Two Pure Silver-mounted BRUSHES and COMB,
in Silk Case, £3. Other styles, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUtfDEKS.
SILTS, Pure Silver-mounted, 16s 6d,
White Cut Glass, in Silk-lined Case.
4. SAUNDERS.
JEWELLER and. SILVERSMITH.
A BtAUiIFUL D. SPLAY OF PRESENTS.
Mind. 815 GEORGE-STREET
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY


Business Announcements.
Tails, plaits.
FRINGES. Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6, 5/6
7/6 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS and PLAITS,
20in. lons', 5/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6; 24in.,
10/6 ' Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plai s and Tads are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. Only ONE
Address ”,: — W H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLIAM-ST., Corner of Palmer-st.
Siidnet/. Cabin trams will stop at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
try orders. Wigs made on shortest notice.
VISITORS TO Rfl iLBOUH.^E
Will find every comfort and convenience at-
MRS. TOBI
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beacons.old Parade
ST. HILDA.
mine Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house m the
1 Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
i-hour by train. Billiards, etc.
Publications.
THE BALLET GIRL
f'L* ,,
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Bootes and Nooelties.
Madame Pamza,
913, G-P.0., SYDNEY.
yiSIT.
'M'EW GRAND MxYRCH, commemorating the visit of
- 1 - >l the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York to
open the First Parliament of United Australia, with
three portraits. Also, KING EDWARD the VII. MARCH
and QUEEN ALEXANDRA WALTZ, with superb full-
length colored portraits of their Majesties.
Of all Music Dealers.
W. PAXTON & CO., London & Melbourne.
Catalogues Free.
x English. French. German.
CURIOUS.
IDO!)
and the best OR!QIN£L
PHOTOS from the world.
Is. for Catalogue.
APPY &, CO., 65 Rue Pi galle, Paris.
F O BE IGN ST A M
2K j
S.
PO STARE
CJHEAP SETS.— 40 Japan, Is 6d ;
47 Spain, 2s ; 4 Tientsin, 3d ;
16 Heligoland, Is ; 8 Egypt, 6d ;
30 French, 9d ; 7 Iceland, 9d ; 9
Labuan Pictorial, 2s 6d; 11 Canada,
6d; 9CanadaDuby,6d ;sBolivia,4d.
Packets 50, Is ; 100, 2s 6d. Stamps
Purchased. New Catalogue of
Stamps, Albums, etc., Gratis.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins-st , Melbourne.
TSICQDQOy
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, By Dr.
ALFRED NEALE. Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
AND THEIR TREATMENT.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers : Turner ancl Henderson, SYDNEY.
lABIOND SONO BOOK,
COO SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s. lQd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
And other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing.
A POLICY
for the
COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d.—posted Bd.
itSf’S applied direct from The Bulletin Office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any
Australasian province), postal notes, or P. 0.0.
for amount stated.
THEE!
8#
ft
Prts'Qtatloi)
M : ' al.
Specially Designed and Manufactured for Presen-
tation to returned Australian Soldiers.
m‘ APPROPRIATE and ARTISTIC,
Manufactured in 15c. Gold at Three Prices, viz.,
£3 3s- £4 4s- £5 5s-
Prices include cost of Inscription and a suitable Case.
H. NeTwIvIAN,
MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
175 & 177 Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
STEAM
ENGINES
FROM 5 HP. TO 100 H.P.
DYNAMOS
MOTORS
FROM 1H P. TO 60 H-P.
CAN BE SUPPLIED PROMPTLY
FROM STOCK.
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st, SYDNEY; 17 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
enerator
|oetylene
| as
THIS GENERATOR, COMPLETE, WITH PILLAR,
LIGHT, SHADE, and 4ft. RUBBER TUBE,
37/0.
Suitable for LANTERN WORK, OFFICE,
DWELLING, or ANYWHERE.
Single Powerful Light is Required. “S®
&
Brandts
ACCIVLtHt!
A 3 OtH ERATO
WE STOCK ALL ACCESSORIES, Also BUGGY,
BICYCLE. HAND, and MINERS’ ACETYLENE GAS
LAMPS, SEARCH LAMPS, &o.
Send for Catalogue on house installations & street lighting
BRAKrDT sno s.,
236 PITT ST., SYDNEY, and
422 & 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
USB
SPOONER’S
SPOONERS
*
*
m*.
f.vw V*- *•'#•*••*
IHTENT LEATHER dOOTS
GLAZED MOS &?
S-ffO-t----* »*•
«•; <*r< • **+*+ »«>'»
»•”*
n -£ <••,-?*• -*»♦••««•»#.
•**<•» «ki» **•>»•***•%
L'UII!
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning' and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
The Ways of Many Waters
Collects the dashing ballads and v erses of sailor-men’s
and wharf-men’s life which E. J. Brady has contributed
to The Bulletin and the Sunday Times, Sydney. It is
the first attempt on the part of an Australian verse-
writer to chant the life on the sea and the margins of
the sea ; though there is one horse-poem—the story of
“ How Jack Bowlin Steered ‘ Jones.’ ” The volume is
bound in buckram, with gilt top, in a size that will
into a pocket without squeezing; and the price is ss„
post-free.
DA.DPTO (Ltilie Ulawarra), near
SYD3STEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
Oi?
FINE SILVER.
‘■’’WaWWOSRMEB
ygg H
5
m>m
i*ESES
MAKERS OF
S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD"
AND
ILLAWARRA'
.. Bit AND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER Z r
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Mouse, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S. W.
The Chieftain!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Chieftain roamed his coral isle,
Where he (they said) alone was vile,
A buck robust and handsome ;
He cared no whit for Heav’n or Hell
Or souls that fall (as Preachers’ tell)
For want of Preachers’ ransom.
His limbs he stretched beneath the sun
What time his wives (he’d twenty-one)
Prepared his yams and taro ;
At times he’d rouse to hunt the boar,
Or take a stroll along the shore,
Or whale a winsome marrow.
And when the mission parsons came
To save his soul from fire and flame
With praise and prayer and Bible,
He laughed to think the Land of Gin
Should call his Land the Land of Sin,
And grinned beneath the libel.
And if at times he gripped a club
And wrathful drove his tribe to drub
His laws upon the st anger ;
Twaa but because he clearly saw—
The white man in the heathen’s maw
No heathen might endanger.
He practised well his simple code,
He paid his friend the debt he owed,
He fattened and he filled him ;
His foe ho treated much the same,
He brought him down in battle’s game,
And ate him when he’d grilled him.
His morals were a trifle loose,
He knew no legal marriage noose,
He brooked no legal bridle;
And, when his peaceful fit was o’or,
He waded ankle-deep in gore
To please an ugly idol.
At last he died —the burly chief ;
And when, amid the tribesmen’s grief,
The Preacher pale decried him,
They .split the stupid Babbler’s skull;
They made a feast and fed them full,
And laid the bones beside him.
P. LUFTIG.
Cecil Rhodes seemingly distrusted women.
No females were employed on his estate. He speci-
ally favored colored labor; his faithful henchman
was a Cape nigger named “ Tony.” “ Tony ” com-
bined in his own person a variety of offices. He
was not only valet, superintendent of domestic
affairs, messenger-in -chief and confidential agent,
but he was also cook. The “Colossus” lived in
continual dread of poison.
Chambers’ Journal gives the millionaires,
with their millions, as follows :—Beit, 100 ; Chang,
100 ; Robinson (Rand), 80 ; J. Rockefeller, 50 ; W.
Astor, 40, &c. There are 46 American million-
aires with £451.000,000 (about £9,800,000 each),
and 24 British millionaires with £350,000,000
(about £14,600,000 apiece). Protection may make
bloated capitalists, but they seem to bloat just as
badly under Freetrade.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
We learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attached to every bottle of Condy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
curing most of the ailments and accidents
affecting Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry,
and Birds of all kinds.
Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for'Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses.—Scab, Foot Bot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep. —Rinderpest, Hoove, Foul in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle.—Distemper
Mange, Canker, and Eczema in Dogs.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of local substitutes, nil are
inferior. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
MSEm
GrO TO HBLX.-
<i IGOI<AN 0- for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagel),
foreign stamp importer,
74 Elizateth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, prioe-
lis gratis.
HATS.
HATS. HAISi
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes titted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLEV # CO.,
liivnitiive and b'lne Avt A ucliomiers,
Auct.on Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on.hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff,
jgg- Sales Held at the A uction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
The monster public deputation in favor of
Co-Operative coupons (introduced by Mr. Duncan
Gillies M.L.A.) established an Australian record .
over 500 people attended. The speakers were’
limited by Mr. Peacock to five, but they rep-
resented an enormous number of the public. Mr.
Nelson (representing 2000 workers in the railway
service) said : “This coupon system has taught us.
thrift, and brought pleasure to a great many
homes.” Mr. Davis (President Bnckmakers
Association) said that “ The public realised that
it is the only system by which they can get dis-r
count on all small purchases.”*
M
mom
OR PEARL DENTIFRICE
Known for 75 years to be the Best and
Purest Tooth Powder, as it contains no
acid or gritty substances which ruin the
Teeth and produce premature decay; it
WHITENS THE TEETH,
Prevents and arrests.decay, <=?l engthens the
gums, and gives a pleasing fragrance to the
breath- It penetrates to the hidden flaws
and crevices of the teeth, and preserves and
beautifies them for years. Ask Stores and
Chemists for ROWLAND’S ODONTO,
of 67, Hatton Garden, London.
JOEL PEARLY TEETH
farm
Wm
s
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd.
35 BROADWAY,
Qeorgro-strcet West, Byd ney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
With what shamelessness does that Sydney
daily paper raise the sectarian issue whenever it
thinks any direct gain possible ! How adroitly
does it paragraphically sharpen the snake-tongue
of the clerical bigot !
PREMIER PEACOCK.
A native born he seeks applause
From Bull and all the Jingo clan,
And boasts his British pride because
He dare not. he Australian !
“ Every right-thinking person views with
horror any attempt by a newspaper to ridicule or
libel those placed in high authority, and more
especially, ” &c., &c. — So'emn pronouncement by
lvarde, M.L.A. (Vic.).
Sixty-four brave and broad-minded mem
bers of Vie. Assembly voted for the expulsion of
Findley ; seventeen against. This is what Aus-
tralia pays for the fatuous tradition that she is
more “loyal” than England is.
Alex. Wilson, the gentleman who wants
the Federal capital planted at Canoblas (N.S.W.)
is still lecturing on the advantages of building the
new city at a place where everything going to or
from the only available port will have to be
hauled nearly 4000 feet up a mountain range and
then about 2000 feet down again.
pavid Syme says the recent South Yarra
contest for Vic. Leg. Council cost the four candi-
dates £12,000. Which means that about £OOOO
flowed out of one pocket, the other three cutting-
up the remainder. Well, there is some satis-
faction in the knowledge that Moneygrub lias to
pay a stiff price for political distinction.
“The Federal Minister for Defence has
discovered that 353 men out of a total strength of
1200 were either discharged, or dismissed, or
deserted from the Australian standing
That’s right: an Australian standing army won’t
stand. But, a Leaning-Against-a-Post army would
attract nearly the whole male population.
Showing how hopeless the cobwebby Tory
cause is now in Maoriland, Lewis, the wealthy
member for Christchurch, has “chucked the job.”
He leaves politics, he says, because so little in-
terest is displayed in his party, and because, at liis
pre-sessional meeting, no one turned up to hear
him denounce the iniquity of Seddon, and the
grievous sin of accumulating a surplus.
JPctori m Premier Peacock, at the bidding
ol liis bitter enemy, the Argus, had Labor-
inember Findley, wild gave a general support to
the Peacock Grover.nnent, expelled for an offence
which the whole House knew well enough was
committed by another man. And it is quite pos-
sible, as things are going, that a Tory, with the
aicf of the Argus, will secure Findley’s seat, and
help to vote Peacock out of office.
Australia should be thankful she has got
Federation. In the big Chambers representative
of the whole country there is a strong, upstanding
manliness, in marked contrast to the slobber of the
Siate Houses. All through the Senate and Reps,
there breathes the spirit of “ Australia first, and
DIDN'T KNOW IT WAS LOADED .
here and there are members not slow to voice the
sentiment outright. When one compares the
speeches in the Senate during the past few weeks
vrtth those in Vic. Assembly on the night of
Kndley’s expulsion, it is liardly possible to believe
tn&t both Chambers were elected on the same
franchise. Even the Sargoods and Zeals who blot
to© Senate would have been more j udicial intone
rtuvn the alleged Eemocrats who sit in the State
Houses.
Despite all his King-grease, Premier Pea-
cock’s heart was plainly not in the job of expelling
Labor member Findley from the Assembly, for
* indiev was a supporter, and the Premier knew
that the seat would very probably fall to the
Opposition. Peacock would gladly enough have
let the thing slide, or taken some middle course ;
if lie hadn’t moved the expulsion the Opposition-
leider would have done so, and Peacock would
e ther have had to follow him, which would have
been an awkward position for the leader of the
House, or to oppose him, and he hadn t the
courage or the conscience.
The acceptance of the motion of Higgins,
M.H.K., that the Federal Parliament should en-
deavor to persuade the States to hand over to it
the sole control of Labor legislation, so that it may
make uniform factory laws, and laws relating to
hours and wages, throughout the Commonwealth,
is a good sign. Such a move would mean extend-
ing to the six States the best existing factory law,
and even it would probably be improved. Premier
Barton accepted the motion cordially, and it was
passed without a division. The Federal Parlia-
ment is living np to its repute as the most Demo-
cratic legislature Australia has yet seen.
Maoriland gives additional security to
wage-earners by its new Wages Act, which pro-
vides that persons letting contracts are to
retain and be responsible for 25 per cent, of
total contract price for 80 days after com-
pletion of contracts. If the contractor’s
employes are not paid they can get this
fund attached for wages. The small,
mean contractor, who used to collect
the price of the contract and then
bolt, leaving his workmen to lament
about their unpaid wages, and
wh.o, by this economy, was able
to undersell the honest contractor
that paid his men in full, is practic-
ally extinguished by this law.
Au election sign. N. S. YV.
Premier John See took with him to
Grafton 80 pairs of blankets.
Brisbane city corporation h-ul a £40,000
overdraft before the Duke came, and through the
expenditure (quite illegal, it would seem) of some-
where between £7OOO and £BOOO on decorations its
debt was well on to £50,000 when he left. There
is no idea of levying an extra rate and paying the
bill. The grovel of the parents is visited on the
children. Thirty years hence, probably, a new
generation will still be paying about £3OO a year
interest because its dead progenitors once saw a
duke.
Ishinael Grainger’s seat in S. A. Assembly
goes to Verraii, a Miners’ Association man, run as
a Laborite, though independent of the city party.
The miners’ vote went solidly for Verran ; the
farming vote just as solidly for Allen. So while
at Moonta (miners’ centre) Verran polled 1018 and
Allen 240, at Alford (typical farmers’ centre)
Ven-an polled 0, and Allan 74. Much the same
thing happened at Gawler (Barossa) a fortnight
before; and the result has been to revive the
grumbling about the S. Australian plan of cutting
up the country into two-member electorates.
As a cheerful tergiversatin' Sydney D.T.
is monumental. Where, during the current
N.S.W. State elections, its large-t/pe “Selected
Liberals ” were being opposed by unselected
“Liberals,” the latter were daily anathematised
for their traitorous persistence in ignoring “the
Party ” selection, and were assured that ghastly
failure awaited them at the poll. When, however,
one of the allegedly-despised candidates is scared
off the nomination-paper by these predictions the
D T announces the fact next day with pleasing
remarks about the suddenly-magnificent character
of the disheartened and bluffed-ofif candidate,
“who would doubtless have commanded a large
vote,” &c. Wonder how the scratched politician
regards these post mortem eulogies !
Pointed out by a Sydney
dailv paper , correspondent that
Lyne’s Federal Public Service
Bill would simply make the said
Public Service a preserve for rich
men's sons. “What man of ordi-
nary means can afford to educate
his boys to an age of 16 to 18
years for the great reward of £4O
per annum? Yearly rises of £lO
bring the Civil Service aspirant
up to £l6O in 12 solid years. A
boy goes in at £4O per annum, and
has to maintain a decent appear-
ance, and, probably, pay board.
The thing cannot be done ! We
will not get the smart youths to
aspire to starvation in this glorious
employ. Why not, “it is further
asked/’ adopt the system of the
Imperial Government, in. say, the
Mint, and give a lad, after exam-
ination, a subsistence, £lOO per
annum, and so let the sons of
respectable middle-class people
have a chance.”
Apropos of Federal Defence,
there is an agitation in Melbourne
just now foran Irish regiment. Said
agitation wants to be squashed
flat; and the same flattening process wants to be
applied to existing Scottish regiments. When
Australia gets its Federal force together there
will probably be N.S.W., Victorian, Queensland,
&c., regiments, just as there are English, Scottish,
Welsh and Irish regiments in Britain. But to
subdivide our army according to the divisions of
our own country is one thing; to further sub-
divide it according to the divisions of a country
at the other end of the globe is something else.
trifles, the Boollewraith
purposes introducing “just
one or two” little svndi-
cate-linesdui'ing the coming
Q. session. The famous
Cloncurry line in. 13' be one
of them.
Fortified l>y the guillotine
clause, and various other
MORE ANTIQUATED RELICS TO BE
KICKED TO DEATH.
Without in any way seeking to commit the
Government to any particular system, he might say
that he felt strongly in favor of the decimal system
of coinage and the metric system, not only for Aus-
tralia, but for the whole of the British Empire. If
Australia followed Canada in the steps she had taken,
it might be reasonably expected that an added force
would be given to the movement. Englishmen doing
business with foreign countries found themselves at a
great disadvantage if they did not understand the
metric system. He supported the motion for another
reason.
—Barton, on decimal coinage.
Since Ballance’s death, Seddmi’s Govt,
has travelled far. The sight of “Sir Joseph”
Ward and “Sir John” Mackenzie is enough to
make the sturdy Ballanee wriggle in his grave.
Strangest of all, Cadman and Walker allowed
themselves to be degraded with a C.M.G.-ship.
Nemesis, by the way, was not long in overtaking
Ward. The day after his knighthood he received
a wire from three M’sP., expressing their sorrow
and indignation at the leader of the Democratic
party accepting a bauble ; and he is likely to hear
more of it before long.
The best point about Bigjoim Forrest’s
ten years’ Premiership of Westralia was that he
strongly believed in the Government carrying out
its own public works. There is strong evidence
that his party will now fall an easy prey to the
Boodle, or private-concessions, crowd. Piesse,
the ex-Minister of Railways, has been elected
leader of the Forrest remnant, and, although in
some respects an able man, he represents all that
is reactionary in politics. Present indications
point to a long, hard fight between the Reform
party and the boodlers, but the latter will be
ignominiously routed as soon as an equitable re-
distribution of seats scheme is secured.
Since Maoriland reduced its inland postage
rate from 2d. told, the increase of business has
been marvellous. The new system has only been
six months in operation, and the first year’s
loss was estimated at £BO,OOO. It promises
now to be only £30,000, and, judging by
the monthly increase of business, the second
year’s loss is likely to be nil. Still it
doesn’t follow, as a matter of absolute certainty,
that quite the same results would ensue in Aus-
tralia. With cheap postage and something cheer-
ful to write about people will write. With cheap
postage and only the drought to write about they
may write—or they may not.
The new Leake Government met the
Westralian Assembly with a total following of 21,
while the Opposition—the old Forrest gang—
numbered 24. So the new Government is in a
minority of 3. Yet the Leake minority represents
a vastly larger proportion of the voters on the
roll than does the Throssell majority. The voice
of the People is with it ; the voice of the Cattle
and the Empty Acres is witli the Opposition. If
Leake can'push through his measure for. the re-
distribution of seats according to population, and
then hold another election, he will probably have
a crushing majority. But the Cattle members
will defeat the Bill if they dare.
Sydney Telegraph (26/6/’01) :
The sins of the See Government in reckless expenditure
for the purpose of sustaining at public cost an army of
persons who might otherwise be unemployed ... are as
scarlet.
And The Bulletin cries out with an exceeding
loud voice and says “Exactly.” The above is just
about what The Bulletin has been saying all
along: that the Shoddy party’s Foreign-trade
tariff is a dead failure in the way of finding em-
ployment, and N.S.W.’s increase of population is
mo.tly because the Government finds work for
mo e"people whose wages are paid out of loans
than any other Australasian Government does,
and if it didn’t —well, in Foreign-trade
N.S.W. this army of persons mitjht otherwise
be unemployed,” as the TelkctKaph says.
Certainly they might.
Defence Minister Forrest has proudly
published a return showing the number
of troops under the Commonwealth, which
is set down, inclusive of rifle-clubs and ex-
clusive of cadets, as 62,000 men. Big John
altogether omits to state the number of
modern weapons at the disposal of these
troops, 'i here are no magazine-rifles, and a
very large proportion of the anna would be hope-
lessly outranged by the rifles of any invader. The
rifle-club members number about 30,000, two-thirds
of whom are in Victoria ; they are armed with
Martinis, made in the early 70’s. To say there
are G2,000 troops at the disposal of the Common-
wealth sounds very reassuring—suggests, io Jact,
that 200,000 Britisli soldiers would find it difficult
to make decent headway here ; but when these are
reduced to a mob of men armed, some with hope-
lessly-inferior weapons, and the rest with obsolete
ones, it is like reckoning-in the archers among the
effective troops of Chowland.
“Oocy” writes in a dispirited tone of
voice:— •
There isn’t a Government that could be fo ■ I in tic-
tona that would live a week if it came forward with a
scheme of direct taxation (Turner came forward with a
scheme of heavy direct taxation, and earned most of his
scheme, and his Government lived more than five years,
which knocks that prophecy kite-high.—Ed. B.). If the
Victorians had not been on the spree for the six months
since the Commonwealth started they would have seen
the awful financial chaos that must come and come
before long. Listen to what we have done. Interest,
&e., written off irrigation works, about *2,000,000 ; con-
cessions to land-selectors, in reduction of rents and pur-
chase money, say, £400,000 ; Old Age Pensions, over
£300,000 per annum : Boer war, £120,000; Common-
wealth festivities, £100,000; Reclassification of Public
Service, about £05,000 per annum before long. Apart
from this list, some of which, of course, is approximate,
there is the contribution towards maintaining the Federal
Government; and every day Duggan at the Lands,.
M'Culloch at the Public Works, &c., &c., are throwing
away public money and sources of revenue with both,
hands. After the Peacock crowd comes the Deluge.
Mr. Frank Adams to The Bulletin from
Walgett
I find it hard to understand why you advocate the ex,
tension of the N.S.W. Western Division leases, said leases
composing an area of 97,000,000 acres. Might 1 urge you
to give this question further consideration, in the inter-
ests of the rising generation; which, if the proposal is
carried out, will find when it comes to manhood, that it
has been deliberately robbed of its inheritance. The
Central Division lands will he exhausted long ere the
children of to-day are eligible to become landowners, and
when they come to that time, they’ll find the land has
been deliberately put out of their reach until their life is
really over. 1 submit that this extension cry has been
got ui> by banks, financial companies and other monopo-
lists. As to the value of the land, let me cite the case of
Gingie Station (a W. Division Holding of 21)0,000 acres)
five lilies from Walgett, with a frontage to the Barwon
River This run abounds with edible shrubs, and
the saltbush is of the finest description For years past
thev have shorn 120,000 sheep, last year being the lowest
for some years, when only 68,000 were put through,
feel convinced that when Tub Bulletin goes into the
facts it will find that by the extension-of-lease idea,
the rising generation will he robbed of its birthright to
satisfy the landed monopolists and others of that ilk.
The bulk of the Western Division lands cannot be sur-
passed for richness of soil, and to extend these leases at
random will be simply criminal on the part of. those
responsible.
“ Kiwi,” from Maoriland : —
The Federation Commission has finished its “delibera-
tions,” and its report will be published soon after Parlia-
ment meets. Steward, one of the political nominees to
the Commission, addressing his constituents a few days
ago, vigorously condemned the proposal %hat Maoriland
should “ lose her identity,” and made no attempt to con-
ceal his antipathy to Union. .Labor-member Millar, of
Dunedin was more discreet. In addressing his constitu-
ents lie touched lightly on Federation, remarking that, as
he had just appended his signature to the Report of the
Commission, it would be impolitic to express an opinion
on the subject just then. There is no doubt that the Re-
port will be adverse. The members of Commission have,
since their return from Australia, made no effort to con-
ceal their belief that M.L. is destined in the great creative
plan to play a great Lone Hand. The N.Z. Timbs. Pre-
mier Seddon’s official organ, lately published an article in
course of which the editor apprised the public that lie
had been “unofficially” informed by the Commission
that the Australians had simply rushed headlong into
Federation without considering the great question of
Finance.
The latter statement, at all events, is not far from'
the truth. The other alternative, judged by
many past experiences, was to stay headlong out
of Federation without considering the great ques-
tion of Finance. Most of these States haven t
given any serious consideration to the great ques-
tion of Finance for the past ten years anyhow.


ACCORDEONS
from 8/6, post free.
Write for catalogues,
it will pay you.
CONCERTINAS
from 4/6 post free.
Write for catalogues,
it will pay you.
Anglo German
and English
CONCERTINAS
from 25/-, post
free. Write for
catalogues, it will
pay you.
m*
MOUTH
ORCANS
from 3d. Write for
catalogues. It will
pay you.
VIOLINS
from 5/- Write
for catalogues, it
will pay you.
MANDOLINS
from 25/- Write
for catalogues, it
will pay you.
GUITARS
from 12/6.
Write for cata-
logues, it will pay
you.
fa/s
BANJOS
from 25/-
Write for cata-
logues, it will pay
you.
FLUTES &
PICCOLOS
from 4/- Write
for catalogues,
it will pay you.
w
CORNETS
from 25 /•
BAND INSTRU-
MENTS
by ihe best
makers. Write
for catalogues,
it will pay you.
iimiiiimiwiiiiiiii
HARPS
from 12/6.
Write for cata-
logues,
it will pay you.
POLYPHON
MUSICAL
BOXES
from 42/
Play any number of
tunes
Write for catalogues,
it will pay you.
phocnix
MECHANICAL
ORCANS
from 65/-
Write for cata-
logues, it will pay
you.
Everything known in Music. Best Quality at the Lowest Prices.
'V, H, PALING & CO., Ltd.,
338 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
PALING’S^
REDUCTION OF PRICES!
PALING & COMPANY have Reduced
the Prices of ALL MUSIC BOOKS,
OPERAS, STUDIES, etc., to the
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES
* * *
W. H. PALING & CO., LTD.
338 George Street, Sydney.
A Letter from Deniliquin,
Dear Sirs, —
Tattersall’s Hotel,
Deniliquin, N.S.W.,
28th February, 1901.
Some years ago I suffered greatly from
liver complaint. At that time I was living in
Melbourne, and was able to get the best medical
advice. The doctors all seemed to differ as to
the nature of my complaint, and prescribed
various medicines, which gave me no relief what-
ever. Hearing of Warner’s Safe Cure, I decided
to give up doctors and give that medicine a trial.
From the first bottle I derived benefit, and con-
tinued to improve in health rapidly, until I was
quite cured.
Yours, &c.,
AUGUST NORD.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.
Warner’s Safe Cure cures all disorders arising
from an impaired or diseased condition of the
kidneys and liver, such as indigestion, rheu-
matism, anaemia, blood disorders, biliousness,
neuralgia, gout, gravel, general debility, and
Bright’s disease.*
READ WHAT . . .
VITADATIO
. . IS DOING.
HYDATIDS
AGAIN CONQUERED-
Croydon-avenue, Croydon,
May 18, 1900.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir, —From childhood I have been a great sufferer,
and was treated by eminent physicians for liver complaint
and jaundice. After suffering for 16 years the most ex-
crutiating agony I was tapped by Dr. Fortescue and Dr.
Markey (House Surgeon at Sydney Hospital) in 1871, and
my disease was proved to be hydatids on the liver ; but
with all the tapping my disease grew again, and I was as
bad as ever. About every four weeks I would have a bad
turn, and would be prostrate for twelve hours at a time.
I could eat nothing, and almost lived on bread and water
to see if I could get relief.
Last February I was advised to try VITADATIO, and
glad I am for that advice, as it has thoroughly cured me.
I am better now than I have ever been in my life, and I
will be glad to answer any questions relative to my case.
Yours faithfully,
(Miss) FANNY LIGHT.
For further particulars,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
ALL
CYCLISTS
PROCLAIM
it
the Best for Road Riding 1 ,
their speed making them
the easiest tO push, and their
Durability the Cheapest to
Ride.
Tourists all Ride them,
Racing all use them, and
The Trade all fit them.
Beware of Imitations!
None genuine unless the Cover and Tube are embossed with this mr
Trade Mark.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus., Ltd.,
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchuroh, N.Z.
Victorians new acting-minor Judge Johnston
had 22 prisoners before him at the recent general
sessions, all charged with larceny or similar
offences. Seven were acquitted, and, in sentenc-
ing the remainder, Mr. Johnston seemed to have
fixed on 18 months as a sort of standard, varying
the penalty here and there in accordance with- no
discoverable principle. One unfortunate, for his
third offence, got four years; another, for his
ninth, the standard 18 months; another, a first
offender, the same ; two others, also first offenders,
and public servants, 18 and 15 months apiece. A
man who descends to petty larceny when in a per-
manent billet at £325 a year doesn’t, perhaps,
deserve much pity ; still, 18 months, in addition
to loss of billet and pension-rights, for the theft of
a few pounds, is somewhat weighty. Then Mr.
Johnston suspended, during good behaviour, a
sentence of three months, on a lad of 16, for com-
mandeering a bike, and made up for it by award-
ing three cumulative terms of a year each, with 27
days’ “solitary,” to a lad of 17, who, after escaping
from Bayswater Reformatory, broke into about a
dozen houses in as many days. Practically, the
lad was a first offender, and might have been re-
claimed had he been sent to the State Reforma-
tory, but sundry J’sP., assisted by his acting-
Honor Judge Johnston, made that hopeless by
“putting him away” for about five years alto-
gether. Evidently, Judge Johnston is a man
with an able-bodied respect for Property and its
alleged rights, but, as a reclaimer of criminals, he
has a lot to learn.
J. W. Anderson, Lucan, Ontario, Canada,
would be glad of any information as to present
whereabouts of the three Mis-es Anderson (his
father’s sisters) who left Scotland for Australia in
1862.
Sleath, absent-minded like the rest of the
warriors, went out to White Cliffs, 60 miles from
the returning officer’s quarters at Wilcannia,
without signing his nomination-paper. The over-
sight was only discovered on the afternoon the
nominations closed ; whereupon Sleath did a re-
cord drive into Wilcannia, over a vile bush track,
in under five hours. The average coach “going”
on the Western tracks is miles an hour, stop-
pages included.
As was expected, no witnesses, other than
mine officials, were present to give evidence when
the Royal Commission arrived in Broken Hill to
inquire into the South mining disaster, and two ad-
journments had to be made in order to whip up a
few testifiers. But the Miners’Association, resolving
that the inquiry was a farce, declined to take any
part in it; and the relatives of the victims inti-
mated that, as they were contemplating civil pro-
ceedings, they would rather not say anything just
yet.
N.S. W. ex-Prernier G. H. Reid, speaking
of the See Government’s recently-acquired steam-
yacht, bought to replace a worn-out vessel for
which Reid solemnly proposed a vote of £lO,OOO
“to supply a new hull ” —he was going to build a
new vessel round the old engines :
The “bargain” reminded him of another. “There
was,” said George, “ a married couple named Mr. and
Mrs. Poodles, and Mrs. Poodles was the plague of
Mr. P.’s life, because she was always buying such wonder-
ful bargains. One day she bought a big brass plate with
the name of‘Simpson’upon it. Mr. Poodles wanted to
know, in the name of all that was reasonable, to what
use this brass plate was to be put. ‘ Well, you know,’
replied Mrs. Poodles, ‘ I hope it will never happen, but
you know, you might depart this life, and I might get
over it, and I might happen to meet a gentleman of the
name of Simpson, and if I happened to marry him see
how useful it would be !’ You see,” concluded the Dry
Dog One, amidst roars of laughter, “the Government
has an ample explanation ! ”


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
BILLS
discounted-
I
xcr.a*"w.
Iflont deplete D.«|. Co-. Ctd-
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
# SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
“
Colonial Mutual X*ife
assurance society limited.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; lion. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruok Smith, ICsn-
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
A- cumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
policies issueil 82,600-- assuring £25,471,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
p, ii i; jes Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Pidiiiuins moderate and without restriction as to
trin. lling. Liberal Bonuses- euuitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(.LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. 0 0
Paid-up Capital £3,216,885 0 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; J. C. Syme,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. VV. IT. Embling, M.L.C. ;
lion. N. Thornley. M.L.C.
General Manager : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M‘Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
I'ead Office; Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. 0. O. Howard.
lxndon OJjice: 1 Bishopsfjate Street Within.
corner of Leadenhal! Street, E C.)
1 / nkers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
IV COUTH wales:
f 1 .INICy - 27=5 GEORGE STREET.
..cuing Manaoer : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant : N. S.- Bell.
liaymaiket, Gosfcrd wit . age-icy at Wyonff), New-
-o i,.tli-; with Brandies throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Established 1879.
THE
United Jgistraliai fflaiual pire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices:
79 Pm- Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital .. 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
file Bank of |)orth Queensland
I, I MIT ED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
j |> canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ..£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
-I,driers ... 250 000 ... £350,000
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ... .. £2,500,000
|)eui Zealand Insurance (Jo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Tl>€ Trustees, €xcc<itorS,
* AND
Agsocy Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
RESERVE FUND (used in Company s
business)
Amount, at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
ami Clients, 31st December, 1900
£150,000 0 0
£90,000 0 0
£150,000 0 0
£8312 0 0
6,326,343 0 0
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. ’Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manage!
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., July 6,12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, July 13, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., July 9, 6 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyonsr, Tues., July 9, 5 p.m.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNUABERG
Tyrian, Saturday July 6, 12 Noon.
Bunvah, Tuesday, July 9, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., July 13, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, July 6, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., July 13, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT,
GERAUDTON }
CAIRNS. &c. (
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked throuirh.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
THE “ALL RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OF THE
GANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN LIME
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and .Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
Connecting at Vancouver with the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 davs, and is made
WITHOUT' CHANGE OP CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world —over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks,
Adelaide : L. A- Jessop, Esq.,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiork.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
usiness Announcements.
s OV- Af? //V^
ABSOLUTELY THE BEST
SOLE AGENTS—
N. GUTHRIDGE,
LTD.,
71 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
ASK YOUR JEWELLER TO SHOW YOU
The Patent Unbreakable
‘ONE-PIECE’ STUDS
masterpieces of mechanical skill,
Made in Gold, Silver, and Gold-Cased.
Once
Worn
Always
Worn.
Beauty of
Contour
& Finish.
Avoid
imitations
None
genuine
unless
stamped
‘ Patent.’
If damaged from ANY cause, a new
one given in exchange.
Wnoles'ile only:
SAUNDERS & SHEPHERD, LTD.,
27P>, GEORG 7 S+.. &.London, Eng
Medical.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, &o.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
Shipping
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL. CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
KT. D. L.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Fleet Comprising
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754; Horse-power, 403,245-
Mileage run in 1900, 4,707,000 ; Over 4 million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to
HONG KONG, via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW
BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and YAP.
S.S NUEN TUNG, 1341 Tons,
Captain Schoenberg,
LEAVING SYDNEY, 10th JULY NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to t he Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Public Companies.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office— GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ... .. .. 1,250,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. ... .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,250,000 0 0
Directors:
Jambs Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
William Alfred Cottke, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.O.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.C.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors:
F. W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ... ... l,01o,o()0 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C.
E. W. Knox, Esq.
Auditors :
W. L. Docker and E. S. Cape.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton. Manager, Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
United iQSOraiKe Co.
(LIMITED.)
Read Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Bents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Sates very Sow.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
Queensland Smelting Qempg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
eto. For tariff, api ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 62 Market-street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(f/l MITHI)).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS ;
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Allinga, Fiiday, July 5.
(Transhipping at Mel-
bourne.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Calms
S.S. Warrego, Friday,
July 6.
Rest and Cheapest ltoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
A. U- S. INI- Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maokay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port betvveen Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 1(1 Bridge*
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Steamer.
OCEANA ...
BRITANNIA
AUSTRALIA..
VICTORIA ..
ROME
Commander.
Syd ney,
Noon
6603 C. Gadd
6625 F'. H. Seymour
69011. Reeves ..
! 6525 E. Crewe ..
5545 E. Street ..
July 13
July 27
Aug. 10
Aug. 24
Sept. 7
The Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to 4E77
Ditto Ditto Return £7l 10s to 6121
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial poroj
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
tralia. Exchange Corner. Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydnev.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
Huddart, parker $ (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
(Q‘|luiraith,ffl‘Eacharn&(!o.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALGOOELIE, 4500 tons,
COOLGAEDIE, 3500 tons,
SAIL FORTNIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
M‘ILWRAITH, M'EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & GO. Ltd.


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
?iT7i S . e . t I?RT 8 T llb, » 1 l t t 0 amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURk YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Sendatonce for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PiLLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, luraours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Britain, l/ljd. per b x. Prepared by
ai BERT /3 Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents s ELI^IOII BROS., Sydney. Purchasers shouid
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
•' PPn ln el on each be X . (Regd. cpyri- Jit).
RAMEY’S MEDiCATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Boole of Treatment , Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin 4 /
Nasal Ointment, only ■ "/ m Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
DON’T POISON’
YOURSELF
WITH DRUGS when our ELECTRIC BELT (with or
without suspensor) will CURE YOU. ELECTRIC
CURRENT GUARANTEED. Pamphlet and Consulta-
tion Free. HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists, 105 Regent-
street, London W., and 44 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
We give a fair trial before payment.
PH
TOS
£ From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and \
< Chic; Carefully Selected Assortments, ?
£ Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated >
< Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s. <
| Money Order or Cheque on London,
English, French, and German Rare Books,
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GENNERT,
89c Faubourg St,, Martin, Paris, France.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
BEST FOR THE SKIN and
COMPLEXION.
Antiseptic, Emollient, Refreshing.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
U$
XL
m
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers from Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
HIUUN^SUS
k(6imi>ip
!WiiN£4r
Nl!HHtf®lj
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S CHIEF LABORATORY.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Affections, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Course, 28/6.
ALFALIME BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chironic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases. Blotches,
Wood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALIME UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
iEnemia, Wasting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALIME LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOXES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum- Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free. posted, 35., 65., 12s. and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— Electric Belts-Containing powerful and
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
at the same time as it supports the parts. cure for all Spinal and Kidney Affections :
Price 215., posted. 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
CORN CURE, 1 /-.
OINTMENT, 1/-.
Correspondence held confidential.
\%
HfIiAIALFALtHfPIIIS H
HERRBAS3H
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and his
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke-st.
BRISBANE-309 ftueen-st.
ADELAIDE-15 Pulteney-st.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A.—PERTH, 481 Hay-st.
KALGOORLIE —Hannan - st.
BOULDER ClTY—Piesse-st.
FREMANTLE —Henry-st,
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Adviee, Testimonials, and List of the ALFALINE REMEDIES.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYNE
Oantion. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS o!
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlohodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days' Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
A TELIA N CES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA." Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Bells give a sleady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely vvliat we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,' we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Steeet, SYDNEY.
“ COMMON SENSE EAB DRUM.”
IfHil
BEAF
/COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the. ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible Remedy,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Oyer
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
inventor of Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated £,egs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c.
use Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
I*or all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. i£d. and 2s. 9d. each of all Drug
Stores.
Sole Makers: BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd.
BRIDPORT, England.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
BCompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Show long standing. Are the same
r to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourns
mm..
mm&si
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
From London Spectator : ,
Nevertheless it is
both ourselves and artniery and must never for-
hands, must use only white a ery whom
get that in the last to make the Empire
we depend Them ,s y. on n sueh limits
KKffi.’w »?en.. There can » P~™»
against a mutiny of auxiliaries except the power oi
crushing it. ~ . ,
This is the sort of article you would expect to see,
not in »leading journal of “the freest empire in
the world,” but in the Persian SPECTATOR of the
time of Xerxes, or the Carthaginian Examiner
about the date of the Second Punic War.
From The Bulletin’s London corres-
pondent : .. „,
Re Tanquerey of Paris and his world-wide free crayon
portraits" swindle in your issue March 23. Even if a
dozen prominent Australians came forward in response to
your invitation and produce splendid pictures they ' have
received for nix it will prove only thatTanq. is 'Salting"
“down under” as he did London, &c. When the first
complaints arose here Lady Randolph Churchill stood by
T., producing a “ splendid picture of her swollen-headed
son Winston—Winnie for short? Tanq. had salted
the best person in England for his purpose—a fascinating,
pushing, high-society ’Murkan woman. The thousands
robbed since paid a myriad times over for this and other
free pictures, but Tanq. still flourishes alongside the
“ hidden Spanish treasure ” and the _ Klondyke gold-
brick ” swindles. The saddest thing in civilisation to-day
is the fools that abound—ferry-boat loads of fools, ihey
irritate “us honest men,” for we can’t take them
down,” and others do so before our eyes.
Everything that! can be used as an argu-
ment against the Old Age Pensions Act is eagerly
seized by the Melbourne dailies, and leaded and
leadered. The last grievance is that of an old
man who, leaving the shelter of the Benevolent
Asylum for 10s. a week and liberty, failed to
finance his little capital successfully, and knew no
better than to spend 3s. on a room, and the other
7s. on 14 square sixpenny feeds per week, and not
so much as a bit of baccy or a pint of beer, and
who went back and begged, like the prodigal old
sinner that be was, to be indulged once more with
the Dives-like luxuries he had been wont to enjoy
in tho asylum. There’s no accounting for tastes
or actions. In Hobart, a few years ago, a man
actually got “ over the garden wall ” into the
gaol—broke in —having failed to qualify for ad-
mission in the legitimate way. He was, of course,
a “softy,” but so must the other old fellow be.
Why, 10s. is 40 drinks and free counter lunches !


Swallowing.
a
9
fB
Swallowing a sword is a
trick not conducive to health
or longevity. But it is not
more injurious than the hasty
swallowing of half-masti-
cated food washed down by
gulps of tea or water. Hasty
eating is the fall of health.
Sooner or later it must result
in indigestion, or some other
form of stomach disease. For
the cure of the diseases of
the stomach, and allied
organs of digestion, there is
no medicine so effective as
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. Mr. Vine is a well-
known greengrocer, residing
in Denison-street, Kingston,
Sydney. He has a few
words to say about his suffer-
ing and cure. “ For some
considerable time,” he said,
“ I have had a bad set-to
with acute indigestion,
which at last took me to a
doctor. The pains would
ca.tch me sharply in the pit
of the stomach, and with
such severity that when the
doctor told me what my
complaint was I could scarcely believe him,
thinking that indigestion could never use a man
so badly. His advice and medicine, however,
did me no good, and I was advised by friends
to try different remedies. I followed this one’s
advice and 'that; but my complaint was still as
bad as ever, when I resolved to give Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills a trial, as I heard them praised
so much by many I knew who had used them.
From the first dose they acted very will
upon me, giving me more relief than anything
I had ever taken, and I can recommend
them to all who suffer as I have done.” Dr
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood
purifier, and a positive cure for biliousness, indi-
digestion, constipation, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
boils and blotches, and female ailments. Sold by
chemists and storekeepers, Is. per bottle, or
six bottles 6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H.
Comstock Co., Ltd. (Australasian Dep6t), 58Pitt-
street, Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the
full name blown thereon.*
4.
The Bile Bean Manufacturing Co. publishes a
book entitled ‘‘Character and how to read it.” The
many ways of reading character are described in a con-
cise, yet comprehensive form, and it cannot fail to prove
interesting and instructive reading. From a typo-
graphical point of view, it is exceedingly satisfactory,
the blocks are well cut, and special mention must be
made of the picture on the back of the book. The Bile
Bean Co., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney, offer to send a copy of
this interesting work to any address free, the only con-
dition being that you mention the name of this paper and
enclose a penny stamp to pay postage.*
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Co. reports,
for week ended June 28th, that no alteration in values of
wheat has eventuated since previous week. The slight
improvement at the beginning of the month brought
about an effort on the part of holders to quit consign-
ments at the then ruling rates, but the shippers, who
were responsible for the ephemeral rise, had secured
enough for immediate wants and grimly refused to rise
above 2s. BJd ; F.A.Q., 2s. 7d. to 2s. Bd. ; medium and
chickwheat, 2s. 4d. to 2s. sd. per bushel.*
REUTER'S
LITTLE
PILLS FOR
THE LIVER .
; Are particularly adapted to the needs
!of the family, act in such a manner as to
cause noinconvenience,specially intended
for the cure of all ailments arising from a
disordered LIVER and STOMACH.
ON A
A N.S.W. BUSHMAN
Red Bird Bicycle
Rides tc work with wheelbarrow slung across his back and his shovel on the frame. YOU CAN DO ANY-
THING ON A RED BIRD, and travel over the roughest roads with absolute safety.
branches in every STATE. QOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King St • let, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The three days’ Grand National meeting at
Flemington starts next Saturday (6th) with the Hurdle
Race in the centre of the programme. Looking at the
figures for the past five years, no reasonable punter can
fancy a heavy-weighted horse, except on the strongest
possible evidence of its being much better than the
best we have had since Emmalea got home in 1595.
As for the chance of Record Reign winning with
12st. 121 b. up, present scribe can merely say that
he doesn’t know of any particular reasoii why
the Maoriland horse should be worth backing at
the weight. Up to now the G.N. Hurdle Race has
never been captured by a 12-stoner, and only twice has a
12-stoner got a place. One was Ringwood, in 1884 ;he
carried 12.7 and finished third. The other was The
Yeoman, in 1888, placed second under a 12.1 bur-
den. But they were proved to be great stayers. Ring-
wood subsequently won an Australian Cup, and Yeoman
ran third in a Melbourne Cup. Where is the encourage-
ment to suppose that Record Reign or Cavaliero (12.7)
can put the aforesaid performances into the shade ?
• * * *
Out of 15 animals placed for the Hurdle Race
in the last five years, 10 have been lightweights—from 9
to 10st., and only two out of the remaining five have
carried as much as list. Perhaps the heavyweights
were specially unlucky, or of lower “class” than this
year’s lot. Present scribe reckons that the handicap this
year is just as fair on paper as it was in previous years,
which is the same thing a; saying that it favors the
lightweights. As for “ luck,” it stands to reason that
the heavier-burdened nags which are not allowed to
get away in front at the beginning of the race
must run a greater risk of accident than the
isolated leaders. “ Luck ” favors the ones that are least
likely to be brought down by the falling of others. This
paragraph was about to commit itself to a selection of two
candidates—Goldfinder and Rackstraw—for the nice juicy
stake of next Saturday. They ran second and third for
the same event last year, carrying 9st. 8 and 9st. 7 respec-
tively. This year they have 10st. 3 and lOst. 5, a differ-
ence of 31bs. in Goldfinder’s favor as compared with the
previous handicap. Both are better treated than
Aquarius, who beat them last year, and both of them, if
all right on the day, will be worth backing. Rackstraw
ran well in public the other day. Goldfinder is said to
have gained stamina since last year, when he was re-
garded as a “ good thing.” So this was how the writer
felt:
GOLDFINDER .. ..1
RACKSTRAW .. ..2
But Rackstraw seems to have hurt himself on the track,
and at time of writing the somewhat lame gee-gee was a
probable non-starter.
• * • *
No less than five different sets of handicaps
(Canterbury Park, Hawkesbury, A.J.C., Melbourne and
Caulfield Cups) were made public in Sydney on Tuesday.
With three different officials engaged in the work—
Alessrs. Daly (A.J.C.), Dakin (Melb. Cup), and Vowles
(Caulfield) —marked differences were looked for, but they
are not so pronounced as might have been expected.
F’rinstance, Metrop. handicapper sums up Hautvillers as
31b. better than United States, and the Caulfield allotter
brings them together. Malster, Hautboy, George
Frederick, Kinglike, Revenue, Lucknow, La Hogue,
Bruntwood, Rock Gun, and several others are rated 21b.
higher at Caulfield ; while Paul Pry, Sequence, Kulaui,
Paradox, Warrior 11. and Simile have each 31b. more ;
but Wakeful, Record Reign, Duke of Kent, Horace,
and Fighting Mac. are slightly better in the Caul-
field event than at Randwick. Aurous has 101 b.
more at Caulfield than at Randwick, so has Hoop Iron ;
and Bengonia, Rabato, Acumen, Industrious, Klimo, and
Cretonne have 71b. Ibex, Black Watch, Andorra, Rock-
leigh, and Dahomey have each 51b., and Khaki, Sir
Leonard, Diadem, The Strutter, and Acrasia, 41b., more
ayont the Murray. In the cases of La Carabine, Gauleon,
Reka, and Allinga, the respective adjusters agree exactly
Most marked instance of Caulfield differing from Mel-
bourne Cup allotments is Paul Pry who has 81b. less in
the latter, but this was only to be expected after his
repeated failures over the long distance. liymettus has
71b. less in Melbourne Cup, and Sequence and Aurous,
61b. ; while allowances of 51b. each have been conceded to
Rabato, Canada, and Womerah. Then, again, San Fran,
Wakeful, Record Reign, Revenue, Acumen, Bengonia,
Nymagee, and several others are asked to carry 41bs. less
over the longer distance, while lower allowances, which
are justified by the extra half mile, are conceded to La
Carabine, Gauleon, Malster, Hautboy, George Frederick,
Gunga Din, Ingliston, Kinglike, Miltiades,Vocalist, Kalaui,
Paradox, Warrior 11., Ohio, Ampier, Musket, Hautvillers,
United States, Clanside, Grasspan, Honeybee, Klimbo,
La Hogue, Acrasia, Pegasus, and others. Instances in
which Mr. Dakin’s imposts are heavier than those of Mr.
Vowles are not numerous. Most noticeable is Lord
Trenton, who has 51b. more in Melbourne than in Caulfield
Cup. Carbinier has 31b. more, so has Brise de Nuits,
Lord Rudolph, Lucknow, Simile and Benvolia. Footbolt,
Royalty, Otwaj', Patronage, Horace, Gosport, Bruntwood
and a few more are also given increases, but nothing
worth kicking against. Among the cases wherein A. J.C.
and V.R.C. handicappers have differed are April Fool and
Street Arab ; in the Metropolitan former is allotted 8.13,
while in the Melbourne Cup he has 81b. less ; but while
Street Arab is believed to be properly appraised at 6.10 in
the Metropolitan, he is asked to carry 131 b. more in the
two-mile event.
• « » *
“Teddy” Knight’s reported “crock,” “cripple,”
&c., Prince Carbine (by Carbine-Taihoa) scooped the big
thing of Rosehill meeting, Saturday. Well backed in
“shops” all day Friday and Saturday morning, when
long odds were available, a big load was placed on the
course, consequently the “close” crowd behind the
operations landed a big stake. Some reports told of a
rattling good trial done a week before at Moorefield,
while others scoffed and had it that “ the Prince,” as a
result of the aforementioned test, was to be fired
and turned out. Truth is, the nag wants a heap of look-
ing after through developing splints on his fore legs. So
gingerly must he be dealt with that a gallop now and
again is all his trainer dare do with him. His un-
commonly-good wind does the rest. It’s two years, or
thereabouts; since Prince Carbine previously won a race.
Lady Jewel made a similar run to the one which
snatched victory from Ferryman at Randwick, and but
for jockey Parker's grit Prince Carbine would have been
beaten. Owner “Teddy” Knight, generally stoical,
looked very scared as the pair flashed past the po3t on
Saturday.
* ? * • *
“Gun” : Cramped prices offered by Mo. at
Sydney meetings give punters no hope of recovery unless
they run big risks. A single fiver on any nag will often
bring him down two or three points. Instance Beauclere,
in Rosehill Granville Stakes on Saturday: tens were
available till a move was made to back him, when he
dropped to 2 to 1 quick as a flash, and started 5 to 2
against, though the “ field ” totalled 15. Ranjitsinghji
opened at fours for the Welter at same meeting, but a few
pounds shortened the prices to twos and 7to 4. Beauclere
finished in the ruck and Ranji got home in a canter.
Like cases have been plentiful for some time. The totali-
sator with its inevitable partial eradication of Mo. is a
consummation devoutly to be wished.
ft it ft tr
M.L. crack cross-country nag Kaimate by Aus-
tralian, a son of Tregeagle and Ordeal (imp.) by Touch-
stone, is now a N.S.W. lepper, whilom Sydney “book”
and crack billiardist Bill Lyons having secured him for
245g5. a few weeks since. Recently Kaimate (humping
10.5) finished second to Cannongate (12.5 up) for M.L.
Great Northern Steeple, Sj-m. Nor’-West was third.
* * * *
Nominations (43) for M.L. Cup (1500 sovs.) this
year are the least on record. Greatest number (75) en-
tered in ’9l. Last year’s total reached 46.
* * * *
Ed. Bulletin. — By the time the Common-
wealthers realise that the Senate’s Post and Telegraph
Bill interferes seriously with the freedom of Australians
it will be too late to successfully agitate for a modifica-
tion of its provisions. What the House of Reps, means
to do remains to be seen. Want of knowledge of the
far-fetched measure has led the gullible public to believe
that, beyond “ Tattersall’s ” consultations, betting and
racing and sporting generally will go untouched. Just
look at clauses 54 and 55. No. 54 gives the Postmaster-
General or any Deputy power to direct that any postal
article addressed to the promoter of any sweep, racing of
every description, fights, games, sports and exercises,
&c., either in his own or ah assumed name, shall not be
delivered. Clause 55 says : “ Any postal matter ad-
dressed as in clause 54 shall be opened and imme-
diately returned to the sender, or if it was not origi-
nally posted in the Commonwealth, shall be returned
unopened to the proper authorities of the Colony,
Possession, or Country where it was originally posted.”
All this is directed at “ Tattersall’s ” consultations; still,
letters will not be delivered to racing-club secretaries
concerning races, neither will any be delivered to betting-
men, bookmakers, or anyone else mixed up in racing.
The rich “ Tattersall’s ” club of bookmakers in Pitt-st.,
Sydney, will be denied its sporting letters. Byron
Moore, of the V.R.C., and Clibborn, of the A.J.C., will
not be able to get entries through the post, or any letters
bearing on racing. It seems that the Federal elements
behind Mr. Drake, P.M.G., are of the hypocritical order,
and that they want to wipe out all classes of sport,
especially horse-racing, and create a church-loving com-
munity by act of legislation. As for “ Tattersall’s ” con-
sultations, what better guarantee could the people have
that they are conducted with fairness and honesty than
the fact that the whole conduct of the sweeps is under
the Tasmanian State Legislature, the Under-Secretary of
Trade and Finance having direct control and supervision'?
“ Tatt.” Adams lodged either £lO,OOO or £20,000 with the
Tas. Government for the faithful carrying out of the con-
sultations, and, so far, no person seems to have yet
revealed any real cause for complaint. The consultations
are known and esteemed throughout the world, let alone
in Australia.
• • •
“ Ancient ” : Suppression of Tatt.’s Con-
sultation will gladden Mo.’s heart, and no doubt
that individual is now pulling the strings con-
siderably. Ilia trouble is that owners getting some
of the sweep (and most of them do) won’t back
their prads, as the “bit to nothing” is almost in-
variably good enough. Again, the flood of hedging-
money on Melbourne Cup completely upsets Mo., who
has to stretch his odds aheap more to “lay” almost
anything. Abolishing George Adams’ straight-going
venture will be greasing the hooked nose with a ven-
geance, and leave the way open for cronk people who’ll
fill the breach and work the thing for all it is worth,
■Dapping their fingers at the law the whil«.
* • • *
Clever Tas. pug. “ Albury ” Clifford, at Sydney
Gaiety A.C. last week, again fell before Bananaland
rough-and-tumble slugger Harry Phillips. Clifford was
winning all the way, when Phillips hurled a windmill
right-hand swing on the back of his neck and sent him
flat, face down, till long after “ out” sounded. The Tas.
man had bad luck stopping such a hot thing, which was
an obvious fluke. When they fought before each got a
right cross home just at the same instant and both
sprawled, Clifford beyond recall, but Phillips with just
enough vitality left to struggle up by the ropes. They
may meet again, when Clifford should surely win, as he’s
undoubtedly the better fighter.
• * • *
T lalf-caate Maori Ruenalf and N.S.W. man
M oil, at Sydney Golden Gate Club. Saturday night last,
sup died about the poorest mill Sydney has had for
months. M’Ooll, willing, tough, and hard-hitting enough
for the best company, shapes too open, swings and slashes
blindly, and trusts to chance. The Maori mostly acted in
a scared fashion, evidently mindful of their last turn in
New England. Twice in the third round Ruenalf
floundered on the boards for the full lOsec. and four times
through the fourth 3min. took refuge on the floor from
M'Coll’s mad, bull-like rushes. This was enough for the
M.U. lath, who “ wiped ” just when onlookers thought he
was toeing the mark for the fifth round. Ruenalf is
clever and has ample physique, but lacks grit. He could
have gone on a lot longer on Saturday night. When the
crowd hooted and boohooed their disgust Ruenalf said
something about knowing when he was licked.
• * * *
Yankee “ Kid ” Parker and “ Snowy” Sturgeon
fought at Sydney Gaiety A. 0., Monday night, before a
house packed and packed again. From floor to “ flies ”
weltered a sea of faces, which far exceeded that at the
Oribb-Dunn struggle in the same place. Parker, sturdily-
built, heavy-muscled, looked the pink of condition, ana a
weight-lifter, wrestler, or such, more than a boxer.
Sturgeon, trained to the moment, the best set-up of all
prominent Australian boxers, seemed the ideal athlete.
The fight proved a scuffling affair from the jump,
exciting enough, but lamentably lacking as a dis-
play of science. Parker, short in stature and reach,
was very open, and met many stiff punches. Sturgeon
failed to show skill except as a foul worker—wrenching,
wrestling, and throwing while the thronged house v—o-d
its disgust in jeers, jibes, and groans. Once Parker
fouled after being fouled himself a dozen times, nd the
referee called a halt to caution the Yankee, after a owing
the other’s offences to go unheeded. Early in the tnird
round Parker smothered Sturgeon, floored him, and
looked like turning the tide, but could not continue.
The end came after about Bmin. of actual fighting. Two
heavy right crosses on the “Kid’s” unprotected jaw
were followed by a third that floored him beyond hope of
rising to time. A disappointing thing from the outset.
* « * *
Tweedie-M'Gowan bruising match at Kalgoorlie
(W.A.) was a stiff punching affair of 20 rounds and sent a
big house frantic. Tweedie hasn’t the strength and
hitting power of M‘Gowan but is lots cleverer and dodged
and ducked in fine style, mixing things as freely as t’other
chap whose great game is mixing. Last two rounds were
regular curtain-raisers. M‘Gowan desperately risked a
lot to reach some vital spot, but the Sydney Rocks news-
boy was alive to the situation and kept right “off the
grass.” The referee declared a draw, which the house
unanimously endorsed by sustained applause. When
they met a year or two ago at Brisbane, Tweedie had a
big pile of points to his credit, but grew careless and in
round 13 caught a beauty on the “ point” that laid him
out beyond recall. “Cocker” never forgot that experi-
ence, hence the futility of the South Melbourne miniature
giant’s attempt to get a knock-out punch home.
# * * *
At Kalgoorlie (W.A.) t’other day “Tut” Ryan
won from Bill Doherty, previous holder, in three rounds
the much-hawked and not over-great distinction of
Australian heavyweight champion. Said that Doherty’s
friends are not satisfied and another match is
sure to result. That was the way with the Doherty-
Felix and the Doherty-Dooley affairs. Though beaten
at first, Doherty was top-dog the second time in each
instance. Reasoning on this “Tut’’should go under in
the second match.
* * * *
The latest battle (May 30) for British bruising
supremacy is another sign of English pug decadence.
Yankee middleweight O’Brien met English heavyweight
Chrisp (then champion of England) at Newcastle, before
30Q0 people, and within three rounds Chrisp’s prospects,
barring the remote possibility of a knock-out, seemed
hopeless. Out-generalled and out-fought, he could do
nothing against O’Brien’s incessant prod, prod, prod. In
the 11th round one on the point settled the Britisher
completely. Stated that O’Brien could have won in less
than half the time had he cared to do so. His left was
irresistible, while his wonderful footwork, fine defence,
and admirable knowledge of distance kept him out of
danger.
» * * *
In reply to F.G.W. (Watsonville) Dick Barker’s
height was given as 6.11. He fought Dutchman Placke
and not Riordan, who died while boxing with Bob
Fitzsimmons in America.
* * * •
Retired world’s champion sculler, Bill Beach,
made another swoop upon Sydney’s pigeon-shooting com-
munity t’other day, and finished runner-up in the Federal
Champion Cup with 14 kills. He whacked three sweeps
and, all told, brought down 28 birds, using the second
barrel only four times. “ Old Bill ” looked as good as
years ago, and expressed himself fit enough to take on
Canuck Gaudaur again if opportunity offered.
Pigeon-slayer Eales, in London, on May 23,
secured absolute possession of the £4O Challenge or
“ Thursday” Cup, conditions of which exacted three suc-
cessive wins. In the third event, Eales had 11 succes-
sive kills and whacked the pool of £63 with another,
whom he ultimately beat in the shoot-off. Previously,
Eales was one of 22 in a £3 sweep and performed
brilliantly from 33yds. until-a miss in the 12th round eft.
’Frisco champion Nauman (31yds.) and Vernon Barker
(31yds.) to fight it out. Barker lost liis 13th, and the
’Murkan won.
• • • •
Sculler Towns, after almost luring Jake
Gaudaur out of that snug retreat at Hat Portage
(Canada) is likely to miss his game for a while, as ’Ome
oarsman Sam Emmett challenged Jake for £250 a side,
and offered £5O expenses if the Canadian would row on
the Thames. This being a comparatively soft snap it
was thought likely that Gaudaur would come. Emmett
(only 2 years less than 40) stands 6.14, and scales 12f
stone. Having beaten only third-raters, how he can have
a hope with Gaudaur puzzies one much. It’s long odds
that Towns, Barry or Sullivan could be backed for a big
amount against Emmett. Towns wanted to make a
match, but Emmett's backer said they wanted Gaudaur
and none other. Emmett’s most recent feats are account-
ing for the ex-British top-notcher Geo. Bubear, and Geo.
Drummond last year.
• * * •
Estimated that, in all, between 12,000 and 15,000
witnessed the four senior grade Rugby matches in Sydney
on Saturday. Glebe just beat Balmain by 7to 6. ’Varsity
finished 8 to 6 better than Newtown after being behind
till near the close of full time. Previous match was a
draw, neither side scoring. Eastern Suburbs literally
romped over North Sydney, notching 21 to 6 : and South
Sydney pulled up with 10 to Western Suburbs’ 3. Bal-
main’s ill-luck is as pronounced this season as last.
Though playing well, and occasionally succeeding in
giving acknowledged strong combinations a close call,
they’ve not won a single match yet. Last season Balmain
went down religiously, match after match, till near the
end, when they came with a rush, and did some big
things, much to the surprise of all followers of the game.
Will history repeat itself this year?
* • * *
Champion bowlers Bradbury and Hogue (pic-
tured last week) are not recent developments. Brad-
bury (“Champion of Champions”) has been playing
eight years, and is hon. sec. of Victoria Park Club. His
spoils last three seasons include Victoria Park’s Champion
Medal (99-’Ol inclusive), Champion of Champions (both
years—this and last —of its existence), and skipper of an
undefeated rink in present season’s pennant matches,
scoring 206 to 101 against. Hogue took to bowls seven
years ago when president of now defunct Glebe Club. His
best work occurred lately, when he appropriated City-
Club’s Novice Handicap, and Champion Gold Medal,
and was one of four that survived the “ Sandeman ” rink
tourney, also secured second position in the “ Williams”
prize competition, and won N.S. VV.B.A. Championship.
• * * *
The sheep-dog trials at the N.S.W. Sheep-
breeders’ Association Show pretty well equalled the his-
toric canine who yarded the blow-fly' into a pickle-bottle.
Mr. John Q.uinn, of Springfield, Stockinbingal, bred the
dogs, all kelpies, which took first, second and fourth
prizes.
• • • *
Apropos Mr. E. P. Simpson’s success in N.S.W.
golf supremacy'. That athletes do so well at it is ample
proof of the thoroughly athletic nature of the game.
E.P.S. was a top-notcher when amateur running flourished
in this State years since ; he was a front-rank rower in
the salad days of Sydney' Rowing Club, and few of our
amateurs use the cue more skillfully than he. Mr.
S. Gollan, the M.L. sport now in England, is a fine athlete
—as evidence his enduring row with scullers Towns and
Stevenson on the Thames recently, as well as other feats.
Mr. Gollan went ’Ome with the M.L. golf premiership,
and since got away with one of the classic golf events on
old St. Andrew’s links from some of the best. Another
proven fore-front athlete was Mr. Gillies, also a recent
Australian golf premier.
* * * •
Mr. Mark Moss, who died recently, was to Vic.
bowls what Mr. John Young is to bowls in Sydney. Mr.
Moss bowled for over 40 years. West Melbourne Club of
the old days stood near the junction of Latrobe and
William-sts., and the deceased gentleman was its presi-
dent. He and Mr. John Young started inter-State
matches 21 y'ears ago. As president of the V.B.A. Mr.
Moss for 10 years entertained on Windsor green veteran
bowlers who had had 20 years’ experience in the game,
and frequently provided valuable trophies for all classes
of competitions.
» * » *
Our London correspondent: —“Re bowling-
throwers. C. ‘ Bounder ’ Fry, one of the very doubtful
ones, says ‘ When I get no wickets I never hear anything
about throwing ; when I do, I do. lam the last person
to give advice upon how to bowl without throwing, o'-,
rather, without appearing to throw. (Neat !) Can’t do
it myself, according to some idiots!” What a cocky,
thin-skinned person, though still the finest all-round
athlete in England, if not elsewhere ! ”
• ♦ * •
It must give “ holy Adelaide ” a shock to reflect
that Von Doussa, one of the new S.A. M’s.L.C., reaches
there almost entirely- on account of the reputation he
has built up as boss of the one-meeting-a-year Onkapar-
inga Racing Club. His colleague, Riddoch, elected in
President Baker’s place, is a West Darling (N.S.W.)
squatter.
• * * • ,
Whilom top-notch Australian bat “ Billy ’
Murdoch, is booming at ’Ome this season. ForM.C.C.
against Leicester he hit up 43 and 93 ; latter including
twelve 4’s, two 3’s, and ten 2s.
» * * •
“Old Timer”: Sydney bruisers know as little
of the MQ. rules as most officiating referees. They won’t
stand in-fighting-absolutely the best feature in the busi-
ness. Any man who attempts quick work after breaking
from a elinch is vigorously howled at. The referee yells
“ break fair,” and he who goes back furthest with hands
spread like wings is cheered for “ extreme fairness.”
Rats ! Rules don’t require that; it’s simply “ break ! ”
and quickest home scores ; but that can only be done now
at imminent risk of disqualification for foul work. In
Victoria they fight right because the referee of the old
Melbourne Athletic Club knew his business, and kept
the crowds and the pugs properly educated. Last
genuinely-organised body' controlling glove fights in
Sydney was the York-street S.A.O. Club, dead 10 years
ago. Since it ceased the Mother State capital hasn’t had
a properly-qualified referee. The Cribb-Dunn fight is
hanging-fire at present through the apparent impossi-
bility of securing a capable man.
• * • *
“Old Timer”: Lately deceased ancient Sydney
cricketer, Mr. T. H. Lewis, was 73 and an officer in the
N. Surveyor-General’s Dept. He and his brother
O. were once fore-front cricketers and represented
N.S.W. against Vic. in ’57 and ’5B, and one or other in
’59, ’6O and ’6l. O.L.’s forte was underhand bowling, at
which he secured excellent averages.
* * m *
“ Flat ” : Sydney “ double-shop ” swindles are
getting worse than ever, which is saying a heap. With
cronk scratchings and an “understanding” between
trainers or owners and the layers of the odds to a “ bob ”
or upwards, ’tis small wonder that the stay'-at-home sec-
tion of Mo waxes fat and beams “childlike and bland ”
upon his victims. Often punters take 2’s to 1, or “evens”
something that appears to have a mortgage on one par-
ticular event, and, though it' goes to the course, it is
taken out at the eleventh hour in accord with the owner-
shop contract. The army of lambs to be fleeced appears
as strong as ever—most of them chasing the ignis fatuux
of getting back their own. There’s a law to stamp these
sporting parasites out completely. Why isn’t it en-
forced ?
• * * •
Latest anent condition of whilom top-notch
English trundler, Johnny Briggs, is that the poor fellow is
in Oheadle Asylum, playing imaginary cricket most of the
time, usually bowling, and appropriating anything handy
for a ball.
Ten members of the British House of
Lords own 325 licensed public houses in London.
Earl Derby is at the top with 72.
A gruesome story comes from Frankston
(Vic.). A child, two years old, was playing with
a dog, when the latter suddenly snapped off the
child’s nose and swallowed it, then bit it’s victim’s
cheek so severely that the sight of one eye is
likely to be lost. Moral: Never let young chil-
dren “play” with dogs. A child’s idea of play
is generally teasing, and a dog is usually a bundle
of nerves.
“F.C.” : Findley makes the fourth member
to be escorted tothe big front doorof Vic. Assembly.
On April 21st, ’69, C. E. Jones was expelled, and
six days later J. S. Butters followed him, on the
famous “Mint Sauce” charge. Ballarat and
Portland promptly sent both back. Then, on
Aug. Ist, ’76, the just-dead Jas. M'Kean was
violently ejected for speaking disrespectfully of
his fellow-members. Before that—on July 25th,
’67, G. J. Sands was declared unworthy to sit.
He saved himself from expulsion by resigning a
month earlier. Singular that Charles Gavan Duffy
snavelled the vacant seats of both M‘Kean and
Sands. Findley, just ejected, puts up for the
vacant East Melbourne seat, but his advisers have
stronger hearts than heads. If he and the Labor
leaders threw themselves whole-heartedly into the
Melbourne fight he would probably still hold the
seat. Already there are two Liberals and a Tory
to split the vote ; while a Labor-man has only
Buckley’s chance at East Melb.
The Secret History of the Coningham
Case, as told by “ Zero,” is out, and probably by
this time occupies a place of honor on the book-
shelves of Rev. Dill Macky. It is in many ways
an amusing and instructive book. In the first
place, it is a Detective Story of Real Life, in
which the issues involved were not pa,]try stolen
jewels, but the honor of a high dignitary of
the celibate clergy of the Church of Rome, and
the reputation of a man and a woman.
Secondly, it is interesting because it con-
tains facsimiles of letters from the parties
concerned and from many others —human docu-
ments all of them, and not mere formal epistles.
But its chief charm to the student of human
nature is the open, unhesitating, even hilarious
style in which the story of the counterplot against
the Coninghams was carried out. The Coning-
hains and their backers were clever, and tortuous,
and subtle. They constructed a case that
formed a hook upon which the people whose
nightmare is the Scarlet Woman might have
hung a thesis that would have—if their luck had
been good—scared the Pope out of the Vatican
and driven Cardinal Moran and Dr. O’Haran and
all the R.C. clergy to take refuge in the caves
in the rocks; but they fought against a church
that knew her business many centuries before they
were born. The book is well written and well
brought out, and may, in days to come, form good
material for a future Australian Zola or Mrs.
Humphrey Ward. Finn Bros., of Pitt-st.,
Sydney, are the printers.


Silver-Mounted
Hand Mirror
10/6
SILVER
TOILET TABLE
REQUISITES.
Solid Silver Hair Brushes from -jg^
Solid Silver Cloth Brushes from -jg/^
Solid Silver-mounted Puff Bottles, from JQ
51-
5/-
fhe Modern ]rt Jewellery Co.,
lB7 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Bolid Silver Pin Trays
Solid Silver-mounted Combs
from
from
*« Ilf HI hi Mi lit m w mi.s:
iinnrinnn
i'i it ull ir j
I7IOU the person who is not a millionaire, therms'
1 ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is’ King-street Coffee Palace,’"
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Pose
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS,
W. W. GREENER’S NEW RIFLE
Made expressly for Cadet Corps.
An entirely New A Exclusive Design .
The new Rifle has been produced
solely to supply the wants of Cadet-
Corps for a REALLY RELIABLE
and ACCURATE RIFLE at a low
price, 3 s.
Ten Shota in 3 inch Square at 100 yards.
GENUINE ENGLISH MANUFACTURE THROUGHOUT:.
Every Rifle guaranteed and named
IF. IF. GREENER, Birmingham, England.
On Hand—Greener’s Guns from 9 to 30 Guineas ; Lee'
Enfield and Metford Rifles, Govt, viewed ; Greener’s New
Book, “Sharpsiiootinq for Sport or War,” 1/- net,
posted-1/2. Stamps from other States not accepted.
B3T All Rifle Shots should read this Book.
Ch.as. ‘W. Bncltl a,n.<i
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
IT WANTS
BRUSHING
Many men want brushing down.
We mean their Clothes and Hats do.
We can’t do it for them—too busy.
Solid Silver long-handle Clothes Brush, 32/- each.
—SUPPLYING THE BRUSHES.
Solid Silver long handle Clothes Brushes—heavy, elegant goods that wear for ever—32/- each.
Solid Silver Hat Brushes, long handles, curved to shape of the Hat, 12/6 each.
Solid Silver Shaving Brushes, best Camel Hair, 10/- and 12 6 each ; Electroplate, 4/- each.
Solid Silver Hair Brushes, Military, a t 15/- each. Solid Silver Clothes Brush, ordinary shape, 8/6.
These are all sold at London Cash Prices.
They are Goods that never wear out (the silver part).
London Prices.
Plain Figures.
fii«n Payments.
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Tbe
Callagbar*
Boot
HoocSt Wear
Iq every pair.
m
m
s*
I 3
Patent Calf, calf-kid legs, full goloshed, 1901 lasts, to button or lace, 25/-
post paid, 26/-
MAID TOUR
ORDER TO-DAY.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
B.H. Block 10—just now in lower water than
it has been for many a day—strikes a welcome patch of
carbonates, nearly 50 per cent, lead, at the 615 ft. level,
They hadn’t expected this splendid fluxing ore to run
down to the depth, and came on the shoot unexpectedly.
General-manager Warren, who has been with the co. from
the beginning, leaves at the end of the month (July) ;
Assistant-manager Grayson has already left. The direc-
tors don’t propose to go outside Australia for a successor.
Of course, in view of the lead-slump, the office of
assistant-manager is abolished.
* * * *
General Manager Warren has had a rare ex-
perience in connection with his resignation from B.H.
Block 10—the mine which has paid over £850,000 in divs.
since he took charge. The resignation of Warren and his
assistant went in at the same time, and in the circs, there
was nothing for it but to accept both. Now, however,
practically the whole of the officers and miners have peti-
tioned him to apply for re-appointment; and another big
petition went to him from the town of Broken Hill,
Under Warren, accidents have % been extremely rare, and
that influenced the workmen most; while his grip of the
mechanical side of the sulphide problem mainly in-
fluenced the Broken Hill people.
p, , „ ...
The Govt, sends up a KoyaJ Commission to in-
quire in relation to the South mine disaster whether
blame attaches to any person or persons, and, if so, to
whom ; further, to make any suggestions with a view to
the prevention of such accidents.” The miners, who de-
pend on the bosses for a living, are the only ones who
might say nasty things, and there are too many unein-
ployed miners Just now to allow thein to take Aaf nsk
so it is pretty safe to conclude that the Oommiss on will
come back with enough material to nicely whitewash the
manager and the inspector whom the jury blamed. The
local paper remarks that when the same Crown Law
Dept, wanted a bit more information to convict Sleath
Ferguson, and the other “conspirators it didn t send
up a Commission it sent up a couple of detectives.
_ , t* i tt-11 . j ,i
Last year Broken Hill town council asked the;
local mines to pay £17,000 municipal rates ; and the
matter is still somewhere m Equity. This year, notwith-
standing the lead slump, the demand has gone up to
£18,225. B.H. Prop, is asked for £6300 ; Central (Sul-
phide Corporation) for £4950; North (which has had to
shut down because it can’t pay its way), £630.
~T , r ~ , i
Croydon notes to June lo : May returns show
average yield 3oz. per ton. Developments along south
end Golden Gate line prove richness of reef extends in un-
bn*en line over a mile-and-a-half. Late crushings :
Outhbert s Golden Gate 5 South 648.t0ns 8560 z.; G. Gate
3 and 4 Sou tin 165 tons, SSDoz Both mines crushing con-
tmuousiy. Work resumed at G. Gate Consols ; also at G.
Gate 4 and SS. Block. Two Bull mines, Uroj don Gold-
flslds and Rogers G. Gate are hanging up.for recon-
rSVSSTi.oSTBSSt
Highland Mary and Iguana lines to have been simply
“messed up.” Croydon mine-owners lately met, coii-
ferred, and decided to petition for the formation of a
Drainage Board, under Mining Act, to cope with water
trouble, which is preventing development on G. Gate
line. Morgan’s Block purchasing powerful pumping
machinery, in order to cut into reef which is expected to
be mat within a few feet. On tapping formation they
were flooded out. Plant’s shaft is down nearly 600 ft. on
mission to cut the Gate reef. Mining generally shows an
appreciable revival ; Southern investors are numerously
looking Croydon wards.
_Q. Mining Notes: 2 N. Victory, Gympie, sd.
div. : Mount Morgan water supply again getting low ;
Ravenswood slow. Good gold reported at some of Curly
Bellew’s shows, Maytown way. Geraldton, where it
doesn’t rain sometimes, is floating a little gold mine ;
plenty of water there for the crushing mill. Charters
Towers’ market mostly sellers, the result of two days’
races. Brilliant Central, 750 tons forlo2ooz., 9d. div. ;
New Queen’s Pay Welcome, 6d. : Daydawn and Wyndham,
Bull Co., also 6d; Brilliant Extended bucking up again ;
Queen’s Cross has had a fair crushing ; Papuan’s wobbling
about; St. George and Kelly’s Blocks steady—painfully
80.
* * « •
Mining at Talgai, Warwick (Q.), has just now
one of its periodical fits of briskness. Alleged that a co.
is about to put up a 20-stamp battery to crush Big Hill
and Queenslander quartz. Big Hill has a reef about Bft.
wide that goes, right through, about sdwt.—free milling
stone. The Queenslander is a unique reef, both because
it wasthe first reef ever worked in Queensland (dating back
to the early'oo’s), and because, after a crushing of 90 tons
for UOOoz., it was abandoned, and remained so for about
20 years, on account of a blank coming in. Depth of old
working, 85ft. ; value of gold, £3 15s. Writer was down
the old workings years ago, and thought it a pity to
see this pretty little, almost vertical reef, with its clean
slate walls, lying idle.
* * * *
Western Creek, 30 miles north of Clermont (Q.),
is the scene of another reef discovery. The wires have
been set going and more or less glowing aocounts tele-
graphed throughout Queensland. As a prospecting show
the new find looks good, and a bit of a rush has set in ;
but the Western country is waterless and the nearest
battery nearly SO miles off.
* • « •
Blair Athol coalfield, Peak Downs (Q.), is a bit
of a geological curiosity. Approximately, a sq. mile
covers the coal-bearing area ; on three sides of the field
payable gold has been found almost up to the sandstone
formation, and on the fourth side an intruding curl of
basalt comes in, about four miles broad. Beyond the
basalt, slate again asserts itself, and has been mined for
thousands of ozs. of gold. The proposed railway line from
Clermont to Blair Athol would cross several patches of
worked-out surface gold-dabs ; and any amount of untried
country lies between these patches ; so, if the parallel
side-ditches and small cuttings, when the railway is made,
fail to show anything, the value of trenching as an adjunct
to successful mining will be (at any rate on Clermont
goldfield) problematical, as the line is to be 12 miles long.
• • • «
Official return of alluvial gold won on Peak
Downs fields for May of this year, 5720 z. Reputedly over
1000 miners at work ! Looks as if a big percentage were
living on their kidney-fat.
* * * *
Good seams of anthracite coal exist at M'Kenzie
'River (0.Q.), but 60 miles of rough country intervenes
"twixt them and the railway line. Boring is going on close
to the railway in hopes of picking up continuation of
aforesaid seams. If they are picked up, Rockhampton
will need to be tied down for a week, as the bores are
only about 70 miles out of that town.
* * »• «
A correspondent, who apparently ought to
know, writes cautioning the public against swallowing
whole the gaudy stories now being press-and-prospectus
circulated re the richness of the property of the Dawes
Range Copper-Mining Co., Glassford Creek, Q. “I
know,” he says, “ of no lode at Glassford Creek outside
the Bompa Property that can be said to have been
proved, either by sinking or driving. lamin a position
to speak positively on mines and mining in that particu-
lar district, as I managed the ‘ Great Bompa ’ Property,
during the development of their South Mine.”
» * * *
Squatter Fairbaim asks in the Pastoral
Gazette : “ Has anyone ever met a man who has taken
money out of squatting in Queensland by legitimate
grazing and not out of another man’s pocket by buying
and selling?” None the less there are numbers of financial
institutions that contrive to screw a very fair annual per-
centage out of Queensland pastoral properties.
* • • •
Hercules, Tas. : Arrangements made with Tas.
Smelting Works to take 10,000 tons of sulphide ore on
terms said to be £1 per ton better than obtainable at
Dapto. Last return from latter place gave a profit of
£l7OO, clear of all charges, from 362 tons.
mm**
Macdonnell Ranges: The Warden writes:—
“ Your par. of May 4 needs correction. The English
crowd (Central Australian Exploration syndicate, not
Mines Selection Co.’s) well equipped party did not prospect
a foot of ground in these ranges, but about 300 miles
north, only crossing the ranges along the road. They
found several reefs of joz. quartz, and raised over 500 tons
of it which is lying there still, and may be crushed some
years hence when better facilities offer. The Arltunga
goldfield has not been half prospected, leaving the whole
of the Macdonnell ranges out of question. Native
name for gold-bearing quartz ‘ Aljura.’ No stations are
deserted, country in splendid condition owing to good
summer rains, although some losses of stock occurred
through previous drought.” Particulars are given of the
crushing of four parcels of ore—4B tons for 119 oz. of gold.
m * * *
Northern Territories Goldfields, aptly known in
London as “The Northern Tig-itors.” It was loudly
averred at last meeting of sharehiold’ers that at the time
Bottomley was fluently urging shareholders to “ keep
their eyes on ‘ Northern Terrors ’ ” he was quietly sliding
out. The meeting was very noisy and the chairman,
Robert Smith, died in a chair at home a few hours after-
wards, the excitement having been too much for him.
» • * •
Henry Hess, of London Critic, has lost another
libel action. Only the second out of 38. A great re-
cord. In this he has been called upon to pay £3OO
damages to a man prominently associated with some
Westralian flotations. Hess is by no means satisfied, and
has called on the readers of the Critic to say : (1) Whe-
ther the Judge’s comments were fair or grossly unfair.
<2) Whether they, sitting as jurymen, would have allowed
him to dictate their verdict to them. Both the actions
lost by Hess were tried before the same Judge, of whom
Hess says : “ I do protest, and shall never cease doing so
until the cause is removed, that his Honor is unfit to pre-
side on the bench. I know not whether it be incompet-
ence, or whether it be gross prejudice on his part, to which
is due the extraordinary fact that he is the only Judge
on the bench before whom I have lost the two libel cases
which went against me. I have so repeatedly called
attention to the manner in which he contrives to get ver-
dicts for city men accused of financial wrong-doing (and
several of the verdicts thus secured by him have been
upset on appeal) that I cannot be charged with raising
my voice against his retention only at a time when he
had mulct me in damages.” Fancy an Australian editor
talking like this 1 Hess admits his paper to be in financial
difficulties, the boodle-gang against which he has made
the most valorous fight on English record having been
too much for him.
■ • • *
The Jungle Fever ! Few people here realise the
extent of the present London boom in West African mines.
The total nominal par.-capitalisation in 232 companies is
such that to pay a yearly div. of 10 per cent, would need a
profit on gold-mining in that country (the Gold Coast
region) of £2,300,000 per annum, which is just one-half
of the divs. paid by the Rand mines in 1898, before
they closed-down on account of the war. And there it took
the crushing of over 7,300,000 tons of ore to produce these
divs. Attention to the mining possibilities of West Africa
commenced in ’B2, but, up to ’99, less than 30 companies
had been floated. Last year, 119 new co’s were formed,
and, in the first four months of this year, 74 have been
got off. The mad gamble in “ Jungles” is still progress-
ing, and several real and rotten Westralian co’s are ope-
rating in that direction. No less a person than Charles A.
Moreing, of the eminent firm of Bewick Moreing, has joined
the army of “ Jungle ” promoters. Of the concession
owned by the Continental and Westralian Trusts,
Limited, Mr. Moreing is reported as having said that it
was equal to 1300 Rand claims. “To the co. they were
valued at £9O a claim, which, as you see, was a very
absurd price. Suppose we were to value them at only
£lOOO a claim, which is an equally absurd price, the
value of the property would then he £1,300,000 ; but
£lOOO is simply ridiculous for claims like these. Even
£lO,OOO would be a very low figure compared with
S’African properties and at £lO,OOO each the value would
be £13,000,000. We know that the Johannesburg claims,
even the worst of them, are valued at £29,000 a claim,
and some of them work out at £8),000 a claim, and they
are no richer than ours.” Jehosaphat! There was no
applause ; perhaps the shareholders were too dumb-
founded for that, or perhaps they remembered what
Moreing had said about certain Westralian shows. Mr. M.,
by the way, is said to hail from Braidwood (N.S.W.)
district. The locality of this gold-boom is probably the
unhealthiest in the world. British soldiers receive life-
pensions for a few years’ service there. If a dozen men
went out to verify Mr. Moreing’s glittering optimisms
there s a fair chance that not one would return to
personally hand in his report.
* * • •
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Bticnu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• * * *
Some weeks ago it was expected that a few of
the Rand mines would get to work again almost im-
mediately, and that 350 stampers would soon be in
operation, but news lately arrived that the scheme didn’t
come off. It went to pieces when the mine-owners pro-
posed to fix the maximum wage to be paid to all employes
at five shillings per day. Wages were about four times
that figure before the Blessings of British Freedom fell on
the country, and 30s. a week isn’t a cheering rate of re-
muneration up on the veldt.
Patents for Inventions —Arthur Griffith,
International Patent Agent and Consulting
Engineer, University Chambers, Phillip-street,
Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights,
obtained throughout the world.
Malodorous Footscray has belied itself,
and has sent into Vic. State Parliament as
Mauger’s successor the nattiest of dandies in
Jacob Fotheringham. The new member, who is
still among the twenties, beat another “boy” in
John Lemmon, the Trades Hall nominee. The
A.N.A. ran Fotheringham for all it was worth,
and lie just pipped the Laborite on the post. It
was his third try for the seat. The new member
is an ironmonger’s salesman, and shines as an
amateur reciter and “ pretty talker ” generally.
The last straw laid by N.S.W- Minister
O’Sullivan on the back of Capital is his placing of
the Govt, docks at Sydney at the disposal of the
strikers from the privately-owned iron-foundries
and docks, to enable them to carry on operations
“upon their own.”
Ex-Ambassador Malet, in his just-pub-
lished “Recollections,” says that Bismarck’s
favorite story was an English one, about a
traveller in the Shires objecting to an inn land-
lord’s account. Traveller: “What’s your name.
Landlord: “Partridge.” Traveller: “ I thought
it was Woodcock by the length of your bill.”
The complete list of casualties by the re-
cent coastal storm will not be known for some
time—probably never. At time of writing, at
least nine men have gone under—five with the
tug Protector, at Ballina, and four with the drogher
Alexander Berry, at Shell Harbor. The ferry
steamer Manly was only saved from disaster by a
stroke of good luck and a handy sister steamer.
The Sydney life-boat and pilot service proved
woefully and disgracefully inefficient during the
storm. And it was a storm. Writer was on a
steamer from Melbourne to Sydney, with sea and
gale astern, during the height of the rough weather.
Met several vessels plunging Southwards, _ and
wouldn’t have been aboard some of them for ail the
wealth of the Commonwealth. There was quite
enough danger and discomfort on the northward
voyage; the opposite track looked like a certain
road to Kingdom Come.
In expelling Labor member Findley from
Yic. Assembly the Jingoes seem to have
succeeded in advertising the “ Tocsinner ’
better than they anticipated. With the Par-
liamentary action as a precedent certain pursy
persons of Fitzroy rushed to the local Mayor
with a petition for a Town Hall meeting, whereat
to haul Eitzroy representatives Billson and
O’Connor over tne coals for voting in Parliament
against Findley’s expulsion. O’Connor had been
elected by a big majority but a few days
previously, and as some defeated candidates
were understood to be the prime movers
in the projected condemnation, O’Connor’s
numerous friends and supporters attended the
meeting in force, and unanimously upheld his
vote, condemning those who voted for the
expulsion of Findley with a voice loud
enough to make Peacock cling to his perch
in terror. Parliament’s evident desire to Rus-
sianise Victorian institutions, as shown by its
highhanded expulsion of Findley, was further
stressed by the marching into the meeting of a
posse of police to guard against a “ possible up-
rising.” If Premier Peacock hopes to cow
Victorians in that way, he will probably
wish he hadn’t taken the Argus for
his mentor so early in his career. Ihe ancient
organ of fossildom is anything but a reliable
authority for a young Premier to follow in these
democratic times.
“ Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories,” by Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”)
is the best book of short stories yet produced in
Australia. The S. Daily Telegraph recognises
theauthor’s “absolutegenius.” TheS.M. Herald
says the volume “ contains dramatic pictures
which the best of our artists in words might well
envy.” A handsome cloth-bound volume, 350 pp.,
post-free from Bulletin office for 4s. 6d.


AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Eight Different ArHnioc
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket- fa
•°l C ,° n^ ring ' Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed y
*» ***“■ *»•
X
EW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
Removes Headache
Cures Dyspepsia
Strengthens the Nerves
THE MOST WONDERFUL TONIC
FOE LADIES, CHILDREN AND
DELICATE GENTLEMEN.
FISHER and CO.’S
PHOSPHERIBE
AN INVALUA3LE AND UNEQUALLED TONIC
FOR THE NERVES, BRAIN, AND HEART.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Is. per Bottle—Post Free.
PHARMACY:
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
( y early Opposite G. JP. O. )
ADVICE FREE ON ALL COMPLAINTS.
All Drugs, Pilules ancl Tinctures Fresh and Potent.
A POLICY FOR THE" iw Ready.
l‘i ice 6d. ;
J’< atedj Bd.
MMO ALTN
Round about Warrnambool (Vic.), the
Parliamentary candidate generally has an exciting
time. There is a heavy Irish vote in that district,
and from the moment a candidate announces him-
self _ weird rumors bearing on sectarian matters
circulate. If he be a R.C. it is whispered
that he is “ a Jesuit, ” and that his platform pro-
mises are like pie-crust; if he be Protestant, it is
industriously circulated that he was once Deputy-
Olnef-Flag-Waver of an Orange lodge somewhere.
In the Leg. Council contest, just decided, between
squatter Manifold and lawyer Horwitz, of Hamil-
ton (the squatter won by a small majority),
the system was in full vigor. Manifold pub-
licly advertised that he “ never said that he could
get elected without the Catholic vote ” ; and this
was followed by a signed letter declaring that
writer heard Manifold say “he thanked God he
was not an Irishman.” If Horwitz thanked God
for anything, it was probably because he is a
Hebrew, and so was nicely outside the poisonous
sectarian trouble, anyhow.'
“ Veteran ” on a military matter :—
I found this notice in a recent London Gazette :
“jEssex Regiment. The appointment to a second lieu-
tenancy of Sergeant E. Fitzgerald from 2nd New Zealand
Contingent is cancelled at his own request.” And no
wonder! He would receive the £100 allowed to all
“ rankers ” for outfit, and his pay would be 5s. 3d. a day,
with quarters, fire and light. Out of that he would have
to pay 2s. 6d. a day for his mess dinner, whether he ate it
or not; four to six days’ pay monthly for mess and band-
subscriptions ; an uncertain amount for “ entertain-
ments,” and 10s. a month to his servant; also to provide
said servant w'ith a suit of livery, and another of plain
clothes, to subscribe to various regimental funds, and
generally live up to the regimental standard. C ompare
this with the French sous-lieutenant without private
means, w'ho gets about 4s. a day, dines at the caf6 for
9.Jd., always wears uniform so that he need buy no plain
clothes, and spends his evenings off duty at the caf6, sip-
ping eau sucrde and playing dominoes. Society doesn’t
trouble him, or he it. If some of the other fellows in his
regiment are rich they go their way, and he his. That is
what the British army has got to come to sooner or later.
The poor man must be allowed to live within his means.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of t.biw i«sn« *
CHARLES READ & CO.,
ft
m
Camden Buildings,
420 George St., Sydney.
Three Doors from
Strand Arcade.
A Saving of
25 per cent.
JEWELLERY,
SOLID SILVER GOODS,
SILVER-PLATED WARE.
Write for #O-Paged Illustrated Catalonue Past. Free.
Don,t Take
it for
Granted
ORDER IT
SA UCE.
Because
it is the
Best
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
\ X
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
X-X
XX
X>
XX
X.'
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
X >
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
X X
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XXXXXXXXXX XXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX xxxxxx
XXXXXXXXXX XXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX xxxxxx
MEN’S OVERCOATS.
GENTLEMEN!!!
Our eagerness is to have you well pleased and
constant customers.
A casual observer looks upon Overcoats simply
as a warm over-garment ; but the up-to-date
Clothier sees differently. Details must be
studied, and there is such a variety of styles,
such an array of Fabrics this season, that an
enormous stock must be carried to grant patrons
a choice they deserve.
Well, we have them all.
Prices are hard facts always—
Men’s Melton Chesterfields, with Velvet Col-
lars, Fly Fronts, Well-Padded Shoulders, 21s,
255, 30s, 355. Colors: Fawns, Navy, Browns,
Black, and Drabs.
Men’s Superior Venetian and Rainproof
Coats, 30s, 355, 455, 50s. Colors : Fawns,
Navy, Browns, Drabs, and Black. ’
Bargain Prices
In Men’s Tweed Cape Overcoats, Scotch and
West of England Tweeds, 17s 6d, 21s— Worth
Double.
Boys’ Tweed Cape Overcoats, 6s 11d, 8s 6d,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s Gd, 16s 6d, 18s 6d.
Boys’ Reefers, to Fit Boys from 4 to 6 years old,
3s 11d, 4s 6d, 5s 6dj 6s 6d ; To Fit Boys
from 6 to 10 years old, 4s 11d, 5s 11d, 7s 6d,
8s 6d.
MACKINTOSHES.
Men’s Chesterfield Mackintoshes, 21s, 255,
30s, 355, 455, 50s, 555.
Men’s Black Mackintoshes, with Large Capes,
21s, 255, 30s, 355, 455.
Boys’ Mackintoshes, with Large Capes, 15s 6d,
21s.
Held at any angle, viewed in any light, examined
in every way, you will find the above Garments
to be the Best Made and Finished in this State.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL OUTFITTERS,
203,205, 207, PITT ST., SYDNEY.
(If you cannot come in, please order by letter,
state size, and enclose price; no extra for
postage.)
Watch Repairs by Post
SP
3
WATCHES Thoroughly Cleaned, 2a. 6d. ; best English
Mainspring, 2s. 6d. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
85s. Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send for catalogue.
‘uivn’s ‘a
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
684 George-st. (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.
UNDER THE ROYAL PATRONAGE OF
H.R.H. THE QUEEN OF GREECE.
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE.
H.R.H. THE DUKE OF SPARTA.
1 h
H.R.H. THE DUCHESS OF SPARTA.
H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHENLOHE.
H.R.H. PRINCE GEORGE OF GREECE
(High Commissioner of Crete, &c., Sc.)
EDWARDS’
FOR
THE
Photo d specially for the "Harleue” Co., by Langfier, Bond St., W
Haymarket Theatre, London.
Miss JULIA NEILSON
writes —
“ I am at present trying your * Harlene 'for my
hair, and I Jincl it one of the best Hair Tonics and
Restorers / have ever used, and I have tried many.
Will you kindly send me two more bottles."
THE GREAT HAIR
PRODUCER and RESTORER.
THE FINEST DRESSING SPECIALLY PREPARED AND
DELICATELY PERFUMED.
A LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EYERY MODERN TOILET
“Harlene” Produces Luxuriant Hair. Prevent its Falling Off and Turning
Grey. Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the Beard and Moustache.
The World Renowned Remedy for Baldness. For Preserving - , Strengthening;
and Rendering- the Hair Beautifully Soft, for Removing Scurf Dandruff, &c.,
*also for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour.
—— : < ■ ■■■
Crown Prince’s Palace, Athens.
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE
writes—“ Messrs. Edwards’ Preparation, ‘Harlene’ for the Hair, has given entire
satisfaction. H.R.H. wishes six more bottles of ‘Harlene’sent as soon as possible. ’’
* Kitegyhaza, County Bikis, Hungary.
COUNTESS DENIS ALMASY
writes—“ Please forward me three more bottles of‘Harlene,’ as Tam particularly satisfied
with the two bottles sent me to Switzerland, and have been using it ever since.”
Full Description and Directions for use in Twenty Languages supplied with every
Bottle. 1/-, 2/6, and (three times 2/6 size) 4/fi per Bottle, from Druggists, &c.,
all over the World.
/V/'
m
Photo’d specially I
tin*. “Harlene Co., by Langfier, Bond St., W.
(I an ick Theatre, London.
Miss VIOLET VANBRUGH
w> ites-
“l am very pleased to testify to the excellent
qualities of ‘ Harlene,' it is most refreshing and
invigorating and I have found it very Stimulating
to the Growth 01 my Hair.
“ P.S.—I hope fate will never take me to any
quarter of the globe where I should be unable
to procure ‘ Harlene.' "
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” Co., 95 & 96, Holborn, London, W.C


Cardinal Rampolla is virtually Pope. For
IS vears, as Secretary, he has been Leo s right-
hand man, never leaving Rome, and doing all t e
real work of late. It is a pleasant fiction that, by
the grace of God, a Pope never fades, even at 91.
Popes and Queen Victorias live for ever.
At Essendon (Vic.) a butcher was sued
under the Factories Act for having an excess of
improvers in his employ. His defence was that
two of the young fellows-one was earning 30s. a
week and his keep, and the other 10s. a week and
his keep-engaged in the shop were his sons. Lhe
Anti-Factory legislation J.s.P. promptly dismissed
the case. The Crown appealed to the run
Court consisting of Madden, C.J., and Justices
Williams and A’Beekett. After hearing argu-
ments, the Court held that the two sons ranked as
improvers, but in giving judgment Madden
showed that lie was on the side of the anti-factory
legislation crowd. He remarked “that it was a
startling result that the defendant was not per-
mitted to employ his sons in this way. The effect
would he that the sons would not he able to find em-
ployment elsewhere ” —(in the name of wonder, why
wouldn’t they) —“ so that they would have to go on
the streets with the chance of being ruined .” And
so Madden, J.O., lays it down as a rule in life
that unless a man is able to employ his own sons
himself, nobody else will employ them (i.e., no
man employs any males except his own sons), and
they must go on the streets with the chance of
beinsr ruined. If Madden Wasn’t blinded with
crusty Tory ideas he would notice that not one
man in a dozen employs his own son in his busi-
ness or profession, and that not one man in a
dozen is in a position to do so if he were so in-
clined. Still the sons seem to live somehow with-
out going on the streets to be ruined.
THE
‘PLUM’
THE
‘PLUM’
/GENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
V X J ]j] ie ft bell, and never requires grinding, Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edire that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. 6d.
“ RAZOLE6 ” LIGHTNING RAZOR BHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
/Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6tl ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 218.
{single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
Please add Gd. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
w
“I’ll Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarins
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 108. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
A I
The Result.
ornamental hair.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers a. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEIXN:
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
6SO-682 GEORCE STREET, SYDNEY
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
•X'O DBF'Y COMPJEJTITXOKT.
WINES SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST
Of TRICKS, PUZZLES, Etc.,
Etc., FREE.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books
for
the
Married
EXTRA SPECIAL CATALOG V
OF BOOKS FREE.
STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTES OF ANY COLONY TAKEN.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE,
201 Bourke Street, Melbourn
SEVILLE ORANGE
MARMALADE
In lib. Round Flat Tins.
Manufacturer's :
JOHN MOIR SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
ENOS
HEALTH GIVING,
COOLING,
‘FRUIT
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
SALT.’
Now
Ready.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH
•• 5 I
Price 6dL; Posted Bd.
f FREEMAN »WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL & SURGICAL INSTITUTE.
The Two Eminent Specialists
who have the Largest Practice
in Australasia.
And the Only Specialists in Australia who have
Received Highly Commendable Press Notices
in Leading Australian Journals.
Specialties = Nervous and Chronic Complaints, Blood and Skin Diseases,
Heart, Kidney, Liver, Bladder, Rheumatism, Sciatica, &c., &o.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by the Govern-
ment Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Great
Britain and America, open to inspection at the Consulting Rooms
by our Physician-in-Chief.
TT is an acknowledged fact the world-wide over that no
single individual or combination of men can be ab-
solute masters of every phase and branch of art, science,
medicine, or other professed avocation of a limitless
sphere of operation and magnitude. At best the greatest
scientists of the day—men like Lord Kelvin and Edison,
. . i
ar
Yours truly . . .
HO WA Tt T) FR EE3IA N
Sydney’s Leading Specialist.
Professor of Electricity as applied Medically, Member
Dr. Harmon’s College, Washington Cor., Cal., U.S.A.
Director and Founder of the Institute.
for instance, whose fame is universally known—class
themselves as infants in scientific invention and research,
and modestly tell us that they have but a smattering of
knowledge of the possibilities, extent, and development
We have only to look at the fine buildings that occupy
the corner of Elizabeth and Bathurst streets to gain some
idea of the extent and importance of their professional
work. But to have the privilege of being shown through
the building by the Specialists themselves, and to see and
learn something of the real character of their wide prac-
tice, is a treat that only comes the way of a fortunate in-
. dividual like the writer.
The instrument-room was, as usual, one of particular
curiosity. Laymen always have a penchant for eyeing
and examining the polished steel articles with which so
many extraordinary acts are performed upon the human
body. The collection in this room is in every way up-to-
date. Whenever a new instrument comes to the front,
and its worth is proved beyond question, it is added to
this rare assortment. Another room full of absorbing in-
terest is that devoted to the galvanic batteries, of which
there are several magnificent kinds. The noted Gaitfc
batteries, the finest French makes, are here in perfection,
irrespective of their high cost. If any article or mechani-
cal and electric contrivance is found necessary in main-
taining the fame of this institution, the price is never
allowed to stand in the way.
The correspondence department is a veritable eye-
opener. Its sacredness is a bar to a stranger’s admission,
but a full view of the work going on is had through the
glass doors. Half-a-dozen typists are seen driving their
machine-writers at electric speed. To the principals only
are know'll the namesof the persons throughout Australia
who are being treated as skilfully in their homes about
the metropolis and away in the interior as if they were
present in personal consultation at the institution.
The packing-rooms are likewise shut off from curious
and prying glances, and the work of one department is a
mystery to the others. No better system for holding
secret the nature of sufferers’ troubles, for safe-guarding
their interests, and giving due heed to the feelings and
sensitiveness of patients, could be imagined. Packages
are not plastered with advertising labels, they are put up
in such a way that only the names and addresses are in
view.
What a practice is here revealed and what a consola-
tion must it be to these eminent specialists to know that
they are permanently curing and restoring to health and
happiness thousands of people w'hose lives were a burden
to them. The young, the middle-aged, and the healthy
are treated with the same amount of success. The pro-
digious nature of the work accomplished by these
specialists necessitates —not the stereotyped morning and
evening two hours’ consultation ticket, but their constant
attention at the institution from early morning till late
into the night. “ I can assure you,” said Dr. Wallace,
“ we don’t put in these long hours because we are fonder
VHT”"-
t* Sa
M
!iaE9Mfi
m
Premises = Oor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts. (Opp. Hyde Park, Sydney
(All Trams Stop at the Door).
of electricity, and only a fringe of imagination of the un-
told stores of strength and wealth wrapt up in this
phenomenal power.
Therefore it requires no argument to convince the
most pronounced of optimists that the field in any one of
the great and honored professions of the day is'far too
vast for the thorough comprehension of the most per-
fectly brain-endowed man, or body of naturally-gifted
men. Yet in respect of the most delicate and difficult of
all professions—that of prescribing for the ills and
diseases of mankind—we find doctors, scattered over the
globe, off-handedly and without careful, minute, and
searching examination and diagnosis—without any know-
ledge of the past lives of patients—flippantly dashing off
prescriptions for every class of complaint, as if a cure was
as simple as falling over the proverbial log.
Thanks to the march of civilisation, culture, and edu-
cation, people are getting to know that modern medical
men who are worth consulting confine their practice to a
certain class of cases. Realising the utter hopelessness of
mastering and curing everything under the sun, and find-
ing that “gullibles” are not so plentiful as they used to
be, the wise and progressive men of medicine devote
themselves to one or other class of cases, and work out
the remedies for them to the best of their skill and
ability.
What better and more striking illustration of the suc-
cess of Specialists in Skin Diseases, Heart, Kidney, Liver
Affections, Rheumatics, Sciatica, Nervous Diseases, could
the people of this magnificent continent, Australia, have
than the enormous practice of the famous practitioners of
the Electro-Medical Institute. Their skill, attainments,
position, and renowned reputation stamp them as the un-
doubted masters of the classes of diseases and complaints
which have been the study of their professional lives.
When we speak of electricity we think of Edison. Why ?
Because he dwarfs other men in this branch of science.
In the same way, when we talk of specialists, we at once
associate the names of the Freeman and Wallace Insti-
tute. So it is in every branch of scientific medicine;
some one or two men stand head and shoulders above
their fellows.
It is the aim, object, and devotion of certain doctors to
he pre-eminent in some defined class of disease rather
than to tinker with a host of complaints about which
they can have but a hazy notion, and superficial know-
ledge. To use a hackneyed but expressive phrase, they
are “ Jacks of all trades and masters of none.” Never -
since the time of Ricord, the noted French Specialist,
have any men conducted so gigantic and successful a
practice as that conducted by the Freeman-Wallaee
Electro Medical and Surgical Institute.
of hard work than any other medical men ; we do it in
the best interests of sufferers. We don’t keep them
waiting longer than we can help, and we suffer many in-
conveniences for our patients’ sakes.”
Noble sentiments, thought the writer, as the time came
for his departure, and the Specialists returning to their
'
-■
Boars truly , . .
RICH ARB WALLACE,
Physician-in-Chief,
M.D., L.R.C.P ., L.F.P.S., L.M.,
Late Medical Staff, British Army; late Consulting
Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne.
consulting-room. How many doctors in our midst can
we bracket in this category ? Dinners and drives and
conversaziones are more frequently uppermost in the
mind of top-loftical medicos than the speedy treatment
of sad and suffering patients.


Irvine, the icy leader of the alleged Yic.
Opposition, who seconded Peacock’s motion for
the expulsion from the Assembly of Labor-mem-
ber Findley (whose paper had re-published The
Irish People’s attack on the King) happens,
curiously enough, to be a very near kinsman of
John Mitchel, the celebrated Irish rebel, author
of “ The Jail Journal.”
Eatd.
mo.
CONCERTINAS
AND £0 LAS
Unsurpassed for
TONE and . .
WORKMANSHIP.
Manufactured and Guaranteed by
WHEATSTONE & Co.
(Original
Inventor* &
Patentee-*),
20, Conduit Street, LONDON, Vi., England.
Of all Dealers ; or send direct for Price List?.
./Ulan tv (9,
ITlclbournc
Jhe best Mouse for
mustc,Pianos.Vtolins and
all THust'cal sundries
Ceditis St..
Sydney Telegraph is in a difficult situation when
it talks about N.S.W. finance. As an intensely
parochial organ it has to say N.S.W. is getting on
well just because it is N.S.W. Also, it has to
say that the N.S.W. Treasury is overflowing with
wealth, because under the Reid Foreign-trade
tariff it couldn’t be otherwise. And it has to say
that N.S.W. is ruined, because under Protection-
ist Lyne (even though he left the Foreign-trade
tariff untouched) and See it couldn’t be otherwise.
So the Telegraph says both things. In its
leader of 3rd June it spoke of the “ satisfactory
condition of the finances.” “ New South Wales,
it said, “is at the present moment the most pros-
perous State of the Union”; “Apart from the
Lpecial causes of expenditure during the past
year arising in connection with the war, the
plague, and the Commonwealth celebrations, the
country has been more than paying its way,’ and
so on. And then on 12th June it said the accounts
were “a sham,” and the deficit was being added
to every year, and the shortage was a disgrace to
N.S.W. As there are only two tilings that can
be said on the subject, and the Telegraph has
now said both of them, there is a fair chance that
one of its statements is true.
What is the betting about anybody being
able to find reliable corroborative evidence of the
story told by the servant girl, Minns, that on the
night before the disastrous Grand Hotel (Auck-
land) fire she discovered a man in the pantry,
with gunpowder and fuse? He exclaimed : “By
!I am caught ! ” Then he seized her by the
wrists, and threatened to kill her if she opened
her lips. Two other men appeared, and they
went upstairs with the gunpowder. One told her
that he would have revenge on Johnston, the
licensee, and they produced a pistol and knife,
threatening to kill- her if she spoke. Eventually
the men let her go, and she heard one say:
“Things will be blown sky-high to-morrow night;
we will make it warm for them.” Minns added
that she told no one, being frightened. She
heard their voices again the next night, shortly
before the fire broke out. She had seen them
several nights previously, looking in at the win
dow. Hum!
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developos a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
“S.S.” ; No more cowardly act than the
casting out of Findley, who represented Mel-
bourne City in Vic. Assembly, has ever disgraced
an Australian Parliament. In that one act Pea-
cock exposes himself as a political worm in the
eyes of every intelligent and manly democrat.
The hysterically-worked-up implication that Find-
ley had committed some atrocious crime, in pub-
lishing the Irish People’s article is a gross and
insolent effort to bulldoze the masses. The same
charges have, off and on for years, been levelled in
print against Albert Edward, and a few years
back the respectable Age itself was not above
lending its righteous countenance to Grundyish
insinuations that A.E. was a very bold, bad
man. Even the gutter - blood loyalty of
our time, O Lord, does not explain the
true inwardness of this latter-day casting-out
of a devil. That lies in the fact of a Labor member
representing Melb. City, long considered a Tory
stronghold. The Labor member for Melbourne
was a horror and a shame to the Argus,
which paper seized upon the “Foul Libel on the
King” with the avidity of a starved cannibal
dropping on a fat orphan. It was the Argus’s
determination to have the city constituency in
Fatman’s hands again, combined with Premier
Pappycoek’s craven desire to please Chamberlain,
and his pusillanimity in the face of the excitement
of a greasy paper and a few oleaginous Jingoes,
that resulted in Findley’s firing-out. This is the
sort of thing the brain and backbone of the Demo-
cracy never forget—it leaves the jackdaw Pre-
mier stripped of his feathers.
Public Notices.
I
NFRINGEMENT OF TRADE MARK.
PEARL CREAM.
IN THE SUPREME COURT,
1901, No. 392,
Between
BARCLAY and COMPANY,
Plaintiffs,
and
W. H. NEWLANDB,
Defendant.
Mr. Justice Holroyd.—ln Chambers.
Upon hearing the Solicitors for the plaintiffs and de-
fendant respectively and by consent, it is ordered that
the defendant, his servants and agents, be and they
are hereby perpetually restrained from infringing
the plaintiff’s registered Trade Mark No. 2318, con-
sisting of the words, “ Pearl Cream,” by use of
the words “ Pearl Cream,” in respect of goods
not of the plaintiffs’ manufacture or merchan-
dise, and from cutting, engraving, casting, or making
and from causing to be cut, engraved, cast, or made, and
also from using or permitting to be used, and from selling
or otherwise disposing of or parting with, any blocks or
plates adapted for printing labels or sheets of labels in
imitation of the label of the plaintiffs used by them in the
get-up of their goods sold under their said Trade Mark or
differing only colourably therefrom, and from printing or
selling or exposing for sale or procuring to be printed or
sold any labels similar to those in use by the plaintiffs, or
any other papers or labels so printed or contrived as by
colourable imitation or otherwise to represent or lead to
the belief that the preparation put up by other parties
under the title of “ Pearl Cream " was the preparation or
merchandise of the plaintiffs put up under their said
Trade Mark.
And it is further ordered that the said defendant de-
liver up for destruction any of such blocks or plates as
are now in his possession, custody, or power to the plain-
tiffs or such person as they shall appoint to receive the
same.
And it is further ordered that the defendant pay to the
said plaintiffs or their Solicitors, Messrs. Waters and
Crespin, the sum of £5 damages for the said infringement
and the sum of £lO 10s. costs.
Dated this 24th day of June, one thousand nine hundred
and one.
E. D. HOLROYD.
WATERS and CRESPIN, 414-418 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, Solicitors for BARCLAY and CO,, 44 Stone-
street, New York, Wholesale Druggists.
Amusements.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. E. J. Tait.
WILLIAMSON’S ITALIAN OPERA CO.
MAGNIFICENT SUCCESS of
“ I PACLIACCI ” and “ CAVALLERIA RUSTICANA.”
Musical Director
Stage Director
SIGNOR HAZON.
Mr. HENRY BRACY.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Commencing SATURDAY, JULY 20, and Following
Nights, Grand Production of Lecocq’s Delightful
Comic Opera,
GIROFLE - GIROFLA.
Under the Direction of the Victorian Operatic Society.
Prices aa Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
WM. OGILVUC, Business Manager.
Amusements.
M THEATRE, SYDNEY,
(Kindly Lent for the occasion by Wm. Anderson, Esq.)
Grand Benefit Matinee
IN AID OP
THE WIVES AND CHILDREN OF IRON-
WORKERS NOW ON STRIKE,
Under the Auspices of the
Professional Musicians’ Benefit Association,
and in Co-operation with the
SYDNEY LABOR COUNCIL,
assisted by all the Leading Theatres, Artists & Orchestras,
SATURDAY, JULY 6.
GRAND ORCHESTRA of 35 PERFORMERS.
For Programme see Daily Papers.
Standing Committkh:
P M.B.A, Messrs. S. J. LAW, S. SMITH, W. A. WILKES,
M.’sP., F. BRENNAN, T. THROWER, &,c., Jcc.
AEOHIE FRASER
ROBERT KOIIBLANCK
Hon. Secs.
BENNETT SMITH, Hon. Treas.
T. A. RICKETTS, Representative.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Tickets at P.M.B.A.’s Rooms,
23 Rowe-street, and all Trades Unions.
Box Plan at Elvy’s Music Warehouse, where holders of
Dress Circle tickets may reserve their seats.
THEATRE, BYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. William Anderson.
2nd WEEK. EVERY EVENING at 7.50,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, including
Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN.
THE FAVOURITE,
OR THE SPORT OF KINGS.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. Charles Holloway.
GRAND REVIVAL for a limited number of nights of the
entirety original Melodrama of Modern Life, entitled,
THE POWER AND THE GLORY,
Written by Chas. Darrell, author of ‘ When London Sleeps.
Presented by Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
POPULAR COTERIE OF PLAYERS.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.56;
ordinary doors, 7.30. Plan at Nicholson’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, BYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manatrer, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
THE WILLIAMSON OPERA COMPANY.
LAST 2 NIGHTS and FAREWELL PERFORMANCES »f
FLORODORA.
SATURDAY, JULY 6, will be produced, for the first
time in Australia, the Musical Comedy, THE CASINO GIRL.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, George-st. Prices as usuaL
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee, W. F. Hawtrey. Gen. Mgr., E. F. Bradley.
EVERY EVENING.
THE HIT OF THE SEASON.
HAWTREY COMEDY COMPANY.
In the Laughable Farcical Comedy,
IKT THE! SOUP.
THE PLAY THAT TOOK LONDON BY STORM.
Preceded at 8 by a Domestic Drama in one Act,
FOR CHARITY’S SAKE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices —55., 35., 25., and Is.
Empire theatre, Sydney.
(Late Royal Standard, Castlereagh-street.)
16th WEEK. (Still Moke Novelties.) 16th WEEK.
JOHN FULLERS EMPIRE CO.
Every Evening at 8. Every Saturday at 2.30.
Children Half-price to all parts (Matinees).
CHAS. FANNING, “ Australia’s Comedian.”
DENNIB CARNEY, the “Yorkshire Comedian."
CHAS FANNING and DEVOE—CEORCIE.
AND OUR GRAND DOUBLE COMPANY.
Prices—2s., Is., and 6d. Open at 7.15.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickaiids.
Our New Artists Received with Enthusiasm.
THE LEOPOLD BROS., Australia’s Lightning Acrobats.
ARNOLDI, Equilibrist Extraordinary.
JOHN COLEMAN, the Acknowledged Comedian.
DE WYNNE BROS., Head and Hand Balancers.
FRANK and JEN LATONA, Premier Musicians, in “ The
Musical Slavey.”
Albert Whelan, Three Faust Sisters, Fanny Powers,
The American Bioscope, and all Our Great Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturday and Wednesday.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee Mr. Harry Riokards.
EVERY EVENING,
ALFRED DAMPIER,
Supported by a Most Brilliant Coterie of Dramatic Artists,
IN A GREAT DRAMATIC SEASON.
SHAKESPEARE FRIDAY, JULY S— HAMLET.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY
COMPANY.
MARIE LLOYD,
ALEC. HURLEY, ALEC. HURLEY.
Celina Bobe, Mary Lynne, Irene Franklin, and the
Misses Noni and Madge Rickards in the Coon Ballet.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
FRIDAY, JULY 5, LAST NIGHT OF
IN LONDON TOWN,
SATURDAY, JULY 6, the Great Military and Sporting
Drama, “A MILLION OF MONEY.”
\ Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee G. Musgrove.
(Under the Direction of Miss JENNIE MAYNARD.)
. THE CHARMING COMEDIENNE
will produce
“Nurse.” “Jim Belmont.”
Miss JENNIE MAYNARD, Mr. HENRY LUDLOW and
their Strong English and Australian Company, for 6
Nights Each Only, Commencing Next
SATURDAY, JULY 6.
Usual Prices. Overture 8. Box Plan at Allan’s.
“ The Best Australian Book of Short Stories."
Castro’s Last Sacrament
By ALBERT DORRIN GTON. 4s 6d.
“ A wealthy Melbourne girl was married last
year on the continent of Europe. Ere she left
Yarrapolie she had beautiful golden hair of a
delicate shade. She has lately returned on a visit
with hair almost black—whereupon several for-
merly devoted bachelors have murmured their
thankfulness for their escape, and all the lady’s
friends wonder what her husband said when he
found it out. And nobody suspected it —not even
those who now say they knew it all the time.
“ The letters of the Duchess of Teck, Cornwall’s
late mother-in-law, are rather interesting reading.
Their writer was very chummy with the Lady
Hopetoun of those days, our Governor-General’s
mother. She speaks of sitting up with her crony
after a ball, talking of 4 Hopie’s speech.’ Said
4 Hopie,’ now Australia’s Mogul, was at the time
an unlessoned boy, confronted with the task of a
speec ito the tenantry. The young Tecks liked
staying at 4 Hopetoun,’ and altogether the clans
were so friendly that it seems as if there might be
a grain of truth in the statement that there was a
time when motherly matrimonial schemes were
brewing a joint future for the wealthy son and
heir of the one family and the pretty, high-con-
nected only daughter of the other.
“Since Major Tim MTnerney returned from
the war, his big brother, the Doctor of the clan, is
so proud of him that he will never let him out of
his sight. Tim now recalls Mary’s little lamb. In
the streets the brothers are eternally side by side.
They visit the Federal Houses together, and when
the Docther takes his seat in the State Assembly,
where Tim cannot accompany him, Tim occupies
the front row of the Speaker’s Gallery and stays
there until the show is over.. Strangers to Mel-
bourne, hearing their names for the first time,
imagine them to be knockabout comedians, and
look vainly through Rickards’ bill for—
Tim —Tub M'lnernies—Tom.
It was the Doctor who marched by the side of the
first contingent (including Tim) the day it left
Melbourne, with his umbrella held in a military
position.
44 George Jenkins is not, after all, going to re-
main Clerk of the House of Representatives. The
4 great sacrifice ’ the podgy one was going to make
in taking a billet worth £9OO a year and giving up
his clerkship of Yic. Leg. Council, worth £l2OO,
is at an end. The fact is, George expected that
the Representatives would be so glad to get a man
with his appetite and beard, that they would in-
sist on Govt, giving him the £l2OO. But no—the
callous legislators did nothing of the kind. On
the contrary, some of these have not hesitated to
express doubts as to whether he is a suitable man
for the billet. Doubts about Jenkins—fancy !
The situation has evidently worried the poor
man. He sometimes, worn out with labor, falls
asleep in his chair in the House. The other night
he went to sleep and his head lolled over to one
side, when a waggish member seized a top-hat
and put it on the head of the somnolent one.
Thereupon the ladies in the gallery tittered, and
Jenkins woke to find himself an object of laughter.
Nobody ever laughed at Jenkins in Vic. Council.
People would as soon have thought of laughing at
the Ten Commandments. It is better he should
go back. No official who has served so long in
the Council ought to be transferred to any office
in an up-to-date body.
“Melbourne girls are rolling up to see and hear
Senator Smith orate in the Upper House. Years
ago, this new member from the West—then a
clean-shaven, quiet-spoken fellow—was a familiar
figure among ball-room Johnnies. Five years in
the West have developed him physically and
mentally. Now he is the best-looking Senator of
the crowd, bearded, bland, broad-shouldered and
fairly oratorical. He is still a bachelor and still,
they reckon, an easy victim to a siren’s smile.
“A N.S.W. member of the House of Reps.
(Mr. Conroy) has already been elected by an
enormous vote of the Gallery Girls a gallant and
ohampion of the Sex. Last week the clement
Conroy was almost cheered by the listening
maidens for his ad vocacy of the cause of the Post-
office petticoat-brigade.
Writes a Maoriland friend :
“ I hear the Maoris up north are distinctly not
pleased with the Royal visit. It is etiquette for a
chief, when visiting another, to take his most costly
possessions and lay them at his friend’s feet. Chief
No. 2 picks out something inexpensive, expresses
in the natural extravagance of the native lingo
how overwhelmed he is by attentions of chief No. 1, but
could not possibly dream of taking presents of so great
value, &c., &c. Now, when this pretty pageant was
enacted with the Cornwalls, they took Everything. Took
all and considerable, and gave in return—the usual auto-
graph photo. The daughter of Major Kemp took up
about 70 mats, ranging in value from £lO to £25 ; one
kiwi mat was valued at £35, but really irreplaceable. They
were all accepted—every one —a sort of * let-’em-all-come
game.’ Now the noble native is thinking very hard.
“On Thursday Ro3 r a!ty was billed for a railway trip
across the Rimutakas, where the Fell engines are used.
That morning writer received a letter from a lady in
S3’dne3 7 . Extract: 4 He is small, weak and nervous .. .
a bigger and stronger man is wanted for the part. . . .
His duchess is the better horse. ... If they take him
over the Rimutakas he’ll be scared to death, &c.’ Picked
up the morning paper and read : ‘ It has been decided
to forego the trip over the Rimutakas to Featherston. A
short run up the Hutt Valley has been arranged instead.’
“The Parliamentary reception at Wellington on Thurs-
day night got through 70 cases of champagne. One mem-
ber was in a conspicuous condition of mops and
brooms and about 30 tickets for the function were mis-
appropriated, which possibly accounts for the presence of
a lady ‘ got up regardless,’ but who, at the time, was un-
known to those present. She impressed her personality
very loudly upon those present, finally attracting the
attention of Royalty. A self-sacrificing personage took a
seat alongside to keep her down. Soon she gently
drooped her head until it reposed comfortably upon the
shoulder of the personage, and she slept.
From Brisbane
“ Miss Lesley Madden, daughter of his Waxellency
of Melbourne, has arrived in Brisbane, and is
being received with joy. She strikes one as a pretty,
plump little maiden with gracious manners, smart clothes,
and a very fascinating streak of grey hair straight in the
middle of her forehead. It leads up through the softly-
waved dusky coiffure to a lovely diamond crescent, and
already anyone who possesses a grey streak is considered
fortunate indeed. She has struck one of Brisbane’s few
cold snaps, and is able to air a remarkably well-cut black
serge coat and handsome grebe at Polo and other out-
door functions.
“Lord Lamington was lavish in his invitations to 4 be
sure and see us at Lamington when you come home ’—
he scattered the precious words as he waved adieu—and
methinks t’will be a motley crowd who finally arrive at
4 the cradle of his race.’ Governors who were hail-fellow-
well-met in the kawlinies are kittle oattle to catch at
iQme. Was it a true bill of one of them that he left strict
orders to the guardian of his doors that 4 no dogs, tramps,
or Australians,’ were to be admitted ?
“ Lady Lamington’s tears have left a good impression
behind her. She cries becomingly, too, and her coun-
tenance was not so swollen or distorted as it might have
been considering that she cried buckets-full. A better
impression still was made by a kindly deed at the last
moment—that of using her influence to have a certain
ex-hotel servant reinstated. His Ex. showed signs of
suppressed feeling, say the Brisbane papers, and Brisbane
immediately wept also and quite forgave him the yawns
(not always suppressed) in which he sometimes indulged
during Govt. House functions. Doubtless the Laming,
tons beoame mueh more popular as time west on, and
their star has especially ascended ever since the Yorks
visited Queensland with only two out-riders and no
State carriage, or knighthoods, or silver spoons, or
anything.
At Poverty Point.
44 Melb.” : Bertram ig unimpeachable, but his tricks are
surprisingly old. Give us more matter, with less patter
—though that is clever in its unctuously self-satisfied
way. The fact is, these wizards carry too far the doing
without apparatus. People go to be amused, not to see
how far a conjuror can go in little miracles, only to be
rightly appreciated by other sleight-of-hand professors.
The yore time men, such as Anderson and Heller, built up
their stage for hours before the performance, and the
whole unfolded like a sunflower. Cumbrous, say the
moderns. But the performance was followed through-
out with exhilaration. The show never dragged.
Widely printed in the Yankee press that a well-adver-
tised Australian songstress has given a lover of hers a
beautiful pair of black eyes.
Died recently in Sydney, Nellie Lambert, a charming
and kind-hearted little woman, and a well-known and
well-liked operatic artist, who first appeared with Lyster’s
opera co. in contralto parts. She was very successful in
“ boy ” characters, such as Lazarillo, in “ Maritana.” She
was also competent in more serious roles. While with
Lyster, Miss Lambert became the wife of baritone Charleß
Templeton, and consequently stepmother of Lempriere
Pringle, at present with Musgrove’s opera co. After
Templeton’s death his widow married Mr. T. Falconer, a
professor of music in Sydney. She leaves one daughter,
Miss Ethel Templeton, an accomplished pianist, at pre-
sent in Queensland.
Flora Anstead’s retirement to Ivew Asylum is not the
result of poisonous hair-dye, as has been stated. Poor
Flora, now 06 years of age, is suffering from senile
dementia, and her troubles will soon be over. The Dis-
tressed Actors’ Fund had charge of its old friend for some
time before she became a case for asylum treatment, so
she will not be lost sight of until her name is listed with
the Bygones in the Fund’s books. All the property left
to Flora Anstead, who was a saving woman when she had
the chance, is the remains of a theatrical wardrobe and a
gold watch and chain, presented to her by Aarons, on the
occasion of the opening of the old Melb. Bijou, originally
known as the Academy of Music. Flora Anstead was a
popular leading lady in those days—the ’7o’s. As one of
Two Roses, and the principal one at that, she identified
herself with the first Australian production of Byron’s
mascotte comedy. In her private life she was the unfor-
tunate heroine of a tragedy. The husband, who had been
a costly incubus, disappeared, and after some considerable
lapse of years, the missing waster was reported dead
Flora, in due course, married Jerry Dodge. Probabty it
was the announcement of her marriage that brought No.
1 husband on the scene again. Jerry Dodge died, in the
most considerate manner, soon after the other fellow’s
return, and the other fellow subsequently vanished, os
before.
Jessie Williams, the pretty young dancer of Rickards’
Co., provides an occasional sensation by swooning on the
stage, or at the wings after her pas de seal. The foolish
damsel is evidently a martyr to her pluck. Not content
with a graceful dance, she sometimes adds the contortion-
ist trick of running round herself like a spider whilst her
head rests upside down upon the boards. Then she
struggles in a dazed manner to her feet, gives a final kick,
and—likely as not —falls a victim to her rashness. Jessie’s
troubles are of the cataleptic kind, yet she recovers
consciousness and elasticity in time for the finale of the
first part. Her reappearance, white-faced and tired-
looking, is rather pitiable, but then the young enthusiast
would probably have another fit right away if the stage-
manager stopped her from going on to complete her share
of the contract.
“ MacDonald, of Ladysmith,” writes Tub Bulletin’s
London correspondent, “ delivers his lecture on
Whit-Monday and the two following evenings at the
Polytechnic Hall, Regent-street. He has been received
here with open arms and has his time so occupied with
supplying articles to order that he complains he has not
had much chance to see “ the Village.” As it was ‘ down-
below,’ crowds called upon him claiming relationship or
acquaintance, and attempted to ‘ bite his ear’ with much
rapacity. Geach is hustling like a ‘ brickfielder," and
sandwich-men peramble the main thoroughfares with
Mac. depicted ‘ before ’ and ‘ after ’ the siege. The war
is pretti' dead here, so D.M. may boom or have but
moderate luck. The 4 ear-biters ’ aforesaid —who literally
live upon arriving Australs—have not found Mac.’s ears
too chewable, but they’re a tough and hardy class, and
one wins occasionally.”
The most entertaining member of the Chinese opera
co., which has just concluded a highly successful season
at Melb. Demo., is the tall, stolid Chow who impersonates
the lady’s maid. Rouged and powdered he makes a
fairly presentable Chinese gal and smirks at the male
characters just after the fashion of the lady’s maid of
European countries. The most striking feature of his
acting is the swing of his hips as he crosses the stage. To
see him swagger, it is easy to imagine that he modelled
his stride on the little seventeen-year-old Bourke-street
Saturda3 r night donah.
Peggy Pryde starts her second engagement with
Rickards in October next, or thereabouts, but Cinquevalli,
it seems, is not likely to be here before the end of next
year.
Marie Llos'd and Alec Hurley have had and are having
a great success in Adelaide. The lady, after experi-
menting with rather tame verses for a time, turned on the
cerulean tap, and the pious city, after a preliminary gasp
or two, has crowded the Tivoli to the doors—somewhat
to the detriment of Rignold’s “ Othello ” down street.
Another bright young Australian actress is turning her
attention to the bottle, and cultivating the germs of art
disease, The Bulletin is sorry to hear.
Wonderful (writes “ Steff C.” to Tiib Bulletin) how
the variety biz. has caught on in M.L. Dix’s co’s per-
vade the four chief towns. In Wellington, Dix is making
a pile at the old Ro3 r al. The Dix’s have the usual sets of
“ trios” and “ sisters” ; they go turn-and-turn-about at
each of the different towns. Two of the “ sisters,” judging
by their noses, are absurdly unlike each other : nose of
one resembles two holes, like hot and cold water-taps,
and her hard face generally is Murphy ; nose of t’other is
Isaacian and general appearance Poley.


Great Weakness and Anaemia
An Interesting Case
And a Perfect Recovery.
The Case of
MRS. SARAH DILLON.
(by our own reporter.)
As our reporter was one day pursuing his
usual mission, involving the collection of
items of interest to the reading section of
the community, he happened to hear of the
remarkable recovery from weakness and
continuous headaches of Mrs. Sarah Dillon,
who was then residing at 5 Norton-street,
Surry Hills. He accordingly called upon
that lady, who cheerfully offered to give
him all tne information he desired.
“My case must have been a particularly
interesting one to the doctors who attended
upon me,” began Mrs. Dillon, “for the very
simple reason that they were of the opinion
that I was beyond the scope of medical
treatment. I can assure you it is exceed-
ingly dispiriting to be told by your physician
that your condition is the natural result of
old age creeping on, and anything he
prescribed for you could not possibly do any
good. And it is especially so for a woman
like myself, who had previously enjoyed the
best of health. I had never before that
time known what it was to have a day’s
sickness, excepting as a child, when I met
with an accident to my hand, which soon
got all right again ; but I do not call that
sickness. • And then to be suddenly
conscious of an ailment which was gradually
drawing all the vitality from me, and to be
told that nothing could be recommended by
mj doctor to cure me, you can easily
imagine how despondent I became.”
“What were the symptoms of your
malady, Mrs. Dillon?”
“Well, I cannot very easily describe them
at the commencement of my illness, because
they were altogether too complicated. I
knew that my blood was not in good order
on account of the alteration in the colour of
my complexion. My lips assumed an un-
healthy paleness, and my eyes became dull
and heavy. I cannotsay that I suffered a great
amount of pain, although very frequently I
would become possessed of a sickly feeling
which left me languid and extremely weak.
It would have given me a great amount of
relief if I could have slept when I retired to
bed at night; but even that luxury was
denied me, for I would turn in feeling so
jaded and worn out that I felt quite sure of
getting a little repose; but I was invariably
disappointed. As a result, it was almost an
impossibility to get up in the mornings, and
when I did manage to do so, after much
perseverance, I was too weak and exhausted
to stand. During the day I would be
afflicted with a feeling of a drowsy languor,
as though everything taking place around
me was no interest or importance; and the
next development in my failing health was
something entirely new. . I had never
before known what it was to faint; but now
it was a frequent occurrence for me to go
right off without any apparent cause, and
when I regained consciousness I would be in
ft depressed, state of mind, for a long time.
It was enough to frighten any woman at my
time of life to experience such threatening
indications of a general break-up of the
system; and when I tell you that my
appetite had abandoned me altogether, you
can understand how dejected I was. The
most tempting food failed to make me eat,
and the robust appearance I had so long
been proud of gave way to a condition ol
emaciation.* The sight of food was a source
of trouble to myself, as my inability to eat
was an additional reminder that I was
gradually wasting away. And the hopeless-
ness with which I thought of the future was
brought about through the doctors’ opinion
that there was nothing in the way of
medicine which could possibly restore me to
health. The idea of being in a state of such
utter abandonment occasioned me no end
ofworry and anxiety, which, I’msure you will
agree, was quite natural. No matter how ill
a person may be, I think they can always
keep up their spirits to a certain extent if
they are following out a course of treatment
which will encourage them to believe that
their health may ultimately be regained.
But in my case I was apparently left without
a chance. However, I made my mind up
that it would be foolish to continue in such
a state of misery without making an effort
in some direction, because I did not think
anything in the way of physic could have the
effect of making me worse, mv condition
then being so forlorn. By a stroke of good
luck I secured the right remedy at the first
attempt.”
“How were you so fortunate?” enquired
the reporter.
“ It was through listening to the advice of
a lady friend of mine, who had benefited
through the same medium, that I was so
favoured by Dame Fortune. She strongly
recommended me to try Clements Tonic,
assuring me that if I did so there would be a
decided change for the better in a very short
space of time. It was with a certain
amount of doubt and misgiving that I con-
sented to give it a trial, although it was a
pleasure to think that there was something
which might have the effect of recuperating
my wasted system. I was really too
dejected to place confidence in any medicine;
but I sent for a bottle of Clements Tonic by
way of experiment, and, would you believe
me ? I felt myself improving after the first
few doses. Day by day my appetite gained
ground, and I was soon able to sit down
and enjoy a comfortable meal. The old,
worn-out, despondent feeling of weakness
entirely left me, and the vigorous blood
that now ran through my veins had such a
stimulating effect upon my spirits that I
soon became quite cheerful again. The
racking headaches from which I had
suffered were but a memory of the past; and
I can tell you they used to be very severe
indeed. They never attack me now,
however, for I continued taking Clements
Tonic till my vitality was thoroughly
restored, and my health is now as good as
ever. I think in a country like this, where
the heat is so oppressive in summer,
Clements Tonic is a grand thing to have in
the house, and I always have it on hand
during the hot weather to take as a stimu-
lant. I believe that is why my strength
keeps up so well.”
“Do you give your w consent -to the
publication of this interview?”
“With the utmost pleasure. I owe my
recovery exclusively to Clements Tonic, and
now I always recommend it to jjy friends.”
STATUTOIIY DECLARATION.
I, Sarah Dillon, of 5 Norton-street, Surry Hills
Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting of four folios
and consecutively numbered from one to four, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any way
my statements—which I give voluntarily, without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn de-
claration conscientiously believing the same to bo
true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act made
and passed in the ninth year of the reign of her present
Majesty, intituled “An Act for the more effectual
abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken and made
in the various Departments ot the Government of
New South Wales, and to substitute Declaration®
in lieu thereof, and for the suppression of voluntary
and extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits
Deolared at Sydney, this 30th day of July, on*
thousand nine hundred, before me,
CHAS. E. WIGZELL, J.P.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
I ME
Jouis’ Velveteen.
NOTE WELL!—Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L-O-IM-S and in no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
-T3r. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr- Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour. J
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
will Wng happiness and health. The influence of toeseWc .agents on the Nerves and Organs Is truly wonderful
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
w,
CALL OR WRITE- ■
CUT
RATE
drug store,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
Business Announcement*.
Good TaSloripg.
WINTER.
Warm Tweeds and Worsteds.
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
TO STAND ALL WEATHERS.
FANCY TROUSERINGB, VESTINGB, &c.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Bole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
HOLIDAY
PHOTOGRAPHY
No holiday is perfect without a means of
photographing interesting places and
incidents. Kodak Cameras are light,
compact, and eminently suited for all
holiday-makers, ladies, cyclists, &c.
Kodaks are mastered in a few minutes,
and require no dark room for changing
the films. Kodaks from 58. to £7 15s.
Send for illustrated price list and mention
this p iper.
Of all Photographic Dealers, or of —
KODAK, Limited,
The Block,
284 Collins Street,
Melbourne
THERE IS NO KODAK BUT
THE EASTMAN KODAK.
Medical.
NOTICE «
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
Thu Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestke & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
SOLD IN TWO SIZES, 9d. & Is. fld.
NVB.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestke & Tkuman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and s'pld by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
*GOUT v
PILL S.
F°R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for 6 OUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pbout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
Sojfe Eyes! Blight!
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails. Restores Eyelashes.
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT."
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
TVEAR SIR, —I have been cured of Weakness and De-
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURBT, Pitt-sffreet, Sydney.
Business Announeements
IT WILL PAT YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the Footsteps of tbs Wise, and
Buy the Best, Cheapest and Most
Stylish Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & Co.
PROP.
MD.
252-254- Flinders St., Melbourne
(Opp. Station),
Oar Buit to Order at
4 2/-. is marvel’ous
value, perfect fitting
and beautifully finish -
•d.
Trousers. 12/6.
Dress and Clerical Suits,
to order, £j.
Biding Breeches, 25/-
Men’s Suits, Beady for
Wear, 25/-
Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indig > dye, 25/-
Lone Chesterfields. 30/-
Tweed Overcoats 21/-
\ Waterproof Coats, full
capes. 18/6.
Tweed or Serge Trousers,
5/11.
Travelling Bugs, 10/
13/9.
Black and Blue Vicuna
Coats and Vests, 19/6.
Undressed White Shirts,
2/6.3/6, 4/6. 5/6.
Crimean Shirts, 5/6.
7/6.
Gent's Sp’endid Bal-
moral 800t5.6/9,9/6
We like to write letter*,
•o don’t be afraiu ro
ask for any informa-
tion. Our book. 7 tie
Philo sop hy of Dress.
patterns of all kinds
and s lf-measuremeiit
f*rms post free. Wiite
for them.
Don't Forget to Write for Patterns.
THOMSON’S
NEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING ”
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World-Renowned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long waist.
m
Thom
ons
THE MOST COMFORTABLE & DURA BLR CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST
X. B. —Old Model Corseta always in stook.
“ LA. 3XTOBLEBSE ”
A New and Elegant Series of Corsets. Ask to see them-
TO BE HAD OF ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & 00-, lA, T.nrHon-
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRATAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drape.
FER BRATAIS
FER BRATAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blinglhr constitution
to resist .climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of ancemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and interesting
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“/f hat all
the good effectt of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth."
SOI 11 BY CHEMISTS AIT, THE WORID OVER
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette
4?
-i'
Wv'-
o
r>i
«/?
H>
Ityfycz
p *o
ORS . M
EVERY MAN NEEDS IT.
QOME interesting' information is disclosed in the book
k - 1 published by the Electro-Botanic Institute, of
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney. It dis-
cusses the private side of life in such a way as to cause
most men to pause and think as to whether they are just
what they ought to be physically. The book is sent free,
in plain, sealed wrapper. —Medical Review.
D
RUNKENNESS
Positively CURED by Administering
old v^rifWßNs
.*
.CHAMPED H^r> s< y
s.c
It can be given in
drink or food with-
EUCRASY.
out the subject’s knowledge. Perfectly Harmless, and
will effect a Speedy Cure. Write TO-DAY for Free Book
Address THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney


r- :;
•••.■
JWpjS
n
photo trom Life.
Original may be seen at 113, Itegent Street, Londo
w
asm
Sn-
'HAIK s
L»naer Royal Patronage
KOKO FOR THE HAIR
ill is a tonic, cleansing, invigorating preparation, causes tne hair to grow
luxuriantly, keeps it soft and pliant, imparts to it the lustre and freshness
of youth, eradicates dandrirf, prevents hair from falling, is the most
111 cleanly of all hair preparations,and is perfectly harmless.
OLD PEOPLE LIKE IT
ill for its wonderful power to invigorate decayed hair, and induce an entire
II new growth when that is possible.
MIDDLE- AGED PEOPLE LIKE IT,
1 1 because it prevents them from getting bald, keeps dandriff away, and
Ii I makes the hair grow thick and strong
YOUNG LADIES LIKE IT
I, | as a dressing, because it gives the hair a beautiful glossy lustre, ensures a
I luxuriant growth, end enables them to dress it and keep it in any style
II I that may be desired.
CHILDREN LIKE IT,
ill because it keeps the hair and scalp cool and clean, allays Irritation, and
||l keeps the hair in whatever position desired
THEY ALL LIKE IT,
because it is as pure as crystal, perfectly colourless, contains no poisonous
Bubstance, no sugar of lead, sulphur, nitrate of silver, or grease, and does
not soil or colour the scalp, face, or the most dolicato fabric m clothing,
produces a wonderfully pleasant and cooling effect on the head, and no
other dressing is needed to give the hair the most beautiful appearance
possible. Try it once, and you will use no other. It contains n«
colouring matter or dye*
KOKO is sold in 1/, 2/6 and 4/6 bottles everywhere.
Australian Depot. Koko Maricopas Co. Ltd., 14, Castlcreagh
, Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
c A UTIOM— See that this Registered Trade Mark Is on every bottle
k
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE
FA.MOXJ3 REMEDY EOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
UUCoIILj TTi ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF
. . ~ , r.,1 Sufferers from anv form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed its won se who a ' re su piyct to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate re » 1 . ind ifc neit i ier nllou-s a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
irith this medicine. No house should bo without it, as. taken at the beginning, a dose is gone,ally —.
and a Complete Cure is certain. OF !
COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS PIS
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF lIEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF 'I'HE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“Mr. Hearne. — . , .
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ——,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
vour medicine has been a perfect Godsend to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me. -
“I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself v. hat an immense success
it was.-Yours faithfully, •”
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is ver V
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS' TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BUTTLES.
“ Dergholtn, Victoria.
“Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the couuh has vanished. You.
mav depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Tgarne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
ectlv and rapidh successful under circumstances which
indoubtediv prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
he Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
ifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
«j UBet i your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. 'MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
Quirindi, N.S.YV.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
®
~ M •„ HO vpnr« old and lam 79, and lam clad to inform you that your Brochit.is Cure has done us
arevastic »*>■>■• -«• “*»*> s “ ,h cre * k ’ - b,om -
Victoria.’
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with (treat benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me. (Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmgggje, Victoria.
.. ! found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.-JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
0,
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.-J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.b.W.
.. My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.-C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
« I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, wdth splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely ndraculous.-F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.-C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
“Kindlv forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.-(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.
©
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at onoe.-
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” @ ...... „
“ Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.-S.
S'! EELE, Yanko Sidi'ig. New f ® hieh j obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
~„t ; LT’X «»*»». - * «•*»>—*»■ -»«•* c -
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.
•*T«tvear I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; hut l heard of y our Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.-H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a Mend of of a very bad Bronchitis.-A. AIXEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.
.... n „ ro U.. rinnp me much „ood. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
Your Bronchitis Cure has ® th j: the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through*! 6 illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects. -CHAS. WHYBROVV, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.” >
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“ Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during: the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing! for and singing Ihe praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending! it to others.
“ VVe are grlad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 38
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. VVe enclose ouf
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
“ THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists."
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUAKRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.” —ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Office •No 5 First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
BRANCH DEPOT
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
INFANTS
!
9
m
BENQER’S FOOD IS not only highly nutritious,
- but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid,
BENBER'S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Ac., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by (g .
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.'’
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
\ AND
THE AGED.
Concerning the late James M‘Kean
Obit. : Solicitor James M'Kean, biggest man in Mol
bourne and probably the longest lawyer in Australia,
Standing 6ft. Gin. high, with snow-white hair and beard.
Jimmy was a striking figure ot Melb. courts, and looked
muoh.more than the 69 years of his obituary notices. A
North of Ireland man, he arrived in Melbourne as a lad of
20, and worked for a few years (as he was always fond of
relating) as miner, shearer, cook and rouseabout. His
first step upward was to the editorship of a small country
newspaper and thence to the proprietorship, where he
found time to become a solicitor. Jimmy was in Parlia-
ment about 20 years ago, and, for a brief period, was
Minister for Lands. Though short, his Ministerial career
was lively, for he got into a fight with Melb. City Council
about Carlton Gardens, where the Exhibition building
now stands ; and, one Saturday, proceeded to settle the
argument by bringing up a body of axemen, chopping
down the gates, and driving a cart through the central
path, as a declaration that the council had no right to
block it up. But, after all, the council won the day, and
at the present time the Gardens remain closed to traffic.
FitzGibbon, then town-clerk of the city, was M'Kean’s
opponent in the row, and the people of Melbourne have
to thank the pompous old bard that the big man did not
get his way and destroy the Gardens. Shortly after this
sally, M‘Kean, defending a prisoner at Collingwood court,
was told by the Bench to behave himself, as he was not
in Parliament then. Mac retorted that his fellow-members
were a lot of low ruffians, and the man who behaved in
their company would not be understood. For this, an
indignant and virtuous Leg. Assembly arose and sent
Jimmy to the leads of the House, where he remained a
prisoner at a cost of £1 a day, which he was expected to
j ay. But he would neither pay nor apologise, and, as he
showed no signs of surrender, the House overcame an
awkward situation by allowing him to escape. A poor
pleader, he got the reputation of a good police-court
lawyer solely by his immense presence, his bull-like voice,
and his power of giving the other man “ rats.” He also
had the reputation, given by people on the strength of
one or two appearances, of being a terrific bully, destitute
of feeling. But this was altogether erroneous. The
writer remembers having seen big Jimmy, a couple of
years ago, crying like a baby, as he was defending two
siilv married women—utter strangers to him—accused,
under pitiable circumstances, of shop-lifting.


THE PIANOLA
Will enable yon or any member
of your family to play the Piano.
There are no conditions.
It makes no difference if you literally
do not know one note from another.
All Classes of Music
Accessible.
Operas, Overtures, Symphonies, Ora-
torio, Dance Music, Song Accompani-
ments, are at your immediate
command.
You regulate the
Expression.
By means of levers you control the
“touch,” “accent’’and “tempo,” the
same as if you struck the keys with
your own fingers. You may thus
give your own individuality to your
playing.
PADEREWSKI says—
“ It is perfection."
SAUER writes—
“ The Pianola gives more pleasure
than thousands of so-called treats of
pianistic effort.”
MOSKOWSKI writes—
“ Anyone who will hear the Pianola
for the first time will surely think
that it is a virtuoso that plays.”
DE PACHMANN says—
“ The Pianola’s playing has the
characteristics of the work of the
human fingers.”
or
w®
m
A
Playing Directions.
Expression marks appear on the
music-sheet as it unrolls as a guide to
the novice and those unfamiliar with
the composition. The greater your
musical taste the more artistic will be
your playing.
Endorsed by every Pianist
of prominence.
There is no safer criterion of the
artistic value of the Pianola, or the
pleasure to be derived from it.
Both the PIANOLA and the ASOLIAN may be
heard at our Showrooms any day at any time
desired.
Recitals every Wednesday at 4.30 p.m. Com-
plimentary Tickets may be obtained at the Rooms.
Visitors are always welcome and the same
courtesy will be shown to the merely curious as to
intending purchasers.
If unable to call, write for Catalogue 0, giving
illustrations and fuller particulars.
HENRY M. BIRGE and CO.,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
232 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
THE PIANOLA is sold at no other Address in Sydney.
mm
m
m
m
■
I
i 1
■ »
:
Mil
■Hi
&
m
m
m
i
Mi
mk
SSI
mm
I||||||^S|
Finis.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In deep? of space alone,
Beyond the starry sea,
God sate upon His throne ;
The Earth was on His knee.
Musingly He said,
Turning the small globe o’er,
“ I tire of Men I made ;
They please me now no more.
“ I gave them this green earth,
With all its streams and seas,
Whereon to dwell in mirth,
And pleasantness and ease.
“ I made the sun arise
Each morning in the East;
I lit with stars the skies
At night, as for a feast.
“ And, when to Heav’n above
For more gifts they did call,
I sent my Angel Love
With my best gift of all.
“ They are consumed with greed,
And eaten up with pride ;
Each little, paltry creed
Counts Me upon its side.
“ And, when they go to fight,
Each party calls on ME
To aid the Right —its Right—
And give it victory.”
Then God the Earth surveyed
Once more, and thus spake He:
“I tire of Man I made” —
And brushed it off his knee.
With all its glories ripe
The Earth passed, like a spark
Blown from a sailor’s pipe
Into the hollow dark.
N.S.W.
V. J. D.
The Jealousies.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
George Chappell died in great mental agony
and mutiny. If ever man had found the world
beautiful, and the mere contemplation of the end
of it for him—terrible ; it was this man. The
mateship of an ideal wife —the perfect complement
of him—had made life a poem. Their married
years had not brought that boredom which affected
writers say is the governing condition of mar-
riage; a statement more often false than true.
The love of their courtship—begun as a raindrop,
had become a deluge—rising as a brook in the
hills of youth, and growing to the maturity of a
great sea.
And in the years that spun to them, and through
them and beyond, her feet went always in the
ways of constancy ; and although there was all
the ginger of a man in him, he had an anchor-love
to his heart.
He had worked hard and knowledgeably, and
so carried her through the four streets of
Poverty—Hunger, Cold, Wailing, and Con-
tumely—in which so much Love has come to .In-
difference, and his ambition, being linked to a
great affection for the One, had no boundaries.
To consummate that ambition he had turned
aside from the straight way that should have been
his into the roads where travelling becomes a
terrible task—calling for unslackening energies
and constant watchfulness so that one may win
by the fall of another. And then his one great
fault was born and waxed strong enough to kill
him ; for, whosoever it is who brings the message
of Alcohol to the man constitutionally used to
being thorough in all things, death sooner or
later pays the postage.
And, when dying, he racked himself with re-
grets for the time lost from her in money-making
and wassailing—in stimulating his tired, disgusted
soul to pile much money by selling that he had
not, and buying that he did not want—and in eat-
ing up his own energy in devouring the energies of
some other.
And until quite recently Fortune had even
robbed him of the wages of his prostitution to
lucre—and luck had given him mostly blows and
boot-favors.
And now, just when the sanguineness he had
held for many years had, by a sudden market
turn, materialised itself into coinage, and he had
achieved an influence whose outward and visible
sign was the turning of envious heads after him,
and that wealth which can gratify every unreason-
able hope, the Undesirable Creditor had come.
In these last moments of his he had no thought
of any 7 life to come. Even death, which is but a
matter of a few hours at most, cannot upset the
habits of a lifetime. Chappell also was satisfied
that- any world but her’s could only be a trivial
hell, and his eyes did not regard the voraginous
future.
He could see through the death-damp only that
beloved head—that dear figure as he had seen it
at their first meeting ; he could only hear—above
the welcoming voices of the dead —her voice, and
the clamor of the mine-batteries applauding her
promise to marry him.
But the Voices of the Dead called louder, and,
suffering a torture greater than fire or famine, his
heart for all its bitter mutiny, stopped beating.
His yet-numbed soul stayed with her, and it
saw that she smothered her grief until she had
streeked him, for, with her, emotion had always
given place to duty, and she would allow no other
to do his last offices.
That done—she gave way to almost a heart-
break. The pity of it all !—the husband dead,
and a child to come.
The soul of George Chappell could not witness
the first grief his wife had known which he had
not been able to soothe—and so departed, travel-
ling in a swift, vagrant manner that only uncon-
trolled thought can know, and beset by hosts of
souls—silent souls that had no ties of earth, con-
tent to stay where they were placed ; souls whose
thoughts were all of Love; starved souls vvhose
ideals were the mean ways of money; ambitious
souls clamant for world-power, and all clamorous
as young eagles for new homes in the bodies of
the Unborn. . ... , ,
As a man has done m life, so does he after it.
The soul of the stay-at-home pulseless man edges
closer to its corrupting body because that soul
never lived outside of its body’s needs. The soul
of the Very Man —of the Shakespeares, of the
Drakes, of Columbus, and of all the adventurers
since the music of the sea charmed the Argo to
her own launching—as their souls did somewhat
soar above their clay when that clay was sentient
—so do they soar and voyage when their clay is
tenantless.
So Chappell’s soul roved as his life had done,
and made great and wonderful journeys on old
tracks and new, visiting the places She had hal-
lowed with her presence. For old sake’s sake, he
remembered to be at Albany when the police-boat
goes out to the departing mail, when the anchor
is coming to the peak, and all the drift-weight of
the ship is held by a buoy, a cable, and a bollard.
He remembered to insulate his 5000 miles of way
to the Barrier Reef in the winter, the season She
had called “God’s Month,” when the offshore
wind puffs the pineapple scent in the face of the
sea. He remembered to repeat their last
hansom-drive in Melbourne, even to the rattle of
the wheels over the strip of stones in Collins-
street, at the corner of Swanston - street
—the little strip between the wood blocks
and the macadamised road. He remembered to
travel his old track again on sea, salt-lake, and
desert—through black wood bush, and dense
jungle—over silver-grassed pocket, spinifex-plain,
and limestone-range—in the deep levels of mines
and the galleries of great ant-like communities of
men. He translated himself to ways yet unknown
of men—to goldfields and treasure-houses undis-
covered, and made himself almost contented with
the thought that one day all this should be for
Her.
But, if love gives all, it also takes all; and,
although the Soul of Chappell had travelled dis-
tances that mean to men the work of many life-
times, the parson had not finished droning sonor-
ous nothingness over Chappell’s body ere the soul
was overwhelmed by waves of affection for the
wo than who had had to stay behind. Fearing a
return to the torture —for a soul does not lose
its selfishness when it leaves its coat of flesh —
he fought against his sea; but the last and
greatest wave—the strongest of all the Seven
Brothers of Memoi-y —poured its great waters
upon him and carried him to her.
And then he knew suddenly that his soul was
really all the appreciable part of him—something
more than an It—something of gender : and that
the old body of his had not even been the house of
his soul, but only its scarf-skin.
He found her great grief had caused almost a
metamorphosis, and rebelled against the limita-
tions that only allowed him to comfort her by sug-
gestion.
As the week went by, he saw that time and the
new habit of doing without him had lightened her
burden of sorrow, and at that he was filled with
black wrath, and jealousy, and fear that, by-and-
by, she should forget him. When these forces
were strongest in him he avoided her—as he had
done in life, when his mO|it unreasoning jealousies
had scourged him until her love and trust had
cured his wounds secretly.
* * • •
It was night at Necropolis. In the crowded
streets of the dead city were all sorts and condi-
tions of souls—generous souls—mean souls—souls
filled with all the ingenuity of vice—souls whose
Arctic chastities were Himalaya-high—the souls
of them whose beauty and of them whose loneli-
ness (the result of their ugliness) had proved an
equal snare the souls of all the inglorious
martyrs that great cities produce without think-
ing. Many souls in patient hope for the time
that should bring the chance of perfect life again
—many clamorous for immediate appointments—
and all waiting for positions as souls in the bodies
of the Unborn.
And then, from the jealous soul of Chappell,
came a cry : “ The dust ere now has found a voice
—shall my love be ever dumb?” and to his
cry an inspiration answered. Inspiration
being the Supreme made articulate, has no law.
Even in the worldly sense of the argument, to
succeed in anything, however seemingly im-
possible, it is only necessary to be inspired, and
then to be determined. And Chappell’s soul de-
termined to be the soul of Chappell’s son.
And to his inspiration and determination, add
supreme pity, which is undeniably a force. Pity
gave him his desire, and in that instant the
protein of Chappell’s wife determined its sex.
* • * •
“ Womb-photography ” —“ Maternal Impres-
sion ” —said her friends, when Chappell’s widow
bore a boy, a replica of his father, even to the
repetition of a great scar on the chin, and the
absence of the little finger on the left hand, and
sundry tricks of voice. But when a stupendous
mother-love she had never known for any of her
elder children came to her—when she felt herself
regarding herself as still George Chappell’s wife,
(and not his widow) and indignantly refused all
offers of re-marriage as if they were insults; when
she found the boy with such a fierce love and
jealousy of her that he sulked for days after seeing
her pet his brothers; when, man-grown and sought
of women, he said he had “ married his mother ” ;
when she marked that, although gifted with an
iron constitution and the strength that spurs a
man to excesses, he had all the hatred for alcohol
of the teetotaller who dare not be anything else ;
when, as a boy of twenty-two, he made a journey to
the centre of the continent and travelled direct to
the discovery of a great goldfield, which only
his father’s soul had seen before him; when she
heard the surprise of his men at his knowledge of
a track where none existed, and of creeks and
soaks and gnamma-holes that saved the party a
dozen times from death ; when he told her once
vaguely that, no matter how wealthy they were, he
had had enough of ambition ; she began to wonder.
But when he spoke of incidents of her court-
ship and of the early days of her marriage which
she knew that only herself and the dead man knew,
her eyes filled with affection and affright, and her
intuition grasped something of the truth.
So in her old age (which was only forty-six, by-
the-way) she had her youth and her lover again,
as if Time had never moved ; and he, although
the memory of his actual transition had disap-
peared, was to her lover and son in one.
But to everybody else who remembered the
father, the son’s likeness to George Chappell the
Elder was merely an extraordinarily perfect
maternal impression ; a wonderful redintegration
of even the scar on the dead man’s chin, and of
his blue speedwell eyes.
Adelaide.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The matriarchal Dr. Logan Campbell’s
splendid gift of Cornwall Park to Auckland city
is worth about £27,000. It consists of 230 acres of
the famous One Tree Hill estate purchased by the
venerable Mayor some years ago. The Doctor
originally meant to build there, and had the place
extensively planted. It lies right round the north
side of One Tree Hill, an old crater, or rather
union of three craters, from the summit of which
an unrivalled view of the Tamaki Strait and
Waitemata, and Manakau Harbors can be ob-
tained.


Price Complete, Net £6 Cash.
RECORDS, Extra, 2s 6d each, Net Cash.
Other Styles, £2 10s, £3 10s, £4 15s, £7, £B, £lO, £lO 10s
-CATALOGUES IFIRiEJIE!
WITH TsT-A-IvOU op ottir ageut.^>
A GRAMOPHONE makes a capital
present. Welcome everywhere and by
everybody. Endless amusement for
the festive season. Pleases your family
and friends. It more than takes the
place of a piano, banjo, mandolin, or
cornet, for you hear not only one, but
all these instruments, and many more,
as they are played, not by amateurs,
but by the most celebrated artists. No
matter how remote your habitation, it
brings within the family circle the
actual voices of orators, singers,'come-
dians, and story-tellers, who perhaps at
that very moment are delighting
Metropolitan audiences with the same
eloquence, melody, humor, and dialect
that is coming from the Gramopho
in the quiet of a country home
hundreds of miles away.
y
/
l
dims.
. '■'*
mj. sft
w;
& rv-.
fc
f >o>
||o [imit to Selections
There is practically no limit, either
in number, quality, variety, or fresh-
ness. For instance, no sooner does an
artist become a popular favorite than
he or she is invited to sing or play for
us into a Gramophone. As many
reproductions are possible from one
such performance, we can secure the
very highest talent, and what costs us
originally £2O to £lOO can be sold for
2s. 6d.
GRAMOJPHONES can be seen,
/. card, and purchased at all Music
Shops. Fancj / Dealers, Stores,
c£'c., all over ttie Colonies.
“HIS MASTER'S VOICE."
Ma tufactured
and
Guaranteed
by the
GRAMOPHONE CO. Ltd., Maid") Lai)«, StraijJ, London, W.C.
Wholesale Pepot for Australasia: 163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotels in Australasia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I think of the fare one gets in the average
Australian hotel, my liver turns a back hand-
spring and then gets me down and kicks me; and
after that I feel light-headed all the day. In fact,
I didn’t own a liver till I went travelling about
the N.S. Wales country-towns. Whose liver
Would not get the jumps after a course of meals
something like this ? Breakfast: Chops, steak,
and sausages, all fried. You may have tea ot
coffee. Sometimes I say to the waitress “ I said
coffee.” “Well, you’ve got corphey, ain’t yer?”
she snarls. The country waitress must have a
liver too, by the way she snaps at you. Then I
take another sip of the stuff in dispute, and I say
nothing. All I can do is to stare hard at it and
scratch my head.
Sometimes fellows try to get humorous at the
hard fare, but you can’t knock any humor out of
fried chops, steak, and sausages when they look
you hard in the face every morning of the week,
barring Sunday. Then you get ham-and-eggs—
and everybody says “ Mine’s ’am an’ lieggs ! ” If
the ham runs-out you get round of corned beef
fried in bacon-fat.
* * * •
However, they give you a comfortable bed in
the country hotels. In Westralia they treat you
like a prince at table, and maybe do-up the menu
in French ; but you are a hog when you go to
bed. On the goldfields there are invariably three
beds in a room, and the rooms are often so small
that there isn’t space for any furniture or for your
boxes. Then you often intend to go to bed, and
find somebody lias got there before you. One
night I found a lot of long hairs spreading over
the pillow. So I went to the landlord and told
him there was a woman in my bed. He said,
“Oh, no; that’s a member of Parliament; we’ll
put you in another bed.” You get charged for
this sort of thing at the rate of 10s. a day.
There is no country like Westralia for combines.
There is no need for the high prices, but
the butchers agree to charge Is. 6d. per lb. for
meat, and the hotelkeepers agree to charge Is. for
drinks, and so on ; and if some enterprising indi-
vidual opens a hotel and cuts prices, the butchers,
the brewers, the spirit-merchants, and the bakers
refuse to serve him, and he is ruined. Same if a
butoher cuts the price of meat; in this case the
carcase-butchers won’t serve him. And all the
time the public is being robbed, because wages are
tending to climb down. But shilling drinks don’t
help the temperance party at all. In fact, I’ve
not heard of a temperance party in Westralia. It
is the land of glorious drunks.
I reached a mining town at midnight, and
walked across to the first hotel. After dodging
prostrate men through the bar-parlor, and finding
that they were too busy to attend to me, I piloted
my way back and accosted a policeman who was
leaning against the verandah post very limply.
"Where is there a decent hotel?” I asked.
"Thish ishdeoench hotel,” he said fiercely. “Ish
the besh in town. ” So I went back to the bar
• j ■, • ~ . .
again and possessed myself m patience until they
had lirae to f„ r a man who merely wanted
to get bed and mbals there _
** t a a- a, , ,
At last 1 got to bed. Sometimes these build-
ingfJ are made of wood) aometimea of galvanised
iron . You can hear the con{idences of the two
Servants tbree partitions away, and you would
tbink that the woman in the next room who is
giving her mere man a cul . t ain-lecture, is in your
own roo m-Babel is all over the house That
night two men started fighting in the bar-parlour,
and after a few rounds they did a retiring battle
down t he passage. Nobody interfered ; they just
went lurching from side to side _[_/ >_
a nd then a bedroom door would burst open and
they would fall through. At last they came to
my room. There was an extra bang, and the door
)urst m ’ fought a round and a half in
my room, and then retired down the passage
furt her. I was mad, and jumped up out of bed
and slammed the door, and said, “ You might
have shut the door after you, any way ! ”
At 7-30 a.m. a girl gives a quick knock at your
< C *” r ’ aTI A COI Hes in with a tray and hands
you a cup of tea and some thin bread and butter,
That is the rising-bell in Westralia. Everybody
is up for breakfast at eight, unless suffering from a
sore head. You can forgive Westralian pubs, a
great deal for fche way tbey servt) you in the
matter of meals ; the tables are the best in Aus-
tralia, on an average. They are often very good
in Queensland, north of Brisbane. New South
Wales is the worst of all, and Victoria is verv
little bettei , South Australia should not beex^
pected to have very good country hotels, as the
average S.A. farmer and bush - worker is the
meanest man under the Southern Cross. I knew
a n ? an start / e( l hotel-keeping in South Aus-
tralia. 1 he country folks used to drive in and put
tbe ir cattle in his stable, and feed them with their
own fodder, and bring in their own lunch tied up
in a piece of newspaper, .and wash it down at the
hotel pump. Sometimes they would go inside
and write letters with the hotel stationery', and
eyery tirae tbe old man had a beer tbe whole
family took on such airs you would suppose he
had helped the publican ..into a fortune. You
can’t expect much of a hotel in a country like that.
~ , . .. * - * , * .
My advice to the fellow starting travelling, who
wea / a goqd boofcs and is proud b f hia foot^earj
j s to clean them himself. The first rouseabout he
strikes will spoil them, and every rouseabout
afterwards will go on ruining them until nothing
under the|un wdl get a polisTi on them. I won’t
go so far as to say that the girls use your tooth-
bruBb) bu t they help themselves to the paste and
powder, and also leave long hairs on your brush,
But the abomination of the country hotel is the
house with two tables.
You have all seen the long, low hotel with the
picket _ fence enclosing half the verandah. That
fence encloses the precincts of the parlor-boarders’
section. There are a lot of green-painted kerosene-
tins with ferns and flowers growing in them, and
staghorn ferns are nailed on to boards which are
hung on the wall, and there are a few broken
basbe t-chairs or blistered wooden ones always
distributed about, where the parlor-boarder is
supposed to sit and have a smoke for the proper
advertisement of the establishment. At the table
inside there is a great show of serviettes, done up
like bishop-caps, lilies, or two straight horns
stioking out of a wine-glass. You pay Bs. a day
for these luxuries. A dean serviette is a luxury,
anyway.
Across in Maoriland, every time a man gets up
from a hotel table, his serviette is made into a lily
or a bishop’s cap at once —ready'for the next man.
If you are not in a hurry over your meals, of
course you can look out the more pallid spots on
the serviette, but when there is a train or steamer
to be caught you lose a heap of time missing the
grease and egg-marks. But the 4s. -a-day boarder
in N.S.W. doesn’t get any serviette at all.
There is a pub. the travelling neophyte ought to
avoid, and that is the bank-clerk house. I never
stay in one. When I get into a town I always
ask, “Where do the bank-clerks live?” and
when I am told 1 give that place a wide berth.
If I can’t learn, I go to the lowest-looking place in
the town to make sure that I don’t get mixed up
with them. I prefer farm-laborers any day. I’d
just as soon go and have my meals in a wax-works
as with a number of bank-clerks. You see, a
publican wants to give his house Tone and build
up a parlor-boarder trade. Almost everybody is
impressed by Clothes, and the bank-clerk is always
well-dressed. So he goes to the bank-clerks and
says, “ How much do you pay a week where you
are staying?” “ Sixteen shillings a week,” they
say. “Well, I’ll take you in for twelve-and-six,”
and, of course, the poor devils can’t resist the bait,
as they have very little pocket-money by the time
they have paid for their time-payment clothes
and squared their tennis-club fees, etc. Now, the
big pawnbroking business has somehow already
made the clerk something of a snob, so when he
gets in as a parlor-boarder he is absolutely unap-
proachable, and he sits at meals with a back like a
board and that curious sensitiveness about the
finger-tips which we call “ lady-like.” That is
all very well, but he won’t talk.
In my verdant travelling days, I often struck
a bank-clerk hotel. In those days, if I were
silent two hours’ conversation would be simply
bursting out of me, so, while I would be waiting
for the second course, I’d say, “ It’s a nice day if
it turns out fine?” There would be a dead and
unearthly silence but for the clatter of cutlery. I
was hard to beat, however. Looking round me, I
would pick out the fellow who looked most like a
sheep, and stare at him. “ That was a terrible
storm we had Thursday three weeks?” Spoken
to, lie would give a preoccupied sort of stare and
grunt, “Eh?” “Do you think England will go
to war with China?” I would say. “Pass the
salt, George! ” he would answer to the other
clerk.
One likes to see girls stand-offish, but you will
understand that a man doesn’t care to bump up
against fellows who want an introduction before
they will help beguile the tedium of the poor
traveller’s lonely existence. The bank-clerk pub.
of N.S.W. is the most unsociable place for a
stranger to strike in the two hemispheres.
* * ♦ *
Maoriland hotels are almost invariably one-table
houses. You may know what class place it is,
and be sure that it is only one class—4/6 house,
8/- house, or 10/-. The N.S.W. hotelkeeper might
travel Maoriland for points. The meals are the
best I have got outside Westralia. But the great
point the traveller notices is the fish and milk and
cream that you get every day. You may have
your fried flounder for nearly every meal, and a
jug of pure cow’s milk is put before each diner to
use ad hbttum. The commercial-room is an insti-
tution, and stationery and the latest news ar*
always to hand, besides the best weeklies,
The Mainland hotel is usually a huge wooden
building. You are sometimes put into a room
down a long corridor, where you seem a sort of
Robinson Crusoe, all alone. You wonder how it
pays ; but you don t wonder when you strike them
at race-time, or when the local show is on. Then
people are being turned from the door in scores,
In each bedroom is a coil of knotted rope by which
you escape if the house catches fire. In the
better-class hotels there is a rope-ladder, some-
thing after the style of that one Juliet used to
hang out of her window for Romeo. Then there
are notices tacked-up in all the corridors—“ Fire
escape at end of passage,’' and in the centre of the
hotel is a firebelk You read—“ This bell must
only be rung in case of fire.” You get quite scared
of fire at last, and you can’t sleep waiting for that
bell to ring-out.
• * • •
The tbiug that I would ask Seddon to banish
f rom Maoriland, if I met him, is the whaleback
b ed, or box-bed, as it is called. You know Seddon
can do anything. When Dick goes to Australia, or
annexing some of the islands, and somebody
doe _. something he oughtn’tto, they point a fingerat
] dm and say, “ You’ll catch it when Seddon comes
j lorne ” j\f ow , every second hotel you stop at has an
abom i na tiori of a frame .'made out of sofa-springs,
aj)d j s stuffed on top like a liorse-hair seated
so f a This thing is a bed, and all night long you
are trying to keep from slipping off, and your
bones ‘ ac he terribly. I don’t know why they put
y OU to sleep on those things unless because they
/ ]on - t want y„ ir to get robbed. I must admit that
they are good practice if you want to graduate for
ac f % ut f think you should go in for tight-
rope walking first, and then learn to walk on a
a * lank set on a trestle and play see-saw
top . When you’ve done this well you might
m ana !ge to sleep on a whaleback bed. There is
a i so an advantage in having a beard reaching to
the belt, or in being a woman, as you might then
t i e yo urself on to the top rail by your hair,
j did t know j could swear untU i passed the
SSTSS AS
hj \ J worse nights! I thought
night i s i ep t on a sheet of corrugated
{ d of g the nigl P t j ot washed out of a
j ’ b flood . By this time the clock struck
h r / h j had ser j ous thoughts of letting the
fire . es out 0 f the window and climbing
and P dow P to get tired (as if I wasn’t tired
enougb ) I thought if a policeman saw me and
mist o o k me for a burglar or a lunatic I could easily
tell him thafc 1 was ? om B through my fire-escape
d m At f j w i s h e d that one leg was bandy
the other concave, so that I could fit the bed
better. A little later I took the blankets and
sI f e P* °, n the floor, and I didn’t notice the hardness
01 tie boards. , , , ,
“tlebS
bed and am still alive. But now and again I’ve
had hard thoughts towards him, when he has
charged me 6s. 6d. or Bs. a day because I’ve been
a stranger, while the local people and those from
near parts will get board and residence for ss. But
at . least he is giving more for your money than you
will Set in Australia. You will get the best hotels
in the Southern Hemisphere in Australia, but give
m e the average hotel of Maoriland to stop in all
the time.
m.l.
ROBERT BROTHERS.


Cures all Diseases of the Skin
Eczema, Salt-rheum, Tetter, Rashes, Pimples,
Blackheads, Boils, Ulcers All Due to Impure Blood.
Bead how this young girl was cured with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Z
Mrs. May Watson, 9 Bose Boad, Surry Hills, Sydney, New So Wales sends
momal: ° of her daughter, together iEL folding test?
“My daughter was suffering terribly from eczema on both her hands and feet
I had tried many remedies without success. Relived great
help from Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla myself, I began to give it to mv dauS
Soon she showed signs of improvement, and after takibf a few bottkfs tKmes
disappeared and she is now free from the slightest symptom of the old comnla nf
rewmmendthisw 1 &S T J - gi ? 9puld wish to be * This makes me strongly
recommend this wonderful medicine to any one needing a good blood-purifier.”
Such cures always follow the use of
The World’s Greatest Family IVSedscine.”
You cannot feel well unless your blood is rmre and it x . n .
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will give you both of these h?™d *-t L*?’*?°'
is what you need and what you can quickly have ff vm^win’Zn? h b °°?^-
WfflSsss!. SSBJSft«“
AYER’S i arsaparilla
Brings Comfort and Good Cheer.
Is your tongue coaled ? Are your bowels constipated P AYER’S PILLS.
m
J
J
J
m
m
ss®
26
YEARS’ SUCCESS
AS THE
UNIVERSAL REMEDY '
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
fA sthma, Bronchitis, 1
inf/uenzcj Whooping-
Cough, Consumption,
HAS MADE
nvrbridgcs
vjfangTSnic
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY IN THE HOME
OB KIT OE EVERY COLONIAL.
It saves many Lives.
There is no difficulty in obtaining it, so
when you ask for Owbridge’s Lung
Tonic, insist upon having it, as >
other so-called remedies are M
often substituted .
Prepared by
W.T.OWBRIDBE, M.P.S., Chemist, HulL
Sold in bottles,at Is lid., 25.9 d„ 4s 6 d.,& 11s.,
k by aU Colonial Medicine Vendors.
COPYRIGHT.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
pgECHAjfli 5
F°r Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
. o ! ulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
!* g ? ° f J,* eat ’ °* Appetite .Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin Dis-
\viT e r c nTr SS r^!S ¥ ,S n '? Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
cnrrw»c>ti RELIEF IN I WENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
° ne X ° f theBe Pdls, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
BEECH AM S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. Thev
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
uscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud ov Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are facts admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
ervous and Debilitated is that Beer.ham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold livery where. In Boxes, Is and Us 9d each.
a POLICY FOR TH€
COMMONWEALTH.
Beipg a series of articles rgpriptgd
fron) “Tbc Bfilletip,” witb ap
* appepdi* dgalipg witb tb« Fiscal
QOcStiop.
i ..
PRICE 6d.; posted, Bd.
S. FREEMAN SONS L"V™
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
’S
F
BAKING
POWDER.
PICKLES
EXTRACT O
BLACKING.
TOMATO SAUCE.
HEAD OFFICE : WTNTAED
BLUE (Bag or Square).
VINEGAR. FLOUR.
JELLY CRYSTALS.
.
SYDNEY.
n-,i tt . _ _ ———
The Universal Remedy for Acidity oi t>.e Stomacn,
Headache, Heartburn, Indig-estion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cur®
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel: the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
V».v
m
Sold Throughout the Worm.
“OH OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
IRISH MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


RUBBER GOODS
Waterproof Coats, 15s to 70s.
Rubber Boots, 17s 6d to 20s.
Goloshes —Ladies’, 2s 6d and 3s.
Gentlemen’s, 4s and
4s 6d.
Leggings, 4s 6d, ss, and 6s 6cL
Driving Rugs,
10s 6d, 16s 6d, 21s, 30s
Hot-Water Bags, Best English
Rubber, 6s and upwards
PERDRIAU & C 0.,
RUBkRER MANUFACTURERS & IMPORTERS,
(Catalogues Post Free) 270 Geo rge Street, Sydney.
60
YEARS EYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W- O- J & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK BTHKIU\ SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
CEORCE & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS : Bedroom (single), 3s. per Day, or 21s.
per Week ; Bedroom (double), 6s. per day, or Two
Guineas per Week.
Breakfast, Luncheon, or Dinner from
ONE SHILLING upwards.
Letters and Telegrams addressed to “ The Manager"
will receive prompt attention.
ORTHINCTON PUMPS
All have Wrought Iron Valve Gear
FIIIQPS, both Horizontal t Uertioal,
. . . KEPT IN STOCK . . .
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives,
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Send for Catalogue.
,uTOM.
TRADE MARK-
r^\
plunger and ring pattern
——
SPOONS & FORKS
at the
SHOW-ROOMS,
w v, v\Y^\\V\VV\wa
.). & J. MAXFTELD, Pbopr«.. SHEFFIELD.
JJbBOT
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MAR
©S#
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
«THE 3BLOCJUL,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
NEWMAN’S
v - THROAT PASTILLES.
NEWMAN’S
in King St.
the most nutritious.
EPPS’S
GRATBFUI.—COMFORTING.
COCO A
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
ERASMIC
PEERLESS
SOAP
Unequalled as a Preserver and
Beautifier of the Complexion. It diffuses an exquisite
odor, and impartsa stimulating and refreshing 1 influence.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAv
SOFT
SKIN
VELVETY
CAN OBTAIN
IT
&
to
&
0
V
r«9
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers— M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
Pi
CO.
LiSVSITED,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
FOR FELTON and LEFFEL WATER WHEELS.
IN stock: :
Knowles Steam Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors, Nagel Horizontal
and Vertical Engines and Boilers, Pennsylvania Return Tubular Boilers, Butialo
Blowers and Exhaust Fans, Morris Dredging Pumps, Bullock Diamond Drills Dodge
Rock Breakers, Roger Rolls, Gates Rock Breakers, Challenge Ore Feeders, Hunting-
ton Quartz Mills, Wood and Iron Working and Laundry Machinery, and Mine and
Mill Supplies. go Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
And at San Prancisco and London.
SINGLE ANo
DUPLEX.
e mm
DUPLEX OUTSIDE PLUNGER PATTERN.
Pumps for Every Possible Pumping Purpose.
Boiler Feeders
Light Service Pumps
Mining Pi:mp s
Vacuum Pumps
Air Pump
Air Compressors
* '■ :
Sole A (/ents in A ustrafnsin
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
DUPLEX PISTON PATTERN.
