

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. Reid’s London Draught Stout.
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
107 Kent Street, SydLney,
Mining and Contractors’
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS'
Plant, Engineers’ and
and GENERAL
Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
sd
sm> FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS
WINE!
WINE !
WINE!
Bnkkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST
AUSTRALIA.
iSfend /or Price List
Mention this paper,
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET. SYDNEY.
m.
V
SOLE AGENTS EOR
c
fill >* 'O-f '.'tJlf'?- • •"„ *■
85 Pitt Street,
L?
SYDNEY
GINE
’^raa
\ND
na^ceto:
D
!ICAL, pi:
©
O.
PU
Benches J
TIOIIE
f
That’s All!
I
NOW READY. NOW READY.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
A Reprint of articles from The Bulletin.
S a.
Sole Wholesale Agents; EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane
sdf
bcobaht.
-
Hadley s Orient jjsteS.
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WfMPOLK'S GEORGE HOTEL, oppositeSfe.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day. or 2 Guineas per Week.
6. H ,
’s
.
CHAMPAGNE
Extra Dry.
SI
ill
G. H. Mumm’s
CHAMPAGNE
Extra Dry.
AMUSEMENT far OLD and TOTING.
Wonderful Yahie—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker’s Love Bond, or SiameseJ/nks ; Parisian
Skirt Dahoe (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pockety Book of Conjuring Tricks/Klondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. fid.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
sd
718 George-atreet, SYDNEY.
H. L.-HUTCHINSON Manasrer.
(Mention this paper when writing.
fsd
fs
LEATHER
BELTiNG
df
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by theGovts. of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches: —P. Frank®! & Co., Edward -sb., Brisbane, Q.;
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ;H. K. Fysh and
00., Cdilins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter* Co., Auckland :
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
Fair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4 J%.
™ WILFLEY TABLE.
The Best Ore Concentrator in the World.
N. GUTHRIDCE LTD., Agents, 71 Clarence-st., Sydney; Melbourne, Fremantle and Kalgoorlie.
s. freeman * SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES;
BATHO’S BAKING ... POWDER
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
map office, WTNTABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
DARK TOBACCO.
THERE IS ONLY ONE BEST TOBACCO AND THAT TOBACCO IS
“WEALTH OF NATIONS
99
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne>
Telephone No. 10h3.
CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensile and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
sdf
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
lie
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Edisuran - Lamp.
economy in -
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
a
United Electric Light
Ce., Ltd. g
EDISWAN
sf
The Bulletin
Vol. 22.—N0. 1094 j
[Saturday, February 2, 1901.
Poa-stprori at tbe Gfenora! Post Office. Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a ‘M^wsoaner.


A POLICY
for the
COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d.—posted Bd.
£BT Supplied direct from The Bulletin office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any Aus-
tralasian province).
Sole Wholesale Agents: ' s '
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LIMITED,
Sydney and Brisbane.
Eumenthol Jujubes
For
DOUGHS, GOLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
S.
(REGISTERED).
mi
mm
§psi
IN TINS, 18. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
, SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST* FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
Q. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in indigestion and Dyspepsii
THE RED PAGE.
Extract from minutes of proceed-
ings of the Society of Irrespon-
SIBLES, HELD IN THE SOCIETY’S ATTIC
at Sydney on an indefinite date.
s —Transactions, I, 240-5.
In the absence of the Most Irresponsible, the
Next Most Irresponsible opened the meeting with
claret at -3s. per gallon.
The explanation why Bags’s arm was in splint's
set-the company diligently searching for its scars.
Broyne recalled the time when his shoulder was
dislocated; and told how his bruised form lay
upon a table while an affectionate uncle sat
astride him with a fancy knee-grip of the ribs;
one doctor held his head ; and another muscular
meduco, with a foot braced against the sufferer’s
neck, hauled at his arm until the errant bone
splashed into place again.
Bags complained of the trait of human nature
which set sympathetic friends recounting their
own past injuries instead of paying attention to
the case in hand.
Dorian wanted to know why a mishap to a
stranger or even a friend provoked laughter.
Broyne thought that the suddenness of such
events was responsible, and gave as an instance
the behaviour of an elderly man tripping across
Pitt and King Street comer on a wet day. He
takes the gutter nimbly in his stride ; lands on a
place slippery from the drippings from a leaky
awning wnere two weeds and an oat-plant grow
in the guttering, executes a number of rapid, in-
tricate evolutions in a frantic but fruitless en-
deavour to regain equilibrium—swirls his hand-
bag—clutches the air—sits violently. Taking
the floor, Broyne enquires whether anyone
was at the “fight.” Reckons the current style
of writing-up fights is becoming threadbare.
Not half enough is said about the A
professional pug. once told him that often, in the
crowd of onlookers, the boxer will note a pair of
eyes glaring at him with such intensity that he
cannot refrain from watching them, and gets off
his guard for the fraction of a second. _ The.other
man takes advantage, and lands one with knock-
out force. Broyne remarks that he used to put
’em lip a bit himself. In his verdant days, could
take on a 12-round bout, possibly a rare neat
finish, for a small stake —3s, (id., or something like
that.
Dorian avows himself a great admirer of Larry
Foley’s. L irry fine at sirtglesticks.
Broyne likes to see Larry schooling a beginner,
and teaching him the use of his feet. Larry has a
great knaeic of letting an opponent dash past him
in a wild hinge,; then’he scoops one in on the
strained place between stomach and ribs,
which pumps the beginner’s wind right out.
Broyne was at Carringtpn Grounds the night
Larry Foley and Burke fought. Regular fiasco.
It only needed someone to break a paling and the
crowd would have wrecked the place. Somebody
may have, drunk wine that night ; but the
backers drank water. Colonel Macdonald was a
great old sport. Always lilted to have a bout
with his coachman before his shower in the morn-
ing. Hill and some other anGient cronies once
took advantage of the Colonel’s want of a suit-
able man to arrange with Larry (just
back from bashing ttie Pride of Turon to
pulp) to apply for the place. At the
customary trial of fitness Larry lay for the
veteran and, in the presence of Hill and others,
who dropped in by premeditated accident,,
punished him into the seventeenth degree of
amazement until the joke was explained. Mace
was a great fighter ; but belonged to a different
school. Griifo wis chiefly remarkable for his;
ability to duck. People used to fear the lad could
not hit hard enough. Broyne believed the Same
until the redoubtable Griffo favoured his ribs at
the baths. !
Dorian remarked that in England old pugs made
a practice of lounging into a pub. and offering all
and sundry an opportunity to hit face—at a
pint of beer a time. The face was always just a
little bit away from the fist. Sometimes the
enthusiastic striker pulped his fist on a doorpost.
Anyhow, a man might wager all the pints in a
brewery, and never get home on the head as it
ducked from side to side. The only way to com-
bat ducking was to deliver a pit-pat blow like
lightning—so (manual illustration). By the way,
who wrote “ The Arab’s Farewell to his Steed,? ”
Broyne didn’t know. The shearer’s farewell to
his steed was somewhat different, but usually to
the effect that the cleaned-out wielder of shears
blankety blank well hoped that the blankety
blank moke would fall and break the neck of the
lucky winner at the first unmentionable oppor-
tunity.
Dorian complained that long ago he knew a
girl—a mono-solo creature —who used to sing the
Arab’s Farewell to his Steed in company, and
glance meaningly at him when she reached the
words “ Who stands so meekly by.” Broke off
with that girl. He thought the Arab horse and
its influence were a bit over-rated.
Broyne differed from that view where hacks and
bloods were concerned, and mentioned the pecu-
liar fact that it is to the dam, and not the sire,
that Arabs trace their Syrian pedigrees.
Dorian considered it wonderful how those
Afghan chaps manage camels in the back country.
Best camels —used for riding and fast work—are
the Bisharin. Kipling says something about that,
and the way the blind man in “The Light that
Failed ” felt his way over the beast for the half-
moon brand.
Broyne told how once, at Adelaide, he saw a
camel put aboard a steamer for the West. They
couldn’t get the brute into a horse-box, so they
joined a number of pig-nets, bunched him up in
them, and swung him aboard all of a heap.
Dorian, voyaging to North Shore a few nights
back, witnessed a fearful accident. As boat ap-
proached wharf a man leapt for the stage. Fell
short into water. Number of people saw and
stood spell-bound. Dorian jumped for the stage
arid endeavoured to push back the steamer—per-
haps 800 tons—didn’t know what he was doing
until, under the pressure, his bones started to
crack. The man was crushed like an egg. If a
dozen of those standing by had had presence of
mind to assist .him in the endeavour to hold off
boat, man might have been saved. Presence of
mind was a grand thing.
Broyne had need of plenty. In painting a
gable, for instance, swinging on a scaffold 30 or 40
feet above tlie pavement, the lack of something
to press the foot against, or of confidence in-the
man at the other end of scaffold, would melt
one's presence of mind to jelly. Once a man
became nervous it was all up with lnm. He might
f all of sheer Scare, or he might cling like a dying
bird and have to be hauled up and prised off the
c- >ar Questioned, Broyne couldn’t say what was
the' best; height from which to fall with chances of
escape. Firmly believed that more men were
killed in falls from distances of six to ten feet than
when they tumbled from greater heights. In a
little 'drop a man could only turn once—upside
down—and would be likely to break his neck.
Knew of a slater who slipped on a roof.
As he rolled the man jabbed his slate-pick
into the slates and saved himself from
a drop of about 20 feet. The great thing to
remember when one found himself falling was
to thfow back the head. That done, there was a
chance of landing on one’s feet or shoulders. Pro-
fessional acrobats always kept the head well back.
Jockeys, especially steeple-chasers, were trained
sometimes to do this. It was a horrible sensation
to lie stunned and be afraid to think what had
happened. A mare one time dashed through a
stable-door and left Broyne in a limp mass.
There must have been something wrong with her
eyes, for she couldn’t steer herself through
a big gateway. Horses that are untameable
have, as a rule, defective eyes. The eyes
of an ordinary horse magnify things about seven
times. ' You can easily prove this by watching
a horse step over a stick, or even a streak of some-
thing on the road. It lifts its feet to what seems
an altogether unnecessary height. Some people
take advantage of the magnifying power of the
horse’s eye when doling out his oats. Yes, it’s a
great wonder more people are not killed'in’the
insane practice of jumping from unmoored ferry-
boats. A man tears ,his way through the crowd
in the gangway and leaps ashore, then strolls
slowly, leisurely, across the wharf.
Bags, when a lad, was proud of his jumping
feats. Sprang from a Pyrmont ferry-boat on his
way to town one morning, landed on a slimy
place, slid across the wharf into the water, went
right underneath the wharf, and came back to the
steamer.
Barkis told the story of the seaman’s ghost that
sits on the Dawes Point buoy (see Bulletin, 18/8/’0).
The arrival of Doolan was hailed with acclama-
tion. Doolan explained that he had forgotten
all about the meeting until he smelt the whiskey-
punch. The faculty of smell was most useful as one
went through life. Wondered if ants had a strong
sense of smell. Remembered living in a house at
Manly infested by ants. One morning put a
barricade of sugar across their track from the nest
and sprinkled rum on the sugar—not too much
rum. The demoralisation of the ants was com-
plete. Most of them stayed at the rum-bar
Intoxication had a curious effect on them ; it
bloated them to twice the normal size. Remark-
ah’.e to note the diliering individualities of ants
under the influence of rum a'nd sugar. Some
drank steadily away till they had their load ; then
they rolled unsteadily back to the nest, moving
with great caution, and doing their utmost to
look sober and respectable. Others only needed
three or four grains of rum-soaked sugar to make
them fight all'over the bar. Some ants were
saturnine, and drank by themselves; others,
by the way they reared on their hind
legs and moved their fore-feet, seemed
to be delivering political addresses to the
ant-electors of East Sydney. Most interest-
ing kind of ant was the ant with- a Conscience
—the ant who knew he had been dent oiit of the
nest to do a good day’s work, and who evidently
felt his position keenly when it came to afternoon
and he had nothing done. You could see him
leave his boon companions at the rum-bar, and
walk homeward reflecting. Then he would sud-
denly spy a sober, industrious ant making speed
to the nest with-a grain of sugar which the runi
had not touched. Inspiration would seize the
conscientious ant; he would rudh upon the other,
and, being strong in liquor, he would tumble the
industrious one over and over in the dust; grab the
grain of sugar ; and march home triumphantly to
the nest, plainly glowing with virtue. Apropos,
Doolan thought the .punch wanted a little more
sugar.
Dorian discourse 1 about clairvoyants. There
was a wonderful woman in the Arcade.
Broyne knew their tricks. He illustrated his
remarks, and told how, by the arrangement of
lights, the clairvoyant’s face was in darkness and
the anxious one’s features were illuminated. Then
the uncanny creature would size up her victim and
tell by feeling the hands, and so on, some trait
upon which a startling question could be based.
Once startled, the victim was lost. The so-called
“science” rested upon the faculty of observation.
Knew a man who spent hours in the street “ siz-
ing-up” the passers-by. Here’s a shop-girl!
Why ? Because her dress is of a shimmery black
stuff, hemmed and bound for economy’s sake.
There a waitress ! Also a black dres3 ; but dif-
ferent material, something that does n’t stain.
And*the waitress was fluminocky about the feet.
So on ; nearly every man and woman showing in
some way to a keen observer some badge of his or
her calling.
Dorian drew attention to a line on his palm—a
straight one near the second finger—said to indi-
cate the literary instinct. (Hands inspected.)
Bags and Dorian possess the line ; Broyne, the
painter, and Barkis, the twirler of clods, have it
not. Elation of the two first. Despair of the
livelier ones. Doolan’s lines invisible, because of
blisters from the last boating picnic.
Bags didn’t believe in “lines.” Hands were
everything. No matter how profound the musical
instinct, it must remain dumb if the hands were
unfitted for its expression.
Broyne couldn’t see- why somebody did not
start a,new religious order. The Salvation Army
idea had worn itself out. What was now required
was a new Order, on practical lines. What could
take better than the Lord’s Pilots, for instance ?
Look at the chances there would be for reviewing
in sea-terms ! How the bos’ns and bos’ns’ mates
could spin it out about lighthouses, and anchors
and harbours, and flotsam and jetsam, and rudder-
less craft and derelicts, and storms and guiding
stars. Instead of barracks, there would be hulks
to be used as battle-ships. The shocking-example
exhibit, instead of being a new reformed sinner,
could be exalted to the status of a captured
privateer. There was money in it. Perhaps Booth
would buy the idea right out. But Broyne didn’t
mind who had the idea as long as a fellow could go
and listen to Sydney police band performing a
fantasia in waltz-time. The instrumentalists, by
sheer force of habit, pick their way through the
melody in the solemn step of the policeman’s beat.
When the cornet goes alone and gropes his way
painfully through the intricate passage, one is
irresistibly reminded of the bobby stalking a
drunk for the foundation of a stripe. The trom-
bone, as he dashes into the fray, makes notes that
seem to accuse the pursuers— “ Ah, ye’ve tore me
mackintosh ! ” >
At his last hearing of the police band,
Broyne, in a careless moment, laughed. A
clarionet-player observed him and read him
through and through. The flush of anger
mantled the performer’s brow, and he dashed
off several . notes so far out of tune and
time that in his efforts to regain his place he
seemed to chase them and handcuff tne wild
sounds after a most desperate struggle. Inciden-
tally, did the company ever notice a policeman
use his handkerchief ? Robert will leisurely ex-
pand his chest, slow. remove his helmet with the
left hand, take out ..ie crown of it his handker-
chief with the rigu„, and resignedly mop his
brow; replace the handkerchief, seize the
helmet with both hands v'and carefully ad-
just it well down on his head. The only»
really indecorous policeman Broyne remembered
having seen was when one midnight in (Jen ge-
street, in front of the Dog and Duck —a hostelry
much affected a dozen years ago by drovers —a
man on horseback rode out of the yard. His dog
heeled' the hobby. Georgo-street was metalled in
those days, and bobby rushed into the road and
heaved blue metal at man and dog, with ail the
vigour of indignation.
Bags, in response to Doolan's mock-solicitous en-
quiry, mentioned that for the be.ru-r nyanmiation
of his injured arm ac-rays had been used. The
operator informed him that in the muni ulation
of electrical apparatus it-was a wise plan to keep
the unused hand behind the back. The careless
resting of the left hand on part of the wires or on
something exposed, while the mind was busily
watching the movements of the right, might com-
plete a circuit with fatal results.
Broyne explained that men working on scaf-
folds had to train themselves to keep guard of
both feet. A man might be resting Ins whole
weight on one foot, while the other dangled over
the edge of the plank. Unconsciously," when the
foot under pressure became tired, lie might throw
his weight on the other and go crash to the
ground. Painters found it a good plan to have a
nail or little strip of wood—anything that one
might press the toe. against. It might seem
incredible, but the pressure of such a little guard
had saved many a man’s life.
Doolan, being helped to a little more punch,
remarked that punch was a great invention.
Talking of inventions, he wondered whether any
capitalist would do the right thing'by his inven-
tion of a musical beer-pump. At present, the
threepenny bar was a sordid, degraded place. No
fine emotions came to elevate the drinkers. That
was why they fell prone. The talk ran
mainly on pony-race. The beer-pump moved
with an inglorious swish its wonders to per-
form. Why not have ,a musical-box to be
set in motion by, the nymph-pulled handle ?
This would profit botbythe customer and the
publican. The moral tone of the bar-room might
be raised by selections from “ The Messiah,” or a
spirit of innocent fun disseminated by “The
Night before Larry was Stretched.” The music
could be arranged to go only half-way through the
tune at one pull, so that the customer would in-
vest another 3d. to get the remainder. It was a
great idea.
Dorian remarked that talking about drinks (not
too much sugar, thanks ; if there’s too - match
whisky, it’s on the right side), Adelaide was a
regular terror. In the forenoon a hot blast right
froip the centre of the continent blows down the
streets. In the afternoon the wind blows'up the
streets, thus conserving the dust. Lemons don’t
seem to grow well over there —people too lazy. In
the shop windows a few lemons are kept for show ;
but the squashes are prepared under the counter.
In an evil moment Dorian excited the squash
artist into -pouring from the bottle an excessive
amount of juice—- i.c., citric acid. Ho went home
with ' a storj|i raging' under his waistcoat so
violently as to call forth loud lamentation.
Bags wanted to 'know who paid the piper in the
case of the resourceful young man who financed a
4s. trip to the-theatre with 3s. cash 'in hand.
Opinions differed.
Broyne explained the pawn-ticket-at-a-sacritice
dodge. The pawnbroker himself usually arranges
it—as a watch worth, sayv £••>• Gets a fellow to
take a £5 ticket and palm .himself off as Sq-and-So
the joekev. Got a race to ride in a hurry. Fine
thing. Stony. Pity-to lose the mount. “If I
could only get £3 for this ticket,!, could pay me
fare and have,a bit to put on me mount. She’s a
lovely little clock. .Compand have a look at her, if
you like.” Verdant pays £3 for ticket to
“ joekev,” forgetting pawnbroker’s £5. Pawn-
broker .wbacks £3 with jockey. When Verdant
goes to-get watch he is ready to pay interest, but
watch costs him £8 and interest. Hotel-broking
is another great dodge to -play on people in
search of a licensed hoase. Doesn’t matter a bit
whether bquse is for sale or not. Broker says it’s
“ Best chance in the market. Deuce of a lot of
•’em' after this place. Better let me have a deposit
to clinch.” Gets cash. Day or two afterwards
pulls long face. Hopes A. Finefellow, the owner
of the pub, won’t be so darned mean as to hold
such a decent chap as you to the bargain.
Brewery influence, police influence, and all that.
Rotten show. Found it out accidentally--merci-
ful preservation. Would advise you to think
yourself well out of it. Just throwing good
money away ! Gradually persuades intending
purchaser to forfeit deposit and .clear , for his life
to the bogus side or somewhere out of sight.
A knock at the door announces Romeo.
Romeo talks of Bohemians and Italy. Left
Italy not long ago with an English vocabulary of
three words —bread, wine, house. Rattles away
now as fluently as any bloke. Bags wants to
know about D’Annunzio, Romeo shakes head.
D’Annunzio is not respected. Now, Bovio—all
the Irresponsibles have heard of Bovio?. Wliat,
never ! Alas! such is fame. In Italy it is not
like it is here. Oh, no. There, there are very
many men, good men, great men, classical, pro-
found. They write, they compose, they pamt,
but they escape criticism. Others not near so
good arb seized upon by critics—praised or blamed,
what does it matter ? They become famous.
Sweet are the uses of advertisement, remarked
Broyne. Some day we will see a new temple of
Fame ; and in it a newsboy with a news-sheet will
be the central figure.
The meeting then fell down the stairs.
Verses by Oscar Wilde .
I QUIA MULTUM AW AVI.
)ear Heart I think the young impassioned priest
Vhen first he takes from out the hidden shrme
lis Qod imprisoned in the Eucharist,
i.nd eats the bread and drinks the dreadful wine,
Peels not such awful wonder as I felt
Vhen first my smitten eyes beat full on thee,
Lnd-all night long before thy feet I knelt
.''ill thou wert wearied of Idolatry.
ih ! hadst thou liked me' less and loved me more,
through all those summer days of joy and rain,
had not now been sorrow’s heritor
)r stood a lackey in the House of Pain.
'l et, though remorse, youth’s white-faced senes-
chal,
Tread on my heels with all his retinue
[ am most glad 1 loved thee —think of all
Che suns that go to make one speedwell blue !
J*
JN THE -SALE BY AUCTION OF KEATS'
LOVE-LETTERS.
These are the letters which Endymion wrote
To one he loved in secret and apart.
And now the brawlers of the auction mart
Bat-gain and bid for each poor blotted note,
Aye, for each separate pulse of passion quote
The merchant’s price : I think they love not art,
Who break the crystal of a poet’s heart,
That sjnall and sickly eyes may glare and gloat.
Is it not said that many years ago,
In a far Eastern town, some soldiers ran
With torches through the midnight, and began
To wrangle for mean raiment, and to throw
Dice for the garments of a wretched man,
Not knowing the God’s wonder, or His woe !
TA'jIMUM VITAL
To stab my youth with desperate knives, to weal
This paltry age’s gaudy livery.
To let each base hand filch my treasury,
To mesh my soul within a woman’s hair,
And be mere Fortune’s lackeyed groom—l swear
I love it not ! theSe things are less to me
Than the-thin foam that fretsupon the sea,
Less than the thistle-down of summer air
Which hath no seed : better to stand aloof
Far from these slanderous fools who mock my lif<
Knowing me not, better the lowliest roof
Fit for the meanest kind to.sojogrn in,
Than to go back to that hoarse cave of strife
Where my white soul first kissed the mouth of an
At
THEOCRITUS: A VILLA NELLE.
O Singer of Persephone !
In the dint meadows desolate ;
. Dost thou remember Sicily ?
Still through the ivy flits the bee
Where Amaryllis lies in. statp-; ,
O Singer of Persephone f
ISinnetha calls on Hecate
And hears the wild dogs at the gat*;
Dost thou remember Sicily ?
Still 'by the light, and.laughing sea
Poor Polypheine bemoans his fate:
O Singer of Persephone ! .•*
And still in boyish rivalry
Young D ip mis ch illenges his mat©:
Dost thou remember Sicily ?
Slim Lacon keeps a goat for thee,
'For thee the jocund shepherds wait,
O Singer of Persephone !
Dost thou remember Sicily..?
A* '
■REQUIE' CA T. - .
Tread lightly, she is near
Under the snow, . . ■ .
Speak gently, she can hear ,
The. daisies grow.
All her bright golden hair
’ Tarnished with rust,
She that Was young and fair j
Fallen to' dust.
Lily-like, white as snpw,
She hardly knew 1 V.'
' Slip was a-.woman, so .
Sweetly she grew. '' ■ :
Coffin-board, heavy stone,
Lie on her breast,
I vex my. heart alone,
She is at rest. ; .
Peace, peace, she cannot hear
Lyre or sonnet,
All my life’s buried here,
Heap earth upon it.


Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Wool and Produce Brokers.
Consolidated Charge)
for Selling Wool J
2| per cent.
/Includes all Charges excepting
/cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
BEST PRICES^^
.... FOR ....
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN
OBTAINED BY CONSIGNING TO
Goldsbrough, Mort*Co.
Circular Quay, Sydney,
Who render PROMPT RETURNS and safeguard your
Proceeds by their TRUST ACCOUNT System.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
LAWRENCE S PATENT TOBACCO CUTTER.
PRICE £6-
Lawrence’s No. 2: Improved Automatic and Self-Feeding. Price £3 15s.
Note.— These machines are giving universal satisfaction, and are specially recommended to tobacconists
in the country, so as to to supply their customers with Fresh-Cut and Moist Tobacco.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.
tS" THIS IS THE LATEST TYPE I
GRAMOPHONE-or
ZONOPHONE!
sd
phonograph Records
REDUCED TO
22/6
PER
DOZEN
For a Few Weeks Only.
ORDER
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Rowe St., Sydney (Nearly opposite G.P.0.)
IV. 'J. N. Oldersha iv, Manager.
HIGHEST AWARD-GOLD MEDAL—PARIS EXHIBITION, 1900.
AtUJKS
For INFANTS
and INVALIDS
fs
MELLIN’S FOOD yields a complete diet for the youngest
infants, in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD retains its properties for any length of
time and is adapted for use in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD when dissolved in milk, makes a simple
nutritious diet for growing children.
Samples etc., may be obtained of GOLLIN & Co., 172, Clarence Street, Sydney, 562 4, Bourke
Street, Melbourne, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, and Wellington.
Mellin’s Food Company tor Australia and New Zealand Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, London.
MELUN’S EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS,
and BRONCHITIS.
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & CO., 172 Clarence Street, Sydney.
NEWMAN’S
For Removing 1
Superfluous Hair.
SPECIAL
By post — 2s* fid* (i packet*
C. E. NEWMAN, Chemist,
52 King Street, Sydney.
DEPILATORY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED CHARGES ON
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charges will be
On Wools reali. .ag 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ... ...
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under ... ... ...
WAY BILES sent on application.
WHEAT.
SALES last season show an increase of 25 per cent, as compared with previous years. Unrivalled
accommodation. Three months’ free storage.
CIRCULAR giving fullest particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired.
. . CONSIGNORS are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of
this Company.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
WOOL. WOOL. WOOL.
Wincfocombe, Carson & Co. Ltd.
Selling Agents twin -
WOOL:
2 per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale,
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
Reduced Wool
Commission
21 per cent.
on all lots.
Large or Small.
WHITE AND CONSULT THEM ABOUT SALE OF YOUR PRESENT CLIP
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. ITD.,
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 O’CONNELL STREET. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, ho the Growers.
BONUS J PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
Weave the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge \d. per lb. to the Buyers.
LAWRUS
Rggd.
FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS & STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only :
df
it
4>
sdf
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
STOCDALE & DUFFUS, 326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, &422, George St., Sydney.
Dr. Clarksou’a Sleotric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigora.tor
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is trulv wonderfuL
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. organs is truly wonaerrau
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
QWL STORE,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
sd
15
C.t
i, j/r,*s
ISM* *Ai
-«✓ -*7'.
rTTTnr
V3UUMII
K AN
aatw/
' 1
f/tv
fti
vVhen
writing
please
mention
Tub
BULCETIN.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
i Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands,
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
„ . „ , £ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 330 i
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 16s. to 2 2 0 i
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee andi
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, |
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &o.
All communications should be addressed to— I
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney j


TATTERS ALLS.
Address: Care GKESO. ADAMS, Hotoart.
Launceston C.
Feb. 6
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
jshares in the above.
Name
Address
Newmarket H. March 2,1901.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address
Australian 0. (Special) March 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
Rosehill C. March 23.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
4k
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
Sydney C. April 8.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address ■
City Tattersall’s H. April 20.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in. the above.
Name
Address
s
For full particulars read
Address “ Tattersall,” care
our Printed Circular
Geo. Adams, Hobart.


MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
m
M
\ j
\
u-,.
band saw mills. circular saw mills.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Out-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Olarence-st., Sydney.
id*
&
i
v y? y?
V
How tired you look. How you long
for a good rest. It’s work through, the
day and worry through the night.
Already you have nervous dyspepsia,
nervous sick headache, and neuralgia.
Your food distresses you. You are
“all tired out,” and you suffer from
terrible depression.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
is what you need. It keeps you up
when especially pressed with work. It
cures dyspepsia, and it builds up ex-
hausted nerve tissue.
Pure, rich blood, a strong digestion,
a clear skin, steady and vigorous
nerves; these may all he yours if you
only use this great blood-purifying and
blood-forming medicine.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
6 DCVW KIDGrE’S ’
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
Aku GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
Missing Friends.
RJScKIM, deceased. Information required of where-
aboutsofJohn MeKim, brother of William
r.lcKim deceased, late of Talbot, Victoria, carter.
E. S. HEEIIING , Solicitok,
Talbot, Victoria.
[F thia meets the eye of William Hamblin, for-
® merly of Kyueton, Vic., or anyone knowing his where-
abouts, please write to his brother George Hamblin,
Canmain, via Junee, N.B. Wales. Father dead.
a. h. a.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
In 1899 854 marriages were perpetrated
at Sydney matrimonial agencies, and 1509 at simi-
lar establishments in Melbourne. Only one
divorce was granted re Sydney matrimonial-
agency marriages during 1899 ; but in Melbourne
no iess than 37 agency marriages ended in divorce
in that year. Fully one-fifth of all Vie. mar-
riages are now performed at matrimonial agencies,
so apparently this swift kind of wedding
without frills has taken a much stronger
hold there than it has in N.S.W. tip
to 30th Sept., 1900,. 3925 weddings in all
eventuated at the Sydney agencies. The parsons
mostly belong to small obscure sects —a Methodist
Episcopal man, who performed 1595 marriages,
has the highest record, and an Independent Pres-
byterian comes next with 904. Then come a New
Church of England reverend with a record of 352,
and a Unitarian with 308. At present the sheet-
anchor of one of the agencies appears to be the
Rev. Seraphim Phocas, of the Greek Church,
who supplemented his humble orthodox screw by
performing 154 marriages in nine months.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk bTulFit
Mattalassk and other Unsiuunkablk Shikta
are highly recommended.
33/- per Halj-dozett, free by poet thro ay ho at
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
E. M 01 T NTCASTLE !t SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
Australia!? tyCitdal PnWideQt Society
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying no*
more than 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
fsd
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10Sr
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
AST Send for a
Catalogue.
f
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER. 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
YORKSHIRE
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
RELISH
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually In England,
beware of substitutions.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS aloue.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours hemoii, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors GOOQALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiaco, Perth, W. A. &6S, King St.,Melbourne
Paris exhibition, 1900.-Britisb Awards
The Only
Grand
Prix
sdf
highest offward
ever made!
SOLELY FOR TOILET SOAP
HAS BEEN AWARDED TO
(Established 1789.)
VIC 73
KIRJ
CL;
BRUT REC F D
Bp
flppoiittmcr
to
TrTT
sdf
Dime
her ißajestp Che Queen ana h.R.fi. Che Prince of Wales.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1900 inclusive.
IST.S.W. Carriage & Sadcllery Bla,nf. Company
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-slreet, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, i. 5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, i. 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, nil.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Pjrice List. NOTICE.— Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we oan. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Kailway Station).
OUK SPECIAL Ao. 2
£8 18/6
sd
Delirered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
Where the Green Fades into Grey.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw, all white and gleaming,
The long-dry creek-course lie.
Why dried and white, when gasping
Drought-cursed the leagues must sigh ?
I am the gulf dividing
The good green lands and gay,
From desert wide —beyond me
The green fades into grey.
I saw a stunted mulga,
Lone —as by God’s decree.
Why stand you here so lonely
With never comrade-tree ?
For sentinel, and token
Of forests far away ;
In wastrel lands, where round me
The green fades into grey.
And here a salt-lake glistened,
Bordered with samphire red.
Why red amid this pallor
Like life amid the dead ?
Eye of the desert am I
Cold watcher of decay—
Yet red with tears by gazing
At green fade into grey.
And there, through haze and shimmer,
Splendour of false mirage.
Why taunt the earth with picture
Of blessed ocean-marge ?
A sign I am for solace,
Promise of aid some day ;
Comfort to earth while ’neath me
The green fades into grey.
And where the plains were widest
Cross’d peaks of granite stood—
Grey rocks that count the ages—
Who rests beneath the rood ?
Oh, one who loved his sorrow
And sleeps with it for aye,
For silence guards his slumber
Where green fades into grey.
W. A.
PROSPECT GOOD.
A Seaside Hour.
The breeze lapped sweet like a woman’s breath,
On the lips and eyes ;
The still earth, soaked with summer heat,
Slept under sweeping skies.
The brown-green gums, with drooping plumes,
Spread to the yellow sand ;
And blue seas, lipped with bursting foam,
Raced to the lazy land.
Gay with laughter and romping groups
Were sands and shading trees,
The music of their shouting hid
The clamour of the seas.
The laughter of the merry life
Kissed the eyes of my love—
Surely the Good Hand compassed this—
The Christian God above !
• • •
The sharp cry of a pain-sick child
Struck, like a steel-grey sword,
The love-light from my lady’s eyes—
And killed the gentle Lord !
V.
ONLYS.
The tremendous difficulty in the way of
estimating how long the water in a reservoir will
.spin-out is just being illustrated at Broken Hill,
where last year’s experiences from a water-con-
servation point of view were the worst on record
—which is saying a lot. First there was the ques-
tion of silt in the reservoir; even now, after a
hydrographic survey has been made, there is still
disputing as to whether it is 6in. or 4ft. 6in. deep.
The greatest uncertainty is, however, as to the
loss by evaporation, which frequently in a bad
month exceeds Ift. Further, when water is
pumped-out the impurities go with it; what is
lost by evaporation is pure water. Therefore as
the supply gets lower the impurities are concen-
trated ; so the question arises what quantity of
fluid in the bottom is unusable. (There are
numerous piggeries and a sanitary-depot on the
watershed.) Estimates of the time the water will
last run from three months to ten ; but, which-
ever is right, Broken Hill isn’t just the place a
cold waterman should be recommended to for a
while—unless to cure him of his disease.


Tto Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
THIS SOCIETY, in addition *. *. Established 1871. 3 **
I. hl ßeini^k, Spe f ° ial Poli ? ies granting-— the UBUal f ° rDlS 0f Assuranoe > is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
IL A Paid ' u P°l > o c»se oTpernlanen t^ncapacity*through thr ° U * h illneBB to earn a livellhood -
, T Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK M D M T n nw
Hon. J. H CARRriTHP’PQ • ’ “'R, MU)., Chairman;
"• GARRUTHERS, Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.Q.
mt * ated ... exceed £1,350,000 Annual Turn
0 - 0 -Annual Income exceeds £2110,000
bonus year, wot 8 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GEO. F: MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
A. BOWMAN’S
. . . You Can Have . . .
English Boots at
14/6 per pair.
Tan Boots at
16/6 per pair.
Porpoise Hide at
17/6 per pair.
Best Style.
Best Quality.
No
Better
Made.
i
Wo do One Line—Gentlemen’s Boots—only.
That one we do Well.
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St.,
also 145 KING ST., opp. Theatre Royal.
NOW READY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being a reprint of a large number of articles from
Ihb Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia. J
Price 6d; Posted Bd.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
or rare, curious,
AND LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COMFETIXIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
&c
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique in providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “Allenburys” Milk Food No. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
The “ Allenburys ” Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of liie.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
The “ AHenburys” Malted Food No. 3
For Infants over six months of age.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that— “No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 484, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
<3ood Tailoripg.
SUMMER.
Light Weight Tweeds
AND
Worsteds.
PURE INDIGO SURGES,
LIGHT AND TROPICAL WEIGHTS
TO STAND THE SUN.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &c.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
fsd
LU
CC
<
o
//&///,
■/A
%
YANKEE DOUBLE
Is well in front in New South Wales, and forging 1 ahead in
the other Australian States.
The Free Voice of the People is the Strongest Proof possible.
Customs figures show the Yearly Increase in the Sales of DIXSON’S TOBACCO
in NEW SOUTH WALES ALONE to be
1898 INCREASE - - 109,397 113 S.
1 899 INCREASE - - 173,332 T£>s
1900 INCREASE - - 228,263 IIOS.
Over 100 TONS more Last Year than during 1899.
YANKEE DOODLE (LIGHT and DARK) The Great Mild Smoke
AND IS THE TOBACCO OF THE DAY!
CONQUEROR: Dark, Rich, Good —For Smoking and Chewing.
CHAMPION Gold Leaf, Plug' and Cut— Choicest Natural Flavor —CUT, in Hermetically Sealed Patent
Tins, i Champion Blended Stock Yankee Doodle.
BONANZA CIGARS-4 6d. in packets. Best value of any cigar.
MONOPOLE The ORIGINAL ROTHSCHILD, and above all Imitations.
—PIPES AND TOBACCO WARE OP ALL Kmns -
DIXSON & SONS LTD., PARK STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney , for Transmission hy Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 22.—N0. 1094.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1901.
Prior 6d.
A POLITICAL FROST.
YES-NO REID : “By Jove, if the Dry Dog gets a bath now it will be a pretty cold one. But I’ll peg away with the axe just to keep myself warm."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" Australia for the Australians ."
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TEEMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order , Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to 3. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in JilaoJc and. White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgdte Circus; and Street & Co., Comhill.
San Francisco. —The Aroonaut office, 3U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., S 3 Eout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
■SI, with 3s. 3d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of 1 \d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of Tim Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
z&'ctHeZztfi.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1901.
The Dead Queen.
Last week Queen Victoria came to the end
of the longest reign in authentic British his-
tory, and one of the longest in the authentic
records of Europe. So far as the world
knows she had almost every virtue which a
good woman is expected to have, and that is
saying much. Her worst enemies in life
were those mentally-abased and self-styled
loyalists who made a point of crediting their
sovereign with every possible and impossible
description of greatness. These individuals
claimed that Victoria was great because the
Empire made huge conquests in her time ;
because the most wonderful mechanical dis-
coveries of history were made in her time ;
because art and science pi’ogressed in her
time; because wealth accumulated largely
while she was on the throne. Every
sane person knows that Queen Victoria
was responsible for none of these
things but merely looked on at them
as they happened. The British sovereign
of to-day is so completely power-
less in a political sense, and so wholly a
figurehead of State, that even the successful
policy of her Ministers can in no sense be
ascribed to her. And apparently Victoria
knew this well enough. She never claimed
any credit for the great things that hap-
pened while she sat on the ornamental
throne and wielded the ornamental sceptre.
The quiet, unassuming woman w r ho is dead
had far more useful intelligence than her
grovelling admirers, and she was in no
degree responsible for their unwholesome
mental attitudes. They were not her fault,
hut her misfortune. Almost the only time
when the world had a chance to measure the
Queen’s own mental capacity, as distin-
guished from the mental capacity of her
Ministers, was when she took to authorship.
Victoria wassimplyanadmirable woman and
an admirable Queen, in an age and a country
where any good woman of some education and
refinement . oould be a good Queen, and
where brillianoe of any kind has become
superfluous as a royal attribute.
* * * *
It is impossible for perpetual adulation
to be heaped on any person or institution
without some of the dislike which unrea-
soning adulation inspires being transferred
to the object of it. Whenever a crawl-
some race flattens itself abjectly in the dust
before any god there remains a remnant
which keeps itself upright, and loathes those
who thus flatten themselves. And some of
the obloquy which deservedlyfalls on the wor-
shippers attaches itself, quite unjustifiably,
to that which is worshipped. James I. would
never have looked quite the despicable char-
acter he no.w appears but for that sickening
eulogy which has been attached to his name
on the front leaf of the British Bible. No
person of sense would have scoffed at the
good, unpretentious, motherly woman who
sat so long and unobtrusively on the British
throne for not being a genius, if it had not
been for the herd of senseless “ loyal ” syco-j
phants who declared so persistently that she
was one. And if it is impossible to have a!
Sovereign—even a good Sovereign who fills
all the reasonable requirements of the posi-
tion—without a very large section of the
community losing its manliness, its upright
attitude of mind, its grammar and its com-
mon sense, and progressing on its stomach
like the animal that was cursed
in Genesis, then it is better that
there should be no Sovereigns. ■ But
the reason for abolishing the Sovereign
does not necessarily lie in the Sovereign.
Nor did the necessity for abolishing Baal
and Ashtaroth lie in those poetic fictions
themselves. They had the negative virtue
of being harmless enough. They even had
the positive virtue of being artistic and
interesting, and the literature that gathered
round them in an illiterate age was better
than no literature at all. The objection lay
with the worshippers— not with the thing
worshipped.
* * * *
The British monarchy, in its purely busi-
ness aspect, is practically unobjectionable.
The sovereign is not excessively expensive
as sovereigns go. His power is too limited
to allow of his doing any serious harm. It
has been found convenient to have some
nominal head of the State, and a life
monarch saves the cost and trouble of
the periodical election of a President ;
also by reason of that saving of cost a
life monarch is possibly in Britain’s case a
cheaper institution than a President. The
hereditary principle may be ridiculous, but
the official duties of a British sovereign de-
mand so little ability that even the hereditary
principle supplies good enough men and
women nowadays—often it produces men and
women who are more able than the case really
requires, the requirements, in an official
sense, being so very little. So long as it
is understood that the British monarch holds
his or her position by the will of the nation
and for the convenience of the nation, there
is no reason for complaint against the
monarchial system. But when a halo of
I special sanctity gathers round the Head of
the State—when she is supposed to reign by
any sort of Divine right, and to be in some
degree God’s viceroy on earth—when men are
ready to sell their principles and the public
interest for a title conferred by her, or rather
conferred in her name—when they will lie and
intrigue and crawl through all manner of
unclean and devious ways for a passing
recognition from a good woman merely
because she sits upon a throne—then a
moral and mental dry rot sets in and the
best sovereign becomes a public misfortune.
And yet Victoria, so far as all available
information goes, never made the slightest
pretensions to the semi-divinity which her
worshippers built on her and around her.
These people were merely her disaster. If a
sufficiently large proportion of the community
can t take either its whisky or its loyalty
without getting maudlin, then the abolition
of whisky and thrones may become im-
perative. The people whosoinsensately crawl
to monarchy will kill monarchy if they only
crawl hard enough and long enough. Queen
Victoria appears to have been a kindly,
straightforward woman, who preferred to
have her subjects in a reasonably perpen-
dicular state. The fact that a large and
noisy and disgusting section was not con-
structed that way was a matter for which
she was not her fault. And, in many cases,
they themselves were not wholly responsible
either, having inherited their abasement
from a long line of ancestors, and their
flattened posture from their flattened pro-
genitors, and their grovel being a thing that
ran in the family.
* * * *
Almost every British monarch was deified
during life by a large class, just as was
the good Queen who has just gone.
Many of them—including many of the
worst of them—had a still larger halo built)
around them and even more godlike qualities
attributed to them. And now that they are
dead the expressions which even the violently
loyal community uses about them are a shud-
dersome contrast. It is necessary to be
more or less disrespectful to the monarch
who is dead in order to enhance by contrast
the character of the one who is alive
wherefore the language that is now
used about James I. is quite unlike the
language on the front leaf of the Unrevised
Version, and that King who was called the
First Gentleman in Europe is now made to
look more like the Last Semblance of a
Gentleman. Victoria's epitaph should
be that she was a good woman of
homely virtues, whom a mass of greasy
knights and mayors labored hard to bring
into unmerited contempt. It is difficult to
do justice to a person who has -the misfortune
to be approved of by the average knight.
And when that aggregate individual publicly!
overflows with large, globular tears about
the royal lady who recognised his dreadful
virtues, it' is not always easy to remember
that the Queen didn’t make knights except
in name—that she didn’t personally select
the recipients of the alleged honor of knight-
hood —and that the sin of recognising the
average K.C.M.G.’s virtues has been most
unjustlylaidather door. Queen Victoria was
no more to be judged by the self-styled loyal-
ists who said they followed and reverenced
her than God is by the Jabez Balfour who
said he followed Him. The real woman can
with difficulty be disentangled from the
mass of legend heaped up by posturing per-
sons who inflicted their admiration upon
her, and pasted their blatant advertisements
upon her throne, and who will now paste
their blatant advertisement on her memory
so long as it pays to do so—but so far as
she can be disentangled, it seems that the
Slate Queen was a woman who may be justly
and honestly regretted.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Man who is in Two Places at Once.
lln his latest breaking-out in Melbourne the very
| confused George Reid got more than usually
'mixed up as to the date at which what he calls
j Freetrade began in New South Wales, and the
'results were more than usually disastrous. He
said :
I We have had FOUR years of the blight and ruin of
; Freetrade in N.S.W. —
j This fixes the beginning of Freetrade in 189 G, and
; barring the heavy Protection still afforded to
| wine, beer, cigars, tobacco, cigarettes, sugar,
’ molasses, biscuits, confectionery, newspapers,
jam, &c., it did begin then —
—yet that sleepy people have not only managed to
keep alive but during the last SIX years have doubled
their agricultural product.
G. Reid thus ingeniously credits the progress
made in the last two years of Protection to his
alleged Freetrade policy. Then again:
When the panic came 10 years ago the protectionist
policy had a chance of showing its value. From 1890 to
1893 the number of • males employed in the factories of
i Victoria fell from 47,000 to 32,000, or a fall of 15,000 hands
;in three years. How did N.S.W. get on ? The fall in our
1 factories was from 40,000 to 36,000 hands.
I This was SEVEN years ago, and Reid puts down
the.alleviation of the bank-burst panic in N.S.W.
seven years ago under Protection to the credit of
his alleged Freetrade which commenced FOUR
years ago. If Reid would only decide when he
did start Freetrade, or when he started anything,
and, having got the date, would sand his hands
and take a firm hold of it to prevent it slipping,
he would be any amount clearer. At present all
his dates seem to be greased, and they flounder in a
marvellous fashion. There are two things in his
speeches which won’t hang together, and when
the man who started Freetrade in 1896 points
out how N.S.W. was blessed and strength-
ened by Freetrade during the panic times of
1893, he is a muddled old person trying to
be in two places at once. The only question as
to the relative progress of Vic. and N.S.W. under
the two fiscal systems is that relating to their
relative progress in the last four years—since
Reid started his alleged Freetrade. And in these
four years Victoria’s male factory employes have
increased by 6262 against N.S.W.’s increase of
4155; and its female factory employes by 3360
against N.S.W.’s 1651, making a total Victorian
increase of 9622 against the N.S.W. increase of
5806. If Reid wants to credit to Freetrade the
progress of N.S.W. before 1896, then he must
give-up being the man who created the glorious
policy of commercial freedom in N.S.W. in 1896.
And if he isn’t that man, then there is nothing
left for him to be save a howling failure with a
glazed eye.
+
The Commonwealth’s Beer.
An English peer, of all people in the world, is
running a pub. on a principle which shocks the
British Beerage. Bloated capitalists, as they take
off their coronets to mop the cold sweat from their
foreheads, lift their eyes towards Heaven and ask
Divine protection for the existing liquor traffic,
and all because one man in their midst is a prac-
tical convert to the Gothenburg system. Lord
Grey, it seems, is ruler of the land, or most of it,
in the Broomhill (Northumberland) district. On
learning that his tenants wanted another pub., he
built one himself, and got a license for the new
premises, as a matter of lordly course, and put in
a tenant to manage the business in a—haw!—
respectable way. No drunkenness or insubordina-
tion was to be permitted at the Grey Arms. At
the end of the first six months the amount
of the beastly profits astonished his lord-1
ship. It positively hurt the potentate’s family
pride to find himself making such a lot
of money out of the poor devils of Broom-
hill by selling them beer and stuff which
any ordinary person could sell—if he only had a
license. So his lordship decided to allow himself
5 per cent, interest on his money (a comfortable
allowance, too) and put aside 5 per cent, for
redemption of capital, leaving the surplus profit
with trustees for the benefit of the district which
provides the trade. And then, in the artless way
of a well-disposed aristocrat who has unexpectedly
struck an idea, Lord Grey wrote a letter suggest-
ing that magistrates should confine the issue of
drink licenses to landlords who are prepared to
follow his lead. The case of Lord Grey’s pub. is
of interest as showing how a sort of private
Gothenburg System could be started even
in England by “lords of the manor” with
'a certainty of spreading to the towns—if
the brewers would permit it. Needless
to say the peers of the beer-vat will hoi
permit it as long as they have any “vested in-
terests, ” their own or other people's, to defend.
The brewers are the actual, if not the nominal,
owners of thousands of licenses. They are inter-
ested, as landlords and money-lenders, in main
taining the value of each licensed house at its
highest possible figure. They are not going to
lease pubs, and make loans to tenants who will
dedicate surplus profits to the benefit of mankind.
Moreover they will check the issue of new licenses
to any disciples of Grey by conspiring to boycott
them. One Grey in the trade is not a matter
worth considering, but if his socialistic lead be
followed to any eon&iderabl e extent, the followers
will find the brewers refusing to supply them with
beer. And then Lokd Grey and co. must start
their own brewery or relinquish the scheme. The
simple autocrat who learned the virtue of the
Gothenburg system from his own object lesson
has, perhaps, paved the way for a great reform of
j the liquor traffic by un-constitutional means.
hThis thought of a socialistic brewery is fascinat-
ing. Even in the old paradise of vested interests,
private landowners and capitalists could ulti-
mately accomplish the reform which the brewer-
ridden Govt, refuses to even attempt.
-♦
Honesty Fays Best.
If George Reid had gone straight over the
Federation Bill instead of doing that historic
wobble, what a lot of things might have been that
aren’t ! The first Bill was lost early in ’9B through
Reid’s foolish little treachery in breaking his
agreement with the other States about the 50,000
minimum affirmative vote required to carry the
measure, and allowing an impossible 80,000
minimum to be substituted, tinder the Bill
which was thus rejected Sydney had as good a
chance as any other place to be the Federal
capital, and it was while Reid was blundering
round after amendments—he had to invent some
kind of amendment and say it was what he wanted
—that he contrived to get Sydney barred out for
ever. And if the first Bill hadn’t been rejected
through Reid’s clumsy treachery, and a delay
of many months thus caused, the question of
forming a Federal Ministry would have come along
when Reid was still in office, and he would have
been sent for, and he would have formed a
Revenue Tariff Ministry. Then, instead of the
Freetrade party gnashing its teeth in the back-
ground, it would be the party in power, and the
Protectionists would have been gnashing their
teeth instead. And, instead of the strong men of
the Federal Ministry coming from the other
States, they would have been supplied by N.S.
Wales; there are no strong prominent men on
the Freetrade Side in either Victoria or S.A., so
these States would have been represented by
weaker men who could have made little headway
against the N.S.W. representatives. And Sydney
would be preparing now to declare itself the
Federal capital, and the Sydney Federal Capital
League would be raging like a strong lion in the
land. And the Argus and Herald and Tele-
graph would be yelling joyously about how the
First Freetrade Ministry of All Australia was
a bright omen for the future, instead of
growling, bear-fashion, in a political cave of
Adullum. Reid declared against the first Bill in
. 1898 by reason of the Braddon clause, and then
; found that he couldn’t invent anything better,
: and voted for the retention of the Braddon
clause after all. Then, it being impossible to say
that his whole opposition was a foolish blunder,
he got the clause dealing with the Federal capital
amended and tried to look as if that was what he
had wanted all the time. And amid his wander-
ing to and fro in his mind Sydney lost its chance
to be the capital, and the chances of a Freetrade
Federal Ministry went overboard, and the bole
course of events was turned upside-down.
+
The Common-wealth Railway Problem.
N.S.W. Railway Commissioner Fehon emerged
from obscurity last week with a scheme for feder-
ating the railways which isn’t calculated to stagger
the community by its brilliance. Mr. Fehon’s
beautifully original idea is that the Federal
Government should buy up the State railways
at a price fixed according to their earning capacity
during the last seven years. On this basis the
Commonwealth would buy up N.S.W.’s railways
at cost; those of South Australia at £1,250,718
below cost; those of Queensland at £4,662,577
below cost; and those of Victoria at £7,792,488
below cost. That is to say, the three last-named
States would make losses to that amount in selling
out to the Federal Government. This off-hand,
rule-of thumb idea seems to show that a man may
be a very good railway commissioner, and get the
mixed train for Bargowlabri off well up to time,
and yet be an exceedingly poor financier. Mr.
Fehon’s scheme, when it is looked into, skips over
quite a multitude of important considerations,
some of which are as follows :
(1) On the proposed basis the Commonwealth Govern-
ment would be in the amazing situation of buying up
Westralia’s lines at about twice what they cost, merely
because, during the last seven years, there has been an
amazing boom in W.A. railway earnings. The boom is
fading now, the interest on capital earned by the W.A.
lines being only half what it was in ’96 ; and it is never
likely to return because it was a boom created largely by
the biggest expenditure of borrowed money in Australian
history. Yet, by Mr. Fehon’s plan the Commonwealth
would have to pay nearly twice their value for Westralia’s
lines because of the dead-and-gone profits that will never
recur.
(2) On the same basis Tasmania’s lines would be bought
by the Commonwealth for about one-third what they
cost, and Tasmania would lose fully £2,4oo,ooo—merely
because its recent years were lean ones. Yet Tasmania’s
railway income is improving, while W.A.’s is going down.
(3) Mr. Fehon shirks these difficulties by saying nothing
about W.A. and Tasmania.
(4) Every Australian State has had the biggest profit
from its railways when it was borrowing hardest. The
borrowing made a temporary artificial prosperity, and
the temporary artificial prosperity made a temporary
railway boom. Similarly, when borrowing stopped or
diminished railway profits dropped. And Mr. Fehon pro-
poses that the Commonwealth should pay extra for the
lines of the State which has lately been borrowing
hardest, regardless of the fact that this prosperity is
purely artificial and can’t last.
(5) Some railways show better returns because they
charge higher rates; others show worse returns because
they charge lower rates. Mr. Fehon’s idea seems to be
that a high price should be paid for the railway which
charges high rates and a low one for the line which
charges low rates. Then the Commonwealth will, pre-
sumably, impose uniform rates.
(6) Victoria, under Mr. Fehon’s proposal, will sell its
lines to the Commonwealth at a loss of £7.792,488. But
if Victoria abandons or tears up about 39 unprofitable
little branch lines, and sells the remainder to the Com-
monwealth on the basis of their separate earnings during
the last seven years, it would hand over much less rail-
way, but it would get from the Commonwealth a great
deal more money. By handing over all its railways it
would receive, on Mr. Fehon’s system, about £30,000,010.
If it handed over only part of them, and sold the rest for
old metal to a marine store, it could claim about
£35,000,000. This is rather a ridiculous situation.
(7) In the same way S.A., by abandoning its unfinished
transcontinental line, and some other unprofitable specs.,
could get a lot more money from the Commonwealth than
by handing over the whole lot. Then the Commonwealth
would have to set to work and build the torn-up trans-
continental line over again, after paying S.A. something
extra for tearing it up.
(8) /Again there is no particular reason why the railways
should be bought at a price based on the average profits
of the last seven years. The last five years or the last 10
years would answer quite as well. The S.A. lines would
c >st the Commonwealth quite a lot more on a 10-year
valuation, so S.A. would probably vote for a ten-year
average. The Commonwealth would pay Westralia about
£2,000,000 more for its lines if the price was fixed accord-
ing to the average earnings of the last seven years than
on the average earnings of the last ten years, so Westralia
would doubtless approve of the seven-vear basis. Tar-
mania would like to sell on the basis of the last four years’
earnings ; on that basis it would get about £500,009 more
than on the seven-year idea.
It was after serious consideration of these and
many more troubles, difficulties, discrepancies,
and impossibilities that The Bulletin proposed


that the Commonwealth should offer to take over
all the railway systems of Australia and Tasmania
at cod. There is no perfectly fair and absolutely
just and mathematically accurate way of valuing
the lines, but this way would probably prove as?
fair as any ; and by adopting it the impossible'
valuation question wouldn’t be raised at all. The
valuation idea runs up against complicated snags:
everywhere. The biggest one is the prospect of
buying Westralia’s lines, just when the boom is
about over, at twice what they cost to build, and'
paying £6,000,000 extra for the mere joy of know-'
mg that Westralia once had a boom.
An Out-of-the-way Tragedy.
The latest Melbourne tragedy is one of the
strangest that city remembers. It took place in a-
three-roomed house (the kind of house whose very
existence is a tragedy) in a North Melbourne by-
street, where the eternal lodger, an ex-waiter
named Holland, killed his landlady’s little son,
aged not much over two years. The mother, Mrs.
Geach, was the wife of a Melbourne business
man. She was separated from her husband, from
whom she received a miserable allowance of £1 a
week for the maintenance of her five children,
and she supplemented this by scrubbing and other
work, and by taking in the inevitable lodger afore-
said. This particular lodger had been hired by
the husband to collect evidence on which to base a
divorce suit, but apparently he failed to collect
any—in fact it seems doubtful if he tried to collect
any—and his billet fell through. Instead of
gathering hostile testimony according to the
terms of his contract, he fell in love with Mrs.
Geach, and his affection not being returned,
he seemingly declined into a muddled state of
heart-break, intense pity, beer—not much beer,
for he hadn’t the money to buy much, but a small
pot of beer occasionally—and partial insanity.
This strangely-incompetent private ’tec grew so
fond of the children that he spent most of the
stipend he received for trying to get evidence
against their mother in buying food for them.
When his billet gave out he even pawned his
boots and dissipated the proceeds on provisions
for the hungry youngsters. Then, having no
more money and no more billet and no more boots
to pawn, the prospect of leaving them (especially
his favorite, the youngest boy) to live miserably
on insufficient victuals, in a three-roomed house,
apparently broke the hired spy completely up.
So he killed the child by battering in his head
with an iron wedge, for no visible reason save that
he couldn’t bear to think of the life that lay
before him if he remained alive. Then this
sadly incompetent sympathiser surrendered
to the police. All he says now is that
he is glad he committed the crime, because
it makes one less inmate in the three-roomed
house, and the £1 a week will go further when
there is one mouth less to feed. Apparently
a tender heart and a little beer, accompanied by
a general incapacity for earning his own liveli-
hood, made the shabby ex-waiter into some wrong-
end-up kind of a martyr. With more firmness
and more boots he looks like a man who might
have been of some account, but there is no place
in this world for a shiftless, well-intentioned pes-
simist in his stocking feet.
+
Something' about Boots.
This yarn, being a bit from a tariff controversy
now exploding violently in the usually peaceful
pages of Launceston Examiner, seems familiar
somehow—in fact it seems so familiar that The
Bulletin fancies this must be the seven-and-a-
half millionth time of publication. It is the Free-
trade man’s usual yarn about the relative prices of
things in N.S.W. and Victoria
As regards the Victorian tariff ... I must prove my
assertions. Furniture, woollens, engines, hammers, har-
ness, saddles, picks, 30 per cent. ; apparel, horse cloth-
ing, 35 per cent. ; hats, boots, 100 per cent. But this is
by no means all. The Customs add to this 10 per cent,
on freight, etc., and the wholesale and retail profits Of
over 50 per cent, are reckoned in the total. Take apparel,
for instance :
£ s. d.
Invoice value 100 0 0
Customs duty at 35 per cent., and 10 per cent.
added by Customs Department .. .. 38 10 0
138 10 0
Wholesale profit, 30 per cent. .. ... .. 27 11 0
166 4 0
Retail profit, 33 per cent . .. 55 8 0
221 12 0
Now compare this with the New South Wales tariff,
where all the above articles are free :
£ s. d.
Invoice value 100 0 0
Wholesale profit, 20 per cent. .. : .. 20 0 0
120 0 0
Retail profit, 30 per ceut 40 0 0
160 0 0
The difference to the consumer being over 60 per cent. !
So much for my “exaggeration” in regard to the Vic-
torian tariff ; and the Victorian protectionists have de-
cided to fight for an even higher federal tariff !
It is impossible to remember now who fixed up
this weary calculation, but it has staggered round
for years from one paper to another, like a drunk
calling in at a long succession of public-houses. It
is a beautiful calculation, and shows conclusively
that a pair of boots, having 100 per cent, duty on
them in Melbourne and no duty in Sydney, must
cost nearly three times as much in Melbourne as
similar boots do in Sydney. They can’t help
themselves; the calculation is absolutely definite
on that point. And yet the only possible answer
is that they don't. Anyone who buys boots in the
two cities will find the protected article quite as
cheap—in fact, as Victorian boots are largely ex-
ported to N.S.W., where, after paying freight,
they can sell in competition with the N.S.W.
article, it would seem that the Victorian boots are
really cheaper. The hole in which all these beau-
tiful calculations fall is just this orifice :
The prices quoted are those which the Victorian
would probably have to pay if he imported his
boots under the existing Vic. tariff —but then he
doesn’t import them. At least, he imported, last
year, about £30,000 worth, against N.S.W.’s im-
portation of £348,000 worth—and he made the
rest himself, and so supplied himself with £318.000
worth of extra employment. The competition
among local boot-factories kept down the price,
and the fact of local manufacture beiug carried on
upon so much larger a scale, by reason of the re-
duced imports, enabled the work to be done as
cheaply as in N.S.W., and yet to pay the em-
ployes better wages. But the Freetrade theorist’s
prices are probably right enough. They are the
rates Victoria would have to pay if it imported all
these goods. The place where the theory goes
smash is that Victoria doesn’t import them, so the 1
prices it would have to pay if it did have just as
much to do with the case as the fine which the
Launceston Examiner would have to pay for
wife-beating, if it was in the habit of beating its
wife.
The most feasible-looking points which Reid
worked off in his recent Shoddy-trade diatribe in
Melbourne were those in which he gibed at David
Syme, of the Age, after this fashion :
Why were brown papers taxed ? Because the Age was
not printed on brown paper. (Laughter.) Two kinds of
printers’ ink were imported—black, which the Age used,
and colored, which the other fellows used. (Laughter.)
How was it that Victoria had Freetrade in the ink the
Age used and 25 per cent, on the colored article ? Two
kinds of blankets were used in Victoria. The kind that
the poor man had to use was taxed up to 25 per cent.,
but another description of blankets, such as the printers
used, was allowed into the State duty free. (Laughter
and applause.) The type used by the Age also came in
free of duty, so that the Age was making money out of
both Freetrade and Protection.
No wonder the audience laughed, yet, after all,
there wasn’t so very much to laugh at. All
blankets are taxed in Victoria, to begin with.
The Age doesn’t use type ; at least, not to any
extent worth mentioning. The linotype machine
has made type an antiquated circumstance. Paper
isn’t taxed in Victoria because Protection is a
policy which taxes things that can be made in the
country, and nowadaysnearly all paper is made from
wood. Victoria, not having the right sort of wood,
can’t make it. The United States, which has the
requisite raw material, makes about half the
world’s paper supply. And though there is no
duty on printing ink, as on a good many other
things,. still Victoria manufactures most of its
own printing ink. Reid, as a man w T ho is always
asking why the dog doesn’t swim, should be the
last to complain because this particular dog is
swimming vigorously. But apparently he is as.
angry when the dog swims as when it doesn’t
swim, and the Dry Dog and the Wet Dog make
him equally indignant.
Next time Dry-Dog Reid tells electors that the
Victorian Minimum Wage Law and Factories Act
are evidences of the rottenness of Protection,
perhaps he will quote a few of the minimum wages
as fixed by the boards and now being paid by em-
ployers without demur. Here is the Vic. stone-
masons’ minimum as fixed last week :—Carvers,
£4 4s. 4Jd. for 45 hours a week (average wages in
N.S.W. as quoted by Coghlan, £3 per week), do.
assistants, £3 7s. 6d. ; letter-cutters, £3 Is. 10-kl.
(N.B.W. average wages, £2 6s. 6d.) ; stone-cut-
ters, £2 12s. Gd. (N.S.W. average, £2), do. in
granite, 2d. an hour additional; polishers, £2 25.,
do. in granite, £2 4s. ; laborers, £2; apprentices,
55., 10s., 155., 225. Gd. and 30s. per week, accord-
ing to length of service ; improvers, 55., 10s., 205.,
30s. and 40s. per week, according to length of ser-
vice. One apprentice and one improver only to
each eight journeymen. When will Freetrade see
its way to pay rates like these ?
♦
A Recent article in London D.T. contains some
hints for Australian municipal management :
The streets of the Metropolis have been covered with a
thick layer of unspeakable mud and slime. In a word,
the condition of London has been a disgrace. As long as
the streets have to bear the burden of the countless
vehicles which the requirements of business necessitate,
the mud is, we fear, inevitable. We can only look
forward to escaping from it by increased facilities for
burrowing underground and travelling below the street
levels. The principal cause of annoyance is the
perpetual tampering with the surface of the
roads. At the present moment the P.O. authorities
are busy installing their new telephone system over an
area of 640 scj. miles, but we have the assurance that
when once their main trunk line conduits are completed
there will be no need to tear the street surface up again
to repair them. Yet there are numbers of other bodies
armed with full powers to dig. Gas companies, water
companies, electric-light companies, all find it necessary
to make their trenches in the streets. . . . Counsels of
perfection are beyond the range of practical politics as
far as London it concerned. The mischief was done long
years ago. ... It is clear enough now that the surface
of the streets ought to have been safeguarded, and that
great subways should have been constructed to enable
the various pipes to be reached without disturbing the
roadway.
Sydney and Melbourne papers will one day be
echoing poor old London’s muddy wail in a minor
key unless the rights of Posterity find champions
among the early civic fathers of the Common-
wealth. And Posterity at large is not likely to
get much consideration shown it by the patriots
of to-day. It is the fate of those sub-
ways to be numbered hereafter among the works
that might have been —but were not.
♦
Concerning Seddon’s proposed Island Federa-
tion :
Dear Bulletin. — Seddon has been whooping very
loudly the last few months about a proposed Island
Federation. No one has as yet asked for any details, nor
has Dick condescended to give any. How would it be,
before going any further, for Maorilanders to ask them-
selves, or Seddon, these questions
Population of Fiji is, approximately, Papuans, 110,000 ;
Coolies, 11,000 ; Europeans, 3000. Are all these to have
representation in M.L. Parliament ? On present M.L.
basis of one member to every 10,000 people, this means
11 Papuan M.sP., one Coolie ditto, and one-third of a
European member. If Tonga is taken in, as well, there
will also be a tew Tongan M.sP. The M.L. House of Re-
presentatives will then need half-a-dozen or so inter-
preters, as well as the Maori one, and that august body’s
colour will be about as variegated as a Brussels carpet.
Are the Islands to have no representatives in the M.L.
Parliament ? If so, how will they be better off under
“ Federation ” than they are at present? And who is to
administer the Islands?
Are the Europeans to be represented and the colored
people excluded ? Then what becomes of all the boasted
“liberality to the natives,” “justice to a manly race,”
etc., etc., with which Seddon was so free when he thought
the Maoris would not be allowed a vote under Federa-
tion ?
At present Maoriland has a pretty comprehensive Im-
migration Restriction Act, which would certainly bar 99
out of every 100 Papuans and coolies from entering M.L.
Is this to be abrogated so that M.L. may be overrun with
Hindoos and woolly-pates, the very evil that the Act was
passed to prevent ?
Are the Papuans, etc., to be prohibited from entering
M.L., which will then be part of their own “Federation”?
If this is to-be the case, a new definition of “Federation”
is urgently needed.
If the “ Federation ” is accomplished, will M.L. tolerate
the present Fijian system of “ indenturing ” coolies ?
♦
Mr. Barton’s comment on the fact that his new
Minister, Drake, is a lawyer, to the effect that it
would be insulting to suppose that a lawyer was
not to be trusted equally with other classes, is
right enough, perhaps, in a general sense, but
many .solid reasons exist for keeping lawyers from
exceeding'their due proportion in Parliament, and
especially in the Ministry. In Mr. Barton's
paid Ministry of seven there are now five lawyers,
and, if the. honorary members be included, then
out of nine members seven are lawyers. It is a
badly-balanced community or one badly-adminis-
tered which gives such an overgrowth of lawyer
representation. Where is the commercial interest,
the manufacturing interest, the workman interest ?
Proportionally, those interests' deserve larger
representation than the lawyer one. Of course, it
can be said that the lawyers, though they
monopolised the whole Cabinet, could be excellen t
representatives of all the classes. But if the
Cabinet consisted almost wholly of laboring men,
or almost wholly of commercial men or manufac-
turers, the same thing could be "said. Yet if such
a situation arose lawyers would be among the first
to assail it. But, as a matter of fact, a prepon-
derance of any other of the classes named in a
nation’s Cabinet would be preferable to a prepon-
derance of lawyers. It is lawyers’ interest to
make laws intricate. Possessing special privileges
by prescription, it is their interest to stand up for
prescription. Indeed, many of their most prized
“ rights ” are antagonistic to democratic advance.
As a body, therefore, they are nearly always
found on the side of the enemies of progress.
An inmate of the Salvarmy’s Melb. Anchorage (a
refuge for discharged prisoners and others), writ-
ing to the Ideal Herald, pretty conclusively
proves that that organisation makes a handsome
profit out of its philanthropy. Taking eight
men employed at wool-sorting he shows the
receipts of their labor to be £lo* 4s. 2d.
against a gross expenditure of £4 12s. od.,
leaving as profit £5. 12s. 2d. to the Army.
Other brandies pay equally well, while the toy
factory is a real little gold-mine. Many Melb.
firms buy there, orders of £lOO at a time being
fairly frequent. Wages paid seldom exceed 2s. 6d.
or 3s. a week (“and found”), and even this is
called charity; and much of the raw material is
donated. The institution also gets a Govt, grant
of about £3OO a year. By charging the Anchorage
with a heavy rent and insisting that this be paid
before the Army officers get any salary, “Head-
quarters ” manages to collar most of the profits.
So far the inmates’ statements and statistics
remain unchallenged, and as this is a most vicious
form of sweating which parades itself as charity, it
should get no further assistance from either Govt,
or public until it publishes a duly audited balance-
sheet showing where the huge profits and large
donations really go.
■
A letter from the West: —
Westralia is wondering 1 very hard who will succeed
John Forrest as State Premier. About a year ago
Big.tohn assured Westralia that he was not going to enter
Federal politics, but would stick to his old post like a
man and a brother. But John, who was in quick succes-
sion a Federalist, a wobbler, an anti-Federalist, another
wobbler, and a Federalist again, nearly broke his neck
snatching at the first Federal office that came his way.
With so many unfinished works and liabilities on hand
that about £5,000,000 are wanted in the next two years,
and the London market feeling bad, and the bottom
falling out of Westralia’s credit, it was time to climb on
the fastest camel in W.A. and leave ; and John Forrest
left. And now it is hard to even guess at his successor.
Moorhead and Walter James are the only two second-
rate men in W.A. politics now, and there are no first-rate
ones. And there are few third-rate ones. The rest are
fourth and fifth rate. Think of some possibilities— Lefroy,
Throssell, Barrington Wood, Piesse, Billjim George—
it is too awful!
♦
The Salisbury-Chamberlain gang and their
backers have reason to be thankful for the
desuetude of the old common-law rule which made
the Demise of the Crown involve a dissolution of
Parliament. In their last appeal to the constitu-
encies they were helped by the glitter of .Roberts’
victories. They had, they imagined, ended the war,
and their chosen General was returning to enjoy
his reward. Yet with all this glory to help them
the new election reduced the Government majority
by 18. Now the scene is changed. There has
been no more glory, and the war that was
supposed to be ended has flamed up again.
Wellington, in one of his Indian despatches,
said: “If we begin a long defensive warfare,
looking after convoys scattered over the face of
the earth, we shall soon be in difficulties.” That
is exactly the state of affairs now in the allegedly
conquered territories. And even in Cape Colony
it has been necessary to proclaim “ martial law ”
(a thing unknown to British jurisprudence)
over nearly, the whole of the country.
Is it surprising that with such a record
of failure against them, Judas Chamberlain
and the Cecil family-combination funk
facing the electors. And mere failure is not
all. There are the stories, more or less well-
founded, of the Chamberlain family interest in
army contracts, and the notorious nepotism of
Salisbury. Also, there is the hard winter, with
dear bread and coal. The Salisbury-Chamber-
LAIN crowd has much to be thankful for; but it
is not out of the wood yet.
—♦ —
Victoria’s long-postponed Mildura railway ap-
pears to be in worse trouble than ever. The Rail-
way Committee wrestled with three proposed
routes. The first had five supporters ; the second
had five also ; and the third, over a practically
unknown country, had one solitary barracker.
But that lonesome believer helped the supporters
of No. 2 route to reject No. 1 by a majority of one
vote. Then he helped the supporters of No. 1
route to reject No. 2 by a majority of one
vote. Then the committee suddenly discovered
that it must accept the third route (the only one
left, and one which nobody save the solitary bar-
racker believed in) or else reject the whole lot and
drop the Mildura question altogether ; so it
accepted the third route. Now the surveyors re-
port that the accepted route is impossible, for it
lies over miles of drifting sand which will smother
the line and bury it out of sight, and things are
back to the old dead-lock. Mildura is a luckless,
ill-fated place, and Parliamentary committees are
not what they are cracked up to lie.
Western Argus (Kalgoorlie) describes Westralian
railway management :
A few years ago, in the days of the whimsical rule of
Mr. Piesse, there was a humorous practice of shunting off
trucks of perishable commodities somewhere about half-'
way, and either sending them on by easy stages or letting
them go back to the starting point, an airy indifference
being displayed towards the objects of those who were
confiding enough to send goods at all. Trucks of cattle
or sheep used to be treated in the same way, the animals
arriving—when they did happen to arrive—in a starving
or dying condition, having been perhaps for days without
food or water. It was interesting to see consignees, on
the promiscuous arrival at unexpected intervals of a line
of trucks, bargaining with the officials as to what
they might take in substitution for what origi-
naliy belonged to them. A man who had ex-
pected a piano had to satisfy himself with a
few bags of vegetables or a truck of picks and shovels
or a box of cigars. The original owner of a case
of fruit had to put up with (say) a dozen chairs ; and so
on. The one who had ordered a few cases of beer was
honorably offered the empty bottles, or some of them,
the rest having been broken. Good times for some, and
very bad ones, for others. It was a sort of lottery, and
occasionally somebody got a quite unlooked-for prize.
One man who had been waiting anxiously for a steam-
engine was put off with a case of ladies’ boots. People
had to be there early as the blanks naturally far out-
numbered the prizes. Great scrambling those times, and
the language used was not always very refined. Since
the new Commissioner for Railways has taken charge
there seems to be a growing disposition to return
to first principles; and many quite new and startling
combinations are being added to the swear-literature of
the season.
♦
Some things that would be funny if they
were not deplorable are happening in connection
with the' contests to settle who shall be Labour
candidates for the Federal Parliament. Nearly
always the man with a safe seat in the Assembly
is chosen, notwithstanding that, where two op
three seats were originally available for a certain
two or three men, the weakest man was sent to the
safest seat. Of course, this selection is engineered
by the local Laborite bosses, who will presently
fight among themselves for the soft snap. Also,
when there are an outsider and the local M.P.
contesting, the outsider is nowhere; the local
bosses, with an eye on the contingent vacancy, see
to that too. There isn’t a party in the Common-
wealth in connection with which there ought to
be less wire-pulling and jealousy and intrigue;
there probably isn’t another in connection with
which there is half as much.
♦
About the free newspaper postage system r
A well-known trader registered at the N.S.W.
G.P.O. (at a cost of £2) a so-called newspaper,
really a mere trade-circular, which he entitled (say) the
Grocery News. Then he went round and let to the public
advertising-spaces in his publication, which went far to-
wards paying for the cost of printing, &c. He got 250,000
copies struck off, addressed one to every person in
the N.S.W. Directory, and carted them round to the P.O.
to be conveyed post-free at the expense of this bleeding
When I say “ this ” country I mean that, for
it is quite plain that he did own the whole country.
There is a P.O. regulation that newspapers posted in the
city, and bearing city addresses, must pay postage ; but
the enterprising tea-man got over that by’the simple pro-
cess of carting the ton or two of his city-addressed circu-
lars to a distant suburb and posting them there. What
a lovely time the Federal Post-office will have if it gives
in to the city newspaper crowd and establishes free news-
postage all over Australia ! How many millions of trade-
circulars in the guise of newspapers will the ingenious
Melbourneite annually pour into N.S. Wales !
♦
The most disastrous friend that the N.S.W.
Freetrade party has been blessed with
for quite a long while is one A. W. Hoskings, who
wrote in Sydney Morning Herald of 25th
January about the blessings of Reid’s policy in
this fashion :
As we can only support industries to the extent of our
total capital, would it not be Wiser to employ our capital
in industries that pay naturally, and purchase all other
commodities that we require for our home market in the
world’s cheapest market? Our squatters, farmers, and
other capitalists WOULD THEN BE ABLE TO OBTAIN
LABOUR AT THE CHEAPEST POSSIBLE RATE, we
should have collectively more capital, more labour would
be employed, the country storekeepers and city merchants
would do a larger trade, and all industries would increase
naturally. I trust all our squatters and farmers will ap-
preciate what freetrade really means for our country and
ourselves.
When Hoskings says that under real, genuine
Freetrade capitalists “ would be able to obtain
labour at the cheapest possible rate” it sounds
better than if Hoskings said that the labourer
under real Freetrade would get the lowest pos-
sible wages, but it is the same thing. The party
should muzzle its calamitous friend Hoskings.
~ - 4 ' ♦
Our Country, the ragged little organ of the
Sydney. Freetraders, wants to know “where
does the Victorian wheat farmer come in with
wheat selling in protected Victoria at a shilling a
bushel less than in Freetrade England ?” The
Pulsford variety of Freetrader is a most adaptable
being. He curses Protection one day because he
says it makes things dear, and he is cheerfully
and joyously ready to curse it next day because it
makes things cheap. In one case he says Protec-
tion is awful because it makes’prices high so that
the crushed and oppressed buyer has to pay more;
and in the other he says it is unspeakably bad
because it makes prices low so that the down-
trodden seller doesn’t get so much. And if, after
he has asserted that it makes prices higher (which
is bad) and also makes them lower (which is
worse), anybody suggests that perhaps it strikes
an average and leaves prices much the same all
round, the Pulsford kind of Freetrader assumes
the haughty attitude characteristic of Dickens’
Uncle Pumbleehook, and is quite surprised at
such ignorance.
♦— x
The Boer war has entered upon a new ana
wonderful phase. Ever since the disaster at
Lindley, the British have harried the Orange
River colony with fire till that once-smiling state
is now practically a burnt-out wilderness.
Without bases of supplies, it was impossible for
the Boer commandoes to live, and by all the rules
of the game they were beaten, and should have
surrendered upon the best terms obtainable. But
the descendants of the men who shattered Din-
gaan’s mighty host at Blood River were not
built that way. They promptly crossed the
Orange River into British territory, and have
been living on the fat of the land ever since.
They avoid all fortified towns and the guarded
railway, and when British columns appear they
seem to vanish away. But every day they creep
nearer Cape Town, and that city has now been
fortified from the landward side and garrisoned by
volunteers and blue-jackets. Twenty miles of
entrenchments, bristling with huge naval guns,
stand grimly awaiting the attack of the invaders,
who, at the very outside are represented as not
numbering more than 7000. Scattered over the
country through which they are advancing are
40,000 British troops, and yet this overwhelming
force apparently never gets within striking dis-
tance.
4—
Every other day some irresponsible person
rushes into printer’s ink with a suggestion that
somebody’s services to Federation be recognised
by a statue, or a dog’s drinking fountain, or some-
thing or other. They can’t all be recognised by
separate statues and dog-fountains, or else there
won’t be room for anything or anyone else in
Sydney. Why not commemorate them all in a
heap by a plain obelisk inscribed “Sacred to the’
memory of the Blokes wot worked for Federation?’
That ought to fill the commemoration fiend with
joy right up to his ears.
The precious St. Kilda (Melb.) branch of
the Liberal League was stormily discussing the
question of a successor to George Turner for the
St. Kilda electorate, when an awful person named
Allen implored the meeting to pause and consider
its own colossal importance. “ This matter,” said
Allen, “is one which concerns not only Victoria,
or Australia, but the whole British Empire.” O !
the inane provincialism of this Imperialism! A
lot of young Australian “loyalty ” nowadays is
based on a notion that the four ends of the earth
are intertwisted with the political fortunes of one
sickly little local league or other. The old Im-
perialism that says nothing, and doesn’t think
very much, may be stupid in its way, but the
Imperialism that drivels from the mouths of dis-
trict doltlings is positively abominable.
The Melbourne correspondent of the
Times (who is to be found in the Argus office)
tries to minimise the effect of the action of
Vic. Leg. Assembly in rejecting the Bill for
increasing the Governor - General’s salary, bv
putting it in a way that is carefully misleading-.
Thus:
The Bill was rejected by .15 votes to 27, the Labor-party
strongly opposing it.
Now, it is true that the Labor-party did oppose
the Bill, but the opposition was supported by the
whole of the members of the semi-Conservative
M'Lean Govt, who were present, and by more
Conservatives than Labor'members, of whom only
10 voted. The Times is generally fair in its news,
and this coloration of things to suit the Argus
view is not likely to be pleasing to the conductors
of a big London journal.


BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.
375 George Street, SYDNEY;
59 Queen Btreet, BRISBANE;
On Your Holidays
USE A
PREMO CAMERA.
Your Outfit is not complete without it.
PRICE
25/- 10 £2O
Illustrated Catalogues
Post Free.
Note Our Addresses
A
260 Collins Btreet, MELBOURNE
66 Bundle Btreet, ADELAIDE.
HEUDON SPA WATER
A NATURAL
MiNERAL WATruMHi
m
sdf
Sulphide Corporation
V LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead,
and
or
Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought-^
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Targe Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
sdf
CIB3S, BRICHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOE COMING WEEK.
Criterion “The Bush King.”
J IVOLI “ Puss in Boots.”
Lyceum “ The Ladder of Life.”
Palace “ A Message from Mars."
Her Majesty’s.. “ Australis, or the City of Zero.”
Royal Grand Opera Season.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Cinderella.”
Her Majesty’s “Floradora.”
Theatre Royal “ The Great Ruby."
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Athen.®um Hall Snazelle and “ Our Navy.”
“ The Bush King,” which is doing a good
deal of promiscuous shooting at Sydney Criterion,
is full of horse, dog, swag, the glare of red Aus-
tralian roads, and other Australian scenery. Some
of it creates a favorable impression, notably the
moonlight hollow where Lily Dampier wanders
round her own grave, and the church by the blue
lake where two persons get married at a moment’s
notice. “ The Bush King ” was evidently written
by someone who had “ Robbery Under Arms” in
his eye. The hero is naturally accused of the
murder of his father. He and his friend declare
this act was done by the villain, and the villain
and his friend maintain that it was per-
formed by the hero. However, as the
old man’s stolen notes are found on the
villain, this, according to stage law, sheets the
guilt home to the hero. That gentleman, in con-
sequence, becomes a bushranger to such a harm-
less extent that, when he is cleared of the murder,
nothing seems to be said of his bushranging. So
he settles down peaceably with one of the two
girls who love him so violently that they are
always engaged in saving his life, or in handing
him over to the police to annoy the other girl.
* * * •
Alfred Dampier begins well as a cripple
who, singularly enough, can do two men’s work
when sober and three when drunk. But when he
starts his career of saving his mate he loses
interest. Miss Lily Dampier is the stout girl who
loves the hero with a strong affection which
prompts her to betray him to the police at inter-
vals. The other girl also betrays him by painting
a picture so remarkably unlike him that it ought
to serve as an alibi, yet everybody recognises it at
once and screams for the police. Miss Lily fur-
ther commits the old stage imbecility of telling
the bad man she is going to inform the police
on him, instead of just doing it. As a consequence
she is tied up and shot at and spends an exciting
time round her own grave.
*****
After a perfunctory glance at Victor,
whose present address is the Queen’s Hall, Sydney,
the writer is confirmed in his opinion that mes-
merists, conjurers, illusionists and their kind are
a good deal alike. The illusionist mostly appears
in evening dress, though there was once one in
Sydney who called himself a Greek and performed
in a short petticoat. He has a long, narrow smile,
like the Great Wall of China painted white, and
he smiles that great wall twice over each trick—
once at the beginning and once at the end. If it
is a long trick he also smiles in the middle. He
performs with his sleeves rolled up, and his great
purpose is to hold up something which looks as if
it was just what it was, and then prove that it
wasn’t. His vocabulary is apt to be limited. At
the beginning of his trick, when he holds up the
thing which looks in a quiet sort of way as if it was
only itself, he invariably says, “ I now take
an elephant,” or else a drink, or a cathedral,
or a fit, according to what the object may be.
And at the end of the trick, when the object
which seemed to be itself proves to be something
else, he usually says, as he holds it up, “ Here we
have a violent prejudice,” or a cold, or alive duck,
or an ingrowing toe-nail, or whatever it may have
chanced to turn into. If the trick is one he is
specially proud of he fires a small gun at the
moment when the loaf concealed under the rag is
suddenly changing itself into a tunnel, or an iron-
clad, or a new religion, or otherwise mysteriously
conducting itself. Victor, the gentleman now
under consideration, apparently does all the tricks
of the very wonderful Dante. Whether he does
them quite so smartly as that late lamented mar-
vel it is difficult to decide on first inspection.
He is less confident than the artist who
fell a victim to the person who didn’t
know it was loaded; and coming after Dante
he suffers from the disadvantage of looking
like a copyist. Whether he knows anything that
Dante didn’t know this writer is unable to say at
present; anyhow the little show at the Queen’s
Hall is a good one of its kind. The pre-
mises above alluded to were formerly known
as the Temperance Hall; but the name created
an impression that the audience wasn’t allowed to
go out for a drink between the acts, so it was
altered a few months ago by a previous tenant—a
man with an exhibition of strange diseases, in-
cluding a drunkard’s liver on a plate.
** * *
William Anderson’s company returns to
Sydney Lyceum on Saturday to play the “ Ladder
of Life,” wherein the hero will probably clear his
character of unjust suspicion at the cannon’s
mouth, and his sentence will thereupon be re-
versed, or else he will recover his estates, or his
best girl, or the lost document will be found under
the hearthstone, or something irrelevant will
happen under confused circumstances which
appear to have been drinking. Mr. Anderson’s
dramas are very much alike, but they are all of a
kind which appeal to a large section of the public.
They are painted with a generous hand and a large
brush. The hero falls in one act from affluence
and happiness, to be a stone-broke person in a
felon’s cell. Then he promptly gets out of the
window and goes to the wars, where he proves
his innocence by killing a large number of nig-
gers, it being a stage law that no guilty man ever
killed a nigger, so when the brown man’s body
is laid before the court the matter is settled right
there. Wherefore William Anderson’s hero has his
unjust sentence reversed by his colonel or by a
policeman. Or sometimes he simply reverses it
himself, and lives happily ever afterwards with
his honourable sword hung up in his ancestral
halls, and hollers for the Flag all the rest of his
days.
** * *
Everybody who recollects the bygone
glories of “Djin-Djin” will be pleased to hear
that that fine old spectacle is to be revived at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney) on Saturday week. It is the
finest Christmas spectacle which Williamson ever
showed to the public, bar “Matsa,” which was
the best of all. And “ Matsa,” without Lauri as
the Melbourne gentleman who was blown back
mto the past and tried to float a company with
Pharaoh, and Howard Vernon as the ancient
Egyptian with the worm-eaten apple, is just about
impossible. Whether “ Djin-Djin,” with the
present co., will look like the “Djin-Djin” of
old is a point on which the writer declines to
commit himself recklessly. If the said co. had
a little more humor and more resources of its
own, “Australis,” the very short-lived panto-
mime which pegs out its allotment in the ceme-
tery of dead plays on Feb. Bth, might have
lasted a while longer. It deserved to do so for
the sake of its North Shore bridge, if for no other
reason.
** * *
Last week The Bulletin wrote a farewell
notice and obituary of Musgrove’s opera co., and
that kind-hearted combination, being surprised to
find how sorry this paper would be when it left,
immediately decided to stay in Sydney for another
fortnight. It is. not proposed to present any new
operas during this brief renaissance of the Royal
season—at least there is no present intimation to
that effect; the ostensible idea is that the public
hasn’t had time to fully appreciate the misty
vastness of these two great German shadows,
“Lohengrin” and “Tannhauser”; so the last
fortnight will be principally devoted to them,
with. lighter and more frivolous things in between
to give the co. time to rest from the heat and
burden of its top note. “Maritana” is to be
presented to-night (Thursday). “Lohengrin,”
with the mysterious bird, and the silver-armoured
knight, and the bad beggared Count with the
long-tailed rags sleeping in the Domain, is fixed
for Friday; and “ Carmen ” is announced for
Saturday.
** * *
The “ Message from Mars ” is now in its
sixth week at Sydney Palace, and still prospering.
As its days are probably numbered by this time,
however, all persons who wish to draw mental
improvement from the regeneration of Horace
Parker should call round early.
** * *
Rickards’ pantomime, with the large
pussy-cat in it, is again adorned with the presence
of Miss Billie Barlow, who returned after an ill-
ness to resume the part of Jack. During her
absence, the part was filled by Miss Edie
Haytor. The latter is a bright and clever little
woman, who does nearly everything well, and
The Bulletin is inclined to think that the change
was not much for the worse while it lasted. The
original Jack was getting to seem rather dull and
mechanical, and was apt to frisk with a certain
sameness along the flowery paths of panto. Cer-
tainly the many Jacks of pantomime are so much
alike that they need to frisk a great deal to keep
things going cheerfully for any length of time.
And when the Jack of pantomime begins to frisk
monotonously, it is only a matter of time when
he will cease to frisk at all and begin to clump.
The Bulletin had an idea of saying something
about Mr. Bob Bell’s truculent - looking King,
whose get-up suggested a brownish murderer with
a tremendous voice, but, after all, it is hardly
worth while.
** * #
Sydney Polytechnic, where the Kinema-
tographe pictures are, is the sort of amusement
which ladies attend in the intervals of bargain
hunting, and where they rest from their labours
in trying to get the value of 7s. 6d. for the price
of half-a-crown. The patriotic scenes are slightly
out of date, especially that very weary old view of
Roberts entering his carriage at Capetown. A
rather more novel item is Kruger entering a rail-
way car in his unobtrusive exit from Pre-
toria, but it evidently disappoints the audience,
which expects him to trek by waggon, and hopes
to see him taken away in a Black Maria. “She,”
the lady who winds fire from beneath her feet,
still cavorts in the blood-red, flaming pillar. The
Bull Fight is rather a grey picture, Where the
blood and the bellow have necessarily to be taken
on trust, and as the main excitement of the fight is
just these two items, the result is a rather ghostly
picture wherein a spotless bull seems to be
frollicking about for amusement. The Kinemato-
graphic reproduction of a coloured Cinderella
suggests how useful this species of photography
will be in the pantomime of the future; the
changes are quite instantaneous, and there is no
necessity for the witch to slide into the wings or
disappear into a trap door when she wants to be-
come a puffy-skirted fairy.
** # #
“ Banjo ” Paterson goes on an extended
lecturing tour in the North of N.S.W., and so on
up the Queensland coast, right away to the
hottest hobs of the hereafter—which is another
name for Townsville and Cairns. The story of
how the British general caught de Wet and let
him go again will explain to the perspiring inhabi-
tants of Rockhampton how it is the war is lasting
so long. By the way, Rudyard Kipling has
written to “ The Banjo,” urging him to advocate
more pay for officers, saying that the young Aus-
tralians who join the Army will be “frozen out”
by mess expenses and band subscriptions.
*# & *
Bland Holt’s health has been rather shaky
of late, and he would have done well to take a
partial rest by standing out of the cast of his
recent show, “ With Flying Colors,” in which he
and Mrs. Holt were not really important figures.
As manager and actor he overworks himself. The
strain is all the greater when he has to wrestle
with an uncongenial part—a part never intended
for a low comedian whose strength is in his pun-
gent personality. The higher class of modem
WILL H. OGILVIE.
A Portrait on the Eve of his Departure
for Scotland .
melodramatists don’t cater for the male low
comedian of the co. He is expected to suit him-
self to a character, rather than suit the character
to himself, as in the case of “The White Heather,”
where Bland Holt was only a humorous caricature
of the flash theatrical person, Edgar Trefusis.
In “The Great Ruby,” written by the authors of
“ White Heather,” Bland Holt again needs to
suppress some of his easy mannerisms and study
the bearings of his part, as well as his words.
The first production of “ The Great Ruby”
at Melbourne Royal left the financial future of
that narrative shrouded in doubt. Things didn’t
work on Saturday half as effectively as they will
work, say, to-night. Anyone could see that Bland
Holt, who has been very much run down of late,
was barely able to get through his work. The
drama being written in a different key to other
dramas, the members of the co., with two or three
exceptions, appeared to feel their way cautiously,
and get more nervous when there wasn’t sufficient
applause to urge them on. The performance is
bound to improve in all respects within the
first week, and if the improvement is rapid
“The Great Ruby” will sparkle. Miss Ross
scored the only noteworthy success on Saturday.
In the first place her make-up was new and Pot-
teresque. Her foreign accent was new, and her
warmth and animation came as a surprise. A
little more attention to light and shade and bye-
play will raise this performance of Mirtza Char-
koff far above the level of Miss Boss’s previous
best. Arthur Styan and Miss Florence Seymour,
in society parts which have no bearing on the
main trouble, made a favorable _ first night
impression, Styan is a hard-up viscount who
puts £5 on a dead certainty for a casual horse-
race, and Miss Seymour is a high-toned matron
who risks her last £lOO, and when the cert gets
beaten on the post these two unfortunate backers
are simply more impecunious than before. Mrs.
Bland Holt, who has to wrestle with a character
written for the inimitable Mrs. John Wood, may
be expected to get a firmer hold of it presently;
also Baker as the Indian prince needs time to
consider himself, and Brown, as an aged and
aldermanio jeweller, is probably looking more
genuine than at first.
** « *
“ Cinderella,” at Melb. Princess's,, retains
its tasteful gorgeousness and gains a little iti
volatility as the weeks roll on. The fairy tevel-
lings are less laboured. Cinderella herself is dis-
tinctly snappier, and her duet with Nellie Stewart
in the first act sdlinds more than ever like a stray
number by Arthur Sullivan. Miss Emmie Owen,
who was always as chirpy as a morning sparrow,
is a rather cheekier Dandini since the Nation was
plunged into dejection. Even the comedians, in-
cluding the husky Baron, lately returned to duty,
seem anxious to show that they are no sadder
than before ; and the Fairy Queen spreads
her regal draperies with a more professional air.
In fact, 40 performances have smoothed the course
of Musgrove’s panto without rubbing any polish
to speak of from the surface of its garments.
*# * #
Re “ Floradora ” at Her Majesty’s it is
only necessary to remark that Miss Palotta and
Tweedlepunch and all their original surround-
ings are ever present, with the exception of Ken-
ningham, who sometimes appears by deputy. On
second thoughts The Bulletin is disposed to
mention Miss Joey Cassellis as a pretty Joey and
a refreshing dancer. Her name was somehow
mislaid on every previous occasion when it should
have been packed into a paragraph. This is to
intimate that the sweet bird flutters through a
skirt dance entitled “Love Among the Roses or
the Garland of Cassells and the Fortunate Flun-
key,” it being the duty of Jeames to hang on to
one end of a rosey rope whilst the vision winds it
round the waist which beneficent Nature in-
tended for manly cuddles.
*
Snazelle and “ Our Navy,” plus & series
of Commonwealth Shiviews, are getting warmly
received at the Athenaeum Hall. The personal
character of H.M.S. suffered a change soon after
the Navy show started, and Snazelle now speaks
of His Majesty’s vessels in a calm, official tone,
leaving sentimental loyalists in the audience to
heave a sigh at the personal pronoun if they
wish. And some of them do sigh, as though
they were heaving the lead in the breeziest
of the pictures. Also Snazzy trolls out a reassur-
ing ballad to the effect that Admiral Drake will
quit the Port of Heaven and drum the fog to
destruction any time within the next 1000 years if
the Empire needs his assistance, “Drake’s
Drum ” is a little more violently patriotic than
common politeness would justify, but the bronzed
warbler makes amends by reciting “The Handy
Man.” There’s an ocean swell and a deep sea
feeling about Snazelle’s simple glorification of the
many-sided salt, and he would probably break
down in the last verse but for the knowledge that
the next item on the programme is ten minutes’
interval for refreshments,
** * *
A rush of new turns happeiled last week
at Rickards’ Melb. house, greatly to the satis-
faction of many patrons who had been staying
away for some time. Three American panto-
mimists appear as one man and two monkeys, and
these alleged hairy representatives of an earlier
civilisation are a great success. Also, they are
disquieting to one’s poetic soul. Some Common-
wealth pictures fill a want. Rose Aguinaldo, late
of Fitzgerald’s Circus, combines contortion with
charm, which is more than can be said for the best
man in the same line of business. Frank Leon,
the “only champion dancer,” has come back aftei
a considerable absence prepared to dance any
man to a finish in four ounce boots. And Lottie
Collins, of the widowed ran-dan, has put three
new songs into execution.
*# * *
Charles Arnold has been coining money in
Maoriland with “Jones” and other things, but
particularly “ Jones,” and when last heard from
he felt pretty confident of scoring another long
innings in Australia with “ Why Smith Left
Home,” which was then going well at Welling-
ton. Up to the end of its 38th week Arnold’s
tour showed an average profit of something over
£3OO per week. When he completes his Easter
season at Sydney Palace Theatre —he started in
Melbourne last Easter —the lucky man will prob-
ably have £20,000 profit on the books. And this
means that business-manager Lohr (who, speak-
ing from long experience of showmen, gives
Arnold an A 1 character) will cut his connection
with the theatrical game when he parts company
with Jones, Smith and Co.
Overheard at St. Stephen’s Presbyterian
Church, Sydney (attended last Sunday by the
Gov.-General): “ Eh, mon—we stole a mairch on
Rome the day ! ”
From a spacious shop in murky London town,
A bauble shop controlled by Charles Brown,
The Ruby known as “ Great” (a wondrous stone
Which erst had sparked in a Rajah’s throne)
Got captured by a Gang, whose smiling boss
Was—can you think it?—dear Miss Frances Ross,
For she, the faultless heroine of fifty tales,
Has lapses now and then, like most females.
She took the plunder to her crafty care,
But Bland Holt, the Detective (Ha ! Beware !)
Came sniffing round the Oatlands Park Hotel,
Where she canoodled with that tawny swell,
Prince Ranji Baker; so it came to pass
That Frances hid her lump of precious glass
(Strange are the workings of dramatic fates !)
Within a box of creamy chocolates,
And handed it to Mrs. Holt to keep.
Now, Mrs. Holt went walking in her sleep,
And so, to serve the purpose of the play,
Bearing the box wherein the treasure lay,
She sought the mystic river of her dreams
And calmly dropped the package labelled
“ Creams ”
In the deep waters of a dusty chair
(A hotel-waiter, later, found it there),
Then slept back to her room with quiet tread,
And put her self-deceiving brain to bed.
Thus the plot thickened, and the Ruby soon
Had new adventures—up in a Balloon.
Of all big dramas built for Drury Lane
This is about the hardest to explain.
Bright threads of story neatly intertwist—
The Ruby stolen ! Next the Ruby miss’t
Through the weird trick of a somnambulist—
Prince Ranji’s passion for the charming thief
Who saves Bland Holt in time of peril brief,
When the grim Gang propose to take his life !
The love of Brown for Mrs. Holt, his wife—
The case of Albert Norman, reckless loon,
Doomed to an airy drop from a Balloon.
With Ranji seated in its basket car
The b’loon soars upwards to the Heavens afar,
Or so it seems, and, if the Heavens fall
Behind the bladder—what’s the odds at all ?
Prince Ranji Baker in the car alone,
Whilst Albert Norman simply hangeth on,
The famous Ruby hidden in his breast—
The situation full of interest!
His Highness wants the jewel for Miss Ross,
And Norman feels prepared to bear the loss
Provided Ranji hauls him out of space,
O, there’s an anxious look on Norman’s face,
The look of one who for assistance begs
When fleecy clouds are playing round his legs.
But Ranji, now the Ruby’s in his clutch,
Thinks: “Haul you in, you man of sin—not
much / ”
And, at the instance of the nut-brown coon,
Plump Norman sinks like lead from the Balloon.
The mangled body’s mentioned as a fact,
And Ranji, too, gets killed in the last act;
In sorrow and remorse his sun goes down,
The Ruby is restored to thankful Brown.
Miss Ross departs, on Ranji’s corse to swoon ;
The curtain falls, the bandsmen play a toon,
And naught remains save mem’ries of Balloon.


“ENGLAND’S FAVORITE.”
player’s Davy Out
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
¥lhi.
&
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., South Melbourne,
have been successful with their tender for the two new
pump ends for the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of
Works, Spottiswood Pumping Station. These pump ends
have been designed by the Board Engineer and are a
departure from the existing ones, and weigh about 65
tons each.*
* * • »
The Australasian Insurance and Banking
Record of 19th October, 1900, writes regarding the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited : “ The
Society can justifiably point to the adequacy of its re-
serves, which are of a magnitude and a character to com-
mand the fullest confidence.*
* • * *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
V * * »
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
■ “ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * ** *
Since the start of the Broken Hill Proprietary’s
' new 5000-ton mill, most of the Barrier mines have been
engaged in remodelling their concentrating plants on up-
to-date lines, and wisely show a preference for machines
which have proved most successful on the difficult fines
and slimes. The machines that can claim this distinction
are the “ Luhrig ” Yanners, as supplied by Messrs. W. &
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne. The South’s new mill will
include a dozen or so, and the Junction Co. has also de-
cided to erect a number of Luhrig Vanners as an impor-
tant adjunct to its large plant. Other mines would do
well to follow this good example.*
*.• * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne.*
Mr. Mepban Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfotinder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts,forgings, andallsortsofiron-work.*
• * * »
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• * * *
A sample of Australian finance. The B.H.
Central mine was sold for £120,000. (It could have been
bought once for £50,000.) An English co., the Sulphide
Corp., took it; 1,100,000 £1 shares, besides debentures.
Colonial register opened ; 300,000 shares already entered
therein, most of them probably bought at from 18s.
to 255.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting: Charges.
Hy. Mark Wald
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ;68 Currie-st., Adel.; V Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per cent,
pure), Bleaching Powder, Mining Requisites,
Candles, eto.
The Wild Cat Column.
The Australian Joint Stock Bank (Sydney), the
most mysterious and reticent bank in Australasia (bar-
ring, perhaps, the Commercial of Australia with its
Assets Trust) issues a discouraging balance-sheet for the
half-year to 31st December, 1900. Starting from the
date of the latest reconstruction the A.J.S. Bank has
progressed thus :
Profits of Profits realised Total
banking by repurchase Nominal
business, of deposits at a Reserves
discount. at each
date.
June, 1897 £52,000
December, 1897 .. £1725 53,725
June, 1898 .. 3746 67,471
December, 1898 .. 266 57,737
June, 1899 .. 1358 59,095
December, 1899 .. 2912 88,908 150,915
June, 1900 .. 2057 20,565 173,537
December, 1900 .. 2547 19,964 196,048
The earnings are equivalent to 7s. 7d. per cent, per
annum on the paid-up capital and reserves as they were
at the beginning of the half-year—the worst showing
made by any bank of issue in Australasia. As for the
reserves, they seem to be in the nature of a hilarious
joke. The shareholders’ funds purported at the begin-
ning of last half-year to be £1,341,578 (capital, £1,168,041,
and reserves, £173,537). If it is assumed that the capital
of £1,168,041 is wholly lost, and that the£l 73,537 of reserves
represented all the shareholders’ funds at the beginning
of last half-year, the earnings are only £2 18s. Bd. per
cent, on that amount. If it is assumed that a solvent
bank should earn even so little as 4 per cent, interest on
the shareholders’ funds, then on last half-year’s earnings
the A.J.S. Bank has only £127,350 of its shareholders’
funds intact, and £1,214,228 should be written off as lost.
In fact, there is very little evidence to show that any of
the shareholders’ funds have really survived the disasters
of 1893.
For the last three half-years the A.J.S. Bank
has issued its balance-sheet in a new form, showing gross
earnings, and against them working expenses and in-
terest on deposits. The result is rather startling. So far
as these three half-years go it seems as if the earnings are
diminishing in a remarkable fashion, and that it is only
by a most vigorous cutting down of expenses that the
management contrives not to show a heavy loss. These
are the figures :
Gross Interest N *
Earnings. JSL
December, 1899 .. £143,441 £46,347 £94,182 £2,912
June, 1900 .. 130,067 39,972 88,038 2,057
December, 1900 .. 122,376 31,418 88,411 2,547
Gross earnings for the half-year just ended are £21,065
less than for the corresponding half of 1899, and expenses
have been cut down by £14,929, which, added to all the
previous economies between 1893 and 1899, seems to
suggest a remorseless process of economy. If the expense
rate for the half-year to December, 1899, had been
maintained (and it was by no means an exorbitant rate)
there would have been a loss of £4318 at June, 1900, and
a further loss of £12,382 at December, 1900. It is im-
possible that this cutting down of expenses can go on for
ever, and unless the slump in gross earnings can be
stopped, it seems as if the time must come very soon
when all pretence of making a profit will have to be
abandoned. Certainly things look worse than they did
at December, 1897, even if they are only judged by the
net profits. The reserves created since then by repurchase
of deposits and otherwise should—even if they were only
invested at 3.) per cent.—increase the half-year’s earnings
by £2lOO, and the visible increase is only £822.
The great fall in earnings during the last three
half-years is further remarkable because, during the same
period, the cash reserve (i.e., the amount of money lying
idle and earning no interest) has diminished from
£1,289,000 to £660,000. At this rate it might be fairly
expected that profits would increase instead of falling as
as they have done—unless, in the interim, something had
gone more wrong than before with some of the assets.
During the last 12 months new deposits have decreased
from £1,200,773 to £1,179,605, and note circulation has
only increased by about £4OO. Altogether the present
outlook of the A.J.S. Bank doesn’t wear any large out-
ward semblance of cheerfulness.
* • • •
The City Bank of Sydney from December, 1894,
to the close of the century :
Total
Profits. Dividends. Reserves at
each date.
Dec., 1894 ..£10,004 5 per cent. = £lO,OOO £108,275
June, 1895 .. 10,030 5 „ = 10,000 108,305
Dec., 1895 .. 10,020 5 „ = 10,000 108,325
June, 1896 .. 8,108 4 „ 8,000 108,433
Dec., 1896 .. 8,070 4 „ = 8,000 108,503
June, 1897 '.. 8,049 4 „ = 8,000 108,552
Dec., 1897 .. 8,395 4 „ = 8,000 108,947
June, 1898 .. 8,273 4 „ = 8,000 109,220
Dec., 1898 .. 8,053 4 „ = 8,000 109,273
June, 1899 .. 8,070 4 „ 8,000 109.343
Dec., 1899 .. 8,212 4 „ = 8,000 109,555
June, 1900 .. 8,041 4 „ = 8,000 109,596
Dec., 1900 .. 8,223 4 „ 8,000 109,819
The earnings are equivalent to £3 4s. 6d. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ funds as at the beginning of
the half-year—which is far enough below the average
as to suggest that a considerable writing-down of
assets would do the assets a lot of good. That is
assuming that these are all the earnings, and that no
very large sum is now being applied to write off de-
preciation. The City Bank of Sydney is an institution
which makes very little apparent progress; during the
last six years its visible reserves have increased by only
£1544. Deposits have expanded by about £20,000, and
note-circulation by £BOOO, as compared with December,
1899 ; and the reserve of cash and State securities is
£394,652—ab0ut 33 per cent, of all liabilities, to the. pub-
lic. This looks solid enough. The smallness of the pro-
fits, the deadly accuracy with which they pan-out every
half-year at just about enough to pay the 4 per cent, divi-
dend, and the generally unprogressive character of the
business are the points wherein the City Bank of Sydney
appears in an unfavorable light.
• * » •
A seven years’ record of the New Zealand
Insurance Co., Maoriland (figures to 30th November in
each year):
Total Reserves
Profit. Dividends, &c. at each date.
1892 £258,335
1893 £53,805
/13} per cent. = £27,500)
(Written off. 25,617/
259,023
1894 44,905
/13} per cent. = 27,500 )
( Written off 18,808 /
257,620
1895 32,954
/13} per cent. = 27,500 \
(Written off 13,524/
249,550
1896 29,097 13} per cent. = 27,500 251,147
1897 11,074 ll| per cent. = 22,500 239,721
Loss.
1898 14,262 10 „ = 20,000 205,459
Profit.
1899 51,409 10 „ = 20,000 236,868
1900 69,617 12J „ = 25,000 281,485
The New Zealand Insurance 00. has had an excellent
year in every way, and has more than made good previous
losses. Its paid up capital is £200,000, so the total share-
holders’ funds are £481,485. The investments are £474,849,
and they yielded last year £18,363 —a sufficiently good
return seeing that a large amount of the assets consist of
the co.’s own office properties. A very curious feature
about these assets is that £24,500 is invested in the se-
curities of the Argentine Republic—a dubious spot which
has been “ broke ” once and is likely enough to be so again.
Presumably the investment was compulsory in order that
the co. might be authorised to do business in the republic
(the N.Z. Insurance Co., after making its fortune in Aus-
tralasia, has begun to spread itself over the earth in
general in a very large fashion). But it is a strange thing
to find the biggest Maoriland fire co. loaded up with
Argentine, United States, British and Transvaal State
securities, and holding apparently not £1 worth of its
own country’s securities. Premier Seddon lately lamented
that Maorilanders won’t take up their own State securi-
ties. A law requiring, say, one-fourth of every Maoriland
co.’s reserve fund to be kept in Maoriland securities would
help to solve the difficulty. Loans ought to be compul-
sory just as taxes are. —— -
» » » *
Melbourne Gas Co., which has the distinction
of possessing about the most-intricate form of balance-
sheet in Australia, closed a rather prosperous half-year
on 31st December. This institution possesses two reserve
funds—one of £466,535, which is apparently kept sacred,
and another at present standing at £75,163, to which it
makes additions each half-year out of earnings, while It
subtracts from it miscellaneous sums for extensions and
alterations of works. The last two half-years have re-
sulted as follows:
- Net Total
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
Dec., 1899 £515,258
June, 1900 ..£50,829 8 per cent. =£34,288 531,799
Dec., 1900 .. 57,286 8 „ = 34,288 654,797
The Melbourne Gas Co. is loaded with £857,000 of deben-
ture debt which absorbs over £41,000 a year in interest.
It might have freed itself of this burden if it had been
content to pay a steady 8 per cent, dividend in the boom
days, and in that case it would be a much better paying
affair to-day, but instead it ran up its dividend to 21£ per
cent., and this at a time when it was actually borrowing
more money on debentures ! For the last half of 1890 the
net profits of the Melbourne Gas Co. were £65,676, and it
expended £81,400 (nearly £16,000 more than the profits)
in paying a 2l| per cent, dividend. The same half-year
it went £50,000 further into debt by floating more deben-
tures. They were a very mad crowd in Melbourne in
1890.
* * * »
The New South Wales Mont de Piete Deposit
and Investment Co. (Sydney) reports a profit of £3003 for
the half-year to 31st December, 1900, and with £551
brought forward there was thus £3554 available. A7l
per cent, per annum dividend absorbs £2780, and the
report says that the balance has been applied in reduction
of doubtful debts, so apparently it has been written off.
Recent record of the Mont d 6 Pi6te has been as follows :
Total re-
-10 per cent. Written serves at
Profits. dividend. off. each date.
June, 1896 £4,699 £3,639 £237 £21,759
Dec., 1896 4,284 3,669 708 21,666
June, 1897 4,226 3,672 1,126 21,094
Dec., 1897 4,297 3,679 960 20,752
June, 1898 4,189 3,687 848 20,406
Dec., 1898 3,589 3,690 2,740 17,565
7j per cent,
dividend.
June, 1899 2,300 2,773 1,182 15,910
Dec., 1899 2,801 2,778 7,335 8,598
June, 1900 3,030 2,780 443 8,405
Dec., 1900 3,003 2,780 963 7,665
The reserves have shrunk every half-year since
June, 1896. Under the circumstances it is absolutely
certain that the 10 per cent, dividend (paid up to
December, 1898) was maintained for three years after it
had become wholly unjustifiable, and in view of later
results it is questionable if the present 7£ per cent,
dividend is justified either. A reduction to 5 per cent,
some years ago would have done a great deal to prevent
the great downfall which has taken place in the reserves.
But this tendency to shirk the difficulty is characteristic
of many institutions besides the Mont de Pi6t6.
• • a »
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co., Limited (Ballarat, Victoria), begins to show a very
solid advance in prosperity. It commenced by purchas-
ing a ready-made business, and the price paid for it
formed for years a paper asset in its balance-sheet. This
goodwill item was gradually written off, and since its dis-
appearance the improvement in the accounts has been
very marked. The affairs of the Ballarat Trustees for the
last few years may be thus summarised—the paper asset
of goodwill not being included :
Profits, less Total deficit
«MS.
off. an asset).
December, 1895 £787 5 per cent. =£375 £3,199
June, 1896 .. 952 5 „ = 375 2,622
December, 1896 881 5 375 2,116
June, 1897 .. 835 5 „ = 375 1,656
December, 1897 708 7 „ 525 1,473
June, 1898 .. 746 5 „ = 375 1,102
December, 1898 949 7 ~ = 525 678
June, 1899 .. 1,071 7 „ 525 132
Total
reserves.
December, 1899 1,042 7 „ 525 385
June, 1900 .. 941 8 „ = 600 726
December, 1900 1,090 8 „ 600 1,216
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. and the
National Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. (Mel-
bourne) are now the two best dividend-paying trustee
co.’s in Australia. The difference between them is that
the National uses up practically the whole of its earnings
in paying its 8 per cent., and makes no serious attempt to
strengthen itself, while the Ballarat co. is carefully build-
ing up its reserves all the time. And it is to be hoped
that this wise policy will continue. Though it hangs out
in a small city, there is no reason why it should not be
the largest and most prosperous trustee co. in Australia,
if the management is only good enough. One excellent
feature is that the bulk of the Ballarat Trustee Co.’s
funds are invested in State securities, and it hardly
touches the risky mortgage business. It can’t do better
than keep on this way. Almost all the disasters of the
Melbourne trustee co.’s arose out of their mortgage
investments.
• • * *
The Town and County Permanent Building and
Investment Society (Melbourne) is a small concern which
is gradually winding up and returning the capital to the
shareholders. In 1897 it had a total paid-up capital of
£7220, and its doings since then have been as follows :
Profits on Loss on sales of Total reserves
business. property'. at each date.
Sept. 30,1896.. .. .. £844
„ 1897.. £122 .. £55 .. 911
„ 1898.. 82 .. 225 .. 768
business. Total deficit.
„ 1899.. 9 998 .. 239
„ 1900.. 23 .. 322 .. 584
The society, by selling its properties at a great loss for
whatever they would fetch in a weak market, and paying
the proceeds to shareholders, has now got its paid-up
capital down to £3891, while its total assets are £3529.
A mere handful of assets like that naturally don’t earn
enough to cover salaries, directors’ fees, auditors’ fees
and office expenses—hence the loss. The Town and
County was earning nearly 2 per cent, for its shareholders
in 1897, and its investments were returning 5 per cent,
gross. Apparently, therefore, the assets were in a pretty
good condition, and there was no need for all these losses
on realisation—if the management hadn’t decided to sell
things off wholesale at a very bad time. The share-
holders will apparently get most of their money back,
and it looks as if they might have got it all, and perhaps
something over, with a little more patience.
* • * » *
The Sulphide Corporation made, last year,
£210,948 out of its Broken Hill Central mine and the
smelting works at Cockle Creek, Newcastle. This is
equal to 21s. 6d. per ton of ore mined, as against 14s. ltd.
in ’99, when the profit totalled £141,589. Manager
Courtney estimates 16 or 17 years’ life, at the present rate
of extraction, taking ore only above the 700 ft. level; below
that point there is enough ore explored to last 7 or 8
years. The ore-body is well opened in every direction,
so that the estimate is less of an estimate than figures re-
lating to ore quantities generally are. For a long
stretch it is 250 ft. wide, running out to 270 ft. ; and
it takes a lot of solid ore to fill up a lode that width.
The co. does not propose, apparently, to increase
the output of ore; what it grieves over is that
so much of the metal remains unrecovered.
The metals in the ore won last year were worth £1,850,000.
The co. did not recover even the odd figures. In its
efforts to further improve the extraction three new
plants, experimental or otherwise, are being erected—one
an improved roaster, another a magnetic separator
(a German Co. is putting up the plant on the mine at its
own risk), and the third a process of zinc distilling
specially suitable, it is claimed, for ore with a good deal
of lead in it. A fine property, well handled ; the only
thing to regret about it is that so much of it is owned
abroad.
Sulphide Corporation’s financial results for last
year (note that this co. reckons by the twelve months,
the B.H. Prop, by the six) have been already referred to
here. The officers’ report, now available, gives valuable
details of the work done. Present output is 2C0,000 tons
a year ; there is enough ore above 700 ft. to last nearly 16
years at this rate. And still they go down and explore
the deeper levels. Why? Manager Courtney explains
what has been a mystery to many. He aims to so mix
the ore that there shall never be left a body so poor
that it will not be workable. So far a remarkable
uniformity has been achieved ; the stuff term after term
runs from 12 to 13oz. silver, from 18to 19 percent.lead, and
from 21 to 22 per cent. zinc. By making this mixture of ore all
improvements in the methods of treatment add to the
profits ; where this mixture is not attempted, the richer
stuff in the higher levels beingused up first, the improve-
ments are only a set-off against deterioration in value of
ore. The Sulphide Corporation has, therefore, a better
chance of increasing its profits than most co.’s have ;
though, of course, it is dependent on the markets like the
rest. And it is particularly keen, too, on trying processes
for getting out more of the metal, though, after its dis-
astrous experience with the Ashcroft process, one would
expect it to be shy. Still it has had some encouragement,
At the start, for instance, the slimes from the concentra-
tors were not marketable anyhow. Wilfley tables have,
however, been installed ; and from 766 tons of slimes 144
tons of concentrates, assaying 31oz. silver and 63’2 per
cent, lead—a really good product—were won. And there
are other supplementary plants and processes doing ex-
cellent work on the particular waste product which they
are designed to treat.
* * * *
B.H. Prop, last half-year made a gross profit of
£167,796; but, owing to unusually large deductions on de-
preciation account, the net is brought down to £126,842.
Which shows that, on the surface anyhow, directors can
make a financial statement look pretty much as they like.
In the present case there was no particular reason for
wiping off over £40,000 for depreciation for six months ;
in fact, it was not a fair charge on this particular period.
The metal markets had, however, given the co. an unusu-
ally big lift; and so the opportunity was grasped to wipe
off the value still standing in the books against some
superannuated plant. Still it was a wipe that was
wanted ; and, besides, when the reaction comes in the
metal markets, and the profits aren’t so big, the fall will
not seem so bad. Even with the big deduction of £40,000
the profits look better than for some time :
Half-year end- Ore raised,
ing Net profit. Tons.
Nov., ’97 .. £111,128 .. 182,460
May, ’9B .. 139,865 .. 204,731
Nov., ’9B .. 122,151 .. 204,067
May, ’99 .. 107,563 .. 202,693
Nov., ’99 .. 110,362 .. 206,193
May, ’OO .. 96,191 .. 232,487
Nov., ’OO .. 126,842 .. 293,451
This shows a big increase in ore raised. As, however, a
much larger proportion has gone to the concentrating
mill, the reserves of free smelting ore have not been more
heavily drawn upon than usual. In other words, the in-
crease has been almost wholly made up of milling sul-
phides ; and there is so much of this ore that a few tens
of thousands ao not count. Of the total of 293,451 tons
raised, 210,808 went to the concentrators ; for the previous
half they took 161,847 tons. Lower cost and better
recovery are claimed ; but no figures are given—in fact
figures are rather scarce all through the report. The co.
has a surplus of liquid assets over liabilities of £454,607 ;
its liquid assets include products in transitu £209,889
(against this the co. has drawn £120,000), Dank balances
£87,798, products on hand £173,213, and reserve £125,000.
The financial position is, therefore, stronger even than
usual.
Of the future of the B.H. Prop. ? Well, profits
depend very much on metal prices. Last half-year
605,5150 z. more silver and 6383 tons more lead were pro-
duced than in the first half of last year; and that, assum-
ing the net profit to be 18 per cent, of the gross earnings
—which is about the co.’s present average—would account
for £33,000. One penny per oz. for silver makes a differ-
ence of about £11,600 on the co.’s present half-yearly out-
put ; £1 per ton for lead makes a difference of about
£22,000. Thus the co. makes as much profit out of a
penny rise in silver and a £1 rise in lead as it does by add-
ing 6383 tons to its half-year’s lead output and 605,5150 z.
to its silver output. Last half-year, owing to high price
of coke and shortage of ironstone, two furnaces were shut
down; and, though some concentrates were sold
instead of being smelted, no doubt profits suffered.
Last half-year’s net profits would have been stated, under
ordinary circumstances, at about £140,000. Lead sold
up to £l7 12s. 6d. ; the prevailing idea is that it will
stick at between £l6 and £l6 10s. If silver keeps where
it was last half (it has been a good deal higher since, but
will probably fall back), about £27.000 will still be lost
through the difference in value of products. That would
leave a net profit of £113,000. Cheap coke, coal and
freights will, however, add several thousands to the
profits; so that, even if there is no further increase in
output, the £120,000 necessary to pay the present div. of
half-crown a half-year should be readily forthcoming.
On the other hand, unless lead unexpectedly jumps
again, there doesn’t seem any good prospect of an in-
creased div.
* • * a
Some B.H. Prop, figures for six months, more
interesting, perhaps, than useful:—Silver 2,780,9370 z. fine,
lead 21,855 tons, mining wages £44,060, quarry wages
£31,723, mining contracts £62,675, smelting wages
£54,324, coke bill £59,012, coal bill £46,337, freights,
£74,054.
* * * a
Broken Hill’s mine-timber bill moves up again.
Three or four years ago it was thought that if the
worked-out places were filled with mullock but little
timber would be called for. But it is found that, although
millions of feet are saved, there must be a good deal of
timber-staying still, as the loose mullock settles down so
much. For the first time for several years the bill for the
district last year passed a hundred thousand —to be pre-
cise , £103,792. In ’99 it was £88,762.
* * * *
There is a big flutter in Australian kerosene
circles ; some of the nabobs of which have, in anticipation
of Federal tariff developments, been specking the smell-
ful oil. The Borneo oil people, who have set up works
at Melbourne, to which they ship petroleum in bulk, have
brought upon themselves the wrath of the allegedly richest
man who ever lived, John D. Rockefeller. Well, John D. R.
has, it would seem, given out that he is shipping to Aus-
tralia a few million gallons of case-oil, which he intends
to handle on the spot through his own agents. And the
Borneo Co. people probably know what that means ; the
Sydney and Melbourne kerosene-speckers do, anyhow.
J. D. Rockfeller is going to make the Borneo Co. scent
Sheol.
• * * *
“Scall Pell” makes a suggestion to the Mt.
Lyell M. and R. Co. shareholders :—“ The records of
monthly smeltings over a considerable period have con-
clusively shown that Mt. Lyell is a distinctly low-grade
proposition. There are, it is true, richer patches dissem-
inated here and there, but these are irregular in shape
and extent, and from a div. point of view should not be
relied on, the average bulk value being the only true cri-
terion. Such being so, the management’s proper
policy in the shareholders’ interest (bearing in
mind the comparatively high price for copper
at present ruling) would be to make hay while
the sun shines, and take the fullest advantage of present
values by putting through as much low-grade ore as
possible, leaving, as far as possible, the richer deposits as
a stand-by for a rainy day. The present smelting-plant
is apparently pushed to its fullest already, but it
would probably pay to enlarge its capacity by
erecting an additional nest of six furnaces and
converters. The recent slump in L.*V. Consols
is not without its lesson. Speaking generally,
high-priced scrip is altogether in favor of wealthy
mining speculators and financial institutions manipulating
the market for their own individual gain, irrespective of
intrinsic worth —though I do not for a moment suggest
that this has been the case with Mt. Lyell stock. A
splitting of the scrip into shares of a lower denomination
would, however, confer much greater voting power, i.e.,
control, on small shareholders, and would probably also
tend to steady the market. Just now seems to
be an opportune time for a reconstruction of the
co. on above lines. The market value at £6 per share
(275,000 shares issued) is £1,500,000 approximately.
Suggested basis: Capital, £1,500,000 in £1 shares,
fully paid. In addition an issue of, say, £300,000 mort-
gage debentures at 5 per cent, would probably be readily
absorbed by the shareholders, and would provide the
necessary funds for erecting additional smelting plant as
above suggested. The interest would probably be much
more than made up by the increased profit accruing from
the larger smelting capacity, and the stock would form a
stable mining investment which would probably com-
mand a premium in these days of 2t per cent, bank in-
terest and scarcity of first-class mortgages even at 4 peJ.
cent.
• * .* *
Directors’ report to half-yearly meeting of Cape
York Peninsula Syndicate (Palmer goldfield) in Melbourne
t’other day was ( vide Age report) a really gaudy docu-
ment. Among other things it set forth that they had “ a
novel mining property of incalculable value and immense
magnitude.” There was 300 tons ore at grass, but the
assays varied so much the directors had been unable to
arrive at its value. “ A shaft was now down some 10ft.
from a 25ft. open cut in solid block ore assaying 27dwt.
The workings would be conducted to clearly demonstrate
that the gold-bearing body of ore continued to a depth.
. . . . Nevertheless the surface body seemed inex-
haustible. ... It would not be policy to start working
such a body of stone With less than a 50-head battery and
an up-to-date cyanide-plant.” Another director observed
(according to the report) that “ the property consisted of
three sections —Stony Creek, Mt. Pegus and Mt. Bu-
chanan, the last-named a unique feature in sulphuretted
hydrogen (!!) heavily charged with pyrites.” Well, a
mine of sulphuretted hydrogen certainly ought to float
itself ; also s.h. is well provided with the powerful odor
usually observable when the “cat” becomes very deceased.
* * • *
Some London prices by cable on Tuesday show-
ing another slump in Westralians: Associateds, 495.,
which is 10 per cent, lower than they were a week ago
and 50 per cent, lower than some months ago. Persever-
ances, £5 11s., a drop of £2 in a few days and less than
half the price they were less than three months ago.
Great Boulders, 225., and this in the face of its being pro-
bably the best mine and certainly the best-developed
mine on the field —a drop of 2s. in a few days, which
means £80,000; and a fall of 10s. compared with what
they were 6 months ago. Kalgurli’s, £3 7s. 6d., a fall of
12s. 6d.—about half the price they once were. Lake
Views, £5 195., which is a fall of £2 a share —only a drop
of half-a-million. Lake Views are now one-fourth the price
they were in the height of the boom, and less than half
the price they were six weeks ago. Ivanhoes £6 ss. This
is a fall of ha'lf-a-million in less' than no time. Boulder
Main Reefs 345., a fall of 45., and considering its capital
the smallest fall of the lot. Oroyas, 165., representing
another small drop.
( Continued on page 25.)


Complete
Outfits.
16/6
AN ORIENT
63/"
BOOT^
SUIT^
TO MEASURE
ALL CLASSES OF GARMENTS
. . IN THE ..
“Orient To ffleasare” Clothing
3,. AT ..
PRICES^
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
DAVIP JONCS & COMPANY,
ggorg< & Barrack Sts., Sydoty
REID v BARTON S POLICY!
NO MATTER \*/ui«~U-
HARRINGTONS
CAMERAS and PHOTOGRAPHIC OUTFITS
Will still maintain their usual good quality, and be
supplied at fair prices.
sd
OUR SHOWROOM
is plentiful with cameras of all sizes, grades,
and prices for Ladies or Gentlemen to choose.
From 25/- up to £5O.
HARRINGTON & CO.
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Queensland Branch— 34 Queen-street, Brisbane. Melbourne. Agents— Graven &
Branches or Agencies in every colony.
LTD.,
>., 179 Collins-street.
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjoyment of
HOME CIGARETTES
Society
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRAMDY
Qieen Victoria's increasing popularity during
t ie past lo years pointed always to the worldly
wisdom of the R.C. Church in confining the
Popedom to aged men. Not until she had mel-
lowed into the Old Queen was Victoria placed
beyond the pale of serious criticism. Complaints
of the monarch’s carefully self-considerate course
of life wete hushed as she grew venerable in
years. The dull monotony of her widow’s mourn-
ing garb, satirised for a quarter of a century was
at last accepted as a pathetic reminder of’self-
sacrifice to the dignity of her position, whereas it
had formerly been resented by middle-aged
widows who felt the need of consolation. Her
temper undoubtedly softened as time went on
her wrinkled face pleaded for kindly sentiment
from the crowd, and her two jubilees-the last a
Record—completed the triumph of her longevity.
No Queen like an old Queen to englamour the
U • s Wem in the eyes of the masses. An
. . n ®> ,1 s . the next best thing for the purpose.
Victoria did a further service to the Religion of
her worshippers—by living until the once some-
what frisky disposition of her successor, Albert
Edward, had been safely toned down by Time.
* * * *
The late Queen spent some months of her
childhood in France—at Boulogne, or Dieppe, or
some other haunt of impecunious refugees from
England. Her mother, the Duchess of Kent
took up her quarters at a cheap hotel there, and
the young son of the hotelkeeper—from whom
present scribe often heard the story—was a play-
mate of little Princess Alexandrina Victoria. At
that time the future Queen was thrice removed ”
from the throne. Her father, the Duke of Kent
had died when she was eight months old, but she
had three uncles living-George IV., the Duke
the Duke of .Clarence, afterwards
William IV.
* * * *
It now seems that the Queen was known
to be breaking up as long as three months ago, but
no whisper was allowed to be made public.
1 hough the chief failure of her powers took place
on the Thursday, the first intimation received by
Australia that anything was seriously amiss was
through a .cable to an Adelaide stockbroker re-
S, ’listied in Saturday evening’s Melb. Herald
Londays papers hinted that the end was ap-
proaching, and 48 hours later the end had come.
JLhe first authentic news reached Sydney through
Admiral Beaumont; in Melbourne, Premier Sed-
don got a cable from Agent-Gen. Reeves over an
hour before press cables came through, and these
again preceded the official Government messages.
No gainsaying a psychological fact. There
was sadness in the air-waves on 22nd January,
HOT.
MR. COOLER (from bathroom): “Here , Marti,
quick! Briny me a towel, or I’ll be dry
before I can wipe myself”
can be mane in tengins as required. Fasten them up in this and wheel straight on. No fighting,
no pushing and quarreling; each one as good as another .
atid the depression will endure more or less as
long as tens of millions of people are discussing
the gloomy subject of death and burial. It will
presently be discovered that the passing of Queen
Victoria at the good old age of 82 had a bad effect
on the death rate of British communities, owing
? n 110 small degree to the awful exertions of cross-
headed journalism.
* * * *
Hobart, being in its customary soporific
state, did not receive the news of the Queen’s
death till late in the day, and even then it was
unofficial, so it calmly proceeded with its regatta
and admired and fdted the visiting Tommies to its
heart s content.
* * *
Until it is definitely announced that the
Yorks are not coming to Australia in May, or
thereabouts, the would-be isolators must not
abandon hope. The Duke of York, at any rate,
looks a more likely visitor than Connaught, who
according to the law of Nature, has suffered a
greater bereavement than his nephew. Putting’
aside the possibility of York being prohibited by
constitutional rules and regulations, from carrying
out his engagement, it is hard to find any new
reason why he should want to shirk it. On the
other hand, there are new reasons why he should
make the pleasant trip. One can imagine his
father the King, saying to him in a weary, confi-
dential tone of voice—“ It will give you and May
a mhance to escape from a very dull time.
■*■ . P. eo Pl 0 °ut there will think, you are
sacrificing sadness to duty, and all that sort of
thing, and the Crown will score another point.
Besides, you re a more important person than you
were when the promise was given to open their
h ederal Parliament is it ?—yes, Federal Parlia-
ment—and so you 11 impress ’em again that way.
Best of all, you will be able to decline a lot of in-
vitations to banquets and things, and can do
what s necessary without getting bored to death.
W e 11 see if we can manage it. ”•
*■» * *
"^ e hope of Federalists in old Convention
days was that on the establishment of the
Commonwealth the Federal Government would
act for the States m all external affairs. If the
f ederal Premier doesn’t put his foot down firmly
he will oply be one of seven with fingers in ex-
ternal pies. When Barton and Hopetoun, the
other day, sent on behalf of the Commonwealth
messages to Chamberlain on the death of the
Queen and the accession of the King, why did
Dyne and Darley need to rush along with a like
message on behalf of their State ? The Premier of
the Commonwealth, it must be insisted, shall
voice the Commonwealth in all matters beyond
the bounds of Australia. The States must be
taught to mind their own business.
« * *
Surely an address to the Throne on the
occasion of the death of the Queen should be
couched in unexceptionable English ! Yet this is
S 6 w thl u g wl “ cll , Mr - Chanter, as President
of JN.S.W. branch of the Australian Natives’
Association signs for presentation to the Gover-
nor-General :
Ail over the British Empire every heart mourns the loss
of one who was beloved by all her subjects and honored
by the inhabitants of civilised nations the wide world
over. Now gone to wear an everlasting crown of glorv
the memory of her great and noble qualities will ever
remain enshrined in the hearts of the people as an ever-
lasting monument to her purity, nobility, and kindly
mi mu 1 f 1 f C °T’ d< T atlon for fcl ? e welfare of the hundreds of
milhmis of subjects over which she so long and wisely
WFy, even Australian-native Jimmy Governor
wrote better English than that! 7
* jjj
Certain Australian papers published every
day showed shockingly bad taste in making a fea-
ture of special large advertisements in the issues
announcing the death of the Queen. Fancy a
paper, sincere in sorrow, putting on a black coat
of itl ’ and S6ekmg Special advts - on the strength
* * * *
A curious note in Sydney’s mourning was
fhr^T tlon the taking of the oath by
the new King. A royal salute was fired bells
pealed, and all the flags were run up to the ’mast-
head from 3 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. on 24th Jan. Next
morning the flags were again half-mast-high
For plumbers, glass-transparency-makers,
and other persons who turn an honest penny by
the trade in “rejoicing” materials, the death of
the Queen is a most important event. It means
that the V. in V.R. has got to be replaced by
another letter everywhere, that all illumination
references to Albert Edward or A.E. in associa-
tum with Prince of Wales’ feathers are obsolete,
and that hundreds of old and one-time expensive
devices will be replaced by up-to-date designs.
* * * »
The absolutely meanest man walking the
country is the well-dressed person who called at
the house of one of Victoria’s new prospective old-
age pensioners and actually sold her, for almost
ler last shilling, one of the Govt, application-
forms (distributed gratis at all post-offices).
* * * V
1 ■ }^?M" a dvertised Sydney clergyman, a
kind of Congregational Pope, took it upon him-
self the other Sunday night (after violently black-
guarding The Bulletin) to remark that—
• kitchener, like Joshua of old, is the right man in the
right place. The Boers should be dealt with decisively
There are no neutrals now ! ” has the right ring • and
lTfe St We a read th f°“T at - what sacriflce of human
me. We read that tender mercies are cruel,” and
HE Bulletin consulted Proverbs xii 10 •
ihe tender mercies of the wicked are cruel ”
day 8 Paper gr ° WS m ° re W6ary ° f the parsons every
* * • •
A man named Johnson recently hanged
himself with his braces in a Sydney suburb. This
speaks well for the strength of the braces, and if
the maker had snatched at the opportunity and
advertised that he was the only man who supplied
the braces that Johnson hanged himself with he
should have done a good business. The trouble is
that almost everything is imported in N.S.W.
and there is seldom a local manufacturer to seize
the chance and push local industry when poor
unhappy Johnson hangs himself.
* * * *
The fearsome report presented to Wes-
traha s Assembly by its own Parliamentary Com-
raittee on the dirt, muddle, unwhole
someness and shameful -mismanage-
ment of Fremantle Lunatic Asylum
only drove an excited Legislature to do
nothing a little more furiously than
usual. It put the scathing report away
on a high shelf, and went home. An
equally tired body with more regard for
appearances would at least have made
a pretence of authorising somebody to
do somethnig, if it did nothing itself,
but W.A. Parliament didn’t even in-
struct anybody to think over the sub-
ject m his spare time.
* • *
A Queensland town recently wit-
nessed the strange spectacle of the
chief deity of the W.C.T.U. organisa-
ti°n wh'ile objecting to the granting of any
ui trier licenses m town being openly advised
and by the representative of the local
1c e ' l s . e d Victuallers’ Association.
Asked m Court who was bearing the
cost of the legal assistance and the
getting up of the adverse petitions, he
calmly admitted that it was the local
publicans. The cause which, having
for its object the abolition of the afore-
said li.P., yet coolly makes use of his
accursed gains,” must be a pretty
rotten one at bottom.
N*_ * *
What a brief-lived luna,cy was the
poster-ball boom !
After the first day’s festivities at Brisbane
700 of the Imperial troops had their leave stopped,
so it can be imagined how things were the first
day and night. One of the partially-sober men
remarked sorrowfully, as he saw the officers turn-
ing the taps on at all the beer-barrels : “ Think of
all that good lush a-goin’ to waste and the dry
throats there will be to-morrow—and we won’t be
here ! ” He knew.
* * * *
When the Commonwealth celebration
comes home to roost on the pocket of
JN.». W. there is one particular crowd that will do
its best to make things lively, and that is
the army of city fathers that was locked out.
All over the country, aldermen complain that
at even what were facetiously styled
“municipal outings” no one asked an alderman
if he had a mouth on him—or at least the
alderman wasn’t asked the question half so often
as he should have been. They declare that the
rag-tag and bob-tail of the Parliamentary gang
mopped up the good things, and often left not
even a cork for the poor aldermen to smell. Al-
together it is a good thing for Lyne that he
accepted that Federal billet, for the aldermen are
really angry, and when aldermen get really angry
they are likely to do thing's. They once struck
Sydney with the plague.
* * * +
As The Bulletin remarked once before,
he was the wise man among the celebration wire-
pullers who proposed to silence the workers by
inviting a few of them to come and eat beer while
the other sort swilled fizz. But, according to the
story with which certain representative toilers
went back, they didn’t even get a chance to eat
free beer, They, or some of them, found their
quarters were at a professional pugilist’s (he was
being “rubbed down” when they arrived). When
they suggested a bath, they were referred to a
wash-up tin in the back-yard ; and when they
suggested that they were hungry, they were asked
for £1 in advance, They have their own opinions
about the Govt.’s hospitality now,
In Perth (W.A.) 3 per cent, of the muni-
cipal council’s income is set apart as a fund for
buying liquor with which to tint the noses of the
council and its friends. It seems a fine large
allowance, but while Aleck Forrest was Mayor,
which was up to the end of 1900, the council had
so capacious a mouth on it that it drank not only
the current allowance, but most of the allowance
for 1901 as well. Mayor Brookman has reduced
the supplies until the fund accumulates suffici-
■ently to pay off the old drink-bills, and has
ordered that councillors who want to shout for
their private friends shall do it at ordinary public
houses as ordinary people do, instead of bringing
them to the council chamber. And the council
has risen with a bloodshot eye and a flushed nose
and declared itself insulted. It also talks of
suspending municipal business until its free drink
is _ restored. One way and another Brookman’s
reign appears likely to be full of trouble.
» * * »
The missing official who got away with
£4OOO from a N.S.W. bank has been captured at
Toowoomba (Q.), where he turned up with two
horses, a trainer, and a groom, and was posing as
a sporting gentleman of wealth. His only dis-
guise was a false name and an appearance of afflu-
ence. Apparently there is at least one man whose
understanding of the smallness of this very small
globe is of quite a rudimentary kind. The cap-
ture of this primitive person, who didn’t even
hide himself behind a tree, is already spoken
of as “a clever arrest.”
♦ * * *
In saying that Mayor Gillott is sometimes
a magistrate and other times a pleader in Melb.
City Court The Bulletin was treating a possi-
bility of the situation as an actual fact. The
PUSH AMENITIES.
DISY : “ Yah! Yer muver tikes in waskin’.”
LOIZER: “My word, yes! Yer down’t exped ’er
ter leave it ’ angin ’ out when yer favver's out
o’ gaol? ”
lawyer-Mayor—it is scarcely necessary to empha-
sise this point—takes every precaution against
injuring the reputation of the mayoral-beak. He
has never pleaded before anyone with whom he


VETERINARY BOOK FREE
On every Bottle of Condy’s Fluid.
This Book contains instructions by
eminent Veterinary Surgeons for the
treatment and cure of diseases of
Horses, Sheep, Cattle, Dogs, &c.
Condy’s Fluid is non-poisonous, and is
the safest and best Veterinary Remedy.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Insist on having “ CoNDY’S FLUID.’
Beware of Australian Substitutes?"
- The name Condy & Mitchell, of London, England
should be at foot of Label.
J.O.K.Z. fill).
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16 5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Pace, Sydney.
The Boot That Wears Best
IS THE CHEAPEST BOOT
THE CALLAGHAN BOOT
IS A SOLID BOOT.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
♦♦♦♦♦♦
Our Tan Willow Calf Boot at 22/6 a pair
meets the approval of every gentleman
who has worn it
CALLAGHAN and SON,
395 George-street, Sydney.
has sat on the Bench, and his sacrifice of legal
business on the altar of civic dignity has been con-
siderable. He doesn’t appear in Court except to
play the character incidental to his new office.
In short, Mayor Gillott is a scrupulously straight-
goer, as everybody knows. But everybody also
knows that for one Gillott there are a dozen other
Melbourne lawyers who might one day be mayor,
and whose claim to sit upon the judgment-seat
would be strongly resented by all thinking
citizens.
* * » *
Mudgee Liberal (Mudgee, N.S.W.)
publishes a letter from a trooper of the Australian
Horse, now in South Africa. He says there are
only 28 of the Australian Horse left—ten of them
in gaol and 18 outside. The? ten in gaol got there
for refusing to burn certain houses inhabited
solely by women and children, and to turn the
occupants out to starve on the cold veldt,
wherefore the British officer who gave the order
got on his ear. The Bulletin is sorry the
other Australians didn’t get into gaol for a
similar honorable offence. It is the most credit-
able news regarding the contingents which has
come this way for a very long time.
* * * *
The bottom is falling badly out of Maori-
land’s biggest recent sensation. This was the
discovery by a local resident, who professes to
have known the criminal in his original locale,
that a local citizen, named Lillywhite, was really
one Blatch, who has been wanted in England for
nine years, in the matter of a sensational murder.
Lillywhite laughed derisively at the accusation,
and declared that, at the time of the Blatch
murder, he was a well-known resident of Tacoma,
U.S. Sundry British policemen, who knew
Blatch, came out to identify the accused and take
him to England, and, though not quite sure about
Lillywhite, they decided that he was like enough
to Blatch to pass muster. Pull accounts of Blatch’s
crime appeared in all the Maoriland papers,
and Maoriland looked very hard at Lillywhite’s
photograph, and decided that he had Crime written
large all over him. Now a whole mass of affidavits
comes from Tacoma to the effect that Lillywhite’s
portrait has been recognised by many people
there, and that his alibi is perfectly solid. This
is a disappointing thing, and Lillywhite is
regarded just now as a treacherous and uncivil
impostor, who looked like Blatch out of pure
meanness.
• * * *
Comes from Melbourne a complicated tale
of a swindler and his best girl. The victim was a
widow with a grown-up daughter, and she met
her alleged lover and prospective husband in
London. They agreed to sail for Sydney, and to
be married on arrival and settle down to enjoy the
belated honeymoon, as it were. The lover, or
husband, or whatever he was, was accompanied
by his nephew, who speedily fell in love with the
daughter. The attachment of the youngsters,
however, met with the strong disapproval of
uncle, who openly rebuked his nephew, though
there are insinuations that all this was make-
believe and part of a deep-laid scheme. Anyhow,
on the party’s arrival at Cape Town the two
juniors informed their elders that they had been
married ere leaving London, and now proposed to
start life on their own at the Cape. The elderly
pair came on to Melbourne. . Here the ex-widow
or prospective wife was persuaded to hand over the
bulk of her capital to her husband-about-to-be,
she proceeding to Sydney, while he remained in
Melbourne for a day or two on business, and em-
ployed himself in converting the lady’s securities
into cash. This completed, he was expected to
follow his wife, or sweetheart, or widow, to
Sydney, but instead departed in a great hurry—
it is supposed to S’Africa, where he, or somebody
looking rather like him, has just been arrested.
The story is all beautifully vague and indistinct
and incomplete, the only decisive fact about the
matter being that the unfortunate lady has lost
some £2OOO, a prospective husband and a daughter,
and is practically penniless.
* » * *
Some of the Victorian Old Age Pension
applicants have queer stories to tell, and true
stories, as far as magisterial inquiries show. One
old fellow was worth £50,000 in the 60’s, and was
involved in a law-suit concerning £lO,OOO,
heard in the very court where lie was granted
his oension of 10s. a week. Another white-headed
ancient produced the Land-office map, with his
name scattered broadcast over the blocks of the
original sales. Others claimed to have been per-
sonal friends of the biggest men of the early days,
and bristled with anecdotes ; and many professed
to have been intimates of Mr. Panton, P.M., who
decided the claims. The P.M. demanded
to know the first employer of one applicant, who
said lie arrived in ’52, “ You were, Mr. Panton,”
replied the man ; “ I was your first coachman.”
The P.M. looked hard at the old fellow, and
recognised him after the long lapse of years.
Some of the old pensioners openly announced that
they are applying so that they may marry again ;
and one old woman, having got her 10s. order,
went round the terrace of the court proposing to
the old men, one after the other, expecting that
she was now too good a catch to be refused,
* » * m
Specimens of gold-bearing reef, worth £6O,
were burgled from the Museum at Melbourne
Nat. Gallery the other week. The wonder is that
a desperate newchum doesn’t “ shake ” some of
those gilded models of the big nuggets under the
impression that he is getting away with the real
stuff.
* * * *
No stranger suicide has happened o.
late years than that of Peter Joyce, who
lately hanged himself from the bars of
his cell window in Perth (W.A.) gaol.
Sentenced to death for wife-murder, he
was overcome with joy on hearing that the penalty
had been commuted and set about his prison work
quite cheerfully, yet ended his existence in a few
days, though he had shown no sign of despond-
ent.
The wretch condemned with life to part,
Still, still on hope relies,
bur. the boon granted, it is no longer valued.
A certain parish got rid of its dreary
Anglican curate not long ago by packing
him off to the adjacent State with a
sheaf of eulogistic credentials. He
proved a rank failure in his new
district, and was told he was
required no longer. But he
hung about the town for a
few days afterwards, stating
he was penniless. The
church people reluctantly
passed the hat and collected
enough to send him to afflict
some other region. By mis-
take he left behind his bank-
book showing a credit balance of
£l5O odd. There is now a very angry
congregation whose exact address it is
needless to mention.
* * * *
A Victorian infant lately suc-
cumbed to the awful name Willielmina Patti
Pretoria.
An infuriated N.S.W. ex-soldier furnishes
this yarn. It isn’t given as he told it, a rich
garnishing of curses being left out:
N.S.W. Government has now got down to the level of
Abdul the Damned and the gentleman who haunts small
hotels looking for a lost uncle from Fiji. Abdul finds it
necessary to change his body-guard of 30,000 troops
occasionally, when the trusty warriors have not drawn
any salary for a few months, and are growing cantanker-
ous, so they are packed off to the frontiers and their
places taken by a crowd more lately enlisted. When
N.S.W. first went into the Foreign Expedition business
the men believed they “signed on” for 4s. 6d. per
day, besides Imperial pay ; whereas it included both
Imperial and Colonial stipends. Many who were
single men made their Imperial pay cover all
ex.’s and allow'ed their N.S.W. cash to accumulate
with a view to drawing a lump sum on their re-
turn and “ starting something for themselves.” When
they returned they found that the Colonial screw was
really only 3s. 4d. per day, and when they applied for that
Headquarters gave each man a free ticket into the
country and requested him to call back later on. Which
is the way the spielers do. They always send a well-
plucked pigeon into the country and tell him to come
back in 12.) weeks. Then the men came back again, and
again the Govt, imitated the spieler method. When a
pigeon does come back and worries his fleecers they throw
him a £5 note (sometimes a bad one) and give him another
free pass to the backblox. So did the Govt.; it gave each
swaddie about £5 and another free pass into the country,
and advised him to take any employment offering. So
just now the railways are loaded up with a crowd of curs-
ing swaddies going to and from Sydney for back pay.
Some of them have got tired, and have formed a fighting
fund wherewith to sue the Government for their Boer
blood-money in the Supreme Court. Possibly the next
will be that they will be asked to “ take it out” in broken-
down Commonwealth decorations.
* * * *
The Imperial troops, on the whole, be-
haved themselves excellently (for professional
soldiers) in Sydney, but a big percentage of them
got very drunk at Brisbane; in consequence there
was a lot of “ frog’s march,” arm-twisting, chok-
ing, and other cruel tricks for those who “were
lowering the tone of the regiment.” The harbour
picnic fell through on account of Beer.
» • * •
In the Vic. western district they grow
long men, as on the. Hawkesbury. __ One day
a man named
summoned for
to school his
14. The young
into court by
stood 6ft.
M‘Leod was
not sending
boy of under
ster was led
his father, and
6in. bootless
FOR VARIETY.
MRS. BROWN: “I suppose now your son’s married
you an’ your ’usband feel lonely, Mrs.
Smith?”
MRS. SMITH: “ No, I can’t say as I do—you
see, I’ve taken a boarder just to break the
monopoly.”
After every hanging the public are told
that “ the condemned slept soundly” during his
last night on earth. It might be added that every
convict awaiting execution is given a sleeping
draught, so that his last earthly slumbers may be
peaceful.
* * * *
If length of residence is to come into the
question of ecclesiastical precedence in Sydney
Rabbi Davis is easily ahead of all the other
church dignitaries ; added to which he is the local
representative of by far the most ancient sect, bar
possibly the chief of the Joss-house.
* * * *
J. S. Bray, a well-known Sydney naturalist,
claims to have “absolutely proved” by ex-
periment that the rat-flea and parasitical human
flea are different. Rat-fleas, though confined and
starved, would not bite human flesh. Yet it is a
positive fact that plague in rats has been often
antecedent to or simultaneous with plague in
man. Mr. Bray does not seem to have tried
whether the human flea-parasite would bite rats.
If the rat were only a temporary host to the
normally man-infesting flea, the discrepancy be-
tween evidence and evidence would be explained.
* * * *
Brisbane pedagogues at a recent conference
rose in their wrath and wanted to know the mean-
ing of a Departmental ukase to the effect that they
should send a list of the parents of their pupils
with respective religious denominations to a local
clergyman. Teachers said they didn’t mind
furnishing returns to the Department, but
making them slaves for a busybody parson was too
much. The present Q. Govt, crawls to every
variety of sky-pilot in turn, and would upset the,
whole Education Act (if it dared) to catch the
votes of a few dozen snufflebusters.
• • * *
A complicated three-barrelled divorce-case
is said to be looming in Maoriland. A, B, and G
are going to apply for separation
from their wives, unless they
think better of it, which they
probably will. The trouble
lies in the fact that B and C
both propose to make A co-
respondent, and A proposes
to make B co-respondent,
so if the cases really even-
tuate the Judge will prob-
ably make severe remarks
about everybody except C.
In Westralia a man
has just got 10 years’ hard
for killing his neighbor’s
cow. Yet W.A. Supreme
Court, 18 months ago, gave
a man only seven years
for killing his wife and
cu tting her bodyinto small
pieces for convenience in
carrying it out in a sack
to an ash-heap. The
relative values of a cow
and a woman in Wes-
tralia are here shown
with great accuracy.
When 20 British
soldiers face2ooßoers
it is heroic. When,
in spite of tremen-
dous odds, they
fight on and on,
it is magnificent.
But when De
Wet and his
men, though
enormously out-
numbered, still
fight on it is
—murder ! The
expression has oc-
curred in a score of
papers lately. Oh, we are a
fair people!
Our London correspondent writes :
There’s a clinking Austral Munchausen out in S’Africa
disguised in kharki, who has been sending here to his
aged and respected poor old father some gory mendacities
of the war. First, his powers had won him a captaincy ;
then he had gallantly rescued the macerated guard at
Pomponfontein, and did other gallant deeds in the “ vast
untravelled solitudes” of his own imagination. The
“ old man ” is accustomed to Ananiases, having run a
paper “ down under,” yet he swallows these as Alf.
Joseph used to swallow oysters. Then he “wrings”
them all round to the London press, who haven’t the
heart to tell the poor old fellow what a lovely liar his
son is.
More than one Australian capital is
amused at the desperate velocity with which the
titles of certain more or less newlv-manufactured
“Ladies” have been aired per medium of cold*
blooded paid-for newspaper advts.
* * + •
S.M. Herald’s most eloquent scribe
tackles the big Sydney shower :
Then, amidst an electrical display of Heaven’s fireworks
and the. deafening volleys of the celestial batteries, the
seething and hissing of the shattered waterspout became
fearful, while people fled wherever shelter offered, and
the streets were converted into impassable rivers.
The Herald has printed nothing so impressive
since the great Monkey Soap Wedding.
* * * *
The girl arrested at Echuca the other day
for knocking about “disguised ” as a man, excused
herself with the plea that she found she could not
easily lead a decent life as an unprotected girl,
and so took to mal4 habiliments and hard work.
She lived on a condemned boat on the Murray
without the caretaker suspecting her sex, and
knocked about the hotels with the men at night
without arousing suspicion ; but the first police-
man who came along arrested her on sight, her dis-
guise being about as effective as that of a pantomime
boy. A man was being hunted charged with the
abduction of this experimentalist. The craving
for male togs is instinctive in many girls. Writer
remembers the case of a girl of 15, daughter of a
well-to-do family in Ballarat, who disappeared
from her home, and was discovered weeks after,
earning her living napping road-metal at Haddon,
and living in the same tent with a greybeard.
The old man was astounded when told the truth,
and nearly died of shame when confronted by the
girl, but the simple little maiden was all serene,
and only “carried on” when deprived of her
moleskins.
* * * *
“ Sydney,” writes a Bulletin corres-
pondent, “has seen so much lately of the way in
which her charity-offerings are frittered away,
that in the matter of the collection for the
wounded in the late gun-accident she should take
no chances. It seems to be intended to remit
the money to London for the officer
commanding the Imperial contingent to dispose
of as he thinks fit. Now, while not
making the slightest reflection on Col.
Wyndham, would it not be better, if the men are
still with us, that the money be given here?
Otherwise, the Agent-Qeneral is the proper
person to see to its disposal. ”
* * * *
That droll institution, the Philatelic
Society, ought, above all societies, to gorinto deep
mourning for Queen Victoria. Hers was the
first head ever engraved upon a postage-stamp.
* * * *
The Sydney newspaper controversy as to
truth in the witness-box and the doctrines of the
R.C. Church becomes more and more interesting,
and should make an engaging pamphlet when it
is finished.
* * * *
A difficulty likely to arise at the first pro-
posal to distribute old age pensions in N.S.W.
concerns ancients whose wives are able to support
them. Many old men of this class are already
moving in the matter, and as the Act provides no
solution an amendment may be required. Under
ordinary law a man may in certain cases oblige his
wife to support him, but there are many cases in
which he cannot, and some of these latter will be
among the first to apply.
* * • *
A Melbourne workman was recently cured
of, the dangerous habit of drinking direct per
mouth from street water-taps, by being half-
choked in the attempt to swallow a nine-inch
worm. His tale of woe runs that he took this
sudden and unexpected acquaintance to Fitz-
gibbon, of the Board of Works, and Fitz., instead
of apologising for letting such things get into the
water, congratulated him warmly on his good
luck in finding such a splendid specimen, and
told him that if he would carry it about a mile
and a half and show it to the boss of the Board of
Health he would also be deeply interested.
Whereupon the indignant drinker tramped out
and threw the worm right across the street at a
reconstructed bank.
DISENCHANTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I fell in love —poor simple fool ! —
With just my own ideal;
I loved the girl I thought you were:
I little knew the real.
I thought I’d met a noble soul,
A woman — tender , true ;
But now the honeymoon is past—
“ Just fancy meeting you ! ”
CECIL POOLE.


“He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOV'S success is a Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY’S.
/ y°V asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun of the thing l
foy, sypNEy.
Bama prlOM and attsaOen as If you bought amongst the dally crowds at the counters.
I V 'T
lightest Wines in Austrau
&
m
SSB
cogs
sOirm
All Drapers Everywhere,
GLOBE Tens
have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson, 284 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMANS LETTER.
Mr Dm Mra*- Srd " 6J ' l Jan “ rJr 29 ’ ITO -
The Day the Queen Died was a grey day. From
, i f ? .morning, in Sydney, the sun was shrouded,
air breathless. and heavy. It seemed as if
(ature was preparing for the passing away of that
ttle, weary, faithful old woman, whose fitful, last
breaths were counted by millions—tenderly, in
grief, in curiosity, in anxiety,' in anticipation, but
counted by all.
And then the flag goes down slowly, The news
has come.
The Queen is Dead! The words meet you
everywhere. Great black letters, little black,
letters. Silent crowds steal up and look, quickly
quickly dissolving. A curious silence
in the streets.
The Queen is Dead! People are trying to
realise it. “Death of the Queen.” “Her
Majesty Has Passed Away.” “Demise of
Her Majesty, . Queen Victoria.” Like every
unusual sensation, this strikes, and leaves a
woman numb. The words look black, simple,
stately. Only that. The Queen is Dead ! The
cadence gets into one’s blood. The sensation
comes stealing, deepening. But the fact that the
is dead has not yet reached you. To-
morrow you will think of that. The history book
event will be realised to-morrow. To-day you
want to listen only to the sound of those words,
passing round the world like a chant. They
sweep over the city, up the streets, away across
the water, farther and farther on.
The Queen is Dead. A telepathic wave sweeps
round the world and catches you into its current.
Uoser and closer to you come the millions and
millions. Suddenly you and the millions are
together. Never again will you be one with them
as in this minute. Linked by one thought—the
Queen is dead.
Not all grief, perhaps. Yet not all empty
eulogium of a life that was narrow and good, and
rigid and faithful. The majesty, the grace, that
beat about this death are not born altogether of
the woman, weary and old, who has just passed
away. They spring from something bigger than
loyalty to a being, to an institution. They have
nothing to do with loyalty. The grace and dignity,
the isolating sadness, the feeling of music in the
air, and autumn flowers, these spring from a
sudden lovely recognition of millions of hearts and
brains pulsing along one thought with us. The
poor old Queen is dead. Brains waver and topple
m the magnetic emotion of the Crowd.
Our city of arches, joyful, full of color and
light, settles into a minor key. Flags lowered at
sunset, bells tolling, guns booming. Ah, but how
horrible 1 \Y hat a devastation of all the poetry
and dignity of the event. Never did the crude
barbarism of journalism reveal itself as in these
days, when the Queen lies sleeping, awaiting her
burial. All the art and beauty are shattered
smirched, ruined, knocked to pieces by a hideous
commercial hand. The Shops have seized the
moment, and turned it into a great business
transaction. If a shop has been left out of the
list the papers hasten to put it in the next day so
gracefully—“ We omitted to mention that Messrs.
Tie and Screw have draped their windows with
the best quality of black cashmere.” Even the
Undertaker’s Shop is draped !
But the crudest of all the crudities was that of the
Sunday paper that printed half-a-column of joyful
gloat over its own deftness in getting the news of
the great Death half-an-hour before anyone else.
Another strange manifestation of sorrow was a
lady at ‘ Tannhauser ” in low-necked white satin
and all the family diamonds, and a broad band of
black crape round her bare arm.
In Slumdom there were interesting contro-
versies. Two boys sat on a Wexford-street door-
way, both nursing the inevitable byby. “ Queen’s
dead. Well, I never knew her,” said one casually,
ihe other slung his byby over his shoulder to get
his arm clear for a lunge. “ Well, yer might
think of other people’s feelings if yer ain’t got
none of yer own.” Another child down that way
atoned for the depravity of flying his kite on the
day of the Queen’s death by making its tail of ink-
stained paper.
The Queen’s Statue combines mourning and the
j ctic. Wreaths lie at the baseband are daily
added to. _AII day big crowds hang over the rail-
ln£fs! gazing at the dark carved figure standing
erect from masses of white immortelles, white
tuberoses, white daisies, white roses, and simple
green, unflowered wreaths. Purple ribbons strike
deep notes amongst the green and - white, and
palms go fluttering darkly against the bronze
Queens robes. This is the one really beautiful
emblem of the city’s journalistic sorrow;
It jars frightfully to sea outside a window full
of flowers and doves of peace, the words, “Beware
pickpockets.”
As I write the Governor-General has issued an
order for every one to go into the deepest mourn-
ing from January 28th. Immense consternation
If the Government will provide the mourning
this might be done, but otherwise, it is out of the
question, with a quarter of Sydney anyway. A
white frock and black hat is what on© sees every-
where. A few women go about shamefacedly in
blue and pink. Dressmakers cannot take any
more orders, and the city has run right out of
black voile.
For the Queen is dead. It seems to mean so
much at. the moment, so comparatively little in
Perspective. Already we are talking of something
A death that may genuinely be described as sad
was that of Dr. Leo. Neill, everybody’s favorite—
there was no more popular doctor in Sydney. He
was son of the late manager of the City Bank of
Sydney, a strong, handsome young athlete, idol-
ised by his patients, and esteemed by everyone.
He died of pneumonia on Thursday night, and at
ms funeral on Saturday flowers were sent with
more than royal profusion.
. i little wedding last week was that of
the clever and democratic W. A. Holman, M.L.A.,
and Miss Ada Kidgell. The wedding ceremony
ook place m the 1.0.0. F. Temple, with the Rev.
George Walters as knot-tier. Miss Kidgell has
won many admirers in Sydney by her charming
personality and her literary gifts. She is well-
known as the editor of The Co-operator, and her
stones are popular with many readers.
The Ogilvie dinner at the Australia Hotel on
fc Monday night brought together a bright gather-
ing of men and women. Nearly all the women
wore black by reason of the Royal death.
A novel feature of the banquet was the
speeches by the fair sex. Madame Agnes Jansen
was the first to break the feminine silence, re-
sponding in a graceful, quaint little speech
at- d 6 toast of Music and the Drama,
u !? S „ ,r Scotts peaceful voice was raised on
behalf of literature, Mrs. Bernard Espinasse made
a witty little sally against Ogilvie’s poetic devo-
tion to Fair Girls, and Mrs. Aronson also spoke
m response to Fair Girls and Gray Horses.
Banjo Paterson, praising the Horse and Girl,
made a sly hit at the un-understandable
poetry going about to-day, but Mr. Chris.
Brennan—whose poems some people profess to
understand scored brilliantly by remarking that
if Pegasus did soar beyond the clouds
Pegasus was a horse all the same. In the chair
was Mr. W. Macleod. Literature, Music, and.
the Drama, Painting and- the allied arts were
speechified by Victor Daley, Roderic Quinn,
Julian Ashton, Marr Thompson, D. H. Soufer
and others. Later on in the evening, Madame
Jansen sat down at the piano and played her own
accompaniment to two Swedish folk-songs, ren-
dered with tenderness and perfect art. Miss Eva
My lot t’s warm contralto sang the popular “Three
Fishers, Mr. Laurance Phillip made.music at the
piano, and Mr. Laurence Campbell recited from the
dinner-table one of Mr. Ogilvie’s poems. Among
the party were Miss Agnes Storrie, Mr. and Mrs.
Nelson Illingworth, Mrs. Pauli, Mr. Tom Roberts,
Barbara Baynton, Miss Conor O’Brien, Miss
Alice Eyton, Mr. Blakeney, Mr. and Mrs. Marr-
Ihompson.
We have now three new female governing
angels—a new Gov.-Generaless, new Admiraless
and new Mayoress. None of the three have
appeared much in public yet, but all are said to
have an unusual amount of backbone. Mrs
Beaumont is the newest, and perhaps the oldest’
of the trio—a tall, gray-haired Bostonian, with a
.Boston an* of culchaw” which will come as a
change at dull Admiralty House. I hear that she
is full of verve and energy, and interests herself
in women s affairs. A pretty, fair young English
girl, Miss Rawson, has come out with the Beau-
monts, who have no children of their own. The
Admiral has quite a glittering reputation—lin-
guist, artist, athlete, musician, writer, conversa-
tionalist, and swordsman. Also, as if that
isn t enough for an Admiral, he is tall, dark
sbght, and reckoned one of the handsomest men
in the Navy. Beaumont, if you please, is pro-
nounced Bewmont. *
l am told that at the recent parade of the Im-
perial troops at Brisbane, Lord Lamington made
Ins loyal subjects feel quite proud of him for once.
He looked the real thing in his Q.M.R. uniform
—even beside that darling-with-the-women, Cap-
tain Evelyn Wood. The Q. Governor ’is hand-
some when he does not look bored, and graceful
for a man. Watch him on a platform, or yawning
surreptitiously out of a side-window at Govern-
ment House, and you will see what I mean.
According to Private-Sec. Wallington the
Queen s death makes it very improbable that any
member of the Royal Family will be deputed to
open the first Federal Parliament, “Hopey”
will thus probably “score” again.
Tenor conceit has ever been the commonest
form of a universal malady, and if half the on dits
about a fair, big, ingenuous Tenor now in Sydney
are true, his disease will kill somebody ere long
probably somebody else. All tenors get it bad
but this one seems hopeless. He said to a local
pen-woman the’other day, 1 Why ees’t you alwise
say tings about IMadame Blankevalli, and never
say noting about ME?” She pointed out that it
was Madame s frocks that she wrote about
because people wanted to hear about frocks. But
he flourished his arms, and flicked his ears, and
cried m an agony of astonishment, “But what
about my clohs-s ! Do you not sink dey want to
know about my clohs-s ? ”
Rumoured that the reason why a certain
theatrical engagement was last week suddenly
aitered was that the neighbouring State offered
nothing but unbooked seats. However Sydney
gains by her neighbour’s loss.
“Maritana” was last week’s new opera in
Sydney. Lilian Coomber, in the name-part, was
a pretty-vvooden little personage in scarlet-and-
black vvith jetted-yellow ribbons. She kept the
tirst act flat and tame until Balvi came aloner and
lifted everything as Don Ctesar. Agnes Janson
played Lazarillo in grey blouse and trousers and
lt iyas possibly the effect of the male attire that
laid her under such, an unnecessary burden of
woe. As far as I can see, there is no reason for
B. to be so utterly overwhelmed with grief.
The Commonwealth celebration, which was to
raise so many struggling boarding-house ladies to
affluence, has ended by landing some of them in
dire poverty. The landlady who dismissed her
ordinary boarders to make room for the Govt ditto
mostly sat among empty rooms during the Great
Week—the Government guest not turning up for
the simple reason that Government had far over-
estimated the amount of him and emptied more
boarding-houses than it could fill. The hash-mosque
dame would not grieve about this if the Govern-
ment coin had arrived all the same, but the
Government, not understanding in its wisdom
that the boarding-house is an institution that re-
quires ready money and that cannot raise foreign
loans, is hanging fire. One lady of the boarding-
house religion neglected the mid-day stew for
three days while she besieged the Treasury trying
to get her little paper signed. It isn’t signed yet,
nor does it seem likely to be, but the fact that she
has got as far as the Treasury rouses envy in the
hopeless back row of boarding-house ladies, who
haven’t even managed to get into that building as
yet.
From Sydney D.T., 28/l/’Ol: —“ Will Lady who
smiled at Gentleman in town, Saturday, . . . ?
Interested, G.P.0.” What a time the G.P.O.
people will have if all of her responds 1
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ From the black-wreathed balconies of the
‘Grand ’ a smart set of people watched the pro-
cession on Sunday afternoon. Mrs. Lawson,
who, with her husband and Rupert Clarke, had
a balcony to herself, was a conspicuous figure
(and a fine one) in all-black. In a neighboring
niche stood the young widow, Mrs. Wesley-Hall,
with all her relatives in deep mourning.
“The only thing of youth and beauty among
the crowd at the Memorial Service in the Exhibi-
tion was Miss Ruby Madden, who wore a smart
black frock, large-feathered hat and sables. The
Turner Contingent presented a very funereal spec-
tacle-all arrayed in deepest mourning.
“ Among many mourning bettises : On the day
upon which the Queen’s death was announced, a
prominent shopkeeper solemnly adorned a bust of
Mercury standing in his window with a strip of
black crape tied round the neck after the latest
fashion in cravats !
“ White with black ribbon and belt reminders
seems to be the smartest bereavement garb at pre-
sen*; -A- terrible spectre appeared in Collins-st.
on Thursday in the form of an old lady in a vivid
emerald-green trailing gown with a black crape
arm-band and flying crape-strings from a green
bonnet. Now was it Irelana in mourning or a
poor unthinking soul bringing her only apparel up
to date?
• t ' lo con °l«sion of Snazelle’s entertainment
m Melbourne, last Thursday afternoon, ‘God
Save 5 was started. Force of habit made the
great majority of the audience sing ‘ God Save the
Queen’ as usual, much to the indignation of an
old gentleman, who beat time with an umbrella
and came down on the word ‘ King ’ with fervent
emphasis. Coming out of the hall afterwards one
heard a woman indignantly protesting against the
thoughtlessness of those who sang ‘ God Save the
Queen’ when the Queen was dead. ‘But,’said
her companion, ‘ there is a Queen now, and we
sing God Save the Queen,” else how will she
get on ? ‘ But what about saving the King if we
do that? was the rejoinder. ‘Oh, he’s a man
and can look after himself—l shall sing ‘God
Save the Queen ’ as usual.’
, Melbourne woman recently happened across
that rarity, a good nurse-girl, and was loud in her
praises to all acquaintances. The baby had only
to be given to the girl to send it to sleep, and
never a cry was heard from it during the time it
was under her care. One night, however, the
thought she would go to the girl’s room to
bid baby good-night and to her horror found the
apartment empty. A faint wheezing eventually
directed her attention to the chest-of-drawers
and, opening one of the largest, she found her
beloved infant sleeping peacefully with a bottle
firmly clenched in its mouth, but with the drawer
so closed that not even the most heart-rending
shrieks from it could reach the household. When
the treasure of a nurse returned from her outing
she left the house suddenly.
nr^i( as^ion abl e .d a me recently set an example
to Melb. womankind by appearing, before an in-
teresting event, always in company with a black-
mackintoshed and white-capped nurse. Within
two days of the great incident she bought bibs and
tuckers at fashionable shops in company with the
ministering angel.’ Sassiety smiled, but some
old ladies of experience gave the smart dame
every praise for her originality.
Marra Sculptors’ Society has been giving
an exhibition in Melbourne, but the title of that
somewhat mutual-admiration concern disqualifies
it for serious notice anyhow. If they called it
the Yarra Sculptor’s Society, adding the name of
.Uouglas Richardson in brackets, the fact that the
show consists mainly of paintings would not be
such a glaring satire. Richardson, the largest
contributor, is a forcible sculptor with a tendency
to allegorical pictures, which reveal his utter lack
of worldly humour. The work he calls ‘ The
Undeveloped Soul .’ suggests celestial baby farm-
mg, the unlawful infant of a deceased female
being accepted by angels in token of her immor-
tal spirit, or perhaps she died with her maternal
longings unsatisfied, and the small child is merely
meant to symbolise a soul that didn’t grow and
was never weaned. Douglas R.’s flights of fancy
are too flighty altogether. Withers, Mather, and
one or two other noteworthy artists are repre-
sented.
“ John Simpson Mackennal, father of gifted
sculptor Bertram, died at Melbourne last week,
aged 09 years. Mackennal pere, a clever model-
ler in the days when he had a ready market for
Ins good work, was the most genial of gentlemen,
and his death, hastened probably by the excite-
ment of the reunion with his son, is a matter for
sincere regret among old art comrades. Son Ber-
tram s filial regard was recently expressed in
casual conversation by the remark that during his
years of absence he had never missed writing his
weekly letter to his father in Australia. No mat-
ter what business might be pressing him he in-
variably devoted one hour on each Tuesday to
the pleasant task of chatting on paper to the old
dad who got a heart-thrill from the arrival of the
English mail.
‘‘A number of Melb. girls who got introduced
to the English officahs in Sydney are now sport-
ing military buttons on their white pique jackets,
and many envious ones cry ‘ How lovely ! How
jolly ! —English officahs, you know ! ’ But one
candid girl relates a sad experience she had over
the buttons. A hideously haughty captain whom
she coquettishly asked for one replied frigidly—
‘ Buttons ! My deah young lady, the only ones I
could spare would not be ornamental.’ Collapse
of charmer.
“William A. Kean, a pupil of St. Francis’
Xavier’s College, who has broken the Collegiate
records by winning the classical scholarship at
recent Melb. University exam, at the age of 15 i 3
the son of an Elsternwick constable who has
devoted all his savings to providing a liberal edu-
cation for a quiver of clever children.
“ Cr. William levers, who lived as long as the
Queen and died within a week of her death, was a
character. When the octogenarian visited Ireland,
a few years ago, he collected, among other sou-
venirs, a barrel of ‘crubeens’ (pigs’ feet), and
regaled his family and a host of friends with the
luxuries when he returned to Victoria. A dear
old simple soul, though shrewd enough where
business was concerned.
“ Little Mirams, who is bidding for the Essen-
don seat in the Federal Parliament, is making a
door-to-door canvass of the district, interviewing
slaveys and mistresses in turn with signal elo-
quence. He leaves with each person a pamphlet
setting forth in rounded periods and columns of
figures, his history his chequered career, and the
pros and cons of his case. The quiet, persuasive
address of ‘Little Jim,’ the self-confidence and
assurance he betrays, and the arguments he uses,
have quite won the hearts of the house-wives, and
if Woman’s Suffrage were an accomplished fact
‘ Little Jim ’ would be returned to the head of the
poll with a wild waving of scullery mops.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
Boer delegate Wolmarans, it is cabled,
writes to his friends:—“l have been through
Europe, and can testify that our leaders are
stuffing us with lies.” No doubt. Both sides,
British and Boer, have been stuffed with lies by
their leaders.
During a recent thunderstorm in S.A. one
of two brothers, who were driving a six-horse
team, called at a neighbor’s house to borrow an
overcoat. Upon his return he found his brother
and the six horses dead—killed by a lightning-
stroke. -
Perth, too, is uneasy about its water
supply. The present system has been completely
outgrown ; and so long has the provision of a sup-
plementary supply been delayed that in the three
years which it will take to provide another service
either a bore will have to be put down for an
artesian supply, or people will probably have to
go on short commons.
Not easy to foresee the extent of the results
of the proposed French legislation preventing the
acquisition of any more landed property by re-
ligious orders or associations, and closing the
public service to “all persons educated in the
schools and colleges of religious communities.”
buch a drastic measure will practically split-up
the nation. There will doubtless be a substantial
majority of men in its favor ; but then—especially
in fi ranee—the women count!
A giddy old gentleman told the story of
his ante-matrimonial troubles to a Richmond
Vic.) Bench t’other day. He had fallen so far in
love with a young woman as to make her frequent
gifts of cases of fruit, brooches, and a couple of
sovereigns as a birthday gift. Also, he advanced
her the sum of £l2 to furbish up her fruiterer’s
wagon. Finally, he drove her to his farm
and proposed straight out, telling her that if she
w°u d marry him he would' put £lOO in her hand
on the day of-the wedding. The lady, far from
being insulted by this mercenary proposal, con-
sidered a moment, then coyly replied that she
would consult her husband and see what he
thought of the offer. Which deceitful conduct so
shocked the old man that he sued for the return
of his £l2, and got a verdict.
The largest, most glittprsome and richest-
looking eatakigue that up to the present has struck
this office is that of Mappin and Webb, jewellers
sent along by that great firm’s local agents!
Messrs. Fairfax and Roberts, of 23 Hunter-street
bydney It is filled with illustrations on all the
beautiful things that a man and a woman can
desire to live with and wear. Till this catalogue
arrived the writer had no desire for wealth but
having looked upon the gorgeous things ’ that
wealth can buy from Messrs. Fairfax and Roberts
he is now filled with a great resolution to get rich
at an early date and buy the lot.
The Bulletin acknowledges receipt of
Whitaker’s Almanack for 1891 from the pub-
lishers, Messrs. Spicer Brothers, Ltd. Whita-
ker s Almanack is one of the best of the very many
excellent year-books, and contains much informa-
tion dn a vast number of subjects, such as Govern-
ment, finance, population, commerce, and general
statistics* of the British Empire. In addition
there is a “whole heap” of information about
other countries and miscellaneous subjects, such
as weights and measures, ready-reckoners for all
manner of uses, Customs and Postal guides for
Britain, astronomy, a sketch of the S’African war
and reflections thereon, and a huge quantity of
good saleable knowledge on the subject of the
close-time for oysters and other things


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
For the Skin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling end soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLANDS
ESSENCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland’s articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
Citizens’Wsurance Company [imited.
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
•Fi-giating Policyholders exceed 216,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Absolute Security.
Moore and Castlereayh Streets,
Sydney.
Annual Bonuses.
JOHN FARRELL,
Resident Secretary.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
Every National Protectionist should get a
copy of The Bulletin’s “A Policy for the
Commonwealth.” Price Cd. at Bulletin Office;
posted to any address in Australasia for Bd. in
stamps of any State.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developesa lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“ Why not Albert I. 1 ” Because it would
sound too German.
King's Birthday is now Nov. 9, and Prince
of Wales’ ditto June 3.
()ne thing can be said of King Edward’s
co.isort: No one ever heard, or saw in print, a
single ill-natured thing about her.
President M‘Kinley sent a most sympa-
thetic message on the Queen’s death. Yet Her
Majesty’s grandfather hanged his grandfather.
The late millionaire Tyson on the woman
with a bustle : “If God Almighty put it there I
suppose she would move heaven and earth to get
it off.”
Rupert Clarke is the only Bart, so far
announced for the Federal contest. Bryan
O’Loghlen is getting himself induced to offer him-
self, but may conclude that a rest is good for him.
PRECEDENCE.
The bishop lingered at the gate
His right of precedence to state.
“ Pass up,” said Peter ; “ never fear—
No other bishop’s gone in here.”
In the new Melbourne literary-Bohemian
club the eminent dead are eligible as members.
But the club is rather exclusive. It blackballed
Tennyson, the other day—not, it is understood,
on account of his poetry, but by reason of his
offensively-superior manners.
The transfer of Bishop Green from Graf-
ton to Ballarat, and of Coadjutor-Bishop Cooper
from Ballarat to Grafton, is the nearest approach
to an ecclesiastical swap Australia has achieved.
Each congregation deplores losing its man, and
each effusively welcomes the new-comer.
Dr. Donovan, Q.G., leaves Sydney again
“ for another call at Rome. Dr. Donovan’s last
visit did not complete the special object he had
in view, which was understood to be a religious
and personal one.” Anyhow, the Sydney law-
courts may consider themselves done with him.
The death of Dickson leaves Lyne senior
of the Federal Ministry. Drake, the new substi-
tute, is 50 ; Deakin, 47 ; Lyne, 57; and the other
five Ministers between these two extremes, should
make a Cabinet of ideal working power. Drake
is the only one of the seven not Australian-born.
The choice between “King Albert 1.,”
thus securing to himself a- distinctive title, and
“King Edward V 11.,” showing that he ascended
a throne dating far back into history, was probably
not given to the new monarch. It was most likely
the wish of the late Queen that the name Albert
should remain in English history sacred to the
deceased Prince Consort.
Federal Postmaster-General Drake is
known in Sydney through his visit in 1899 as a
delegate from Queensland to assist the passage of
the Commonwealth Bill at the second referendum.
He was a thorough supporter of the Bill in his
own State also, and at that period could have
had no notion of securing a seat in the first
Federal Cabinet.
When “Banjo” Paterson was at the
Maoriland Hot Lakes, the local Maoris were very
anxious to hear all about the war, so by special
request he lectured to them, sitting on a rock
while geysers squirted in the air all round and the
surface of the earth wobbled up and down
in cauldrons of boiling mud. The voice
of the lecturer was occasionally drowned
by the yells of tourist photographers who
had. accidentally put their feet into the
boiling water-holes, or by the hoarse grunt-
ings of porpoise-like Maori women who
were scorching up and down the road on
bicycles. At the end of the discourse the
Maoris all began to jabber at once, and
the translator turned to Banjo with a beam-
ing smile and said : “ There is one ting
none of us understan’.” “What is that?”
“If te troops so hungry why not eat te
Boer ? ”
Ex-Rev. James Blanksby has been
pitchforked into the secretaryship of N.S. VV.
Miners’ Accident Relief Fund Board by
Sabbath-preacher Minister Fegau, and this
episode will drive the Newcastle miners
into revolt. They are rising determinedly to
squelch the game. Blanksby was a Sydney parson
some dozen years ago. Then he took to Henry
George, next to Labor politics ; then Reid made
him M.L.C.; and now he sits down in a billet.
How well-meaning some stupid people are
—and how stupid are some well-meaning people !
Just look at the first and last lines of that “In
Memoriam Our Queen” printed in the obituary
column of Sydney D.T. last week —and wonder at
how such a thing ever came to be paid for as an
advt.
Coningham, of divorce suit celebrity, now
receives anonymous letters like these: “When I
catch you I’ll break you in half.” Coningham
was so upset by one communication that he carried
a loaded revolver all next day, the bullets of
which, he explained, “ go four inches into a log of
wood.”
The Federal Ministry contains three ex-
journalists, or perhaps they will continue to be
occasional journalists. Drake and Deakin up till
lately turned out professional “copy,” and R. E.
O’Connor did years of work for the Fairfax pro-
ductions. One law case lasting a week is often
more lucrative than a quarter’s press-work, so
while law cases abound the journalist-barrister
gives the press the go-by.
Drake, the somewhat tired Q. politician,
now Federal P.M.G., was the means of adding a
new word to Q. parliamentary slanguage. To
“do a Drake ” was a mild way of accusing a man
of swallowing his political principles. Drake was
a very candid critic of the party in power before
he became a bosom friend.
Apropos a certain judicial scandal. It
takes a brilliant man to climb to the top of the
social ladder in eight years, but any kind of man
can drop to the bottom in 24 hours or even less.
In fact there is hardly any eminence on earth that
a man can’t drop from, all on account of a woman,
in even less than 24 hours.
Paris Nesbit, the exceedingly clever but
occasionally erratic Adelaide Q.C., now seems to
be quite restored to health. He has parted with
the meteoric Morning, whose early demise is con-
fidently expected, since only its personal attacks
on Kingston and other well-known men give it a
circulation. And he has, wherever possible, made
his peace in the most manly way with the many
friends whom he had in various ways estranged.
Saturday Review on Premier Lyne :
Though he is little known to people on this side, he is
a man of ideas. He recently suggested that the Queen
should be styled Empress of Great Britain.
There’s a proof for you William is a man of ideas,
suggesting that the Sovereign should assume as a
title a phrase coined by the Radical Dilke, whose
famous Newcastle lecture on “The Cost of the
Crown” is, you may be sure, not forgotten in
Royal circles.
There seems some kind of evidence that
Michael Logue—of whom Dubbo (N S.W.) people
profess to be very proud—was born in 1797, and
the fact is clear that he is still alive. One of the
veteran’s peculiarities is that he never wore
glasses, and does not yet need them ; another,
that he became bald at between 70 and 80 nd has
since regained a luxuriant crop of hair; and still
another, that he says his prayers in Irish, having
been born in Donegal and not having learned
English till past middle age.
The late Queen’s eldest son has been
proclaimed King Edward VII., in accord-
ance with the inane custom which counts the
sovereigns of England only from the time when
foreigners conquered England and began to rule
there. It is well known that the dead Queen
wished to make an alteration and include the
Saxon monarchs, and it is difficult to see why not.
Had this been done the present king would have
been Edward X. Queen Victoria seems to
have had a liking for the Saxons and ancient
Britons. She called her eldest son Edward, and
her second son was named after a Saxon monarch,
Alfred the Great. Another son was called
Arthur, after the mythological warrior king of
the ancient Britons. Edward X. is somewhat
briefer than Edward with a V and two I’s, which
in itself is a consideration.
“AJAX"
MESTON.
Editor Windsor s retirement from the
Age editorial chair doesn’t mean that he has
parted company with the Melb. journal. After
27 years of almost continuous work, Mr. Windsor is
treating himself to a trip to Europe. On his
return he will take up the position of supervisory
editor, putting occasional articles into the paper,
and assisting boss Syme in a quiet sort of way.
SYDNEY D.T. ACCUSES SEVERAL FREETRADERS OF “RATTING.”
What else can he expected—rats always desert a sinking ship!
Writer was once at a cricket-match where
he new King was present. One of the batsmen,
John Shutei’, hit a ball to square leg and it came
over at a great pace and hit the Prince of Wales
hard on the leg. Shuter came over to ask if any
damage was done. “Not at all,” said Wales;
and then he added to bystanders, “That gentle-
man wanted to show us how to hit a ball to square
leg, and he managed to hit it to a round one.”
Everybody dutifully laughed, and the Prince
looked happy at having said a rather smart thing.
There are columns in the Melbourne
papers about the new Queen of England, but
none of them mention that she is extremely deaf.
Conversation with her is almost impossible, as she
will use no assisting surgical instrument, and it is
disrespectful to shout to her. She reads many
novels. Indeed, she made the fortune of one
fictionist, the late Hugh Conway, through a para-
graph which appeared in Labby s Truth saying
that she began reading “ Called Back ” late one
night and wouldn’t go to bed until she had finished
it.
Some day we will hear the true story as
to why the King of the Belgians didn’t fulfil his
original intention of visiting Britain’s Queen on
her death-bed. The cable stated that the King
had made all arrangements for the journey,
when the engagement was suddenly can-
celled, which means presumably that the Family
—or, at any rate, the female side of it, headed by
the Princess of Wales—revolted at the thought
of admitting cousin Leopold to the death chamber
of one who had ever been a stickler for clean
living, and who had long ago given him up as a
bad job.
Forty newspaper men of Perth and Fre-
mantle gave Donald Macdonald a trip down Swan
River and a lunch ashore. The menu-card made
various attempts at topical humour, such as “Ox-
tail soup a la Buller,” “Ladysmith curry (110 in
the shade),” “Mulberry Pie—a Veldt Want,”
and the complimentary item of “Fruit in Mac-
donald Season.” In proposing Mac.’s health, the
editor of Perth Morning Herald (W. F. Forster)
took the opportunity to have a slap at “Smiler”
Hales as a representative of Australian journalism
in England.
“Bread or Blood” Vosper, who lately
died at Perth, was only in his 34th year. The
cause of his most agonising death was appendi-
citis, operation for which was postponed until too
late. During life Vosper was a professed agnos-
tic, and much capital has been indecently made
in certain quarters over his alleged death-bed
change (or accession) of faith. But the fact
appears to be that he was baptised when uncon-
scious at the request of his good and womanly
wife, who feared that his remains might be
deprived of the conventional ceremony of burial.
The recent discovery of a lady's gold
watch at the mouth of Loch Ard Gorge (Vic.)
recalls the wreck of the Loch Ard, in June, ’7B
the only survivors being Miss Carmichael, a girl
of 19, and Tom Pearce, a midshipman, who
drifted into the gorge on spars after seven or eight
hours’ battling with the waves. Pearce restored
his companion by rubbing her with brandy which
had washed ashore, and having placed her in a
cave climbed the cliff, and obtained assistance.
A purse of sovs. was afterwards presented to him
in Melb. Town Hall. Miss Carmichael, who lost
both parents in the disaster, returned to Ireland,
and a year later Tom Pearce, wrecked again, was
washed up almost at her doorstep. Just as people
were asking where this romance was going to end
the lady married another man, and is now the
joyful mother of rosy children. The watch re-
ferred to was corroded into a solid block like a
round pebble, and the hands on the face pointed
to 20 minutes after the time at which the vessel
struck.
“ Smiler ” Hales is going great artillery
here (writes The Bulletin’s London correspon-
dent). A Halderman has lent him his castle to
recuperate in, and Sir John Robinson (Daily
News) says Hales’ stuff was a revelation to him in
the art of war-corresponding. Not bad from
Forbes’ progenitor, journalistically speaking.
Anyhow, “Smiler” is all over things, and will
never leave here.
The promotion of Schuler to the editorial
chair of Melb. Age is a pill for several of the
staff. That able veteran, “Guppy” Robinson,
the commercial editor, seemed almost entitled to
look upon the position as his by prescriptive right,
for a few years back he always occupied it during
Windsor’s temporary absences. H. H. Champion
was another with big expectations; and Fox, the
present chief of staff, had strong hopes. Schuler,
however, in practical press work, “lays over” all
these, and unless he forgets that there are other
thing’s in the world besides politics and mining,
he will probably carry on the Age with Wind-
sorian success.
Royalty is essentially honest in its
dramatic instincts. As soon as the death of
Queen Victoria had been duly attested by her
physicians all the sorrowing members of her family,
other than her eldest son and grandson (Kaiser
William), knelt, not around the bed, but at the
feet of the new King and kissed his hand, one by
one, in token of their family reverence for the
British Crown. A natural impulse. A genuine
class demonstration. A proof that the strongest
passion in the nature of persons born royal
is the selfish love of monarchy. Long live the
King—the Queen is dead ! Worship of the
Crown is almost the only religion in which th
chief apostles are absolutely sincere believers.
Ex-Gov. Brassey used to say that Queen
Victoria was the most easily amused old lady he
ever knew, and he gave an instance. After one
of his cruises in the Sunbeam he and his wife were
invited to Windsor Castle. The Queen wanted
to know all about the voyage, and particularly
inquired what food his wife found to agree with
her best when at sea. “Corned beef and pickles,
your Majesty,” said Lady Brassey. “What?—
ho !ho ! —corned beef ha !ha ! -and pick—ho !
ha ! ha ! —pickles ! ” laughed the Queen of Great
Britain and Ireland, Empress of India, Defender
of the Faith. “Corned beef —ha! ha! —did you
hear that, Connaught?—and pickles—ho!., ho'!
Beatrice, come here and hear what Lady Brassey
says she likes to eat at sea : Corned beef and
pickles ! Did you ever hear such a thing !—ho !
ho! ha! ha!” “And,” said Brassey, “the—er
—um —dear old lady went on laughing all the
afternoon, and would mutter, ‘ corned beef and
pickles—dear ! dear ! ’ in the midst of any con-
versation that cropped up. Now fancy—er—um
—the Queen taking so simple a thing as a good
joke. As I—er—say—um—she was very easily
amused.”


For
.V.> *
that
Tired
Feeling
take
•SddVK/HDS,.
sindh
WATSON’S WHISKY.
• «
rs
l
ei
Aboriginalities.
“ Neerdoweel ” describes a Balonne fish-
ing picnic :
When I was a newchum on the Balonne I was invited to
a fishing-picnic. “Be at my place early,” said my host
on Saturday afternoon, and on Sunday morning I rode up
to his selection before eight, but was informed that the
sportsmen were already at work, and was directed to
their favorite ground. When I reached it, however, I
drew a blank, arid coo-eed again and again without re-
sult. Then I tried a cast down river, and presently found
a man stretched on his back asleep with his line fastened
to his naked big toe and a bottle of whisky firmly gripped
by his right hand. I tried to wake him, but failed ; and,
further on, I discovered my host—also on his back and
asleep, with a. bottle alongside. llis line was also
fastened to his big toe, and, having been thrown
over a hanging limb, the bait was dangling about
oft. from the water. When I had managed to wake him
he did not speak, but pointed to the bottle,<sa tin-
pannikin, and the river, with a gesture of invitation, then
he helped himself from the bottle, grinned at his dangling
bait, and went to sleep again. His example was con-
tagious. I found a shady spot, helped myself impartially
from both bottles, took off my boots, fastened one end of
my line to my big toe, threw the other end in the river,
stretched myself on my back and slept. We returned
home at sundown. We had no fish—our host said they'
wouldn’t bite well until rain came—but we had
thoroughly enjoyed our picnic.
* * * m
“ Scotty, the Wrinkler ”
I was not surprised, only grieved, to see no account of
the Army of the Swag, as part of the Commonwealth
Pageant. You will not deny that we are a factor of the
States. Can you (a Coghlan) give me an approximation
to our numbers? I imagine that 5000 each, 6. and
N.S.W., 3000 Vic. and S.A., say 6000 the West, 2000 M.L.
and Tas. each, will fill the census of our Bedouinism.
That makes a total of 24,000'Federal soldiers of the
tucker-track. I do not count veritable sundowners,
cadgers, and cripples, but mean to include men looking
for work, or temporarily off the track. We must show
up to York and May. I hope to be the organiser and
leader. I shall try the Federal Ministry when they are
sobered off.
* • * *
From “ Cuss ” :
Can you tell me the whereabouts of Mr. R. Sleath,
M.L.A. I want his ear for one moment. While the visit-
ing and local delegations were drowming themselves in
that £6OOO worth of champagne and swimming in beer,
here were we poor devils in Tibooburra paying 7s. 6d. for
a 200-gallon-load of salty, soaky water, and £2O per ton
for chaff. Are we not to get even a taste of the heel-tap ?
As Western men— vide common report—are desperately
thirsty for beer, Sleath might, at least, have sent us a few
casks. He must see that the case is desperate when the
swell hotel of the place, during three days of Common-
wealth festivities, only took 9s. 6d. And to think that all
that gaudy Sydney guzzle was free !
• * * *
Dear Bulletin.— Re par. (8., 12/l/’l)
about Mr. Rodier’s plan of destroying all female
rabbits. Why, there are no rabbits now in any
case in Cobar district ! On one once-heavily-in-
fested holding not a rabbit has been seen for two
years. What is Rodier “ giving us ” ?—Cobar.
IMPOSSIBLE.
“ Did you hear Jim Shiels drew five thousand
in last sweep? ”
“ Don't believe a word of it. Jest saw 'im up
town, an ’ he was as sober as a judge.”
“ C.L.” on the Rodier plan of rabbit-
destruction :
Mr. W. Rodier’s method of rabbit-destruction was made
known through the press, and strongly advocated, in ’95,
and there is no doubt as to its efficacy, under certain con-
ditions. The reasons for the method are (to use Mr.
Rodier’s words): —
(1) When males exceed the females in number, they kill
the young.
(2) When males largely exceed the females, they render
them sterile.
(3) When the males very largely exceed the females,
they worry the latter to death.
The does got rid of, the bucks disappear from fighting,
natural enemies, old age, &c.
The correctness of the principle of the method has been
recognised for years in the old country with regard to
both fur and feather. At the end of the season only cocks
are shot, and the keepers trap and destroy buck rabbits,
if it is desired to have well-stocked shootings in future
seasons. Also, it is unquestionable that Victoria and
N.S.W. owed their troubles in connection with rabbits
in a great measure to the method of destruc-
tion they employed compulsory trapping. Traps
were set at buck heaps, bucks were mostly caught, and
does (especially does in young) were spared. Result-
vast preponderance of does and conditions eminently
favorable to abnormal increase. As Mr. Rodier said,
“ When gregarious animals live in a polygamous state,
the increase is excessive.” Nevertheless, though the
method applies well to small enclosures—up to 100,000
acres—it would hardly be applicable to the vast areas of
back-country runs ; the means would take too long to
bring about the desired end, and it is with respect to the
large runs that the trouble comes in. Besides which
there are always the huge unenclosed areas, and unoccu-
pied Crown lands, reserves, etc. —breeding-grounds ready
stocked to undo the good work of any owner, however
enterprising. I refer more particularly to Queensland.
Some drought-evidence given by Mr. E.
0. Long-Innes, son of the Judge of that ilk, at a
recent Land Court sitting at Thargomindah, Q. :
Am a station-manager; heard evidence given for
Orient and Nocatunga, and consider same conditions
apply to Kihee ; it is very badly watered, although a lot
of money had been spent there on improvements ; there
were eight wells but only one good one ; they have lost all
the stock ; in 1897 they had 12,050 cattle—they had now
but 400, which they were keeping alive at great expense ;
the balance were dead ; the depreciation was about 100
per cent. ; it would carry about 4 head per mile;
would not put more than this number on even if a
good season came; knew .Nocatunga well, it was a
better run, being better watered ; thought the differ-
ence in the rent should be 50 per cent. ; Kihee was
slightly worse than Congie ; the country at Congie is dry
country with no permanent water ; there is a good deal
of rough, ridgy country ; in 1897 they had 7020 head of
cattle ; in 1898, 5201 head ; 1899, 3720 head ; 1900, 1937.
Now they had not 100, and all were dead in consequence
of scarcity of grass and water ; they had about 200 horses
but there were only about 40 left: the country will never
recover again.
At the above sitting Yanko holding was assessed
at 10s. per square mile. The manager has since
been told to abandon the whole concern as soon
as rain enough falls to permit removing the few
head of stock left alive. Carriage from B. Hill to
Tibooburra —208 miles, per camel teams—is now
£9 per ton —and rising.
• • » #
Concerning the miseries at our own door ;
Editor Bulletin.— Australian Jingoes send money to
Africa to help slaughter a few plucky farmers, and again
to India to help keep alive the inhabitants of that famine-
cursed country, but what about the starving people in
Western Queensland, who never parade their woes before
the public 1 I have just returned from Boulia, in the Far
West, and a more woe-begone, God-forsaken country it is
impossible to conceive. All along the track from Winton
it is as bare as a doorstep. Bones of all sorts strew the
track, and, if you should see a stray beast, he stands and
stares at you • wildly, with his flanks almost glued to-
gether. Provisions are at famine prices, and canned meat
is hardly to be had. The goat, therefore, is a perfect God-
send to this district; and at the pub. you get salt goat,
stewed goat, haricot, goat, and curried goat. Anything
in the shape of beer is out of the question, and the fright-
ful local “ whisky" would poison an alligator. The in-
habitants all talk of leaving, and shortly Boulia will be a
place of the past. Therms no traffic along the road ; even
the camel teams, have given up a hopeless task, and the
people of Boulia are on a fair way to starve.—W.H.B.
* * * *
“Louis M.” : Re Hindoo and Syrian
hawkers (8., 22/12/’00). Melbourne P.M. Panton
wouldn’t be called on to grant 350 licenses at one
swoop were it not that tne Australians (men and
women) encourage these plausible vendors of
gaudy rags. As to bullying, it’s but seldom that
the wily black man has to resort to that; the lone
bushwoman is only too willing to buy (if she has
the money), and “intimidation” is mostly her
“wrinkle” with “the ole man” when, on his
return from toil, he wants to know why on earth
she’s bought “ all that rubbish.” The “ ole man,”
however, is just as bad himself. The colored gent
invariably sells his tobacco 3d. per lb. under usual
figure, and this sprat brings a mackerel every time;
because the bushwhacker mostly judges a man by
the price he charges for “ bacca’’—lie’s too tired
to think further. Particularly noticeable is the
way shearers rush the colored dealers in pre-
ference to the white hawkers who are on the spot,
and, allowing for quality, selling equally cheap.
Yet these are the men who howl down the China-
man— their competitor. Let Australians be
unionists in practice as they are in skite, and the
demand for licenses for Asiatics would soon die
out.
* * * *
“ Banjo ” Paterson told a M.L. reporter
that “he didn’t know what grass'was till he saw
the Canterbury Plains.” And yet these are
sterility itself when compared with the Manaia
ditto on the moister West Coast of the North
Island.
* * * *
For a wager at Mudgee (N.S.W.) recently,
a man undertook to eat 30 Fiji bananas in 10
minutes. In min. the task was over.
* * * 9
Epitaph in a cemetery at Victor Harbour,
S. Australia:—
A deep-rooted cancer set in my breast,
It caused me pain, and little rest;
It baffled five good doctors’ skill,
And landed me on Zion’s hill.
Nobody now takes much notice of the
blunders of the English press over matters Aus-
tralian, but Sydney D.T., without comment,
gravely prints the following in a paper endeavour-
ing to prove that Australia, America, and Africa
once formed one immense continent: “As an
instance of this, wo need merely mention the
ostrich, which is found both in Australia and
A.frica, but which is nevertheless a non-flving
bird.” Of what value is the “ science ”of a writer
who supposes the ostrich to be indigenous to
Australia ?
* • * *
Smith was travelling with an ascetic-
looking clergyman, a stranger, before whom he
didn’t like to parade his love of whisky, but at
last he found lie must take a drink, whether the
good man approved or not. “I’m dead cold,
Mr. ,” he said, “I’m going to have some
whisky.” “ All right, I’ll go too,” said the parson,
much to Smith’s surprise. The landlady, knowing
Smith’s weakness, brought him a stiff nobbier; to
the shepherd, who had also said “whisky,” she,
put of respect to the cloth, tendered a very small
nip, at which the recipient looked dubiously.
“Will you have anything in it, sir?” inquired
the landlady, blandly. “Yes,”, replied the
parson, “I’ll have a little more whisky in it.”
Thereafter Smith and his spirituous adviser got
along splendidly.
“Frank” : Heard in a Carlton (Melb.)
sheet-lightning shop t’other day this dialogue
between two seedy-looking gentlemen partly sub-
merged in long pints. “ Goin’ in for a pension,
mate ? ” “My oath, yes ! No more blanky work
for me. Been at it 10 years now, off and on, since
the old man died and the missus giv up washing.
You goin’ to try fer one ? ” “ Not me ! No
bloomin’ charity for me on principle. What with
hospitals, an’ ’sylums, an’ M’s.P., an’ Governors
and other public deadheads, the State’ll soon go
bung, and I ain’t a-goin’ to help it.” Other, with
a sneer—“Oh, that’s all very fine; but I s’pose
you’ve been in gaol too often to have a possible.”
And then skin and hair flew.
“Tom Collins” : Society journals
twitter enthusiastically over the sports-
manlike exploits of European royalty;
but amongst the kings I have known
the best shot was an aboriginal potentate,
at .that time earning an honest pipe of
tobacco as a rabbi ter in western N.S.W.
Ilis'gun was an old muzzle-loader, minus
the bracket and securing staple which
had held the barrel down in the hollow
of the stock. In lieu of this connection
he had bandaged the parts together with
an old stirrup-leather wrapped round
and round to its full length and safely
buckled on top. His satisfaction with
the “plurry good strong job” was
amusing, yet pathetic. But with that
weapon the capable monarch never
missed a rabbit on the hop.
* * * *
“ Wollombi ” : Can any reader say
if water has ever been found in N.S.W.
by the aid of the “ divining rod ” ?
“Eller”: To “ Riverina ” (B. 5/1/T),
re galahs. I have known gala lid to live to 25
years old ; also had a rosella that lived to see 17
summers. Have noticed that, when a parrot dies,
it is usually in a fit, caused by the bursting of a
blood-vessel, as blood usually flows from the
mouth.
* * • *
“A. A. A.” : Re longevity of galah (8.,
5/1/T). At E. Maitland (N.S.YV.) can be seen
one that has been in the possession of a family for
2(5 years ; the owner, a widowed lady, states that
it was from three to four years old when given to
her. The bird is still vigorous, and seems likely
to live a few years longer.
* * * *
“ Pelican There is in Q. a gold-warden
—light of frame and apparently effeminate —whose
tool, casual deed of daring was worth a few hot-
blooded, impulsive V.C.’s. A herculean German,
returning from work in his 80ft. shaft, stopped to
say a few words to a strapping Irish girl, wife of
a fellow-miner, and snatching an unauthorised
kiss, received a fierce back-hander. He promptly
returned it with his sheath-knife, killing the
woman on the spot. He then made off and
got down his shaft, and when the police arrived
they displayed no great anxiety to descend one by
one as was necessary. Then came the warden,
and, in spite of remonstrances, insisted on being
lowered into the shaft. No Teuton at bottom of
shaft; the German had crawled along a 20ft.
drive, but threats brought him back into the shaft.
The little warden bound him, hitched him to the
bucket-rope, stood on his shoulders, and was
hauled up with him. “ Why didn’t you shoot the
dog in the drive, instead of taking any risks?”
queried a friend. “Why,” returned the warden,
“my d-d-dam revolver has been out of order for
w-w-weeks, and, anyhow, I had no kuk-kuk-car-
tridges ! ”
* * * *
A horse-perjury from Central Queensland :
In parts of this region there has lately prevailed a
disease which makes horses quite blind without affecting
the appearance of the eyes. Some clever “dealing” has
resulted. “A” found that he had two sightless leaders
in his team, and, by the aid of strategy and beer, dis-
posed of them to B. When he found out what was the
matter he traded off the pair to 0. Seven exchanges
were registered against the horses in ten days, and the
last time they were seen was with old Jack Kimmet, who
was dropping over the horizon at Rockhampton looking
for a buyer, with two staunch blind horses behind him, a
receipt for £l6 in his pocket, and a glint in his eye that
promised more trouble for Ireland when, next he met the
Hibernian whipster who had completed the deal with him.
* * m *
“Tom Collins”: One winter’s evening
Jack Nolan unyoked at a gate—which we shall
call A—and left his bullocks to shift for them-
selves, as they were not thirsty and there was no
choice of feeding-ground. In the morning he
tracked them seven or eight miles to
a corner —say, B. Here, turning to the
left, he ran the tracks along a five-
mile line, and found the absconders
camped in the next corner—say, C.
The day was foggy, and the country
one beaconless sea of mallee and por-
cupine ; but he indifferently struck a
bee-line for A. Hour after hour he
poked along, till a suspicion germi-
nated in his mind that the square of
the hypothenuse of his right-angled
triangle was absurdly longer than the
square of the other two sides; and
this paradox was explained when, late
in the evening, he found himself again
at C. He kindled a fire, and waited for
morning. Starting early, he did a
fair day’s journey through the mist and
rain, and, by hanging a little to the
right, corrected his former variation
so far as to occupy a couple of hours
longer in the return to G. Too well-
bred to entertain any sentiment ex-
cept that this licked Gehenna, he re-
kindled his old fire for the night. Next
morning he made a third attempt to
complete his triangle, and, by easing
off to the left, again succeeded in
making G with the same accuracy
as before. On the fourth morning he
waived his dignity, and returned to
A by the angle B. Now, previous to
this experience, Jack was one of the
best bushmen I ever knew, but for some
months afterwards his organ of locality
was disturbed. Not that he ever got
lost. The drawback was that he couldn’t
get lost. Go in whatever direction he
would, he always found himself fetch-
ing the camp, when he should have
been miles away and travelling in a different
direction. But the lesion wore off in time.
» * * *
“ Gr.E.S.” : Thirty years ago, on Murray
Downs Station, was a man who had tamed and
trained an emu to carry his swag divided into two
bundles and hung over the bird’s back with a
woollen" muffler.
BOLTING HIS FOOD.
THE HUNGRY ONE : “ Three HOURS —Strath!
Three minutes ’d do me.”
“Abba"’: I hadn’t left Boiirke above
three hours afore T sees a train of camels crossin’
the plain. I hurries up so’s ter be over the crib-
bed fust an’ then pulled up ter see ’em pass; an’
just as they did I let out a big sneeze. Blessed if
every animal didn’t drop on his knees, wool-bales
an’ all. Then the Afghan blokes started howlin’
at me, ’coz they said it was my fault. “How’s
that ?” I sez. “ You say ‘ hooshta,’ an’ the oonts
lie down,” sez they. “I’m very sorry,” sez I,
“but I’m goin’ ter sneeze when I like.” Then a
big bloke gets down an’ threatens to sool another
bloke, named Allah, on ter me. Allah wuz goin’
ter chaw me ear, an’ Allah wuz goin’ ter get outer
me with both boots, till I couldn’t stand it no
longer. So I whips off my coat. “ Allah or no
Allah,” I sez, “bring him out. No hittin’ below
the belt, an’ no bitin’ when yer down.” 1 waited
10 minutes, but Allah must have bin hidin’ under
the wool-bales. Sickenin’ how these Afghans
bluff. Ned Devine tells me that this Allah can’t
scrap a goanna. Casey sez he can wrazzle, though.
Anyhow, if Allah wants to fight, he’ll find me at
Casey’s pub., in Menindie, waitin’ for him.
* * * •
Two would-be Federal contingenters were
discussing the severity of the medical test with a
civilian friend. Friend: “Well, Tom, how did
you get on?” Tom: “Oh, the doctor said my
chest was too small.” Friend: “And why
wouldn’t they take you, Ginger?” Ginger:
“Oh, they said I had coarse veins.” This answer
would have satisfied the peacefully-inclined friend,
but his would-be-companion-in-arms interposed.
“He didn’t say you had coarse veins ; he said
very coarse veins.”
PROVIDED FOR!
DAUGHTER OF CHIEF (to new-chum missionary):
"Pa says don't worry about building a
house. He and his friends are going to pro-
vide you with a permanent residence in a
few days."


RACING
TROPHIES
Why Pay the Old Prices for Inferior Goods ?
MAPPIN (Sc WEBB
(of London),
Silversmiths to Her Late Majesty.
Electro-Silver Mandfactory: The Royal Works, Sheffield.
Solid Silver Manufactory : London.
The World’s Best Trophies-—-*
Direct from the Manufacturers to the Winners.
Every Line at London Catalogue Prices.
London
Cash Prices.
FAIRFAX 4. ROBERTS,
Vice-Regal JewAlers.
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for Australia.
sd
Cost of Sickness.
What a large proportion of the time of the
healthy is necessarily devoted to, and lost in the
care of the sick.
An army of physicians, nurses and watchers, &c.
One sick member of the family upsets the whole
current of domestic affairs, and social and business
interests suffer.
Sleepless nights and anxious days tend to
undermine the health of those who are well.
The indirect cost of sickness is an item im-
possible to estimate; even the direct cost is
something; appalling.
Health is maintained by resorting to the use of
Warner’s Safe Cure just as soon as the liver shows
signs of torpidity, or the kidneys indication of
weakness.
This great kidney and liver specific is endorsed
by the verdict of the world after twenty-one years
trial.
This is what Mrs. Annie Harris of Charlton,
George-street, Norwood, S.A., says in a letter
dated Oct. 1, 1900: “About seven years ago I
contracted a severe internal complaint, and was in
a very critical state. The doctor attending me
told me that if I lived I should be a sufferer all
my lifetime. His treatment was quite useless in
giving me relief. After two or three years I got tired
of paying doctors’ fees for no benefit, and hearing
of Warner’s Safe Cure I gave it a trial. I took,
in all, five bottles, and am thankful to state I am
perfectly cured. The medical man was genuinely
surprised at such a wonderful result. lam now
as well as it is possible to be, and give Warner’s
Safe Cure the whole credit for accomplishing
what doctors deemed impossible. Hoping that
ladies, suffering as I did, will profit, I am writing
to you now. My mother considered that her life
was saved by the use of Warner’s Safe Cure in a
somewhat similar complaint.”*
As the date of closing the Benevolent Societies’
F6te is drawing to a clote. Agents and others interesting
themselves in the sale of tickets are requested to send
their returns in as soon as possible. A large number of
tickets have already been sold, and intending purchasers
had best apply at once to their newsagent, or direct to the
hon. sec., W. Moffitt Burns, 35 Castlereagh-st.*
Franz Josef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality
Order
SCHWEPPE’S DERATED
SARSAPARILLA
Krishrnish is a very wild time up North, as
witness this, full of eloquence and sorehead, from
a N.Q. paper
. j
We humbly crave the kind indulgence of our readers
~..,,.., . , , . , .
for the quality of this issue which to our min is one
of the poorest we have ever brought out. We had fondly
hoped to make it the best; but the Fates ruled other-
wise, and owing to quite unforeseen developments we
experience bitter disappointment- and a sense of sham e
rarely felt by us. However, as we have more than once
proved the truth of Bobby Burns’ sage observation that
“ the best laid schemes o’ mice and men gang aft a-gley,”
we can do no other than ask our readers to let us off as
lightly as they can. . . . Amongst other incongrui-
ties in this issue is the fact of it being dated December
26, while telegrams to the 29th are published therein,
The apparent blunder is due to unexpected develop-
ments since our last issue. The next issue will be pub-
lished on sth January, 1901.
* » . .
Cairns (Queensland) Post on the recent
upheaval of the gentle and industrious kanaka: —
The scene in the local police court on Wednesday morn-
ing, when a blood-splashed unsavory 13 stood in row to
answer the charge of rioting, was one to be remembered,
Five of the kanaka prisoners appeared with heads
wrapped in surgical bandages, and four others were re-
ported by Dr. Knowles to be in the hospital, unable then
to appear. One of the latter had a bullet in the thigh,
and another, so the doctor said, would lose an eye, the
damage being the result apparently of a gash from a glass
bottle. Looking at the muscular developments and de-
termined visages of the prisoners in court, one could not
help the reflection that a mob of such men would, if
drunk and infuriated, be an ugly force to subdue. . . .
The police are cut and bruised in all directions. It was
no child’s play forcing an entrance into a dark building
crowded with 50 to 60 drunken savages, who from the
moment the police neared the exterior of the
building continuously volleyed stones, bottles,
and firewood. “Come on, you blanky white
men. Boy kiilem finish, you blanky policemen,”
and similar challenges assailed the police from the rafters
overhead, from the tops of the partitions in the rookery,
and from dark corners in all directions ; and these taunt-
ing determined yells were accompanied by a constant
shower of missiles which the Islanders had evidently
stored ready for use. That some of the police were not
more seriously injured, is subject matter for wonder-
ment, and the fact that only one boy, and not a dozen,
was shot, is testimony in favor of the tolerance exercised
by the police in the' execution of a particularly tough
piece of duty. Had those drunken Islanders got out of
hand and overmatched the police, the consequences
would probably have been very serious. As a community
we have now to ask ourselves, “What steps are to be
taken to lessen or prevent any risk of similar disturb-
"l“b" oSld T Zi SeTeSt'
"e k„,taf?r2le»ei»i;* in Cairns Sto .E“n
Bnniabere andWorongh norelyneeian
of things here is, we contend, absolutely necessary. The
behaviour of the 17 rioting as it was, is
perhaps somewhat excusable, considering that they lived
for a day or two next door to the Argus office. Evil asso-
ciation invariably produces disaster, and if it is found
impracticable to keep the Kanakas out of town, we hope
f . feast that some efort .ill b, mad. by tbe ji.bori/e,
to d.rect them to some more respectable neighborhood.
Ihe good, old, cheap, reliable, honest, kindly, pet
nigger!
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
A’o notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
_ . , ~ , , IC ,
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
/ . g undertakm {n cage re contHbu .
vol J (aril mhrniUe&> whether sent hy post or
/(anM in and in no mse will MS _ be returned un .
g accompany.
“ ~~ -n i jo - ,
A.M . : What! Can t the French and Spanish
dance? And the Americans? 1.0. . Who is Reay
that he should not have a rest.' l Let the Majahs
militarism be its own condemnation for a while.....
Reuben Rob : Far too long ; also it opens most unpro-
misingly. The Bulletin is only saucer-size, and no place
in .... A True-born Monaro Man and
1 , TI , ,
Son of a True-born Englishman : How you skite—how
you do skite ! We have been reared in the belief that
the chief distinction between Englishmen and the miser-
aMe wretches who had the ill-luck to be born ‘ furriners*
i® that- the English take their defeats silently and their
victories with becoming modesty—as men wno expect
nothing less. Nothing was more un-English than to
parade one’s emotions ‘ like a d d Frenchman.’ John
Bull met his long-lost brother with a calm ‘ Howdy-do,’
an( j laughed at the ‘ furriner ’ who met his with tears and
embraces. The bulldog was chosen as Bull’s idol because
he bites often and barks seldom, and is an animal who
smiles with difficulty. After a fight, he returned quietly
to his bone; he didn’t get up on the tallest fence he could
find and crow like a French rooster—because he wasn’t
built that way. If you are a sample, the breed has not
improved out here. The pups may be able to fight
as well as their sires, but they skite too much
Sliprail : But although the man did attempt suicide, and
although he was sentenced to death, we aren’t going to
libel him like that on hearsay evidence... .C.O. : Ulti-
mately, no doubt, the O’Sullivan’s suggestion will resolve
itself into a scheme for the erection of a colossal statue of
Australia Getting into Pawn—which would he a lot more
to the point.... Euro : Purely a matter of taste—and per-
sonal revenge. Most people would shrink from witness-
ing the execution of the murderer of a kinsman of theirs,
in fact, most people would shrink from witnessing any
execution Via (Brisbane): But there may be nothing
in. the charge against that returned officer. The fact that
he was hooted by the crowd proves nothing. A.B. :
Until the Federal Parliament meets and passes the neces-
sary law it is hard to say how things stand Q.N. :
“Debt” hardly up to the mark P.J. : First verse of
ode herewith :
“ Thou power which dost our best plans biff
Askew so that it is with diff-
Icultv that we gather in
The b its and j o i„ them up again.”
We,u.lloveth.tline, “Askewsotb.tlti.«ithdi«..”
«“S?-',n U CSlf.iM JiVSbtoSS
towe l ™ ush^ d to
Z A,®!fli;3 vi,ni PP Ko
.*; , h , of bush
Bufc t IT * 1 'E S 8 ntt i t
workers t,lell vretche e. fe ... , .’ bow can
monotony of their toil m the d.spu it mg can
„ °t
Venture, without any reference whatever to the
merits of the quarrfel in which they engage?...
E.L..: It was printed in the Encyclopthdia Britans'
H.M. QUEEN VICTORIA: NICHOLSONS CELEBRATED PICTURE.
that frozen beer is sent in blocks from Tasmania to India,
and is sucked instead of being sipped. That was on the
second page of the article, but it did not appear in all the
copies. Some have it, others not, wherefore the dis-
pute over the matter... .O.A.S. : Send addressed envelope
and we will recommend you to an expert and reliable
practitioner. No good merely writing to him ;he must
thoroughly examine you. . .O.P.C. : Newcastle Wallsend
Co’s shares carry a liability of £lO per share, which makes
a difference. Also Union Bank shares carry a heavy lia-
bility. (2) Broken Hill Proprietary has liquid assets
totalling about £455,000, but Mount Morgan’s funds in the
nature of a reserve only amount to about £100,000....
j. Spencer-S. :The circular sent you embod' s a notorious
European swindle... .W.A. : Sorry quite unsuitable
T. 8.8. :No literarv merit Aylmer : Foolish and fussy
little yarn Orpington : Great cackle and very small
egg 1 .'.. Kath. H. : Too blushful! Spare our innocence 1
J.J.D. : Evidently—and a long way—after Kipling...
Mattie: Faint little tinkle... .J.M.H. : Only one item
available... Disraeli (Mt. M.) :We haven’t time to follow
all your carelessly-written scribble, but you are certainly
wrong both as regards A. L. Bourcicault and George
Lukin.. ..Mesoro : Bah ! Ask any traveller—anyone
engaged in continuously travelling Australasia —which is
the best-known, most universally distributed, and most
popular paper. It will be The Bulletin every time. This
paper isn’t in the competitive-lying business. When it
sees any weekly declare that it sold S)0,000 of any particu-
lar issue it simply smiles.. . .E.F.A. : The Q. authorities
decided only to take light men, to make matters easier
for the horses. Under list., under sft. 10 in height, and
34 minimum cliesb-measure is the regulation Peter
K. : The difference in kinds of boomerangs has often been
referred to in “ B.” Winifred G. : A good situation,
but you lack the needed dramatic touch Nemo. :
Ancient A. Clementson : In London there is a short
and sharp legal remedy ; in Australia there is practically
none. If in London you are annoyed by the yapping of *
neighbor’s dog or the crowing of his fowls, you complain
to a magistrate, who sends a policeman to warn the neigh-
bor. If the nuisance is not at once abated the offender is
fined... .Annie H. : No newspaper run with any regard
for the libel-law would publish an ex •parte story of that
kind.. . .San Remo : Yes, founded on an ancient wheeze.
D. : Over-brutal. Yes, when cut out and forwarded
to Bulletin accountant Drover: Would need too
much re-writing R.A.K. : “Bab” has the merit of
simplicity, but isn’t quite effective enough for “B.”
E. A. K. : Some humor, but as a whole, it doesn't catch on.
.... A.H. : Not enough story... .F.N. : Will consider
Yokel: Will print “Our Mine” Helen I.: “The
Pinch” a good subject, but weakly treated R.B.S. :
Thanks, but Bulletin doesn’t print serials John Hil-
ton: G00d.... J.H. : May alter and use....Silix : Too
violently unnatural John H. D. : Hardly weight
enough.... M. S. : Suggests De Quincey’s “Opium-
Eater.” Not up to mark, in Any case V.J.M. :
Thanks; but Mr. Simon Fraser altogether denies
that he made any such statements. If he
didn’t, then how so circumstantial a report of his
alleged remarks ever came to be printed is most
mysterious... .A.P. : It was gross cruelty to a man
doubtless brave to print the false report that he had been
awarded the V.O Exile : Unconvincing—and it has a
personal tw’ang M. : The building was, we believe, to
have been 12 storeys high, but the fact that several
workmen were killed in erecting the building as it stands
is said to have discouraged the co. from proceeding
further Javus B. :No g00d.... A.N. : Not a bad idea,
but only worth about a quarter of the space Bushman :
Will make the inquiry.... Sacro : Thanks. Can you make
literary pars, more current-topical?....W.D. : Slain
J.C.T. : Not up... .S.McD.: Thanks ; try a short par
Hyacinth : Bulb wouldn’t germinate... .L.P.C. :Be good,
sweet maid, and let who can be clever... .J.T.M. :
Tolerable; but that’s not enough.... Phil M (aged 15
years) : Wouldn’t take it if you were aged 115 years
W.S. : Not usably put.... Van: “Beach” lies low
Wandering Jew : Glad to hear from you : but please give
us plain facts and brief comments, instead of theorising
loosely R.P. : “ Criticism is a mustard-plaster to pre-
vent mental congestion ” —and maybe we’ll print y0u....
Blue Gum : The most complicated and elaborately-tied-
in-a-hard-knot yarn we have met up to date.... Ta-
smanian: You don’t say so! A. Doubleyou : Grue-
some; but will consider further... .Anti-Jingo (Broken
Hill): Many thanks Crank: 5 to 30grs. is the Brit.
Pharm. dose of salicylic acid. lOgr. doses four times
daily are often given for long periods in certain cases
without apparent bad effect. To use 7grs. salicylic acid
to the pint in preserving fruit would probably not be very
injurious—so an experienced physician tells The Bulle-
tin. But the principle you advocate is good, and we
' badly need all the influence obtainable to get a rational
Adulteration Act Aga : Not quite good enough
Kiwi: You miss the point: Blucher wasn’t a Dutchman,
he was a Deutscher... .L.G. : Not much in those sent.
Others may be better Kay : Nicely rhymed and metred
—and that’s all Arthur L. : Whatever merit it m ~\
have in itself, we couldn’t print such an obvious imitation
of a well-known humorist.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Jack Irwin : One will do Innes K. : To laborious.
W.J.P. : Horrible. Ugh! W.A. : Would be re-
sented. .. .McGregor : Copper idea will do Unavailable:
A.V.8., C. Bryant, Will J.P.
Re the widely-circulated statement that
David Syme, of the Age, paid £lOOO as a com-
passionate allowance to Mrs. Lambie, widow of
the late war-correspondent, and the remarks made
in certain quarters as to the alleged meanness of
Sydney D.T. and S.A. Advertiser proprietaries,
by whom (as well as by the Age) Mr. Lambie was
jointly employed. The facts are that the amount
paid to Mrs. Lambie was not £lOOO but £750, of
which Mr. Syme, Sydney D.T. and Adelaide
Advertiser paid one-third each. When Lambie
(a member of the Age staff) set out for S’Africa
the understanding was that Iris life was to be
insured for £lOOO by the three papers employing
him, but he failed to pass the necessary medical
test. Despite this Mr. Syme let him go—thereby
contravening the understanding existent with the
other two papers named, who need not under the
circumstances have paid Mrs. Lambie anything at
all.
QUANDONG, THE MOUNTAINEER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
See the poor Pegasus, girth-galled and jaded, too,
Coat of a faded hue, hair standing slantingly,
Seeking encouragement; lame, and with lampas, too—
Direst of dampers to singing enchantingly.
Tied up at country pubs, feeding on paling-fence,
While there go sailing hence colts to Parnassus up ;
Gaily they prance in their coats of the glitter style—
He sips the bitters while they lap molasses up.
No embrocation to rub his raw wither on—
Lets the thing slither on, thinks it not loss any ;
Spavined, string-halted ; his road not the beaten way—
Recollect eatin’ hay ? Think he’s Mnemosyne ?
Sandflies inciting him, horsefleas are biting him ;
Hillsiders, sighting him, up and drop clods on him
Slowly he travels, but never obliquely, while,
Bearing it meekly, smile all the gods on him.
Burdened by “ Jim ” of the moribund narrative,
Odes of comparative hell in topography—
Never a battlement, casement, or hatchment
To claim his attachment from dingo—wild-dograph,\
See the poor Pegasus, lathers of sweat on him
(Ne’er a regret on him) scorning to stop ;
Escaping the branders, clean-skinned he meanders
And dies with the glanders on reaching the top.
N - s - w \
NARRANGHI BOORI.


“THE EREETRADE HEAD.”
(George Reid attends a performance of “Floradora,” and submits his head to Professor Tweedlepunch Lauri.)
TWEEDLEPUNCH: “What is this I find—and this—and this! The bumps of Faith, Hope and Fallacy sticking out like watermelons!"


/4-j these tears i- asked Dry-Dog Reid as he reported himself at headquarters of Dry-Dog politics
(the Sydney Daily Telegraph office). . ..
Matter 1 said a Chance Editor—“why, the cable has gone and broke and we have run out of rot,
and don t you hear the printer yelling for copy 1 ”
- eCr U P ! Interview me about the sensation me and my Dry Dog made in Tasmania,” said the
genial showman ; “ You’ll find I’ll spread out pretty thin—to three columns at least, and then-'there’s
the suburban sermons ” . ,
Bless you, my preserver ! said the Chance Editor And it was so, and the columns were filled—-
yea, to oversowing—with “ Revenue Tariff” and snuffle.
BARTON and a WHrTir Air ,
time and el
Perth, Monday.—A meeting of
the City Council was held to-night to;
consider the “three per cent." ques-
tion.
Councillor Charles ask eel the Mayor:
the following questions: “Will you:
continue making use of the three per'
cent, allowance by drinking cham-:
pagne and supplying it to your fi lends;
day and night in the precincts of
this chamber 1 "
“ What more right have you to
stand champagne at the rate- i
payers’ expense than the council-
lors have to drink whisky at the
ratepayers’ expense ? ”
“Is it your intention that the
councillors shall drink cordial waters
only, while you and your friends
drink champagne at the ratepayers’
expense 1 ”
The Mayor refused to answer.
Councillor Charles objected to the pre-
sence of ladies on the platform.
The Mayor said it was an open meeting, and ladies were
in order in being present. —j-
All the councillors, except Councillor Brickford and the Maydr, then-rose And
left the meeting amid cheers and groaus from those present in the body q£ the hall.
Tim Mayor shortly'afterwards declared the meeting closed.
Somehow or other in reading the proceedings of Municipal Councils some such
image as the above forces Itself upon the mind, j
RAGTAG ANJ> 808-TAIL.
'Do you happen to’know Ts not “ going up for the Senate t ” If so,' send his name to the
editor of this paper, and get a pound of tea—if you can.
CARTOONLETS.


YOUR Wedding Presents can be Supplied by A- SAUNDERS,
The
Reliable
Jeweller & Silversmith.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT.—FIoraI China, real
Silver-plated Mounts, 20s.
Similar designs, 15s, 255, 30s. Very
pretty and acceptable present.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER. —Beautifully Chased and Orna-
mented pure Silver, Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, 15s 6d. Large size, 20s.
Four o’clock TEA SET with Covers, pure Silver Eiectro-plated on White
Metal, first-class English Make, £2 10s.'
Similar Styles, £2, 4.2155, £3, £3los, £4.
SSSSjSgS
Z'SS
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUETS, pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, beautifully
Chased, 30s, 355, £2, and £2 10s.
Cheaper Style, 20s and 255.
Handsome and Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
4-bottle Lunch or Dinner CRUET, pure
Silver Electro-plated on hard White
Metal, 21s. Similar Styles, 255, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ FRIEND.—Pure Solid Silver
Mounts, 18s 6d.
Very useful and acceptable presents.
Ladies kindly call and see our Beautifully-stocked Showrooms.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE DISHES.—The very best finished pu»e
Silver Electro-plate, in various patterns.
20s, 22s 6d, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS,
4 oV'ek TEA SPOONS and TONGS in Silk-Lined Case
Krnossed, 12s 6d. Extra Quality, 15s, 20s, 255.
The Si er-plate we guarantee to give every satisfaction
id Pure Solid Silver, 6 Spoons nnlv 255, with Tongs
30s, 355, £2, £2 10«.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOLDING BISCUITS.—Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, £3, £3 10s, £4.
Can be used for Cake or Sandwiches.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK BlSCUlT.—Silver-
plated Rims and Lids, with
Enamelled Lining, 15s 6d ;
with Ornamented Fluted
Rims, 20s; Plain, with Shield
only, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALAD BOWL and SERVERS, with Silver-
plated Mounts and Handles, 30s.
Similar, 20s and 255.
Pretty Floral China, 255, 30s, £2 and £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SETS.—Pure Solid Silver, Chased
Mounts, 15s ; larger sizes, 20s, 255, and 30s.
n
mmmmm
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS.—Pure Silver Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, nicely Chased with pretty Red
Glass 12s 6d ; with Fluted Edges, 15s 6d ;
Double Jam, 255.
' fi
m\
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE.—Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, 16s 6d ; Chased as
above, 20s, 255, and 30s. Post free.
A
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER. —Pure Silver Electro-plated on
Whit# Metal, nicely chased, 8s 6d. Round, 10s.
: "-' v
"V-
A. SAUNDERS.
SALTS..—Silver-plated Stand, Colored Glasr,
with Spoons, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s pair.
iiiiiiimiiwiiiinniaiwiainmiiiiiMiWttr.^
mmmm
■MI
"Just What I Want!” SPOONS AND FORKB. A. SAUNDERS can fill that want with a First-Class, Reliable Article.
EXTRA STRONG. Guaranteed to give you every satisfaction.
AJ QUALITY is the very Highest Standard. Pure Silver Electro-plated on Hard White Metal. DINNER Spoons or Forks, 17s 6d half-
dozen ; DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 12s 6d half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, 7s 6d half-dozen.
B QUALITY is a Second Quality. Pure Silver Electro-plated on Hard White Metal. DINNER Spoons or Forks, 12s 6d half-dozen ;
DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 10s half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, 5s half-dozen.
SOLID WHITE NICKEL SILVER, Wear JVhite throughout. A Splendid Knockabout Spoon to save the Better Article. DINNER
Spoons or Forks, 4s half-dozen ; DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 3s half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, Is 6d half-dozen.
Packed and Sent post free to all parts of the World. Kindly send your Orders to A. SAUNDERS.
Old Plate
Made
Equal
To New.
A. SAUNDERS.
Small Size BUTTER.—AII Metal, Pure
Silver-plated, beautifully chased, 20s.
Extra ornamented, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, Makes Two Dishes, Pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, 355. A Useful and Acceptable
Present. SHALL WE SEND YOU ONE ?
A. SAUNDERS.
CRUET (Breakfast). —Pure
Silver Electro-plated on White
Metal, 10s 6d ; with 4 Bottles,
15s 6d and 17s 6d.
Makes a very nice present.
Call and See our
Displayed Showrooms!
WHISKY FLASK.
Silver-plated Bot-
tom and Patent
Top, 10s 6d, 12s
0.1. 15s, 20s, 255.
A Warming Friend.
SERVIETTE RINGS, Pure
Silver-plated, 3s 6d. Simi-
lar Patterns, 2s'6d and 3s.
Wish Bone Design, 4s 6d,
5s 6d, and 6s 6d. Solid
Silver, similar to Pattern,
7s 6d, 10s, and 12s 6deaeh.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIVES.—Two Silver-plated, with Pearl
Handles, in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d. Other styles, 7s 6d,
10s 6d, and 12s 6d, in cases. JAM SPOONS.—Same
price ; without case, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d and
6s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK.—Pure Silver Electro-plated
on Hard White Metal, 12s 6d. Other styles,
similar, 8s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA POTS.—Pure Silver Electro-plated, on White
Metal, as pattern, 25s and 30s.
Different Pattern, 355, £2, £2 10s.
pi*
ft
T
m\
vr-'
t Of
pr «if
m
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUETS.—First-class Pure Silver on
Hard White Metal, as pattern, with Shield,
£2 10s ; extra quality, £3, £3 10s, and £4.
Other patterns without Shields, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS.—Floral China, Pretty Design, with pure
Silver Electro-plated Stand, 15s 6d ; double, 255.
Latest Desigks.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND,
can be used as a Teapot.— Pure Silver-
plated on White Metal, Beautifully
Chased and Ornamented, 355.
Embossed and Extra Chased, £2, £2
10s. Other Styles, £3 and £3 10s.
Handsome and Useful Article.
fds
Jeweller & silversmltb,
A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PRESENTS.
815 George Street,
Nearly
Opposite
Railway
Station,
Sydney
£<3timatea G-iven.
OLD PLAXJS MiVDE EQUAL TO HXTDES’W.
SendL Your Addre


Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
Missing Friends.
"JAMES GALWAY,
SON of RICHARD GALWAY and MAR-
GARET RILEY, who was born while his
parents were living on a farm belonging to a
MRS. LYNDON, situated about fifty miles from
GOULBURN, NEW SOUTH WALES, is
requested to communicate at once with the
undersigned from whom he will hear of something
greatly to his advantage.
ANYONE giving information to the under-
signed as to the whereabouts of the above-named
•JAMES GALWAY will be rewarded.
STRINGER & CRESSWELL,
Barristers and Solicitors,
A.M.P. Buildings,
Cathedral Square,
Christchurch, NEW ZEALAND.
Osborne.— if william and Standish
Osbobne will communicate with the under-
signed they will hear of something to their
advantage. Mother deceased. E. A. Reid, 28
f n woray-street, Hobart.
Medical
A Vapor Bath Cabinet
fs
Ia a Necessity in Every Home.
BUY a
Batb Cabipct
(Best American Imported),
and enjoy the luxury of a
TURKISH, VAPOR, or MEDI-
CATED VAPOR BATH at
home, instead of at public
institutions, and save money.
Cures Rheumatism,
Sleeplessness, Obesity,
Kidney and Skin Diseases.
Price only 25/—, including- Heater, and Prescriptions
for Medicated Baths.
Head and Face Steaming Attachment, 3/6 extra.
Cabinet folds flat to 1 inch thickness, when notin use.
Call and Inspect. Pamphlets Free.
J. CHALMERS,
Premier Buildings, 229-231 Collins St., Melbourne.
HOW TO
SAFELY
CURETHE
LIQUOR
HABIT.
A PAMPHLET with thousands
of Testimonials from Clergymen,
Physicians, Merchants, and all
classes des-
criptive of
Eucrasy
will be
sent
gratis and post free. This is the
only remedy which can be used
SECRETLY at home with cer-
tainty of success. Address—The
FUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
fdf
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole A gents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, <£ -c.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
e>
IF
OLD
RNS
iUt^BU
FINg
HA
&5.C
O'
y
®Nf
Y
F?
P| *of>
d
/
FORT*
HAI!
Under Royal
Patronage.
KOKO for the Hair is a tonic, cleansing, invigorat-
ing and delightfully cooling preparation, causes the
hair to grow luxuriantly, keeps it soft and pliant,
eradicates dandrifl, prevents hair from falling and
turning grey, profnotee growth, contains no dye or
greasy substance, is the most cleanly of all hair
preparations, and is perfectly harmless. The unique
testimonials received prove it to be undoubtedly
the best dressing for the hair. 1/-, 2/6, and 4/6, of
all Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Australian Depot: Koko-Marlcopas Co., Ld.,
14, Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W. »
fsdf
CAUTION.
See that this registered Trade
Mark is on every bottle. , u
sd
The ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
.LIMITBX).
THIRTIETH REPORT
Adopted by the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held at the Banking House,
Queen Street, Brisbane, on Tuesday, 15th January, 1901.
The Net Profits for the Half-year, after deducting Rebate on Bills, interest on Deposits, pro-
viding for Contingencies, payment of all charges, and reducing valuation of Bank i urni-
ture and Fittings, amounted to.. .. .. ..
To which is to be added the amount carried forward from last Half-year “ 14 lu , 1
Giving an available balance of .. .. •• • • .. *.8,0.70 * x
To he distributed as follows : —,
To Dividend for the Half-year at the rate of 2J per cent, per annum 4,814 lb »
„ Dividend duty on above •• •• "O 14 iO
}} Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. •• •• •• •• m •• •• 2,000 0 0
’ Balance carried forward to next Half-year 800 12 6 . ,
• £o,oOO 4 1
AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET OF THE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND LTD.
31st DECEMBER, 1900.
LIABILITIES. £ a. D.
Capital paid-up
Reserve Fund
Profit and Loss
.. 385,187 0 0
.. 48,000 0 0
8,856. 4 1
Bills Payable .. .. 9,068 5 6
Liability to Treasury for
Nptes held in reserve .. 33,500 0 0
.Deposits and other Lia-
bilities .. ■ ... .. 899,262 16 ..0
£ 8. D.
442,043 4 1
941,831 1 6
Outstanding Drafts on Agents' and Lia-
bilities on Remittances as per contra .. 15,262 12 5
£1,399,136 18 0
ASSETS. £ S. D.
Coin on hand and Cash at
Bankers 226,712 0 2
Bullion .. .. .. 33,695 19 2
Treasury Notes on hand .. 40,340 0 0
Government Stock.. .. 60,722 5 0
Bank Premises, Furniture, &c
Bills discounted and all other Debts due
to the Bank
Liabilities of Customers and Agents, for
Drafts and British Bills current, as per
contra ».
£ s. D.
361,470 4 4
62,199 6 2
960,204 15 1
15,262 12 5
£1,399,136 18 0
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT, 31st DECEMBER, 1900.
Or.
£ S. D. £ S. D.
To Salaries, Rent, and other
Expenses at Head Office
and 15 Branches .. .. 8,779 15 4
~ Interest paid and accrued
on Fixed Deposits, Rebate
and Exchange paid .. 9,631 14 7
18,411 9 11
8,856 4 1
~ Balance
£27,267 14 0
By Balance brought forward
„ Gross Profit for the half-year
£ S. D.
122 14 10
.. 26,844 19 2
£27,267 14 0
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance..
£50,000 0 0
£50,000 0 0
By Balance invested in Government Stock.. £48,000 0 0
~ Transfer from Profit and Loss Account .. 2,000 0 0
£50,000 0 0
. , . . , , THOS. WELSBY, F.1.A.Q., \
Audited and found correct. OHAg A . CLARKE, A.A. (Eng.) /
Brisbane, 3rd January, 1901.
Auditors.
P. L. OARDEW, Chairman.
EDWD. I). DAY, General Manager.
AUDITORS" REPORT.
We have examined the foregoing Aggregate Balance Sheet, made up to 31st December, 1900, and report that we
find the several items therein stated to conform to the Balances in the General Ledger at Head Office, and to the
Balance Sheets furnished by the, Branches; these latter being -certified to by the respective Managers and
ACC °VVe have’counted the Cash and examined the Bills held by the Bank at the Head Office in Brisbane, on the 31st
ultimo, and hereby certify that we have found them correct. The Securities held at the Head Office have, at the
request of the Directors, been examined by Messrs. Chambers, Bruce and McNab, Solicitors to the Bank, and we have
seen their certificate to the effect that they are in order, „ . . . , .
We have further to certify that in our opinion the said Aggregate Balance Sheet is properly drawn up, and ex-
hibits a true and correct view of the Bank’s affairs as shown by. the Books on the 31st December, 1900.
Brisbane, 3rd January, 1901.
THQS. WELSBY, F.1.A.Q.,
CHAS. A. CLARKE, A.A. (Eng.)
Auditors.
ERAS MIC
PEERLESS
Unequalled as a Preserver and
Beautiher of the Complexion. It diffuses an exquisite
odor, and Imparts a stimulating and refreshing influence.
SOAP
fo Country Residents.
NEW CENTURY SHOPPING.
To enable you to buy your
DRAPERY and CLOTHING
at our Economical
NEW CENTURY PRICES
please write for our General Catalogue)
containing 87 Pages of Useful information.
A compilation of everyday
requirements, im«i
FREE
(Post Free to any part of the Commonwealth.)
IS IT WORTH A PENNY to secure a copy?
(An application on a penny post-card is
sufficient.)
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL DRAPERS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PiTT ST., SYDNEY.
Should you happen to be in Town please
call or ask for
OUR GENERAL CATALOGUE.
Publications.
Two
Fifye,
SbilliQg
Books
ex
I
No. 38 & 39
—op—
fllLAN’S AUSTRALIAN
MUSIC ROOK SERIES.
Price 1/-, or Posted 1/2.
No. 38.—Easy Duets for Young Players.
The Irish Emigrant Barker
Annie Laurie .. ..
The Last Rose of
Summer Moore
What are the Wild
Waves Saying? ..
Ring the Bell, Watchman.
I Dreamt that I Dwelt Balfe
Within a Mile of Edin-
boro’ Town .. .;
Ye Banks and Braes
The Blue Bells of
Scotland .. ..
Scenes that are Brightest
Wallace
The Old Folks at Home
The Campbells are Cornin’
Home, Sweet Home Bishop
Robin Adair .. ..
Rule Britannia .. Arne
God Save the Queen Bull
No. 39. —Celebrated Marches.
Boomerang March..
A. B. Moulton
The Liberty Bell,
March .. J. Ph. Sousa
The “Washington Post”
Sousa
The'Yale March
Chas. L. Van Baar
March in ‘ ‘ Scipio ” Handel
March from Masaniello
Auber
Manhattan Beach, ..
March .. J. Ph. Sousa
The High School Cadets
J. Ph. Sousa
Trauermarsch (from Lieder
ohne Worte) Mendelssohn
Trilby Polka March
Svengali
March in Fidelio Beethoven
The Rakoczy March
H. Neumann
WRITE FOR FULL LIST TO
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd,
Music Publishers,
276 AND 278 COLLINS St.,
MELBOURNE.
Diamond song book,
000 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s iod. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W Stamps 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for .this
»nd other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing
TRICOEOOy
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
Ai/m niCCACCC and their Treatment.
OIVIN IIIOCftOCO Posted.ls. Id.
Publishers : Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY*
Books. Books. Books.
POPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 for £1 ss. The
L Home Physician, £2 10s. for AT. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, hound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
for 12 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, 1898 edition,
£3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. AH
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
R. W. SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh street, Sidney.
LADIES >•
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
Government Notices.
Public Works Department,
Sydney, Jan. 17, 1901.
CITY RAILWAY EXTENSION AND DEVONSHIRE
STREET, CEMETERY.
T T having been determined to extend the City Railway
-*- to Devonshire-street, notice is hereby given that in
all cases where application has been ipade to the Minister
of Justice, by the representatives of deceased persons
buried in the Devonshire-stree.t Cemetery, and permission
obtained to exhume such bodies with the sanction of the
Cemetery Trustees within two months from this date, the
Department of Public Works will bear all reasonable
expenses incurred in the re-interment of such bodies in
such Cemetery as the said representatives may desire.
The cost of removing and re-erecting - all monuments,
stone-work, etc., now in a fair state of preservation, will
also be borne by the Government.
In the case of those bodies for which no applications
will have been received at the expiration of this notice,
exhumation will be carried out by the Government and
re-interment effected at Rookwood Cemetery.
Forms of application arid other information may be
obtained on application to the Clerk in Charge of Bonds
and Contracts at this Department.
ROBERT HICKSON,
Under Secretary for Public Works and
Commissioner for RorinA
There is in Montenegro a boy of 16 who
can see with the naked eye the moons of Jupiter,
though they are invisible to an ordinary person
without a glass of the magnifying power of about
30 diameters.
It is printed that the Chinese envoy to
Queen Victoria’s Diamond Jubilee was sawn in
two on his return home, because he was suspected
of European sympathies.
The Victoria Cross —made from the metal
of captured Russian guns—weighs loz., and is
(workmanship apart) worth about lid. —the
chasing, inscribing, and lacquering bring the in-
trinsic value up to about ss.
“Eclectic”: At the entrance of Melbourne
Public Library there is a picture-frame with por-
traits of the live Protestant bishops cremated
alive by Mary. Allow me to suggest that
a Protestant burning of Romans ought to be
added. But why the thing at all ?
Every democrat should have a copy of The
Bulletin pamphlet, “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” now receiving vicious notices from the
Calico press. On sale at Bulletin Office, 6d.; by
post to any Australasian address, Bd. in stamps of
any State.
Divers definitions. —War : The primitive
stone-axe aggravated by fancy costume and the
blessing of the church. Friendship: A mutual-
benefit society out of which you hope to get all the
benefit. Love: The glamor man has invented to
disguise the cruelty of perpetuating himself.
Man : A creature who lias complicated (natural ?)
instinct, with (acquired?) intelligence; shackled
inclination by convention and imagined so many
false gods that he dreads life’s best reward —the
long sleep. Death : Nature’s last and kindest
hint at her omnipotence.— Onlys.
Adelaide has been having a little excite-
ment over an alleged “ Russian romance.” It
started with the story of how a young and beauti-
ful girl of Franco-Russian origin was earning an
honest crust as a tailoress in Adelaide, but had
around her the halo of a great romance, being
heiress to a vast fortune left her by her grand-
father on condition she married a certain Russian
count. Her parents had emigrated to Australia
when she was a baby, and the fact that this beau-
tiful and stupendous heiress was doing sordid
tailoring was clearly explained ; the grandfather’s
will oi’dered that she should earn her own living
until her marriage. The count, it seemed, had
twice called on her in secret to urge on the mar-
riage, and the Czar’s consent was obtainable, but
though a vast fortune depended on it the tailor-
ess had coldly refused him on moral grounds. He
had already contracted a morganatic alliance, and
she therefore spurned the wicked nobleman, and
preferred to be a poor but honest girl and to avoid
the heartless splendour of palaces. Next day more
of the romance eventuated. The girl wrote to
the Register, signing herself “A Daughter of
the Russian Nobility,” and stating that she didn’t
yearn after sordid titles ; also she quoted the
hackneyed little tag of verse about kind hearts
being better than coronets. And someone else
wrote to point out that the alleged complicated will
was impossible under either French or Russian
law, and there were no morganatic marriages in
Russia, outside the Imperial family; also that the
Czar didn’t need to give his consent to the marri-
ages of his subjects, having 100,000,000 of them
and not having time to worry about their
marriages. In fact, he seemed to suggest that
the whole yarn was the shriek of an excited little
dressmaker who had tangled up her little brain by
reading “My Official Wife” and such like.
After that the lady wrote again saying
hysterically that she was an orphan and that
she declined to argue. Then an anonym-
ous correspondent, probably another tailoress,
wrote to say that the Count had called
on her and insisted on her signing some document,
and she had in revenge taken valuable papers
from the pocket of his mackinproof, and she now
lived in fear of being murdered in her bed through
some Russian conspiracy, people of that nation
being something awful when their passions boiled
over. The Count, it appears, is living in Adelaide
or thereabouts under an alias, it being understood
in romances that Russian Counts always do that
kind of thing for fear of the anger of the Czar,
who seems to be generally in a rage with his
Counts and Barons about something or other. And
having tottered thus far on its unsteady legs the
romance apparently sat down to have a rest.


The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World ...
GEO. ROE & CO
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
11l
Before booking- your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing List with map’
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne
4 Hunter-st., Sydney,
W :y y'' d
=d
jHiU: Vi;)'. >
GrO TO TT~F!T .T ■
n IGOLANI* for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real stood stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
HATS. HATS • AT S.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. Ail the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
DR. MACKENZIES
ARSENICAL SOAP
for a pearly skin and brilliant
Complexion. Chemists sell it.
NOTHING ELSE LIKE IT.
Used by the Elite of English
Society. S. Harvey, Limtd.,
London Bridge S.E.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTCR BRADL6V # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by-
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
JgSF" Sales Meld at the Auction Jtoorns.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
HIGH-GRADE
FARM—^
sdf
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd.
35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Fourteen hungry hands are already reach-
ing for Dickson’s seat at Bulimba, Q.; with more
to follow.
In all the States aldermen and ex-alder-
men preponderate as candidates for the Federal
Senate. A peculiar revelation of a long-suspected
aldermanic idiosyncrasy.
John Norton announces himself a candi-
date for the Senate ; but the daily papers don’t
mention him much in their lists. There is quite
a lot of sour milk in this cocoa-nut.
Westralia, like the eastern States, sends
out two Laborites for the Senate —and with heaps
better chance of success than attend the ill-chosen
pair in N.S.W., anyway. DeLargie, one of the two,
has been a particularly hard-working organiser on
the goldfields.
Seddon’s game in calling for Maori volun-
teers for S’Africa was doubtless to give Fiji
O’Brien the lie, by showing how eager to volunteer
the, Maoris were. Unfortunately, the Colonial
Office refused the offer ere a single Maori had
time to offer himself as a Boerslayer.
Melbourne Argus, which fainted right
away when the Gov. -General sent for Lyne, and
which was only re-assured when Barton sup-
planted him, is already engaged in combating
Toby’s policy, and lending its support to his chief
opponent, Reid. All in one calendar month.
It is plain that sore trouble exists in the
N.S.W. Ministry on the question of those lucra-
tive Harbour Trust and certain other appoint-
ments which Premier Lyne desires to make ere he
leaves office. Other members of the Government
resent being shorn of the patronage; hence the
friction.
It seems like a dream now, when Vie. and
M.L. are despatching their sixth contingents and
other States follow suit, to recollect how the men
of the first contingents went away, nearly 18
months ago, on what many thought would be a
pleasant little picnic, with the war practically over
before they arrived.
The N.S.W. Freetrade party (so-called
because it never attempted to really practise
Freetrade) seems to have given up the ghost.
Sydney Daily Telegraph doesn’t even describe
such persons as M‘Millan, Pumpkin Smith and
little Mary Jane Gould as Freetraders now. They
are all “ Revenue-Tariffists.”
Francis Abigail, of “ Me and Parkes ”
fame, is unabashed enough to announce his candi-
dature for the Federal Senate. N.S.W. is going
to have a lovely' lot of would-be senators to choose
from. In his preliminary advts. Abigail still
cling 3 to the old man. “I was,” he announces,
“a pupil of Sir Henry Parkes, the father of
Federation.”
F. C. greets the new Victorian Premier :
Vic. Attorney-General Isaacs having declined with
thanks the Premiership of that State, in succession to
Turner, the brown coat and boxer hat of that industrious
democrat descend on Peacock. Unique for an Austra-
lian politician to refuse such an office, with an almost cer-
tain title attached if he cared to accept. The clever
Hebrew says he is bound by his promise to stand for the
Federal Parliament, and thinks he can be of service to Aus-
tralia in the larger arena. Yet Victoria calls aloud for a
strong, brainy, determined leader to fight—and defeat—
the Tory obstructors in the State Upper House, and the
man who succeeds in that task will do it better service
than he is likely to have any opportunity of rendering
in the “larger arena.” Did Isaacs mistrust his own
strength, and pass the conflict on to Peacock for that
reason ?
Cabled thab Henry Copeland, who is an
Agent-General himself, considers that six State
Agents-General should still be maintained, in
addition to a Federal High Commissioner.
Also Lyne of N.S.W. and Isaacs of Vic-
toria agree with this view. There is a
loud suspicion of bias about the de-
sire of all these present and pro-
apective billet-holders to keep as
many billbts as possible in existence.
One reason put foiward is that loans
have to be floated, but if, in addi-
tion to a Federal Premier and six
State Premiers floating loans in Aus-
tralia, it is proposed to have seven
separatedecayed politicians all floating
loans .in London—well, how many loansis it pro-
posed to float per annum ? Surely one loan-floater
and one commercial representative in London
are quite sufficient.
The blessings of a purse-proud Leg.
Council. Dr. Graham, M.P. (now Sydney’s
Mayor) piloted through N.S.W. Leg. Assembly
a Bill which, among other things, empowered the
City Council to clear away slums and erect on the
sites, cheap, comfortable and healthy workers’
dwellings. But the Council struck out the clause
conferring on the City Corporation the right to
build and confined its powers to resumption for
street-widening purposes only. Ever-watchful is
the Leg. Council of vested (especially white-
vestcdj interests.
As an illustration of the utterly unrepre-
antVe -r i^i arac * er tribunals which “ select”
rv.b.VV L-tbor politieal candidates, it is stated
that, alter a ballot lasting a month, only 241 votes
were cast in The Darling to decide between
Jjabontes Spence and Ferguson. And The Dar-
ling includes Cobar, said to be one of the “ livest ”
Labor centres.
Ihe 18th January, 1901, was one of the
most memorable dates in the history of Australia,
though it passed almost unnoticed. On that day,
in a temporary office in a rather untidy Mel-
bourne street, the first old-age pension system
m Australia got into working order, and the first
pension was paid, The day ought to be a
national holiday vice the Day We Were Lagged,
which is due to be ignominiously deposed.
Poor old Anti-federal Brisbane Tele-
graph fell in (as usual) over the latest federal
appointment. Announced in leaded type that
Barton had offered Dickson’s seat to Foxton, Q.
Home Secretary and crusted Tory. When Bar-
ton said lie knew nothing about it, the Tele-
graph reiterated thatFoxton was a certainty in
three months’ time, the seat to remain vacant
meanwhile. Now Drake gets the office, and the
enraged paper wears straws in its hair.
The election for S. A. Leg. Council vacancy
caused by Kingston’s resignation, takes place this
Sat. (Feb. 2nd). Robinson, one of the foremost
Labor leaders, and Parsons, Ass. nominee, who
has a leaning towards Jap labor for the Northern
Territory, are the candidates. The latter made a
big fight with Kingston a few months ago ; but
Robinson is expected to head the poll, as he has a
large democratic following outside the Laborists.
“ Council reform ” is again the chief issue.
Sydney Telegraph’s latest evidence of
the advantages of the Calico James gospel is a
published a table wherein it professes to demon-
strate that between 1891 and 1899 banking deposits
increased faster in N.S.W. than in Victoria. And
it says that this increase (during a period which
was mostly covered by Dib'os’ Protective tariff)
proves conclusively that Freetrade is best. The
Shoddy party is solid on these two things : That
Reid established Freetrade in 1896 ; and that the
prosperity which N.S.W. enjoyed before 1896
was owing to Freetrade.
S.A. has a Freetrade Association, which
body is just now displaying streamers on the
tram-cars, labelled —
“ PROTECTION IS ROBBERY.—DAN. O’CONNELL."
S.A. has had 13 years of Protection, which explains
why the workers have something to be robbed of.
Moreover, there is every reason for believing that
O’Connell has been dead for over 50 years, so that
his opinion is not necessarily up to date. The
Freetrade Association evidently thought, however,
that, stiff as he was, it was safer to quote Daniel
dead than some other people alive.
It is fortunate for Stout, Maoriland’s anti-
Jingo Chief Justice, that he is no longer in politi-
cal fife. In the present frame of the public mind
in the great Liberal land of Seddon, no public
man dare express himself about the Boers as
Stout has done in Sydney. Already some of the
Maoriland papers have hauled Stout over the
coals, and one paper commenting on his suggestion
that a tract of land should be offered the Boers in
Australia not only scouts the idea, but bluntly
states that a service would be rendered humanity
if the Boers were utterly exterminated.
Q. Premier Philp’s refusal to accept a
Federal portfolio in all probability rests mostly on
his determination to be on hand when theßailway
Commissionership and £2OOO a year become
vacant on the retirement of R. J. Gray upon pen-
sion. The attempt to foist Home-Secretary Fox-
ton on to Barton —Brisbane papers named him as
the chosen man—was a clever effort to get rid of
that haughty but ungilded individual. But Bar-
ton let it be understood that he wouldn’t have
Foxton at any price. Brisbane Courier howled
for a strong man—someone to convert Barton on
the question of Kanaka labor. That meant Chief-
Justice Griffith—didn’t Griffith convert himself
ten years ago! It is averred that Griffith was
offered the portfolio, but would take it only on a
promise of the Federal Chief-Justiceship, and
negotiations fell through. The appointment of
Drake, who is for a white has raised
the Kanaka labor crowd to frenzy.
THINGS ARE NOT WHAT THEY SEEM.
THE FAT MAN : “ You may not believe it, sir,
but I teas once the living skeleton with Jones’s
circus, and it was not until I had given the
strong man a thrashing that I lost my
billet.”
PROBABLY.
“ Buy it for the woman you love! I’m sure
she’d be pleased.”
“ Yes, I believe she would —but Pm afraid my
wife wouldn’t like it.”
George Reid at Melbourne : “ The claim
was made that by means of this policy of Protection
there would result such a diversity of industrial
enterprise that Victoria would attract the growing
population of Australia.” Well, hasn’t it done
so? A State which can boast that it is almost
twice as thickly populated as Tasmania and
Maoriland, three times as thickly populated as
N.S.W., and from 17 to 73 times as thickly
populated as the other States, and that it is 12
times as thickly populated as the rest of the
Commonwealth taken in a lump, must have
attracted somebody.
Dear Bulletin, —Why barrack for Hig-
gins ? He is. just the same sort of democrat as
Righteous Wrixon—a man who invariably talks
one way and votes the other—which is the way
the Church influence directs him. Higgins should
be remembered as the greatest bore and most
overrated politician in the last Victorian Par-
liament. His susceptibility. to church and
W.C.T.U. influence is manifested by his attitude
over the Marshall-Hall business as a member of
the University Council—an attitude which led to
his being styled Stiggins in certain quarters ;
also his unscrupulous anti-federalism will take
much explaining away.— Macdonald.
James George Drake, of Queensland, the
one-time democrat who apostatised and was
rewarded with a portfolio in Queensland’s Tory
Continuous Ministry, is the new Federal Post-
master-General (Forrest now takes the Defence
portfolio). If it was considered necessary to
have Queensland represented in the Com-
monwealth Government by a member of the
present Philp Cabinet, Drake was probably the
ablest man of the lot. It will be necessary for
him to apostatise over again in order to fit into
his position as a democratic member of a
democratic government under a democratic con-
stitution, but he will probably do that with all
possible speed. He knows how to do it. He has
had experience.
John Leahy, member for Bulloo, is the
new man to be taken into Q. Ministry to replace
Drake. He is the mysterious figure who has so
long been pulling the strings in Northern politics.
Said that he could have had office at any time,
but has preferred to work obedient puppets with-
out being seen. It was he who engineered the
change from Dickson to Philp, and he would now
get rid of the latter if he saw anyone who would
serve his purpose better. A few years ago he was
a fencer out west, but after acquiring a paper he
worked his way into Parliament, and is now
manager of a large pastoral agency. He is a big
Irishman of undoubted ability, of warm friend-
ships, and-warmer hatreds. A man of big ideas—
regarding the profitableness of politics, but des-
tined to come to political grief.
“Trotter”: Bowen-Wangaratta railway
(N.Q.) is the laughing-stock of Australia.
This line runs through a barren, sandy
wilderness. In the whole distance of
48 miles there’s but one house—-at
a cattle-station, owned by two
sons of an Australian Chief
Justice, 18 miles from Bowen—
and a humpy at the terminus.
It’s a bi-weekly service, and
rarely has a passenger, while
the oidy thing in the way of
freight is “water” and
provisions for the officials
who keep the line under
observation. The Towns-
ville-Avr railway (now
nearly finished) also runs
through 50 miles of low-
lying desert, with a station
10 miles from Ayr. This
line will always be a source
of trouble, as a great part
of the country is a swamp,
and continually flooding.
How they do work these
matters in the land of the
Continuous Govt. !
Wanted very badly in the
Commonwealth, and in. those
of the separate States which
have not vet advanced so far, a
law limiting the election ex-
penses of every Parliamentary
candidate to, say, £lOO in the
largest electorates, and £5O in
smaller ones. Even in Federal
Senate elections, where the con-
stituency is a whole State, the
limit should certainly not go above
£2OO. Payment of members was de-
vised to give the man with brains but no
money a chance of sitting in Parliament,
as well as the man with money and brains,
or the man with money and no brains.
But if the rich candidate steadily forces
up the expense rate until it becomes a
question of spending most of the three
years Parliamentary salary on the trien-
nial Parliamentary election, very little
good will have resulted after all.
J ust when the Freetrade crowd is
urging Westralia not to try, by Pro-
tection, to help along “ artificial ”
manufactures, but to trust to the
States “natural industries” —mining
and sheep and cattle-rearing mainly
we find that the gold production
has started to slide down hill, and the Go'.den
Mile at Kalgoorlie is fading. And now the
chief Freetrade organ, Perth Morning Her-
ald, speaks wildly about the great rabbit in-
vasion, and says that if it reaches the North-West
—which it seems absolutely certain to do —the
cattle industry in that region—the great pastoral
district of W.A.—is dead. It is a solemn thing
to find the same paper which urges the people to
abandon “artificial” industries and trust to
“natural” ones, also explaining that the alleged
natural industries are crumpling up, or going to
crumple, in this fashion, and that the people who
trust them are almost certain to fall through.
“ Where the carcase is,” Ac. There are
only six Govt, candidates for Bulimba, the seat
rendered vacant by the death of Chief-Secretary
Dickson. An auctioneer (Dickson’s eldest son), a
produce man, a commission-agent, and three bar-
risters, among whom is Edwin Lilley, son Of the
late Chief Justice. Two of the legal lights have
offered themselves for every Parliamentary vacancy
during the past two years, and all three stood at
last general election in opposition to the Govt.
Their conversion is an eloquent tribute to the
substantial advantages attached to Q. politics.
Premier Philp doesn’t know whom to endorse.
But as labour is not strongly represented in
Bulimba, Philp’s real difficulty is the number of
promises he will have to make in order to get five
hungry politicians to stand down.
Attorney - General Deakin relates that,
upon the drafting committee of the 1891 Conven-
tion, it was Parkes who suggested the name
“ Commonwealth ” for the Australian Federation.
It was defeated on the voices, but Deakin thought
it over during the night, and moved in favour of
the word again on the following day. He carried
it by one vote—that of the Republican Adye
Douglas, of Tasmania. In the full Convention
of 1891 (as a reference to the debates, p. 557,
shows) the word was adopted by 26 votes to 13,
among the opponents being Dibbs, Gillies, Munro,
and Dickson. In the 1897-8 Conventions the
word “Commonwealth” was challenged four
times—at Adelaide and Sydney, where it was car-
ried on the voices ; and twice at Melbourne, where
it was once carried by 21 votes to 19, and once by
25 to 15.
Brookinan, the mining speculator and
Mayor of Perth, recently boasted at a public ban-
quet that he had been the means of bringing
thirty millions sterling into Westralia— at least
the papers credit him with putting it that way.
If Brookmari really said that, he doubtless meant
that he had helped to float W.A. mining co.’s in
Europe with a nominal capital of thirty millions,
and that a few pence out of every £ of this money
really came to W. A. Then the gold began to go
back in return. Westralia has already paid back
about twice over all the foreign capital that
actually reached its shores, and it is still paying it
back, and seems likely to keep on doing so till the
gold gives out. The influx of British mining
capital into Westralia was mostly the taking of
money out of one pocket in London and the put-
ting of it into another pocket in London.


8
jo jr*
I
| r'.'Z-S&z _ri? jjA^:
< »r *?
z^srz^sr/^-z^
Y.
X
dc2
a!
/'TJ
P ALI NG'S
LIMITED.
STOCK
EVERY KNOWN
MUSICAL
instrument
From all the
Best Makers.
Direct from the
Factories.
Pianos, Organs, Violins
Cornets, Banjos, Guitars
Mandolins, Polyphons
PALING & CO. LTD. are SOLE AGENTS for
LOWEST
PRICES.
Boosey’s Band Instruments
Besson’s Band Instruments
Cousenon’s Band Instruments
Catalogues
and
Estimates
Free.
PALING’S GREAT PIANO AGENCIES
STEINWAY PIANOS
BRINSMEAD PIANOS
LIPP PIANOS
EEURICH PIANOS
Best for
Tone, Touch, Value
and
Durability.
UEBEL PIANOS
ECKE PIANOS
VICTOR PIANOS
BELLING PIANOS
ESTEY ORGAKTS
111. H. P3LIHG $ CO. CTO- 338 george st„ suonEy.
WEBBER’S
VITADATIO
FROM THE PUREST AND BEST MATERIALS,
FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE BLOOD.
A Stricture of 25 Years’ standing,
Fistula and Rupture,
INEFFEOTUALLY TREATED IN LONDON
AND SYDNEY HOSPITALS.
Cured by Vitadatio.
Investigate this case.
52 Goodhope-street, Paddington,
Sydney, April 6, 1900.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
Vitadatio Institute, 184 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Dear Sir,—lt affords me the greatest pleasure to testify
to the wonderful curative properties of Webber’s Vita-
datio, for which you are the sole Australasian distributor.
For 25 years I suffered with STRICTURE. At last I had
to into Sydney Hospital. Underwent an operation, but
derived no benefit. Shortly after leaving the hospital a
FISTULA formed, which also gave me great pain. During
a gale at sea I had the misfortune to become RUPTURED
on BOTH SIDES. Returning to Sydney, I again entered
the hospital, and remained there for five (5) months,
undergoing another painful operation from which I
derived no benefit. In this state I determined to try
VITADATIO. The third bottle began to make itself felt,
and I took nine bottles with me to sea. My friends never
expected to see me again alive, but to-day I am in better
health than I have been for the past 25 years, and have
increased in weight from 9st. 61b. to over 13st. This is
entirely due to Webber’s Vitadatio, and it cannot be too
widely published. lam well known in Sydney, and you
are at liberty to publish this for the benefit of others. In
conclusion, my friends in Vancouver were so astonished at
my recovery that they have ordered me to obtain a supply
from you for them. —Yours truly,
(Signed) GEO. BUTCHER.
Mr. Butcher will be glad to answer any questions
relative to his case at the above address.
For further particulars,
s. A. PALMER ,
184 Pitt Street , Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
Dunlop
Tyres
outshine
all
t others! j.
CYCLISTS
can
make
no
mistake
by specifying
Duniqp Tyres
when purchasing their
new machines, as these
tyres excel all others
for
. . . WEAR
AND
RELIABILITY
Beware of Imitations.
None genuine without Trade Mark.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of A us. Ltd..
*
a N d at 150 Clarence Street, Sydney;
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N. 2.
The Worker describes Barton as the
“see-saw statesman.” This, no doubt, to distin-
guish him from Reid, who is the hee-haw poli-
tician.
Premier Barton’s statement that the Com-
monwealth finances will not be juggled with
aroused ex-Premier Reid, who evidently feels
that he must be the man alluded to when anyone
speaks of financial juggling. Reid says indig-
nantly that however bad juggling with the
finances maybe, juggling with principles is worse.
And it may be added that the worst thing of all
is both of them—and that was what was mainly
the matter with Reid. Besides, juggling with
the finances is juggling with principles. Surely,
even Reid will admit that honesty is a principle.
“ APENTA,” 1
The Best Natural Aperient Water.
For continuous use by the Constipated, the Gouty and
the Obese.
Apply to chemists for “ Regimen for the Obese ” card.
Published by The Apollinaris Company, Ltd., London, W.
, It is a common enough thing in N.S.W.
to close the public offices at noon for a race-
meeting or a cricket-match. On an occasion such
as seeing the troops off or home, celebrating
Mafeking, or some such excuse, the departments
have been closed all day. Yet, though the death
of the Queen was known in Sydney by 10.30 in
the morning, the Govt, offices were only closed at
3.40 in the afternoon. Guns were firing and bells
tolling, but The State Premier had not been
“officially” informed. And, strangely enough,
though it is considered a mark of respect to close
the doors of the Govt, departments, not only did
they remain open during the ordinary days of
the week in which the demise of the Queen
occurred, but every one of them resumed work on
Saturday morning, which was Anniversary Day,
a public holiday.
Patents for Inventions —Arthur Griffith,
International Patent Agent and Consulting
Engineer, University Chambers, Phillip-street,
Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights,
obtained throughout the world.
The latest London joke and innocent
mirthfulness is a “ Bobs ” League, to give effect
to Lord Roberts’s wishes about not “treating”
soldiers and sailors returning from S’Africa.
Announced that:
Every member shall be taken to have passed his pro-
mise to Lord Roberts personally that he will not publicly
or unnecessarily “ treat ” to intoxicating liquors any of
the soldiers, volunteers or sailors returning from South
Africa. And it is suggested that all members should
distinguish themselves by wearing a small piece of kharki
ribbon or a button in their coats.
It is questionable if the “ Tommies ” will be wildly
grateful for the idea. But what a lot of joy there
is in that “personally!” The world is full of
people who yearn to meet and speak to and shake
hands with a lord. So the members of the
“Bobs” League are to be considered by them-
selves and each other as having spoken to a lord,
and it is probably assumed that he shook hands
with them in his joy and gratitude when they
gave him their personal assurance that they
wouldn’t shout for his soldiers. And in addition
to all this glory which rains down on the Society
of Persons who are Supposed to have met a Lord,
there is the saving of the sixpence.
SORE EYES.
The remedy— Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment
—is acknowledged the only certain remedy ; never
failsto give instant relief. Refuse all others, and
get the genuine. Pots, 2s. Sold everywhere.
Captain Gordon Wilson, son of the late
“ Salmon ” Wilson, of Victoria, now visiting Aus-
tralia with the Imperial troops, prevented the
crank Roderick M'Lean, from injuring Queen
Victoria when the lunatic fired at H.M. at Wind-
sor Railway Station some years ago. Young
Wilson was then at Eton, and going to Windsor
Station to see the Queen pass, noticed a miserable-
looking man pointing a revolver at her. The
Etonian immediately seized him and deprived him
of the weapon. The assailant turned out to be a
lunatic named Roderick M'Lean, who on bis trial
for high treason was acquitted on the ground of
insanity.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
BILLS
discounted.
nxr.s,'w.
H)ontdepieteDJl.Co.,[til.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
•7 A CASTLEREAGH ST., *7 4.
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
New south wales mont de piete
D. AND I. COMPANY LTD.
74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
A GENERAL MEETING of the Shareholders
in the above Company will be held on THURS-
DAY, 31st inst., upon the Company’s premises as
above, at 11.30 a.m.
By order of the Board of Directors,
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
BUSINESS :
To receive the Directors’ Report and Balance-
sheet, and to transact any other business that
may be brought before the meeting, in accord-
ance with the Articles of Association.
Dated 16th January, 1901.
New south wales mont de piete
D. AND I. COMPANY LTD.
74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
The TRANSFER BOOKS of this Company
will be CLOSED from 16th to 31st inst. inclusive
By order, EUSTACE BENNETT,
Dated 16th January, 1901. Manager.
City Mutual Life
Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Manager.
'-THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Borns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266,
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
019 & 021 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital £4,800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. £3,196,353 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager ; Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : 11. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager : Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopsf/ate Street Within
corner of Le&denhall Street, E C.')
Bankers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant : H. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
The gank of Berth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
A. J. Gharker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 000 ... £350,000
|eui Zealand Insurance Qo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
j. a.
si pitt St., Sydney.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH UN I.
TO
SI South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Friday, Feb. 1, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Feb. 9,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., Feb. 19, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyongf, Tues., Feb. 19, 5 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, Feb. 2, 12 Noon.
•Konoowarra, Tuesday, Feb. 5, sp.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Feb. 9, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, Feb. 2, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, Feb. 9,12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT i ]
GERALDTON l
CAIRNS. &c. f
Lass o’ Gowriej from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Jbe Trustees, €*€ctitorS,
AND
a 2s»Ky Con>paoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £l5O 000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP ... Jyo 000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,’000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., Q.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager,
No. 412 Collins-st.reet, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Building's, George Street,
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capitalpayable by Shareholders ’50o’()00
Total Capital ... ..£2,500,000 '
The Commercial Banhing Company
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up ... £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
J. J. Cohen, Esq.
lon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C
S. W. Knox, Esq
Auditors :
Chairman.
Deputy-Chairman
Director.
W.-L. Docker and E. S. Cape.
lead Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, 11. 11. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
[■ondon Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton. Manager, Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
ind in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to.£Sooo, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS, .
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Queensland Smelting gompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
- L ' Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Established 1879.
THE '
United lustralian mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITER.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Webster, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
United lQS6raiK€ Co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Rents also assured -
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Hates very Low,
THOMAS M. TIN LEY, Manager,
A POLICY FOR THE
Now
Price (id. ;
Posted, Bd.
COMMONWCM.TH.
Shipping
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN; and LONDON as follows :
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
TO GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE,
via AMERICA.
M. AND A. LINE.
-0 ENGLAND IN 30 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE,
BY THREE MAGNIFICENT NEW TWIN-SCREW
STEAMSHIPS,
EACH OF 6000 TONS AND SOOO HORSE-POWER.
BUILT EXPRESSLY FOR THE SERVICE BY THE
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF
SAN FRANCISCO.
The steamersof this line leave Sydney and Auckland for
Tutuila (Samoa), Honolulu, and San Francisco every
three weeks, as under;—
Passengers booked to all the principal parts of
EUROPE, UNITED STATES and CANADA
AT LOWEST FARES.
Passengers are booked through to San Francisco, Liver-
pool, London and chief cities of the Continent of Europe,
with special advantages, and have choice of the unrivalled
Atlantic Steamship Lines of the American, Cunard, In-
man, White Star, and other Companies, according to fare.
Full particulars, Illustrated Guide Maps, etc., gratis on
application to
UNION STAMSIIIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltc,
Equitable Building, George-st-reet, nextG.P.O.
IST. ID. L.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000 ; Over 3| million Pas-
sengers carried since iSS7.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
"•TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
Leaving Melbourne Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE via QUEENSLAND, NEW BRITAIN,
NEW GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
STETTIN | 2478 |J. Niedermeyer | Feb. 20 | Singapore
TO QUEENSLAND, “NEW BRITAIN, NEW“guTnEA,
YAP, SHANGHAI, and HIOGO or YOKOHAMA.
MUNCHEN | 4630 |H. Krebs ... | April 3 | Japan.
And regularly thereafter every six weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street,
.Sydney.
Public Companies.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund.. ~
Reserve Liability ...
... 2,000,000 0 0
*. 1,250,000 0 0
_. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,250,000 0 0
Directors:
ames Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.O.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.O.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.O.
Auditors:
W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies ana New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.te Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
.T. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000*
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Public “Notices.
she federal §ailiamentary .Elections.
rO THE ELECTORS OF VICTORIA.
Gentlemen.—
I have the honor to announce my Candidature for
a seat in the Federal Senate, and to respectfully ask to
cast in my, favor one of the six votes which each elector
will have.
, I am, Gentlemen,
Your obedient servan.,
JAMES STYLES.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping. at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Warrego, Friday,
February 1, 5 p.m.
S.S. Warrego, Friday,
February 1, 5 p.m. Tran-
shipping at Melbourne.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Albany, Friday,
February 1, 5 p.m.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
(saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
nrsc lort between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
bons. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
aitions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
. w.— rumnftrwmiiiw ll lIM ■ IHIdUM i
A. U. S. IN. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASS ENG Eli. LINE.
their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINK Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly
and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
®™NEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MEEBOURNIi, Weeklv.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passcnt/er A ei oni.niodat.ion, Attendance and
Cu isin e un rivalled.
saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
tu-st, port between Melbourne and Cairns with the .steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and VV. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
, or Adelaide and VV. Australia all ticke's are inter-
changeabie with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHIEP and CO, Ltd., Ageiits, In Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
The Ro\al .Mail Steamships of tlie above Company will
he despatched as follows •
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Steamer.
Commander.
CHINA .. 8000 T. S. Angus
* ARCADIA 6003 A. C. Lo <r gin
♦OCEANA 6603 C. (.'add'
♦BRITANNIA 6525 F. If. Seymour
♦AUSTRALIA 6901 I. Reeves
((yd ney,
Noon
.. (Feb. 9
...IFeb. 20
.. 'Mar. 6
... Mar. 20
April 3
♦Calling at Hobart.
The Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, t3S 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return £7l 10sto t'l2l
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial pores
a.je available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAYVNY, Superintendent in Aus-
P»tt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
PASSENGERS booked to Bombav, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc:., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
Huddart, parker & Co’s Qine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the aboye Company will be despatched
: as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Que.erisla.nd Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted* with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. 00. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Hr|luraitb, fif'f-acharnS gi.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
k
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'il-wraith, M’Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
„ ~ , Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
sdf
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc
ALFALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for' all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter hotv caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. o:ilinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Diver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
away^free.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful patrons,
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope
of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
sd
fds
f
sdf
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
■ ■ • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
patrons that his
Alf aline Herbal
Remedies can only be
obtained from his
Head Office, or
his branches the
addresses of which
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
P ate nt M edicine
dealers for the genuine
Alfaline Remedies.
A REWARD
will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
'~Alfaline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmUSSen.
ADVICE FREE.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectua
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Ijerr Hans peter Rassnssen
ffl*-
Head
Office
wr
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BUIS BA XE ; 30i) Queen-street (near Creek-street).
MELBO UUNE : 150Bouvke-street (opp. Eastern Markets).
AD EL A IDE : 151 Bundle-street (near York Hotel).
N.Z. , WELL /.V (HO .V, 91 Lambtou Quay.
BERTH: 481 Hay-street.
KALGOORLIE : Hannan-street (next Lindell’s),
BOULDER GIT'S : Piesse-street.
FREMANTLE; Henry-street.
Viceroy Curzon visited the famine-stricken
districts of Gujerat, whereupon copious rains fell.
The people thought this a direct result of the
“Lord Sahib’s” appearance on the scene, and thus
is another miracle established in tradition.
Cabled that the British Admiralty is re-
arming the Spithead forts with quick-firing guns.
None too soon, either—in view, of the recently-
ascertained fact that at the time of the Fashoda
incident, French torpedo-boats were actually
cruising just outside Portsmouth.
Unique among the multitude of Common-
wealth decorations in Sydney were the designs in
cutlery shown in the window of W. Jno. Baker,
cutler, 3 Hunter-street. The centre piece was an
emu and kangaroo on either side of a circle sup-
porting a crown, the whole representing our union
as united Australia under the crown of the British
Empire. On either side of the centre piece were
the mottoes : “ Be True as Steel to the Common-
wealth”; “Peace Hath Her Victories, 1901.”
The whole design, including the words, was
formed of 235 pocket knives, 72 scissors, 2(5 razors,
1 each carver, table and dessert knives, and 6
blades, in all 350 pieces of cutlery of tire total
value of £65.*
The visitors’ book at the Hotel Shamrock,
Bendigo, contains a Commonwealth ode from the
collaborated pens of the Victorian Railway Com-
missioners’ staff on tour. It is addressed to the
courteous and talented hotelkeeper, and though
the metre is a bit halting and on the lines of an
ordinary running time-table, it speaks for itself:—
Of all our party, yes, I see
The bridal-room is set apart for me.
Now, my philosophical soul,
I’ll prove that I can be
Indifferent to all its memories of ecstasy,
Kind Miss Johnson.
Travel-worn and weary, I lay me down to see
What visions of the past that chamber had for me.
Alas ! what have I done that I should be
The victim of such cruel wrong,
Unkind Miss Johnson ?
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
roumhd - h fl* Dlschar S e or otlierwise, perhaps sur-
inflammation and swollen that when you
eioii ? J Tf'«n fi , ng a r ‘’"‘he.uflamed l>art it leaves the impres-
JS. rlmld?,;. U " der , the 6kn .' >'ou have poison that defies all
neteroa» r»™ ', la '; e trled ’ which, if not extracted, you
Ton Verhf™ ’ but , g 0 0,1 offering till death releasee
ulcerated . h ffo o yuur K\! ce ? are 6wollen > tlie joints being
™? Wltl \ ,he an,des - rou "d which the skin
if allowed to eonf- d ’ 0r tb ?F e , ma - v he wounds ; the disease
mllr vl m .?s o IU I d *P r, vo you of the power to
medical adv/?» 7 h Yl attß l d ? d various hospitals and had
SJhriwd to d * d bcen tol . <l y° ur caso is hopeless, ot
CUREYOIJ t'bm tto ampulfallen ; but do not, for I CAN
others have iaiUd " Bay I>erha P B i but 1 WILE. Because
Sendatonce for 18 no reason ,or not no "' being cured.
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of TU<l i ...
Hants'” Tumour?’ % Jo » nts . Carbuncles, Poisoned
nanus, rumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat Krnnchi*;«
Bnmon,, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists Stores
ALBERT ’ 1 7'! Gr T? t lir,! , a 1 in ’ Wld. per box. Prepared by
Agents ■ ELUOTT J BR^i o “Syd? C y 'sf.oSu!
IS* ° U 3
sdf
FRINGES,
tfatyral Curlj’, from S/o
PLAITS end TAILS,
Sflln. loni> ( l/ti. el) reel hale,
CUTTINGS a COM BIS 03
worltcd n|>, 7/0 per oz.
\Ve are thy elicapeiUo Ats»
Walla for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N. Wigz^fl,
110 WILUAM STUEBT,
corner of Palmer-street, .
SYDNEY.
Oalile Train Mill slop at Door.
Send stamps for full Prico
ttfKgapt attention (fiven to Country OrCrffc
ds
Medical,
Dr. Boxwell’s ""ITSILENT PILLS.
ON-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEC-
TIYE. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. PfT' Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert— Dr.
Boxwell having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
all leading Wholesale Druggists in Australia or Pill
Manufacturing Co., 539 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
« COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM.”
THE
HEAR
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
f
Is a restorative and physical regenerator of
magic power. A broken-down or weakened
system rejuvenated. Vytol acts on the
nerves, brain and blood, quickly and perman-
ently restoring to the sufferer the lost vim,
energy, strength and vigor of youth. Price posted 7/6.
A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street, North Melbourne.
Pamphlet, Testimonials, &c., sent Free.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC DISINFECTANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been awarded 100 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases- -especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. C. CALVERT & CO., Manchester.
OR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rm-ORQpyuE
Oantion. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—•
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days' Trial.
sdf
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
A RELIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which' is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount, paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
G-erman Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY;
dsf
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
>ound Inhalent, and 1 tin
Ointment, only
10-
/ Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible Remedy ,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng:.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
inventor of Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples.
Sore Eyes, &c.
use or. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. lid. and 2s. gd. each of all Drue
Stores. y &
Sole Makers: BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd.
BRIPPOBT, England.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
rpHESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
pf agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posted, ss. 6d. per
box. Write to A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street North,
.Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-street, Prahran,
Melb. says: “Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
diate relief, although I had during two months previous
tried all sorts of remedies without success/*
eeb
DEAF
ds
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
jand Head Noises, no matter of
(how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS >
c™aas,T" , ‘
Address — L.D.I., 300 Collins St., Melbourne


KING EDWARD VII
Is the first British Cycling; Monarch
to occupy the Throne.
fds
Tq First BICYCLE IN QUALITY, SPEED;AND RELIABILITY IN ALL THE KlNff’S DOMINIONS.
13 - urc Buy a Mashky on easy terms and you cannot make a mistake.
SYDNEY DEPOTS 385 GEORGE STREET.
*1
A man cannot straddle
the fence when it comes to
the question of good health
or ill-health. Either he
marches under the flag of
health or the banner of
Death. It is the simplest
thing in the world to gain
health if men and women
only will. For that reason it is almost in-
credible that men and women will con-
tinue to neglect their health even after they
must realize that they are marching under the
banner of Death. The great majority of diseases
have their inception in indigestion, biliousness,
and impure blood. What you want is a medicine
that gets at the cause or foundation, and that
medicine is Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. They
put a healthy appetite in your stomach, life in
your liver, a move into your bowels; they cleanse
and strengthen the kidneys, and give you blood
that is pure, rich, and red. They have been
weighed in the balance and not found wanting;
they have stood the test of time; thousands sound
their praises. Read the evidence of one:—“I
write to inform you that I have suffered for the
last two years with indigestion,” writes Mr.
Wells, Hendley-street, Adelaide, “and during
that time I tried many remedies, but they proved
of no avail. Some five or six weeks ago a friend
advised me to give Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
a trial. I did so, and to my great delight, after
taking a bottle I felt a new man. Anyone suffer-
ing from the same trouble I heartily recommend
them to give this medicine a trial. You are at
liberty to use this letter as you think fit.” Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills stand alone as a perfect
blood purifier, and positively cure biliousness, in-
digestion, dyspepsia, headache, sallow complexion,
liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, and
blotches. Price, Is. l|d. per bottle, or six bottles
6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd. (Australasian depot) 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney. They are packed in amber bottles, and
full name blown thereon.*
THE KING AS A CYCLIST -
Had several adventures. He was passing through a toll-gate, and, being
tired, rode slowly. The old gate-keeper admonished our sovereign, saying—
“ Hurry on, Fat Fellow ! ” His Majesty heartily enjoyed the joke. However
RED BIRD BICYCLES
Are certainty the best for touring
and all cycling purposes.
branches in EVERY state. G-OOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King 1 Street, Sydney.
The
Original
JOHN JAMESON WHISHT
Agents:
J. Barre Johnston & Co.,
Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Weights for the Australian Cup look favorable
to the chances of Finland and Kinglike at 7.12 and 7.10
respectively. The luckless Seahorse (8.12) is another
well-handicapped one, and old Dreamland, with 2st. less
to carry, may turn out to be the pick of the whole crowd.
Considering the strength of Scobie’s stable this season, it
is only reasonable to suppose that Dreamland was entered
on something more than a forlorn hope. Looks as
though the aged son of Trenton and Nightmare has been
going well of late, in which case his chance is undeniable.
• • * •
Punters have already rushed Malster for the
Australian Cup in doubles and straight-out, despite the
fact that the task set Scobie’s crack is no easy one—B.ll
being quite a burden for a 3-year-old. Colts of Malster’s
age have, however, often scored in the race. Fact that
same stable has also entered La Carabine, Paul Pry.
Clean Sweep, Miltiades, and The Bride suggests waiting a
bit longer and watching developments as the proper
course.
• * * ■»
Five nags in Sydney Cup are asked to carry
over9st. Highborn, 10 years ago, was the last to win
under such conditions ;he had 9.3 up. Fact that only
two N S. W. entrants (War God and Severity) are among
the first 14 on the list doesn’t say much for the quality,
as stayers, of the State’s representatives.
* * * *
When is Coralie, last year’s dual winner, going
to hustle in good form ?
* * * *
There is a small invasion of Q. nags South just
now, encouraged by the efforts of Ma-Ma, Nevermore, and
co. Some of them crowed fairly well on their own dung-
hill, some are so-so, and one, Fortune-teller, is a kingpin.
His latest up North was to carry 10.9 to the front of a
fair field and win anyhow in the sudden time of 1.15 for
6fur. He is in the Challenge Stakes with 9st., and the
Newmarket with 8.11.
* * • *
No wonder the Q. crowd behind Ohio “emptied
out ”on him on two occasions lately. On performances
and recent trials his showing is a gloomy mystery. In
his best, and at his best, capable judges reckon him equal
to Realm, and Realm, in the Sydney Cup, at 7.9 (Ohio’s
weight), would make a mess of the handicap.
• * * •
Sale of Tocal (N.S.W.) stud last week was a big
success, but the stud will not disappear utterly, as Mr.
Frank Reynolds has decided to continue, on a smaller
scale. He secured the brood mares Algerine , Chlorine,
Equation, Sweetbriar, Salutation, Ta Ta, Medelet, Wel-
come, Queenie, and the stallion Medallion. Mr. S. Rey-
nolds bought Patrie, and Oudine. Mr. Percy Reynolds
(now lessee of Hobartville) had the 3-year-old filly Oban,
by Goldsbrough, from Welcome Queenie, and the imported
St. Simon stallion Simmer knocked down to him. Simmer
brought 129L)gs. M.L. breeders enriched their studs by
the addition of the marcs, Cantatrice, Kilmorey, Toi Toi,
a 3-year-old filly by Sweet William, from Storm, and a
2-year-old by Medallion, from Equation.
• * • *
Sydney sportsman Mr. Francis Foy sent seven
mares to Lochiel last Feb. to be mated to English time,
and as a result there are six foals—all well-bred. They
are—a bay colt from Colors (dam of- Australian Star), by
Grandmaster; a bay colt from Champ Elysee (imp.), by
Thurio; bay filly from Recolte (imp.), by Harvester;
chestnut colt from Goldmine, by Grandmaster; bay colt
from Countess Aberdeen (imp.), by Primrose League;
and bay filly from Farthingdale (imp.), by Minting.
* * * *
First Sydney punter: “Gimme the suburban
courses. There are usually not more’n two or three triers
in each race and you’ve only got to pick the best of them,
but at Randwick it’s different—they’re nearly all on it.”
Second punter (with an expression of deep disgust) “ Dis-
graceful, ain’t it?”
* * * *
At a race meeting held at Port Fairy (Vic.) on
the 17th a mare named Maud Gonne won four out of six
events, the other couple beirig pony races. At a meeting
in S.A., a week or so ago, a jockey rode the whole six
winners.
* * * •
Onkaparinga, S. Australia’s one big race meet-
ing away from the city, offers this year 500 sovs. for its
□up and 1100 sovs. for its Steeple, the latter coupled with
the intimation that the committee hopes soon to send the
unount up to 2000 sovs., 200 going to the breeder.
* • • •
The Westralian T.C. gathered in £4OOO profit
jver its recent summer meet.
• * » •
Yankee jock Sloan’s stock has slumped. Be-
sides being shut down upon in England they won’t stand
aim in his own country, and the French turf people tell
bim that applying for a license there will be mere waste
af time. IJnder the circs, there’s only one course open ;
the tabooed rider may, and probably will, become an
owner.
* * * *
Re riding-tests at Sydney Agricultural Grounds.
The military people have at last adopted a sen-
sible mode of testing for hush-riding by making the
competitors scamper through the scrubby ridges. Very
ridiculous was the former practice of giving a man a few
jumps over some ricketty hurdles, because the duffer
often had a good jumper and the real horseman a neddy
that wouldn’t or couldn’t jump.
* * * *
Inter-State mill ’tween Peter Murphy (Vic.)
and “Snowy” Sturgeon (N-S. W.), at Gaiety A.O. (Sydney),
Saturday, drew a crammed house. ’Twas Sturgeon’s
battle all the way. He hit too hard and was much too>
strong for Murphy, most of whose blows were little better
than whisks. Murphy often went down cunningly in
clinches, and the crowd, not seeing through the dodge,
howled at and hooted Sturgeon. Only redeeming feature
in Murphy’s fighting was his gameness and splendid con-
dition, but not at any time from the start' did he have a
hope of winning. In the 11th round Murphy was sent
prone as the result of a right on the jaw, and his “ cor-
ner” wisely caved in. Sturgeon missed many soft
chances and showed nothing extra in the way of clever-
ness, while Murphy, beyond some cunning ring dodges,
didn’t justify his reputation by any means. Still, it was
a rushing, rough fight that pleased the hundreds
looking on, mainly because of Sturgeon’s eagerness to>
force things all the way. Murphy, though claimed as a
Victorian, is really a Sydney man, but the southern State
closed on him as with P. Slavin, Goddard and others wlm
went to live in Melb. for a while, and were ever afterwards
referred to as of “ Victoria.” If writer isn’t much mis-
taken, Murphy is an old hand at the game, and fought afc
Larry Foley’s White Horse Gym. years ago.
* * * *
’Twas the peds and the scullers themselves wb®>
killed their game, but the match-promoters are doing the
trick for boxing. Last week, at the Gaiety A.C. (SydneyX
two heavyweights (Musician Thompson, of the R.A.A.,
reputed a good ’un, and Walsh, previously unknown)
shaped'. They barely put their hands up when Walsh
went down, from a light left on the neck, to the accom-
paniment of a storm of hoots. He had hardly got on his
feet when a jab in the face made him stretch and quit
palpably. The crowd jeered and howled. “ I couldn’t
’elp it, gen’lmen,” said the big dub, “ I ’ave a ’evy cold.”
“ What did yer come into the ring for, then ?” screeched
someone. “ ’Twasn’t my fault,” came the response,
“they made me.” Then the air was thick with boo-
hoos. bahs, and yells of “ Give us our stuff back ! ”
• * * »
Australasian feather and light weight cham-
pion Tim Ilegarty went ’Ome last week full of confidence
n prospects ahead. He’ll try England first, and, if suc-
cessful there, will give the U.S. a turn. Throughout
nine years of fighting Hegarty hasn’t gone under once
nor (it is claimed) left the ring with a “ barked ” face, a
bleeding nose, or a “ mouse ” —however mild, Tim was
born in Ireland, but, like world’s champion Bob Fitz,
came to Australia a baby. Vegetarian Val Flood gave
Hegarty his first lessons in the art of “ hit and counter.”
His friends expect Tim to do wonders abroad, but this
scribe would like to have a few so vs. on “ Terrible ”
Terry M’Govern if the two come together, and that isn’t
at all a remote contingency.
* * • •
News of Cribb’s first fight in Yankeeland
(Dec. 20, at ’Frisco) came by Monday’s mail. Cribb did
all the fighting, and had all'the better of things from the
start, knocking his opponent (Frank McConnell) limp in
the fourth round. Cribb opened the eyes of the cute
U.S. sports, who “wouldn’t stand him” previously, and
laid 2tol on McConnell freely. ’Frisco papers refer to
Cribb as a revelation—a forceful, relentless, instinctive
fighter, with every claim to be matched against the best
welter weights the continent owns. He accepted another
challenge that night, and when the Alameda left was
hard at work getting ready. His success brought him a
purse of 200 sovs. (the winner’s portion of the 1200dols.
given), besides “bits to nothing,” and the lump he won
himself in bets, for he always ventures some of his own
money. Private letters state that, in response to
“ Time 1 ” he walked up for the first round-in his usual
slouching, easy-going style, and the crowd laughed.
’Twas a good hard tussle while it lasted. At the opening
of the third term Cribb brushed his hair back, as is his
wont when he means trouble, and, after spitting over his
left shoulder in the usual old way, he hurled himself at
the Yankee, who thereafter was absolutely “ not in it.”
* * * *
Information that one of the national banks (the
Atlas) of Cincinnati (U.S.A.) is holding the stakes for the
coming world’s pug. supremacy match between Jeffries
and Ruhlin, recalls that occasion, 10 or 12 years ago,
when a now-defunct Sydney bank backed Dick Sandall
(since dead) against Jack Valentine. ’Twas always sup-
posed the manager stood to Dick till the books revealed
otherwise during the process of liquidation.
• * * •
Last U.S. mail tells that on Dec. 7 Australian
Martin Denny got a decision on points in a 20 round
“go ” with a Yankee pug named Riley. Writer
remembers Denny’s first public “ go ” in Sydney (perhaps
12 years hack) at the “ Pelican Club,” located somewhere
near the head of Darling Harbor. He did so well that he
impressed all as being a coming world-beater. Further
fights supported this view, and then came as additional
endorsement his great tussle with Griffo at the Australian
A.C. (Darlinghurst Skating Rink) Sydney. Afterwards
Denny went to S’Africa and figured there with varying
success, but apparently lost his early form completely.
Thence he drifted over to London and on to the U.S. and
Honolulu, where he only won a fight now and again,
though Yankee referees have on occasions (as is the ex-
perience of most Britishers and Australians) decided
against him when he clearly should have had the verdict.
* * ♦ *
Stated in sporting press that Newcastle (N.S. W.)
’rastler, McDermott, is willing to meet all-cdnquering
Sikh, Buttan Singh, for £4O a-side, in Melbourne or else-
where. The Coal City man has been talking ’rastle for
some time, but doesn’t get to work, somehow. He has a
match with Maximillian pending, and, a year or so since,
challenged Austrian Hajek, but didn’t toe the mark when
the gage was accepted. Further, there is that unfulfilled
engagement with German Lorenz against him. Writer
will believe Mac means biz. when he sees him on the mat.
« * • *
Through grievous lack of knowledge of the game
officials have allowed “Chinaman’s trot” to flourish among
M.L. walkers. At least three of the front-rankers
wouldn’t pass muster before anyone capable of discrimi-
nating. One judge when asked why he didn’t disqualify
a crack who neither locks his knees nor walks with a
straight leg said the crack’s underpins were bent.
• • • •
Looks any odds on N.S.W. gathering in all the
Australasian swimming premierships in Victoria this and
next week. Opposition from M.L. and Q. doesn’t seem
formidable and the quality of the Vic. top-notchers isn’t
equal to Sydney schoolboy form, as witness Pearson’s bare
win of the 100yds. supremacy of Vic. t’other day at St.
Kilda in 1.11. The mother state has at least 20 who could
■do much better than that.
* • * *
M.L. premier swimmer Champion is only 19,
scales 13j4st., and stands 5.11 b Champion comes from
a swimming family—his father and mother were good at
the game, and two elder brothers and younger sisters
would be top-notchers had they followed it up. The
latest crack went to Norfolk Island with his parents when
six months old, and stayed there till three years ago.
All the sons took a hand with the old man at whaling,
hence their water-capabilities. Champion has a brother
who can beat him, but objects to racing as bad for the
health.
• * • *
Plunging tests t’other day for the purpose of
selecting N.S.W. rep. to compete in Australasian supre-
macy at Ballarat were much ahead of anything ever shown
previously, especially as they took place in fresh water.
At Bathurst Pierre Stapleton (over 6ft. high and weigh-
ing somewhere about 18st.) put up 70ft. 2|in. in 555e0.,
ssec. less than the time-limit allowance, and could have
done better had it been needed. World’s record (78ft.
9in.) under similar conditions belongs to Englishman
Taylor, and was accomplished two years ago. Next best
in tests was 62ft. sin. by Balmain crack, R. Keers
and W. Bethel, 58ft. Bin., followed. Latter two feats were
accomplished in St. George Baths, Redfern. Unfortuna-
tely, Stapleton cannot go to Vic., and Keers takes his-
place. Among the best plungers N.S.W. has had was Mr.
Manfield Newton, of Sydney, who could do what writer
has never Seen done by any other — i.e., lift his chin clear
of the water while he sped over the surface, which
enabled him to breathe and consequently sustain the
•effort longer than the opposition, who dared not raise
their faces above the water for fear of the legs sinking
and thus stopping the impetus. Newton’s method
wouldn’t avail much with the one-minute limit, but
under the old system (which allowed the plunger to hang
out as long as he could hold breath) Newton would have
beaten the best of his day. The limit was fixed through
marly competitors sticking to the plunge till they became
unconscious and sank. Several narrow escapes from
■drowning occurred—nothing but timely and expert aid.
prevented fatalities in numbers of cases.
* * * *
The Towns family looks like supplying anpther
front-rank sculler in young Jack, aged 18, sft. lOin. high,
and weighing 12st. Jack is an amateur, which is a good
thing for N.S.W. rowing, in face of the fact that ’tis
likely the present champion, Mr. Joe Daley, will retire
shortly. Towns, junr., hasn’t done much yet, but the
little he has been called upon to do has been done so well
that top-notch form seems only a matter of a year or two.
Apropos, ’Ome champion George Towns, having won the
Sportsman Cup twice, has only to get it once more and
’twill be his absolutely. With Yankees backing and fill-
ing, and no one coming on “ down under,” the Hunter
River man’s prospects of a match during the coming
season are, however, not over-bright.
* » » •
Demise: W. J. Leverett, old-time inter-state
oarsman. In the middle eighties Leverett, with Gowdie,
Chamley and Oxlade, formed the invulnerable four-oared
crew of Albert Park Club and carried off everything worth
having in aquatics. But at length the fact that Leverett
was a bookmaker was seized upon, so said his supporters,
by jealous clubs to get a strong opponent out of the way ,
and the Association eventually decided that bookmakers
should be classed as professionals. That finished the
career of Leverett as an oarsman, but his memory still
lives as that of a big, powerful, agile, plucky and honest
athlete.- He died at the age of 89 at Albert Park, within
eight of the sheet of water whereon he made his fame.
* • • •
S.A.’b troubles have not oome singly. Darling
and Lyons have retired, Jones and Giffen are under a
cloud, and now grafter “ Dinnie ” Reedman makes an
enforced retirement through heart-weakness. Five cham-
pions within 12 months—and no prominent juniors knock-
ing at the door I
* • • •
Arrangement, started last year, between
N.S.VV. and S.A. Cricket Associations, whereby the visit-
ing side takes one-third of the net proceeds, has, so far,
panned out well for the wheat State. Match in Adelaide
this season produced a net profit of over £l20 —N.S.VV.
got £4O. Net profit of Sydney match was £7B3 —S.A.
took £261. As matters were before, N.S.VV. would have
made £783 12s. 4d., and S.A. £l2O 13s. lid. Under the
fresh agreement, N.S.VV. gets £562 12s. lid., and S.A.
£341135. 4d. N.S.W. is consequently £220195. 6d. poorer
in one year than she would have been had the old manner
of sharing continued, and S.A. is that much better off.
* * • *
Last mail tells that Eng. cricketer “Bob”
Tinley died Dec. 11, aged 70. He was out here with
Parr’s team during the ’63-4 season and, according to
London Sportsman, was a slashing bat and a smart field
at point. With England against 22 of Birmingham i:, ’54
(and in his favorite position) he caught out 12 “ brums.”
Playing in the third and last of three matches against a
N.S.W. 22 on Sydney Domain, April ’64, Tinley g' *' 13
wickets for 40 runs, thus contributing largely to
England’s win by 1 wicket.
* * * *
Westralian Football Association has written
officially to the English F. A., asking that teams shall
be sent out to play exhibition matches with a view to
popularising the game in the “ colonies.” The game re-
ferred to is, of course that played by 11 men aside, and in
which hands are not used at all. A good game, too, but
there is no room for three codes in Australia. If VV.A.
doesn’t like the Vic. hybrid, why can’t it play Rugby ?
• • * •
Bilmartin, they say, missed the chance of his
life over last Austral. He could have worked in with the
crack stable, but wouldn’t fix up things in time, and so
at the last minute the stable decided to pace Forbes up
and send him for the prize. Martin, so paced, could have
won easily, and made more money out of bets than
Forbes did. However, the knowing stable hit a few Mel-
bourne bookmakers pretty hard, and a Sydney bookie or
two would have had a bit of sorrow only arrangements
were not fixed early enough to get the money.
* * ♦ '*
The by-laws re right-of-way as they affect
cyclists have been yet further muddled by a recent deci-
sion down South. A cyclist overtaking a tram in Bridge-
road, Richmond, Melb., passed it on his left hand. The
bobby, having nothing better to do, took his name, and
summoned him at the local court. Called to account, his
solicitor asserted that i t was the policeman who was wrong.
The Bench didn’t see it, and the verdict went against him.
Carried to a higher, court, finding reversed. Result—
reckless riders cocky, the careful puzzled. If the theory
is that all traffic is divided into two halves by a line
running down the centre of the street, then by what
reasoning are wheelmen expected to pass over the divid-
ing line into the teeth of a possibly advancing tram, and
certainly into the stream of contrary vehicles ? True,
both law and common-sense affirm that the overtaking
vehicle shall pass another on the left hand, but that is
assuming that the forward vehicle is always edging
towards the footpath, leaving room for the other to pass.
But the tram can’t so edge. It’s bound to stay in the
middle of the road. Surely the general rule should in
law, as in common-sense, override the particular. Now,
the great body of cyclists are on the horns of a dilemma.
Which had you rather do—be smashed up and trust to the
law seeing you through in the matter of damages, or take
your safety into your own hands and risk getting no
damages ?
Late Premier T. J. Byrnes will, it is at
last definitely decided, have a bronze statue Oft.
high and costing £l4OO, opposite the Treasury in
Brisbane. Bertram Mackennal has got the com-
mission.
Mr. Harrie Wood, for many years N.S.W.
IJnder-Secretary for Mines and Agriculture, has
definitely decided to become a candidate for the
Senate of the Commonwealth as a supporter of
the Barton Government.
The still un-knighted (barring his White
Knighthood) Grand Panjandrum Fitzgibbon
cabled to London on the death of the Queen —
“ Poignant grief of the metropolis.” The Mayor
of Melbourne wants to know where he comes in.
As the Prince of Wales has been Grand
Master of the United Grand Lodge of Freemasons
of England since ’74, his accession to the throne
will be especially pleasing to the brethren. He
is the first English monarch who has held office in
the craft.
Hyde Park, Sydney, remains a disgrace-
ful danger to the after-dark wayfarer. Latest
case was the garotting and robbing of a young
man by two marauders, who, as it chanced, there-
after fell promptly into the clutches of a plain-
clothes constable and a soldier whom he sum-
moned to his assistance. A desperate resulting
struggle ended in the policeman holding his man.
The other bandit escaped.
It is stated that fully 75 per cent, of the
returned soldiers who presented themselves for
re-enlistment in the latest; N.S.W. contingent
were medically rejected. Making all allowances
for uncompleted convalescence, it is plain from
this that S’Africa is producing, from among some
of the very best of Australia’s manhood, a melan-
choly crop of physical wrecks.
The selection of Lord Jersey to represent
Australia at the Queen’s funeral was the result of
a good deal of informal talk among the Hopetoun
advisers. Several names were brought up. Beau-
champ was out of it, for obvious reasons, but his
predecessor, Hampden, was vigorously cham-
pioned. When he was dropped, Brassey was
taken up, and, when N.S.W. again entered the
lists, there was a loud cry for Carington. But the
amiable Jersey won.
Christopher Crisp writes concisely toS.M.
Herald :
Sir.—The comments I have seen upon the proposal to
erect a statue with the title “Australia Facing the Dawn”
in Sydney Harbour ignore the most obvious objection to
it, which is that the idea has already been appropriated
by New York, which obtained it (and the statue also)
from France. Secondly, Sydney Harbour is about the
only place in the world which dwarfs, by its natural
beauties, any attempt to personify heroics in bronze or
marble. There are other objections, but these two should
suffice to condemn the proposal.
Mrs. Meehan, of Muswellbrook, N.S.W.,
has lost two sons in the S’African war, and “gene-
ral sympathy ”is expressed for her. Poor old
mother ! that is all sne will ever get in exchange
for the two fine young fellows lured from their
native land to make war upon veldt-strugglers
like themselves in the interest of a greedy gang
of broad-clothed robbers.
THE LATE DR. L. E. F. NEILL,
OF SYDNEY.
The above is the last picture of the able
and self-sacrificing Dr. Leopold E. F. Neill, 8.A,,
M. 8., Ch.M., of Double Bay, one of the best
known and most liked men in Sydney, who
died last week at the age of 34 from septic pneu-
monia after but a few days’illness. The doctor,
who was of N.S.W. birth, was connected with
Prince Alfred Hospital, where he was once medi-
cal officer, and for a time acted as medical super-
intendent ; he was also vice-president and visit-
ing officer of the Women’s Hospital. For two
years he was surgical tutor at Sydney University
Medical School, and at the time of his death he
was on the medical staff of Sydney Hospital. In
addition to all these things he was a member of
the Royal Society and local branch of the British
Medical Association. Dr. Neill was an athlete
with an All-Australian reputation, having played
football against Maoriland, Queensland, Victoria,
and England between the years ’B4 and ’9O. The
amount of work that he did out of pure charity
and goodwill to his fellow-creatures was very great.
He was the highest type of philanthropic as
distinct from the merely commercial doctor, and
thou. amber of poor people who have, through his
untimely death, lost a good friend and valuable
helper is legion. Whatever he took in hand he
excelled in; skilful, gentle, self-denying and
generous, he was a man among men. His
remains were followed to the grave by a large
concourse of sincere mourners.
In this issue The Bulletin reprints the
realistic woodcut block of Queen Victoria, by
William Nicholson, originally published in the
New Review under W. E. Henley’s editorship.
It was the publication of the series of blocks
which this one commenced that first made Nichol-
son’s talent widely known : previously, as one of
the “ Beggarstaff Brothers,” his work had gained
him little more than local celebrity in London.
The drawing of Queen Victoria is one of Nichol-
son’s best performances, and possibly no portrait
of the Queen holds quite as much character. A
feature of the composition which has hitherto
escaped notice is the device adopted to raise the
subject’s apparent stature, by extending her bon-
net-feathers to the top of the frame. Cover these
feathers over, and Queen Victoria springs to light
as she was in life.
George Reid pointed out in his Richmond
speech that Victoria has more lunatics to the
square mile than N.S. Wales. A voice: “You’ll
get their votes, George ! ”


He may
be “Absent Minded”
* ■>>
,-r>-
'- ,)
V .*.-.
/
;J'
///
Hi
'.'.'Hu
|/<////'
••fif/t
•*//////
DERBY WINS RESPECT
but he never
forgets
hfs plug of
DERBY
TOBACCO.
** We consider it is
worth its weight in
gold/’ writes a col-
onial Tommy from
South Africa to his
chum in Australia.
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY COY.,
Telephone 3430. 187 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Hall-marked Silver “
Frame, 2s 6d.
IN MEMORIAM—
Lest We Forget.
Gold-mounted Souvehir
Medallion, containing
Photos of Her Late Majesty
the Queen and His Majesty
the King of England, 6/6.
Open Wednesdays till 6 p.m.,
and on Saturday Nights from
6 to 9.30.
94\
Oxidised Medallion.
An Everlasting Memento.
Price 2s 6d.
HEftPBCHES
In Eight Cases out of Ten arise from the Eyes.
That is why the suii’s glare induces Headaches.
Consult FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, Opticians to the
Walker Hospital. They are the Oldest Opticians in
Sydney.
$0- NO charge for Sight Testing.
Fairfax £ Rob€rtsj
London Prices
for Glasses.
The Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 Hunter-st., Sydney.
/4m
m
SYDNEY
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. A..
QUIN,
LOWER DOMAIN.
FOE the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 60 KINO STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
- proprietor • • GKO. W. ELLIS.
Amusements.
HCKARDS’ TIVOLI
k Sole Proprietor
THEATRE) SYDNEY.
Mr. Harry Rickards.
Enormous Success of the Grand Comic Xmas
PANTOMIME,
Written by that great London Author, Victor Stevens,
puss in Boots.
A Gigantic and Unparalleled Cast of Characters.
New Scenery, New Costumes, New Music, New Artists.
In fact, everything new and up-to-date. Plan at Paling s.
Matinees Saturday and Wednesday.
IJOU THEATReT^WIELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Gigantic Success of our Latest Importations,
MISS LOTTIE COLLINS.
BOB—THE LEONARDS —JENNY.
THE SISTERS PINE.
Splendid Reception of Messrs. Will Whitburn, Tod
Callaway, Billy M'Clain, Chas. W. Walker, Pope & Sayles,
Madam Cordelia, Misses Ida May, Susie Anderson, ana
all our Great Co. , ,
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrovb.
Business Manager .. .. Mr. Harry Musgrovb
EVERY EVENING.
SEVENTH WEEK of the GRAND PANTOMIME,
CIUDESREIjIi A..
The Most Beautiful Spectacle Ever Seen on any Stage.
Dress Circle, 7s. 6d. ; Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Unreserved
Front Stalls, 6s. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Family Circle, 2s. ; Amphi-
theatre, One Shilling. Plan at Allan’s.
ii rjici nAIIRTJE,.
Bland Holt.
THE FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALASIA, the BRILLIANT
ENGLISH SUCCESS,
THE 6REAT RUBY,
A Picturesque and Stirring Dramatic Story of Modern Life.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 2s, Is. and 6d. Box Plan
at Allan’s. CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
ENVEU M HALL, MELBOURNE.
I TRIUMPHANT RETURN OF
SNAZELLE
in the Most Deliuhtful Entertainment Extant ,
OUR NAVY,
And Commonwealth Pictures, Every Evening.
Manager for Messrs. West and Sons, CAPTAIN F.
EDWARDS, R.N.
Theatre royal, Melbourne
Sole Lessee and Manager
Her MAJESTY’S theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr, J. C* Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman, Treas., J. B. .Moutrie.
LAST NIGHTS and FAREWELL PERFORMANCES.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
Matinee Performances at 2 o’clock Every Wednesday and
Saturday Afternoon.
The PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA, entitled
AUSTRALIS, or THE CITY OF ZERO.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
QrTTeRION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. .. Alfred Dampier.
ALFRED DAMPIER,
and the Ladies and Gentlemen associated with him.
EVERY EVENING,
“ The Busla Kling.”
New Australian Drama.
LYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager William Anderson.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
OF THE EMOTIONAL, INTERESTING DRAMA,
The New East Lynne.
JOHN F. SHERIDAN as MURTY O’FLYNN.
GRAOIE WHITEFORD as THE SISTERS HALLIJOHN.
And an Augmented Dramatic Co.
pALACE THEATRE, SY D N EY.
HAWTREY COMEDY COMPANY.
SIXTH WEEK.
HUGE and UNQUALIFIED SUCCESS of
A MESSAGE FROM MARS.
Mr. Herbert Ross
Mr. H. Stephenson Miss Ruby Ray
Mr T. Holding Miss Roxy Barton
Mr. R. E. Watson Miss Madge Hope
Mr. Wilson Power Miss Lena Brasch
and Mr. W. F. Hawtrey.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY, at 2.30 o’clock.
Box Plan at Paling and Co.’s, 338 George-st.
PRICES, 65., 35., 25., Is.
Business Manager, Mr. E. F. BRADLEY.
ER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
EVERY EVENING.
EIGHTH WEEK of the New Musical Comedy,
FLORODORA,,
All Melbourne is raving about it.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Will Develop or Reduce
any part of the Body.
A PERFECT COMPLEXION
BEAUTIFIER and
Remover of Wrinkles.
Dr. JOHN WILSON GIBBS’
THE ONLY
Electric
Massage
Roller
(Patented
United States,
Europe,
Canada.
fsd
“ Its work is
not confined to
the face alone,
but will do good
to any part of the
body to which it is
applied, developing or
reducing as desired. It
is a very pretty addition
to the toilet table.”
—Chicago Tribune.
“ This delicate Electric Beauti-
fier removes all facial blemishes.
It is the only positive remover of
wrinkles and crow’s feet. It never
fails to perform all that is expected.”
—Chicago Times Herald
“The Electric Roller is certainly productive of good
results, I believe it the best of any appliances. It is safe
and effective. ’’—Harriet Hubbard Ayer, New York World.
For Massage and Curative Purposes
An Electric Roller is all the term implies.- The invention
of a physician and electrician known throughout America
and Europe. A perfect complexion beautifier. Will re-
move wrinkles, “crow’s feet” (premature or from age),
and all facial blemishes. Whenever electricity is to be
used for massaging or curative purposes, it has no equal.
No charging. Always ready for use on all parts of the
body, for all diseases. Hor Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neural-
gia, Nervous and Circulatory Diseases, a specific.
Price—Gold, 21/-; Silver, 16/- PAMPHLETS FREE.
Sole Agent tor Australasia—
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins-street,
Melbourne.
Mt. Drysdale g.m. (N.8.W.) has paid mdivs.
for the year £21,760, besides providing for working ex-
penses and reserve.
• * • *
Westralia wound up 1900 with 11 State-owned
batteries at work, putting through over 2000 tons of just
over 10oZ. stuff per month. But it looks as though a. A.
is going to have the first State blast-furnace at work t e
N.S.W. experimental toy doesn’t count, of course. At
any rate, most of the material for the S.A. shlelter is now
delivered at Port Augusta , though, with the copper
spurt over, the prospects of keeping it running are none
too good. South Australia’s copper export in was
£430,890 ; last year it had got down again to £394,440.
* * * * .
North Mt. Lyell, it is printed, is now earning a
Weekly profit of about £6500 on its weekly output of
1000 tons ore, worth not less than 6 per cent, copper to
the Mt. Lyell, together with 500 tons of high-grade
material shipped to Europe.
* * * * ,
North Mt. Lyell : News bv mail that the co. s
sales of ore to June 30 total £83,950, and that the cost of
co.’s railway and rolling stock has been £-39,2-'-.. Mining
manager estimates ore reserves to be 343,000 tons, ana
Value £2,812)000, It has taken the co. a long time to
arrive at the costs of the railway and other things very
much more tangible than the mine, If a dozen men esti-
mated the ore-reserves in sight in North Mt. Lyell tney
would probably all vary considerably. The mining man-
ager is a man of excellent repute both as regards skill a
honesty, but how he could possibly arrive at such an esti-
mate without much guess-work, and taking a lot of un-
seen ore as granted, the writer knoweth not.
* * * m
Mt. Garnet: Furnace reported to be working
satisfactorily ; matte running 40 per cent, copper and
120 oz. silver to the ton ; grade and quantity to be in-
creased gradually. What about the zinc in the mine
That is said to be the coming trouble. Shares now well
over 605., so the market is more or less sanguine.
* * * *
Australian Stock Exchanges all had a bad time
last week in the absence of cable communication from
London. Business was at a standstill in all mines own ?
in London or with share-registers .there; The margin
between the buyer’s and seller’s price was ridiculousa
many cases. Lake View Consols : Buyers, £6 10s. , sellers,
£7 15s —a difference of about £300,000. No business done
and none likely to be. This quotation is representative
of others. One is fearful that the slump in London has
accentuated since the cables broke down, the °tner tnac
there has been a substantial improvement, and there
remains 255. between them,
* * * *
London and Globe : The report of the meeting
held in December is interesting in the light ofwhathap-
pened within a fortnight afterwards. Lord Dufferin
did indicate that things were not altogether too bright,
and gave as excuses the far-reaching consequences of the
Transvaal war. Admitted too that managing-director
Whitaker Wright had never been very sweet on the
Baker-street and Waterloo Railway on which the. co*
had already expended £750,000. Of course the mines
were all right. Lake View Consols was entering
on a new year of prosperity, increasing output,
and profit, The Ivanhoe maintained its reputation,
and would soon enlarge its production. be Koi
had demonstrated that it was one of the great mines
Of the world. Le Roi No. 2 had ore of exception-
ally high grade. There was A good report re Caledonia
copper, the nickel mines exceeded expectations, and big
things were expected from the Vic. alluvial fields. Withal,
they were reluctantly compelled to pass the div., and
when there was no div. there were no directors fees*
despite their very hard year of work. As soon as Wright
Started in some disturbance occurred, whereupon Wright
asserted that the disturbers had come as wreckers, not as
bond-fide shareholders. The chairman (Dufferin) did not,
Wright said, when he j'oiiied the co., receive, as many chair
men do, bonuses or paid-up shares or interest in any nature
or form whatever, but he bought 5000 shares, for which he
paid close on 30s. a shafe. Those shares he had to-day.
(Loud applause.) He also bought, when the Bntish-
American Corporation was formed, nearly 20,000 shares at
par. Then Dufferin on Wright I can conscientiously
say, and you will understand that I am in a position to
iudge, that never have I seen any man so devote himself,
at the risk of his health and at the risk of every thing that
a man can give, to business of the kind as Mr. Whitaker
Wright. Never have I seen a man work harder or en-
counter difficult and critical conditions with more courage
or greater equanimity, and I can only say that, in my
opinion, the shareholders ought to be deeply grateful to
him for his exertions.” (More loud applause.) _ And,
after thanks voted to Dufferin and Wright, and unanimous
satisfaction everywhere, the meeting closed. The share-
holders left with the consolation that, although Lake
Views had fallen to £l2, they had the chairman’s and
Wright’s brilliant forecasts of the future. Within a fort-
night, Lake Views and the London and Globe, and other
things which its shareholders were interested in, had de-
preciated to the extent of millions at one fell swoop, and
the shareholders met again. What happened then there
hasn’t been time to find out; but writer is prepared to
bet there was much less soft soap, very much less ap-
plause, and no thanks at all.
• * * •
Labouchere, of London Truth, having re-
mained a week silent under the accusation of receiving a
bribe of £3OOO from the Transvaal Govt, for publishing an
article against Henry Hess, the Critic reprints the alleged
receipt and devotes two pages to the subject. The London
Sunday Special, now to hand, took the same view as The
Bulletin did last week, that it was incredible to think
Labouchere could have been mad enough to accept
monev from the Transvaal Govt, for an attack upon an
individual, or imbecile enough to leave evidence of such
a transaction in writing over his own signature. But
that paper did* not see how Labouchere could afford to
treat the accusation with contempt, adding that if ever
a libel warranted a prosecution at the Old Bailey this one
did. Hess takes the same view, and says that any appli-
cation for libel would receive his heartiest support. He
says : “If the signature be a forgery then I have cruelly
libelled him. Indeed, I go further than this. I have
put forward the receipt as absolutely genuine,
and I pledge mvself to prove it in a court of law.
If I cannot do so I shall have to go to prison, and I say at
once that no punishment which a court can inflict upon
me would be too severe, if I have libelled Mr. Labouchere
in this matter. No man should have the right or license
to carry on a newspaper which can bring with impunity
so serious a charge as this against a M.P. if the charge be
false. Mr. Labouchere has boasted that he has been the
means of placing in gaol a host of scoundrels, but I sub-
mit that if what I have said about him be untrue I am
the worst of the bunch. If what I have said be true, he
occupies that position. The question is an all-important
one but it will never be solved so long as Mr. Labouchere
continues to pursue the tactics of the ostrich. His many
friends and my many enemies should see to it that he
abandons his attitude of studied inactivity. The prison
doors are simply yawning for me—or for him.” All the
same Tiie Bulletin doesn’t even now believe that Labou-
chere is either a rogue or a fool.
At Poverty Point.
Edwin Geach’s profit on Donald Macdonald’s lecturing
tour must have put him into a position to buy some
landed property when he returns to Melbourne, and, all
things considered, that spry young man deserves his luck.
A triumphal march like Mac.’s is not possible without a
lot of assistance from the advance agent. By the way,
Geach’s sister Portia ran a little show in Melbourne the
other week. Having just returned from England she put
a number of her paintings and drawings on exhibition by
way of announcement that Miss Geach is forming an Art
class.
Williamson’s Grand Opera 00. will come to Sydney with
16 operas, including Verdi’s “Othello,” ‘‘Romeo and
Juliet” “ Pagliacci,” “ Cavalleria Rusticana, and
“La Tosca.” William Wolff, the leading basso, comes
with a big American reputation. First appeared in Syra-
cuse (N.Y.) in 1878 as Gaspard in “ Les Cloches —was at
that time a.church singer. His greatest successes have
been in the name part of “ Rip Van Winkle, as Escamillo
in “ Carmen,” and Gaspard aforesaid. Wolff s voice has
the remarkable range of from the “ deep C to the high
baritone G —2J octaves.
One important Sydney theatre displayed a notice, on
the dav of the Queen’s death, intimating that, owing to
the death of “ Our Most Gracious Majesty,” there would
be no performance.
Over 100 people turned up at Sydney Majesty’s in
answer to manager Williamson’s recent advt. for singers.
What a deceptive thing is the human voice to its
owner 1 .
A popular actress now appearing over back o yonder is
utterly disgusted because the dress circle patrons have
deserted her. Splendid business is being done in other
parts of the house, but the fact that the dress circle
looks like an arctic circle every night causes the star to
weep copiously after each performance.
* “S ” ; Never saw Nellie Stewart to less advantage
han as pantomime-boy in “ Cinderella.” At the same
time it must be admitted that Nellie was never seen in so
ignoble a part. After singing a couple of songs she has
naught to do but move round, spout rubbish, and wear
one amazing costume after another. The actress is a.
slave to her clothes, and, after about a quarter-century of
stage experience, stands about in the fierce white foot-
light looking like an embarrassed and diffident amateur,
exhibiting gaudy softgoods. It takes about nine tailors
to unmake an actress.
In Maoriland the hotels are rather shy of taking in
a certain actress—they say she is so upsetting, She
travels with a menagerie of screeching parrots, and
requires her dinner every night after the performance (at
midnight), when she insists on going through the full
course. There is too much wear and tear for placid
Maorilanders in entertaining the lady.
The friends of W. G. Barker, the Melb. basso, are hold-
ing a meeting at the Town Hall to-day (31st) to arrange a
big benefit and subscription for that much-esteemed
artist A while ago Barker made it known that he didn t
want anything of the sort, but since then his bram
trouble has taken a bad turn, and there is even reason to
fear his noble voice may never again be heard in public.
The first tumor on his brain appears to have left the seeds
of many more. Years ago, when Barkef had something
to do with “ goods,” a light box fell upon his head, and
although he had no suspicion of ill effects at the time, the
mishap did sufficient damage to his skull bone to account
for his present lamentable state.
“ Melb ” ’ Bland Holt’s new piece is by the authors of
“ The White Heather.” Some people have said that its
duel bv divers was too far-fetched. The thing actually
occurred down at the wreck of the Royal George. Two
divers named Girvan and Jones, fought over the prior
claim to seizing a board. Girvan smashed one of Jones s
eve-glasses. Jones would have been drowned but for
pulling the rope and getting hauled up more dead than
alive.
“Roughrider” : Heard recently a Sydney Town Hall
organ recital and concert —my first, and last, unless
things are differently fixed up. Fourteen items from one
organist, and no male singers; while the enunciation of
the three lady vocalists was so awful that X could not dis-
tinguish one word of their songs. Whole thing “ deadly
lively ” to a degree.
Australian pianist Percy Grainger, writing about his
first public recital, given in Frankfurt in Dec, last, says :
“ Thank goodness; my concert was a great success,
Critiques and all. Of course it is a thorough test, one’s
first recital, to see whether one’s playing, which may
please in one or two numbers, does not bore listeners
after an hour Cr so. I learnt a lot in that one evening.
Strength enough I have got, that is certain, also en-
durance; for I felt quite fresh at the end of the somewhat
toughish programme. Also technical things that sounded
amateurish and lame in a room, quite astonished me with
their brilliant effect in the hall on the big grand. What
was lacking most was a delicate singing tone in the piano
parts. Parts which sounded particularly well in a room,
warm and rich in timbre, in the hall were rather cool,
thin and colorless. Thus, while my style in brilliant
passages, technique generally, and powerful parts, is very
suitable to playing in halls, my piano-touch must be
greatly altered and improved. I am working
tremendously, 16 to 18 pupils a week, and plenty of
practice.”
Oscar Wilde’s lament that his father wouldn’t allow him
to seek salvation from himself in the artistic Church of
Rome, suggests all sorts of awful possibilities. What a
priest he might have made before he got found out!
The Dartos are seemingly Spanish, or perhaps the male
partner is Italian.
Pointers say that Geo. Musgrove longs to put up “The
Belle of New York ” in Australia, being convinced that
this continent never got a glimpse of the true inwardness
of his theatrical mascotte. If G.M. puts the “Belle” on
with his present bunch of comedians the effort will
indeed be interesting.
Manager Williamson’s advt. for choristers “ possessing
exceptionally good voices and appearance ” states that his
Italian opera campaign will start at Her Majesty’s,
Melbourne, early in May. Meanwhile Signora Majeroni is
indirectly advertising the season by means of her Italian
Language class.
Geraldine Olliffe, at latest dates, had a part in Louis
N. Parker’s play, “ The Swashbuckler,” at the Duke of
York’s Theatre.' Beautiful Evelyn Millard is the leading
lady seemingly, but one might safely say that handsome
Geraldine is the stronger actress.
George Darrell, who has played the gentleman at large
in Melbourne for some time" past, will be off again to
’Murka anon. George is to have a “ send-off ” matinee at
Her Majesty’s on Friday, Feb. Bth, and all the managers in
town will co-operate to make the programme worthy of
the enterprising Father of Australian Melodrama. The
Bulletin has decided to confer that title upon G.D.
“ Grid.” : Ruby Ray uses the peculiar rising inflection
at the end of a sentence that adds much to the piquancy
and clearness of the lines. Brough used to cultivate it.
Unnatural without a doubt, as is the “ society” pronunci-
ation of many of the words, but for stage purposes excel-
lent in effect.


IT WILL pay you to go there.
"LINCOLN, STUART&CO.
PnoPHIETiHT LIMITED,
2E2 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
f
Our Suit to order at 4£s. is
marvellous value; made from
all wool Tweeds,Vicunas,or fast
color Series ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class * f material, £3 3s. To
measure, capital Trousers, lery
good patterns I2s. 6d.
Dress Suits, to measure.
Clerical Suits, to measure.
Ruling Breaches, 255.
Biding- Habits, Ac.
AVe supply ready made. Men’s
capital Tweed Suits 21s. & 255.
Famous Ballarat Ser;e Suits,
inilijro dye,2.ls.
All-wool, fawn, grev, or brown
Sergerette ?uits. 3«?s.’
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss. lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests. 19s (»d.
Men's Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19s. <>d. W ite Drill
Sacs and Trousers. 10s. (id.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, l’»s (id.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sacs,
Os. 9d, White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3*. 9d., 4s 9*1.. ss. (id.
Travelling Trunks, Ba,s and
Rugs in great variety.
3len’s White Shuts, colored
front and cuffs 2s. 9<l.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. i d.
White Mat e Shirts, collar and
pocket. 3s. (pi.
So t Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d. all
colors
Hard Hats, 4*. 6<*- Caps, Is,
Verino Undershirts or rants,
ls.9d.
Is.
Neck ties, all shapes and colors,
Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
White Shirts to measure.
Cs. 9d.. 9s. (;d.
We like to write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for anv
information. Our book, “ The Philosophy of Dress.” and
patterns of ail kinds and self-measurement forms posted free.
Write for them.
A SILVER WATCH
FOR NOTHING.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR. 1500.
■WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF OUR
' ’ FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the Correct Reading of the follow-
ing puzzle:—
A FR**ND *N N**D *S A
FR**ND *ND**D.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct you
purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to wear
with the watch.
SEND NO MONEY ; simply forward your answer, and
enclose stamped and addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you if you have won the watch. J
We are making this offer solely with the object of intro-
ducing and advertising our goods.
Mr. F. Hughes, Lidsdale, N.S.W., writes : “I received
the watch quite safely, and am very well pleased with it
I thank you verj' much.”
Address— THE MANAGER,
ENGLISH WATCH & JEWELLERY COY.,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Watch Repairs by Post
WATCHES Thoroughly Cleaned, 2s. 6d. ; best English
Mainspring, 2s. 6d. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
355. Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send for. catalogue.
D. S. MAIR,
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
684 G'eorge-st. (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.
MASON’S EXTRACT
OF HERBS.
NO OTHER EXTRACT MAKES
BEER
LIKE IT.
The Best of all
Beverages and
the Cheapest.
NON-
INTOXICATINC,
DELICIOUS,
WHOLESOME.
j&i
Agents *
GOLLIN & CO.,- Sydney and Melbourne.
NEWBALL & MASON,
NOTTINGHAM,
ENGLAND.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
LANCET.
most effective in
restoring the vitality
?"■he blood,and ena-
bling theconstitution
J°„ resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
, debilitated children.
A oeautiful and interesting
preparation
SRITIESH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-'*/! all
the good effects of iron without producing
it n dnl* a n lo t n h, r>i h lstur } ,in S ‘he digestion, and
it does not blacken the teeth."
M'H% t V!I/ C C HE » ST ? A V- THK WOniD OVRR.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette
’JVjjrder tailoring
•
MOST GENTLEMEN like to appear
at their best all the year round.
Handsome, well-fitting
clothes are essential to that end. C. G.
Hatte, of Newtown (Sydney), invites at-
tention to his To-Order Tailoring Depart-
ment, which has obtained a reputation
the envy of competitors. He can supply
you with a nice soft Serge Suit, indigo
dye, for 555. ; a first-class suit in Serge,
Sergerette, or Tweed for 635. ; or a suit
of Apperley and Curtiss’ renowned West
of England Serge for 755. His Two
Guinea Suits (with extra pair of trousers)
of Serges, Sergerettes, and Tweeds are
still the marvel of modern tailoring.
Hatte’s has the largest selection of the
newest and choicest materials, he em-
ploys one of the smartest cutters in the
colony, guaranteeing a perfect fit; whilst
the workmanship is of the best, If you
cannot pay a personal visit, write for
patterns and self-measurement forms,
and your orders will he satisfactorily and
promptly executed. Hatte also keeps
one of the largest stocks of ready-made
clothing—everything the latest and best,
his prices being at least 30 per cent, under
ordinary city houses. He is now making
to measure a special line of Linen Crash
Trousers for 7s. 11 d. White Serge
Cricketing Trousers, well-made and
thoroughly shrunk; for 9s. lid. Men’s
Striped Khaki Shirts, collars and
pockets, 2s. Hid. The Baden-Powell
Khaki Shirt, collar and two pockets,
3s. 11d. A splendid line of Gent.’s Silk
Shirts (the best value in the trade),
7s. 6d. Place your orders with Hatte
for everything you want. You will find
he will treat you well, and you will re-
main a constant customer.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST
Of TRICKS, PUZZLES, Etc.,
Etc., FREE.
dsf
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
EXTRA SPECIAL CATALOGUE
OF ROOKS FREE.
STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTES OF ANY COLONY TAKEN.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE,
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Visitors to the old country
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE,
KENSINGTON
dsf
L
CONSIDERABLY ENLARGED. NOTED
FOR ITS COMFORT 8L CONVENIENCE.
QUEEN’S GATE TERRACE
LONDON. S.W.
MOST FASHIONABLE
HOTELS IN LONDON.
©
SCOTCH
WHISKY
H’\'
<2
Ocl
Old & jVteUow.”
“ O.c. L.” Scotch Whisky
is a delicious and
blended "whisky of excel-
lent flavour, which while
maintaining all the due
stimulating properties of
the spirit, has been
mellowed by age into a
perfectly wholesome and
mild beverage. The large
scale upon which" the dis-
tilling and blending of
“D.C.L.” is carried out
guarantees regularity in
quality—a great advan-
tage,' which whisky'drin-
kers often miss in other
brands.
proprietors ■ ■ .
The distillers C0.,-id.,
Edinburgh,
London, and Dublin.
Ocean
A ccident
and
Griiarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide W.
N. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson; Perth, A. W.'
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montepiore.
■J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
n~)ite for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
. . THE WORD . .
FOX
is a guarantee of soundness of
Material and Quality of Dye of all
Worsted
Coatings,
SergesiTveeds
on which it is stamped.
fox’s pure 3nBigo.
As the result of many years of ex
perience, FOX’S PURE INDIGO
DYE is recognised as the best
in the Market.
All Fox’s standard cloths are
stamped every two yards on the
back ....
FOX'S PURE INDIGO,
and without this stamp are not
genuine.
fox Brothers & Co., £t9.,
Wellington, Somerset, €ng.
Makers of Worsted Coatings, Vicunas,
Serges, Tweeds, Tennis and Costume
Cloths. Contractors to the English
Admiralty, War Office, India Office, Crown
Colonies, and Metropolitan Police.
THEIR MILLS are capable of an
annual production of 2,000,000 yards of
material, and find emyloyment for 1,200
hands. Reliable records show that the
business at Wellington was founded
early in the eighteenth century, and the
present Company have in their posses-
sion a balance sheet dated 1733.
O
These celebrated Serges can be obtained
from the leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Australian Colonies.
O
Australian Agents for the Wholesale
Trade only :—
STOCDALE & DUFFUS,
326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne
AND
422, George Street, Sydney.
The Most Refreshing Drink in Australia.
MONTSERRAT
(TRADE MARK)
LIME FRUIT JUICE
AND CORDIALS.
MS'
5V
“MONTSERRAT “LIME-FRUIT JUICE
erther with water or Aerated Water is
a delightful thirst-quencher.
tn rirint L A rTC C- T sa ? sWe counsel the public
thev lfet L r?U F w JuiCe whe , ne , ver and wherever
of Aicohol m ° re wholesome drink ‘han
'? the British Navy. The Sirdar /Lord
sdud h an n ® r anH b S me ? su PP lies for the troops in the
in Cuba! d the Amer,can Government for the troops
Sole Consignees:
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON;
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL,
Agents s
SYDNEY—Elliott Bros., Ltd.; D. Mitchell & Co.;
......... E * Rowlantls ; Jules Renard & Co<
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.


ft
yP
7f\
Ensures a
«tiafaby
0»d/\ge
GULLED FROM THE KINDLY FRUITS OF THE EARTH.
It is a revelation in regard to the marvellous instinct of benevolence that animates an all-wise
providence Scientists have'for vears been endeavouring to discover some really natural method of
healing, ie , after the teaching of nature. “Sanoalmus” is this remedy, being nothing more nor less
than an extraction from
FLOWERS, FRUIT, HERBS AND SEAWEED.
Although the discoverers of ‘ Sanoalmus ” do not profess to have found thereby the secret of perpetual
life, they have certainly provided the means of perfect health. An elixir of health has been
esta hshed WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY TEN YEARS AGO
would have been scoffed at as the suggestion of a lunatic, or perhaps regarded in the light of being a
CHAMPION FIRST-CLASS UP-TO-DATE LIE.
To-day we are astounded at the simplicity of its system of working. “ Sanoalmus” is equally simple,
taken from the natural produce of earth and sea, that we in our hitherto blind ignorance
HAVE BEEN TRAMPLING UNDER OUR FEET. ,
j[ you suffer with your Nerves, Liver, or Kidneys, * Sanoalmus will put such troubles right. For
■ Anemia, Blushing', Weakness and Debility, it is a certain cure, in fact it puts such tone into ihe
. system that anyone may __ ...
' “LOOK THE WORLD IN THE FACE”
. and fear no man Its influence on the blood is extraordinary. Two or three bottles of “ Sanoalmus ”
wilnfo more in a case of impure blood than two years’ treatment by ordinary methods.
CONSUMPTIVES REJOICE
unless in a very advanced stage “Sanoalmus” will cure you—under any circumstances it will
considerably prolong life. Taking “ Sanoalmus” at regular intervals not alone cures but protects
< from such everyday ills as Indigestion, Flatulence, Bad Breath, Headache, Ear-ache. Coughs, Colds,
'Sore Throat, Neuralgia, Giddiness, Influenza, &c. In Rheumatism and Sciatica it is most beneficial,
and will accomplish wonderful results It conquers Backache when all other treatment has failed
For Constipation its action is simply perfect, and renders a healthy and regular working to the
functions of the bowels. Last but not least “Sanoalmus” must be welcomed as a divine blessing
for the reason that if persevered with regularly for a brief period it will entirely destroy
THAT HORRID BLOOD POISONING MICROBE,
the recognised curse of humanity Here you wi 1 assuredly realise the far-reaching effects of
this “ Simple Disnoverv,” and also the forethought which recognising an evil furnishes the
antidote “ Sanoalmus’’ (as before stated! renders the blood perfect ; consequently it ensures a
lovely complexion, does away entirely with all pimples, blushing, blotches, or red, rough skin ; a
peach-like bloom attends the use of “ Sanoalmus.”
THE UNTUTORED SAVAGE WOUNDED BY POISONOUS SNAKE
or .spear, turns instinctively to certain herbs that not only relieve the pain but save his life.
“ Sanoalmus ” contains all the properties of these herbs. It is nature’s own remedy.
MOTHERS TAKE HEED.
When baby is teething, a half teaspoonful of “ Sanoalmus ”in milk will soothe, strengthen, and
comfort your little darling. Remember, it is absolutely harmless to the smallest mite. If it so please
you, it is within your power to bask in the heavenly sunshine of perfect health, no longer need you
LANGUISH IN THE GLOOM OF SICKNESS AND DESPONDENCY
To be obtained from all chemists, price 3/6 per bottle, or direct from the proprietors,
Wells, Strong & Coy., 10 Barrack Street, opposite Savings Bank of New South Wales, Sydney.
df
A PENNY SAVED
IS A PENNY GAINED
And the same applies to the many Pounds that the
NATIONAL^
CASH REGISTERS
Would Save eor You.
. J 7 '
Built Like a Watch
and accurately adjusted in every
detail is the . . .
NATIONAL
CASH
REGISTER
which carries with it a 2 Years’
Guarantee, showing we have '
faith in the workmanship of our !
machines. |
National Cash Register C°
335 Pitt Street, Sydney.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager
A POLICY FOR THE
COMMONWEALTH^
Being a series of articles reprinted from The Bulletin,
with an appendix dealing with the Fiscal Question.
Price 6d.; posted, Bd.
THE
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This is the only Medical
Institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind guaran ' ees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all contracts.
Electro-Medical apd
SOrgical IpStitGte—-
I3NT -A.3VT AGE
Which is so remarkable for its progress in all in the
ja&^saRSTS
as “ nti ” e to be -
suited by the afflicted at their old address, Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director,
Dr. Harmon's College , Washington Cor. 9 Cal., U.S.A.
BICHARD WALLACE, Chief Consulting Staff,
M.D., L.R.C.P., L.F.P.S.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
No one should hesitate to consult us, as consultations either by
letter or in person are given FREE OF CHARGE, and strictest
privacy is always assured.
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIART.
Fvprv Farmer Miner Mariner, Station-hand, Book-keeper, and other Toilers should send for a copy of this
Everj * arme u , S eful M e mo rand um Book. POST FREE ON APPLICATION —ALL COLONIES.
400-PAGE MEDICAL WORK (Illustrated, containing 80 Engravings, Many Useful Prescriptions,
Hints on Siok Room, Accidents and Emergency) Price 6d. (POST FREE) ON APPLICATION.
Heart Kidney, Liver Affections. Gravel, Bladder and Spinal Affections.
Nerve’ and Brain Complications. Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
Rupture and Piles Cured without Operation. Blood and Skin Diseases.
w ' m £
m
mm
moiA
3inniSNi miouns
QNV
11
:
m m
yj.031 3
0
m
IVOIO3 W
HiMiS
••
3^ll
HIIV3H
I*l ijy uip AnVCRTIQF ! Because Advertising:is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people,
nil I ¥1 C rtUVCn I ■ t 0 acquaint each other with their avocations and wants. If a man has a
Speciality, and has devoted years of his life and expended large sums of money in studying that Speciality and in
purchasing the necessary appliances, etc., for treating certain diseases, it would be absurd for him not to announce
the fact, and disseminate tne knowledge universally. We have no apology to offer for informing the world through
this advertisement and otherwise of the means of relief we can afford to sufferers who-need our help. Therefore,
however opposed to your own preconceived ideas and to those of your medical advisers, our method of treatment may
be, the fact still remains that it is successful, and this is verified by the thousands of testimonials received from
grateful patients. We make no secret of our mode of practice. We only claim'to have utilised in a common-sense
way the result of scientific research and long experience. If you listen to the counsel of your sceptical friends and
jealous physician you may omit consulting us, but remember if you allow the disease to run not in your system, you
are guilty of culpable negiect, and are alone responsible for your future pitiful condition.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government
Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia,
Great Britain and America Open to Inspection.
Late Consulting Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne;
Late Medical Staff, British Army.
Do Not be Drugged to Death by Quacks
When there are so many quacks and impudent pretenders in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to them-
selves the monstrosity of giving counsel and advice in matters of which they are profoundly ignorant, and who
have, nothing to recommend them but their audacity, sufferers cannot be too careful whom they consult.
Although liberty of choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessary. In consulting THE FREEMAN AND
WALLACE ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shall
receive the advice of those fitted by superior skill and-education, the result of special study. Our reputation and
unparalleled success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of the World—
CONTENTS FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
=Elizab€tl)^Batl)tirstSts,SydQty
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs. F. & W.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
N.B.—QUEENSLANDERS are hereby informed that a person advertising as Dr. Wallace
in Brisbane is in no way connected with the Institute.


M
H :
mm
> *§
£ili
*s£s!*
HI
i§
$$ 4
fc\
1
!ri
i
M
:. T
rt
\Wf 3
.;:■ •
svtesatsg
li S-c J
gH
aw
c:a
a
.
'■ •
it:
%
3
m
. -■<•,
Ml
m
WM
-x
«
* j
S; / //*>- ' . >
4■ | c.:.-;
x iSI-iIGM STREET.WiN&SI
'... iMDMDfiMiQOBS
-' :'i ! -
mm
- .
*y
•• -»
■j,,: crz^=^
..■■■•■
- HANDEL FESTIVAL, 1900.
This picture of one-half of the colossal choir and orchestra of 4000 performers at this year’s Handel Festival at the Crystal Palace was forwarded by the last mail to Mr. G. Marr Thompson, of this city, by Mme. Albani-Gye. Concert-
goers in Australia, where the great soprano was hailed with such overwhelming enthusiasm, will easily recognise the star, who is singing, as she informs us in her own hand-writing beneath the picture, the last great air of the immortal
work, “ The Messiah."
MADAME ALBANI’S
UNSOLICITED TESTIMONY
IN FAVOR OF
MIGHTY “ALOK.”
ff<p
sjy
2&tsC4i
yzstx^r
■£^OC
■P*Z-£*
&«<
&£
OT~ /t^c^-<^ zx
c *-e t
#" «y
<£jZ°
sf <z*z*c^
y -
ERNEST GYE, Esq., Madame Albani’s Husband, thus
writes nearly a month subsequent to Madame Albar’ls
letter:—
The Australia , Sydney ,
17th April, 1898.
Messrs. Fisher & Co.,
337 George Street.
Dear Sirs , —
Would you please write your Mel-
bourne agent to send 6 Bottles of your
“ Mighty Alok ” on board the s.s.
Narrung (Lund Line) for the use of
Madame Albani.
The ship left here yesterday and will
leave Melbourne on the 22nd.
Yours truly ,
ERNEST GYE.
A GOOD THING TO TAKE
Every Morning and Before each Meal.
It makes you eat and makes you strong.
IT SAVES DOCTORS’ BILLS.
UNINTOXICATING, YET CONTAINING MORE SUSTAINING
POWER THAN ALCOHOL OR SPIRITS.
WHEN YOU ARE OUT OF SORTS YOU CANNOT DO BETTER
THAN TAKE A DRINK OF MIGHTY “ALOK.”
Awarded Gold Medal at the Royal
Agricultural Show, Sydney.
To be obtained at EVERY HOTEL and REFRESHMENT
ROOM, with Soda Water, at 6d. per Glass.
ASK YOUR CHEMIST-ASK YOUR GROCER-FOR
A BOTTLE.
2s- 6d. and 6d.
MIGHTY
s^r
ALOE
Freshly Prepared from the Celebrated African Kola Nuts (Cola Acuminata) is the Registered Trade Mark for
Fisher & Company’s Famous KOLA NUT TONIC.
ASK FOR ALOK “USUAL” OR "EXTRA BITTER.”
Insist on being served with “ALOK” otherwise you will not obtain our Original and Genuine Tonic.
It is prepared in Both [arms, each containing the SAME THERAPEUTIC and WONDERFUL VIRTUES.
Manufacturing Pharmacy, 337 CEORCE ST., SYDNEY
/NEARLY OPPOSITE THE\
VGENERAL POST OFFICE./
X
Melbourne Laboratory-
-407 COLLINS ST.


Found by Accident.
THE GRIP OP LA GRIPPE.
The Expulsion of the Enemy
The Case of
Mr. ALEXANDER HISLOP.
(For the “News”)
One of the h-st known chefs in New
South Wales is Mr. Alexan lee Hislop,
residing at No. 31 Burton-street, Darling-
hurst. That gentleman has been engaged
as chief cook in some of the leading hotels
and restaurants in Sydney, and also in
several important country towns in the
mother colony. His popularity .was account:
able for our representative hearing of a
visitation of illness whilst at business in
Albury, the details of which were supplied
in the course of the following interview :
“ A few years ago,” began Mr. Hislop,
“I was at work on the Albury railway
Station, and whilst there I had a very severe
attack of influenza. It came on like an
ordin try cold, and I treated it lightly for
some time; but it eventually got me down
altogether. The first . indications were a
tingling, dry sense of fullness in the nose,
and I used to sneeze nearly the whole day.
The pains in iny head I shall never foi’get-
partieularly across my forehead. I oould
uot breathe through my nose at all, and my
eyes were red and watery. Through a
harassing dry cough, which came on at
regular intervals, my throat got very sore.
My lungs were quite clogged up with the
cold, and I became so hoarse that I could
not make my voice heard. I was unfortunate
in having aching pains all over my body,
but intensely acute in my back and legs. I
was never free from thirst, bring always
feverish. My temperature increased every
day, and caused me no little alarm.
Whenever 1 was exposed to air a little
cooler than what I was accustomed to, I felt
flash; s of heat and chills one auer the other.
I was always wanting to get near the lire.
My windpipe was inflamed and seemed
swollen, and provoked considerable pain.
During the first stages of my attack I forced
in_y self to eat a little food, although my sore
throat made the task a difficult one ; but in
a few days all appetite had forsaken me
entirely, and I could only drink large
I nan tities of water. It was a risky and
foolhardy thi g for me to do, but many a
night I got out of bed and (ramped the
station platform from end to end because I
was too restless and feverish to sleep.
Luckily for myself 1 have a Constitution
like a horse, or else those walks in search
of relief would have caused my death. I
aas too weak to stay out long, and cn
returning to bed I had to lie in a feverish,
burning state till morning. As the disease
laid a firmer hold upon me I had water
running from the nose and eyes, and my
cough became a little more moist. There
was also a slight dis h rge from my throat.
My pulse had attained a rapidity which I
did not think possible, and I was so reduced
in flesh that the complicated symptoms
ocoasiond me distressing foreboding*. ”
“ What did your doctor say ? ” asked the
reporter.
He said I had influenza in its most
serious form. I came down to Sydney for
treatment, and remained three weeks here.
Luting those shree weeks 1 took evei’y cai'e
of myself, with a view' to getting better as
soon a< possible. My doctor’s directions
were closely attended to, and I did every-
thing that common sense could suggest to
assist in my recovery. I did not waste one
teaspoonful of his medicine all the time;
but at the end of the third week I thought I
might just as well suffer at Albury as in
Sydney. My doctor had ’’ot given me any
relief with his physic, so I went back again,
ieeling every bit as bad as when I went
away. I thought 1 would never be well
again so depressed and low-spit ited had I
got. However, on returning to the country
I engaged a furnished house, away from the
noise of the station, as I was too worn out
and irritable to stand it, and I made up my
mind to lie up till I was either killed or
cured.”
“And what sort of progress did you
make ?” '
“ I made very rapid progress indeed.
The taking of that furnished house was the
luekiest thing I have ever done in my life.
Through an oversight on the part of the
previous occupier, a bottle of Clements
Tonic was left on one of the mantelpieces,
and I read the label. ‘Everything else has
failed to cure me, so I will give this a trial,’
I said, and right glad lam that I did. A
few dosss eased my chest of a thick, yellow
phlegm, and my breathing became much
easier. The soreness of my throat was
cured simultaneously with my cough, and I
s on had a longing for food, which 1 ate with
a relish. The splitting frontal headaches
went as quickly as they came, and the
pains all over my body left me as I daily
grew stronger. I could walk about w ithout
feeling as though my legs would collapse
under me, and without feeling light-headed
or giddy. My eye.", which had looked so
bleary red and watery for weeks, now
looked clear and \>right. As I continued to
get along so well, 1 knew I had hold of the
right remedy, so I sent to the local store for
a couple more bottb s of Clements Tonic.
By the ti,me they were exhausted I.had not
a sign of influenza about me. I could eat
well, sleep well, and work well. I had not
b en able to smoke for weeks, but now I
ould enjoy a pipe as much as anybody. 1
do not know what would have become of me
at that time if it had not been for Clements
Tonic, as it cured me of the most severe
attack of influenza wh n my doctor and his
medicine had failed.”
“ Do you ever feel any ill effects of your
illness now ? ”
“No ; none whatever. But I frequently
work long hours at a stretch, and get a
little run-down. I am never without a
bottle of Clements Tonic in the house, so 1
soo i pick myself up again.”
“ Do you consent to your experience
being made known?”
“ Most certainly. I tell all my friends
what I am indebted to for my present good
health, ami you are quite welcome to publish
my case in any way you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
T, Alexander Hislop, of 34 Burton-street, Darling-
hurst, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document consisting of three folios,
and consecutively numbered from one to three, and
ihat it con tuns and is a uue and faithful account of
my illness and cure by t leuients Tonic, and also con-
la nsmy full permission to publish in any way my
statements—which I give voluntarily, without receiv-
ing any payment; and I make this s lenni declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue of the provisions of an Act made and passed in
the ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty,
intituled ‘'An Act for the more effectual abo ition
of Oaths and Affirmations taken and made in the
various Departments of the Government of New South
Wales, and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof,
and for the suppression of voluntary and Extra-
judicial Oaths and Affidavits.”
Declared at Darlinghurst, this 13th day of August
one thousand nine hundred, before me,
Til OS. J. HUGHES, J.P.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
&
V
&
an
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
ENOS
HEALTH GIVING,
COOLING,
ds
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
f
FALSE
ECONOMY.
Every housekeeper worthy of the
name knows what “ false economy ’ is.
There is no need for us to go into
details.
But why ladies, whose management
of their domestic affairs is so skilful as
to call forth the admiration of their
friends, can be so careless—there is no
other word' for it—in the purchase of
foot-wear is beyond explanation.
Your shoemaker may offer you an
article which he declares to be of the
highest grade, and which may only be
of poor leather, finished in good style ;
in short, an expensive shoe which will
be worn out in “no time. False
Economy 1
The “ HERZ ” Shoe
Has a reputat.on f?r Quality and
Durability which the makers are
jealous to maintain.
Call and see
them at
HUNTER’S,
THOMSON’S
MEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING- ”
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World- lien owned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long waist.
4
T-
«
&
IV Kl
Thom
ons
THE MOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST
N.B. —Old Model Corsets always in stock.
“L A KTOBLESSB ”
A New and Elegant Series of Corsets. Ask to see them.
TO BE HAD OF ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & 00-> LcU London-
Medical.
Hypnotism
sdf
Reader, -why not be able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to II pnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
that are possible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hypnotism you on cure disease
conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
I gratify your ambitions, and produce
'amusement by the hour. It costs you
iiobhiug to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explain*
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever publ shed. For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply.
Remember this costs you noth-
in f . A postal card will bring it. ,
Order to-day and learn to Ilyp-J
not.ize. It is a chance of a'
life-time. Address—
dsf
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rlie unmti sm, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, Loudon.
Renowued for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Business Announcements
Awarded GRAND PRIXj
PARIS EXHIBITION, 1900.
ON YOUR
HOLIDAYS
TAKE A
KODAK
WITH YOU,
And secure pleasing mementoes of interesting
places visited.
No dark room is required for changing the films,
as Kodaks are ....
Loaded and Unloaded in
Daylight.
Kodaks all prices, ss. to £7 15s.
OUR LATEST NOVELTIES are C
PANORAM
KODAK
for taking Panoramic Views 7in. x 2|in.
Price only —£2 12s. 6d.
THE . . .
No. 3 Folding Pocket
KODAK
For pictures 3|in. x 4Jin.
Fitted with Rapid Rectilinear Lens, Brilliant
Reversible View Finder and Focussing Adjust-
ment. Made of Aluminium.
Price only —£3 16s.
Send for Illustrated leaflet and Price
List and mention this paper.
To be obtained of all Dealers throughout
Australasia, and of
KODAK, Li
“THE BLOCK,”
284 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE;
. . . AND AT . . .
LONDON, GLASGOW, LIVERPOOL, PARIS,
BRUSSELS, BERLIN, VIENNA, MOSCOW,
ST. PETERSBURG, and ROCHESTER, N.Y.
dsf
aouT
PILLS.
for gout,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results' of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM; "in that, they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pnoux & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
XTSE
SPOONER’S
3U
SPOONERS
vm%
IWTtNT LEATHER BOOTS
C LAZED KIOSM
P/i **th*,pi*
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers q/
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by dll Storekeepers,
Hoot Shops, Saddlers, eta
A Cfolden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Verse, by Bulletin Writers. Paper
covers, Is. ; Cloth boards, 2s.


Tell your Tailor
that your clothes must be ma
„jwith
Belwarp Clotb
and see for yourself that the TRADE MARK is stamped on the back of every
yard. It is a guarantee that the cloth is made from Pure Wool,
unshrinkable, and that the colour will never fade. Insist on
seeing your tailor is not deceived by spurious imitations of this range of cloths,
in no way equal to the original goods which come from the famous Mills of . .
Sir Titos Salt, Bapt., Sops & Co., Ltd., Saltaire.
“BELWARPS” can only be obtained from Messrs. LUCCOCK, LUPTON & Co., Bradford ;
and their Agents, Messrs, Metcalfe & Barnard, Melbourne, Sydney, & Brisbane.
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.
earne’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE PA.MOXTS REMIE3DY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs" have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEIWA.RB OF COUGHS l
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY" ONE BOTTLE OF HE ARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“ Mr. Hearne. —
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. I do not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“ Dergholm, Victoria.
“Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
“ I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses. —P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only (rave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. MCDONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both. —R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
•
“I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
e
“ My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
•
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. 11. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
'“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
'valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
“1 am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” 9
•“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” ®
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
•
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and tvVo bottles of it made me quite well. —H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
•
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
O
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects. —CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch's
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 109 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W, G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 30
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“ We are, faithfully yours,
“THOMASON, CIIATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“ Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot- office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when nut obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food r®
Infants
9
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Ac., everywhere.
“'Benger’s Food’ has, by,
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own. 1 '
British Medical Journal.
NVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.
Writes Nauticus ":
He “ Beacon Rock ” (B. 12/l/’l). Your correspondent is
slightly “ out of his reckoning.” In the absence of evi-
denceto the contrary, it's only natural to suppose the
ship was disabled somewhere in the “ roaring forties,"
and, finding himself unable to make Wellington through
being blown too far east to beat back in°his crippled
state, her skipper did the reasonable thing in squaring-
away for Salcahuans (Concepcion is not a port, be’.ng 12
miles inland). Here he would be within one day’s reach
of Valparaiso, where all necessary gear is easily obtain-
able' So „ much f °r losing her road.” Also, big “ wind-
J amm f r ? ar . e not cargo-tramps ’’-which term is re-
? er X ed f T °. r bI K , st <; ai(l ers solely devoted to the freight-
"ade - Ll £ ht winds and calms, by-the-way, account for
9°. Per cent, of long passages. Present scribe was a .fort-
covering 400-bei n g for three solid days in sight of
Trinidad Island (S. Atlantic).
Miss Isabel Savory in her new book. •• A
Sportswoman in India, relates that a young hus-
band and wife went honeymooning on official duty
on the pursuit of Dacoits. They camped out.
One morning their clothes were all gone from the
chairs on which they had been carefully laid,
Each accused the other of the practical joke.
™
wag p a i r £ a d to wrap in blankets, get m
a dhooly, and make their way to the nearest
place where there was a bungalow. A Daeoi
gent was afterwards seen going about in a, cor ,
a pair of embroidered stockings, and a line
Parisian necktie.


&
&
L/*-
o
r
m
K
X
lorn
rfi'M
rr
4
or
• j *
MEAN
A ■
Good Sleep, Good Appetite, Good Blood.
Women and Washing j)ay.
What a grand institution is washing-day. It is then that the bed-linen, sheets, shiits,
underwear, &c., &c., go through a process of cleansing, and the washerwoman for the day
(usually Monday) becomes the heroine of the hour. And what a lovely thing it is when
washing-day is over and all the linen in the house is as clean and as white as snow . 1 here
is no mistake about it, “ Cleanliness is next to Godliness.” But just as particular as the
housewife is to see that there is a washing-day every week m the house, so should we be par-
ticular in having a washing-day for our systems. Bile Beans for Biliousness will help you,
they will cleanse the stomach, clean out all impure matter, and thoroughly purify the blood.
In cases of constipation, Bile Beans have worked wonders. If a proper course of Bile Beans
is taken, they will in a short time regulate the bowels and remove from the stomach all
impure substances.
Miss Sophia Hines, of Brown-street, Newcastle, suffered from constipation and piles
and she says “ I have suffered from constipation and piles for some years, and have taken
a number of different medicines without getting permanent relief. I was recommended by
a friend to try your Bile Beans, and, having tried them, I am pleased to say they cured me
of my distressing complaints. I have recommended them to my friends and neighbors and
they also speak very highly of them.” Bile Beans are sold everywhere at Is. l-gd. per u rge
box, and everyone should have a box on the shelf for an emergency.
Women’s Weakness.
While many of the delicate organs of a woman’s constitution need great attention, there
is no reason why a woman should suffer days of misery every month when a little care would
greatly minimise, if not absolutely do away with all pain. Many a woman makes herself a
burden to her husband and friends by her nervous irritability, caused through her own
ignorance or neglect. It stands to reason that a woman who suffers from disorder or weak-
ness of one of the female organs cannot make a happy, amiable helpmeet to an ambitious
man. It is quite easy to keep all the organs of the body in a healthy, vigorous state, with
a little care and attention. Many remedies act in such a violent manner that their use is
more harmful than beneficial. Bile Beans act in a gentle, soothing manner, and for any
woman suffering from weakness of the female organs they are highly recommended. They
will probably prove efficient in cases where other remedies have failed, and a course of them
cannot prove otherwise than beneficial.
The popularity of Bile Beans for Biliousness comes from three different sources : hirst,
the price is only 13M. per large box, and they are accordingly within the reach of all;
secondly, a box of Beans has ordinary ingredients that, bought in the regular way m a
chemist’s shop, would cost about three times as much as the 13Jd ; and, thirdly, Bile Beans
are compounded in about the best equipped laboratory in the world, and the preparing of
the secret vegetable extract that is added to these other ingredients costs thousands of
pounds per annum. Bile Beans are the result of a discovery based on science, and with the
proprietors remains the secret of relaxing the bowels without purging.
It is enough to do a good deed without telling of it, but when others do you a good deed
let the whole world know. Tell the people what Bile Beans for Biliousness have done for
you.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
and STOREKEEPERS.
Some Martyrs and a Whale.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yesterday the King of the Domain was sitting
under the rocks overlooking Farm Cove. There
were bread-crumbs, two banana-skins, and other
signs of repast around him. He looked at me
and smiled. When the King smiles you can see a
fig of tobacco and a long beer stealing across the
pupils of his eyes. Before I had time to take a
seat beside him he had drawn several torn book-
leaves from his pocket, and was spreading them
tightly across his knees.
“ Did you ever read about the Hemperor Nero,
sir? Well, arter hearin’ what this book say, all
me sympathy for the early Christians vanishes.
All the Romans what wasn’t Christians put in the
whole day washin’ themselves. They uster be
washed on marble slabs. Then a nice little gyurl
wud bring some poetry, an’ another little gyurl
wud bring a pint o’ beer an’ give it tew the
Roman on the slab. Then the three of ’em wud
wash one another jest the same as me an’ you,
sir, and halve a pipe o’ terbaccer. Now, sir, a
man like me can see how this washin’ hurt the
feelin’s of a lot o’ people, an’ drove ’em into bein’
Christian martyrs. Nooody hever see a martyr
washin’ himself, sir. When I wuz in the ’Oly
Land they showed me a place what uster be a
desert until the martyrs used it up. Too many
martyrs got into it. sir. Martyrs uster go about
lookin’ for a nice desert where the dust wuz plenti-
ful. When a martyr hit a desert the other mar-
tyrs rushed it like a goldfield, until they used it
up—they wore all the sand away carryin’ it about
on ’em. There wuz no fear of gettin’ splashed
wiv cold water in a desert, sir. Then Nero started
feedin’ his lions on martyrs an’ other refreshments.
Nobody but me, sir, hever feels sorry for the lions.
Nerbuckedanezer’s lions wuz hard cases, sir. D’ye
remember how he lowered Daniel inter the den ?
But them lions wuz used tew bitin’ martyrs, so
they jest held-off an’ sniffed at Dan. Yew
couldn’t blame the pore lions, sir.
“If a lirrle Christian gyurl wus sispected of
playin' wiv cold warrer the other Christians sool«d
a big sandy prophet on tew her; he wud
‘ Me lirrle child, thou shalt not commit a wash.’ ”
* •* * ' »
The King lay back and smoked dejectedly, as
though a great burden still oppressed him.
Finally, after a few deep breaths, he continued :
“I had a good chance lars year, a chance tew
make me fortune. A Sydney agent persuaded me
to hopen a fashinable boardin’-’ouse on the
’Awkesbury. That was afore Stinker Jones
pinched me clothes an’ me money. I didn’t want
tew buy the fashinable boardin’-’ouse at first, but
Moss Peters, the agent, made me. He said if I
didn’t buy it at once he’d sell it to his brother Joe
for twice the money. So I bought the fashinable
boardin’-’ouse on the ’Awkesbury. There wuz
plenty of furniture an’ a pianner an’ a lirrle dawg
named Bunger. When I wuz lookin’ at me
fashionable warrer-frontage, lirrle Bunger came
behind an’ bit me. There wuz an old griifdstone
jest by, so I fastened it tew his lirrle collar, an’
frew him at the warrer-frontage, an’ the grind-
stone had a race wiv him tew the bottom.
“Then I put a advertisement in the papers,
lay in’ that William Primrose wud accommerdate
fashinable ladies an’ gentlemen at Barnacle Vista,
on the ’Awkesbury. No ’ome comforts, no dawg,
no pies. The lady an’ genleman what sings Liar-
board Watch" togever are cordially invited to
stay away from Barnacle Vista. The manager
has frown the pianner in the river, on top of the
lirrle dawg.
“The advertisement brought me a lot of
boarders, what payed me in advance. Alwuz
make pipple pay yew in advance, sir, then yew
don’t lie awake listenin’ tew the heavy breathin
of Mr. Johnson when he’s climbin’ down the tank
wiv his portmanto.
“ Arter the first week I had a visit from Stinker
Jones. He wuz quite a swell—white pants an
coat. It wuz hard to say wevver he’d been left a
fortune or wevver he’d been dressin’ himself at
his neighbor’s clothes-line. Whenever Stinker
washes himself it’s a sign he’s pinched a clean
shirt. ‘ Stinker,’ I sez, ‘ where’s yer references '
At that he got nasty.
“ ‘Bill,’ he says, ‘I knowed yer when yer uster
pick cigar-butts off the floor.’
“It’s a mistake tew argue wiv a man like
Stinker. I’d seen him once, blue wiv the horrors,
takin’ off his coat tew fight a bug. A man like
me what kept a fashinable boardm -house can t
get back at a feller what doesn’t know pyjamas
from gunny-bags. ‘ Stinker,’ I sez coldly, where s
yer references ? ’
“ ‘ Bill,’ he says, ‘ gimme a start m life an ill
keep yer goin’ in white shirts an socks. 111 keep
yer in bed-linen. Yer know I can’t pass a
clothes-line ; I try, but I can’t. I’ll git yer an-
other boarder, Bill; a bloke named Jonah Davis.
“ ‘ I’ve heerd of Jonah,’ I sez sorrerfully ; he s
a bad charicter.’ .
“‘Yes, Bill, he’s a bad charicter,’ sez Stinker,
‘ but he’ll keep yer goin’ in vegetables —lend him
a boat an’ he’ll call on the gardens wiv warrer-
frontages. He’ll round-up the termaters an the
cabbages, Bill. All that Jonah wants is a boat;
then he stands on the bank an’ whistles tew the
vegetables. He’s a useful bloke, Bill.’
“ ‘ Well,’ I sez, ‘ I don’t mind takin’ Jonah in if
he’s out of empliyment, but I won’t have him
on the verandah when the ladies are here; I
don’t want tew be called Bill by a man named
Jonah.’ Next day Jonah rolled-up. He wuz jest
sich another feller as Stinker. He had a terrible
smell of vegetables on him.
“One fing was against me boardin’-house—l
hadn’t a jetty, sir, tew me warrer-frontage. The
fashinable yachts wiv boarders in ’em couldn t
land, an’ Mullins at the other boardin’-house got
’em reg’lar. Mullins had a pier, an the lirrle
ladies an’ barmaids what came in the yachts had
tew stop at Mullins’. This hurt mefeelin’s. An
Mullins wuz always sayin’ fings about me. So I
borrered money on me furniture an’ set three men
an’ Stinker tew build a jetty. The piledrivers
wuz expensive men, sir; they used nothin but
rum; rum, they said, kept the barnacles from
growin’ on their legs when they was standin in
the warrer.’
“It wuz a lovely jetty they built me, sir.
Jonah painted it dark blue, me fav’rite color.
Mullins uster to come out and look at it when
nobody wuz about. I wuz goin’ tew celebrate the
openin’ day wiv fireworks an’ a lirrle music. I
wuz goin’ tew give a dance tew me boarders. I
wuz sparin’ no ixpense. I looked wiv pride on
me new jetty. Stinker went an’ pinched a couple
of flags from a circus down the river. Then I
arsked two of me lady boarders tew promenade up
an’ down the jetty wiv me. I put on me frock
coat an’ me top-hat. Mullins was ragin’ up an
down his verandah. He was a ruined man, sir. All
the yachts wud now come to Barnacle Vista.
There wuz goin’ tew be a slump in Mullinses.
Arter I’d finished me prominade I looked across
the warrer an’ sees somethin’ a-spoutin’ up the
river.
“ ‘lt’s a calf-whale,’ sez Jonah, openin a bottle
of beer; ‘he’s bin in the river more’n a week.’
“‘Lerhimbe, Jonah,’ I sez, ‘p’r’apshes lost
his muvver. Ler him be.’ Wiv that I took the
ladies in tew the summer-house tew give ’em some
tea an’ froot what Jonah had brought in his boat.
I wuz larfin’ wiv the ladies. I wuz sittin’ on the
grass, showin’ ’em how the bedowing holds his cup
of tea, wiv his head restin’ against his. trusty
steed, when I hears Jonah’s vice a-callin me.
‘ Bill, Bill,’ he says, ‘ the dashed whale’s under
the jetty !’ I jumps tew me feet and runs out.
‘Easy wiv him,’ I shouts. ‘For hevvin’s sake,
don’t let him see yew, Jonah !’ Then I heard a.
terrible r-r-r-p an’ crash. Me ’art stopped beatm.
I looked up an’ sees me brand - new jetty
a-rushin’ down the ’Awkesbury.. The whale
had got wedged between the piles. Yes, sir,
me ’art stopped heatin’. I sat down an cried.
An’ there was that Mullins standin on the
bank a-cheerin’ the whale. It broke me up, sir.
I never paid me debts arterwards. That calf-
whale wuz me Moscow.”
He stretched himself in the shadow of the rock
—a modern Prometheus, his white hair curling
like smoke in the wind. ,
“Nobody would fink, sir, that a whale from the
sea wud send me tew these cold, rocks. P raps
yew don’t believe in destiny, sir ? ”
I did not answer ; but he accepted the sixpence
and tobacco as a man would accept a beer m
Tophet.
ALBA DORION.
Can a R.C. priest read the Anglican burial
service ? Apparently yes, for the Tablet quotes
from Tobonto Globe, without a word of protest,
the following: “ Many stories are told of his
(Father O’Leary’s) prowess as a rifle-shot in
action His care of the sick and
wounded, both Protestant and Catholic, and his
action in reading the Church of Lngland funeral
service over some of the Protestant dead, are on
the lips of all the returning heroes.”
There is still a William Lloyd Garrison to
carry on his father’s war against capitalism,
slavery (under wage-conditions), and mihtansni.
An exchange prints part of a new Onward,
Christian Soldiers ” :
The Anglo-Saxon Christians, with Gatling gun and sword,
In serried ranks are pushing on the gospel of tne Lord.
On Afrio’s soil they press the foe in war’s terrific scenes,
And merrily the hunt goes on throughout the Philippines.
The dead and mangled bodies, the wounded and the sick,
Are multiplied on every hand, on every field are thick.
“ Be gracious, Lord,” the prayer goes up, ‘ and give us
victory swift! ” ....
The chaplains on opposing sides the same petitions lire.
The Jesus that we reverence is not the lowly man
Who trod in poverty and rags where Jordan’s waters ran,
Our Saviour is an admiral upon a quarter-deck,
Or else a general uniformed, with an at his beck.
How natural that a change should come in nineteen
hundred years, ■ , , , ,
And Bibles take a place behind the bullets and the beers,
We need a new Messiah to lead the latest way,
The Gospel version well revised to show us how to prey.
Then onward, Christian soldiers ! through fields of crim-
son gore,
Behold the trade advantages beyond the Open Door.
The profits on our ledgers outweigh the heathen loss ;
Nail up the Anglo-Saxon flag above the played-out Cross .
There’s room for all sorts of people in Lon-
don. Joseph Gillott, “musical-composer,” of
Melbourne, is made to modestly prattle thus in a
Melb. paper
I have been made a member of the Musical Directors
Association ; to become a membc r a man must either be
a conductor of an orchestra or have published composi-
tions of generally-recognised merit, or be somewhat of a
“celebrity” in connection with music in some way or
another. Many men who have achieved a world-wide
reputation are members ; Mr. John Crook, the conductor,
is a member. He is an awfully nice fellow. ... I went
to St. Paul’s to see poor Sir Arthur Sullivan’s funeral, but
could not get in, as thousands of people were there hours
before me. I had an excellent view of the proces-
sion. I saw the coffin carried up the steps into
the cathedral. It is stated that over two hun-
dred wreaths were sent. I am glad the country
has honored this great man. True, he wrote comic-
operas. But what about “ The Golden Legend ?
r True, he wrote comic operas !] My Federation song,
“ Australia’s Cherished Dream,” was sung at the banquet
to the Earl of Hopetoun. The banquet hall of the Hotel
Cecil is far and away the finest hall I ever saw. Mr.
Wallace Kennedy sang my song capitally. He is a tenor,
so, of course, I had to transpose it from F into A flat. We
tried it in A (natural), but he seemed to get a better grip
of the song in A flat. When he finished, the cheering was
tremendous. I accompanied the song and was pianist for
the evening. It was the only song sung at the ban-
quet, except, of course, one verse each of God have tne
Queen ” and “ Buie Britannia.” I got excellent notices
in the London and many provincial newspapers. Black
and White published my portrait and the words of the
somr. They also headed their account of the banquet,
“ Australia’s Cherished Dream.” Several other papers
have published the words. People think the words of my
songs are very good ; thanks to the authors Miss
Miller, Miss Joan Torrance and Mr. Vidler. As the
songs are being published in London, their names
will travel to every place where the English language is
spoken. Apart from myself, this gives me great pleasure.
What do they think of the music ? Well, as I wrote it,
the less I sav the better. But I send you just one of the
many favorable notices my songs have received Francis
Day and Hunter are publishing A ,Y s^ r 2;V a s Cherished
Dream,” “ Sons of the Southern Sea, The Bushmen s
Corps ” and “ Sons of the Southern Sea March. I have
only offered four compositions up to the present time—all
accepted The words of “ Australia’s Cherished Dream
were 1 printed ; each guest at the banquet had a copy m
front of him. One of the London journals photographed
this programme and published it in their paper.
I wrote to Kipling about publishing my musical setting
of his “ Bobs,” at the same time sending him a copy.
He replied that he had refused numerous applications to
set “Bobs” to music, but had declined them all tor
reasons which he would rather not state. I do not
think that he objects to anybody singing it, because he
is at present in London, and Mrs. Brown-Potter and
others occasionally recite it in public. Mr. Kipling did
not return my MS. of “ Bobs,” but I have another copy,
so that it is all right. He is welcome to it. lam
sorrv because hundreds of people here want the music
of “Bobs.” Frank Celli, the well-known baritone,
was very much struck with it. He talks about visiting
Australia. He was principal baritone in the Carl Rosa,
Opera Company for some years. . . .What a long letter
I have written you. I hope you will say as Schumann
said of one of Schubert’s Symphonies. Somebody re-
marked how long it was. Schumann said, Yes' but
what a heavenly length.”
Poor old Australia ! The publication of its politi-
cal ideals smothered in London by crawlsome
title-hunters, and Councillor Gutswalks—its poets
typified by the people.who write the poets
corner” in Melb. Evening Hekald when there
are no ’Orrible Murders to fill the space its
composers represented by an individual who
takes himself so seriously that the mistake
amounts to tragedy. “Sons of the Southern Sea,
“ Bobs,” “ Australia’s Cherished Dream, and the
“ Bushmen’s Corps.” Poor old Australia !


ELECTRIC
MINING
MACHINERY
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
KRUPP BALL MILLS
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; and 15 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
NIOIR’S
POTTED MEATS.
(Assorted kinds) in Tins about 2 ozs. & 40ZS.
Manufacturers :
JOHN MOIR & SON, laIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office —9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
DAPTO
(LIMITED),
(Lake IHawarra), near Hvmvnnv.
SMELTERS,
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
fine silver.
■
11111
mmwmk' ,r$
I— s
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILL AW ARM”
.. BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAL and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
* —' — X WiM AUritJliJl/iVlil.lNx Ot ABBAXCs.
or a in orma ion reerar mg ates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinbebg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.&W. joe Martin
SYDNEY.
A Woman’s Way.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An idle jest and a careless,
Spoken in thoughtless mood—
A man will forget in a moment
Where a woman will fret and brood.
For a woman is only a woman,
Tardy to see and forget—
And—Maggie and I are strangers
As though we had never met.
And I wonder how many Maggies,
Fickle and false as she,
Are jilting their foolish lovers
As Maggie has jilted me;
And how many love-lorn rovers
In the land where the dreamers stray
Have worshipped a gilded idol
And found it was only clay ?
But I have another Maggie,
Winsome and fleet and strong ;
And I am her only lover,
Though rivals have wooed her long ;
Never was love so constant,
And never was form so fair,
And never shone eyes so brightly
As the eyes of my brave brown mare.
No guerdon she asks for loving,
No silver or gold to deck—
The jewels of richest rajah
Would pale on her glossy neck.
She comes to my window and whinnies,
And over the blue-grass deep
We gallop away to the sunrise
A true-lover tryst to keep.
But now—to the sunset, Maggie !
The old love flung to the wind,
And the west-road looming wider
As the east-road fades behind ;
What if a pearl be shattered !
There are pearls in the ocean still.
What if a heart be broken,
So a woman may have her will.
N.S.W.
J.A.B.
A Hero in Disguise.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The new boarder got little more than passing
glances as he sat down at the dinner-table, with
here and there a slight nod of recognition in
response to Mrs. Bullen’s formal introduction.
For the soup was getting cold, and valuable time
was not to be wasted upon a man like Jorkins,
who was obviously of low social standing. But
the newcomer did not seem to mind, for he
plunged at once into his chair, and swept the
table with a comprehensive glance, as if to spy out
the fatness of the land.
Soup ? Yes, he didn’t mind.
And when it was brought he proceeded to ab-
sorb it with a gurgling sound, a dubious look in
his eyes the while. A moment’s suspense, and
then his face betokened satisfaction; he had
tasted, and it was good. A few convulsive gurgles
and the plate was empty.
Jorkins sat back in his chair and contempla-
tively wiped his mouth with the back of his hand,
oblivious of the fact that he was the centre of
observation; that Harris, the bank-clerk and
representative of culture, was plainly disgusted,
or that Bates, who was a small wit in his way, was
whispering to Miss Binns, the drapery-assistant
at Salvage and Co’s., causing her to giggle convul-
sively behind her handkerchief. Bates perceived
his advantage, and followed it up with this remark
to Jorkins—“The bush is pretty green for this
time of year.” Jorkins merely stared at his
interlocutor, unconscious of the jest. He seemed
quite unable to express himself in such polite
society.
At this point a diversion was caused by the en-
trance of the roast-beef, and Bates was at once
forgotten. Jorkins believed that dinner was a
time for eating, and was oblivious of the fact that
conversation of a cheerful character was calcu-
lated to promote digestion. And he proceeded to
act up to his belief in a manner which would have
astonished the pastor of a fashionable congrega-
tion. The boarders had smiled at him at first-
smiled indulgently for the most part, as if
conscious that the masses could not be ex-
pected to display such an amount of culture
as they themselves possessed; but Jorkins ate
so audibly, using knife and fork indis-
criminately, that in a few minutes the feel-
ing had changed to one of deep disgust. What
was Mrs. Bullen thinking of in admitting such an
inferior person to that sacred circle ? They would
demand an explanation at once, and either Jor-
kins or they would have to leave. And in the
midst of a silence, unbroken except by particu-
larly savage thoughts, Jorkins passed up his plate
for a third helping of beef.
Harris was a man of resource; to think, with him,
was to act. It was disgraceful that the table
should thus be reduced to silence, save for the
grunts of Jorkins, and thnt the conversation
which usually rippled and ihwod, should be
checked by this graceless stranger. He would
! atter temporarily from his thoughts,
and the easiest way to do this was to start a con-
versation. But somehow ideas refused to come,
and he had to fall back on a very commonplace
sublet gleaned from the morning paper.
I see that De Wet is fairly cornered at last.”
Ihe remark was addressed to Johnson, the
chemist’s assistant.
Yes, I think Kitchener intends to make sure
of him this time.”
For the first time Jorkins seemed conscious of
the existence of the rest, and now, having
finished his third helping, he gazed eagerly at
11 arris and then at Johnson. Harris was a volun-
ten’-otheer and posed as a great authority on
military matters, and he felt quite pleased at
having aroused the attention of Jorkins on the
subject which was dearest to his heart.
“I can’t make it out at all,” said Bates. “I
read the report this morning, but it seemed to me
as if De Wet was all right.”
“You need to understand the locality, of
course, replied Harris, whoso good-humor was
rapidly returning. “Let me give a rough-and-
ready illustration. We will take this knife to re-
present the Vaal River ; well, then, the salt-cellar
Kite he an( * He P e PP er -box for
He will make De Wet sneeze,” muttered
Bates, for the especial behoof of Miss Binns.
Harris ignored the interruption. “We will
take this serviette to represent the mountains.
What follows?”
And Harris gazed round with the air of a man
who had propounded a pretty stiff conundrum.
Jorkins had grown more and more excited at
this ocular demonstration of the position, of which
he got a clearer view by the simple expedient of
standing up.
“That’s it,” he said at last, “that’s it, it’s all
clear enough. The Boers are trying to git to the
river first, but our boys ’ll beat ’em. My word
the blood’s going to flow like water ! ”
Harris experienced a keen revulsion of feeling.
A patriotic heart beat beneath the humblo gar-
ments of this uncultured stranger, who doubtless
was, after all, a diamond in the rough. His
thoughts had been too severe.
But Jorkins had taken up the running : “We
licked the Zulus at Rorke’s Drift, and give the
’ Jyptians what-for at Telly-kebir. I’d like to be
in the thick of it ag’in.”
Here was a revelation indeed. The man they
had been reviling was one of the Empire’s heroes,
and they gazed at him with fascination as he stood
at the table. And, truth to tell, Jorkins spake as
one inspired, with dramatic gesture, as though the
foe was still before him.
“ The black devils was ten to one agin us, and
our only chance was to make some sort of a
rampart. And we set about it quick and lively.”
He resumed his seat at the table, and dragged
the bread-plate toward him, heaping the slices in
longitudinal fashion.. Then, seizing the carving-
fork as though it were a bayonet, he crouched
bellind his rampart of bread till his ill-kempt
whiskers brushed the table. His look was posi-
tively ferocious, as of a wild beast preparing to
spring.
“ It was ’ot work, I can tell you, mighty ’ot.
And at last one of the beggars jumped right over
the wall, and I had to give him a taste of the
bay'nit.”
And with a horrible leer Jorkins drove the
carving-fork with tremendous force into the joint
of beef. The dish broke under the impact, and
the gravy flew far and wide. The ladies shrieked,
but Jorkins calmly held down the joint with one
hand, while he extracted the fork with the other,
in readiness for instant use. Then he resumed
the thread of his narrative.
“Reenforcements came up, and we give the
devils a doin’; it was the rortiest thing y’ ever
seen in yer life. They cut and run at last and we
pumped ’em full of lead. But the clearin’-up was
the worst.”
And he smiled at the table as though it brought
back recollections of some particularly gory battle-
field.
“They lay like a lot of big black ants ; most of
’em killed, but a lot still wrigglin’. There was
one big feller with his leg hangin’ by a mere
sinew, like this ” (ocular demonstration with the
beef.) “ A bit of shell must have caught him just
there ” (a further illustration).
“Blood and sinews and bones, and , you never
saw such a mess in your life.” There was a sudden
commotion, and Harris was only just in time to
catch Miss Binns as she sank from her chair, in a
faint. The incident was a perfect godsend for
Jorkins.
That’s it; they went down like that, only not
so quiet. They yelled and squealed a bit. That’s
right, bring up the amb’lance.”
By this time Miss Binns had recovered some-
what, under the combined influence of cold water
and smelling-salts, and was led out of the room.
When order was at length restored Jorkins found
that he had the table to himself. But he helped
himself to pudding twice with the air of a man
who had served his country faithfully.
J.H.
At the Central wharf, Sydney, the other
day, was driven what was alleged to be the largest
pile on local record—a single tree, weighing 10
tons and measuring 105 ft. in length by a
middle-girth of 6ft Bin. Turns-out, however, that
at Parbury’s wharf, also in Sydney, was driven a
tost-pile 116 ft. long, followed by others of the
immense length of 142 ft. Probably a world’s
record. The driving-“monkey” in both cases
weighed over 3 tons !
“ Civil Servant ” writes :
As foretold from the day they were issued, the volumi-
nous regulations drawn up by N.S.W. Public Service
Board three years ago have utterly broken down. They
provided for an elaborate system of grades in all salaries
up to £3OO. Promotion went by yearly increments of
£lO : the passing from one grade to another being by a
quasi-university examination. Only one examination was
held (in 1898). Since then the yearly increases have been
granted indiscriminately to successful and unsuccessful
candidates alike, in some cases the beaten ones securing
higher increases than the men who passed. As of yore
backstairs influence can always dodge a regulation.
Naturally the system broke down. A newer and more
voluminous set of regulations has been issued from
January 1, under which the increments stop at £l5O,
After that promotion goes by merit, luck, or opportunity.
William Benjamin Bevis, of Greenwich,
last heard of in 1891 from Sydney. Brother
Walter enquires—sth Dragoon Guards, Field
Force, S’Africa.
Brisbane Courier advts :
IF Gentleman who noticed two ladies looking at
swans in Gardens Thursday afternoon be there
Friday, Saturday, make acquaintance.
pENTLEMAN who met two ladies Wednesday
viewing swans thanks them for reciprocity of
desire ; noticed advertisement too late ; happy make
acquaintance; will correspond. Address
Southport.


Cured Her When a Little CM.
Cured Her Again When a Mother.
Takes Out All Disease from the Blood;
Gives Strength; A Splendid Tonic; An Indispensable
Household Medicine
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
•MUt.
ws
• '
W
11*
W/t
“I first used Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla wlien a little girl for debility and poor-
ness of the blood. It strengthened me greatly, built me right up, and made me
well and strong. After a recent attack of typhoid fever I found myself very weak
and again I thought of this wonderful strengthening medicine. So I began its
use, and with great and lasting benefit. All my robust health is back again,
thanks to Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It is a splendid tonic, purifies the blood, makes
it rich, and is an indispensable household medicine.”
This is a practical experience which Mrs. 11. A. Steinberg, of Nelson St.,
East Adelaide, So. Australia, has had with Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. With this
she sends a photograph of herself and child, which we reproduce above with her
permission. Indeed, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Perhaps Mrs. Steinberg describes your condition, also. Perhaps your blood
is thin, making you pale and weak; perhaps you are depressed, discouraged.
Then there is a remedy that will build you up, made you strong and vigorous
again. And it is a wonderful medicine for the children, too ; giving them good
flesh, rich blood, and steady nerves.
AYER ’S Sarsaparilla
Takes Out All Impurities from the Blood.
AYER’S PILLS are gentle, safe, thorough.
SEN
sd
m
5%
Sv
PCFrUME
m
Sen-Sen \
FARRMGDON AVENUE]
LONDON.
SIHGEBS& SPEAKERS
fsd
f
sdf
sdf
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL CO3VIIVIOIM SENSE.
Ur Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 86 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up. Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngand.old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
ore devoted to Innumerable ioteresting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speech** and ToAfL ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; pub! ■ speaking made easy. i s 6d post.
Practical Palmist y (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Trig s and Diversions with Cards, illus.
. «a.i ia ;>.d
Post free Is.
Ventriloquist ; post’free Is. The
, post Is.
is, Sd posted.
-Parties, Love, Dress,etc. Is 6d post.
n Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
une ts oc.», .—posted. Clog Dancino Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Gu*b ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Maiiombt’s Fortun?Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; pricl Is, post lS'Sd.,
How to Dance, ls posted.
Is ; post Is Sd
Beauty’s Srcrkts.
How to Become
Art of yf rrstl
Love and Paren
Modern Etiq
Every' Man His
One’s Self, Is
Secrets op Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
W riter, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Editii O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post.
Ut*to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.-SjRiROBERT- KiiAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are' still m tain able as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds ot SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
m
m
POR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pam m the Stomach, Sick Headache
T Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills 1 lnsh-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath Cosuveness Blotches on the Skin dis-
turbed Sleep and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, See. IHL liKiU nuaii
WILL GIVE RELIEF. IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sidTerer us
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be WUtt.il A
G BEECMAM ’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. I* or a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic-a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital °. r^3^^nSte 8 ami
Muscular System : restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edges of appetit ,
arousing with the Rosebud of Jlkaltr the Whole Physical Energy of the
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society and one of the best in
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beechams Pills have the largest Sale of any Patent Medie
he world• Pull directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, ls and 2s 9d each.
MOW READY.
A POLICY FOR TH€
COMMONWEALTH.
Bcipg a scries of articles rgpriptgd
frotij “ Tb« BOlletio,” witb ai>
appendix dgalipg witb tbc Fiscal
QCgStioi).
PRICE sd.; ported, Bd.
u
“STEELE RUDD’S ” BOOK -
W
Price; Six Shillings '(Post Free).
ai>d Other Verses
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
The Best Book of Verses Maoriland has produced Price, Five Shillings (post free).
‘THE BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., LTD., 214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Wholesale Agents: Edwards, Dunlop, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
sd
fdf
ƒ
The Universal Remedy for Acidity or tne Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indig-estion, Sour Eructations,
• Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Re-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
sdf
N.8.-ASK FOR
Sold Throughout the world.
DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
ƒds
sfd
sfd
k
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
IRISH MOSS
GEORGE BORNINGTON
v i iiiwi'aiiißr
sfdsfd
;URES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


r
-■
Perdriau’s
Perdriau’s
Perdriau’s
Perdriau’s
Perdriau’s
Perdriau’s
_ _ , 2™- x 3 PLY RUBBER.
C GARDEN, 50 FEET COILS, for 20s.
B DELIVERY, 60 EEET COILS, for
SUP. DELIVERY, 60 FEET COILS,
for 50s.
fin. Cotton Covered.
MEDIUM EUREKA, 50 FEET COILS
for 20s. 5
SUPERIOR EUREKA, 50 FEET
COILS, for 22s 6d.
Hose
Hose
Hose
Hose
PERDRIAU & CO.,
® e ° r s e
Sydney.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
An . * * * ■
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brooilman's Building:. Adelaide.
the WORTHINGTON
.... IS THE ORIGINAI
DUPLEX PUMP.
WORTHINGTON
COMPOUND
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
sfd
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MASK.
<3>he
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Pbopes.. SHEFFIELD.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St,
Also at
SYDNEY.
“ THU BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w. c. & co.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 IT OlMv Sl'UEia', SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by poxt irbm all the coloniespremytiy
attended to.
ROBERTS’
George and U C|T IT I
Market-Sts. ■ ■ U ■ H»
Board or Apartments at Option.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPP S ’ S
GRATEFUL— COMFORTING
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
TO WAY-BACK RESIDENTS.
Mr——,
_
w»
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO. LTD
bj Rail or Parcels Post, the rery Finest Christmas Cakes and Puddings, Pastry, &£.
Poultry, Fish and Game forwarded in a frozen condition to all parts of the Colony.
Butter— “ Golden Star " and “ Berry ” Brands, of Splendid Keeping Quality-sent by Parcels Post, packed in tins.
ICE, ICE, ICE—Pure Crystal Ice -packed in Special Transport Boxes, and consigned (freight paid) to any Railway Station in N&W»
Head Office : HARBOUR 8T„ SYDNEY. Send for OUT Price LiMs - H. PATEBON, Manager.
PARKE & LACY CO LT
Have always on hand a Good
Stock of both Horizontal and
Vertical Engines and Boilers;
also of Mining and General
Machinery. Write for particu-
lars and prices to
60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
CIRCULARS AND CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION.
m
m
V* 1 *
1
&
Ifjy.y
i
m
MMI
vV
i
:
&>=
SI
,jDj
-" 'r.-iV'n iistitun'mi.ili
sfd
74 Clarence St., SYDNEY; 435 Bourke St., MELBOURNE,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS.
BLAKE'S STEAM PUMPS (Single and Duplex)
FAY’S WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
STEAM ENGINES (Horizontal and Yertieal)
ENGINEERS’ HAND and MACHINE TOOLS
STEEL PULLEYS SHAFTING, PLUMMER-BLOCKS
EMPIRE LAUNDRY CO’S LAUNDRY MACHINERY
STURTEVANT’S FANS and PORTABLE FORGES.
isms
