

0 i
McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity-”
The Lancet
«. Gr. WATKINS & CO.,
Kent Street, Sydney, 7
s*o* » * —FOR —
mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sSS
HUSTON’S Compound Dredge Engina
No II of The Bulletin 800 klets,
A ROSE OF RE6RET.
Vebses by James Hebblethwaite.
In Envelope; price, Is. 9d. post-free.
Note. —Only 500 copies are prmfce - for sale.
No. lof these booklets is out of print. To be
included in the same series are Louise Mack’s and
Hubert Church’s verses, and others.
NOW READY.
A POLICY
FOR THE
COMMONWEALTH
Price, 0d; posted, Bd.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C # 85 M tt street, SYDNEY
Have in Stock and to arrive, the following:: Ruston, Proctor & Co.’s Compound Dredge Engines and Boilers, Centrifugal
Pumps, Btee: Wire Ropes, Bucket Lip Steel, Tyre Steel, Mild Steel, Manganese Steel for Pins and Bushes, &c.
Buckets, Grab Hooks, Links, Grab Hook Points, Tumblers, &c., made to order. OSBORN’S STEEL'CASTINGS.
ENGINES & BOILERS, &c., FOR GOLD DREDGING
That's All!
I*
A 1 WHISKY
HELIDON SPA
A PERFECT TABI.E WATER.
& OQ. Ltd., Agejata, Sydney.
RACKAROCK>"
C£s>
3E3C O T 3 A. !E=*.T.
«*tv
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL. ormosite <ar
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME
SANDEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
241 3PITT STREET, S-TOKTETr.
PETTY’S HOTEL
IS UNSURPASSED
by that of any other in Sydney for
Comfort, Privacy, Convenience and
Healthy Situation.
The Sanitary Arrangements are of the
most perfect description.
The Hotel is under the Direct Management and
Supervision of
MRS. WILLIAM GANNON, Proprietress,
Telephone 274. Church Hill, Sydney.
10s. per Day or £3 3s. per week.
SPECIAL TERMS CAN BE ARRANGED FOR
FAMILIES AND PRIVATE APARTMENTS.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWIGI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches: —P. Frankel & Co., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q. ;
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
Co., Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Oashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
Fair girls and gray
2nd Edition, trice 4/6.
HORSE S
JOHN JAMESON
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents ; J. BABBE JOHNSTON & CO., Loftn Street, Sydney.
EMPIRE HOTEL, SYDNEY
¥.Q3T CE3TTBALI.T SI»LTED.
OTARD-DUPUY
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
m
PROOF
USE
N
ML.
Head Office:
% 10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
AT THE CLUB, IN THE HOME,
FOR THE SICK AND THE SOUND,
EVERYWHERE, AND FOE. EVERYBODY
BOOMERANG BRANDY
IS THEE BEST
Henry Skinner,
Giarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10US.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and earpfniiv
selected PLANT OF TABLE by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted him
Public and
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
er pa
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORB
of various sizes supplied.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Cipbrocatioo
f °r Cuts Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
m?A^ ffne ? s of Joints il - MAN and
As unscrupulous persons are
'“a
Row’s CrobrocatioQ.
KAY EYE AR EYE EH
LAGER
The Bulletin
Vol 22—No. 1127. j
[Saturday, September 21, 1901.
Pegisterefl at the G-eneral Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


the THROAT, the
:
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S
Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous drop
(Registered),
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, In Tins, Is fid; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland— post
Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE,
free on receipt of stamps.
THE RED PAGE.
STAR-TRYST.
When the sun is down and the stars ashine,
(Chough you in the city may drink or danoe,
I think it better than music or wine
To bow to the stars and dream romance.
You may play or sing or go where you please,
Or light love’s lamp in a girl’s blue eyes ;
But I am in love with a life of ease—
A pipe in the dark and stars in the skies.
Your wine is a serpent with glittering eye ;
It strikes—ah, how vacant the world and forlorn !
Your kisses are roses that wound by-and-by—
The reddest, perchance, with the bitterest thorn.
But I in the arms of Enchantment repose,
My cares put aside, and in lyrical vein
Enamel the world with the sheen of a rose
Till it blooms as in Arcady, laughing again.
Thus, late in the night, and ere Slumber has kissed
My eyes with drugged lips, I go out all alone
To keep in the silence a beautiful tryst
With eyes by the legion that startle my own.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
George Bernard Barton.
EORGE BERNARD BARTON (a
8 w" brother of the Federal
who died at Goulburn last week,
may be fairly regarded as the first purely
literary man whom New South Wales produced.
He meant to be a barrister, passed his terms
at the Inner Temple, was called to the Eng-
lish Bar, and admitted in Sydney. But on his re-
turn to Australia, in the early sixties, an aural
infirmity from which he had long suffered became
so pronounced that Barton had to abandon all
thought of the Bar as a profession. Even at this
time he seemed to be more interested in literature
than in law, and the writer can quite remember,
as a boy, how Barton’s best and most vivacious
talk was about books and book folk. He had re-
turned from Europe a fair German, and more than
fair French scholar. Subsequently his knowledge
of French literature became wide and various.
Presently George Barton was himself making
guerrilla-like forays in the field of literature, or
at least journalism—skirmishing in the columns of
the Sydney Morning Herald with satirical skits in
verse on current topics of popular interest. He
may have done a little in prose before this, but
these “ verses of occasion ” are his first published
work I can recall. They appeared over the pen-
name “Snowy River,” ;md attracted a good deal
of attention. The little pasquinades, indeed, dis-
covered-plenty of birr and fun, and were always
technically tradesmanlike in respect of rhythm and
rhyme. One of them is still remembered by
George Barton’s contemporaries ; a particularly
spirited jingle, dealing with the discomfiture of
Sir Frederick Pottinger and his aides by highway-
man Frank Gardiner and his rascals.
1 By a flash of the pan we missed the man,
So we ’ll take the boy instead.
in the sixties Sydney Punch was started
with George Barton as fits first editor, and poor
Greig as its chief artist. * A man of signal capacity
as a caricaturist, Greig met his death by a
disastrous harbour accident, and Punch was never
able wholly to replace him. Barton did some of
his brightest humorous work, both in prose and
verse, for Punch. He, of course, followed closely
the English models, as did all our local
press humorists of that day. Not that Barton’s
contributions were imitative of any of the old-
world jesters in particular ; but that his point of
view, his approach of his subject, and his literary
methods generally were those of the English
masters. His theme only was local, the handling
was European. This almost of necessity. In a
virgin land new themes may be galore, but it
takes a little time for the coming of the local
literary note —the environing atmosphere, argot.
In Australia it has taken pretty well up to the
last decade.
That George Barton was a young man of
capacity and promise had become fairly widely
known; and when it seemed quite certain that
his hopes of a legal career had vanished, those who
had the power proffered him the solatium of the
Commissionership of Stamps. This was a com-
fortable enough providing for a still quite young
man.
But Barton did not enjoy his new office for
long. Though he had of course withdrawn from
the actual editorship of Punch, he still continued
to write for the journal. There was no harm in
that; but the particular shape which one of his
contributions took was not a little unfortunate.
Barton wrote a classical burlesque entitled
“Jupiter and Ganymede,” in which he made fun
of the reigning Ministry, and particularly of its
leader, Mr. Charles Cowper, with such telling
effect that the Government took the matter up.
They demanded the name of the writer of the
satire from the proprietors of Punch; it was given ;
and George Barton was retired from the Commis-
sionership of Stamps.
That Barton was unhappily inspired in lam-
pooning the men who had conferred a snug post
upon him need hardly be argued about; that his
punishment was out of all proportion to his crime
is equally patent. Anyone now reading “Jupiter
and Ganymede,” in the light of the trenchant
fashion in which the satire of public men and their
acts is now done, will admit at once that Barton
laughed at the politicians in a very good-humoured
and straightforward way, and that there is no
trace of personal maliciousness in the lampoon.
In a word, were any Government officer to-day
found out in burlesquing the heads of depart-
ments—on the, I hope, improbable supposition
that any present-day Newspaper would be so
cowardly as to betray its contributor—and the
deed were visited by the immediate and condign
punishment meted out to Barton, such action on
the part of any Government would not be allowed
to pass without the severest criticism from both
press and public. All that happened in Barton’s
case was that a very able letter which he wrote
showing cause why he should not be dismissed
was, at the instance of Mr. William Forster, laid
on the table of the House.
It is probable that this untoward episode in
Barton’s early career projected its shadow across
his whole life ; andfihat he never quite forgot the
taste of bitterness.''
In those days we had the Empire with us, an
ably-conducted journal in many ways, but one that
was always strenuously breasting the waves of
financial difficulty, and never quite mounted
them. George Barton had written a good deal
for the Empire, and it was his connection with the
paper which prompted him to suggest to Samuel
Bennett the experiment of a Sydney evening
paper. The idea struck Bennett as a feasible one,
and the result was the establishment of the
Evening News. The new venture caught on from
the jump,"and in a short space did for the
proprietors what the morning paper had never ,
been able to effect— secured a solid footing in
Australian journalism. To the Evening News
Lreorge Barton contributed a column of very
bright and pithy comment on current topics, over
r ® a °k ri quet Ehe Elaneur in Sydney. Some
ol Barton s most brilliant journalistic work was
done at the sign of the Flaneur. The column was
subsequently continued, many will remember, by
Trank Hutchinson, who proved a very capable
successor to Barton.
Between the years tflfw and 1868 George Barton
was Header in English Literature, as the office
was then styled, at the Sydney University. Eor
this lectureship he was remarkably well fitted, his
of English -literature being wide and
catholic ; while he was at the same time an easy
and polished speaker. He also lectured occa-
sionally in public on literary subjects.
The next important phase of George Barton’s
literary life was his acceptance of the editorship of
the Otago Daily Times , which was even at that
time a thriving and influential journal. He
wrought vigorously fbr the Times, and his editor-
ship was not without storm and stress. At that
time, 'Julius Vogel was a paramount force in
Maoriland political life. Barton opposed his
policy at many points, and the conflict between
the two was ultimately d outrance.
During Barton’s conduct of the Otago Daily
Times an incident occurred which is probably un-
precedented in Australian political history, or,
indeed, in that of any country under British rule.
A letter appeared in the paper reflecting on a
member of the existing M.L, Ministry. The
Government instituted an action for libel. Pend-
ing its hearing, the Governor of the colony went
on tour. The action came on. A number of the
employees of the journal declined to give evidence,
on the ground that their answers might incriminate
them, and it was generally thought that the pro-
ceedings would fail. The Government was equal
to the occasion, for a number of pardons
were produced and handed to the unwilling wit-
nesses. It came out that the Governor, before
starting on his tour, had actually left behind him
a number of signed blank pardons for his Ministers
to fill in. There was a very considerable public
excitement over this virtual demission, this practi-
cal surrender, to a party, of the purely personal
prerogative of the Crown. The case is, I imagine,
a record one, and of so unprecedentedly scandalous
a character that it is perhaps worth recalling and
chronicling here. As far as the Otago Daily
Times was concerned, the. action, if I remember
rightly, ended in a fine.
After a successful and notable editorship of the
Times for a year or two, Barton severed his con-
nection with the journal. The friction between
Vogel and himself had become uncomfortably
acute, and the proprietors of the paper were,
probably, hardly prepared to wholly endorse the
editor’s uncompromising oppposition to the local
dictator. Witn the intellectual facility charac-
teristic of the man, George Barton now reverted
to his first calling of law, and began practice as a
barrister and solicitor, the two professions being
then (as now) in Maoriland amalgamated.
Despite his physical disability he prospered, his
practice being largely a consulting one. In a few
years, however, journalism again tempted him,
and a promising opening presenting itself in
Melbourne, he sought that city and joined the
staff of the Age.
The early eighties found George Barton once
more back in Sydney, and again writing for the
Evening News. In 1886 he began to do leader and
oilier work for the Herald, and a little later was
commissioned to write the history of' New South
Wales. No writer in the province was better
equipped for this task than George Barton, as the
single volume (which was all that he completed)
abundantly proved. Since then Barton has been
occupied in miscellaneous journalism. He wrote
for the Evening News a series of notes on the
Federal Convention held in Sydney, which
were so well thought of that the Govern-
ment gave instructions that they should be
printed. For the same journal he compiled a
“ full and particular ” account of Margaret
Catchpole, which certainly deserves mention.
A body of romantic myth and legend had grown
up round and about the life of this notable
woman. Barton set himself to winnow the grain
of fact from the chaff of glamour, putting himself
to great pains to ascertain the actual truths of the
story. The result proved to be a very interesting
and authoritative narrative.
George Barton’s first and chief claim in the
literary history of New South Wales is probably
the two volumes, “ Literature in New South
Wales,” and “The Poets and Prose Writers of
New South Wales,” written at the suggestion of
the Government for the Paris Exhibition of 1887.
All future historians of Australian literature must
necessarily be more or less indebted to these two
works. The first was the outcome of much intel-
ligent labour and research, while the second is an
exceedingly interesting work, and even at this
day makes vastly good reading. In it George
Barton is about at his best as a critic. We have
had few, if any, literary critics in Australia more
sympathetic and, at the same time, more judicial
than Barton ; and none, with the exception, per-
haps, of It. H. Horne, who have brought a wider
knowledge to bear upon their subject. Deniehy
as a critic had more enthusiasm, mqre imagina-
tion, and a more brilliant literary “brio,” but he
was less discriminating, had less penetration, and
less, certitude of touch—was, in brief, less truly a
critic.
The attitude which Barton adopts in “The Poets
and Prose Writers of New South Wales” is
exactly the just and fair one in the circumstances.
He w“as dealing with a literature in its abso-
lute infancy, with the first tentative lispings of a
national literary speech ; and, therefore, he was
entitled to write in a tone of encouragement, and
to praise wherever he got the shadow of an open-
ing for praise. This he does, but at th&same time
he never surrenders his critical office, and wherever
praise is bestowed he easily succeeds in convincing
us that praise is there due.
As a writer, in the regard of style, George
Barton has been among the very best we have
had. He possesses that first-rate sort of style that
never makes one pause and remark how good and
clever it is. Its “distinction” is the distinction
of just being good. You feel that his writing is
good as you read along ; it never occurs to you to
ask why; and if the writer took any particular
pains to make his writing as it is he has success-
fully concealed them. Clean-cut, nervous, flexible
simple English English—that is what Barton
writes. A scholarly style withal, yet one as free
from academic rigidity as it is free from deca-
dent preciosity and every other end-of-the-cen-
tury affectation. And this sort of style is, for
nine out of ten given literary uses, about as good
as you can desire.
Though George Barton’s intellectual temper was
that of the man of letters before aught else, he
never showed signs of oapacity for being
anything beyond a first-rate journalist and maga-
zine writer. He reyealed no imaginative
gift. His faculty is essentially the critical one.
He has been fairly various, but always within the
limitations of magazine and newspaper work.
He once wrote a burlesque entitled “ Oberon,” in
which, old Sydney playgoers may remember, the
vivacious and engaging Lady Don played the
title-rdle. It was a very smart extravaganza in
the manner of Planche, Byron and Burnand when
those playrights were at their best (circa the era
of Ixion and the “Field of the Cloth of Gold”),
and, perhaps, had he had the opportunity, he might
have written light comedy. I never heard that
he ever attempted novel-writing or even short
stories.
George Barton’s social gifts were always emin-
ent and agreeable. He possessed a manner of
singular suavity and attraction. A half hour’s
tete-a-tete with him was at once a social and intel-
lectual pleasure of a rare and delightful kind.
While still a young man he was an admirable
talker, and he developed into an unrivalled table
comrade. His talk was easy, various, full, polished
and witty. You could not take refuge from the
rain under a gable-end with Edmund Burke with-
out being impressed by his mental gifts. I was
never placed in these circumstances with George
Barton, but I may be permitted to say that you
could not meet him by chance on a trip to Manly
without hearing something from him worth the
hearing—some interesting fact in literary history
that you did not know before, some happy and
apposite scrap of literary criticism and the like.
A facile and copious talker, George Barton was
also a good listener, and though fond of argument
and the breathing cut-and-thrust of conversational
sword-play, was almost always open-minded and
courteous to hjs opponent’s contention. He had
a particularly soft and pleasant voice, and in the
most animated junctures of talk conversed with a
gentleness and polish that were apt to disarm the
unwary. For this satin smoothness of touch not
seldom hides a mailed hand, and at the proper
moment George could flash out the swift and con-
clusive retort that left him, for the moment at any
rate, master of the argumentative position.
But as a literary critic Barton usually trended
to leniency. This he has shown again and again
in his judgments on our native-born literature. I
remember his telling me, shortly after the publi-
cation of “ Poets and Prose Writers,” how Kendall
came to him to express his surprised pleasure at
the generous and sympathetic treatment he had
received in that volume. Sydney Punch, during
Barton’s editorship, had on several occasions
laughed at and burlesqued Kendall’s muse, and
the poet had looked for nothing but that he should
be severely handled by Barton in his office of
authoritatively-constituted critic-in-chief of Aus-
tralian literature. It may be added that Barton,
on this occasion, was squally pleased that the poet
should be so unmfi„akeably gratified.
It cannot be said that George Barton’s worldly
success was commensurate with his talents.
Whether it has been in proportion to his industry,
or his moral endowments, or his theological views,
or any other ethical or mental part of the man, I
do not propose to inquire. No very illuminating
solutions have ever been arrived at to puzzles of
that sort—often as the task has been attempted.
Barton certainly had as many chances in life as
most men, and it looks (to the casual eye, at any
rate) as if he had hardly made the most of them.
The tide was at its flood with him more than once,
but each time he seemed to let it ebb again with-
out profit. More than once the gods pressed
a brimming cup of prosperity to his lips, but he
had scarce touched its rim when the flashing
chalice slipped somehow through his fingers.
Which was most at fault, the uncertain hand or
the slippery, fragile vessel, or the careless gods
themselves, who dower us with the right iiand
and rob us with the left—none, I say, may even
approximately determine.
George Barton was never much of a Bohemian.
He “ranged himself” early in life, married a
pretty and charming woman, and was always a by-
no-means sparing cultivator of the hearthside
deities.
George - Bernard Barton has done good and
valuable work for Australian literature, as a
historian, and as a critic ; work that can never be
ignored, and that should not be forgotten. His
place in the early literary annals of New South
Wales is a secure and honourable one. His two
published volumes alone, not to speak of his
numerous miscellaneous writings in the same
direction, are of historic value, and such as all
Australian literary students cannot choose but be
grateful for.
ROBERT RICHARDSON.
Writes “J.R.”
You say (10/8/’01) “ Cuss right, J.R. wrong.” How do
you know ? I gave you a clear and full statement of my
reasons for the view I took. It is a question of opinion
as to the meaning of certain words which are open to two
opposite constructions. lam no more infallible than you
are, and you no more than I. You say : “ J.R. spoke so
authoritatively that we trusted him—and fell in. . . .
Verify your contributor’s quotations. ” That means that I
misled you by a wilful misquotation, and am a liar.
As a matter of fact, my quotation was correct, and if I
was wrong at all it was in misunderstanding the context.
Then you give Ancient Pistol’s advice to his wife. You
should have finished your quotation—
“ Let us to France ; like horse-leeches, my boys,
To suck, to suck, the very blood to suck.”
This of Hastings applies—
“ More pity that the eagle should be mew’d,
While kites and buzzards prey at liberty.”
And Gloster—
“ Wrens make prey where eagles dare not perch.”
That’s enough.—J.R.
J.B, writes—
Unless the Royal Academy and National Gallery, the
Salon and Luxembourg, have altered considerably within
the last few years, very few picture-lovers (in contradis-
tinction to artists) will agree with Mr. Fischer when he
says, “I thought English work a long way ahead of
French at present.”
To the technically untrained (but not necessarily un-
appreciative or uncritical) eye the distinctions of French
Art are its Audacity and Character ; its charms are vivid
(? “ tawdry ”) colouring and emotion portrayed by a
dramatic instinct essentially French. No theme is too
sacred—no realisation too horrible—no creation of the
brain too impossible—for the French artist. Neither is
he wanting in pathos of the homely kind, humour of the
subtler sort. Before these things, the robed aristocracy,
and sweet-faced, well-conducted maidens, and angelic
children, and everlasting landscapes—the half-tones and
pale pinks and blues—the ordinary ideas in pleasant garb
of the Royal Academy, pale and are tame.
Enter a room of the Salon : your mouth waters, you are
attracted almost by force to three or four different points
at once. The picture of Cain—though Doomed is written
upon every line of its canvas, and the God of Calvin sits
behind the picture-frame—is but one powerful picture
among many. For majesty and pose, go to Signol’s
“Woman Taken in Adultery”; for classical beautv, to
Moreau’s “ Orpheus” ; for portraiture, to Bonnat's “Por-
trait of M. L. Cogniet ” ; for painful and sordid realism, to
Tassaert’s “ Unhappy Family ” ; for supernatural horror,
to Azrael, in Delaunay’s “Plague in Rome”; for war
horror, to Beaumont’s “ The Captain’s Booty ” ; for physi-
cal horror, to Sylvestre’s “ Locusta Before Nero demon-
strating the Effect of the Poison Prepared for Britan-
nicus”; for horror wholesale, Bida’s “ Massacre of the
Mamelukes” ; for history, Meissonier’s “ Napoleon 111 at
Solf erino ”; for picturesque quaintness, Breton’s 1 ‘ Blessing
the Crops ” ; for atmosphere and novelty, Guillaumet’s
“ Evening Prayer in the Sahara”; for intensity, Lecomte du
Nouy’s “ Bearers of Bad Tidings”; for conflicting emotion,
Laurens’ “ Excommunication of Robert the Pious” ; for
delicacy in treatment of the nude, Collin’s “Floidal”;
for boyhood (the boyhood of the people), Mile. Bashkirt-
seff’s “Meeting”; for truth and infinity of pathos,
Tassaert’s “ Portrait of a Dead Woman ” ; and for the
“ everydayness of this workday world,” Robert-Fleury’s
“ Aged Women of the Place Navone,” and E. le Roux’s
“New-born Infant.”
The landscapes of the Academy are, foft the most part,
enjoyable. Yet, when you have looked intently at a
dozen or so, you feel as though you had been in the train
a long time and would like to get out. In the Academy
the British matron of the upper middle class is much in
evidence, with the sort of eye of faith, hope for the best,
expression she wears in church ; also papa, who has dined
well, and their girls, who whisper, “ How nice that is ! ”
In the National Gallery no person is in evidehce, and any-
one who should try to fathom the numerous landscapes
purporting to result from the efforts of an individual
named Turner is liable to overbalance his or her brain.
The Salon and the Luxembourg are always well-filled—
the workmen in their blue blouses gesticulate and argue
Boftly. I do not believe the British workman ever
darkens the door of the Academy. He prefers to leave
his shilling at thff Alhambra or the Zoo.
While Mr. Fischer feels himself (no doubt with good
reason) uplifted into a higher realm of art by “ the tone
on the plums” and the “atmosphere round the girl’s
arm ” (La Thangue, who was responsible for the tone and
atmosphere, ought to have been French, anyhow !) the
mere picture-lover will obstinately hanker after vital grip
and feeling, and—variety.
Unmounted photos., perfectly finished, of all the best
Salon and Luxembourg paintings can be bought in Paris
for 4d. each. In the town of Canterbury you pay 2s. for
unmounted photo, (same size) of the cloisters of Canter-
bury Cathedral. Truly Art
“ Is of the English life a thing apart.”
You leave the Academy tired with the stodgy tiredness
of a wet day shut up in a town house. You leave the
Salon tired with the tiredness of the occasional play-
goer, who has laughed, cried, and sat breathless, and
eaten French lollies between the acts.
France has lost much—may she keep her Art !
G. B. Barton, who died last week from initw-
enza in his middle sixties, was a man of letters
whose talent has been equalled but rarely in this
country. His volume of The History of New
South Wales is the best of the series ; and his book
on The Poets and Prose- Writers of New South Wales
was the first worthy book of Australian literary
criticism : indeed, after some score of years have
passed, it is our only book of literary criticism that
counts. The writer of the friendly sketch of
Barton’s life in another column decides that he
sacrificed what is commonly called “success in life.”
His treasured independence was well worth the
sacrifice. Barton truckled to none. He hated
shams, he despised dullards; and he resolutely
expressed himself at all hazards, in his writings
and in his life. His love of truth and justice was
almost savage in its sincerity. An Australian, he
loved his country ; an intellectual cosmopolitan,
he loathed the shameful conduct of Britain to the
Boers. Naturally he was a person distasteful to
time-servers and sycophants. But he died happily
in harness, with his self-respect intact, and he
carried to his grave the esteem of the few who
could appreciate his character—an honour out-
weighing all the applause of the mean-minded
mob.
Bush commentary—
The teacher culled by the Bathurst Free Press (Aug.
10) seems to me a very fictitious person. Fancy a real
live teacher letting the children’s hats lie in “ a heap ” on
the floor for want of two-pennyworth of 2-inch nails !
Teachers may be curious—surely none of them is posi-
tively dirty? Nature never intended the consumptive
youth with a precarious appetite for a teacher. And,.
“ however gentlemanly he may be,” what notice does he
expect the Dept, to take of the fact ? Govt, has taken a
contract to provide facilities (apparently of a very lacka-
daisical order) for plain education to children on “ a
marshy island in the Manning River,” and m other locali
ties where persons who are induced to “go on the land ”
live and move and have their being. Should the Dept,
institute a supplemental exam, in deportment,
and send those who come out on top to places
where they are likely \to receive sacrificial offer-
ings of food and bedding ? The Dept. know T s that
the “ however gentlemanly he' may be ” qualification is
often connected with the tailor and barber tribe, and
with a surface soil of manner which may or may not be
an indication of productive strata beneath. Also, the
gentlemanly.teacher is strangely inconsistent in his desire
for personal comfort. He forgets to make the children
bring in dry bark and sticks every evening, and has to
“ grope ” for his socks under a pile of old coats. An
increase of salary would do him no harm ; it would soothe
his mind, and would, at any rate, enable him to hire a
small boy to look after his socks and the dry firing.
The poor, dull, bootless girl is no worse, and in some
respects much better, than the cunning, pert, “difficult”
street? child, often taught in Sydney schools.— Johs
Carew.
The correspondent cheerful and cheerless —
Jane : Very well, he shall be Old Rosin the B-oh-double-
you. But, as the ladies loved him, he might very well
have been personified as the B-ee-eh-you ... Perce:
Lond. literary thievery can be stopped if it were
thought worth while—at the cost of a little money
and a good deal of trouble... .S. O’B. : “ Hebblethwaite’s
romantic' figure of the old grandmother crooning Educa-
tion is alright, but many grandmothers croon exploded
fallacies and idiotic superstitions. Too many old
grandmothers are crooning in our Education depts. at
the present time—crooning songs and lessons in praise of
kings and queens and soldiers and prelates, as ‘ educa-
tion ’ for budding Australians. What we want is a patent
national grandmother built to croon Australia up-to-date
and beyond date.”


M DOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
IVTDOUGALL BROS., 8 Spring: Street, Sydney.
Agents: JpyT.Z. !<■ Jfe. 3V£. -A.. Co.. TL,±cL. LOCAL AGENTS EVERYWHERE
WOOL
SEND
YOUR
WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
If you want to gat the best possible
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.
Wool and Produce Brokers.
Consolidated Charge \
for Selling Wool J
2s Per Cent.
/Includes all Charges excepting
\cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
try orders.
Tails. ir*laits.
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS and PLAITS,
20in. loner, 5/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6; 24in.,
10/6; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address”:- W. H. WIGZELL,
lIP WILLIAM-ST., Comer of Palmer-st.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
Wigs made on shortest notice.
The Ways of Many Waters
Collects the dashing ballads and verses of sailor-men s
and wharf-men’s life whichJS. J. Brady has contributed
to The Bulletin and the Sunday Times, Sydney. It is
the first attempt on the part of an Australian verse-
writer to chant the life on the sea and the margins of
the sea ; though there is one horse-poem—the story of
“ How Tack Bowlin Steered 1 Jones.’ ” The volume is
bound in buckram, with gilt top, in a size that will go
into a pocket without squeezing; and the price is ss.j
post-free.
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY
THERAPION
This suc-
cessful
and highly
popular remedy, as employed in the Continental Hospi-
tals by Ricord, Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others,
combines all the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of
the kind, and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1 maintains its world-renowned
and well-merited reputation for derangements of the
kidneys, pains in the back, and kindred ailments, afford-
ing prompt relief where other well-tried remedies have
been powerless.
THERAPION No. 2, for impurity of the blood,
scurvy, pimples, spots, blotches, pains and swellings of
the joints, gout, rheumatism, and all diseases for which
it has been too much a fashion to employ mercury, sarsa-
parilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’ teeth and ruin
of health. This preparation purifies the whole system
through the blood, and thoroughly eliminates every
poisonous matter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3, for exhaustion, sleeplessness,
and all the distressing consequences of dissipation, worry,
overwork, etc. It possesses surprising power in restoring
strength and vigor to those suffering from the enervating
influences of long residences in hot, unhealthy climates.
THERAPION
may be procured of the
principal Chemists and
Merchants throughout the world. Price in England, 2s. 9d.
and 4s. 6d. In ordering state which of the three numbers
is required, and observe that the word “ Tiierapion ”
appears on the British Government Stamp (in white
letters on a red ground) affixed to every genuine package
by order of His Majesty’s Hon. Commissioners, and with-
out which it is a forgery.
HAVE THE
BEST.
1 )
(1
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operated, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The La,era, Wire, are ,vxrf.y «M?*f <** <*f **tS
eecure,, a, any Oeeirei
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS |rr| ___
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIK»E PENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
NEITHER
CRACK
*8
seoa
NOR BURN.
JP
0°
5800
5807
CBB
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE. —Should any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipe* Crack or Burn a
New One will be Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
Sold by all TOBACCONISTS. By POST, la. Id.
Mick Simmons, haymarket, Sydney.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMOMT.
Sole Cliargel 3 Per Cent! to tb.e Growers.
BONUS | PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Broken who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
“On Our Selection,” By “ Steele Rudd.”
WHY WARNER'S SAFE CURE CURES.
RHEUMATISM
GOUT
NEURALGIA
LUMBAGO
BACKACHE
SCIATICA
BLOOD DISORDERS
ANAEMIA
INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS
SICK HEADACHE
GENERAL DEBILITY
GRAVEL
BLADDER TROUBLES
BRIGHT’S DISEASE
For the full understanding of the curative action
of Warner’s Safe Cure, it is necessary to bear in
mind the processes of nature by which human life
is maintained. Reduced to their essential prin-
ciples, these processes are simply the wasting and
renewal of the tissues of the body.
It is absolutely necessary to life that the body
should waste away, and that its substance should
be renewed by food, water, and fresh air. Night
and day this process of waste and replaceman goes
on unceasingly. Every time a man draws breath
his body gains in weight by the oxygen, etc., taken
from the air, and every time he breathes out it
loses weight by the carbonio acid and moisture
given forth.
Insensibly, too, the body is losing weight all the
time. You can prove this by placing your hand
on a cold piece of polished glass, when you will
see that moisture given forth by the skin has con-
densed. Were the body to be entirely covered
with a coat of waterproof varnish, death would
quickly result.
Apart from the skin and lungs, the organs em-
ployed in this process of waste are the kidneys and
liver, and the maintenance of those organs in
thorough working order is the grand secret of good
health.
The Kidneys. —The function which the kidneys
perform is to filter the blood and otherwise
separate from it the surplus water and the various
impurities which it contains. These impurities
are urea, uric acid, and mineral matter, which,
with water, constitute the urine.
When the kidneys have done their work, the
purified blood is delivered to the veins, and is
returned to the heart, having in its course
traversed the body and become laden with a fresh
supply of waste matter. The heart again delivers
the blood to the kidneys, which once more filter
it and extract the impurities. This process is
continuous.
The Liver. —The part the liver plays in the
process of waste is chiefly the manufacturing from
the blood the liquid called “ Bile,” which is
delivered by the liver into the intestines, and acts
as a natural cathartic.
The liver and kidneys are very sensitive organs.
Sudden chills, fever, alcoholic intemperance, and
tropical heat are all liable to congest the liver and
reduce it to an abnormal condition. The kidneys
are exceedingly susceptible to inflammation. An
ordinary feverish cold, which closes the pores and
hinders the skin in performing its share in the
removal of the waste products of the body, throws
a burden of extra work upon the kidneys which
they may be unable to perform. Influenza, or
any kind of fever, taxes the kidneys unduly, and
may cause them to break down under the strain.
Any inflammation of the kidneys is very apt to
affect the liver, and vice versa.
Should the liver or kidneys, or both, become
unable to fulfil their purpose thoroughly, then the
blood becomes laden with urinary and biliary
poisons, which are carried to every part of the
body.
Sometimes these poisons become deposited in
the joints or tissues, and cause Rheumatism,
Lvmibago, Sciatica, or Gout. In other cases the
blood, being contaminated, is in an unfit condition
to absorb nutriment, which causes Anaemia,
Neuralgia, digestive troubles, and Debility. In
other cases the supply of bile to the intestines
being inadequate, Constipation, with its attendant
evils result; in others, Biliousness. In others
again the impurity of the blood develops boils and
skin eruptions. Sometimes the uric acid is
deposited in the kidneys and produces Stone,
Gravel, and urinary and bladder troubles.
The reason, then, that Warner’s Safe Cure cures
so many apparently diverse disorders is that they
all proceed from one cause, namely -the inability
of the kidneys or liver to do their work properly,
and so rid the blood of these poisons in the
manner provided by nature.
Warner’s Safe Cure has complete mastery over
functional and chronic liver and kidney derange-
ments, and by restoring those vital organs to
health and activity, does away with the cause of
these several complaints. When the kidneys and
liver are efficiently carrying out the wonderful
scheme of work allotted to them by nature, none
of the disorders here enumerated can exist.
A pamphlet containing fuller particulars
relating to Warner’s Safe Cure and the diseases it
cures will be sent post free to any address on
application to H. H. Warner and Co., Limited,
Australasian Branch, $2B to 532 Little Lonsdale
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.


TATTERSALL’S.
Address : Care GEO. ADAMS, Hotoart.
Demonstration H. October 1.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
above.
Name
• i;
Address .
Caulfield C. Oct. 19.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me __ shares in the above.
Name
Address
Caulfield C. (Special)
(DRAWN MORNING OF RACE)
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS A TYL.
Please allot shares in the above.
Nome __
Address
£ t t
Melbourne C. Nov. 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL,
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name
£
Address.
*
i
Melbourne C. (Special)
(DEAWN MORNING OF RACE)
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
MELBOURNE 0. November 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 20-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_ shares in the
above.
’ t }
‘V (Ay
JNaine __
Address
£ t
„ ALSO
OPEN ON
SandLiiurat 0., 27tH|]xrov, 100,000=at 5.
3XTewoastl© 0., 12th. Dec., 50,000 at 5.
Summer 0., 26th Dec., 50,000 at 5.
Carrington s., 28th Dec., 50,000 at 5.
Brighton P„ Ist Jan., 25,000 at 5.
For full particulars read our Printed Circular.
Address “Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


MGIERS
PelroM
f EMSIOM J
A/mi HYPOPHOSPHETM,
FOR
WEAK LUNGS
AND ALL CHRONIC
Lung Affections.
THE best proof of the value of Angier’s
Petroleum Emulsion in the treat-
ment of Consumption and Chronic
Lung Affections is the fact that it is
prescribed extensively by eminent lung
specialists and is used in the large con-
sumption hospitals. Under its use appe-
tite is healthfully stimulated, digestion,
assimilation and nutrition greatly im-
proved, and a greater vitality and power
of resisting disease secured. It has also
great power to relieve the distressing
symptoms of Phthisis, such as coughs,
night sweats, and diarrhoea. We con-
fidently claim that it will do more to
prevent and cure Consumption than any
other remedy. Unlike Coa Liver Oil, it ia
pleasant to take and agrees with and
benefits the most delicate stomach.
A FREE SAMPLE
On receipt of 4d. for postage.
Mention Sydney Bulletin.
Do not accept inferior imitations made with
ordinary Petroleum.
BE SURE TO GET ANGIER’S.
Of all Chemists & Drug Stores.
THE AMQIFR CHEMICAL CO., LTD., BYDNEY, N.B.W.
f
The warning cough is the
faithful sentinel. It tells of
the approach of consump-
tion, which has killed more
people than war and pesti-
lence combined. It tells of
painful chests, sore lungs,
weak throats, bronchitis,
and pneumonia. Do not
suffer another day. It’s use-
less, for there’s a prompt and
safe cure. A cure for fresh colds
and old colds, easy coughs and hard
coughs
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
It often cures a fresli cold in a single
night, and it masters chronic coughs
and bronchitis ;n a short time. Con-
sumption is certainly prevented, and
cured, too, if taken in time.
If anybody tells you that consump-
tion cannot be cured, they are certainly
mistaken, for we have thousands of
these cases reported to us, absolutely
cured, and no mistake about it.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral Plaster placed
directly over the tender, aching lung
is a great aid to the Cherry Pectoral.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
©
PAKRoT
Brand;
£WpTuf
tetoP lUrw
COO6HS (PIPS lc J
[Beware of >
Imitations
LADIES.^
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FR BOOK
CONOERNUTG YOURSELVES.
ADDRBsa —L.D.I.j 300 Collin* St., Melbourne
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SILK STRIPE
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbaa*, Q'land.
Australia!) tyGtiial ProVidept Society
MONET TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and O.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street,'Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
———g*
mug
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 IOSr
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
HSIT Send for a
Catalogue.
r-w
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT? NOTICE to
buyers of Eight Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HIIjIiIER., 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
m
vwWV
WHOLESALE
Distributing: Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & GO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.,
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchurch.
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK OUCHT TO CONTAIN A BOTTLE of
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
*
For Preventing* & Curing by Natural Means
All Functional Derangements of tlie Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold,
Influenza, Throat Aflfections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
TESTIMONIAL. —“ I have been a nurse for ten years, and have nursed cases
of scarlet fever, pyamiia, erysipelas, measles, gangrene, cancer, and almost every
mentionable disease. During this time I have not been ill for a single day, and
this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a
pure state. I recommend it to all my patients during convalescence. Its
value as a means of health cannot be overestimated.”— A Professional
Nurse ( Qualified ).
THE EFFECT OF ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. IT IS, IN FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION —See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it, you have a
° i iv/m. J' WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘FBTJIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
laslsi . j » r | j
m
« •
(00 K.W. Three-phase Generator
GANZ&G«
DYNAMOS, MOTORS.
EVERYTHING ELECTRIC.
Expert Advice Free.
Sole Agents -for Australasia s
The Austral Otis Engineering Co. Ltd.
SOUTH MELBOURNE.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When In town, pay us a visit. Eo you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Prioe List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Busies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptio nof vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.— Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we oan. They oaanot do so, and you pay 16 per
oent more for your requlrsments-
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Rodfern, SYDNEY
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
af
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Bards of the Bacblocks.
Broken Hill—the grimy place where they
produce silver, lead, maimed men and miners’
widows—had at least one institution that it looked
on with satisfaction: its hospital. Sick of the
begging and cadging which alone keeps most
N.S.W. country hospitals going, and sick also of
feeling that when they were taken to the hospital
they were accepting charity, the miners made a
bargain with the hospital board, the mining co’s.
and the Government. They authorised the co’s.
to keep back a halfpenny in the £ on their wages,
on condition that the co’s. subsidised that amount
equally and paid the lot to the hospital, and the
Government, as usual, paid £ for £. In return,
the men nominated a third and the co’s. a third of
the members of the board of management; and
the hospital undertook to provide accommodation
for every suitable case. The scheme was a com-
Slete success—perhaps the most successful ever
evised in Australia for maintaining a hospital;
and latterly it became possible to reduce the con-
tributions by 50 per cent. Without warning,
however, the Truck Act unintentionally knocked
out the scheme, since it prohibited deductions by
any employer from his workmen’s wages. A too-
comprehensive amending Bill, to climb over the
difficulty, was voted down by the Assembly ; but
another try is to be made—this time limiting the
operations of the amending Bill to Broken Hill.
On Lachlan SidE
Silk crests upon their clothing and silver on the
gear,
With roller-hood and quarter-cloth they load their
favorites here;
But sheltering in the timber where half his com-
rades died
The pearl of all good horses runs out on Lachlan
Side !
Six hundred for a team to drive, and eighty for a
hack !
Full-fed, and blown and weary with their ten miles
out and back !
Not one to see a muster through or stand a station
ride
With a horse that I could name you on the Lachlan
River Side !
Straw-bedded to the fetlocks they tug their clover
hay!
Their corn is in the manger set, four full feeds in
the day !
But out upon the wintry flats with bones that
stretch his hide
A better than the best of them goes loose on
Lachlan Side !
I’d give the loafing stable-full, the best of box and
stall,
For one game-headed warrior whose heart could
hold them all !
Ah ! the nights are cold in August where the
station hackneys bide,
I hope they’ll spare a rug for one that runs on
Lachlan Side!
ENG.
WILL OGILVIE.
The Boot of Fate.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We’re a God-forsaken legion, and we lift our
heads with pride,
Or sit, blown with self-importance, in the saddles
we bestride,
Caring not for Fate’s grim shadow or for Des-
tiny’s bequests,
For Conceit has set a temple for self-worship in
our breasts;
Ever striving for a fancy or a yearning undefined,
While our ears are deaf to footsteps that are
creeping up behind, —
Till the rough-shod foot has touched us, and our
folly shows too late,
And we’re kicked from out our stirrups by the
ruthless Boot of Fate.
There are wreaths of fame and glory that we fancy
we can win:
“Nothing surer—very easy,” comes the whisper
from within ;
And our pride and self-importance make us eager
to compete,
But we wonder what has struck us when we’re
lifted from our seat.
When a woman’s smile has lured us—to the Fiend
with spur and whip !
Shall we think of girth and stirrup when we kiss
a ruby lip ?
And we never heed disaster, and we ride a reck-
less gait,
But it takes a practised acrobat to dodge the Boot
of Fate !
Then be gentle, stiff-backed brothers, to the men
who are unhorsed;
Some mad passion of a moment in a smooth career
has forced
Just one reckless, mad, wild gallop when the rein
has hung too slack,
And they did not think old Nemesis was riding on
their track.
Have a feeling for the footmen as you press on in
the race;
There are many who rode like you and who watch
your giddy pace,
And some trifle long-forgotten, that you never
calculate,
May start the cursed lever that controls the Boot
of Fate !
N.S.W.
JAMES F. DWYER.


MONKEY
BRAND
SOAP
Makes Tin like Silver;
Copper like Gold;
Brass like Mirrors;
Windows like Crystal;
Crockery like Marble.
Cleanses and polishes at one and the same ttme.
Does not polish the dirt in, polishes the dirt out.
Cleans and Brightens everything, but
Won’t Wash Clothes ,
Solid Gold, set with Pearls, or Pearls and
Turquoise, 18s.
Without Chain and Heart or Bell, 16s 6d.
ART
Jewellers;
fcc.
90 King St
Sydney*
Telepnone 3642.
Please Send
for our
CATALOGUE.
ALL GOODS
POST FREE.
Latests
Solid Gold Heart and
Lovers’ Knot Brooch,
21s.
Set with Pearls or
Pearls and Turquoise.
Solid Gold Mizpah and Cross Brooch, lls.
' With Chain and Heart or Bell, 12s 6d.
Solid Gold and Real Amethyst
Faith, Hope and Charity Brooch, 10s 6d each.
Special Value.
it
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6a. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
“podge”
Mood Split pulleys
All Sizes kept in Stock.
SOLE AGENTS:
N. <jUTHRIP<*€ Ltd.,
71 Clarence St., Sydney.
SEND FOR CATALOG.-9S
a'-
Those
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
-
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
ALL CHEMISTS.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
One Star
and
Three Star
Brandy
has
the
Largest Sale
in
the World.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
l\
Purely a
matter of
REFRIGERATION
Re THOSE COLD ROOMS or FREEZING CHAMBERS ,
Have you decided what Insulation you will use ?
Here’s a Table showing the relative
values of various Insulating Materials.
(by chas. e. emery.)
Non-Conductor I
Wood Felt
Mineral Wood No. 2
Mineral Wood with Tar
Saw Dust
Mineral Wood No. 1
Charcoal
Pumice .. ••
Pine Wood, across fibre
Loam, dry and open
Slacked Lime
Gas House Carbon ..
Asbestos
Coal Ashes
Coke, in lumps
Air Space, undivided
1.000
.832
.715
.680
.676
.632
.632
.553
.550
.480
.470
.363
.345
.277
.136
BUT
none of them are worth the space they occupy if any form of moisture is
allowed to come in contact with them.
A great desideratum, therefore, is to exclude all moisture from the
insulation. To do this an absolutely moisture-proof protection must be
provided, one that will stand the great range and variety of temperature
incident to chilling and freezing rooms without deterioration. It must
also be capable of withstanding the shrinkage of the timbers to which it is
attached.
Many materials have been tried, and for a time have given question-
able satisfaction. Some papers are made temporarily waterproof by the
use of oils, which (in a short time) are absorbed by the boarding against
which they are laid, which leaves the paper totally unfit for waterproof
insulation. Other papers never were and never will be wa^P r °° f !
although so represented. P& B Insulating Paper (impregnated) and
P & B Ruberoid Roofing are, however, the only materials which have
stood the test of time and are known to furnish complete immunity from
moisture. The cost of insulation with P& B Paper or P& B Ruberoid is
approximately the same. We therefore say unhesitatingly—
USE P& B
INSULATING PAPER
RUBEROID ROOFING
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.,
BYDNEY AND
BRISBANE,
Agents.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 22.—N0. 1127.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1901.
Prick 6d.
THE PRICE OF IMPERIALISM.
YOUNG AUSTRALIA: “And so I’ve got to take all this lot or none of ’em!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
• TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... & 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ••• (Job
Hotice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, ivith 2s. S2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition o/ljd. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—(ld. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tjie Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tiie Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and aJJ, Business Communications
to be addressed'to William Slaoleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J, F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
" Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jilack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions, under which
•such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street tfe Co., Comhill.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 8 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1901.
The £4,000,000 Loan and Other Loans.
A few days ago New South Wales floated a
new £4,000,000 loan in London, to the great
anger of some other States, which also
intended holding out the familiar hat of
mendicant Australia in the usual quarter,
and which found themselves forestalled.
The London market has partly recovered
from its late illness, and is able to get about
again, but, all the same, it can’t stand many
big Australian loans in rapid succession just
at present—hence the ill-feeling above-men-
tioned. All over Australasia just now there
appears to be an idea that the period of
local loans is over, either wholly or to a great
extent, for the time being, and that it is time
for this country to howl again at the door of
its old 4 and 5 per cent, benefactor, John
Bull. Not that these States ever really
ceased to make hungry appealing noises at J.
Bull’s portal, or ever really took to supply-
ing their own financial requirements ; but
for a few years they raised a considerable
proportion of their borrowings from their
own people, and only howled partly on their
distant relative’s premises for assistance.
But lately there has become manifest a feel-
ing that they should howl there more com-
pletely and unanimously.
* * * *
There is no visible necessity behind this
feeling, for money is not at present unusually
scarce in Australasia. At latest advices
(last June) there was £22,786,680 of coin
and bullion in the banks of this country,
which is less than there has been at some
recent periods, yet it is a million and a
quarter more than there was at some dates
in 1898. Also it is rather more than there
was three months ago, so at present the
stock is rather increasing than diminishing.
All the local borrowing that has been done
of late yeans—and there has been a good
deal of it—has made no permanent reduction
in this country’s accumulation of cash, as
shown by the banking returns. These are
the stocks of coin in the banks, taking no
account of the (probably) four or five
millions in private hands, for the June
quarters of the last four years :
June, 1898 £21,948,095
» 1899 21,180,965
>. 1900 25,006,727
» 1901 22,786,680
The temporary inflation of a year ago has
not been maintained, but, despite much bor-
rowing in the local market during the last
three years, there is more money in that
market than there was three years ago. The
money borrowed locally was also spent
locally ; it remained in the country, and the
fact that it had been borrowed makes no
difference whatever in the fact that it is
there available to be borrowed again. Also,
it is fully as available to be taken by the
Government in the form of taxation as to be
taken in the form of loan.
* * •* *
If Australasia was a country with a
very scanty stock of available cash,
then there might be some excuse for the
policy of floating large loans in England or
other foreign parts. If the money was
not here, then the Governments couldn’t
well find it here, either by taxation
or by floating loans. But this country is
better supplied in proportion to its popula-
tion than most others. It isn’t good to
inquire too closely where it got this supply.
The important fact is that it is here. And if
only Australasia gets no further in debt, and
so far restricts its imports of merchandise by
a Protective system that it can pay for them
and cover the interest on its foreign liabili-
ties, and, possibly, pay a little off the prin-
cipal, by its export of merchandise and by its
new output of gold and silver, the stock
isn’t likely to diminish. The following are
the supplies of gold and silver money per
head in the five countries which possess the
largest hoards, as set forth in Coghlan’s
‘‘ Wealth and Progress of N.S. W.,” page 939:
Gold per Silver per Coin per
Inhabitant. Inhabitant. Inhabitant.
France .. ..£4 6 7 £2 4 10 £6 11 5
Australasia .. 5 18 1 057 638
United States .. 2 11 1 1 15 2 463
Germany.. .. 2 12 6 0 16 9 393
Great Britain and
Ireland .. 2 6 3 0 12 7 2 17 10
Considering that Australasia has the largest
stock of gold per inhabitant in the world,
and the largest combined stock of gold and
silver per inhabitant in the world, the neces-
sity for floating £4,000,000 loans in England
or anywhere else, isn’t very apparent. With
all this available coin it should be possible to
raise what is wanted locally by loans, or still
better, by taxation. The public works ex-
penditure doesn’t leave the country, or the
portion that leaves it is an infinitesimal
fraction. If every penny of this country’s
public works outlay was raised locally it
wouldn’t diminish the country’s cash assets.
Yet there is a foolish and unaccountable
legend that this country must, of necessity,
go borrowing from States that have less
money lying around loose than Australasia
itself possesses!
* % * * *
The alleged necessity doesn’t arise because
the public works expenditure is anything
very extraordinary. It is made to look
extraordinary by classing as public works an
immense number of items that, in other
countries, are treated as mere ordinary ex-
penditure, but that is only an arithmetical
delusion. Nor is it because taxation is
already very %eavy. The revenue and ex-
penditure are made to look unusually large
by including in them the whole railway
receipts and outgoings ; and by putting into
the national accounts items that many other
countries leave Local Government bodies to
provide for ; but Australasia is not, on the
whole, a heavily-burdened country, though
by reason of the increase of its debt it is
steadily getting that way. The explanation of
the present tendency to float another mass of
large Australasian loans in London is that the
local market won’t provide the money on the
old terms. The local market has the money,
but there is an inclination to ask for higher
rates than recently. It wants per cent,
just now, and it may even want 3f or 4 per
cent, for a new loan with which to repair old
roads, and dredge old rivers that have been
dredged with previous loans and have
silted up again, and to rebuild old bridges
(not yet paid for) that have worn out,
and do other like works. And if the
local market was applied to for a loan
to pay civil service salaries, and to meet the
half-year’s interest on the public debt, and
the military charges, and the wages of tram-
way conductors and railway officials, it would
probably meet the application in exactly the
same way. But even an O’Sullivan doesn’t
ask the local market how it feels about these
matters ; he simply takes the money by
taxation. In like manner he takes the
money to pay interest on English loans
raised for public works. These things are
regarded as a matter of course. But to take
the money for the works themselves and
have no English loans is contrary to the
insane and drunken precedents of this great
country —Pkovidence only knows why.
* * * *
The new Cornstalk loan of £4,000,000 will
make the debt of N.S.W. about £75,000,000.
It will bring a lot of money into the State,
and in two years or so there will almost cer-
tainly be no more money in the State than
there is now. Also, there will be no more
property by reason of the loan ; it is floated
merely to pay for the transfer of certain
existing properties from private owners to
the State. The State will owe £4,000,000
extra, and there will be £130,000 a year
extra to pay in interest, but while the
liability will last for an absolutely unlimited
period, the benefit will be a mere temporary
ripple on the surface. In the days of the
old financial razzle-dazzle Australasia has
borrowed close on £12,000,000 in London in
one year, and the cash in the seven States
only showed an increase of £300,000. It has
also, in one recent year, borrowed as much
as £4,000,000 locally without the cash in the
country showing any diminution, and if
it had raised that £4,000,000 locally by
taxation the result would have been the
same. The only probable gain through the
See-O'Sullivan £4,000,000 British loan
will be that, for a year or two, there will
be a slight extra activity in trade—
that imports will look up for a while—
that there will be less room for local industry
through imports looking up —and when the
temporary excitement is over the exports
of this country will have to show £130,000
a year more of a margin over the imports
because there will be that much more to pay
to our foreign creditor.
m * m m
The four years from 1896 to 1900 were
years when foreign borrowing was about at
its lowest in Australasia. During that period
these States relied more on their own
resources than they had done fora very long
time. They were years when agriculture
expanded enormously, and the manufacturing
population increased in that brief period
more than it had done in 15 previous
years. In the old boom days of the
big English loans manufactures were prac-
tically stationary, and agriculture progressed
slowly, and Australasia devoted itself mostly
to the useless haulage of goods bought with
loans, to founding financial institutions, to
drinking the borrowed money, and to mar-
velling at its own genius for bringing about
such an unexampled state of prosperily.
Most of the country’s solid progress has been
within the few recent years when it gave
the English money market something ap-
proaching a rest; and if it had totally
abjured foreign borrowing instead of only
doing so in part, the progress would
probably have been very much greater.
The Commonwealth now contrives to export
£13,000,000 worth more goods than it im-
ports, and the difference pays a good part of
its annual liability to the enormous foreign
creditor without in any way reducing its cash
resources. If it wholly swore off foreign bor-
rowing it would probably contrive to export
£16,000,000 more than it imports, and pay
the whole of its annual liability—also with-
out reducing its local cash resources. If
it decided to begin wiping off the principal
of its foreign debt, it would probably find it
quite possible to export £20,000,000 more
than it imports. It is only necessary to
keep down the imports by a rigid system of
Protection ; to make more boots and clothes,
and to buy less abroad ; to employ more men
in factories and fewer at hauling the produce
of foreign factories off foreign ships at our
wharves ; and to pay no heed to the glozing
voice of the interested importer who rells
this country, for his own mean and selfish
ends, that what it wants is to buy from his
bagman lots of foreign goods sent out by his
London warehouse, and to let local industry
slide. And, on the other hand, if See,
O’Sullivan and co. have their way, and the
foreign-loan policy resumes on a large scale,
imports may soon exceed exports again, as
they did in 1891 and previous years, and
this country’s industries may easily get back
again to the stagnant level of 1891, when
they were not much more than half their
present dimensions. Then the good old
days, when Australia did little real work,
but stood around in a long-tailed coat and a
shiny tall hat founding bogus banks, may
come back again in all their glory and all
their consequences.
“The Bulletin” hears from some
Aldermen.
The Bulletin has received a bulky document
purporting to be a scheme for creating a Federated
Municipal Council for Greater Sydney, while
still preserving the 43 existing municipal councils
with their mayors and aldermen, their separate
bottles of refreshment in the mayoral cupboard,
their gauds, frills, dignities, pomps, and appur-
tenances. Why, in the name of all that is won-
derful, a city of less than 500,000 people should
want 44 municipal bodies passes all comprehen-
sion. It is proposed that nobody shall be eligible,
to sit in the great boss council unless he is already
a local alderman, which is about as effective a way
of blighting the usefulness of the Greater Sydney
Council as could well be imagined. Plenty of
good and capable men would be willing to
go up for election to such a body if they
could get there without first crawling through
a preliminary servitude in a petty back
street body, which is of little account now,
and which, when its most important functions
are delegated to a superior council, will be of no
account at all. The idea is as foolish as if it was
proposed that the billet of Premier should be
elective, only churchwardens to stand for election.
The great object is to get away from the existing
type of alderman ; not to get him in an aggravated
form. But the scheme now on hand has been
drawn up by a conference of aldermen, and their
first idea was evidently to make themselves a per-
manent ornament of the N.S.W. metropolis; to
preserve all their present billets by keeping the
43 existing councils in full blast; and to make new
billets (for which they alone shall be eligible) by
establishing a 44th council as well.
* * * *
It is a sorrowful thing to find the 43 sets of
aldermen buzzing round the question of municipal
reform in any capacity. Municipal reform is
wanted because most of these aldermen are incom-
petent and superfluous. Because they are incom-
petent they can’t be trusted with the work of draft-
ing a reform scheme, and it is impossible to expect
them to recognise their own superfluity. Their
prompt attempt to swell their own dignity by
making only themselves eligible for seats on the
Council of Greater Sydney, and their scheme for
preserving all their existing uselessness, and their
instantaneous howling at the front door of the
Government for financial assistance (for they are
already crying out for pauper aid in the way of a
subsidy) are too melancholy for words. What is
wanted is a Government with grit enough to
ignore the buzzing of the 43 sets of aldermen, and
to refer the matter directly to the people. It
should draft a comprehensive scheme, and then
take a vote of all the municipalities upon it, and
let the aldermen slide. The people come first.
The aldermen come last, if they come at all.
* • • *
The only difficulty in the way of union, apart
from the dismal self-importance of' 43 sets of
aldermen, lies in the fact that the existing muni-
cipalities are not equally in debt, or equally
insolvent. Some have good assets, and some have
only an unpaid gas-bill, and a dead fly and a
broken venetian-blind on the council chamber
window. But even this matter can be got over,
if the persons concerned really desire to get over
it. Each existing municipality might form a
ward of Greater Sydney. According to its
population it could have 20 representatives, or
two, or half a representative—among the very
small ones two could divide a representative
between them. Their assets (apart from roads
and streets, which would be thrown in) could be
valued by an independent commission appointed
bytheGovernment—its members could be brought,
if necessary, from another State to ensure their
absolute disinterestedness. These assets would be
taken over by the Greater Sydney Council at the
price thus fixed, and the amount deducted, from
each ward’s debt. Then in each ward a separate
rate could be levied for the extinction of the old
separate debts. It could be graduated according
to the size of the debt, so that all the old liabilities
would become extinct about the same time. And
when the last of them were extinguished, the old
divisions would no longer be required ; they could
be abolished in one lot, and the city divided into
wards on a more sensible plan. All debts con-
tracted after the Greater Sydney Council was
established would be the debts of the whole metro-
politan area, and it would only be necessary to
perpetuate the existing divisions until the old,
separate liabilities were liquidated
• mm*
Under this system no one of the 43 existing
municipalities would get ahead of the other, or
shove its debts on the other, or have the
other’s debts shoved on it. It would be a
matter of only a few years to clear up
what remained of the existing financial confusion
after credit was given for the assets surrendered.
And it would be possible to immediately abolish
the 43 existing gangs of aldermen, and create in
their stead a Greater Sydney Council with govern-
ing powers over the 43 municipalities and probably
a considerable stretch of additional territory. This
body could be given power to control street-traffic,
water, sewerage and tramways, to acquire
or establish gas, electric-lighting, hydraulic power
and other works, to compulsorily resume property
for widening or straightening streets, making new
streets, and other improvements, to control
slaughter-houses, markets, fire-brigades, &c., to
build bridges, workmen’s dwellings and all manner
of property, to establish baths, laundries, libraries,
museums, recreation-grounds, to run its own
public-houses, its own ferries, its own Mont
de Piete—in fact, its own anything-it-darned-
well-pleased, or thereabouts. It should have
authority to levy rates up to ss. in the £,
and to borrow money for works only —not for
revenue deficiencies—with a sinking fund attached
to each loan. And its accounts should be State-
audited, it being compulsory on the State auditor,
when the year ends with a deficit, to order a
sufficient increase of rates for next year to put the
accounts straight. And this council should be
elected by adult suffrage, and go bodily for re-
election every third year.
* • • »
If the See-O’Sullivan Ministry can rest awhile
from doing big things with big loans attached, and
do a big thing with no loan attached, it might
draft some such scheme as this, and submit it to a
popular vote for acceptance or rejection. The
people have some right to be considered as well as
the 43 sets of aldermen. The 43 sets of
aldermen can’t be expected to agree on any
scheme of union, for the need of a scheme
of union arises out of the fact that the system
of which these 43 sets of aldermen are the centre
is wholly unsatisfactory. No 43 sets of aldermen
can be expected to see that a system which enables
them to exist officially can be unsatisfactory. It
is very seldom in this world that any person—
especially any undesirable person—abolishes him-
self. It is almost as seldom that he recognises
that he should be abolished. The very fact that
the groundwork of the aldermanic scheme consists
in perpetuating the present crowd, and reserving
for them all the positions in the Greater Sydney
Council, and enabling the present crowd to sit in
two councils, when they have already proved
themselves bad enough in one, shows that the
work is being commenced at the wrong end.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Philp’s Plural Vote.
Robert Philp, Premier of Queensland, in his
desire to fish, after an awkward and unaccustomed
fashion, for democratic support, and his hereditary
instinct to give somebody a plural vote for some-
thing, has landed himself in a curious situation.
His new Electoral Bill abolishes any semblance of
the plural property vote, and comes reasonably
near to establishing manhood and womanhood
suffrage. A man or woman may claim a vote on a
residence qualification provided either has lived 12
months in any part of Queensland, and is living
in the electoral district for which the claim is
made. A person owning property can, appa-
rently, claim a vote without the 12 months’
residence—which is a difference, but still not
enough of a difference to be worth making much
trouble about. But the interesting part of
Philp’s Bill comes in here:
Clause 23: Every male elector who is, or has been
married, and who is, or has been, the father of at least
two children born in Queensland in lawful wedlock shall,
subject to the provisions of this Act, be entitled to give
two votes at any election for the district on the roll of
which his name appears. It is immaterial whether or
not (a) the elector is a widower, or has been judicially
separated or divorced from his wife ; or (b) all or any of
his children have died; or (c) all or any of his children
are presently resident in Queensland.
This clause is calculated to bring some unexpected
fame down on Premier Philp. It makes Queens-
land the only State of the British Empire (at
least, the only one within this writer’s knowledge)
which indirectly penalises other British citizens,
and it makes it the only State in Australia where
one Australian is not as good as another. If a
Queenslander has two children born in Queensland,
one of whom leaves the country, while the other is
hanged at great public expense, he has two votes.
If he has two children that die from neglect, h»


has two votes. If he has two children whom he
doesn’t support, or if his wife has to prooure a
divorce on the ground of cruelty and drunkenness,
and takes the two children across the border,
where she makes an honest crust for them by
washing, still the male remnant that she leaves
behind has two votes. But, on the other hand, the
Englishman, Scotchman, Irishman, Cornsjalk,
Victorian, or other white British subject who
comes to Queensland with a sturdy family of 10,
all of whom settle in the State, can never get
more than one vote, unless he has two more
children born locally. Even the naturalised
nigger who has two children born in Queensland,
no matter what becomes of them, ranks higher as
a voter than the white man who imports a family
of a dozen. Evidently the value and importance
of being born in Queensland is something consider-
able in Premier Philp’s estimation. But,
strangely enough, though the father of
these two local offspring gets an extra
vote the mother gets none. The birth
of two female infants brings an extra vote
to the male parent, but not to the female parent.
This is an anomaly calculated to make the latter
feel angry, especially if her husband is out drink-
ing when the event takes place, and hasn’t pro-
vided the baby-clothes. Further, it doesn’t ap-
pear to be specified that the children must be born
alive, though possibly that is understood ; nor that
they must be in full possession of their faculties.
It isn’t likely that much serious harm will result
from these anomalies; still Philp’s Bill is a
curious evidence of that habit of mind which can’t
be content with simple equality, and which
must needs give somebody an extra vote
for something. In a general way it is
much better to give a man an extra
vote for having two honestly-acquired children
than for having a (probably) dishonestly-acquired
block of city property ; and it isn’t a case of giving
an extra suffrage to the rich, for rich people have
no more legitimate children than poor ones. Still,
by way of an amendment, the woman who has the
children should be considered as well as the man ;
the parents who have ten children should have
five extra votes apiece if there are going to be
extra votes : and only live children should count.
There is po special merit in being born ; it is
growing up that is the difficulty!
The Inflowing Nigger.
A paper issued by the Federal Government and
dealing with the arrivals and departures of
Chinese, Asiatics, and other blacks, browns,
yellows and sundries during the past six years,
throws a lurid light on the boast of Queensland
politicians that their Kanaka state takes quite
extraordinary pains to keep out the cheap and
murky alien. The Philp Ministry and its appur-
tenances and hangers-on are given to posing—even
while they indignantly demand that their nigger
shall be left with them—as people who have made
quite unusual sacrifices in the cause of White
Australia. And this is how the sacrifices look
when brought down to details :
Arrivals of Departures of
Colored Aliens Colored Aliens
6 years. 6 years. Increase.
Queensland .. 14,585 10,637 3,948
Victoria .. 5,489 8,096 2,393
N. Territory .. 1,849 1,298 551
New South Wales, which has a £IOO poll-tax on
Chinese and an educational test as regards some
other colored races, shows a decrease of 1968
Chinese, but there is no definite information as
regards other aliens. Still it is certain that the
Cornstalk nigger in all his varieties is, in the aggre-
gate, a diminishing calamity. Westralia, which
also has an educational test, similar to the one
which it is proposed to put in the Commonwealth
Bill, likewise shows a decrease. In fact, wherever
the educational test has been applied, and applied
honestly, the colored population is diminishing.
Whether the device is a straightforward one
there may be some question, and certain
politicians profess to be greatly troubled over this
aspect of the case ; but about its efficiency, when
it is meant to be efficient, there is no room for
doubt. But —solely on account of the three States
above-mentioned, the colored alien has increased
in the Commonwealth territory by 5518 during the
last six years. The progress for each year (Ist
July to 30th June) has been :
Arrivals of Departures of
colored aliens, colored aliens. Increase.
1896 .. 3,370 .. 2,946 .. 424
1897 .. 3,638 .. 2,885 .. 753
1898 .. 4,142 .. 3,040 .. 1,102
1899 .. 4,245 .. 3,400 .. 845
1900 .. 4.255 .. 3,626 .. 629
1901 .. 4,091 .. 2,326 .. 1,765
23,741 .. 18,223 .. 5,518
From these figures, it appears that the rush of
colored population is increasing rather than
diminishing, which is a good and most sufficient
reason for pushing on the Immigration Restriction
Bill with all speed. Also—and a still better reason
for making haste to close the back door which
looks towards Asia—it appears that, in later years,
the colored man is actually crowding out the white.
Coghlan only brings his immigration statistics up
to 1899, but there are some startling results even
in this limited patch of information. Take the
total increase or decrease as shown by Coghlan ;
deduct the nigger increase, and see how much
white man is left :
Net afi!n red Net whifce Total
immigration. Emigration. Erease.
1896 .. .. 424 .. 6,504 .. 6,928
1897 .... 753 .. 6,447 .. 7,200
Net loss of white Tf ,
population by D JL
emigration. decrease.
1898 .. .. 1,102 .. 1,831 .. 729
1899 .. .. 845 .. 3,404 .. 2,559
These are solemn figures. In the last two years
for which information is available it appears that
the Commonwealth lost 5235 white inhabitants by
emigration, and gained 1947 colored people by
way of a most lamentable exchange. For the last
three years it gained 1212 whites and 2700 niggers.
Truly it is time to reach out for the first efficient
remedy that comes to hand, and consider its
abstract honesty afterwards. Whichever effective
remedy will get there first is the remedy that the
Commonwealth wants.
«,
The Boss Heathen.
The following cablegram appeared in the daily
papers of last Saturday—and the Australian
people are still expected to maintain a sentiment
of respect and admiration for the Empire
BRITISH COLOMBIA AND ASIATIC IMMIGRA-
TION.
A RESTRICTION BILL DISALLOWED.
London, Sept. 13.
At the instance of Japan, Great Britain has per-
suaded Canada to disallow bills of the British Colum-
bian Provincial Legislature imposing an educational
test to exclude Chinese and Japanese, and forbidding
their employment on certain works.
It doesn’t appear for certain whether this means
that Britain, at the dictation of Japan, has gone
back on its policy of permitting an educational
test, or whether the disallowance of the Bill arose
because of the clause forbidding the employment
of Asiatics on “certain works,” but, either way,
it seems possible that a very serious situation
is ahead. The present British Government seems
to be mostly owned by Japan, and its policy is
largely dictated by an Asiatic nation with a
thin veneer of civilisation on top of its Orientalism.
There was a time when Britain was ruler of its
territory and also of a good deal outside, but
apparently the empire has spread out too thin of
late years. It is vastly larger than it was, but
where it used to rely on itself it now relies, in part
at least, on nigger alliances, and it has to placate
its brown supporter. Moreover, the traders of
England want free admission to Japan, and the
traders of England regard it as quite a fair thing
that this advantage should be bought by the free
admission of the Jap. to Australia and the
Canadian Dominion. England itself is too far off
to be personally troubled by a Jap. influx, and
even if Australia or Columbia are overrun by
the brown pestilence the traders of England
feel that they can bear up under the other fellow’s
calamity. This flat refusal of the right to keep its
race pure and its country white is the first instal-
ment of Canada’s reward for the sacrifices it made
in S’Africa. Australia got its exactly-similar
reward a few months ago when the Queens-
land Bill, restricting colored labor in State-sub-
sidised sugar-mills, was returned with contumely,
and some further reward of the same kind may be in
store. In each case, apparently, the reason was the
same ; .Japan issued its orders that the thing was
not to be, and the thing wasn’t. In each case,
apparently, the assistance lately rendered in
Africa with so much enthusiasm and grovel merely
inspired the Salisbury Government with the
idea that “the colonies,” in their intense
Jingoism, wouldn’t mind being sacrificed for
the convenience of the traders of England.
There was a time when Britain was hardly so off-
hand and peremptory in its dealings, but that was
before “the colonies,” by their outburst of abject
reverence in the Boer war days, Convinced it that
their loyalty would stand almost any kind of
usage. It is quite possible now that the biggest
rocks ahead of the empire are Japanese dictation
and Salisbury’s servility. If thepolicyofsacrificing
the outlying parts of the empire for the sake of
buying Japan’s countenance and assistance, and
staving off _ Japanese hostility, and purchasing
trading privileges for England in Jap. territory, is
continued, the time must come when these de-
pendencies will have to refuse to be sold to any
nigger for Britain’s convenience. And a lot of
things are liable to happen in the process of
refusal.
♦
A Strange Tale of the Push.
Despite the shout of derision which arose over
Ambrose Pratt’s strange tale; from the slums
about Australian larrik-inism, and about the
murdera done by the push, and the disappearances
which the push brings about, there is some vestige
of evidence in Prytt’s favor—more than most
people would imagine. N.S.W. is not, in propor-
tion to population, the most push-cursed State of
Australia; and Sydney’s reputation smells a little
better in this respect than Melbourne's. Yet,
taking at random Coghlan’s statistics for ’99, in
that year N.S. W. had a record off 26 murders, and
in addition there were' 37 deaths by violence,
where nobody was seen committing murder—
where the victim was simply found fatally injured.
These were apart from deaths believed to be the
result of accident. This is saying nothing of the
very numerous cases where the victim was found
injured, but not fatally—probably because the
push thought it heard somebody coming.
And against these 63 fatal cases there
were eight convictions. There are often
half a dozen concerned in a push outrage, so it
is quite possible that 100 or 150 murderers
escaped arrest in one year in N.S.W. alone.
Anyhow, in seven cases out of every eight nobody
was proved to be responsible for anything. Also,
in about two cases out of every three, nobody was
even charged with anything. This country is
accustomed to boast of its very excellent record in
the way of criminality, but any country can have
an excellent record of that sort if its police-force
is only weak enough and inefficient enough. The
point is that the criminal statistics deal only with
persons arrested and persons convicted. Under
this absurd system a country where there are
eight murders in the year and eight convictions,
looks four times as criminal, according to the pub-
lished records, as the one where there are 367
murders and only two convictions.
:
An Appeal to the People of Australasia.
A letter from America :
To the Editor of Tub Bulletin.
Sir,—Representing a very large number of Americans
who consider themselves the sincere well-wishers of
the British people, we venture to rely upon your courtesy
for the insertion of this letter to your readers.
No one can fail to admire the readiness with which the
Australasian States sprang to the assistance of the
Mother Country as soon as it became known that their
help was needed in South Africa. In such a crisis the
rights and wrongs of the war were, quite naturally, over-
looked, or, in any case, were judged hastily and on the
basis of statements put forward by one of the contending
parties. Nor is it our object, at this late date, to raise
the issues of the past. Quite apart from the merits of the
original dispute, the present shows indisputably that the
burghers of the republics are now doing what every
Australasian worthy of the name would do in similar
circumstances: they are fighting for their national in-
dependence.
If Australasia were to be threatened by the conquering
forces of Germany, of France, or of any other foreign
power, we should sympathise with you in your struggle ;
and this we should do no m itter what allegations might
he made against you and your Government by your
enemies. For that reason, and believing that you will
readily comprehend our attitude, recognising that it is
perfectly compatible with friendliness for yourselves and
for the British people as a whole, we do not hesitate to
proclaim our profound sympathy with the Boers in the
straits in which they are now placed.
To expect you to agree with us fully would be absurd.
But it is possible that you may be willing to entertain a
suggestion which has for one of its ends the re-establish-
ment of the good name of the British Empire among the
mass of our countrymen, who have viewed the proceed-
ings in South Africa with disappointment and regret.
One suggestion is this : that you, who have taken such
an active part in carrying on the war that no one disputes
your right to a voice in the ultimate settlement, shall ac-
cept your responsibilities, and shall exert your influence
in England in favor of a broader view of the situation than
seems to be taken there at present.
You were not personally involved in the original dis
pute, as were the statesmen of Great Britain ; far from
South Africa, you do not share in the local jealousies
which have for so long been known to prejudice the
people of Natal and a section of Gape colonists in their
dealings with the Boers (even as, in the past, local jealousy
between the colonies of America, and later, between those
of Australia, influenced their respective histories). Con-
sequently, when we find a cable sent eagerly to London
and New York, containing an extract from an editorial in
a Natal newspaper, in which it is stated that Australasia
will never again help the Empire in its hour of need,
unless the Home Government insists upon the uncon-
ditional surrender of the Boers, we feel justified in sup-
posing that the passions of Natal do not necessarily reflect
the sentiment of Australasia, and that you are entirely
capable of forming an opinion of your own, in the light of
history and of common sense.
Without, therefore, imitating an example which
attempts to guess your views, or to foist views upon you,
we beg that in forming an independent judgment you
will mentally place yourselves in the position of those in
South Africa who still continue their gallant struggle for
freedom. What would pacify you in similar circum-
stances ? What would best promote the future welfare of
Australasia and of the foreign Empire that might chance
to conquer it ? What form of settlement, in short, would
be the most enduring and the most satisfactory to all
concerned ?
We feel confident that by answering these questions
you will be able to present to the people and Government
of Great Britain a view of the South African situation
that must inevitably broaden their view, and that, if
adopted, will promote the best and highest interests of
your Empire, and raise it in the estimation of the whole
world.—We are, sir, yours faithfully,
William G. Davies,
For the Transvaal League of the Eastern States of
America. 22 William-street, New York, July 15, 1901.
Bronson Murray,
Wilmot Townsend Cox,
Edward Lauterbacii,
Edward Reeve Merritt,
E. Merritt Norris.
♦
Legree Wishes to Acquit Himself.
Fearing Federal action the Westralian nigger-
drivers and their sympathisers are making des-
perate efforts to prevent independent inquiry into
the treatment of aborigines. The latest proposal
is to appoint a select —very select—committee of
the Westralian squatter Parliament, whose mem-
bers will inquire into their own characters, and
find them unstained by a single fleck of black
man’s blood, and report accordingly to Australia.
If Mahon, M.H.R., is firm and the Federal Par-
liament refuses to be fooled, the latter body will
start its investigation just the same, and decline
to take any notice of the fact that Legree is hold-
ing a rigid investigation into his own character.
What is wanted is an independent inquiry—
not an investigation by Legree into the
purity of his own motives, and the kind-
ness of his own actions. The inquiry should
be by a Royal Commission, whose members
are high Federal officers, and not Westralians.
John Forrest’s realm is just now divided into two
camps, from one of which come accusations against
the other of loathsome systematic savagery, and
from the other indignant denials. Obviously
neither accusers nor accused should try the issue.
But that common-sense axiom has not penetrated
to the official mind in Westralia. When com-
plaint was made by a certain constable of brutal
illtreatment of natives in his district, the com-
plaint was forwarded to one of the parties impli-
cated for report. The accused tried the cause,
acquitted himself without a stain on his character,
and had the constable sacked for bringing an
absurd charge against a noble and lofty-minded
citizen. The Westralian squatter Parliament
would like now to repeat that method on a larger
scale. It is noteworthy, as showing the spirit of
the proposed inquiry, that the member who calls
for it is a gentleman who says that he made a
point of attending nigger floggings, and never saw
anything in the aspect of the flogged nigger that
anybody had a right to object to.
The Festival of St. Jingo.
On the invitation of the Government representa-
tive, Victoria’s House of 48 Rich Landlords t’other
day passed a simple little Bill indemnifying cer-
tain municipal councillors for dissipating the local
rates in Commonwealth celebrations. The Bill
reached the Assembly last week, and was received
cordially. When it got through it was heavier
by three amendments—to the effect that the law-
breaking councillors are to be indemnified for all
illegal rate-expenditure, not only on the cele-
brations, but also (1) on the royal mourning, (2)
on memorials to Queen Victoria, (3) on memorials
of the war. On the motion of Premier Peacock the
Bill is to apply retrospectively only (15 members
wanted to make it prospective too); so the position
is that councillors all over the State are invited to
break the existing law and illegally vote the
public’s money on war memorials and such-
like absurdity up to the time when the
Bill receives the Governor’s signature, while the
law-abiding councillors who decline to exploit the
public for the gratification of Jingodoin are warned
that their very honesty puts them “outside the
pale,” from a Jingo point of view. It would save
a lot of talk and trouble if the wearisome munici-
pal councillor were given enough rope to hang
himself at once—by allowing him to spend the
rates according to his own sweet will. He usually
does this, anyhow, and a lot of time and money are
wasted afterwards in indemnifying him for break-
ing the law. He did it at the recent
at the late Queen’s demise, at the Com-
monwealth inauguration ; and lie’ll do it again
next year at the Coronation festivities. This awful
councillor person deliberately flouts the Parlia-
ment which makes laws for his regulation, and the
fool Parliament immediately pats him on the back
and says it likes being made a fool of. Only John
Murray, Prendergast, and a few other radicals
protested against this piece of supreme folly.
Majah ReAy —the amusing amateur soldier and
professional war-correspondent—actually wanted
“every municipality to establish a permanent
memorial of the battle of Pink Hill.” In the
name of all that is wonderful what kind of a two-
men-and-a-dog serum was Pink Hill that 208
statues should be put up concerning it ? Among
the 24 events for which war-medals have been
issued it isn’t even mentioned.
♦—
Suspended.
The sudden suspension by the new Westralian
Commissioner for Railways of the general railway
manager and the Commissioner’s own secretary,
and the granting of a compulsory holiday to the
chief traffic manager, are events that have made
politics sit up in a quite unusual manner. The
revelations in the matter of the Perth Ice Co.
frauds, and many other disclosures, showed clearly
enough that the Westralian railway system was
either hideously corrupt or so utterly incompetent
that it was an unfit person to be at large, and the
new Minister, Holmes, had used threatening
language about it on many occasions before his
accession to office. But a small, casual event
hurried on the trouble. Holmes wanted a secre-
tary, and appointed a well-recommended man who
had been formerly in the service, a careful search
of the records having shown that no offence or
complaint had been recorded against the applicant
during his previous term. Then the general man-
ager demanded to know what Holmes meant by
appointing to a responsible position a man who
had been sacked for serious irregularities, and the
newspapers fell on Holmes, and the Public Service
breathed in the ear of Parliament about the gross
favoritism shown by passing over men with good
records in the service, and appointing a sacked
ex-official. The indignant Minister demanded
why the alleged offences were not on record, and
was informed in a helpless sort of way that the
papers were included in a file that had probably
been mislaid ; anyhow, no one knew where it was,
but when somebody came back from somewhere
it might turn up. The Minister demanded why
valuable papers went astray and thus caused him,
for lack of information, to make disastrous mis-
takes, and the Department’s attitude was to the
effect that valuable papers always went astray in
Westralia, and the thing wasn’t worth getting
excited about. About this time the Minister
commenced to investigate a number of other
malodorous matters, and he seems to have brought
up short almost everywhere against the fact that
some of the papers wanted were missing, and the
officials who ought to explain were always out.
The Leake Ministry doesn’t sit very securely, and
Holmes apparently decided that there was a plan
on hand to systematically lose pampers, and spend
the time feebly looking up the chimney for them,
till the old gang, which did all the shady things,
got back into office again. So one morning he ran
amok, and told some of the parties who had good
salaries and seemed to have the most difficulty .in
remembering anything useful for the money, to go
home and take a rest. ' Holmes’s action will
probably either save or break the Leake
Ministry ; it is hard to say which as yet.
Closer Settlement.
Two States, Tasmania and N.S. Wales, are simul-
taneously considering Bills providing for the
repurchase by the Government of large estates,
and their sub-division into small farms. All the
other States are already doing something in this
line. Maoriland and S. Australia are doing a
good deal; Queensland, Victoria, and Westralia
are pottering with the question—under dark sus-
picions, as regards Westralia, that the system is
mainly used to enable the Six Families and their
friends to sell out at a profit, and as regards
Queensland that it comes in handy to relieve the
Q.N. Bank of some of its bad bargains. In Aus-
tralia, where good land is not abundant, it is
essential that those areas which lie convenient to
markets should be put to the best use, but while
the re-purchase system is essential only two of the
States began it at the right end. Any country
which proposes going in for this kind of
business requires a heavy graduated land-
tax first of all. If that tax is heavy
enough, it makes it so much more profitable
to hold land in small than in large areas that the
big holder wants to sell. If he doesn’t sell to
Government he becomes only too glad to cut up
his estate and sell privately. When, through the
difference in land-tax, an area is worth, say,
£IOO,OOO when cut up into 100 small farms, and
only £75,000 when it is in one large property, there
is always a tendency towards subdivision. Under
the graduated land-tax—if it is only heavy
enough—a breaking-up process is always going on
quite apart from anything Government may do.
And such a tax is needed to prevent the subdi-
vided estates getting together again, and forming
more big properties—to prevent the new small
holders being bought out, or crushed out by fore-
closure of mortgage, till the old evil comes back
once more. The Government which begins
remedying the evil that exists without taking the
slightest precaution against its recurrence, is only
going in again at the same hole it came out of.
In N,S. W., Tasmania, Queensland, Westralia, and
Victoria, no precautions whatever are taken
to prevent more big estates forming; there
is no graduated tax to induce the large
holder to sell; there is no power of compul-
sory purchase—in fact, things are so arranged
that the great mass of large landholders look on
the idea as merely a chance to dispose of their
properties to the fool Government at a higher
price than they could expect to get from any .
private buyer. As a horrible example, the Vic-
torian Government is just now seriously consider-
ing the re-purchase for closer settlement of a lone-
some bit of country at £lO 10s. an acre. Land
fetches an enormous price in Victoria, because
Victoria is the most thickly-populated State in
Australasia; because the land doesn’t carry its
fair share of taxation ; and because it is made arti-
ficially scarce by the existence, alongside closely-
settled districts, of huge areas which are locked
up and used mostly for grazing purposes by their
conservative owners. If a graduated land-tax on
the S. A. plan broke up this artificial scarcity, and
forced these large estates on the market in small
lots, the estate above-mentioned could probably
be bought for £5 an acre. The Bulletin is wait-
ing anxiously for the time when the Federal
Parliament will impose an absentee-tax and a
heavy graduated land-tax over all Australia. It
is the only authority which can over-rule the
opposition of property-elected Councils and of
Assemblies whose souls are in pawn to recon-
structed banks. There are many great oppor-
tunities before the Federal Parliament, and this
is one of the greatest among them.
Banana Land Government is again to che fore
with its old device for refilling a depleted Treasury,
viz.—a Special Sale of Lands Bill. The provisions
of this measure are much more generous than
those of previous ones, inasmuch as land may now
be purchased up to 5000 acres in one block pro-
vided it be not less than “20 miles from a navi-
gable stream.” (The number of navigable streams
in Western Queensland is truly appalling.)
Previous measures used to specify not less
than 20 miles from a railway, but the
limitations thereby imposed on the possi-
bilities of grab were altogether too severe
for certain rapacious appetites in the Northern
land of Boodle. Moreover, another delightful
provision allows the proceeds the money
raised, it was stated, to meet the deficit—to be
paid into the Consolidated Revenue and used to
diminish the too colossal proportions of the next
deficit —which is about as certain as sunrise and
sunset. It is interesting to remember that the
first Act of this kind (passed by the Griffith-
MTlwraith Govt, in 1891) left the deficit of that
day just where it was ; the ugly thing had to be
funded, and when this one is funded also Queens-
land will have added something over £2,000,000
to her indebtedness, despite special sales of land
and similar heroic proceedings.
Chapman, of N.S.W., has two motions on the
notice-paper of the Federal House of Represen-
tatives, to the effect that the Federal Government
should, with all possible speed, take over the
State railways and at least a portion of the State
debts—presumably the whole debt of the State
which has the smallest liability per inhabitant,
and a corresponding amount of the debts of
other States. The Bulletin hopes to see both
proposals carried by an overwhelming majority
and with this addition—that all savings made by
the conversion or renewal or consolidation of the
debts taken over, and all savings made in the cost
of management thereof, shall go into a sinking-
fund for the repayment of the said debts, and that
a further sum of (say) £500,000 a year be set apart
for the same purpose. In other words, that the
debt taken over be kept separate from any
new debt which the Federal Government
may contract, and that the whole pre-
sent cost of the old debt, with £500,000
a year added, shall be made a permanent charge
on the Commonwealth revenue till that old debt
is extinguished—the English portion of the debt
being, if possible, extinguished first. This is a
world where something new is always charming.
It is always good to get out of the groove in whicn
we are accustomed to amble, like a small dog trot-
ting along ina deepfurrowand losingall the scenery


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STANDING
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
8. W. D’ARC Y-IRVINE, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney; or to
G G. McCOLL and B. H. PASCOE, Managersfor Victoria, S. Australia and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia
A new Melbourne radical sheet, The
Patriot (the name of James Mirams appears as
publisher), fills much space in its first number with
unacknowledged steals from The Bulletin. There
is a class of patriots ‘ ‘ who left their country for
their country’s good.”
The Arcadian Nights entertainment, about
to be presented in Sydney, is a new departure in
the world of art, and, as such, should excite much
attention. Most distinguished patronage is being
accorded the affair, and a list of the patrons will
shortly appear in The Bulletin.
Obit , N.S.W. ex-Speaker Abbott, whose
fine figure and impressive voice carried him far in
politics. For years he threatened to become Pro-
tectionist Premier of N.S. Wales, but his coldness
and want of personal magnetism forbade it. The
ex-Speaker, who was a solicitor by profession, was
an excellent business adviser, and had he stuck
strictly to the law would probably have succeeded
much better fi’om a worldly point of view than he
did by dabbling in politics and company-director-
ships. He was not personally popular with Par-
liamentarians —the Labor-party particularly used
to fume at him—but there is no doubt he was a
fine figure of a Speaker.
There is one place in Sydney where the
business of money-lending is carried on in an
equitable manner and where those in need of
financial accommodation can rely on being
decently treated. The sensible man who wishes
to get rid of his monetary worries at a minimum
of cost and trouble to himself goes to the offices of
the Australian Equitable Investment Co., Ltd.
The co. has a large capital for investment at low
interest, and is always open to advance money on
risks which the banks would decline; and acts
generally as a medium between the banks and
ordinary money-lenders. Men in business can
obtain assistance for their venture at a figure
which will leave them a fair profit for themselves.
The co. advances money to any extent on deeds of
land, bond warrants, merchandise, stock in trade,
scrip, interests under wjllg, furniture and all classes
of security. Press notifies which have been pub-
lished from time to time express the favorable
opinion which generally exists regarding the co.
Mr. J. E. O’Brien is the Managing Director, and
the co.’s offices are at 45 Elizabeth-street, between
King and Hunter-streets.*
mSwM
The New
Field Glass
For the Haces, &c.
Very powerful, as used by
Officers of the British Army
in South Africa. Easily
focussed by the patent
quick draw.
Magnifying 5 times, 65s ; Aluminium, 84s.
Magnifying 6 times, 73s ; Aluminium, 85s.
In Solid Leather Sling Oases.
WOOD, “The Optician, 1
Only address in N.S. HV.,
299 oeorge-Bt, Sydney (opp. Hunter-SL)
and EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
on each side. And the very newest thing Aus-
tralia will ever see—unless the Swiss navy bom-
bards Sydney—is the spectacle of its Parliament
paying off any of the country’s liabilities. The
spectacle of Parliament floating a big loan is
common enough—as common as the sight of a man
selling peanuts at a street corner. But the sight
of anybody reducing the public debt would be so
wildly novel that it would give a new zest to
existence.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Grand opera “ Lucia ” again filled Her
Majesty’s (Sydney) on Saturday night by an
audience that received the Italianised Scotch
maiden, her friends and enemies, with a fervor
warm as the night itself. It was mainly a first-
night audience, so, being familiar with the work,
it began to take notice of things—trifles—behind
the grandeur of the grand opera. It looked at
the backgrounds painted by one Rovescalli, of
Milan, and the Macphersons said that the artist
had not got away from his Italian environment of
atmosphere and architecture. Amber days, oxi-
dised-silver nights, sapphire skies, classic gate-
ways, halls and walls. M'Tavish looked at the
Ravenswood graveyard through his glasses, and
said to Macpherson that no true Ashton
could rest comfortably in such a place. None
of the tombstones suggested a belief in plain,
flat-footed eternal punishment. And the park
entrance, with its back-ground of chaste white
wall and the Roman maiden (Marchi) pacing to
and fro (when she leaves the lovers together)—it
was a picture out of the times of Lorenzo the
Magnificent, and the Signorina seemed a maiden
of the house of Medicis seeking her lover, whilst
cardinals and princes listened to the reading of a
poem somewhere behind the white wall. Macpher-
son disapproved of the tapestried hall. Instead
of maidens, trees, and lutes, the scene should have
been the killing of Red Comyn by the Bruce.
Also, he objected to the name Lucy being changed
to Loochia, and as to Enrico being a synonym for
Henry, the idea made him yearn for Buchanan’s
blend. Both were very indignant with the
Italians for wearing white silk tights™ with
their kilties. Both chortled with delight
over Sapio’s voice, face, _ and figure, and
pronounced her the bonniest Scotch lassie
that ever stepped out of a Walter Scott
story. After the interval they discovered
with glee that the American soprano’s Italian had
a Scotch accent. In the mad-scene, where Lucia
sings to the music of the flute alone, and where
you can scarcely tell Sapio’s voice from the flute
itself, both Scotsmen vowed that, for them, the
bag-pipes were no more. The flute was
Scotia’s national instrument. As for Edgardo
(Dani), they doubted if a man who could
sing so gloriously would be sent anywhere
but to Heaven even if he did commit suicide.
And when the music had died with the death
of the singers, both men went away humming
bits of the opera (the bits that are scattered
through Hemy’s exercise-books, and which
the Macpherson and M‘Tavish children prac-
tise every day), saying that it was haunting
music, and that they’d get the baimies to
learn some.
## # #
“ Arrah-na-Pogue,” played by Maggie
Moore and Co. at Sydney Lvceum, is a
rather cheerful Irish drama wherein there
are no evictions, and where nobody would
get into trouble very much if Maggie Moore
did not try to save Vincent Scully, and
Charles Blake sacrifice himself at great
length for Maggie, everybody getting a free
pardon in the last act after the hero has
swum from prison, arriving in a dry condi-
tion to be forgiven. Maggie and Charles
Blake sacrifice themselves for M‘Cool
(Scully), because they recollect gratefully
that he never asked for his rent, and Blake
considers that he should allow himself to be
hanged in consequence. If the Irish tem-
perament prefers to pay rent in this way, it
is, of course, only a question for individual
taste. The person who writes this prefers
paying up in the usual weekly and un-
romantic fashion, when she has it, and if
she hasn’t it she prefers owing it in the
ordinary ungrateful way. If Miss Moore,
who dresses in bright red most of the time,
could keep the rest of her as girlish as her
voice, it would be some advantage to. the
drama. As things are, however, there is no
need for her lover on his wedding day
to express a fear lest she should unfold her
fairy wings like a butterfly and fly away,
because Maggie does not look that sort of girl.
Otherwise, she is a very taking Irish damsel, and
when she sang the “ Wearin’ of the Green ” on
Saturday night, an Irishman in the gallery
bumped himself severely on the floor by way
of applause, and other persons remarked
“ Hooroosh,” or made corresponding statements.
A feature in this play is the fact that the
peasantry really wear peasant costumes, instead of
the fancy dresses they donned in the previous
Irish drama. J. P. West makes a good study of
Michael Feeney, the spy; and the court-scene,
wherein the oppressed Irish are allowed to make
as much noise as they like, is an interesting side-
light on that most distressful country. Miss
Madge Herrick is amateurish as the more aris-
tocratic Irish damsel in the green riding-habit;
and a kindly mention must be- made of Charles
Blake as the usual simple-minded, courageous son
of Erin, who is willing to die for everybody all
round without understanding very much about it.
* * • •
Maggie Moore’s season, according to pre-
sent arrangements, will be about over by the
time this issue appears in print. William Ander-
son announces that he will return to the Lyceum
on Saturday to play the “ Orphan Heiress.” The
advt. doesn’t explain so definitely as it might
whether William is coming back for 12 nights
only, or whether the “ Heiress ” will be played
for that period ; anyhow, 12 nights is mentioned.
The “Heiress,” if this writer remembers correctly,
is something about a lady who had a large amount
of money, but as the villain put it in nis pocket
and went away, she was naturally reduced to
great straits, till the lost will being found in a dry
pump, she immediately married and had eight
children, or something to that effect.
m* * *
Popular appreciation of “Lady Hunt-
worth’s Experiment ” appears to grows as Time
rolls on, after its usual globular habit. Sydney
Royal is doing well out of Carton’s pretty
comedy, and the comedy is of the kind which
seems prettier on further inspection. The divorced
peeress who cooks for the parson under suspicious
circumstances ; and the wooden man-servant, who
has honorable intentions and indigestion ; and
bounding servant-girl Keziah, who washes up like
one in a dream, through thinking of the Lady
Ermyntrude in the last number of Home Yells,
are all interesting character studies. So is the
stunted peer who sleeps under the parson’s sink,
and who is pursued while awake bv beer-
born insects the size of a billiard-
table. Parson Brough, also, grows on the
public affections as a lovable old gentleman of
limited intelligence and a weak and fluffy mental
attitude. The stage parson is a sorrowful evi-
dence that the public doesn’t take its vicar
seriously. Very few stage vicars know enough to
come in out of the wet; naif of them, if they are
carried in by a sane parishioner, and deposited in
a dry spot and tenderly blotted, don’t know
enough not to immediately go out again and get
wetter than ever. A tendency to be found in
ridiculous situations, and to try to rush into the
soup tureen for concealment, and then to come
out with a feeble explanation that he was only
composing a hymn in the scullery, is characteristic
of the stage parson. Otherwise he is mostly a
nice, clean old gentleman who absent-mindedly
puts his text out on the front step at night and
prepares a sermon on the cat, and who drops the
Thirty-nine Articles all over the place, and leaves
the Athanasian creed in the coal-scuttle.
** * *
The ballet dancing at Sydney Palace con-
tinues to be the same gracefully grotesque per-
formance as ever, while the voices that go with it
are as small and uncertain as they used to be.
The Rickshaw dance, by Agnes Mahr and others,
is a pretty effect of color and movement. Agnes
Mahr is a filmy, gossamer-like person, with a
knack of quaint posturing. Mr. Henry Lee’s
present lot of personations do not make such a
THE MURDERED PRESIDENT.
favorable impression as his first: they include
Joseph Chamberlain, the evergreen Oom
Paul, Charles Dickens, and Mr. Gladstone. The
Musical Burglar’s gags re his costume, which is
as that of a Domain dosser, and his announcement
to the girls in the audience that the shirt-fronts
he wears are sure to stay in this season are as well
and deservedly appreciated as ever.
* # * *
The list of performers at Sydney Tivoli is
much the same as last week. Cecilia Dubois
is a recent addition to the programme, and
the Sacred Bear of India tries to look as little
like an ordinary profane bear as circumstances
will admit. He is accompanied by certain plain
bears who don’t share his holy calling, and the
difference between the consecrated bear and the
everyday penny bear is less noticeable than might
be supposed. If The Bulletin staff ever becomes
a bear in a future state it really doesn’t care two-
pence whether it is sacred or not.
* * * *
As a rule the amateur Shakesperian show
is a thing to be avoided, but there are exceptions,
and the most brilliant of the class is the periodical
appearance of Mr. F. M. Alexander and his
students in the masterpieces of the Bard who
sleeps with his fathers. The next season will
commence on the night of Tuesday next (Sept.
24th), at Sydney Criterion, and the “ Merchant of
Venice ” and “ Hamlet ” will be played. When
Mr. Alexander staged the “Merchant ” last, in the
Royal, the play was brightly mounted and brightly
played. Mr. Alexander will take the parts of
Shylock and Hamlet. He is a pleasant
sort of Shylock, and almost everybody who saw
him on his last appearance in his gaberdine and
his promissory note will be glad to renew the
acquaintance.
** * *
Sydney Empire has added to its pro-
gramme Mr. Albert Lucas, who is reported in the
advertisement to “hold people spell-bound by his
phenomenal reciting.” But there is nothing very
remarkable about the Empire show at present,
and a real star artist would probably do it a lot of
good.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.), indefatigable
Wilson Barrett played two more heroes last week,
but in neither case did he add to the gaiety of this
young nation. “Quo Vadis,” which was very
effectively staged for four nights, is W. B.’s
adaptation of the novel (by Sienkiewiez) that he
had seemingly drawn upon for his “ Sign of the
Cross.” At any rate “Quo Vadis” contains
nearly all the material in -plot, characters, scenes,
incidents and moralisings needed for the building
of “The Sign.” As a melodrama for the masses
“ The Sign,” with its wealth of clap-traptious cant,
is the stronger show, but “Quo Vadis” presents
a more interestingly Roman appearance, and
deserves credit for an audacious tableau, wherein
Mario Majeroni, the barbarian, poses as vanquisher
of a stuffed bull in the arena. The bull is an over-
fed effigy, glued to a wooden stand, and the
dauntless Mario holds it down by both horns.
For this feat of strength he gets a tremendous call
before the curtain every evening. Wilson Barrett
plays a long-winded and highly authoritative
pagan in “Quo Vadis.” He is Marcus Superbus
over again, with the difference that he is not the
nobleman who gets converted by Mercia, or Lygia,
as she is here called. In a series of low-necked
robes caught up at the shoulder with tinsel
brooches, Barrett looked imposingly lady-
like, but his slow deportment and lingering utter-
ances in the limelight grew wearisome as
the play wore on. Ambrose Manning’s Caesar
Nero snarled and stormed just as though his
second name were Cregeen, whilst the ladies in
leading parts spoke their lines depressing! y. Miss
Boswell (the clever Stephanus in “ Sign of the
Cross ”) played a jealous matron with particular
success. Also, Miss Alice Crawford distinguished
herself somewhat as a lovely pagan lady of easy
virtue, who onetime persuaded Barrett to put
rings on her toes.
* * ♦ •
“The Christian King,” latest of all the
works of Divine Wilson, was produced “for the
first time on any stage” last Saturday night.
Assuming it to have been derived from some old,
forgotten drama on the subject of Alfred the
Great (an early Saxon identity who invented the
Cake Walk), one may likewise, assume that “ The
Christian King ” was written mainly by Barrett
for Barrett. No previous monarch in the history
of the stage has ruled his kingdom so conspicuously
as King Alfred Barrett ruled Engle-land
last Saturday night. The drama never ceased
to glorify his royal name. Other characters
came along and talked about Alfred behind his
back. On two occasions an apparition with a
long beard popped- up for the purpose of en-
couraging Alf. to stick to Christianity and destroy
the Danes. A sudden darkness enveloped Alf.,
nothing being visible save the head and shoulders
of the vision. Nevertheless the greatness of the
earthly King could be felt through the gloom, so
to speak, even when the Heavenly visitant was
performing a miracle—a deeply-significant bread-
and - wine miracle. Everybody knew that
Alfred’s temporary eclipse was a mere
act of courtesy on his part. Engle-land had
good cause for believing in Alfred. He knew
no fear. He carried a little harp into the
Danish camp, and twanged it at the invaders by
way of punctuating his pertinent remarks —like
Tweedlepunch, as the Welsh bard in “Florodora.”
And when the Danish King tied him to a tree and
threatened to shoot arrows at him, Alf. smiled as
George Darrell was wont to smile.
** * *
A lot of new scenery by John Gordon and
Stafford Hall gives valuable assistance to “The
Christian King,” in five acts. The plot, apart
from Alfred the Barrett, is a thing of threads and
patches, the principal patch falling to Miss
M‘Carthy. With the exception of a brief dis-
cussion (concerning Alfred) between Atholwood
and Carter-Edwards, no part of the show is very
convincing. The atmosphere of 1000 years ago is
certainly not there. A tableau, labelled ‘ ‘ Alfred’s
Defeat by the Danes,” gives one the impression
that all the Danes and Saxons have perished in a
subdued light, leaving Alfred to shine alone in
the foreground. Jehoshophat! how he do shine !
Also, Engle-land’s “ first great naval victory,”
which the hero speaks of beforehand in a prophetic
“ Rule Britannia ” strain, reveals only a little sea,
a lot of ship, and an immense amount of Alfred
Barrett the Great. And Barrett, at his best, is
not worth all that limelight.
*# * *
“Nadjezda,” at Melbourne Princess’s,
gets no better luck than any other gloomy tragedy
that is both clever and absurd. The nonsense of
“ Nadjezda ” seems to be centred in the character
of a man who wears a shock of blonde, curly hair
in the prologue and a rather thin thatch of straight
hair 15 years later, and who never attempts to
explain what kind of a fraud he is. A gentle-
manly johnnie (W. F. Grant) happens to mention
that the mysterious human chameleon aforesaid
is quite well known to the police as a professional
card-sharper of mock Nihilistic tendencies ; also
the man is being carefully watched by his idiotic
confederates, one of whom assassinates him behind
the scenes in the last act. And this cheap, lurid
impostor, so well-known to the police, and so
dimly suspected by his inexplicable confederates,
is able to keep Miss Crane up to her hereditary
Vengeance by reminding her of nine (last week’s
notice substituted “none” for nine) young men
slaughtered by the Brotherhood for breaking an
Oath. Khorvitch, the card-sharper, runs a private
saloon where American heiresses of noble
character live happily by dropping £lOOO or 1000
dollars per night at the baccarat table in payment
for their board, and the entrance to Khorvitch’s
domicile is somewhere on the first or second floor.
Anyway the Zabouroff whom Khorvitch marked
for destruction 15 years previously makes his first
appearance at the top of a fine scenic staircase,
the staircase which serves for Miss Crane’s sensa-
tional descent in the second act. The lady faints
upon the top stair, and rolls down 14 of them.
** * *
At the Royal there is a great and growing
respect for Brunton’s scenery and the bicycle race.
From a merely remarkable mechanical success the
bike race has developed into a wonderful effect.
Baker is hungry and in quest of a job when Nor-
THE LATE J. P. ABBOTT , EX-SPEAKER
OF N.S.W. ASSEMBLY.
Photo, by J. Hubert Newman, Sydney.
man, the murderer, buys the roof over his head,
and arranges to evict him unless he can pay £3 10s.
due for rent. The bicycle race is Baker’s only
chance of raising 70 shillings at one fell
swoop, but the villain has sworn to beat him if he
starts. Baker, in fact, doesn’t want to start.- He
refers feelingly to his shattered condition, and
dwells on the melancholy fact that he would have
to borrow a machine. Then Miss Ross urges
Baker to win the race on her account, and the
blind girl (Harrie Ireland) begs him to consider
his dear wife and his outstanding rent, conse-
quently Baker stokes his hollow in’ards with
rump steak and roast goose, and gets himself fit.
Albert Norman, who is rolling in wealth, makes
frantic attempts to spoil Baker’s chance by
bribery and corruption, but the conspirators
puncture the wrong tyre, and Baker achieves his
rent with flying colours. The whole world knows
that he was “Riding to Win,” in addition to
which Miss Ireland recovers her eyesight.
#* * *
“ A Message from Mars ” is getting along
pleasantly at the Bijou. The tramp, as usual,
becomes a dignified, staccato drunk at the expira-
tion of his fourth whisky, and Parker continues to
nurse a natural grievance against Minnie because
she forgot to tell Bella to replenish the lamp.
And Parker’s aunt calls him ’Orace sometimes.
All things considered, it would be only a fair
thing for the Messenger to give Parker a week’s
rest, and turn his attention to auntie in the mean-
time.
** * *
The only important news from Rickards’s
at time of writing is the announcement that
Marie Lloyd will positively farewell on Friday.
Some of Marie’s recent songs are very acceptable,
but the engagement of that vigorous little woman
has lost its early freshness and her departure
comes not too soon. A *■


stocks Kept of.
RAND ROCK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
BY THE SOLE AGENTS—
N. GUTHRIDGrE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ; WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
214 HIGH STREET, FREMANTLE; KALCOORLIE.
df
TRAMWA.YS. TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
|Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p. *1
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Cataloguesand Photo-
»graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World, upon
application. A E. LEPLABTRIER, Manager.
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete 00., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining l and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* * * •
City Leader, London, 20th July, 1901: “It is
particularly gratifying to us, as we have consistently
praised the management of this excellent office, to note
that the funds are continually increasing.”*
• * * *
The Hecla mine, Lake Superior, U.S. A., have
recently given an order for 80 Wilfley concentrators in
one lot. They have decided, after trying every known
concentrating machine, that the Wilfley table is by far
the best. The Wilfley concentrating machines continue
to gain in favor in these States. The sole manufacturers,
The Austral Otis 00., South Melbourne, inform us they
are kept fully employed in turning out these machines,
and have sol'd a very large number.*
* * * *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
« * * *
John W. H. Piper, C.E., M.A.1.M.E.,
M.Am.I.M.E., &c., Australian representative of Cutten
Bros., Dunedin, mining and dredging engineers, is leaving
for London about the end of September to establish a
Home Office for the firm, the increase of foreign business
necessitating this action. Mr. Piper will be pleased to
undertake any commissions that may be entrusted to him.
Equitable Buildings, George-street, Sydney.*
• * * •
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
« * * •
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
If further proof is needed that Luhrig Vanners
are the best and most economical machines for dressing
fines and slimes, it will be found in the fact that the Tas-
mania gold mine, Beaconsfield, Tasmania, has decided to
increase the number of these machines in the extension
of the present mill and reduction works. When com-
pleted it will have over 100 head of stampers at work, and
60 Luhrig Vanners, including the additional 24 of the
large type. Before finally adopting plans the Tasmania
board sent its manager to inspect the chief reduction
works in other States. Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, of
Melbourne, are the Sole Agents for the Luhrig appli-
ances.*
« * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches ip diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work. *
* * • •
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• * * *
“ Tinkler ” : The outlook for theM.L. dredging
industry in established quarters has improved during the
past few weeks. The weather, which blocked all work
with high rivers, has settled, and the Molyneux fleet is
busy scooping shekels. For the past month returns from
60 odd dredges have totalled nearly 25000 z. per week, and
indications promise continuance well into summer. The
market, nevertheless, remains stagnant. The public is
still evidently nursing its solar plexus. The real trouble
is that most of the erstwhile speculators were of the
wage-earning class, and the pressure of calls compelled
heavy sacrifices in favor of Fatman, who now looms large
on the landscape. The latter will have a tight grip on the
industry soon. The most recent Molyneux development
is the Monte Christo 00. This was always regarded as a
cert., and proved no pan-flash. Returns of 150 oz. weekly
from the initial scoop show what the river is capable of.
Had this dredge, like all its latter-day competitors,
started fairly off scratch, the div.-list would have been a
feast for investors’ eyes. Unfortunately, in addition to
heavy financial disabilities, many dredges have found
that they cannot bottom on wash in the richest parts of
their claims owing to short bucket-ladders —an eloquent
tribute to the general fat-headedness of consulting-
engineers and directors.
■* * * »
The recent Royal Commission on opal-mining
(N.S.W.) recommended Govt, to buy out the mainly-
English co. owning the principal blocks ; but it is stated,
on first-class authority, that the co. “ isn’t taking any.”
Instead, it will most likely cease letting ground on tribute,
and charge each miner hialf-a-crown a week for the right
to mine. That way it will make precious little ; what the
commission recommended is the best chance ever likely
to come its way. At present more opal is being got on
what used to tie called the “ outside ” blocks than on the
co.’s claims. The price for good gem is again fair ; for
poorer stuff, wretched.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Hy. f^arkwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
■ Auckland, NZ.
“WILD CAT” BRIAR PIPES
Weld
Bd.
ca.
IN A DOZEN DIFFERENT SHAPES.
Posted, 10d.; 6s. per Dozen—posted, 6s. Bd.; 725. per Gross— *3" Carriage Free to any
Railway Station in New South. Wales.
8
D.
ea.
Cat
WOOLF & CO., 378 George-atreet (next &F. 04,
Mr
d
The Wild Cat Column.
It now appears that the N.S.W. £4,000,000 loan
was issued at a fixed price of £94. It was underwritten,
and the usual price for underwriting is about £1 ss. per
cent., so with this and all expenses, the net yield can’t
well be more than £92 —probably it will be a little less.
During the week Westralia has offered a £1,000,000 3 per
cent, loan at £9l. It is also underwritten ; and the under-
writing charges and expenses will almost certainly bring
down the yield to somewhere between £BB and £B9.
Taking the most favorable view of things, these are about
the results :
Debt Cash Tog-
incurred. realised.
N.S.W £4,000,000 £3,680,000 £320,000
Westralia .. 1,000,000 890,000 110,000
£5,000,000 £4,570,000 £430,000
Considering that this loss is really interest paid out of
the loans themselves—that it arises through floating loans
at 3 per cent, when the public credit is only good enough
to enable the country to borrow at 3J per cent., the only
honest course is to create a sinking fund for each loan
which will make good the loss by the time the loan falls
due. Even if the money is all represented by permanent
payable assets, which it won’t be, it is a mean swindle to
hand down to posterity £4,570,000 worth of property with
a £5,000,000 mortgage on it, the difference representing
the fact that the present generation was too lazy and
shiftless and dishonest to pay the full interest on its own
liabilities. The local Fat Man has a lot to say about the
sinfulness of compulsory purchase of his property by the
State at its full value. It is time he said something about
his own compulsory sale to his children of property at a
great deal more than its value. It is also about time that
a great movement was organised to get the signatures of
the coming voter—that part of the community (say
between 15 and 21) which is old enough to understand the
situation, but not old enough to vote—to a huge memo-
rial intimating to the British money-lender that when he
comes of age he will decline to be responsible for the old
man’s debts.
Tasmania is issuing a little local loan of
£200,000, the buyer having the right to take 3J per cent,
stock, repayable within five years, or 3£ per cent, stock at
a longer date. These three loans, and the conversion of
Queensland’s £528,000 deficit into permanent debt, make
nearly £5,800,000 added to the Commonwealth’s debt in
about a fortnight—say an addition of £1 10s. per in-
habitant all over the Commonwealth. Things are pretty
sudden in this countrv.
* • » •
A clause whioh the Senate has added to the
Property Acquisition Bill is absolutely the wisest thing
the Federal Parliament has done up to date. It is esti-
imated that the Commonwealth has to take over from the
: States property valued at £10,445,000. Most of this con-
s sists of buildings and works which the States constructed
with borrowed money, and the most common idea was
i that the Commonwealth should borrow more money
and pay the States for them. And the States
i mostly proposed not to use the money to pay off
i the original debt, but to use it to cover revenue defi-
■ ciencies and the like. The idea was that where the State
; had borrowed £lO,OOO to put up a building, the Federal
• Government should borrow another £lO,OOO to buy the
i building off the State ; and the State should use the
! second £lO,OOO as ordinary revenue—consequently there
would be £20,000 worth of debt, and one building,
■ originally worth £lO,OOO but now considerably dete-
riorated by age, to show forjit. The new clause provides,
ito some extent, a remedy for this swindle. The idea is
i to credit each State with the value of the properties it
] hands over to the Commonwealth, and then debit it, so
: far as circumstances will admit, with the amount it should
■ contribute, in proportion to population, to the Federal
fund, out of which these assets are to be paid for. The
iidea works out thus :
Less £2 7s. 2d.
Due by Com- per head paid by Balance
monwealth to all the people due to
State for assets of Australia to- each
handed over. wards purchase State,
of these assets.
'Victoria .. £2,745,000 £2,745,000 Nil
' Tasmania .. 436,000 430,000 £6,000
N S.W. .. 3,200,000 3,182,000 18,000
’ Westralia .. 809,000 404,000 405,000
•Queensland 1,590,000 1,138,000 452,000
,‘S.A. .. 1,665,000 875,000 790,000
It will take years to convince a certain class of
'local politician, who expected to have a great razzle-
. dazzle with the money received for post-offices, tele-
graphs, customs-house buildings, &c., that this isn’t a
: grievous swindle of some kind, yet it is perfectly fair and
, honest.
* * * *
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania (Hobart)
-shows a very material improvement for the half-year just
. ended:—
Dividends, Divi- Written Total
Profits, dend-tax, &c. off. Reserves.
I’Dec., 1895.. £3,701..5 p.c.= £3,712.. ..£190,320
■ June, 1896.. 4,199..6 „ „ 3,766.. .. 190,753
Dec., 1896.. 3,833..5 „ „ 3,714.. .. 190,872
..Aug., 1897.. 4,969..5 „ „ 4,952.. .. 190,889
jiFeb., 1898.. 4,463..5 „ „ 3,714.. £1,000.. 190,638
Aug., 1898.. 4,823.. 5 „„ 3,714.. 1,000.. 190,747
iSFeb., 1899.. 4,885..5 „ „ 3,714.. 1,000.. 190,918
.Aug,, 1899.. 5,519..6 „ „ 4,457.. 91,000.. 100,980
jiFeb., 1900.. 6,611..6 „„ 4,457.. 1,500.. 101,634
Aug. 1900.. 6,828..7 „ „ 5,200.. 1,500.. 101,762
UFeb., ,1901.. 7,502. .7 „„ 5,200.. 1,500.. 102,564
Aug., 1901.. 13,497.. 8 „„ 5,943.. 5,000.. 105,118
The £103,500 which the Commercial Bank of Tasmania
! has written off during the past four years consists of
£90,000 towards general losses and depreciation by way
• of a cleaning up after the boom ; £B5OO written off the
i book value of premises ; and £5OOO this half-year to re-
• duce the bank’s holding of British Government securities
i to £94, being about the value to which they have dropped
iby reason of the Boer war calamity. Considering that
r they are practically certain to reach par again, nine insti-
r tutions out of ten would have let them stay at the old
i book value, and the conduct of the Commercial in being
s the tenth institution—the one which faced and provided
t for the drop— is all the more commendable.
.The profits are equal to £ll Is. 2d. per cent,
i per annum on the shareholders’ funds as at the beginning
■ of the half-year (capital, £141,492; reserves, £102,564;
: total, £244,056). This is a splendid figure, and a remark-
: able improvement on the £6 35.4 d. per cent, of six months
; back. Reserves consist of reserve fund £lOO,OOO, and un-
< divided profit, £5llB. It would have been much better
i if £5OOO of this latter was transferred to the permanent
i reserve, as a guarantee of the management’s intention to
] repair the loss of 1899 as speedily as possible. The bank
1 has £410,221 in cash and Government securities—equal to
•29 per cent, of all liabilities to the public. Of this amount
£184,880 (the entire reserve and more than half the
capital) is in Government securities. Altogether the
Commercial Bank of Tasmania makes an exceedingly good
showing in every respect,
* • * *
Waverley : The shares, though paid up to 55.,
can be got for 4s. for the simple reason that the public
doesn’t regard them as worth any more. There is no
mystery about that; there are shares- in some concerns
which are paid up to £lO and can be bought for 3s. 7d. or
so. The spec, isn’t promising, anyhow.
* * * *
The Castlemaine Brewery and Quinlan, Gray
and Co., Brisbane, Ltd., is a large Queensland brewing
concern in difficulties. The difficulties are diminishing,
but the balance-sheet is so confusedly drawn up that it
is impossible to say exactly either how much they are
now or how much they were before. It was proposed
some four years ago to extinguish about half the paid-up
capital of £154,262 in order to write off depreciation and
the paper item of goodwill. This hasn’t yet been done,
and there is nothing to show the amount that has to be
provided under either heading. The largest alleged asset
appears as “ Freehold properties, buildings, machmery,
plant, goodwill and rolling-stock, &c., £141,447,” but
whether the paper item of goodwill represents £lOOO or
£50,000 of that there is nothing to show. The co., how-
ever, presents its accounts for the last four years thus :
Nominal
Profits. How disposed of. Reserves.
July, 1898 £5,965
„ 1899 8,614 Written off = £5,854 11,351
„ 1900 10,981 „ „ 7,757 14,575
„ 1901 9,537 „ „ 10,184 13,928
Prospects certainly look better, though the earnings are
only equal to £6 3s. Bd. per cent, per annum on capital.
If no extensive new losses were made in the last three
years, and the £23,795 written off during that period all
went in reduction of the losses mentioned in 1898, things
must have improved very materially. At July, 1893, the
liabilities, apart from capital, were £141,580 —mostly bank
overdrafts. They are now only £107,003, so a good deal
has been done at lifting the white man’s burden off the
big brewery. How much depreciation and goodwill there
are still to be written off is pure conjecture, and in any
case no dividends can be honestly and justifiably paid till
the overdraft (still nearly £62,000) and nearly £13,000
still owing of the original purchase money, are cleared
off ; but with a little more patience there should be no
necessity for writing down capital. If the writing down
can be averted it will be a good thing, if only to save
much good beer going in bad law expenses.
* * * *
Melbourne Permanent Building Society (Mel-
bourne) :
(Debenture Interest, 5 per cent.)
Net Loss on
Loss” Sales, gS. Reserves.
July 1892 . £56,548
~ 1893." £5605 £10,587 £16,192 40,356
„ 1894.. 6352 16,802 23,154 1i,202
(Debenture Interest, 2J per cent.)
Profit. Profit.
„ 1895.. 508 1,817 1,309 18,511
Profit. Loss. Loss.
„ 1896.. 884 1,168 284 18,22 i
„ 1897.. 1220 3,010 1,790 16,437
„ 1898.. 1523 7,718 6,195 10,242
~ 1899.. 1913 7,122 5,209 5,033
Profit.
„ 1900.. 2614 603 2,011 7,044
Profit.
„ 1901.. 3423 841 4,264 11,308
In 1892 the Melbourne Permanent Building Society owed
£473,752 to debenture-holders and other outside creditors.
The burden is now reduced to £223,722. Its principal
assets consist of £371,616 worth of foreclosed properties
(vacant land £54,072, and houses £317,544). The house
property now yields £2 14s. Id. per cent, net rental,
against only £2 Bs. 2d. per cent, last year, so it is becom-
ing within the bounds of possibility that it is nearly
worth its book value, and that there are no very serious
losses still to provide for. The earnings of the business
(£3423) are equal to barely 2 per cent, on the paid-up
capital of £177,164, which is the best return shown since
1892. At the same time, despite the improvement, any-
thing material in the shape of a dividend appears to be a
long way off yet. Also the load of borrowed money
(£223,722) is still absurdly heavy in proportion to capital,
and all the earnings should be applied towards it reduc-
tion for some time yet.
*** - *
The Queen Building Society, a little Melbourne
concern, with a paid-up capital of £32,058, begins to look
a trifle better
Trading Loss on Total Total
Loss. Properties Sold. Loss. Deficit.
July, 1897 .. £1,769
„ 1898 .. £289 £447 £736 2,505
Profit.
„ 1899 .. 89 726 637 3,142
Loss.
„ 1900 .. 85 1,267 1,352 4,494
Profit.
„ 1901 .. 209 476 267 4,761
The Queen Building Society suffers from the usual trouble.
Out of £36,544 of assets (purely book values) £29,666 con-
sists of foreclosed properties. These are being gradually
realised upon, and as they don’t fetch their paper value
by a considerable distance the growing deficit shown
above is a natural result. Since 1898 liabilities to deposi-
tors and others have been reduced from £15,947 to about
£9OOO ; and when the balance is cleared off, and it is no
longer necessary to force the sale of properties, the Queen
should have a chance to earn respectable profits again.
• * * •
The Albert Building Society (Melbourne) begins
to show signs of getting on its feet again :
Profit on Property TotaL
Business. jL I ,- i Reserves.
July, 1895.. £8,964
„ 1896.. £ll4 9,078
„ 1897.. 135 9,213
„ 1898.. 90 9,303
_ 1899.. 305 £B2 9,526
„ 1900.. 402 70 9,858
r 712 i
„ IMI..- P s Ce°s!7 340 10 ’ 586
„ 356 J
The Albert Building Society has a paid-up capital of
£58,‘474, so even the greatly increased profits shown this
year only represent £1 4s. 4d. per cent, per annum on
capital, or £1 os. lOd. on the capital and reserves. Under
these circumstances it is impossible to take the present
alleged values seriously. To make the Albert a 5
per cent, dividend-earning institution on the basis of last
year’s profits it would be necessary to write off all the re-
serves and £44,234 of capital, and leave only £14,240 paid
up. But the outside liabilities are only £6060 (mortgages
£5347; deposits and sundries £213), so it isn’t compelled
to sacrifice its properties in a debilitated market to satisfy
depositors, and the values and profits are both going up
again. In the course of four or five years the depreciation
to be provided for may be much less, and the reserves
may have grown large enough to fill the gap. In an., case
the Albert’s position is much stronger than that of a num-
ber of kindred institutions.
* * • •
The Economic Permanent Building Society
(Melbourne) :
Loss on
Trading Property Total
Loss. Sales, &c. Loss. Reserves.
June, 1895 £4,786
„ 1896 £29 £746 £775 4,011
„ 1897 135 2,044 2,179 1,832
£lOOO capital written off and carried to Reserves 2,832
June, 1898 78 848 926 1,906
Trading Profit.
„ 1899 136 145 9 1,897
„ 1900 79 956 877 1,020
Deficit.
„ 1901 335 2,184 1,849 829
The same invariable trouble. Out of £58,167 of assets
£49,789 consist of foreclosed properties—the relics of the
boom—at their old boom valuation, and the loss on
realisation of these more than swallows up the new
profits. Since 1897, outside liabilities have been reduced
from £23,542 to £16,356, but before enough property is
realised to pay off the remaining liability a lot of the
capital (£42,640), threatens to disappear.
* * * *
The Modern Permanent Building and Invest-
ment Society (Melbourne) still makes rather heavy
weather, despite the fact that in 1894 it obtained from its
creditors a reduction of interest to 2J per cent. :
Net Loss
Trading on Pro- Total Reserves.
Loss, perty Sales. Loss.
July, 1895 .. £44,121
„ 1896 .. £3,479 £7,952 £11,431 32,690
„ 1897 .. 1,193 6,318 7,511 25,179
„ 1898 . 1,671 8,677 10,348 14,831
Profit. Deficit.
„ 1899 .. 281 15,750 15,469 638
„ 1900 .. 9 5,593 5,584 6,222
„ 1901 .. 1,591 6,548 4,957 11,179
Though the ordinary business shows better returns this
year than at any other time since the date of the historic
smash, the constant disposal of great masses of property
in a market which, despite its great improvement, is
still a good way below the boom level, keeps adding to
the deficit. The progress of sales has been as follows :
1899 .. £57,849 worth, at 14/7 in the £of book value
1900 .. 84,545 „ 18/10 „
1901 .. 109,347 „ 18/4 „ „
Despite these sacrifices, the process of paying off the
liabilities is not very rapid. At July, 1897, the Modern
Permanent Building and Investment Society owed
£464,803 in deposits, debentures, mortgages and over-
drafts. The liability is now down to £394,868. If the co.
could lie low for awhile and sell no more property till the
market further improved, it might be better for it; un-
fortunately there is no positive guarantee that the
market will further improve. Out of £198,897 paid-up
capital, £187,718 is still intact (on paper, at all events),
and on present appearances a good part of this should be
saved, with moderate luck and careful management.
By way of a side issue: In 1897, the Modern
Permanent B. and I Society ceased to insure its multitude
of scattered properties, and, instead, paid the premiums
into a fire insurance fund of its own. As a result, after
covering all losses, the balance at credit of the fund was
£l2O in 1898 ; £425 in 1899 ; £6BO in 1900 ; and is now
£879. This is a good deal to save in four years. It has
been proposed that the Federal Government should also
be its own fire insurance co. If the idea is adopted, and
adhered to for ten or twelve centuries, the Federal fire
insurance fund might, at the end of that time, go a long
way to pay off Australia’s public debt.
• * » *
The Federal Palace Hotel (Melbourne)—which
is still hoping to get an hotel license, and become a cheer-
ful and profitable public-house instead of a huge and bale-
ful stone haunt of Cold Tea—shows some progress this
year
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
July, 1897 .. £1237 £1743
Losses.
„ 1898 .. 182 1561
„ 1899 .. 125 1436
Profits.
„ 1900 .. 2002 lOf per cent. =£1458 1980
„ 1901 .. 3923 2l| „ = 2918 2985
The Federal Palace Hotel 00. has a paid-up capital of
£13,491. It had a much larger one formerly, but, some
years ago, a trifle of about £llO,OOO was written off as
lost. At July, 1895, its huge building was burdened by a
mortgage of £68,000, but this is now reduced to £57,500.
When it is fairly lifted, and the great outlay for interest
is saved, prospects ought to be good. At the same time,
dividends of 21J per cent, don’t accelerate the lifting
process much.
«•, * *
The Malting Co. of New South Wales, a small
concern with a paid-up capital of £21,050, issued its third
annual balance-sheet as at 30th June, 1901. Its works
have been in actual operation, however, for rather less
than two years. Position of the co. is as follows :
Loss on . Preliminary Visible
Business. Expenses. Deficit.
June, 1899 £741 £741
„ 1900 £672 63 1,476
Profit on
Business.
„ 1901 £720 756
This isn’t the whole deficit, apparently, though it is all
that can be definitely traced. The principal asset is des-
cribed as “ Land, building, plant, machinery and goodwill,
£16,996.” How much of this is goodwill doesn’t appear ;
it may be £lO or it may be £5OOO for all the evidence
shows ; but whatever the sum it is a purely paper asset
and should be added to the deficit and written off as soon
as possible. The goodwill item appeared at the very
beginning before the co. had ever started work, and it
would be interesting to know the cause of its existence.
It would also be interesting to know the amount. It
would be additionally interesting to know how the public
would regard, say, the Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
if it put among its assets “ Goodwill, £500,000 ” —though
its business would certainly sell for that much over and
above the visible assets. The fact that nobody can
imagine a reputable institution like the Commercial
Banking Co. calling its goodwill an asset is a pretty good
proof that such an asset can’t be taken seriously.
Especially the goodwill of a new co. which is earning, as
yet, less than 3£ per cent., can’t be taken seriously.
• * • *
A cool request is made by one brewer, that if
the Gordian knot which is strangling the Sydney drink-
retailers is cut, the holders of tied-house bonds shall be
compensated.
**• * *
“ H.L.8.”: Practically all you say as to the
relative merits of hydraulicking and bucket dredging has
been already said by Bulletin. Also, it has been said in
one-twentieth of the space.
m * * *
Nothing has been heard yet of any great returns
from the Noble Island (wolfram) property. Noble Island
was syndicated as something with at least millions in it,
but so far little has outcropped but rows. There is even
talk of severe legal trouble. N.S.W. Premier See and
Education Minister Perry were among those who sank
good red gold after visionary wolfram.
w m m *
“ Calli ” : Be the knocking-off of single men at
Mt. Morgan through lack of water. Late rains should
have set things going. Small field on Dawes’ Range (Mt.
Rainbow) is not so fortunate. Almost on top of water-
shed, and without dams, etc., it has been hutfgujp for 12
months. Consists of cement wash (under basalt), averag-
ing Iqz. 18dwts. to ton. Only about a dozen miners there,
but big “blow ” near was originally worked by co. which
“ busted.” Reefs (small leaders) average loz.—one being
worked by J. Fitton, who has also a 5-head stamper and a
small, but good, cyanide plant. If many men are not
liars, one orthe biggest things in Australia is the Callide
coal-field, 60 miles west of Gladstone (Q.) discovered 11
years ago by Petersen and mates, when prospecting .
alluvial gold. Govt. Geologist Rands said of it in 91 .
“ Taking its area at ssq. miles, and its average depth at
21ft., and, halving the product, we have 50 million tons
—or 150 times the product of all Queensland in 90. hio
doubt it exists over a much larger area. The latter
point has since been placed beyond, question, and the
last shaft, down 170 ft., went through 60ft. of coal—4o of
which were “ good” coal. Co. is now surveying a 1
from Gladstone estimated to cost £2OOO per mile surely
an under estimate, considering the country.
• * * *
G-ympie August divs. figured up more than for
any month since 1897. First eight months of 18Jy,
£46,658 ; ditto 1900, £62,891 ; 1901, £89,295 The mar-
vellous richness of No. 1 N. Columbia’s crushing (30090 z.
for 142 tons in Aug.) is responsible for a good deal.
* • * *
Boulder Perseverance, for month —9312 tons for
12,6540 z. —a record ; and the management says it counts
on 15,000 to 16,0000 z. monthly—for how long ?—when the
additional furnaces are ready. Ivanhoe : 6434 tons for
8707 oz.—also a record. L.Y. Consols : 9289 tons tor
14,3150 z.; value £54,000. Hannan’s Star yield, 10930 z. is
a record one from that mine.
(Continued on page SI.)


-Class Hatters
Gent’s
Black
Semi-Stiff
f
High Grade
Selected
Fur Felt
8/6 10/6 12/6 14/6
in ordering) please state size or number of inches round head, also chest measurement.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
6EOR6E St BARRACK STREETS——.
Opposite G.P.0., SYDNEY.
HARRINGTON'S CAMERAS
From
51-
NOT ONE
$
But all the Latest and Best
in Sizes, Styles and Grades
the world produces.
From
5-
to
£5O
5T
Forget all your troubles.
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjoyment of
HOME CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
Solgoz—it is simpler to spell him so, and
makes no difference—seems to have been a weak
man driven to the wall, and astonishing the
boldest by his cruel deed. Cabled that his
friends, even his mother, taunted him continually
with, “You’re a coward ! you’re a coward !” So
the dripping of his wife wore out our own Jimmy
Governor’s patience. And Solgoz, casting about
for the most conclusive proof of courage, picked
the biggest man he could find, and killed him.
The unfortunate President’s death needs no
anarchists’ plot to explain it; it may quite ration-
ally have been caused by the desperation of a
sheep.
* * * 9
The cable-operators did some smart work
during the MVKinley assassination sensation. The
message announcing the attempt came through in
130 minutes, while that telling of the death took
a few minutes longer, making record performances
for ordinary cable transmission.
* * * *
After Federal Premier Barton had sym-
pathised with M'Kinley and America generally
on the part of the Australian people, and Premier
Peacock and Lieut.-Gov. Madden had sympathised
officially in the name of Victorians, the indestruct-
INFANTILE.
GIRLIE (seeing vessel with
tug-boat): “ Oh, mama,
look at the cruel big ship
chasin’ the poor little
one !”
able Fitzgibbon rushed out a long, passionate
message expressing “ abhorrence,” “ sorrow,”
“ sympathy,” “ indignation,” “ fervent hope ” and
other emotions on behalf of the people of Mel-
bourne and adjacent places and his ridiculous
Board. Isn’t it time the people of Melbourne
discovered the necessity of contenting themselves
with the ordinary channels in communicating with
the outside world ? Why use sewer-channels ?
• • • •
One can only judge of the depths of inde-
cency and flagrant bad taste which the “highly
respectable ” daily papers are prepared to plumb,
when a celebrity such as Gladstone or M'Kinley
is on the edge of death. Where was the necessity
of definite descriptions of the dying man’s mode
of nutriment ?
•* * * »
A grim joke was played on unsuspecting
Sydney on Sept. 13th by the fire at the Ultimo
power-house, which caused the complete cessation
of the electric train traffic. Though only a few
months old, the city has become so accustomed to
the electric service that the break-down threw it
on its beam ends. Picture the feelings of the
young man who had taken his Leichhardt girl to
the theatre, and he himself living at Dulwich
Hill! The demand for cabs soon exhausted the
supply, and nothing remained to hundreds of
persons but a weary trudge home. Crowds of
swearing men and disconsolate women could be
seen up Red fern way with boxes, bundles and babies,
landed, as usual, miles from anywhere by the late
trains, with the prospect before them of getting
their respective caravans home on foot. To make
matters worse a large ball had been held that
night in the Town Hall, and scores of weary
dancers said things as they plodded homewards.
Tramway Supt. Kneeshaw was on his way to
Broken Hill, but was intercepted at Moss Vale by
a message telling him that Sydney could not get
home to bed, and asking him what he was going to
do about it. Many a tired soul that night sighed
for the despised steam tram—the large, dirty,
roaring vehicle which, with all its faults, generally
got its load safely home somehow or other. There
were many of them lying half-dismantled in the
sheds, and by great efforts some 30 of the old
ruins were on the rails again next morning, and in
a sort of way the traffic was kept going.
• * • *
The railway accident at Princes Bridge,
Melb., on Sept. 13, resembles the Redfern (Sydney)
disaster of a few years back. On that occasion,
the 9 a.m. Goulburn mail collided with an incom-
ing suburban passenger train near Eveleigh
tunnel. The driver on the outgoing train swore
positively that the signal to start was given him.
The signal-man was equally positive that it wasn’t,
and the “interlocking-gear” proved him to be
right. For months together the driver had watched
for 9 a.m., had heard the
station bell, seen the guard’s
flag, had looked up and seen
the arm of the semaphore drop,
and right away ! The co-relation
had become fixed in his mind. Gn that
fatal morning, part of the programme was gone
through as usual, but the incoming passenger was
a few seconds late, and the arm did not drop,
though the driver honestly swore that it did. The
driver of the outgoing train at Princes Bridge is
also sure that he got the signal. But the signal-
man again has the interlocking gear to bear him
out. The accident again shows that no human
device is sufficient to guard absolutely against ac-
cidents.
* • * *
The spectacle of a foot constable and a
trooper escorting a tradesman, his vans and his
takings, to his suburban home, was witnessed on
Saturday week in Melbourne. Mr. Straker, caterer
at the Agricultural Show Grounds, declared that he
would not take the risk of removing his gear and
money to his hotel at Glenferrie unless he had an
escort of police. He wrote to the Chief Com-
missioner :—
A tram has been stuck up by masked highwaymen on
the very track I will have to traverse. I will have
probably £4OO or £SOO of Saturday’s takings, and I will
not take any risks while there are so many desperate
ruffians knocking about. Please let me have an armed
foot constable to sit in the buggy with me to protect me
and my money, and let me also have a mounted man to
bring up the rear with my vans, carrying plant and stock.
Let me know what it will cost.
The caterer’s wish was gratified at the expense of
305., which he gladly paid to enjoy immunity
from attack by armed ruffians. This incident
speaks highly for the local police, and for the
Morality of Melbourne.
* * * »
When the big Sydney brewing people pro-
tested recently before the Parliamentary inquiry
commission that they positively panted' after the
abolition of the “tied” public-house system, the
other eye was solemnly winked by everyone save
the guileless person who can be made to believe
that Shylock is grieved to the soul to be obliged
to charge such high rates of interest. But nobody
was prepared for the bombshell which publicans’
secretary Monfries exploded in the enemy’s camp
by calmly handing in a communication in which
leading Sydney brewing firms informed him, in so
many words, that one of their chief causes of com-
plaint against his Licensed Victuallers’ Associ-
ation was its opposition to the tied-house system !
Good old Black-and-white ! how often he bobs up
to biff slippery people in the eye.
The decrease in Australian crime, or rather
Australian criminal convictions, about which our
statists boast, seems really due to the increasing
inability of the Australian police to cope with
their duties. All our great cities are wretchedly
policed. In England the rule is one policeman to
every 400 population ; in Melbourne the propor-
tion is one to 650. Sydney is a little better off
than Melbourne in this respect, but there, too,
the force is shockingly undermanned, and is con-
stantly being loaded with new responsibilities,
* * * *
The Sydney suburbs are disgracefully
urder-policed. For instance, Waverley, with 75
miles of streets, is looked after by only 14 men—
two of whom have to watch the 35 miles of streets
included in the Bondi sub-division—i.e.,17J miles
per man for half a day ; during the other half the
place is entirely wn-policed. Yet Premier See
appears to deprecate prospective Parliamentary
opposition to the expenditure of the “ few hun-
dreds ” necessary for an increase of 53 men. A
miserable half-hundred !—when the force—by
reason of the numerous extra-constabulary duties
with, which it has become saddled—practically
requires doubling.
* * * *
A ghostly glimmer is thrown on the mys-
tery of many a sudden disappearance by the
discovery, in a Warwick (Q.) graveyard, of a
corpse, uncoffined, but dressed, booted and spurred..
There was no record of its lawful burial. The
really great embezzler generally plunges into a
city and lives secure by the side of a police-station ;
the artistic murderer has probably long been
practising the art of perfect corpse-concealment
by planting his victims in the cemetery—in
new-made graves. Butler’s dead were delved out
from their remote mountain-gullies, but who
would ever look for a murdered body in a grave-
yard ?
* * * *
Five returned Ballarat cohentingenters
went back to S’Africa t’other day to go to the
front again. The local Courier (whose editor is
a “Kunnel”) mournfully observes: “It is not a
creditable thing to have to say that, in every case,
inability to obtain employment at their former
work is the cause of their return.” Now, this
same Courier was one of the loudest in egging-on
these unfortunate nincompoops to throw up their
billets and go where Glory awaited them. Alas !
for the average returned Australian swaddy.
Billetless, penniless, and in many cases jilted by
the girl who preferred substance to shadow—
he points a powerful moral to future Australian
would-be swashbucklers.
* * • *
A Melbourne correspondent :—
The capture of Pentridge escapee O’Connor at Sydney
has shed some light upon the methods adopted by the
Vic. d’s. to catch criminals. O’Connor’s wife lives with
her child in a little Collingwood cottage. As soon as
news reached the detective office of the escape of Sparks
and O’Connor, one detective burst out: “ I know where
O’Connor’s wife is living, sir.” Inspector Sharp looked
upon this man with admiration : “If you are sure of it,
take four men with you, surround the place and rush it,
for they are almost sure to be there.” But the old hands
in the office muttered “Rot!” The four young detec-
tives went helter-skelter for Mrs. O’Connor’s house and
surrounded it. A loud knock at the door, cocked
revolvers front and rear of the tenement, and all was
ready to receive O’Connor and Sparks. Mrs. O’Connor
■came to the door, with her sleeves tucked up,
her arms all over soap-suds. “My God!” she ex-
claimed, as she beheld the armed men, “ I am
only a poor washerwoman, and I have got nothing
worth stealing.” “ Hold your tongue,” said the leader
as he sounded a whistle, the signal for the two at the
hack to jump the fence. But the back gate was only
latched, and in they rushed, tumbling in their hurry over
wash-tubs and clothes-props. Then they stormed the
kitchen and went through the house like greased light-
INVALIDED HOME.
HE: “ But you said you'd marry me. when I
came lack !”
SHE: “ Yes — when you all came back."
rung. Beds were overturned and a thorough search
made. Meanwhile the woman looked on in horror, and:
the escapee’s youngster bawled with fright. “ Now,” re-
marked the detective in charge, “ where have you planted
your husband and his mate ? ” “ They are in Pentridge,”
gasped the woman. “You know they have escaped !”'
he angrily retorted. “ Oh, my God ! ” she exclaimed—
“l hope he will find the plant and send me a few quid,
for I am dead to the world and nearly starving.” This:
work showed more than ordinary “ detective acumen.”
• * • *
“ J.R. ” : Some recent Bulletin pars ap-
pear to have assumed that N.S.W. old age pen-
sions have been given to inmates of Govt, asylums..
None have, as yet, been given to those people,
most of whom are ineligible by reason of the rule ■
that no claim for pension shall be .considered;
unless claimant has been at least a month out of
an asylum, And in any case inmates of asylums
have no opportunity to hunt up evidence in sup-
port of their claims.
* * » *
Simultaneously conferences of N.5.W...
glassworkers and bootmakers, masters and men,
are in progress. Former are asking for higher
pay and shorter honrs; latter for better terms ■
generally, including the framing of a new log for
all piece-work, and abolition of the severe task,
set for weekly hands. Workers in the N.S.W.
cold stores and freezing chambers allege that they
are sweated ; boiler and fire-hands on shore make •
a similar complaint. Former have formed, and ;
latter are about to start, a union.
* * * *
Incidental to Bishop Goe’s recent “ drop-
ping on” an Anglican canon, who had arranged!
to deliver an Orange-colored sermorj to a Wesleyan 1
congregation, it transpired that there was a:
“ Princess May ” Lodge of the L.O.L. somewhere ■
in Victoria. It goes without saying that the title ■
wasn’t authorised. The British Gov t. permits no .
royal patronage of the L.O.L.
* * * *
Two curious recoveries. About two years:
ago a Queensland jockey had his spine fractured,.
lost the use of his legs, and had to be wheeled!
about in a pram. Six months ago the pram was;
capsized, and the man’s spine again fractured..
Strange to say, the accident restored the use of.'
his legs, and he was turned out of hospital almost,
as good as new. Again, one Cooper, a sailor, lost
his speech and hearing through a donkey-engine
accident. Five years afterwards he fainted and!
fell heavily to the floor, and blood flowed freely
from his mouth and ears. On recovering con-
sciousness he found he could again speak and
hear.
* * * *
Thus the Consecrated Press :
“ We have a vile newspaper in Sydney that spreads its
leprosy in the community, and panders to the tastes of
the vicious and the depraved for the sake of gain. It is
the filthiest and most ruffianly publication in the English-
speaking world.”
Heavy roaring, even if aimed at the paper
which carefully printed in full Jack Want’s
speech in the Coningham case, without expur-
gation of —what were in court necessary—
obscenities.
A FUNERAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The coffin and the red jaws of the grave,
The silent group bareheaded in the sun,
Far off the moaning of a broken wave—
So her long rest was won.
The deeps of death are pangless and serene—
Foolish it were to sorrow for her sake,
Since Life, since Love to her could only mean
The right to burn and ache
With hungering bosom striving to retain
Large dreams of joy that never might abide—
Melting like clouds above a drought-scorched plain
Agape, unsatisfied.
To one so weary, welcome was the sleep
Dreamless and sound—the falling into dark
As down the calm abysses of the deep
Falls slow the foundered bark.
ZADIG.


JLD.ICaSL GINb
—.— ~"' ■—
. Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only —largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16’5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
IsT.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
.Place, Sydney.
Raff an’s catarrh remedy
For Cold in the Head and Chest.
RAFF AN’S CATARRH REMEDY
For Headache and Stuffed Nostrils.
RAFF AN’S CATARRH REMEDY
Throat and Chest, Sore and Tender.
RAFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY
For Difficult Breathing at Night.
RAFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY
Stomach and Bowels deranged and swollen.
RAFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY
For Post Nasal Troubles.
RAFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY
For Cold Shivers and Weakness.
2/0. RAFF AN, Carlton, Melbourne.
The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . •
GEO. ROE & CO
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.
A ustralasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Harper’s
6t
33
Aiways Pure and Fresh.
Sold in 71b. Bags.
Oatmeal
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
BILE
BEANS**
oU
-*» and Troubles.
AN EXPERT OPINION.
“Say, Ethel, this soup tastes queer!"
“ Don’t be ridiculous, George; the cookery-book says that it tastes delicious."
“C.W.P.”: Not generally known that
Stanthorpe (Queensland) sent 14 men to the
Crimea, of whom only six returned. The first
contingent! And they saw something like fight-
ing !
* * * *
Big Sydney brewer- Toohey, M.L.C.,
“ believes that Sunday trading would be greatly
reduced by opening hotels on the Lord’s Day for
an hour at noon and evening.” No; what the
great Australian Thirst demands is the oppor-
tunity to shear a hair of the dog from 6 a.m. to 11
p.m. on Sunday.
* * * *
Why not a N.S.W. Parliamentary Com-
mittee on tied chemists’ shops ? Scores of
chemists are tied to big drug firms, and this
materially decreases the chances of the unhappy
citizen who, poisoned into madness by rotten
liquor, has to try and recover on —well, you may
be sure that the “tied” chemist doesn’t sell the
best or freshest drugs.
* * • *
Kitchener’s last weekly tally : 67 Boers
killed ; 61 wounded. Usually in warfare the
wounded hugely outnumber the killed. This
excess of killed over wounded tells its own story.
» * • *
The suicide is reported of returned-con-
tingenter Pooley —making the third returned-
soldier suicide recorded to date. After rioting for
months in blood and burning, the swaddy
can seldom settle down to peaceable citizen-
ship again Two of the three suicides in question
were ex-policemen.
A SILVER ONE PREFERRED.
SUBURBAN WAGGIE : “ Please, lidy, I ain’t askin’
yer fer food or money, but would yer give me
a tablespoon; I got. to take that much medi-
cine every Jour hours en’ I have to be per-
ticular about the measure.”
Very many Sydney suburban shopkeepers
ignore the Early Closing Act, by compelling their
employees to “work back ” On Friday nights from
7 till 9, weighing-out, making-up, and getting
deliveries ready for Saturday. This gross viola-
tion of a wise law wants stamping out.
The post-office committee of N.S.W.
Assembly, as the result of its investigations, finds
that Minister Crick used a postal official for a
curious bit of detective work, and “ considers the
proceeding wrong.” The main result of the
inquiry is to definitely connect Father Kenny,
recently of the Sacred Heart church, Darlmg-
hurst, with the eternal Coningham case.
• * * *
A complicated Turkishness in domestic
life was that of one Andrew, defendant in an
Adelaide maintenance case. In 1871 he married
Keturah Templer. In January, 1876, he took
to the altar Annie Leggo ; later in that year he
was divorced from Keturah. In June, 1899, he
casually wedded Mary Gilbert. Annie, of whom
he has leggo, now wants maintenance as a deserted
wife, but Edward (who calmly pleaded his own
bigamy) was upheld by the law in a contention
that she had no claim.
* * * *
The Old Colonists’ Association (Melb.),
founded by Geo. Coppin in 1862, is getting to be
quite a large charity. The endowment and main-
tenance funds amount to £17,000, and G.C. is
now trying to raise another £l5OO to supplement a
recent bequest of £3OOO for the purpose of adding
44 cottages to the homes already erected. Four of
these are to be reserved for old actors, in considera-
tion of the Dramatic Fund management, which
has a few cottages hard by, giving up four acres
of spare land to the Old Colonists’ Assn. A few
years hence, when the new homes are gardened
and tree-shaded like the old ones, the property
will be a pretty little township, and a notable
memorial to Coppin.
From Sydney D.T. “ Personal ” advt.
column, 4 Sep. “S. says to J.B. and T.D. she
must not be over 30, of fine physique, tall, sound
in wind and limb, and £lO,OOO will do if, to me,
she’s an agreeable woman ; and £50,000 if not.”
5 Sep. “S. says, I know my Europe, so I’ll trot
her round for twelve months, and we’ll bust £lOOO
and then settle down in Sydney with delightful
memories for life.” 6 Sep.—“S. says to J.B. and
T.D., she’ll have to trust me absolutely and
voluntarily ; place every penny in my hands, and
I’ll make £9OOO safe at fours ; non-speculative for
legal instrument for else I prefer my freedom.”
Sometimes truth is not stranger
than fiction, but reality successfully con-
tested supremacy with romance in an Aus-
tralian soft-goods warehouse, recently. A
young man, newly arrived from London,
presented himself to the manager of a de-
partment and applied for a situation. His
manners pleased, and his testimonials satis-
fied the manager, who took him on. The
employees remarked how much the new
arrival resembled the boss in everything
but age, and the resemblance was empha-
sised by the fact that both bore the same
name. These remarks reached the ears of
the manager, and lie questioned the 1
assistant. It was then found that they
were father and son. Nearly 30 years
previously the father, who was a com-
mercial traveller, had doubted the paternity
of his son, and had successfully petitioned
for a divorce. The father came to Aus-
tralia; and the mother, who never married
again, had reared the son to become, long
years afterwards, the living proof of her
innocence.
Flanking the entrance to the Vic-
toria Barracks, Melbourne, are two big
smooth-bore cannon, captured from the
Russians at Inkerman—one bearing the
mark of a British shell which burst on per-
cussion. A few years ago, when a Rus-
sian man-o’-war visited Melbourne, the then
Minister of Defence, with an extraordinary
idea of the fitness of things, recalled the
circumstances of their capture by offering
the guns back to the foreign admiral as
a delicate testimony to the existing peaceful
relations between Britain and Russia. The
Muscovite, of course, indignantly refused the left-
handed compliment.
* • * *
“ Ebenezer ” : The frivols of pious society.
Attended, recently, a “social” in a certain Sydney
suburban Presbyterian kirk, and, turning my
attention to some “conversation-lollies” lying on
the table, I nearly had a fit when I struck the fol-
lowing legend:
If by asking I may wed you,
Gladly then I’d board and bed you.
I called the pastor’s attention to the matter, but
the old man only smiled and said, “Weel, I
never ! You must ha’ brought it with you ! ”
“F.” : The Christian Science fad is
not altogether- new in Australia. The
craze paid us a visit some 15 years ago in
the guise of Faith-healing. Theapostle
was one Woods, who made his head-
quarters, and many converts, in Ade-
laide. Dowie, now of Zion, U.S.A., was,
I think, a disciple. A church built by
the sect in suburban Hindmarsh now
stands as a monument of the forsaken
faith, for, with the death of the chief
adherents, the rest returned to wallow
in the patent medicines of their particu-
lar fancies. It was a humorless cult,
anyhow, that solemnly prayed for and
anointed a lame horse, and pronounced
it cured—though to ungodly eyes the
crock went as lame as ever. And it was
a cruel cult also, in that the children
suffered for the “ faith ” of their fathers.
I knew one case in which an infant fell
into a fire and was severely burned ; yet
the parents only prayed for it, doing
absolutely nothing to. alleviate the hor-
rible pain or cure the raw sores that
formed. The helpless mite had to endure
* months of agony that might have been
shortened to weeks by the use of proper
remedies. But, of course, its ultimate
recovery was cited as proof of the efficacy
of faith. The Children’s Protection
Societies will do well to keep a piercing
eye on the “craze” if it again reaches
Australia. Woods, the apostle, returned
to England, where, according to evi-
dence subsequently given in a Police-
court case, he posed as Solomon, and
had women dancing round his thror
(set up in his church).
Here is a story of the courtesy shown by
the Federal Government to the Victorian Govt.
The Victorian Observatory had the use of a small
room at Parliament House for the purposes of
cloud photography. It was in an out-of-the-way
corner and in nobody’s road. This room had been
used by the Observatory for years past. A few
weeks after the Federal Govt, took possession of
Parliament Houses, the officer concerned witli
cloud photography went to the room as usual, but
found, to his dismay, that it had been turned into
a private lavatory for the convenience of a very
high official ; although the general lavatories were
but a few yards further down the corridor. On
making a search the Observatory officer discovered
that all the apparatus from the room had been
thrown into a confused heap in another corner of
the building, some of the instruments being seri-
ously damaged.
* • * *
The foreigner who was fined ss. for kissing
his wife in a Sydney street recalls a Melbourne
case of some years ago. A young Clifton Hill
butcher, delivering meat to a pretty young mar-
ried woman, was so affected by her beauty that he
seized her in his arms and planted several linger-
ing kisses on her lips. The lady kicked vigorously,
and, as soon as she struggled free of the amorous
meat-man, went to the local police-station and got
out a summons for assault. The butcher threw
himself on the mercy of the magistrates when the
case came on, and the elderly Bench gloated over
the lovely plaintiff as long as the business of the
court could with decency be delayed, and then fined
defendant £2. The unusual character of the case
led to its being reported in full in the dailies, and
through this the butcher, who had been unsuccess-
fully sought for years, was found by solicitors who
had £3OOO awaiting him as heir of a forgotten
relative. Moral —
» • * *
Watson, M.H.R., has very properly
called attention in the Federal Parliament to the
rude joke of the British authorities in proposing
to send out a Captain APLaggan as adjutant to
the Botany Bay military forces. The War Office
had better keep its little birth-stain jokes to it-
self, or it will quite ruin the local swacldy market.
• • * '
The “boys of the bull-dog breed !” The
crew (11) of a British-registered ship were last
week prosecuted at Sydney for rioting. iwo
were Greeks, eight were of various other non-
British nations (one of each), while the lltli was a
Chilian. And the locally-owned vessel “ Com-
monwealth,” erroneously reported as blown-up.on
the North coast, has a crew of 10 ; three are Finns,
two are Swedes and two others Norwegians.
* • * *
A casual Australian ' marriage, as related
in simple language, like unto that of Truthful
Janies, by a Melb. daily paper :
Petitioner stated that in March, 1593, respondent
introduced himself to her at Ascot races. He stated
that he was the manager of a station. By appointment
she met him on the following evening at the Royal
Park gates, and he made a proposal of marriage, to which
she assented. Two months later he sent her a letter,
enclosing £3. and asking h r to meet him at Inglewood.
She went to Inglewood, where they were married. Their
married life lasted for three days, one of which was
in Inglewood and the oKier two at an hotel in Bendigo,
He told her that he was obliged to go back to Feinhurst,
where he was employed, and that he would join lier
again in Melbourne. She then went to live in Biunsw C'<,
where she had resided before her marriage. In Oct. ISOG,
she accidentally met respondent in Brunswick; read. He
stated that he'had no money, but would meet her at
8 o’clock on the following evening and give her si me
cash. She kept the appointment, and waited till 9.30,
but he did not appear, and she never saw him again. n
consequence of his absence she consulted a solic tor, "ho
wrote to the station, and ascertained that her hu.-b vnd
was employed there, not, however, as manager, but as a
digger of rabbit holes, ?± 10s. per week. A decree nisi
was granted.
Two days acquaintance: .£3; tlnee days of
married bliss with a rabbit-hole digger; Ih, hears
A PARALLEL.
S HE: “ I don’t understand the meaning of bein .
in Power or in Opposition. I don’t under-
stand politics.”
HE: “ Well, being in Power is something like a
husband, and the Opposition like the wife.
The husband wants to do a thing and the
wife won’t let him, and he pays her for not
letting him."
waiting at a street corner for a lost husband ; and
five years waiting for a divorce.
» * * *
Concerning “ the cost of a baby ” :
Dear Bulletin, —“ A Father in Israel ” must be offen-
sively rich—or very unlucky in the choice of his doctors.
There is said to be a Robin Hood fashion in the medical
profession of robbing the rich so as to treat the poor for
nothing, and certainly doctors grade their fees by the
purses of the paj’ers. A “middle-class” father, my ex-
perience has been : Baby No. 1, medical and nursing
expenses, all told, under £lO ; baby No. 2 (services of one
of the best gynaecologist specialists included), £25. Nine-
tenths of the little strangers are not worth more than a
few guineas to the doctor. On the other point. The
great trouble with the city mother is to cope with the
dirt which taints houses, clothes, and atmosphere.
Septic infection in child-birth is the danger, and that the
modern scientific nurse knows, and the old Sairey Gamp
type does not know, how to avoid. I should advise “a
father in I ’’ to, next time, consult a good doctor as to
"the choice of the nurse, and he will have nothing to com-
plain of.— Sydney.
THE QUEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sea is my bath,
And my towel the sun ;
I dive and I swim
Where the white waters run,
And, tiring, I lie and grow dry in the sun.
There’s another that shares
The waters with me ;
He glides through the deep,
A grey gleam iD the sea,
But his teeth, ah ! his teeth are a menace to me.
The flowers and the trees
Where I wander at whiles,
They are mine, and I deign
To requite them with smiles—
Requite them the pleasure they give me at whiles.
There’s another who walks
My garden so fair ;
I was king, but she came,
And, ere I was aware,
She was queen over me and my garden so fair.
She is warm . . . she is cold . . .
What is this that I seek ?
O Heart, let me tell!
O Soul, let me speak 1
0 Girl, it is love, it is love that I seek !
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


df
The Charm of MARK FOY’S is the Price.
One of the. keynotes of Mark Foy’s success is the working
up of the Men’s and Boys’ Outfitting Trade.
To young gentlemen in offices, students, apprentices, and others,
who wish to present a good appearance, we call special attention to
MARK FOY'S SMART SUITS FOR BUSINESS YOUTHS.
Every youth on entering his business career desires to be smartly
dressed, but the stem necessity of rigid economy with small
salaries necessitates care in spending the coin.
MARK FOY’S NAVY SERGE YOUTHS’ SUITS (Ready-Made)
but not what is known as slop-made. These are manufactured in
our own factory only, from
GUARANTEED PURE INDIGO DYED ALL-WOOL WORSTED SERGES
The cut, style, and finish, of which are perfect, and the value is
unknown but at Mark Foy’s.
The death of William M’Kinley, President
of the U. 9., was only what the public, in its secret
heart, fully expected. Abdominal wounds are
almost always mortal, and the bulletins pub-
lished about rulers who lie at the gates of death
are invariably optimistic to the last. M’Kinley
was a man whose private life was without a stain
and he was also intellectually far above the ruck
of rulers. He made a great name in politics before
he reached the dreary but glorious eminence of
the Presidency, and the regret at his slaughter is
something very different from the perfunctory
lamentation that goes with such occasions. No-
body dreams for a moment that any personal
animosity led to his murder; it is merely that
lightning has a tendency to strike the highest
object, and the homicidal lunatic is just like
lightning in this respect. M’Kinley makes the
third U. 9. President murdered inside 36 years.
Three murders out of eight men elected to the
Presidency is an appalling average, but the U. 9.
President is the least guarded of all great rulers,
and the fool-anarchist has a habit of taking the
line of least resistance. It is difficult to remember
any other civilised country that has lost three
rulers by assassination in so short a period. At
the same time it is certain that an epidemic of
assassination has set in all over the white man’s
world of late years, and rulers and royalties have
been falling very fast. Two of the United 9tates’
murdered Presidents, Lincoln and M’Kinley, were
men of special mental capacity, and Garfield was
reputed to be so also. And the intermediate
mediocrities Hayes, Arthur, Cleveland and
Harrison—bore charmed lives.
The Right-Thinking Woman—and she is
quite plentiful these enlightened times —is domin-
ated by a desire to always look her best. The
happiness of maid or matron who is aware that
her beauty is adorned to its best advantage shines
in her face, and sheds the light of joy upon all her
surroundings. Thus is the P.D. corset such a
benefactor to both sexes. The P.D. figure bestows
upon its happy possessor the divinest joy under
heaven, and thus indirectly inspires most of the
good works of her admirer—man.*
Summer seems to be swooping down like
a sea of fire upon this continent, and what to
drink and how to drink it becomes the most im-
portant scientific problem of the hour. A sound
rule is to depend more on the quality of one’s
liquid than the quantity. D.C.L. is as safe as
that rule is sound ; taken at proper intervals and
in proper proportions, it quenches the thirst
whilst fortifying the imbiber’s frame against heat-
exhaustion. It gives good value for one’s bit of
“silber,” and never eventuates in “hot coppers.”
A scientific tonic is D.C.L.—The Whisky of the
Wise.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
CHARLES
HEIDSIECK
Original Brand,
CHAMPAGNE
AS SUPPLIED TO
MOST EUROPEAN COURTS
THE BRITISH ADMIRALTY and WAR OFFICE
ALL LEADING CLUBS and HOSPITALS, &0., &C.
Australian Representatives —
SWIFT & CO., 7 Spring St., Sydney
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
Sydney, September 17, 1901.
My Dear Abini,—
Never died a spring so young as this first spring
of the Twentieth Century. It lived a week, no more.
Summer that transformed the gardens into a blaze
of forced blooms and smote the snowdrops out of
life has also forced us direct from tailor-mades into
muslins. Our faces already have that red, moist
look that is associated with mid-summer. “What
god is this imperial Heat ? ” exclaims an American
poet. We, grieving over our week-old dead spring,
sagging collars and prospect of eight-months long
laundry bills respond, “ Rats ! ”
Recessional: The tumult and the shouting at
Randwick have died. Our visitors, men, women
and horses, have departed. The ball-room lights
are out. The waltz-music is stilled. Last Satur-
day saw the end of the race-week gaieties. Not
much difference in the dressing at Randwick.
The Viotorian baronet’s wife was generally voted
the smartest-looking woman. Her white, frilly,
gauzy gown and floral toque were not better than
many other toilettes but they were worn with an
“air.” This “ air ”is an intangible, exasperating
charm. Scores of women think they can acquire
it, but you can no more acquire it than you can
the charm of voice and smile. To know how to
wear your clothes ! What is the immortality of
the soul compared with that problem ?
Miss Darley and the Madden visitors looked
down from the Vice-regal box with the impassive
faces of persons accustomed to be stared at. It
must come hard on those who acquire the right to
be stared at unexpectedly or late in life —I don’t
mean the staring you get by right (or wrong) of
notoriety, but that which comes to you by way of
fame, as for instance, if you are a mayor’s or a
simple legislator’s wife, and suddenly become a
lady by patent. I have seen such a one front the
crowd on her reception day for the first time, a
patented lady, and her eyes and mouth worked
like those milk-shake machines that are now
jerking all over this sun-struck city. A trinity of
captains, Watt, Vallange and Darley, helped to
furnish the box. Two of them looked as if they’d
grow demoralised and crawl under the bed from
the enemy—a regiment of him. The third —find
the missing identity—looked truculent enough.
Skirts were worn so long all round that they
and their wearers were in mutual danger. To
avoid treading on your own miles of chiffon
flounces you must assume a curious, cat-like,
padding walk. Quite a different pace to the
Sydney walk, referred to contemptuously by other-
Staters. The unevenness of our pavements, every
flag set as if the setter was drunk in 20 different
ways whilst setting it, is responsible for the Svdney
walk, I think.
Earrings were plentnul. Lady Clarke wore long
ones, regular jaw-smackers. Very good-com-
plexioned women went in for turquoise or pink
coral. Mrs. Norman Menzies (Dorothy Vane)
wears the latter set in hoops of gold, but her ears
are not pierced—the rings just clip her lobes most
cunningly. “La Poupee” Dorothy, by the way,
looked radiant, bright-eyed, almost chubby, m
white silk, a sea of chiffon, and a big pink hat.
She and adoring hubby are now staying at the
National Park. Mrs. Bracy has been so long used
to wearing long earrings that she actually doesn’t
feel draped without them.
Tulle boas —there were a few, —are immensely
becoming but, of course, very perishable. They
stand right up almost to the brim of the hat and
quite frame the face which (if it’s very young and
cherubic) looks like those cherub faces framed in
clouds.
Bags fashioned of gold or silver beads or fancy
leather clipped to a waist-belt proxied the long-
lost lamented pocket, and that tricky little fashion-
let introduced by Grace Palotta of wearing a paste
buckle or star on a rosette of black velvet or
chiffon was copied by a few girls.
Such a smart-looking audience at Her Majesty’s
on Saturday night to see Lucia and her Edgardo
die for love of each other. It was the first hot
night, so the circle brought its fans—huge fans,
some, but mostly funny little ones no bigger than
a pigeon’s wing. I lost a bit of the fine opera
through a neighbor springing a surprise on me
and a comb on herself from a stick of her fan.
She furtively combed up the back-hair displaced
by someone’s fanning, then pressed a spring and
the comb disappeared.
A few gowns that had debuted the night pre-
viously, at the Union Club ball, glorified the
circle—one (a hand-painted chiffon) you’d give
your eyelashes for.
The Milan harpist whose playing makes you
think of the slow drip of golden rain, has infected
some who have heard her. They are learning the
harp, or intend to learn, and are going round seek-
ing sympathy for the “ terrible price ” they’ll have
to pay for a hjirp—“Fifty pounds? I thought
about ten ! ” ?
Persistent opera-goets are getting to watch for
little details, such as the deep round hollow, like
a gigantic dimple, that comes into the Sapio’s
throat for an instant when she takes her breath
in the more strenuous phases of her singing. And
Dani’s two frowns, one of anger, the other of
anguish. The latter is employed, for instance,
when he hears of the death of Lucia, and is
reminiscent of that contracted, anguished brow of
the Mater Dolorosa in some Italian pictures.
The tenor’s square collar (in “ Lucia ”) also meets
with the approval of several girls, and they have
copied the ba,ck of it for a sailor blouse. And the
flute to which Sapio sings reminds some of
Emerson’s “ The flute can do heard farther than
the cart.”
By the way, Fred Leist is making a sketch of
Signorina Marchi in the white and crimson dress
she wears as Alioe in “Luoia” for the forthcoming
exhibition.
St. Vincent’s Ball had the benefit of the
Australian Club’s Ball decorations, so if it wasn’t
numerous it was decorative.
Big balls every night of the same week rather
handicapped it. Miss Darley opened the dance,
and the Minister for Works walked about absent-
mindedly, and when some dancers bumped him
he thought it was a deputation for lighting the
Domain, and said, meditatively, “Well, Mr.
Broughton, it shall have my best attention.
One of the funniest items at the welcome to
“A” Battery, last Monday, was the “Tommy”
door-guard trying to keep out artist Souter as a
ticketless derelict while Battery and welcomers
were waiting for his lightning-sketches. Souter
had a little Glengarry cap on his ear, a briar pipe
in his face, and, when he got angry, he developed
a Scotch accent, and a cultured “ Tommy ” said,
“ Let him in ; he must be Edgardo Ravens wood.”
The Lieut.-Governor, who was unwell, did not
come to present the battery’s medals—Minister
See did so after the long speech which he has de-
livered so often that we know it by heart. The
G.O.C. also spoke, and all the time 250 pairs of
eyes were turning tenderly towards where the
whisky lurked. Captain and Mrs. Henderson,
the Sees, and Mrs. JB. R. Wise were on the plat-
form. Miss Stella Taylor’s brilliant pianoforte
solo brought the Battery away even from the
whisky. A fine basket of roses, sent by an admirer
to Miss Taylor, was put by an officer for safety
under the table in the committee’s refreshment-
room. Then the putter disappeared, and not
until Miss Mylott was singing were the flowers
recovered. The Amusement Committee, which
consisted of Lieut. D. K. Inglis, had the maca-
damised face to suggest that the basket be pre-
sented to Miss Mylott, as it was a pity not to give
publicity to such fine flowers. Miss Taylor
laughed and agreed, so Miss Mylott, who had got
a tremendous reception, also got the flowers and
a large encore, one “Tommy” proclaiming that
“ there were no Evas of this sort in South
Africa.” Mr. Fites and the Feld wick quartette
contributed items.
Miss Holroyd’s concert was packed. The
beneficiary, clad iii blue, was in the best of voices.
Mr. Suttor made a sympathetic speech on behalf
of the departing songbird, who goes to Milan
with the Steffanis. Miss Florence Schmidt,
although we rarely hear of her, “is in constant
work,” to quote a London paper. She, and for
that matter a score of other artists, are under
engagement to an agent named Newman, who hires
out his stipendiary songbirds all over the United
Kingdom, if he so wills. Miss Holroyd’s friend,
Nellie Cook, sang for some of the Italian opera
principals in the green-room last week, and they
rapturously embraced her, prophesying fame and
gold for her notes.
Friends of Mr. Robert Garran are congratulating
him on his engagement to Miss Robson, of the
Girls’ C. of E. Grammar School.
At the Quirindi balcony semi-tragedy a nice
girl collapsed with the rest, and, though unin-
jured, thought for the moment that she was frac-
tured all over. As she sat amongst the ruins
sobbing, an old gentleman ran up and asked her
if her legs were broken. “I don’t know,” she
wailed, “my head aches.” He felt the top of her
skull—the wire hair-frame moved under his hand
—then, with a horrified exclamation, he called for
a doctor, saying, “ The top of this poor girl’s head
is split right off.”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The vice-regal pen at the Royal was a thing
of beauty last Wednesday night when Lady
Hopetoun conferred her patronage on ‘Riding
to Win.’ Barring the Coppin matinee of the
previous week, this was her first theatre ex-
perience since going into official mourning, and
she positively beamed upon the lively spectacle.
Dog Rover gave the box a particular treat by per-
forming the tank act in great style. The loyal
creature took to the water without the least
demur, and, instead of making straight for the
wooden shore when Florence Seymour grabbed
him by the collar, he put on a ‘ Queen knows
best ’ air and swam the full length of the tank
with the actress in tow. Seeing that Rover had
beaten his record, the professional pedallers in
the bicycle race were bound to put on some extra
sprint. The Countess's astonishment at these
novel effects found voluble utterance when man-
ager Christie Simonsens was piloting her off the
premises. She wanted to know all about the
tank. It was explained that the stage Yarra was
enclosed in canvas, 7ft. deep at the place where
the villain hurls his victim into it, and so spacious
that the fireman’s hydrant takes 90min. to bring
the river up to high-water mark.
“ The only diversion the Gov.-Generaless allows
herself from the round of dreary public duties is
hunting; the inquiring-eyed lady rides her hack
to hounds almost every time they meet. Mrs.
Corbet has cancelled all engagements; she will
disappear into the retirement of Guv’ment-House
for a solitary term, and in her absence the Excel-
lency will get along solus. The charms and claims
of Sassiety women of her ken interest her not.
There is nothing Irish about the Countess as a
hostess. No one would take her for a country-
woman of the philosopher who decided that
* Contintion is better than loneliness. ’
“So far, ‘Quo Vadis’ is the quaintest play of
present Wilson Barrett season. W.B. has a pretty
slave (Miss Latimer), given to nestling her head
in master’s corsage. I call it 4 corsage ’ because,
in this play, plump Wilson’s clothes are mostly
dowagerish—low necks, short sleeves, gathered
waist-bodices, and . long skirts. In view of
the goings -on of Petronius, I’ve lost some
of my old sympathy for slaves. Eunice,
as represented by Miss Latimer, does
nothing for her bread and butter but bill, and
occasionally coo, to the accompaniment of a dumb
lute. She is not gifted as a songstress, but her
vocal efforts are an improvement on those of Maud
Jeffries, who had no more ear than a hen. I shall
always remember Maud’s song in ‘ Ben-My-
Chree,’ because a rude old man near me exclaimed,
as soon as she’d finished, ‘Well—blow me—she
hasn’t got a fid-dle in her interior.’ He didn’t say
‘ interior, ’ but never mind.
“A warm bit in ‘Quo Vadis’ is the scene
where Basil Gill’s Christian fiancee is stripped
and bound to the horns of a mad bull and turned
into the arena. Basil is too delicate in mind to
want to watch how the young woman is getting
on, so Wilson Barrett (Wilson lias always all the
fat) reports progress to his frantic kinsman.
Under the circumstances, one would expect W.B.
(who is supposed to be a cultured Pagan) to sup-
press harrowing details, but he isn’t taking any
suppression. Beginning with the red sparkles in
the eyes of the bull, he piles on the agony all he
knows. In this, the play travesties the book.
Then there’s a debauch in the halls of Nero.
Christian Lillah M‘Carthy has been dragged to it
against her will, and her Pagan admirer (Basil
Gill) gets drunk, and pesters her with warm
attentions. Lillah takes to the proceedings very
kindly, seems to me. In fact, she seems to be en-
joying herself fairly well when a Christian brother
rushes in and abducts her in an interfering sort of
way.
“ The Crane-Power management of Melb. Prin-
cess’s made two changes in the cast of ‘ Nadjezda’
ere the show was four days old. On the Tuesday
night Miss Richter played an unaccountable
Yankee girl with decidedly more vim and natural-
ness than she had shown on the previous Saturday
—and she was, in fact, a success. Yet next
morning’s papers announced that, in consequence
of Miss Richter’s indisposition. Miss Raymond
would play her part for the remainder of the run
of ‘Nadjezda.’ Also the kiddie in the first act
was changed from Stella Dodds to Dorothy Vane.
Already another Dorothy Vane ! What has Mrs.
Norman Menzies to say to this ?
“Women really have the gift of intuition.
Have you noticed that even young, unthinking
girls are hot against second marriages ? In their
innocence, these buds imagine their opposition
arises from sentiment. In reality, instinct is
telling them that widows are a spinster’s worst
foes, and that if no woman was allowed more than
one husband in a lifetime, the ‘young person’
would be more successful in the struggle for ma-
trimonial existence. Since Spring came in, one
widow after another has been heard of, in connec-
tion with re-mating and re-pairing. Mr. M‘Kean,
son of big, kind, dead and gone lawyer M‘Kean,
has lately wedded the former Mrs. Spencer,
an unusually rich lady, who inherited her
thousands, and her red-brick ‘ House of the seven
gables ’ from her first husband. Musical Mrs.
Bruce Sargent, of Moonee Ponds, is to be married
(Sept. 17th) to dark, handsome Mr. S. Samuel, of
St. Kilda, brother of Mrs. Agar Wynne. Far-
ther afield, George Egerton, author of ‘Keynotes,’
and a native of Melbourne, has, I’m told, wedded
her third husband, Reginald Golding Bright, an
English journalist.
“ Girls anxious to turn an honest penny, with-
out deserting the privacy of ‘ home, sweet home,’
should try superior ‘ plain-sewing.’ Fancy-work
is a drug in the market, because even Mrs. Dives
and daughters make their own tray-cloths and
d’oyleys, stimulated by the fact that mere man
likes to see a woman ‘delicate with her needle.’
But there is always sale for hand-made under-
garments and baby-linen. Unfortunately, few
amateurs are competent to turn out dainty white
work fast enough to make it pay. The blouses of
the moment play into the hands of the seamstresses,
with their rows of fancy stitching, like the ‘ vein-
ing ’ and ‘ knotting ’ on mother’s old sampler.
“ At the Ferguson-Glasgow wedding Lady Alice
Boyle’s bridesmaids had gowns of white glace-silk,
much addicted to open-work ‘ herring-bone ’ stitch,
while waved lace-insertion added to the light
effect of one-flounce skirts and sailor-blouses.
Pale pink chiffon sashes fell in long ends at the
back, and wreaths of wild pink-roses with tulle
veils, helped out dainty toilettes. A going-away
gown of pale-blue voile, guipured and white-
chiffoned, was also rich in open-work stitches,
while the burnt-straw hat, threaded with blue
ribbon and wreathed with roses, had lining of
drawn chiffon.
“ Mayoress Gillott has pulled round and is in
harness again; she feels strong enough now to
pump-handle the thousands who will turn up to
her ‘ Come one—come all ’ reception, so the ordeal
is fixed for Thursday next. The community
respectfully expresses a wish that the Mayoress
will in some way set a distinction between her twin
sister and herself, for the mistakes already made
in congratulating and gushing over the wrong
lady have left half of our womankind chagrined.
“ Swanston-st. enjoyed a rare sight on Wednes-
day last, when a riding-party, consisting of Lady
Janet Clarke, Magistrate Panton, with little Ivy
Clarke as chaperone, cantered along on prancing
steeds. Of late, the straight-backed magistrate,
whom Professor Tucker holds to be the most
chivalrous and elegant figure in Melbourne, has
been the chief Mentor of the youthful dowager.
Once it was Byron Moore and Prof. Norris, but
now Dr. Maudsley is in the cabinet of ‘ Cliveden,’
and Mr. Panton its prime minister. The magis-
trate is a widower, by the way.
“Last week caddies made the proverbial ‘for-
tune’ out of kit-carrying, tea-making and ball-
finding on Sandringham links. The Royal
Melbourne tournament kept a host of fevered
golfers trekking over the sands, called by courtesy
‘ the links,’ from Monday till Saturday. A
Geelongite—Miss Guthrie—cut the sprucest figure
on the course, but she failed to follow up her
Sydney run of luck. Miss Raleigh, who won the
championship of Victoria, is a cousin of the
Family Herald hero, Ernest.
“For the last three or four weeks, the amours
of an elderly solicitor and his type-writer have
administered to the entertainment of a gross of
clerks in a big financial office down Collins-street.
One small Ganymede is put on the watch by the
mischievous clerks, and at a signal from this imp,
the pens are flung down, the high desks deserted,
and a row of craning necks are to be seen along
the transparent part of the half-stained windows.
The same performance goes on every day, but
neither the lovers nor the lookers-on weary of the
sport. The old buck is ardent, and the girl full
of capers ; so their ‘ Kissing Duet ’ is something
special. Tiny struggles, playful slaps, ear-
pinches and back-strokes accompany the duet in
its course and enliven the proceedings.
“ Once more a supercilious figure-head of Sas-
Biety mourns the departure (temporary only) of
his lady-love. The affair has been hanging fire
for four years, and is as far from being clinched as
ever. The religious question—not the lady’s
coldness —is said to be the stumbling-block, or
rather the barbed-wire fenoe.
“ The Findon Harriers Hunt Club meeting all
Moonee Valley promises to be just a little more
toney than the club’s previous record. The
Countess, who is always at her happiest among
the gee-gees, will present the whip to the rider of
the Bracelet Stakes, for which interesting event
all the extremely nicest girls and matrons have
nominated something or other, in the hope that it
will sneak the bit of jewellery.
“ Poor old Anglican Bishop Goe —who lost his
wife quite lately—has announced his intention to
resign the Melbourne see at the end of this month.
The rumor of his approaching retirement was
strenuously denied in more than one quarter, but
inasmuch as the weary widower is suffering from
a painful ear-abscess and other ills, he couldn’t be
expected to remain longer in harness. ‘Field
Flowers Melbourne ’ has been a bishop of no im-
portance for 14 years. His personality was quite
unsuited to gaiters, and his early profession of
Evangelicalism established a prejudice against
him among the casual church-going men who were
the most valuable admirers—in a financial sense—
of his predecessor, Dr. Moorhouse. As a matter
of fact, Dr. Goe was a broader-minded man than
he promised to be when he first came to Mel-
bourne. He could preach a very good sermon.
But the godless man-in-the-street never took the
trouble to hear him.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
The Dead President.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Ruler of the mightiest State
That Earth has seen since Time drew breatb
Has passed from life to join the great
Divine Democracy of Death.
A Nation’s best-embodied Thought,
Her Captain brave ; her chosen Man,
Has left his greatest plans unwrought—
But God has still the greater plan.
Above the Thrones of Chiefs and Kings,
Of President and Sovereign Lord,
Death hovers with vast viewless wings
And sharp, unseen, suspended sword.
The Drowsy Kings are disenthroned,
And dead and gone with dreams of yore;
Now he who shall be monarch owned
May smile —but he shall sleep no more.
And Kings and Presidents may well
Remember in their hours of pride
llow well-beloved Lincoln fell,
How Caesar in the forum died.
There is no death : beyond the bars
Of Time and Space he keeps his guest—
A star amidst your brighter stars,
O Great Republic of the West!
Where, under near or distant skies,
Your flag unto the winds is spread*
Its banner-stars they are the eyes
Of all your great immortal dead.
The youngest union of the years
To you shall send in sign of grief,
For your dead President no tears—
No tears but this slight laurel-leaf.
VICTOR J. DALEY.


THOS. WHITELAW & CO.
WALL PAPER MERCHANTS —^
TELEPHONE 3768.
LONDON,
SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE
Artistic Wall Papers.
Novel Ceilings in
Plaster Effects.
Latest Designs and Colorings
Absolutely Fireproof.
A Charming Assortment.
The lull London and Continental Collection of the above Goods are now on view at the Firm’s
New Warahouse and Showrooms—39l GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
These Decorations comprise the most delightful Assortment ever shown in Australia. Invited.
Clients will find our Art Goods are most inexpensive. Patterns forwarded oil application.
FACILE PRIIMCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY
BLACK and WHITE.
N
Lightest Wines
Australia.
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
One Federal Cabinet man is addicted to
telling pressmen confidentially just how little he
thinks of the Prime Minister.
The envious say that if you want to find
the reason for a recent much-discussed Sydney
appointment, cherchez la femme.
A Sydney solicitor holds a unique record.
In five criminal cases in which he was engaged for
the defence the accused were hanged.
Sydney’s “Home for Working Gentle-
women ” is named St. Bernard’s—in honor, future
chroniclers will tell, of St. Bernard Wise.
“ Banjo ” Patterson is sending excellent
copy to S.M. Herald from the Black North ; so
far he does not seem to have a muzzle on.
A non-Italian member of the Williamson
opera co. is said to have a tough time with her
colleagues. It may be a question of nationality—
or of press-booming.
M‘Kin'ley owed much of his success to
being cartooned, on the strength of a fairly good
resemblance, as Napoleon I., when the Bonaparte
boom was raging in America.
On the point of tubercular infection :
A.M.P. doctors now ask applicants for policies
whether at home or at work they are thrown into
direct contact with any consumptive.
Brisbane Courier credits R. E. O’Connor
with being the most popular of the Federal Minis-
ters, an “ideal leader of the House, with great
decision and a marvellous perception of character.”
Gov. General Hopetoun will complete his
41st year on Wednesday, September 25. He was
almost as much a boy as Earl Beauchamp when he
was first sent to Melbourne to govern, a dozen
years ago.
It is not bar-work alone that keeps G. H.
Reid from the Federal Parliament; he is awaiting
the limelight of the tariff discussion. The great
political variety-artist knows something of stage-
management.
Millionaire Carnegie allows £250 a year to
several distant relations and old schoolfellows in
Maoriland. One of them recently went to Scot-
land to personally thank him. The pawky city of
Dunedin now breathlessly awaits the result of an
appeal to Carnegie in aid of a free public library.
The irony of Fate ! Last week the
N.S.W. Amateur Fishermen’s Association sent a
vote of sympathy to poor President M’Kmley.
Just think of it! An Amateur Fishermen’s Asso-
ciation inflicting its sympathy on the lineal suc-
cessor of George Washington, the Man Who Never
Told a Lie!
Graham Berry, I he most conspicuous figure
in early Victorian politics, and who lately passed
his 80th birthday, has for the past two
years been a familiar figure on St.
Kilda Esplanade. The veteran
is unfortunately a victim to
that terrible complaint,
locomotor ataxis. A
servant, during fine
days, wheels the old
politician about from
St. Kilda Beach as far
as South Melbourne
baths. His com-
plaint makes him
irascible, and old
friends who bail
him up re-
ceive very
short shrift
from his
courtesy.
“Wheel
along ! ” is
all the old
campaigner
says to the
man who is
in possession
of his body.
Chief Jus-
tice Darley
goes to
England at
the end of
the year.
It is 16
years
since
he saw
the old
land,
having
visited
Ireland
then on
the
death
of his
mother.
In Ntfv.
next he
will
have i
sat 15
years
°nNS.W Supreme Court Bench. The judges
on the Bench at the date of his acces-
sion are all dead. Of N.S.W. Chief Jus-
tioes, Forbes held his seat for 13 years,
Dowling for 17, Stephen five as Justice and
Martin and Darley stepped directly into the post
of Chief—Martin for political exploits, Darley on
80« ml and legal pounds. .
Bishop I ield I lowers Goe gets his curious
Christian name from his father, who was a Lincoln-
shire solicitor. For long after his arrival in Mel-
bourne, private correspondents addressed the
Bishop as Field Flowers “Grow,” whilst the
popular pet name for the prelate was “Buttercups
and Daisies.
Roosevelt does not promise to make a good
President: he is a Colonel Mackay built on some-
what larger lines. In politics the professional
soldier has always proved a failure (barring one or
two of the Caesar type of supreme genius) ; the
amateur, advertising “literary” swashbuckler a
still more pronounced frost.
Waxed Madden’s inevitable message to
McKinley, awaited with breathless interest by the
whole civilized world, contained the usual rich
array of Maddenese, culminating in a defiant
allusion to “this ruffian murder.”
“I was at the opera when the message
was received,” said Premier See, “and the
terrible news completely upset me.” This was
about M‘Kinley. Will N.S.W. ever get a Pre-
mier with a sense of the Congruous ?
Captain Staughton, a returned cohen-
tingenter, has been returned unopposed to fill
Bourke West seat (formerly held by his father) in
Vic. Leg. Assembly. Here is a pocket borough
existent in the democracy. Let us hope that the
“ Captain ” has something young coming on to fill
the seat in succession to himself.
The most cruel criticism of Seddon’s
budget speech came from Geo. Fisher, who
strongly advised the Premier to permanently
employ a sub-editor to judiciously compress his
utterances; also Fisher asked how on earth com-
pliments on the amiability of the Duchess found
their way into a financial statement.
A queer thing is that almost every other
prominent Australian politician will tell you, con-
fidentially, that his rival has Bright’s disease and
can’t possibly last another 12 months. And it is
always Bfight’s disease. Reminders of that
malady are everywhere. Just look at all the men
you see drinking milk-and-soda at the clubs.
George Turner (he still keeps the old brass-'
plate on his gatepost) is the most unsocial man in
Australian politics. Nobody has yet seen him
take a drink with aliybody. Since joining the
Federal Government, he has been more of a lone-
hand than ever. David Syme is another man who
mostly goes alone, because he loves good company.
Anarchist Johan Most, just gaoled in New
York, is chronically arrested when there’s any
trouble in US. A. Most’s personally-dirty habits
were responsible for the once popular gibe that
the anarchist was sworn to destroy society, and
never to wash himself. Certainly, Australia’s
best-known Anarchist is the dirtiest man whom
any human being ever got to windward of here.
According to Jack Want, Mr. Wise and
Mr. Suttor (neither of whom, Jack avers, believes
in woman-suffrage) tossed up to see who should
move the second reading of the Women’s Franchise
Bill in N.S.W. Council. With Mr. Want, Mr.
Wise and Mr. Suttor eagerly interested in her
welfare just now, woman should be all right.
She may not get the franchise, but she will have
a lot of attention.
HE HAD SYMPTOMS.
BRIGHT BOY (aged 9, to his mother): “Mum
whenever win the Boer war be overt ”
MOTHER: “ I don't know, I am afraid some-
times that it will not be over before you are
grown up, and that you will be wanting
to go.”
I. R. Cohen, novelist, financier and poli-
tician, who fights Mahony for the Annandale seat
before N.S.W. Elections and Qualifications Com-
mittee, maintains that he was the founder of
Sunday journalism in Sydney. George Howe,
printer and editor of Sydney Gazette, published
his paper for 40 years on Sundays—from 1803 to
1843.
An unusually grateful testator left Vic.
Treasurer Peacock half his estate of .£6OO t’other
day. He had been a hawker, and as Govt, had
HIS WAY.
CUSTOMER (who has just bought some fried fish,
to Dago): “ What’s the best way to heat it?”
DAGO (in amazement): “ Heat him!" (Then
condescendingly explanative): “ Well, some
heats him one way and some heats him
another, but I always heats him wit’ leet ’
sauce.”
allowed him a license to trade, he reckoned it was
but fair he should leave it part of what he had
made. About the only instance on record of a
man being grateful for being taxed for earning his
own living.
The bearded Fysh was once—when Tas.
Treasurer—boasting in Hobart to a visiting Age
reporter of the magnitude of Raspberry Land
official finance. “ Why, last year we got £38,000
out of our income-tax,” he proudly remarked.
“My word !” said the Age man, “in about 20
years you’ll be getting nearly as much as my boss
makes every year.”
It is now said that Mr. Henry Gullett’s
occupancy of Sydney D.T. editorial chair is “only
temporary.” The Bulletin shouldn’t wonder.
Mr. Gullett has toiled as a journalist for over 30
years, and has made a competency. The man
who, in his sixties, would take-on the permanent
editorship of a daily paper would visit Sheol for
pleasure in his summer vacation.
Melbourne friends of Mr. Murray Smith
are glad to hear that the hard shell Freetrader is
returning from England shortly in improved
health. Murray Smith was said to have been
under suspicion of cancer before he made the trip,
but one hears of a good many Melbourne men
clearing themselves of the same suspicion. Too
much cancer is talked nowadays.
Nolan, the White Cliffs (N.S.W.) police-
sergeant, who appears to have done first-class
work in connection with the sticking up
of the coach and the mail robbery, is
one of the good-many men who have had
practically all their police experience out-back.
He got his first lift through the reports of that
good officer Saunders, now inspector at Orange,
but then at Broken Hill, whose right-hand man
he was for years.
George Burnett Barton, the Federal Pre-
mier’s elder brother, who died last week, was
retrenched by Treasurer M‘Millan out of the
billet of official historian because the calico-man
didn’t think that N.S.W. could spare £IOOO a year
for brilliant literary work. And the pawky Mac.
thought Barton too slow. History, he evidently
considered, should be turned out by the yard
daily, like invoices.
Two years ago, while conversationally
traversing some statement by a local medical
official, the able and modest Dr. Goode, of Syd-
ney, contended that bovine was not identical with
human tuberculosis ; he knew that from the fact,
ascertained by his own observation, that the
bovine bacilli continued to live under conditions
which were fatal to the human variety. The
great Koch now announces the same conclusion
from his investigations.
Already M.L. prophets are forecasting the
Seddonian apotheosis. One Parliamentary corres-
pondent prophesies that Seddon is already pre-
paring for a final departure from Maoriland. He
will go to London for the Coronation, will then
receive a commission as Governor of the Orange
River Colony (late Free State) ; then will come a
peerage. But the blusterous and bathetic Seddon,
though he is the sort of man whom the Jingoes
use for all he is worth, is not the kind of person
whom they make into a peer. Their public-school
and university prejudices forbid. If Seddtn’s
ambition is to become a “Lord” he will die a
bitterly-disappointed man.
The memory of Robert Lowe
(Viscount Sherbrooke), of N.S.W.
early days, was revived in a Sydney
police-court the other day through
a plumber stealing lead from one of
Lowe’s houses in Paliner-st., Sydney.
It is nearly 60 years since Lowe
landed in N.S.W. His pink eyes,
rapid utterance, and extensive know-
ledge brought him at once • into
the ranks of marked men. As a
barrister he was pertinacious, as a
politician he was one-half rank Tory,
and the other half forward Liberal.
But he was thrifty, and to
deal in houses and lands. The
Palmer-st. house above-mentioned
was one of those primitive"bargains.
N.S.W. Opposition-leader Lee
has lost in avoirdupois since taking
over his shattered battalions. Lee
is really a backblocker, with a store-
keeper’s view of the world. He stands
to a political principle exactly as lie
stands to the ruling price of starch.
When particulars of the White Cliffs
(N.S.W.) mail-coach sticking-up and robbery
reached the capitals, the detective-inspired papers
traced in it the hand of a bold, daring, cool, cun-
ning, experienced criminal; and they put it down
forthwith to Sparks, the Pentridge escapee. And
Tomlinson, in whose clothes-box the loot was
afterwards found, and against whom a black case
awaits his answer at next Broken Hill Circuit
Court, is a 22-year-old country bumpkin, never
out of the bush, never before a court hitherto, and
the soft, dull butt of the “gougers’” camp in
which he lived at White Cliffs. Thus far, so much
for the papers’ “circumstantial evidence’’—the
sort of thing with which they habitually poison
the public mind !”
The world can show few so
meteoric careers as that of “ Teddy ” Roosevelt,
President of the American Republic. Three years
ago he was classed as a society dude. Volunteer-
ing for active service in Cuba during the war
against Spain, he organised and commanded the
“ Rough-Riders,” who, at the Battle of San Juan,
in June, 1898, fought the only serious land-action
of the war—a tin-pot “battle,” but screamed up
by the American Eagle to the level of a Sedan.
Teddy came home a hero, and his popularity was
better nursed and so outlasted that of Dewey,
Hobson, and other idols of the one-sided struggle.
His party gave him the nomination as Vice-Presi-
dent last year as a polite shunt. A profound
belief in himself, an aptitude for advertising, and
almost eerie luck have made RooseveP U.S.
President.
Dr. H. G. A. Wright, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
just deceased, practised in Sydney since 1853, and
during 48 years supervised the births of many
thousands of Australians. The old doctor had
a marvellous faculty of putting-in his sleep on the
short-instalment plan. Jogging in his carriage
through the Rocks, Darling!)urst, and Pyrmont
on an all-night round, he would enjoy 40 winks
between patients, seeing Mrs. Smith through her
trouble after a refreshing sleep of seven minutes,
snatched on the way from Jones’ croupy baby, and
so on ; and then turn up as fresh as paint in the
morning. Some years ago, the old man had a
marvellously-lucky escape from a cold-blooded
conspiracy organised against him by a set of male
and female scoundrels, and was warmly felicitated
by a gathering of his brother doctors on the vindi-
cation of his honor.
The most interesting press characterisa-
tions of Commonwealth Parliament members
come from the pen of Mr. Peters, Sydney
D.T.’s representative (a man steeped to the lips
in the literature of the Elizabethian era). For
instance, concerningP. O. Fysh :
He is one of the quaintest orators in the Chamber.
There is a flavor of the seventeenth century in his long,
ingeniously, and almost inextricably, involved sentences.
He doesn’t say that the clause provides that letters shall
not be delivered. He says : “ The clause wherein we find
the most precise wording wherewith to meet the desires
whereof we have frequently heard expression, and of
which there shall be much argument yet uttered there-
about before there shall be a final determination reached
in the course of our deliberations, this clause herein
included gives power wherewith to prevent or prohibit or
inhibit, or what may have been called and may be called,
stop that which we long have known and whereof'much
more may hereafter be known and which future genera-
tions may dominate letters.”
A USEFUL NOVELTY.
It is wonderful the advancement and the pro-
gress of Up-to-date Novelties. We are here
showing you a very nice design of Mr. A.
Saunders, jeweller, George-street, Sydney, in a
Sword and Sheath Paper Cutter, length 10 inches,
it being a most useful article for the desk both for
ladies and gentlemen. It is excellently made and
sold for a trifling amount for 4s. 6d., which should
command, at the price, a very large sale. Mr.
Saunders will send same to any part of the
Continent post free. This is one of the numerous
novelties I have seen at his establishment, and
visitors will do well before purchasing elsewhere
to see his well-displayed showrooms of beautifully
chased silver-plate, diamond jewellery, watches,
clocks, etc., which are without doubt the largest
in Australia,


MAGONOCHIE’S
Fresh Herrings
Kippered Herrings
Herrings in Tomato Sauce
Findon Haddocks
PRESERVED
FISH
OF ALL. KINDS.
MARMALADE
UNIVERSAL PICKLES.
BOTTLED FRUITS
POTTED MEATS
SALMON and SHRIMP PASTE.
WORC€ST€RSNIR€ SAIK€
Maconcchie Bros., Ltd.
LONDON.
Australian Representatives—
Swift & Co., 7 Spring St., Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
DAVID STORER & SONS’ ,rt Three Colors BLfICK - RED a "“ BL0E
Registered
Trade
Mark.
d
f
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE Woo, “
oftrc Markill g
The Perfect Sheep-Marker. BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Hotel
Australia —>
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
This Hotel has popularised hotel-living in Australia.
During our enervating summer, the cool and ele-
gant drawing rooms, the charmingly - arranged
dining room, the readiness and perfection of the
attendance, and the splendid appointments of the
Hotel throughout, prove a boon and blessing to
visitors. The Hotel is so loftily-built and situated
that residents sleep in a distinct atmosphere—a cool
light air, entirely free from the dust and impurity
of the city.
J. SMITH (Late of Menziea’), Manager,
Oastlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— ln the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
A case of suicide by an aborigine is re-
corded by “ E.S.S.” -Towyan was a splendid
black, on the Wooroowoolga (Richmond River)
run—a squatter kingdom over which Towyan’s
tribe had long wandered. Wooroowoolga lost its
glory as a principality. Its best frontage lands
were cut up into farms, and selectors flocked like
crows upon its interior. This partitioning of the
noble area, followed by a big sale of cattle, so
preyed upon Towyan’s mind that he suicided by
walking into the river and cutting his throat with
a razor. That happened but a few months ago,
and is, I think, the first instance on record of an
aboriginal suicide.
• * • •
“E. G. B.” : Re that “tired feeling”
supposed to dominate the Australian youth.
Several of us recently watchedaN.Q. youthloading
sludge from the ground to an ordinary quartz
dray—a high6-tonner—andhelifted 3 tons 17cwt.,
weighed over the mill weighbridge, in 25 minutes.
Yet he only weighs 7st. 41bs., and is not 14 years
old. This, too, without knowing the watch was
on him.
• * • •
“ C.8.C.” : Was coming down from
Orange-way, and was in a second-class with one
other person. We were about to leave Orange
when a “swaggie ” swung his billy and bundle in
and followed himself. He struck up an acquaint-
ance, and told us that he had a ticket only for a
station a few miles on, but meant to go through
on it to Sydney. Asking us not to give him
away, he stowed his swag and billy under one
seat and himself under the other. All went well
till a trooper and a couple of youngsters for a
reformatory boarded the train, and you can
imagine swaggie’s feelings when he found the
trooper’s spurs within a foot of his nose. Myself
and the other passenger agreed to quit the com-
partment, as things were getting too mixed, and
did so at next stop. The trooper and his charges
also alighted here to join an escort party, and
their places were taken by four nuns, in whose
company our “planted” friend travelled right
through. Tickets collected at Stratlifield. Saw
swaggie—covered with dust —on Redfern plat-
form. He winked solemnly at us and departed in
peace.
• * * *
Letters recently received by a Queensland
firm of solicitors :
To Mr. Blank and Dash.
It’s keeping on very bad still. My husband don’t stop
that cursed drink and the big rows. He is soon every
day drunk, and idles by night until 2 and 1 o’clock, and
then when he come home he don’t give me a night’s rest;
he don’t work, and he spends every penny that comes in.
And he says always he wants to drown himself or me. I
am not sure of my life no more. And he treats me very
bad, like a dog, curses and swears over me. The best
thing is to get separation and be separated from him
althoughter. And if you don’t help me I will clear away
from him, because Iye left know about all. I can’t help
it. And I suppose ye won’t perscute me, because I can’t
hold out, and it’s no use to stay with him. That man
wants good couple of months’ gaol for treating me so bad.
Please nndly see what is the best for me. Please I wrote
this letter without him know anything. Please don’t let
PREPARING FOR THE HORSE-BUYER,
A sketch at St. George (Q.).
me out because he gives me a hiding when I write letters,
because that is my duty I must let ye know.
To Mr. Blank and Dash.
Dear Sir, —I had very much trouble these days with my
husband through drunkenness. He had laid a axe to me
to chop my head off, and also to shop my brain out. And
then the other evening he said he show me separation to-
night with the axe. And then I got frighten. I cleared
to Mr. , and camped the whole night trugh. The fol-
lowing morning I went to the police and laid information
against him, and then the police fetch him in the lockup,
and then the other day was court, and I gave evidence
that he was on for killin me. The magistrate gave him
six months’ gaol. And now lam quite me self, home
with the children. I got everything yet in my hands. I
will not sell the place sooner till I got another place. I
will come down some day and see ye. What we can do.
Yours truly,
Poor woman ! almost dost thou persuade us to be
a teetotal crank for the sake of example.
“ Meera ” : The Grafton
bore (8., 31/8/’01) is now down
over 3650 ft. and indications of
water are becoming less favor-
able. Graftonites, in fact, have
given up all hope of getting
water from the bore, but Govern-
ment steadily cold shoulders any
suggestion of taking up another
scheme of supply. The Rich-
mond River people say that
Premier See keeps pegging away
at the bore with a view of ascer-
taining how far his constitu-
ency is from Hades.
* * *
“ Trapper ” : Not long ago
in Victoria I was busy making
a “scrape,” in which to set a
rabbit-trap, when I heard a
“cooee !” and, looking round,
saw a little girl running towards
me from a selector’s hut a little
distance away. “What’s the mat-
ter, my girl ?” I asked. She panted out:
“Please, mother sent me over to ask you not to
set any traps under that wattle, for two of my
little brothers and one of my sisters are buried
there.” The Graves of the Household 1 I packed
up and moved further on.
» * • *
The kind of letter The Bulletin some-
times receives—just to keep it from getting
swelled head:—
Dear Sir, —I am forwarding here with A Poem of 4 four
hundred lines. I trust you will puruse it, and also hope
it will come up to your astandard in lidcrature. Just
kindly say in your answers to corsespondence what you
think the Poem is worth, and forward the cheque to me
here, hafter you print this, I shall be pleased to forward
more if your turms are suitable. I am indeavoring to
make a book of Poems, on many different subjects and
as I said before if you pay me well for this I shall forward
you the rest.
* * * *
“ W.S.T.” : Australia has evolved a sheep-
dog which, for intelligence, activity, and suitability
to the climate, runs rings round any other type of
collie. Tweed, winner of the late Sydney sheep-
driving contests, is a good specimen. No shouting
or calling is required for the best of this class of
dog. The raising of a hand or the pointing of a
riding-whip gives them sufficient cue. To get to
a point where a turn is needed, if the flock is
closely packed, the dog will run over the sheep’s
backs like a gymnast, wheeling wide on return to
heel. The chief fault (perhaps due to a dash of
dingo blood) is that the Australian dog is inclined
to be cruel and punish the sheep with the teeth.
* * * *
“Scotty”: Of course, we all know the
awful state of some shearers’ huts. Asa general
rule they are a little better than the rouseabouts’
barracks. N.S.W. Minister Perry, in his Bill, is
mean—very mean. Why did he not make it a
bush-workers’ measure? By the Bill, buck-
niggers, Red Indians, blackfellows (Australian),
and Fijians may sleep with shearers, but not so
Hindoos or Chinese. Then 240 ft. is the sleeping
space. Allow Oft. for height and 7ft. for width.
That gives less than 4ft. along the side for each —
man, bunk, passage and all.
• * * «
“ J.W.C.” to “Scotty W.” (8., 24/8/1):
Not essentially necessary to have country fenced,
except for ac-
tual demon-
st ration of
ability to
Eoison allrab-
its on one
square mile
in one week
with one bag
of pollard
(very seldom
have to use a
bag of pollard
to the square
mile). Cost
of pollard,
i about 8s. per
- bag; poison,
about Is. ;
sugar, 2s. ; la-
bor, 30s. One
week for 640
acres, if only for
, a test; but, if
working over
large area, not
more than four
days per mile treated.
Actual demonstration
on any country you
like to name, bar no conditions. No result, no
pay. Stuff up, or shut up !
* * • *
“ Yarrum ” Be tuberculosis : An intelli-
gent South Coast (N.S.W.) dairyman tells me
that, within his experience—45 years—there has
not been a single case of consumption among the
dairy workers in these southern districts, which,
considering the number of milking-cows suffering
from tuberculosis, fits in with the lately-announced
Koch theory. My informant, however, attributes
the immunity of milkers to their beooming in-
oculated, per medium of sore hands—they mostly
have sore hands —whilst milking. The old chap
also instanced the case of a boy with a strong con-
sumptive tendency, who became robust and
“strong as a horse” after six months’ milking.
The milkers frequently drink milk hot from the
cow, and I have myself seen girls grasp the teats
of doubtful-looking animals, and squirt milk into
their mouths.
• * * *
The most humorous sticking-up incident
in Australia belongs to the history of Dunolly,
(Vic.). A single-handed robber bailed up Cobb and
A PERMANENT JOB.
THE PHILANTHROPIST : “ Are all these pretty
little children your brothers and sister?”
MYRTLE CASEY : “ Y-e-e-s.”
THE P. : “Is father working?”
MYRTLE: “’E’s waitin’ fer a billet as Perlice-
man in de Federal City.”
Co. near there and went through the passengers,
dropping all the loot into a square of canvas
spread on the ground. There was in the coach a
stout, big-boned female, her face swathed in red
flannel. She displayed quite a keen interest in
the highwayman, and never took her eyes from
his face, and presently, sweetly convinced, uttered
a squeal of triumph, and dashed at her man,
snatching the mask from his eyes. “It’s you,
Ben,” she cried. “Oh, you villain, I’ve found
you ! ” Ben glared at the lady. “By , so
you have ! ” he gasped. Then, tearing himself
free, he rode off as if Hades were at his heels, for-
getting all about his booty. The woman declared
that the robber was the long-lost husband whom
she had vainly sought on every field in Victoria.
* * * *
Over the White Cliffs mail-robbery the
most disgusted people, it is said in whispers
locally, were three men who had arranged to do
the same job, but ab a point about 35 miles
further on. Altogether that lumbering coach,
with but three unarmed men and a girl on board,
carried through the wilderness that black night
over £3OOO in money and gems ! Single-police
escort or not, there’s almost sure to be something
more to report on the same road before long.
* • * *
Hyde Park is the wonderland of Sydney,
and there are more curious sights to. be seen there
in one year than in a whole life-time of circuses.
Last week a gentleman who had been indulging
in tied-house refreshment went into the park to
scrape the fantods and tarantulas off himself.
Unfortunately they got inside his clothes and a 3
the only way to get at them was to take his
clothes off, he took them off, every one of them,
right there in the park. Then a policeman took
a hand in the business, but the naked one strongly
objected, and the next act saw a naked man
sitting on a policeman’s chest flicking imaginary
insects off himself. While he attended to the
fantods the officer bucked him off his cbest, and
would have fallen upon him, but the clothesless
one mistook him for a spider and fled, just as he
was, across the park, and the populace stared
aghast at a large constable in a helmet, heavy
boots and stuffy uniform chasing an individual
in the lightest marching order. The small boys
yelled, “Go it, de Wet—Kitchener hain’t got
no show ! ” but the policeman was on his mettle,
and just then the naked one fell over an inoffen-
sive unemployed who was sleeping in the sun,
and ten minutes later he was back into his clothes
and on the way to the watch-house.
• * * *
A particularly aggravating custom in
Sydney dailies is the printing of tags from tinpot
centres after reports on events of national im-
portance. Thus:
Tin Dog, Sep. 9.—Great indignation is expressed here
at the attempted assassination of the American President.
Baldy Face, Sep. 9.—The news of the attempt on the
life of President McKinley caused great indignation here.
Toggi-Toggi, Sep. 9.—The announcement that an at-
tempt was made to murder President M'Kinley was
received with great indignation here.
and so on ad nauseam. The seoret of it is that
the energetic country correspondent who gets his
‘ ‘ expression ” into print makes from twopence to
fourpence out of it, and so a dead notability
soothes a way-back thirst. But to a sanely-con-
ducted paper it ought to be worth as many pounds
to leave the trash out.
* * • *
Letter sent to the British Postmaster-
General and printed in the Post Office journal,
St. Martin’s lb Grand
Post Office Steppes, Tasmania,
Jan. 15, 1900.
To Postmaster-General, London.
Dear Sir,—Wishing to become acquainted with a young
English woman, views matrimony, good look, good cha-
racter, with dark hair, medium height, well-formed, dark
eyes, good teeth and health, not over 30 years, plain
dress, good scholar, spinster, or widow not objected to,
but must leave her family with friends. Some young
ladies might write soon as possible. lam a young man
26 years of age, farmer and laborer. The young lady
must be saving. Oan her friends pay her passage out
here after been accepted? She must not be a flirt. From
counties preferred. The right type of an Englishwoman.
Send photo. A good home in a cold climate, bush-home,
Tasmania in Australia. I want a well-behaved young
woman, with all her faculties. Good temper. Here is a
chance for a good young lady. I have not been married.
It takes about a month or six weeks for letters to reach
here.
George H .
P.S.—Hoping to be successful with a good wife.
• « • *
Item from a N.S.W. northern town (name
of town carefully disguised, lest the principal
female character in the story should come down
and hit this paper with her umbrella): Up at Big
Dust lately a blushing Jack (aged 30) and his
newly-acquired Jill were so severely bashed by
the bridegroom’s mother that amicable arrange-
ments for their entertainment were permanently
“off.” Related of same lady that when news of
her eldest son’s marriage reached her, she
promptly set out at midnight, through eight miles
of bush, to administer similar gentle tokens of
her disapproval, and successfully smacked
both parties. There was another son—a pale,
frail youth who made bashful love to the girl next
door until her father demanded what his inten-
tions were. He said if they weren’t honorable he’d
shoot him, whereas his mother said she’d extermi-
nate him if they were. The situation was too
much for the timid lover, so he died. That un-
fortunate event spoiled the old lady’s record. But
for it she might have been remembered as the only
local mother-in-law who flogged her three sons
and her three daughters-in-law on their respective
wedding-days.
* * * *
The aborigines collected by Q. Govt,
from the West, and domiciled at Woodford, north
coast district, will be killed off by the humid
climate thereof almost as quickly as by the vile
Chow charcoal opium of Western towns. The
poor nigs, suffer much from chest affections and
rheumatics, and complain that “ Altogether too
much water tumble down.”
* * * •
Those people who argue as if the Transvaal
war arose from a British determination to make
the dirty Boers clean should clamor for hostile
operations against the country towns of N.S.W.
In the bush a traveller—exhilarated and vivified by
the purity of the atmosphere—recalls with
scepticism tales of the heavy typhoid and diphtheria
mortality of the town to which he is bound ; but
when he arrives the smells and other insanitary
horrors of the place promptly remove his doubts,
Parkes, Forbes and Cowra are hotbeds of disease
and many of the smaller towns are even worse.
GO ON THE LAND , YOUNG MAN.
PROSPECTIVE BUYER : “ And have you a good
rainfall?”
PROSPECTIVE SELLER : “ Well, it jest rains when-
ever we wants it!”
Thus the father of a N.S. W. young woman
who had increased the population only two daya
after her marriage
“ I tell you it’s a record ! There’s nothing wrong
about it, ’cos my daughter wouldn’t do anything like
that. It’s just one of the wonderfullest things that ever
happened. It’s a record ! ”
The present scribe gives his affidavit that this is
an absolutely true bill.
* * * »
A neglected Q. sight is the Burdekin Falls,
where the river literally forces itself through the
coast range to reach the Pacific. Approximately
the falls are about 100 ft. high, and below them is
a series of rapids for miles through an almost im-
passable gorge. The watershed area drained by
the Burdekin is about 60,000 sq. miles, so that the
flood-time grandeur of the cataract may be
imagined.


THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, 4c.
The "VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS" says:-
“ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity.”
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast , either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
■ ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
Gallant Soldier in Danger.
A gallant soldier of the Empire, Sergeant
M'Namara, late of His Majesty’s 82nd Regiment,
has given to a reporter, upon request, some par-
ticulars of his life.
“You were present at the Siege and Fall of
Sebastopol, were you not ? ” said the reporter.
“Yes,” said Sergeant M'Namara, “ I was then
in the 82nd Regiment. For that campaign I re-
ceived the British Medal and Clasp, and the
Turkish Medal. During the Indian Mutiny _ I
took part in the relief of Lucknow under Sir Colin
Campbell, for which I received the Lucknow
Medal and Clasp.”
“I would like you to tell me, Sergeant, what
you consider the most trying experience you have
gone through.”
“Well,” was the reply, “that occurred in
Australia in this wise. At the time —several
winters ago—l was confined to bed through a
severe cold, which developed into influenza. I
suffered from pains in shoulders and limbs,
heavy headaches, loss of appetite, sickness, and a
heavy drowsy feeling, although I was quite
unable to sleep properly. The pains in my
head were so bad, that I could not lay the back
of it upon my pillow. Soup and tea were the
only nourishment I could take. Later on I had
another attack of influenza, and after that I had
two every winter. I was so weak and ill with it
that considering my advanced age (sixty-six) I
should not have been surprised if it had termin-
ated fatally. To add to all my troubles, rheu-
matism affictod me in the left shoulder and in the
foot, causing gnawing, aching pains. I had
medical treatment and tried many advertised
remedies as well, but they proved useless.”
“You no doubt took the one remedy which
invariably wards off and cures influenza,” re-
marked the reporter.
“Yes, I did,” said Sergeant McNamara. “I
took Dr. Williams’ pink pills for pale people.
After using them for two weeks I felt consid-
erably benefited. I continued the treatment,
and now, notwithstanding my age and the late
inclement weather, I am hale and hearty and
have been free all this winter from influenza and
rheumatism. I have a good appetite, sleep well,
and am stronger and brighter than I have been
for years. I strongly reccommend Dr. Williams’
pink pills to all those suffering from influenza
and rheumatism.”
Influenza may be warded off by taking Dr.
Williams’ pink pills, which cure its after effects
by enriching the blood, toning up the nerves
and strengthening the constitution. In • this
way they also cure rheumatism, neuralgia,
sciatica, bronchitis, consumption, weak heart,
diarrhoea, consumption of the bowels and lungs,
fits, scrofula, paralysis, etc. Sold by chemists
and storekeepers and by the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, two and
nine ; six boxes fifteen and three, post free.
Sergt. McNamara resides at George-street,
Burwood.*
USED IN THE ROYAL HOUSEHOLDS.
CEREBOS SALT
Besides being the most Dainty, Dry, and Economical
Table Salt, “Cerebos” contains the strengthening and
constitution building properties which are wanting
in White Bread, owing to the removal of the Bran.
It is, therefore, invaluable in the daily food of
growing children, delicate mothers, and all brain
workers.
Wholesale /lg£«fc:-HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 334 and 336, George Street, SYDNEY.
Sold by Grocers and Stores.
At a recent Coonabarabran (N S.W.) land
ballot, a would-be settlement lessee answered the
question on his application form “ Are you single,
married, a widower or widow ? ” by “ Yes ! ”
* * * *
“ Jaynol ” : “ The haunt of the bell-bird ”
is more than a mere phrase, as they adhere to
certain localities—possibly on account of the sugar
or “manna” on the gum-leaves, of which they are
very fond. Their mysterious notes come from
various quarters, but you seldom catch sight of
one of the little drab objects.
“R. 8.” : Recent Bulletin boyang dis-
cussion recalls the fact that (8., 13/7/’01) E. S.
Sorensen wrote of a “pack-horse drover’s cook.”
Where is the paoker-dude who carries a cook ?
* * * *
Cairns papers tell how a number of local
Chinese lately left that town in a sailing-boat,
amid much uproar of crackers and beating of tom-
toms, to make a trip towards the mouth of the
Barron river. Certain fellow-countrymen were
drowned there some time ago, and it is necessary
to visit the spot, burn candles, scatter joss-paper
and throw provisions overboard by way of pro-
piating and assisting the departed. Really, the
only interesting people in Cairns are the Chows.
MISS EDITH CRANE IN "NADJEZDA”
[?] by the Swiss Studio.
The Australian merino, an expert alleges,
is “coarsening in character,” and soon its wool
will be all blanky, or thereabouts. The affection
of squatters for robust, strong-fibred animals for
breeding is set down as the cause.
* * * *
From the annual report of the Protector
of Northern Territory aborigines :
At the annual distribution of blankets over 300 natives
attended. The proportion of children was very low. The
aborigines here are gradually on their way to extinction.
. . . Between Port Darwin and the Katherine are over 60
half-caste children.
*****
Murrumbidgerie station, near Dubbo,
N.S. W., of 40,000 acres freehold and condition-
ally-purchased, is to be sub-divided and auctioned
in Nov. : 7000 acres are to be cut up into 300 acre-
farms, and 33,000 acres are to be offered in 3000-
THE RISE IN THE PRICE OF MEAT.
“Another contributing cause has been the exceptionally bad season
experienced on the Upper Murray, stock having to be artificially fed, for
the first time for 40 years.” — DAILY PAPER
acre-pastures. Private ownership thus antici-
pates closer-settlement legislation. Soil-room for
30 more families !
* * * *
“Q.E.D.” : Talk about plurality ! I know
a man in an Australian township who is all these
things:—
Cemetery inspector, census collector, clerk to council,
clerk at elections, dog-tax collector, drill inspector,
forest ranger, general agent, inspector of weights and
measures, Inspector of fire brigade, librarian, officer Odd
Fellows ; poor-relief commissioner, pound-keeper, rate-
collector, secretary Masonic lodge ; life assurance agent,
secretary (travelling) new political association ; shop-
keeper.
* * * * *
The finest timber in Australia (N. Queens-
land cedar) is being wasted in a scandalous way.
Few people have any idea of the immense propor-
tions of Northern cedar. Only recentlv a tree
felled on the Barron took the timber-getters a
whole day to bring down, and yielded no less than
14,000 ft of timber. Whole houses, churches and
hotels are built of cedar in that district.
N.S.W. Minister
for Mines and 4
culture goes to -off'
bourne prim‘d - ' /
details re tbv®
tion of inrr mg
Australian leather
and hides. Amend-
ment of the brand-
ing-laws isabsolutely
essential to enable
local hides to com-
pete with the Ameri-
can product. Queens-
land has, it seems,
made rapid strides
in the art of flaying
beasts, and expert
workers leave no
trace of the knife.
Slaughtermen sug-
gest that a bonus be
paid for all properly-
flayed skins, said
bonus to be contri-
buted by carcase-
butchers, hide-buy-
ers, and Govt., each
giving 2d. per hide.
If tiie Melbourne
conference be result-
less, Mr. Kidd pro-
mises State legisla-
tion on branding.
*' * •
“G. H.” : Re
“ relics of the war.”
Riding some months
ago, from Zwaart-
kopjes to Pretoria,
I passed a camp of
A ustralians and,
hearing a couple of
ride-shots, turned
and saw a fellow
blazing away at a hat
placed upon a post.
“Having some opu-
practice, old man ? ”
I said. “ Not me,”
returned the warrior
“only making a
bloomin’ war - soov-
neer to send home
to the ole man.”
Many a “close-
shave ” has been manufactured on this same
principle.
* * * *
“Steff”: “ Itan ” (B. 27/7/’01) re tele-
graph-poles with a list, reminds me of King
Cacombau’s monument at Suva, Fiji, which took
a decided lean after it was put up. Every-
body was wont to point this out to the unfortunate
town-clerk. But that official used to get even
with them. He’d say: “The list is purely an
optical illusion. If you take your view of the
monument from the front it is perfectly straight.”
Then he would take the person to the edge of a
smellful swamp, and say: “Look at it carefully
from here. A little further this way, please,”—
and suddenly the gazer would flop to the middle
in stinking, black mud. The town-clerk would
then suddenly remember that he was wanted back
at the office.
Editor Bulle-
tin. —Consider the
enviable lot of the
Queensland sugar-
plantation ganger.
Compelled by the
labor-overseer, he has
to drive the Kanaka
“boys” more and
more, until some day
they attack and kill,
or seriously injure
him. Then the blame
is put upon him.
“ He must have been
unnecessarily severe
with the boys, or
they wouldn’t have
attacked him ”
when all the time
the poor wretch has
been doing no more
than trying to keep
his miserable billet.
—Been There.
* * *
Upon a tree on
the Bred bo to Cowra
Creek road, N.S.W.,
appears— 1 ‘Notice to
Dogs. Pisen laid
Here.” Uneducated
dogs passing that
way will run a great
risk.
THE POET AND THE EDITOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He’d been writing various verses
Singing sweetly Of the nurses
(’Tis a weakness patients have when gaining health)
And they vowed he was a poet,
And that all the world should know it;
And that fame awaited him and lots of wealth.
So he wrote a love-effusion,
Breathing passion in profusion,
And he praised the pretty nurses to the skies ;
Told the same old, old sweet story—
Which by this time should be hoary—
And their eyes he called a glimpse of Paradise.
Well, the editor perused it,
And he never once abused it,
As from page to page he read the poem through ;
And the Poet’s brow was burning,
As the man of cult and learning
Cleared his throat to speak—they generally do.
“ Twenty pounds ! ” was all he uttered,
And with joy the poet muttered :
“ Oh, it’s more than I expected, I confess.”
“ Shades of Tennyson and Browning ! ”
Quoth the editor, now frowning—
“ Why, I mean I wouldn’t publish it for less 1 ”
TAS.
J. A. WALAR.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Outcast: Providence has bestowed on you an
incoherent style and a blessed disregard of consecutive-
ness O.W.L. : In all your dreary 8 fcp. pages it is a wise
relative that knows its own antecedent Snake juice :
You say, “ Even if Bill did say to Jim that the Federal
P.M.G. was going to open everybody’s letters, that was
no worse than Gould, Walker, and Co. giving him power
to do it.” But then they never gave him, or proposed to
give him, any such power. And The Bulletin didn’t
“ contend that it was a fair thing to let P.M.G. Crick
open any letters he chose.” These silly yarns were in-
vented by parties unknown (probably the nigger-labor
party, which wants to down the Federal Government at
any cost), and you accept them in sheep-like trustfulness
without looking at the Bill to see if they are true or not
Jimpan : That “ tig ’’-playing lunatic yarn reaches Bul-
letin, in various dresses, about ten times a year. And it
was “ the funniest thing you ever witnessed ?” 0.D.P.:
All right, no harm done... .Yellow Terror: Story of
Chinese corpse not lively enough... .N.B.K. : You may
imagine “ God and a Woman ” orginal. Hope you do.
But precisely the same idea (with a more dramatic con-
clusion) is used in a well-known poem, “ The Abso-
lution.” May use “ End of D.”.... Keiolo : Mr. L. Frere,
of Albury, who ought to know, writes that “ the alcohol
contained in our wines can never reach 28 deg. of strength,
as the extreme limit of alcoholic fermentation is 18deg.
all over the world, S. Australia excepted.” If we mistake
not, however, Dr. Thudichum’s dictum on this subject
doesn’t coincide with Mr. Frere’s... .M.L.W. : Bulletin
cordially detests people who “contribute papers.”
“Papers” never get into this print. (2) When sending
copy, please don’t write long letters saying you have sent
it, and setting forth what you have in view. Simply mail
the MS. with your name and address plainly written on it.
. ...O.W.S. : “Then surely thou’lt grant me a tear.”
Not a tear !.... P. : Suppose your father had been killed,
your wife burnt out of her home, your children done to
death in a concentiation-camp, and you stood on the last
peak, unconquered, jamming a cartridge into your broken
rifle, what would he your attitude to a trim, well-tailored
poet who exhorted you in delicate metre to “ lay down
your arms . Novus Homo : Dear old botanical fraud
and delusion, what is it all about?... .Front Bar:
Poetical, but strangely confused. Up to verse
live preserves some semblance of purpose- rest is
a tangle of kelp, and the kelp has been drinking.
Considering “ One Star.”... .Contador : And a very good
thing, too M.P. (Brunswick): Should say, after
reading that par., that you possess in your town
about the most precipitous paper on this earth. Is
the awful thing allowed to go through the post?....
Diogenes Dodd : Poem treated with scorn ; pars, better...
11. 1). : To decipher your MS. would be a terrible task.
Spent -Drain, in getting through 6 sides and found
n itliing ;we don’t propose to tackle the balance. Write
plainly in black ink on white paper, and with plenty space
between lines ; otherwise type-write... .Mado : You talk
as if the drunkard was the most dangerous criminal. It
is quite the other way round. The really dangerous
malefactor is the cold-blooded man....Sam’l Corn-
stalk : The Native Muse is wattle - clad, and no
mistake. May print her some day Pek : Well-
intentioned poem—-might stop a knot-hole Aloe:
Also well-meant.... Rockhampton : The lady editor is
very funny, but lady editors can print things we
hardly dare chuckle over Alone : Leave more
interlineal space. Have often to put your MS. aside
because there’s no room to interpolate H.P. :
Tiie Bulletin uses “ brainy ” because that’s the
shortest way of expressing the idea. The other term is a
mere verbal dummy, universally understood to represent
another word. When Australian speech drops that
other word, The Bulletin will drop the dummy Rom-
sey : No time to waste over such ignominious scribble. .
What is worth reading is worth writing... .Francis C. :
It is not history ; and if The B. published it would be
called a malicious lie Camiro : Your lachrymose
phrase— “ The evils of over-legislation ” —doesn’t refer to
the legislation which gave miles of country away for a
song. It doesn’t refer to the gifts, gratuities, and pen-
sions which certain classes have enjoyed since the founda-
tion of Botany Bay. It doesn’t refer to the spoon-feed-
ing of Calico Jimmies and their daily-press organs. It
doesn’t refer to the special legislation of a few years ago,
when the banks and their shareholders were buttressed
by the public credit. Not at all. It refers to legislation
aimed at giving tailoresses decent sanitary arrangements
and an extra ha’penny or so a dozen on pants
E.K. : Judging by your letter, couldn’t afford to give
more than a poultice for swelled head E.B.J. : {’air
idea ; but how it creaks and groans ! J.C. H. (Warren):
Is it original? Are you a comp. ? Where did you get the
idea?... Grant M. : One lie old ; considering other. Can’t
print eulogies of bushranging : the local youth is too apt
a pupil... .Wanderer: You fellows ought to start a
magazine of your own on shares, and print nothing but
backblockers’poetry.. ..Alone : “ Gold’’has good senti-
ment ; but your statement is flat and undistinguished....
Viv. M. : As the girl would probably put it under her
pity, why do you put it under our cold eye of scorn ?....
R S.B. : When you seriously address him as Sol your place
is fixed. Down, viper 1 Killaloe : Good rough draft of
a poem Percy :We send you asylumed old gentlemen
a paper, and you wake into new life and—poetry 1....
A.G.D. : Will print verses Savanaka : Who are you?..
. ,'g.D.W. : Will print “Box in B.” J.O. (M.L.):
"Stripper” too technical Lola: Both for print....
E.B.H. : “Letter” will be printed soon Wanderer:
Decent, dull, mechanical rhyme Yokel: Some indecent,
all in the worst possible taste Crisina : Too tough a
job ! Shamrock : Rabbit-yarn is a variant of a chestnut.
Other may d 0... .0.M.0.M. : Seems a bad case of. Govt.-
sweating, but, if you think we cannot safely give the
general particulars, what do you expect us to d 0?....
Housee : Hardly worth while P. R. Webb : Letter for
you at G.P.0., Brisbane A.J.B. : Could not identify
without more precise information. H.S. himself does not
remember the illustration referred to Percy R.W. :
You “ have seen some awful rot in Tub Bulletin.” All
the more reason for keeping out your awfuller r0t?....
E.A. : The chairman of N.S.W. Public Works Committee
gets £3, and members £2 each sitting ; while touring 30s.
daily travelling expenses (are allowed August: Been
rhyming the little girl’s geography-book G.M.S. :
Sorry won’t do T.R.N. : Yes, this beef-scarcity time
sees'the lumpy cattle bring top prices, eh? A.D. :
Considering Trouvbre : Possibly Max.: Right;
Edward 111., not Edward 1., instituted the Order
of the Garter Hippai: Humorous in spots, but
not compact enough for Bulletin. 0.8. R. :
Have no distinct remembrance, but fancy the
matter was settled without going to trial.. ..Watt
E. : Long way below mark... .Charles B. : Obviously
true to life. Sorry not well enough d0ne......
A.G.R. : Pretty little moral, with but a slight flavor of
plague Max. Q. : When The B. is printing short
descriptions of Australian industries for use in schools, it
might be used. Wouldn’t advise you to wait R.A.K.:
Idea of W.S.H. pre-Adamitic Quilp : Picture story not
“ on the line.” Cora Lynn : A slight variant on a very
hackneyed theme.. .Telsihc : Neighbor-gossip dead stale.
N.M.R. : “Mud Maps” not so dusty, but still not up to
mark J.M.W. : Dull; suitable for a Stead Christmas
number E.J.R. : “Semi” too ordinary Walter
L.’E. : Not worth 16 stanzas; might possibly
pass with 8. S. the W. : Re “ Lady Help ”
You don’t know pot-and-pan wrinkles sufficiently....
Ethel M. : “ Dog’s D.” and “ Letter to L.” for print
Thir : Strongly suspect its a pure invention D.: There
are dozens of variants of your, “absolute fact.” F.J.W.:
Hardly point enough for print Rick : Too much comic
Irishman... .Meteor : Bosh !... .R.W.M.: Could not use,
as sent Brutus : Thanks !... .Percy M. :“ In S.” just
about squeezes through Melchior : The Commonwealth
must simply laugh at such pre-arrangements. In ’7B, the
master of a trading vessel bought (as he called the trans-
action) 700 acres at Port Moresby. The British Govt.,
after a big row, quashed the compact. The British Govt,
quashed another and another claim. The Commonwealth
can thus sail in and do as it pleases A.G.D. : Will think
it over for illus M.E.J.: “The grief of aggravated
years ” is nothing to the grief of the aggravated poetry
about ’em Viv. M. : Marvellous girl, isn't she?
D.C. : Had it already X.Y.Z.: Rather thin sentiment;
but some would do if every fifth word did not jar on ear
or taste... .Tasmanian : Flag-letter too long ; try a daily.
Synesius : Be more explicit. Don’t know what you refer
t 0.... Telsihc : Pretty dry hash.... Aita C. : None exactly
bad, though none up to our mark... .Carrolli: Rather
clever in places, but, upon the whole, too crude and un-
even Wild W. : True to life, at all events. Will con-
sider. .. .Wallaroo : Has a jerky and confusd effect.


WAITING FOR THE KICK-OFF.


0»e of\y T ne felt uor*e»- , f'
/\ FLA.G Also 3000 &TAKT6D
Forthwith Dtwcnr*<r CHASTE 7
Cornce-ITS "
It 7/
snu- more, chaste. conceit's
/Sr*o A CROP S'*
OF SEA JUOG-ES
HAHGiiNQ Round
CHOSE THIS AMD
SAtD "J3E.HOLJD A Six
POINTED STAR."
„ W W s SAID -
' SJAR BE. HANDED > IT-S THEi.
OLD JACK
tNOTAirNGr ABOUT 1T . ,?
■vJ A N D
Tht Jl«c,o
PBtSS
2 ‘‘A BeAvJTIFOU
(Six Pointed star' 1
&UT The "one FLAG
or*e oesTiisv, one
dronk lot ”
©E.GAN SHOWin<i
op
y° FIGHT FOR THfe
\ FLAG •
/Y*P THE- \
AUSTRALIANS
Got A RED RAC-
At*d Painted a
VSH»T£ KANGAROO on it AND stuck it
on a CLoppes PROP AND then
THERE WAS A SCRAP.
, TME 1
VicToRS -
f, Qo Af*o Plaster your broken noses.
BLESStD \P The 'Poo SftArvr B£ OUR BAyNNER.
SOME “CHYAK” ABOUT THE FLAG.


THAT NAME,
A. SAUNDERS.
IS A GUARANTEE YOU HAVE A RELIABLE ARTICLE.
ON A WATCH
Trump,
10s.
Series J,
16s 6d.
V*/
N
&
A. SAUNDERS.
WATERBURT WATCHES.
New Shortwind, 10b : Guard, 12s 6d ; Series J. 16s
6d ; Railway 18b 6d ; New Model Gent.'s, 20s ;
Silver, 35s ; Gold, -£2 15b and £3.
All the above Watches are Specially Regulated
and Oiled.
20s,
20s
A. SAUNDERS.
" UNRIVALLED ” NON-MAGNETIC LEVER
Strong, Reliable, Perfeot Timekeeper, Screw Cases
Dußt and Water Tight, 20s ; Solid Silver Cases’
85s ; Hunters, £2. A Written Certificate with the
“ Unrivalled.”
The KNOCKABOUT LEVER 15b
The MARVEL, 8s 6d.
Nickel,
255.
Silver,
£2 2s.
N
«msKk
N£=a
A. SAUNDERS.
“LONDON LEVER.”
Extra Finished, f-Lever, Full Chronometer Balance,
Dußt and Water Tight Screw Cases, 25b ; Silver,
£2 2s j 6ilver Hunting Cases, £2 10s and £3
A Written Certificate for 2 and 3 Years.
Nickel,
355.
Solid
Silver,
£2 10s,
A. SAUNDERS.
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Special Direct Agents.
Silverloid O.F. Keyless, J Works with Chronometer
Balance, 35s ; Hunters, £2 ; Pure Solid Silver
Hunting Cases, Extra Quality Movements, £2 los,
£3, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ; Gold Patent Cases Wal-
thams, £4 4s, £5 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ WATCH.
Blaok or Nickel Silver, Keyless, Reliable Works,
20s : Pure Silver, 355;
Solid Gold, £2 10s, £3 10s.
For a Cheap, Reliable Watch these ar«
Recommended.
A. SAUNDERS.
RADIES’ WALTHAM SOLID GOLD KEYLESS.
|-Movement, Chronometer Balance, Jewelled, Per-
fect Timekeeper, Extra Strong Cases. Full Size, £6
10s ; Small Size, £5 10s. Pure Solid Silver, Same
Works, £2 10s and £3.
Guarantee 4 Years to keep in Thorough Repair,
Send
for
Illustrated
Book,
Post
Free.
18ct. Gold, 18ct. Gold,
£slos. A £slos.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold, Full Jewelled i-Watch, Most
Reliable Timekeeper, £5 10b ; Large Size, £6. In
Solid Silver, £2 ; Large Size, £2 10b.
These Watches are Beautifully Chased, and
Guaranteed for 8 Years.
14ct.
Gold,
£8 10s
18ct.
Gold,
£lO.
SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold Keyless WALTHAM LEYER,
Full Jewelled Works, Patent Action, New Model,
£lO, £l2 10s.
Yon Can’t Get a Better Watch.
14ct. Solid Gold, C 8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN and MINERS.
ROTHERHAM SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH LEVERS,
Full Cap, Hand Finished, Extra Jewelled Works, Perfect
Timekeeper, with Pure Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight,
£3 10s. Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance, £4 10s,
£5, £5 10s, £6.
A written certificate for 8,4, and 5 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
A. SAUNDERS.
WALTHAM RAILWAY KEYLESS LEVERS.
LARGE SIZE, as supplied to all the Railways in Australia, with Screw
Dust-tight Cases. The Works are Strong, with full Chronometer Balance. £2,
£2 10s, £3 ; Solid Silver, £4, £5, £6, £7, £B. Price of these Watches are accord-
ing to the grade of works.
A written certificate for 2,8, 4,5, and 6 years.
Thousands in wear give untold satisfaction.
A. SAUNDERS.
SPECIAL MADE “ ROTHERHAM ” KEYLESS
ENGLISH LEVERS.
The Most Reliable and Best Finished Watches made. Guaran-
teed to give the utmost satisfaction. Pure Solid Silver Hunting
Cases, Extra Finished Works, £5. Extra Quality, l 5 10s ;
Superior Quality, £6, £7 ; Acme, £B.
These Watches are made especially for A. Saunders only.
Guaranteed for 5 and 6 Years.
Solid
Gold,
£7 10s.
14ct. Solid
Gold,
£lO.
Ni
A. SAUNDEES.
PEE SENT ATION GOLD WATCHES.
SPECIALLY MADE SOLID GOLD KEYLESS
WALTHAMS,
| Works, Extra Jewelled Actions, Chronometer Balance
£7 10s. Met. Solid Gold, £lO ; 18ct. Solid Gold, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O. Guaranteed for 3,4, 5, and 6 Years.
Guarantee
Satis-
faction.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESENTATION SOLID GOLD ROTHERHAMS f-PLATE
KEYLESS LEVERS,
Full Chronometer Balance, 19 Jewels action, Hand Finished, with Dust-tight
Cases, £lO 10s and £l2 10s. 18ct. Solid Gold, £l5, £2O.
4,5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
Inscription for Presentation Engraved Free.
Send for
1901
Price List.
Silver,
£5.
Silver,
£6.
N
“ FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS.”
These we have at Every Price and Style. In Solid NickeJ or
Black, 30s ; Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s ; Split Seconds, £3 10s.
Pure Solid Silver, £5, £6, t 7, £B, and £lO ; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O,
£25, and £3O. A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years.
TRY ONE.
A. SAUNDERS. WATCHMAKER, 815 GEORGE-STREET,
NEARLY OLPo ITE RAILWAY
STATION,
SYDNEY


RAMEY’S MEDICATOR.
A great proportion of all Australians have Catarrh in either the first stage or
chronic form. Probably 20 per cent, of all the people we meet have but one good
nostril—the other is clogged with catarrhal deposits, or by some weakness whose
parent was a neglected cold. This forces them, perhaps unconsciously, to breathe
through the mouth, and, unless attended to, will result in a life-long annoyance
and serious trouble. Home treatment with our Medicator will restore the organ
to its natural condition, and enable it to perform its functions properly and
healthfully. It relieves and cures Catarrh, Hay Fever, Cold in the Head, and all
Nasal inflammations. It soothes, cleanses, heals; contains no injurious drugs.
Pamphlets Free on request—a postcard will do.
Medicator, with Complete Treatment, post free, 10/-
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
229-231 Collins Street, Melbourne.
df
Medioatob.
BAUC.
■
THE SALT OF THE EARTH
Is as nought compared
with the appetizing
qualities of
O^yCb
SAUCE
SAUC
d
412 GEORGE zj sydn'f^
No. F27B7.—New Twin Heart and Arrow
Brooch, 9c. Gold, 8s 6d.
No. EB739.—Fine
mond and 18c.
Kin & £4 10s.
Dia-
Gold
No. F2254.—15c. Gold Brooch, Ruby
Centre, £1 10s.
No. F37o4.— New Lucky Bell and Leal
Brooch, 9c. Gold, 11s 6d.
Magnificent Diamond
and Opal Cluster Ring,
£l7 10s.
No. F3ss3.—New Bell Brooch, 9c. Gold,
No. F693.—Fine Pearl New Moon and Spray
Brooch, 15c. Gold, £5.
12s 6d.
No. F 4546. —Pine Quality Pearl and 15c. Gold Spray
Brooch, £9 10a.
No. F 4299. —15c. Gold Bird and Leaf
Brooch, £1 ss.
N0.F4540—15c. Gold
and Pearl Pendant,
£2 10s.
No. E 5629. —New Bar and Bell Brooch,
9c. Gold, 10s 6d.
to. F269l.—Strong Bar Brooch, New Design,
9c. Gold, 13s 6d.
No. 1976.—Fine Pearl Scroll Brooch, 15c. Gold,
£1 15s.
No. F4Bsl.—Fine Pearl nd 5c..G01d
No. EB6oo.—Pair of Cc.
Gold Tie Clips, 5s 6d.
Heavy Make, 10s 6d.
Shamrock Brooch, £llss.
Illustrated Catalogue
Free to all.
London Tailoring Depo
£
l-f you
VALUE
a Smart Appearance
IS THE
Suits to Order
42/-
with Extra
Trousers.
TEST our 42/- BUITB
OF
Tho, r CHEAPNESS
is only equalled by their Durability.
The Commonwealth's Record for
STILE, FIT, and FlNlfrjf.
Send for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms to our only address
OPP. G.P.0., BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
Victorias Gold Jubilee Exhibition.
18 51 BE 3NTDIG- O 19 OX
To be Opened at Market Square, Bendigo,
In NOVEMBER Next
and remain open until the
following Easter, 1902.
To Commemorate the Discovery of Gold in a manner that will rank as a
Memorial to the First Anniversary of the Australian Commonwealth.
Under the Ausi Dices of the GOVERNMENT OF VICTORIA, and the patronage of Sir JOHN f
MADDEN, K.C.M.G., LL.D., Lieutenant-Governor of the State of Victoria.
PRESIDENT :
Councillor S. H. M'Gowan, J.P.
VICE-PRESIDENTS :
Councillor S. Ryan, J.P., Mayor of Bendigo. Sir John Quick, K. 8., LL.D., M.P.
HON. TREASURER:
W Davis, Esq., J.P., Manager Colonial Bank, Bendigo.
HON. CONSULTING ARCHITECT :
W. Beebe, Esq., J.P.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE :
Councillor S. H. M'Gowan, J.P., Chairman.
Sir John Quick, K. 8., LL.D.
Or. S. Ryan, Mayor of Bendigo.
Cr. J. R. Hoskins, J.P.
A. Bayne, Esq., J.P.
Geo. Mackay, Esq.
L. A. Samuels, Esq.
Taylor Horsfield, Esq.
J. H. Ournow, Esq.
W. H. Cundy, Esq.
W. Honey bone, Esq., Town Clerk, Bendiga
J. G. Edwards, Esq.
W. K. M'Kenzie, Esq.
Hon. J. Sternberg, M.L.O.
Or. D. B. Lazarus, M.L.A,
Or. H. M. Marks.
J. R. Goodisson, Esq.
J. Sarvaas, Esq.
O. Morgan, Esq.
A. G. Daymond, Esq.
W. Davis, Esq.
J. Hemming, Esq.
A. Grigg, Esq.
Jacob Oohn, Esq.
W. Beebe, Esq.
J. B. Young, Esq.
President London Committee : Lieut.-Colonel Sir Andrew Clarke, Hon. Secretary : J. Stirling, Esq.
President Melbourne Committee: The Hon. R. Reid, M.L.O. Vice-President: Geo. M. Bruce, Esq.
Hon. Secretary : H. W. O. Smith, Secretary Chamber of Manufactures, 30 Queen Street.
The Exhibition will be interstate and international cope and character, and will comprise a vast exposition of
the world’s progress in the arts, sciences, manufacture products, inventions, discoveries, and industries. Fitting
prominence will be given to the gold-mining and other mineral resources, and phases of mining in Victoria and the
other States, Great Britain, Canada, America, and all parts of the old world, from their earliest stages to the present
time, while special courts will be erected for the display of manufactures and industries, wool, agriculture, dairying,
and machinery, &c.
A SUM OF £lOOO HAS BEEN SET APART FOR AWARDS IN THE VARIOUS DIVISIONS.
THE SCHEDULES.
A special gold medal will be awarded for an essay on the discovery of gold, the rise and progress of mining in
Australasia.
A special gold medal will be awarded for an essay on the Bendigo Goldfield.
DIVISION I.—Mining, its Phases and Resources—Early Mining and Mining Methods—Mining Products, Raw and
Prepared—Mining Systems and Engineering—Prime Movers and Mining Machinery—Ore Reduction and Dressing
Machinery—Mining Tools and Appliances—Fuels—Blasting Appliances and Inventions —Lubricators and Lubricants—
Mineral and other Oils, &c.—System of Lighting and Ventilating—Sciences Applied to Mining.
DIVISION ll.—General Resources, Industries, and Possibilities of Production Other than Mining—Raw and
Natural Products—Pastoral Resources—Agricultural Resources—lnventions —Discoveries—Viticultural Resources and
Wine Competitions—Beers, Spirits, Mineral and Aerated Waters —Horticultural Resources —Manufactured Products
—Machinery, Apparatus, and Processes Used in Industries—Chemical and Pharmaceutical Products.
DIVISION 111. —Sciences —Zoology—Botany—Ethnology—Chemistry— Electrical Technology, &c. —Telephonic
and Telegraphic Apparatus—ljontgen X Rays—Working Installation of Wireless Telegraphy—Dynamos—Optics-
Signalling Apparatus—Search-light and Heliograph, &c.
DIVISION IV. —The FINE ARTS. Sub-section 1 —Loan collections from Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, and
other centres. Sub-section 2—Oil paintings, water-color paintings, and various drawings, sculpture, and die-
sinking, other than those specified in the foregoing. Sub-section 3—Engravings, etchings, lithographs, and other
classes of tone and line-work. Sub-section 4—Architectural drawings. Sub-section s—Photography : (a) amateur,
(b) professional. Sub-section 6—An Old Curiosity Shop, showing old colonial prints, newspapers, documents, early-
day photographs, proclamations, early publications, and all kinds of objects, weapons and other things of colonial
historic interest. Sub-section 7 —A gallery of applied art, (a) of colonial manufacture, and (b) of foreign manufacture,
such as Mosaics, carvings in ivory, bone, tortoiseshell, &c., woodwork, furniture, &c. ; metal works, coins and medals,
arms and armour, silversmith’s work, jewellery, and goldsmith’s work, enamels on metal, earthenware and stoneware,
porcelain, glass vessels, &c. ; painted and stained glass, leather work, bookbinding, &c. ; textile fabrics and em-
broidery, lace, &c.
A NATIONAL GALLERY PICTURE.
An award of a special gold medal will be given for the best picture in oils exhibited. Judges will be selected
from the art galleries of Melbourne, Adelaide and Sydney.
NOTE.—The committee of the Bendigo Art Gallery are prepared to purchase a suitable picture exhibited in
this competition of which they approve, up to £lOOO.
THE EXHIBITION ART UNION.
A genuine Art Union will be conducted by the Exhibition Commission for the distribution of £lOOO worth of
pictures. The prizes will be pictures of the value of —Ist, £350 ; 2nd, £250 ; 3rd, £150; 4th, £100; sth, £5O ; 6th,
£25 ; 7th, £25 ; Bth, £l5 ; 9th, £lO ; 10th, £lO ; 11th, £lO ; 12th, £5. The winners of the various prizes must select
pictures to the value of the prize, and the committee will be responsible to the exhibitors for payment. The tickets
for the art union, in which there is no equivalent, are issued at ONE SHILLING each.
COMPETITIVE AMATEUR ART SECTION.
Prize of 20 guineas and diploma for the best set of three paintings in oils—(a) figure composition ; (b) nude figure
from life, not less than 30in. one way of canvas ; (c) head from life, life size. Second prize, £2 2s.
Prize of 20 guineas and diploma for the best set of three models in clay, wax, or metal— (a) decorative figure,
subject to be stated ; (6) figure in relief, or bust from life, or the antique ; (c) a decorative foliated panel, to be
stated. Second prize, £2 2s.
Prize of 20 guineas and diploma for the best landscape or maritime view in oils, not less than 60in. one way (sub-
ject to be selected in the States). Second prize, £2 2s.
Prize of 15 guineas and diploma for the best painting in water-colors, any subject. Second prize, £2 2s.
Prize of 5 guineas and diploma for best set of three studies of still life (in which flowers may be introduced) in
oils. Second prize, £2 2s.
Prize of 3 guineas and diploma for the best chalk drawing or monochrome of head or figure from life or from the
antique. Second prize, £1 Is. > .
Prize of £2 2s. and diploma for the best set of six pen-and-ink or wash drawings, suitable for reproduction.
THE WOMAN’S COURT.
A Woman’s Court, showing the progress in Women’s Work during the past century, with Competitive Sections
in all classes of work.
DIVISION V.—EDUCATION AND INSTRUCTION.
The primary education of children in the Public schools ; organisation, methods, and appliances for superior in-
struction ; exhibits of school work, maps, plans, drawings, &c. ; technical education in all its branches, as carried out
at the Victorian Working Men’s College ; printing, books, &c. ; stationery, bookbinding, painting, and drawing
material; musical instruments ; exhibits of work done at the Deaf, Dumb, and Blind Institutes ; curios, novelties,
jewellery, &c. ; philately ; domestic appliances ; toys, children’s games, &c. ; ladies’ fancy and needle work.
THE EXHIBITION CATALOGUE AND GUIDE BOOK.
A Picturesque Catalogue and Guide Book of Australia, of an attractive description, will be issued by the com-
mittee, and advertisements will be received by, and all information may be obtained from, Mr. W. S. Calvert, Little
Oollins-street, Melbourne; Reuter’s Telegram Company, in Sydney, Brisbane, and Melbourne; Mr. Powell, in Ade-
laide ; Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, in New Zealand and West Australia ; or Mr. G. V. Allen, Exhibition Offices,
Bendigo.
THE SPECIAL EXHIBITS and ATTRACTIONS will Include
The largest collection of Pictures, Statuary, Art Work, and Applied Art ever seen in Australia since the Centen-
nial Exhibition.
The Government dairy plant in daily work, with lectures on the dairy industry, fruit-preserving, and the freezing
of products.
A loom will be shown manufacturing flannels and blankets, from Messrs. Collins Rros.’ Union Mills, Geelong.
The latest mirror maze, brought especially from America.
An electric railway, carrying passengers round the gardens, through the various courts, over a route of 2500 ft.,
erected by G. Weymouth Propy., Ltd.
An Eiffel Tower, 150 ft. high, carrying passengers on an electric elevator to a look-out at the top, from which a
search-light will be shown at night, constructed by Messrs. Dorman, Long, and Co.
A Woman’s Court, showing the progress made in women’s work during the past century.
A golden Pyramid, illustrative of the era of the golden fifties, and representing 20,000,0000 z. of gold.
Underground workings, showing a saddle reef; quartz-mining and crushing. A shaft will be sunk in the
grounds, and a patent-safety cage will carry visitors to inspect the various drives, &c.
An armament court, with all the latest appliances of war.
South African war trophy, with special court exhibits of war material, captured by English and colonial
troops in the Transvaal, Free State, Natal, and Cape Colony.
Two band rotundas, in which military and string bands will play every afternoon and evening.
Fountain, rockeries, and waterfalls.
Gardens and pleasure-grounds.
Fern promenades and palm groves and grottoes.
Steam and electric motive-power, driving novelties.
An extensive dairy show will be held in the Exhibition-building on specified dates.
A special flower show will be held in the Exhibition-building on specified dates.
There will be organised a special regatta, under the auspices of the Exhibition Commission.
A special fruit and vegetable show will be held in the season.
A special wool show will be held, showing the best fleeces of all the various States.
Special marine and railway excursions will be organised for all the States.
A series of first-class concerts and musical carnivals will be arranged during the course of the Exhibition.
A bit of picturesque Old England, in which Shakespeare’s house will be shown.
An Australian scene, showing a bush camp and surroundings, will be exhibited ifi the grounds, under the control
of “ Scotty the Wrinkler,” of The Bulletin.
A butter trophy will be exhibited in connection with the dairy show.
There will be an ice trophy of frozen products.
Trophies of New South Wales and Victorian coal—black and brown—along with the products of brown coal sent
from Germany by Mr. J. Stirling.
A collection of native weapons from the interior of Australia and the Islands.
There will be an inter-State band contest on a large scale.
One of the most interesting features of the Exhibition will be an up-to-date Chinese Court and stand of arms,
captured by the Victorian Naval Brigade during the recent war in China.
A diamond drill at work.
Models of warships and the maritime navy will be exhibited.
A grain elevator will be worked in the produce section.
The printing press—old and new—at work in the machinery court.
A working laboratory from the Bendigo School of Mines, showing the latest scientific methods in the chemistry
of mining.
Every known system of electric power and lighting will be practically illustrated.
A mono-rail railway will be shown by Messrs. Bennie, Teare, and Co., similar to that now being constructed at
Birmingham, at a cost of £2,500,000.
At night the gardens and grounds and cool palm walks will be brilliantly lighted in colours by electricity, oil,
gas, and acetylene gas, to display the merits of various lighting powers.
There will be the most marvellous collection of machinery in motion ever seen together in the Commonwealth.
Early application should be made by intending exhibitors for space, to allow of proper provision being made in
the buildings, the arrangements in connection with which are now being carried out.
GEO. V. ALLEN, General Secretary.
Exhibition Offices, Market-square, Bendigo ; or Office of Melbourne Commission, Chamber of Manufactures, 30
Queen-street, Melbourne.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
-We learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attached to every bottle of Condy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
curing most of the ailments and accidents
affecting Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry,
and Birds of all kinds.
Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses.—Scab, Foot Bot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Rinderpest, Hoove, Foul in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle.—Distemper
Mange, Canker, and Eczema in Dogs.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of local substitutes, all are
inferior. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
f
GrO TO HELL-
-4 IGOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price*
lis gratis.
HATS. HATS ■ ATS.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Catalogue to Bi MOUfltCaStlO & SOdSj
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLCY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydney#
Have alwa3's on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Jtooins.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale-
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
Antiuric removes all impurities from the
blood in man, woman or child. It is the one
simple, cheap, and certain cure for rheumatism.
Sent post paid to any part of Australasia, ss.
Antiuric Co., Box 842, G.P.0., Sydney.*
'(WIND'S
J(a>.toor
FOR THE COMPLEXION
An emolient, soothing and healing
partition for preserving and beautifying the.
Bkin in all climates; it cools and refreshes,
the Face and Arms in hot weather, removes.
Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Rough-
ness of the Skin, heals all cutaneous Erup-
tions and Insect Stings, produces
SOFT, VELVETY SKIN,
Imparts a luxuriant beauty to the com-
plexion and a matchless whiteness to the
Neck and Arms unobtainable by any other
means. It has been known for the last 75
years as the most curative and harmless,
preparation ladies can use. Ask Stores and.
Chemists for Rowland’s Kalydor, of 67,.
Hatton, Garden, London.
HIGH-GRADE
FARM-^
df
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd
35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Deakin : “ ‘ A White Australia ’—that ii
the Monroe doctrine of the Commonwealth.”
There is an official hatred of the purely
Australian flag of the Southern Cross, because
Lalor flaunted it at the Eureka, where a police
man tore it down, and trampled on it.
Rupert Carington, J.P., with jurisdiction
over N.S.W. territory. Rupert Carington to be
M.L.C. presently. What is the N.S.W. Labor
party doing about the manual laborers ?
“ What this country wants is prudence and
economy and a big loan.”— Premier Seddon, oj
Maoriland, condensed. Seddon, in his old age. is
getting the loan disease as badly as the worst
boomer of them all. There is very little left now
of the old, self-reliant idea.
In the last two years the handful of
merchants in S. Aus. have paid over three times
more in income-tax than the 20,000 or 25,000
farmers. Go on the land, young man—and
“ graft ” for the octopus of the city.
Why should N.S. Wales go beyond its own,
or Australian, territory for a State Governor?
Take the case of Weld, who was a colonist,
Minister and Governor ; and take the case of Grey.
But, if there were no precedent, why not make
one ?
Long ago Australia had to face the ques-
tion—“ Shall we allow England to send convicts
to our country?” Australia’s answer was No.
Now, Australia has to face the question—“ Shall
we let England send niggers and Japanese to our
country ? ” And the answer will again be No.
Eighteen railway lines in N.S.W. don’t
pay their way. The total shortage for 1900 was
£324,230. Lines in the coastal districts were
responsible for £64,996; Central, £222,266; and
the West, where some misguided politicians seem
to think all the unprofitable lines are, £36,968.
The folly of “giving reasons ! ” Premier
Barton explained that one of the causes leading
to the choice of the selected Federal flag was
“ that it could be easily seen as a signal of dis-
tress.” Ominous that a nation on the threshold
of life should be reminded of the necessity of a
workable distress-signal.
Austin Chapman’s proposed Federal
members’ picnic in search of a Federal capital
is a transparent piece of poli-
tical mumming and might
be passed over with con-
tempt but that it will cost
the already-burdened Com-
monwealth thousands of
pounds. The selection of
a capital is really scien-
tific work. What does
the average member
know, when he stands
on a mountain and
looks round the hori-
zon, about the real
essentials of the
case? He has to
fall back on re-
ports, which he can
read just as well
in Melbourne. The
Chapman notion
rests on the same
basis as that politi-
cal fraud, the Public
Works Committee. Men
without a single scientific
qualification tour N.S.W.
and determine whether
this or that piece of
engineering shall be
undertaken, and return-
ing to Sydney, send in
a huge bill of expenses
which periodically
drives the country to
demand their extinction.
If it is a fact, as Premier Barton believes,
that under the Constitution no State Government
can make a Federal official pay income-tax, so
much the more reason for making the income-tax
a Federal impost. Then it will reach all classes,
and no privileged section of the community will
dodge its fair share of the public burdens.
“ X. 0.” has a good, useful theory :
The steel industry is one of the finest arguments in
favor of the railways. Questionable whether
any one State could support a State steel works, but
undoubtedly the federated States could. The bulked
rail, boiler-plate, bar and mild-steel needs of the railways
would be a first-class start for a federal steel plant,
situated where coal and iron-ore abounded. The demand
for steel for railway purposes and the private market
(with a proper duty imposed) would ensure such steel
works being a good Commonwealth investment.
‘ A.” writes from Adelaide :
onow’s Tram-Grab Bill will certainly pass S.A. Assembly
as the Country party—numbering nearly two-thirds of the
members and including most of the Ass. party—has
decided to vote solidly for this unspeakable scheme.
Premier Jenkins has now announced that his Ministry
will oppose second reading, but if defeated will support
the Bill with certain amendments, and this weak position
has disgusted democrats. The only unbending opponents
are._ the laborites, who will vote for nothing but
nationalisation.
O’Meara, of Pahiatua, proposed recently
in Maoriland House of Reps, that, by way of
assisting the birth-rate, every man with six chil-
dren should be entitled to a free land-grant. The
proposal was treated with scorn. The great diffi-
culty in all such cases is that the man and wife
who decided to make an effort to qualify would
never have any guarantee that they wouldn’t stick
fast at five, and there is no means by which they
can get something on account.
A request made in Queensland Parliament
for information as to the names of the persons
who held mortgages over the properties purchased
under the Closer Settlement Act made the Con-
tinuous Government very angry and full of plain-
tive cries of “Whaffor?” Of course, every-
body knew “Whaffor.” Inmost cases it would
almost certainly be found that the Q.N. Bank
held the mortgage. Somehow, no Queens-
land politician wants to be found anywhere near
the famous Q.N. Bank nowadays.
John Haynes’ bad luck with his N.S.W.
Abolition of Capital Punishment (in certain cases)
Bill sticks to him. Last time he submitted the
measure the Breelong blacks committed their
series of murders and other crimes, and, with half
the country seeking to slay them, the Bill got
short shrift. On this occasion the murder of
President M’Kinley was almost simultaneous
with the motion to introduce the Bill, and the
public detestation of such a crime will again make
itself felt in the fate of Haynes’ measure.
Casual remark from a recent S.M. Herald
leading article :
We have many interests to consider. ... We have on
one side N.S.W., wi h its thorough observance of Free-
trade laws, and at the other extreme we have Victoria
with its adherence to Protectionist doctrines.
Whatdaisies these Freetraders are! Fancy N.S.W'.,
with enormous protection on beer, wine, tobacco,
cigars, cigarettes, biscuits, confectionery, news-
papers, sugar, preserves, &c., as an example of
“thorough observance of Freetrade laws ” !
The decision of the N.S.W. Government
to start a factory of its own for the manufacture
of clothing used in the various State departments
is a good move, but it comes rather late. So
many departments—including the Defence branch
—have been taken over by the Federal Govern-
ment that now the State authorities don’t want
much more clothes than Adam, and the fact that
the few clothes which the State requires are made
under decent white-labor conditions will only
touch the uttermost fringe of the sweating evil.
“Bob Ridley”: Ever since, in a weak
moment, a member of the See Ministry said that
the next batch of N.S.W, Leg. Council appoint-
ments would probably include a couple of farmers’
representatives, the aforesaid Ministry has been
mostly engaged in “ shooing ” farmers’ friends off
its doormat. Should the Ministry decide to ap-
point farmers, let them he farmers, and not chosen
FAITH THAT SHIFTS TRAMS.
O’BRIEN (in Sydney, on first seeing the electric-
tram): “Ye say it goes. Yis, but how does
it go? Does it go by the will o’ God?”
from the nondescript crowd of publicans, printers,
squatters, and agents. Give the genuine hayseed
a fair chance and a free pass—he has earned it,
anyhow.
From a report on the awful administration
of the Westralian railways : —-
A sale of rolling stock was said to have had unusual
features. Two locomotives and 28 trucks had been
bought by the Dept, from a contractor for £2980. After
hundreds of pounds had been expended in repairs, they
were all sold to another contractor for £1520. Subse-
quently one locomotive and 17 of the waggons were hired
by the Dept, from the purchaser, at the rate of £3 a day
for an engine that cost £550, and £45 per annum for
trucks for which they paid £2O each.
“ Unusual features” is surely too harsh a term to
apply to such a characteristically Westralian
transaction.
POLICE PROTECTION IN MELBOURNE.
(Premier Peacock and the Chief Commissioner point
out, in answer to a deputation, that the police are a fine
body of men, but they can’t he everywhere.)
PEACOCK : “ Certainly he’s not numerous, hut
he’s very fine and large.”
YOUNG VIC. : “ True; hut wouldn’t a smaller
policeman go a longer way?”
South Australia is just now suffering nadly
from swelled head. This is due chiefly to S.A.
Advertiser, which loses no opportunity of im-
pressing upon its readers that S.A. has sent by
far the strongest team to the Federal Parliament.
In fact many S.A. people now believe that S.A.
runs the whole show—that the other representa-
tives don’t count. The slightest advantage gained
by a S.A. Rep. is hugely glorified, as are also the
anaemic jokes of State-humorist M‘Gregor. The
defeat by S.A. of the N.S.W. lacrosse team and
the Vic. footballers has lent fuel to the flame and
accentuated the poor opinion entertained by S.A.
concerning the rest of the Oommonwealth.
If the 48 Rich Landlords of Victoria had
any sense of humor, or even of common logic,
they would raise a row that would soon shift the
Peacock Ministry off the Treasury bench. Ever
since Turner imposed an income-tax running as
high as Is. 4d. in the £ on unearned incomes, the
Man with a Stake in the Country has been de-
claiming against his grievous burdens, and now
the allegedly needy Peacock proposes an income-
tax of six shillings in the £ on the very poorest
and most helpless of Victoria’s citizens —for that
is what the reduction of Old Age Pensions
amounts to.
The De Beers Mining Corporation lately
handed the British Govt, its little bill for ex-
Eenses (£300,000) incurred in defending Kim-
erley. But even the Tory Govt, said it would
like the opinion of the Commons on certain of the
items. Some of them: £7BB, for native runners
bringing Mr. Rhodes’ newspapers from Modder
River; £25 for carrying a private letter from Mr.
Rhodes to Mafeking; and £l9 10s. for a wreath
laid on an Imperial officer’s grave ! The House
held its nose with both hands and streamed out
into the lobbies to use language about the patriot-
ism of this impudent gang.
Perth Morning Herald is of opinion that
it might be good to have only one House in the
Westralian State Parliament, as is the case with
six out of the eight divisions of Canada, but says
that “ public opinion is not yet ripe for the
change.” How would it be to take a popular
vote, and find out whether opinion is ripe or not ?
The saddest wail of the lazy and incompetent
legislator, who knows what he should do, but is
too tired or too scared to do it, is ‘ ‘ the time is not
yet ripe.” The fiction that time is a thing which
grows on a tree, and is hard and green in its early
stages, was invented to enable dull men to look
wise, and cowardly men to look as if they backed
down from the noblest motives.
An enthusiastic Melbourne pressman :
The more one sees of the Federal members of both
Federal Houses, the stronger is the conviction that
“ Dick ” O’Connor stands head and shoulders above them
all as a leader of men. Quiet, urbane, straightforward,
he has the backing of a reserve force that would shake
mountains. He is never crass. Sensible suggestions
from the other side are accepted with thanks, and he
wastes no time fighting hopeless battles. His speeches
are models of brevity and clearness, and his interjections
few and cutting. O’Connor is worth a dozen such as
Barton, whose speeches only tend to confuse the matter
at issue. It seems impossible to imagine that this man
was elected by the same people who put in Gould, Puls-
ford, Millen, Walker, and Neild; and, if the fiscal issue
was responsible, N.S.W. Protectionists should thank God
they are not of the same intelligences as the Foreign-
traders. O’Connor should be in the Reps., at the head of
the Government or thereabouts.
N.S.W. agreed that its soldiers in S'Africa
should receive the amazing wage (for a soldier) of
4s. fid. a day, and, as the British Government sup-
plied Is. ?d., this meant that N.S.W. had to put
up the other 3s. 4d. But the contingenters trucu-
lently demand ss. Bd.—4s. 6d. from N.S.W. in
addition to the British Government’s fourteen-
pence—and Premier See, fearful, perhaps, lest
some small boy should call out “pro-Boer” at
him in the street, has decided to pay up, at the
country’s expense, on the ground that “there was
a misconception.” It would be interesting to
know what would happen if Mr. See, in his private
capacity, hired a man at 30s. a week, and the man
had a misconception that he ought to get 375. 6d.,
and wrote to the papers about it.
There was a time when the cane
sugar-industry in N.S.W. was a purely
white-labor industry. It is now steadily
becoming a nigger industry, and the tale
that “ white men can’t work in the cane-
fields ” begins to be heard along the
northern rivers. Also, it is beginning
to be explained that white men won't
work in the fields, and that, in any
case, the industry can’t pay white men’s
wages. The facts that white men did
work there without difficulty and wil-
lingly enough, when the work was avail-
able, and that the industry did pay
white men’s wages, and that sugar didn’t
go to any outrageous price by-
reason of these circumstances, are
gradually getting into the back-
ground, and in time they will get
so far back that they will only be
discernible per telescope.
If is nearly time that Premier
See hustled in re N.S.W. Civil Ser-
vice Superanni ation Fund. Income
in 1900 was £40,034, and out-
goings £126,291, so the fund
decreased £86,257. The balance
(£212,163) will just about keep
things going till the end of 1902, and
then the aged ex-civil servant will
have to make a bee-line for the
benevolent asylum. Apparently this little item
will mean another £90,000 a year or so for the
suffering country to pay. Bygone Premiers who
wanted to retrench sacked public servants whole-
sale, and, instead of paying them whatever was
due out of the revenue, “ put them on the Fund.”
It made the revenue look better at the time, but
every curse comes home to roost one day or an-
other, and some curses go to bed very early.
“ Tyranny of the most despotic kind it
would certainly be to fine or imprison a man
because he refused to work at a rate of wages
which he thought to be too low, if he had not
agreed beforehand to do so,’’says Ashton, M.L. A.,
in N.S.W. Assembly. That shows an entire mis-
conception of the situation. By assenting to the
Compulsory Arbitration Bill, by working to make
it an Act, by threatening Government and Oppo-
sition with political extinction if the Act be not
speedily forthcoming, the workmen most solemnly
agree beforehand to accept the rate of wages fixed
by the Arbitration tribunal. A mere lawyer’s
agreement between man and man is a bit of flimsy
when compared with the charter between class
and class which the Act will establish.
Of the six seats in Victoria’s House of 48
Rich Landlords vacated the other day by effluxion
of time, not one was contested ! Nary a one of the
six obese nonentities went near his constituents,
or even condescended to address them per news-
paper, yet when they throw out the State Consti-
tution Convention Bill shortly all will point ta
their victories as proof they really represent the
electors. By the way, a question lately elicited
the pleasing information that only 1900 persons in
the State are eligible to sit in the House of Land-
lords. And yet, if Peacock proposed to restrict
the represemtatiomof the people in the Assembly
to the 3700' woocren-legged men or the 3900 red-
haired men in the State, how the flabby °’des of
Aggregate Fat would roll with laughter !
Every Tory or interested politician who
urges S.A. to job away the Adelaide tramway
rights to the Snow syndicate points out with
enthusiasm that the State will have the power of
purchase after 21 years (just as if the whole text
wasn’t the impossibility and foolishness and un-
workableness of State ownership), and the co. will
agree to surrender the lines free of charge after 55-
years. Of course it will —if it doesn’t get its lease
renewed for, another 25 or 40 years or so by the-
votes of tr'amway-shareholders in Parliament.
Long before 55 years are up it will almost certainly
happen that a lot of the shares will be distributed
in the right place to secure an extension. In
fact, it is pretty certain that a good number are-
distributed in the right place already. If an adroit
pickpocket could only “go through” some of the
patriotic gentlemen who are supporting the Snow
syndicate he might possibly find a whole lot of
their motives in an inside pocket.
Extract from the Federal debate on the
restriction of colored immigration :
Mr. Cameron (Tasmania), said that, looking at the
matter calmly and dispassionately, he felt they ought not
to do anything that would lead to a disruption of the
relations between Great Britain and Japan and
Afghanistan. Therefore he believed in the admission of a
certain number of aliens.
That certainly seems reasonable. If Japan and
Afghanistan are of any use to Britain then the ad-
mission of a certain number of Afghan and
Japanese aliens (to Britain) is a fair thing. Let
them be admitted by all means. It would be-
darned foolishness to disturb the friendly relations
over a little thing like that. But it is much more
important to preserve the friendly relations
between Australia and Britain, and if the Asiatic
insists on coming here the end of those friendly
relations isn’t far off. By the way, the Federal
Govt, admits that it has received a message from
Chamberlain imploring it not to be too rough
on the Jap., as’his co-operation is likely to be very
useful to J. Bull.


Beethoven on the >Eolian
Kreutzer Sonata, Op. 47 Ada-
gio Sostenuto. Adante con
Variazioni, Presto
Moonlight Sonata, Op. 27
Adelaide
Coriolan Overture
Egraont Overture
Leonore Overture No. 3
Namensfeier Overture
Prome.heus Overture
Die Weihe des Hauses Over-
ture
Konig Stephan Overture
Kunig Stephan Triumphal
March
■ Fidelib ,'bscheulicher
Fidelio Potpourri
Trauermarsch
Turkish March from' Ruins of
Athens
Andante Favori, Op. 35
. Hallelujah Chorus from Mount
of Olives
Klavier-Concert No. 3, Op. 37 ;
Allegro con brio, largo, Alle-
gro Molto
Klavier-Concert No. 3, Op. 37 ;
Allegro con brio, rondo Alle-
gro
Klavier-Concert No. 4, Op 58;
Allegro Moderato, Rondo
Vivace
Nocturne, Op. 42 ; Allegro,
Minuet, Andante quasi Alle-
gro
Septet, Op. 20 ; Adagio, Allegro
con brio
Serenade, Op. 25 ; Andante
Serenade, Op 4 1 1 Scherzando,
Adagio, Allegro Vivace
Sextuor, Op. 81 ; Allegro con
brio Adagio, Allegro
Sonata No. 1; Allegro, Ada-
gio
Sonata, Op 2, No. 2; Largo
Sonata, Op. 2, No. 3 ; Allegro
Assai, Scherzo and Trio
Sonata, Op. 10, No 1 ; Allegro
Molto Adagio Molto
Sonata, Op. 10, No. 3 ; Minu-
etto and Trio, Largo
Sonata, Op. 13 (Pathetique);
Grave, Allegro Molto, Alle-
gro, Adagio
Sonata, Op. 14, No. 2, Allegro
Sonata, Op. 22 ; Adagio
Sonata. Op. 26 ; Marcia Fune-
bre, Andante and Var, 1 and
5, Scherzo and Trio
Sonata, Op 31, No. 3 ; Allegro
Sonata, Op. 49, No. 2 ; Tempo
di Menuetto
Sonata, Op. 81; Les Adieux,
l’Absence, Le Retour
Symphony No. 1 ; Adagio Mol-
to, Allegro, Andante Cana-
bile, Menuetto Adagio, Alle-
gro Vivace
Symphony No. 2 ; Adagio
Molto, Allegro con brio. Lar-
ghetto. Scherzo, Allegro
Molto
iHE STATEMENT that the JEolian will
play any piece of music ever composed
is so broad and sweeping that it many
times fails to impress the reader with
its wonderful significance. As a means
of affording a better idea of the enormous
repertoire of the ASolian we present herewith
partial list of the works of a single composer,
BEETHOVEN, that are included in the HUolian
music catalogue.
These are all arranged from the full orchestral
scores, complete and unabridged. Many of them
are never attempted upon the piano, and are played
only by large orchestras ; yet it is possible for any
one to play them on the Aiolian correctly, and with
all the changes of tempo and expression.
Visitors always welcome. If unable to call, send for
catalogue C, giving full description.
*•
v ,V
Henry M. Birge & Co.,
Sole Agents for Australasia.
323 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
The fEolian is sold at no other Address
in Sydney.
CotiQtry Readers
In Need of GLASSES for FAILING or
IMPAIRED VISION should write for my
PARCEL OF SPECTACLES
. . CONTAINING . .
6 PAIRS ASSORTED SIGHTS
and an ILLUSTRATED SHEET of INSTRUCTIONS
to aid you in selecting the right power, at prices from
3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 21/- per pair,
case included.
Forward me the PRICE OF ONE PAIR and I will
send you the six Spectacles to select from, money returned
if you are not suited.
H. A. BARRACLOUCH,
CONSULTING OPTICIAN,
371 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
Next door A.J.S. Bank (King & George Sts.).
And at 232 Collins Street, Melbourne,
_#■ XJSE turn
SPOONER’S
SPOONERS
If TINT LEATHER BOOTS
'GUZED 1005 i e .
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, SadcUers, etc.
Read Wliat
VITADATIO
—i In Doing.
Unsolicited Testimony
from Fiji.
Three Doctors Failed to Diagnose his
Disease, hut VITADATIO cured him.
Levuka, Fiji, January 8, 1900.
S. A. PALMER, Agent for VITADATIO.
Dear Sir, —At the time your letter, with invoiee for
case of VITADATIO arrived, I was on my back under the
doctor and his knife, so I was unable until now to attend
to any business. I previously wrote to you for one bottle
of medicine, and informed you that I had been for months
suffering from a succession of abscesses in the groin in-
capacitating me from activity. Experiencing some slight
effect from the one bottle, I sent for a case, but prior to
its arrival I was so seriously ill, and fearing the abscesses
might break inwardly, I sent for a medical man,
who commenced cutting me. Two days after his
first operation I received the case of VITADATIO, and
without informing the doctor, I commenced taking it,
but I could not send the medico away as I had so far
submitted to his operations. Within three weeks he
operated on me three times, as he put me under chloro-
form, and worked at me for an hour, but, as he confessed,
without much hope of success. As neither he or two
other medical men of repute could diagnose my disease,
medicine was prescribed and supplied, but I took only the
VITADATIO. The doctor was surprised ; he could not
get much pus after opening me. Three days after the
first opening, and about ten days after I had commenced
taking VITADATIO, nearly a small cup of pus passed
from me, and daily for four days small quantities ; then
commenced the healing process, and the medico was
delighted, saying he was much surprised at the rapid
decrease in the swelling’of the gland, which he had cut,
and proclaimed on several occasions that his medicine
was producing the cure. I asked him if he really thought
it was the medicine or his operations, and he replied,
“The medicine has done you more good than any opera-
tions, continue taking it for some time,” and he then
asked me if I did not remember how it commenced doing
me good from the very first time I took it. I have not yet
told him I threw his medicine away and took only VITA-
DATIO, but I purpose dping so shortly. lam now, after
seven months severe illness, feeling well and daily getting
stronger, and I am sujre it is the VITADATIO that has
produced the present state. I have been for 30 years in
Fiji; my system was run down ; I am well advanced in
life and I am convinced' that I am (apart from untoward
circumstances) likely to enjoy renewed health again for
some time. Some of my friends look upon my case as a
very strong testimony to the healing properties of your
medicine, and I agreedwith them. I am obtaining per-
mission from the Government to sell VITADATIO, and
when this is obtained, will order from you such quantities
as I think may be sold.
I have written you fully, as I think you should be
pleased to hear the result of a bona-fide cure.—Yours
faithfully, (Signed) ALEX. EASTGATE.
For further <j particulars ,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street , Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
ARE
BALD?
The proprietor of Capilla will forfeit to
Sydney Hospital £25 if his famous remedy
will not cure actual Baldness, providing
there is a slight down on the scalp. Write
or call for testimonials from well-known
Sydney solicitors, intercolonial cricketers
and footballers, and other well-known
gentlemen.
CAPUA
HAIR
TONIC.
The greatest Hair Restorer on earth.
Capilla Hair Tonic will increase the length
of ladies’ hair by from 1 to 2 inches per
month. It is not a dye, contains no oil or
injurious ingredients. Obtainable at all
Chemists and Storekeepers, 2s. 6d. per
bottle. If not obtainable locally, we will
forward one bottle post free for 3s. 2d. W.
Richards, 168 Pitt-street, Sydney, sole
Proprietor. Write for Testimonials.
REST THE BURDEN
of your correspondence
on the
New Century
Typewriter instead of on your steno-
grapher, and you unit get more worlc,
cleaner work, better work. It has no
equal for speed, lightness of touch and
durability. Fine new catalogue sent
free.
United Typewriter & Supplies Co.,
11U Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S. W.,Aus.
d
[florid* s Record Qrderj
The LARGEST TYPEWRITER ORDER
for the WHOLE WORLD .
Has recently been placed with UNITED TYPEWRITER
and SUPPLIES CO. by the Austro-Hungarian Govern-
ment for
500 New Centurys
The New Century has been extensively ordered by N.S.W.
Government Departments, and is the Machine adopted by
His Excellency the GOVERNOR-GENERAL, and also
the State Governor, Sir Frederick Darley, K.C.M.G.
FOR CATALOGUE^^
United Typewriter $ Supplies Co.,
(By appointment to His Excellency the Governor-General)
114 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Mt
.£ y ?!. . I*V I **?'
/
AT>
MRSM
1 *'.*; r" i •<.
tai
pM«r
r fe
*«*£;
*V
SR
«r
W'
r,j»v:,r
jr^
r/-i
■*&
w
<M
WB
•
<w --‘j
. ‘'lift
Five
Years’
fort
Is ensured to all private vehicle owners by having
fitted a set of the famous ....
They
can be
Obtained
/
//
SPRINGHEAD
CARRIAGE
TYi*E.
from us, or through your own coach builder', from .£4 10s.
per set and upwards.
No Vibration, No Noise, and
No shaking your Vehicle to pieces
by Vibration.
SEND for Artistic Catalogue , giving Sections and Prices.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. ofAus. Ltd.
108 Flinders St., Melbourne; 150 Clarence St-, Sydney ;;
59 Franklin St., Adelaide; 154 Barrack St., Perth;
28 Adelaide St., Brisbane; and
128 Lichfield St., Christchurch, N.Z.
A pleasing respondent was mentioned m
Melb. Divorce Court lately. When served with
the citation for divorce the lady danced a cheerful
jig, carolled jovously “I’ve got a free leg.once
more,” slapped her husband’s face with the papers,
and expectorated on him three several times —for
luok.
An English ex-soldier has been charged at
Brentford with stealing milk from a cow. He
was caught lying down catching the milk in his
mouth, and pleaded hunger as his excuse. This
may be a tip for the returned cohentingenter—
when he is tired of trying to milk the State cow
for a job on the tramways.


Banking. Public Companies, Ace.
Upon - all - Classes
of
Security.—
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
c#>
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3sr.s,-w.
(flont deplete
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*JA CASTLEREAGH ST.,
f SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
3piTi?
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mu! iir] Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; lion. C. J. Roburts,
C.M.G., M.L.O. ; Bruch Shim, Esq.
Resident Secretary :A. Ross Mili.br, .
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 —assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Pe Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager - Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700.000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 100 ... £350,000
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
Qeui Zealand Insurance go.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Tb* Trustees, €x€^OtorS,
AND
Agsi)CV Cotppaov Lin>it€d,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
£150,000
£90,000
£150,000
‘CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business)
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manage!
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
£BB5B 7 3
£6,388,976 5 3
The
Royal Bank of Queensland
II MIT KD.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. £385,187
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 245,119
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 55,000
£685,306
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwi). D. Day. Ass. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Ocean
A ccident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks.
Adelaide': L. A. Jbssop, Esq. Wellington : H.
Beauchamp, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN. General Manager for Australasia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Established 1879.
THE
United Australian [||utual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices ;
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital .. £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
aGENXS REQUIRED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
Alfred Webster, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
A Bose of Kegret:
Verses by James Hebblethwaite ; being
No. 11. of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 9d. post free.
Forwarded by return mail from The Bulletin
office in exchange for postal notes or stamps of
any Australasian State or Province.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MEI,BOURNE'
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., Sept. 21, 12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 28, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WAELAIiOO
POUT PtRIE
port august a
Lenra, Saturday, Sept. 28, 12 Noon.
ALBANY
FBEMANTLE
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 28, 12 Noon,
takes passengers and cargo for S.S.
Buninyong, leaving Melb. Oct. 4.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 21, 12 Noon.
Burwah, Tuesday, Sept. 24, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Sept. 28, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 21,12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., Sept. 28, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lhss o’ Qowrie, from Townsville
weekly. I'asHenifers and Curyo
booked through.
Lowest Current Pares and Freights to all, Ports.
Return Tiekels Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter*
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner (ieorge and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Fool, of King-street.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL. CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows :
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS. O'Connell Street. SYDNEY
Huddart, Parker § go’s bine
—TO —
MJOLHOIJItNH,
LATINCKSTON,
HOHAItT,
WDST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
A. 3XT n>
X
jXr
E
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8300 H.P.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts., SYDNEY.
TIMTE TAT3LE
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
STEAMERS LEAVE
ARRIVE
THE “ALL RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OF THE
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN LINE
Under contract; with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
• four weeks as under, for
BR333ANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
Connecting at Vancouver with the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imi-brtal Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold ot Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 davs, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world —over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number ofjpverland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government. .. .. 2,000,000
Amoun t,.of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000
THE SAVINGS BANK IN VICTORIA
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent:, in stuns of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
•Allan ft C«,
IHclbournc
Jn>f Misuse.for
Blusic.Piimos.Viotws m
fill Musical sundries
Collins St..
“SANITAS”
NATURE'S
GREAT DISIHFEGTANT.
Non-Poisonous .
Does Not Stain Linenm
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, &C.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
i Valuable book, “HOW TO DISINFECT,”
free on application.
The “SANITAS” Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
nxr. X 3. i_.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
“Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to HONGKONG,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA and YAP.
G.M.S. NUEN TUNG, 1341 Tons,
Captain Schoenberg,
LEAVING SYDNEY, 27th SEPTEMBER NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agenls,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Publications.
THE BALLET GIRL
f
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,—
NS-BOX 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
| From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and \
< Chic; Carefully Selected Assortments, \
$ Cabinets, or Stereos, with Illustrated^
< Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s. >
j Money Order or Cheque on London.
English, French, and Germain Rare Books.
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R- GENNERT,
89c Faubourg St., Martin, Paris, France.
CURES COUGH.
‘ Cured my son of a dreadful Cough.’
Mrs. Johnston, Belleek, Fermanagh.
GIVES REST & SLEEP.
HAYMAN’S
BALSAM
of Eorehound
Safa and Pleasant for Children.
‘NOTHING LIKE IT FOE A COLD.’
Mr. W. Hird, Norwich.
STOPS COLD.
Sblpplng.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMIT HD).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports_,
S.S. Adelaide, Friday,
September 20.
S.S Marloo(from Melbourne)
Tuesday, September 24.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Port9North to Oairna
S.S. Rockton, Friday,
September 20.
Jtest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subjeot to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. IN. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THU POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS - Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOVVN—Every 8 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, It) Bridge-
gtreeL-Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
D AND O. COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON-Single, £3B 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £7llos to £l2l
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific, and
Messageries Maritimes Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet,
the passengers for London and give them every assistances
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O-
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydnev.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
I E. ANP A.” LINE.
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO, LD.
37 Pitt-sLreet, Sydney.
ffl'llHraitLffl^aekaniDi.
PROP. LID.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
ICA.XjG-OOE.LIS, 450,0 TONS,
COOLGAEDIE, 3500 TONS,
SAIL FORTNIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports,
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
M‘ILWRAITH, M’EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle
yclney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.'— L.D.1., 7.00 Collins St., Melbourne
A POLICY FOR TNE Now Ready.
Pr ice (id. :
Posted, Bd.
COMMONWEALTH


New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Company Ltd.
SYDNEY
REDUCED CHARGES ON WOOL:
COMMISSION | per Cent.
WAREHOUSING- (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charges will be 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ... ... ... 2s. Gd. per Bale.
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under ... ... ... l s . cd. per Bale.
WAT BILLS sent on application.
Sales of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, Etc.,
HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
SALES last season show an increase of 25 per cent, as compared with previous years. Unrivalled
accommodation. Three months’ free storage.
CIRCULAR giving fullest particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired.
CONSIGNORS are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of
this Company.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Buncle & Sons’ Chaffcutters.
Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
ERASMIC-
PERFUME
Is delightfully fragrant and pleasant to use.
A DAINTY, DELICIOUS DELICACY.
. . . ASK YOUR CHEMIST FOR IT . . .
PLUM’
the
THE
‘PLUM’
This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
lik® a never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind Of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a
Razoi, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
-4
Sole
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
I’ll Try It:
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
m
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Ourly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3S. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists ofAny thiiuj you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
iSF” Every Requisite for Saloon Use. in Stock. /
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
r.DAIft Jg, AlT*l^Cri\l^> New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
vrvMIVJ OC Mi l iv eso-682 ceorge street, Sydney.
*
>k.
ftUTH
OZINE
BOX
• V hr
/<• T'
5D
f t //.
<"t-
W'
Crozine Blacking
is a waterproof polish that produces a brilliant and permanent
gloss, which will not rub off. Shoes polished with “ Crozine
Blacking” wear long, because it is an oil dressing, which softens
the leather. “ Crozine Blacking ”is guaranteed to be absolutely
free from all harmful substances, and will be found to be the
most satisfactory dressing made for all walking boots and shoes.
Sold almost everywhere. If not*found, write at once to
C. L. MAUTHAWAY SONS, Boston, Mass., IJ.SA.
GOOD HAIR FOR
■A T |L I
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
SS’ For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
m- For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
22
&
I
(V?
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
- rp-pq —pr» - •
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This is the only Medical
Institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of ail contracts.
Electro-Medical apd
SOrgical IpStitflte.^
N AN AGE
which is bo remarkable for its progress in all departments of Art, Philosophy, Manufacture and
Science it is surprising to find the practice of Medicine so deplorably in the rear, while thousands
of practitioners in the healing art prefer to remain in the conventional groove of their predecessors. The Freeman
and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise superior to the falsa code of ethics which
tyrannically bind the medical profession, and announce to the public that upon all special complaints they still con-
tinue to be consulted by the afflicted at their old address, Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
*r
EXPERTS FREEMAN AND WALLACE,
The Specialists who conduct the largest practice in Australasia .
QPFPIAI MdTIPE No one should hesitate to consult us, as consultations either by letter or in
wr tvIHL HU I IvEi person are given FREE OF CHARGE, and Strictest Privacy is always assured.
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
Every Farmer, Miner, Mariner, Station-hand, Book-keeper, and other Toilers should send for a copy of this
Useful Memorandum Book. POST FREE ON APPLICATION—ALL COLONIES.
400-PAGE MEDICAL WORK (Illustrated, containing 80 Engravings, Many Useful Prescriptions,
Hints on Sick lyoom, Accidents and Emergency) Price 6d (POST FREE) ON APPLICATION.
<^SP€CIALITI€S
Heart, Kidney, Liver Affections. Gravel, Bladder and Spinal Affections.
Nerve and Brain Complications. Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout,
lunture and Piles Cured without Operation. Blood and Skin Diseases.
w?m
m
WHY WE ADVERTISE!
Because Advertising is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people,
to acquaint each other with their avocations and wants. If a man has a
Speciality, and has devoted years of his life and expended large sums of money in studying that Speciality and in
purchasing the necessary appliances, etc., for treating certain diseases, it would be absurd for hirh not to announce
the fact, and disseminate the knowledge universally, We have no apology to offer for informing the world through
this advertisement and otherwise of the means of relief we can afford to sufferers who need our help. Therefore,
however opposed to your own preconceived ideas and to those of your medical advisers, our method of treatment
may be, the fact still remains that it is successful, and this is verified by the thousands of testimonials received frbm
grateful patients. We make no secret of our mode of practice. We only .claim’to have utilised in a common-sense
way the result of scientific research and long experience. If you listen to the counsel of your sceptical friends and
jealous physician you may omit consulting us, but remember if-you allow the disease to run riot in your systenij you
afe guilty of culpable neglect, and are alone responsible for your future pitiful condition.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration toy Government
Medical Boards of New South. Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Great Britain
and America Open to Inspection by Dr. Wallace, our Physician-in-Chief.
Late Consulting Staff, Homeopathic Hospital, Melbourne.
Late Medical Staff, British Army,, ’ , ’
HOME TREATMENT.
—lf you liveout of town and cannot visit us, this need not deprive
you of the benefits of our Wonderful treatment, because in the new
system of combining medicine and electricity a complete Electro- Medical borne treatment is provided for. Scarcely a
day passes that the news does not reach us of some wonderful home cure of a person living so far away that a per-
sonal visit could not be made; Write a plain statement of your condition, explaining your feelings and symptoms as
clearly as possible, and from it we will be able to accurately diagnose your case. It only costs you the trouble of
writing, and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia’s Leading Specialists.
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS
When there are so many quacks and impudent pretenders in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to themselves 1
the monstrosity of giving counsel and advice in matters of which they are profoundly ignorant, and who have
nothing to recommend them but their audacity, sufferers cannot be too careful whom they consult. Although
liberty of choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessary. In consulting THE FREEMAN AND WALLACE •
ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shall receive the advice
of those fitted by superior skill and education, the result of special study. Our reputation and unparalleled
success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of the WorId—CONTENTS
FREE FROM OBSERVATION. o
°a BatljO rst Sts, Sydney
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs. F. & W„” 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
N.B.—QUEENSLANDERS are hereby informed that a person advertising as Dr. Wallace
in Brisbane is in no way connected with the Institute.


“Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled “ Piles and the Way to
Cure Them,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.*
Name of the latest unauthorised infant,
ascribed to a Victorian policeman : “ Doris Vic-
toria Florence McLaughlan Ridley.” The ordin-
ary legitimate bantling is “ simply not in it ” for
grandeur of nomenclature.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER ....
■.o'*
&
\9*
REUTER’S
LITTLE
RILLS
FOR THE LIVER.
«
“Caught a microbe ’s morning,” said
Macgillycuddy to a friend, as his usual train
steamed out of the station—“ made me late.” He
hauled a small pill-box out of his waistcoat pocket,
opened it carefully and handed it over for inspec-
tion —the microbe reposed in the bottom of it.
His friend had seen the species before; Towzer
used to scratch them hurriedly off his stomach on
to the front door-mat. “Female typhoid germ,”
said Mac, sententiously, “ grown to enormous
di-mensions. Pretty dead, isn’t she? Tillin-
ghast’s,” he added, with the air of one giving the
countersign. “ Why, if you just say ‘ Tillinghast’
in earshot of those germs, they curl up and die at
once. Seen ’em do it, down to weeniest, most
invisible little beggars invented. Kills smells,
too, without putting up a bigger one of its own ;
has none—and no color. Never struck such grand
stuff as Tillinghast’s Disinfectant. Got it at the
usual place—M'Lean Bros, and Rigg, Ltd., Mel-
bourne.”*
Missing Friends.
LJIPPISLEY, CHARLES ERNEST, is requested to com-
■ ■ municate with the undersigned, when he will hear
of something to his advantage. Information from any
source as to his whereabouts will oblige,
OOOMBS AND COMPANY LIMITED,
4B Queen-street, Melbourne.
MR. FREDERICK CONSTANTINE HOPE
CHARLES WORTH.—lnformation re-
quired concerning the whereabouts of him and
his children (if any) for their advantage. Last
heard of at Parramatta in 1887. Refer to
THYNNE & MACARTNEY, Solicitors, Bris-
bane, Agents for CULL & BRETT, Solicitors,
Staffordshire, England.
THE 3XTBW
EDISON TALKING MACHINES.
df
The Bijou Phonograph'
With Complete Outfit, including 6
Assorted Records, £2.
The Standard Phonograph
With Complete Outfit, including^
(2 dozen) Assorted Re-!
cords, 2 Blanks, £5 10aJ
Undoubtedly the Best
Value ever offered.
Extra Edison Records,;
208. per dozen ; 12s. per
half-dozen. Concert (5J
inch) Records, 6s. each,
60s. dozen.
Send for Catalogues .con-
taining- 3000 selections.
RFPVPS A. CO , ADELAIDE and BROKEN HILL
The FEDERAL
lOC
Balmoral
BOOT
d
Our new
“ Federal "
Balmoral is the best Boot this season. It is made
of finest Dongola calf, with kid legs, is leather lined,
the sol<« are fair stitched and standard screwed.
The “ Federal” Balmoral is made purposely for us,
and yon can'i get it elsewhere. In all the new fashion-
able shaped toes. Price carriage paid to any address
in the Australian Commonwealth or New Zealand is
half a guinea pair. Your money back if not satisfied.
The DON Cash Trading Co.
JOHNSTON ST.. COLLINOWOOO.
MELBOURNE
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character), That Hideous
Dancing Skeleton (turns himself inside out), Mafeking
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Spider and the Fly
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO,
X7lB George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON. Manager.
New Zeala”'! Loan and Mercantile Agency Co.,
report, for week ended Sept. 14th, that marsupial skins
lacked animation, and heavy grades gave way slightly.
Medium and light weights show little or no change, and
’possum skins were in great demand and sometimes sold
at 3d. per dozen higher. The inquiry for sheepskins was
decidedly strong, and although no increase can be re-
ported the market showed a distinctly upward tendency.
Hides were in only moderate supply, and demands for
desirable parcels were free—for N.S.YV. parcels especially ■
prices firm. Tallow is in keen demand, and the co. dis’
posed of a fair-sized catalogue at an advance of 15s. per
ton. The private demand for merino wools is very strong,
and sale prospects are good ; but the recent rains having
retarded shearing, it is not anticipated that much of the
new clip will be offered on the 17th and 18th. London
cables that a slight improvement is anticipated in cross-
breds and about 5 per cent, advance on merinos.
“ The Weak Spot,"
If you are sitting in a
restaurant or in a shop
where waitresses or lady
clerks are in attendance,
you will note, now and
again, some young woman
will put her hand to her
back and straighten herself
up, while her lips are
tightened as if by pain.
It’s backache ; yet all day
long she must be on her
feet, lifting, carrying,
hurrying. That weak spot,
the back, can be made
strong by the use of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
They cure the diseases
which cause headache,
backache, nervousness, and
sleeplessness. They make
the weak strong, and the
sick well. “ For over a
year I have suffered from
indigestion and kidney
complaint; the latter used
to affect me across the
small of the back, causing \
me great pain and incon- j
venience. Seeing Dr. 1
Morse’s Indian Root Pills
>1
advertised, I decided to give them a trial, and the
results are highly satisfactory. After using them
the pam disappeared. I used also to suffer
slightly from eczema, hut since taking Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills that has entirely vanished. I
find the Pills a gentle purgative and very search-
ing, and can advise anyone to give them a trial.”
above evidence is submitted by A.
t\ knight-street, Williams town, Victoria.
Dr. Morses Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood
purifier and a positive cure for biliousness, indiges-
tion, constipation, headaches, sallow complexion
liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils,
blotches, and female ailments. Sold by chemist'
and storekeepers, Is Hd per bottle, or six bottle
6s. Gd. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstocl
Do., Ltd. (Australasian Depot). 58 Pitt-street
Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the fu
name blown thereon.*
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El ] is’ King-street Coffee Palace,"
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor ■ ■ GKO. W. ELLIS.
W. W. GREENER’S NEW RIFLE
If
Made expressly for Cadet Corps.
An entirely New & Exclusive Design.
The new Rifle has been produced
solely to supply the wants of Cadet
Corps for a REALLY RELIABLE
and ACCURATE RIFLE at a low
price, £3 3g.
Ten Shots in 3 inch Square at 100 yards.
GENUINE ENGLISH MANUFACTURE THROUGHOUT
Every Rifle guaranteed and named
W. GREENER, Birmingham, England.
On Hand—Greener Guns from 9 to 30 Guineas : Martini
Sporting 1 Rifles, take 44 Winchester Cartridges, very
accurate; Lee Enfield and Metford Rifles. ‘ 1 Sharpshooting
for Sport and War, ’’posted 1/2. Stamps from other States
not accepted. S£S“ All Rifle Shots should read this Book.
Olias. W. Buckland,
Representing W. W. GREENER,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
IF YOU WISH TO SUCCEED
IN LIFE,
CULTIVATE YOUR MEMORY.
THE PELMAN SYSTFM
OF MEMORY TRAINING
ENSURES
SUCCESS AT EXAMS.
CURE OF MIND WANDERING.
SPEAKING WITHOUT NOTES.
BOOKS MASTERED IN ONE READING.
HUNDREDS OF TESTIMONIALS FROM SUCCESSFUL
PUPILS ALL OVER THE WORLD
PF- BASED ON SOUND PRINCIPLES.
A DOCTOR WRITES : —“ I can strongly recommend
Pelman s System to anyone whose memory is bad or
defective. It is based on sound principles.”—Allan Perrv
Stinson, L.R.C.P. and S., Edin.
THE SYSTEM IS TAUGHT THOROUGHLY BY
CORRESPONDENCE LESSONS.
Send To-day for Free Explanatory Brochure and Pros,
pectus Giving Full Particulars.
Address— THE SECRETARY,
The Pelman School of Memory Training’,.
G.P.O. Box 402, MELBOURNE.
f
d
AHt/a htacro is a term used in the game of tennis. When selecting a Bicycle
, . '*, ua S'? it is a word of great import. The buyer of a bicycle wants the
machine which embodies the greatest advantages in respect to speed, quality and strength
RED BIRD BICYCLES
A «3 COnBtrUCted by British experts. The Mechanism is simple, the Frame rigid and graceful ii
The Easy Payment Terms will suit you.-*® Red Bird Bicycle Department-
design.
Branches in Every State.
64 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
A.J.C. Spring meet was a great and terrible
day of slump to the people of the Noses. On Derby and
Metrop. days they had a balance to the good on one race
Son A™ leviathan “ Oxy ” is said to have disgorged
£zu,ooo, and a prominent Vic. layer swore it was the worst
day he d struck at Rand wick for 30 years. The bulk of it
we j?t into the pockets of a small lucky or knowing crowd,
and the general public only had a rather thicker shower
of crumbs. The g.p. never wins anything to rave about.
Altogether, Mo. felt so badly about it that he’d no
heart to push peeziness on Caulfield and Melb. Cups.
♦ ♦ * £
A.J.C. trifles: Hautvillers’Derby was the first
won by Baile3’*s absolutely own nag ; he was only in-
terested in Camoola and Stromboli. Horse and owner
have never met, and Mr. Bailey has not been seen on a
course for years. The premier sire of this spring’s
meeting was Gozo with four wins (San Fran three and
Gauleon one). The winning trainer was Tom Pay ten, with
five victories. Of the 35 Metropolitans run the majority
have been won by 4-year-olds : Bylong (5.7), Amendment
(5.8), and Lamond (6.4), in ’66, ’77, and ’BB respectively,
were the three-year-olds who won it, and why Scobie
started Hautvillers (a three-year-old) for it with 7.12, or
221 b. more than Lamond carried, is a mystery. The
public followed jockey Kuhn’s mounts as the Huguenots
followed the white plume of Navarre. Where he rode
went the public wealth, and out of 24 races he won nine,
including Epsom Handicap, Spring Stakes, Metrop., New
Stakes, Duff Memorial Stakes, and Plate. He affects the
Tod Sloan style; and far behind him trailed Regan,
Lewis, Harris, and Godby with two wins each.
* • * #
Lepper Linden in the Second Hurdles at
Randwick, after parting with his jock, jumped the four
remaining hurdles, flashed past the winner on the flat,
and ran the thing right out in first class style—right in
front.
• • • •
At the Bathurst picnic races last April Bill
Kelso took Melossi up to show the natives a thing or two,
but the bumpkins had a rod in pickle which they called
Lucknow. Kelso afterwards bought the rod, and at
Randwick Spring meeting the way-back nag whipped in
a couple of wins for his new owner.
* * • 9
San Fran’s running last week gives Wakeful a
mighty good chance for one or other of the Cups. Wake-
ful, in April last year, was trying to give the son of Gozo
121 b. when he finished a length and a-half behind him for
the Sydney' Oup. Two days previously he had won Don-
caster Handicap in a canter, carrying 7.10. Wakeful, at
8.10, looks well handicapped for Melb. Cup.
• * * »
Some of the cross-headings to racing reports in
the dailies are a positive encouragement to in-and-out
performances. Take such a heading as “ Hautvillers
and Grasspan in form.” This appeared above Melb. Agb’s
report of the third day’s racing at Randwick. Said Haut-
villers had won the Derby four days earlier, and Grass-
pan meanwhile had reversed his Derby’ running with
Caravel. Was there any special reason for going into
hysterics over the fact that those two horses were in
“ form ” ?
* * * *
Ancient 12-year-old WTiakawatea, winner of
Kensington Stakes at Randwick, looks good enough for
another year or two. He started as a two-year-old, and
won nine out of 20 starts. At the end of last year, out of
151 starts, he had scored 26 wins and a big list of
“ drums.” Of his 11 seasons his seventh was the only
unfruitful one. An equine hero.
* » . *
Re luck : A man who was pretty well mixed
went, the other day, to Randwick, and gave a friend
what he thought were four £1 notes to put on Gauleon at
10 to 1. Instead of giving £1 notes he accidentally gave
tenners, with the result that he drew £4OO. Wherefore
he made £360 by being drunk. Sobriety may be a good
thing, but even it can be bought too dear.
* * • *
A Sydney suburban medico bad the Sequence-
San Fran double going for £lOOO. Last year he backed
the same double for £2OOO, and the year previous to that
he won a Tatt.’s sweep.
* * * *
Ritualist, the S. A. Derby winner, is a well-
named colt. He is by The Englishman out of Convent.
* • * *
Ten starters for the Spring Handicap at
S.A.J.C. meeting t’other Saturday, and the winner paid
a tote div. of £36. Otherwise it was a backers’ day, seeing
that the average div. on the other five winners was £6
155., the lowest being £3 35., and the highest something
under £lO. In Melbourne or Sydney a backers’ day at a
small meeting means an average winning price of 2 to 1
or thereabouts. And then there is the labor of rushing
from Ikey to Ikey to get “ the best of the market.”
* * * •
Patronage, if he hadn’t gone out with the first
scratchings, might have proved as hot a pot for Melb.
Cup as was Ruenalf in ’94, when their full brother,
Patron, took the prize. The Grand Flaneur—Olga stock
evidently improves with age. Patron was not a genuine
stayer until he got into his fourth year, Ruenalf showed
his best form as a 5-year-old, and Patronage was still a
maiden when he ran San Fran a close race for the Metrop.
By the way, the Melb. handicappers showed their wisdom
by giving Patronage 91bs. and lOlbs. more in Caulfield and
Melbourne Cups than the 6.11 he carried in the Metrop.
But for which precaution he would probably have been
among the acceptances for both events.
* • * *
Late Mr. Forrester’s stud was dispersed the
other day, and gave the idea that the possible wiping out
of Tatt.’s sweeps was likely to send promoter George
Adams back to the turf. He bought 14 lots, including
brood mares Charming, Rita, Rose Flaneur, Saraswati,
Spray, and Uproar; a yearling brother to Aquarius for
205g5., a two-year-old gelding by Gaulus from Chaplet for
255g5., Glenister (another two-year-old Gaulus gelding)
for 115g5., and four more by the same sire, with Rosary,
dam of Calculus, Aquarius, Chaplet, &c. Mr. Roberts, of
Murrumburrah, N.S.W., took stallion Niagara for 115 gs.
The Watchdog started at 250g5., and soared up to 410 gs.
before he fell to “J. North.” Later, George Adams
resold Carnegie and Glenister to Tucka Tucka Jack
Smith.
* * * •
“ Tattersall’s ” 10 per cent, commission last year
totalled nearly £50,000, the public having sent in nearly
half-a-million sterling. The decadence of gambling !
* • * •
Parson Woollnough, in Tas. Assembly t’other
day, made out a good case in favor of the Govt, impound-
ing “ Tattersall ” unclaimed prizes, and dealing with the
amounts similarly to moneys of the Perpetual Trustees
Co., intestate persons, and the like, but the House was
unsympathetic. It transpired during the debate that, in
respect of lotteries drawn in 1898, prizes amounting to
£3918 remained unclaimed after a year and a-half, but,
owing to the efforts made by Tatt.’s manager, prompted
by Tas. Auditor-General, the unclaimed money did not
now amount to much over £lOOO a year. Wooll-
nough’s motion for a Govt, trust fund was. negatived—
partly because a paltry £lOOO a year wasn’t considered
important enough to warrant special looking after, and
partly because the mover valiantly refrained from includ-
ing unclaimed bank-balances in the same category. The
average Tas. legislator doesn’t quite know whether he
loves Tatt. or the banks best.
* * • *
Satan recently had an idle hour on hand and
prompted someone to resurrect the long dead N.S.W. and
Victorian inter-State pigeon -shooting' matches. N.S.W.
won by 38 to 34. Three on the winning side slaughtered
their full number, while only champion A. E. Smith
did so for Victoria. Hard to say who was most dis-
credited, winners or losers. Pigeon-shooting is a very
low-down game. .
* * * •
Latest champion pigeon butcher, “Locksley,”
is of the Neeld family of Wyalong goldfield pioneers.
Last week, after winning championship, he made another
record by murdering 30 consecutive birds from 34 yards,
and, all told, had a run of 42 kills from 28 and 34 yards
before letting one go. Imagine a man who kills little
pigeons at 34 yards with a modern shotgun having the
impudence to call himself “ Locksley ” —after the great
outlaw who is said to have split willow wands with a
cloth-yard shaft at 200 yards !
* » * *
Westralian “Pug” Pike and bruiser Denny
Molony gave a fearful and bounding battle at Sydney
Gaiety A.C. last week before an enthusiastic audience.
They flung their arms and legs anyhow and anywhere,
and then they heaved both their selves up and flung them
at one another. Sometimes they bumped on the posts
and round the ring till the momentum was exhausted,
when they gathered themselves up and rushed at each
other again with eyes shut fast and mouths wide open.
It looked. as though the game was to swallow each other.
Pike did indeed clinch and hang on—it was the only way
to escape Denny’s whirling smites that were falling
like a hail of steam-hammers ; and then Denny got down
low and romped wildly round the show in the hope of
running over “ Pug.” Mouths got displaced, ears were
shifted, and both men’s heads began to swell till their
sagging knees could hardly carry them. When they were
reduced to the limpness of baggy pants, the “ coppers ”
interfered, and the referee called it a draw, though Pike’s
anatomy was not quite so inextricably mixed up as that
of Denny. As both are thirsting for revenge, another
meeting is to be arranged, at which it is fondly hoped all
previous geographical marks will be finally and utterly
obliterated.
* * * •
A light-weight pug. who promises to sweep
through his class in Australia is Jock MTvor, the Port
Melb. lad who knocked out clever Tot Higgins t’other
night. MTvor, who is a wonder at both taking and
giving, started fighting about 18 months ago when he had
no science and was pitted against the very small fry of
his weight. He now knocks out a man of champion class
and challenges the miniature South Melb. giant Jack
M’Gowan. MTvor, being Scotch, should (unlike the
typical pug. of Irish blood) make some ultimate profit
out of his cleverness.
* • • •
Amateur boxing threatens to boom in Mel-
bourne. At the recent reception given by the Melbourne
Athletic and Rowing clubs to the officers of the Italian
warship Puglia, one enthusiast offered to put up £2O for
middle and light-weight amateur trophies. Lesser bids
followed, and over £5O Was promised from good marks.
* • • •
Football never had a bigger grip on Melbourne
than at the tail-end of this season, and on the Saturday
evening after Oollingwood lost its chance of the premier-
ship to Essendon the democratic suburb was temporarily
“ broke.” It had risked its last sprat and missed the
mackerel, and local puhs.-were deserted as a result of the
“motherless” condition of the electors, while shop-
keepers stood at their doors and cursed the 20 whose bad
play had driven capital out of the suburb.
• • *
M‘Laren’s cricket-team will very soon consist
of the'men who aren’t coming. Fry, the leading batsman
this season, and Foster, have, now decided to stay at home.
M’Laren, who has been a great frost himself this year,
will presently have to approach Murdoch, Spofforth, Tom
Richardson, and other old-timers who have reached the
ballet stage of toothlessness.' Melb. 0.0. must be medi-
tating seriously over the possibilities of a frost, and even
now people begin to wager .that the team won’t come at
all. ,
* ,
Cycling records are falling like mercury in a
southerly buster. Pulford (hon. sec. N.S.W. Cyclists’
Union) lowered Arthur Smyth’s Australasian record for
five miles, from 10.461-sth to 10.21. Last lap was cut out
in 35sec. on a machine geared to 103 with 7in. cranks.
* • * •
S. F. Edge, who represented England in the
big continental motor-car races, says his own oar is
geared up to 103 miles per hour at 10,000 revolutions per
minute, but, unfortunately, he can’t get more than 80 miles,
because the car isn’t heavy enough and presumably wants
to fly. With a car weighing 20001bs. 40 miles per hour is
easy, but to touch 60 the car must be twice as heavy to
keep down. At 50 miles per hour travelling is fairly
comfortable, but at 65 the wind is unbearable ; and the
horses along the road, who don’t mind a car flashing past
at 50 miles per hour, go mad with fright when one whisks
by at 65.
• • • *
The fifth edition of the “Book of Billiards,”
issued by Alcock and Co., is about as generally instruc-
tive a. thing as any amateur can hope for. It lectures on
the history and ethics of the game, and teaches all that
can be learned from print re the best means whereby a’
“mug” player may develope into an artist. The greater
the mug the more wrinkles he will gather from this
Alcockian volume, but even the ordinary capable practi-
tioner who thinks himself well-versed in the fundamental
principles of the “ higher game ” is probably ignorant of
many simple points here explained to him. As for the
fact that all other games—outdoor or indoor—are inferior
to billiards in health-giving properties, it ought to be
clear to the foggy understanding of the puffiest capitalist.
Nevertheless, it is worth while to remind every dyspeptic
person, with lots of money and no billiard table, that an
hour’s play involves a three-mile walk and a splendid
assortment of mild athletic exercises for the arms, body,
and wits of the performer. Alcock’s cables on their
average merits are the best English billiard tables in the
world, and their excellence dates from as far back as 1860.
* * * *
The frame of a Massey-Harris bicycle is built
up of selected Mannessman seemless steel tubing, and
the front forks are specially tested before being embodied
in the machine. This is why the Massey-Harris bicycle
will withstand the wear-and-tear of constant riding over
the roughest roads.
• • * •
The Dunlop road - race, to be held from
Warrnambool to Melbourne, next October, is having a
beneficial and stimulating effect on road-riding through-
out Australasia. New Zealand, New South Wales, South
Australia, Tasmania, and Western Australia are all hold-
ing qualifying test-races to select their respective repre-
sentatives, the Dunlop Tyre Co. having arranged to defray
the expenses of the selected inter-State representatives
who visit Melbourne to compete in the big Warrnambool
event. Entries close at the Dunlop Tyre Company’s
offices, 108 Flinders-street, Melbourne, on Saturday, the
31st inst., at 12 noon.
At the Last Moment.
When this issue went to press Australia was still
awaiting definite information about the British
Government’s new attitude on the Nigger Exclu-
sion Question. This is the present situation :
For a number of years the British Government has sys-
tematically vetoed Bills which professed to keep out the
nigger simply because the two races didn’t mix to
advantage. But it has systematically assented to Bills
which kept him out obliquely per medium of an educa-
tional test. The educational test has come to be regarded
as the British Government’s settled policy.
Therefore the Federal Immigration Restriction Bill was
based on the educational test, as usual. Experience has
shown that when this test is applied with sufficient energy
it can keep out almost every Asiatic that was ever born.
Australia has already largely adopted this device, so the
Federal Government simply followed the existing track
of Australian precedent.
Now it is reported by cable that, at the dictation of the
truculent and overbearing Japanese person, who seems
to be running the show just now, a Bill passed by the
British Columhian Legislature, “imposingan educational
test to exclude Chinese and Japanese and forbidding
their employment on certain works,” has been vetoed.
Now Australia wants to find out by the promptest
Eossible cablegram whether this Bill was vetoed
ecause it contained the educational test, or
because it forbade the employment of Japanese
on “certain works.” If it was the latter the
position hasn’t altered much. If the former, then
it seems that the British Government, which weak-
ened over direct exclusion many years ago, has now
gone back on the educational test also. In that
case the situation is so completely changed that
the Federal Parliament can’t be too prompt in
throwing out the educational test and adopting
the proposal of Watson and M'Millan that the
Immigration Restriction Bill shall simply shut
out every Asiatic and African in sight—shut him
out flatly and peremptorily without asking any
questions whatever. If there is one kind of
restriction that can’t be got without a fight, while
another and almost equally efficacious kind can, it
is policy to accept the latter, in order to save
time. But, if it is impossible to get either kind
without a fight, then we may as well fight for the
most definite and uncompromising kind.


Diamond, All
Pearl,
Opal,
Turquoise.
The
Fashionable
Gems.
Diamond Star Brooch or Pendant - £35, £55
Diamond Heart Pendants - - £25, £3O, £4-0
Pear. Star Pendants - 35/- 45/- 65/- 85/- 100/-
m
m
V3K
ssA
Pearl and Turquoise
Opal Heart Pendants
Heart Pendants - 22/6 37/6 50/“ to 100/“
4O- 60-
We are showing a very choice assortment of the above, and notwithstanding
the if rent rise in Diamonds, we have made no increase in our prices. . . .
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY CO.
187 PITT-ST., SYDNEY
(Next Shadier"s Cafi.)
PO you WALK?
This seems a superfluous question. What we mean to convey is that
you are foolish to waste energy, time and money when by riding a
[Mass cyffiar rls Bt cy cte
you can economise. The cost of tram, train or ’bus fare mounts up and you have nothing to show for it.
The cost of a Massey on our easy payment system amounts to but little more per month, and you have a
valuable assfetin the shape of a bicycle.
Wtest Australian Depots: Hay Street, Perth; and Hannap Street, Kalgroorlie.
throughout N.S.W., Victoria, South Australia, Queensland, New Zealand. ~»I
filglKlass
Cakes
and
Pastry*
Inferior Materials do not enter
into the Composition of our Goods.
We invite inspection of our
methods of Manufacture
Goods sent carefully packed, Tomn or Gountry
THE
N.B.W. Fresh Food & Ice Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY
WE ALL WANT
No
Is. 7d.,
Is. Bd.,
Is. 9d.,
Is. 9d.,
. 70 Ceylon
THE FINEST CEYLON
IN AUSTRALIA.
in 50tt> Chests .. £3 10s. 2d.
in 24fl> Canisters £2 Os. Od.
in 12tt> Canisters £1 Is. Od.
in 6R> Caddies 10s. 6d.
Delivered Free in Town and Suburbs.
Forwarded to any address on receipt of
remittance, with carriage added.
GOOD TEA, and some people are
willing to pay for it, but the trouble
is that when they do pay for Good
Tea they don’t always get it.
IS IT ANY WONDER
when the price paid has to cover all the extravagant ex-
penses of Tea Agents or the Tea is sold by the Toms,
Dicks and Harrys who know as much about the article
they deal in as a brickmaker knows about wool ?
We are Tea Specialists, we have studied the busi-
ness for about twenty years, and it’s our ambition to
sell you the Finest Tea procurable at the lowest
possible price. No. 70 is our best effort, we can’t
give you finer Tea if every shilling of the price
were a sovereign.
ATCHERLEY & DAWSON,
MERCHANTS^
284 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
36 Views of Sydney with Panorama. Jcsi p ”™-
Beautifully Printed on 80lbs. Art Paper, enclosed in a Violet and Cold Cover.
LIST
OF
views
Government House.
Yachting on Sydney Harbor.
Railway Station.
St. Mary’s (R. 0.) Cathedral.
Botanic Gardens (2).
North Sydney.
Farm Cove.
Colonial Secretary’s Office.
Entrance to Sydney Harbor.
Government House and Grounds.
Circular Quay from North.
The Spit, Middle Harbor.
North Sydney Suspension Bridge.
Lane Cove River.
Parramatta Park, &c., &c.
Houses of Parliament.
Mosman Bay (2).
Northern Side Circular Quay,
The Quay.
Martin Place.
Post Office.
Victoria Markets.
Town Hall.
Sydney Hospital.
The Observatory.
St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Sydney University.
Coogee Bay.
Tarban Ceeek.
Manly (2), &c., &c.
Price
Is.
the Lot,
Postage
3d.
extra.
WHEN BUYING, SEE THAT THE PUBLICATION BEARS OUR IMPRINT—
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., 861 George St., 53 Pitt St., and all Branches and Booksellers.
f
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole "Wholesale Agents for New South Wales —
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
dsf
CHARLES READ & CO..
BUSHMAN WATCH.
d
fd
GIN METAL
1 • CASE-
m
WmMmm
m
Camden Buildings,
420 George St., Sydney.
Three Doors from A Saving of
Strand Arcade. 25 per cent.
JEWELLERY,”"
SOLID SILVER GOODS,
SILVER-PLATED WARE
Write for 80-Paged Illustrated, Catalogue Post Free.
Arthur Griffith and Allen, 169 Phillip
street, Sydney, Patent Agents and Consulting
Engineers. Patents, Trade Marks and Copyrights
protected throughout the world.*
Victorian item :
Four live rabbits were found nailed by their feet to a
deal table in the hut, and appeared to have been placed
there by the boy for amusement.
The boy in question has already stuck-up an hotel,
and has been under the fire of the police. He
seems to have a glowing future before him.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Tb€
Callagbai)
Boot
THIS
BOOT IS
PHOTOGRAPHED
FKOM
STOCK.
Honest Wear
In every pair.
&
SK
m
m
Our Boots can be
EXCHANGED if not
correct, as we wish
DISTANT customers
to be as pleased as
those in town.
Your money RETURNED if you
are not satisfied with the
Boots.
Calf Lace, full goloshed, medium wide welts, bespoke appearance, 21/-; post paid, 22/-
Tan Willow Calf Lace, full goloshed, fast color cyclists, perfect fitting, 22/6 ; ~ 23/6
All Sizes and Fittings. ' -
ORDER < TOJ)AY. OALLAGHAN & SON, 395 George-st., Sydney.
At Poverty Point.
One of the Sydney Palace comedians has his teeth set
with diamonds. They would be handy for chewing glass
with ; but, then, he isn’t that sort of comedian. What
would be a real gift on the ever-drunk variety of
“ artiste” is thrown away in this case.
Georgia Hodson, widow of the late William Saurin
Lyster, died in Melbourne last week.
Tyrone Power made the most strenuous effort to knock
Melbourne with “Nadjezda.” T.P. is said to have in-
herited something like £30,000 since coming to Australia,
and he put a lump of it into Barrymore’s drama. Mount-
ing, painting, dresses, etc., are all done “regardless,”
and the actor-manager went to the extreme with full-
column advts. in each of the dailies.- A full-col. advt. is
probably not worth a cent more than a Jcol. in the
“Amusements” department; however, Power was
“going it.” But “ Nadjezda” is a rather disappointing
play. There’s a heap of good materials in it, but other
people seem to have made good plays of them.
Gerardy, the celebrated violoncellist, has unearthed at
Wellington, M.L., a 14-year-old lad, who, he prophesies,
will be a world’s wonder on the ’cello. Gerardy has
now engaged to return to Auckland, later on, and take
the youth with him to Europe for the best possible
training. ■-
The Bulletin’s London correspondent: The slender
and attractive Hilda Spong that Australia once knew has
grown into an imposing woman of fine figure and stately
carriage. After a trip to “ mommer ” and “ poppa,” who
love London and won’t leave it, she has returned to U.S.
to star on tour in “ Lady Huntworth’s Experiment.”
Hilda has unmistakably “ struck ore ” thick, and should
yet go much further and fare better, thanks to judicious
parental tutoring. London managers can’t even guess a
good thing, but the ’Murkan scents and tracks it out.
“ A.0.H.” : “ Jim ” (8., 29/7/’l) says “ You don’t find a
Dolores referring to a piece of music as she goes along.”
Now, in Adelaide, Mdlle. Dolores did so, and she told an
interviewer that when singing modern ballads she invari-
ably took the words with her—owing to the verbal
resemblance in sentimental songs.
Painfully “previous” par. from British Australasian,
Aug. 10 : “ Miss Carrie Moore, who was married at Sydney
on June 27 to Mr. E. Tyson, comes to London shortly to
try her luck at the Gaiety Theatre, where she believes
that Mr. George Edwardes will give her a chance. If he
should not, the popular young Australian is now wealthy
enough to bear such a disappointment with equanimity.”
“ Message from Mars ” recalls to mind an Australian
“dream’’-play which George Leitch wrote many years
ago. It was produced in Sydney—title, “ A Touch of the
Sun.” Leitch fell asleep in the first act, and dreamed
that he had a gory time, murdering his friends^and rela-
tives. The third act found him asleep, like Parker in
“The Message,” and Rosette in “ Ma Mie Rosette,” and
old Dick in “ Uncle Dick’s Darling,” and other stage
visionaries.
Pollard’s opera co., in Maoriland, has scored a record
run with “ Florodora.” The musical-comedy puts up
records everywhere, because it has a charm which even
the tricky W. S. Gilbert forgot to introduce into the more
humorous and infinitely more musical Gil.-Sul. operas—
the charm of a widely-distributed personal interest.
Gilbert gave all the “ fat ”to the principals. The chorus
never scored a notable success unless at least one of the
principals was present to take the encore. In “ Floro-
dora ” twelve minor characters make the biggest hit of
the show with a double sestet, composed on the co-
operative principle. The charming “ Don’t go ” chorus
in “ lolanthe ” is called to mind by “Tell me, pretty
maiden,” but there the girls had the music and two of the
men principals figured in the foreground at either side of
the stage, with two principal fairies appealing to them.
Edwin Geach goes into active management again right
away, catching on with Arnold’s co. immediately Arnold
lights out. The reformed co. will trail “ The Wrong Mr.
Wright ” all over the face of the Commonwealth. Lohr
goes into private life with the intention of opening a pub.
Good luck to Lohr and the profits 1
The Bulletin’s London correspondent:—Who can
remember the Cheevers and Kennedy team who toured
Australia in the seventies? Well, Joe 0., young and
sturdy to-day, with his wife—who probably displays an
album of “ notices ” from Austral papers, many of them
long since dead—run a Strand hostelry much frequented
by pros, and pro-esses. Comic-song writer and singer,
Walter Keen, of “Up went the price of meat sky-high”
fame, forced back home to Tassy by ill-health, is being
benefited at Brixton Empress. His brother was the dead
Lance Lenton. “An extremely robust Australian ban-
tone,” Hamilton Hill, is raising the root at the Empire.
The Lonnen benefit at London Gaiety Theatre realised
£453, and a subscription list totalled something like
£2OO.
“ Oldtimer ” : I must protest that Wilson Barrett’s
advt. of his “ Silver King” show makes me squirm. It
doesn’t condescend to mention the names of the authors
of the famous melodrama with which the “ eminent actor-
manager ” had the luck (and the judgment) to be iden-
tified 20 years ago. It repeats eight times the large-
typed line —“ Wilson Barrett in The Silver King.” Then
comes “ Wilson Barrett as Wilfred Denver,” followed
by “ Lillah M‘Carthy as Nellie Denver, and Wilson Bar-
rett’s Complete London Company.” Ten repetitions of
W.B.’s name within 14 lines ' Egotism in exceisis.
Reading that advt. one is reminded of Fred. B. Norton’s
yarn about Barry Sullivan and the young “ utility ” actor
who knelt before him during rehearsal at the Theatre
Royal, Belfast. The stage directions didn’t require the
young man to fall upon his ma - row-bones, so Barry Sulli-
van inquired majestically—“ What means this attitude?”
and the worshipper replied, “O, Mr. Sullivan, my father
had the honor of acting with you ten years ago, and he
told me that I was to kneel the first time I should find
myself in your presence.” The tragedian, slowly nod-
ding his august head, knitted his brows as he spake
again—“ But did not your father also teach you to kneel
to One who is—perhaps—greater than I ? ”
Wilson Barrett has not quite recovered from some
influenza that befell him ere he left England, but the
burly actor suffers nothing in stage effect from being a
little “ pulled down.” Miss Lillah M’Carthy, too, had a
faint the other day for the first time in her life. Probably
they were all suffering nervousness re the approaching pro-
duction of Barrett’s new play, “ The Christian King.”
A small French opera and a small French comedy were
dished up to a toney Sydney audience at the Criterion
last Monday. The first, “Le Passant,” was described on
the playbill as a “dialogue between two souls.” The
souls, depicted by Mme. Aengenheyster and Mme. S6gur,
were well draped in flesh, also in excellent millinery, Mme.
S6gur in addition sporting a costly satin train which
the minstrel, who came to sing to her, ungallantlv
kicked across the stage, in revenge for which she forth-
with sat down on his mandoline. “Le Chalet,” an opera
comique, in one act, gave an opportunity for Mr. Burns
Walker, in white kid tights, to show a young and
gentle maiden the errors of her ways in refusing the
protection of a husband. The young lady in ques-
tion (Miss Nana Macredie) sang in a pretty voice and an
inflexible countenance. Her lover, Daniel, Mme.
Aengenheyster, came in attired in a sort of bathing
costume (but more elaborate) and said in a shrill soprano
that he would seek a soldier’s grave if the lady w;ere not
kind. The whole two performances, except the
portion that consisted of the lady who couldn’t be heard,
were as good as a lesson in Ollendorf. At time of writing
two more opportunities are to be given the Sydney *>ublic
to take a lesson in parley-voo.


TT
ROBCRTS’
HOT€L
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY. —■irmn
APARTMENTS :
BEDROOM (Single) 3s. PER DAY.
BEDROOM (Double) 6s. PER DAY.
TERMS:
Cash in Advance. No Booking l .
Meals Paid For when Obtained.
Letters and Telegrams addressed to
“ THE MANAGER
will receive prompt attention.
t
No. W 7. Silver-Plated Hair-Pin
Box, 8s 6d.
No. W 9. Silver-Plated Jewel-Case
Satin-lined, £1 is.
No. W 24. Embossed and Silver-
Plated Hair-Pin Box, 10s 6d.
No. F5173a. Silver-
Plated Spectacle
Case, 10s 6d.
No. F 839. Silver-Plated Butter Dish
with Knife, 9s 6d.
No. F 4157. Silv jr-Plated Ink-
St ind, 18s 6d.
No. W2OlB. Efrg-Shape Satin-lined
Jewel-Case, best Silver-Plated, £1 is.
No. W 36. Best Silver-Plated
Shaving Mug, £1 2s 6d.
No. F 4587. Leather
Spectacle Case,
Plated Mounts,
7s 6d.
No. F 4707. Carved Ivory Handle Bread Fork, 11s 6d.
No. F 4588. Silver Glove Button-Hook, 2s.
No. E 9070. Combination Egg Frame and
Cruet, Cut-Glass and Best Silver-Plate,
£1 15s.
No. F 4709. Carved Pearl
Handle Bread Fork, 13/6.
No. F 4849. Silver-Plated Fern Pot
Height, 8 inches, £3.
Write for our Illustrated Catalogue.
R I CORO’s
The only Infallible Remedy for WE AKA' ESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 123. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for Hew South Wales—
Australian Drug: Co., Ltd., O’Connell St., Sydney. All
c hemists, or Box 165, C.P.O.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and infallible Remedy,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
STRENGTH
FOR
THE
WEAK
Dr. JAMES WILSON writes : “I have thoroughly examined and tested Hale’s
new Patent Electric Belt, and I am satisfield that not only is it a genuine article, but
it generates an electric current capable of overcoming the resistance of the body. I
consider it a valuable agent, especially for ladies and gentlemen of tender skin, as no
metal substances come in contact with the body, and I am only too pleased to recom-
mend a genuine electric appliance.”
“Dr. FOWLER presents his compliments to Messrs. Arthur Hale and Son, and
has much pleasure in stating that he has carefully examined their new improved
Electric Belt, and finds that it is perfectly genuine as to electric properties.”
Dr. DEWAR writes : “ I have examined Hale’s new Electric Belt, and find that
it is capable of generating a powerful electric current, although no metal substances
come in contact with the skin. I consider this a great improvement, as it prevents
the irritation so often caused by other appliances.”
PERCY NEWELL, L.R.0.5., L.R.O.P , writes: “There is no doubt about the
Electricity, as my patients constantly feel the current.”
“THE MEDICAL MONTHLY,” August, 1893, says : “The firm of Arthur Hale
and Son, of 105 Regent Street, London, W., has distinguished itself in the develop-
ment of electrical science as a medical agent. By an entirely new method of applica-
tion they have succeeded in producing an Electric Body Belt, which for comfort,
efficacy, and genuineness, is unquestionably far superior to any previous invention.”
7
m
Hale & Son’s Improved and Patented Electro-Galvanic Belts and Appliances are
Nature's Chief Restorers. Our Plain Belt, our Special Belt and Suspensor for Gentlemen,
and our Abdominal Belt for ladies are guaranteed to be the most Scientific and Genuine
Electric Appliances yet produced. They will speedily relieve and Cure Nervous Exhaus-
tion, Rheumatism, Pain and Weakness in the Back, impart tone and vigor to the whole nervous
system, and make life a pleasure. We invite all sufferers, no matter what the disease or ailment may be,
to call or send for our Free Book, entitled, “ Modern Treatment of Disease by Electricity.”
Consultation Free.
HAXE & SON, Me die a Galvanists,
105 Regent St., London, W, uri M CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
mention this paper.
Now
Ready.
A POLICY fOR THE COMMON WEALTH
Price 6d; IPosted. BdL.
NES
FROM 5 HP. TO 100 HP.
&
MOTORS
FROM Ih.P. TO 60 hp.
CAIN BE SUPPLIED PROMPTLY
FROM STOCK.
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; 17 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
TO (LELke
(U M ITlsl>)*
11 awarra),
near SYDKTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
pnoDUCBRa
OF
FINE SILVER.
X
: «
MAKERS OF
S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
ILL AW AREA”
.. Bit AND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchaser, of all classes of GOLD, SILVER LEAD and CODDER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEED REFINERS of SILVER T.r.an BULLION
IdIG.fcLRbI PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Mouse, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.


Editor Bulletin. —He a recent Maoriland
press suggestion that a certain operation should
be perfor ned on sexual criminals s The geniuses
who propose this are apparently unaware that, in
the case of an adult, such an operation would
make no difference as regards proclivities. Maon-
land, however, is going off its head generally upon
the sex-question. Only there would it have been
possible for women to present an Incest Bill, reek-
ing with the noisome and revolting details.
From such refined creatures as these, and from
woman who can soar to the perjurious heights
recent]v attained at Auckland by Jessie Minns,
it is the niij&re man that sorely needs protection.—
RliWI. 1
On an historical tomb, recently removed
from Devonshire-st. Cemetery, Sydney, the fol-
lowing inscription records a forgotten tragedy :
Within this tomb was interred, on xvii November,
mcleccxxxvi, the remains of seventeen human bodies.
Discovered, after the most diligent research, in the island
of Aureed, in Torres’ Straits, by Mr. C. M. Lewis, com-
mander of H.M. colonial schooner Isabella, and, by satis-
factory evidence, identified as the mortal remains of cer-
tain of the officers, crew and passengers of the bark
Charles Eaton, who, after escaping from the total wreck
of that vessel xv August, mdcccxxxiv, were savagely
massacred by the natives of the islands on which they
landed. Hi's Excellency Sir Richard Bourke, K.C.8.,
Governor-in-Chief of this colony, by whose command the
expedition to ascertain the fate of those unhappy persons
was undertaken, caused the last offices of piety to be dis-
charged toWSrds them by directing the interment of their
remains with the rights of Christian burial, and the erec-
tion of this monument to record the catastrophe by which
they perished.
YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
roundtd with inflammation and swollen that when you
pre s your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
M.'nerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. Yon may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured,
bend at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Bri'ain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
AI BERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents*. ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney Purchasers should
look foi the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
g een lal.el on iach box. (Regd. copyright).
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYNE.
‘ 'Sal
Caution.—Genuine Chlorodyna
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ot
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were, asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
f
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing-, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Stbeet, SYDNEY.
ft
HOTELKEEPERS!
MAKE YOUR OWN
DERATED WATERS.
“AUSTRAL” AERATED WATER MACHINE occu-
pies only Four Feet Square, will produce 150 Dozen per day of
Finest Waters (LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, SODA WATER, &c.)
at a Cost below Fourpence per Dozen. This machine
supersedes all others for SIMPLICITY and USEFULNESS, as it
requires no skilled labor to work it.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Agent: WM. JOHNSON, 343 Queen-street, Brisbane
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214-216 Queen-st,, MELBOURNE.
VI NOLI A SOAP
FOR DELICATE, SENSITIVE SKINS.
FA CTS iim m
VINOLIA SOAP
is unsurpassed for the complexion.
VIIMOLIA SOAP
is guaranteed pure, and will stand all tests.
VINOLIA SOAP
yields a most soothing and abundant lather
VINOLIA SOAP
is made from the finest materials.
VINOLIA SOAP
keeps the skin as soft as velvet.
IN FIVE KINDS. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Vinolia Cream
. FOR ..
ECZEMA, ITGaiNC FACE SPOTS, Etc.
Editor Baby reports:
An emollient antiseptic cream. For acne
spots on the face, and particularly for
eczema, it is undoubtedly an efficacious
remedy, frequently healing eruptions and
removing pimples in a few days. It relieves
itching as if by magic. ”
FOUR SIZES.
Vinolia Powder
.. FOR ..
REDNESS, ROUGHNESS, TOiLET, Etc.
Editor Lady’s Pictorial reports :
“Vinolia Powder is a very soothing pre-
paration, superseding the old toilet powders,,
which are apt to cause acne by blocking up
thep'ores Of the skin.”
White, Pink, & Cream Tints.
_ FOUR SIZES.
■ Dr - Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
. T . ~ Wealthy condition, and give you new vim a id con.idence.
Th s Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is*unhke any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
expend Lr '‘' ade - “ iS arallteed one year, without any
Dr. Clarkson’s Be-I
I)rln f S „j h f, daWn of n , eVV life fco ever - v or ff an of your body. It charges the Nerves with
reo-ed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory Dys-
nort's 1 ' a,l<l Kldne .' s > who nol: ' ice a weak, general collapse of all vital
paits, the com.) ned treatment of Electricity with L)r. CLARKSON’S RE-IN VIGOR ATOR
V
* *
t
Will bring- happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves min . , , , . ,
THEI R touch ISMAGNETIC Wenesani Organs '8 truly wondrrful.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CALii. OR WRITE—
OWL ,? A U T T E DRUG
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
BRAUN ORE SAMPLE-CRUSHER]
and PULVERISER. <
UPS
Combination of a Jaw and Roll
Pulveriser working together.
May be operated by either hand or power.
Jaws, 3J in. wide; Roll, 6 in. diameter; Belt
Wheel, 16 x2J in. Total Weight, 285lbs*
Write for Particulars to—
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
MINING ENGINEERS & MACHINERY
MERCHANTS.
FALIERE’S PHOSPNATINE
P/105PHAT/WE
FAUERESJ
The Only
Food
containing
Phosphate
of Lime .
For INFANTS and
INVALIDS.
AN ESSENTIAL
REQUISITE IN THIS
COUNTRY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS p“e ,OE “:
French’s Acting Edition.
d
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Books Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
fd
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
KMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced ■
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
. SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts re.<dy-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic, Is 6d, post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted. !
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General' Letter I
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), is 3d .
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-To-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Bead Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of'London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, Is 3d posted.
The Slide Bulb and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Beoitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather hound, my price, 15s post paid.
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Metal Working, Brazing, etc., Is 3d.
Send for my Illustrated Bigr Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
Li
§ 4giuiJ.
'ty
F
Vi
tVhen
writing
please
mention
Toe
Bulletin-
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired tv STOMACH DRUGGING
• and disappointrrf.r ,, send lor owe pf Stephenson’s
- ELECTRICAI APPLIANCES, invented by
J Sydney’s Leading Jurgeon and Anatomical Demon-
-1 strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
* Cl AN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
| THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
IDO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
- LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly?
constructed Belts give, prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
‘ Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
1 They impart vigor and potency to every function,
' brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of y'mng and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy ire light, comfortable, and.
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU
£ s. a.
.Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 3 3 0
ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, Ac.
All communications should be addressed to — |
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney j


Amusements.
Her majesty’s theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas.. J. B. Moutrie.
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
J. 0. WILLIAMSON’S ITALIAN OPERA COMPANY.
THURSDAY, SEPT. 19, LUOIA Dl LAMMERMOOR.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, OTELLO.
SATURDAY, SEPT. 21, First Performance by this
Company of Verdi’s Charming Opera, IL TRAVIATA.
Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Stalls, 3s. ;
Family Circle, 2s. ; Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
pALACE THEATRE, BYDNEY.
THE BIG NEW PROGRAMME
by the
THE WORLD’S ENTERTAINERS
(POLITE VAUDEVILLE)
HAS MAD 3 AN IMMENSE HIT.
m" REMEMBER !!!
EVERY NIGHT and at the
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30 p.m.
No Extra Charge for Reserved Seats.
PRICES—Is., 2s. and 3s.
Seats at Elvy’s and Theatre.
Empire theatre, Sydney.
Quit Trams and ’Buses at Bathurst-street.
Everv Evening at 8. Saturdays at 2.30.
SUCCESS EVEN GREATER THAN EVER.
FULLER’S EMPIRE SPECIALTY CO.
Big Success of DICK DAVIS, ALBERT LUCAS,
BEVERLEY and DANVERS, KEILDERSON, DENIS
CARNEY, BEATTIE SMITH, WILL STEVENS, AMY
BLACKIE, LITTLE MAISIE LLOYD, TED HERBERT,
lIETTIE WARDEN, BELLES, and Other Big Favorites.
Tremendous Success of This Week’s Programme.
Prices—2s., Is., and 6d.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Management of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative .. .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
THE BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY.
SECOND WEEK of
Lady Huntworth’s Experiment,
An Original Comedy in Three Acts,
by R. C. CARTON.
Box Plan at Elvy’s, George-st. Prices as Usual.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. William Anderson.
Positively the Last 2 Nights of MAGGIE MOORE.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday) and ONE MORE NIGHT ONLY,
ARRAH-NA-POSUE. .
Return of William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic
Orga iis it ion. SATURDAY NEXT, SEPT. 21, for
Positively 12 Nights Only, THE ORPHAN HEIRESS.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Patronage and in the Presence of His E
lency the Lieut nant-Governor Sir F. W. P
G.C.M.G.
Mr. F. HI. A LEX A NIiER’S
SECOND SHAKESPEARIAN SEASON,
Commencing TUESDAY, 24th SEPTEMBER.
Hamlet & The Merchant of Venice.
Mr. ALEXANDER as HAMLET and SHYLOCK.
“ The Best Australian Book of Sea and Sailor Verse.”
The Ways of Many Waters
By E. J. BRADY.
Amusements.
RICKARDS' TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Gigantic Success of ZOBEDIE, CECILIA DUBOISE.
Mr. AUSTIN RUDD. Mr. EDCAR CRANVILLE.
Mr. TEDDY BOX. WINSCHERMANN’S BEARS.
THE POCKET COMEDIAN. LITTLE CULLIVER.
THE DIAMOND DUO. Miss IVY SCOTT.
LENNON, HYMAN and LENNON, FLORRIE RANGER,
STELLA RANGER, &c., &c., including
THE AMERICAN BIOSCOPE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturdays & Wednesdays.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Sub-Lessee Mr. William F. Hawtrey.
THE HAWTREY COMEDY CO.
In the Play of the Century,
A MESSAGE FROM MARS.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ and Grand Hotel.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 2s. and Is. Day Sale at Stegmann’s.
Rickards’ new opera house,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY
COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday) and ONE MORE NIGHT ONLY,
MARIE LLOYD and ALEC HURLEY.
PROFESSOR DE WYNNE, the Great Shadowgraphist
and Court Juggler.
JOHN COLEMAN, the Most Popular and Entertaining
Comedian in Australia, and all Our Great Co.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. E. J. Tait.
THE WILSON BARRETT SEASON.
EVERY EVENING,
The Christian King, or Alfred of England,
For the First Time on Any Stage.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
NOW READY at Turner & Henderson, SYDNEY.
Toilet & Troubles of the Skin & Hair
by Dr. ALFRED NEALE ; new edition, post Is Id.
TRICHOLOGY, a. Study of the Hair, post 7d.
amusements.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING.
Brd WEEK of the Typical, Topical Australian Melodrama,
RIPIN6 TO WIN.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Under the Direction of Mr. Tyrone Power.
SECOND WEEK of
THE CRANE-POWER CO. in the Remarkable Play,
2XT A. DJSZO A,
By Maurice Barrymore.
Miss EDITH CRANE as THE COUNTESS NADJEZDA.
Mr. TYRONE POWER as PRINCE ZABOUROFF.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager, FRANK MUSGROVE.
O RL ID’S FAIR,
Exhibition Building,
Melbourne .
Opening Day: SATURDAY, OCT. 12, 1901,
TO BE CONTINUED FOR 4 WEEKS.
GRAND PROGRAMME OF AMUSEMENTS.
£lOOO
To be Civen for CYCLING, ATHLETICS and
TUC-O’-WAR, &c., &c.
Also :
ART UNION*.
VALUE:
£lOOO I3ST FRIZES.
TICKETS, is.,
Admit to Fair and Give Chance in Art Union.
P. J. O’CONNOR, Hon Sec.,
Modern Chambers, Melbourne.
You Can’t Get Away
From the Fact
that the
FEDERAL CLOTHINC (READY-MADE)
is the
VERY BEST MANUFACTURED IN THESE
STATES.
THE KIND OF CLOTHES
GENTLEMEN APPRECIATE.
We have the IDEAL SUMMER SUIT for City
Wear, for the Country, for the Office, for the
Seashore, for Comfort and Coolness— anywhere.
PittStrsst Nordcro’S
Don’t put their name on anything unless it wifi
reflect credit on them, and you will find their
name on every Garment we sell. ■
There is no man, be he ever so particular, he
he tall or short, slim or stout, that can come to
us for a Suit of Clothes and go out without
getting that full satisfaction that goes with
correct fit, stylish cut, honest work, and artistic
finish.
The Prices are Moderate— Always So.
Come in when you are passing our way, and
see what we are selling.
NO ONE PRESSED TO BUY.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADERS OF FASHIONS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
(If you cannot come out Shopping, please order
by letter.)
V
CAHtt.
ms
I do not ask you to spend
money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Virus’
Dance, etc. All I ask .of “you
is to SEND for a
Bottle and to try it I abide
by the result. A safe remedy-
approved by the Medical
Profession.
H. G. ROOT, 28,Endsleigh
Gardens, London. N.W.
MIT IT CISTS Tl lECIPIEI FOiESTEI
F.
For a man 30 years of age to take out a Policy for £4OO in the Independent
Order of Foresters, the cost would be about 2s. 9d. per week, not a heavy
drain on his income, hut a nice little deposit upon which his wife may draw
in the event of his death.
sf
Head Office for N.S.W.
283 George-st., Sydney.
G. A. FRASER, Manager .
Another Shipment to hand.
DIAMOND
We are revolutionising the Diamond trade. Houses that turn over
their stock once in years-must give place to those who turn it over three
or four times a year. Our turnover enables us to sell at London prices.
We sell an exquisite small Necklet at 50 Guineas. We show
another at 75, another 150, and others at 225, 375 Guineas and
upwards.
We buy the loose Gems in quantities for Cash. We mount the
Necklets, and so save all intermediate profits.
We sell for Cash—no Bad Debts.
London Prices in
Plain Figures for
Strictly Cash.
FAIRFAX $ ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
—23 HUNTER STREET.
£125
si
£
*
From £l5 15s. to £3O
B msm
PHYSICIAN
Registered by the
Medical Board
of N.S.W.
SURGEON
HAYING had 30 years experience in all parts of the world, and also having lately made an extended trip through Europe and America, he
is in a position to treat every case submitted to him according to the methods of the most recent and eminent Specialists of the
whole world.
Every Case treated on its own Merits.
Sufferers at a distance, unable to describe their cases to their own satisfaction, should write for Dr. Watson’s
“Guide to Diagnosis,”
which will allow them to give exact and full particulars, so as to enable him to report fully as to the disease and its radical and rational
method of treatment.
COKTSXJLTA.TIOKT FREE (Personally, or by Letter).
The publication of crowds of symptoms, testimonials and puffs of one’s skill and attainments savours too much of self-praise ; so the public
should look with a doubtful eye upon all those who “ doth protest too much.”
Dr. Watson does not pretend to say that “ One Pound is sufficient to send” as stated in certain advertisements, for he considers that the
public are quite satisfied to pay a fair price for fair and legitimate treatment.
Write for small
“ Guide to Health,”
and Method for Self-Diagnosis.
(Please mention this paper when writing.)
NOSIVMSHaQ
137 Elizabeth-St.,
SYDNEY.
lYiViVn
w.
t
H S
~ nT


RESCUED FROH THE
JfIWS OF DEATH.
A STATE OF NERVOUS AGITATION.
A LONG DYSPEPTIC TROUBLE .
A RATIONAL REMEDY BRINGS RAPID RELIEF.
The Case of Mrs. J. ANDERSON.
(By a Dunedin Reporter.)
M .ny of the Wonderful inventions per
fected during the present century owe
their originality of conception to men
who lived in past decades. The improve-
ments on old-fashioned ideas in respect
to machinery have effected great
changes throughout the world, but the
present and forthcoming generations
profit by the progress made. _ Axx in-
teresting study is found in noticing the
genual development of most scientific
matters, and the reader will find his at-
tention absorbed in tracing the follow-
ing compilation of events, emanating, as
they do, from what is frequently con-
sidered a trifling and unimportant
origin, and ending in a climax of con-
siderable magnitude. The narrative ap-
pears in the words of Mrs. Jeannie
Anderson, of 14 Smith-street, Dunedin.
“In my earlier days,” began Mrs.
Anderson, “ I was troubled very much
with indigestion. Like most persons
addicted to this complaint, I thought it
was only a trivial disorder of a tem-
porary nature, and that it would go
away on its own account. The symptoms
were certainly very annoying, but for
some time they were not sufficiently
serious to call for medical aid. That was
my opinion then, as I only had a feeling
of discomfort after food, but after a
while the pain gradually increased until
it became a severe wearing or burning
sensation. I then commenced to think
that I was in for a bad spell of sickness.
Severe pains in the back started to tor-
ment me shortly after taking my meals,
which were now indulged in in a very
delicate fashion. I was very careful
what I ate, and took but little, as I
had only a meagre appetite. If 1 took
a cup of warm milk I suffered as much
as though I had eaten a pound of steak,
the pain and uneasiness at the pit of
the stomach being just as great. My
face was deathly white, with dark lines
under my eyes, the sight of which was
greatly impaired. Sometimes the pul-
sation at the wrist was so feeble that
scarcely a throb could be felt. A sense
of great oppression was present in my
chest, a matter which affected my
breathing. I was always sleepy and
worn out. As soon as I got up in the
morning I felt inclined to go back to bed
again, and for all the good I was I
might just as well, for I was only in
other people’s way. Constipation be-
came a chronic complaint, and I became
so weak at last that I could not sweep
the floor.”
“It is a wonder you did not lie up,
Mrs. Anderson.”
“So I did, and shortly afterwards I
was seized with agonising pains in the
bowels, attended with great prostration
of strength. I could not raise myself
up in bed without becoming faint and
giddy. These symptoms were quickly
followed by the extension of pain of a
more violent character than ever over
the stomach, then came a miserable
filing of nausea. My skin became cold
and clammy, and my feature® were hor-
r|jjly shrunken. For days I did not eat,
neither could I get out of fed. On one
occasion I managed to pflt my feet on
the floor, intending to stand up and try
to walk, but I quickly fell and was
doubled up in agony for some time be-
fore anybody came to my assistance.
Whatever food I succeeded in swallow-
ing was promptly thrown up again. If
I took but a tablespoonful of milk, or a
small wafer biscuit, I vomited them at
once, and brought up, besides, large
quantities of what the doctor called
‘ digestive blood.’ There was not a par-
ticle of food which passed my lips but
what it came up again, and always ac-
companied with volumes of blood. This
incessant blood-vomiting induced a
burning, swollen feeling in the eyes,
combined with blinding headaches. If I
tried to stoop, my head became dizzy
everything in the room appearing to
swim round and round, and to make
matters worse, my nights were more
restless than ever. The trying ordeal I
went through every day made me feel
dead to the world, but in spite of my
terrible weakness and weariness I could
not rest either night or day. I can
honestly say I did not sleep for four
months, and it is a great wonder that
I retained possession of my senses, for I
was in a frightful state of mental
anxiety all the time. The noise made by
the children when playing about the
house was most exasperating. A shud-
dering thrill went through my enfeebled
system at the slightest sound, as well as
being sent into a state of nervous agita-
tion.
“ Under such tribulations you must
have become exceedingly melancholy ?”
“ I cannot say that I was at all de-
spondent, because I was past being wor-
ried by anything. I had not sufficient
strength to properly realise the awful-
ness of my condition. I was between
life and death, with the balance hanging
on a delicate thread which was likely to
snap at any moment. The hospital
seemed to be the only place where I
might get a little better, so I went. Up
to making this move the treatment I
had been receiving was not the right
kind. As soon as I got into the hospital
I was examined, and shortly after I was
informed that an operation was indis-
pensable. It did not matter to me what
they did, as I was heartily sick of my
life. Anyway, I was in the hospital for
three months, and in the meantime I
had undergone three operations. How
I survived them is a mystery to me, for
I had not the strength of a kitten.”
“ What did the doctors say about your
case ?”
“ The doctors said I had ulceration of
the stomach, and that I could not live
a fortnight. They injected morphia and
kept me plentifully supplied with medi-
cines, which did no good. The doctors
and nurses were exceedingly kind and
attentive, and I am sure they did every-
thing in their power for me, but their
efforts were inadequate. As they coulci
not cure me I went home nearly dead
I tried another doctor, under whose ad
vice and treatment I made no improve-
ment. I was daily getting less able to
stand the agonies which were torturing
me to death. The doctor gave me up
at last, saying he could not cure me. I
was suffering so acutely at the time
that I ordered him out of the house
because he admitted his inability to do
me good. To seek further for relief now
seemed but a waste of time and money.
I could only be relieved by the coming
of death, for which I waited patiently.
I was aroused from this despondent
frame of mind by hearing of a case like
mine being successfully treated with
Clements Tonic I started on the same
remedy that day. I could only take a
teaspoonful at first, a portion of which,
like everything else, I vomited. 1 took
another dose of Clements Tonic later
on, which remained in my stomach, and
I have never vomited since. After the
failures of endless medicines and several
doctors, after living on ice and milk for
four months, Clements Tonic rescued
me from the jaws of death. I was able
to increase my food gradually, and the
soothing influence of Clements Tonic
brought peaceful repose, besides restor-
ing strength and vitality. Thus I con-
tinued with that wonderful medicine till
I was well enough to- discontinue it. To
all sufferers I heartily recommend Cle-
ments Tonic, and I wish you to publish
these facts in any way you deem ad-
visable.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Jeannie Anderson, of 14 Smith Street, Dunedin,
in the Colony of New Zealand, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of three folios and
consecutively numbered from one to three, and that
it contains and is a true and faithful account of
my illness and cure by Clements Tonic and also
contains my full permission to publish in any way
my statements, which I give voluntarily, without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the prory ons of an Act of
the General Assembly of New saland, intituled
“ The Justices of Peace Act, i88w”
Declared at Dunedin this thirty-first day of Decem.
ber, one thousand nine hundred, before me,
ISAAC SET.BY, J.P.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
OEHuBBB
WESTERN
d
f
fliHaasHß
wm
SETS .—4O Japan, Is 6d >
47 Spain, 2s ; 10 Bulgaria, 6d •
16 Heligoland, Is : 8 Egypt, 6d ; 30
French, 9d ; 12 Indian Telegraghs,
6d ; 9 Labuan Pictorial, 2s 6d ; 11
Canada, 6d; 9 Canada Duty, 6d; 5
Bolivia,4d. Packets 50, Is ;100,2s 6d.
Stamps Purchased. New Catalogue
of Stamps, Albums, etc., Gratis.
CHARLES DONNE, 348 Little Collins-et., Melbourne.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
ITIHE Largest and Best- Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
Business ___
good Tailoriog.
SPRING.
New Neat Designs in Worsteds
and Tweeds.
PURE INDIGO SERGES.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &C*
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post tret-.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Mercers,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
A NEW
KODAK.
The No. 2 Plico Kodak.
©
For Pictures 3£ x 3£ inches.
Price 21/- Only.
Loaded and Unloaded In Daylight.
Send for Illustrated Leaflet and mention
this Paper.
KODAKS ALL PRICES, FROM ss. TO £7 15s,
H«w on Sale by all Photographic Dealers.
KODAK Ltd.
“THE BLOCK,” 284 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
Hedioal.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
POWELL’S BALSAM
OF ANISEED
WILL CURE YOUR COUGH
All the world oyer, it has been the recognised
Cough Remedy for the past 75 years, and is
to-day the Safe and Reliable Cure for
Goughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis
Influenza, and ail Lung Troubles.
Loosens the Phlegm immediately, and re-
moves the tickling sensation in the Throat,
which deprives so many of rest ouring the
night. It Strengthens the Voice.
WARNING When purchasing
Powell's Balsam of Aniseed
see the above Trade Mark on each wrapper
and beware of Imitations.
Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers through-
out the world. Prepared only by Thomas
Powell, Ld., Blackfriars, London, S.E.
T\EAR SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness and De
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia.
■“LINCOLN, STUART &CO.
1 PROPHIETABT LIMITED,
262 & 264 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
White Shirts to measure.
Our Suit to order at 425. Is
marvellous value; made from
ftll*wool Tweeds,Vicunas, or fast
color Serges ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class c f material, £3 3s. To
measure, capital Trousers, *ery
good patterns 12*. 6d.
Dress Suits, to measure, £s*
Clerical Suits, to measure. £s*
Hiding Breaches, 255.
Hiding Habits, Ac.
We supply ready made. Men’s
.capital Tweed Suits. 21s. & 255.
) Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye,2.ls.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or broWli
Sergei ette t-uits, 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers,ss, lid.
All-wool blue and black ViCutlS
Sacs and Vests, 19s (id.
Men’s Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19s. (id. White Drill
Sacs and Trousers, 10s. 6d.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, 12s (id.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sacs,
(is. 9d. White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9d., 4s 9d., ss. (id.
Travelling Trunks, Ba_,s and
Hugs in great variety.
Men’s White Shirts, colored
front and cuffs. 2s. 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. (id.
White Matie Shirts, collar and
pocket, 3s. Gd.
So t Alpine Hats, 41s. 6d., all
colors.
nard Hats. 4“. O.d- Caps. Is,
Merino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d,
Neckties, all shapes and colors.
Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
fig. 9d., 9a. fid.
We like to write letters; so don't be afraid to ask for an
Information. Our hook, “ The Philosophy of I ress " a>
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement forms posteu fro
Write for them.
BLAIR’S
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
PILLS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
€V€RY MAN
Should send for a VALUABLE PAMPHLET explaining
how all NERVOUS and ORGANIC derangements may be
SUCCESSFULLY TREATED by a NEW METHOD. It is
EASY and PLEASANT, and will effect a PERFECT and
PFRMANENT CURE. Sent post FREE. Address —
?HE BOTANIC INSTITUTE, VICTORIA CHAMBERS.
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
IThei
leaf
■aU
by using Wilson’s Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Wonderful Results obtained in
cases considered beyond any
treatment. Soft, comfortable,
and invisible when in use.
Head Noises Relieved.
Pamphlets and Australian
Testimonials Free.
J. CHALMERS, Sole Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
fiTR
DEAF
dsf
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. &
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
ds
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole A gents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, dec.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
jsj j
M
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne
Is your Hus-
band, Son,
Brother, or
Father a
DRUNKARD
If so, send us your Name and Address, with 4d. to cover
postage, and we will send you in a plain envelope our
Booklet giving full particulars how to give EUCRASY
secretly in Tea, Coffee, Food, etc. It is odorless and
tasteless, and will cure this dreadful habit quietly and
permanently without the Patient’s knowledge or consent.
GOOD FOR BOTH SEXES.
Write THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney.
NQ yy— READY .
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being a reprint of a large number of articles from
The Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
Price 6d ; Posted Bd.


About 35 per cent. (1 in every -2'86) of the
people of S. Australia have deposits in the Savings
Bank. Spite of hard times, the number of de-
positors last year (to June 30, 1901) increased
6897, and the amount left in at the end went up
from £1,727,806 to £1,918,708. When all is said
and done S. Australia’s hard times are a good deal
like Israel’s invariably bad time over every race-
meeting.
Sydney Telegraph item :
Melbourne, Thursday.
One witness, in giving evidence before the Factories
Commission to-day, disclosed conditions of sweating not
generally owned up to in Victoria. He was speaking with
regard to wages in the clothing trade, and the effect the
Wages Boards had had on the industry. He knew of
cases where women were paid Is. for making a pair of
trousers.
One shilling ! And in N.S.W., where there is no
minimum-wage law, we have lately been hearing
of the same work being done for as little as four-
pence /
Is there in your city (writes the London
correspondent of Sydney D.T.) anyone weary of
loneliness and stranded on the shores of time,
who yet lives in the lap of luxury ? If so, let him
or her take heart of grace, and reply by cable to
this pathetic advertisement in the Times, and no
more exclaim with Moore—
When true hearts lie withered,
And fond ones are flown,
O 1 who would inhabit
This bleak world alone ?
Here is the appealing advt. :
A WOMAN of position, fortune, and well-connected,
but much alone, desires to meet another indivi-
dual who may have a fine house, with all its accom-
paniments, but may be weary of loneliness ; in fact,
one who by circumstances is stranded on the shores
of time, desirous of sympathy and friendship, to
whom advertiser could go, as it were, on a visit,
nothing binding on either side. She would read
aloud, accompany in drive, &c. No salary, merely
for companionship, London or its vicinity. Apply,
&c.
m
yzxs
Fkrflpjl
HAIRi
Under Royal
Patronage.
KOKO f°r the Hair is a tonic, cleansing, invigorat-
ing and delightfully cooling preparation, causes the
hair to grow luxuriantly, keeps it soft and pliant,
eradicates dandnff, prevents hair from falling and
turning grey, promotes growth, contains no dye or
greasy substance, is the most cleanly of all' hair
preparations, and is perfectly harmless. The unique
testimonials received prove it to be undoubtedly
the best dressing for the hair. 1/-, 2/6, and 4/6, of
all Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Australian Depot: Koko-Maricopas Co., Ld M
14, Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
f
CAUTION.
See that this registered Trade
Mark is on every bottle.
sdf
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I’O defy competition.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS. CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Jhe Mjca Lubricant C?- South Shields, Eng.
Lubricants & Packings roR; all Purposes. -Patent Mica Grease saves 30%
IN COST Of LuBRICAT lON & KF EPS 8£ a RINC S>FnrE C T LY COOL.: PaTENT MiCA
PaCKiNCS last 7 WiCC AS LOINC AS OR DIN ARY S' ARE ?5% L ! CHTER, ThE v
°0 KOT SCORE H-iL BUT PU I A MiCA SURFACE CN THS.M SIMILAR IN AFF
-EARANCt- tc Electro plate. " A «**-
SCI E ACE N T :\f,n
AUSTRAL ASM
DEPOT 171 CLARENCE S
m
SYUNF'k N t W
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
Price SIXr»EKTCE=r»oBted., Oc3L.
Hearne
’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION.
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA. ’
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing Hoa s P '
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure t ° r
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop Con C< { m ',
never been known to exist where “ Coughshave been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose isgenerall' ffi” T
and a Complete Cure is certain. h ’ ° j 1 ieu •
BEWARK OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. —Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about, the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BL A T 1.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLEi..,...
BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.” —Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMk j.
A Child Seven Months
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEAR.IES
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of .your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mr*. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
'* Lien welly n,
Katunga, Vic.
"Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.’’
The Relative in England, who is SO
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
also
WAS A GREAT SUFfL
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE ! . , 1
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Treut,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.’
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send ,me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Tears’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales."
A Five Tears' Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
‘‘Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment!
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes “After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it."
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma."
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARIME, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
.ranch depot office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
• London Medical Record.
Food
Infants'
9
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BERBER'S FOOD ia sold in Tina by Chamiata, On., annymhara.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


BRACES THE NERVES LIKE BARS OF STEEL.
Kutnows
Powder,
1891
■ j
aovNO'aiva
hi asva^o® l
invissoo
CONSTANT INCREASE IN APPRECIATION
constant increase
IN sales
A PERFECT ORGANIC CLEANSER.
fx V
' “ The Nerve Invigorator.”
KUTNOW’S
POWDER,
1901.
N. ‘ ‘ The Liver Stimulator” A
Are You Prepared
to be Convinced?
TTHW t We suppose you want good health ? Is it your
Xl x/ W • wish to have a clear skin and a healthy com-
plexion ?
Would you like any unsightly pimples and skin blotches
removed ?
Is it your wish to have a good digestion and a keen appetite ?
Would you like to feel that the food is not only properly
digested, but that the body is nourished, and new strength,
vigor, and health infused into the system ?
Would you like the liver stimulated, the kidneys freed of de-
posits, the bowels properly cleansed, and the blood purified ?
Do you wish to feel young again ?
Would you like the realise the joyous sparkle of nerve life as
it infuses the body with its glowing vitality ; to feel the magnetic
enthusiasm of youthful energy ; to be happy, light-hearted, and
full of joyous impulses ?
Is it your desire to be free of everlasting headaches, despond-
ency, brain-fag, inertia, languor, and general nervous debility ?
Would you like to feel thorough enjoyment in your work, to
rise with a clear, active brain, to feel confidence and strength in
all your undertakings ?
We naturally take it you would. May we then give you a
hint ? We are not wizards, but you may make a test of the
greatest health restorer in the world by sending for a trial bottle
of Kutnow's Carlsbad Powder.
The trial bottle will not accomplish all the change desired
instanter, but it will suffice to prove conclusively that at last you
have discovered a valuable bracer of the nerves, and a perfect
cleanser of the system generally, which if continued will banish
all derangements of the digestive and excretory organs.
You will find that’s HOW to get good health.
“Eradicates Stubborn Diseases.”
The extraordinary complicated diseases resulting from neglect
of precautionary measures pass the wit of man. It is not the
business of Kutnow’s Powder to claim that it can cure all the
ills of mankind from Housemaid’s Knee to Impecuniosity. One
solid, incontestable fact, however, remains in the world-wide
testimony of sufferers from painful and distressing derangements,
viz., that KUTNOW’S POWDER not only prevents disease by
its marvellous cleansing properties, but absolutely eradicates
diseases that have become stubborn through neglect. If in
robust health take KIJTNOW’S POWDER on rising, and you
need never be ill ; if ill, depressed, irritable, languid or sleepless,
take “ Kutnow,” and the trouble will quickly vanish ; the blood
is purified, the heart beats more vigorously, the liver quickens
into action, and the kidneys are regulated into increased effi-
ciency. Thus does the man become himself again, lives, breathes,
and enjoys his being, eats well, sleeps well, and works well.
Donald Nichol, Esq., President of the Engineering and
Sanitary Association for London and Middlesex, writes:
“ I ain free to say to the acting authorities of the several
hospitals and infirmaries, of which I am a Governor, that great
benefit cannot fail to arise by the use of your Effervescent
Carlsbad Powder.”
KUTNOW’S POWDER is sold in capsuled bottles at 2/9 by all
first-class Chemists and Medicine Vendors everywhere. See
that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirchensprung ” (or Deer
Leap), and the autograph facsimile signature “S. Kutnow &
Co., Ld.,” are on the label and carton. Only these ensure
genuineness. Insist on “KUTNOW’S,” and firmly refuse any
substitute —they are worthless, and often injurious.
Unimpeachable
Testimony from
Those Convinced.
“The Vicarage, Friskney 5.0., Lines.
“ I find your Effervescing Carlsbad Powder very useful. It
has certainly been of benefit to me during a long and serious
attack of gout. (Rev.) H. CHE ALES.”
“ Paarl, Cape Colony.
“I am now using the second bottle of your Corlsbad Powder
which I obtained from Messrs. Lennon and Co., Cape Town,
and am exceedingly glad of being able to state that your pre-
paration is the best I have as yet taken to prevent the formation
of Uric Acid in the blood and to remove gall-stones and other
dissolved products from the system. I cannot praise it enough,
and will advise all those who suffer from Liver complaint and
Kidney troubles to try your Powder. Please accept my sincere
thanks. J. C. VOIGHT.”
“6, Londen Road, High-street, Walthamstow.
“ Entirely unsolicited, I am anxious to bear my testimony to
the wonderful results of your ‘Carlsbad Powders.’ For a long
period had been suffering from indigestion. Seeing your adver-
tisement thought I would give them a trial, and am more than
satisfied with the result. Life is a pleasure, am free from pain,
feel very much stronger, and can, with the utmost confidence,
recommend them. As an act of justice to you as well as suffering
humanity, cannot withhold my testimony to the worth of your
powders. S. FOOTMAN.”
Proprietors :S. KUTNOW and CO.J Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C. Proprietors in U.S.A. : KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York.
“Mamshaft” barracks for Chillagoe: Par.
in Bulletin, 24th Aug., says of Chillagoe—‘For a time,
only two furnaces will be put in blast. Why ? Is it be-
cause the others will not be ready in time ? ’ Of course it
is ; even two smelters will not be ready till the middle of
this month (Sept.), and, having just returned from the
field, I am in a position to state that there is no such
thing as an immediate scarcity of ore to be considered.
Stewart’s estimates of tonnage are not attacked his
values are. The railway is a fine piece of work —should
pay profits on public traffic alone, excluding the proprie-
tors’ traffic. Then Garnet Freehold is building a line,
Stannary Hills Co. is building a line, and the permanent
survey of the line to the Einasleigh has been started.
Chillagoe line, as a profit-maker, will be a bigger concern
(and will show greater profits per mile) than Silverton
Tramway Co. The 100 miles of line provide about 400
miles of good fuel along its route, and coke and mine-
supplies will have only a third of the haulage Broken
Hill had to pay. Present plant, when com-
pleted, will treat about 650 tons of ore daily
—say 190,000 tons a year, and on these figures there
is quite years’ work in sight: a statement confirmative
of Stewart’s figures, which will be found to have been
conservative from the beginning. The attemptsat mine-
development have been of a “book” description, dic-
tated by a hard-and-fast rule laid down when the condi-
tions of ore-occurrence were unknown. The original
owners’ style of mining was sneered at ; said sneering
being a rather foolish proceeding in view of the fact that
the original owners got on to ore, and stayed in it, and
smelted their winnings. The present management sank
big shafts off the lodes, and generally behind the lodes,
when for all purposes of prospecting the obvious course
was to get on to the ore already exposed, to deepen old
workings already in ore, and generally to prove a lode
before sinking permanent shafts in the country. Wher-
ever the original workings were developed as in the Mun-
gana Oo.’s mines, the results proved big bodies of ore ;
the only mines whose permanence is in doubt are those
which have the very good excuse that they have not been
sunk on—for there is not a case of cross-cuts having been
put in the right direction from these ill-advised “ perma-
nent ” shafts without striking ore.
“The Mungana Co., with the results of its
deepening of the old Girofla shaft and the developments
under the present management, is certain to be a big con-
tinuous div.-payer as soon as it gets well under way in
producing. The Red-cap group, where shallow workings
have proved one of the most continuous ore-channels in
this continent, have been almost utterly neglected. A
shaft was put down in ore on the Oruba of the Zillmanton
group, and a lode has been proved from the surface to
170 ft. worth 5 per cent, and 21ft. wide. Drives at the
100 ft. level give a length of 270 ft. with 5 per cent still in
the face; and at the 160 ft. the proved length so
far is 80ft. east and 100 ft. west. Easterly the face
is in a ferruginous clay carrying crystals of red
oxide and veinings of native copper—westerly the
ore is a black sulphide in kaolin. The Shannon lode
has been opened by shallow shafts and cuttings for 1050 ft.
On the Hensey a shoot of good grade ore 400 ft. long by
sft. wide by 80ft. high was abandoned and a big shaft
was sunk in the granite away from the ore. On the
Boomerang the late management sunk a shaft and drove
a tunnel behind the lode and in garnet rock This is the
more un-understandable when it is stated they, the
original owners, sunk a shaft which went out of the ore
body, proving its rapid southerly dip. The old pro-
prietary followed the ore southerly and caught it in a
winze,' still dipping rapidly south. The new shaft
on the Harper was sunk on the wrong side of
the outcrop and 900 ft. away from the old shaft,
where ore was still showing. This old shaft was un-
watered for the first time in three years, yet it has pro-
duced a large quantity of 10 per cent, ore, and a body of
6 per cent, ore is still standing in the lower workings,
estimated at 5000 tons. On the Hobson and Harkins
the three valueless shafts sunk in the country have not
altered the quantity of the ore available since the O.R.
and M. Go. took over the properties. On the P.P.A. East
a shaft was sunk in tne ore body to 50ft. Opening out was
started here, and a crescent-shaped drive went around
portion of the ore body a distance of 220 ft., so that at
the face the drive is now within 25ft. of the surface. On
the P.P. A. an enormous quantity of ore'is exposed by the
stripping of the overburden for railway banks. The face
is about 70ft. high and 150 ft. long. Rails have been laid
into the face, which will be worked by two benches. The
open cut, sunk further west, proves this lode to be 80ft.
wide at a depth of 30ft. from the top of the outcrop, and
from the bottom of the cut a shaft is down 40ft. in
5 per cent, ore, with good silver value. The shaft
sunk by the late management on the P.P. A. was started in
the lode. At 70ft. the lode went northerly out of the shaft
which was continued into the granite footwall. Although
the lode is patently underlying north, a crosscut was
started south, and continued for 166 ft. in granite. A
return was then made to the shaft, and a crosscut was
started northerly. It struck the lode in 23ft. The Otho
shaft was sunk almost in the creek bed. On the Atherton
the open cut—a fairly deep one —and the shafts, which
were both in ore, were abandoned, and a shaft was started
in granite—the mullock being tipped into the open cut
and the shaft which had been sunk in the ore. The new
shaft has, however, proved the lode at a shallow level —a
crosscut at 50ft. being now in low-grade ore. This list of
errors can be extended by the new workings of the
Ruddigore, where the work of the original owners is
shown by two open cuts which have produced great
quantities of ore ; 9000 tons, worth over 3£ per cent., was
stacked by the original owners. The late management’s
two shafts are too far east, and an unnecessary quantity of
dead work has been done. But there is plenty ore for
over two years, and the new system of development
should repeat the successes of the Mungana end of the
field. Most great mines get bad treatment at some time
or other of their lives; Chillagoe R. and M. Ltd. is good
enough to live not only by reason of good management,
but in defiance of bad. In justice to Stewart’s manage-
ment, norice must be taken of the contention that many
of the now seemingly valueless ‘permanent’ shafts will
prove valuable when more work is done in the way of
extending cross-cuts—which work, according to the late
management, was suspended by the directors owing to
the co.’s shortness of money.”
• • • •
Cardwell mine, 12 miles from Mt. Garnet, and
on the Freehold Oo.’s railway route, claims to have
100,000 tons copper-ore worth 3 per cent., and a little
silver in sight. The ore is 27 per cent, silica and carries
but a trace of zinc. Stated that Garnet Freehold has
arranged to buy the Cardwell ore.
* * * •
The new copper rush midway between Nyngan
and Oobar, and six miles south from Mt. Boppy Railway
Station and mine of that name, promises to pan out
great things, The Bulletin is told. Principal blocks, 40
acres each, held by Oobar syndicates, are opening up
well with 20 per cent, ore, but the pick of the lot is a 6ft.
lode held by Longworth and Saunders, which shows grey
ore, oxide and carbons running to 35 per cent, copper.
This is only sft. from surface, and making. Longworth
(Oobar’s boss copper man) is early in the field, and likes
his chance greatly.
* • • •
Mt. Boppy G.M. Co., 30 miles south from
Oobar, is a mine of much promise, and the chief owners
—so far unlucky Gallymont shareholders—have strong
reason to congratulate themselves on the prospect of a
recovery. Big reef running to an ounce ; present treat-
ment 40-head battery and cyanide, with slime-plant
shortly to be erected. Ore, although hard, is easily won,
and upon 1800 tons milled monthly, returns should show
a handsome profit on £95,000 capitalisation.
* * * *
With the recent scarcity of water at Broken
Hill, comes a revival of the local Co-operative Water Sup-
ply Co., the promoters of which were severely handled by
Public Works Committee last year. The co. asserted it
possessed certain water rights, and urged that its scheme
was the only practical and adequate one for the Hill.
Harry Levien, then a member of the committee, tackled
in police-court fashion the agents of the co. who gave
evidence, and fairly tied them up. D. 0. Maclachlan, of
Mines Department, gave evidence to the effect that the
co.’s title had expired and was not worth a dam ; and yet
the dry bones are rattling again.
* * * •
They wouldn’t be happy at White Cliffs
(N.S.W.) opal field till they got a commission to inquire
into their grievances, and they aren’t any happier now
they have got the Commission’s report. This report,
as printed here lately, recommended that the English
co.’s blocks—the principal on the field —be resumed by
Government, the latter paying £B4OO, equal to the market
value of the shares, with 20 per cent, added. The held
is asking why one set of blocks, and not the whole lot,
should be dealt with in this fashion ; and the field is put-
ting a sensible question. The only suggested explana-
tion of the present one-legged proposal is that it is desir-
able to deal with the big co. before bargaining with the
holders of the less valuable, but more numerous, other
leases and 4-acre mineral claims. To resume the whole lot,
co’s. and all, would probably cost from £12,000 to £14,000,
though one estimate of £20,000 is made. None of the
leases have more than about nine years to run.
* * * *
The coal-mine that will probably be acquired
and worked by the Maoriland Govt, is one at Point Eliza-
beth, some four miles from Gre.vmouth. There are
already millions of tons in sight. The mine, which has
hitherto been much mismanaged, is held under lease
from Govt. It is at present in the hands of certain
prior-lien debenture-holders, who have put in a receiver.
* * • *
Croydon notes to Aug. 26 : Important develop-
ments in deep ground likely to cause great revival in
mining here. Diamond - drill at Iguana Consols lease
pierced gold-bearing quartz in reef formation at depth of
1230 ft., proving continuance of Iguana reef beyond
fault, and the auriferousness of Croydon lodes in deep
ground. Rich leader discovered also in deepest part yet
worked of Golden Gate and Nancy Lee United. Crush-
ing from upper levels of this mine lately gave 2oz. per
ton average. G. Gate United crushing continuously
with 15-head stampers. G.G. 3 and 4 South, which in
three years produced two tons of gold, going to recom-
mence crushing, after long stoppage, owing to bad water.
G.G. 5 South, known here as Cuthbert’s, has also been
crushing continuously from big faces for regular (livs.
Walsh’s G.G. Block going to resume sinking, with favor-
able chances of striking reef. Morgan’s Block, heretofore
the most stupendously mismanaged mine in N.Q., going
in for a Worthington pump, to keep the shaft free of
water, so as to see what reef is like ; reef alleged to be
close at hand, but it will need to be nearly solid gold to
keep the pump going.
* • * *
“Fletch”: We are told that practically the
only water-communication between the Stewart River
(port for the Coen and Hamilton gold-fields, N.Q.) and
Oooktown is by schooners; and although the run up is a
matter of hours, during the S.E. season it takes the
schooners sometimes as much as three weeks to get back.
Indeed, at any time during the south-easter season, it is
odds that a man humping his swag will reach Cooktown
sooner than if he travelled by boat from the aforesaid
fields.
• * * *
“ Kersha” : At Ebagoola, Cape York Peninsula,
the alluvial is about rooted-out. Never was much good,
although a very few did well; and patches may yet be got
—probably by accident. The reefs, however, have given,
and are still giving, surface-crushings up to 10oz., and
there is plenty of easy -to- be - got surface-stone, which
would go about loz., but, as carting and crushing would
run to about that, it cannot be touched at present. Stores
give 555. for alluvial gold on the field, and the assay-value
of the reef gold is mostly somewhere between £2 and £3.
Fever and dysentery are very prevalent in the place.
* * • *
Some Vic. mining figures: Gold won to end of
1900, 64,346,8120 z. (£257,386,448), or 60 per cent, of all
Australasian product. Most prolific year, ’56—3,053,7440z.
Poorest ditto, ’91—576,3990z. Last year, 807,4070 z.
Bendigo average per ton last year, 7'3dwt. ; Ballarat’s,
7'Gdwt. Highest average, Gippsland—l4dwt. Lowest,
Ararat and Stawell —6'sdwt. Average for State, B'l9.
Thomas United (Bendigo), l - 4dwt., paid a div.; Birthday
(Berringa) paid 2400 per cent, on paid-up capital last year ;
South German (Maldon), 442 per cent. Eight shafts over
3000 ft. deep, all on Bendigo ; Lazarus, 3500 ft., the deepest
at Dec. 31. Machinery employed, £1,938,040; men,
29,035. Miners killed, 35 ; injured, 87 ; killed in 20 years,
834; injured, 1728.
• * * *
Vic. Govt. Metallurgist Jenkins mentions in
his annual report that the increase of temperature with
depth in Bendigo mines has been hitherto greatly under-
stated. As the result of experiments made down to
about 3000 ft, he reports a rise of 1“ Fahr. for every
75ft.—40° for 3000 ft.
From a northern correspondent :
The Clarence bar is again becoming troublesome, and
threatens seriously to interfere with the trade of the
finest river on the N.S.W. coast. At the north side of
the entrance the occasional big floods sweep away the
sand and leave a clear entrance for a time ; but the sand
again gradually encroaches, leaving only a small channel
for navigation. The first attempt at improvement was
begun 25 years ago, and abandoned after an expenditure
of £200,000. Then Sir John Coode, an English engineer,
was consulted, and he submitted a plan providing for
north and south breakwaters, to be followed by inner
training walls ; but the Public Works Committee shelved
the essential outer breakwaters and recommended the
inner training-walls only. These are now approaching
completion, having cost between £lOO,OOO and £lno,ooo,
but during their progress the bar has become steadily
worse, and it looks as if all this money will have been
wasted. A couple of years ago a local resident submitted
plans for cutting a canal through the neck of the inner
South Head, thus giving a straight channel to deep sea
water with a natural headland on each side. The Public
Works Department treated this idea with scorn, but as
the completion of Coode’s entire scheme will probably
cost another £500,000 and take years to execute, the
local man’s plan should be worth inquiring into.
Mount Morgan up to date :
Mt. Morgan G.M. Co. still reigns supreme over the
township (says a Bulletin contributor). There are about
1500 men employed bv the co., and upon the proceeds of
the labor of these men the entire population (over 9000
persons) depends, directly or indirectly, for existence ,
for, beyond the employment given in and about the one
mine, owned by the one co., there is no work whatever,
excepting incidentally. Therefore, with very rare excep-
tions, any man who’s “ sacked ” by the co. must neces-
sarily leave the place for ever, sacrificing whatever in-
terests he may there possess. See, then, what a serious
thing it is for a married man with a family, who has his
all staked in the place, to fall under the displeasure of
the co. or its agents. This displeasure may be
incurred by an employee on its becoming known
that he is in the habit of carrying his “crib”
wrapped in a democratic newspaper, and of
reading the same during crib-time. Although the Mt.
Morgan Jingo prates a great deal about “ glorious
liberty,” he enjoys little or none himself, for he dwells
under autocratic government. During the first collection
of money for the first “Patriotic” fund in 1899 the bosses
went round amongst the men, with subscription lists in
their hands, and it was significantly bruited that all who
refused to give at least a full day’s pay would be instantly
“ sacked.” The majority acquiesced, but a few stubborn
souls refused, and the darkness of Hades thereupon
enveloped them. The same tyranny is in evidence at
every general election ; all recognised supporters of any
candidate other than the one whom the co. is supporting
(who has been one of the co. for the past nine years)
being instantly persuaded to seek employment elsewhere.
As a curiosity, I attach a poem written by a Mt. Morgan
Milton under the eye of the boss.—
TRAITORS 1
Base born Britons 1
Loyalty despises!
Boycott all the brutes—
Boer sympathisers.
Rotten renegades !
Traitorous advisers!
Only fit to shoot
Boer sympathisers.
White flag, red cross sneaks 1
Kopje lurking shicers !
Ourse ’em branch and root—
Boer sympathisers.
Here is another version, from “Canip ” :
Consider the complacency of Mount Morgan manage-
ment. A few months back, a labor-man with extreme
views wished to address the men, but, finding he would
have to wait until knock-off time, he appealed to the
management and obtained an hour’s leave for the hands
to come and listen to vituperation of capitalists ! By the
way, Mount Morgan, with an electoral roll containing
about 90 per cent, of manual laborers, has never returned
a labor member. The directorate has always treated men
as self-respecting humans—no slave-driving, no petty
oppressions.
Now, which is the correct pea ?


KNOCKED UP
After a Hard Day’s Work.
u
*s
IJ
□
jV
>(l- r
f I
i
'a
1
1
wJ
L
I
All fagged out —Scarcely enough energy to get home in the
evening—No rest after yon do get home—As tired in the morning
as you are at night —
Back so lame that you can scarcely bend it —Aches and
throbs and pains even when you lie still —
Kidneys are to blame.
They’re not taking the poison out of the blood —Need help,
and need it at once —
Other Sydney people have been in the same condition —
Hundreds of them—They’ve taken
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
And they’ve been cured —
Cured so quickly and permanently that they could scarcely
believe their own senses —
They’ll tell you about the goodness of Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills —Tell you with a glad earnestness that you can’t
help believing —
Bead what one Sydney man has to say :
Mr. P. Smith, No. 1 Cheltenham-street, Balmain, says : “Over twelve months ago I
used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for kidney trouble, and they worked a miracle in my
case. I had been under three doctors at different times, but their treatment did me no
good. I used to be so bad that I would have to be carried home in a cart if an attack
came on when working or in the street. Sometimes when walking I have been taken
bad, and would be taken to the hospital. My wife said she never expected I would live
through some of these bad turns. I suffered with a kind of biliousness, vomiting egg-like
stuff. My secretions were in a frightful state. I could never bend my back or move at
all when I had a bad turn. The people at the hospital gave me medicines and recom-
mended rubbing in liniments, but it was no use, they did me no good. I saw an adver-
tisement for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, stating that these pills had cured Mr. Dunn,
and, knowing him, led me to procure this remedy, I only took one box of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and they cured me. The first dose relieved me. When I had
finished them I started work, and have worked ever since. It is heavy work lam doing,
but it does not affect me. These pills cured me after years of suffering, and the relief
was almost instantaneous. I might state that since tnen I have had a bad attack of
lumbago, which laid me up one month. I tried several, but never thought Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills were good for this complaint. Then I remembered that I had a
few in a box, and not having any other medicine in the house, I tried them. They cured
me. I procured these marvellous pills at Newman’s Pharmacy, in King-street.”
You can buy Doan’s Pills of all Chemists and Storekeepers,
at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes 15s. 3d.), or they will be posted on
receipt of price by the Proprietors, Poster, M £ Clellan Co., 76
Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S.
A Martyr to Itching Piles.
FOR OYER TWENTY YEARS, AND
PERMANENTLY CURED BY TWO
POTS OF DOAN’S OINTMENT.
Mb. M. J. Ryan, J.P., 398 Riley-street, a well-
known resident of Sydney, and all over this State,
writes the following unsolicited letter for the
benefit of suffering humanity. He says : —“lt
gives me great pleasure to testify to the great
worth of Doan’s Ointment. I have been a martyr
for over 20 years to the dreadful disease of itching
Piles, which very often nearly drove me mad. I
may tell you that during all those years I have
never had one good night’s rest. I tried scores of
doctors, both in Sydney and the country. I have
tried lotions and ointments, and I might as well
have used water for all the good they did me. I
am sending you this testimonial so that you may
use it in the interest of my fellow creatures, as I
am sure there are hundreds of them suffering the
same as I did. Now, I may state that two
months ago I heard a gentleman telling another
of his terrible sufferings, and how he got cured by
Doan’s Ointment. lat once purchased a pot, and
I am proud to say that from that very night I
have slept sound, and without being tortured for
the first time in 20 years. I continued the treat-
meat, and before I had used two boxes, I found
myself entirely cured. This is two months ago,
and I have had no return of my complaint since.
I would willingly have paid £5O to any doctor, if
he had guaranteed to do what Doan’s Ointment
did for me. You may publish this statement in
The Bulletin or any other paper, and should
anyone wish to call on me or write, I will be
pleased to tell them of my cure in detail, —I am.
dear sirs, yours very truly,
M. J. RYAN, J.P.,
July 27, 1901. 398 Riley-streefc.
To Foster, M'Clellan Co.,
76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
It cannot be repeated too often that Doan’s
Ointment will cure itching Piles. IT WILL
CURE THEM ABSOLUTELY. But do not
take the manufacturers’ word for this, ask Mr.
Ryan ; he knows, for it cured him, and he lives
here in Sydney. Is not that the best possible
kind of proof ? Could there be better ?
Doan’s Ointment is splendid in all Skin
Diseases, Eczema, Sores, Hives, Insect Bites,
Chilblains, &c. It is perfectly safe and very effec-
tive. For sale by all chemists and storekeepers
at 2s. 9d. per pot, or will be posted on receipt of
the price by the proprietors, Foster, M'Clellan
Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Be sure it is DOAN’S.
“So Little Else Hast Thou.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ah, nowhere do these suns go westering
With the wild wander of those suns away :
Ah, nowhere do those stars sequestering
Behind far peaks in my far land make play
In this worn island with the steady eyes,
And learned old lips, grown up past all surprise.
Ah, nowhere do these fields go wandering
Into wild, vast, indefinite white nights :
1 roam these meadows, and my strange eyes,
pondering
On £ a y red poppies, see long southern lights
Break through vague worlds of dim, provoking
trees,
With haunting breaths, and unlived histories.
Ah, nowhere is there where the heart can fill
Grey hunger with great sweeps of mystery-land:
All, all, is branded, builded—dale and hill;
All, all, is written blackly by man’s hand.
Ah, poor worn island, with maternal brow,
Give peace, give peace—so little else hast thou !
ENG.
LOUISE MACK.
Impressions of Travel.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Travelling is delightful — only for the travellers.
You have to go away to find how many decent
people stay at home. My first discernible emotion
after I left Australia was surprise at the kind of
people who travelled. I could never have believed
it. All the bourgeoises, the blind-souled, silly-
lipped—hundreds and hundreds of them, ever
about you, day and night—it hurts to hear them
speak the names of Rome, Venice.
I have heard Santley voice his experience cor-
respondingly. The hundreds of appalling inani-
ties that you have to journey that long, long
journey with, steal its poetry as a malodorous wind
steals the scent of a rose.
* * * *
There is only one degree worse than the
Travelled. That is the Much-Travelled. This
person has been everywhere, and killed the charm
of every place he went to. No glamor of strange
lands clings to him. He went, that’s all. That
says everything. He went, and his money.
* * * *
I have never seen these things written before
about this particular voyage, but I guess that
other people have thought them, felt them, writhed
under them.
You see, the majority of passengers are not the
genuine Australian article. They are Scotch-
Australs, Cockney-Australs, provincial-English-
Australs. They have made money in Australia,
brewing, baking, mining, shopkeeping, public-
housekeeping, farming. And they are—well, I
should think they would be inestimable in their
own homes. But r at sea —at sea they’re all at sea.
Five hundred or so of these worthy souls break-
fast, lunch, dine, and sup with you 126 times
running. For over 30 days you see them inces-
santly, hear no else but them. They pay their
passage, and have their rights to look after, and
the justice in you makes you censure yourself for
resenting their presence in a sunset across the
desert as we come through the Canal —the dear
desert that bears the last likeness to Australia we
shall see for many a day
» * » *
And yet beer-makers and shirt-makers and
bootmakers and bread-bakers, will not fit in with
the poetry of an evening when the faraway Nile
gleams in a scarlet overflow to the left, and a dull
purple world stretches in dim mystery to the
right, and behind, up the Canal waters, comes a
slow procession of stately ships, following us up to
the Mediterranean beyond.
I never learnt so much about universal hate as
I did that night when I found never a corner I
could look from, alone, and had to mix in all their
company with all that loveliness, and feel the
loveliness hiding itself from me, disdainfully.
* * * *
As we came through the Canal Tennyson’s line
grew suddenly alive —
The stately ship glides on—
Five great, solemn, dignified vessels crept after
us, one behind another, stealing through the green
line of water that breaks the desert in two.
* * * *
A long sea-voyage shows you what we owe to
our labels. Several hundred people are suddenly
thrown together. Most are unknown to most.
You look round and study them furtively. You
have nothing to help you but your intuitions.
These are invariably wrong. Mine were, at any
rate. At first everyone looks commonplace; all
the women look plain, all the men look stupid.
Here and there you find a “ nice ” face, but that
is the limit of your discovery. You won’t find
out what they are, what is in them, what they
think and like, till you get some light from their
land-life on them, till you learn where they came
from or what they were at before. No; labels make
us. Take off our labels, deprive us of every shred
of our natural environment, remove our friends
from us, and mix us all together, and we’re all
lost, indistinguishable. It’s like learning to read
all over again, learning to know people with abso-
lutely nothing to assist you in your search.
» * * *
Instance. I took a great dislike to one little
man. He was fair, and had pale eyes. He used
to wear a little cap, and had a little fair mous-
tache. I summed him up as a common, pushing
little clerk, and mentally described him as
officious and conceited. One day I heard he was
an artist. I didn’t say anything aloud, but to
myself said: “Artist! I know the sort of artist
he is.” One night we had a concert. He recited.
I remember sitting there, thinking “I know the
sort of thing this will be.” He began it in a very
sickly voice, and I said to myself, “ I told you so.”
Then the thing changed, and turned out a smart
satire on its previous sickliness, and I was a bit
surprised. And then we had a paper, and it came
out, and there was a cartoon, and a page of carica-
tures, and- -well, I don’t like to paint my disgust
—with myself. They were magnificent! And
I got to know him afterwards, and found he was
the brightest, wittiest, and most modest of youths,
and that he had a career behind him. And now
he is fast making a fine one before him, in London.
Some day he will be at the top of the tree, and I’ll
remember my “ intuitions ” at sea.
» • * *
Colombo ! Colombo »—that first sight of the
East, how it thrills ! It seems impossible.
Afterwards, the voyage over, the passengers
scattered, the beauty of it begins to wake within
one—the long dream days come back, the sunsets
at sea return. Colombo, the Desert, the Canal,
Naples, Sicily, Corsica, Spain, they all return
in new beauty, and the environment of cabin and
saloon fades away. And suddenly it dawns on
you that there were many there you like, and
suddenly you find yourself the niche for many
friends, and at last there comes a day when you
actually confess to yourself that you would even
like to take that voyage again, on the same boat,
with the same people.
* * * •
I have seen Naples, Rome, Nice, Genoa, Lon-
don, and what do you think ? I can never convince
myself it was the Rome, the Naples, the Genoa, the
London. There is always another Rome, another
Naples ; there is, there is, there must be. This
has not grown out of any feeling of disappoint-
ment. It means that for so long I knew a Rome
and Naples of my own that I still see them, still
know them, still expect to go there some day.
« * * •
Besides, I went to Rome in a coat and skirt, in
a hat, in a railway-train, and to my the Rome I
went in a toga, in a chariot with knives sticking
out at the sides. And I carry about one horrible
recollection. It shames me. I’ll out with it, and
have done with it. I can never think of Rome
without remembering the delicious melting bun
and inimitable coffee at the railway-station
at dawn one morning in spring. Rome, Coffee,
Railway-Station, Bun ! Isn’t it awful!
LOUISE MACK.
“ Fifty years ago,” writes Baron Brassey,
“ we had 200,000 British seamen in oqr mercantile
marine ; now we have scarcely half that number.”
Britannia used to rule the waves personally. Now
she hires Hans Jorgensen and Ram Chunder to
rule them for her.
Bishop White, of Carpentaria, at whose
head-quarters (Thursday Island) there are about
1200 Japanese, tells a Vic. interviewer despon-
dently : “I fear that the Christian nations, by
their recent actions in China, have destroyed
what hope the Japanese had of Christianity.”
Lord Playfair, an eminent British Free-
trader, only 14 years ago :
We are a great exporting nation. . . The United
States cannot be so, for her cost of production is raised so
high by Protection that her exports are of small account
in the markets of the world.
Only 14 years ago ! And already the U.S. has
got ahead of Britain in exports, and almost
wholly supplies its own market as well, while
Britain depends more on imports than does any
other country. The Freetrade prophecy and the
penny balloon are the two most burstable things
on this earth.
“ Alone ” : The Lancet, in a recent article
about smoking, asserts that the cigar is most
harmful; the pipe next; and the cigarette least
injurious. It is further stated that nicotine is
harmless to the smoker, and that pyridine and its
derivatives work the mischief. The toxicity of the
smoke, it is considered, depends on the com-
pleteness of combustion, “and combustion is more
complete in the cigarette than in the pipe or
cigar.” Looks to me as if the Lancet were
reasoning from the apparent and relative toxicity
of the three smokes, without giving sufficient con-
sideration to the three different kinds of weed
used. Seems probable, that if the pipe-bowl,
cigar and cigarette were all one thickness, and
filled with the same tobacco, combustion would be
most complete in the one that kept the weed
burning longest; then the pipe might come out
best, and the cigarette worst; for several reasons.
The prize quotation was certainly made by
Thomas Gibson Bowles, M.P., in the House of
Commons apropos of Lord Rosebery’s lately-
expressed intention of “ploughing his own fur-
row.” Rosebery’s remark, he declared, reminded
him of the words of Alexander Selkirk:—
I am out of humanity’s reach,
I must finish my journey alone ;
Never hearing the sweet music of speech,
I start at the sound of my own.
And then turning to his own party—
The beasts (laughter) that roam over the plain
My form with indifference see ;
They are so unacquainted with men,
Their tameness is shocking to see.
Bowles is the dapper personage who edits, or used
to edit, Vanity Fair, and it was he who originally
said (pointing at Chamberlain): “In all history
no one named Joseph was ever an entirely satis-
factory person.”
IN MEMORIAM.
DENIS MURPHY.
The other day a boy wandering in the scrub
near Bondi, Sydney, found a skull and some other
fragments of human remains: Subsequently,
other fragments were discovered, said to be relics
of one Denis Murphy, a chemist, 50 years old,
from Ireland, who made a living by hawking
rabbits. Was last seen in the neighborhood about
four months before, and then appeared to be in
feeble health.
Not upon the Never Never,
In the desert, grim and bare,
Where the wings of Death for ever,
Make the only Shadow there.
Not amidst the lonely ranges,
Where the creeks are blind and dry ;
And the foot of white man strange is,
Murphy laid him down to die.
No ; where half-a-million people
Lived around, he made his bier ;
He could gaze on spire and steeple
Of a score of churches near.
Half-a-million people near him—
Christian people, on the whole—
And not even one to cheer him
With a send-off to his soul.
Better thus, perhaps—for Denis
Lay in nobler state and pride
Than the proudest Doge of Venice
By his Adriatic bride.
For the moon, in silver sandals,
Stood and mourned above his bed,
And he had the stars for candles,
At his feet and at his head.
Of the tribe of Might-have-Beeners
Denis was, beyond mistake,
But the wild winds were his “ keeners”
And he had a royal wake.
And, when Gabriel the Warder
Blows his Trumpet of Surprise,
In the lightest marching order,
Denis Murphy will arise.
He’ll be foremost at the lev4e,
Or his fortune will be hard,
For he’ll have no tombstone heavy
To take with him as a card.
V.J..


Gives Push and Energy
Steadies the Nerves, Gives Tone to the
Stomach, Prevents 111 Effects of Extreme Heat.
“Puts the ‘Go* Into You.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
w
“I am a professional cyclist.”
“In training and racing in the extreme heat of a Queensland summer, which
requires a heavy expenditure of nervous energy and often leaves one thoroughly
exhausted, I have found Ayer’s Sarsaparilla of the greatest benefit.
“It makes you have a good appetite, tones up the stomach, steadies the
nerves, and puts the ‘go ’ into you. I tell you, lam a great friend to Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla.”
Mr. F. E. Shaw, of Edward St., Brisbane, Queensland, a cyclist well known in
connection with the “Bed Bird Bicycle,” sends us this letter together with a
photograph from which the above illustration is made. This is another reason
why Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is called
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Such a testimonial shows how valuable Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is to those who
have to work hard. It removes all feeling of exhaustion, braces you up, makes
your work easier, gives strength to the muscles, refreshes and invigorates, and,
best of all, takes out every impurity from the blood.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
The Greatest of All Nerve Tonics.
AYER’S PILLS cure ail forms of liver trouble.
26
TEARS’ SUCCESS
AS THE
UNIVERSAL REMEDY
FOR
» Coughs, Colds,
SB Asthma,Bronchitis,
Whooping -
mu Cough, Consumption,
HAS MADE
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY IN THE HOME
OR KIT OF EVERY COLONIAL.
It saves many Lives.
There is no difficulty in obtaining it , so
when you ash for Owbridge’s Lung
Tonic , insist upon having it , as
other so-called remedies are
often substituted.
Prepared, by
W.T. OWBRIDBE, M.P.S., Ghemisfc,HulL
Sold in-bottles, at Is lid.. 2*.9d..4a.6d.,&115.,
by all Colonial Medieine Vendors.
COPYRIGHT.
ds
I
WrtErf JPOI3
WILL MS
o
.#
~ 7oiiß tyii
Tis Time To Taket 1
■yi
S. FREEMAN > SONS L"^
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER
PICKLE
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLi
jV '.-'.S'
FLOUR.
CRYSTALS.
7 "'W ' „
- WYNTAED SQUARE,
m
:■
The Universal Remedy for Acidity ox ti.e Stouiuoa.
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Grout, Rheumatic
Giout and Grravel; the
safest and most gentle
Luedicine for Infants,
Cnilaren, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS!
MAGNESIA.
f
Sold Throughout the Wom.
M.B. -ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
® TO/y 's
IRISHMOSS
FOR
-The besr remedy-
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS.
ASTHMA
Ask for Banning ton's
and seetkatyou get it.


Wfcat will be tfje
lardf i) Hose ?
IT MAY BE 15 OB 25, OR EVEN CENT., BCTYOO CAN SAVE ALL THAT IE
JE» TFt. 3C CSS.
GARDEN
. . HOSE
RUBBER HOSE.
fx3 Ply, 50 feet Coils, 20s, 255, 27s 6d, 30s, 32s 6d. 40s
» » 6® » V) 37s 6d, 50s, (iOs.
COTTON-COVERED HOSE,
f inch, 50 feet Coils, 17s 6d, 21s, 255.
EVERY HOSE IS GUARANTEED RELIABLE.
RUBBER GOODS ARE OUR SPECIAL LINE.
any LENGTH CUT TO ORDER
PERJXRIATT and CO., 270 George St., Sydney
60
YEARS DYEING
FOB THE LADIES.
■W- c. Bl J D'R.im-R Sc 00-.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 Y.Oltli .sTlU>;«:i’, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post / rum all the colonies promptly
attended to.
The Bulletin’s latest publication—
“ Dreams in Flower,” a book of verses by Louise
Mack contains all the best poetical work of this
writer for the last ten r . Price half-a-crown,
post-free from this ofPce.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK,
flg
-
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
i
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Catalogue.
GENUINE
BELTING.
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
PERTH
COOLGARDIE
A»T>
•"Representing in Australia
TANGYES LIMITED.
#
STOCKS CARRIED
IN ALL THE STATES.
NEWMAN’S
NEWMAN’S
in King- St.
X/“ Sb Vox
ANTISEPTIC
THROAT PASTILLES.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
E P P S’S
GRA^EFUI.-SOMTOBTING.
COCOA
BREA K'c >ST STTRRER.
3
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED FOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long as required. It will NOT injure the wool.
the ordinary scouring process.
It will dissolve out under
Manufacturers and Sole Agents:
GRINIMIDE * CO.. mECBOURIIE.
BLACK , BED, and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases)—
PRICE IN MELBOURNE , .. 3/0 por Qallon .
u SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.) „ 3/6 „
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.) „ « „ 3/3
n HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.) „ « „ 4/3 „
=—
COMPRESSORS.
m
mi
Ingersol 1-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors hold the highest
average records throughout the world. They have met and defeated in fair competition
every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain their reputation for
doing the most work at the least expense. Write for Catalogue to
The Representatives in Australia of
ROCK
DRILLS
THE INGERSOLL-SERGEANT DRILL CO
“ New Ingersoll.”
PARKE & LACY C°. Y . L T . D .
S"s2rX33?io-3E3Y, 3XT.S.-W.
H. IF. GREGORY CO.,
dsf
74 Clarence Street SVO MEY & MELBOURNE 435 Bourke Street
m
and General Machinery Merchants.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES:
Blake Steam Pumps
Pay’s, Woodworking Machinery
Tanite Emery Wheels
Sturtevant’s Pans and Porges
Pickering Governors
Ludlow 1 Valves
Sehuttes’ Korting Injectors
“ Champion ” Lubricating Oils
Hoyts’ Leather Belting
Genuine “ Atlas” Metal
Empire Laundry Machinery
Stratton’s Steam Separators
American Tool Co’s Lathes
Goubert’s Feed Water Heaters
Las
mmmm
-CO
I . '
emflffl
sA ' s! i
gjteipfcjw
