

’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT
Absefytely
Pure,
therefore
Best. ■
9
or
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
s» ■: W W -B—. dHh ■ TW> HIB 18. . ww '»5
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS* and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
McLAEEN’S Compound
Traction Steam Engine
WXSTE!
WIIE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED '1849.
OLDEST
AUSTRALIA.
AST Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
' ' •. ' : *
Eaton Grant & Co, Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
, BATTLE &C° ’B5 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
8o!e Agents for J. & H. McLAREN, Leeds, England, Makers of Steam Ploughing Tackle, Traction Engines for Haulage, General and Special Work.
We Stock and have to arrive McLaren’s Compound Traction Engines; RUSTON’S Portable Horizontal and Vertical Stoam Engines;
BROADBENT’S Hydro Extractors; KIRCHNER’S Saw Mill and Wood-Working Machinery.
GIBSON
THORNE'S
A 1 WHISKY.
—— in
NOW READY. NOW READY.
A POLICY FOE TEECOMMON WEALTH.
A Reprint of articles from The Bulletin.
iPrice SIX £*l63 fc©aL, Bd..
Sole Wholesale Agents: EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
That’s All!
HOBA
Hadley s Orient pel.
-----
* .- •,
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLK’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME.
SAND EM AN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
241 PITT STRKET, SYUKTSY.
AMUSIspiENT for OUT) and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising- Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket). Book of Conjuring Tricks, Klondike Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
XH. L. HUTCHINSON Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts. o£ N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches:— P. Frankel & Co., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.;
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
Co., Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter&Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Oashel-st-., Christchurch, N.Z.
“Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is! 3d.
Fair gtrls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/0.
the WILFLEY TABLE.
The Best Ore Concentrator in the World.
I. CUTHBIDGE LTD., Agents, 71 Clarence-st., Sydney; Melbourne, Fremantle ami Kalgoorlie.
S. FREEMAN SONS L!^
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHOS BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAP OFFICE : WY Iff YARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
DARK TOBACCO
THERE IS ONLY ONE BEST TOBACCO AND THAT TOBACCO IS
“WEALTH OF NATIONS
99
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South. Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10US.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Catered for
on Most
lif-UMUtiEMiTm]
Private Balls
Reasonable
Terms.
nniTHaiETgHTfr
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
m « tomm
iswan - La
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDM Si MR
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsL.i'iil Depot—Central Buildin s Edvvard-st., Brisbane.
The Bulleitn
Vol 22. -No. 1096.]
f Saturday, February 16, 1901.
Registered at the General Post Offiee, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper. *


The Bulletin publications.
CaS Sto'ries LaSt Saorament and Other
By Albert Dorrington (.“ Alba Dorion »)
A handsomc volume of 35° pages, bound in
clofcii, ,decorated ; price 4s, 6d. post free.
A Bose of Begret:
Verses by James Hebblethwaitb ; being
Ao. 11. of The Bulletin Booklets
En veloped, Is. 9d. post free,
The Circling Hearths:
By Roderic Quinn. No. 111. of The
post I free' KJ ETS ’ Enveloped, Is. 9d.
: 18 and Gray Korses > with Other
By Wn,L 11. Ogilvie.. Third Edition. Silk
cloth, gilt top, silk marker, 220 pp., 4s. 6d
volumef 6 ' * A charmin « presentation
The Ways of Many Waters:
, E ; J ' Buckram, gilt top: ss.
post free. * Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other- Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gill
post fr ee. VThe best book oi
Maoriland verse yet published.
On. Onr Selection
By A. H. Davis (“ Steele Rudd ”). With
about eighty illustrations by MahoDy
fe bert ; Vincent. Leist, Fisher and
I uliwood-; 6s. post-free. *„* The iolliest
book yet printed in Australia.” 1
The Golden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
post free' 86 ’ by Bulletin Writers ; Is. 3d.
Tales of the Convict System:
By ‘ Price Warung.” Paper covers; .193
pp. ; od., post free.
The Last of Six:
tll I l£ u . stralTro P i . e . s - % Ernest
Favenc.
free.
Paper covers, 141 pp.; 6d. po.
direct from The Bulletin Office by
leturn mail in exchange for stamps (of any
Australasian province), postal notes, or POO
for amounts stated. ■
Sole Wholesale Agents:
Edwards, Dunlop & Go., Limited, Syj
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(-REGISTERED).
OVi
IN TINS, Is. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
0 O NS UMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OE POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR
Gr. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH O
SYDNEY DEPOT: 5 and T QUEEN'S PLACE ’
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia,
THE RED PAGE.
“Campaign Pictures.”
~|\"T"OW A. G-. HALES (they call him
Smiler ”) is at least a man. Sometimes
his wits may fail; sometimes his words
may whoop and chortle in the carmine
fields of “skite”; but all his failings little mar
his worth. Like some resplendent parrot of
the bush he spreads his soul in flight; yet eke
withal he has a human heart to feel a tale of
wrath or wrong, and in his lively eye clear pictures
come. Small wonder he amazed - the simple Eng-
lish folk. And as his correspondence-trucks come
rushing to the tip, much mullock is poured out,
and here and there good ore. And so the
“ Smiler ” mine will pay to work.
Coming down from Hales’s iambic high-ropes,
it is pleasant on our lower plane to praise
A. Gr. Hales’s collected African war-correspond-
ence from Lond. Daily News —“ Campaign Pic-
tures ” (Cassell) —as, with all its faults, the best
picture of the war from an Australian pen or other,
so far as Hales saw it. Hales gives good
matter in what is often a good style; he
does not waste himself on trifles, but paints with
a broad brush, and te 11s the things one wants to
know; and, above all, he has the pluck to
tell the truth—he does not go in hobbles
lest he wound Jingo prejudices, as prac-
tically all the other correspondents have
gone. The pity is that the Daily News editor
did not have the sense to delete the “ hifalutin ”
nonsense which Australian pressmen are used
to recognise as the Hales trademark. That
gone, his work would be really very good.
It has not the weight of Forbes or the careful
literary quality of Steevens ; but it is very human
very graphic, doing honour to Hales’s heart as well
as to his head. And, though even Hales has not
been able to say all he thought or knew, he has
said much that no other was game to say—much
that badly wanted saying.
Hales was wounded and taken prisoner by the
Boers, and woke up, after several hours uncon-
sciousness, to find himself well taken care of. He
was carried along to a hospital laager.
tor a day and a-half I lay at that laager whilst our
wounded men were brought in, and here I should like to
say a word to the people of England. Our men when
wounded, are treated by the Boers with manlv gentleness
and kind consideration, \yhen we left the laager in an
open trolly, we, some half-dozen Australians, and about
as many Boers, all wounded, were driven for some hours
to a small hospital, the name of which Ido not know It
was simply a farm-house turned into a place for the
wounded. On the road thither we called at many farms
and at every one men, women, and children came out to
see us. Notone taunting word was uttered in our hear-
ing, not one braggart sentence passed their lips. Men
brought us cooling drinks, or moved us into more com-
fortable positions on the trolly. Women, with "-enile
fingers, shifted bandages, or washed wounds, or gave us
little dainties that come so pleasant in such a time • whilst
the little children crowded round us with tears running
down their cheeks as they looked upon the blood-stained
kharki clothing of the wounded British. Let no man or
woman in all the British Empire whose son or husband
lies wounded in the hands of the Boers fear for his wel-
fare, for it is a foul slander to say that the Boers do not
treat their wounded well. England does not treat her
own men better than the Boers treat the wounded
Bhtish, and I am writing of that which I have seen and
know beyond the shadow of a doubt.
That testimony would dispose of Jingo lies
about the Boers’ lack of civilisation, their in-
humanity, if these had not been disposed of by a
thousand similar testimonies As to the
kind of- life the Boers lead, Hales is no less em-
phatic.
I have been in a few back-country homes in America, in
Australia, and in other parts of the world—and I want to
place it on record that in my opinion the Boer farmer is
as clean m his home life, as loving in his domestic arrange-
ments, us pure in his morals, as any class of people I have
met. Filth-may abound, -but I have seen nothing of
it. Immorality may be the common everyday occurrence
I have seen it depicted in some British journals,
but I have failed to find trace of it. Ignorance
as black as the inside of a dog* may be the
prevailing state of affairs ; if so, I have been
one of the lucky few who have found just the re-
verse in whichsoever direction I have turned After six
months’ or nearly six months’, close and careful observa-
tron of their habits, I have arrived at the conclusion that
the Boer farmer, and his son and daughter, will compare
very favorably with the farming folk of Australia,
America and Great Britain. What he may be in the.
Transvaal I know not, because I have not yet been there •
but in Cape Colony and in the Free State he is much as i
have depicted him, no better, no worse, than Americans
Australians, and as good a fighting man as either
which is tantamount to saying that he is as good as any-
thing on God’s green earth, if he only had military
training. J
As a prisoner Hales had the best opportunity of
getting to understand the real character of the
Boers, the objects they have in view and the way
m which they resolved to reach them; and he
bears out all previous witnesses to the innate
manliness of the Boers, their high standard of
morality, their intense love of freedom.
I often asked them how they, representing a couple of
small States, came to get hold of the idea that they could
whip a colossal power like Great Britain in a life or death
struggle; and almost invariably they informed me that
they had expected that one of the great European Powers
would take an active part in the struggle on their behalf
and furthermore, they had been taught to think that
Britain s Empire was rotten to the core, so much so that
as soon as war commenced in earnest all her colonies
would fall away from her and hoist the flag- of independ-
ence, and that India would leap once again into open and
bloody mutiny. They expressed themselves as being
dumbfounded when they heard that Australian troops
were rallying under the Union Jack, and seemed to feel
most bitterly that the men from the land of the Southern
Cross were in arms against them. “We fell out with
England, and we thought we had to fight England In
stead-we find we. have to fight people from all parts of the
world, Colonials like ourselves. Surely Australia and
Canada might have kept out of this fight, and allowed us
to battle it out with the country we had a quarrel
with.”. ... H
“ Look here,” said one old fighting man to me, as he
-leant with negligent grace on his rifle, “I was one of
those who helped to corner Jameson and his men and I
can tell you that we Boers knew very well that we would
have been acting within our rights if we had shot Jame-
son and every ofian he had with him, because his was not
an act of war it was an act of piracy ; and had we done
so, and England had, attempted to avenge the deed- half
the civilised world would have ranged themselves on out-
side ; but we did not seek those men’s blood • we gave
them quarter as soon as they asked for it, and after that
though we knew very well they had done all that men
could do to involve us m a war of extermination with a
gre.it natibn, we sent their leader home to his own
country to be tried by his own countrymen, and the rank
and file we forgave freely. We may be a nation of white
savages, but our past does not prove it, and if Britain
wins in-the war now going on she will have to be verv
generous indeed before we will need to blush for our
conduct.”
“ Why should not the white population of South Africa
be ready to live under the protection of Britain? The
yoke cannot be so very heavy when men of all creeds,
colours, and nationalities who haye lived under that rule
for years are now ready to volunteer to U>'ht for-her
even against you, who have admittedly done them no
ci.r -ct wrong ?”
“ MO’ should we live under any flag but our own?”
Z*!*** ° ld j % htir »g man passionately. “We came
of sava.es we fon^° Untry a wild ™* in the hands
«*»*>
yoke of W silkr- Tndaf he^ and
the ranks 6 Boers
and £° urse -, bla me all Colonials, Australians
“I don’t’knnwTh 0 against J rou ? ’ 1
plied d “Tt , l V d °’ ln a sense ’” the veteran re-
them If tour AnJ! S , UP ° n th u e spirit which animated
camehero Australians, who are of British blood,
£ al ?® here to fi » ht f or your Motherland, believing that
your aid e von S f lir) U - fc M rld f a holy 0ne ’ and that she needed
vL K« ai t yOU dl< ? n £ht, for a son will help his mother if
h r b em“vZ(t h r? ng; f b ", fc if , the Australians came
re merely tor the sake of adventure, merely for snort-
as men come m time of peace to shoot buck on the veldt’
land > for though God may make no sign
to-day nor to-morrow, yet, in His own time He will
an!?W J 1 ? m Au ? fcralia a fu U recompense *in sweai;
and blood and tears ; for whether we be right or wrong
our God knows that we are giving our lives freelv for
what we in our hearts believe to be a holy cause.” '
No man who has written about the war has
written with a more vital pen than Hales. And
he has had the power to feel the cruel pathos of it
all. So his pictures grip the mind, even if the
sive langUagQ yearmng is occasionally obtru-
lasts 6 Thetn 3 T r hic , h wiU stay with me whilst memory
lasts. They had placed me under a waggon under a mass
of overhanging rock fcr safety, and there thev breugh?
two wounded men. One was a man »f 50 a hard okl
veteran, with a complexion as dark as a New Zealand
grev e h£ l hands framed the rugged f-e waf thret
iuurwis grey, nis hands were as rough and knotf-pd hv
open-air toil as the hoofs of a working steer.
■*-> looked what he was—a Boer of mivpd rinfnv, j
hhTandheTfd gQt into
him, and he told me a good deal of his life His fqfhpr
had emlSt|%Tsou e th 0f A t f h<! ° W families who
• .J u , south Africa in search of relic-ions
ness His he mliv! iayS L^ hen the countr y "'as a wilder-
ness. His mother had come in an unbroken linp
from one of the noble families in France who fled
-fewas** sms
mor/than rstriplingfand"! need towk prophet
or a propliet s son to tell that his very hours were nmn
_® oth the father and the lad had been wounded
by one of our shells, and it was pitiful to watch i i,,,,,,
they lay side by side, the elder man holding the lS of
the younger m a loving clasp, whilst with h!s other hand
stroked the boyish face with gestures that
infinitely pathetic. Just as the stare were coming
Rntr 1 the clouds thafc boated over us the
Boer boy sobbed his young life out, and all through the
lo ng watches of that mournful dkrkness the fatlw w
with his dead laddie’s hand in his. The pain o hk own
wounds must have been dreadful, but I heard no moan of
anguish from his lips. When, at the dawning, thm°came
to take the dead boy from the living man, the stern Jfid
warrior simply pressed his grizzled lips to the cold face
and .f hen / Ur r d bls erey beard to the hard ear.th and
made no further sign ; but I knew well that h-irl , i...
sacrifice been possible, he would gladly have’ his
life to save the young one’s. given ms
Nor is Hales without humour, though, like his
pathos, it is often spoilt by research for pinchbeck
phraseology which to the author’s mind looks like
gold. Writing of the Kaffir camp-followers, he
s&ys— —
A,-® 1 ® caster round these black veterans like
flies around a western water-hole in midsummer and
their shrill laughter makes the air fairly vibrate as’ thpv
bandy jests with the cheeky herds. The girls are rather
pleasing in appearance, though far froin being prettv
As a rule, they wear clean print dresses and white aprons'•
they never wear hats of any kind, but coil a showy ker-
noi « ai L° Un , d thelr heads in coquettish fashion. They are
not particular as to colour—red, blue, yellow, or pink"
WlU i doa ? lon 8' . as if is brilliant. The skins of
the girls are almost as varied as the headgear. The Kaffir
f s dir 3 J ery p ark V? lmo - St black - The bushman’s daughter
♦hp lf? yellow, like river water in flood time. Some of
the other tribes are as black as the record of a first-class
|' r S'l ar > but they have bright black eyes, which they roll
about as a kitten roils a ball of wool in playtime y
whether th ®y are black, brown, or coffee-
coloured, they are all alike in one respect-everv
daughter of them has a mouth chat is as boundless
blessing, and as limitless as -the ima-
gination of a spring poet in love. When they are
,® n \ ed P urse that mouth up into a bunch until it
wn kS l\ ke a cru , m P' ed saddle-flap hanging on a hed«-e.
When they are pleased the mouth opens and expands like
an indiarubber portmanteau ready for packing : that is
but when they laugh their ears have to
shift to give the mouth a chance to get comfortably to its
destination. They have beautiful teeth, the white ivory
showing against the black foreground like fresh tomb-
stones in an old cemetery on a dark night. It is amusing
to watch them flirting with the soldier niggers. They
dilhmini* L f°; Y K but . so °" tall victims to the skilful blaii-
aisnments of the vaui-glonous warriors, and after a little
which put , oufc their d P s to be kissed, a sight
which might well make even a Scotch Covenanter grin
They sack their lips in with a sharp hissing breath : then
push them out suddenly, ready for the osculatory stance
the lips moving as if they were pushed from the inside by
a pole. The boys ’ enjoy the picnic immensely.
Another intimate picture—thistimeof the camp,
liar who has been the source of so many Jingo
libels of the Boers, often reprinted in Australia
and accepted by gullible people as truth.
What is a camp liar? It is not a man, neither is it a
maid, neither is it dog nor devil. It is a nameless
shadow, which flits through the minds of men, fashioned
by the Father of Evil to be a curse and a scourge to war
correspondents. A mining liar is an awful liar, but he
takes tangible form, and one can grapple with him when
he appears upon a prospectus. A political liar is a pitiful
liar, and vengeance finds him out upon the hustings! and
e !lgs and the- produce of the kitchen garden are his re-
ward. A legal liar is a loquacious liar, but he is bounded
by his brief and the extent of his fees. But the camp liar
has no bounds, and is equally at home in all languages, at
moment dealing with an army in full marching order
h^ii th VK eXt - batte L nnB 'ui e i upon one man in a mud!
hole. There is no height to which the camp liar dare not
ascend, there is nothing too trivial for it to touch. It has
neither sex nor shape ; but, like a fallen angel froS
Heaven, and not wanted in Hades, it flits through camp a
jwldfers miCrobe ’ s P awnin ff falsehoods in the souls of
The camp liar concocts a story of a fearful
fnrt*’ a t d fills air - wifcb tbe groans of the dying
and makes a weird picture out of the grisly, grin-’
rung silence of the ghastly dead. Kopjes are
stained a rich ripe red with the hlood of heroes
and arms, and legs, and. skulls, and shattered iaw
shen«’ Kt rfcl r tihro “ gh the;air midst.the sound of bursting
shells, hke straws in a stable,-yard when the wind blows
h'gh. The very poetry of lying is touched with a master
hand when charging squadrons sweep across the veldt
and the sunlight kisses the soldier’s steel. Then comes
the pathos dear to the liar’s soul—the farewells of the
dy mg, sobbed just seven seconds before sunset into oom
rades’ears; the faltering voice, the tear dimmed
the death-rattle in the throat, the last hand clasps Ihe
last deep-drawn breath, in which—mother—Mary— and
Heaven are always mingled ; and then the moonlight and
the moaning of the midnight wind The wa/corres-
ponent leaps from the tenfc, springs into his soHrllp
h s note-book in his mouth’arJd anlndlffide lead pencil in
r and ’ and nde f, over kopje and veldt ten dreary
miles to gaze upon the scene of that awful battle and
fl'.' ds m] e dead mule, and a nigger driver, dead drunk
hashal a religious education, he climbs out
o the saddle, sinks on his knees, and prays for the peace
of the camp bar’s immortal soul. But if, as is often the
case, he has had a secular upbringing, he suits on thp rfpnri
mule kicks the nigger, sli.fks bfc/’to caSp by t round d
about route, and swears to everyone that he has been
forty miles in another direction in a railway truck.
These samples may exhibit Hales’s' “ Campaign
Austerile?
ON January Ist we, the dwellers in Aus
tralia, felt for the first time (as the pres
had it) “ the pulse of nationhood.” Le
, us blow off tiie political froth and comet
the bitter or sweet of our draught.
Are we imagining a vain nation out o
mere Eucalyptus and Sentiment? Is an Aus
tralian a Manglo-Saxon born or is he an
Australian ? Has our country the hear
to feed the pulse that every' man of u
should feel with the instinct of the child tha
blindly and strongly craves for the fulness of the
mother s breast ? Are we sojourners in a barren
land, thin-flanked, small-breasted, immature o
sex-listless with the greyness of age? Have w
pinned the rose of our desire upon an undevelopec
virgin or a sapless old maid ?
It is mainly a question of physiography : man
must stand or fall by Nature’s grim intentions o
mistakes. Australia has no geographical heart
Where mountain ranges should mark our centre
there is a grim blankness of desert. No great
nrers-th e arteries of the soil—spring from that
endless desolation to vitalise our land. Fringec
round our coast are rivers and mountains, cities
and people ; but the big heart, the fountain-heac
ot vigour—where is it ?
The race we pickpocketed the land from ? They
are almost the lowest of humans! When man is
born of a soil he does not stand still, but develops
or degenerates according to that soil. If our
aborigines fell behind other races it was the fault
of the soil they sprang from. Where Nature
plainly showed that alone and undisturbed—with-
out the terror of hunger-toothed animals-she
could not breed a race, can we, with the assistance
oi an artificial civilisation, succeed ?
Instead of strong, hot-blooded animals—lions,
tigers, leopards—our land breeds some of the
oldest and lowest orders of mammals. Weird
kangaroos, cold-blooded monotremes, and large
unwieldy birds ! Why have they not fallen, into
line with natural development elsewhere? Was
Australia incapable of developing along the lines
of evolution ?
We have had some hundred years for the glim-
merings of a national literature—the reflex of our
life. We have Gordon and Marcus Clarke, Boake
and Lawson. What is their “ note ” ? Pessimism
pessimism, and again pessimism. The tragedy of
desolation, the half-understood, the vividly-ex-
pressed horror of a vast, vague, and bloodless land
A young country, a young nation, should have a
lde. Not necessarily sentimental or child-
ish, but strong, clearly conscious of present diffi-
culties, with a ring of hope for the future. Where
is the Australian writer whose work is blooded
with hope ?
The most universal, the loudest-voiced emotion
we have yet experienced has been second-hand
Imperialism. Call it drunken Jingoism, if you
will, this almost unanimous voicing of British
sentiment. But oust country could not grip us We
were a people virgin of nationality, and we echoed
the war-cry of our fathers. The loneliness of our
scanty civilisation, embroidering vast, haggard
emptiness drove us back to the vitality of the
little island of our ancestors. If Australia had
breathing individuality would we have joined in
the savage hounding-down of the Boer ?
What are the pictures that paint themselves
most readily on the national canvas?
A grim immensity of desert. A man—a gold
adventurer—blindly staggering towards dead
desolation. A gloomy bird hovering over him
and a pitiless? sun scorching his brain and clotting
Ins blood. ... 6
A selection outside the fringe of small rivers
and dertain rain. ... A man brown and gaunt
and tired beyond human weariness. ... A few
barefooted, wistful children, thin with a diet of
treacle and damper. . . . A hopeless, acid-voiced
woman. ... A pencil-Ihin stream of water
trickling along a brown depression, in the land-
scape call it a creek. Despair is written on
broken fences and drooping cattle, and stamped
deep on the thirsty, gaping ground. .
Drought. ...
A bush-hut and and a hollow-cheeked woman
waiting for the drover husband. Bagged children,
ill-fed, ill-clad for the man sends only the
dribbles of money that escape the shanty-keeper.
Days and nights of dull, maddening waiting—
waiting—until the foolish husband returns to
drink or dies on the edge of a sunburnt plain.
A waste, desolate land—outposted by sombre
gum trees. . . . The ruins of a mine’s poppet-
head. . . . Mullock heaps like the graves of
mighty giants: . . . Ragged gaps in the ground
as if great teeth had been wrenched out of it by a
whirlpool. ... A sluggish creek creeping by a
few brown huts. . . . Chinese, like yellow ants
pecking among the mullock heaps. ...
You speak of your fine cities; but a doctor does
not say a man’s heart is sound because his eyes
are bright.
Again : A decreasing birth-rate, increasing ille-
gitimacy, degenerating physical stamina, the
breathless desire to crowd into cities, heavy
national debts, and tile' pitiful need for old-age
pensions.
Do all these point to a vigorous nation ?
Australia ! Canst thou be a full-breasted mother
to thy children ?
v - . . . Onlys.
[This invites answer and criticism—which will be
printed if written briefly, with brains.]
-> ——
In an excellent article in Jan. Review of Rcvinvs
the Bev. Joseph Berry discusses the tendencies of
the white race in Maorilancl :
The faetors which will- tell upon the coming- New
Zealander are such as these : A healthy climate, with the
lowest death-rate in the world. A population mainly
agricultural. Two-thirds of the people now I’ive in the
country, or in towns of less than 5000 inhabitants. The
whole population lives and will continue to- live within
sight or sound of the sea. There is not an inhabitant
the colony more than a day’s journey (seventy miles) from
the sea, and nearly all are within an hour-or two. Th
land is so rich and productive and food is so plentiful an
cheap, that poverty will be at a minimum.
Again, the land is so subdivided that there is not muc
chance for the millionaire. New Zealand has no million
aires and not more than ten or a dozen .of its'citizens ar
worth more than £lO,OOO per year. Timber is s
abundant and cheap that a house does not cost more tha
hah as much as a similar house in Australia, for most o
° f W °° d - H ° rses are Plentiful, noble rivers
abound The people are pretty generally on one social
level. The scenery is superb. Such are the facts, briefly
The result is a race of big, healthy people. I have often
watched an Australian cricket match or bicycle race, but
SfewT m the way of sporfc that compares with
fplL Z r la T footbao match - To see those strapping
fellows, fresh from the plough or the bench, hurl them
selves against one another at Saturday afternoon footbal
is a sight with which nothing in Australia will compare
Hospitality is a charming feature of New Zealand life. Be
fore a stranger has time to hitch his horse at the gate, the
thftlw ° n ’ ° ream and SC ° neS and pasties a PP ear on
the table, as if by magic. Caste barriers are little known
reW S Co,Kl ! tionS ; people become healthy, self
reliant generous, independent, nnd self-respecting. Such
prominent of the New Zealanders
generation^ 1 to T the fatherS and “others of the
fhTwT , ’ We Can forecast wi thout difficulty
the New Zealanders of the twentieth century
Tfl rm eW ,f? la,Kler IOV6S his countr y> and well he may.
It is difficult for one who has lived there to be hatmv
anywhere else. Should he visit Australia, Sydney mS
charm and Melbourne may interest him ; but the brown
Austrahan landscape in the summer, the absence of the
ch undergrowth in the native bush, the scarcity of
water, and the fierce glare of the Australian sun, pall upon
his taste and make him sigh for home. We mightffiar that
Of nroduc SUCh !,° V f neaS an<l fertility would be in dangel
?h d al ‘ effenunate ra ce; but the bracing winter
vent that W ° W fr ° m the sea tend to pre-
NewZeaLd y ’ I " dependent . a “d home-loving, the
chilltt 18 PerhapS in dan^er of becoming paro-
is not a ver "TS® °* ‘ deaS and sympa thieS. But that
is not a very serious matter.
no? N r' V I Zc ; a,ander developing a dialect? I think
or in Ariel ?i° ' S ? SPOken th6re is purer than in Sydney
the “I” d ° n 0t ’ ° n that Side of the sea, hear
not I Pr f °'T lced hke “ L ” The New Zealander does
not speak of ladies as “ lidies.” He knows the difference
pfc" day ” and “die.” Though he has no dialect,
hke other Australasians, he is losing some good old Eng-
hsh words., His brook is a “creek”; his meadow a
paddock ; his forest is a “ bush ”; his pond a “ lagoon " •
his pasture, “ feed.” These changes and others we might
name are not improvements. The schoolmasters would
tmeusV 0 ' * baCk th ® BWeeter En ghsh words to their


Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Wool and Produce Prohors.
Consolidated Charge\
for Selling Wool J
2i per cent.
/Includes all Charges excepting
\ cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
PRICES^**
.... FOR ....
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN
OBTAINED BY CONSIGNING TO
Goldsbrough, Mort*Co.
Circular Quay, Sydney,
Who render PROMPT RETURNS and safeguard your
Proceeds by their TRUST ACCOUNT System.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
LAWRENCE’S PATENT TOBACCO CUTTER.
PRICE £6.
Lawrence’s No. 2: Improved Automatic and Self-Feeding. Price £3 15s.
Note. —These machines are giving universal satisfaction, and. are specially recommended to tobacconists
in the country, so as to enable them to supply their customers with Fresh-Out and Moist Tobacco.
MICK SIMMONS, Hay market, Sydney.
ERASMIC
SOAP
Unequalled as a Preserver and
Beautifier of the Complexion. It diffuses an exquisite
odor, and imparts a stimulating and refreshing influence.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST
Of TRICKS, PUZZLES, Etc.,
Etc., FREE.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
EXTRA SPECIAL CATALOGUE
OF BOOKS FREE.
STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTES OF ANY COLONY TAKEN.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE,
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
NEWMAN’S
For Removing
Superfluous Hair.
SPECIAL
By post — 2s. 6d. a packet.
C. E. NEWMAN, Chemist,
52 King; Street, Sydney,
DEPILATORY.
ENOS
HEALTH GIVING,
COOLING,
‘FRUIT
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
SALT.’
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED CHARGES ON
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over 6d. per lb.,
the enlarges will be
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ...
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under
WAY BILLS sent on application.
WHEAT.
SALES last season show an increase of 25 per cent, as compared with previous years. Unrivalled
accommodation. Three months’ free storage.
CIRCULAR giving fullest particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired.
CONSIGNORS are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of
this Company.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
WOOL:
| per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bala
Is. 6d. per Bale.
WOOL. WOOL. WOOL
Winchcombe, Carson & Co* Ltd.
Selling Agents
Reduced Wool
Commission
21 per cent.
on all lots.
Large or Small.
WRITE AND CONSULT THEM ABOUT SALE OF YOUR PRESENT CLIP.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.,
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 O’CONNELL STREET. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Fer Cent, to the Growers.
BONUS f PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge per lb. to the Buyers.
“ LAWRUS ” DRESS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS & STOREKEEPERS.
FABRICS
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only :
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
S FOGDALE & DUFFUS, Finks Buildings, Corner of Elizabeth & Flinders Sts.,
Melbourne; and 422 George St., Sydney.
Or. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of-perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
' lg °To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
nentic Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
will hrimr happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CALL OR WRITE— o\7l7'X_*
CUT
RATE
DRUG STORE
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
L.V
hy, \
'■te
dinnnrr
Mi
UP;
I
When
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
, ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
; strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
' CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
IDO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
"LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Pelts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, Generals
Debility, Weakness,Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.,
( They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the .system, give bloom to the cheeks and |
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted:
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and,
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands. ,
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
a o
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 1 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 8 3
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from _.. 15s. to 2
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and)
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, |
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &e.
All communications shdUld be,addressed to — j
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney |


TATTERSALL’S
Address s Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart
Newmarket H. March 2, 1901.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name '
Address
Australian 0. (Special) March 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
3
S
Rosehill C. March 23.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address ■. -
Doncaster H. April 6.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALLI
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address.
£ t x
Sydney C. April 8.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me , _ shares in above.
N ame.
I
Address
City Tatter sail’s H. April 20.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name.
Address.
For full particulars read
Address “ Tatter sail,” care
our Printed Circular
Cteo. Adams, Hobart.


MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
\
>and saw mills. circular saw mills.
IA WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Elourintr Mills on the Universal Bolter System,
law MilLEngines. Automatic Cut-off Flour
machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrig ~
md Guaranteed.
l liuaranteea.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
I.SvWalgS, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sy }.
.4-°
#
The warning cough is the
faithful sentinel. It tells of
the approach of consump-
tion, which has killed more
people than war and pesti-
lence combined. It tells of
painful chests, sore lungs,
weak throats, bronchitis,
and pneumonia. Do not
suffer another day. It’s use-
less, for there’s a prompt and
safe cure. A cure for fresh colds
and old colds, easy coughs and hard
coughs
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
It often cures a fresh cold in a single
night, and it masters chronic coughs
and bronchitis in a short time. Con-
sumption is certainly prevented, and
cured, too, if taken in time.
If anybody tells you that consump-
tion cannot he cured, they are certainly
mistaken, for we have thousands of
these cases reported to us, absolutely
cured, and no mistake about it.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral Plaster placed
directly over the tender, aching lung
is a great aid to the Cherry Pectoral.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U S. A»
4 DCVWKIDGJE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
Missing Friends.
njicKlM, deceased. Information required of where-
abouts of John McKim, brother of William
li>l«iKim deceased, late of Talbot, Victoria, carter.
E. S. HERRING, Solicitor,
Talbot, Victoria.
■ F tbis meet 9 the eye of William Hamblin, for-
■ mer ly of Kyneton, Vic., or anyone knowing his where-
abouts, please write to his brother George Hamblin,
Uaumain, via Junee, N.S. Wales. Father dead.
G. H. G.
SHIRTS.
TTor Station and Out-door work our Silk STRIPS
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable ShirT3
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A-Ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MQUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane Q'land,
Australia!) ProVideot Society
MONET TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
KttAU&V.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10Sr
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
eSM“ Send for a
Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., OONOORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
YORKSHIRE
RELISH
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
beware of substitutions.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours femon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors :-GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Go., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT', Bagot Rd.Subiaco,Perth,W.A.&6S, King St.,Melbourne
Paris exhibition, 1900-British Awards
The Only
Grand
Prix
I he
highest
ever made!
SOLELY FOR TOILET SOAP
HAS BEEN AWARDED TO
(Established 178 Q.)
51 '<<■$
fIN)RmT T REG r oiyc
Bp
Appointment
to
TTTFnF\
fier majestp Cbe Queen £l)e Prince of Wales
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1900 inclusive
3Sr.S-‘W- Carriage
Note our New Address:
& Saddlery Mlanf
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern,
(close to Redfern
Company
SYDNEY
Railway Station).
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description oi
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7,
3-Spring Sulkies, 4.7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, ill.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Uarts,
and every descriptio n of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices, £>end us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we oan. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
OUB SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
!>«livere<l at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
The Brown Bird.
[F OR THE BULLETIN.]
And this was the end of the honey-tree
That they came with clatter and din,
But had you heard when it shivered and stirred,
The flutter and grief of a little brown bird,
You’d have grieved somewhat for the greenwoor
sin,
Grown sad at the greenwood sin.
O, the little brown bird had cause to be
Sad at heart when they felled his tree,
For his house was built high up in its boughs
High up where the creepers climb,
And there he brought his little brown wife
Each year at the mating time.
And how will she act in the spring, do you think,
When he calls with a burning breast,
And she answers him in the woodland dim
With a shy small voice from a leaf-hid limb ?
Do you think she’ll live with her homeless love,
Or seek a new love’s nest ?
Now, little 1 know of the world above
The bird-world and the brown bird’s love ;
But this I’ll say —if there came a fairy
And made you the brown bird’s wife,
And made me into the little brown bird,
I’d follow you all my life.
I’d say to you, “Love, O Love, O Love ! ”
(And you’d plume your wings as you heard)
“ There are peace and rest on your brown mate s
breast.
And where is the need for a shelter, a nest,
l Is love not all these things and more ? ■
The love of your little brown bird.”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Vae Victis!
So you thought you had as a prisoner, fast,
A man who has lived and loved, and thereafter
Has laughed at Life with Irony’s laughter,
Because of the stinging Worm that at last
Feeds red at the heart of all fair things ;
The heart of Emperors, purple, Roman,
The heart of lions, the heart of kings,
The heart of a rose, and the heart of a Woman.
White as the Flower of the Holy Ghost;
And pretty, doubtless, after a fashion,
You needs must taste of a strong man’s passion ;
For a whim perchance —perchance for a boast.
But that wine is strong for a maiden to sip,
And I doubt not, Dainty, that you will remember
The sting of that night on your scarlet lip
Till your little red heart is a perishing ember.
But the sport, if perilous, sure, is grand ;
For, the ages down and the wide world over,
To turn the strong man into the Lover
Is the game most dear to a girl’s white hand.
It is finished now, and another one
May come to you in the darkness, wooing;
But (acting over, and fiction done)
Your victory, dearest, is my undoing.
SYDNEY, FEBRUARY, 1901.
ACE.
A Few Tired Lines.
1 am dead, dead tired of living,
I am tired of everything.
Tired of taking, tired of giving,
Tired of winter, tired of spring.
I am unrelenting tired ;
I am tired, tired, tired.
But the thing I tire of hardest
Is the tire of being tired.
I am tired, oh ! very tired ;
Tired to death of all of me.
Tired of grinning, tired of spinning,
Tired of roving far and free,
And of long or laughing faces,
I am tired, tired, tired.
All the frowns and all the graces
Make me infinitely tired.
I am wearied out of hearing,
That you love me—you, most dear—
Tired of talking, tired of wearing
Love-looks in my eyes, my dear.
I am pitilessly tired—
* I am tired, tired, tired ;
But the thing I tire of longest
Is the joy of being tired.
Yet, though tired of being tired
In this paralysing way—
Tired of living, tired of giving,
Tired of work and tired of play—
I can see I’d be more tired
If I never felt like this,
Never loathed my bread and honey,
Never bickered with my bliss.
You, the monsters, you, the tireless,
Will you tell me truly this :
Is there not in all your fireless
Lives a minute when you miss
Something from your everlasting,
Long, unending, twin-shaped days,
And the thing you miss—l knew it—
Is it not one tired phase ?
We are all dead tired of living,
If we’d only own the thing.
Tired of taking, tired of giving,
Tired of autumn, summer, spring.
But there’s one excuse to proffer
For this fearful state of bore,
Everything the gods can offer
Once made someone tired before.
N.S.W.
LOUISE MACK.


The Australian Poujs’ Fund [ife Assurance Society Lti.
rpHIS SOOIETV ,1,4,,. , Established 1871. 3 “
OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
il “'“ ehmm -*—•
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M L O
Han. J. tt CARRUTHERS; Hon! JAMES ’WATSON° M.L.O.
•Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,350,000 Annual Tnnn™
e\m no o annual Income exceeds £220,000
BONOS year i?m. C6SJ GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
A. BOWMAN’S
• . You Oan Have .. .
English Boots at
14/6 per pair.
Tan Boots at
16/6 per pair.
Porpoise Hide at
1-7/6 per pair
Best Style.
Best Quality.
No
Better
Made.
We do One Line—Gentlemen’s Boots—only.
That one we do Well.
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St.,
also 145 KING ST., opp. Theatre Royal.
NOW READY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being a reprint of a large number of articles from
.LOT Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
Price 6d; Posted Bd.
lAMOND SONG BOOK
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC, 7
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs-of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete lkl of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be senfranywhere for only 2s. 6d.. nosted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMIPETIXIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Tbe
9r
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique in providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “ AHenburys ”
The «« AHenburys ”
Milk Food No. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of lile.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
The “ AHenburys” Malted Food No. 3
For Infants over six months of age.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Pood is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, .„d .11 ret,„lrlog . light .nd e.sily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that— “No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 48$, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
A SILVER WATCH
FOR NOTHING.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR. 1500.
W E hereby undertake to give one of our
FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10f
or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the Correct Reading of the' follow-
mg puzzle:—
A FR**KD *N H**D *8 A
FR**ND *ND**D.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct you
purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to wear
With the watch.
SEND NO MONEY ; simply forward your answer, and
enclose stamped and addreased'envdope, so that we may
inform you if you have won the watch
We aw making-this offer solely with the object of intro-
ducing and advertising our goods.
Mr. F.. Hughes, Lidsdale, N.S.W., writes : “ I received
the watctujuite safely* and am very well pleased with it
I thank you very much.”
Address— THE MANAGER,
ENGLISH WATCH & JEWELLERY COY.,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
o
<r
O
«o
y>
&
A*
£
YANKEE DOODLE
Is well in front in New South Wales, and forging ahead in
the other Australian States.
The Free Voice of the People is the Strongest Proof possible.
Customs figures show the Yearly Increase in the Sales of DIXSON’S TOBACCO
in NEW SOUTH WALES ALONE to be
1898 INCREASE
1899 INCREASE
1900 TINT CREASE
109,397 lbs.
173,332 lfc>s
228,263 lbs.
Over 100 TONS more Last s Tear than during 1899.
YANKEE DOODLE (LIGHT' and DARK) The Great Mild Smoke
AND IS THE TOBACCOS OF THE DAY!
CONQUEROR: Da.rk, ißich, Good —For Smoking and Chewing.
CHAMPION Gold Leaf, Plug and* Cut — Choicest Natural —CUT, in Hermetically Sealed Patent
DnMAM _ A Tins Champion Blended Stock Yankee Doodle.
CIGAR S 4 for 6d. in (packets. Best value of any cigar.
NOPOLE The ORIGINAL ROTHBGHILB,|and above all Imitations.
PIPES AND TOBACCO WARE OF ALL KINDS
DIXSON & SONS LTD., PARK STREET SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 22.—N0. 1096.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1901.
Prior 6d.
THE IMPERIAL WET-NURSE.-A VALENTINE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to XJ IE Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence" column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and, White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 3U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. 11. Solomon
and Co., 33 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d,. postage, the subscription .
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —l \d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
T^e'^xxllefxm.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1901.
“The Bulletin’s” Fiscal Recantation.
This paper doesn’t change its opinions very
often, and when it starts to recant on a
large scale the event is more or less memor-
able. For many years—as many as it can
remember, in fact—it has been consistently
Protectionist; but even now it is open to
conviction. It has heard very much about
the good example set by Britain, about the
progress of Britain, about Britain’s growing
wealth and commerce and manufactures, and
about the urgent necessity for this country
to adopt the system under which such
allegedly splendid results have been
achieved ; and the constant dropping of re-
marks wears away a stone. The title at the
head of this article was not put there
for nothing. After scouting for years the
idea of following the example of Britain
in fiscal matters The Bulletin has decided
on a change of front. It unreservedly with-
draws from its long-held belief that
Australia should not follow Britain’s
example in fiscal matters, and absolutely
reverses its policy in that respect. No man
is too old to learn, nor is any paper. Some
of them are too stupid to learn, but that is
another story ; and some are too inflated to
acknowledge that they have been misled,
but that is also a different narrative. The
Bulletin frankly admits, on further study
of the matter, that Britain’s example in
matters financial is better than it thought.
In all seriousness it says: Let us follow
Britain’s example.
• * * *
Britain built up its industries by some 200
years of Protection, before it exposed them
to the competition of the world at large, and
The Bulletin proposes that after 200 years
of Protection Australia should do likewise.
The present writer will be dead then, and
he hopes that his descendants of that period
will have accumulated enough money to pay
their passages to some other land. Britain
didn’t expose its industries to the competi-
tion of all the world until, after 200 years of
Protection, it had gained such a start over
all possible rivals that it was the greatest
manufacturer on earth—so great that the
output of manufactured goods from its fly-
speck group of islands constituted about
one-tliird of the whole output of the world.
When Australia gets into Britain’s circum-
stances The Bulletin proposes, out of pure
devilment, that it should do as Britain did.
Instead of turning out one-third of the
world’s manufactures as it did in its Protec-
tionist days, Britain now turns out less than
a sixth, and it is a very bad second
as a manufacturing State instead of
a good first, but, all the same, this
paper will take the chance and vote for
following British precedent. When Britain,
by centuries of Protection, had built itself up
till it was the greatest banking nation ex-
tant, holding nearly half the banking capital
and deposits of the world (it has now
dropped to second place) it tried Freetrade ;
and when Australia gets there also this paper
doesn’t mind if Australia does as Britain
did. When Britain h*l grown under its
Protective system to have the biggest mer-
chant navy in the world, the greatest com-
merce in the world (in the matter of total
commerce, internal and external, it is now a
bad second to the United States, not only in
the bulk, but in proportion to population
also) ; when it had become the third greatest
agricultural nation in the world (it is now
about the sixth), when it owned almost half
the steam-power of the world (it now owns
less than a fifth), and it had lent money to
nearly all the globe, and had, under its Pro-
tective system, paid off much of its public
debt, then it decided that it could face the
world’s competition, and it tried the experi-
ment. When Australia arrives at the same
circumstances this paper votes that it does
the same thing. The Bulletin doesn’t say
as the Reid and M'Millan and B. Smith
crowd does, “Let us follow Britain’s fiscal
example with reservations.” It cheerfully
goes the entire beast in the matter.
* * * *
This paper detests half-heartedness and
weak compromise. When it recants a fiscal
error, or any other error, it does it with all
its soul. Having decided, in this matter, to
go into the camp of George Reid (or, rather,
into the empty camp where George Reid
and B. Smith and M‘Millan and co. say
they are, but where they aren’t), and to vote
for following the good example of Britain in
fiscal matters, it wants to do the thing—not
to less than half do it. The Reid party holds
that because Britain took to Freetrade when
it had grown (under Protection) to be the
greatest manufacturing, commercial, bank-
ing, money-lending, and ship-owning nation
on earth, and the third greatest agricultural
nation, Australia should take to Freetrade
when it is deeply burdened with foreign
debt and is away far back in the ruck of
nations in almost every respect. That isn’t
following Britain’s fiscal example, and The
Bulletin, after being told so often by the
Reid party that we should follow it, wants
to do the thing—not wobble about it and
face both ways.
* * ♦ *
Yet in its anxiety to recant completely
when it is about the work, The Bulletin
will go further. It is prepared, under cer-
tain circumstances, to drop all mention of
the fact that Australia, if it adopts Freetrade
now, is not following Britain’s precedent.
It is prepared to take a lenient view of the
huge discrepancy. Britain, having followed
Protection till it became the boss country of
the earth, took to Freetrade, believing that
it had got so incalculably ahead that it could
hold its own against all comers. And for
Australia, because of this, to take to Free-
trade when it isn’t yet ahead in anything,
and when it know; perfectly well it can’t hold
its own against ah ;omers, is just the same as
for the man at Bourke to have a huge fire
in his drawing-room and thick underclothing
on his body at Christmas, because the man
in London has them. But this paper is
willing to give the Reid party the benefit of
the doubt here—large as tliQ doubt certainly
is. If George Reid and his party will
pledge themselves by some oath that will be
binding on their souls, if there is any such
oath, that when they get into power they
will follow Britain’s fiscal example as it is
now, The Bulletin, though it may not
actively support them, will make no serious
effort to keep them out of power. If they
get into power it will be glad to see them
there, and will feel that the most interesting
experiment in Australia’s history is just
about to commence. And if these people,
who have thrown Britain’s example at us so
persistently as a thing to follow and admire,
don’t accept this offer they are a very poor
and squalid set of shirks, and not worth any
serious person’s consideration.
* * * 9
Taking New South Wales as a case in
point, when that State begins to adopt
Britain’s fiscal system as G. Reid says it
should, in order to attain to what G. Reid
says is Britain’s present pinnacle of pros-
perity, it must cease to float foreign loans.
Britain, except in instances too rare to be
worth mentioning, doesn’t float foreign loans.
It must give up using about £BOO,OOO a year
of borrowed money for unproductive works
properly chargeable to revenue, for Britain
never does that ; and it must pay for these
works out of extra taxation. That is what
Britain does, and it is as much a part of
Britain's financial policy as Freetrade
itself. And in addition to this re-
striction- on the creation of new
debt, N.S.W. must pay off part of its old
debt every year out of revenue, and if the
revenue isn’t large enough for the purpose it
must be made large enough. To liquidate
its public debt at the same rate as Britain
does, allowing for the difference in popula-
tion, N.S.W. should reduce its debt, by special
taxation, at least £200,000 a year—this in
addition to finding another £BOO,OOO a year
that borrowing for unproductive works may
cease. All these things are essential features
of Britain’s financial policy —quite as essen-
tial as Freetrade. If Britain is great, they
have quite as much to do with its greatness
as Freetrade, and without them Freetrade
would have done no good—assuming that it
has done any good. Turkey also follows the
Freetrade system, but for want of the other
notable points of Britain’s financial system,
it isn’t great. If Australia is to follow
Britain’s fiscal example it wants to follow
the whole of it and be great like Britain—
not take the Freetrade item only and slump
like Turkey.
* * • *
And when Britain went in for Freetrade
(or rather pure Revenue-Tariffism) it did the
whole thing. If we are to adopt Britain’s
allegedly beneficial fiscal policy let us also
do the whole thing. There is no such
thing ( in Britain as free newspaper
postage to protect the local Freetrade paper.
There is no Protection to brewers, wine-
makers, sugar and tobacco growers, sugar-
refiners, tobacco-manufacturers, confection-
ers, and other industries, as in N.S.W. The
British Freetrade Government doesn’t sacri-
fice much-needed revenue by keeping the
excise on the local product, as the Reid
Government did, far below the customs duty
on the imported article, so that the local
manufacturer may be protected to the extent
of the difference. Even the import duty on
playing-cards in Britain is counterbalanced
by a stamp duty on cards of local manufac-
ture. When the British Government wants
moneyitdoesn’t do like theREiD party and go
whining over the surface of the country to the
effect that it believes in Freetrade and
direct taxation, but that it isn’t going
to impose direct taxation, and therefore
it must, for the sake of revenue, put on
many duties which will be incidentally pro-
tective. Every British customs duty on im-
ported goods is accompanied by a similar tax
on locally made goods, and if the Reid
crowd really believes in following Britain’s
noble and invigorating precedent, and really
believes that Britain’s example is good, it
will do likewise. It will get more revenue
that way than by putting on casual protec-
tive duties and saying that it is driven to do
so by want of money; and in addition to
getting more revenue it will preserve its
alleged beautiful principles intact.
* * * *
Britain, when it wants more money,
seldom resorts to the customs at all.
It says, as the Reid party does, that it
believes in direct taxation, but it really
believes, which the Reid party doesn’t. So
the British income-tax has been as high, in
times of emergency, as 2s. in the £ on all in-
comes over £l5O a year, with a smaller rate
on all incomes between £5O and £l5O. Even
within the present writer’s time it has been
ll|d. in the £ on all incomes between £lOO
and £l5O, and Is. 4d. in the £ on all in-
comes above £l5O. There are also very heavy
death duties, and a myriad of small direct
taxes unknown in Australia—even the hired
male rouseabout who cleans the boots has a
tax levied on him. Further, very many
items which are here paid out of State
revenue are in England charged to local
revenue, with the result that local taxation
is also very heavy—fully five times as heavy
as in N.S.W. By these means Britain has
proved that it is possible for a country with
heavy responsibilities to raise all the revenue
it requires by a short and simple tariff, and
Reid, M‘Millan, and B. Smith could do it
also if they had the faith and the courage,
and hadn’t degenerated so abjectly. Reid
in particular says that Britain is the greatest
country on earth ; that it is its fiscal system
which made it great ; and that he wants to
follow its fiscal system, only the needs of the
Commonwealth won’t permit. The latter
statement is grossly and shamefully in-
accurate. If the British fiscal system (which
includes 2s. in the £ jncome-tax in times
of stress, and local rates extending up to 6s.
Bd. in the £, with isolated cases of 9s. in
the £, of rental, in order to cover many items
that are here Government responsibilities)
were applied in Australia by a Reid Go-
vernment, it would supply enough revenue
to keep the most needy of the States afloat
as long as Reid lived. How long Reid
would live, unless he concealed himself in a
bomb-proof cellar, is a matter on which this
paper doesn’t feel called upon to offer an
opinion. There are no revenue necessities
in the road if George Reid, and M'Millan,
and Pumpkin Smith, and Bruce Smith, and
the other large and small Smiths, and all
the gassy crowd which says that it is Britain’s
present fiscal system which has made Britain
great, really want to advocate the adoption
of that system by the Commonwealth. The
only conceivable difficulty appears to be the
crowd’s own cowardice, or its disbelief in
its own theories.
* * * *
The Bulletin, with all the fervour of a
new convert in its soul, wants to see the
Australian Freetrade party, which alleges
that the adoption of Britain’s fiscal policy
will make this country fat and wildly
affluent, really advocating the adoption of
that policy. The Freetrade party’s conduct
in not supporting and not practising the
British methods which are to make Australia
glorious Taises a suspicion that it is hired by
some foreign power, probably Greenland, to
undermine this country’s interests. When
Britain postponed trying Freetrade till it was
the richest and greatest country of the
world, the Reids and Smiths say we should
try it while Australia is still in its infancy,
loaded with debt, and with no commanding
lead in any industry, and when this dis-
crepancy is pointed out they say that the
difference of circumstances doesn’t matter—
the truths of Freetrade apply equally, what-
ever the circumstances. Where Britain
practises absolute Freetrade, floats no
foreign loans, pays for all unproductive
State works out of revenue, reduces its debt
every year, and levies about £2 6s. 6d. per
head in direct taxation, local and national,
to enable it to do this, the Reids and Smiths
propose to still levy many semi-Protective
duties, to pay off none of the public debt, to
keep on borrowing for unproductive works,
and to keep direct taxation at about its pre-
sent level (in N.S.W. it doesn’t reach £1
per head, everything included) the shortage
being made good with borrowed money.
And being asked why they don’t follow
Britain’s glorious example, the general reply
is that the circumstances are different.
This sort of thing grows wearisome. And
on a sudden afterthought this paper
wholly withdraws the fiscal recantation with
which it commenced the present article. It
realises that it has always been a much better
advocate of the policy of following Britain’s
good example than George Reid has been,
and that no recantation is necessary.
Britain’s fiscal policy (the one that the Reids
and M‘Billions and the large and small
Smiths profess to hold in such reverence)
consists mainly of absoluteßevenue-Tariffism
which neither the N.S.W. Freetrade party
nor The Bulletin has followed, the latter
advocating straight, honest Protection, while
the former practised modified Protection and
lied about it. Also, Britain’s fiscal policy
embodies the principles of no foreign bor-
rowing, no borrowing for unproductive
works, and the levying of sufficiently
heavy taxation to pay off every year
a portion of the public debt. The Bulletin
has advocated these three great principles
for a dozen years, while the cheeky political
bounders who call themselves the leaders
of Australian Freetrade have trodden them
all under foot. The short and simple creed
of the N.S.W. Freetrader is: “Britain’s
fiscal policy is the secret of its greatness.
Let us follow about one-tenth of that policy
—just enough to let us get our cheap calicoes
in free —and darn the rest. The rest of the
British policy is expensive. We have a
great reverence for the wisdom of that part
of the British policy which brings money to
the pockets of M‘Millan and the rest of the
importing gang. The part that would take
money out of the pockets of M‘Millan and
the rest of the importing gang inspires no
respect at all.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
More Raising of the Poor and Lowly.
It being one of the favourite cries of the N.S.W.
Freetraders that their importing policy “raises
up the poor and lowly ” and causes a wide diffu-
sion of wealth, and prevents the accumulation of
great piles of lucre in the hands of the few, The
Bulletin is moved to quote these figures from
that good English Freetrade statistician, Mul-
HALL, as to how wealth is distributed in one Free-
trade country (Britain) and one Protectionist ditto
(France) —the only two great States about which
this kind of information appears to be avail-
able. The estimates are up to 1896, and are
to be found on pages 100 and 132 of the “Indus-
tries and Wealth of Nations.” The British table
deals with adults, and the French one with
families, which makes comparison rather difficult;
still the results are interesting as showing how
the raising up of the poor and lowly gets on :
Great Britain and Ireland.
Adults. Total Wealth.
Very Rich People.. 327,000 £9,120,000,000 £28,000
Middle Class .. 2,380,000 2,120,000,000 900
Working Class .. 18,210,000 566,000,000 31
Children .. .. 17,940,000 Nil
38,857,000
Prance.
Wealth
Families. Total Wealth. per
family.
Rich .. .. 355,000 £3,440,000,000 £9700
Middle Class .. 1,260,000 1,920,000,000 1600
Working Class .. 7,301,000 4,330,000,000 594
Assuming three adults to a family, which is a very
liberal estimate, it appears from this good English
authority that the average adult working-man and
woman in Protectionist France is worth £l9B
against £3l in Freetrade Britain. Also, the work-
ing classes in the Protectionist land own among
them 4330 millions of pounds worth of property
against 566 millions, or one-ei<jhth, owned by the
equally large working class in Freetrade England.
It is unfortunate that Mulhall doesn’t give
similar information about other countries, but
even these two are interesting. If it is true, as
George Reid solemnly asserted when his famous
Savings Bank fiction was in full bloom, that it is
tariffs which raise or depress the poor and lowly,
then the present scribe (in case he has to hustle
with a pick and shovel some day) would much
rather have the Protectionist tariff which raised
the poor to £l9B than the Freetrade one which
only raised them to £3l. Apparently the French
working man’s family of self, wife and three
children has on an average £594 among the crowd,
while the British toiler’s family of the same size
has £62 (£3l for the old man, £3l for the wife, and
nothing for the children). And the difference is
made up by the rich in France having nearly 6,000
millions less than the rich in Great Britain.
This meeting concludes with cheers for the policy
which hoists up the poor and lowly.
+
Federating' the Railways.
The proposal of N.S.W. Railway Commissioner
Fehon that the Commonwealth should take over


the State railways at a value based on the average
profits of the last seven years, is bearing fruit in
letters like this to Sydney Telegraph. The
writer is a heavy and rather frequent corre-
spondent, who signs himself John Plumb :
The public are under a distinct obligation to Mr. Feiion
for the plain, lucid statement he has sjfc before them, and
the note of warning he sounds Should set them thinking
of the serious consequences that may arise from preci-
pitately rushing into any arrangement for federating
without due consideration and investigation of the pay-
ing or non-paying condition of the railways of the several
States of Australia. To take them all in a lump at
book value of cost would, as Mr. Feiion points out, be
disastrous to those States possessing paying lines, because
the already paying lines would have to increase their
charges to make good the loss on the non-paying lines.
New South Wales, possessing the railway system which
now returns a surplus over and above working expenses
and interest, has most to lose, and any addition to the
rates charged to the users of her lines for freight or pas-
senger purposes for the mere purpose of making good
shortages for non-paying lines in other states would be a
distinct hardship on her citizens.
The Victorian Railway Commissioner (Mr. Mathieson)
strongly opposes Mr. Fehon’s proposition—naturally he
would, for, as Mr. Feiion points out, Victoria would have
to wipe £13,000,000 off the book values of her railways to
bring her in line with the paying systems of New South
Wales, and the other States in like manner in varying
sums, as shown in Mr. Fehon’s statement, would have to
reduce or wipe off values to come into line with the
parent State.
The John Plumb kind of man can’t see
anything beyond N.S.W. and the adjacent
State. The trouble in this case lies with
Westralia. Mr. Fehon’s slipshod idea is to
pay for the lines on the basis of the last seven
years’ profits, regardless of whether these profits
were made by charging exorbitant rates (which
the Commonwealth would have to reduce),
by starving the repairs, by charging some of
the working expenses to loans, by creating a
temporary boom with borrowed money, or by any
other side issue whatever. It doesn’t even seem
to take account of whether the rolling-stock is good
or worn out. And by his brilliant idea the
Commonwealth would have to pay Westralia
about £14,000,000 for a railway system which only
cost it £7,000,000, and about £4,000,000 of this
would be because of W.A.’s great railway boom
in 1896, when its lines earned per cent., and
in 1897, when they earned over 9 per cent. These
were the big borrowing years. Now, the W.A.
lines, though still by far the most profitable in
Australasia, only return about 5 per cent., and
when charges are reduced by the Commonwealth
to something like the eastern level they
will probably yield only about 3 per cent.
Mr. Fehon’s system is calculated to produce some
remarkable results. If the railways are to be
taken over on a valuation, the only fair way is to
place them under Federal management for a few
years, let them be worked on exactly the same
scale of charges, and then take them over accord-
ing to the results they produce. To pay W.A.
£7,000,000, of which N.S.W. would have to pro-
vide over £2,000,000, as a bonus for charging exor-
bitant rates is too much joyfulness.
♦
The Judicious Suppressions of George
Heid.
The latest great upheaval of G-eorge Reid in the
Freetrade interest —the one at Sydney on 4th
February—was a very tame affair compared with
the confident blast and blither of some previous
efforts. About a dozen fine, robust Calico J ames
fictions which were doing constant service only
two months ago have since then been exposed so
often that even the pachydermatous Reid has
dropped them. And the new fictions and misre-
presentations which took their place weren’t a
patch oh the old lot. Still, a few of them are
worth quoting :
The women employed in Victoria number twice those in
New South Wales. But we have more male hands in our
factories than they have. (Cheers.)
This isn’t a lie, only a suppression and a tacit de-
ception and a half-truth. Reid’s “Freetrade”
tariff came in force in N.S.W. on Ist January,
1896. Before then N.S.W. had been under a Pro-
tectionist tariff for nearly five years. When the
semi-Freetrade Parkes period ended (1891) Pro-
tectionist Victoria had 2323 more male factory
employes than semi-Freetrade N.S.W. The
Dibbs Protectionist period altered all that,
and in the last days of Dibbs’s tariff,
Protectionist N.S.W. had 5129 more male
workers than Protectionist Victoria. A few
years of Reid’s Freetrade so far destroyed this
lead that in 1899 more-or-less-Freetrade N.S.W.
had only 3022 more male factory employes than
Victoria, having lost 2107 of the advantage it
gained in its Protectionist days. Here are the
figures (Coghlan’s “Seven Colonies for 1900,”
pages 598-599):
Male Factory Employees in two States.
N.S.W. Vie. N.S.W. surplus.
1896 .. .. 42,908 37,779 6,129 •
1897 .. .. 44,333 38,671 5,662
1898 .. .. 44,673 40,631 4,042
1899 .. .. 47,063 44,041 3,022
The Dry Dog policy wasn’t long in starting to
destroy the big advantage which N.S.W. gained
in its brief period of Protection. These figures, of
course, relate to male employes only. If both
male and female employes are counted Victoria is
4424 ahead. Five out of every 20 of the Protec-
tionist State’s factory employes are women. In
this respect it tries to follow humbly and afar off
the good example of Freetrade Britain, where
eight out of every 20 factory workers are women.
If the importers’ party, which holds that Victorian
Protection is bad because it leads to five factory
employes in 20 being females, is prepared to say
that British Freetrade is 60 per cent, worse
because it leads to eight out of every 20 being
females, this paper will try to meet it on a fair
basis, so that a joint curse can be arranged.
' ♦
The Indispensable Lyne ?
SI’ATE-Premier-plus - Federal - Internal - Minister
Lyne explains. He explains, this little politician,
why he hangs on to two Big Billets—taking
advantage of the Parliamentary vacation to defy
constitutional usage, if not law, and to subordinate
the great offices and great aims of government to
his petty ends. The explanation is simple, yet no
less imposing. Lyne is Indispensable. New South
Wales cannot get along without him. Nobody
can levy troops for foreign service without Par-
liamentary authority—nobody but Lyne. Nobody
can shove the right people into the lucrative
Sydney Harbour Improvement billets—nobody
but Lyne. And, above all, nobody can work like
the devil to put a coat of whitewash over the
awful hole in N.S.W. Treasury where
a cash balance should be —nobody but
Lyne. So Lyne remains in office—
just to save the country—and to save Himself.
N.S.W. Parliament ought to meet at once ; there
is far more than enough for it to do. But Lyne
wishes at all cost to stave off a meeting of Parlia-
ment —with the attack and exposure that would
follow —until his Federal seat is secure. He
will hang on to his Premiership till the
Federal elections —if the country will stand it.
He will postpone the meeting of N.S.W. Parlia-
ment till after the Federal elections—if the
country will stand it. Then he will leave his
trusty lieutenants, See and O’Sullivan, to sweep
up the mess he has made ; and he will be the Man
Who is Away—safely away in the Federal Minis-
try. That’s the programme : will the country stand
it? Unless country members make an organised
move, the country will have to. Where’s George
Reid? There’s lots of things The Bulletin
dislikes about George Reid ; but it ivould
like him to get one week in N.S. W. Treasury to
tell how the accounts are being cooked. Surely it
anybodyis competent to tell all about the cooking ot
accounts it is Reid. The Sydney dailies are silent.
The Herald is too slow to move ; the Telegraph
has just shown enough teeth to make Lyne under-
stand how nasty it will be if Somebody doesn’t get
a big billet. And Lyne is frightened to give Some-
body the billet, and frightened to refuse it. So he
hangs on, sparring for time—just “ a day or two
longer ” —and praying for Night or Bluchek.
The Gradual Mr. Evans.
Victoria’s Inspector of Penal Establishments,
just returned from 12 months’ holiday in Europe,
reports that the English penal system is the best,
and that the Victorian (his) system is in principle
very similar thereto. As dark cells are not in use
“at home,” they should, Mr. Evans thinks, be
abolished here ; also solitary confinement, “which
is neither reformative nor deterrent.” Victoria,
he considers, is moving generally on right lines,
though details will have to be tilled in carefully.
It will be observed, however, that the non-com-
mittal Evans says nothing about flogging, placing
in irons, or extension of or iginal term of punish-
ment without trial (at the will of a couple of
Victoria’s awful gratis beaks). And Mr. Evans
took a year’s holiday and travelled Europe
and America to find out this much ; while his
sub-assistant secretary, by consulting a few records
and reports, could have told him (l)that though in
the ten years ’BB to ’9B there was a 33 per cent.
decrease in the number of prisoners in Victorian
gaols there was a 25 per cent, increase in the
number of punishments awarded in gaol; (2) that
there was a 40 per cent, increase in the number of
cases of sickness ; (3) that no less than J/OO lunatics
were sent to asylums from the State’s gaols in
those ten years ; (4) that there were no less than
three attempts (one successful) at suicide in Pen-
tridge alone during the first half of 1900 ; and (s)'
that, in ’96, of 7752 prisoners 4582 were two or-
more times convicted as against N.S.W. 2290 out
of 9724. Further, with regard to Mr. Evans’s
opinion that nothing is to be learnt from the
methods of the Elmira (New York) Reformatory
—what about the fact that 82 per cent, of the
Elmira prisoners are so reformed that they never
come back, while in Victoria 84 per cent, do come
back ? And yet the placid Evans has the front
to say that “ Victoria is moving, generally, on the
right lines.” Still, his recommendation that soli-
tary confinement and dark cells should be abol-
ished is at least something. There are those who
think that the gradual Evans might decently be
abolished too.
That N.S.W. “ Surplus.”
The proposal of Cotton, M.L.A., that half-a-
million a year of the great surplus which N.S.W.
is to have under the Commonwealth tariff should
be applied to reducing railway rates, is being de-
bated by papers all over N.S.W., and debated
quite as seriously as if there was a visible prospect
of N.S.W. having any such surplus to reduce any-
thing with. Yet, as compared with South Aus-
tralia and Victoria, it seems that the three States
are really almost on a level, and one has not much
more chance of a big Federal surplus than the other
—which is to say that there isn’t any show worth
mentioning for even the best of them —which is
N.S.W. This is how the three panned out last
year, according to Cogiilan’s “ Statistics of the
Seven Colonies,” pages 22 and 26 :
Total taxation
required by
Loan money used each State
Taxation for Revenue pur- to keep it
per head. poses per head. going, per
head.
N.S.W. ..£llß 7 .. £0 13 0 .. £2 11 7
S.A. ..273 .. 05 10 .. 2 13 1
Victoria ..2 10 7 .. 051 .. 2 15 8
Victoria, on this occasion, got to the end of the
year with a very small surplus after paying its
war-expenses up to date, while N.S.W. only
squared its accounts by putting part of its war
bill into the floating debt. S. A. paid its war bill
out of revenue, and just contrived to keep about
square. But even leaving this out of the question,
if the Federal tariff is made high enough to keep
Victoria square, as the State which wants most
money of the three, it seems that N.S.W.’s sur-
plus will be exactly £269,000, and the man who
proposes to take £500,000 out of that to reduce
railway rates is a genius.
The N.S.W. Public Servant and His
Troubles.
N.S.W. Public Service Board came out recently
with a set of new regulations, and the great
aggregate public servant —the Sydney one at all
events —smites himself hard on the ear and dis-
covers that he is both ends and the middle of a
good-sized ass. When Barton fought Reid at
last election in King division —where the civil
servant vote is rather strong —the only George
played a great stroke. He reluctantly admitted
that the N.S.W. Public Service Board was fixing
up a scheme of the most liberal character, which
practically amounted to every member of the
lower grades of the Public Service getting a rise of
salary every year. It was a beautifully liberal
scheme —so liberal as to be almost impossible
without wrecking the Treasury—but the Civil
Service vote went strongly for Reid, and he scraped
in by a small majority. Barton was too beastly
honest to wipe the floor with his fatted enemy
by saying that he had a scheme for giving every
civil servant two rises every lialf-yoar as soon as
he became Premier, so Barton went under.
Reid, who had previously got the support of
people not in the service by cutting down Civil
Service salaries and retrenching civil servants
wholesale, got back into his seat in ’9B by promis-
ing that money was going to be poured out upon
the service more liberally than it had ever been
poured before. Then after a considerable inter-
val the Public Service Board issued its new regu-
lations, and they proved so far short of what the
service had been led to expect that it almost wept
with rage as it thought of how it had been
taken in. The Public Service Board didn’t
even live up to its regulations either.
And finally it withdrew even these limited
concessions, and by its very newest regulations
the great bulk of N.S.W. public servants, when
they attain with difficulty to £2 17s. Bd. a week,
must remain there for life unless they can get
shifted to a new billet. Of course, the Public
Service Board is supposed to be a perfectly inde-
pendent body, over which the Premier has no
control. And when Reid announced, in his elec-
tion speeches in ’9B, that a body over which he had
no control was going to do something for the
public service—something for which Reid was in
no way responsible —it was just like the action of
the tail-collared brigade to rush and vote for Reid
in consequence. The fact that Reid practically
invited them to vote for him on the ground that a
body over which he had no power or influence,
and for whose actions he had no possible
right to claim credit, was said to be
going to do something, merely showed that he
reckoned the Civil Service was foolish enough not
to know any better, and the result proved that he
had accurately gauged its foolishness. So the
N.S.W. Public Service doesn’t know exactly
where to get satisfaction, and it is full of the
pleasing recollection that it has been, on the whole,
a very consistent supporter of the man who
created the Board which made all this trouble.
♦
The “ Average-Expenditure ”
Foolishness.
Melbourne Argus of Feb. 4th, in a magnificent
but misguided effort to prove that the higher the
expenditure per inhabitant the greater the pros-
perity of the country, labored heavily in an over-
whelming sea of figures, and finally sank through
its own incapacity to correctly apply those figures.
According to the ex-freetrade —now revenue-
tariff —organ the expenditure per head per
annum in
New South Wales is .. .. £39 14 11
Australia (average) is.. .. 36 19 5
U.S.A. is 32 16 2
Great Britain is . . . . 29 14 9
These are Coghlan’s figures, and on the strength
of them the Argus labours heavily to prove two
things that won’t hang together : (1) That the
larger annual expenditure per inhabitant on food
and other necessaries in N.S.W. than in the Pro-
tectionist States only proves that the N.S.W.
man has more money to spend— not that neces-
saries are dearer ; and (2) that the larger expen-
diture in the United States than in Britain only
proves that necessaries are dearer — not that the
protected Yankee has more money to spend.
Unfortunately the Argus authority, N.S.W.
Statistician Coghlan, says distinctly, on page
419 of his latest “ Seven Colonies,” that “the stan-
dard of living is much the same in all the colo-
nies.” He also says that it costs £39 14s. lid.
per head per annum to live up to that standard in
N.S.W., while people can live up to the same
standard in the other (Protectionist) States for so
much less that the average cost of living is only
£3O 19s. sd. per head for annum all round. At
this rate the average of the six Protectionist
States must be about £36. Plainly the Calico
James party needs to get a new statistician. The
existing official N.S.W. statistician bumps its
theories in a dreadful fashion at every turn.
In its issue of 9th February Sydney Tele-
graph published a series of letters under the
heading, “Freetrader What it has Done for
England: Letters from Representative Men.”
The heading was, to some extent, a garish lie, in-
asmuch as a good many of the writers didn’t say
that Freetrade had done anything at all for Eng-
land. What they said was that in the period since
Freetrade was introduced ( i.e ., in the period during
which Britain was enriched by the great gold
finds in Australia, Maoriland, S’Africa, India,
and Canada; and during which the condition of
the whole world was immensely improved by rail-
ways, steam sea communication, and by the intro-
duction of steam machinery which enables one
man to do the work that required eight or ten
50 years ago) that during this period the condition
of Britain improved, in common with that of the
rest of the world. One or two held that Free-
trade was the cause, but, on the other hand, a
disastrous person named Davis, whose letter came
at the head of the list, said that the protected
American workman was better off than the Free-
trade English one. How on earth this lamentable
remark was allowed to get into print Heaven only
knows.
♦
In the latest issue of United Australia, under
the heading, “The Federal Capital and Federal
Finance,” Medway Day strongly advocates The
Bulletin’s theory (set forth at length in “A
Policy for the Commonwealth ” and in many Bul-
letin articles) that the banks should be com-
pelled, as in Canada, to keep at least 40 per cent,
of their cash reserves in Federal Government
notes. As there are about £26,000,000 of coin
lying idle in the banks, this policy would make it
compulsory to exchange at least £10,000,000 of
this for Government paper, and the Federal
Government, without depriving anyone of a penny
or putting a single Government note in circula-
tion, would get the perpetual loan, without in-
terest, of £10,000,000 in gold. And if it also took
over the note circulation, which is quite a different
thing, it would, between the two, get the per-
petual loan of fully £13,000,000 without in-
terest. It could do this without trying any
novel or risky expedient whatever, but merely
by following the safe and long-tried example
of a rather conservative British community. Mr.
Day also cordially advocates The Bulletin’s idea
that money thus raised should be used to build
a Federal city, and to acquire a Federal Territory
much larger than the 100 square miles fixed as the
legal minimum in the Commonwealth Constitution
(The Bulletin suggested 5000 square miles), of
which Territory the Commonwealth should be sole
ground landlord. And by way of postscript he
says:
It is only fair to add that I do not claim to have origin-
ated these suggestions. They appeared in a section of
the Sydney press as far hack as December, 1899 ; and I
am surprised that they have not received the attention
which they seem to deserve.
This paper was the section referred to. It is
really wonderful how many people are willing to
use its ideas, and yet are too shocked to mention
the name of the disreputable publication they
were derived from.
♦
Dear Bulletin. —Touching a par. in a recent
“ Wild Cat ” :
Hicks v. The Trustees, etc., Co., of Melbourne, testifies
eloquently to the joy of being a trustee. Hicks died Nov.
88, with many lands valued at boom prices, practically all
of which were held by mortgagees and banks, with the
exception of one piece bequeathed to his wife. Hicks,
with boom values on his mind, directed that five vacant
pieces of land were to be sold in a certain order first of all
to satisfy his debts, etc., and if they did not realise suf-
ficient, then certain other vacant and unproductive lands
not specifically bequeathed, were to be sold also. The
Trustees Go. allege they tried to sell as directed, but that
in 1889-90 buyers were not taking any vacant and unpro-
ductive lands, and while they were trying to sell the
vacant land first, as directed, the values of the other pro-
perties dropped to about nothing. Mrs. Hicks says
they should have sold everything else at any price,
and in any order, and her piece of land would have
been fjee and available. She therefore demanded its
transfer, which was declined. Then the legal corroboree
commenced. Defendant applied to the Court before the
C. J. for amendment of claim, which was refused, but, on
appeal to the Full Court, was granted. Trial on amended
claim before A’Bkckett (J.), case dismissed on plaintiff’s
evidence alone without calling for defendant’s. Court of
opinion the direction as to order of sale was a specific
trust. Plaintiff appeals, Full Court orders new trial, hold-
ing that all the vacant and unproductive lands should
have been sold and that the order of sale was not a
specific trust. New trial before C.J., who differs from
A’ Beckett and the Full Court too, holding that all the
properties specifically devised and otherwise should have
been sold, and that if they had, the difference between the
debts (£14,000) and an estimate of value in ’9l (£23,000)
left a margin for depreciation of £9OOO before plaintiff’s
specific devise would have to be touched. Therefore she
is entitled to her land. Defendant has given notice of
appeal. Result so far, two trials, three appeals, three
interpretations of the vital clause in the will, parties no
forrader and probably very sorry they did not toss up.
When the Great Commonwealth Drunk wound
up with a drunken smoke-concert to Imperial
sailors, it nearly broke the heart of honest Pastor
Shearston, the Sydney seamen’s advocate and
friend. And through the cracked valve came a
fearsome wail —• not intended for publication,
Shearston says; but it did get published, and
was red-hot. Shearston pointed out what
was perfectly true: that free booze, with the
Mayor presiding was simply an inducement to
ordinarily sober men to go and make beasts of
themselves; and a lot of them did go and make
beasts of themselves. The negative evidence of
people, including the Mayor, who “ didn’t see it ”
isn’t wortli a straw beside Shearston’s posi-
tive detailed statement of the free fights
outside the Naval Home, and the vomits
he wiped from the Naval floor, and the
books of sticking-plaster he lavished on his Naval
heroes. The smoke-concert was simply unlimited
swill—partly at the expense of the wretched
denizen of the backblocks (in the electorate of
Hume, say) who works from year-end to year-
end (when he can get work) and pays the
publican for his rotgut or goes without. The
Mayor and Co. should be thoroughly ashamed
of themselves for giving the Beast a
chance. Here has Shearston been educating
and moral-reforming his pets for years past
into a semblance of Cromwell’s Ironsides, —
covering up the Beast with pattern externals of
decorum and piety and never-touch-it, and
fondly hoping that the Beast was eradicated. Of
course the Beast wasn’t eradicated; your “first-
class fighting man ” —the kind of man that hires
himself out for a livelihood of fighting—must keep
his Beast if he is to fight. Shearston had simply
laid the Beast to sleep with texts and moral
maxims ; and the Beast woke up first chance.
The Bulletin agrees with Shearston that it’s a
shameful thing Mayor and Co. should ever have
given him the opportunity.
<s.
The latest item in the bright lexicon of the
Calico Jimmy campaign is that Reid is going to
Queensland, there to explain the beauties and
advantages of his Shoddy Import policy. Up
there, his position is calculated to be a trifle awk-
ward. Reid’s “ Freetrade ” tariff came in force
in N.S.W. on Ist Jan., 1896, and statistics are
available showing the consequences to end
of 1899. During that period N.S.W. had, in
proportion to population, a smaller increase of
hands employed in manufactures than either
Queensland, Victoria, Tasmania, or South Aus-
tralia. It was the tail-end State —the Place That
Got Left, while Queensland was the front State.
N.S.W. has nearly three times the population of
Queensland, and yet it oidy increased its manu-
facturing population by 5806, while Queensland
increased the number of its manufacturing em-
ployes by 7464. These are the figures (to be traced
on pages 591 to 601 of Coghlan’s “ Seven Colo-
nies ”): —
New Factory em- Proportion
ploy6s for whom to
work was found Population.
1896-1899
Queensland .. 7467 .. 1.55 per cent.
Tasmania .. 1875 .. 1.03 „
Victoria .. 9622 .. 0.83 ~
S.A 2370 .. 0.64 ~
N. S. Wales .. 5806 .. 0.43
Reid, as representing the State which made least
progress of the five, goes up north to speak like a
heavy father to the State which made most pro-
gress, and to tell it how to Get Left as N.S.W.
did. Which is like a shoeless mendicant lecturing
to Rothschild about the way to make money.
——
From Adelaide to The Bulletin :
There is evident in S.A. a certain tendency to throw
things at the soldiers the community was so proud of last
year. This applies only to the Bushmen’s Contingent—
not the Imperial article, but that financed locally, as well
as raised so. Blackmore, Clerk of Parliament, was, and
is, hon. sec. to the fund, and he has just reported to his
committee that the soldiers in Africa have been drawing
their pay there in full, while he has been paying
the greater part of it in Adelaide to their wives and
families, under orders left by the men for that
purpose. Commanding offler Hubbe has been killed, but
the Imperial paymaster declares that all the other officers
have told him that neither they nor the men left any such
orders. The position is a sufficiently serious one. The
said paymaster apparently accuses all the officers of a
combined fraud, or a combined loss of memory, the alter-
native being that he himself has got things mixed up in
an incredible fashion. Apart from his statement, the
whole thing is explainable as a very large and rather
fun M3' mistake. The Tommies enlisted for 4s. 6d.
a day, of which they left 3s. 4d. payable at Adelaide
to their families. When they got to Mafeking (so
returned members of the contingent declare) an order
was issued that they were to get ss. a day “Rhodesian
pay.” This now seems to have been meant as a rise of
sixpence only, but all hands appear to have taken it in
simple, good faith as meaning that their pa3 r was to be
9s. 6d. a day in all—3s. 4d. a day for their families and
6s. 2d. for themselves. Their troubles about details ! So
they had a good time, unconscious (as now alleged)
that they were taking the bread out of the mouths of
their wives and families. These latter, meanwhile, have
been getting their mouths filled all the same, at the rate
of 3s. 4d. a day, and the Fund now wakes up to find that
it has been double-banking to the extent of about 60 per
cent. As it is evidently quite impossible to let the
women and children starve, the orders are still honored
for the present. But an endeavor will he made to recover
from Tommy whatever he has not squandered in riotous
living, and he will probably be sued in the Small Debts
Court when he conies back. Also that Imperial paymaster
is requested to prove his words or eat them.
Said George Reid at Sydney recently :
But apart from the fiscal question, I cannot help being
gratified at seeing that Mr. Barton has taken up every
item of the policy which I have advocated for years. I
do not quarrel with him for that —I never mind an oppo-
nent doing my work —and when Mr. Barton speaks about
“ A White Australia,” may I sa3 r that I had the honor of
inventing that expression some years ago.
Apart from the fact that the term “ A White
Australia” was current in Queensland before
Reid was heard of in politics, the above statement
is quite true. There is hardly a good thing and
not many bad things in politics that Reid hasn’t
advocated. He advocated poll-taxing the Chinese,
though it was Rarkes who did it; and he advo-
cated one-man-one-vote, though it was Dibbs who
did that. He advocated keeping N.S.W. white,
though he allowed Hindoos to swarm into the sugar
districts absolutely unchecked. He advocated
Old Age Pensions, though he never established
them, but left that for Lyne to do; and he
favored a good Conciliation and Arbitration
law, though he never passed one. He also believed
in shortening the hours of the dreadfully over-
worked shop-assistant class, and Lyne did it.
Reid was in favor of sending a contingent to
the Boer war, and refused to send it —he “ laid
the papers aside.” He advocated Freetrade and
didn’t practise it. He advocated the abolition of
sweating, and had an alleged kindly feeling to-
wards a minimum wage law for that purpose, but
he never passed one. He cried out loudly for a
reformed Local Government system for N.S.W.,


BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.
375 Georgre street, SYDNEY:
BO Queen Street, BRISBANE;
On Your Holidays
USE A
PREMO CAMERA.
Your Outfit is not complete without it.
25/- 10 <£2o
Illustrated Catalogues
Post Free.
Note Our Addresses :
A
260 Collins Street.
66 Rundle Street,
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE.
HELIDON SPA WATER
A NATURAL
MINERAL WATER
k
A
Julphide Corporation
LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead,
and
or
Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper JVlatte Bought^—
■ ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Tart/e Parcels or
Regular Supjilies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A E, SAVAGE,
Manager
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia.
and brought in a Bill for that purpose, and
dropped it; whatever reform there has been was
done by Lyne. He advocated an improved bank-
ing law and a State note issue, but never attempted
either. he was solid on the necessity for
keeping the finances square, yet he had perpetual
deficits. He even advocated political honesty,
among other things ! Certainly George Reid
l as advocated most of Barton’s programme right
enough. But this weary land wants a man who
will do something.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “ It’s Never Too Late to Mend.”
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Lyceum “ The Ladder of Life.”
Palace “A Message from Mars.”
Her Majesty’s “Djin Djin.”
Theatre Royal “ The Scarlet Feather.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Cinderella ’’—(Last Nights).
Her Majesty’s “ Florodora.”
Theatre Royal “ The Great Ruby.”
Bijou “ Puss in Boots.”
Athenaeum Hall. ..... Snazelle and “ Our Navy."
The old-time Japanese frivolity of “ Djin
Djin,” revived after a long interval of years at
Her Majesty’s (Sydney) is refreshing after the
respectable weariness of its predecessor. It says
a good deal for “ Djin Djin ” that it can bear up
against the general mediocrity of the Pollard Co.,
and appear a really good Xmas joke in spite of
everything. Like most Xmas jokes it is about
nothing in particular, but it is about it in a cheer-
ful and artistic spirit. It made its re-appearance
on a hot night, and the cool moss-green effects of
the Daimio’s gardens, and the sparkling waters,
and the frozen forest, and the cold glassy peak of
Fuji San are like the shadow of a big beer in a
blasted land. There are all manner of good effects
in “Djin Djin,” One of the best is where the
night is falling over Fuji San, and its spectral
hand steals out to hang the evening star on
the fading collar-bone of Day—just before
the great eruption blazes forth and pours itself
over the province of Hakidodo, or whatever it is
called, like the wrath of Heaven being emptied out
of a jug. Also, there is a sunrise effect somewhere
or other in the story, where the Morning softly
opens the great portal of the East and surrep-
titiously takes in its boots, which it had left out
to be cleaned the night before; and wandering
among all these things there is a large, incompe-
tent Japanese devil who is always bowled out,
and whose life is only spared at last on condition
that he marries a bent and yellow spinster who
appears to have a billet as lady-hindrance in the
Daimio’s family. This wrecked apparition, repre-
sented by Harry Quealy, ranks something above
the bulk of the co. by reason of her remarkable
dancing abilities. Also Miss Maud Beattie is tall
and stately and glittering in the clothes of the in-
evitable prince; and the ladies who represent Eng-
land, Scotland, Ireland, France and Italy are tall
and amazingly long in the legs; and Miss Gertie
Campion is a handsome vision as a princess; and
the wrecked mariner who comes on dressed in a
lift-belt and sings about his lost friend, Sam,
would pass well enough if it were not that Samuel
had a much brighter friend some years ago. On
the whole, however, the Pollard Co. appears to
much better advantage than in the lasi produc-
tion. The vocabulary of “Djin Djin” is evi-
dently selected from a more cheerful part of the
dictionary than that of the rather unfortunate
“Australis.”
• * m *
The most interesting features of “Aus-
tralis” —the dogs and monkeys, especially the
small Irish bricklayer-monkey who wheels the
barrow have been transplanted bodily into
“Djin Djin.” Also Miss Irene Franklin, the
lady with the beautiful arms who sings so power-
fully through a pleasing American nose, is still on
the programme, though her old song about eat-
ing “ chick-W” has given place to other ditties.
One of them is a doleful commonplace about some-
one who went back to the old home after a long
or short or middle-sized absence, and found that
mother wasn’t there, or else mother found that
he wasn’t there; anyhow, somebody was dead, or
absent, or had never existed, and some place or
other didn’t look the same in consequence; or else
it did look the same and they were shocked at its
continued resemblance to itself and expected it to
be otherwise. That sort of song should be dis-
couraged. A kinematographe of the Common-
wealth procession and the swearing-in is an
interesting reminiscence. Among them all they
keep “Djin-Djin” going to a rather late hour.
Present writer would rather sacrifice the swearing-
in. The ink-blot tail-coats of the serious-looking
men who are sworn in seem to spoil the gorgeous
color-effects of the Jap fairy-tale. Ancient fairy-
tale and modern black coat-tail don’t assimilate.
*# * *
Sydney Royal is closed at present, but
there is to be a great awakening on Wednesday,
when Nellie Stewart, Joseph Tapley, and Mus-
grove’s comic opera co. in general arrive with
the “Scarlet Feather.” Our Nellie’s return is
sufficient in itself to create a boom, and the
“ Scarlet Feather” itself, be it good, bad or indif-
ferent, matters little. Sydney hasn’t seen Nellie
Stewart for ages; but a good part of it will see
her next Wednesday even if it has to crush its
fellow creature’s hat on the stairs to do it.
# * *
One of the proposed theatrical happenings
of this week is a matinee in aid of the Children’s
Hospital at Sydney Royal on Saturday (16th).
“Bubbles” and “A Pair of Spectacles” are the
programme, and as it will be a good show for a
good cause, in a nice, clean theatre, the public
can’t do better than be there unanimously.
** * *
“ The Ladder of Life ” —said ladder con-
sisting of the M‘Brown, the M‘Jones, and the
M‘Smith, aided at a crisis by the M'Dougall—is
doing very large business at Sydney Lyceum.
This can’t be set down to its coherence, for it has
about as muoh as an intoxicated heretio who has
been racked by the Inquisition ; so it is probably
ascribable to the battles, and the tremendous
shooting, and the mountains, and the kilts, and
the steam-hammer. One unavoidable discre-
pancy, by the way, attaches to the latter large
iron gentleman. When the two tall wicked men
pull the lever the hammer comes down promptly
—thud ! Then they put the insensible heroine
under it, pull the lever, and go away quite con-
tented while the hammer remains up. Presently
the M‘Brown and M ‘Jones and M‘Smith pour
down from the roof like the gentle rain from
heaven, and shift the lady. Then the hammer
comes down. But for the beastly unpunctuality
of the bulky iron implement the drama would have
been finished.
** # *
The most interesting item of the perform-
ance of Victor, the illusionist and ventriloquist,
now pursuing the deceptive victual in the drain-
pipe at Queen’s Hall, Sydney, is probably Victor
himself. The man of picturesque appearance and
many smiles either enjoys keenly his own humour,
or else disguises his sufferings very successfully.
There is a streak of piety in Victor’s show, as
when the red-nosed marionette and the Paul
Kruger marionette and the marionette with her
face bound up like Madame Vine in “ East
Lynne” all unite in singing the “Holy City,”
taking a line each at a time. The pro-
gramme says that Victor shows wonderful powers
of conversing and singing in six different voices
while eating, drinking, and smoking. A fair
number of birds and children and other animals
come out of impossible places, and shopfulls of
goods are taken out of hats and other obviously
impracticable spots, while enough half-crowns to
buy them are picked off the shoulders of people in
the audience. Nothing makes an audience so mad
as when it finds it has been sitting all the evening
with 2s. 6d. on its shoulder without knowing it.
But the “woman who is burnt alive before the
eyes of the audience, ” isn’t, because there is a
hoop over her all the time. Also the burning
doesn’t create “awe and fear in the audience,”
though there are four lines of poetry in the pro-
gramme to say that it does.
*' * * *
At the Palace “ A Message from Mars ”
is now in its eighth week, and in the absence of any
news to the contrary, it seems that the tramp may
continue to have three whiskies and a biscuit on
Horace Parker’s premises for some little time
longer.
*» * *
The “Bush King” is down for another
week at Sydney Criterion. It is a splotchy, un-
decided drama that is upheld by the scenery, and,
to a certain extent by Hampier, and also by
various horses. Also it is the kind of play which
makes one wish, when in a bitter and bilious mood,
that this bright young country had never been
discovered, so that there could never have been
any bushrangers for want of any bush to range in.
There are times in everybody’s life when he
wearies even of bushrangers. “It is Never too
Late to Mend ” is to add one more to its long list
of revivals on Saturday.
** * *
The Professional Musicians festivated at
their rooms on Sunday night under the presidency
of Mr. G. Rivers Allpress, who opened the pro-
ceedings with a speech in which he rather neatly
juxtaposed the deaths of Victoria, Queen and Em-
press of India, and Guiseppe Verdi, King and
Emperor of the unlimited realm of imperial
melody. This speech furnished a motif for the
opening number—“ln Memoriam an instru-
mental sestet from the facile pen of Ernest P.
Truman, with horn passages that reminded the
listener of the echoes that wound their way
through fabled forests of Roncesvalles. This
number was received in silence, but the closely-
packed audience seemed dubious as to whether
they were paying a tribute of reverence to the
memory of Victoria or to that of Verdi. The
first item of the programme proper was Mendels-
sohn’s beautiful Trio in JD Minor, interpreted by
Messrs. Allpress (violin), Podenzana (’cello), and
Truman (piano). This was emphatically the treat
of the evening. Good old septuagenarian vocalist
Tom Rainford next sang “I’m a Romaner”
(Mendelssohn), and was rewarded with much
applause. Der Herr Truman then indulged in
piano soli, (a) “Eligie” and (b) “ Polichinelle ”
(Rachmaninoff). Mr. Henry Weir warbled “Too
late we met,” in which his tenor robusto was
pleasantly heard till he demoralised into a vibrato
finale that shivered the glasses on the tables.
Senor D’Alba (in memoriam, Verdi) sang “ In-
felice ” aria from “ Ernani,” and the proceedings
came to a musical termination with a ’cello solo—
“Berceuse” (Godard) —capitally played by Signor
Podenzana.
*x * *
There is often more real mirth in the small
shows that intend to be serious than in the large
ones which are full of a desperate resolve to be
funny. The Bulletin recently struck one of the
previous kind. Two fat ladies, called Clara and
Anna, display their ponderous proportions, in a
sort of schoolgirl costume, somewhere opposite the
Victoria Markets, Sydney. Clara is 295 t., while
Anna is a slender little blossom of 28st., though,
as she is only 21, there are hopes of her further
expansion. The stout ladies display considerable
anxiety to be prodded by members of their own
sex, so that the vast, green-sashed, 80in. waist may
be proved to be solid, and no suspicion attach to the
genuineness of the enormous ankles. Curiously
enough, Clara and Anna, who might be expected to
be distressed and to puff a good deal in the hot
weather, say they prefer summer to winter. The
Gatton tragedy, with a realistic background of
painted trees and buggy, is another feature of the
show ; there is also a wax murderer or two, whom
every woman in the audience points out to her
female acquaintance as resembling her husband.
But these things are serious. Clara and Anna, as
they heave themselves up like two affable geo-
graphical globes to greet the casual visitor, are
funny (though whether they know it or not is
another question), and in their casual way (if
people of their bulk can be casual) help to lighten
this careworn planet.
** * *
“The Casino Girl” strengthened with
sundry items from Williamson’s pantomime
(“Australis”) follows “ Florodora ” at Her
Majesty’s, Melb. But the end of the phenomenal
“ Florodora ” season is not yet. The receipts for
its eighth week exceeded the sum total of the first
week’s business, so they are likely to hold back
“The Casino Girl ” until April 9th. Nance
o‘Neil is due at Easter, and a month of the
massive lady will lead up to Italian opera in May.
** * *
The one notable happening of last week in
the Melbourne show world was “Ma Mie Rosette ”
(2nd act) at Her Majesty’s. An announcement
that Nellie Stewart, Brownlow and co. would re-
produce the naughty dream of the gardener’s
daughter at 2 p.m. filled every seat in the house
before the curtain rose, and George Darrell took
something like £3OO by this trump card of his
matinee. There have been two revivals of the
opera since the first production. May Pollard
succeeded Nellie in the name-part in ’95, and
Florence Perry made a quiet little attempt
to fill it some fifteen months ago, but these
only served to shake up the old fame of
the original show. The crowd came along last
Friday afternoon to see the Rosette whom some
had seen already and the others had often heard
of. They were glad they came. They looked for
an interesting performance and they got it.
Henry of Navarre’s chateau was not quite so im-
posing a scene at Her Majesty’s as it was at the
Princess’s six-and-a-half years ago, but the furnish-
ings looked smart and the incidental ballet
quartette worked most admirably. The average
quality of background girl in Williamson’s Co. must
be improving every year. From time to time a
vision of no previous importance steps to the front
and seems to invite the tender Florodoric ques-
tion, Tell me, pretty maiden, are there many
more at home like you ? ” Considered as a ladies’
seminary the co. is a pudding full of plums, with the
sweetest plums frequently lurking in unconsidered
places Thi3 by way of remarking that Miss
Engleheart, who played Segur, the page, a year
ago, had grown into a handsome and clever Cori-
sandre last week, whilst Miss Irene Outtrim was
a page—a page of—er—exquisite fiction.
* * * *
Six years and more have considerably
plumpened the artist who carried fresh milk to
Henri’s chateau on the night of Brownlow’s debut,
but she has not yet ceased to be a charming girl
m a beautiful golden wig. When she sat on the
stairs and sang that she was dreaming, the multi-
tude on the far side of the orchestra laid down
their opera-glasses and surrendered uncondition-
ally. Nellie Stewart was seen at her best in her
best character. Brownlow and Kenningham like-
wise took the proceedings seriously, and the
tableau was a convincing success. Present scribe
felt sorry for the three principals—the girl, the
Kmg, and the inopportune Vincent who was
doomed to die before daybreak. The disappoint-
ment in each case seemed so very sad, and there
was no third act to show that Rosette had only
been imagining vain things on a bundle of straw.
** * *
The usual performance at the Bijou was
turned off at the meter last Saturday, and the
house is just now being dusted, and made ready
for “ Puss in Boots.” Saturday next (16th) is the
appointed time for the Melbourne appearance of
that frivolous tragedy.
** * m
Who paid for the cable announcing that
Francie Adler had made a brilliant first appear-
ance at the Winter Gardens, Berlin, and was
“ accorded the honor of four recalls by a crowded
audience”? If the news is strictly accurate it
means that the ballad singing at Berlin Gardens is
considerably below the Rickards standard. After
J. C. Williamson had given Adler a good many
chances to shine, the plump little niece of
the Simonsens joined the Rickards co., and
she was warbling “Down by the Suhannee River ”
at _ Melbourne Bijou up to the time of her
going away. Australia didn’t mourn the loss of
her, though she had a certain quality in her voice
which another sort of girl might have turned to
better account. Madame Simonsen, of yore,
decided that Francie had all the qualifications of a,
first-class singer except the disposition to study,
and since then she hasn’t beeu much of a slave to
her art. Besides, the short-necked young charmer
is already threatening to become fat and breath-
less, so, taking one consideration with another
The Bulletin says “ Rats ! ” to that cablegram.
#* * *
George Musgrove’s gorgeously - dressed.
gantomime passes away from Melb. Princess’s on
aturday. _ “ Cinderella ” will then have asserted
its expensiveness on more than 60 occasions, and
the final performance may score one of the biggest
gates of the season, nevertheless the management
has certainly missed much profit by ignoring the
advice of that hard-headed old warrior, General
Opinion, at the outset. The voice of the
People is the voice of Boodle in these mat-
ters, but the management, seemingly, was
too haughty to hear it, for a time. Then
somebody awakened to the foolishness of clothing
a feeble panto, in rare raiment, and “Cinderella”
took a turn for the better. Signs of humor mani-
fested themselves in places whicli had become
notorious for gloom, and the result of this belated
endeavor to drive dull care away is a reasonably
cheerful show. Fred Ellis, one of the comedians
from beyond the seas, is an improved feature, and
there are others not too numerous to mention.
After Saturday the Princess’s will go into recess
for three weeks—then grand opera again.
At the Royal, where the balloon is, Mr. and
Mrs. Bland Holt are still hunting for the gigantic
jewel which went astray. Also the principal
robber continues to press a revolver-barrel against
Holt’s spine with an intimation that silence is
preferable to sudden death. “ The Great Ruby ”
has a name for being one of the higher melo-
dramas, therefore business promises to expand
rather than otherwise this next week or two.
*# # *
Now is the ninth week of “ Florodora ” at
Her Majesty’s, and the usual matinee will be
given next Wednesday. No doubt the future has
a last night in store for Professor Lauri, Grace
Palotta, Carrie Moore, and the mad effigy, but up
to now “ Florodora’s ” bump of prosperity sticks
out like a pumpkin.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The cost of the Federal Government for January,
the first month of its existence, was somewhere in the
vicinity of £1331 (N.S.W.’s share, £482 ; Victoria, £415 ;
Queensland, £172 ; South Australia, £133; Tasmania, £6B;
Westralia, £6l). Revenue returns for the month were:
Revenue, Increase as com-
January, pared with
1901. January, 1900.
Victoria .. .. £709,349 .. £80,464
New South Wales .. 851,663 .. 24,827
(Rents, &c., from Sydney resumed area included)
Westralia .. .. 263,282 .. 21,134
New South Wales .. 834,353 .. 7,517
(Rents, &c., from Sydney resumed area not included)
Decrease as com-
pared with
January, 1900.
Tasmania .. .. 78,227 .. £13,828
Queensland .. .. 323,110 .. 38,504
The financial year is now seven months old in Queens-
land, N.S.W., Victoria and Westralia, and one month old
in Tasmania. In S.A. it is seven months old, but only six
months’ figures are available. The results, so far as they
go, are as follows :
Increase as com-
Revenue to pared with
31st January, corresponding
1901. period to 31/1/1900
N.S.W. (7 months) £5,956,589 £366,045
(Rents from Sydney resumed area included.)
N.S.W. (7 months) 6,879,528 288,984
(Rents from Sydney resumed area not included.)
Vic. (7 months) 4,438,454 273,837
W.A. (7 months) 1,752,834 155,744
S - A -t0 (6 317l 0 2/’00)} W OO 9 4 3,669
Decrease as com
pared with
corresponding
period to 31/1/1900
Tas. (1 month) 78,227 13,828
Qs’land (7 months) 2,558,560 204,727
Bulk figures, however, are of little value as showing the
relative progress of the revenue. The best estimate is
the increase or decrease in proportion to population. The
following table shows this reduced to a common basis of
so much per inhabitant per annum (Coghlan’s latest popu-
lation estimates) :
Increase per inhabi-
tant per annum.
Westralia _ .. £1 11 3
Victoria ' .. 8 1
New South Wales .... 7 4
South Australia 4 9
Decrease per inhabi-
tant per annum.
Queensland 14 7
Tasmania 18 2
Already certain of the old anti-Federal gang have arisen
to allege that the decline for the month of £13,828 in
Tasmania is owing to the £6B it had to pay for its share
of the Federal Government expenses, and that Queens-
land’s portion of the Federal expenses (£172) has caused
the drop of £38,504. The old anti-Federal crowd has a
fine gift of inaccuracy—not to say perjury.
The New South Wales expenditure for the
seven months to 31st January, 1901, is stated as being
£6,158,206, so the apparent deficit is £201,617. This com-
pares with the corresponding seven months of last finan-
cial year as follows:
31st January, 31st January,
1900. 1901. Increase.
Expenditure .. .. £5,865,133 £6,158,206 £293,073
Revenue .. .. 5,590,644 5,956,589 366,045
Decrease in
Deficit.
Deficit £274,589 £201,617 £72,972
This would look like a very great improvement if it
wasn’t for certain explanations which make it clearly
appear as a very great delusion. In the first place, the
above revenue includes £77,061 derived in one way and
another from the resumed area of Sydney, and when the
prices to be paid for the resumed property are settled it will
probably be found that the interest already incurred will
eat up the whole of the receipts. If this money is put to a
trust-fund (as it should be) and not treated as ordinary
revenue, then the deficit is rather larger than it was this
time last year instead of £72,972 smaller. Morever none
of this financial year’s war expenditure, and none of the
Federal celebration expenditure is included in the out-
goings. Including them the deficit is probably about
£450,000 or more, and things are certainly very much
worse than they were this time last yea'r. Also, the
seven months’ loan expenditure has been £1,490,014,
which is £161,732 more than for the seven months to 31st
January, 1900. Allowing for war, Commonwealth cele-
brations, interest on the purchase-money of the resumed
area, and extra loan expenditure, things in N.S.W. are
probably about £350,000 worse than they were this time
last year.


The Age of 24th October, 1900, writes re the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited : “ The
results of the investigation of its affairs for the quinquen-
nium ending the 31st December last show that the Society
is in a very sound position.*
• » * *
The Pioneer Tin Mining Co., of Bradshaws
Creek, Tasmania, have ordered from the Austral Otis
Eng. Co., South Melbourne, a large dredging plant for the
treatment of their tin deposits. The plant is a very com-
plete one, and includes vertical compound engine 400
h.p. suitable boilers carrying 1501 b. steam pressure, and
one of the Otis newest design 15in. gravel pumps. The
plant is to be completed and set to work within six
months.*
• * * •
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Bock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
» * * *
Since the start of the Broken Hill Proprietary’s
new 5000-ton mill, most of the Barrier mines have been
engaged in remodelling their concentrating plants on up-
to-date lines, and wisely show a preference for machines
which have proved most successful on the difficult fines
and slimes. The machines that can claim this distinction
are the “ Luhrig ” Yanners, as supplied by Messrs. W. &
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne. The South’s new mill will
include a dozen or so, and the Junction Co. has also de-
cided to erect a number of Luhrig Vanners as an impor-
tant adjunct to its large plant. Other mines would do
well to follow this good example.*
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
“ ENGLAND’S FAVORITE.”
PLAYER’S
Mil HU !■ II ■'l'll'TTl —i •- I • • w*t-.•
NAVY CUT
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
■»
yti
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Hy. Markwak!,
178 William-street,
'Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-lit., Sydney; 68 Curzie-tt., Adel.; 27 Kajle-street,
Brisb.; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide f Potassium (98/100 per cent,
pure), BloaoLlng Powder, Mining Requisites,
Candles, etc.
The state of things in Queensland as compared
with last year is as follows :
Seven months Seven months Increased
to 31st Jan., to 31st Jan., Expendi-
-1900. 1901. ture.
Expenditure .. £2,320(770 £2,578,020 £257,250
Decreased
Revenue.
Revenue ~ 2,763,287 2,558,560 204,727
Surplus (31/1/’00) £442,517
Deficit (31/1/’01) £19,460
The awful result is that Queensland is now £461,977 worse
off than it was at this date last financial year, and as last
financial year closed with a comparatively small balance
this one is in a fair way to close with £600,000 deficit.
Yet, despite the drought, there is no reason, except un-
speakably bad government, why Queensland should be in
any difficulties at all. The following is the revenue for
the seven months to 31st January in three consecutive
years:—
January 31. January 31, January 31,
1899. 1900. 1901.
7 months .. £2,444,115 .. £2,763,287 .. £2,558,560.
The revenue now is £114,000 more than it was in 1899,
and at June 30,1899, Q. had a very handsome surplus. But
there was a hoom in 1900, largely by reason of Tyson’s
death, and the expenditure was immediately bloated out
to absorb the revenue, with a cheerful assurance that
Tyson would die every year, and the result is disaster.
Despite the drought there is nothing the matter with
Queensland’s finances, except that the lazy, incompetent
Philp is now Premier instead of Dickson. So far loan
expenditure remains practically where it was last year,
but it is understood that Philp is going to start a great
burst of railway-building shortly.
* * * *
Westralia’s expenditure returns are only avail-
able to December 31, 1900 (six months). This is how
things compare with the previous year :
31st December, 31st December, T „ prpnap
1899. 1900. increase.
Expenditure .. £1,195,107 .. £1,478,086 .. £282,979
Revenue .. 1,354,942 .. 1,489,552 .. 134,610
Surplus .. £159,835 £11,466
Revenue has certainly increased in Westralia, but ex-
penditure has increased a good deal faster, and the sur-
plus is £148,000 less than it was a year ago.
* * * *
No expenditure accounts are available from
Tasmania, Victoria, or South Australia.
» * • *
The local money market continues to cheerfully
meet all reasonable calls on it in the way of public loans.
Within a few days recently the City of Melbourne asked
for £350,000 at 3) per cent. (£175,000 for electric-lighting),
and was offered £565,500, or £215,500 more than was
asked for. Also, the N.S.W. Govt, asked for £500,000 at
3J per cent., and was offered £617,900, or £117,900 more
than it wanted. The N.S.W. Govt, got its money at
£99 16s. Bd. per £lOO, and the City of Melbourne at
£99 9s. Id. When the local market can thus dump down
£1,183,400 at short notice and at less than London rates
ithis country should be done with foreign borrowing.
* • * •
It is remarkable that, spite of its former un-
audited a/cs., the Western Australian Bank got local
business faster than any of its competitors. In 1890 its
liabilities were £275,360, its assets £417,519 ; 10 years
later they were respectively £1,526,994 and £1,905,366.
*Of the five’totherside banks which Westralia can worry
for overdrafts, the N.S.W. has opened out by far the
-most vigorously ; in 10 years its liabilities in the State
have gone from £34,073 to £421,801, and its assets from
£133,012 to £666,206, Both the Union and the National,
however, show bigger figures each side (the Union’s Wes-
tralian liabilities keepwell over a million), but they be-
: gan earlier.
* * * *
Some information about the Universal Land
.-and Deposit Bank, Limited (Sydney) :
Total
-J-year to Profit. Dividends, &c. Reserves at
Each Date.
•Dec., 1894 .. £3,767
June, 1895 .. £1,083 Written off .. £289 .. 4,561
Dec., 1895.. 68S {- sg}.. 4,788
..June, 1896 .. 16 Written off .. 468 .. 4,336
Loss.
Dec., 1896 .. £267 Written off .. 393 .. 3,676
Profit.
-Aune, 1897 .. £379 Written off .. 260 .. 3,795
Dec., 1897 ..3 .. 3,798
'Year to
Dec.., 1898 .. 1 18J per cent. 1,237 .. 2,562
i-Year to
-June, 1899 .. 506 .. 3,068
Dec.., 1899 .. 509 6 per cent. = 204 .. 3,373
. June, 1900 .. 616 3 per cent. = 102 .. 3,887
Dee., 1900 .. 641 4 per cent. = 136 .. 4,392
' The Universal Land and Deposit Bank appears to have
: got over the worst of its troubles by this time. It is a very
■ small affair with £6825 paid-up capital and £4392 reserves
—total shareholders’ funds, £11,217. In an enterprise of
• this size expenses are always proportionately heavy, a fact
- which makes the earning of dividends a matter of difli-
• culty. For want of more funds of its own the Universal
is burdened with mortgages and a bank overdraft, but
- when these are wiped off and the reserves have grown to
• three or four times their present dimensions, there should
he a good prospect before the co. Considering the cir-
• cumstances it does well to keep its dividends low, even
: though present earnings are comparatively high.
-* * * *
The Metropolitan Mutual Permanent Building
■ and Investment Association (Sydney) shows these results
-..for the past few years :
Total
Loss Loss on Reserves
on sales of at each
Business. Property, date.
81st December, 1894 £11,160
„ 1895 £3659 7,501
„ 1896 3683 £462 3,356
„ 1897 2945 398 13
Total Deficit
at each date.
„ 1898 2254 133 2,374
„ 1899 938 878 4,190
„ 1900 1890 1854 7,934
The Metropolitan Mutual Permanent Building and Invest-
ment Association has a paid-up capital of £144,774, of
which, if the assets were worth the value set against
rthem, £136,840 would be still intact. That is to say, the
• co. has, on paper, £257,918 worth of assets against which
i the mortgages, deposits, debentures, and all liabilities
. apart from capital, are only £121,078. But as all these
: assets yield just about enough to pay interest on the
: apparently small liabilities, and the working expenses of
; the business are at present almost wholly dead loss, it
i would seem that, on present values, a great part of the
« capital is lost. The co. is largely loaded up with unsale-'
: able and unproductive properties, and until it can find a
i market for them, and pay off some of its burdensome
mortgages with the proceeds, prospects are gloomy. The
gross revenue dropped from £11,629 in 1895 to £5525 in
AB9B ; then rose to £6438 in 1899 ; and fell again to £6087
in 1900.
* * * *
More of the troubles of N.S.W. Shale and Oil
Co.:—
Profit. Loss.
June, 1892 .. £lO,OOB June, 1897 .. £5O
December, 1892 10,015 .. Profit.
June, 1893 .. 6,220 December, 1897 £519
December, 1893 2,532 June, 1898 .. 284
•June, 1894 . 33 December, 1898 591
December, 1894 1,109 June, 1899 ~ 625
•June, 1895 .. 4,998 .. Loss.
December, 1895 6,075 December, 1899 £1,575
June, 1896 .. 2,507 June, 1900 .. 432
December, 1896 1,086 December, 1900 382
The co. has a paid-up capital of £75,000 less £l2Bl accu-
mulated deficit. The co. is burdened with £35,000 of
■debentures, and but for this load it would have shown a
small profit for the last two half-years.
**- * »
The Ohesney, at Cobar, threatens to re-open
■shortly on plans suggested by manager Greenway, of
8.H., who believes that the mine can preserve an output
of close on 2000 tons of ore a week.
* * * *
S.A. Govt., which has been getting a bit anxi-
ous about supplies for its concentrating and new smelt-
ing plant, proceeds to develop a copper show close to the
Barrier railway line. It already runs a gold mine, pri-
marily to keep the Mt. Torrens plant going when there
is no stone available from private patties.
The Industrial and Provident Permanent Bene-
fit Building and Investment Society (Sydney) looks rather
better this year than it did last. A remarkable feature
about this concern is that it never seems to declare a
dividend —it just pays one, without even mentioning how
much per cent, it is, and as the capital keeps fluctuating
it is difficult to calculate the exact rate. But things
seem to be about as follows :
_ ~ , Total
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
1890 ..£8766
1897 .. £5148 .. About 6 per cent. = £5519 .. 8395
1898 .. 3457 .. „ „ = 4248 .. 7604
1899 .. 3627 .. „ „ = 3857 .. 7374
1900 .. 4271 .. „ „ = 3695 .. 7950
Owing to the constant withdrawal of paid-up shares, the
society is a great deal smaller than it was, the capital
being £60,065, whereas, in ’95, it was £113,525. The
total reserves are not very large, considering the
size of the institution, and they have diminished
somewhat through the payment in 1897, 1898, and 1899 of
dividends that were larger than the earnings—a proceed-
ing which is always lamentably reckless and wholly inex-
cusable. Still, 1900 shows a marked improvement, and
some little has been done to rebuild the damaged
reserves.
* • * *
Dear Bulletin. —In my last par. (B. 12/1/’01) re
North Lyell Co., I freely replied to your previous par.
anent the amalgamation proposition, wherein you tried
to show that natural facilities and conditions favored the
Lyell do. taking the North unto her bosom, but “that
personal animus, &c.,” had been a barrier since the North
began its existence. I simply reversed matters, and
showed that the North, with its greater natural facilities,
would inevitably be the boss mine, irrespective of the
powerful influence of the Lyell crowd. I rather regret
you departed from your first argument, and introduced
new matter of a somewhat irrelevant character to your
first par., involving odious comparisons of the management
of two mines whose conditions are distinctly dissimilar.
I certainly agree with you that the Lyell Co. is a “ monu-
ment of good management ” as to running the show on
good lines now and working on the lowest labor basis.
But why ? Because the Lyell Co. started under good
auspices. The Bowes-Kelly crowd had money, and a mine
with a big exposed ore-body on which thousands had been
spent ere the Bowes Kelly people dreamt of touching the big
show ; and just at a critical moment they struck £120,000
of rich ore, which accelerated matters much, and which
they packed away on mules and sold to other smelting
works “without smelting one ton”—just as the North
people are now doing, only more economically. With
money it was quite easy to get good talent to run the
show and secure Sticht, the best asset the Lyell Co. has
to-day. Grotty agreed on everything up to this point,
but wanted the railway on level country, and strongly
objected to a veritable switchback —hence the “per-
sonal animus,” &c. Crotty knew the country, and his
strong individuality insisted on the better route which
against mammoth odds and opposition he has achieved.
Good management you say—yes, and better management,
too, in not allowing the Lyell co. to absorb the small fry.
As a matter of fact, they'did not want any outside show
until their ore became a low-grade proposition, and the
North had struck its bonanza. Things have changed, and
a huge monopoly is averted —say Yes. The North crowd
should have the‘“ Gilded Pill ’’—and if Asphodel is run on
good lines Crotty has a golden harp ere now. Crotty and
co. had practically not a bean when they went on their
own, and despite the powerful influence of the Lyell
crowd in London depreciating his efforts at every turn,
he triumphantly did the float on the eastern lode of
N. Lyell—which, by the way, will compare with the
Lyell sulphide body to-day. After many vicissitudes they
struck it rich and have spent money. Railway and
rolling stock, £205,428, brick-plant and bricks, sawmill,
large piers with cranes, &c., ready to make a start as soon
as the railway is finished by the best contractors in Aus-
tralasia—Baxter and Saddler. Railway, &c., very neces-
sary before they smelt a ton —say Yes. They also spent
£45,000 on the mine, which has an able manager (Muir),
to so systematise matters that he can run engine and
trucks into three different levels, which means great
economy in the future, and, when necessary, the main
line can tap the ore-body at the 100 ft, level with a main
tunnel; whereas the Lyell Co. is now arranging a main
shaft with which the North people could connect a branch
line up the Linda, and tap their now lowest level and
profitably treat their low-grade ore on their western wall.
I trust you will at least award the “ Orotty-Lonergan-
Madden-Muir” crowd the “Gilded Pill” for sticking to
their ship, and steering according to the varying vagaries
of financial head winds. ’Nuf sed. —James Coy, Gor-
manston, Tas.
• • • •
A reliable Westralian correspondent writes in-
terestingly about Merton’s Reward mine, the property of
a lucky ex-Sydneyite :—Merton’s Reward is located some
20 miles from Mt. Malcolm, W.A. Unlike the big sensa-
tion mines of that country, but very much like the per-
manent mines of Hannan’s Golden Belt, there was very
little on the surface of this property to indicate the
existence of a rich enduring mine below. Frank Merton,
though not brought up to mining in his youth—he was
once an employ)) of Sam. Hordern—took to the bush
and prospecting in Westralia like a duck to water, and is
now, after six years’ experience, an exceptionally good
bushman and mining prospector. He had found seve-
ral fairly valuable mining shows before he discovered
that called after him. Only a few colors to be seen on
the surface, but it did not need much prospecting to
prove the existence of a mine. Within a few weeks
Merton had a crushing of less than 100 tons for over
7000 z., followed by a second equally good within a month
of the first. Within a year he had a 20-head stamp
mill running, and will probably have another 20
running in the next. Of course, he has had to fight for
his mine. He had no partner to start with, but somebody
soon found one for him. The verdict was against Merton
at the Warden’s Court; a “British jury” in Perth
unanimously found that he had a partner, but the Full
Court there finally decided that he never had one. All
through a year’s legal battle, Merton refused all offers of
compromise, except one—and the amount he offered
was, he stipulated, to be divided amongst the Perth
charities. But that was not the game of the other side,
and so the action went on, and cost Merton nearly £4OOO.
Winning mining law-suits, like newspaper libel-suits,
is an expensive business. Anyhow, Merton got back
his mine, and is working it all he knows how. The
veins are very flat, all lying about N.E. They are
stoped as they are followed down. He simply crushes
the ore in a stamp-mill and runs the pulp over copper
plates. Gold comparatively fine, but free-milling. Re-
cently one of these veins was struck in the hard settled
country considerably east of the other workings, sampling
soz. per ton. This looks good, indicating that the veins
are going to live in the hard ground. It is 3-Aft. thick,
and the ore is in two layers, the top' being sulphide, the
bottom oxidised, and a number of samples recently taken
by an outside expert go to prove that Merton’s own
estimate of soz. looks reasonable. Merton’s clean-ups
differ entirely from all others in Australasia. His boxes
are always beautifully plastered with amalgam—accounted
for by his not washing-off the gravel. He simply picks out
the big lumps of amalgam and throws the gravel back so
that after some time crushing there is a magnificent
accumulation. He has never scraped his plates since the
battery started over a year ago. They have now a coat-
ing in some places half-an-inch thick of amalgam, and
must be worth many thousands of pounds in gold. No-
thing catches amalgam like amalgam, and the ridge and
honeycomb appearance of Merton’s plates is a sight for
the gods. In most cases in N.S.W. and elsewhere plates
are so scraped as to largely interfere with their efficiency.
Merton lets the gold accumulate and takes the risk of the
plates being collared some day, lock, stock and barrel.
He manages the mine and mill himself because he has not
been able to get the man he wants for the work. He
made the charmingly modest offer of £5OOO a year to one
of the well-known Kalgoorlie managers. He pays the best
of his workmen £1 a day, started his feeders at 13s. 4<L,
and when they got a substantial rise they excused their
drunkenness on the ground that the rise had been the
ruin of them, whereupon Merton immediately put them
back to 13s. 4d., no doubt much to their satisfaction.
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
• * * «
Paringa Consolidated, W.A. : One million
shares ; 750,000 issued. Chairman a sanguine potentate
named Lionel R. C. Boyle. Said they decided to work
the Paringa lease on account of its almost phenomenal
prospects and the prospects of its neighbours—Hannan’s
Brownhill and the Iron Duke, the latter of which profited
£25,000 from 600 tons of ore. A bore on the Paringa had
struck the Brownhill and Iron Duke lode at 590 ft. and it
went down in the bore to 30ft. As they were not quite
satisfied that it was this lode, they continued boring to
1100 ft. without finding any other “ which I think con-
clusively proves that it is this lode.” Alas, it was not
rich. The highest assay only went about 9dwt.; what
the lowest was he doesn’t say—perhaps under 9 grains.
“ However, we did not intend to let that disappoint us be-
cause the Brownhill lode was extremely patchy although it
is one of the phenomenal lodes—l was going to say of the
world.” He might as well have said it while he was about
it. “Before this lode was struck we had done a good
deal of work in the main shaft and I can assure you it was
a great disappointment that we had to leave the rich
places discovered in order to find out if we had struck the
Brownhill lode.” Why leave the rich places in a shaft on
account of a bore going down a long way from it ? “In
order to prove the accuracy of the assay of these rich dis-
coveries, we sent 10 tons —which is a very large amount—-
to the smelters and it produced 4|oz. of gold per ton.”
Writer cordially agrees —10 tons is a large amount, that
is, if it fell on the Chairman’s head. The end of it is that
somebody has lent the Paringa £20,000, and when the
mine is taken over for the money we shall hear no more
about it. The Brownhill and Iron Duke lode has been
struck at 470 ft. in the Northern Associated main shaft
about 250yds. from the Paringa bore-hole. Hence the
swollen-headed Paringa chairman should have explained
that the lode, in order to get into the Paringa at 590 ft.,
must afterwards become as flat as himself.
* * * *
The Bulletin receives from “ Billofawayback,”
Kalgoorlie, an attempt to combine science, poetry, and
useful hints to prospectors as they have never been com-
bined on earth before :
( Continued on page 19.)
The Australian Medical Gazette for January
deals with the problem of increasing population
by diminishing the death-rate. It paints crut that
the decline in the birth-rate in Australia is duß
mostly to the artificial preventions of conception ;
and, while one cannot imagine any method, legal
or otherwise, of putting a stop to these artificial
checks, the Gazette suggests another method by
which the increase of population may be ensured.
It consists not in increasing the birth-rate, but in
diminishing the death-rate ; and this can be done
by preserving the lives of infants who die from
preventible causes. But how? The Gazette
proposes educating the persons who have charge
of them, “and to whose ignorance of the feeding
and hygiene of the young the appalling infantile
mortality is due.” “ The organisation forgiving
the needful instruction already exists in the public-
school system,” and the Gazette sees no reason
why all the elder girls at school should not be in-
structed in the care and management of infants ;
and very properly points out that most young
girls would take far more interest in this matter
than in history or arithmetic. The only apparent
difficulty in the scheme is the keeping up of the
stock of infants at home on whom to put in prac-
tice the theories taught at school.
-
A violent and well - merited explosion from
Queensland :
If Australian military affairs are to be lifted out of the
old rut of the British war-office system, ’twill need a
violent jolt to accomplish the same. What is required
for the Defence portfolio is a man of strong character —
one with decided republican opinions. There are two
offices in the Federal Cabinet which should be filled by
such men —Justice and Defence. These two departments
will come into touch with British influences, and it is in
the best interests of Australian national life there should
be no pandering to British systems from mere senti-
ment’s sake. Devious are the ways of defence methods
in Australia, assisted, I assume, by the British War
Office. I’ll speak for Queensland only. Three years
ago our Defence Force was armed with Martini rifles. A
re-armament was decided on. The best British regu-
lation rifle then extant was the Lee-Metford. For
some inexplicable reason Queensland decided she didn’t
want the best. Anything better than the old weapon
was good enough. So £15,000 went for third-rate Mar-
tini-Enfield rifles. Now, after little more than two years’
use, these weapons are to be superseded by the Lee-
Enfield, another wearied-out second-rate implement. Of
these 4000 were landed in Brisbane the other day. Next
comes word by cable that the British Govt, has decided
to re-arm its forces with the improved Lee-Metford. By
the time this is completed Queensland will probably have
re-armed again, as per usual, with some second-rate
weapon that perished years ago—unless the Federal
Govt, steps in. Who is responsible for this drop-and-
carry-one system ? What we want is a hard and fast rule
of “ the best weapon only ” when re-arming ; no more of
this Darwinian graduated evolutionary business, but a
drastic and efficient change. We waste a lot of money on
our defences and are getting a mighty poor return for it.
♦
Re the minii g-apprentice question :
The oft-recurring but never-settled question of mining-
apprentices has bobbed up again at Broken Hill; and the
serious attempt that is being made to do something
definite will certainly be followed with interest on those
scores of other fields where it has for years formed a
reliable fall-back subject for the crib-time “ pitch.” The
miner is a more-or-less skilled workman. For one thing,
he gets a good bit bigger pay than an ordinary laborer ;
though a doubt as to how much he gets for his skill and
how much for the risks he takes occurs straight away to
disturb the argument. Anyhow, there certainly is some
skill; but, notwithstanding that, and though lack of skill
in a man working as a miner may be frightfully disastrous
not only to himself but to others, there is no regular or
recognised system of training miners. On the face of it
this is illogical. But the miners (most of whom haven’t
had any regular training themselves) answer in this
way : “ Apprentice labor means cheap labor, for the ap-
prentice can do no more and no less than take the place
of a miner. True, a good miner is a more or less skilled
man ; nevertheless three-fourths of what a miner has to
do calls for no special skill at all. So a farm-laborer or
shearer with plenty of strength can do most of the work
as well as the miner, and generally can do more of it,
since the old miner, from the very nature of his calling,
isn’t usuallv a physically-strong man. Thus, even while
the new-chum is picking-up the skill, he is generally
worth as much to the co. as the already-skilled miner.”
All of which is in the main true ; a man like that can any-
how soon hold his own. But the modern mine-
manager, highly-trained himself, says this isn’t
good enough what is needed is to raise the
standard of miners’ knowledge. And that seems good
argument, too. The miners fall back on the ground
(which, of course, is contested) that there are at present
plenty of good enough miners, anyway ; and, fearful of
anything that might be tantamount to a wage-reduction,
say “ Let well-enough alone.” On the other side, the
managers aren’t going to risk any row to bring about a
change, however desirable, and as the “ coming genera-
tion ” of miners who are the most interested of all haven’t
got a say in the business, it is exceedingly unlikely that
in the end anything at all will be done. Still the real
object to be aimed at, the raising of the standard of
miner’s knowledge, is being slowly achieved through the
ever-increasing attendance at the technical schools ; and
it is through these places that it seems most likely the
best solution of this heavy puzzle will come.
-+.
Those excited Foreign-trade gentlemen who are
so solid on the fact that the stationary character
of Victoria’s population, as compared with the
vigorous progress of N.S.W., knocks Protection
kite-high, may possibly get a hard punch when
the census returns come to hand a few months
hence. All the population estimates since 1891
(the date of last census) are mere guesswork. It
is known for certain from the annual statistics
that Victoria has about 6000 more miners employed
than in 1893 ; has nearly 21,000 more factory em-
ployes ; has about 900,000 more acres under
crop, and has a small increase in live stock,
and all these things should mean more popula-
tion unless the land cultivates itself, and the cows
herd themselves and milk each other. Yet the
population is said (by guesswork) to have
decreased 7000 in the seven years. The
known increase of factory employes alone
last year was actually nearly twice the
alleged year’s increase in the whole population.
And, on the other hand, N.S.W., with a smaller
increase in factory employes, with 1,400,000
acres under crop, but with its Far West
pastoral industry so wrecked by drought that
its sheep have decreased about 20,000,000, is
said to have had an immense increase of people.
There may not be anything wrong with these
population guesses, but, in view of the things that
are actually known, they look a trifle fishy.
T O THE YOUNG PROSPECTOR.
Take your pick and use it handy,
Prospect every vale and hill,
Shun the granite as its patchy,
Watch the slate and diorite hills.
Trace the colors to their source among the hills,
Or to the washes in the plain.
Follow, trace and track the mineral
To the source from which it came.
Take the dish and swish it with a gentle swing,
Give it just that curly twist,
Washing out the sand and slimes,
Leaving all the gold behind.
Each grain of gold from a pound of dirt
Will yield ninety pennyweights per ton of dirt.
Take well your bearings and travel by
Your shadow cast —watching for the mineral rocks.
The gum for gold, and salmon for telluride ores,
Mulga for manganese, silver-lead ores,
Copper, antimony, bismuth and lead,
But don’t prospect the spot where the spinifex grows.
Travel light and easy be your task ;
For your couch take feathers from the scrub,
Or in the earth a hole you -dig to rest your hip,
And between the camp-fires sleep without a rug.
Notwithstanding this, The Bulletin subscription re-
mains at the old rate of £1 per annum and postage.
* * * •
Mount Morgan shares, 975. ; the lowest price
quoted for a long time.


Complete
Outfits.
AN ORIENT BOOT
16/6
ORIENT SUIT
63/-
TO MEASURE
ML GLASSES OF GARMENTS
. . IN THE . .
‘Orient fo Measure” Clothing
.. AT ..
SPECIAL PRICES-'
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
DAVID JONCS & COMPANY,
<scorgg 8t Barrack Sts., Sydoey
NOT PREMIER .
Popular “ PREhCO D.'
The Popular “ Premo D ” is reduced to
£2 10s. for a limited time only.
Is the name of the Famous American CAEVI ERA
which has now become Popular in Australia.
55
A Full Stock of Every GRADE, SIZE and STYLE
• . open for Inspection at . .
HARRINGTON’S
PHOTOGRAPHIC
SHOWROOMS
These are suitable for LADIES or GENTLEMEN and
be used either as Hand or Stand Camera.
may
prices from 25s to £25.
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD.,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Queensland Branch— 34 Queen-street, Brisbane. Melbourne Agents— Craven & Co., 179 Collins-street
Branches or Agencies in every colony.
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjoyment of
HOME CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIQUER
BRANDY
Cabled that the King will not make the
Duke of York Prince of Wales until after he
(Prince George) has visited Australia, and some-
one suggests in a Sydney paper that the Royal
patent, or whatever it is, should be sent nut from
England and conferred in Australia. Happy
thought! Send the patent to Waxcellency
Madden and tell him to make George into Prince
of New South Wales !
* * * *
Re the reference m Hobart Cathedral
prayers to the Duke of York as “Prince of
Wales,” Dean Kite writes to the Mercury that
though he was well aware that such Princedom
had not then been re-created, “he saw no objec-
tion to anticipating in prayer, by way of courtesy,
a title sure to be conferred.” York, you see, was
already Prince of Wales in Heaven ! '
* » * *
Queen-street, Melbourne, was not named
after Queen Victoria, whose accession was not
known when the square mile of Melb. was laid
out. Taking the streets from the westward, the
order first proposed was King, William, Queen,
Adelaide. The last was changed to Elizabeth.
Prayers for William IV. were offered in Mel-
bourne for three months after his demise.
* * * *
Those magnificent wreaths and floral
designs hung around the Queen’s portrait and
paraded on Melb. Parliament House steps for the
admiration of the multitude, after being hung in
florists’ windows for days and carefully advertised
in all the papers, faded into utter insignificance
beside the little circlet of daisies and white
geraniums—evidently home-made —that someone
placed at the foot of Victoria’s statue in the large
hall. It bore no card, no message, no name. It
was genuine ! And how disgusting was the
manner in which the glaring trade and other
advts. were plumped down at the Queen’s Statue
in Sydney, and whooped up in the newspapers !
People wondered much at how an item like that
about the London newsboy who, seeing in a paper
a scare-heading about the Queen’s death, rever-
ently placed upon it a little bunch of violets, came
to be cabled. It was wonderful. How it came to
be printed is still more wonderful until you come
to consider that everything sent over the wires
costs so much a word, and the members of the
cable-syndicate have a fine eye for the bawbees and
never waste anything that has been paid for.
* » « »
Suggested in Adelaide that King William-
st. should now be christened Victoria-st.— no
doubt with a reservation that every deceased
monarch shall in future give his or her title to the
VARIETY v. STAGE.
TIDDLE (of Tiddle (Sammy) and Wink (Sally),
sketch artists): “ Now, then, Buskin, why
don’t you and your wife do the same as me
and my wife? Chuck the staye for variety
biz. You and your wife are always separated.
Me and my wife have been toy ether ten
years, a. I one turn has done us all the
time.”
thoroughfare. On the same principle Pitt and
George streets, Sydney, should now be called
Salisbury and Edward streets.
* • • •
As solemnly set out in Kilmore (Vic.)
Free Press the following cable was despatched
by Mr. F. W. Wortley, J.P., President of the
Shire, on behalf of the residents
T _., Chamberlain, London.
Kilmore mourns death Queen.
Wortley, President.
‘‘Wort icy President ! ” Ye gods ! President
Wortley, of—Kilmore!
But after all, someone or other in England may
possibly have heard of Kilmore, which is the locus
of a classic Australian story. Long ago, one
Larry Bourke presided at a meeting called to hear
the political views of a candidate who sought to
represent the potato growing district of Kilmore
111 . keg. Assembly. The ignorant and
primitive Larry couldn’t talk a bit, beyond being
able to convey that he wanted more whisky, or
desired another pound of beef put on his plate,
and he had gradually acquired some dim notion of
his oratorical deficiencies. So he hated un-
necessary, talk, and when at the end of the
candidate’s harangue, a man in the audience stood
up to cross-question the speaker, he was at once
knocked on the head with a bit av a shtick at
Larry’s instigation, and violently thrown out of
tjie' hall. Then Larry arose and naively enquired :
“Is there anny other gintleman would like to ask
a question ? ”
* * * *
Despite the high example set them, the
Brisbane undertakers wouldn’t bury a body on
Saturday, Feb. 2.
* * * *
Surely the acme of mourning is reached
when the Queensland P.O. sends out its mail-bags
sealed with black wax !
* * * *
Looks as though Bertram Mackennal will
be wanted in Australia for some time to come.
The order for a £lO,OOO Melbourne statue of the late
Queen is bound to come his way, and there are
others. One suggestion is to pool the subscrip-
tions for a Queen’s statue and a national memorial
to the Yic. troops who have fallen (also those who
have yet to fall) in S’Africa, and erect the costly
gewgaws on either side of Parliament House.
* * * *
Two subscription-lists appeared side by
side in Melbourne Age of 31st January: Sub-
scriptions for a Royal statue, £lOO2 14s. 6d. ;
subscriptions to buy food for a starving live
widow and four children (one an infant only a few
months old), ten shillings.
* * * *
It seems that a large number of Melbourne
“Scotsmen ” volunteers for the Marquis of Tulli-
bardine’s Horse didn’t maintain their enthusiasm.
They sent in their names for enlistment, but their
bodies didn’t come to. hand when summoned. If
cash security for the Tullibardines rests entirely
with the Marquis, it would be interesting to know
whether the sudden death of that personage would
leave his contracting warriors amply provided for?
• » * *
M.L. Govt, seriously proposes to build a
special “Royal” railway car for the use of the
Yorks. And now everyone is asking, “Who is
going to ride in it after the Yorks have gone ? ”
* * * *
Nothing is more calculated to impress our
pushmen with the horrors of war than this doleful
baragraph in “a letter from the front,” published
by Hobart Mercury :
We are allowed beer here. It is a great treat,
but, worse luck, it makes me sick if I take more
than a pint. I suppose after being on biscuit and
bully so long it is too rich for us. I expect to go to
Durban or Maritzburg for a holiday, which I very
much want, as this work tells upon anyone.
The Mayor of Sale (Vic.) was in hospital
with a broken leg on the day King Edward VII.
was proclaimed, and if the local P.M. had not
arrived next day and made the proclamation from
the Town Hall steps Heaven knows what would
have happened. The blessed township would
have had no King, no “ Gorsave,” no trumpeting,
no nothing. It might even in time have degener-
ated into a disreputable, disloyal, back-blocks
wilderness. It was a narrow squeak !
A North Island (M. L.)
registrar reports that there
were 56 first-births in his dis-
trict in 1900. Of these 13 were
frankly illegitimate, and 29
took place so soon after marri-
age as to suggest quite a num-
ber of things. This leaves 14
perfectly respectable births (25
per cent.) out of 56.
* * *
When Richmond (Melb.)
went into mourning for the
Queen, in place of draping its
Town-Hall with flimsy, black
muslin, it utilised serviceable
crepe, and will afterwards hand
the material over to the Ladies
Benevolent Society to be given
away as dress-material, etc.
Stated that the Maitland
district will shortly provide a
startling divorce case.
ACHING ON THE SHELF.
HIS MOTHER : Doth cry about the toothache, Tommy. Be a man and learn to bear a little
pain.”
T OMMY: Oh, it’s easy for you to talk. When your teeth ache you can pull ’em out and put
’em on the shelf!”
Despite the Jingo daily-press cackle, there
has been no rush of N.S.W. bushmen citywards
to join the Federal contingent. There has been a
bad hangfire over the thing and the recruiting-
sergeants had to hover about the entrance gates
to the cricket ground last week, during the inter-
state match, sounding the weedy Sydney city youth
as to his desire for glory in S’Af'rica. The facts
that men thrice rejected previously, under more
rigorous scrutiny, are now accepted, and the small
percentage of rejections as published, indicate
that quantity, not quality, is the needed article
this time. As for the country element it is mostly
made up of country-town young men, not bush-
men by any means—a slouching, short-coated,
loose-lipped, flashy set, whose intelligence is best
shown up by one Mudgee gallant who said they
were going to fight them Boer arfcastes because
they would not give white men one-man-one-vote.
After all, though, the material is good enough for
its mission—the “ pacification ” of the enemy by
burning the home of his wife and children.
* * * *
A Ballarat resident who lost a son in the
action at Ottoshoop last Aug. has received as con-
solation a Royal application for a photo, of the
deceased. With prophetic vision he had for-
warded a copy some weeks before. Similar re-
quests have been made by the Royal private sec.
to other grief-stricken parents of Australian
heroes. This photograph business is the latest de-
velopment of the gentle art of “kidding ” the poor
Australian. Each mourner addressed is foolish
enough to take the application as an evidence of
special sympathy, whereas it is in every case
merely an item of an automatic, cold-blooded
business system—recalling the smart Frisco hotel-
keeper who, when Mr. and Mrs. Jones arrive at
his caravanserai, immediately has a huge and
lovely bunch of flowers sent to Mrs. Jones’ room
with his compliments inscribed on his card. Mrs.
Jones is delighted, and thereupon remarks out
loud ‘ What a nice man the Major must be!”—
he has evidently heard of her beauty and talent
and exquisite taste in dress. Of course he hasn’t,
and so long as Mr. Jones pays his bill the Major
never loses any sleep about the Joneses. The
flowers are ordered by the cwt., and it is a junior
hotel-clerk, ora bell-boy, who always attends to
Mrs. Jones’ bouquet. All that the crafty
“ Major ” does is to organise the aforesaid method
of pleasing Mrs. Jones and see to it that the
flowers are bought fresh—and cheap. His troubles
about Mrs. Jones !
» » * *
The drunkenness and rowdyism of the
“Imperial” contingent were directly blameable
upon the officers. Bobbers lead an unnatural life
in camp or quarters, and when discipline is
relaxed, as it certainly was here, they took ad van-
tage of it. That gun accident at Moore Park
serves of itself to show the lack of proper super-
vision by the officers. Firing is strictly forbidden
unless under the control of an officer, and in 'the
presence of a surgeon. Neither officer nor surgeon
was present. The promised inquiry into that
affair, by the way, has been burked. Why?
» * ♦ *
The crack brained bnf nr, „i
i nf - 6 cracK , lne(1 bl ! fc ’ no doubt, calcu-
instance the 0 *“ be ’ at „ hose
l n ? tance tbe . Wales Border Scouts corps,
* s J? em £ raised, intend the corps to consist of one
§£?£ bP t™mpeter, and 18
n lp “‘ ; P S ’ P o bordered on one side by
p ® ’ anC P the otber , tbre ? by partners m the
p°™ T,,( ’ n wealth; -so what border the 25 Scouts are
Though only just announced the “Border
Scouts ” are to be appointed as from Dec. 1. 1900.
The public will watch with interest for the name
of the officer commanding
. . 5
AT i mi-, „ ,• , ~
!'P contingenters, recently des-
J? atched ’ took along a liberal supply of fresh
froz . e ; n meat Jamb and veal), besides
PlP’ d P 3 , 00 ducks ;ul(I ditto fowls
apportioned each week—a bird per man.
tt T i *>> nr ,* *
, acK Wants little anti-Federal jibe
about Tasmania’s “ magnificent army of 14 men ”
13 a blt sick—now that two men out of the Tas-
maman contingent have received the Y.C.
*'* » *
S. A. Premier Holder was right, both in
reason and as a matter of taste, in refusing to
have a public accession-proclamation at Adelaide
while the body of the late Queen was still above
ground. Holder, doubtless, knows well that it’s
not Edward VII. the local bigwigs are troubling
about—but about a chance to don their full official
frippery, and make tawdry asses of themselves
before an open-mouthed public. Little Sajnmy
Way, for instance, won’t be easy till—staggering
under a burden of gold-lace—he lias had a chance
of emulating in this respect the mellifluous and
cocky—not to say peacocky—Madden of Victoria.
After all Carlyle was right—the world is mostly
Clothes!
The soldier leaned upon his sword,
And wiped away a tear ;
Exhausted by the gallant fight
He’d made to hold his beer—
That long, delusive beer.
He placed a quart upon parole
Beneath his bandolier ;
Alas ! it beat him to detain
The Boers’ rebellious beer—
Their extra-mobile beer.
“ This tells upon my health,” he groaned,
“ And makes my head feel queer.”
O, it grieves him to be beaten by
A quart of rebel beer—
Strong, freedom-loving beer.
So, when he’s invalided home,
We’ll greet him with a cheer ;
For he was floored unfairly by
The Boer’s sharp-shooting beer—
Their damned, explosive beer.
TAS.
C.C.


Cooling ! Health-giving !
ABO k LITTLE
CUKDITS FLUID
toyour Bath br.Fcot-Bath,
The Cooling, Invigorating
and Strengthening
Effects are Simply
Magical.
Of all Chemists A Stores.
“Condy’s Fluid.”
Insist on having
The name Condy & Mitclieb" ofTondon,' England,
should be at foot of Label.
Tioware of Inferior Australian Substitutes.
J.D.K.Z. tin.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only —largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16'5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
Callagbap Boot
TRY
A.
PAIR.
IS A MONEY SAVER !
If you are not wearing it you are 1
doing neither your feet or pocket
justice.
395 CEORCE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Ladies’ Brown Vici Kid Boots,
or Lace, 21/-. Add 1/- postage.
Men’s French Calf Balmoral Boots in ”
pointed, medium, and square toes,
16/6, 18/6, 21/-. Add 1/- postage.
CO
Notice in Paddington (Sydney) fish-shop
window:—
TO OUR BAIT CUSTOMERS.
A silver watch will be given to the person securing the
biggest catch on Sunday next. To be exhibited in this
shop between 8 and 9 p.m. Sunday night.
No extra charge for bait. No entrance fee.
GOD SAVE THE KING !
* * * *
Notice in a Albury (N.S. W.) shop-window,
on the eve of the Queen’s burial: —
Our estibleshmint will be closed during the unevarsal
morn Saturday.
And here is a notice from the window of a Prahran
(Melb.) butcher’s shop :
In consequence of the funeral of our Late Lamented and
Dearly Beloved Queen, this Establishment will be closed
next Saturday, and also on the following Wednesday for
the Butchers’ Picnic.
* * * *
The belief that the Duke of York will
actually visit Australia has revived “loyalty” in
Melbourne, and firms that had sent along big
orders, in anticipation of a York shivoo, begin to
smile again. One house, that had a shipment of
terra-cotta effigies of York on the water, was
driven into rabid anarchism by the prospect of
having to sacrifice its goods as road-making
material.
* * * *
The Bulletin’s prediction re the working
of the “York” visit is justified by newspaper
results. The opportunity for “sacrificing sadness
to duty, and all that sort of thing,” has been duly
turned to political account, and the spirit of Jingo
journalism is decorously jubilant. Says the
Argus: “Now that we have the actual decision
we are at liberty to say that it is in accord with a
lofty conception of Royal service. It can easily
l»e understood that His Majesty is personally loth
just now to part for several months with his son
and successor. But the visit of the Duke and
Duchess at this time, so soon after the good
Queen’s death, will have the greater influence in
cementing the relations of the Commonwealth to
the throne and the empire. . . Just how far
the pageantry and festivities will be affected by
the event we all deplore has yet to be deter-
mined.” The Duke may be trusted to take care
that the sad event will spare him a good deal of
useless boredom.
* * *
Dr. Barrett (Vic.) on the population pro-
blem: “Women are being edu-
cated to do that which men can
do, and are leaving undone the
very thing which men cannot
do, namely,, bear children.”
THE “ PICTURE ” SOLDIERS IN
AUSTRALIA.
What price “ returned ” kharkinow?
Several men got into the sth and 6th Vic.
contingents by swearing they were single, although
they had wives and families. They were scared
out of Melbourne with threats of prosecution for
perjury—even the hero who produced a note from
liis spouse, saying : “For God’s sake, take Bill.”
When Australia is wrung pretty dry of her young
blood, a married-men’s contingent will be a great
success.
» » » »
Published in an M.L. paper :
The Governor has received from the Wellington Poultry
Pigeon and Canary Association, an expression of deep
regret at the death of the Queen.
* • » *
lb looks like a revival of the old, foolish
Australasian contempt for our own people
to find in the London Times advts. for
a Sydney Town Clerk, a Dunedin City
Council Engineer, and a Brisbane City Council
Engineer, but it amounts to less than it
looks. Now and again, at long intervals, a
foreigner is brought out. That generally occurs
when one section of the local council wants to
spite another. But ordinarily the council knows
exactly whom it intends to appoint, and sends the
advt. to London Times and other papers, just as
it writes its name in the visitors’ book at Govt.
House.
The rank-and-file of one
Q. Dept, will relish the change
to Federal control. The last
lot of increases practically went
to those who had either a re-
ligious or a lodge “pull,” and how
they did pull f
* •
“Melb.”: Last night I heard
Mr. Baker, a missionary, make
some extraordinary statements
about his financial operations in
Australia. He was a shorthand-
writer, carpenter, and lawyer in the
Transvaal. At lawyering -he did
well. Then ha turned missionary,
and employed a number of others.
Before coming to Australia he sold
his farm for £l2OO. Two-thirds
he left for the support of his
brother missionaries in the trou-
blous war-time, and brought £4OO
to Australia. However, he sent
£3BO of this back to Africa, and
determined to plunge in here wholly
on Faith. This carried him
through gloriously for 15 months all
over Australia and Maoriland. _ He
never took up a collection for his own
benefit. One admirer in Dunedin
gave him £lOO. Why don’t the clergy
'try this system ?
Alick Forrest’s son, who is also Bigjohn
Forrest’s nephew, is to go to S’Africa with the
next W.A. contingent as a real live lieutenant.
Said son and nephew is an estimable small boy of
17. Local report has it that the officer in com-
mand of the contingent was communicated with
on the subject of finding a vacancy for this youth
fresh from school. He replied that there was
none, and was promptly floored with an intima-
tion that he must find one. So he found the
vacancy, and Small Boy Forrest goes out in com-
mand of men old enough to be his father. And,
in the irony of things, it may be his luck one day
to be in command of some detachment which will
get a chance to end the campaign at a blow by
capturing De Wet, and which won’t do it because
De Wet is hardly the man to be taken by any
influential person’s small boy. Were it possible
to ascertain how many years of war have deso-
lated the world because the chance which might
have ended a campaign at a blow fell to some
influential person’s small boy who had no right to
be filling a grown man’s billet, this globe would
probably be a very much enraged sphere indeed.
* * * *
In a certain N.S.W. country town recently
a lawyer, considering himself aggrieved by the
editor of the local paper, walked up to him
in the street and punched him on the jaw.
The scribe, for his own reasons, did not
retaliate ; and this coming to the ears of
a local Govt, official—who had also an
“edge” on the paper-man —he got a
horsewhip and ambushed the editor, but
received, to his huge satonishment, such
a pounding from the ink-slinger that he
was laid up for a week.
« *
English judges appear to be mak-
ing a fairly vigorous attempt to cope
with a prevailing epidemic of fraudulent
solicitor. The cable has reported sen-
tences of imprisonment ranging from 12
years to 12 months for sundry lawyers
who misappropriated trust moneys, the
fraud in each case being on all-fours with
the offence which ranks as a common
or garden kind of ‘ ‘ misdemeanour ” in,
say, Melbourne. And this reminds The
Bulletin that Yic. Crown Law Dept, is
continuing its policy of masterly inactivity
re lawyer Grey, True, friend Grey is not a
more unprosecuted criminal than many other
learned Victorian embezzlers, but as his case
happens to be specially conspicuous The
Bulletin mentions it once more.
A deafening row is in progress in South
Australia about the unequal distribution of peace-
medals to the State-school children. Only chil-
dren aged between five and thirteen received
medals, and shindy, disagreement, and heartburn-
ing have ensued. Now it is proposed to get over
the difficulty by giving peace - medals all
round. Considering that De Wet’s army
has carried the war into British territory,
and Kitchener is demanding 30,000 more
troops, and further contingents are being sent
from here, this peace-medal idea is humorous.
Just to “ save its face,” as the Chinese say, S.A.
Govt, should explain that the medal is intended
to commemorate the close of the Crimean cam-
paign.
# ¥ * »
The very latest phase of the loyal condo-
lence and congratulation business is set forth by
the Mayor of Brunswick (Vic.), who actually
instructed the town clerk to write to the
papers tendering his thanks to the Brunswickers
for their due and proper observance of the day of
the late Queen’s funeral. The Mayor didn’t
actually refer to my ratepayers of Brunswick —
but no doubt he thought it.
* * * *
N.S.W. District Court Judge Gibson,
while sitting at Sydney last week, was so
oppressed by the heat that a Court underling was
despatched for a Japanese fan, which his Honor
waved and flaunted in a manner worthy of the
Mikado. Doubtless the recent turning of his
Honor’s Court into a forum where civil, criminal
and marine justice is in turn administered, with
taxation appeals thrown in and industrial arbitra-
tion in prospect, has made it necessary for him to
be furnished with all the proper accessories of an
Australian Pooh-Bah.
* * * *
Apparently the Law knows several offences
unknown to the casual citizen. A Melbourne
girl, who t’other day sent a wire to her ex-“ boy,”
signing an assumed name with intent to deceive
him into meeting her, was flabbergasted by being
fined £2 for “wrongfully and unlawfully signing
a telegraphic message.”
* * * •
Already Mayor Gillott’s custom of appear-
ing for litigants in some cases at Melb. City Court,
where he sometimes adjudicates, has led to lawyer
Gaunson charging the police with unduly favoring
the Mayor’s clients. The charge of partiality was
refuted on other and proper grounds, but—justice
should, like Caesar’s wife, be above suspicion.
* * * *
The damsel who, t’other day, fired several
revolver-shots at a Melbourne rail way-porter, was
“dissatisfied with his treatment of her.” Mrs.
Fraser’s historic shot is becoming exemplary, and
soon now, in Melbourne, it will be to the unwill-
ing swain, “ Your love or your life ! ”
» * * *
When that Carlton (Vic.) husband rebuked
his wife with a claw-hammer the other day and
subsequently slashed his throat with a razor, the
eternal lodger—the alleged cause of the trouble-
observed “that if he ever attempted suicide he’d
make a better job of it.” He kept his word. Last
week the husband was fined £2O, and the day fol-
lowing the lodger razored his head nearly from
his body, leaving behind him a brief note:
“There is a certain party in Melbourne who
knows why I have committed this rash act.”
‘ ‘ Rash act!” The reporterese language had soaked
into his soul.
COMPLACENCY.
P HIL: “By Jove, now, if I could do like that
I'd reckon myself a genius .”
D’AUBER : “If you could do like this you’d BE a
genius .”
A Queensland Minister of the Crown, after
a day’s schnapper-fishing, wired the fat J.P. of his
electorate: “Meet schnapper to-night’s train.”
On receipt, the intelligent J.P. rushed into the
township, and ordered rooms and a hot supper for
Mr. Schnapper, then trotted the buggy to the
railway-station.
The casual Australian again. At a Carl-
ton (Melb.) lodging-house, t’other day, one Muller,
who had “delusions,” went into the yard and
began hacking at his throat with a razor; where-
upon a woman, attracted by “strange gurgling
sounds,” piuckily grabbed Muller and took a fall
out of him ; but as she was not strong enough to
hold him she called to three men working close by
to come and help her. But they only “ turned
their heads away and gammoned to be deaf.”
However, a passer heard her cries, and helped her
to disarm the would-be suicide, who was then
taken to hospital by the police. Meanwhile the
three workmen calmly proceeded with their occu-
pations. “If people want to slay themselves or
others, well, let ’em —we’ve got to get on with our
graft! ”
* * * *
The greatest triumph obtained by the
pietists in Australia is stopping the Melbourne
Sunday street-watering.
While the Perth (W.A.)
tramways were yet in course of
construction, a certain local
doctor, while driving on his
professional rounds one stormy
night, ran his dog-cart into a
heap of road-metal which was
lying beside the track, and
which, he alleged, showed no
light. He claimed damages
against the Tramways Co.,
who cited a certain city official
to testify that on his way home
that very night, and shortly
before the doctor's accident, lie
had seen a hurricane-lamp
alight and securely placed on
the road-metal aforesaid. The
witness related that after his
arduous duties of the day and
a visit to the now historic
Mayor’s parlor, he went to his
club, where he remained awhile,
and then hailed a cab, in which
he was driven home. “Did
you on your way home,” asked
counsel, “ observe a lighted
lamp resting on the heap of
metal?” “Idid,” replied the
witness positively ; “in fact 1
saw two lamps.”
¥ • *
The Curator of Intestate
Estates (N.S.W.) lately re-
ceived from way-back a letter
addressed “Curator of Intes-
tines, Sydney.” The envelope
is now preserved with other curios.
* « * *
Adelaide City Council, bossed by a Tory
majority, has declined to close the metropolitan
markets, which it owns, on Saturday nights, and
fall in with the overwhelming majority of shop-
keepers who now close at one o’clock on that day.
Even many of the business-people interested
petitioned for Friday night, but without avail,
and the markets are now the only stumbling-block
to the consummation of the great reform for which
Kingston worked hard during five years.
* * * *
Said a Melbourne vagrant in court the
other day : “I’m such a nervous man I ain’t at
my ease anywhere out o’ gaol.” Three months.
DEAR
For the Bulletin
J\fOT when I lay and watched the lovely dimples
at her neck,
That came and went and came again like ripples
on a heck;
Nor when the music of her voice put all the birds
to shame,
That stilled their mellow melodies to hearken whence
it came;
Nor when her eyes by passion fired, flashed gener-
ous desire;
Nor when she bound me in her arms and set my
brain a-fire;
Not then I felt so sweet a pang of joy and love
and fear
As almost rent my heart in twain when first she
called me “Dear.”
NIL.


“He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY'S success is a. Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY’B.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun Of the thing l
M9RK FOY, SYDNEY.
Same prloee and attendee as If you bought amongst the dally crowds at the counters.
I
m
m
m
m
£
&
All Drapers Everywhere.
6LOBB TEAS »■"* wo
Atcherley & Dawson, 284 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMANS LETTER.
Mt Dkab M™.- B **”*’ *° bta * r * 12 ' 190 L
That man who said no woman ought to live in
Sydney in January, February, or Maroh, was like
the rench girl—he “knew something.” Every-
one who can has left town ere this, but there are
a few who remain, and last week, while the spine-
less, insinuating, moist north-easterlies were
ravaging the city, many women believed they
wouldn t last much longer. Last Sunday women
were faipting wholesale in the churches. Indeed,
it seems as if the art of fainting, gone into disuse
lately, was about to be revived.
The wife of a leading doctor wilted and panted,
and wondered could this be death—this utter inab-
ility to move a finger. Her husband came into
the room and found her mentally making a long
farewell. He looked at her critically for a moment,
then crash went all her dreams. “My dear,
you’re in perfect health,” he said brutally. And
so she was, but he shipped her to the mountains
next day, all the same, out of the way of March’s
nasty little ways.
‘ Djin-Djin,” revived at Her Majesty’s on
Saturday, had what is left of Sydney in its dress-
circle. Mrs. Philip Morton in black with a low
square yoke of black net, was with Miss Irene
..larks in white and elbow sleeves and purple
flower over one eyebrow. Mrs. Lassetter was in
white, covered with black net. Nobody has the
courage to wear aught but black or white yet, but
the weather keeps this quiet dressing in counten-
ance, and we are thankful to be saved anything
hot to look at.
It was a sweltering night, so people needn’t
have gasped so at two pretty society women in the
front of the d.c., waited on by a squire, and
sipping something out of glasses in the interval.
It was a most remarkable first night. Everyone
knew his lines backward. Indeed, the co. seemed
more at home in the play that was just put on
than in the play that had just been taken off.
Tnis was because the Pollards played “Djin-
Djin ” for three years, and fitted into their old
parts uncreasingly.
Maud Beatty filled Flo Young’s old part—or
part of it—as Prince Eucalyptus, and flaunted a
floppy scarlet silk blouse with buff tights. lam
glad to say. Maud doesn’t eat her words
as much as in the past. She gets a chance
to look handsome and well-built, especially in a
black satin suit heavy with silver. Tiny Gwennie
Walker roused an encore out of the drowsy house.
So-and-So and Such-and-Such ” made as great a
hit as ever. All the ballets were well-frocked, if
you can speak of what the ballet wears as a frock,
and neither the scenery, nor the dressing, nor the
dress-circle had the-tired look one so often en-
counters at revivals.
Saturday saw the ena 6f Grand Opera. After
the curtain fell on the last act of “ Tannhaiiser,”
the insistent recalls brought Elizabeth from her
bier. There stood a queer quartette! Louis
Arens in Tannhaiiser’s rags, Cecile Lorraine in
Elizabeth’s funeral robe, Miss Crichton behind a
huge bunch of white roses in Venus’s filmy
clinging draperies, and in the middle of the group
Herr Slapoffski, stepped up from the orchestra,
wearing a black dress-suit and a bald patch.
Slapoffski spoke on behalf of Musgrove, and
congratulated Sydney on its warm appreciation
of good music. Then the quartette took arms
and pranced about to left and right like frisky
schoolboys till the curtain fell.
Sydney is hugging itself now, I can tell you.
It has found that it not only admires but loves—
even to the extent of seven-and-six—Wagner’s
operas. “ Lohengrin ” and “ Tannhaiiser ” were
the successes of the season, along with “Carmen.”
But we don’t say much about “ Carmen,” because
anyone can like Bizet, whereas Wagner takes
something like genius to appreciate him, we are
told.
Unfortunately for Sydney, preening itself on
its deepness, “Lohengrin” and “Tannhaiiser”
are just the very ABC of Wagner. Wait till
another group of Wagner operas are offered. But
no. I believe Sydney will love them too—or say
so. “Tannhaiiser” was really magnificently
staged. Such a gorgeousness of costume has
never been seen in Sydney before., In the won-
derful Second Act, when the audience assembles
in the Hall of Song, it seemed as if the wealth of
detail would never end. Mantle after mantle
came sweeping past, each more luxurious than
the other, and all exquisitely artistic. The color-
schemes in the grouping of this great act took
one’s breath away. There was scarcely a color
that was not introduced into some man or
woman’s raiment, but so carefully was that audi-
ence stage-martialled into its seats, so aesthetically
were the right people put next to the right people,
that the effect was the greatest triumph of stage-
shading ever achieved for a Sydney audience.
There was one flaw in the dressing of Mus-
prove’s operas, however, which arose from the
inability of a tenor to kneel to a certain contralto.
He suggested to her, “Why don’t you have a
couch in, and lie on that instead of on the straw?”
She indignantly refused to introduce a couch into
a prison cell. “Well then,” said he, “I’ll ’ave
to ’ave ray close let out at the knees.” It seems
they were so tight that he couldn’t assume the
correct attitude for “Home to our Mountains,”
and he thought if the contralto would seat herself
on a couch he might stand over her instead of
going on his tight knees on the straw.
Marie Narelle, the popular warbler, had a tea-
party in her rooms last Friday, a farewell to “ the
Janson.” Madame Janson came in the simplest
cotton garments, a muslin blouse, cotton skirt,
and little black bonnet, without an atom of
“style,” much less frill, and after an hour of tea
and ices an d girls had gone by, and no
. scre . wed u P enough courage to implore
the distinguished guest to sing, she suddenly
forT2 Thall W tly r ‘‘T 1 Sin * soraethin S
al j 1 ■ These little generous ways
moreST 6 ? and P?P ula / ised A^nes Janson 4
could do C ° rrect P rofe! *sional standoffishness
T in °^ lvie > our P°et, Who
fn^ d ii thr ° S l d l ey , ou tiis way to Scotland
after 11 years in the bush, spent his last week in
Australia m evading invitations, Scotch or not.
He is now a true Bushman. He left by the Persic
to Australia’ Wlth 110 lnte nti°n of ever returning
M j y T U u re cravin ? an y news of Govt. House I’m
afraid I have very little to offer you, for the same
mystic seclusion marks Lady Hopetoun for its
own, and nobody has exchanged even a “ how
dy ° u do She was shopping in town
yesterday with Mrs. Corbett, and people stared
at the sight of her Ex’s black frock and hat topped
with an insouciant yellow umbrella, lined with
green—the Mark Twain kind, that spoilt the
views m Palestine.
Everybody observes that her Ex. wears a bored
and weary air, and Potts Point is eagerly ex-
pknning that this is because she has been so cut
off from P P. society (written F.F. if you’re musi-
cal), and hasn t had anybody to talk to since she
came to Sydney. That’s Potts Point’s explanation,
Ladjf H° U ldn fc to *he one to tell that to
If anybody were giddy enough to offer a prize
for the most original Mourning, I would like to
recommend a man in William-street, who set out
his window with yards and yards of black sausage
when the Queen died. He also put away all the
festive red cabbage, the jolly red German sausage,
the white and scarlet ham, and the block of bright
worldly-looking corn beef, and gave his clients
nothing to look at that wasn’t pure lugubrious
black. A windowful of black food doesn’t look
like grief when you come to write about it, but I
suppose it s a case of the shoemaker to his last, and
the sausage man to his black-pudding, and every-
body making mournful so as to best advertise his
own particular business.
After that I would recommend a local public
school, that also combined refreshments with
grief. Ihe children there were asked by their
teachers to put on some sign of mourning, a black
ribbon, black bow, anything to indicate their
awful woe at the death of Queen Victoria.
Next day a whole class came to morning-school
wearing simple little, black, stiff bows and ros-
ettes. These seemed to be made of innocent black
beby ribbon. But as the day wore on teacher
noticed that the mourning seemed to be gradually
disappearing. By afternoon school-time scarcely
a bow or rosette remained. At last a school-marm
caught a little girl in the act of biting a junk out
of the middle of her rosette, and then the sorrow-
ful truth came out. Which was that the mourn-
ing was made of thin, black liquorice-sticks,
twisted into bows, but rapidly licked out of shape,
and turned into funeral meats as the day wore on
and the grief wore off.
A local paper says that “So eager are the Vic-
torians to join the sixth contingent, that married
men have been declaring themselves to be
bachelors. Yes, but what Sydney is worrying
over is an unmarried society man who goes away
soldiering while still a bachelor.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
The night the Indian troops saw the Panto-
mime they neither smiled nor frowned, but appa-
rently thought a lot. To admirers of veiled
Oriental beauty Nellie Stewart’s decolletage and
hose methods must have seemed—well, extremely
Western,’ to put it mildly.
“ Same evening, the stage-bit most enjoyed by
English Tommies was the scene where two rabid
man-catchers fall in love at first sight with a red-
coated sentry-boy. In real life the older the
woman the worse her attack of ‘ scarlet fever ’
When our own boys came back from S’Africa they
suffered terribly on Welcome Day from the public
embraces of shrivelled charwomen and fat monthly-
nurses. That day the unassuming hero of a hun-
dred street hugs testified that not one of his
assailants was under 60. At last the goaded
youth resolved for the future to name his own
poison, and bailed up the next pretty 16-year-old
he saw for a kiss. A scratched face was all he
g9t, and for the rest of the march he abandoned
himself to the tender mercies of Girls of the Verv
Old Brigade. 3
“ Snazelle’s songs and yarns greatly help out his
pictures. His Sydney celebration scenes fill up
an aching void in the hearts of those who weren’t
in at the Death of the separate ‘ colonies.’ Lord
Hopetoun is there to the very life, with all his
graceful bows and winning ways thick upon him.
Said winsome potentate evidently still preaches
in his own person a sermon on the text that
physique is deceitful and beauty is vain, but grace
and charm do the trick every time.
“At the pantomime, Cinderella’s sisters bur-
lesque various dress fads of the moment. Off to
the Prince s ball, the fat, red-headed one shows
how elephantine the average woman looks in the
prevalent overall pelisse of floral brocade. Same
gusher sports an enormous gold heart pendant like
those affected by our Smartest. The inscriptions
on said dangling trinkets are a study in them-
selves. A popular society widow airs the date of
hubby s death on hers, and the pathetic souvenir
may be seen whirling on its chain as the owner
waltzes !
“ The Prince’s valet dancing with the oldest,
ugliest sister dishes up the very snub once in-
flicted by a Vic. horsey heiress upon an uncon-
penia.l partner. ‘My Lady Disdain,’ out of favor
m Melb. at the time, was sulking at a relative’s
country seat. A race-ball happened along, and a
j 1 1? squatter of the neighborhood begged the
gilded belle to favor him with a waltz. After a
few turns his partner asked listlessly, ‘Fond of
dancing ? ’ ‘ Very ! ’ ‘ You should learn ! ’
‘On sweltering nights danseuse Darto discards
her blended purple, blue and gold for white, with
cense gleaming through occasional insertion
bands. As heretofore, Mme. favors black stock-
ings and red-heeled black shoes, and her glorified
garters, all cerise and black streamers, make a
brief, brave show among her lacy white lingerie.
“ A big, but not very fashionable audience pat-
ronised the Darrell Benefit (Friday, Feb. Bth).
The Naicest, of course, must ‘mourn’ for two
months yet, so theatres need not count upon
fashionable patrons till Society’s time of woe is
accomplished.
“In ‘ Ma Mie Rosette’ Nellie Stewart and
Brownlow made things hum. Plenty of fire in
them both ! Brownlow’s first appearance in Mel-
bourne, by the way, was as philandering ‘ Henri
of JN avarre, ’ but since then he’s made many attrac-
tive additions to his bag of love-sick tricks.
Cecil Engleheart and Co., tired of being quizzed
for blurting out ‘Henri ’ as ‘ Ong-ree,’ now try to
s bP ( over the asses bridge with a vague murmur
of ‘Arnry.’ As the pretty milk-walker, the
Stewart favored the shortest of skirts, smart tan
shoes and hose, pale blue frock decorated with
raised pink roses, white chemisette, golden wig
and rustic hat piled with pale blue bows. Her
ball-gown of tinselled white was ruched with car-
nation pink; and when she left her uneasy bed in
the Castle, to spoon in the moonlight with her
flirtatious host, she wore filmy white over pink (to
represent the wearer’s skin)' and pink foot and
ankle-wear. Nellie must admire pink people
cause she always produces her flesh-effects by
such rosy methods. As the Panto. Prince in
wedding array, her cutty sark of silver mail re-
veals legs and arms fleshed in warm-blush silk.
But what bridegroom wouldn’t blush who found
hunself facing the ceremony mit nodings on but
metallic helmet and under-vest!
Grace Palotta has indulged in a new gown
for her earlier Florodora scenes. It is pink like
its predecessor, with three tiny skirt frills edged
with black, and a suspicion of black baby-ribbon
cropping up m the wide, turned-down collar and
transparent white vest. No throat - band for
Grace s round, white neck is a string to her bow.
She still clings to her big pink hat turned up in
front with pink and red clustered under its brim
and permits only tantalisingly brief glimpses of
her black hose and shoes. Williamson’s dainty
twmkler is twice as popular with women, anyway
as the star of the Musgrove galaxy. When
Nellie is giving her services gratis at a benefit,
petticoated patronesses condescendingly sum her
up as ‘a wonderful woman,’ while they gush over
the Palotta as ‘lovely,’ and ‘sweet,’ and ‘so
natural.’
“Among the audience on Friday were the
Dartos—Aida looking young, blithe, and very
Irenchy of figure in all-pink. Hubby’s face is
handsome, but he’s too short-legged for perfection,
lhey are inseparable companions, partly because
they don t speak English, and Melbournians are
such duffers at foreign languages that unless
Aida chatted to Darto ’ and vice versa, their
poor tongues would grow rusty with disuse. Their
companion at the matinee was Nellie Stewart’s
little daughter.
“That burlesque, ‘The Dart Ohs,’ by Lauri
and Carrie Moore, didn’t seem quite so laughable
to the Originals as to outsiders. .The caricatured
couple managed to smile and applaud, but poor
M sieu s mirth looked as hollow as that of a small
boy at a juvenile party when a facetious hostess
suddenly withdraws the tit-bits of the feast just
when she starts to hand them to him and remarks
archly, ‘ Tommy doesn’t like cream puffs ! ’
“ The two best-dressed matrons at the Darrell
matinee were Mrs. Lawson in a white foamy
frock, and Mrs. Carty Salmon in black skirt, pale
gold blouse (with elbow sleeves), and plenty of
black garnishing. Mrs. Norman Menzies fluttered
in. and out of the manager’s box in a white frock
with transparent neck and sleeves. Just beyond
tho box sat Grace Palotta (early in the afternoon)
in a black grenadine frilly gown and a sweeping
picture hat. In the d.c. at the matinee very little
black was worn—quite a blaze of Eastern colors
carried the day.
*, The two stars that shone at Her Majesty’s on
Friday afternoon appealed to the public eye in
two distinetly-opposite characters—one appearing
m as much and the other in as little as she pos-
s, y could. The gods with one accord went for
the French Fashion-Plate ‘with them all on’
“ Manager Musgrove chatted to Grace Palotta
before the performance, but when ‘Rosette’
came on, took up his stand in the circle and nar-
rowly watched Nellie’s performance. By the
way, why was all her anxiety right through the
robe-de-nuit scene (which must be quite 150' in
the shade) to reveal the skimpy rose petticoat
under the clinging white drape ? All through this
scene she clutched at the gown and drew it up
generously to disclose the pink underwear. Every-
one whispered, ‘ but why ? ’
Mrs. (Dorothy Vane) Menzies declares em-
phatically she has no wish to return to the stage
that domestic bliss has spoilt for her all the old
glamor of the footlights. She expects shortly to
eave with her husband for a trip to England.
" Key. Father Robinson, the guide and philo-
sophic friend of Amy Castles, has begun booming
the voice of a younger sister—Dolly—whom the
earnest, clerical showman describes as much
cleverer all round than the Amy we were formerly
told to adore. He had a host of theatricals sing-
ing a Mass recently at his little Camberwell
church, with Dolly as soloist. Of course the
theatricals (whom he entertained right royally)
agreed with the pastor as to the qualities of
Dolly s voice, and Rev. George was immensely
elated. The Melb. paying public heard this new
(alleged) prodigy at Sophie Osmond’s benefit last
year, when the poor child was a ridiculous disap-
pointment.
“ Judging from the Frankfort press notices of
his first piano-forte recital Percy Grainger (now
18) remains true to the teaching of his first tutor,
Herr Pabst, who introduced the golden-haired
cherub to Melbourne notice some seven or eight
years ago. The Pabst pupils mostly hit the piano
with measured beat and slow. They were effec-
tive, but cold. Pabst exhorted them to dwell on
the importance of every note, and the star
youngster, Percy, took his master, his music and
himself with all possible seriousness. When a
woman at the Exhibition Building once asked him
if he didn’t find piano-playing very hard, he re-
buked the thoughtless creature with the
reply that ‘ Everything is hard if you do it
properly.’ Like boy, like man. The Frankfort
General-Anzeiger says : ‘ Herr Percy Grainger
proved himself a player of great technical merits,
whose style is noble rather than emotional.’
1 hat’s the golden-haired nipper grown into a
Herr. By the way, Percy promised to be always
a pretty fellow, but the notices don’t mention
whether he is calculated to fetch the girls other-
wise than with the features of his performance.
German critics are never worldly and flippant.
“A fair charmer denies (to candid inquirers)
the truth of her reported engagement to that lean
and gilded Sydneyite. The popular belief is that
the beauty is waiting for the May consignment of
soft goods from ’Ome.
“ The marriage has just been announced of Mr.
Fred. M'Evoy, the wealthy N.S.W. squatter and
familiar Collins-st. figure, to Miss Violet Coral
Healy—better known as Violet Daniels of the
Princess Co. The wedding took place quietly in
Carlton some months ago, though the notice has
only just appeared. Mr. M‘Evoy was married
many years previously to the beautiful and
brilliant daughter of the veteran Dr. Crooke, then
of Melbourne, now of Sydney—a brave old man,
who at 90 years still practises his profession. That
lady died about three years ago, and a very pretty
girl, in the person of the new Mrs. M‘Coy, suc-
ceeds to the gorgeously-furnished homestead and
other luxuries at Tarrabandra, Gundagai.
“ Apropos a recent wedding. It is noteworthy
that the gilded bridegroom induced his first wife
to become a Catholic, and the ceremony took place
with 6clat at St. Patrick’s Cathedral. But in the
second instance things were reversed, and he
yielded to the faith of his Protestant bride.
“Mrs. Marina Murphy—the ardent supporter
of Suffrage, and the only Sassiety leader to plague
her friends about Woman’s Vote—has just now
the three daughters of the Dowager Countess of
Seafield in tow, and all that remains of the Naice
crowd in the city during the hot season are paying
their devoirs very respectfully to the three wild-
eyed, pale-faced, auburn ladies. The elder, Lady
Caroline, only is ‘ out ’; the other two are in knee-
length frocks, and wear their Titian tresses in
straight sea-weed simplicity. All go in deep half-
mourning for the late Queen —no jewellery, very
despondent dress, and they only wake to en-
thusiasm when they begin to talk Maoriland,
which has been their home for years. They love
the Maoris because they’re ‘so awfully quaint,’
and Papa Seddon because he is ‘so very good to
them.’
“Gushing folk are surprised that the sacred
pen used for signing the Oath of Allegiance was
only a very common every-day one. ‘ Why didn’t
you procure something paiticularly fine?’ asked
someone of ex-Premier Turner. He turned his
quiet eyes on the speaker and said in his simple
fashion, ‘I didn’t think.’ He seldom does, you
know. Someone else suggested (when it was too
late) that each of the five officials signing the
document should have used a different quill, so
that in each of the five families the precious instru-
ment might have been preserved. But the Premier
‘didn’t think’ of that either. However, five
duplicates of the document are to be reproduced
on vellum, signed by the five in each case, and
kept as a souvenir of the ceremony.
“Surgeon O’Hara’s handsome son Clive
‘Clive the Conjuror’—has gone to London.
He wants to see everything of the very
latest in the magic and illusion line ; to get ideas
from which he can get new ideas of his own, and to
form a style somewhat different from Dante’s, but
equally attractive. The handy young Adonis has
all Dante’s tricks of skill at the tips of his fingers,
as all know who have seen him in public or
private. He is certainly clever enough to shine
as an imitative conjuror, and if he possesses the
inventive faculty Clive will go up top in a profes-
sion where a killing appearance is half the battle
The Toorak girl who called him a dream was
speaking for a good many of them.
“ A leading merchant’s family had another way
of amusing themselves at the sea-side. The girls
donned very frilly bathing-gowns, mounted their
horses (unsaddled) and cantered along the beach
to the amazement of all the sand-diggers. Then
they dashed into the sea, and drove their steeds
through the dancing waves, while the watchers
professed to be thankful that for a few moments
at least the sea had hidden the straddled
extremities of the tomboys from view.
“ The prize daughter of Pooh Bah takes things
into her own dimpled hands and gives swaggah
luncheons at Menzies’ every now and then. Said
that a chaperon (in loco parentis) was suggested
for the last occasion—a few days ago. But the
plump and level-headed charmer put her veto
upon it, proclaiming that chaperons were only
meant for church services and dangerous festivi-
ties. To the pure luncher all things are quite
respectable.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULL.


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
Fox* the Skin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling a.nd soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLANDS
ESSEKCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland’s artioles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
ptiiens’Mssuranee Company Limited
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
Existing
exceed 216,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Absolute Security.
Annual Bonuses.
Moore and Castlereagh Streets,
Sydney.
JOHN FARRELL,
Resident Secretary.
The fruit crop is very good this year, and
the prudent housekeeper is busy looking after the
year’s supply of preserves and filling up shortages
in Jam Jars. There is but little satisfaction in
using a common, badly-fitting, badly-made jar,
which, moreover, is liable to break when the fruit
is poured in. Some new patterns have been intro-
duced this year by M‘Lean Bros, and Bigg, Ltd.,
Melb. and Sydney. Notably the Gilchrist —this is
a large-mouthed jar, with porcelain immerser;
and tne Canton jar, a clear, white glass, with easy-
fitting spring top showing the contents to the best
advantage.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skim
Is. bottles* Made in London.*
PERSONAL ITEMS.
How about the match between Rosebery
and Miss Edward VII. ?
The first of the new batch of Victorian
K.C.’s was appropriately enough K.C. himself—
ex-Judge J. J. Casey.
Local criticism on G. H. Reid after his
Richmond (Vie.) meeting: “Good lor, what a
cheap-Jack he’d a-made ! ”
“Steele Rudd ” (A. H. Davis) has an idea
of appearing as an entertainer. He proposes to
deal out “On Our Selection” —to country audi-
ences for a start.
Longevity evidently runs in the Musgrove
family, for Lewis Lewis, “ Muzzy’s ” grandfather,
lived to the remarkable age of 106, while his
father is still to the fore.
Josiah Boothby, once S.A. Under-Secre-
tary, holds a record in having superintended that
State’s census work for 61 years. He is a brother
of S.A. Sheriff Boothby.
Recalled that Downey, the big London
photographer of years agone, made his business
by securing the only known photograph of Queen
Victoria with a smile on her face.
The Queen never forgave Thackeray for
his “ George 1V.,” or Henry Reeve for publishing
the Greville Memoirs. Reeve treasured up a
snub he had received from Prince Albert.
A northern N.S.W. police-inspector just
retired on pension boasts that he has a longer list
of convictions to his credit than any other man in
the .Force, and not “drunk and disorderlies”
eitheij
Among the N.S.W. Federal candidates is
a man who once carried two policemen off Rose-
hill racecourse, one under each arm, and dumped
them into their own lock-up. A formidable ad-
versary.
Chief - Justice Onslow, who, after a
chequered career, retires from Westralian law
affairs, is grandson of old Alex. Macleay, Colonial
Secretary of N.S.W. in the early part of the
century.
Dan O’Connor was overheard to assert
the other day that there had only been three great
fenerals in the world—Julius Caesar, Napoleon
lonaparte, and Lord Roberts. Did Roberts come
from Ireland too ?
“ Melb.”: That Bulletin sketch of Zelman
recalls Balzac’s saying: “ Every great man has
his head near his heart.” Witness himself, Na-
poleon, Gambetta, and Thiers. But it is mere
Bmartness, for how about Csesar, etcetera ?
The comic element obtrudes itself gro-
tesquely in N.S.W. Education Department. The
Education Minister, who is a brewery shareholder
and a jolly good fellow to boot, has signed a lot of
cards cursing drink, for the walls of the State
schools.
During sculptor Mackennal’s visit to Bal-
larat local potentates revived the idea of a statue
for Lindsay Gordon, “who rode some famous
races on the'Dowling Forest course.” The illu-
minati of Ballarat remember the rider, not the
writer.
No rose without a thorn. Federation has
brought down from N.Q. that awful person W.
S. Dowel, who fills in time pegging out the coun-
try, writing stodgier letters than even “ Wingen”
Abbott, and announcing his candidature for vari-
ous things.
Kingston has given even his most intimate
triends in Adelaide to understand that it is useless
attempting to secure his influence in the aspira-
tion after Federal billets. “ I know nothing about
appointments,” he says—“they’re not in my
department.”
At the Sydney Jewish Memorial Services
for the Queen the chief officers of the Synagogue
assisted Rabbi Davis. These were the president
(Mr. George Judah Cohen), the vice-president (Mr.
Justice Cohen), and the treasurer (Mr. Neville
Cohen). Mighty is the mana of Cohen.
Obit. : At Cooma, Mr. Robert Dawson in
his 89th year. He came to N.S. Wales with Gov.
Gipps in 1838, since when he has been a Monaro
pastoralist. He entered the Government service
m 1847 as Police Magistrate, and retired in 1887.
He was father of the Sydney City solicitor, Mr.
Percy Dawson.
Albert Edward is calling himself King
Edward for the same reason that the man whose
name was Nicholas called his son John, because
he (the father) wasn’t going to be called Old Nick
in the future. Fancy having to live up to the
excellence of Albert the Good! Royal Bertie
knows better.
Ben Bridge, the doughty ex-horse-snarer
—lecturing in Inverell district (N.S.W.) —has been
spreading himself hugely over the story of his
life and adventures. “In crossing the desert,”
incidentally observed the veracious Bridge, “I
had a few goes-in with the blacks, but got off
best. Upon one occasion I put my coat and hat
up, and in the morning the coat had seven spears
through it.” Only seven !
W. Y. Robinson, Clerk of Vie. Leg.
Assembly, in a recent lecture said that for sus-
tained oratory Higinbotham has been the greatest
speaker in the Victorian Parliament, and that the
ex-Chief-Justice’s highest oratorical flights were
made in connection with the Darling Grant,
Many old Parliamentarians—including Berry,
J. M. Grant, M'Kean, and David Blair —have
told the present scribe the same thing.
Professor Woodhouse, who takes the Greek
Chair in Sydney University, is a notable man.
He did a lot of work in Greece, apart from mere
Greek literature. Some of these first-hand experi-
ences he has recorded in a volume. Otherwise,
he is an unpretentious, quiet, scholarly man, with
a “no-occupation” appearance.
David Sy rue’s strenuous efforts to drum up
a sensational “shilling” fund to raise a Melb.
statue of Queen Victoria has not caught on with
dramatic suddenness. The fund went very
limpy, and at the end of the first two weeks only
about £llOO had been collected, nearly the whole
of which was contributed in £lOO blocks by six or
seven wealthy firms.
Waxcellency Madden’s real weakness is an
unbounded belief in his literary abilities. He
believes he would have shone as a man of letters
had he taken to literature instead of to law, and
he rejoices in great events mainly because of the
opportunities they give him for discharging large
masses of turgid English, composed in sweat and
pain, at the heads of defenceless crowds.
“ Smiler ” Hales floats on to the lecture-
platform atop of the wave of success of his Cam-
pain Pictures,” as he calls them, in a letter to a
friend. “Smiler” always did spell beautifully.
But he, anyhow, won’t blush and stammer ; for it
isn’t quite a new game. And his voice is as
strong as his imagination. In fact, lie made
arrangements once to go a-touring as an elocu-
tionist.
Miss Mackay, at 72, was buried last week
at A .\tverley. Everybody knew her talented,
saw-voiced brother, old Angus Mackay, of Mel-
bourne side, who founded Sydney Daily lele-
graph, and seemed to live for newspaper enter-
prise. His instinct was right in starting the D. 1.
but his means were foolishly inadequate, xet he
held on. A peculiar thing is that nearly every
man who worked for the politics originally out-
lined by Angus Mackay is now either dead or
laboring in a hostile camp.
OBLIGING.
OLD LADY (who is being smoked out): “Guard,
is smoking allowed in this compartment?”
GUARD: “No, mum; but it'll be all right. You
can smoke to your 'eart's content so long as
the gents inside don't object.”
You get a good idea of what is behind the
reputation of Kingston as “a strong man” when
you watch him going laboriously from State to
State, even to far-off Perth and isolated Hobart,
grafting day and night over the details of the local
Custom-houses and their business, and sizing-up
every leading officer. Kingston is a sticker
because he doesn’t put his foot down very often
until he has well tried the place with his black-
thorn.
The rumored settlement of all the diffi-
culties between Williamson and Musgrove gains
strength by the announcement of the withdrawal
of the iegai proceedings instituted a year or two
back. Furthermore, Nellie Stewart (of the one
company) and Brownlow (of the other) acted
together as principals in their old parts in “Ma
Mip. Rosette ” at Darrell’s benefit. Indications
are that the old firm will sooner or later be boom-
ing along in the old way.
An old-age-pension applicant at Bruns-
wick, Vic., claimed to have been worth far over
£1,000,000 fifteen years ago when he was a
squatter. The proceedings of the Court are, of
course, absolutely secret, but the investigating
magistrate stated afterwards that the old mm
submitted strong evidence that he spoke the truth.
Who knows how many of the rich men of to-day,
who rail against such pensions, may be applying
for pensions themselves in another 15 years? *
Holder, when he returned from Sydney,
said in his wrath : “If I had pushed my claims to
office as some others did I might have been a
Federal Minister.” Whereupon Kingston wired
asking whether, seeing that the question was be-
tween him and Holder, the meaning was that he
had pushed any claims. Holder responded that
his remark “had no personal application.”
Kingston now wonders what on earth the astute
Premier meant if he .didn’t desire to be personal
to some one.
Jibe from Adelaide
Herald
Queens-
land’s Go-
vernor, Lam-
ington, i s
now looking
for another
billet. The
billet that
would suit him
best is line-re-
pairer to the
Wireless Tele-
graph 00.
As usual in
such cases, all
sorts of con-
tradictory stories
are afloat in M.L.
ooncerni » g J udge
Martin. Accord-
ing to one, when
counsel was trying
to impeach a wit-
ness’s evidence by
asking whether
he was not
living with a
woman not his
wife, the Judge
interposed and
said that the de-
sirability of mar-
riage was a mere matter
of opinion, and that he
would think no less of a
man’s testimony if the latter
were cohabiting with an unmarried woman. Ac-
cording to another story, Mr. Martin, while
P.M. in Wellington, was particularly hard on
those brought before him for the softer vices, and
seemed to aspire to be the guardian of the city s
morals.
Chief Justice Griffith, in his early political
days, was once pointed out in the street to an old
Scotchman who hated M‘llwraith. Sandy poked
Samuel cheerfully in the ribs with a hard crutch :
“ An’ ye’r Meester Greeffith ? Ye’r hank Ye’r
th’ claiverest mon in Queenslan’ th’ dee.” And
Griffith never smiled.
What price Crick, K.C. ! It is rumored
that if the N.S. W. Cabinet is reconstructed Crick
will take the Attorney-Generalship. Wise will
go into Federal politics—-if he can get there via
Canoblas. Crick is entitled, as a solicitor of more
than five years’ standing, to go to the Bar when-
ever he likes to apply. He could then, as Attor-
ney-General, take silk as soon as he liked and
with the K.C. almost an extinct animal in N.S. W.
owing to the reluctance of leading juniors to take
silk, Crick ought to get a very big practice indeed.
Died at Geelong, on 3rd Feb., Denis
O’Brien, who first handled the original consign-
ment of sparrows sent out from England to the
late James Austin. O’Brien offered a guinea
apiece for them with a view to wringing their
necks. Austin indignantly refused, the result
being that many Victorian farmers would since
have given numerous guineas for the privilege of
wringing Austin’s neck. A coincidence was that
deliverv of this consignment was accepted by one
E. R. " Sparrow, then a clerk in the office of
Austin’s Geelong agents.
“It does not appear to be generally
known,” writes a Sydney D.T. correspondent,
“that it may be many years before we have
another ‘ Prince of Wales.’ The title can only be
given to the eldest son of the reigning monarch,
so that the Duke of York, who was not born while
his father was reigning, cannot take the title. For
the same reason little Edward of York can never
be Prince of Wales, and unless he comes to the
Throne before his son is born, there will be very
few people alive now who will hear the title
again.” But now it is cabled that York is to be
p. of W. —after he visits Australia.
It is general gossip in Melbourne that
there is an estrangement between Kingston and
Holder. Apropos, Kingston has fewer enemies
on hand just now than at any previous period of
his career. Ever since Way, C.J., foolishly
intrigued re Privy Council Appeal matters there
has been a coldness between that ambitious little
potentate and Kingston, but they met in Sydney
only recently, and more or less made it up. And
two other old-time enemies, Baker and Symon,
have buried the hatchet with the ex-S.A. Pre-
mier. “ Bedad,” said a West Adelaide supporter
of Kingston’s recently, “divil a bit do I knaw
pwhat’s cornin’ over Charlie lately ! ”
Reid, K.C., is going into Federal politics
and consequent poverty, just as he was really
beginning to get on at the N.S.W. Bar. Re the
proposed fund “to make him independent.” The
same phrase was used with regard to Dibbs when
he was in low water, and at the time when he was
a favorite with the “commercial classes.” At
that time Dibbs had done those classes signal ser-
vice by his bank-panic legislation—yet the “ inde-
pendence ” move only panned out about £3500.
It is hard to believe that Reid, who clapped an in-
come-tax on the “commercial classes” will get
much help when the hat is being passed round.
The popular and clever “Jack” Wagner,
son of recently-deceased squatter John Wagner,
wealthy retired pioneer Vic. coach-proprietor,
was educated at Oxford, and became a barrister.
His father wished him to make a name at the
Sydney bar when he came out from England about
seven years ago, and started him under the rngis
of Jack Want; but the young stager was suffer-
ing from an unlucky love-affair, he had acquired a
taste for theatricals at Oxford, and he could not
settle down to the dull business of the law. The
stern parent was wroth accordingly, and practi-
cally disowned him. The youngster then started
off for New York, where he began writing lyrics
for the operatic stage, and he is now literary
editor of New York Sun. It is to be hoped that
the amiable youth has not been disinherited.
Kingston is visiting each Australian
customs dept, for the purpose of becoming
acquainted with his deputies. Adelaide officials
who worked with the mercurial “Charlie” are
wondering what kind of experiences the different
heads are having, and how they are getting on
with Kingston’s handwriting. Nearly every
NO CAUSE FOB ALARM.
HER: “Progressive euchre indeed! I believe you
are only going to flirt with that odious Mrs.
Slyboots.”
HIM: “Don't be ridiculous, love, you know I
abominate pretty women.”
minute he wrote during his long S.A Premiership
was interpreted in pencil by an officer with
a long experience of the Kingstonian “ hand ” and
it is stated that once, when even this genius broke
down at a word, Kingston himself was appealed
to. The Premier looked long and dubiously,
asked when he wrote the minute, and was in-
formed that it was two days ago. “ Good Lord,”
he said, “ how can I remember what I wrote two
days ago! ” and he “composed” the minute
afresh.
Concerning H. B. Higgins :
Dear Bulletin, —Notwithstanding “ MacDonald’s ” gibe
(B. 2/2/’l), plucky, brainy Higgins is one of whom true
democracy should be proud. Also, I fail to see that Hig-
gins’s attitude in the Marshall Hall case involves any
reflection on his democratic principles. This scribe has
occasionally had reason to differ from Higgins, notably
in connection with the Federal movement, but cannot
understand the pettiness which induces such a line of
argument as “MacDonald’s.” “MacD.’s” allusion to
Higgins’s status in Vie. Parliament is an actual compli-
ment, because to such a depth has Vic. political life
descended in its time-serving and truckling to the clamor
of the hour that H.’s non-conformity sets him high above
the groundlings of his Parliamentary surroundings. Why,
measured by “ MacDonald’s ” standard, the political life
of the great Higinbotham would also be termed a
failure. Long may Australia continue to produce such
men—men who will fearlessly and unswervingly stand up
for what they believe to be the cause of truth and justice.
—Another Mac.
“Incurable good nature ” is mentioned as
Edward Vll.’s most lamentable weakness.
Curious that that has been the only serious flaw
in the character of every Prince who has become
a King in England,' according to the criticism
of his kingly time. Albert Edward’s amiable
weakness has been exploited. The most notorious
instance dates from Homburg, where H.R.H was
smartly manipulated by ' ivo chic ladies with
plenty of cheek to start an .saormously profitable
THE POETS WOE.
He wept the dear departed well ,
Nor sobbed the less in vulgar ears,
Beholding that his precious tears
Did turn to guineas as they fell!
boom in Johannis Table Water, one of the most
dashing advertising coups on record. _ For long
afterwards the world was littered with posters
picturing A.E. swigging Johannis with a rattling
excursion lunch-party, and the most exclusive
circles nearly burst with suppressed emotion.


THE . .
FEDERAL
SPIRIT . .
'SddVK/HDS. >
SJJIOM
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Aboriginalities.
Letter recently published in Cairns
(Queensland) Daily Argus from a lady who
wished to thank a policeman for kindly assaulting
her husband:—
®* r > I n reference to the paragraph in last Friday’s Post
wherein Constable Maher is charged with a “ cowardly
assault ” on an old man, I shall feel obliged if you will
publish the following true facts of the case. My husband,
who is not by any means an “ old man,” unless you call
39 years old, was the victim of the alleged
assault, which Constable Maher committed on
him at my request. My husband had struck
me with his fists on three different occasions on
that day, in consequence of which I was compelled to
appeal tq the police for protection. My husband richly
deserved the thrashing administered by Constable Maher,
which did him a lot of good. Constable Maher only gave
my husband four cuts with a cane across the legs ; he did
not touch him on the stomach. If there is any enquiry,
I am perfectly willing to come forward and substantiate
my statements, as also will many others who knew the
true facts of the case.—Yours, &c., Mrs. .
There is something patriarchal about the form of
Government under which a lady can ask a police-
man to wallop her husband on a racecourse or other
public place, and the old man is walloped forth-
with.
* * * *
“Karri” : When our C. of E. (and only)
parson is absent the local policeman acts as his
locum tenens. The said reverend bobby was
struggling hard with the service t’other Sunday
evening, when above the stentorian sound of his
murdered English distinctly was heard the cry of
“ Murder ! Police ! ” Promptly the celebrant
dived through the vestry-door, and the audi-
ence, to the last dog, jumped out of the main exit
—when, by the pale moonlight, we watched a
short but lively struggle between the surpliced
bobby-parson and a whiskeyed sleeper-hewer. The
sober man prevailed, and men, vestments and all,
retired to the little stone cabin round the corner
Ten minutes later the sainted trap returned and
finished the service. Solemn fact !
CLOG GIN S’
OPINION.
COUNCILLOR BLOGGINSs
(addressing rate-
payers of Copper -
town): “Gen-
tlemen, I ma in-
tain that hif we
’ad a better plant
up to the waterworks it would
be better than the one we ’are;
and I further hadmit that two
wrongs don’t make a right.”
The proprietor of a West Victorian
paper has hit upon a novel method of retaining
his subscribers, When an angry sub. writes
withdrawing his support the prop pastes the
letter on the front-office window, with a sarcastic
comment of his own below it As the average
country subscriber” is usua ly a bit shaky both
in spelling and caligraphy the remedy is very
effective, especially when the alternative is a per-
sonal notme to the irate newspaper man, who is
a bit handy with his fists when necessary.
■* * * *
“Dave’ : The free, unfettered life en-
joyed by the Australian selector was never made
clear to me until one dav, empty-stomached, I
trudged into Bill Bent’s place. Bill’s wife and
six kids were seated in a row on the grass grinning
hard. The wife, when aware of my approach,
held up a long, brown finger. I halted and stared,
There was Bill crawling stealthily over the ground
towards a big tree at the foot of which about six
inches of a goanna’s tail were visible. The family
became unmanageable, and as Bill got within
grabbing distance, Mrs. Bill had to hold the lot
down. When Bill did grab you should have heard
the shine! After Bill had tired of “running”
Mrs. Bill (who wasn’t at all in a fit state to be
chased) and the kids with the goanna he chained
the vermin to the verandah-post, and getting
down before it on his stomach, just out of range,
spent a pleasant afternoon “seeing it’’—every-
b,oi e Jn<r^ ked ii: with a stick -“ bite llke a
Duii-aog.
Near St. George last year one'who had
been tramping “through hell across the plain”
looked up and saw a brother dangling f om a tiee
by a bridle-rein. He went pale, and hastened to
the township. Days after, when he read of the
police finding £97 m notes on the body, he turned
pale-green. “Every man’s chance comes right
enough,” he said ; “ that was mine. Damned if I
don t feel like kickin’ meself ! ”
“ Via ” : If “ Vale ” (B. 26/l/’l) ever gets
down a mine about 2 a.m. he will understand
Stevenson’s idea. Stones drop without apparent
cause, weird crackings are heard, and there seems
to be a tremor as if the earth was turning in its
sleep. Ask cattle-men what is the worst hour on
a cattle-camp, when the devils seem to stir the
brutes to stampede and “ring” without known
cause, and the same hour will be mentioned by
the great majority of them. The movement is on
right enough—but the cause ?
* * * *
Exhibition-time always fills our boarding-
house with country visitors. While awaiting break-
fastone momingalong, heavily-booted maidenfrom
round Hungerford way jumped up and explored
the table, feeling the edges of the knives with her
big brown thumb. ‘‘De y’ want anythin’, Miss ? ”
queried our slavey. “ Nuh,” said the Hungerford
maiden, “just tryin’ th’ knives t’see cud I find
one tliet ain’t sharp. The one I hed last night
cut me mouth.”
* « » •
“M.LR. ” : The latest anthropological
phenomenon in Rockhampton (Q.) is the red-
headed offspring of the full - blooded Kanaka
couple. A throw-back, or what ? And “ what will
the harvest be ? ”
» » * *
Tommy Tanna the spieler is by no means
the latest Kanaka development. Up North they
now have the full-blooded Kanaka girl who talks
shyly about being engaged to “ A good Christian
boy,” and shows her three-guinea engagement-
ring. One of these dusky beauties was married
the other day (by a C.E. clergyman) in white silk,
orange blossoms, and lace. At the wedding-feast
the infant son of the bride by her own uncle sat
on his grandmother’s lap and viewed the proceed-
ings with evident approval. Yes ! the North is
on the high road to—something or other.
A record? At Sauma-
rez station, the property
of Mr. F. J. White, “1255
lambs were counted from
1229 ewes in one flock—lo 2
ier cent.”
Up North they take a liberal view of most
questions—particularly the drink question Jones
tells this as an illustration : “ I had been'out all
night, and morning found me looking about for a
place to fall asleep in. I turned-in at the office
and, curling myself up on the mat, was dead to
the world in less than five minutes. Customers
made a point of falling over me as they came in I
was told subsequently ; but a little tiling like that
couldn’t waken me. However, when I did get
sober, I saw I had made a very large fool of my-
self- Thought it was all up, that it’d be useless
trying to explain things to' the old man. Good
ob s ick 18 °ld Smith, but a bit religious. Any-
, w . ay ’ 1 wrote out' my resignation and went in to
11111 resignation, Mr. Smith,” I
Saves you asking for it. Know you
?Py d< ?, nothing else. Thoroughly ashamed of
the beastly show Ive made of myself ! ” The old
16 ? w scratched his bald head and looked up at
m ?< ln “I 9 m ud way. “ Well, I don’t know,” he
said'5 aid ' started to tear up my resignation, and
1 s , tood tbel f e ready for a long sermon, but glad to
g et out of the hole on any terms. “Youth will
, ye lts nmg. *. hen he came on in a confidential
wmsper: jb act is, Mr. Jones, I was young my-
selt ° nC€ \ 1 v T e sle P* on the mat, just as you did
T°,V ly when 1 car ? e to myself I hadn’t a stitch of
clothes on me. So suppose we overlook it this
time.
* • * *
Genuine N.S.W. public-schoolboy’s essay
on “ the kangeroo ” J
am ll the kangeroo and they are very strond to the will
own fl n°f ' f °lu not look out will rip his throt
the V*** are very
ther/skins to to^akpV' 011 Ca i* Sell
can make blankets out of them to and voXn like
mats for the floors the Kangeroo lives on gras and water
othe , r V ! e r' )e3 we trap them by a man trap and
they in con tact with a man they
would tair him to pieces. J
“ Milseth ” : Once, when out riding on a
station in the Warwick
(Q.) district, a retriever
that was with us ran a
kangaroo-rat into a small
box forest, and, as sha
did not return,
I had to go
back without
her. For 14
days nothing was
seen of Flora, then
one of the men,
taking a short cut across
the paddock, was surprised
to hear a faint yelping and
scratching coming from with-
in a big log. He looked in,
saw two bright
eyes, and,
guessing it
was Flora,
broke away
the rotten
inner- lining
of the log
and got her
out, looking
little the
worse for her
fortnight’s
imprison-
ment. She
had, how-
ever, been
rolling fat
when she
squeezed in,
and had
probably lived on her own adipose.
• ♦ * •
“T. 0.” : Happened to be loafing for grass
along the north bank of the Murrumbidgee in the
summer of 80-1, when late Rev. J. B. Gribble was
mustering Riverina for blackfellows, and drafting
them into the old Coolibah homestead, which he
had characteristically commandeered for that
purpose. One day when the good man was out
foraying the stations for tucker, two bullock-
drivers on the south bank enticed a couple of
lubras to swim the river; and the landlord of an
adjacent pub., with an imprudence equal to his
callousness, supplied liquid refreshment to these
sons of Belial and their guests. (I was on the
northern bank, remember, and the river be
tween me and the liquor.) However, Gribble
returned, and ,his flock, like the servants
in the parable, came and told their lord all
that was done. Whereupon, Gribble’s buggy
merely touched the tops of the claybanks as he
careered down to the punt and up the other side
of the river to the bullock-drivers’ camp. Those
vessels of wrath, now penitent and apologetic,
hoisted their somnolent wild-flowers into the
buggy, and the apostle scorched back to his
Mission, where he immediately administered a
powerful emetic in each case. Afterwards he
vehemently and successfully pressed a charge
against the publican. But the idea of the
emetic was what fetched us; it was so like
the man as we knew him.
• * *
Four men struck a station, and one
up with a pillow-slip for some flour.
Got a pannikin-full; eyed critically the
small lump in a distant corner of the bag ;
then, turning to the storekeeper, inquired,
“Say, boss, is this to be taken before or after
meals ? ”
* * * *
One people—one language ! Maori bul-
lock-puncher, swearing vigorously at his team in
broken English. Passer-by : “Why not swear in
Maori, Wiremu?” Maori (confidentially): “No
plurry good. Me try whole year teachem Maori
—no move. Swear at him in pakeha—go like
h—!”
* * * •
For the first time camel-feed has to be
carried along the Innamincka track, far north S.
Aus. And just over the bor-
der, on N.S.W. side, is Mt.
Browne, which reports lgin.
of rain between last March
and this January, with the
drought still going strong.
* • **
“Shot”: “M.YV.B.”
(8., 22/12/’00) writes that a
man on the Bloomfield told
him he had lost 4000 cattle
out of 6000. Now there never
were 4000 head of cattle on
the Bloomfield, dead or alive,
since it was settled.
* » •
Be the bbtckfellow who
cut his throat at Wooroo-
woolgen, Richmond River,'
N.S.W., recently, because
the sale of the property and
stock took away interest in
this life from him, as he had
lived on the station from boy-
hood ; it is said that the name
of the station, by a curious coin-
cidence, means ‘ ‘ man - cut - his
throat.”
“ G.C.E.” : In yelling for Mes-
ton’s scalp because he says he saw lyre-
birds 600 miles west of Brisbane,
M'Cooey and Co. only yell because
Meston has seen more than they have.
Eruson’s “Australian Birds” (a recognised
authority) distinctly says that lyre-birds are
found in Queensland as high as latitude 26,
Brisbane being ljdeg. further south.
“ Cecil P.” : Near Quirindi, N.S.W., is
the “ Who’d Have Thought It Hotel.” From so
many bush “hotels” does one emerge, saying:
“ Lord—who’d have thought it! ” No reflection
intended on the Quirindi house, which I did not
enter—for a wonder !
A rabbit-trap constructed by Mr. R.
Ellis, of Bimbi, 20 miles from Grenfell (N.S.W.),
on its first night’s setting caught 687 rab-
bits ;on the second night, 2043; and on
the third night, so many that the
counting of them was not proceeded
with.
THE SACRIFICE OF OLD DAD.
Victoria talks about leaving her poor old father
in the mud while she cheerfully supports a
burden like this!
“ Nevertheless, the rush for pensions is greater than
had been anticipated by the Treasury. The Act provides
for only 6000 pensions under this temporary scheme, and
the Premier states that if this number is largely ex-
ceeded it will be necessary to curtail the amount of
the weekly payments.”—Age.
One George Barnes recently brought into
Quirindi (N.S.W.) some bones, apparently of a
mammoth herbivorous animal. The remains are
in good preservation, the enamel on the teeth
being perfect. The incisors are curved, with a
chisel edge, and one is sin. long by 3in. in circum-
ference.' Two immense molars remain in the huge
jaw-bone, and one of the tusks is 14in. long. The
remains were found at a depth of 35ft. in sinking
a well on Colley Station.
* * * *
Decided recently by a conference of stock-
board delegates at Muswellbrook (N.S.W.) that
the bonus on rabbit-scalps only leads to the in-
crease of the pest. This, if true, would hold good
with reference to the bonuses on the scalps of
wallabies, dingoes, etc. But if the English de-
mand for rabbit keeps on growing the rabbit
will probably be “stamped out” by the multipli-
cation of canning and refrigerating establish-
ments all over the continent.
The statement that last year 17,000 tons of Aus-
tralian rabbits (equal to 600,000 sheep) were sold
in England raises the question as to whether it
would not pay in some of the arid districts of the
West to breed rabbits rather than sheep. The
rabbit-returns would at all events be the more
reliable.
* * * •*
“ Gilaomi” : One day met a N.S. W. farmer
who lived five miles from nearest township, his
face beaming with pride because he was taking
his 15-year-old daughter to see said hamlet. “ She
never bin off the farm afore,” he volunteered—-
“ never seen a town.” Paused another day on a
mountain-spur to drink in the magnificence of the
landscape. Young man coming along stopped
beside me and observed, “Well, isn’t this a’ole
for you to be in ? No people—nothin’ to look at !
A town— that’s the place ! I saw one once-
passed through it with the bullock-dray.”
ONE POUND PROFIT.
CALLER (to bush publican): “1s MNulty still
here?”
B.P. : “No he ain’t He cleared out a week
ago, an’ owed me a quid. If I’d a knowed
he wus yoin’ to do that I’d a charged ’im
TWO.”


Every democrat should have a copy of The
Bulletin pamphlet, “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” now receiving vicious notices from the
Calico press. On sale at Bulletin Office, Gd.; by
post to any Australasian address, Bd. in stamps of
anv State.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Patents for Inventions — Arthur Griffith,
International Patent Agent and Consulting
Engineer, University Chambers, Phillip-street,
Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights,
obtained throughout the world.
As the date of closing the Benevolent Societies’
F6te is drawing to a close. Agents and others interesting
themselves in the sale of tickets are requested to send
their returns in as soon as possible. A large number of
tickets have already been sold, and intending purchasers
had best apply at once to their newsagent, or direct to the
hon. sec., W. Moftitt Burns, 35 Castlereagh-st.*
SORE EYES.
The remedy —Morris's Imperial Eye Ointment
—is acknowledged the only certain remedy ; never
failsto give instant relief. Refuse all others, and
get the genuine. Pots, 2s. Sold everywhere.
WEDDINGS
CALL FOR PRESENTS.
BRIGHTLY SO!^>
MAPPIN & WEBB
(The Great London Manu-
facturers)
Are showing in Sydney the
very latest and best that
England produces.
To bound into popular-
ity at once is their object,
and so all
SILVER GOODS
are being sold at the Lon-
don Catalogue Prices—
regardless of freights, &c.
Plain Figures.
London Prices.
Sole
Australian
Agents,
Sterling Silver Sugar Bowl, with Sifter,
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Vice-ltegal Jewellers.
23 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
Chamber Candlestick, in Princes Plate, 18s
Write for their Cataloguer.
Franz Josef Lager Beer
The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . . .
Order
SCHWEPPE’S
DRY GINGER ALE
“Eller”: Noted ’ two
strange companions the other
day—a greyhound and a
duck. They sleep together,
and one won’t dine without
the other. I saw food given
to the dog, which he wouldn’t
touch until the duck came
along. “The Dog and
Duck ” in a new connection.
* * *
“AND THE SHOUTING”
(Job xxxix. , 25).
WITH INCIDENTAL NOTES AND
EXPLANATIONS.
Dearly beloved, —Mankind may
be divided into two classes —the
shouters and the shoutees. I
purpose to deal, on this occasion,
with the former class only. We
can classify their efforts thus
The Shout Positive : “ Going
be dashed ! We’ll have another
first.”
The Shout Imperative:
“You’ve all got to have one
with me ; no blanky backing out
now.” (Note : Though hardly
Chesterfieldian, the tone of this
invitation is seldom resented.)
The Shout Dubious : “ Well, if
you chaps care for another .”
Usually they don’t —in the
circs. (Note: To be used with
discretion. Some men are quite
destitute of the finer feelings, and
would reply, “By Jingo, don’t we ! )
The Bummer’s Shout: Asking a man to have a drink
when you know the publican won’t “stand it.” Your
victim will generally shout himself, if you select him with
discrimination.
The Shout Tentative : Interviewing the landlord before-
hand in order to see if he will stand it.
The Shout Wicked : Shouting soft stuff for a teetotaller
when fellow, human beings, a few yards away, are yearn-
ing for a true Christian who will take them into the wet.
The Shout Wasteful: Shouting for the publican without
an object. , __ _
The Shout Hesitant: “Up to me to shout? Why I
stood a blanky round only ’arf anour agow ! ” Chorus of
ornamental negatives. “ But, blime, I’m stiff as a crutch,
I tells yer. Of all the spongin’ crowds as ever I see- O,
W ell, if ! ” (Note, common among lower-grade
spielers.)
The Shout Commercial : Standing a man a drink for
business purposes. (Note. —Young travellers for tea,
tailors, machines, etc., must be cautious. In every coun-
try town are men who shepherd agents for booze.
“ Represent So-and-So, Tailors, do yer ! Why, bless me,
I sez to the missus on’y last night, ‘Why,’lsez, ‘if I
mustn’t send to Sydney for some more clo’es,’ I sez ; ‘ and
she sez,’ etc. An’ I’m a man as c’ud put a bit in yer way
now,’ and so on.)
The Publican’s Shout: “Flinging a sprat to catch a
mackerel.” (Note.—Almost obsolete : mackerel are very
scarce nowadays.)
The Shout Slinking : When a man withdraws another
by nudge or wink, from the crowd. Feebly discussing
dog outside pub.—say on Sunday morning. They saunter
round the back way. Crowd listens to jingle of bottles,
or gasp of beer-pump, and then spit with difficulty and
desire to be struck pink and wonder what the blanky
country’s coming to. The few solvent ones dare not pro-
pose “ a shilling in,” because the pool wouldn’t stand the
dead-weight.
The Shout Calculated : Shouting for a man who has a
cheque to melt, and being ever on hand afterwards when
he goes in for a drink. (Note. —Must be managed with
skill. When he asks you the fifth time running, make a
feeble show of resistance—“ Oh, you’re too blanky strong,”
etc.) Then to show what a reckless, generous devil he
is, he’ll shout half-a-dozen times more during the
evening. Also warn him against other bummers ; the
longer his money lasts, the longer you’ll get free booze.
And if you try to tap him for stuff, let it be early in the
acquaintance—while you are still a good fellow, and
before he has begun to calculate how much longer he will
reign.)
' The Shout General“ Come on, you chaps !—come on,
mate ! —hi, mister, you with the leggin’s, come an’ wet it
alongerme! Fill ’em up all roun’, boss, an’ ’ave one
yerself !” (Note : Quite obsolete in N.S.W., never known
in South Australia, still rampant—even obligatory—in
parts of Queensland.)
Shout Solo :—One on your ace ; in plain* English -
drinking with the flies, or a Jimmy Woodser. Very com-
mon in inside districts. Not positively immoral—unless
practised by others. In your own case, permissible if (a)
you’ve only got a sprat. (If you have credit you must
always shout —you have’nt got to stand the racket)
If (bj you’ve been ignored in a shout, (c) If you’ve just
shouted for the other man and he hasn’t returned it.
(d) If you’re followed by another one not invited. (Note)
A class of bummer, on seeing you enter the bar, will follow
and deferentially ask your opinion of the Chinese war.
Don’t be bluffed ; give’ it calmly between pulls at your
poison and remark as you put the glass down, “ Not bad
tack that!” In return for your courtesy he’ll give you his
views—on blanky, miserableblankers, probably—together
with brief but direct references to a state of future
punishment. But he won’t shepherd you any more.)
General Remarks. —To those in doubt, don’t shout.
Yet wise shouting is profitable—especially if you take
soft stuff yourself. That gives the impression that you
shouted from good-fellowship, not merely-because you
wanted one yourself. But the man who shouts lavishly is
a fool, and will be so esteemed. In time, he becomes a
shoutee only, and, for that man,life has r'los?-1.
Cecil Poole.
* * * *
Pall Mall Gazette tells a gruesome
Queensland snake-story with positively delightful
patches. A grim, hairy, professional snake-killer
is made to relate how fiis “ master ” killed a ser-
pent on one occasion. Next day a female snake
came and killed the baby in the cradle by way of
vengeance. They buried the baby. “Before
grass had grown to cover the grave my master
was dead himself. We found him by the ti-tree
fence [note local color] swollen and purple. Beside
him lay a dead female snake. . .We sent off the
best rider on the station for aid, but lie only re-
turned ,in time to lay my beautiful missus
beside the others, a baby in her arms that had
never breathed—four lives for one ! When the
day comes that I fall over the edge of the earth
into the snake-pit I shall be food for the hungry
brood, but till then I shall kill all snakes for the
sake of my master, my missus, and the two
babies !” And yet the P.M.G. is a respectable
paper !
• * * *
“ A.C.H.” : “Be cat-sagacity (B. 29/12/’00).
I used to miss some of .the milk from the
jug, into which the milkman was supposed to put
a pint every morning. Suspecting the cat, a jug
was substituted with a neck too narrow to admit
pussy’s head, but still the milk disappeared. So I
kept watch, and saw the cat come along, dip a paw
into the jug, lick it clean, and repeat the opera-
tion until satisfied.
COUNTERBALANCED.
MRS. OLCLOSTEIN : “ I vos sorry hear dot your
Rachel had married a Gentile. Vot does it
mean? ”
MR. VONTERFIRE : “ Ach! Veil it means dot he
is all right; he's inspector of the fire insur-
ance company VER MY PIZNESS IS INSURED."
The threat of the Omata (M.L.) settlers to
run a road round the old toll-gate, which they have
vainly petitioned the County Council to remove,
recalls the rumpus over the oldKaiwarra toll-gates,
about a mile out of Wellington. After vainly re-
questing the removal of the gates, Kaiwarriors
heaved them into the harbor one night, but with
pig-headed obstinacy the gates were replaced, and
two policemen stationed in sentry-boxes to guard
them. But, next morning, the gates were in the
harbor again, and the sentries were found tied
firmly into their boxes. The authorities then
gave in. .
A phenomenon (apparently connected with
the drought) has been noted in several towns of
N.W. Queensland. The crows, which used to
swarm in the localities, have disappeared, while
great numbers of galalis, rosellas, finches, and
even bower-birds have ventured into the streets of
the townships, to the joy of the youngsters, who
amuse themselves by trapping them. Writer
believes this is an absolutely unprecedented occur-
rence in Queensland. *
Country town, in mourning for Queen’s
death. Shops all draped, except one—a coach-
builder’s, outside which a drunken blackfellow is
stretched full length. Passer-by to coachbuilder :
“ You miserable - ! Too mean to buy any
mourning, except shouting a nigger a beer to make
your place look black ! ”
From the Australasian’s recent obituary
notice of the late Ricketson of Baratta :
“ Travelling stock, then as now, gave trouble, but he ”
(Ricketson) “ brought to reason a recalcitrant cow, which
refused to face a stream, and was in danger of stamped-
ing a mob, by seizing her by the tail and swinging her
high off the bank into the water. She swam to the other
side, the rest followed. This feat of strength is still
talked of in the Riverina.”
Just so! The man who can tell a tale, and the
paper that can publish it, about a man swinging
5 or 6 cwt. of cow (Ricketson didn’t deal in “ scal-
lywags ”) “high ” off into a stream do get talked
about—especially in view of the gentle sloping
nature of Riverine crossings. Doubtless Mr.
Ricketson gave the “moo” a couple of turns
around his head before “swinging her high off.”
“ The rest followed ” was a natural sequence.
* * * *
Writes Mr. W. Itodier to The Bulletin :
“ Oobar ” (B. 2/2/’l) asks “ What is Rodier giving us ? ”
Well, lam giving him solid facts. As to there being no
rabbits in the Oobar district, let me tell “ C.” that there
are still bunnies enough in the district to breed-up and
eat out the runs should we get 2 or 3 good seasons follow-
ing. Besides, “ C.” should remember that there are other
parts of the State rabbit-infested, and that Tub .Bulletin
goes everywhere. “ C.L.” bears excellent testimony to
the value of my plan, but errs in supposing that it is not
applicable to large areas. That is just where it suits best.
In fact, if fairly tried it will be found the only plan suit-
able to large areas of poor land. As the real cause of the
rabbit pest is the killing of the bucks (thereby causing
excessive reproduction) it stands to reason that places
which do nothing, and, therefore do not kill the bucks,
don’t contribute to this result. Assume that throughout
the whole of Australia no rabbits whatever were killed,
then Nature would assert herself and the rabbits, in time,
would become equal in sexes and be no menace to the
country. But as it. would take a long time for this to
come about, the better way is to assist Nature kill all
females and ni m lies. The increase of rabbits is directly
attributable to those misguided persons who use gin-traps,
poisoned pollard, &c., and not to those who do nothing,
as that is better than doing wrong. I made this plan
known as far back as ’BB and have ever since followed it
with complete success.
William Morris Hughes, M.L.A. for
Lang (Sydney)
(THE LONGSHOREMAN'S CHAMPION) ,
Is the man who drafted N.S.W. Early Closing
Bill, and received the thanks of both early-closing
associations for being mainly instrumental in
making it law. Mayor Graham said that it was
largely owing to his incisive speech that Premier
Lyne dealt as effectively as he did with bydney
City Council. Mr. Hughes is one of the best
speakers in N.S.W. Parliament. He does not
speak often, but when he does his discourse is
crammed with the meat of fact which gives friend
and opponent much to chew and inwardly digest.
He speaks forcibly and persuasively, and yet,
when occasion demands, can let loose a tongue of
satire which scorches. His speeches on the first
Vote of Censure .on Reid’s Administration moved
by Dibbs, on the Plague, Federation, Earlv
Closing, and Municipal Reform are well worth
reading, and are among the things said in Mac-
quarie-street that have helped to make history.
He is a small, quiet, slightly-deaf man, with a
pleasant unassuming manner that makes one teei
friendly at first sight. He sat on his flower-
shaded verandah and talked as follows :
“No, I’m not an Australian. I’m of Welsh
blood, but was born at Liverpool, Eng., about <56
years ago. Was brought up to school-teaching,
and followed it for years. Came out to Queens-
land in ’B3, and applied for a position under the
Education Department, but the Dept, took so
long to answer that I drifted out-back and became
a bushman. Drifted to Sydney about 85, I think,
and joined the School of Arts and the Balmain
Debating Club. John Norton was a member of
the School of Arts at that time ; so was Holman,
whom I met in a debate —he for the School and I
for Balmain. No; don’t worry about debating-
clubs now. I’ve been reading for the Bar, and
passed my preliminary exam, last November. I m
taking a course of fiction now, as an antidote.
“ I was an active Unionist long.before becoming
a politician. In ’9O, I was a member of Balmain
Labor League, but it was not till ’94, after
lecturing on Labor and Politics. (first as a
private lecturer and then as the emissary of the
Labor Federation) that I became a Parlia-
mentary candidate. I was selected for Cowra,
but had not enough cash to fight that con-
stituency properly, so I suddenly descended
on Sydney and assaulted Lang. The other
candidates were J. D. Fitzgerald, independent
Labor-Protectionist, and John Taylor Free-
trader. We had an exciting time, and when the
dust cleared away I found myself on top, 108
above Taylor and 250 over Fitz. The trouble
with Fitz. was that he would not take the Soli-
darity pledge. Since then I’ve increased my lead
every time ; till now I can proudly say I repre-
sent an absolute majority. .
“Yes, I’m going for the all-Australian Parlia-
ment. The Federal Labor League has selected
me for West Sydney. I have not the slightest
idea who my opponents will be. Our Federal
programme is short and to the point, and will, 1
think, command the support of many who are not
actively associated with Labor. I’m afraid the f
Federal Parliament will have very little to do.
with fixing the hours of labor and levelling-up
wages by means of minimum-wage Acts—that will
mostly beleft to the Stated. Still, allthebigUmons,
such as the maritime unions, wharf labourers and
others are inter-state, and once a labour dispute
gets outside one State the Federal Govt, can in-
tervene with arbitration. And of course an Arbi-
tration Court can fix a minimum wage and limit
the hours of labour in any industry. And any
dispute can be made inter-state if necessary. Still,
it is a roundabout way of doing it, and it seems a
pity we couldn’t settle it all with one comprehen-
sive Act. We hope to have from 20 to 25 mem-
bers in the House of Representatives, and we
shall do our best for our programme every way
we can.
“Our chief plank is, of course,.a White Aus-
tralia. There’s no compromise about that. The
industrious coloured brother has to go and re-
main away ! While on that question, no doubt,
we shall be able to do something to prevent the
influx of European ‘ pauper ’ labour by instituting
educational tests and making it necessary to have
enough money to last a month or two without
work. Also importation of labour under contract
A PUSH SYMPHONY.
WILLIAM MORRIS HUGHES, M.L.A. for
Lang (Sydney).
Photo, by Kerry.
must be prohibited. Then there’s the codification
and amendment of the Banking Laws and the
establishment of an Australian National Bank, to
be run on strictly business, as distinct from politi-
cal, lines. There are other things, plenty of them,
but the great questions are—White Australia,
Old-Age Pensions, a National Bank, and a Demo-
cratic Military System. We shall, at the jump,
tackle the question of making the Old-Age Pen-
sion system apply to the whole continent.
“The military question is one the party will
have to watch closely. It will want careful ad-
justment. This country can’t afford a big stand-
ing-army, and doesn’t want it if it could. The
standing-army means the military caste, alto-
gether antagonistic to democratic practices and
ideals, as seen in the insolence and cruelty of the
German officers to civilians. Citizen soldiers are
cheaper, and the Boer war has proved their
efficiency for defence. The whole population
(male) ought to be trained to arms, every male
between 18 and 21 undergoing three months train-
ing every year, of which six weeks should be con-
tinuous. By 21 he should be a fair soldier and a
respectable shot. After 21 the term might be
shortened so long as he kept his shooting up to
standard. I take it this country doesn’t want an
offensive army, but an armed people who can
shoot straight, and a regimental machine so that
every man can fall automatically into his place no
matter how suddenly the trouble comes. Straight
shooting should be encouraged by assistance to
rifle-clubs and national prizes for good marksman-
ship. Encourage shooting till it becomes the
national sport, as archei’y used to be in England.
“The Senate! Yes, that’s where we shall be
weak, I’m afraid. I don’t expect to see more than
six Laborites in the Senate. The big electorates
make us too dependent on newspapers, and news-
papers have a power of suppression that will
make it hard for us, unless we are included in a
bunch. But, anyhow, we shall be no worse off
than we are in the State Parliaments, and the
Senate will be a lot more democratic than any
State Council has hitherto been. So we shall be
no worse off.
“That’s the illuminated Address the Union
gave me. I’ve been connected with Unionism all
through the piece. Yes ! they seemed to be
pleased with me. We’ve done very well with that
Union. Eighteen months ago it didn’t exist—to-
day it practically includes every wharf-laborer of
Sydney port. We’ve achieved the eight hours,
which we never had before, even before the great
strike, when we are supposed to have had every-
thing. We’ve got -a good bank-balance. The
Union is run on the voluntary system ; all the
officers receiving Is. per year, just to make them
amenable to the law, you know. Oh, yes, our
Union is ‘ a flourishing institution.’
“There is a lot of fun in politics sometimes.
Curious mistakes are made. I remember at one
of my meetings my chairman was late, and excused
himself by saying he’d been ‘making arrange-
ments.’ When the speech was over, a long, gaunt
figure reared up in the third row and repeatedly
hiccuped out—-‘I —hie —wansh ask ye candidate a
queshion.’ Just then several strong men with set
faces commenced to approach the apparition, and
I suddenly grasped the meaning of the chairman’s
‘arrangements.’ These were patriots with whom
he had arranged to keep order by promptly chuck-
ing out anybody whose sudden departure might ap-
pear beneficial. They were getting uncomfortably
near the waving drunk, and I motioned them
back, and the wobbly person went on: “I wansh
ask Mr. Hughes hish opinion about Local Option.’
I jumped up and remarked : ‘ A very reasonable
question, which I have no hesitation about answer-
ing.’ But as I stepped to the edge of the plat-
form the chairman grabbed my coat-tails and
shouted : ‘ Pliwat ? None of yer infernal sec-
tarian business here ! Out wid him, lads ! ’ and I
struggled to my feet just in time to see the
wreck being bumped out with great enthusiasm.
HERMES.


CARTOONLETS.
i Now is winter of Melbourne’s
discontent made glorious summer by
the Duke of York.
j» it done | ’• ’ J U kn °' v ' Ho * deuce
Ej> ' cuHv : ' J? h ’ i’, oUll ‘ have no diffi-
, i ?' . -Broadly speaking, everv-
a^o\t“ aiSOpeneCiwith
AMATEUR FISHERMEN’S ASSOCIA-
TION.—ANNUAL DINNER.
Dr. Burne, upon being called on to sup-
port the toast, said anyone who had an
idea of the grandeur of the tales of “ The Arabian
Nights” had only to pay one visit to his rooms on Tues-
day night and hear the anglers assembled recount their
adventures, and then that person would return to his
home satisfied in his own mind that there were more
wonderful things than were recorded in those tales.
There may not be any connection between
these two items— and then again there may
RETURN OF MR. WRAGGE.
The following; message was received from
Perth: “Mr. Clement Wragge, who left
Queensland in June last for Europe, is re-
-5 Australia with a great amount of
useful information.”
A RAIN-STORM AP-
PROACHING.
Dull and unsettled conditions p
were general over the State on ,
Saturday and yesterday, duo, i
Mr. 'Russell explained, to ani
approaching disturbance. A |
monsoonal disturbance on the '
coast of West Australia lias
worked across country to the
head of the Great Bight,
and is moving in" a
south-easterly direc-
tion.
~ Mr. O’Sullivan reiterated his in-
dention to construct railways where
-he thought they were
Ijwhether departmental officers re-
__ __ ported favorably or unfavorably.
[f this sort of thing goes on we shall soon have a railway line|
.following every wallaby track-in the country.
The “Freetrade Leader”: “Hello' T w,,,*. u
W I »..ri sh th.„ ,tic ks .bout ot , 4"S
-rwa 8 k a ±un£ Brien ’ ° f
ob os° 0 s°e r ;v S ed eet ’ last
“g -iong the blocks 6 H, Snake B ! id /
ately drew hi« K * lmmecb - /
sfrfcKSS*?
- ** *
"S, R "L g <*•
He’s charged with havin’ 1
ncr VlSlble manes of sap-
po°rt,. and bein’ found
pison in his posses
«°n il-lay-gally, and
| ra ysistin’ the
polaice. ”


A l\ W-T Wee*- Gov fjM-j vm
,»s\' *5“ )+ /f
<7.5 ."7% c^a 3 e
At the annual meeting of the Zoological '
and Acclimatisation Society it was shown
that the general public does not give the
' support t.o this institution £ which it
k undoubtedly deserves. The amount’ t
'of intelligent interest taken in this-subject
nt present is shown by the fact that
apart from the Government grant the
to;ul subscriptions for last vear amounted
only to £BO j t wag that over 30 o t ooo
/ people passed the gates on Sundays in last
■s)t le^n?^
A*7 fo (
-ta.Ke up 2\ l,
CoWecUotj otf
vjljctj ? ..*
av^ *3 'f l ” eC •
A»de Ko*7{T!-Hpje people op Victoria *re e»7quink
lact'eyt' Bulled )*t +6 yc>u.r
.'beajttj Voar excc-llei7t,y.' .'
Disti>7<£ u is(>f < t BudaTftj . SulUfin , nOW
'ott'to, b HZ IA you 170-rio nje^+Toi?
•ttje.
/ <«w 0^:
—' y o a fro«7 - 2 k
2k ruof |>koc Ja^o+io»7
k**7 - Be
, *ofoi4 *ll j»"oclA<W
(oJ)oy>so,
.tfe
3 "Sflninff 1 ‘it? life, .
r„J« &focK? -fa H • At"*} wJ)
f-01- A M I w ;fjit* ori
/ The Premier has decided that each of the.
1,000 state sdhool children who took part in;
tne proclamation of King Edward VII, atj
Parliament-house last week, and assisted in’,
singing the National Anthem, shall receive
a coloured eard of suitable design aa a me-,
mento of the occasion.
. -i
'AfoctfriSL.
THE BRIBE FAILED,
F.tJT THE MAN PASSED
rWe have frequently 'warned persons
agirnst approaching our reporters with
effe-s of money—bribery pure and simple
—to suppress information concerning
certajn cases. Yet some people are stilf
so impudent and insulting as to pay r.o
heed to those warnings. A man who
ought to have known better tried to slip
a sovereign into the hand of one of our
staff a day or two ago. but bitterly re-
pented his action when "The Herald"
man, in refusing the money, /’said,
things" to the fellow
ft l-Her fe 17 i •'
" *7O •yot'6 , I •will
rje'/e.r &&H*} °\-{ tr Xl 'j l
xr i c^'
STATE PREMIERSHIP.
RETIREMENT OF SIR G. TURNER.
Sir George Turner tendered his resigna-
tion as State Premier to the Lieutenant-
Governor-yesterday morning. The resigna-
tion was accepted, and late in the day Mr
Peacock received a request from his Excel-
lency to wait upon him to-day
■n Turner-: W AIkK
®k IWe -yo u.Jo io * b^Tl
■>MOU. CW? 7 Witlf WW/-
Good-bye, sood W* W* "^7
o*7 ydur _J V LW»^/ W
MELBOURNIANA.


YOUR Wedding Presents can be Supplied by A SAUNDERS,
The
Reliable
Jeweller & Silversmith.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT. —Floral China, real
Silver-plated Mounts, 20s.'
Similar designs, 16s, 255, 30s. Very
pretty and acceptable present.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ FRIEND.—Pure Solid Silver
Mounts, IBs 6d.
Very useful and acceptable presents.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALAD BOWL and SERVERS, with Silver-
plated Mounts and Handles, 30s.
Similar, 20s and 255.
Prjtty Floral China, 255, 30s, £2 and £2 10s.
A. SAUNDE3S.
MANICURE SETS.—Pure Solid Silver, Chased
Mounts, Iss; larger sizes, 20s, 255, and 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS.— Pure Silver Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, nicely Chased with pretty Red
Glass 12s 6d ; with Fluted Edges, 15s 6d ;
Double Jam, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE.—Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, 16s 6d ; Chased as
above, 20s, 255, and 30s. Post free.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER.—Pure Silver Electro-plated on
White Metal, nicely chased, 8s 6d. Round, 1 is.
n't**.*:
A. SAUNDERS.
SALTS.—Silver-plated Stand, Colored Glass
with Spoons, 6s 6d, 8s 6J, 10s pair. ’
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER.—Beautifully Chased and Orna-
mented pure Silver, Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, 15s 6d. Large size, 20s.
Ladies kindiy call and see our Beautifully-stocked Showrooms.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE DISHES. —The very best finished pure
Silver Electro-plate, in various patterns.
20s, 22s 6d, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
Four o’clock TEA SET with Covers, pure Silver Electro-plated on White
Metal, first-class English Make, £2 10s.
Similar Styles, £2, £2 15s, £3, £3los, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
4 oV!«k TEA SPOONS and TONGS in Silk-Lined Case
Emossed, 12s 6d. Extra Quality, 15s, 20g, 255.
IheSiier-plate we guarantee to give every satisfaction
iii Pnra Solid Silver, 6 Spoons only 265, with Tongs
80s, 85s, £2, £2 10*.
W!a.\v.iwj
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUETS, pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, beautifully
Chased, 30s, 355, £2, and £2 10s.
Cheaper Style, 20s and 255.
Handsome and Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOLDING BISCUITS.—Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, £3, £3 10s, £4.
Can be used tor Cake or Sandwiches.
niiniiHi:iiii(iniiuiii.i>ii.*-A>
~~—3
V
mmmio
mmiiimmtm
MiirailifliliSSn.
"Just What I Want!” SPOONS AND FORKS. A. SAUNDERS can fill that want with a First-Class, Reliable Article.
EXTRA STRONG. Guaranteed to give you every satisfaction.
A! QUALITY is the very Highest Standard. Pure Silver Electro-plated on Hard White Metal. DINNER Spoons or Porks 17s 6d half-
r nrr A t T-rv* 1 “ ; P ESS F» T Si**"* or F orks, 12s 6d half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, 7s 6d half-dozen. P ’
B QUAL is a Second Quality Pure Silver Electro-plated on Hard White Metal. DINNER Spoons or Porks, 12s 6d half-dozen;
orvT 7 7 ,.Vt.f,E2? r i s or * orks > 10s haif-dozen ; TEA Spoons, 5s half-dozen.
SOLID WHITE NICKEL SILVER, Wear White throughout. A Splendid Knockabout Spoon to save the Better Article DINNER
Spoons or Forks, 4s half-dozen ; DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 3s half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, Is 6d half-dozen.
Packed and Sent post free to all parts of the World. Kinriiv smmi umii- rintAra +« SAUNDERS
Old Plate
Made
Equal
To New.
A. SAUNDERS.
Small Size BUTTER.—AII Metal, Pure
Silver-plated, beautifully chased, 20s.
Extra ornamented, 255.
Call and See our
Displayed Showrooms
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, Makes Two Dishes, Pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, 355. A Useful and Acceptable
Present. SHALL WE SEND YOU ONE ?
A. SAUNDERS.
CRUET (Breakfast). —Pure
Silver Electro-plated on White
Metal, 10s 6d ; with i Bottles,
15s 6d and 17s 6d.
Makes a very nice present.
WHISKY FLASK.
Silver-plated Bot-
tom and Patent
Top, 10s 6d, 12s
6d, 15s, 20s, 255.'
A Warming- Friend.
•GSTa
SERVIETTE RINGS, Pure
Silver-plated, 3s 6d. Simi-
lar Patterns, 2s 6d and 3s.
Wish Bone Design, 4s 6d,
5s 6d, and 6s Gd. Solid
Silver, similar to Pattern,
7s Gd, 10s, and 12s 6d each.
■ - -
jffs
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIVES.—Two Silver-plated, with Pearl
Handles, in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d. Other styles, 7s 6d
10s 6d, and 12s 6d, in cases. JAM SPOONS.—Same
price ; without case, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, Is 6d, 5s 6d and
6s 6d each.
CD
£
t —r
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK.—Pure Silver Electro-plated
on Hard White Metal, 12s 6d. Other styles,
similar, 8s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
4-bottle Lunch or Dinner CRUET, pure
Silver Electro-plated on hard White
Metal, 21s. Similar Styles, 255, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK BlSCUlT.—Silver-
plated Rims and Lids, with
Enamelled Lining, 15s 6d ;
with Ornamented Fluted
Rims, 20s; Plain, with Shield
only, 12s 6d.
* 8 i
B§|
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA POTS.—Pure Silver Electro-plated, on White
Metal, as pattern, 25s and 30s.
Different Pattern, 355, £2, £2 10s.
SB?
m
tenSl
SS
team
% :
3m
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER ORUETS.—First-class Pure Silver on
Hard White Metal, as pattern, with Shield,
£2 10s ; extra quality, £3, £3 10s, and £4.
Other patterns without Shields, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS.—Floral China, Pretty Design, with pure
Silver Electro-plated Stand, 15s 6d ; double, 255.
Latest Designs.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND,
can be used as a Teapot.—Pure Silver-
plated on White Metal, Beautifully
Ohased and Ornamented, 355.
Embossed and Extra Ohased, £2, £2
10s. Other Styles, £3 and £3 10s
Handsome and Useful Article.
Jeweller & Sllversmitli.
A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PRESENTS.
Bis George Street,
Nearly
Opposite
Railway
Station,
Sydney
E 3 timates Given.
OX '- D PLATES MADE EQUAL TO KTEW.
Send Your AddLr«


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires,' Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
(aood Tailoring
SUMMER.
Light Weight Tweeds
AND
Worsteds.
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
LIGHT AND TROPICAL WEIGHTS
TO STAND THE SUN.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &C.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
Watch Repairs by Post
WATCHES Thoroughly Cleaned, 2s. 6d. ; best English
Mainspring, 2s. 6d. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best .workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d. ■
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
355. Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send for catalogue.
D. S. MAIR,
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
684 George-st. (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.
SMOI3
'Hjo
n
fP
A
t 4
£A/(7
<T
K
aidlvHO
CTi
•5-
o*
hatans
SNIJ
i*j
r* l
aio
SKH
«p
ABOUT §
SUITS l
MADE TO ORDER. >
® >
You see a well-dressed man and you invokin' 3
tarily remark, “There is a lucky, prosperous 3
fellow ” Good Clothes are the hall-mark of 3
Prosperity. They help you in life in every way. 3
SUITS TO ORDER
for 455.
Picture to yourself a Perfect Suit —one that in
every way meets your idea of what is correct,
and you see
HORDERN’S IN PITT-STREET .
455. SUIT TO ORDER.
If you want a neat, nice, fashionable and in-
expensive Suit, call in and see these or write for
SAMPLES,
SELF-MEASURE FORMS
and TAPE MEASURE.
Posted Free to any Town in N.S. Wales.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL TAILORS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
• •
THE WORD .
is a guarantee of soundness of
Material and Quality of Dye of all
'Worsted
Coatings,
SergessTweeds
on which it is stamped.
fox’s pure Mgo.
As the result of many years of ex-
perience, FOX’S PURE INDIGO
DYE is recognised as the best
in the Market.
All Fox’s standard cloths are
stamped e\ery two yards on the
back ....
FOX'S PURE INDIGO,
and without this stamp a. e not
genuine.
fox Brothers & Co., £tD.,
Wellington, Somerset, €ng.
Makers of Worsted Coatings, V.cur.as,
Serges, Tweeds, Tennis and Costume
Cloths. Contractors to the English
Admiralty, War Office, India Office, Crown
Colonies, and Metropolitan Police.
THEIR MILLS are capable of an
annual production of 2,000,000 yards of
material, and find emyloyment for 1,200
hands. Reliable records show that the
business at Wellington was founced
early in the eighteenth century, and the
present Company have in their posses-
sion a balance sheet dated 1733.
<S>
Those celebrated Serges can be obtained
from the leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Australian Colonies.
*
Australian Agents for the Wholesale
Trade only
STOCDALE & DUFFUS,
Finks Buildings, Corner of Eliza-
beth & Flinders Sts., Melbourne,
. . AND ..
422 George St., Sydney.
A Vapor Bath Cabinet
I
m
Is a Necessity in Every Home.
BUY a
Batb Cabipct
(Best American Imported),
and enjoy the luxury of a
TURKISH, VAPOR, or MEDI-
CATED VAPOR BATH at
home, instead of at public
institutions, and save money.
Cures Rheumatism,
Sleeplessness, Obesity,
kidney and Skin Diseases.
Price only 25/“, including Heater, and Prescriptions
for Medicated Baths.
Head and Face Steaming Attachment, 3/6 extra.
Cabinet folds flat to 1 inch thickness, when notin use.
Call and Inspect. Pamphlets Free.
J. CHALMERS,
Premier Buildings, 229-231 Collins St., Melbourne.
Publications.
TRicocoey
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES “■‘S'dT"
Publishers: Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY,
L ADI ES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— U.D.l., SCO Collins St.| Melbourne.
London and Globe: The balance-sheet has
reached Australia. That which is good is clear as day,
that which is bad is dark and puzzling. Securities realised,
and mining properties purchased and re-sold, ±47.M00
about £lBO,OOO more than last year, but small compared
to’9B, when the amount stood at £1,015,962. The chief
and most mysterious item is that under the heading
“ Shares held in sundry companies, £2,332,632, a little
over half-a-million more than last year. No statement
made as to what the shares consisted of. Nothing to
indicate on what basis the valuation was made ; that they
were put down at boom prices there is no doubt. Coming*
events were casting their shadows at the time of the
meeting ; but probably not the biggest “ bear” or most
confirmed pessimist who attended imagined that the tall
a fortnight afterwards would be so awful. By this sheet
the co would seem to be in a solid, sound, and certainly
solvent condition ; the fact of a hurried re-construction
within three weeks, making 2,000,000 paid-up shares con-
tributing to the extent of 55., is proof enough that at the
time the sheet was issued it was rotten to the core, and
that over £2,300,000 valuation was given to shares, the
bulk of which consisted of paper rubbish. No wonder
the auditors slipped in this little phrase : “ Subject to
the sum written-off being adequate in respect of shares
held in various undertakings.”
* » * •
At the Broken Hill mines 7010 men are em-
ployed, as against 6195 a year ago, and 5777 two years
ago'. Add to this 2300 employed at the smelters at Pine,
Adelaide and Newcastle, and 250 at mines off the main
Broken Hill line. The B.H. Prop, now employs 983 men
on surface and 1453 underground, as against 1364 on sur-
face and 980 underground 12 months ago. The Central
(Sulphide Corporation) is the next biggest employer, with
a staff of 870 (these figures refer to the mines only) ; then
Block 14, 796 ; and Block 10, 697.
„ * * *
Many of the members of the Miners’ Association
are not at all well disposed towards the Miners’ Accident
Relief Fund, just established by Act in N.S.W.. The
Miners’ Association offers benefits to some extent similar
to those available under the fund ; and, as membership
of the fund is compulsory (the employer is bound to de-
duct the workman’s contributions from his wages), it is
feared some men will draw out of the association. Most
of the officers frankly admit that it isn’t within the true
province of the modern labor union to pay accident and
funeral allowances ; but they say that this cash connec-
tion is necessary—they can’t keep the membership regu-
lar so long as they have no accident or sick benefits to
offer. Yet the Bush Workers’ Union does it —and thrives.
* * * *
In Sydney recently a full-blown Judge, a
barrister (instructed by a firm of three solicitors) and
another legal man (instructed by two Sydney solicitors as
agents for a third solicitor, who lives in the country) ap-
peared about a cheque. A cheque for £ll had been lost
in the post while the A.J.S. Bank was sending it to the
B. of N.S.W. for collection, and the drawer was asked to
supply another, being offered the usual guarantee against
anv possible loss if the old cheque turned up. He refused
to' supply a new cheque unless he was paid ss. for weari-
ness, exertion, loss of time, ink, physical exhaustion, and
wear and tear of pen in writing it out. So the case went
to court; and he was ordered to supply a new cheque
gratis, and was struck with the costs of all the legal
gentlemen above enumerated.
Mt. Bischoff, half-yearly meeting: Earnings,
£62,123; total for year, £112,299 ; divs., £58,500. To
credit, £44,313 ; tin production, 948 tons : cost of mining,
crushing, and dressing, 6s. 3d. per ton of ore. The grade
continues to fall, and, as the working expenses must be
within a fraction of the minimum, a further fall in grade
and market value of the metal will make a big cut in
divs. Altogether this great mine has seen its best days,
and, while it will last many years, each year is likely to
be worse than the preceding one.
* * * *
The great Long Tunnel gold mine (Walhalla,
Vic.) has got on the rocks. It was one of the greatest
and most profitable gold mines Australia ever saw, but the
fool-directors paid away practically everything in divi-
dends (the dividends have been over £1,229,000), didn’t
develop the mine as they went along, and built up no
reserve-fund worth mentioning. And now, the visible
gold supply having given out, it is necessary to make
calls in order to sink deeper, and there is hardly any
available capital to call. So it seems quite possible that
the great Long Tunnel mine will close up. There are
known to be three unworked reefs in the co’s ground,
but the co. never opened them up in its good days, and it
would take patience and money to reach them. And
when a great mine, which was supposed to be as regular
and reliable as the Bank of England, dries up suddenly,
the shareholders are often struck by a sort of paralysis
and let things slide. It was recently proposed in Vic.
Assembly that it should be made compulsory for every
mining co. to carry a certain portion of its profits to a
reserve to be available for exploration and development
work. Such a law would do more for the Vic. gold in-
dustry than the floating of whole droves of “cats” in
England and elsewhere.
The alleged action of the Tas. Govt, in trying
to drive the N. Lyell people near the site where a M.P.
holds a number of' surveyed blocks is causing much local
•stir. Also, the meeting called to consider this matter
was invited “ to congratulate the Federal Ministry on
their judgment in excluding Tasmanian politicians from
their midst.”
* * * *
The man who takes on the Treasurership of S.
Aus. and regards himself and his Estimates seriously
won’t keep on much flesh'. For consider the remarkable
and unforeseeable variations in the wheat province’s
wheat exports, with values, for the last seven years
1894 .. 6,303,950 bushels .. £741,912
1895 .. 3,527,033 „ ' 445,461
1896 .. 455,942 „ .. 89,515
1897 .. 9,282 „ .. 2,473
1898 .. 97,073 „ .. 15,911
1899 .. 3,114,781 „ .. 422,439
1900 .. 3,625,051 „ .. 492,404
Still, though the “ wheat province,” S. Australia’s export
of wool is worth on the average twice as much as its ship-
ments of breadstuffs.
• * * *
A Watsonville (Q.) correspondent: “We have
had splendid rain here, and, in re grass and water, every-
thing is looking very well. Mines will now start crush-
ing and smelting, thus enabling the value of some of the
properties to be defined. This is an extensive field, and
has all kinds of minerals—principally tin, silver, copper
and gold. District only in its infancy, and will need
much money before regular large yields can be looked
for, but I haven’t the slightest doubt (after 19 years’ local
experience) that some of the shows will pay good interest
on any reasonable outlay. Country principally granite,
porphyry and sandstone, the sedimentary formations
lying on the granite.”
Someone sends along the balance-sheet of the
Darling Downs Permanent Building and Investment
Society (Toowoomba, Queensland), now in its fourth
year :
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
1897 ~ £8 4 per cent. = £7 .. £1
1898 .. 86 4 „ =75 .. 12 Y
1899 ..216 5 „ = 171 .. 57
1900 ..476 5 „ = 330 .. 203
The Darling Downs Permanent B. and I. Society appears
to be rising rapidly from a very small beginning. Its
progress shows that no institution should lose heart.
Even a very small concern that has barely £5 of a surplus
may rise with careful and enterprising management until
it becomes a financial landmark in the land, or till it
either gets or deserves five years’ hard labor. And this
particular institution is apparently building up a solid
position for itself.
* * * *
Loddon Deep Leads, Yic. : This is another
Bottomlev prospectus. The idea is to work a deep-lead
g.m. lease. Only £650,000 asked for it, and to prove that
it is worth it, and more too, the results are given of
mines working from two to eight miles away. The yields
and divs. of the famous Madame Berry mine are also re-
corded, as well as the fact that that celebrated mine can
be seen from this co.’s property. Though not stated, it
must be taken for granted that you are not short-sighted
when you make the attempt, and if you get up a high
tree so much the better.
« • * *
Greta Coal: Announced that £750,000 has been
raised to build a dock at Newcastle and to put down two
ahaftfl, on'* 1830 ft. deep, to Up the Grata coal seam.
Apropos, the A.A. Co. at Newcastle last year put a bore
down over 2000 ft. without striking any seam eonsiderea
good enough to follow with a shaft, so the project to sink
one was abandoned.
* * » *
Tarcoola, S. Australia’s far-north goldfield,
starts very early on its labour troubles. Though in tpe
most desolate of the Gordelpus country, hundreds oi
miles by sand-track from anywhere, where water tor a
man costs Is. a day, they have been paying skilled miners
only 9s. 4d. a day. And the men, who know that under
even better circumstances in the West miners got their
12s. a day, ask for 11s. a day for skilled men, and 9s 4d.
for surface labourers. The real miner has always been
treated scurvily in S.A. ; only to the “miners oi tne
Exchange has the Holy City bowed the knee.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance : Some frank admissions
by Zeb. Lane concerning the mine and Frank Gardner,
in an interview published in the Rialto, just before he
left London, six weeks ago: —“The machinery is not by
any means the success that I anticipated, but it will come
out all right. I admit that lam responsible for the new
plant, but it is quite as difficult for Zeb. Lane to design
machinery in Old Jewry for mines in Westralia as it would
be for Mr. Dalziel to sit in his city office and design
a cable from Pretoria. Dear old Frank—or, I should
say—Mr. Gardner, is a more sanguine spirit than 1. naa
it not been for him, I should have been a poorer man to-
day. As a financier, he is first-class—one of The best l
ever met—but I am afraid he is too optimistic m
mining matters. I have not supported the market
because I am not a speculator. Quite true that,
when the shares were £l6, I expressed the opinion
that they would go to £2O ; I did not buy any
shares myself, though my friends did on my advice. My
object in life is to live ; it worries me to see others starve,
and that is why you do not see me much in bad times. Mr.
Gardner was quite right in supporting the Perseverance
market. He has millions of loose capital, and does not
value money as I do. The more he buys the more he will
get, and when he has got the lot he cannot get any more
—can he? X am sorry for those who have lost their
money, but it is not the first time that they have lost it.
Referring to the recently floated Windsor Consolidated,
Lane admitted that he had bought the mine cheaply, and
sold at a good profit; that he had told his friends the
shares would go to £2 ; equally true he did not buy any
himself : denied that he had sold any, and was sorry they
had not reached a better price. Probably no one will
take so little pleasure in reading this interview as X rank
Gardner.
* * * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
m * * *
Ed. Bulletin. —Be your recent note about the
Matto Grosso (Brazil) concessions of the Trans-Pacific In-
vestment Syndicate. The facts, shortly' stated, are these.
Matto Grosqo State has big areas of auriferous country,
worked first in 1717 by Portuguese with slave labor. There
were large exports of gold (although heavy royalties and
export duties resulted in a great quantity being smuggled
out undeclared) up to the early 30’s, when slavery was
regulated and lessened, and in ’BB all slaves were emanci-
pated. Since then little work has been done, and on the
Coxipo and Rio D’Oro Rivers the auriferous sands were
treated by the primitive methods of making wing-dams,
pumping the enclosed area as low as possible (never with-
in 2ft. of bottom), lifting the wash out with scoops and
sluicing' it. Averag’e depth of wash for a distance of 32
miles is given by probing tests at 6ft. 6in. ; and the scoops
never got within 2ft. of bottom. Yet the scheme ha 3
been paying by this slow method of metal-winning. On
the total distance of 32 miles of river there is but one bar
and rapid too high for a dredge to pass over. The reli-
able Australian mining man who secured the property
says he saw no boulders a bucket could not handle, that the
average depth of river in dry 7 season is 20in., with occa-
sional holes of 10ft. in depth, and that. the river bed
is almost innocent of snags. Bed of river 90ft wide.
Elevation above the sea of the up-stream end of the con-
cession, 1098 ft. Following tests were made :—lyd. of
wash, from surface to depth of 2ft 6iii. gave 13. gr. gold;
lyd. from centre of wash gave 29gr. gold; lyd. from centre
to bottom of wash gave lOdwt. 2gr. gold, equal to £2 0s 4d.
5 dishes from skimniings of bedrock (a soft decomposed
slate) averaged over 4gr. to the dish, equal to loz.
2dwt. to the yard ; 2 dishes of wash from the crevices
in the bedrock gave 6|dwt. gold ; 2yds. of wash from
surface to bedrock yielded 12dwt. 20gr. gold, equal to
6dwt. lOgr. gold, or £1 os. Bd. to the yard. Average
prospects taken at short intervals for the whole length of
the concession, from the surface—in the water —to a
depth of 3ft, gave, for various lengths of river-course, from
sto 27gr. per yard. On all the beaches above water-level,
prospects gave from 3 to 19gr. per yard, arid the terraces,
evidently original stream-courses, gave fair, although
lower than the beach results. Rates of wages ruling from
2s. 6d. to ss. per day ; route to field, by river steamers
from Buenos Ayres 2000 miles, or from Monte Video 2100
miles. Furthermore, “ the whole of this extraordinarily
rich scheme will not be given to the public.”— lnterested.
[The Bulletin reckons this a fine cheap advt. for a very
far-off thing.]
* * * *
Already ! “An agreement has been entered
into by representatives of the Transvaal mining com-
panies, the Rhodesian mining cos. and De Beers, whereby
native labor will be supplied to each of these mining
centres by affiliated organisations and on common terms.”
They’re not only going to have colored labor, as hereto-
fore—but they’re going it at their own price for
the future.
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
During 1900 the value of the frozen meat ex-
ported from Maoriland fell some £20,000, the figures
being :
1899. 1900.
Mutton .. .. £1,151,705 £948,158
Lamb .. .. 585,067 639,152
Beef 190,257 320,147
£1,927,029 £1,907,457
The shortage in mutton is likely to increase. During the
last five months of 1900 the sheep frozen were 454,985.
But dairy produce shows a marked advance, the figures
being :
1899. 1900.
Butter .. .. £561,414 £730,503
Cheese .. .. 140,228 227,711
£701,642 £958,214
With the present tendency to cut up large places into
dairy farms, these figures are certain to go on increasing.
According to returned Syd. D.T. war-cor-
respondent Frank Wilkinson, the points in which
Australian troops excel British are intelligence
and resourcefulness, horsemanship and veterinary
skill. Commenting on his luck in escaping injury,
Wilkinson mentions that his Cape-cart, alongside
of which he was frequently riding, had nine bullets
in it when he left S’Africa.
“ APENTA,” 3
The Best Purgative Water,
“The gentleness of its action makes it particularly
Adapted for women.” — Practitioner.
Sole Exporters : The Apollinaris Company, Limited,
London, W.
Rarely does a man abscond from bail,
keep clear for six years, then get caught, and
after all escape. Yet this happened to an alleged
larcenist in Melbourne t’other day. He was
charged with stealing a purse, and the victim —a
barmaid, had got lost or married or something,
anyhow she wasn’t to be found, and her employer,
who originally signed the charge-sheet, had died
years ago. So the prosecution lapsed.
Swaddies, returned from S’Africa, tell
some hair-raising stories about the tyranny of
some of the Australian officers. Yet the contm-
genting craze is still active. Here is a cut from
a letter just received from a Quirindi (N.S.W.)
warrior:—•
“ We are at present getting treated like a lot of pig-s
more than anything else. We get one night in bed and
one on duty. We are simply alive with vermin.
(the officer’s name) seems to neglect us, as we
never get any mail, and to tell you the truth he is going
off his head. The men hate the very sight of him. He
has already led them into a couple of death-traps, and
has been censured. We are half-clothed, and have a hard
job to even get a bit of soap to wash ourselves. It. will
be God help some of the officers if ever they get back to
civilian life again. The way the Boers are carrying on
their guerilla warfare is 20 times more dangerous than a
big battle, as you never know when you ride into a death-
trap. If you put this letter in print don’t sign my name
to it, or else leave out ’s name, as he gets the papers,
and he may make it hot for me. I don’t care what 1
write about him once I get back. They ought to give
him a job driving Kaffirs, instead of leading men to their
death—the swine. God knows when we will get
home. On the whole we have had a hard lot of fighting
and a very trying time, and for it we get half-clothed,
and get old cancered bullocks to eat, while the Maori-
landers and others get nice frozen meat. It’s no one s
fault hut the officer’s. . . . I am not the only one that is
complaining —there is not a man in the whole regiment
that is satisfied.”
And you should just bear the nice things that re-
turned Queenslanders are saying with a loud voice
about a prominent officer of theirs !
A Word to Women.
The success or failure of men, as well as
Governments, largely depends upon women
Women rule the world. Men may occupy high
offices and arrogate to themselves the directorship
of public and private affairs, but back of tins out-
ward manifestation is the silent but irresistible
force of women. It enters into every thought and
action ; it permeates every fibre, tissue and bone.
It inspires men with all that is good, pure and
noble. Show me the quality of the wife, and I
will tell you the standard of the husband. With
the history of successful men, should be written
“ Inspired, aided and strengthened by a thought-
ful and high minded wife.” A community of
good women will produce a community of good
men. , , .
It is hardly necessary to say that good health is
essential to the accomplishment of good work.
No matter how ambitious, or how pure and lofty
one’s ideas may be, if disease is sapping our
vitality and attracting the thoughts to bodily
ailments, we shall not be able to render to our
loved ones and society that care, sympathy and
assistance they have a right to expect of us. If
you are ailing, your first duty is to get well. You
have no right to expect to enjoy the fulness of a
man’s love or the favors of society if you are con-
tinually fretting and bemoaning your trials and
afflictions. It is hard, you say, to be cheerful
with a splitting headache, a sluggish liver, or a
rebellious stomach. True —very true. But why
be tormented with t' ose ailments ? Why not take
the remedy that will cure you, “Warner’s Safe
Cure ? ”
Mrs. Eliza Butler, of Broken Hill, N.S.W.,
writing on Oct. 11, 1900, says: “I have great
pleasure in testifying to the good results I have
obtained from the use of Warner’s Safe Cure.
Eor some time I was suffering great agony with
terrible pains in my side and around the body.
After trying several remedies, which failed, I
used Warner’s Safe Cure, and am happy to state
that lam now quite restored to health. You may
make this public and accept my thanks for the
good results I obtained.”*


The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
A ustralasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Before booking’ your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing List with map’
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Coilins-st., Melbourne; 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
<3-0 TO KCBX.T,-
r 100 LANI > for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want-real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
MS* HATS ■ AT S.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastie & Sons
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
for a pearly skin and brilliant
Complexion. Chemists sell it.
NOTHING ELSE LIKE IT.
Used by the Elite of English
Society. S. Harvey, Limtd.,
London Bridge SE.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers ,
Auction Rooms, 324 G-sorge Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Atietion Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale,
valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Pradley & Co., 324 George-st
HIGH-GRADE
FARIVI—--
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd.
35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“ First Federation,” said stout old Petei
Lalor of Eureka Stockade.
11 As the British Empire expands, the
Chamberlain family contracts.”
Australia has the men, but she has not yet
the Man—the Australian Man.
The Sydney professional musicians, drop-
ping all artistic frill, have had the pluck to
affiliate their benefit-organisation to the Trades
and Labour association, thus recognising them-
selves as workers first and artists afterwards.
Good !
John Plumper Hoolan is to oppose Drake
for a seat in the Federal Parliament. Renegade
vs. Renegade; but Drake still has his uses, and
Hoolan is of no use. Once he had democratic
grit; now he is simply a cynical humbug out for
political loot.
London correspondent of Sydney D.T.
speaks of “the slim and mobile opposition by
which Barton will be confronted.” Mobile it may
be, but with George Reid it certainly won’t be
slim. Also, “mobile” sounds less offensive, as
applied to Reidian opposition, than “shifty.”
Maoriland Government has started to or-
ganise a Seventh Contingent. Contingents follow
each other so fast from Maoriland now that each
one has to step like an ostrich to avoid having its
feet trodden by the next. The Bulletin implores
Chamberlain to make Seddon Duke of Puketi-
whino at once—or sooner, if possible.
“In Victoria they simply turn the men
out of the factories and put little children in,”
said the veracious Reid in his latest Foreign-trade
Jeremiad. Which, considering that the increase
of men in Victoria’s factories during the last few
years (the Reid “ Freetrade” tariff years) has been
2000 more than the increase in N.S. W., is a pretty
good sample of G. H. Reid’s reliability.
The Victorian Govt, is still “taking
steps ” to cancel the pension of the old man who
spends it in drink. This is a dismal hypocrisy.
The people who spend money in drink are one of
the principal sources of revenue to every Aus-
tralian State, and the State can’t say that drink is
sinful unless it also admits that it is a mercenary
scoundrel who lives on sin, and that Premier Pea-
cock’s salary is largely the wages-of iniquity.
Whispered that Lyne may not, after all,
give up the N.S.W. State Premiership, but will
EXPLAINED.
MR. JONES: “ What’s all this row about?”
MR. JONES' DAUGHTER: “It’s all Eliza! She
said Bob was a wicked young feller, but YOU
were a wickeder! An’ then I said, ‘How do
YOU know?’ An’ she got mad!”
hang on to that bone and let the Federal shadow
go. This would be a wise course. At present he
is hanging on violently to both. The first State
Premier after the Commonwealth, gets going may
easily hold office for years, as there will be no
fiscal question for the State Parliament to worry
about. With Reid absent, Lyne’s staying powers
might keep his mediocre political ability long
afloat.
N.S. W. Premier Lyne (from the election-
eering platform) :
I intend, before I leave State politics, to have a monu-
ment erected in the Centennial Park in Sydney to the
memory of those who fell so far from home. (Loud
cheers.) I think something of this kind should certainly
be done. (Renewed cheers.)
Is the monument to be built with Treasury money?
Is there to be any direct individual self-sacrifice
connected with it, or is it to be another loan-fund
fake ?
“ Brains ” Ashton’s personal desire is to
run for the Senate in N.S. W. ; but the Dry Dog
party wants his vote in the other House and presses
him to run against Chanter for the Riverina—
where he will probably be beaten. One of Ashton’s
chief longings—and an excellent one, too—is to
break down the idea that the Senate is the dod-
derers’ chamber. Until somebody or something
can do that, he argues, the Commonwealth will
wear lead on its feet.
Cabled that twelve millions of the people
of China are plunged into starvation as a conse-
quence of the interference of Christian nations in
the affairs of their country, and child-murder and
cannibalism are common amongst the famished
natives:
The heathen’s blind, and cannot see
’Tis for his good alone, this strife.
Good Christians starve him well that he
May seize upon the Bread of Life !
The Leg. Council seat for S.A. Central
District, lately vacated by Kingston, has been
captured by that dreadful Tory, J. L. Parsons,
who collected 4665 votes to the democratic candi-
date’s 2671. The result gives a fair proof of
Kingston’s weight in S.A. politics. The Tory
majority in the Central district is about 2000—
almost 2to 1; yet Kingston, the ultra-democrat,
carried it by storm. Apparently his personal
magnetism was worth a good 1000 votes.
One of Gr. H. Reid’s chief excuses for his
double-dealing at the first Federal referendum
was his solemn warning, chiefly to Sydney:
“ Remember ! you cannot expect to get Freetrade
under this Bill.” Yet he is now wasting a tre-
mendous amount of energy in trying to prove not
only is Freetrade possible, now the Bill is passed,
but that any other policy will be disastrous to the
country under it! These facts should be posted
on every hoarding and every fence throughout
Australia.
That wonderful man, hatter Storey,
M. of N.S.W., got himself interviewed by
the Freetrade paper at Launceston (Tas.) recently
and told some remarkable things. Among others,
he assured his interviewer cordially that there was
nothing at all in the theory that N.S.W. has
largely kept afloat by borrowed money :
P° n ’t you believe it. There is nothing in it. I haven’t
the figures by me, but I am sure the per capita debt of
N. is no greater than that of Victoria.
Yet every official and unofficial publication in
Australia that touches on finance tells Storey in
plain figures that the N.S.W. debt is much larger
per capita than the Victorian. And a man so
ignorant as not even to know a little thing like
that is allowed to make laws for this unfortunate
country !
So far only two Australian States
have paid Old Age Pensions, and they
are both Protectionist. Only one
State has fixed a legal minimum wage
for workers to the confusion of the
sweating brigade, and it is Protec-
tionist. Only one State has a thorough-
ly efficient compulsory Conciliation and
Arbitration law, and it is Protection-
ist. ' Only three. States have State Land
Banks in full working order, and they
are all Protectionist. Only one State
is resuming big estates for closer settle-
ment on a large scale, and it is Pro-
tectionist. Only two States smite
the big earth-monopolist heavily with
a graduated land-tax, and they are
both Protectionist. Only two States
have a reasonably efficient absentee-
tax, and they are likewise Protectionist.
These things may not be caused by Pro-
tection, but they seem to have a re-
markable habit of going along with
Protection.
George Turner formally quitted
the Victorian Premiership on sth Feb-
ruary, and Premier Peacock reigns in
his stead. No new man was appointed,
so there is one Minister less, with a
saving of £lO4O a year, and Victoria
is minus a salaried P.M.G. This is the
first attempt to reduce the cost of
any State Parliament under Federa-
tion. Several individuals demanded
that the portfolios should be spread out
rather thinner, so that despite the abo-
lition of the P.M.G. there would still
be nine paid Ministers, but Premier
Peacock laughed loudly in the ear of
the chief malcontent and broke him up.
In Queensland, desperately hard-up as
they are, they shovel the public money
about much more liberally, and the
vacancies created by Diekson’s death and Drake’s
promotion have both been filled. Philp is a tired
too tired to economise.
HIS BUSINESS.
SHEPHERD: “My poor, lonely little boy, why
have you cut yourself off from the innocent
games of childhood?”
P.L.L.B.: “ Gam ! they're playin' two-up, an'
it’s my turn to keep nit fer the trap."
It was this way. The N.S.W. Laborite
bosses reckoned that there was only one man who
could be reasonably certain of getting even near a
Senate seat in N.S.W., and that was leader
M‘G-owen. But, then, M‘Growen is the only man
of the party who can win the Darlinghurst seat,
and that is judged to be a “ soft thing ” for him ;
and so, as M‘Gowen himself very much preferred
the safer and easier seat, he was not pressed to
go the other way. After that the party took very
little interest in the matter.
John Kidd, N.S.W. candidate for Federal
Senate, is almost funny because of his utter want
of fun. He is a secret-society man, top and
bottom. Gr. R. Dibbs made him a Minister. The
office given him had been previously filled by the
illustrious Dan O’Connor, and when the acidulous
Parkes heard of the arrangement he observed
(speaking politically): “ What would you expect
after a goat but a kid ? ” Kidd, who looks a sens-
ible man, is perhaps the only politician in N.S.W.
who can talk for an hour without pleasing an
audience or making it angry.
Perth Morning Herald says straight out
that John Forrest was» transferred at his o vn
request from the Federal Post Office to the
Federal Defence Department, because, when he
faced the duties of the former billet, he was
broken up with a sudden knowledge of his own
incompetence. In W.A., it alleges, the P.M.Gr.
leaves things to the permanent officials, and John
only realised his utter ignorance of everything,
and his utter inability to learn anything, when he
tried to run a postal department himself.
Freely stated that Chief-Justice Stout, of
Maoriland, is to be hauled over the coals for
his pro-Federation utterances, on the plea that
Judges shouldn’t meddle in politics.” Federa-
tion, anyhow, is not a political but a national
question. And when Judge Williams (M.L.) got
on a platform 12 months ago and said “ It doesn’t
matter whether you approve of the war or not ;
now it’s started you’ve (jot to approve of it,”
nobody talked about “ meddling in politics.” If
the Seddon Govt. doesn’t look out it will yet be
known as the champion muzzier of Australasia.
Federal Postmaster - General Drake at
Sydney Town Hall :
Mr. Reid, in his speech the other night, disposed of
Queensland by saying that it was in favor of Freetrade,
with the exception of one or two spots. (A voice •
“Quite correct.”) He did not say that the statement
was not correct, but he should have liked the hori. gen-
tleman to define what he meant by the word “spot,”
because the truth or untruth of his statement would de-
pend upon that word. He took it that the meaning of
the statement was this, that Queensland was in favor of
Freetrade except where the population resided.
Neat !
A truly beautiful item from the Freetrade
crank of Launceston (Tas.) Examiner :
Protectionists seem to revel in the idea that the greatest
happiness that can overtake a nation is to always export,
and receive nothing in return. I would ask then, Is it
intended to give the goods away ? By no means. This is
the farthest thought from the Protectionist’s mind. He
has some shady idea that if he could get gold for his
wares he would be happy. But we do not want gold in
Australia. We have gold to sell. If we studied our own
true interests; we should give these products of our
country we have in excess in exchange for things we
cannot produce. This is true economy. The country
that is always giving (exporting) and taking nothing in
exchange (importing) would soon become bankrupt.
A rational being might rather think that the
country which exports and doesn’t import would
soon get rid of its foreign debts, and be all the
richer for it instead of becoming bankrupt. And
think of the wonderful intelligence of the Free-
trader who says that Australia doesn’t want gold !
This country has between £14,000,000 and
£15,000,000 a year to pay in gold as interest on its
public and private foreign debts (set down by
Coghlan at £370,000,000). Even with the great gold-
boom in Westralia it doesn’t quite manage to get
enough gold to pay this interest, saving nothing
of reducing the principal of the debts’!! There are
very few countries which want gold worse than
gold-producing Australia.
“ O.B.”: Donaldson, Tumufc’s
elect, has a particular aversion to
aliens, especially Indian hawkers,
who can be seen daily driving four-
in-hand turn-outs throughout the
Tumut district, skin-buying; whilst
the young Australian is to be seen
“padding the hoof” with bluey
up, and not too proud to accept a
ift from the man with the turban.
At last Revision Court in Tumut,
ut of five claimants for a vote
three were lis* 1 as follows : Inder
Singh, Tumut, hawker; Ballat
Khan, Tumut, hawker ; Hazara
Singh, Tumut, hawker. Adelong
is not too well-disposed towards
Donaldson, over the route of the
Tumut railway, but with the ad-
vent of these rajahs Adelongites
may get even with Tumut’s elect
at next election. All the Singh
tribe will vote against Donaldson to
a nigger.
Wise, K.C., will have a tough
fight for Canoblas. His chief op-
ponent is one “Tom” Brown,
Labor M.P. for Condobolin, who is
utterly unknown to the general
public, but whose diligence as a
roads-and-bridges hustler has given
him a high place in the affections
of local settlers, in a region where
roads and culverts are the be-all and end-all of
the elector’s existence. Wise will find trouble in
convincing them that the Federal representative
will not be a roads-and-culverts man on a larger
scale.
No other Australian statesman can show-
such a consistent democratic record as Kingston,
who completes 20 years of political life next June’.
S.A. owes to him Payment of Members, Protec-
tion, Factories legislation, Adult Suffrage, Early-
Closing, Workmen’s Liens and Compensation,
and Closer Settlement, all of which are now law.
Kingston is one more proof that the great demo-
crats of Australia (the men who did things as
distinguished from the men who talked about
them), the great political intellects of Australia,
the great reformers of Australia are all on the
Protectionist side. A cause is known by the
brains whose company it keeps.
Federal Attorney-General Deakin met
with a flattering reception at Sydney Town Hall.
Especially did his repartee delight the crowd'.
Deakin was very sarcastic at the expense of G. H.
Reid. First he related several bombastic speeches
of the latter, who, on his return from Victoria,
told the Sydney press of the great stir his (Reid’s)
speeches had made down south, where, indeed, the
benighted Protectionists were on the brink of con-
version. Then he quoted “No-Yes” from his
Protestant Hall address wherein Reid predicted
that N.S.W. would find arrayed in the first
Federal parliament “An unbroken phalanx of
Protectionists ” from Victoria. See-saw Reid !
William Lyne told the Hume electors the
other day that Hindoos are “subjects of the King
and cannot be stopped coming in ” to the Com-
monwealth. On the other hand Premier Barton,
who is Lyne’s political boss, has promised that
Asiatics will be “stopped coming in.” And
Maoriland has proved, by the simple process of
doing it, that it is possible to stop the influx of
the King’s undesirable subjects. Premier Barton
had better chain up his clumsy Minister for
Internal Affairs if he is going to say foolish things
like this. Australia can’t afford to be governed
by large helpless individuals who have such a pro-
found respect for the King’s nigger that they will
let him take the bread out of the mouths of the
King’s white Australian subjects.
Westralia’s post and telegraph employes
rejoice with a great joy that Bigjohn has ceased
to be Federal P.M.G. They have had enough of
Groper management, and of Bigjohn, and
especially of his small deputy nigger-driver, Post-
master-General Richard Adolphus Shol’l. In
previous times Adolphus drove the department to
go on strike by his petty persecutions, and though
peace was patched up on condition that none of
the strikers should suffer in any way through their
action they have practically all been harried out
of the service. The newest trouble has arisen
through the refusal of the high-handed Adolphus .
to recognise the union of telegraph employes. In
addition to refusing he promptly transferred
the principal union-officials in the Perth office to
the most remote and desolate stations in all W.A.
Which is one reason why, when Federal P.M.G.
Drake takes over the postal department, the
union will probably serenade its Adolphus with a
bad concertina and a kerosene tin.
The Federal Premier is to get £2lOO a
year, and his colleagues £1650 each. But the
Federal Constitution does not prohibit a Minister
also drawing his salary of £4OO a year as a private
member, and with this added the Premier will
have £2500 and his colleagues £2050 each. The
only amendment The Bulletin can suggest is
that the amounts should be at least doubled. Aus-
tralia wants to always get the best men, and they
can seldom be had without paying the best price.
rhis«country has had lots of cheap men in charge
of its affairs —-Treasurers whom no board of
directors would dream of putting in charge of a
small bank, and Works Ministers that wouldn’t
be trusted to superintend a small contract and
Ministers of Education who hadn’t any. It has
saved thousands in salary by these means, and
lost millions by incapacity and bad financing. If
the railways were run on the same principle they
would be placed in charge of a porter at 6s. 6d. a
day to save the Commissioner’s salary—but the
country somehow had a casual gleam of sanity
when it fixed up its system of railway manage-
ment.


PALING’S
IS A BY-WORD IN
AUSTRALASIA FOR
Musical
I ostrO robots
NOT ONLY BECAUSE YOU
Are
SUPPLIED THERE WITH EVERY
KNOWN VARIETY BUT EACH AND
ALL ARE
<a(iarai)teed
TO BE
PERFECT.
PIANOS and ORCANS
. DEFY COMPETITION . .
ARE THE BEST]
direct from the MANUFACTURERS——^
Sole Agents
FOB
PIANOS
Steinway
Brinsmead
Lipp
F enrich
Uebel
Ecke
Victor
Belling
AND
€ST€Y
ORGANS
Gors & Kallmann
[oiuest Prices
Easy Terms
Call or Write
for
Catalogue
Pull Information,
Illustrated,
FREE
We Game
in ’53 determined to
remain.
We Saw
from the first that the
Best Articles Only
would satisfy the
public.
We Conquered
all before us by sup-
plying the very high-
est grade instruments
procured direct from
the very best manu-
facturers.
AND now that we have estab-
lished a WORLD-WIDE
REPUT A TION we intend to
strengthen it , by guarding with
a jealous care the interest of
THE PUBLIC.
W. H. PA LIN (5 ft CO., Ltd.
338 (aeorgg St., Sydpgy
BRISBANE.
NEWCASTLE.
A poverty-stricken looking old man
recently admitted to Rookwood (Sydney) Asylum
for the Destitute, died shortly afterwards. £4O
in gold was found sewn inside his waistcoat and
securities to the value of £4OO were contained in
his clothing. No heirs are forthcoming so the
money goes into the Intestate Estates office. The
Institutions’ officials though used to (smaller) dis-
coveries of this sort, were astonished at their find,
the deceased appearing to be the last man one
would suspect of hidden wealth.
A long epistle in Sydney E. News from
somebody called Smith seems to be calling for
the dismissal of the Sydney police force generally
because, having lost his two boys in the crowd
round Queen’s Statue on Funeral Day, said
Smith appealed to various custodians of the
public welfare to find them immediately, and
these sad-eyed men merely replied with some
irrelevance, “I have had no dinner yet.” It
might be fairly put to Smith that if he was a
dinnerless constable at about 40s. a week, he pro-
bably wouldn’t take much interest in hunting for
two small boys that he had never seen, and
wouldn’t know from Shem and Japhet if he saw
them.
Unparalleled in the History of Medicine
is WEBBER’S
VITADATIO
TRY IT! TRY IT I
A Public Notice to Every
Man and Woman.
LISTEN TO A TRAVELLER.
Launceston, Tasmania, 23/2/’99.
Mr. Morris, the much-travelled agent, gives his opinion
of Webber’s Yitadatio as under, and at the same time
hands us his photograph that there may be no mistake as
to the gentleman referred to. He says:—It was while we
were playing in Melbourne I first heard of Vitadatio
through Mr. Palmer, the agent, who assured me he had
been cured of Hydatids and Bright’s Disease of the
Kidneys of 14 years standing by the use of his great
remedy. I have been a great sufferer with Kidney and
Liver Troubles, which gave me great inconvenience in my
calling, and tried very many medicines to effect a cure,
but all was of no avail. I then went in for a course of
Yitadatio, and with such good results, it having cured me
completely, and I am again in splendid condition, and the
ill effects of my trouble have disappeared ; and moreover
I cannot keep quiet on the subject. I give Vitadatio my
strongest recommendation to all who complain of being
in any way “ off.” lam told as a blood purifier Vitadatio
has no known equal, and I quite believe it.
Yours gratefullv,
J. MORRIS,
Agent Fitzgerald Bros.’ Huge Combined Shows.
1 For further particulars,
S- A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
Thirty thousand more troops wanted for
S’Africa —for the war that is “practically over !”
Looks as if Adelaide isn’t just yet going to get a
chance of banging-off that £2OOO-worth of fire-
works it so long ago laid in against the proclama-
tion of the cessation of hostilities.
Queen Wilhelmina of Holland had a
telephone fixed up between her palace and the
home of her impending consort, whom she
married last week. To rise to the very height of
really scientific love-making they should have
kissed by wireless telegraph, and hugged each
other per induction-coils.
From a M.L. trooper’s letter :
In your letter you seem to expect that the war will
soon be over, but I do not think it will be over yet for
months. We have been burning every house, taking
every hoof, and destroying all the grain. In most cases
the owners are out fighting, and now will never surrender.
You might as well reason with a Red Indian on the war-
path, and with about as much chance of inducing him to
lay down his arms. The sufferings of the women and
children are pitiful.
After all, how much do any of the war-
writers know? If there was one thing they
agreed on more absolutely than on all others it
was that Roberts was too tender in his treatment
of the enemy, while Kitchener would be stern to
the point of mercilessness. And yet Kitchener
begins by modifying Roberts’ proclamation in the
direction of offering more clemency to leaders
who surrender.
“ H.8.T.” : Re beaching ships on the
Westralian coast (8., 26/l/’01): —
At Carnarvon, Wyndham, Broome, and Port Darwin
there is from natural causes a large tidal range, amount-
ing to 18ft. at Carnarvon, and 27ft. at Port Darwin ; and
I have often heard sailor men say that it is thereabouts
usual to beach vessels and load them in the manner indi-
cated. In fact, the mud beach near the jetty at Port
Darwin is always pointed out to new arrivals as “ our dry
dock.”
Writes Harry Stockdale :
While I was, the other night, lecturing to Sydney Boys’
Brigade on “The Aborigines of Australia” a curious
thing occurred. During the description of a native com-
bat—in which the lads seemed particularly interested —a
shrill whistle was heard on the stairs, and in a jiffy the
hall was half empty ! the boys, as they rushed out, crying
—“ The ’Arbours—the ’Arbours !” No bugle-call could
have been more promptly responded to. This whistle, it
turned out, was the summons to battle of a rival crowd
called the “ Harbour Push.” But it was a false alarm, and
inside five minutes my juvenile audience was sitting in
its place again as though nothing unusual had happened.
The “Tyser”line steamer Star of Aus-
tralia, now due at Melbourne, carries the largest
shipment of American-manufactured goods that
has ever left an American port. Her cargo list
covers 120 pp., each 50 per cent, larger than an
average foolscap sheet. In this is included every
variety of manufactured goods produced in the
U.S. There are 400 tons of sewing-machines
alone. For Auckland the vessel brings an
entire gas-plant, weighing 500 tons. There are
rifles, shot-guns, revolvers, and ammunition suf-
ficient to supply a brigade, whilst lawn-mowers,
reapers, waggons, wheels, coffee-mills, patent
medicines, &c., are reckoned by tons. Kerosene
to the extent of 80,000 cases and 1500 barrels, 1000
tons of wire, 1200 tons of bar iron, 400 tons of roll-
paper, hundreds of pianos and organs, together
with an extensive array of miscellaneous articles,
comprise a cargo which, for size and value, has
probably not been exceeded in any other vessel
coming to Australia.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue *
Wr
OCEANIC
8
CEANIC
TYRES
CHEAP
AND
DURABLE
I
WE
beg to inform all
Cyclists that we have
placed the
Oceanic Tyres
on the market to meet the
existing demand for a
Good Wearing:
Tyre at a Low
Fig:ure.
These Tyres, whilst not
equalling our high-grade
Du niqp Tyres
are far in advance of all
other cheap-grade Tyres,
in fact
ARE THE NEXT BEST TO “DUNLOPS”
Obtainable from all Cycle Agents.
Manufactured by
The Dun!op Pneumatic Tyre
AND AT
Co. of Aus. Ltd.,
150 Clarence Street, Sydney
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


„ Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
cs>
&
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
isr.s.-w.
Root deplete DJI. go., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
A Assurance Society
Limited. . . ,
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
ESTABLISHED 1879. Manager.
'-THU-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR.
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J E. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,263.
Policies issued 82,600 assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts )>aid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eouitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Banli of Australia
(LIMITED).
REGISTERED OAtfITAL .. .. £4,800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23 4 ’OOl .. £3,196,353 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
lion N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager : Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Hishopsgate Street Within
corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
IMtW SOUTH wales:
SVs>Ni;y - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Hayniaiket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Tiie Bank of Berth Queensland
LlAl IT HD.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 100 ... £350,000
Beui Zealand Insurance jjo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Lav (jest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT, _ . .
manager. 81 Pitt St., Sydney.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Public Notices.
cT,he federal £ail : amentary (Elections.
TO THE ELECTORS OF VICTORIA.
Gentlemen.—
I have the honor to announce my Candidature for
a seat in the Federal Senate, and to respectfully ask to
cast in my favor one of the six votes which each elector
will have.
I am, Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
JAMES STYLES.
Shipping.
THTHOWARD smith line.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND f
WARRNAMBOOL J
Leura, Friday, Feb. 15, 5 p.m.
Buninyong, Tues., Feb. 19, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Friday, Feb. 22, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., Feb. 19, 5 p.ra.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., Feb. 19, 5 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Saturday, Feb. 16,12 Noon
■ Konoowarra, Tues., Feb. 19, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Feb. 23, ] 2 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Saturday, Feb. 16,12 Noon
Leura, Saturday, Feb. 23, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Qowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colomal SS. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Jb* Trustees, €*€cGtorS^
AND
&g$*KV Corsjpafjy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
SSpS”: «S ! •
RESERVE LIABILITY ... ... £l5OOOO 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
truste°e VenCy Department > Mr - L - l - Rarker registered
Directors : F. IL Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq. , C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager
NO. 412 O.l.iS'St,-
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. 2 000 000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 'bOO^OOO
Total Capital
£2,500,000
T he SAVINGS bank in vlctorTa
.j, _ TT _ HAS MONEY TO LEND V,OTOR,A
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO. on City
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Queeisland Smelting gompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
r , ; , v. o. Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Established 1879.
TUB "
United |istraiian (j]utual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital .. 40,873
.File, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance . Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
BanJc of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
2,000,000 0 0
1,250,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
0 0
Total 5,250,000
Directors :
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
William Alfred Cottke, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.C.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors:
F. W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom. ’
T.-ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects’for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain • under-
takes the agency of other banks; issues drafts,’circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business. J
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Euroiie and America
or in India and the East. ’
J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
Government Notices.
Public Works Department,
Sydney, Jan. 17, 1901.
CITY RAILWAY EXTENSION AND DEVONSHIRE
STREET, CEMETERY.
TT having been determined to extend the City Railway
to Devonshire-street, notice is hereby given that in
all cases where application has been made to the Minister
of Justice, by the representatives of deceased persons
buried in the Devonshire-street Cemetery, and permission
obtained to exhume such bodies with the sanction of the
Cemetery Trustees within two months from this date, the
Department of Public Works will bear all reasonable
expenses incurred in the re-interment of such bodies in
such Cemetery as the said representatives may desire
The cost of removing and re-erecting all monuments,
stone-work, etc., now in a fair state of preservation, will
also be borne by the Government.
In the ease of those bodies for which no applications
will have been received at the expiration of this notice,
exhumation will be carried out by the Government and
re-interment effected at R.ookwood Cemetery.
I orms of application and other information may be
obtained on application to the Clerk in Charge of Bonds
and Contracts at this Department.
ROBERT HICKSON,
Under Secretary for Public Works and
Commissioner for Roads.
Shipping
THC AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and 00., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows :
Name of Steamer.
DAMASCUS
NINEVEH
MORAVIAN
opiciiuiu tujuuiniiiuutiuorj, ana will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
GREAT
BRITAIN AND
via AMERICA.
EUROPE,
A. AND A. LINE.
TO ENGLAND IN 30 DAYS,
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE,
BY THREE MAGNIFICENT NEW TWIN-SCREW
STEAMSHIPS,
EACH OF 6000 TONS AND 8000 HORSE-POWER
BUILT EXPRESSLY FOR THE SERVICE BY THE
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF
SAN FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line leave Sydney and Auckland for
Tutuila (Samoa), Honolulu, and San Francisco every
three weeks, as under: —
Passengers booked to all the principal parts of
EUROPE, UNITED STATES and CANADA
AT LOWEST FARES.
Passengers are booked through to San Francisco, Liver-
pool, London and chief cities of the Continent of Europe,
with special advantages, and have choice of the unrivalled
Atlantic Steamship Lines of the American, Cunard, In-
man, White Star, and other Companies, according to fare.
Full particulars, Illustrated Guide Maps, etc., gratis on
application to
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OFN.Z.,Ltd.,
Equitable Building, George-street, next.G.P.O.
JXT. D.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000; Over 3J million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Feb. 16
Mar. 16
April 13
May 11
June 8
July 6
Hictcaitu every six weeKS.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., 7and 9 Bridge-st., Sydney.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. oj London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M‘Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks,
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide W.
N. M‘Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson; Perth, A. W."
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., 0. M. Montefiore.
J. J, ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Medical.
MARKS AMERICAN" ARTIFICIAL LIMBS?
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, t&C.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
MASON’S EXTRACT
OF HERBS.
NO OTHER EXTRACT MAKES
BEER
LIKE IT.
The Best of all
Beverages and
the Cheapest.
NON-
INTOXICATING,
DELICIOUS,
WHOLESOME.
rw'
Agents :
GOLLIN & CO., Sydney and Melbourne.
NEWBALL & MASON,
NOTTINGHAM,
ENGLAND.
v Shipping.
THEADEUIDESTEAMSHIP CO.
(TJMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Roekton, Friday,
February If at Noon.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
February 23, 10 a.m.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
Townsville
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Adelaide, Friday,
February 15, 5 p.m.
p M< * Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
first Cr wT t,ok ,f'? v ai 'e interchangeable after the
1 ort between Melbourne and Cairns with the
lonT^For'A 6 2°- and W - «o 3 Smite and
sons. For Adelaide and VV.A. all tickets are inter
ditiona to h With th ° A -U-S.N. 00. only Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G- S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. C,
—'OY Ltd
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
the popular PASSENGER line.
MELRonn^ e ‘ r MaB ' nificent Steal nsllips, as under.
MELBOLRInE AND COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
RvSv IRLK LOCAL PORTS -Weekly.
SSSJ
-vrr'. ,e - c ~ k “™'
SVTWov’ NEW CAI - EDON, A, AMD FIJI, Monthly
ANU MELBOURNE, Weekly. Y
SYDNEY, and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance, and
Cm si a e unrivalled..
firet iorf ,f assa S e * u j£ ets are interchangeable after the
of the AdSaTse « « e s >oUrne a " d C;li, ns with the steamers
suhiect to t Company and W. 11. Smith and Sons,
For aV'i m dltl i )ns to be ascertained on application
a r AdelMde and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
mroATc® a, ' the Ade iaide S.S. Co. only.
staSt t Svdn IHIU J * and °° • Ltd ” A »tenls, 1(1 Bridge-
and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P. AND O. COMPANY!
be T de e sSche?asfon e o a ws Bh - P 8 ° f the abov « Company will
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports. ’
(S yd ney,
Noon
Feb.
Mar.
Mar.
Aprii
April
*Calling at Hobart.
Pji.craS steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £77
,d.to -Ditto Return £7l 10s to €l2l
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial pores
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries llari
times Steamers having room. Particulars on annlioation
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superi„tendenT P in Aus-
and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritlmes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
Trench Government, calling at MELBOUBNE ADF
•^ E " ANTI 1 E - COLOMBO, Suez! and PORT
Steamer
ARMAND BE-
HIO ...
AUSTRALIEN ,ai„„
V.DELACIOTAT Fiaschi
POLYNESIEN ... Chevalier
Com-
mander.
Cois-
pellier
Verron
Ade-
laide,
I p. m.
Feb. 23
March 23
April 20
May 18
China,
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77!
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
et %’ a, ‘d a l so accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Comer, Pitt Street, Sydney.
—— THCY, Principal A^ent.
Huddart, parker & Co’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Rates.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Commander.
Steamer.
AUSTRALIAN
GUTHRIE
EASTERN
AIRLIE
Tns, Commander. (Leave Sydney*
.. 3000,P. T. Helms ... February 16
... 2500,W. G. M'Arthur ... March 16
... 3600,Winthrop Ellis ...jApril 4
... 2500;5t. John George . May 4
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO/LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ID‘|livraith, [JTEacharn* (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OE STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For ;®P ecia,ll y Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M Ilwraith, M‘Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
„ Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 OoUins-street.


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES. HEALTH And STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc.
ALF ALINE
Vitality Pills
ft re the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for a
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d„ posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d. ,
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Wane of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineTJniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
awayfree.
THE ALFALIHE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund_
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful patrons,
'with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope
of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
. ■ ■ WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
~P~atent Medicine
dealers for the genuine
~A If aline Remedies.
A REWARD
will be given for in -
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
'~Alfaline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ATFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains valuable ADVICE • FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen, =
whether you send to his Branches or to his Hea
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable
to. Hans Rassmussen.
APVICe FREE.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills-Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills-A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235, 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s,
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment—Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectua
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Hans Peter Hassmussen
Head
Office
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
JiHTSBANE : 309 Queen-street (near Creek-street).
TlELno UIiNE : 150 Bourke-street (opp. Eastern Markets
ADELAIDE: 154 Handle-street (near York' Hotel).
: 91 Lambton Quay-
BERTH: 4:81 Hay-street,
KALGOORLIE: Hannan-street (neoct Lindell’s).
BOULDER CITS : Biesse-street.
FR EM A NTLE : Henry-street .
From a N.S.W. Lancer’s letter published
in Sydney Daily Telegraph
“ We had seen a bit of the seamy side of the war, and
we were not very sentimental; but I thought of my old
mother many a time, and I don t mind telll ”EJ° u ,
more than once actually cried to see some of the cruel
and senseless things our fellows did. Youd see perhaps
a poor old woman and a couple of young girls lying on
makeshift bed on the earthen floor. The soldiers would
rush in, ransack the house, and take away things they
could not possibly have any use for, or carry far. Thej d
even collar the bedding of the wretched creatures
crouching in terror there on the floor. I thought more
than once, “And such might be the lot, some day, of my
poor old mother.”
The following, from a recent copy of
Home Notes (Eng.) should interest Dr. Ross :
SMOKING SCHOOLBOYS.
In Australia there seems to he not only no strong objec-
tion to juvenile smokers, but they are actually encour-
aged. incredible though it may appear, we are assured
bv the Cigarette World that the advisability of attach-
ing smoking-rooms to schools is already being discussed.
A Melbourne suburban J.P., called upon
the other day to mete out punishment to a baker
convicted for the severalth time of giving very
short weight in his broad, inquired anxiously if
there was “no way of stopping this sort of
thing.” This is an instance of the Law s tender
regard for the respectable person, especially the
respectable employer. If that baker s delivery-
boy had stolen one loaf he would probably have
been gaoled right off; if he persisted m
thus unlawfully increasing his wages, he
would, for the third or fourth offence,
most certainly have got a, long sentence and
probably a stiff dose of “solitary.” It was stated
in court that one of. the offending bakers was
making £5OO a year out of short weights, yet
though he is an even more wholesale thief than
the pickpocket or the loaf-pilferer, the Law care-
fully stipulates that he shall be fined some trifling
sum “ not exceeding” a stated amount. Of
course he pays up smiling, knowing he’ll make it
up out of more short weights in less than no time.
DAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
s' 011 ?If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILD. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/lid. per b.x. Prepared by
ALBLRI, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •- ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look foi the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green laLel on each box. (Regd. copyright).
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/0 eadkt
PLAITS and TAILS,
SOIn. lone, 6/8. nil real balk
CUTTINGS » COMBiBM#
•orlscd up, VO per oz.
We are the cheapeStlo MP
tralla for all (lair Work.
Satui Color of Hair.
W. H. Wigzell;
HO WruLiAM Strket,
corner of Palmer-atreot,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will etop at Doo*..
Bend etamps for full Price LlgV'
faogiapt attention "fti'ton to Country Orifft
Medical.
Dr. Boxwell’s PILLS.
XT OX-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEC-
1N xiYE. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert —Dr.
Boxwell having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Ag’ents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
all leading Wholesale Druggists in Australia or Pill
Manufacturing Co., 539 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
{< COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM.”
THE
DEAF
HIM
(COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
UYTOL
Is a restorative and physical regenerator of
magic power. A broken-down or weakened
system rejuvenated. Vytol acts on the
nerves, brain and blood, quickly and perman-
ently restoring to the sufferer the lost vim,
energy, strength and vigor of youth. Price posted 7/6.
A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street, North Melbourne.
Pamphlet, Testimonials, &c., sent Free.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. each.
, (English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
Medical.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE'S
f HLORQpyHE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS DROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ot
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
piefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodvne.. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation. ”
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,'we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment ot
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 itionths’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin -I /
Nasal Ointment, only * Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and infallible Remedy,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
W M.R.C-S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
INVENTOR OP Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Byes, &c.
use Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. i£d. and 2s. 9d. each of all Drug
Stores.
Sole Makers: BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd,
BRIDPORT, England.
Mrs. WALSH E’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
rpHESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posted, ss. 6d. per
box. Write to A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street North,
Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-street, Prahran,
Melb. says : “ Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
diate relief, although I had during two months previous
tried all sorts of remedies without success.”
CiTR
DEAF
w
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbou/ne.


DON’T RUSH AWAY
LOOK CAREFULLY OVER
Easy Terms.
Massey Harris Bicycle
You will note its excellence, and be convinced that the design finiah v.
mechanism and material are unequalled. The Massey is a thoroughbred in reputation
"" BYDWEY DEPOT; 385 GEQRQE STREET.
PLUGGER BILMARTIN
* .... ON HIS ....
V\ RED BIRD BICYCLE
w '" s asrjai jss a? s l js s? ssmtwis tbtak th „
branches in evert state. GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney.
The
Original
JOHN JAMESON WHISKY
Agents:
J. Barre Johnston & Co.
Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Saturday s racing at Caulfield had two or three
terns of interest. Wakeful, a Sunrise mare rated as a 25
to 1 chance for the Newmarket, won Oakleigh Plate in
SOme an( h presuming that some of the animals
sne ran away from were seriously fancied, the perform-
ance must have been a good one. Anyway the time—6B
secs, for 6J furlongs—was satisfactory. In Woodcliff
Handicap (llfur.) ancient Dreamland and the 3-year-old
uosport had the finish all to themselves, the youngster
overhauling his venerable antagonist in the straight and
beating him by half a head. Contrast, Barbarossa and
t l6< u admiral (alj of them backed for more money) were
far belnnd the pair. Dreamland, as was lately suggested
by Thb Bulletin, is coming on again in his old age. If it
was merely want of condition that stopped him (and,
Judging by the market, Scobie didn’t think him nearly
ripe) Dreamland will cut an important figure at V.R.O.
Autumn meet. On the other hand it may be that the
resurrected 9-year-old has not gained any stamina, and is
the same old deceiver as before. Gosport’s form was cer-
tainly encouraging. A son of Portsea and Fenellaß.,he
is bred to improve with age. The colt ran like a stayer,
and should be watched by punters.
* * * *
Wakeful’s bolt with Oakleigh Plate in Melb. on
Saturday was an eye-opener, and caused her to be rushed
down to eights (offered and freely taken) for the New-
market. Subsequently 700 to 100 was accepted twice,
and, at time of writing, she is firm at eights. Wakeful is
by Trenton from Insomnia, and will hump 7. 6., including
101 b. penalty. O. L. McDonald (long manager of now-
dispersed St. Albans stud) owns her, and is said to have
gathered in coin over Saturday’s run-away. The nag
was backed from tens down to fours. Wakeful’s perform-
ance stamps her a, clinker. Time was § sec. faster than
Coil s—the previous best done in that race—and only
1 sec. slower than Wild Rose’s Australian record (1. 7)
for the distance—s£ fur.
• • *
M.L. reputed marvel, Advance (now almost
paralysing l Newmarket Handicap betting*), was shipped
st°tu uc^an( l on Saturday week, and goes straight to
Melbourne. “Banjo” Paterson says of him: “Many
judges consider Advance as good a horse as Carbine ever
was. He doesn’t look it. He is about 15.3 high, a very
plain wear-and-tear sort, with a pony’s head, a coarse
neck, splendid barrel and limbs, and common-looking
hind-quarters rather badly coupled on to his body. About
the last animal a stranger would pick out as a champion
by his looks. All the same he is undoubtedly a galloping
phenomenon. I saw him run a working gallop. He moves
like a piece of clock-work and gallops with his head high,
which gives him the appearance of looking about him at
the scenery, while the horse alongside is straining every
nerve to keep there. In all his races lately he has finished
m the same way, with his head up, looking round him.
There is nbthing in M.L. that can make him extend him-
self at weight for age. Advance will meet very much
better horses here than over there. A leading M.L.
racing man said ‘ They will make a mistake if they try
to win the Newmarket with Advance. He can stay tiil
further orders, and in the long races he will not meet
many as good as himself, but at 6 fur. he may meet a
dozen flyers who will jump away and cut out such a pace
that his big weight will tell.’ N.S.W. and Yic. racing
men will rub their eyes with astonishment when they see
the plain-looking black go out for his gallop, and they will
be more astonished than ever when they see him move
along.”
* * * *
The Sydney and Melb. “ books ” are laying
from 200 to 1 to 500 to 1 (outside combinations) the
doubles—Newmarket and Australian Cup, and Doncaster
and Sj'dney Cup, the longer odds being very smellful, as
a rule. Fancy asking Ikey Mo for 3363 to 1 about the
former, and 9476 to 1 about the latter 1 Yet those are
the figures against any single combine Newmarket and
Cup (84 x 40—1), and the other double (104 x 92—1). The
gullible punter often wonders where Ikey and Co. get
their jewellery ; he oughtn’t to.
* * * *
Some people who have seen Fulminate and
Watch Dog when near their best believe that, should the
two incur no penalty, whatever can beat them will win
the Newmarket.
» * * *
Vic. trainer Scobie has started out on another
scoop. He gathered in Alma Stakes (per medium of
Hautvilliers) and Oakleigh Purse by means of another
two-year-old, United States (late Commonwealth), at
Caulfield, on Saturday. Hautvilliers is owned by Mr. W.
Bailey, hut was bred by Mr. “ Sam ” Hordern at Wilton
Park (N.S.W.), and sold as a yearling for 430 gs. United
States is by Bill of Portland from Happy Land, and so is
half-brother to the whilom famous Hova. Ancient Dream-
land (also among Scobie’s lot) went near winning Wood-
cliff Handicap same day. Gosport only beat her by half
a head.
» * * «
Projectile—Hirondelje 3yr.-old colt Com-
mander t’other morning put up the season’s record
(1.4 J) for 5 fur. off the sand at Flemington. This nag seems
to be coming on again. When owned by Sydney trainer
“Sam’’Fielder he promised well, and “Oxy” offered
£l,OOO for him. Fielder wasn’t on then, but subsequently
accepted very much less.
* * * *
Trainer and owner Sam Fielder’s Bother (late
Mother) atop of her double at Moorefield (Sydney) week
before, won Rosehill Sprinters’ Stakes, 6 fur. (Saturday)
carrying 101 b. penalty. The Watchdog and Bange were
behind. Bother ’ll win again soon if wanted and handi-
cappers haven’t quite got her measure.
• • • *
Apparent best N.S.W. nag out this season—and
for a long time—is Stillwater, winner of Rosehill two-
year-old race, Saturday. He is by Far Niente from
Rivula, and was bred at Neotsfield. As a yearling, Still-
water brought 150 gs. At dispersal of Chipping Norton
stud “Tucka Tucka” Smith secured his sire cheap.
Rivula is one of the Hobartville lot and went to Mr"
H. C. Dangar for lOOgs.
* • * *
April Fool, starting almost friendless, won
Rosehill (Sydney) February Handicap on Saturday in a
manner that should make punters keep an eye on him.
April Fool’s Sydney Cup weight is 8.3—121 b. less than he
won with on Saturday, and there is no penalty.
» * m m
At moment of writing, Northern N.S.W. nag
The Prize is running Kulaui close in favor for
S.T.C. Anniversary Handicap at Randwick this Saturday.
If as well as said, she’ll take much licking. When last in
Sydney (with 7.12 up) the mare ran third to Cyanide (7.4)
and Horace (6.7) in Place Handicap at A.J.C. Autumn
Meet. Winner’s time (2.361) was fast, and The Prize
finished less than a length off, despite getting away badly
and being last out of the straight.
* * » ♦
Crack Q. mare, Ma Ma, will trouble punter and
Mo no more. She died of “ influenza enteric ” at Rose-
hill (Sydney) t’other day.
* * * »
Said that Merriwee (Melb. Derby and Cup
winner in ’99) has hopelessly broken down and gone to
where she was bred—Bathurst, N.S.W. Also stated that
the race-track has seen the last of Bobadil.
* * * *
Cabled that Australian Peer—Colors’ nag Aus-
tralian Star secured Sandown Grand Prize (2m. over
hurdles, and worth 450 sovs. to winner), in Eng., last
Saturday. Entries hadn’t closed when last mail left
’Ome. Australian Star was bred by Eales Bros., at
Duckenfield Park (N.S.W.), and is full-brother to Aus-
tralian Colors, who also performed well at Rosehill same
day. Kogarah “Andy” Gollan bought A.S. at yearling
sales in ’97 for 30gs., but he shaped badly as a two-year-
old. Last season, a list of big successes went down to
him, commencing with Farm Stakes, at Warwick Farm
(N.S.W.), and finishing up with Guineas and Eclipse
Stakes, at Caulfield (Vic.). Present owner, S. H. Gollan
(no relation to previous one), then gave 2500g5. for the
nag, and took him to England, where he started eight
times without being placed. Despairing of success on
the flat, owner tried him over sticks. LatMt is Australian
Star’s initial succass “ down under.”
• * * *
N.S.W.’s huge score of 918 against South Aus-
tralia places her batsmen well to the front in inter-State
averages. Trumper and Gregory are in the 70’s, and
others high in proportion. Poidevin, with an aggregate
of 154 for twice out, is nominally at the head. Yet the
batting failed on five occasions, and but for the mammoth
score in the return match against S.A. would show up
badly in the season’s figures. Stuckey, who was only got
out once by N.S. W. in his four visits to the wickets in the
two matches with the mother State, shows an average of
200 against N.S.W. bowlers. ,
* * J|| £
Clem. Hill, with 620 runs" for six completed
innings, heads the Sheffield averages, with an average of
103, Poidevin running second with 77 for two completed
innings. Next in order are veteran Sid. Gregory (71) V
Trumper (65), Stuckey (68), and Noble (50). Poidevin and
Armstrong’are perhaps the best juniors of the season, and
a notable incident was the insignificant performance of
Fred. Hack, the lanky S.A. junior, who went top last
year and is nowhere this season. Saunders, the Vic
bowler, has been a solid asset this year, and not only
secured best average but took most wickets (29). Travers
the S.A. slow-bowler, who took 29 wickets, was the
other success of a season which gave no indication of suc-
cessors to Lyon, Giffen, Jones and Darling.
“ TJnley ”: This season’s Sheffield Shield con-
tests produce some curious results. Although NSW
made 2368 runs, averaging 33 per wicket, Victoria' onlv
1898, averaging 28, and S.A. 1637, averaging 23, Victoria
goes through the season unbeaten; and N.S.W and SA
are level for bottom ! N.S.W. put up her runs against
S.A., and the only decent score against Victoria was the
second innings, 452, last week. Writer (who is not a
Sydney man and is unbiassed) still considers N S W bv
far the best of the three State elevens. ‘
*• * » *
On this season’s form, Australia would perhaps
be represented in international cricket by Hill, Trumble
Travers, Stuckey, Saunders, M’Leod, Noble Gregory’
Marsh, Iredale and Ross or Kelly. In variety of bowling
it would be better, but in all other respects weaker than
Darling’s combination of ’99.
* » • ,
Vic. left-hand bowler Saunders’ rise has been
meteoric. At inception of last season he was unknown
His initial appearance (over 12 months since) in a big
match was against S.A. in Melb. when he bagged 6 for 71
Though having only played in 7 first-class contests so far’
his list tots up 50 wickets. Now he fills the bill to the
letter, being just the thing as a left-hander.
• * • •
The Australasian Swimming Carnival concluded
in Melb. on Saturday proved the immense superiority of
N.S.W. cracks over those of other States. The Vies, were
absolutely “ not in it,” and yet, years since, they had
among them as good, if not better, than N.S.W. owns
even now—notably the MTndoes, de Littles, Kenneys,
Webster, and co. Explanation lies in the fact that swim-
ming boomed in Victoria then, especially at Geelong
where the finest baths on the continent existed. Interest
fell away subsequently, until at last, from a dozen or
more strong clubs operating freely and frequently, the
number dwindled to one, which only gave faint flickers
of life occasionally. The cracks of the old days dropped
out of the game, and through lack of incentive none
came along to fill the breach, hence the present position
Meanwhile natation flourished and developed in the
mother State as it never did anywhere before (mainly
owing to well-directed work of out-and-out enthusiasts
and exceptional facilities for swimming. Q. never pos-
sessed a genuine top-rung performer, chiefly because of
the almost total absence of what is so amply'provided in
F-^Y-~ opportunities for P ra °tice. The Wheat-State
hadn t a man nearly good enough to represent it. M.L.
came next to N.S.W. through Champion swimming third
to Cavill and Craig in the 100 at Ballarat, but he was dis-
appointing in face of what had been trumpeted by M.L.
papers, and the fact that less than a month ago he
gathered in the whole of that country’s premierships
Though Champion is said to have bullocked over the
mile at home and finished up strong, what he showed in
Melbourne pointed to sprinting and not staying as beine-
his game. 6
* * * *
Scribes have been digging at N.S.W. A.S.A.
for sending Dick Cavill and Bob Craig, and ignoring Geo.
Read, as reps, in the big swimming events, last week, yet
the right thing was done. Craig beat Read over the short
distances—looyds. and 200yds.—while Cavill got away
with the longer struggles—quarter, half, and one mile.
What more was required as endorsement of the excellent
judgment evidenced ?
* * * •
Nevertheless, Read, who went over to
Melb. “ on his own,” proved a veritable surprise party •
but for letting Dick Cavill get too far away from him in
the last couple of laps he might have won the Half Mile
At the end there wasn’t 2yds of water between them, and
Dick had it all out. Read swam his first race this season
—a championship—and, bar winning a 50yds “ flutter ”in
Melbourne, hasn’t scored a first yet ; still he is a
wonderfully fine swimmer—about the most promising
comer in the State and liable to turn the tables on boy
Dick Cavill ere present season closes, as the N.S.W. Half
Mile and Mile premierships are among future big things.
Sydney Stas telegram, published in two places
on Saturday, that Cavill’s 1.2 for the 100yds swimming
supremacy at Ballarat the day previous wasn’t accepted
“ because timekeepers had taken it from the word ‘go ’
instead of from the moment the competitors entered the
water ” was amusing. This scribe thinks it should be the
other way about. Timekeepers probably clocked the
Bmm from entering the water instead of from the starter’s
signal which should shorten distance by yards. Proof is
that Cavill subsequently couldn’t do better than 1 3 1-5
-1-5 faster than his Goulburn (N.S.W.) time over 102yds.
and accomplished just before going to Melbourne. He has
never travelled faster in public.
* * * •
Thedisplays of M.L. swimming-crack Champion
in Australian premierships last week quite upset M L
scribes’ contention that their country’s fresli water at a
low temperature isn’t nearly so favorable to speed as the
warm sea water of Australia. They reckoned Champion’s
1.6 for the 100 at home was as good as 1.4 here. Cham-
pion failed to endorse this view, and swam no faster than
his home form indicated. N.S.W. reps, consider him
more a sprinter than a stayer.
* * * *
The greatest worry that the manager of the
N.S.W. team of swimmers in Victoria had was keeping
boy Dick Cavill from surrounding all the tarts and such
like within reach at the various festivities.
* * * *
Second of P. A. Y. C.’s events for all yachts,
30 rating class, took place in Sydney harbour on Satur-
day. Course the usual one, extending over 16 2-5 miles
A fluky breeze (changeable from E. to S.E.) barely sup-
plied a turn to windward and made the thing drag. The
light “leading” blow favored Mr. J. O. Fairfax’s Magic
so much that she won quite easily, thereby showing un-
mistakably that others will always have their work cut
out to beat her under similar conditions. Magic looks
sure to appropriate the “ rub,” as (assuming she is given
the first race, which looks certain) her points will total 6,
the next being Meteor 3. Meteor is the only boat having
a chance to get level, and to do this she must win with
Magic out of a place.
* * * •
Eighteen craft lined up for Sydney Flying
Squadron’s General Handicap (Saturday) and provided a
fine spectacle. The light breeze favored big sails, which
had things their own way. 22-footer Plover (generously
treated by the handicappers) got home first in the final
with 18ft. Ira second and 25ft. Young Harry third.
* * ♦ *
“ Png ” : The Imperial troops did not inspire
wholesouled universal admiration in Melbourne, for
although the factory-girl who parades the South side of
Bourke-street “collared on ” to the swaggering rooineks,
and the church-going middle-class type of man beheld
them with mute adoration, a great number of adult male
gumsuckers were filled with wrath by the king-of-the-
kids air of the imported swaddies, and resented it with
bad language and pressing invitations to fight. Colonel
Wyndham complained on leaving that his men were con-
tinually provoked to pugilistic encounters, and not a few
were handed on board so badly damaged as to be unfit
for publication for several days. Of course the Colonel
heard only his men’s stories. Sometimes the provocation
came from the military gents. The writer saw one bulky
Scotchman who had “poked borak” at Australia and
Australians, taken on by a S. Melb. light-weight and most
artistically licked out of his kilts. Another fight was pro-
voked by the declaration of an Australian that the local
Permanent Artillery could give points to the visitors in
training, physique, and all else. This resulted in several
engagements, and in every instance the red and plethoric
strangers were taken on and done for by dry, wiry, brown
blackguards of local growth. Although the visitors were
drilled daily to keep them in nick, they seemed beefy and
stertorous, and the lack of science amongst them was
most surprising to those who have been led to believe
that, when in barracks, Tommy spends half his spare
time flourishing the gloves.
* * * *
The prompt rejection of crack amateur athlete,
M. M. Roseingrave, who wanted to join the sixth M.L.
contingent for S’Africa, is in keeping with what was done
by Imperial authorities in England during the early
stages of the Jingo craze. Several members of a cham-
pion ’cross-country team fresh from their triumphs
wanted to enlist, but ’twas no go The pancake-chested,
spider-underpinned devotees of the spiked-shoe are not
in demand as fighting material.
* • • «
Cycling events of A.N.A. demonstration fin-
ished in Melbourne Monday night, and drew 18,000
onlookers. Persistent plugger Martin worked excite-
ment high by closing on the two chief events—A.N. A.
Great Wheel Race (first money £135) and Gold Stakes—
(4o sovs. and gold badge). Five-mile International scratch
event fell to Lawson, and Australian Oup Handicap
(ljm.) was won by F. S. Beauchamp.
• * * *
Now seems settled that 40 Australian bowlers
(16 from Vic., 14 from N.S.W., and 10 from M.L.) will go
’Ome next April. On the whole, they’re not a crack lot,
and anything but representative,' though sprinkled
among them there are a few good ones. Idea is that all
shall meet at some particular place in London, and make
that their headquarters. The team will not be picked till
then.
• * * *
The second-grade cycle-tyre that is now being
manufactured by the Dunlop Tyre 00. is to be known as
the “ Oceanic tyre.” This name has been selected out of
15,000 submitted in connection with the Dunlop competi-
tion for a suitable name. The winning name was sent in
twice, and, strange to say, the two entries were received and
entered-up on the same date, so that the £2O-prize will be
divided. The prize-winners are : O. E. Brown, Grammar
School,Oampbelltown, N.S.W., and J. R. Warren, Mt. Ros-
kill, Auckland, M.L. A cheque for £lO has accordingly been
forwarded to each of the fortunate competitors As re-
gards the “Oceanic ” tyre : This tyre is being manufac-
tured by the Dunlop Tyre Co., to meet the existing
demand for a good-wearing tyre at a cheap figure Of
course, the tyre will not equal the high-grade Dunlop
but will be far superior to all other cheap-grade tyres :
m fact, the “ Oceanic tyre ” will rank as the next best
tyre to the Dunlop.*
* * * *
The decay of British bruising prestige is amply
evidenced by late news that Geo. Chrisp and Jack
Scales will contend for the English heavyweight
supremacy. Lightweight Dick Burge (never any good
except when the struggle was a rough one) Once
easily beat Scales in half-a-round, and ’Murkan “ Coffee
Cooler” (middleweight) settled Chrisp not long since
Last of England’s real champions dropped out nearly
three. decades back. None worthy the name have
materialised since. Huge, unwieldy Brummagem tough
Jem Smith, wore the mantle, but he belonged to the’
cart-horse variety, and couldn’t get out of his own road
U. Mitchell—though he virtually beat that big Yankee
make-believe, John L. Sullivan, at Chantilly once—
couldn t live four rounds in front of Jim Corbett. Better
have no champion at all and leave things as they were 30
years ago, unless something approaching the quality of
Fitzsimmons, Jeffries and co. can be trotted out.
• • * 0
S’African mails often bring news of fist-fights
won bv one-time Australian crack wrestler and axe and
club-swinger Tom Burrows. Burrows went to England
with Tom Williams after the latter won Australian light-
weight pug-supremacy from “ Gentleman ” George Daw-
son in Melb. Both were under the wing of Piesse of
Piesse and Lubin, the big scent-firm. Williams got awav
with a couple of good fights, but did little afterwards.
The two worked together at Aldershot for years as boxing
and wrestling instructors, and prospered. By-and-byl
Burrows went to Cairo to manage a big sporting venture
while Williams drifted to U.S., ind proved a7la Sy mark
in half-a-dozen battles. Burrows’ spec, failed, hence his
presence with the British troops. He wasn’t in the box-
ing business here; that—together with remarkable
endurance club-swinging feats- has been developed since
Big Melb. sport of 12 years ago “Jack” Dougharty
(since dead) was a thick-and-thin supporter of Williams
and Burrows.
• * • *
Whilom Australian middleweight champ. Dan
Creedon, atop of his apparent general break-up, seems to
be meeting with heaps of bad luck in the U.S. lately.
Three decisions which scribes and other onlookers in-
sisted should have been his went against him in succes-
sion. Latest was early last month at Memphis.
* * * *
May not be generally known that present Fede-
ral Collector of Customs, “ Nick ” Lockyer, was, less than
20 years ago, a crack amateur sculler—when amateur
sculling boomed in Sydney, and champion George Brett
was at his best. Fairfax and Lockyer were a double-
sculling combination that needed much reckoning with
in those days. First-named was a nephew of present
senior proprietor of S.M. Herald, and a fine well set nn
but ’i T l fo . r f, unatel y tvphoid killed him, as it
did Lord (winner of Laidley Sculls), somewhere about the
same time • Nick Lockyer, under the pen-name of
reST’ i f ?/I earS 00 !j tr ' buted t 0 Sydney Mail the most
readable stuff then available on rowing*.
* .• * * *
« Martin celebrated his return to the
fhAn , neBt r b / win . nin £ the A.N. A. Wheel Race and
the Gold Stakes International Scratch Race. The “ Red
Bird has won the “ Austral,” value £4OO and rhe
A.N. A. Wheel Race and Gold Stakes, value £165.*
fp Pa s t M h^ f ; se f s< ? n ’ s records show that Lochiel
topped the list of winning Australian stallions. His get
accounted for 64J races, worth £7747 15s. Zalinski fol-
lows with £5069, won in 28 races by 12 horses • while third
place is filled by Bill of Portland, Bof whose progeny got
h^9n m • races ’ c o^, ue £4355 - Gozo > during same period,
had 20 winners of 37J races, which returned 13703 5s in
prize money; while his stud companion, Metal, had 18
winners of 30 races, value £3349 155., or about £5O less
than was credited to Carbine. Then follow Clan Stuart
£3163 10s. ; Malua, £3195 ; Gossoon, £'1735 ; Padlock'
£2618; Light Artillery, £2597 ; Haut Brion, £2520 ; Tren-
ton, £2497 ; and Far Niente, £2411. The Warwick Farm
sire Niagara won £1538.
* » * *
Though always credited with being a thorough
“ sport,” Albert Edward was never enthusiastic about
any form of athletics. He is said to have gone into the
cricket-field on only one occasion, when he was one of a
party of London smart youths visiting a Welsh backblock
township. A cricket-match was arranged, and the Prince
was put in the team, the captain of the local men warning
all his men to let the royal visitor pile up a few runs.
But, when the coming K. took his place at the crease, the
captain himself was bowling, and rocked-in a hot ’un
which sent the Prince’s bails flying. A London paper in
reporting the incident, said : The Prince advanced to
the wickets. Mr. bowled. The Prince retired to
the pavilion.” That was the one and only appearance of
the King in England’s national game.
* * * * '
Eternal fitness ! The site of the new Bathurst
(N.S.W.) racecourse is between the cemetery and the
gaol.
Apropos Sydney’s old cemetery being busi-
nessised. The Melb. Saturday night Cheap Meat
Market is appropriately over part of the local old
cemetery, which was chopped off without a “By
your leave ”to the corpses. In turning upt the
skeletons, one was found in a digger’s red shirt
and corduroy trousers, with a rope round its neck.
The Jews objected to their graves being torn up.
They were punished by the Hebrew compartment
being turned into the curator’s fowl-yard. Years
ago his ducks were seen quacking and his fowls
clucking as they ran over flat tombstones in-
scribed with Hebraic characters. However, it’s
all nice and quiet now. ’ ■
Many curious and sombre-minded indivi-
duals have been tangling themselves in the wilder-
nesses of Devonshire-street cemetery, Sydney, for
days past in the hopes of seeing an exhumation,
but so far they have met with little success!
Apparently it is only the very old sepulchres whose
contents are mere dust that are disturbed by day.
All the same, the cemetery wears the outward
show of a partial resurrection going on. Every-
where old tombstones lie sideways and end-
ways. The cemetery seems to have extended
further than is now apparent, for the small
boys in a cottage garden not far off play at
funerals with an assortment of real bones dug up
in their ground and re-interred to the Marche
Funebre played on a tin-whistle, a toastmg-fork,
and a horn handled knife.
In Victoria and Tasmania the recent com-
bination of fierce gales with bush-fires has wrought
devastation only second to that of the historic
Black Wednesday. In the Western District
(Vic.) fully 10,000 sheep have been destroyed, one
station losing 3000 and another 2000. The des-
truction of crops has also been enormous, and up
to date five human lives have been sacrificed—
three of the victims being boys of about 12, who
in the confusion got surrounded by the flames and
perished together. Numerous fire-fighters are
also in hospital, severely—and in some cases, it-
is feared, fatally—burnt. The flames in this dis-
trict were at one stage continuous over 30 miles of
country, and another fire in the N.E. district of
Vic. covered a space of 25 miles by 12. In Tas-
mania the town of Queenstown lost about 60
houses, and the neighbouring district has been re-
duced to a blackened desert, and in Albury dis-
trict (N.S.W.) there has also been great destruc-
tion of crops and produce—with apprehended loss
of human life.
Thousands Have Piles.
THEY ARE EASY TO CUEE.
Perhaps there is no disease more irritating
and annoying than Piles. It is the result of
imperfect circulation of the hlood. The venous
blood settles in the veins of the rectum, and
expanding these veins produces the nodules
known as Piles. This is sometimes produced hy
an inactive liver, which does not permit the
blood to return freely to the heart; sometimes
it is the result of a weak action of the heart
itself, and often it is due to large masses of faeces
lodging in the bowels and pressing upon the veins,
so that the blood cannot return to heart and lungs.
This disease is not only most painful, but also very
damgerous, as the inflamed nodules are very apt to
take on malignant action, and cancer of the rectum
is produced. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, in
their action on the liver, heart, and bowels, strike
at all these causes of Piles and remove them.
Advised to be Operated on fob Piles.—Dr
Morse’s Indian Root Pills Cured Her
Trouble.
Mrs. Ricketts, of University-street, Camper-
down, writes : “ I write to inform you that I was
a sufferer from piles for eight or ten years; during
that time I found nothing that would cure them,
and was repeatedly told that I would have to
undergo an operation to have them cut out. How-
ever, I was advised to try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Puls. I took the lady’s advice, and found they
did me good, and am now free from them, and
have been for over twelve months, and consider I
am perfectly cured.”
EVER HAD PILES?
THREE YEARS’ AGONY.—PILES CAUSED IT.—
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS CURE.
“I to inform you I suffered for a long
time with piles—say three years, off and on ”
writes Mr. F. Thompson, Maria-street, Newtown.
i could not get anything to rid me of them. I
was advised to try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
Not having much faith in patent medicines I
hesitated for some time, but aJu, last resolved
to give them a trial. lam pleased to state
that after taking two bottles the piles dis-
appeared, and up to this date there has not
been any sign of their return.” Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills positively cure biliousness,
indigestion, constipation, dyspepsia, headaches,
hver and kidney complaints, piles, pimples, and
blotches. Sold by chemists and storekeepers,
price Is. ljd. per bottle, or six bottles 6s. 6d.
Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd. (Australasian Depdt), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Packed in amber bottles, and the full name blown
thereon.


“A GOOD WEIGH ”
TO TEST THE MERITS OE
i. <nri
DERBY
Tobago
DERBY WINS RESPECT.
DERBY
TOBACCO
Is to smoke it.
You will then
admit that it
has reached
the scale of
perfection.
The Modern Art Jewellery Co.,
187 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone 3490.
Have you seen
our
Always a Becoming:
Ornament.
GOLD BAMBOO BANGLES?
Worn 1
Sydney
Gold Turquoise Heart
Pendants—4/6, 6/-, 10/6.
GOLD BAMBOO BANGLES.
9-carat Bamboo Bangles. Prices—22/6, 30/- and 35/-
15-carat Bamboo Bangles. Prices 57/6 and 65/-.
Open all day Wednesday till 6, and
Saturday Nights -from 6 to 9.30.
A Merry Thought.
Gold Pin and Wishbone
suspended by a chain.
Price —5/-.
Gold Wishbone Charm.
Price—2/6.
Fairfax & Roberts,
Consulting Opticians.
THE OLDEST OPTICAL HOUSE IN SYDNEY.
OPTICIANS TO THE WALKER
HOSPITAL.
pp- Private Sight Testing Rooms Upstairs. “WS
London Cash
Prices.
23 Hunter St
SYDNEY.
lit iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiininini
iin nhnrrn.
,<i i ii I I ii u i nil
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KINO STREET, and near the General Post
Offioe.
Proprietor * - GEO. W. ILLIS.
~ . . , , , . r tj, v i,
Caran a Ache S last cut IS Ot an English
eoldier, with all his accoutrements ticketed “as
supplied by the Chamberlains.”
Died at Yodda Valley, Papua, Armit,
, , . , vr n 1
noted pioneer of N.Q. in days when history was
made up North. Armit, like his old chum
Sfn+o ond
Hodgkmson, knew every held m the btate and
filled many jobs from Warden to miner, lne old
fellow often said he would die with his boots on,
and he passed over whilst seated in a chair in his
house.
Dear Bulletin.—“ Hermes (B. 9/2/1)
asserts that the O’Sullivan is not original. But,
as a proof that he is, “ The Minister has approved
18th -fiVL IQOI heinc cranted as a
of Monday, loth ±eb., laui, being granted as a
holiday to the men employed in iNewcastle dis-
trict for the annual picnic, provided they attend
the picnic or can show that they have bought
tickets for same.” As the dredges, &c., cannot be
kept going for a few men who may not desire to
attend the picnic, work must be stopped, but only
~ i if' .•’i rA i 0 flvo
those who buy tickets are to be paid for the day.
How s that for the effort of a great mind . yuiLP.
William M‘Millan, last Monday, told the
people of Sydney pretty nearly every reason he
had for being a /freetrader, except the most con
vincing reason of all—that he is an importer, and
it is the interest of hiS class to crush out
local manufactures, in their own line of business,
because local manufactures, however good for
...r-r-v and wntrec, fnr the nennle are
supplying work and wages tor the' People. are
darned bad for the M Millan sort
business. When the ardent Freetrader, M Millan,
was Treasurer of an ardent Freetrade Govern-
ment in N.S.W. he carefullv protected beer,
bacon, biscuits, butter, candles, cement, candied
and dried fruits, cheese, cigars, cigarettes, confec-
tionery, temperance drinks, cornflour, galvanised
viuueij, vcmyc Lu. uL
iron goods, wooden goods, timber, hams, tongues,
jams, jellies, red lead, white lead, sugar, molasses,
treacle, oils, paints, fish, raisins, raspberry pulp,
salt tobacco, snuff, varnish, wine, newspapers,
and a few other articles. He didn’t protect
softgoods; by a curious coincidence he lives
fv’ J t
by importing softgoods, and to encourage the
local manufacture of them would have been to
damage the M‘Millan kind of business. But he
protected almost every other industry of any size
which N.S.W. possessed, and M‘Millan is another
proof that the Freetrader in theory almost always
finds his creed too disastrous in practice,
tt 1 ■ j. r;n „„„ „n
Unless importer M Millan can explain away all
his Protectionist duties of times past, he will con-
1110 x lUTOvwui o 1,..- 1 u ’ u„
tinue to look the same political humbug that he
has always looked. Also M Millan, alter saying
that he is an ardent Freetrader “ nurtured in the
creed of the great Liberal party of England,”
states that he proposes to raise £8,000,000 by
a Commonwealth revenue tariff. Truly the
M‘Billion is a disgrace to the “great Liberal
party of England.” That party preserves its
Freetrade principles by the simple process of put-
ting up -direct taxation (local and national) to
no 7„ nr no o„ „ pr inhabitant In NS W
about £2 7s. or hZ 8s per inhabitant. inINS. W
the figure is about £l. M Millan can keep his
Freetrade principles intact by following England s
example, and tlius,do some credit to the teachings
of the great English Liberal party he admires so
much.
At Poverty Point.
An experienced pro. on manufactured “successes”:—
“ You can take little notice of long London runs as a cri-
terion of the quality, the popularity, or attracting power
of light opera, musical burlesque, or any entertainment
of the sort. Success, from the manager’s point of view,
is not infrequently guaranteed by the rich ‘ protector ’
of the surprisingly versatile and wonderfully beautiful
young actress who has just been discovered, and who was
evidently designed by Providence to create the role of the
heroine in the charming new opera by So-and-so. In one
instance the doting admirer of a rather clever but very
imperious songstress, being exceedingly blessed with
riches, and lamentably lacking in brains, did not let up
until he had spent over £70,000 on a London ‘ success ’
for the particular pair of tights that had infatuated
him ”
T. P. O’Connor, in M.A.P., about the late Sir Arthur
Sullivan :—“ In recent years everything about the man
seemed to have shrunk until he seemed but the shrivelled
remnant of himself. But the brilliancy of those wonder-
ful black eyes—inherited from his Italian mother—always
remained, and their effect and beauty were heightened
by the deadly pallor of the small shrunken face.”
The late Arthur Sullivan got his first training in music
as a choir-boy at the Chapel Royal, St. James’ Palace.
Alfred Cellier was a chorister at St. Paul’s Cathedral,
London, several of the brightest performers in the
op eras of Sullivan and Cellier sang praises to the Lord in
surplices before their young voices cracked, °o, one way
and another, English comic opera owes a .tt to the
Anglican Church. Let no joyous singer speak disrespect-
fully of a bishop’s gaiters, for the religion of a Saumarez
Smith has done more for the stage than all the creeds of
the dour elders and the “ brethering” who chant through
their noses.
Clement Scott, in his Free Lance, reminisces about the
premiCre of “ Ecarte,” a comedy by Lord Newry, who
accompanied Edinburgh, York, and Co. to Australia.
Clem, says the manageress irrigated during a picnic on
the stage, with the real Maginnis, or Clicquot, instead of
the familiar gingerbeer. Consequently she came on the
stage wearing a red boot and a green one, and looking
as if her things would drop off generally, while she
made a squiffy oration, with tears —crying-drunk, in short.
Tay Pay O’Connor’s paper, “ M.A.P.,” states that Cart-
wright is an English Catholic, and the only member of
his family who was sufficiently worldly to get married.
His brothers are all priests, and his three sisters are nuns,
says “ M.A.P.” Some English Catholic families seem
addicted to that sort of thing : only one of the big family
of old Colonel Vaughan (father of Sydney’s R.O. Arch-
bishop) got married.
Theodore Martin’s “ Life of Helen Faucit” is not so
slobbery as might be expected, and he even tries to say a
kind word for Ellen Tree and Fanny Kemble, adding that
Lady Martin had a favorable opinion of Rachel ! The big
advt. for the book was to be the placing of Helen Faucit’s
bust alongside that of Shakespeare in Stratford Church,
but even the influence of Her Maj. could not pull that off.
Helen Faucit was the only individual in the profession
who had a poor opinion of 6. V. Brooke, with whom she
frequently acted ; he had a knack of annexing the lion’s
share of the applause by his rough methods. However
she was the finer artist. Brooke had the genius—what-
ever it was worth. Ooppin says—“ You never knew how
he would act.” Off the boards he'was almost a clod.
A London paper—apparently unaware that the late Sir
Arthur Sullivan’s original name was Solomon—refers to
“ his true Celtic liberality.” But Celt or Semite, the
deceased musician had munificent notions of coin-using.
He entertained royalty once, for instance, at Leeds in a
style which his conductor’s fee of £2OO (for the local
musical festival) didn’t go far to support ; and, .during
rehearsals, kept dashing to and fro between Leeds and
London in special trains, as the humor took him. He
would even take a special train to enable him to attend a
private dinner.
Related by Sarah Bernhardt that, in New York once,
there having been some talk of a small operation upon a
bad knee caused to her by kneeling on a rusty nail—a
Chicago museum-manager wired to her that, if her leg
had to be amputated, he would like to have it for his
show; and added that, if required, the severed limb
would be becomingly draped.
It was a treat for old-timers to see George Darrell take
the floor at Her Majesty’s (Melb.) last Friday afternoon.
George’s curious circular way of introducing his legs to
notice looked more original than ever. Many mimics
have imitated George’s voice, but nobody has had the
audacity to attempt to walk like the Sunny Southerner.
“ Haresfoot ” : Darrell says he has been twenty years
on the stage. Thirty-five. Youngest pro. I ever knew.
What a bonanza in the cinematograph-way the views of
Queen Victoria’s funeral ought to be !
The organist of St. Paul’s, London, states that the late
Sir Arthur Sullivan has left in his hands a fully-scored Te
Deum, to be sung on the conclusion of the S’African war,
whenever that may be !
Kenningham’s recent occasional disappearances from
the “Florodora” cast are due to the demon sciatica,
which originated in acute dyspepsia, brought about by the
iced drinks of America.
Clement Scott speaks reminiscently of the “ lovely
curse scene in “Leah," which gave Miss Bateman,
from America, the chance to take London by storm m
the ’6o’s. The great success of Kate Bateman had
great results. It happened at the Lyceum, and,
some years later, when her father resumed the
management of the theatre, he went for an
other coup of the same gloomy kind by pro-
ducing “ The Bells,” with Irving in the central
character. But for “Leah,” the peculiar
genius of Irving would probably have had to
wait much longer for such an opening as
“ The Bells ” gave him. Bateman was the
only London manager who could see a possible
fortune in the one-part play. The production
was a daring gamble ; Bateman had an un-
quenchable thirst for gambling. Much of the
money he made by Irving’s first triumphs in
“Bells,” “Charles the First,” and “Hamlet_
was said to have been lost at the card-table. He
died during the run of “ Hamlet,” leaving the lease
of the theatre and the more valuable lease of
Irving to his widow. The star actor’s salary had by
that time been raised from the original £2O, or so, to
£l5O a week.
Frank Fillis —at present in Glasgow, Scotland, with a
Savage S’African shovy—advertises that he is the Origin
nator and Inventor of S’Africa,” and that he has lived
in S’Africa for 22 years, and has been in personal contact
with Kruger, Steyn, Joubert, Botha, Cronje, and all the
other celebrities engaged in the present war, and is
thereby enabled to place before the British public a true
and faithful representation of life as it really is in
S’Africa.” For unassuming truthfulness, you can t
the circus-man! f
The Bulletin is glad to hear of the convalescence of
Dick Stewart, sen. (treasurer of Her Majesty’s), who hsis
been suffering from lung trouble at a private hospital m
Melbourne, &c., &c.
The performance given on the eighth anniversary of th e
opening of the Palace Theatre, London, included items by
some people of Australian interest. For instance :
“ Mrs. Brown Potter, looking her fairest, recited a fanciful
poem, ‘ The Birth of the Opal.’ .... Mr. Frank Lawton
whistled, and Mr. Frank Lincoln gave phonetic impres-
sions of various languages.”
There are said to be more unlikely things than a revival
of “Ma Mie Rosette ” at a Williamsonian theatre, with
Nellie Stewart in the name part.
“ The Thirty Thieves,” a new extravaganza at Terry’s
Theatre, London, has Florence Perry and Pattie Browne
in the company. The Morning Post notice states that
“ Miss Perry, recently returned from Australia, is a
delightful Mariana.” But 0 1 it doesn’t give Pattie
Browne a line.
Madame Belle Cole is* coming out again to Australia
with a concert co., which, let us hope, will include
another Phil. Newbury. By the way, a January criticism
of Belle Cole was not favorable —“ She seemed somewhat
out of voice.”
“ E.’’: Correspondent “Sfogato” doesn’t class me, I
hope, with the “ possibly venal scribes ” who represent
Marchesi as the greatest of all singing mistresses.. I
merely say she is a successful teacher with a connection
that is not limited to Australians and Americans, as
stated by “ Sfogato.” To give him the names of her most
promising French and Russian ( and German) pupils
would make him none the wiser, unless, perchance, one
of them has already scored a notable success in public.
I suggested that Marchesi’s critics were probably actuated
by personal prejudice. “ Sfogato,” for instance, appears
to have been at some pains to get evidence against her.
He quotes a French newspaper critique of her daughter
and pupil, Blanche Marchesi, as though it were neces-
sarily unprejudiced and honest, whereas it con-
tains evidence of malice in the query:—“ In what
school has Madame Marchesi learnt to produce
sound in such an exasperating fashion.” The writer
must have known that she had studied at her mother’s
school, so the affectation of ignorance can be taken to in-
dicate professional jealousy. Anyhow there is more than
one opinion about Blanche Marchesi. The Morning Post
of January 2nd noticing the New Year’s Day concert at
the Queen’s Hall (London) said : —“Madame Blanche Mar-
chesi was the vocalist. She sang Handel’s ‘ Ombra mai
fu ’ in a deeply expressive manner, and was obliged to re-
peat Parker’s song—‘The Lark now leaves his wat’ry
nest ’ —a clever and bright imitation of the old English
style.” Sfogato ignored the fact of Madame Blanche hav-
ing been a favorite London artist for the past year, or
more. Perhaps he didn’t know that she lately appeared
as Brunehild in “ Die Walknre,” at Prague, and scored a
big success.
The beauteous Forbes Robertson was quietly married
on Xmas Eve to Gertrude Elliott, who played small parts
with her sister (Mrs. Nat. Goodwin) in Australia, but who
has since become a leading lady in London. The real
family name proves to be Dermot.
The initiated get fresh entertainment from “ Florodora’
since Wallace Brownlow took to topical gags, which are,
presumably, encroachments on the low-comedian’s
preserves. Brownlow at the outset used to announce
himself merely as a Spirit of the Past, but now the bari-
tone Spirit adds the statement that he is looking for an
Old Age Pension. And he makes one or two other serious
attempts to be funny, as though he were competing
against Lauri for the jester’s cap and bells. Lauri accord-
ingly “ throws off ” a little at presumptuous Brownlow.
When he comes to feel the warbler’s head he professes to
discover the bumps of Humor and Beauty sticking out
like skittle-balls, and the victim in the chair doesn’t seem
very comfortable under the imputation.
Advertised that George Musgrove’s pantomime impor-
tations were only engaged for 16 weeks performance in
Australia. Probably the very shortest engagement ever
booked by an English artist was Clarence Leumane’s
original contract. He came out to fill the tenor part in
“Princess Ida” for six weeks at a big salary, first-class
return fare being guaranteed in the event of his not suit-
ing. But at the end of the term Leumane signed a fresh
contract, and was with the Firm for year afterwards with-
out a break.
C. M. Rodney, a “ variety ” entertainer who threatens
to give a new and original form of one-man show, will
open at Melb. Masonic Hall on March 2nd. Rodney was
well known in England of yore as a successful comic-song
writer and warbler, but for the past seven years he has
been a S’African identity, and he comes from that gore-
stained country with the reputation of being the first
professional humorist to appear in Mafeking after show-
man Baden Powell had concluded his long season. The
fact that Rodney didn’t come here to lecture on S’Africa
is evidence of his good faith in his own particular enter-
tainment, concerning the details whereof he preserves an
appetising mystery.
Not generally known that Titheradge once played lago
in Melbourne, at the Royal. It was George Ireland’s
benefit—Sept. 10, ’B6—the beneficiary appearing as the
Moorish soldier who smothers his wife.
The late Helen Vivian played Miami in “The Green
Bushes,” at Melb. Opera House, at the time when Essie
Jenyns was enjoying her Shakespearian boom at the
Bijou. Clever little Dora Mostyn made her first appear-
ance in Melbourne with the Vivians in the “ Bushes.”
Chas. Hoyt, who died lately of brain disease at a
palatial residence in ’Murka, represented the very
cheapest kind of talent for making money by stage-work.
He figured as author, composer, and manager of such
musical comedies as “ Chinatown ” and “ The Milk White
Flag,” wherein the human interest consisted largely of
the principal comedian’s thirst for “ cocktails.” Looking
back upon “ A Trip to Chinatown," the piece that
yielded £20,000 a year to Chas. Hoyt for five consecutive
years, one remembers nothing but its worthlessness. The
characters were contemptible, the dialogue trivial, and
the music third-rate stuff, whether original or otherwise.
Hoyt only knows how much of it was not absolutely
stolen from other third-rate musicians. The flat tenor’s
ballad (in “ Chinatown ”) concerning “ Nancy—his fancy,
sweeter than chicken ye gods '.—belonged to the lower
order of coon songs. As for “ The Bowery ” song—“ O, the
Bowery, the Bowery, did you ever hear tell of the
Bowery ? ” —it was set to the tune of “O, the Har-e m, the
Har-e m, did you ever hear tell of the Har-e m ? ” com-
posed by one Fred. Gilbert, a music-hall agent, in the
70’s. Men of the Hoyt stamp are calamities. With the
minimum of ability and the maximum of push and impu-
dence, they manage to bluff the public into accepting
hogwash for humor.
Artist Harry Furniss (who visited Australia a few
years ago) is touring the English provinces with an en-
tertainment entitled, “ Peace with Humour."
After the magnificent coronation of George IV., de-
cidedly the most expensive in English history, manager
Elliston bought all the props., and had the Coronation at
Drury Lane. He even got drunk in emulation of the
real King, and hiccuped to the pit, “Bless you, my
people 1 ” Be believed he was George IV. , just as George
believed the Charge at Waterloo.
POOR, BUT LOYAL.
TOUGH: “Day, sir. Could you gimme a thrup
penny bit?”
TENDER (curiously): “ Same old story, I suppose
wife can’t get work, eh?”
TOUGH: “No, sir; I want ter buy a bit o’
mournin’.”
Once upon a time the tenor and the baritone in a
musical co. operating at a metropolitan theatre had bitter
differences over a little damsel in the ballet, and hated
each other sorely. For some time each vented his feelings
in scornful disparagement of the other’s personal appear-
ance and artistic pretensions, but at length the insults
the tenor directed towards the baritone, and the baritone
returned to the tenor, went beyond human endurance,
and it was understood that Blood alone could atone —hot,
human blood 1 Neither quailed before the shocking
possibilities of the situation, and the quarrel reached its
climax in a long and particularly gory battle in the ring
at a local boxing-hall, the combatants being the baritone
and the tenor as represented by their dressers. When
the dressers had beaten each other into a jelly, there was
an affecting reconciliation between the principals, who
mingled their tears while the battered underlings were
being carried away to bed.
The “ Owen Hall ” who wrote the book of “ Florodora ”
is “ Teddy” Davis, formerly identified with the audacious
Bat newspaper. A criminal libel on Lord Lonsdale, or
Lady Lonsdale, or somebody, burst up the Bat and sent
the proprietor into exile at Boulogne. It was there that
a friend advised him to turn his pen to theatrical
account. Davis pointed out the absurdity of his hoping
to make any money by any work that bore his name.
His creditors would garnishee his author’s fees. “How
much do you owe and who are your creditors ? ” asked
the friend. Davis replied that he owed a lot of money to
everybody. His pen-name, “ Owen Hall,” was the out-
come of the discussion.
Mrs. Palmer was one of the sweetest Bohemian Girls
that Melbourne has heard. Under her maiden name,
Rosina Oarandini, she played the heroine in Balfe’s opera
22 years ago at the old Academy of Music.
Writes Springfield (U.S.) Republican “ Rachel was a
Jewess, Bernhardt is a Jewess, Edwin Booth was a Jew
by blood and inherited genius, Olga Nethersole, Emma
Oalv6, and Mrs. James Brown-Potter, if not Jews, were of
Jewish extraction. The greatest of all impresarios, Maur-
ice Grau, is a Jew. The most enterprising and powerful
of modern managers, Charles Frohman, is a Jew. The
most artistic and refined of theatrical directors, Daniel
Frohman, is a Jew. There are almost as many Jews con-
trolling the stage as there are employed in its perform-
ances. It is not impossible that the art of our theatre
shall become a separate province of the Jews. It is
not only possible, but probable, that the govern-
ment of its ventures may be engrossed by the
Jews. Our Hebrew friends have developed remarkable
aptitude for its affairs. They are shrewd students of
public taste, they are courageous in expenditure, they
are good losers, they are philosophic and abundant in
hope, they have not personal fads or fancies to force upon
the audience, they regard the entertainment of the people
as a legitimate business and conduct it on business prin-
ciples. Semitism seems to be the spirit of modern
advancement in the drama and music. Gentile manage-
ment has many faults of which Hebraic management is
free. Within the past dozen years we have observed
that once famous and prosperous Christians have
been forced by their own errors to relinquish control oi
play-houses that are now successfully conducted by Jews.
Managers who insist on giving entertainment which they
want, rather than providing amusement which the public
wants, have fallen by the wayside. The Jews have no non-
sense or selfish sentiment in the running of a theatre.
Certain Christian managers have compelled their
patrons to accept leading women with whom their
relations were meretricious; others have forced
their audience to endure actors and authors for
whom they had no approval. Such errors are not
Hebraic. ‘Hath not a Jew eyes?’cried Shylock. ‘Hath
not a Jew organs, senses, passions, affections ? ’ Verily,
but he does not allow them to be obtruded upon the
public. Business is business. A Jew’s romances and
friendships are as strong as a Christian’s, but they never
interfere with his purpose in carrying out any under-
taking to which his efforts are applied. The Jews are not
only hard-working, indefatigable, brainy managers ; they
are'self-respecting. Scandal, too frequent in tbe theatre,
seldom assails them. Certain of the chief managers of
England have been involved in disgraceful incidents.
‘ These,’ to quote Shylock again, ‘ these be your
Christian husbands.’ There has never been scandal in
public prints about our Jewish managers.”
Snazelle, talking of his youthful days, says he was a
dead failure at commercial-travelling. He got an engage-
ment with a French firm in London to push the sale of
“ side-spring ” boots, which were then a novelty and a
particularly good line for a novice to start upon. “ But,”
says Snazzy, “ the commercial-traveller who would suc-
ceed must be the possessor of an angelic temper, untiring
patience, and much perseverance in the face of rebuff and
insult. I could boast none of these things. My side-
springs brought me not a single order, but involved me
in 13 fights with blustering bootmakers.”
Pinero’s new comedy is due in London next month. It
will be produced by Arthur Bourchier, and will have lead-
ing parts for himself and wife. Mrs. Bourchier is the
Miss Irene Vanbrugh who came to Australia in ’9l with
poor old Johnny Toole’s co.


Publications.
JUBILEE SONGS
N
*C-'
Old & New
FOR
Old & Young
Etfcry Ooe a Favorite.
No 43.—Jubilee Song's, Old and New.
Gwine to Run all Night,
or the CamptoWn Races—
The Belle of Tennessee
Buckley
Daffney, Do You Love Me?
Good Bye, Susan Jane,
“ End Song” _
Gideon’s Band Dodworth
Ham ! He War'd a Boss ’
In the Morning by the
Bright Light—The fam-
ous end song
Mary ll ano George Barker
The Little Old Cabin in
the Lane
Jim Crack Corn
My Old Kentucky Home
Foster
Nelly Bly Foster
I Love, Oh, I Love a Good
Laugh
Oh, Boys, Carry Me ’Long
S. C. Foster
Fancy Till (Down in the
Cane Brake)
Gone where the Good Nig-
gas Go (Uncle Ned)
S. C. Foster
Shoo ! Fly ! Don’t Bother
Me _
Did Not Old Pharaoch Get
Lost ?
Go Down Moses—When
Israel Was in Egypt’s
Land '
He Arose
Good News, the Chariot’s
Coming
The Gospel Train—Get on
Board Children
I Ain’t Going to Die No
More
I’ll Hear the Trumpet
Sound
I’m Bolling Thro’ an Un-
friendly World
In-the River of Jordan
John Baptised
Turn Bade, Pharaoh’s Army
I Want to Be Ready ; to
Walk to Jerusalem just
Like John
Keep me from: Sinking
Down
My Lord’s A-moving in
the Air
My Way’s Cloudy
Mary and Martha’s Just
Gone Along
My Lord, What a Mourning
Nobody Knows the Trouble
I See I
The Old Ark’s A-Moving I
Peter, Go Ring them Bells
Roll, Jordan, Roll
Reign, Master Jesus
Swing Low, Sweet Chariot
Rise, Shine, for Thy Light
Is A-coming
Steal Away to Jesus
There’s a Meeting Here
To-night
Price 1/-, or Posted 1/2.
Obtainable at Musicsellers throughout Australia, or
direct from the publishers,
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd
276 AND 278 COLLINS ST.,
-»O^MELBOURNE.
Patrick Joyce, a resident of Gulgong
(N.S.W.) from its opening, died the other\lay.
For 30 years he had been blind. He was a news-
agent, and delivered his papers, without aid, never
making a blunder.
A significant news clip :
On Christmas Eve the Guild (of “Loyal Women”) will
"W wreathes on flowers of the graves of British and
Butch who have died of wounds or disease in Cape
Colony during the year, and special services will be held
in the churches. You would have thought that such a
kindly act would soften the hearts of even those women
whose hatred of the British is most virulent. Yet, so
bitter appears to be the feeling against us at the Gape
that ‘ A Dutch Woman ” in the South African News
protests violently, and resents the very idea of the
graves of her countrymen being touched by British hands,
and her letter actually appeared with the horrible head-
mg, “ Hands Off, you Ghouls ! ”
THOMSON'S
NEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING ”
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World-Men owned Corsets have been entirely lie-
modelled, and are noiv the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long waist.
V
Thom
ons
THE HOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE; AX'D THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST
K.B. —Old Model Corsets altvays in stock.
“LA. KTOBLESSB”
A New and Elegant Series of Corsets. Ask to see them.
TO BE HAD OP ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & Co-, Ld-, London-
THE
the
P/D
THE
‘PLUM’
Hke a^d^and^nev r er requi S res e gr?nding n^l?ein? r "practical^tra(^pqrn tern ' 3ere f’ perfeCt J y hol * w ound - ™P»
?h d frsr e «
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
{Sintrlf' Razoi’ In itorv^H? 6 '’ Pair ’ in **autiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
( Me Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Sole Agents:
KSB- h BNT P ° ST FrEE T 0 ANY PAST OF THE WORLD.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEIM, 680 George-st., Sydney.
I’ll Try It:
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
ornamental hair.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wig makers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
|3?” Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
CRAIG NeW South Wales Ba, -ber>s Supply House,
\y rvnm oc MI i rx C. I 680-682 george street, Sydney
ftsiToßs TO THE OLD COUNTRY
GLOUCESTER ROAD,
SOUTH KE/SSIfIGTOfL
LOTIDcyiSSK
Under l&tronage.
THE NEW LOUNGE.
One OF THE FINEST EXAMPLES
OF modern OAK CARVING extant
Self-contained Suites .
Public Rooms opening on to
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON.
rLEHSMN I PRIVATE GARDEN.
Interesting specimen of the British Curse,
as read out in a breach of promise case, in London,
just before Xmas. The lady had “carried on”
with the rather opulent defendant during his
wife’s life, and, some time after the latter’s death,
he refused to marry his other darling, as promised:
. May you be left lonely, friendless, wretched, and alone
m your old age, and on your deathbed be haunted by the
lives you have spoiled. Judas, how many times you have
betrayed me with a kiss ! May God’s deepest, 'bitterest
curse rest on you. It is a great consolation to me to know
that you will never get a woman to care for you ; you are
too old, ugly, and repulsive-looking. May you never have
another moment’s happiness in your contemptible life,
lou are no man. but a thing, a monkey. May the rest of
your life be a hell on earth !
Verdict for plaintiff, £4OOO damages.
A man was hanged recently in England for
drowning his two chidren after having vainly
sought to get them into the workhouse !
“ Professor Franklin Peterson’s duties will
apparently be to draw his salary and go to church
on Sundays.” — Dr. Williams, ofMelb. University
Council, on the Marshall-Hall question.
According to the last half-yearly report of
the Australian Gaslight Co. (Sydney), the cash-
receipts for slot-meter gas used since the intro-
duction of the system, 3Jj years ago (nearly
68,000,000 ft.), amounted to £i7,387 —36§ tons of
pence and halfpence !
ELECTRIC
MINING
MACHINERY
OE EVERY DESCRIPTION.
KRUPP BALL MILLS
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; and 15 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
NOTHING
SUCCEEDS
LIKE
SUCCESS.
Hence the
Good
Reputation
of
X
SAUCE.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents—VlßGOE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN k CO., Sydney.
DAPTO (Lake
(171 i\l IT 151)),
Illawarra),
'aear SYmvrmv.
SMELTERS,
REFINERS
pnomrcEns
OK
FINE SILVER.
; ■: r
■
MAKERS OP
“S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
‘ ILL AW AREA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS *of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purcnasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, L ID and POPPPP „, r ,
’ a na l/UffER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS' SWEEP
HIGHEST PKICES PAID FOR X>RES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
nig ates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinbeeq, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.'W. ;or Mabtin Place, SYDNEY.


ft
A&Pn
m
T''' &
4
fnsdres 4
«Ha|ok>y i
Old Age
CULLED FROM THE KINDLY FRUITS OF THE EARTH.
it Is a revelation in regard to thei marvellous instinct of benevolenoe that aiiima es . 0 f •
providence, M®t«»tl*ts have for years been endeavouring to discover some really more nor less
i@ , after the teaohing of nature. “Sanoalmus ’is this remedyi being not a
than an extraction from
FLOWERS, FRUIT, HERBS AND SEAWEED.
Abhough the discoverers of ‘Sanoalmus’ 1 do notprofess to have found thereby the secret o P®*P^ een
life, they have certainly provided the means of perfect health. An elixir of he
established.
WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY TEN YEARS AGO
would have been scoffed at as the suggestion of a lunatic, or perhaps regarded in the light oi Deing a
OHAMPION FIRST-CLASS UP-TO-DATE LIE.
To-da.v we are astounded at the simplicity of its system of working. ‘ Sanoalmus is equally simple,
taken from the natural produce of earth and sea, that we m our hitherto blind ignora
HAVE BEEN TRAMPLING UNDER OUR FEET.
If you suffer with your Nerves, Liver, or Kidneys, "Sanoalmus” will putsuehtrouWes ght tor.
Anemia. 'Blushing, Weakness and Debility, it is a certain cure, in fact it puts such tone into tn
system that anyone may _
“LOOK THE WORLD IN THE FACE’
and fear no man. Its influence on the blood is extraordinary. Two or three bottles of Sanoalmus
will do more in a case of impure blood than two years’ treatment by ordinary methods.
CONSUMPTIVES REJOICE ... ...
unloss in a very advanced stage “Sanoalmus” will cure you —under any circumstances 1 wi
considerably prolong life. Taking “ Sanoalmus - ’at intervals not alone cures Jjut protects
considerably prolong me. Taxing aanoaimus us‘V f ~ A rmHa
from such everyday ills as Indigestion, Flatulence, Bad Breath, Headache, Lar-ache, Goughs, >
Sore Throat. Neuralgia, Giddiness, Influenza, &c. In Rheumatism and Sciatica it is most benencmi,
_ ... ,* i 4 i i n... t—. —.... T)aiirV.oti 11 a! imi* r.rnon I, luillcU..
, M/id, CV-U. All XVIICUUUUIIOIII •ovmmva. *v/ ” j
anil will" accomplish"wonderful results It conquers Backache when all other treatment has fane
For Constipation its action is simply perfect, and renders a healthy and regular working to the
functions of the bowels. Last but not least “Sanoalmus” must be welcomed as a divine blessing
for the reason that if persevered with regularly for a brief period it will entirely destroy
THAT HOHRID BLOOD POISONING MICROBE,
the recognised curse of humanity. Here you wi l assuredly realise the far-reaching effects of
this “Simple Discovery,” and also the forethought which recognising an evil furnishes ttie
antidote. “ Sanoalmus’’ (as before stated) renders the blood perfect ; consequently it ensures a
lovely complexion, does,away entirely with all pimples, blushing, blotches, or red, rough skin; a
peach-like bloom attends the use of “ Sanoalmus.”
THE UNTUTORED SAVAGE WOUNDED BY POISONOUS SNAKE
or spear, turns instinctively to certain herbs that not only relieve the pain but save his life.
“ Sanoalmus” contains all the properties of these herbs. It is nature’s own remedy.
MOTHERS TAKE
It is nature’s own remedy.
HEED.
When baby is teething, a half teaspoonful of “ Sanoalmus ”in milk will soothe, strengthen, and
comfort your litile darling. Remember, it is absolutely harmless to the smallest mite. If it so please
you it is within your power to bask in the heavenly sunshine of perfect health, no longer need you
LANGUISH IN THE GLOOM OF SICKNESS AND DESPONDENCY
To be obtained from all chemists, price 3/6 per bottle, or direct from the proprietors,
Wells, Strong & Coy.. 10 Barrack Street, opposite Savings Bank of New South Wales, Sydney.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELYETY
SKIN,
GAN OBTAIN
■e*
&
&
0
V
pc 9
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
The Most Refreshing Drink in Australia.
MONTSERRAT
(TRADE MARK)
LIME FRUIT JUICE
AND CORDIALS.
yy
“MONTSERRAT"LIME-FRUIT JUICE
either with water or Aerated Water is
a delightful thirst-quencher.
The LANCET says:—“We counsel the public
to drink Lime-Fruit Juice whenever and wherever
they list. It is a far more wholesome drink than
any form of Alcohol.”
N.B.—Used in the British Navy. The. Sirdar (Lord
Kitchener) obtained supplies for the troops in the
Soudan; and tho American Government for the troops
in Cuba.
Sole Consignees:
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON g
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL*
Agrerst© 3
SYDNEY—Elliott Bros., Ltd.; D. Mitohell & Co.;
E. Rowlands; Jules Renard & Cot
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.
HOW TO
SAFELY
CURETHE
A PAMPHLET with thousands
of Testimonials from Clergymen,
physicians, Merchants, and all
classesdes-p<|r>|*n * je
criptive of LJtlooj sent
gratis and post free. This is the
only remedy which can be used
SECRETLY at home with cer-
tainty of success. Address—The
f lIURASY(!()., 62HUWTfcRST., SYBNPf.
Will Develop or Reduce
any part of the Body.
A PERFECT COMPLEXION
BEAUTIFIER and
Remover of Wrinkles.
Dr. JCHN WILSON GIBBS'
THE ONLY
Electric
Massage
RclSer
(Patented
United States,
Europe,
Canada.
1
“Its work is
not confined to
the face alone,
but will do good
to any part of the
body to which it is
applied, developing or
reducing as desired. It
is a very pretty addition
to the toilet table.”
—Chicago Tribune.
“ This delicate Electric. Beauti-
fier removes all facial blemishes.
It is the only positive remover of
wrinkles and crow’s feet. It never
fails to perform all that is expected.”
—Chicago Times Herald
“ The Electric Roller is certainly productive of good
results. I believe it the best of any appliances. It is safe
and effective.”—Harriet Hubbard Ayer, New York World.
For Massage and Curative Purposes
An Electric Roller is all the term implies. The invention
of a physician and electrician known throughout America
and Europe. A perfect complexion beautifier. Will re-
move wrinkles, “crow’s feet” (premature or from ag
and all facial blemishes. Whenever electricity is to .
used for massaging or curative purposes, it has no equal.
No charging. Always ready for use on all parts of the
body, for all diseases. For Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neural-
gia, Nervous and Circulatory Diseases, a specific.
p r i C e_Gold, 21/-; Silver, 16/- PAMPHLETS FREE.
Sole Agent tor Australasia —
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins-street,
Melbourne.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
bling tin constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and interesting
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“/«/iaj all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth"
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AIL THE WORLD OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
Sore EJyes! ISligtat S
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Neper fails, Restores Eyelashes*
HAD FROM ALL, CHEMISTS*
“how to preserve THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
TH-E '
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This is the oniy Medical
Institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all contracts.
Electro-Medical apd
Stirgical IpStitCitg—
IN AN AGE
which is so remarkable for its progress in all departments of Art, Philosophy, Manufacture and
Science it is surprising to find the practice of Medicine so deplorably in the rear, while thousands
of practitioners in the healing art prefer to remain in the conventional groove of their predecessors The Freeman
a nrf Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise superior to the false code of
t vi-miiicallv bind the medical profession, and announce to the public that upon all special complaints they still -o
be consulted b™the afflicted at their old address, Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
m , i
'. ~.. > ** * ,“‘ . " ... i
; vJBK
urn
mm
J ■'!'•: .7* :■’ |n
- I*7 *, jtPfcl
v X • #f / ! 4
pEBSW
•Ml
a
y<-&& - *
r «
JT:
4HHM
SRS
l. ! -
CW
H&. H
JNv ■
Ssiß
EXPERTS FREEMAN AND WALLACE.
The Specialists who conduct the largest practise in Australasia.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
No one should hesitate to consult us, as consultations either by letter or in
person are given FREE OF CHARCE, and Strictest Privacy is always assured.
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
•^-SPECIALITIES
Heart Kidney, Liver Affections. Cravel, Bladder and Spinal Affections.
Nerve' and Brain Complications. Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout,
nupture and Piles Cured without Operation. Blood and Skin Diseases.
. 3*\
h : t v
wm
WHY WE ADVERTISE!
Because Advertising is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people
to acquaint each other with their avocations and wants. If a man has a
Speciality and has devoted years of his life and expended large sums of money in studying that Speciality and in
X 'oinlrThe ecessarv anuliances etc., for treating certain diseases, it would be absurd for him not to announce
the fact arid disseminate tne knowledge universally. We have no apology to offer for informing the world through
thfs of the means of relief we can afford to sufferers who need onr help. Therefore,
however 6 opposed to your own preconceived ideas and to those of your medical advisers, our method of treatment may
t e the fa t s i remains that it is successful, and this is verified by the thousands of testimonials received from
grateful patients. We make no secret of our mode of practice. We only claim to have utilised in a common-sense
wav the result of scientific research and long experience. If you listen to the counsel of your sceptical friends and
jealous physician you may omit consulting us, but remember if you allow the disease to run not in your system, you
are guilty of culpable negiect, and are alone responsible for your future pitilul condition..
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration ty Government
Medical Boards of New South. Wales, Victoria, fcouth Australia,
Great Britain and America Open to Inspection.
Late Consulting' Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne;
Late Medical Staff, British Army.
HOME treatment
It you live out of town and cannot visit us, this need not deprive you
of the benefits of our wonderful treatment, because in the new system
of combining medicine and electricity a complete Electro-Medical home treatment is provided for. Scarcely a day
passes that the news does not reach us of some wonderful home cure of a person living so far away that a personal
vSt could not be made. Write a plain statement of your condition, explaining your feelings and symptoms as clearly
"possible and from it we will be able to accurately diagnose your case. It only costs you the trouble of writing,
and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia’s Leading Specialists.
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS
When there are so many quacks and impudent pretenders ir ~ field of Medicine, who arrogate to them-
selves the monstrosity of giving counsel and advice in matters o. which they are profoundly ignorant, and who
have nothing to recommend them but their audacity, sufferers cannot be too careful they consult
Although liberty of'choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessary. In consulting THE FREEMAN Ah D
WALLACE ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shall
receive the advice of those fftted by superior skill and education, the result of spwial study. Oui reputation and
unparalleled success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
Medicines forwarded to alfi parts of the Wor3d—
CONTENTS FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
Batljti tst Sts, Syd oey
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs. F. & W.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
N.B. QUEENSLANDERS are hereby Informed that a Person ad ,*t+i+u+J? &S ° r ‘ Wallaco
In Brisbane is In no way connected with the Institute


Amusements.
H, MAJESTY’S THEATRE, BYDNEY.
bole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 7.45. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
INSTANTANEOUS SUCCESS of the
SPECIAL REVIVAL
of the Greatest of all Spectacular Pieces
DJIIM DdllM.
Box Plan at Nicholson's, George-street. Prices as usual.
theatre royal, sy dne y.
j .. Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrovb.
WEDNESDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 20.
First Production in Sydney of
TH€ SCARLET FEATHER,
a Comic Opera, by Lecocq, with additional num-
bers by other composers, in which
MISS NELLIE STEWART
conjunction with MUSGROVE’S ROYAL
COMIC OPERA COMPANY, which includes the Sydnev
Favorite Tenor, Mr. JOSEPH TAPLEY, and SeverM
London Artists. Also the DARTOS, whose performances
have recently created a sensation at Melbourne.
PIHCES OF ADMISSION-65., 3s„ 2s. and Is.
„ f T!? e B ° X P 1^ n - f J 0r the Firsfc Performance will be opened
(SoMiasr' Feb ™’' “• “«“
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager Alfred Dampier.
ALFRED DAMPIER,
MISS LILY DAMPIER,
and the Ladies and Gentlemen associated with him.
EVERY EVENING,
“It’s Never Too Late To Mend.”
P ALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
HAWTREY COMEDY COMPANY.
EIGHTH WEEK.
HUGE and UNQUALIFIED SUCCESS of
A MESSAGE FROM MARS.
LAST TWO WEEKS.
... tt c*. , Mr - Herbert Ross
Mr’t ’ ® en " on Miss Ruby Ray
Mr R E Miss Roxy Barton
w-i - „ tson Miss Madge Hope
Mr. Wilson Power Miss Lena Brasch
and Mr. W. F. Hawtrey.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY, at 2.30 o'clock.
Box Plan at Paling and Co.’s, 338 George-st.
PRICES, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Business Manager, Mr. E. F. BRADLEY.
tICKARDS’ TIVOLI
i Sole Proprietor
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Mr. Harry Rickards.
Enthusiastic Reception of Our Brilliant New Stars,
JOHNSTONE, RIANO & BENTLEY,
MR. GEORGE D’ALBERT,
London’s Idol, LOTTIE COLLINS
■.,r Fr ,^^, Leon ’ Lizzie Kirk > Jalvan, Billy M’Clain Chas
W. Walker, Millie Herbert, Madame ’Cordelia, ’ Fanny
< Bnx l Plili°af l p a r d S tell a Ranger, Clarence Sisters, &c.
Box Plan at Paling s. Matinees Saturday & Wednesday.
DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
bole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harrv Rickards.
. TO-NIGHT, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 16,
tlrst Production in Melbourneof Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
w -4.4. . , BRILLIANT PANTOMIME,
Written by that great London Author, Victor Stevens,
PUSS lIV BOOTS.
A Gigantic and Unparalleled Oast of Characters.
™ Scenery, New Costumes, New Music, New Artists.
In fact, everything new and up-to-date. Plan at Paling’s.
Matinees Saturday and Wednesday.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
R . Under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrove.
B wre™ Man j f:e . r ,„ ■ ■ Mr. Harry Musgrove
NINTH and LAST WEEK of the Most Glorious
Pantomime,
be 'Y ithdra 'f“ as the artistes were'only en-
gaged for 16 weeks ; and the Management has to visit
other cities with this Great Production.
m.? r * S !.. C !i rcl r’ 7s ’ ; Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Unreserved
thMtr^n 13 ’ Q?’., ; ,. Stalls > 3 *; ; Famil .v Circle, 2s. ; Amphi-
theatre, One Shilling. Plan at Allan’s. 1
T h EATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
THIRD WEEK of the BRILLIANT ENGLISH SUCCESS
THE GREAT RUEtY,
A Picturesque and Stirring Dramatic Story of Modern Life.
Popular Prices 35., 2s . 6d„ 2s, Is. and 6d. Box Plan
at Allan s. CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
HALL, MELBOURNE
>£ u M
FOURTH WEEK. FOURTH WEEK
. SNAZELLE
m the Most Delightful Entertainment Extant
OUR NAVY,
And Commonwealth Pictures, Every Evening.
Manager for Messrs. West and Sons, CAPTAIN F
EDWARDS, R.N.
H E n„?' A £ ES J Y ? THEATRE, MELBOURNE
" Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
TENTH WEEK of the New Musical Comedy,
floßo Dora
All Records Eclipsed.
Circle and Res. Stalls se; Stella and Famflj
Omse, Bs, PR and Gallery, la. Box PUn at Allan’s.
Some More Preetrade Attitudes.
These three items were extracted last week from
•j ent i^ ore '^ n '* ra(^e Papers. When put
lection Sl^6 f° rm a rather interesting col-
W the Victorian tariff is adopted at the start it will
r> . * ea< l to an increase of factories dependent
on Protection, and it is an iniquitous proceeding on the
part ot any Government to induce people by a high tariff
t °/o\ t xr b ‘ Sh factories that are not self-supporting.
(z) Now, what was asked by Protectionists when first
they requested a trial for their policy ? Was it not “ Give
us Protection to enable our infant industries to get a
8 e “’ s< ?tf laC they will not be crushed out by the older-
established factories of other lands, more particularly
those of Great Britain”? Recognising what seemed a
reasonable request, all classes agreed to give what
1 rotectionists asked for, and Protection became the fiscal'
policy of the colony (Victoria). That policy has had a
eu-years trial. ... If Protection were required to start
industries in the first instance, should not some, at least,
iill* 'ndustries g 0 established, after being protected for
all these years, be in a position to say, “ We have been
protected long enough, and can now hold our own?”
Have we ever heard that said ? Are they not now crying
out for Protection under the Commonwealth as well, and
predicting ruin unless they are protected against the
W0 1 i after the trial Protection has had in Victoria,
protected manufacturers are still crying out for its con-
tinuance, does not the system stand self-condemned, and
show itself a proved fallacy ?
(3) Mr. Reid returned to Sydney yesterday after his
tour through Tasmania and Victoria. The Federal Free-
trade leader states that the revenue-tariffists will gain
nve seats in Victoria to the Protectionists’ one. In Vic-
toria Mr. Reid found a great revulsion of feeling against
Protection, especially among the farming class.
The latter item is rather a pathetic revival. That
P reetrade resurrection in Victoria has been pro-
phesied confidently at every election for goodness
knows how many years—like the end of the
world, and the millennium, and the triumph of
teetotalisin, and the total extinction of the human
race through drink, and the Second Coming, and
the collision of this globe with a comet, and the
destruction of human liberty owing to the machin-
ations of the Pope, and many other crazy tales,
yarns and prophecies. But the logic of the
r oreign-trade party, as shown by the above ex-
tracts, is even more wonderful than its prophetic
powers. It may be condensed thus :
(1) If the Common wealth adopts a scientific Protective
tariff that tariff will stay permanently. The people, who
are the ruling power of the Commonwealth, will be so
well satisfied with Protection when they give it a fair trial
that they won’t allow it to be removed. This proves that
it is bad.
(2) Victoria has had Protection for 30 years, and the
people are so well satisfied with it that they stick to it
persistently. The Assembly--the people’s House—is Pro-
tectionist almost to a man. The fact that the people have
found Protection to be too good to part with proves it to
be bad.
(3) At the same time the alleged fact that they are
going to part with it also proves it to be bad.
(4) But while the fact of a Protectionist community
being so wholly satisfied with Protection as to stick to it
persistently proves it to be bad, and though the fact of
a Protectionist community abandoning Protection (as
Britain did) proves Protection to be worse, and though
the fact of a Freetrade community taking to Protection
(as did Germany, the United States, and very many other
places) likewise proves Protection to be worst of all, the
rule doesn’t work both ways. If a Freetrade community
sticks to Freetrade that proves that Freetrade is good.
If a Freetrade community abandons Freetrade, that also
proves that Freetrade is good.
(5) Some too-enthusiastic Protectionists in the early
Victorian days thought that Protection alone would
abolish poverty. It has certainly enabled Victoria to pay
the highest wages in the Eastern States, and supply three
times as much employment as does any other piece of
ground of its size in Australia. But‘it didn’t wholly
abolish poverty, as one or two wildly - irresponsible
persons thought it would—therefore it is utterly rotten.
It was promised in N.S.W. that Freetrade would abolish
the unemployed in 24 hours, that it would make everybody
Jolly and Fat, and that it would make N.S.W. the highest
wages State in Australia. It did none of these things,
but this all-round failure only further proves the immor-
tal truth of Freetrade.
(6) The Freetraders’ theory is, that the only way you
? ( a ” that Protection is right is by abandoning it.
If the industries which were built up under Protection
are sound,” they say, “ prove it by removing the Protec-
tion, and thus demonstrate that they can stand alone.”
Britain abandoned Protection, and showed that its Pro-
tection-built industries were sound by keeping them
afloat, even if they didn’t grow quite so fast as in the old
Protective days. But this, strangely enough, is the Free-
trader’s strongest evidence that Protection is wholly
wrong. J
Many a man has come to grief through mixing his
drinks, and the party which so woefully mixes its
lies is aptto come to grief also in the long run.
The other day in N.S.W. Leg. Council Dr. Creed
drawing attention to “The Commercial Value
of Needlework to N.S.W.”—a small pamphlet re-
cently issued by the Singer Manufacturing Co.—•
pointed out, with regard to the present system of
teaching needlework in the State schools, that it
is entirely a system of hand-work, inaugurated
many years ago and very little changed since.
When it was instituted skill in hand-work
was essential, machines being then very expensive
and of less general utility than the experts in
hand-sewing. But the conditions, it is pointed
out, have since entirely altered, machine-work
having now completely superseded hand-sewing,
lhe hand system having thus lost its value, the
teaching of it, it is contended, is a sheer waste of
public money, so that by non-training in machine-
work N.S.W. swells the number of her unem-
ployed and lets workers trained in other lands
sew for her. Thus in 1898 N.S. Wales paid for
ready-made clothing, £900,218; for millinery
£60,206 ; for boots and shoes, £216,650 ; for
boot uppers, £5868; and for gloves, £84,654. The
99 figures were much larger, and the pamphlet
goes on to advise that our young folk should be
taught to cut out, fix and make their garments by
machinery, and places the need of teaching the
art of clothing the body upon a footing of equal
importance with that of feeding it, as already
taught in the public-school cookery-classes. The
Department would thus—it is summed-up—reap
substantial advantages, and as an evidence of the
superior value of machine-work, are instanced the
bales of needlework sent from the public-schools
for the S’African war, and rendered -possible only
through the allowed temporary use of machines.
The recognition by England of the necessity of so
training the young as to increase the commercial
power of the country has recently been dwelt
upon by .Rosebery and Chamberlain, and the said
necessity is surely even greater in a new country
in the first stages of its development.
The Sydney working carters and drivers
have started a union, with an initial membership
of 500. “Such an association was urgently needed,
for these men—with their practically unlimited
labor-hours—have been amongst the most shame-
fully sweated in Sydney.
‘‘ Scribe' : Time for the press of Aus-
tralia to wake up re accommodation at the National
Parliament. There will not be room for more
than a dozen in the first row. I suggest, right off
that Melb must only have two seats, with two
ipiece each for Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide
Hobart, and Perth. A fight will ensue over this-
A gallery committee should be formed at once
representative of all the cities, unless a new Press
Association is to furnish reports. I don’t see how
that will be endured. Of course Melb. is not
essentially more interested than any other city.
Thb awarding of a Federal portfolio to J. G.
Dbakb has roused the wrath of every alien-
coddlmg rag in Bananaland. It is an unfortunate
fact that Drake has abandoned, for the sake of
office under the Philp regime, almost every shred
of Democratic principle that he ever possessed,
but upon one point he has remained sound, viz.,
Snn I trv eSSIt TR° f i ke f pmg , thls land a white man’s
The la st number of Drake’s paper,
Progress, is particularly emphatic upon this
matter:—
fnHl S P t i” t l e i eXpedienCJ ; of abolishi nff black labor, it is
ThPrn f any ,. p . rotest against Mr. Barton’s policy.
An! V a . ot . a Politician in Victoria, N.S. Wales, West
Aus., South Aus., and Tasmania but will pledge himself
to vote for a White Australia. And in all probaWlTtv
thffV-li ° ne Federal electorate in all Queensland
that will return an avowed champion of black labor.
Brisbane Courier, in particular, waxes highly in-
dignant over Drake’s appointment. It appears
now, according to that organ, that Drake is‘‘not
n ' an > tbat he is a “disappointment to
both friends and enemies; ” that he is a “ weak-
,mf’, and a number of unpleasant things. It may
be that the new 1 ederal Minister is not precisely
a burly Democrat, and that he has shown himself
lac king on various occasions, but he is
undoubtedly the least objectionable of the present
<qj. Ministry, and the circumstance that he is at
one with Barton on the vital matter of a White
Australia is an all-sufficient argument, under the
circumstances m his favor. But the Courier
has discovered a way out of the trouble. It says :
bv ha ® S j°'Y n h i mself ready, in the past, to stand
much for “ N - S ‘W-; and, if he can do as
fchlB State, there can be little question that he
will command a substantial following in Queensland.
i T> GEORGI! ’ s w rigf?lesomeness is really
■°Whits' A E f lD i- s » ys ¥ ,¥ vented the phrase
, Rlte , Australia, and his Queensland bar-
rackers have so little faith in his phrases that they
are booming him as the man who will stand by
Black Australia to the last.
Major Antill, a returned Australian Boer-fighter
talked sense at Picton, N.S.W. 8 ’
When he was returning home he heard an officer de-
liver a speech, in which he said that when the war was
over and .Federation accomplished he hoped to see a large
permanent force established in this country. The offlcfr
“, d ® a clever speech, showing how necessary it was to have
“ n mv¥! e - t 0 defen , d OUr shores > “ but,” said the major,
■, ™ y opinion so long as we have men who are good
¥ /pu “ sh ? ot ® r . B we do not wa nt any defence force at
all. (Cheers.) Give every man a rifle—the best that
money can buy—do not sell him one or charge him for
it—give him a pair of glasses also, the best you can pur-
chase—give him ammunition, and let him shoot wal-
fk! n 1 n6Ver a target ’ and you have material
satinn / ou require no permanent organi-
, We do , not want to take men out into a
paddock and teach them to drill. Teach them
in °°n’ and fchat is all - vou wa "t to do.
mv wav r • t ¥ j ßoe / can do - If ever it comes in
my way I intend to impress this strongly home.
Do away with target shooting. Teach them
to shoot at an object that will appear for a
few moments only above the ground ; that is the
training you will have to adopt if you wish to have a
force equal to the Boers.” (Cheers.) Cronje with 7000
men was surrounded by 40,000 for eight days, and yet for
those eight days he did not see a Boer. The Boer showed
ead ° f hlB "fie and about an inch of his scalp for a
second—(laughter)— and they had to make the most of
uneir time.
WiU Australian voters at the coming Federal elec-
tion make a point of choosing representatives
pledged to oppose the increase of permanent mili-
tary forces in Australia ?
Re the Catholic Protest ” controversy
now or lately proceeding in the Sydney daily-
press, the Freeman’s Journal of February 9
prints a long letter from Father Masterson, S' J'
which, according to the F. J., both the morning
dailies had disingenuously refused to print. The
letter had, however, appeared in the Daily
Telegraph of the 7th February, and it is
unfortunate for S. M. Herald that it
should have shut-down as regards, per-
haps, the most cogent and telling contr bution
to the discussion that has yet appeared. All the
same—boiled down—the position, as stated by
father Masterson, amounts simply to this. Both
Catholic and Protestant theologians admit that
statement may sometimes rightfully disagree with
fact; but, whereas the Protestant says you may
m certain circumstances tell a downright lie, the
Catholic says—“No! you musn’t do that: but
you may tc!! it by implication.” Tweedledum
and Tweedledee!
A sign of the times. It is stated in
Johannesburg that the daily prayer of the resident
Outlanders is “O Lord,
these soldiers and give
our grievances!” Thus
English papers.
take away
us back
several
S.A. Premier Holder at first refused to coun-
tenance the holding of any ceremonial over the
Proclamation of the King-said a formal printed
notice would suffice. Whereupon the local talk-
and-fireworks party waxed furious.
At Buenos Ayres, the most familiar store-
keeper used to be the one who had whisky on one
side and coffins on the other.
r. A j^ elbot * rne woman, in whose house a
friend hanged herself the other day, admitted to
Han^hf° ne f that afte * ? e , ndm » the suicide’s little
daughter for a constable she carefully refrained
from doing anything until one arrived half an
hour afterwards, by which time the woman was
t° r^ ghly , dead - Ifc < ?, ldn ’ t occur to her to cut
PrnbaW ? own °, r jH; I . somebod y else to do it.
Probably she concluded it was the will of God, or
it was to be, or kismet, or something. Coroner
*° 1 lr t - hej ? ry itWoald 1)6 abs ° rd to sug-
gest that Miss L was to blame for the
woman a death, but it looks uncommonly like a
case of aooeasory before the faot.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice willle taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted , whether sent by post or
handed in ; ,and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
R.T.R. : The earth ought to open and swallow
you; but we never wi11... .B.S. : Your letter—“ Grey-
town, M.L., 22nd Jan., 1901. Editor Bulletin.—l see in
your issue of 12th inst an advt.—‘ Wanted a Cromwell
for the new Commonwealth.’ Would you mind replying,
stating salary and perqs. by next mail, as I expect an offer
of a billet on a sheep station in a few weeks time. Yours
faithfully, Bill Smith.” We’ll give you all you can earn,
Bill; and you can have all you can take U.R.B. :No ;
we “ encourage young people ” like that to stick to the
wash-tub and the stove Ranger : Grateful if you’ll in-
vent new similes for lips and eyes—we’re so tired of roses
and violets...Sayon ; The Bulletin still contends that the
post and telegraph services should be uninterruptedly
maintained no matter who dies or lives. To hold back
letters and telegrams, even for an hour, inflicts unspeak-
able disabilities far and wide. Any excuse serves for a
civil service-holiday Seoro :If you should not tip a
railway-porter you should not testimonialise a Minister
while he is in office. The principle is the same Young
Starr: You ask what would happen if the inmates of a con-
vent contracted plague—would they be removed to plague
hospital? Certainly, if the authorities were not
?oo cowardly; they have no legal exemption
Walter M.B. ; The rule all the world over is for a big
mine to expose itself as plainly as the nose on a man’s
face. It was so with Mt. Lyell itself, Mt. Morgan, Mt.
Bischoff, Broken Hill and nearly every other very big show
the world has ever heard of. There are a few exceptions
Wf P n e u th f e rul . e - and I* w barely possible for another
bo e ™b bhat part of the country without
itself . .C.Y. : Recalls the Melbourne poet
and the corn-cutter who used to be worried by their re-
semblance ; but fortunately both have retired from biz
Go thou and do likewise... .X. : Think of a grown-up
man penning such childishness 1 Humanity is profoundly
selfish, and the kind of Sovereign it mourns most is the
i'bw-n- fear ®? an c, fc -, he replaced. The death of Henry
IV. or William the Silent made a nation weep, because
, 7, as a a( f>ng; man who, by his own genius, had
saved the country from what looked like inevitable ruin
and there was an ever-present fear that when the strong
man was dead the danger might return. But the British
S 0V oA 6 Ar,A 18 80 Purely a figurehead nowadays that there
are 20,000 people in England any one of whom would fill
the place about as well as anybody else. And
tho nation , so unselfish as to weep much
a . an - y personal trouble
„’G- A ; •rt 's difficult, m your verses, to decide which is
M Gilhcuddy and which is the other man. They get mixed
' ‘'in -k°£ icand a Woman ” is too philo-
sophic f or the multitude. Present writer is the multitude..
. Returned with great pleasure.... Bynnva •A is
“y rtesl . an bo re is “sunk” or “put down,” not
®, re ° fced - „ In reference to the whole work, with surface
additions, “constructed” is possibly your best word
There s none that’s absolutely satisfying... .F. 8.: No chop,
p Good yarn.... A.H.T. : Some promise: plug
away. B. something : Rather agree with you ; but-
t'a'i a* L Come along and run the paper H.M :
Looked at rhymes twice ; try again. Story wastes too
wrone- WOr< The G ndab ’ yne f T° Ur correspondent is quite
fff . Th ® Queen’s statue at Sydney is a very
fine and most dignified work of art; it is, moreover
a reasonable portrait. That of the Prince Consort is also
p”;™ posing P iece of statuary, but it is no likeness. The
Prince was an ordinary sort of man, and by no means
powerful; the statue is that of a Norse god
JnouT : V^tr S ii“ W rV' ? : Other hardly cleamcut
W-H- Good Mon taro : On the
contrary, we delight in “considering criticism”
and always feel much obliged to anyone who sends
us clippings containing attacks on The Bulletin
u.i.B. : The composer’s own statement that his father’s
name was Sullivan in nowise settles the contention that
he was of Solomon blood. Arthur SulHvan was obWousiV
of Jewish extraction, and his appearance tastes nnrl
special talents all went to support that theory Tent •
Paragraphs unpublishable... .Bisso : There areno very
lic g dpht° UntainS m ,r hern S - A ’ It} is probably the puR
lie debt jou are thinking of T.G.B. ; When we read
your Jmgo poem we were so moved that we rang- the
gaveTBocheer°s enfcl r ?“ ‘w .^ erai ? dah for 30 and
gave 180 cheers L.L. : Will print “Hash.” EMR-
Ta a s V U pT^p-r,V'°- A - : ™ anks Constant' ReaL
Sr V • , Pleas ® bell us, in strict confidence, the name of
the trader who sold you The Bulletin minus the headfng
'' Rilli;, .' v An y arn —and unsavory to boot.
, ld yf 18 also rather unsavory Yar-
rum. Why is devoid of effective climax Fortana •
P OSSI ble for a man to be a good dentist even if he
has been successively a cabman and a fish-hawker • but
as you say, no unqualified dentist should be allowed to
“Man Se andWffe” boX p Wi i 11 (P-haps
.*? an a ? d Wae - - --Constant Reader: Yes, you are
right. It should not have been printed. But the memorv
°f. freedom and carelessness of our goldfields davs
sticks to us always J.F K • Well tnM w f y
2MO words 2" A BTIN h- Whiot l, Pref^S Tories of ’ »ot ote°r
w°q T v 8 ’ . An £ weekl y would print your MS
W.S. . Yes, for how many days was Britain at peace
during the Queen’s reign ? Womerah • Write tn tS!
Registrar-General at Dublin.... Fred. C:' but
hardly worth while.. Eldorado : Rather funny but R
hasn t good shape.. - Arthur W. : Not class enough .
T.M.D. . Falls rather flat L.M D • “steW»
abilftie| tron D omafrre?’a f rre ?’ h ,°J vever ’ by im P™b-
annit|es... G.R M. : Quite true that Orangemen are
effusively “loyal "now; but at the beginning of Queen
the L n o T T n p 8 " d ° ran * emen united in abusing
to nnt the ev . en / ofc up a sort of baby-conspiracy
to put the Duke of Cumberland on the throne
Churchwarden : Thanks, but it’s not worth a fresh pari
j Th ,t r J? !? thls objection: it wouldn’t
• We don t believe that story about a woman
flowers as she knelt in prayer It “he
statue. No policeman would have merelv
cautioned such a woman—he would have locked her up
--- 30 . e G--Sentiments admirable, but verses won’t
stand inspection. It is true that the death of 1 charitable
ofthI r o^Jw'i‘ ndUBfcry and keen raedieal instinct is one
of tiie greatest losses a community can sustain Geo
R.H.: Will print “To the G.”....L.W8 • Queen Vic
tona caused the Crimean War anyhow by dismislng
Palmerston from the Foreign Office at Prince Albert’s in
nanirT 11 !^ B"’* 8 "’* a
rTOiecaomst paper? Ask us something easv X ■
fool-lies like that. .Naiad -' Has
V f° Ur ’ but lacks d ®ftnes 3 and point
Ranges from readable to rubbishy Some
thTlrod b 7 a te T denCy t 0 toddle-
None of last batch usable... .Q.E.: Not force enough' o '..’
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
G.A. : Excitement joke good, but too hard to “ ring-in ”
.. Fet B d : Very, very 01d....D. Macf. : May use sug-
gestionT.R.D ; That “ Sossidge ” item dates from 540
8.0 also Luff” wouldn’t reproduce Unavailable:
Remann ;W. Jardine; Chris. ; Tom W. (on the
face of it it isn’t original); Ben. F Greaves A FT? I™
something) : We have noticed that the man tholigns
his name hieroglyphicallv never draws decently. k
Writes “ Wap ” re Broken Hill water-
supply :
Hill waterehedl'B.?/2%l) Ig The e re tie ITso^lumeloim
d S U f l ? t l are buried. There are also Chinamen’s gardens •
and the town of Silverton is located right on the creek
into which all the filth is washed when rain falls. When
tnteS^kP ufc three puddle-dams across
bbeeoakage water, but it was found that
town-refuse wa» also held back. Result, an outbreak
Nic??w 1 „ d^ n li-* 0 . damB J** 1 b° be broken thrmilh.
• town like Broken mip
According to Dr. Mailler Kendall’s report
upon Sydney’s health during last year, there has
been a slight decrease in the phthisis deaths upon
those of 99 but an increase in mortality from
diphtheria, diarrhoea and typhoid. Of the last-
named disease there were 1031 oases, as against
795 in 99, 883 in ’9B, and 471 in ’97. Typhoid-
more to be feared than the plague,” the report
during last year “ occurred in supposed
Healthy zones, showing clearly that in order to
accurately locate each case it will be necessary to
know where each individual worked or passed his
time during the day.”
Out of 59 carts employed in the work of
street-maintenance in Sydney, more than half are
widows carts,” kept on in a charitable sort of
way because the owners’ late husbands were in the
city s employ. The trouble is that when the hired
driver who acts as the widow’s representative,
often at a miserable wage, gets drunk or neglects
his work, nobody cares to fine the owner because
she is a widow, so the widows’ carts do very little
street maintenance, and are chiefly useful to give
the horse fresh air and gentle exercise. The new
Council says, in a despairing sort of way, that it
doesn t want to be hard on any widow, but the
work must be attended to. Why shouldn’t the
city own its own carts and do its own main-
tenance ?


Three Years
Intense Suffering.
The Case of Mr. H. M. KEYEY.
(By a Special Reporter.)
All government, indeed every human
benefit and enjoyment, every virtue and
every prudent act, is founded on com-
promise and barter. To promote our
personal welfare we balance inconveni-
ences, preferring to give and take in
order to attain our ends. We remit
some® rights so that we may enjoy
others, and we choose rather to be happj
independent citizens than servile ten-
ants. Great sacrifices'are made by wor
kers who aspire to become their owi
landlords for the advantages to be de
rived from the attainment of their as
pirations. “My illness,” said Mr. Henn
Moran Kevey, of G arfield-street, Par
neil, Auckland," was brought on througl
working night and day at my sedentarj
trade of bootmaking. The object I had
in view was to purchase a home for my
wife and family; but I stuck to my task
so closely that it caused me three years
intense suffering. It is eight years age
since my constitution was completely
broken down.”
“You look strong and vigorous now,”
aid the reporter.
“And I feel as well as I look. But
Here was a time when I thought I was
roing into consumption. My face was a
deathly colour, and my eyes were sunk
deeply into my head. You would not
have given twopence for my life if you
had seen me then. Before I was struck
down I thought of nothing but work,
and I took my meals at all hours, some-
times going without them altogether.
I felt myself getting weaker and
weaker every day, till I could
hardly crawl down to my shop
A few minutes after starting work
I felt giddy and faint, and I was obliged
to take frequent rests during the day
Then my digestive organs went wrong
as shown by the tightness in my chest
after eating, and also great pain and
discomfort in my stomach, which felt as
though I had swallowed some foreign
matter which was turning sour and pu-
trid. Indeed, my breath bore out this
theory, as it was most objectionable,
and my mouth had a very bad taste
continually, which made me feel sick.
Sharp pains used to dart under my
shoulders and down to the end of my
ribs, and in a short while I was unable
to retain a meal on my stomach. As
soon as I ate anything I was seized with
violent fits of vomiting, and the pain
and distress I suffered was beyond de-
scription. I felt tired and miserable,
being- without enough energy to sit
down and read a book. As a matter of
fact, my eyesight was too bad, and my
eyes seemed to have little spots danc-
ing before them, besides being hot and
swollen.”
-ow^ aid you manage to keep on
working in that condition ?”
! I could not do a stroke of work at fast
I had to knock off altogether. 1
tel t heavy and drowsy, and suffered
greatly from splitting headaches. M 3
bowels were irregular. For days thej
were constipated, then followed a weak-
attack of d arrhcea. I found great
difficulty m swallowing anything, even
suen a simple thing as a cup of tea
making me conscious of the fact bha<
my throat was very sore. My appetite
went right off eventually, and my ner-
vous system then collapsed. An addi-
tional complaint in the form of a vile
attack of neuralgia now commenced to
worry the life out of me. Shooting pains
darted from the ear to my eyes, and
thence to my forehead. The agony was
30 acute that I could get no rest day or
flight I twisted and turned from side
side all night long, and in the morn-
-1 s . to ° exhausted to get out of
bed. This new torture continued for
months, till at last I thought I was
going mad.® A peculiar feature of my
dreadful llness was the way my tongue
used to swell. It felt too thick for my
mouth, and almost choked me. My
brain wis full of evil-forebodings as I
lay throughout the sleepless nights in ■
a state of nervous terror. Many a time
I have awakened my wife from her slum-*
ber and told her that the tortures of
my complaint were driving me crazy,
and in the day time I felt so greatly run
down that I used to say to my wife, ‘I
suppose I will live through this summer,
but if I do I am sure I will die during
the winter.” One night my condition
was so alarming that my wife went
straight away for the doctor, who said
I had a diseased liver, and that my
blood was in a terribly bad state.”
“Was there anything to show that
your blood was impure ?”
“Rather. I will tell you, and then
you will know that my blood was poi-
soned. It happened through wearing
a soft woollen hat, the rims of whim
used to fall down on my ears. I used to
wear a blue serge suit, and my better
half told me I ought to get a hat to
match the colour. As I always study
comfort before appearance I bought the
soft one alluded to. _ The result was
that my ears were poisoned by the dye
out of the hat. My ears swelled and
brof e out, and my agonies increased
ten fold. I used to pray for death to
release me from my sufferings; but no,
I had to endure it. The tops of my ears
were eaten away, as you can see for
yourself, and even when they healed up
I believe I had enough poison in my
blood to kill twenty men. I was really
on the verge of death by now, without
animation, without hope.”
“Was there any benefit derived from
your doctor’s medicines ?”
“Not the slightest. Neither did I re-
ceive any benefit from the many adver-
tised remedies I tried; but I was saved
by the advice of a friend, who urgm me
to give Clements Tonic a trial. I did
so, but I can honestly say that had it
not been for Clements Tonic I would
be a dead man now. I started on that
matchless medicine with a feeling ot
great anxiety, as I knew my fate de-
pended on it. My anxious fears were
soon set at rest, as I felt greatly soothed
and stimulated in a few days. My case
was a bad one, and I could not expect
to be rid of all my ills for some time;
but Clements Tonic proved equal to the
great task before it. A gradual slacken-
ing off of the sharp pains in my back
and loins, besides the absence of discom-
fort in my stomach, showed that
Clements Tonic was doing the work in
first-rate style. My appetite, which had
so long lain dormant put in a feeble ap-
pearance at first, and then increased
every day till I could eat a hearty meal.
My head was again free from aches, and
every morning I awoke feeling decidedly
better for the sleep which resulted
through my continuance of Clements
Tonic. My nervous system was streng-
thened and invigorated by the same
medicine, which eradicated all skin erup-
tions and purified my blood, besides
driving away the raking neuralgia, which
has never since troubled me. Each
day I gathered weight and strength,
meanwhile shaking off the fit of melan-
cholia which has depressed me for three
and my work was undertaken
vith the same pleasure as of old. Cle-
nents Tonic gave me perfect health,
.'hen all else failed.”
“Was the cure a permanent one?”
“Yes, and I am anxious that every-
body should know that such a grand
nedicine exists, so you may publish
hese facts in any way you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Henry Mohan Kevet, of Garfield Street,
Parnell, Auckland, in the colony of Ne» Zealand,
lo solemnly and sincerely declare that I have care-
ully read the annexed document, consisting oi
hree folios and consecutively numbered from one to
three, and that it contains and is a true and faithful
recount of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic,
and also contains my full permission to publish in
any way my statements—which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of
an Act of the General Assembly of New Zealand,
intituled “The Justices of Peace Act, 1882."
IsOiqri,
Declared at Parnell this thirtieth day of October
re thousand nine hundri .1, before me,
JOHN MoCABE, J,P,
MOIR’S
BLOATER PASTE.
In Tins about 2 ozs. and 40ZS.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE,
lead Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
Price 6s.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
“By Steele Rudd. 1
Business Announcements.
"jVjJrder tailoring
MOST GENTLEMEN like to appear
at their best all the year round.
JfW’ Handsome, well-fitting
clothes are essential to that end. C. G.
Hatte, of Newtown (Sydney), invites at-
tention to his To-Order Tailoring Depart-
ment, which has obtained a reputation
the envy of competitors. He can supply
you with a nice soft Serge Suit, indigo
dye, for 555. ; a first-class suit in Serge,
Sergerette, or Tweed for 635. ; or a suit
of Apperley and Curtiss’ renowned West
of England Serge for 755. His Two
Guinea Suits (with extra pair of trousers)
of Serges, Sergerettes, and Tweeds are
still the marvel of modern tailoring.
Hatte’s has the largest selection of the
newest and choicest materials, he em-
ploys one of the smartest cutters in the
colony, guaranteeing a perfect fit; whilst
the workmanship is of the best. If you
cannot pay a personal visit, write for
patterns and self-measurement forms,
and your orders will be satisfactorily and
promptly executed. Hatte also keeps
one of the largest stocks of ready-made
clothing—everything the latest and best,
his prices being at least 30 per cent, under
ordinary city houses. He is now making
to measure a special line of Linen Crash
Trousers for 7s. 11d. White Serge
Cricketing Trousers, well-made and
thoroughly shrunk, for 9s. 11 d. Men’s
Striped Khaki , Shirts, collars and
pockets, 2s. 11 Jd> The Baden-Powell
Khaki Shirt, collar and two pockets,
3s. 11d. A splendid line of Gent.’s Silk
Shirts (the best value in the trade),
78. 6d. Place your orders with Hatte
for everything you want. You will find
he will treat you well, and you will re-
main a constant customer.
A Good..
Understanding
Should always prevail where
boots and shoes are concerned.
There’s a shoe on sale in
Australia which deserves care-
ful attention because of its
intrinsic merits. That shoe is
The “HERZ” Shoe.
It is the Shoe to buy because:—
The leather is of the finest
quality.
The shape is elegant, and
is never lost.
For such high-class goods
the price is just right.
It is easy and comfortable
always.
Ask for ‘ HERZ ’ Shoes.
HUNTER’S SELL THEM.
Medical.
Hypnotism
Reader, -why not be able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to H-. pnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
that are possible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. *lt costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundred#, of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is*the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply.'
Remember this costs you noth-
ing. A*postal card will bring it.
Order to-day and learn to
notize. It is a chance ora
life-time. Address—
Prof, R. H. BARRADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER'S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Truman, of
■7l Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
SOLD IN TWO SIZES, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & 1 human,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THEBE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Be»t,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia.
--LINCOLN, STUART&rO.
PnOPniETAIIT LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
Our Suit to order at 425. is
marvellous value; made* from
all-wool Tweeds.Vicunas,or fast
color Serges ; it is perfect fitting 1
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class t f material. £.{ 3s. To
measure, capital Trousers, >ery
good patterns 12s. Od.
Dress Suits, to measure.
Clerical Suits, to measure. £s*
Riding Bre* ches. 255.
Riding Habits. Ac.
We supply ready made. Men’s
, capital Tweed Suits. 21s. A 255.
I Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 2.15.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergerette suits, 30s.
Excellent Iweed or Serge
Trousers, ss, lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests. 19» lid.
Men’s Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19s. «d. W i.ite Drill
Sacs and Trousers. 10s. lid.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, 12s lid.
Black and Grey Alapaca S.ic*.
Os. 9d, White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3a. 9d., 4s 9d.. ss. li 1.
Travelling Trui ks, Ba a and
Rugs in groat variety
Men’s White Shiits, colored
front and cuffs. 2s 9*l.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. lid.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket, 3s. Od.
Solt Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d. ( all
colors.
Hard Hats, 4s. O.d* Caps, Is.
Merino Undershirts or Pants,
Is. 9d.
Neckties, all shapes and colors,
I>.
White Shirts to measure. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
fis. 9d , 9s. t;il.
We like to write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for any
Information. Our book, “ The Philosophy of Dress.” an t
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement forms posted free.
Write for them.
Photography
Up to Date.
KODAK Photography
is the simplest Photography.
KODAK Cameras re-
quire no dark room for changing
the films.
KODAK Cameras are
sold at prices to suit all purses.
ss. to £7 15s.
Bend tor Illustrated Price List, and
mention this Paper.
KODAK, Limited,
“ THE BLOCK,"
281 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Alto at London, Paris, Berlin, Brussels, Vienna,
St. Petersburg', Moscow, Rochester, N.Y.
r /lAfTm V
GOUT
PILL S.
for gout,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO,
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they' not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pnotrr & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
XJSB
SPOONER’S
SPOONERS
*
*
' •'.<■■ -i -
INTENT LEATHER BOOTS
GLAZED RIOS &«
*«««##*'#*»«**« ! •■■:
•1% U< >d»HA«*«'V
»»«•«* *—♦ w»,wrs*» •*»« ..*****>
m
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is,
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (ij»
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,.
Boot Shops, Saddlers , eta


A recent row at Cardiff (Eng.) Infirmary
arose through the bitter lamentations of a North
of Ireland man whose arm had been amputated.
His ground of complaint lay in the fact that the
limb in question had been buried with the body
of a Catholic.
The late Mountmorganaire, James Wesley
Hall, left to his widow a legacy of £lO,OOO, also
an annuity of £2OOO and an allowance not exceed-
ing £lOOO per annum for the education and main-
tenance of each of his children —all this free from
the control of any husband, should the beneficiary
re-marry. He left to his three sisters-in-law—
Georgina Dempster, Maria Dempster, and Jenny
Madeline Elma Hooper—looo shares each in Mt.
Morgan mine. After providing for other legacies,
the residue of the estate is bequeathed to his
children, in equal shares.
“ Puyyaka ” concerning a medical catas-
trophe :
The recent cabled mishap in Milan (Italy) whereby a
number of people died of lock-jaw after injection of anti-
diphtheria serum, looks like culpable carelessness in the
laboratory, judging from the cabled accounts. With all
manner of cultures and of serums in different stages of
preparation lying about, the details of labelling, &c., are
often left to an attendant, usually of the ordinary rule-
of-thumb variety. In the present instance it looks as if a
cultivation of tetanus had been substituted for tl e
diphtheria anti-toxin, or at any rate mixed with it after
the final attenuation. Had it been otherwise the horse
used for attenuation would have shown symptoms suffi-
cient to warn the experimenters. Anti-tetanic serum is
extensively made in manufacturing laboratories, and early
cultures, while virulently active, closely resemble prepared
anti-diphtheritic serum in outward appearance. The
mistake must have led to some horrible tortures, since
tetanus carries perhaps the most dreadful death in the
whole gamut of disease, arid even the minority who re-
cover long remain shattered in mind and body. The
possibilities of mischief by careless or ignorant people in
bacteriological laboratories are unlimited, and although
the effects generally fall upon the bungler himself, the
Milan case shows that they may extend further. In
Vienna a few years ago the drunken habits of an attend-
dant were the direct cause of the deaths of three people
(one a noted bacteriologist) from plague, and might have
been the means of infecting the whole city.
$
M
'•* Photo from Life.
Original may be seen at 113, Regent Street, London, W.
:
mm
m
re>v‘-is
bwuer Royal Patronage
KOKO FOR THE HAIR
ill is a tonic, cleansing, ‘nvigorating preparation, causes tne hair to grow
luxuriantly, keeps itsolt and pliant, imparts to it the lustre and freshness
of youth, eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling, is the most
111 cleanly of all hair j reparations, and is perfectly harmless.
OLD PEOPLE LIKE IT
j|l lor its wonderful power to invigorate decayed hair, and induce an entire
I I ne.v growth when that is possible.
MIDDLE-AGED PECPLE LIKE IT,
ill because it prevents them from getting bald, keeps dandriff away, and
111 makes the hair grow thick and strong
YOUNG LADIES LIKE IT
111 as a dressing, because it gives the hair a beautiful glossy lustre, ensures a
luxuriant growth, and enables them to dress it and keep it in any style
111 that may be desired.
CHILDREN LIKE IT,
HI because it keeps the hair and scalp cool and clean, allays Irritation, and
|lI knot s the hair in whatever position desired
I THEY ALL LIKE IT,
because it is as pure as crystal, perfectly colourless, contains no poisonous
substance, no sugar of lead, sulphur, nitrate of silver, or grease, and does
not soil or colour tile scalp, face, or the most delicate fabric in clothing,
produces a wonderfully pleasant and cooling effect on the head, and no
other dressing is needed to give the liair the most beautiful appearance
possible Try it once, and you will use no other. It contains no
•II colouring matter or dye.
KOKO is sold in 1/ , 2/6 and 4/6 bottles everywhere.
Australian Depot, Koko Maricopas Co. Ltd., 14, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Cft UTin U— See that this Eegistered Trade Mark is on every bottle
I
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir. —I suffered from a severe cold oa the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asi cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vic.
“Mr. Hearne. —
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a hottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to mv mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.’’
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me, I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, l was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.”
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows: —“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do —send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night's rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was verj’good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
arid on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines havings been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my ease every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes : —“After suffering from Asthma for
IT years, and having been under a'great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of It. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states: —“I
; am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
I return of the Asthma,’'
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Viotoria.
Office: No, 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food for
INFANTS
ffi,
9
FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Ac., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by,
its excellence, established a
reputation ol its own."
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


l
Ft
ft
0*
f*
S'
TRANGE how many
people feel lazy in
Summer. “Too lazy
to move almost,” is a
common expression at this
time of the year, and yet
these men and women are
not of lazy dispositions.
They are lively enough in
the winter. What is the
matter then? Why, they
are victims of “that weary worn-out feeling,
which is brought on by the hot weather weaken-
ing the system. The enervating effects of the hot
“muggy” Australian Summer are too well-known to
need describing here; sufficient to say that the violent
heat of Summer debilitates and weakens the human
system entirely if it is not in the most perfect order. Thus it
is that people “ feel ready to drop ” at all hours of the day without the
slightest apparent cause. To avoid this lassitude one thing is necessary—
the whole system, and especially the digestive organism, must be m perfect
and regular working order. For this purpose there is no preparation, so
effective as Bile Beans for Biliousness. Acting in a gentle manner, they do not
(as many other purgatives do) achieve a temporary abatement of the trouble but
eventually leave the system weaker than ever. On the contrary, they strengthen
and build up the whole digestive organism, purify the blood, and tone "P “ e^ents S and'
They have already proved themselves the very best medicine for .«J
are admitted to be the foremost remedy in Australia. A course of Bileni then
to move round this Summer with a light step and increased vitality. There will then be
lack of energy to mar the pleasures of the Summer season.
A FEW SHORT TESTIMONIALS.
SUMMER AILMENTSKr m*. a *»» <*£■ SSfgZrSt&Si
says. - -
keep me in good health, and especially so in theae hot Summer days.
I a to
everyone, and can honestly do so. (l T n A ,ti., v t>„ aks
asp&d.meSne! then" to all our friends
and acquaintances.”
It might be asked why have Bile Beans
for Biliousness become so popular, and
how is it that their sale is so great ? 1 hese
are the reasons. Firstly, because thou-
sands have been cured by them, and in
praising them to their friends they like-
wise take them. Secondly, because they
do not cure every complaint, and the pro-
prietors let the public know just exactly
what they will cure. Thirdly, unlike
most medicines they act upon the system
in a gentle yet effective manner, and do
not unfit the patient from atending to his
or her routine duty. Fourthly, they are
no new medicine, for the Beans have stood
the test of years, and their low price,
1/lid. PER BOX, puts them within
the reach of all. Bile Beans are obtainable
from all chemists and storekeepers, or
from the head depot, 39 Pitt-st., Sydney.
A PENNY SAVED
IS A PENNY CAIN ED
And the same applies to the many Pounds that the
NATIONAL^
CASH REGISTERS
Would Save eor You.
Built Like a Watch
and accurately adjusted in every
detail is the . . .
NATIONAL
CASH
REGISTER
which carries with it a 2 Years’
Guarantee, showing we have
faith in the workmanship of our
machines.
National CaSb Register C°
335 Pitt Street, Sydney.
W. A. LIN GUAM, General Manager.
Three Little Australians.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“He’s nearly dead,” Nan said, mournfully, but
her eyes sparkled again as she saw the massive tail
almost sweeping the ground.
“His ribs are getting bigger and bigger, and
his head’s hanging lower and lower. Do horses
go to heaven when they die ?■” Em asked, touched
by the condition of the horse.
“Yes,” Ted volunteered, “Mr. Trundle said
there was a separate compartment for animals,
and the man at the gate pointed out the way.
’Spec it’s something like drafting. The man at
the gate’d be like the man at the raoe. He drafts
’em off into different yards. If it’s a man he
opens the gate one way, an’ if it’s a beast he
opens it another.
“ An’ wot if it’s a woman ?'
“Oh, you fool, isn’t a woman the same as a
man ? She’d go into the man’s yard.”
“ No, she wouldn’t, she’d go in a nicer one, cause
she’s better.”
“ Swim-out! ” was Ted’s answer.
“Me an’ Nan’s better ’an you, ’cause you
swear.”
“Men always swear. They’re grander than
women. ’Tisn’t wicked for them to swear, ’cause
it comes out easily. ‘ Damn ’’d stick in a woman s
throat. That shows it’s wicked for her to swear.
An’ if you don’t go in with us you’ll have to go m
with the beasts, ’cause there’s only two yards.”
“He won’t die to-day,” Nan said, indicating
the horse. “Come on home.”
* * * *
“ There he is, lying down.”
The three made a rush towards the horse.
“ Is he dead, Nan ? ” Ted said.
“ I don’t know ; wait till I ffeel his heart.”
But Ted made a rush for his tail and began to
pull.
“Let go,” Nan said savagely. “ You’re not to
touch him till we’re sure he’s dead. Besides, the
tail’s mine.”
“’Tisnot. I saw him down first, ihe tans
mine.”
“ It’s mine ! I’ve been watching him for a
week. I found out he was sick first. You
wouldn’t have known only I told you.
“ I’ll have his mane then! ” put in Ted.
“ An’ what’ll I have ? ” whined Em.
“You can have the tail of the next,” was Nan’s
answer. But Ted suggested she should have the
hoofs.
“I shan’t! ” indignantly returned Em. Ihe
Chinaman won’t buy them.”
“Yes, he will. Don’t you remember in the
first book where it says ‘ the. hoofs are good to
make combs to comb our hair with ’ ” repeated
Ted.
“ ’Tisn’t ; it’s ‘ the horns are used to make
combs to comb our hair with.’ ”
“Well he’s got no horns, so you better take his
hoofs. You can tell him they’re used to make
combs with, he won’t know the difference.”
“ Won’t he ! ” put in Nan. “ He’s always wink-
ing his eye as if he knows a lot.”
“Well, you ask him, Em. They’re good to
make glue, anyhow. I’m sure he’d give you a
ha’penny for the lot.”
“ A ha’penny ! An’ you an Nan’ll get sixpence
between you. I want some hair.” Em began to
howl.
“ Is he dead ? ” Ted asked again.
“ He’s lying on his left side, so I can’t feel his
heart. We’d better wait a bit and see if he
moves.”
“When I was sick the doctor felt my pulse,
and Ted made a rush for the front foot. “No,
it’s not beating, Nan, he must be dead.”
Nan began to pull out the tail while Ted tugged
at the mane.
“The hoofs won’t come off,” Em said, grunt-
ing. “ How do you get ’em off, Ted?” Then she
caught sight of two bright shoes on the hind feet.
“Oh!” she yelled, “look—the shoes are good
ones. I’ll get tuppence each. That’ll be more
than you or Nan.” Excitedly— “ They’re mine !
they’re mine ! The shoes are mine.”
Nan and Ted came round to look. Yes, there
was no doubt of it. There they were, nearly new,
the catches still on them.
“But you can’t get ’em off,” Ted said, jealously.
“I can; I’ll bring a chisel and a hammer. I
saw Tom take some off his horse one day.”
Away went Em, returning in about half an
hour with the required tools.
By this time Nan and Ted had extracted every
hair from the mane and tail, leaving the horse a
pitiable sight.
Em took no notice of the look of the carcase.
It held no horror for her. All she saw were two
shining shoes, or was it four black pennies in the
Chinaman’s pocket ? .
After much grunting, and straining and pulling
she succeeded in getting them off.
The three set off with their separate burdens.
• « * *
That was a very long time ago, and we are all
K own-up now. Only the other day Ted came
ck from shooting Boers in Africa, and Em and
I went to see “ the procession.” Em said it was
grand.
N'.S.W.
NAN.
It is not easy to see why Melb. Ace puts
this sort of thing among its matrimonial notices
(l/l/’Ol):
GENTLEMAN, expert market, poultry breeding,
offers services lady desirous starting same. 333,
Age Office.
The Bulletin hears that a Sydney
suburban boarding-house, which received from
Govt a Commonwealth-guest retainer for £6O,
had to take in but two State guests. “Our
bleeding country,” indeed!
The board of directors of N.S.W. Aus-
tralian Natives’ Association has carried a resolu-
tion expressing the opinion that the position of
Svdney Town Clerk should be filled by an Aus-
tralian citizen, and requesting the Mayor to
receive a deputation on the subject. All very
well but if the A.N.A. can’t find an Australian
citizen who can write better grammar than that
in the address the A.N.A. sent to Lord Hopetoun
on the Queen’s death, the A.N.A. aforesaid can-
not reasonably object to some intelligent and well-
educated Chinaman filling the billet.
“Pastoral and Commercial Report” in
Bourke (N.S.W.) Herald of 15th Jan.
Cool weather, certainly, for this time of the year, but
we would sooner have a heat wave averaging 120 deg. m
the shade than the continual wind and dust-storms that
we have been treated to for the past three months or
more Whirlwinds are the rule, dust-fine, insinuating
dust amalgamates with pur daily food; the river water is
like nea-soup, and oh ! for a hath in clean water. When
will this dog-goned, dreadful drought end. There
will not he a live hoof, excepting those that are
hand-fed in the district directly. What is the result to
be ’ Simply this. We will get rain sometime between
this and the next decade, and all those who have not died
from starvation will succumb from fright.
Our Mine.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sam and I were sent down by a Sydney syndicate
to try a reef near Andon. They were an Unre-
liability Co. and we knew it, but we were tired of
working in the sewers, and bosses had a habit ol
asking us to leave, anyhow.
Sam infused some energy into the secretary of
the syndicate (a barber) by styling him the Legal
Manager, and we left Sydney with £lO and got
our fares paid to the nearest railway-station to the
The reef was three miles from a pub ; but we
partly overcame this inconvenience by camping
half-way between. Then we started to make
inquiries over the bar about the original pros-
pectors and the reef. The landlord, as he changed
a fiver for Sam, predicted a great future for the
mine. Sam said it was likely-looking country
for gold, and we did some preliminary prospecting
between the camp and the pub, and camped-out
several nights without blankets.
Then we started to select a site for a new shaft.
There was a shaft already sunk on the reef, about
20ft. deep; but Sam decided that it was not sunk
in the proper place, so we began to sink another
near a shady tree. The old shaft was in the full
glare of the sun. I did the sinking, and Sam
read up some mining literature in the shade, un-
til the sfyaft required a windless. We had sunk
12ft. when the handle came out of the windlass
(our own make), and it and the bucket fell on me.
Sam was not hurt, but stuck to the handle man-
fully, and, after he hauled me up, went on crack-
ing quartz and spitting on it, as usual. He, how-
ever, decided that the shaft needed timbering.
He said there were several ways to timber a shaft,
but that I had better do it my own way, and I
did it that way. The reef had a big underlay, or
else it was a knock-kneed reef, and the bucket
used to drag out some of the timber, but I had
the shaft constructed on safe principles, and used
to suspend all operations whilst the bucket was
going up or coming down, which, however, was
not often. ,
Sam was boss, and it was through a relation ol
his that we got the appointment. The aforesaid
relation had to pretty well support Sam, so he dis-
tributed Sam’s keep amongst a mining syndicate.
I lent Sam a pound, and, as I seemed the only one
likely to lend him another, he selected me as his
mate. Neither of us had ever done any mining,
but Sam was a liar of a high order.
His first report read: “Sinking on a body ol
ore, payable quality ; reef, 3ft. wide; in well-
defined walls.” Brief reports, Sam said, were the
best; but still our wages were in arrear, and the
publican was no longer effusive in his manner
towards us. .
People of various occupations used to call.
They all said they could see no gold in the stone,
but Sam said it was mineralised stone, and that
gold was not visible in that kind of stone.
An unforeseen occurrence, however, disturbed
things. We saw gold in the stone; it was only
one color ; still, even Sam could tell it was gold,
so he decided to go down the shaft and inspect
the new development. He tied himself securely
in the rope and got me to lower him. It was his
first time down, and he was pale with excitement
—so he said—at the discovery. Presently he
called on me to heave-up. I got him to the sur-
face with such vigour that he “ concussed badly
against the windlass. There was not much skm
left on his hand, or much bad language left that
he didn’t use—but he never mentioned how the
accident happened in his next report, which was_:
“Had bad accident; hand severely crushed.
Discovered rich shoot of gold ; will have to put
on man. Will personally superintend opera-
tions, however.”
This report brought down our money and the
man’s wages, and the publican seemed sorry for
past coolness.
We had been using dynamite—in our reports—
for some time, but now there was a probability of
having to use it in earnest. Sam ordered rhe to
bore a hole in the reef. That hole took some
time, as I tapped the drill very lightly so as not
to hurt my hand too much when I missed the
drill. Sam told me to put plenty of stuff in the
hole, but I “struck” when it came to lighting
the fuse, as a coil of fuse would not reach to the
surface. Sam overcame that difficulty by-getting
me to put some dry bushes down the shaft, and
then dropping a firestick on them. This idea
worked well, but we forgot to take off the wind-
lass. The explosion was more thoughtful, and
after it was over we required some new rope. I
thought we also required a new shaft, a*nd went
on strike again.
About this time the company wanted us to for-
ward some specimens. There was also some talk
of the legal manager bringing down a speculator
with a view of placing the' mine on the London
market. Sam was very indignant and threatened
to resign if they interfered with his management.
I thought it very probable they would interfere,
but I was strong on having a new shaft and buy-
ing some specimens to pacify the directors.
Sam placed his view of the matter before the
company. The mine was too good to sell. It
was only mines that were worked-out or else no
good that were put on the London market. He
would not take £5OOO for his interest in the mine
—a twelfth. This report put matters on a more
solid basis for us ; and, after an elaborate survey,
Sam fixed a site for a straight-shaft to cut the
underlay at 100 feet. The site selected for the
new shaft was nearer to the public-house than the
old one. . , , ,
Then Sam, in a burst of excitement, raked-up
some specimens and forwarded them to Sydney.
The co. was so pleased that it came up bodily and
inspected the property. And now Ham afraid
there is nothing else for it but the sewersagam.
YOKEL.
Trooper Fred Smith, of Wallabodah, near
Quirindi, N.S.W., has in his possession a silver
trowel, presented to the late Gen. Joubert on the
occasion of the laying of a Transvaal church
foundation-stone. The returned trooper found it
one day, while at the front, in following up a
Boer retreat.
As—according to R.C. Bishop Doyle—
three-fourths of the Irish priests barrack for
Healy, it is at least doubtful whether Redmond
and his United Irish League will be able to down
“the hell-cat” Timothy. The Tory papers
attribute the recrudescence of boycotting to this
same League. And—allowing for prejudice—the
notion receives color from the fact that, at latest,
there were about 300 farms lying idle in Ireland,
their previous owners having been evicted and
nobody venturing to take them up. And, any-
.how, if Parnell himself had to go down before the
priests, what show has Redmond ?


California Sprup of Figs,
AGREEABLE, MILD, AND SURE,
is a positive, reliable, and at the same time the most agreeable, family remedy
for Constipation, Sluggish Liver, Biliousness, Indigestion, Depression,
Feverishness, Loss of Appetite, Headache, and all kindred complaints,
speedily restoring health, appetite, energy, and good spirits.
California Sprup of Figs,
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
A luxury as much as a medicine, and an unfailing remedy. It acts as Nature
does. It does not gripe, nauseate, or weaken. It gives relief pleasantly,
leaving the liver, kidneys, and bowels permanently benefited, so that its use
may be discontinued as soon as the system is relieved and cleansed.
California sprup of Figs,
ACTS GENTLY, BUT PROMPTLY,
is strengthening, invigorating, and energising, not weakening and lowering, as
most ordinary pills and purgatives are. There is no discomfort or inconveni-
ence. It simply aids and seconds Nature, and its results are healthful
regularity, and freedom from dangerous impurities in the system.
California Sprup of Figs,
CLEANSES THE SYSTEM EFFECTUALLY,
is not an old-time medicine —it is compounded with a knowledge of exactly
what is required of an end-of-the-century remedy. If you always have it
handy, taking a dose now and then, it will put your vital organs in healthy
condition and keep them so. You do not require to lay up to get well.
Nature’s Pleasant Laxative keeps you well while you live as usual.
California Sprup of Figs,
AN IDEAL MEDICINE FOR CHILDREN.
It is perfectly suited to their strength, never tiring or weakening the
stomach, liver, kidneys, and bowels, which it cleanses, completely dissipating
at will all troubles of these organs, and then it materially strengthens them.
In action it is as bland and gentle as rain-water, and there is no risk attend-
ing its use.
California Sprup of Figs,
THE GOOD IT DOES IS PERMANENT;
—-unlike other articles offered to effect the same result—does not require to
be taken in doses of constantly increased strength. The ordinary dose is
always effective, because while relieving the weakened organs of their trouble
it strengthens them against recurrence of the disturbance. Pills and
purgatives merely relieve, and always by over-violent means. Because of
these merits physicians everywhere recommend it.
California Sprup of Figs,
THE TRUE AND ORIGINAL REMEDY.
Do not overlook the fact that in order to get the beneficial result you are
seeking you must obtain the GENUINE Syrup of Figs, for the imitations of
it miss its most important quality—the curative. It is manufactured by
scientific processes known to the California Fig Syrup Co. only, and therefore
we wish to impress on all the importance of purchasing the true and original
remedy. Remember the full title-—California Syrup of Figs. Every package
of the genuine bears the name and trade mark of the
California Fig Sprup Co.
Of all Chemists and Stores, is. i£d. and is. gd.
DEPOT:— 33 SNOW HILL, LONDON, ENG.
HIGHEST AWARD—GOLD MEDAL—PARIS EXHIBITION, 1900.
” FOOD
For INFANTS
and INVALIDS 7
MELLIN’S FOOD yields a complete diet for the youngest
infants, in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD retains its properties for any length of
time and is adapted for use in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD when dissolved in milk, makes a simple
nutritious diet for growing children.
Samples etc., may be obtained of GOLLIN & Co., 172, Clarence Street, Sydney, 562 4, Bourke
Street, Melbourne, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, and Wellington.
Mellin’s Food Company for Australia and New Zealand Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, London.
MELUN’S EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS,
and BRONCHITIS.
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN A 00., 172 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Now
Ready,
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d;
dated. Bd.
The Maori’s Wool.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now, this is just a simple tale to tell the reader
how
They civilised the Maori tribe at Rooti-iti-au.
The Maoris are a mighty race—the finest ever
known ;
Before the missionaries came they worshipped
wood and stone ;
They went to war and fought like fiends, and
when the war was done
They pacified their conquered foes by eating every
one.
But now-a-days about the pahs in idleness they
lurk,
Prepared to smoke or drink or talk—or anything
but work.
Around the hills their flocks of sheep are fed on
tribal lands —
A communistic ownership that no one under-
stands.
The richest tribe in all the North in sheep and
horse and cow
Were those who led their simple lives at Rooti-
iti-au.
’Twas down to town at Wellington a noble Maori
came,
A Rangatira of the best, Rerenga was his name—
(The word Rerenga means a “snag”—but until
he was gone
This didn’t strike the folk he met—it struck them
later on).
He stalked into the Bank they call the “ Great
Financial Hell,”
And told the Chief Financial Fiend the tribe had
wool to sell.
The Bold Bank Manager looked grave—the price
of wool was high.
He said, “ We’ll lend you what you need—we’re
not disposed to buy.
You ship the wool to England, Chief! You’ll
find it’s good advice,
And meanwhile you can draw from us the local
market price.”
The Chief he thanked him courteously and said
he wished to state
In all the Rooti-iti tribe his mana would be great,
But still their tribe were simple folk who might
not understand
This strange financial jugglery which gave them
cash in hand
Before the wool was sold at all ; and even after
sale
Perhaps they mightn’t get the price—the notion
turned him pale !
So off he started home again, with trouble on his
brow,
To lay the case before the tribe at Rooti-iti-au
They held a great korero in the Rooti-iti clan,
With speeches lasting half a day from every lead-
ing man.
They called themselves poetic names—“lost
children in a wood ” ;
They said the Great Bank Manager was “ Kapai ”
—extra good !
And so they sent Rerenga down, full-powered and
well-equipped,
To draw as much as he could get, and let the wool
be shipped,
And wedged into a “Cargo Tank,” full up from
stern to bow—
A mighty clip of wool went Home from Rooti-
iti-au.
It was the Bold Bank Manager who drew a heavy
cheque ;
Rerenga cashed it thoughtfully, then clasped him
round the neck.
A hug from him was not at all a thing you’d call
a lark.
You see he lived on mutton-birds and dried re-
mains of shark.
But still it showed his gratitude, and, as he
pouched the pelf,
“ I’ll ‘ haka ’ for you, sir,” he said. “In honor of
yourself ! ”
The “haka” is a striking dance —the sort they
don’t allow
In any place more civilised than Rooti-iti-au.
He “haka’d” most effectively—then, with an
airy grace
Rubbed noses with the Manager, and vanished
into space.
But when the Wool-return came back, ah me,
what sighs and groans !
For every bale of Maori wool was loaded up with
stones !
Yes —thumping great New Zealand rocks among
the wool they found ;
On every rock the Bank had lent just seven pence
a pound.
And now the Bold Bank Manager, with trouble
on his brow,
Is searching vainly for the chief from Rooti-iti-au.
N.S.W.
THE BANJO.
Victoria’s Viticultural College at Ruther-
glen—with nearly 1000 acres of the best vine-
growing land, class-rooms and accommodation for
40 students, casks, implements and machinery,
horses and buggies, large brick wine cellars,
presses, distillery, laboratory, sterilising appara-
tus, &c. —boasts, at present, Of just one student.
It has seldom had more in the 10 years of
existence, though once, it actually did have no less
than sin 3 years. The fortunate youth aforesaid
is about the most extravagantly-educated student
on the face of the earth. For his sole benefit the
State provides a viticultural expert at £3OO a
year, an overseer at £l6O, a gardener, a carpenter,
a blacksmith, a groom, a housekeeper, two lads,
nine laborers and a type-writer ! The Bulletin
hopes she is a nice girl. Also 24 acres of vines 9
years old, 9 at 3, and 15 at 1 year, besides 3 acres
of nursery and a farm. There has never been
anything like this since the time when, after
scores of thousands had been spent on Sydney
University, all it could show for the money was
kts first graduate—the late Judge Windeyer.
"Laborare Est Orare.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I took rather a fancy to that small house —while
it was building.
When it was allegedly finished I saw it was two
houses —a builder’s beguilement of the unwary
into the delusion that they were not practically
11 pigging” with their next-door neighbor. There
were two squat little balconies jammed together,
two mean little front doors, with two skimpy por-
ticoes, two slips of sand before and behind, and so
on. It was naturally advertised as “ Two Genteel
Villa Residences.” Sheol and Sydney are just
full of such gentility in badly-baked bricks and
rotten mortar. I did not take it, but rented a
more commodious cottage in the vicinity. But
because I might have become the tenant of the
genteel rabbit-hutch, I thereafter took a languid
interest in it.
* * * *
The thing was let at last to two families.
The occupants of the right half I never saw.
I have a theory that the snores of the other people
kept them awake all night, and that they
accordingly did their sleep in the day-time. One
morning early, however, an unctuous, smooth-
faced man of uncertain age, wearing a large mouth
which wobbled, and a walking-costume, even to the
gloves thereof, appeared on the slip of sand in
front of the left villa. He was accompanied by a
small bucket full of water, and a white jug, pro-
bably used to take in the family milk, water, and
tuberculosis.
He was watering his “ front garden ” with the
jug. The garden might possibly have accommo-
dated twelve soup-plates placed edge to edge in
four rows of three. My real impression is that
nine soup-plates would have been crowded. When
the horticulturist detected that I curiously re-
garded him, he blushed turbidly, his ample lips
waggled, and he precipitated himself within
doors, carrying the jug to safety but leaving the
bucket to its fate.
I made a point of looking at him attentively
ever after—to encourage him.
When, on the same day I first discovered him,
I passed homewards to lunch, the toiler was still
at it, and there was quite an amount of water
slopped around. As there was no sign of digging
it seemed evident that he contemplated a “lawn”
only an oasis per favor of the Water and Sewer-
age Board. He caught my eye again, reddened,
tried to yawn indifferently, failed and retreated,
holding on to his jug. But he was there in the
afternoon, perspiring profusely. He had taken
off his gloves.
* * * *
It very day, and at all hours, that devoted man
might have been seen plugging away at his
miniature desert with bucket and jug. In very
hot weather, and then only, he relinquished his
coat, always hastily resuming it and coloring pain-
fully and retiring if he caught my eye. On several
occasions five small, severe girls, armed with
assorted jugs, superintended operations.
Then the man would endeavor to assume the
aspect of an indulgent parent who amuses his
children, but as the children stood in a row on the
verandah—there was not room for them and their
father on the “lawn”—it was apparent to the
most cursory observer that the girls were not only
rigidly directing their father’s efforts, but were
displeased with them.
* • * *
No single blade of green responded to the man’s
arduous efforts, yet he continued to water-away,
week after week, with an unflagging heroism
which I began to regard as almost pathetic.
* * * •
This went on for nearly a year. Summer,
autumn and winter flitted. Spring dawned. He
increased, if possible, his exertions.
Nothing came !
One memorable day a new, small watering-can
reposed on the lawn. With its advent the worker
seemed to gain some confidence, possibly feeling
that the can was an outward and visible sign to
the observing world that he was no longer a mere
dilettante gardener, but had passed into the profes-
sional ranks. He retired, when gazed-at, less
frequently, though he still faintly blushed, and his
loose, pendulous lips worked uncannily. In the
autumn I went away oversea. The very last day
I was in Sydney a glance over the iron railings of
the villa assured me there was no sign of vegeta-
tion—not even a light mildew.
* » * *
Away many months, it was hot summer before
I returned to the old spot. The villa, man, and
watering-can were still there. The man looked
discouraged. In a corner of his patch was stuck
something which looked like a plant. I concluded
he had relinquished his great design of an entire
lawn and would compound—part grass, part
flowers. He saw me, started, but did not vanish.
Indeed, the shade of a wan and deprecatory smile
hovered around his voluminous lips. It was as if
he had said, “Do not judge me too harshly; I
have done my best.” Once or twice, as the days
wore on, I remarked a pipe in his mouth. No
smoke ever issued from it. It was never even
loaded. Once, the pipe in evidence, a voice—a
most terrible female voice—called from the villa’s
interior: “Horatio!” In a flash he pocketed
the empty pipe and hurried indoors, with that
hopeless expression of countenance which some of
us, the saints allege, will carry about through all
eternity.
* * * *
One torrid autumn morning there was, for a
wonder, no one in the villa garden. A strange
oppressive silence brooded. I looked up at the
windows. All the blinds were close drawn. That
had never happened before. I stopped, and looked
over the iron railings, which somehow reminded
me of those surrounding a genteel grave. A
young lady, of acid and angular visage, was also
observing the villa-front, while she arranged a
rusty black stocking that might have concealed
a bony knee, had it been darned.
“ Bloke’s dead ! ” she remarked, with a jerk of
her chin upwards.
“ Dead ? ” I ejaculated.
“ Killed ’isself by ’ard graft, they sy.”
My eye fell upon the lawn. It was terribly dry
and sandy—but—yes—as I live—in the centre,
about the size of one soup-plate, was a little patch
of green grass. And, in the corner, a marigold
bloomed !
And the toiler was dead !
But his life-work was accomplished—“ Laborare
est orare! ”
SYDNEY.
J. EVISON.
Writes “ Antifat ” :
Lismore, according to its local press, is “the most
flourishing country town in N.S.W., and is situated in
the-garden of Australia.” Yet Lismore Municipal Council
lately accepted tenders for two horses, carts, and men for
ensuing 12 months at 7s. 3d. per day. Maize is 4s. per
bushel, chaff 4s. 6d. per bag. Talk about Sweating 1


Unable to Sleep, Could Not Eat,
Nerves Upset, Joints Swollen.
A Grand Family Medicine, Good for all from the Young-
est to the Oldest. After the Doctors had Failed to Cure,
Health was Quickly Restored by taking
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
9
n
m
a;
'
“ Not long ago I was extremely ill. I could not sleep, eat, or work. My heart would throb
violently with the slightest exertion. My nerves were all upset and my joints were swollen so I
could hardly take a step.
“ All the doctors failed to cure me and I was completely discouraged. A friend then per-
suaded me to try Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and Pills. In a few days I felt better, and it took only
two bottles of the Sarsaparilla to restore me to complete health.
“My husband has taken Ayer’s Sarsaparilla with the greatest benefit, too. It cured him
of indigestion, general debility, and purified his blood when he was suffering from boils.
“ I have given Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to my children with the most wonderful effects.
It keeps their blood pure, builds them up, and makes them strong.”
This is the testimony of Mrs. Julia Osborne, Grand Junction Road, Rose-
water, Adelaide, So. Australia. She sends us her family photograph, which we
give above.
Good for all members of the family; hence its name
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
You must certainly be. convinced that Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is a most won-
derful family medicine. It takes out all kinds of poisons from the blood, fills it
with life-giving power, and is the strongest nerve-tonic you can take.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
A Splendid Medicine for Children. - .
The cure is hastened by taking AYER’S PILLS, a pleasant and easy laxative.
.
r
■
Sen- Sen & \
FARRINGCON AVtNUEI
LONDON.
T:
oi aiavmvAUi
cK
brer
rt
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COIVIIVIOIVr SENSE.
By' Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 86 Ohromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is gd post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post is 6d.
DKT Carver’s Trices and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post-Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
'STodern Etiquette—Parties, Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. Ss 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of FaTe, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price.] s,.Ss>st is 3d, .. „
How to DANCE, nevv work. IS posted.
A
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
W ritbr, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d ported.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Court OF London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man'His Own Carpenter-, Is 6(1 posted.
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books —most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
O*!W'S
171 OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WOR'TH A
GUIMBA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud op Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he isorld. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9jd, Is IJsd, and 2s 9d each.
WOW READY.
A POLICY FOR THE
COMMONWEALTH.
Bcios a series of articles reprinted
from “Tbs Bulletin,” v/itb ai>
appendix dealing v/itb tb« Fiscal
QOestion-
PRICE 6d.; posted, Bd.
“STEELE RUDD’S” BOOK-
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
MAORI LAND : ai)d Otljcr Verses.
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
The Best Book of Verses Maoriland has produced. Price, Five Shillings (post free).
;/«■
“THE BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., LTD., 214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Wholesale Agents: Edwards, Dunlop, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
&
The Universal Remedy for Acidity oi the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cur©
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
IRISH MOSS
FOR
-The besF remedy-
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
rr»i nc
Ask for Boan ir>g ton’s
and see that you get it.
BRONCHITIS.
ASTHMA.


SYDNEY
Rubber Works
MANUFACTURERS OF
Sheet Bubber, Bubber Rings,
Washers, Rollers,
Valves, Buffers,
fide TuKJnn. and Every Description of
i.UOIHg, Mechanical Rubber Goods.
Works :
CAREY STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
City Office :
PERDRIAU and CO.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND .. .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s CtybrocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n>brocatioQ.
THE WORTHINGTON
. ..IS THE ORIGINAL ...
UPLEX PUMP.
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND.
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WORTH IMGTON.
TRADE MARK.
_
r
SPOONS Sc
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
wy
<She
H’\Uv
J. & J. MAX FIELD, Pkopks.. SHEFFIELD.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also ati
“ TME BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOJilv s'J.'Kl'irit’, 8 V DMI2Y
COpp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post Irons all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
M
GEORGE & MARKET STREETS.
.
*1 and Residence, Bn. per Day.
CHEONI
till 2.30.
DINNER, TEA
5.30 till 7.30.
ONE SHILLING UPWARDS.
Perfect Cuisine and First-class Attendance.
Special FISH LUNCHEON and DINNER on FRIDAYS.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS'S
GRATEFUI.—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER-
TO WAY-BACK KE3IDENTS.
CHRISTMAS and COMMONWEALTH FESTIVITIES.
YOU CAN OBTAIN FROM THE
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO. LTD.
by Rail or Parcels Post, the very Finest Christmas Cakes and Puddings, Pastry, &c.
Poultry, Fish and Game forwarded in a frozen condition to all parts of the Colony.
Butter —“ Golden Star ” and “ Berry ” Brands, of Splendid Keeping Quality-—sent by Parcels Post, packed in tins.
ICE, ICE, ICE—Pure Crystal Ice —packed in Special Transport Boxes, and consigned (freight paid) to any Railway Station in N.S.W.
Send for our Price Lists h. patesoh, Manager.
Head Office : HARBOUR ST., SYDNEY.
PARKE & LACY
Have always on hand a Good
Stock of both Horizontal and
Vertical Engines and Boilers ;
also of Mining and General
Machinery. Write for particu-
lars and prices to
"V: 7 ‘ . ■'• ' ' 1 ' . • . " .. . - '. ; r ’ ' ' ' l;?'/
60 Clarence St, Sydney, N.S.W.
t
m
m
a
IS
,
1 '
B
i m
■ t
X- -
V ' *•
:-■■■ :
■
WDtSC 60ESEA.UM
i
74 Clarence St., SYDNEY; 435 Bourke St., MELBOURNE,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS.
BLAKE’S STEAM PUMPS (Single and Duplex)
FAY’S WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
STEAM ENGINES (Horizontal and Vertical)
ENGINEERS’ TURNING LATHES.
DRILLING MACHINES. PLANERS.
STEEL PULLEYS SHAFTING, PLUMMER-BLOCKS
EMPIRE LAUNDRY CO’S LAUNDRY MACHINERY
STURTEVANTS FANS and PORTABLE FORGES.
m
/at
7
Hi
