

The Bulletin
Vol 22.—N0. 1128. j
[Saturday, September 28, 1901.
Registered at the General Past Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cocoa.
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
R.
M inin g
<3r. WATKJIVS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Si';
rv'-'i
Over 2700 Hydro-iiixtraotors Sold sad at
WINE !
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST WmE2^>
IH AUSTRALIA.
Send for Samples and Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°-w mt street, SYDNEY.
ARE
SOLE AGENTS FOR
B
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
rp. _ . _
lh<*e machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Su
-It, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send iu,
etimomals and Ml particulars.
THORNE'
That’s All!
A 1 WHISKY.
HELICON SPA
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH & CO. X<tdL., A-genta, Sydney.
RACKAROCK
‘t'ci
★
HO-OAFtT.
“
Hadley s Orient iofil.
jJJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Lamest Hofei
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECTAT. SUPREME
SANDEMAIM’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
- 241 PITT STREET, aYDKTEY.
HOTEL
IS UNSURPASSED
by that of any other in Sydney for
Comfort, Privacy, Convenience
Healthy Situation.
The Sanitary Arrangements are of the
most perfect description.
The Hotel is under the Direct Management and
Supervision of
MRS. WILLIAM GANNON, Pnoranmusss,
Telephone 274. Ch u rch H i 11, Sydney.
10s. per Day or £3 3s. per week.
SPECIAL TERMS CAN BE ARRANGED FOR
FAMILIES AND PRIVATE APARTMENTS-
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Go'vts. of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SOM, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches: —P. Frankel & Co., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q. ;
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
Co., Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland ;
Biackbuvne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
F
AIR GIRLS AND GRAY HO RSES
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
JOHN JAMESON
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents i J. BARRE JOHNSTON & CO., Loftas Street, Sydney.
EMPIRE HOTEL, SYDNEY
IMIQST GEUTBAXiIiY 3I^rTT-A.T:E]ID_
OTARD-DUPUY
Estbd. 25 Years BRANDY.
uac
Head Office:
10 BLBGH ST., SYDNEY
What Price WATERBURY Watches ?
LOW PRICE.
JWhat Quality WATERBURY Watches?
HIGH QUALITY.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne)
Telephone No. 10hS.
CATERER.
Mr. Skinner hag a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and Banquets and
Private Balls Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED v
Ediswan - Lamp.
.^ugnm
msm
i
economy in -
- - current
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
the snanTt m
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd. S
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrin
W/NYARD SQUARE, SYD
Q’nslaml Depot-Central Buildin s Edwara-c


THE RED PAGE.
A Bookful of Sunlight.
SINGE, throughout the whole range of natural
phenomena, Heat is the source of activity
and life, Cold the companion of passivity
and death, it may be that we shall yet learn
to praise the fierce sun of Central Australia as a
raoial boon. In the light of later exploration, we
have come to knowledge that Sturt’s “ Stony
Desert ” holds illimitable tracts of fertile country,
in good seasons teeming with vegetable and
animal life, in rainless seasons often parched and
arid, yet not necessarily the desolate land of des-
pair which to Sturt’s eyes it seemed. In the light
of science and experience, we seem to be coming
to knowledge that the furnace of the interior
Summer may hold no such evil menace as we have
attributed to it. The sky as blue and hard as steel,
the earth as red and hard as copper, the fierce
rays which palpitate between them, —these things
seem intolerable to the alien who craves a country
“ made sweet with the solace of rivers and gracious
with temperate air.’.’ Yet among the stones the
lizards run ; the birds are hidden, but they are not
dead; —and the bird is a type of the fiercest,
most eager kind of life; than the lizard there is
no type more enduring. The sun-rays are pitiless
indeed, but they are foe to disease and death ;
the earth which receives them is healed of sick-
ness by the very principle of life, and needs no
balms or balsams. Those children who have strength
to resist the sun’s attack would seem to possess
power to divine a strong blessing beneath the
apparent bane; they exhibit an Arab’s tenacious
vitality and an Arab’s dogged fortitude. The
recorded endurance of some bush-lost children is
little short of marvellous.
And the Arab race is one of the most permanent
of races. Its beginnings precede European his-
tory ; it seems likely to preserve its individuality
when the mixed races of Europe, as races, have
been blotted out. The Desert is a hard mistress ;
but, to those who master her, an unfailing servant.
Very soon a whole tribe of current notions will
follow the notion that the Bush is desolate, the
eucalypt unbeautiful. These are the notions of
our British fathers, persisting in their children.
It is time to end the error of seeing Australia
through English spectacles. Conditions here are
no less good than elsewhere : they may prove to
be far bettor. The complaint against Australia is
the complaint of strangers that a new country will
not adapt itself to their ingrained beliefs and
usages. The praise of Australia will come when
we have learnt to adapt ourselves to our country.
It is the sunlight dancing through the veins of
the author that makes “My Brilliant Career”
interesting. “Miles Franklin” (of Goulburn,
N.S.W.) admits to being “a little bush girl”;
and her book is memorable for this : that it is the
very first Australian novel to be published.
There is not one of the others that might not
have been written by a stranger or a sojourner.
But “My Brilliant Career” is Australian
through and through ; the author has the
Australian mind, she speaks Australian language,
utters Australian thoughts, and looks at things
from an Australian point of view absolutely. The
book is hot a notable literary performance ; but it
is fresh, natural, sincere—and consequently charm-
ing. All over this country, brooding on squatters’
verandahs or mooning in selectors’ huts, there are
scattered here-and-there hundreds of lively,
dreamy Australian girls whose queer, uncompre-
hended ambitions are the despair of the household.
They yearn, they aspire for what they know not;
but it is essentially a yearning for fuller, stronger
life—the cry of their absorbed, imprisoned
sunlight for action, action, action ! “ Miles
Franklin” is one of these “incomprehensible”
ugly ducklings who has luckily escaped from the
creek, and is delightedly taking her swan-swim on
the river of literature. Thanks are due to Henry
Lawson for having taken pains for her, and to
Blackwood and Sons for having published her
book ; for the book (pity to say !) could hardly have
been published in Australia with a chance of pro-
fit : the local audience whom it will interest is still
too scanty. And now all the other bush-girls will
take heart, and drive their surreptitious pens
more furiously ; but, in the end, it is to be feared
(or hoped ?) that most of them will march with
their mothers’ regiment.
“ Miles Franklin ” has simply turned her girlish
diary into a book ; she has made literature out of
the little things that lay around her—and this is
what gives her book its value : she has had brains
enough to make it true, and wit enough to leave
it true. Too many of our young writers persist in
combining their memories of reading into a
hotch-potch of impossible romance, instead of
opening their senses to the romantic facts
strewn everywhere about them, and _ making
Literature by the natural process of elevation
from Life. There is a little that is false
where “Miles Franklin” has to supplement her
diary from imagination, in the love episodes ; but
she has imagined so sincerely that the relation
remains true in relation to herself, and is false
only as regards things external to her. And her
love of Australia is positive rapture: she even
loves curlews. She talks of “ the depraved old
pirates who pillaged England with William the
Conqueror.” She explains that
My organ of veneration must be flatter than a pancake,
because to venerate a person simply for his position I
never did, or will. To m : the Prince of Wales will be no
more than a shearer, unless when I meet him he displays
some personality apart from his princeship—otherwise he
can go hang.
She represents an Australian bishop who lends
money, and puts the bailiff in when his agent
absconds and the debtor can’t produce receipts.
... it came to my father’s knowledge that one of our
bishops had money held in trust for the church. On
good security he was giving this out for usury, the same
as condemned in the big Bible, out of which he took the
text of the dryhash sermons with which he bored Jhis
fashionable congregations in his cathedral on Sundays.
When her aunt is to leoture her she waits
expectantly:
What would she say ? Surely not that tame old yarn
anent this world being merely a place of probation,
wherein we were allowed time to fit ourselves for a
beautiful world to come. That old tune may be all very
well for old codgers tottering on the brink of the grave,
but to young persons with youth and romance and good
health surging through their veins, it is most boresome.
She “tells you straight.” Her letter to her
sister, from a main-road station, says “it wouldn’t
do to undress without bothering to drop the win-
dow-blind like we used at Possum Gully.” She
secretly likes to be kissed by a good-looking man.
She despises as a booby the man that gives into
her.' She is neither unsexed nor over-sexed—
In associating with men I never realise that the trifling
difference of sex is sufficient to be a great wall between
us. The fact of sex never for an instant enters my head,
and I find it as easy to be chummy with men as with
girls: men in return have always been very good, and
have treated me in the same way.
SJje revolts fiercely against narrow conventions,
narrow-horizons, yet is proud to be an Australian,
a child of the mighty bush. She calls things by
their right Australian names—“ Chapter 31—Mr.
M‘Swat and I have a Bust-up.”
In a word, “Miles Franklin” is the first real
Australian girl that has ever got into print in
book form, untinctured with alien notions ; and
within the limits of her experience she has fully
expressed herself and her comrades and her
country. Her book is a warm embodiment of Aus-
tralian life, as tonic as bush air, as aromatic as
bus.l trees, and as clear and honest as bush sun-
light.
“The Victorian Nightingale.”
JANET DIBBEN, formerly “the Victorian
Nightingale,” sends a new edition of her
verses (12 pp., with 4 pp. supplement).
x . ' iere 13 a new title—“ Songs and Recita-
tions Written r id Composed from Experience by
the Lady in Black (late of Sydney).” With the
booklet comes this letter of appeal (and one is
glad to learn that N.S.W. Parliamentary-poet,
J. C. JNleild, has not allowed any feeling of per-
sonal rivalry to interfere with the expression of
his natural sympathy with the authoress)—
I have been advised by my friend—curnel Neald who is
a truepoet to send you one of my books of poetry, it is all
of my own compesetien and I hope you will give me a
good hawfcollum on your redpaige. the eurnel says no
one can fcuton it for stile, now do mr archy praise it up as
i am sending to the printer mr townsend in pitttreet for
another thousend in the bush towns it - sells like hot pies
and I am gone to put 1C more new songs and siven more
recits into my next the eurnel mr Neald says when the
people get the hang of my stile mr kip ling wont count
now do your best for me and when I go to Sidney i-11 call
and thank you properly J
Your kind frend
JANET DIBBEN
, address to G P Office Cobram.
A selection from the “Songs” follows. The
authoress introduces herself—
Janet Dibben is my name,
From Victoria I have come,
And I travel round the world,
And I always have such fun.
If anybody wants to buy this book,
This is what I say :
You can give me a shilling,
Arid then I go away.
Here are two Songs relating how the authoress
got into trouble—
Chorus—
Nothing like soap and water, yon see ;
Duck was doing sewing, and there was oakum for me.
ii.
The deed is done, I can’t renew,
I forged the cheque for a hundred or two :
I did sign and she did cash,
My love and I we cut a dash.
It’s in the box the police do stand,
The bible is in their hand ;
They pick it up and lay it down,
Swearing lies to all around.
The Jury they did bring it in
We were guilty—that’s the thing.
It’s in the chair the Judge does sit,
He gives the sentence very quick.
The sentence now has come to pass—
It comes to this, my dear, at last.
The Judge he gave his decision ;
Did we not feel our position ?
My love and I, we had to part,
It was the breaking of my heart.
I got one, and he got two,
We settle down for a year or two.
I was fat, but he was thin ;
He was sent to Parramatta—that’s the thing.
They say it is a nice place ;
I hope he won’t get into disgrace.
Send a letter, if you can,
With the man that drives the van ;
You can send your best of wishes,
And I will answer yours in kisses.
Then he kissed me on the cheek—
Good-bye, old girl, until we meet.
You keep virtuous, and I’ll be true,
When I come out I’ll marry you.
Don’t you fret, and I will try—
Good-bye, my love, good-bye.
Chorus—
When I’m out, I always think,
He dipped the pen into the ink,
Here is a pretty Song of a woman and a man—
I am going to travel, and this is what I say,
I intend by night and by day,
I am going to Sydney as quick as I can,
I am going to get a wise young man.
When he gets me, this is what it will be—
He will give me a kiss—that’s the thing you see.
After this he will call me his pet—that is a thing I never
forget.
Very soon he will call me his dear,
And if I get his money, I am sure to clear.
When you go a-travelling, go on a boat—
That is the place to see a bit of sport;
There are the sailors—they are so good and kind—
When they go ashore they spend their money all in Wine.
Some likes the girl that slender in the waist,
Others like the girl that pretty in the face :
I like the girl with a rose upon her breast,
That is the girl that I like best.
Some charming Songs tell of life in Darling-
hurst gaol, and then comes another more per-
sonal—
It is a pleasure to quote one of the “Reci-
tations ”
August the Bth the “ Duke of Portland ” to Townsville
did now arrive,
With one hundred new chums with great surprise ;
They were dressed neat, and they had red rosy cheeks,
Employment they did seek,
And they got situations at eight bob a week,
A cabby asked one to come for a drive,
She says, “ Don’t think l am a new chum,”
And he looked with surprise.
I hope they will be careful of what they have got,
For the men in this country are a terrible lot.
Here is part of a useful Song about the Mel-
bourne Cup—
I went to Melbourne for to try my luck ;
My horse came in last, and the old girl she did buck.
At the booth there was a great push—
All of them was drinking beer, and they said Melbourne
Cup was cush.
Now the Cup is over, poverty does begin—
Some has won a pound or two, and other lost their tin.
When my love he came home, I asked him did he win ;
All that he could tell me is his horse did not come in.
The next morning the landlord came for the rent,
All that I could tell him was that I hadn’t got a cent.
The butcher and the baker they sent in their hills,
And if I do not pay them they will put the bailiffs in, they
will.
Once my love was always dressed so neat;
Now the Cup is over, he has nothing on his feet.
They took away my furniture,
And that’s what broke my heart
Very soon my love and I did part.
This selection by no means exhausts the list of
pleasant Songs and Recitations, and it is no won-
der the book sells “like hot pies”—for
Janet Dibben is my name,
In Glasgow I was born,
I go round the world,
And don’t stay very long.
I am the authoress of this book,
It’s all composed by me,
So note I’m at my iiberty,
There no more walls for me.
I.
This is the Terrace I was in,
This is the song I composed to sing,
Nipsy was the maker, and Duck was the taker—
It was old Duck that brought Nipsy in.
Duck got six months for the den, you see ;
She didn’t have a fool when she thought she had me.
Don’t you see it was to be a very good thing for Duck
and me.
IJuck had to get cleaned, and I am cured,
And what is done must be endured.
Up to the High Court Nipsy in, you see,
The Judge and the Jury, we faced them, you see ;
They first looked at Nipsy, and then looked at Duck—
Nipsy got four years, and gave Duck three.
Duck declined to tell Nipsy’s name,
That shows that Duck was to blame.
Duck had the money at first, you see ;
Her and her cousins got all on the spree.
Never fear but Nipsy will keep clear
Of old Duck and all her career.
Never you mind, but the day did shine !
Nipsy never will give another baby to old Duck to mind
When Nipsy’s visitors they come in.
It was into the cage she was popped in ;
She let them know, before they go,
This was the Terrace she was in.
Nipsy came from a very old stock,
And she was a niece of old Scotch Jock.
Duck had a husband, and God knows where J ■
He was a barber that cut off the hair.
Nipsy had a husband, up country' there,
And she might be dead, for he did’nt care.
He might be dead by the time Nipsy’s free—
Then she’ll get married again you will see.
Nipsy was happy. Dinah and Duck converted Jane,
Once we did wrong—but we’ll never do wrong again.
I am going to travel,
No matter where I be;
I am one you read about,
And you seldom see;
I am going to travel,
No matter where I go ;
I must have money to pay
My way, you know.
Once I was married and all that is true,
My ups and downs in life, I have seen a good few ;
But now I am a widow,
And I am very glad,
For when I was married
I was very near mad.
The children they came always so quick,
I was so poor ;
I was as fat as a stick when I was married,
I was always so funny—
I had so many children and I never had money.
The children are married now, I am told,
They don’t want me, because I am too old ;
My husband and I we are apart,
He don’t keep me,
So I don’t break my heart.
He was lazy ; he didn’t prove true,
He didn’t leave me, so I bid him adieu.
Our Country.
THE good leaven is working in this excep-
tionally well written article from The Age,
Melbourne
“The reception of the Australian spring is
purely joyous. Unworn by the long, grim
siege of the northern European winter, we
do not hail the spring with that poignancy
of transport that breathes the sigh of relief
almost as strongly as the sigh of pleasure.
Winter with us is merely the quiescence of
autumn prolonged till we are well rested from the
heat of summer, and our renewed energy and
refreshed spirit await but the touch of spring to
stir through us with that upwelling of ecstasy
which is only too faintly recalled by the lyrics of
our master poets. Nowhere in the world does
spring announce herself with so lovely a splendour
as in Australia. Along every river, up the tribu-
tary creeks, on the steep slopes of the gullies our
wattles, fair forest trees, burst into such a pas-
sionate profusion of golden blossom as no other
country can rival. For miles and miles they line
the natural avenues of brimming water, they
gather into grooves where streams meet, and
everywhere they pour upon the cool air their soft
fragrance, as 3weet as that of woodbine or eglan-
tine, but sweeter far to the Australian abroad
when it floods him with memories of home in the
springtime.
“ How darkened was the vision of those- early
authors who could write of the Australian colonies
as ‘ lands where bright blossoms are scentless,’ and
as having for the dominant note of their scenery
‘weird melancholy.’ Of Byronic gloom, in which
these unacclimatised malcontents would steep it,
our landscape will plainly have none. It smiles
forth a serene gaiety contagious for those who
bring to the intercourse sane minds in sound
bodies. Who could wish a blue sky to beam
softer than ours along the horizon or deeper in the
zenith ? The gum tree, fiercely misunderstood by
the laborious pioneer wresting his little clearing
from its vast forests, is now only beginning to be
appreciated at its true worth by a generation that,
through an easier and gentler contact with it, has
come to love its manifold beauties. What a rich
variety of loveliness the young foliage of the
different species presents ! In the blue gum sap-
ling each of the broad sculpturesque leaves is
frosted with a bloom as delicate as that of the
plum or peach. In other species a dreamy purple
mantles through the green beneath the bloom with
a tender harmony that would make a flower
famous. In others again the red of the young
rose-leaf is surpassed, for by its translucency the
young leaf shows against sky or sun a range of
tone from ruby-red through sunset-gold to oceanic-
green that would have inspired the mediaeval
artists in stained-glass. Nor is the glory of the gum-
tree foliage confined to its youth ; in the soberer
hues of its maturity its tones of olive and russet
green give to the cultivated Australian eye a quiet
relief from the. general brilliancy. Our Australian
painters, a devoted band, are now, though with
the scantiest material encouragement, interpreting
for us the lovely quality of colour in our gum trees,
a quality that could not but escape the attention
of those who brought to Australia voung affections
already pledged to weeping willows, trim hedges,
and the positive greens of the English landscape',
ihe great eucalpyts are only to-day coming into
their rightful artistic heritage; even the dwarfs of
the plains carry their twisted boughs with a pic-
turesque suggestion of strength, and wrap their
scant array of leaves round them with the non-
chalance of a contented poverty. But in the
ranges the columnar spring of their great pearl-
grey trunks away towards the blue vault makes
our mountain forests a living temple to the joy of
life. Ihe Australian love of the gum tree is not
yet proportionate to all its merits amongst the
forest trees of the world. Thanks to its mellowed
greens, which to strange eyes seem so sombre, it is
able to absorb sunshine with the highest efficiency,
as its unequalled rapidity of growth bears witness.
Luxuriating in times of plenty, it can pass un-
scathed through the fiercest droughts, if onlv fire
will spare it. How tonic the air into which these
brave trees shed the vapour of their sharply aroma-
tic oil, especially to the climber on the ranges,
who cannot breathe a deep enough breath for the
heroic needs and deeds that stir within him.
The songsters that make themselves most
heard in the musical welcome of the Australian
spring, though they fail to touch the senti-
mental chord within us, give such a rollicking
jollity to the outpouring of their high spirits as
puts us into too genial a glow of good humor to
be critical. It is certainly not the classical night-
ingale's tumult of mournful passion that our mag-
pie gives us ; but on a clear spring morning when
he perches on a gum bough between two of his
buoyant flights, and with head thrown back and
wide-gaped bill, according to his own original
methods of voice production, tumbles out his fan-
tastic wild intervals, he expresses his own cheery
dare-devil independence to perfection. That
care must be heavy which is not dispelled hj a
chorus of magpies saluting a spring sunrise in a
bush clearing. And when the laughing jackass
appears, comedy has it all her own way. Poor
humorist of the woods, like his human fellow, he
fets most laughed at when he is most in earnest.
lis very love poems are put in the funny column.
Magpie and jackass unaided could laugh the
‘ weird melancholy ’ theory of Australian scenery
out of countenance.
“ The almond blossom has come and gone; the
pink of the peach blossom is showing. Soon every
forest clearing will display the emerald green of
"the young crops thrown into dazzling relief by the
tender pink and creamy spray of the bourgeoning
fruit trees. The blue column of wood smoke rises
gently from the settler’s home embowered in
blossom and bursting leaf. Under its roof a
brave man and a brave woman live in strong self-
reliance the solitary life of the bush. In their
suburban cottage the townsman and his wife,
tending their little garden yith new spring zest,
feel, but at a far remove, the farmer’s primal
instinct for productive life in the open air. In
town or country, to respond to the call of the
spring, despite the obstructions of a routine life,
is to retain one of our most precious capacities for
joy.”
♦
Frank Harris is not popular in England : he has
brains and a pen. But it does one good to
find him writing like this in The Candid Friend of
two quasi-Australian authors:
First Tin Immortal.—Mrs. Humphrey Ward.
Mrs. Ward is a mistress of the roundabout and the
tedious, and always ready to dam the uneven dribble of
her narrative with an irritating digression. I have
observed it stop for pages, that she might show her skill
in cataloguing libraries. Her style is of an intolerable
mediocrity—chapter after chapter of dull, careful writing,
tiresome with bursts of the cheap Pateresque, unrelieved
by one touch of distinction. I have reason to believe
that she invented the adjective “ineluctable.”
Second Tin Immortal.—Guy Bootiiby.
His is the unpretentious cheapness of a tradesman
supplying shoddy to customers who demand shoddy. His
characters are as wooden, and of as cheap wood as Mrs.
Ward’s ; but he never disguises its cheapness by polish
and varnish. Their wooden antics are far more entertain-
ing than those of the Wumfrard prigs, and when he tells
a tale he tells it right away—it waits neither for plausi-
bility, probability, nor possibility. His models in style
were Tit-Bits and the half-penny papers, and he repro-
duces forcibly the'ir diction. Her models were Pater and
the prose-writers ; and she waters down their diction to a
painful thinness. He may say, like a man, ‘He wore the
customary headgear of polite society,’ or, * At least thirty'
people were assembled, more than half of which number
were intoxicated’; he did not invent the adjective ‘in-
eluctable.’
Well-known, of course : but rarely written in the
Respectable literary press.
W. E. Henley will shortly publish a new volume
of poems. “ Storm Along, John ” ?
Campoamor, “ the most famous modern Spanish
poet,” is dead ; Ibsen is reported dying, paralysed
—and “irritable beyond conception.”
H. G-. Wells, whose fancy has seemed fading,
takes for subject of his new novel a genuine mer-
maid’s arrival at an English watering-place;—
and how does she manage her tail in the love-
passages ?
The “Australian magazine” track is white
with the bones of lost explorers; yet there’s
another afield—A. C. Rowlandson, who issues The
Commonwealth next month. Judging by advance
sheets, the new venture has a better chance of
success than any similar venture hitherto : the
matter and illustrations are good enough to be
called “ literary and artistic,” and not too good to
be popular. Every new magazine means a new
market for writers and limners; so it is to be
hoped this one will grow old enough to tempt
others into the field. Unluckily The Common-
wealth is to be only an annual for the present.
Henslowe's Annual (Sydney) reaches a second
number which is better- than the first, though it
remains rather amateurish and inefficient. In
the present issue Will Ogilvig, Will Fleming,
Ernest Favenc and others are represented, but not
represented at their best. The drawings bv Fred
Leist and Harry Grarliek are the most effective of
the dozen given. On the whole, it is a tolerable
shillingsworth.
BOOKBELLOW.
Eumenthol Jujubes
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGIS
m
Vr
IN TINS, Is. Sd.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OE POST FEEE FEOM THE PROPRIETOR,
€r. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 1 QUEEN’S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Threat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia,


M‘DOUG ALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
M'DOUGALL BROS., 8 Spring: Street, Sydney.
Agents: 3NT.SS. T - &. iso:. -A.. Co., LOCAL AGENTS EVERYWHERE
TO
SEND
YOUR
WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
If you want to get the best possible results.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s} Seven Prize Medals Awarded,
Circular- Pointed Pens.
Neither scratch nor spurt, the
points being rounded by a new
process.
Attention U also
drawn to their
new
“ GRADUATED
SERIES Of PENS.”
Each pattern being made in four degrees
of flexibility and Points.
r.R R ANDAUER &iC9I
pIRCIIURnCKIC
\jPOINTED I LIX v.
isk your Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either series.
Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND,
try orders.
Tails. Plaits
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS and PLAITS,
20in. lone:, 5/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6 ; 24in.,
10/6; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address”: — W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLIAM-ST., Comer of Palmer-st.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door. All
work guaranteed. Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
Wigs made on shortest notice.
foreign stamps.
n
/"IHEAP SETS.—4O Japan, la 6d •
47 Spain, 2a ; 10 Bulgaria, 6d I
16 Heligoland, la ; 8 Egypt, 6d ; 30
French, 9d ; 12 Indian Telegraghs,
6d ; 9 Labuan Pictorial, 2a 6d; 11
Canada, 6d; 9 Canada Duty, 6d; 5
Bolivia,4d. Packets 50, ls;100,2a 6d.
Stamps Purchased. New Catalogue
of Stamps, Albums, etc., Gratis.
CHARLES DOKNE, 346 Little Colllne-et., Melbourne.
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY
THERAPION
This suc-
cessful
and highly
popular remedy, as employed in the Continental Hospi-
tals by Ricord, Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others,
combines all the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of
the kind, and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1 maintains its world-renowned
and well-merited reputation for derangements of the
kidneys, pains in the back, and kindred ailments, afford-
ing prompt relief where other well-tried remedies have
been powerless.
THERAPION No. 2, for impurity of the blood,
scurvy, pimples, spots, blotches, pains and swellings of
the joints, gout, rheumatism, and all diseases for which
it has been too much a fashion to employ mercury, sarsa-
parilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’ teeth and ruin
of health. This preparation purifies the whole system
through the blood, and thoroughly eliminates every
poisonous matter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3, for exhaustion, sleeplessness,
and all the distressing consequences of dissipation, worry,
overwork, etc. It possesses surprising power in restoring
strength and vigor to those suffering from the enervating
influences of long residences in hot, unhealthy climates.
THERAPION
may be procured of the
principal Chemists and
Merchants throughout the world. Price in England, 2s. od.
and 4s. 6d. In ordering state which of the three numbers
is required, and observe that the word “Therapion"
appears on the British Government Stamp (in white
letters on a red ground) affixed to every genuine package
by order of His Majesty’s Hon. Commissioners, and with-
out which it is a forgery.
HAVE THE
BEST.
■■■■lll
1
()
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
la built by a light, handy machine, easily operated, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are two-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Steel Pickets
Securely interwoven at any desired distance apart, forming a perfect Web Fence which will hold
securely all kinds of Stock.
H
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS
CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE CO.
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
NEITHER CRACK
*a
5808
8°
5806
8807
BB
NOR BURN.
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE.— ShouId any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Burn a
New One will be Exchanged for it Immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, Is. 2d.
Mick Simmons, haymarket, Sydney.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, to tlxe Growers.
BONUS | PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
W e are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
“On Our Selection.” By “Steele Rudd.”
Do You Want to be Cored?
If you suffer
from
Rheumatism
General Debility
Bright’s Disease
Bladder Troubles
Blood Disorders
Sick Headache
Biliousness
Indigestion
Dyspepsia
Neuralgia
' x
Backache
Sciatica
Lumbago
Anaemia
Gout
Gravel
will give you back
Good Health
These diseases are, one and all,
caused by the retention in the
system of urea, uric acid, and
other urinary and biliary poisons,
which it is the function of the
kidneys and liver to remove.
"When the kidneys and liver,
from any cause, are unable to
do their work these diseases
result
WARNER’S SAEE CTJRE is a scientific
compound which possesses the marvellous
property of being able to restore the kidneys
and liver to health and activitv.
WAHNEE/S SAEE CERE restoring, as it
does, the kidneys and liver to health, these
organs extract from the blood the poisons
which cause the diseases. The poisons are
naturally expelled from the body, and the
diseases are cured.


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Ca/re GEO. ADAMS. Hobart.
Caulfield C. Oct. 19.
100,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me _shares in the above.
Name
Address
Caulfield C. (Special)
(DRAWN MORNING OF RACE)
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shams in the above.
Name
Address i
£ : :
Melbourne C. Nov. 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me sharps in the above.
Name
Address
Melbourne C. (Special)
(DEAWN MORNING OF RACE)
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
V’
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot mo shares in the above.
Name
Address .
MELBOURNE C. November 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
above.
Name -
Address
AMO
OPEN ON
Sanaiiurst 0., 2*7tlx JXTo’V., 100,000 at 5.
KTewoastl© c., 12tli Dec., so, ooo at 5.
■ Summer 0., 26tlx Dec., so, ooo at 5.
Carrington S-, 28tlx Dec., so, ooo at 5.
Brighton P., Ist Jan., 26,000 at 6.
For full particulars read our Printed Circular.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams. Hobart.


TOlElfc
EMULSION
WITH HyPOPKDSPHKK,
Cures Coughs
BUILDS UP THE SYSTEM.
IT is foolish to rely upon ordinary cough
mixtures for the cure of a _ really
troublesome cough. These mixtures
usually contain opiates that soothe and
quiet the cough temporarily, but do not
cure it. They also frequently disturb
digestion and thus do more harm than
good. What is needed is a remedy that
while having a soothing and healing effect
upon the mucous membrane of the lungs
and air passages, will at the same time
promote appetite, aid digestion, and build
up the health and strength, putting the
system in a condition to resist disease.
Nothing is equal to Angier’s Petroleum
Emulsion for accomplishing this result,
and we are constantly receiving reports
from all over the English speaking world,
showing its remarkable power to relieve
and cure coughs and colds and all chronic
lung affections.
A FREE SAMPLE
On receipt of .*d. for postage.
Mention Sydney Bulletin.
Do not accept inferior imitations made with
ordinary Petroleum.
BE SURE TO GET ANGIER’S.
Of all Chemists <fc Dana Stores.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., BYDNEY, N.B.W.
The morning of life is the time of
abundance, profusion, strength, vigor,
growth. When the sun begins to sink,
when the midday of life is past, then
the hair begins to fade and the silvery
gray tells of approaching age.
Sunrise or sunset? Which shall
your mirror say ? If the former, then
it is rich and dark hair, long and heavy
hair; if the latter, it is short and fall-
ing hair, thin and gray hair.
The choice is yours,—for
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
always restores color to gray hair,
stops falling of the hair, and makes
the hair grow long and heavy.
This is something you have been
looking for, isn’t it ? And it is some-
thing you can have confidence in, for
it is no experiment; people have been
using it for half a century. We do not
claim it will do everything, but we do
claim it is the best hair preparation
ever made.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Maas., U. S. A.
IJU
PMRoT
BR6ND"
Vv'oOaIDC
(totfiGMj (°LPS lc
[Bzyffiss OF '
Imitations
LADIES-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FR BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Asdbbsb —W.D.1.1 300 Collins 8t„ Moll
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Old Bohemian.
The world was in my debt,
I was the Friend of Man,
When, years ago, I met
The Old Bohemian.
His hat was shocking bad,
He wore a faded tie,
And yet, withal, he had
A moist and shining eye.
And though his purse was lean,
And though his coat was dyed,
He had a lordly mien
And air of ancient pride.
We sat in a hotel,
And drank the amber ale ;
And as I touched the bell
I listened to his tale.
He told me that some day
In his place I would be;
But all the world was gay—
No use in warning me.
He spoke of high Desire
And aspirations true;
And flamed again the fire
In eyes of faded blue.
“ By God ! ” the old man said,
“ The days of old were grand ;
I painted cities red,
I owned the blessed land.
“ I loved, when I was'young,
The girls in all the bars ;
And, coming home, I hung
My hat upon the stars.
“ And 0, the times were glad !
Such times you never knew ;
A id 0, the nights we had !
And 0, the jolly crew 1
“ Where are the songs—the talk—
The friends that used to be ?
I with my shadow walk
At last for company.
“We dreamt in those old days
That Poets we would be ;
And though we missed the bays
We lived our Poetry !
‘ We talked and talked and talked,
And slowly, one by one,
My old companions walked
Into the setting sun.”
The old Bohemian said,
“ The world owes nought to me,
I lie upon the bed
Which I made—carefully.
“ There is one way to play
The mad Bohemian game,
I found and took the way—
And you will do the same.”
Ah, that was years ago,
When skies were bright and blue,
And now, alas, I know
His prophecy was true.
Yet fill the glass once more,
Bohemians, and sing—
Upon another shore
There waits another Spring.
N.S.W.
V. J. DALEY.
Verses: after Heine.
While bird unto bird is calling
And the round red sun is sinking,
At the doorway of a homestead,
Pensive-eyed, a child stands thinking.
And I know the thoughts that gather,
And the dreams that have existence
In her mind, as she stands gazing
Towards the grey trees in the distance.
For she sometimes says, “ Who killed them ?
They were green and grand and tender,
And the little birds built in them,
And the sunlight gave them splendour.
“ Now their limbs are stark and naked,
And the little birds go by them ;
And at night I hear them calling,
But I fear to go a-nigh them.”
And she sometimes says, “He stands there,
Like an old man in his garden.”
“ Who ? ” you ask ; and she makes answer,
Smiling not, “ The Forest Warden.”
O, the Warden of the Forest
Is a dryad, old and hapless;
And his veins are like the tree-veins
That he stands among—all sapless.
Then, perchance, the sun lights something,
Or a far-off wood-shape quivers,
And the child grows pale and paler,
And she shakes her head and shivers.
’Tis the Warden, and he beckons !
(Ah, the eerie thoughts that thrill her !)
But she goes not to the Warden,
Lest a falling limb should kill her.
So, while bird to bird is calling _
And the round red sun is sinking,
At the doorway of her homestead,
Pensive-eyed, a child stands thinking.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post thro ay ho at
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MQUNTCASTLE It SONS, Brisbane, Q'land,
AOstraliai) ProVideot Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying
ip to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any hue.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General. Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
KMOU&R,
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 108 r
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
itST Send for a
Catalogue.
I
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of lAght Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIETt. 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
Ip*
M
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales—
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand —
D. Benjamin & Co.,
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchurch.
SEVILLE ORANGE
MARMALADE
In lib. Round Flat Tins.
Manufacturers s
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
THE
‘PLUM’
W» ,
. .Imm m "
mannm 0 "WM
° , I A l , VIII
THE
PLUM
ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow groimd, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
ede-e that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a fld.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
( Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s j Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful oase, 30a
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st.,
Sydney.
I’ll Try It:
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10e. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
A,
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in.Stock._
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Evert Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEN^C
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description oi
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7t
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. .Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptio nof vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE. —Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
tw.n we oan. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 pe*
cent more for your requirement*.
193 to 195 Cleveland-streot, Redfern, SYDNESf
OUU SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
m
Delivered at any Wharf «r
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-


[BRAUN ORE SAMPLE-CRUSHER
! and PULVERISER.
: '\_
A , . x ‘
;:; 1 . L; x 1
:2. F» :‘F ‘i‘. ‘A‘ '6‘; j.“ 1
.—‘_m r , ' ‘ ' m- . 4 I;
57—3 11:: ,‘k'ﬁ' } 3: 'w .911 ’
i1?;=1»,uég“=—"‘"—:~J~ W1 g; g :
1a: 1 W 1. ~ 1:124 =1: {E
{a}; Wm 1. -F. . ;= ﬂ; 5;?
"-1“ . ‘ " ' \ ';=:E“ " 'l‘ :_ -
1 . F , ~ ; F; , 1.’ /// \u
1-5: .1 _1 1 MW 1 v / I ,1
_;_; $5‘ 5. =5; ‘ F ;;n; 1;; ;// . "é— ,.
1 ‘\‘1 c‘ ‘ ~ 1;; 11' - . .1
5 $3.? ‘11.. 1'. Ft, . I;
-_ ‘ 7 1" w i‘ 1, ' V “ M ‘Liu L; 1‘
‘ . ~ FA 1‘ H V F" V'IFF'I/ 1' F ‘L- ,7 F
‘ ‘ - ==' .71.; i “ RF - “"047? '
F»; t' J; , ,I
W : . . . I," ;
uw 5} 317'».
X! W H1 199/71}; 22,-,
:I 1111‘; 1 a ‘3"
1_‘ 1F \i ‘1 ;‘L , I
1’s H‘ 1;“;51: u - . .
' “ “F ‘MFF U '
. A; 7-..5—1-111-15‘ , g ,
_t ‘ 4‘ “"H‘nlm, ’7 “3’ F —
“- MUM 1
Combination of a Jaw and Roll
Pulveriser working together.
May be operated by either Hand or power.
Jaws, 3* in. wide; Roil, 6 in. diameter; Belt 1
Wheel, 16 x 2% in. Total Weight, 2851b5- 1
White fob Pabticulabs to—
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w. 1
MINING ENGINEERS & MACHINERY I
MERCHANTS.
Solid Gold with 5 Tur-
quoise, 10/- ; or Pearl
and Turquoise, 12/6;
6 Opals, 15/- to 50/-.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
ALL GOODS POST FREE.
12/e
life
Name or Motto.
9c., 12/6, 15/-, 20/-.
15c., 20/-, 22/6, 27/6.
18c., 21/-, 25/-, 30/-.
Solid Gold, with 6
Lovely Opals,
Special Value, 15/%
50 other designs,
from 20/- to £lO.
18c. Gold, 1 Fine
Diamond, with 2
Rubies or Sapphires,
27/6;
3 Fine Diamonds,
50/-.
20 similar patterns.
40-
18c. Gold, set with 1
Diamond and 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, 40
| Telephone
No. 3642.
Art Jewellers and Opticians, 90 King Street, Sydney.
it
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
“ podge ” Standard
Blood Split pulleys
All Sizes kept in Stock.
SOLE AGENTS :
H. <aUTHRIP<a€ Ltd.,
71 Clarence St., Sydney.
SEND EON CJL2’ALOG.~m 3
Sore Eyes! Blight!
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails. Restores Eyelashes.
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“HBW TO PRESERVE THE EYESJGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
Brandy
disarms
Influenza
of
all
its
Dangerous
After
Effects.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
CD
'S
V
(i
HIGHEST AWARD-GOLD MEDAL—PARIS EXHIBITION, 1900.
For INFANTS
and INVALIDS:
MELLIN’S FOOD yields a complete diet for the youngest
infants, in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD retains its properties for any length of
time and is adapted for use in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD when dissolved in milk, makes a simple
nutritious diet for growing children.
Samples etc., may be obtained of GOLLIN & Co., 172, Clarence Street, Sydney, 562 4, Bourke
Street, Melbourne, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, and Wellington.
Mellin’s Food Company for Australia and New Zealand Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, London.
MELLIN’S EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS,
and BRONCHITIS.
temples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & 00., 172 Otarenoe Street, Bydney.
Latest Novelty in Corsets ..
THOMSON s
‘CRACiOSA’
Unbreakable Waist. Natural Hinge.
Extract from Madame Schild’s
Fashion Journals for March.
[Patented and
Registered.]
Now Corset. —This novelty is a very clever arrangement of
the nature of a hinge at the waist, so that the wearer does not break
the steels when stooping. This new Corset is called ‘The Graciosa ’
is extremely comfortable to wear even from the first, it fits the body
. s a ? easv as a g !ove - It is boned with RUSTLESS
SILVIDE,' and the bones cannot push through
Made In Colors, White, French Grey, and Black.
*i kers .\? V „ S - THOMSON* Co., Ld„ 112, Fore St., Ear.
Makers ol the Celebrated New Model ‘Glove-Fitting,’ * ‘La Noblesse • Corsets.
Of all dealers throughout the World*
sag
I
a
S'Tii
m
I'h:
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, £ 3 3s. per week or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica-
tion to The Manager.
There is no question about it that • • •
CROUZELLE STUDIOS. LIMITED,
' ~ ... TDEN OUT ...
The Very Best Portraits
At Strictly Moderate Prices.
No Sales or Gifts, but Real Good Value from a Real Good Firm.
PLEASE NOTE
Our only Address is
308 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
TEL. 2761 FOR APPOINTMENTS..
5 Doors from Hunter Street.
m
II
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
“ *
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORDON MASE, Secretary.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
28 Years in the Establishment.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
Price Sea.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 22.—N0. 1128.
SATURDAY. SEPTEMBER 28. 1901.
Prick 6d.
AUSTRALIA’S LIE FOR BRITAIN’S SAKE:
“’TISN’T THE COLOR I OBJECT TO: THAT’S NOTHIN’—IT'S THE SPELLIN’.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
••Australia for the A nstralians. ,>
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ...
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 U 6
Quarterly ... ... ••• (Job
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
el, with Us. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition o f 1U?. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—A\d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tiib Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with pontage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and gJJ. Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. P.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in ItlacJc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1901.
The Tariff.
It is understood that the Federal tariff will
make its appearance in a few days, and then
the battle between the National policy and
the policy of Ihe foreign importers will pre-
sumably begin in real earnest. At least, it
certainly will do so if the tariff is one worthy
of the occasion, and not a feeble attempt to
placate all parties and a shapeless hash of all
principles. In this matter The Bulletin
has little hope from Premier Barton, the
kindly, lazy, pleasant, eloquent, indefinite
man, of no political opinions in particular
outside the one great opinion that Australia
should be united, and with a general feeling
that it should be so glad at being united
that nothing beyond that matters much.
But it has great hopes from Kingston,
O’Connor, Turner and Deakin, as four
good Australians with whom the interests
of Australia come first, and English
traditions, and the interests of the
English absentee softgoods-dealers, of whom
M‘Millan is the representative, come a bad
last. Hitherto, conditions have been new
and chaotic and indefinite in Australia, and
even now they are only beginning to assume
some kind of shape. Victoria is a con-
sistently Protectionist State, but it has only
been so for about a generation or less. New
South Wales calls itself Freetrade, and
protects a number of its principal industries.
The others are mostly States with heavy
revenue tariffs that are semi-Protective in
an accidental sort of way. But, with the
exception of Victoria, which has borrowed
little in recent years, they are mostly States
which live on foreign loans No policy has
a chance to prove itself definitely under such
conditions.
* * * *
There is no other country in the world
whose situation is quite like that of Australia,
and therefore it is not always easy to judge
by merely Australian examples, the results
of any fiscal policy. When work is scarce
the average Australian State floats a big loan
and makes work with the proceeds. When
wages are low it floats a big loan, and by
taking a large number of men off the labor
market to work at 7s. a day (paid out of
borrowed money), doing something useful or
useless or dubious, it makes an artificial
scarcity of labor, and wages go up. When
the stock of money is low—so low that
another bank panicmay be within measurable
distance—it floats a big loan, for the nominal
purpose of building something or other, and
the stock of cash is replenished. When
there is a great fall in property values (the
value of property always falls when money
is scarce), it floats a big loan in the hope that
values will go up (property values always rise
when money is plentiful). No other country
in the world lives under such artificial con-
ditions, and therefore Australia’s experience
proves less either way than might be ex-
pected.
* * * *
Yet even Australia’s experience proves
something. In this country the most
definitely Protectionist State (Victoria) is
also the one which depends least on foreign
borrowing, and on keeping its people by
paying them 7s. a day out of borrowed
money to pretend to do something. It is
the State with the smallest debt in propor-
tion to population. It is the State which
maintains by far the largest population in
proportion to its area—about twice as large
a population per square mile as the most
advanced of its competitors. It is the State
with the largest number of factories and by
far the largest manufacturing population.
Though far the smallest of the main-
land States, it has the greatest area under
cultivation, and produces by far the greatest
annual value in agricultural produce.
Though the smallest in area and only the
second in population, it produces a far greater
value of manufactured goods than any of
its neighbours. It pays the highest rates of
wages in Australia, and the last two strikes
in New South Wales have been based on a
demand for the Victorian wage rate. It is
the only Australian State which has dared to
prohibit sweating and fix a minimum wage
by Act of Parliament. The comparative
wealth of its people is evidenced by the fact
that it has more deposits in its savings banks
(the banks of the poor) per inhabitant than
any other Australian State, bar Queensland.
It has produced these results despite the
fact that its manufactures are grievously
hampered by want of coal, and despite the
fact that it has, in proportion to population,
less mineral wealth than any other Aus-
tralasian State, South Australia only ex-
cepted. This is the value of the mineral
production of each State in 1899, complete
information for 1900 not being yet available
(Coghlan’s “Seven Colonies,” page 592):
Value of Minerals Value
produced in per
1899. Inhabitant.
Westralia .. .. £6,346,581 .. £37 8 6
Tasmania .. .. 2,538,737 .. 14 2 6
Queensland .. 3,139,620 .. 611 8
N.S. Wales.. .. 6,080,516 .. 410 5
Maoriland .. .. 2,656,554 .. 3 10 10
Victoria .. .. 3,579,322 .. 3 1 7
S. Australia .. 516,479 .. 1 8 1
• * • *
And, in addition to its other drawbacks,
Victoria, by reason of its small area, has a
smaller income per head from its public
lands than any other State (6s. sd. per in-
habitant per annum, against 31s. Id. in
N.S.W.), and it has been in that condition
for many years. Also, it is the most barren
of the seven States of Australasia, save
South Australia only. According to Cogh-
lan’s “Seven Colonies,” page 512, the
average annual production of wheat on every
100 acres sown for the ten years 1890-1899
was as follows :
Wheat Produced Annually per 100 Acres Sown.
Maoriland .. 2,461 bushels N.S.W. .. 995 bushels
Tasmania .. 1,905 „ Victoria .. 807 „
Queensland .. 1,553 „ S.A 469
Westralia .. 1,095 „
♦ * * *
Further, as already mentioned, of all the
Commonwealth States, Victoria has for the
last 29 years had, in proportion to popula-
tion, by far the least assistance from foreign
borrowings. It is the least loan-inflated of
all the Australias. In this truly remarkable
Commonwealth it is a solemn and awful fact
that for 29 years every penny of the interest
paid on foreign loans, State and municipal,
has been paid with new loans, and some-
thing over. This country hasn’t even begun
yet to pay its interest bill out of its own
earnings ; and what it will do when it has to
begin in real earnest it is difficult to say.
The results for 29 years (1871-1899) are set
forth thus by Coghlan on page 728 of his
“ Seven Colonies ” :
Borrowed Sent abroad Net amount
abroad in last in payment of received
29 years. interest. in 29 years.
N.S. Wales .. £49,685,000 .. £37,322,000 .. £12,363,000
Queensland.. 27,040,000 .. 21,533,000 .. 5,507,000
Westralia .. 6,739,000 .. 1,970,000 .. 4,769,000
S.A. .. 21,082,000 .. 16,551,000 .. 4,531,000
Victoria .. 41,617,000 .. 39,634,000 .. 1,983,000
Tasmania .. 6,748,000 .. 5,177,000 .. 1,571,000
» * * *
It is, indeed, a curious spectacle to find
Victoria—the smallest, bar Tasmania, of all
the Australias, and only one-fourth the area
of the next smallest- mainland State, with
little more than one-twentieth of N.S.W.’s
coal supply, to keep its industries going
—the most barren of all the States
save S.A.—with the smallest mineral
wealth per inhabitant except S.A., and
the least assistance in proportion to popula-
tion from land revenue, and the least
assistance in proportion to population from
loan money—it is a curious spectacle to find
this little State not only maintaining a popu-
lation twice as dense as that of the most
advanced of its neighbors, but also maintain
ing the largest manufacturing population,
having the largest output of manufactured
goods, producing the largest crops, paying
the highest wages, and showing the largest
amount of savings bank deposits per head,
Queensland only excepted. Almost the only
point in which it doesn’t keep the lead is in
increase of population. Therein it has lately
fallen behind N.S.W., mainly because no
Broken Hill has arisen in Victoria, because
it has little more land to offer to settlers,
and because it almost ceased borrowing about
1806, and the large population which lived
on building public works drifted to other
States like N.S.W., which were increasing
their loans and offering more and more em-
ployment on the Government stroke at 7s. a
day.
• * •
And, in addition to everything else,
Victoria is a country where living is cheap.
Coghlan, on pages 419 and 420 of his
“ Seven Colonies,” estimates that it requires
£39 14s. lid. to maintain each N.S.W. in-
habitant per annum, while the greatly
cheaper living in the Protectionist and serni-
Protectionist States reduces the average for
all Australasia to £36 19s. sd. per head, the
higher price of food in the Foreign-trade
province being the chief cause of the differ-
ence. And yet the same authority asserts
that the standard of living is the same. As
regards the reason of all this, there is one
visible cause only. The policy of Victoria
is to cultivate manufactures first of all, and
to suppress that “ rage for useless transit ”
which makes up so much of Australia’s
commerce. It tries to avoid sending
its raw material 16,000 miles at great
expense by using as much as possible in
its own industries, and bringing its manu-
factured goods 16,000 miles at great
expense by producing as much as possible of
its finished products in its own factories. It
recognises that though sending £1,000,000
worth of raw material to Europe and getting
the same back again made up into £3,000,000
worth of finished goods means £4,000,000 off
“ commerce,” yet if there was no such com
merce, and the goods were manufacturer,
locally, there would be £2,000,000 more to
distribute in wages. It has realised that a
country may make “ commerce " even by
sending its soiled shirts to Argentina to be
washed, and the exports and imports of
shirts may make quite an important item by
the end of a year, but it is cheaper to let the
“ commerce ” slide and do the washing at
home. It has realised, in fact, that needless
“ commerce ” is jqst as profitable as carry-
ing a sack of flour to Parramatta and back
again by hand. And the rage of the
M’Millans who live on useless haulage is
terrible to contemplate.
* • * #
Victoria, seeing that the Freetrader insists
on holding it up as the type and embodiment
of Protection, may be taken as the example
which lies at our own door. But the world
has other examples. It is now about 56
years since Great Britain ceased to be a
Protectionist country. In that time the
world has seen it drop from being by far the
greatest producer (taking agricultural and
manufactured goods together) on earth to a
bad third place, behind Germany and with
not much more than one-third of the output
of the United States ; from being the coun-
try with the most savings bank deposits—
more than France, Austria, and Germany
combined—to fifth place ; from being the
richest country on earth to a bad second
place ; from being the greatest exporter of
its own products to second place; from being
the nation with the largest stock of money
to about fourth place. It is less than 25
years since Germany became a Protectionist
State, apd in that time Germany has risen
from almost nothing *in an industrial sense
to the position of Britain’s great European
rival. It is only about 35 years since the
United States became definitely Protec-
tionist, and in that time it has risen from an
obscure place in the ruck of nations to be a
manufacturing country of such magnitude as
to almost equal Britain, France, and Ger-
many put together. In view of all these
things, it is too late for Freetrade to pose as
the Great Self-Evident Joss—the thing that
is so obvious that any doubts about its
axiomatic truth can only be met by a pity-
ing smile, and so great that it doesn’t require
proof, and that any doubt concerning it is
merely an exhibition of deficient intellect.
It is time for it to come down from its sacred
eminence on its case of imported goods, and
live on its merits, like any other institution.
It is a purely selfish creed, whose sole claim
to exist is the claim that it selfishly enriches
the country that practises it. It has no
better moral claim than any other political
creed. It has to be judged, like every other
political creed, by results. And considering
its results —which seems to be mainly that
it enriches, and thereby earns the enthusi-
astic approval of, the foreign importing clan,
of whom M‘Millan is the type— The Bulle-
tin trusts that the coming Australian tariff
will be uncompromisingly Protectionist.
An Armed Nation or a National Army?
Editor Bulletin. —A lot of stereotyped folly has
been written about the Commonwealth Defence
Bill being an instrument of tyranny in the hands
of a masterful and unscrupulous Cabinet or mili-
tary despot. Every Bill that provides for the
raising and maintenance of an armed force is an
instrument of tyranny, if the right sort of despot
comes along. When that party arrives he will
need no Bill to assist him, or if he does he will
promptly create the Bill. There is more real
danger to democracy from a political mountebank
and fakir like George Reid, armed with the
power of quick repartee, a bagful of jokes, and a
villainous persuasiveness capable of inducing a
whole community to mortgage the last acre, have
a good time on the borrowed money, and leave
posterity to pay the account, tli_n from all the
military adventurers likely to arise on Australian
soil. To plunder the community as it stands is a
dangerous enterprise which would probably end in
the plunderer getting shot; while the plundering
of posterity, as practised by the invariable
Australian politician, in posterity’s absence, is
much more safe, and only likely to be punished
with a K.C.M.G.-ship.
* « • •
The Commonwealth Defence Bill as it stands
does not fix the military establishment at any par-
ticular figure. It gives Government power to call
out, in times of “ national emergency,” all able-
bodied males, with some few exceptions, between
the ages of 18 and 60. The State Governments
could have done the same, and George Reid and
Gov. Beauchamp might have done it at any
moment had the occasion arisen. The Bill does
not say that the Commonwealth shall keep a
solitary soldier —it' merely gives the Government
power to keep all it can get if Government and
Parliament think them necessary. In fact, the
power is distinctly limited by the provision that
“ except in times of emergency the Defence
Force shall be raised and kept up by voluntary
enlistment only.” Of course Bigjohn Forrest
and Gov. Hopetoun 'might, after an oyster-and-
wine supper, get Premier Barton down and
compel him to declare it was a time of national
emergency, but that is not likely.
• * * •
The Commonwealth took over the whole of
the Defence Forces from the States, and at
present, on paper, has an armed force of
some 20,000 men. If it called them out a
considerable portion would have to be armed
with “shanghais,” Winchesters and double-
barrelled fowling-pieces. The chief defect of the
Bill is that it does not provide for any real defence
of Australia. It merely takes over the forces and
powers that each particular State already had,
and leaves it to the Government of the day to say
what force shall be maintained. The chances are
that a false idea of economy will induce the
Federal Government to keep up merely a small
skeleton force, fairly well-drilled, but of no real
value through sheer paucity of numbers, and a big
crowd of gorgeous, gold-laced officers to take
charge of the levy en manse, of which so much has
been said and written, and that the great mass of
able-bodied citizens will be left with no kind of
training whatever.
* • • *
As pointed out at the second reading of the
Bill by W. M. Hughes, of West Sydney, the levy
en masse of an untrained population, badly-armed,
against a properly-equipped force, would be worse
than useless —it would be criminal. The levy en
masse would simply provide a mob of brave men
for butchery.
* * * *
The first line of Australian defence is fortification
of the great seaport towns and a fleet sufficiently
strong to keep the coasts clear and the ways open
between those seaports. Till Australia has some-
thing like adecent mercantile marine she willnever
have a navy. Navies are expensive, and Australia
will never have a mercantile marine worth protect-
ing till she drives the huge foreign steamship lines
out of the coastal trade by some rigorous Naviga-
tion Laws like those with which Oliver Cromwell
broke up the Dutch marine supremacy. So, in the
meantime, the idea of an Australian navy can be
abandoned. The seaports require sufficient forti-
fications to render them safe from any sudden
raid by hostile cruisers, and there requires to be a
military machine in which every man shall know
his place when the signal is given. We want no
levy en masse of an untrained, unarmed mob
against an enemy behind steel walls and armed
with long-range artillery and magazine rifles. We
want forts to keep that enemy away from the cities,
and sufficiently strong to make a back-door land
attack his only chance ; and we want a sufficient
force to make that land attack certain destruction
to any force likely to be thrown ashore.
* » » *
To maintain such a standing army is beyond
the strength of Australia’s present financial back-
bone. Any smaller standing force is worse
than useless. Therefore every Australian citi-
zen should be taught to shoot, and every
male between the ages of 18 and 60 should be coiii-
pelled by Federal law to undergo military
training. From 18 to 21 he should do six weeks
training per annum, three weeks of which should
be continuous. From the age of 21 to 30 years,
another annual six weeks, of which only 10 days
should be continuous. After the age of 31, out of
his annual 42 days, only seven should be con-
tinuous. The disability of this military service
would weigh equally on all emp’ojers, and the
longest period of the continuous training would be
between the ages of 18 and 21, when the in-
dividual could be best spared from his employment
without disorganising things.
* * • *
The artillery must always be a purely perma-
nent force. Gunnery is a science, and requires
constant practice to keep up to a reasonable state
of perfection. Also, there must always be the
skeleton organisation, into which the men can
pour at a moment’s notice. If every able-bodied
Australian has been taught to shoot, has his place
in a territorial regiment into which lie can step
under any conditions by sheer force of habit, and
find his rifle awaiting him with his number
attached in the regimental armoury, and draw an
unlimited supply of ammunition from the Federal
Ammunition Factory, then, so long as the forts
can keep a roving squadron at a safe distance
from the principal cities, Australia has nothing to
fear from a land attack between Brisbane and
Adelaide. It wouldn’t pay to try it, and
once a uniform railway gauge has been laid down,
any force landing between those two points can
be overwhelmed by sheer numbers.
* * • *
There are other parts of Australia—the Nor-
thern Territory and Westralia—where, if once in
possession of an enemy with control of the sea,
that enemy could maintain himself for years till
Australia had built a couple of transcontinental
railways over which to carry its army to break
him up. Meanwhile Australia has to get that
army, and Forrest’s Defence Bill doesn’t give it,
and never will unless some of W. M. Hughes’
amendments are incorated into it. — Hermes.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Jap. Immigration Problem.
A Sydney Telegraph correspondent writes from
Japan about Britain’s new policy of grovelling to
the Jap., under the impression that it can’t get on
without that Asiatic’s assistance :
Vancouver has seen the unaccustomed sight of white
men first turning whiter, and then slinking off with their


tails between their legs before the rifles of trained
Japanese fishermen, ex-soldiers all of them ; and I should
think, from the Hawaii papers, that the Jap. is making
things hum in Honolulu, too.
As to Australia —but I suppose you know your own
affairs best. You cannot be unaware, then, that the
Japanese will much resent their exclusion from your
charming continent. They will not reason with you,
however, about the matter, but will, in accordance with
their invariable policy in such cases, bring pressure to
bear direct on Joe Chamberlain and his colleagues, fill
them with gaseous promises about how they will
help England in China, keep Russia in check, and
all the rest of it—and thus get what they want.
The quid pro quo is, we are told with wearisome
iteration, Japan’s friendship. The idea is, of course, that
we use Japan for the laudable purpose of “ wiping the
floor” with Russia. This is all very well, and the driving
back of the Russians from the frontiers of Korea by an
army of the little brown men would, no doubt, be much
applauded by the crowds in London streets. If the
Russian Far Eastern squadron managed to get smashed
at the same time, nothing could, I am sure, exceed the
satisfaction of the Daily Mail, and even The Times. But
it may be regarded as absolutely certain that from all
this England would reap no profit. She would have the
satisfaction, it is true, of seeing an ancient enemy
bumbled in the dust, but that satisfaction might be
alloyed by the spectacle of white men beaten by Asiatics,
which might well be regarded as a decisive event in the
history of the world, almost as important in its way as
the hurling back of the Asiatic hordes by ancient Greece.
England could not, as a great Asiatic power, be quite
insensible to the bearing of this upon her own interests.
Before she placed us, her subjects here, in Japan, under
native law (at the instance, I may remark, of a scholastic
old Minister soaked to the finger-tips in Japanese and
Chinese classics, and who would doubtless form an in-
teresting object in the Japanese section of the British
Museum), it was pointed out to her that doing so would
lower her prestige among her Indian subjects, and that
is precisely what has happened. The native Indian papers
are never tired of harping very significantly on the pro-
gress made by the Japanese, and the preposterous praises
showered on the latter by English newspaper correspon-
dents with the Japanese troops during the march on
Pekin a year ago have led the journalistic B iboos to the
conclusion that the Japanese have all the virtues of the
perfect soldier, and absolutely no defects.
The point which I wish to bring out is that these extra-
ordinary praises, combined with the criticisms of our
own soldiers in South Africa that are so freely and so
thoughtlessly indulged in at the present moment, have
produced a bad impression in India. I was reading a
leading article the other day in the Madras Standard —a
native paper—in which it was pointed out that Japan had
once and for all exploded the notion that without white
men to teach them Asiatics could never advance. A
parallel was then drawn between Japan and India, and the
natural conclusion of every Indian who read that paper
must have been that it would be a splendid tjjpng for
India the day the English were kicked out —that is, all of
them who did not care to humbly work for small
salaries under their dusky Aryan brethren, same as the
poor “advisers” of Japan, Siam, and Korea. I can well
imagine the delight of the Baboos on learning that a
British ship’s officer is afraid to look crooked at an impu-
dent coolie for fear of getting six months’ imprisonment
from a native judge rejoicing in a salary of .£1 a month.
I think, therefore, that our home Government made a
mistake when, in order to curry favor with the Japanese,
it handed us over to their tender mercies ; for if England
had not taken the initiative no other nation would have
done so.
It will be worse if England helps Japan with her fleet
and her purse, in case of a conflict for Korea and Man-
churia, as in case of a Japanese victory the Japanese
troops will remain in Korea and Manchuria, and England
will get nothing. British traders will be as badly
off in those districts in case they come under Japanese
control as in case they came under Russian control.
The question for Australia, then, is : Will the aggran-
disement of Japan be more hurtful to it than that of
Russia, or vice versa ? One point in favor of Russia is
that it will not be likely to flood Australia with immi-
grants—at least for a few thousand years to come. There
are, of course, many Japanese engineers, doctors, den-
tists, &c., whom Australia could not object to, but the
Japanese coolie- almost the only kind of Jap that emi-
grates—is undoubtedly a most indigestible morsel. The
Australian Government would be perfectly justified, I
think, in refusing to have him even if it got a bonus on
him and a yearly remittance for his up-keep. His ability
.to work for low wages, and to live on a handful of rice
mow and then, is not his only drawback, however ; there
:are also his anti-foreign proclivities to be taken into con-
sideration.
It may seem absurd to use the word anti-foreign in con-
inection with Japanese of any class, but one has only to
witness, say, the arrest of a man-of-war’s man in Yoko-
ibama, Kobe, or Nagasaki, to get a striking proof of the
,-anti-foreign tendencies that exist among the lower classes
.of Japanese. One would think that a poor, drunken
.sailor, “ going large a bit,” after a long voyage, would not
ibe able to do much harm, especially as the policeman
handcuffs his hands behind his back, but, if he shows any
•signs of resistance, the crowd closes in on him, and the
policeman immediately retires to light a cigarette, while
.coolies, with yards of yellow bare legs and coats that give
{the.® the appearance of animated tea-boxes, take off their
wooden clogs to savagely beat the face of the prostrate
-an an.
In View of the fact that Japan has just ordered
'•Britain ;to veto the anti-colored-alien law of British
lOolyiiffbia, and Britain has backed-down, as usual,
i±he above ,is highly significant.
«, — ■
The Native Born “Undesirable.”
A. Henri ” writes on our Piebald Brother and
;Sis.ter:—
The trouble ahead of Australia is not wholly the exclu-
sion of the colored brother, but the expulsion of the
.brother who is already here, and his progeny. Even the
ibrother who is already here is not an insurmountable diffi-
.culty if the Federal Government will simply take the
.alien Shem and Ham firmly and gently by the wool and
.ship them back to whence they came. But, unfortunately,
rmany of these gentry have progeny, born of Australian
smothers, and these sons and daughters have no “ whence
.they came ” to be shipped to. What is to be done with
tthem becomes a harder knot every day the final unravel-
tling is postponed. In N. Queensland the colored popu-
ilation are now the majority. At least, they seem to be,
sand il speak from personal observation. Black, brown,
;and spotted are met everywhere, but whites are as scarce
.as free beers in a thirsty land. Of course, there is no
•danger of (the Spotted North breaking away from the
.Commonwealth, and having to be dragged back and
rpinned on to the map of Australia again by the bayonets
.of the citizen army, but there is a very real danger of an
Australian-born mongrel population growing up to make
the decent white laborer, with a clean home and respect-
able white children, an impossibility in the Northern
.State.
Every plantation worked by the colored curse is a
•disease-spot from which radiate piebald children to build
up a race-problem that may vex Australia for all time.
Hambledon plantation, near Cairns, for instance, is
worked almost exclusively by black labor. A whole
■colony of young mongrels is growing up on and around
ithis plantation, and if the colony increases a little
snore Hambledon will be able to do without “ recruiting.”
it will grow its own curse along with its cane. Further
.south, Goondi plantation, on the Johnstone River, at
Geraldton, is another hive of the alien from which a con-
stant piebald stream trickles forth on a devoted continent.
In that district the Chinaman and the Chrysanthemum
man have taken to banana-growing “ on their own,” and
buy their groceries and goods generally from Chinese
storekeepers. At Goondi I have seen Japanese, Javanese,
Cingalese, Kanakas —all these are identifiable. But the
mixed breeds are many and defy identification. Victoria
plantation, on the Herbert River, near Ingham, Halifax,
Ripple Creek (which has its refinery in Brisbane) are all
disease-spots that want prompt and drastic treatment to
prevent them infecting the body general of White
Australia.
As for the poor half-caste, he is indeed a case of being
better not to be. He is born of a semi-savage father and
a degraded white mother, and, naturally, comes into the
world with criminal instincts. The half-caste mongrel
Australian will remain a cheap laborer till he is elimi-
nated. His highest goal will be the dizzy eminence of a
successful storekeeper. To expel him is impossible, for
he is one of ourselves, and figures in the census as an
Australian. Perhaps the most merciful way to deal with
him would be the bald, thorough-going method of Herod
the Great, but then the days of llerod the Great have
departed, though Kitchener certainly remains.
At first the alien and the mongrel only interfered with
the white laborer—hat now, thank Allah, they are
beginning to interfere with the shop-keeper. The shop-
keeper, in the old days, voted resolutely for the colored
brother because lie could sell to that benighted indivi-
dual, at a huge price, shoddy that the white trash
wouldn’t look at—and which it was dangerous to ask him
to look at. Now that the curse has started shop-keeping
for himself, the formerly pro-leper huckster is beginning
to feel patriotic as his trade slips away. Also, the Ohow
and the Jap.—especially the Jap.—is an “ enterprising
individual.” After an apprenticeship on the plantations,
the almond-eyed heathens are beginning to start “cocky”
plantations of their own. Thev take up 15 and 20 acres,
and then—ye gods ! —they indent a few “ boys,” and start
growing bananas and sngar-eane. If this practice is con-
tinued long enough, the cane-growers will, no doubt,
recognise that colored labor is a mistake, and become
patriotic too. In fact, they are doing so already ;
the Hambledon Cane Planters’ Association has indignantly
demanded that the cheap nigger who has started for him-
self shall not be allowed to employ cheap niggers, and it
has been informed that the nigger sugar-planter has the
same rights as the white one. But before the planters’
patriotism swells up to any useful size the nigger problem
wih be so large that it will be beyond any solution save
wholesale murder.
For this reason any proposal to spread the expulsion of
the colored brother over a period of 10 years is a huge
mistake. All that time the mongrel population will be
increasing. Also, the wild yell of M’Millan should be
ignored for the same purpose! It is generally understood
that any direct.legislation against the Jap will be vetoed
by the Imperial Government, and the Jap is the most
aggressive and virile of all the aliens ; and while the
Imperial Government is making up its mind on the sub-
ject, and the M'Million is screwing up his shoddy courage
to the cutting-the-painter point, the “white Marys”
will be adding to the piebald population. In 10 years’
time the youthful alien who now trots about Cairns and
the plantations with lanky, bare leg's will have got a white
Mary of his own, or, perhaps, he will fancy the Australian
“ yaller-girl ” ; but, anyhow, a second generation of Aus-
tralian-born mongrels will be on the spot, and the whole
problem fearfully and wonderfully complicated. The
educational test must be grimly applied to the Undesirable
Immigrant, and the benevolent Federal Government had
better set aside a sum of money, and charter a few steamers
to carry back to the greasy, golden, pagoda-decked East
the Undesirable already here who cannot pass an educa-
tional test entitling him to trash cane in Australia. Such
benevolence would be a beautiful and touching example
to the wicked Boer not to ill-use his brother nigger in
the future.
4
More Freetrade “ Facts ” by G. K,eid.
The Federal Parliament, in the course of gather-
ing information on which to base its social and
fiscal legislation, has had a return prepared deal-
ing with the employment of children in the fac-
tories of the various States, so far as the informa-
tion is procurable. The two States wherein the
information is most complete are, as might be
expected, the two with the largest population—
N.S.W. and Victoria. And, incidentally, the
facts supplied furnish another commentary on the
utter unreliability of that bounding political
mountebank, George Reid. Some time ago,
when the Federal elections were in progress, the
strange, unscrupulous Foreign-trade howler went
round on what he called his Freetrade campaign.
In the course of his progress he visited Victoria,
and came back with a broken heart and greasy
tears dribbling down his waistcoat to tell the
people of New South Wales this story :
I pity the workers of Victoria when I go through the
factories and see in them, not the workers of Victoria,
but their children. I pity the industries of Victoria when
I see man after man thrown out into the street because
they have grown too big for them, and young children
brought in to take their place, AND WHEN I KNOW
THAT FOR EVERY MAN YOU FIND IN THESE
VICTORIAN FACTORIES YOU FIND HALF-A-DOZEN
CHILDREN.
And now it appears that the poor old inventor
might have spared himself his grief, and his
broken heart, and those oily tears, for he never
saw all those children toiling in Victoria’s pro-
tected factories at all. These are the actual
results at the end of 1899 (it appears that complete
returns up to end of 1900 are not yet available) as
published by the Federal Parliament: —
Employees in N.S.W. Factories.
Adults Children
Children in every in every Total
Adults, under 15. 10,000 10,000 employees,
employees, employees.
1898 .. 61,961 498 9,905 95 52,459
1899 .. 54,176 595 9,890 110 54,771
Employees in Victorian Factories.
1898 .. 54,851 951 9,830 170 55,802
1899.. 59,921 1,142 9,813 187 61,063
Of the adults in Victorian factories about the time
George Reid made his famous visitation, 43,899
were men —43,899 men to 1142 children of both
sexes, or nearly 39 men for every one child. And
during the preceding 12 months the men em-
ployed in Victorian factories had increased by
3291, and the children of both sexes had
increased by only 191. And a “child” in a
Victorian factory means someone over 13—
not, as in Freetrade England, someone over 10.
And George Reid came back weeping to tell how
there were six children for one man in the Vic-
torian factories, and how he was all broken up
under the middle-button of his waistcoat to see
man after man thrown out into the street, and
children put on in their places. Yet, when the
tariff discussion comes on, George Reid, the man
whose alleged facts always prove to be some such
invention as this, will doubtless pose as an indi-
vidual whose statements are at least moderately
reliable, and whose word is worth as much as that
of the average Chinese witness.
♦ ——■
The Flag 1 .
The Flag is still a nation’s necessary emblem.
Descendants of sense-stimulated animals, most of
us still need a sense-impression to draw its keenest
emotion from a sentiment. To move the average
man, abstract must always be translated into
concrete. He is a doubting Thomas, never sure
till he has thrust his hand into the wounded
side; a Capuchin’s devotee, who understands
spiritual marvels only when he has handled a lock
of the saint’s hair, or gaped at a drop of his blood
in a bottle. To the highly-civilised man, nothing
that can be perceived by the senses is one-tenth so
inspiring as Space, in Silence. His imagination
can people vacancy with shapes, with sounds, far
transcending any product of mundane artifice.
But the average man is plain savage ; so we give
him flags to stimulate his vision of the Fatherland,
drums and trumpets to heat his blood to the pitch
of martial onset. Naturally, in the present
condition of things the flag proposed as
the future emblem of the Commonwealth is
vulgar and ill-fitting,—a staled rechauffe of the
British flag, with no artistic virtue, no national
significance. We have to understand and remem-
ber that the Commonwealth Constitution is still
for the most part a framework, a formula : that to
the height of its spirit we have not yet risen. It
represents an aspiration, a tendency, rather than
a fact. One could not expect otherwise. Minds
move slowly ; and Australia is still Britain’s little
boy. What more natural than that he should
accept his father’s cut-down garments,—lacking
the power tb protest, and only dimly realising his
will. That bastard flag is a true symbol of the
bastard state of Australian opinion, still in large
part biassed by British traditions, British customs,
still lacking many years to the sufficiency of man-
hood which will determine a path of its own.
The natural feeling of resentment at the indig-
nity is not shared by the multitude. Probably
seven in ten of Australians or British-Australians
are conscious of no offence in the monstrosity that
has been foisted upon them for a symbol. They
have wit enough to follow when led along
a higher path ; but they cannot see for them-
selves, and they have no leaders. The flag
represents the old generation, the old leaven.
But the new generations are growing; the new
leaven is working. The New Spirit is beginning
to be felt in Literature and in Art; even in
Politics. With the New Leaders will come a New
Flag.
♦
Louis Eotlia, Alfred the Great, and the
Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
Two leading articles which appeared side by side
in Sydney Telegraph of 21st Sept, embodied
whole volumes of that stereotyped subserviency
which passes with.a certain class as “patriotism.”
One was a bitter denunciation of the Boer com-
mander-in-chief, Louis Botha, for his criminal
conduct in maintaining the struggle for indepen-
dence against incredible odds, when his main
army had been defeated, and his capital was in
the hands of the enemy, and he didn’t seem to
have left any prospect of ultimate victory. The
other was a shout of joy and exultation over the
thousandth anniversary of the death of Alfred
the Great, because he kept up the struggle for
independence against enormous odds, even
when his capital was in the hands of the
enemy, and his army was defeated, and he
didn’t seem to have any semblance of a
chance left. One article demanded that stern
and brutal measures of terrorism should be
brought to bear on the man who blocked the
course of British empire-building; the other was
a cry of admiration about the man who blocked
the course of Danish empire-building—about
Alfred the Empire-wrecker of 1000 years ago.
One demanded that the Boer leader should no
longer be regarded as a belligerent, but as a mere
thief and brigand, because Britain has declared
his native land annexed, and because, having only
a thousand men left, he isn’t now so much a
general as the head of a band of outlaws. The
other was a paean on the squalid fugitive, who, ac-
cording to tradition, got down so low that he hadn’t
one follower left, and who is said to have hired
himself out to do menial offices for a Saxon “cocky”
ten centuries back, and whose country the Danes
had declared to be annexed, and whom the Danes
had made a rebel and an outlaw. True, Louis
Botha represents a race which seized the Trans-
vaal from its aboriginal owners ; but then Alfred
the Great represented a race of ruthless invaders,
who had stolen England from its previous inhabi-
tants and drenched it with blood in the stealing.
Botha is Alfred the Great over again, but
fighting against far heavier odds —the same strong,
patient man holding up what looks like a lost
cause—but he has never been charged, as Alfred
was (it is regarded as one of the most glorious
stories in the great Saxon’s history) with acting
the spy in the enemy’s camp, contrary to the
“ recognised rules of warfare.” Each was opposed
by an enemy who followed the policy of making
the Country a desert. Each professed a faith in
God which was almost pathetic under the circum-
stances. And beyond the fact that Alfred was
our ancestor and Louis Botha is somebody else’s
ancestor, it is difficult to see where the difference
comes in.
*
The Federated Kanaka.
Last Monday there was published an apparently
official forecast of the provisions of the
Federal Kanaka Restriction Bill. Its main features
are that the introduction of Kanaka labor is to be
permitted for three years longer, but every man
introducing Kanakas during that period must
return an equivalent number to their islands
before the three years expire. Therefore, at the
end of the three years there will be less full-
blooded islanders in Queensland than there were
at the beginning by reason of the deaths during
the interim. And after the three years the im-
portation is to cease, but the returning process is
to go on till the full-blooded Kanaka becomes
extinct, or nearly so. He will not become quite
extinct; a sediment of long-settled islanders will
remain ; but they will probably be too few to
amount to much. But all this time that the
Federal Government is temporising the half-caste
Kanaka—the Australian-born Polynesian who
can’t be sent back to his island because this is his
island —the product of the Polynesian savage
and the degraded white woman to whom he
isn’t married—will be increasing. And the
proof that the Kanaka is not indispensable
to the sugar industry will be postponed for
three years more. There will be three years more
for dismal prophecies about the impending ruin
of the sugar industry, and for underground
engineering for the repeal of the new law.
During that period, if the industry goes up
there will be the dismal cry everywhere :
“Look at the vastness and importance of the
great national undertaking that you are about
to destroy ”; and if it goes down there will be
another cry : “ Look how a great national
industry is already being destroyed by the mere
prospective loss of the labor on which it depends.”
Probably it would do the industry a vast amount
more good if the abolition of its Kanaka commenced
immediately ; if importation ceased at once, and
the return of the existing islander began now
instead of three years hence, the industry being
afforded sufficient Protection to enable it to com-
pete fairly, on a white labor basis, against
foreign rivals. Of late years, despite an abun-
dant supply of nigger-labor, it has been a fast-
decaying business. It seems to be dying even faster
than its nigger does. For the year ended June,
1899, Queensland manufactured 163,734 tons of
sugar; in 1900, 123,289 tons ; in 1901, 92,554 tons.
The export dropped from 129,233 tons in 1899 to
54,705 tons in 1901. The Queensland planter
is degenerating, it would seem, into a mere
nigger-driver. He has learned to rely on
his cheap nigger, and has never paid
much attention to good agricultural methods,
and up-to-date machinery. The white man always
tends to mental decay when he becomes a mere
driver of cheap, black men, and the Queensland
planter, sitting in lamentation among the accumu-
lating ruins of his nigger-labor industry, appears
to be a case in point. The business is already
falling to pieces with its nigger; and it is time to
try a new system, if only to see whether that will
not galvanise it into new life.
-♦
The Push-Loving Beak.
When push outrages became so numerous that
one or two Js.P. have been victims, and, in ac-
cordance with the law of averages, it is almost a
bishop’s turn next, the inept Fat person of the
community raises a shriek that authority shall be
given to use the lash. His reason always is that
“ existing laws have proved insufficient to stamp
out larrikin brutality,” If someone would only
try the experiment of enforcing the existing laws,
instead of allowing them to be a dead letter, then
Australia might be better able to decide as to their
sufficiency or insufficiency. Unpaid justices and
stipendiary magistrates and even salaried judges
are the persons chiefly responsible for the growth
of homicidal larrikinism. It is probably not true
that magistrates are systematically bribed or ter-
rorised by the organised pushes ; but it is difficult
to find another reasonable cause for the fond-
mother kind of attitude which they adopt towards
the misguided youth who mashes a citizen’s
head to pulp. For instance, at a Melbourne
court, the other day, a pushite was brought up to
be dealt with for having (in company) broken into
a Chinese laundry, brutally assaulted a Chinaman,
used obscene language, and resisted the police.
The night’s fun cost the fellow just £3 —most of it
for law costs and partial repairs to the laundry.
If he had broken into the place, and hadn’t nearly
murdered the inmate, it would have probably
been decided that he intended burglary,
and he might easily have got a sentence
of three years. But the fact that he simply
wanted to wreck things and nearly kill somebody
stamped him as a mere honest, commendable
pushite, and condoned his burglarious feat. So
long as violent assaults are regarded by
the law as not only lacking criminality, but
actually meritorious circumstances, to be
taken into account, like tho youth of the
prisoner and previous good character, in mitiga-
tion of punishment, push outrages will increase.
A few law-administrators like Judge Habt, who
has lately been pacifying a rowdy district of Cali-
fornia by sentences of 30 years gaol for murderous
and unprovoked assault would make a wondrous
addition to the security of our city streets. It
may not be necessary to go so far as that, but a
law fixing the minimum punishment for brutal
and unprovoked assault at two years would make
a great change in the aspect of things. At
present the offender may be sentenced to not
more than so much gaol, but he may get any
amount less. And, for some reason of his own,
the magistrate, in the exercise of his own indiscre-
tion, gives him so much less that the tariff for
something approaching murder has got down to
about 10s.
+ >
The Japanese Consul in Sydney was interviewed
last week on behalf of the Telegraph. Sample
of the brown gentleman’s insinuating way of
putting things follows :
The Japanese Government is willing to enter into any
suitable arrangement with the Commonwealth Govern-
ment for further limitation of Japanese immigration if
desired, but does not see any necessity for an Act which
would place the Japanese on the same footing as
Kanakas, Polynesians, and negroes. The Japanese think
that, by reason of their importance as a nation, they
should be placed on an equality with European nations.
The wily Jap. here sticks out conspicuously in
two directions. His Government is willing to
enter into any suitable arrangement—in other
words, it asserts its right to be consulted before its
subjects are excluded, and to give or withhold its
consent to their exclusion. But every State has
the right to exclude the subjects of other States
without consulting them unless there is some
agreement to the contrary, and Australia
has no such agreement with Japan. There-
fore Australia has every right to exclude the
Jap. without asking any Japanese authority to
enter into any suitable or unsuitable or partially
suitable arrangement on the subject. Further,
the Jap. gentleman wants his people placed on the
same level with Europeans ; in other words, he
doesn’t mind the Jap. being excluded if the
German, Dane and Scandinavian are excluded
also. As he knows perfectly well that these are
not going to be excluded, the artless Jap. gentle-
man offers an impossible way out of the difficulty,
and does it with an aspect of fairness which is
very beautiful to behold. His assurance that hi 3
Government doesn’t in the least mind letting us
do what we have a perfect right to do without
consulting it, provided we do it in a way that will
please his Government, and also do it under
certain terms and conditions that he knows are
wholly out of the question, is most interesting.
.
A proposal by O’Neill, M.L.A., to license com-
mission-agents of all sorts and sizes was igno-
miniously thrown out of Victoria’s Leg. Assembly.
O’Neill’s idea was a capital one, but he could
hardly expect it would catch-on in a House where
nearly 25 per cent, of the members hang out the
“ general commission agent ” plate. The time is
rotten-ripe for action in the direction of O’Neill’s
Bill. Nine-tenths of the men who carry about
with them a 3ft. by 2ft. brass shutter with all
kinds of agents scrawled over it are mere con-
fidence-tricksters in disguise. Hundreds of these
alleged men are making a good living out of un-
suspecting widows and old unmarried women, who
have no strong male relatives to batter the vampire.
One of the worst of the species is the financial
agent. This creature advertises in the news-
papers that he has money to lend. When applica-
tions are made, he asks for, and gets, a valuation
fee. The valuation may or may not be made, but,
in any case, no money is ever lent. Another Bill
which O’Neill has on the stocks is likely to go the
same way. Its purpose is to register and license
stock-and-share brokers. Already a howl is being
raised against the measure in certain quarters.
Useless parasites who creep about the. by ways
and gutter-ways of stock-exchanges, and who
think, because they humbug people by means of
scraps of paper called scrip, they are engaged in
mining development, are beginning to talk largely
about the injury which the Bill will do the great
mining industry. Some day, the people who earn
an honest living by doing some useful and honest
work will realise what a horde of financial vermin
they are carrying about, and then someone will
invent a new kind of guillotine for beheading six
agents at once.
♦
Vic. Full Court sat heavily on the attempt of the
bigger employers in the fellmongering trade to
upset the Minimum-Wage Board’s decision. When
the first-appointed Board started, in March last, to
fix wages on a 48-hour basis, the “ masters,” with-
out waiting to find out what the wage would be,
unanimously quitted the Board, alleging an eight-
hour day would ruin them. As the employers
declined to nominate other representatives in their
places, the Governor-in-Council appointed five
persons, not then in the trade, but all experienced
fellmongers, and these, with the employees’ dele-
gates, fixed the wages. The appellants relied
chiefly on the objection that the Governor had no
power to appoint, as employers’ representatives,
persons not then in the trade, and, as the em-
ployers in the trade had decided not to act, they
thought they had thus found a way of closing up
the Wages Boards altogether. The Full Court
unanimously upset this impudent bluff, holding
that any person so appointed—even a Supreme
Court Judge—was legally a representative, and—
in this particular case—if such persons were not
capable of being fairly representative, that was the
employers’ own fault. Here endeth the first
lesson.
Commander Murdock, in “U.S. Naval
Institute Proceedings,” asserts that his country’s
next war will be with Germany—over her aggres-
sive intentions towards South America.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Sweet and Twenty.”
Lyceum “ The Orphan Heiress.”
Criterion Alexander’s Shakespearian Season
Her Majesty’s Italian Opera.
Empire Fuller Co.
Palace “ World’s Entertainers.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Queen’s Hall “ Our Navy.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Only Way.”
Her Majesty’s Wilson Barrett Co.—Last nights.
Bijou “ Tom, Dick and Harry.”
Theatre Royal “ Riding to Win.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Yerdi—and again Verdi. Another of this
extraordinary genius’s works was given for the
first time by the Williamson Opera Co. on Satur-
day night. “La Traviata’s ” skeleton is jointed
from Dumas’ book, “La Dame aux Camelias,”
and Verdi has embodied it in music and clothed
it in song. If every school-boy does not know
Dumas’ story, pretty well every adult does.
Camille, the heroine (Violetta she becomes in the
opera), belongs to a very ancient profession, and,
judging by the Arabian Nights splendor of her
home, finds it highly remunerative. From many
lovers she selects one, Alfred Germont (Dani) and
loves him with a great love, even to the verge of
selling her horses and carriages in order that
he may not have to contribute to the house-
keeping fund. Whilst Alfred is away try-
ing to stop the sacrifice, Germont senior
calls on the lady who wears camellias in her
hands and hair, and entreats her to set his
son free, as Mdlle. Germont’s matrimonial pro-
spects are being injured by the lad’s liaison.
Violetta abandons the lad for his good, and pro-
ceeds to die of consumption, accelerated by grief
and a new protector. Baron Dauphol (Signor
Salvarani) is the new lover. He and Alfred meet
at the house of a lady (Miss Boanas) who has the
same social status as Violetta, and later the pair
fight a duel. By-and-by the lovers are reconciled,
and Violetta dies in Alfred’s arms, surrounded by
friends and a doctor (Lombardi), who is (on Her
Majesty’s stage) a replica of King Charles, who
was beheaded.
* * * •
Madame Sapio, as Violetta, sang with soul
and enthusiasm, and made the heroine a graoeful,
winning frisker. Consumption, on the stage,
in a lace wrapper and a pretty bed, is a pic-
turesque disease, most valuable to novelists
and opera-builders, and Madame managed her
death as if she had invented the microbe that
Koch is trying to kill. Her “Won Swpete”
and sad “Mora la mia” in the scene with
old Germont were gems of dolorous music.
Signor Dani, minus his perky little moustache,
and with curls around his face, looked a fat,
spoilt boy of nineteen ; but he made an
adorable lover, and gave the drinking-
song with all the magnificence that good
drink deserves. In the last scene of all,
where his love is as a faded rose in a
dying hand, the tenor proved himself
tender, sympathetic, musically broken-
voiced. Miss Boanas made a beautiful
“other bad girl.” Bozzoli, as Germont
senior, gave the “Die Provenza” in
his finest baritone. Signorina Marchi
had little to do but charm the audience
with her magpie clothes and nun’s face.
_** * *
“Sweet and Twenty,” a light
comedy by Basil Hood, replaces “ Lady
Huntworth’s Experiment ” at Sydney
Royal to-day (Saturday). Brough has
learned by experience that the strong play
of Pinero or Jones, with a flavor of genius
in its story and of last night’s carouse in
its treatment, doesn’t pay as well as the
little trifle with a comic butler, and a
clergyman in the cupboard, and plenty
of cooking talk. So comedy will pro-
bably continue to verge on the farcical for
the jest of the season.
** * *
after the departure of Maggie
Moore, the usual dramatic company
flocked back to Sydney Lyceum and pro-
duced the “Orphan Heiress,” a drama
which ha 3 one bright touch of originality,
inasmuch as the adventurer and his
sister don’t turn out to be husband and
wife, or something in that line, in the
last act. When the plot begins with a
maundering old gentleman who hasn’t
changed his will, and whose child is lost, the
experienced playgoer knows that that old gentle-
man will have to die of heart-disease, or of suddenly
administered poison, or of gunshot wound in a
drawing-room chair, so as to let the will get a
chance to throw itself headlong into the drama
like an armed devil running amok. This time
the playwright chooses gunshot wound. Before
death occurs, the wife has come back from some
place unknown, and they discover that the child,
which each of them thought the other had,
has got lost between them. The wife left
her husband’s home merely because the
adventurer and his sister, having got into
the household in an indefinite sort of way,
made her life miserable by scoffing at her
before the servants.* She explains this to
the old gentleman on her return, and
he seems so reasonable about it that it is
extraordinary that she didn’t say it all before she
went, and thus save herself anguish and travelling
expenses. The child —a grown-up one—is dis-
covered by the usual vague means in the next act,
when the mother comes in to her rustic home to
die on the lawn ; after which incident the orphan
heiress is transferred to the keeping of the adven-
turer and his sister, who seem to have been left
guardians for no reason whatever. The adven-
turess pursues her in a glittering bodice and some-
times in a red and black costume, and the shrieks
of the heroine as she is chased about her own
house are loud. What the adventuress does to her
behind the scenes is not very ole. ?, but it
seems to be physical violenoe to a pronounced
degree. It xs understood that the terms of
the will and the English law on the subject
of wards make this unavoidable. About
this time her lover is beguiled into the strong
room of a bank, for reasons that are shrouded-in
mystery, but as a great many people rush into this
aot and fall into boxes, or rooms, or inside the
flooring, the matter is quite satisfactory from a
gallery point of view. What is supposed to be
the most thrilling episode occurs when the heroine
is inserted into the den of a Parisian circus tiger
that is mostly human being. The vision of the
lady who died on the rustic lawn appears at the
back of this beast, but he doesn’t take the slightest
notice. The orphan is finally saved by the funny
man, who has disguised himself as a bear in order
to rescue her in a comic and amusing manner.
The funny man, admirably played by Bert
Bailey, does a number of kind actions, dis-
guising himself as a policeman, or an animal,
or anything else that seems likely to disarm
suspicion, in order to get the heiress out of her
various troubles. The surprising things that a
stage-funny man will do for the best girl of a
casual acquaintance are noticeable in almost every
melodrama.
* * • *
Miss Ivy Gorrick is a nice-looking girl, and
though not particularly striking so far, does well
enough as a simple little heroine in a simple little
white dress. Miss Kathleen Duggan, as Lady
Ainsley, has no time to sing, and her acting is
much better than her melody. Bert Bailey has
one of those lightning-change parts that suit him.
Paris by night and the heroine’s rustic retreat
with a blue river near the front door, are both
pretty scenes, but the Cage of Death, with most
of the wild beasts'merely painted on canvas, is a
distinctly tame affair. The tiger that isn’t painted
does not give the long, lithe spring that he springs
with on the bills ; he merely hunches himself up
in a reticent manner and looks as if he would
prefer to hand in his resignation as a wild animal
and go out of the business altogether.
** * *
Mr. Henry Lee at Sydney Palace suggests
a very little story sent in to the editor with a very
long letter of explanation. Most of his imi-
tations are good, but they are prefaced
with an announcement by the imitator which
makes the imitation appear like a postage stamp
set in a two-ton frame of carved oak. With the
omission of his vainglorious speech Mr. Lee would
do better. Otherwise the very fine variety show
at the Palace is not open to any serious criticism
this week.
*# t x
Capt. Edwards has. brought “ Our Navy ”
back to Sydney, and an orchestra, garbed in white,
like waiters in a restaurant, help on the represen-
tation of Jack’s career at Queen’s Hall this week.
As usual, the cloven hoof of the Royal Family
protrudes itself into the programme, as also a
MLLE CELINSKI.
Photo, by the Grouzelle Studios, Sydney,
certain amount of funeral. The performance,
more than on previous occasions, has a rather
Sunday-school entertainment flavor, and one
almost expects to have tea and bun handed
round in the interval. The great white,
whirling seas, however, are as capable
as ever, and when a cinernatographed Jack
climbs up somewhere into the drifting mist to furl
the foretopsail, and the wind whistles through his
hair per medium of the industrious man behind
the scenes, one forgets the Royal personages, and
also the funeral, and enjoys a few brief minutes of
peace.
** * *
At Sydney Tivoli, the most interesting per-
former is Professor De Wynne, juggler and
shadowgraphist, whose coin-spinning tricks are
clever, though the hard ball he flings in the air
shows a tendency to come down on the performer
with disastrous results. Afterwards De Wynne
waves the shadow of his hands over a white
cloth, and forthwith these members wreathe them-
selves into rabbits, alligators, a clergyman wagging
his head in a tall pulpit, and a jockey attempting
to win on a Randwick racecourse. Cecilia
Dubois sings a graceful French song or two,
and as she warbles, the kaleidoscope gives her]
every two lines or so, a magnificent new costume
without her taking the slightest trouble in the
matter. Sometimes her garb is a quaint design in
blue and rose oolour, sometimes her white dress
turns to yellow silk with trails of greenery for
trimming, and great red roses nestling at shoulder
and waist. There is no ocoasion, however, for
the kaleidoscope to send a large sunflower sprawl-
ing over her face. Zobedie still climbs stairs on
his hands, and Ted Box whistles well, though the
rest of his comedy business is quite ordinary, and
gives the audience the impression that it could be
the same kind of happy ox itself if it took the
trouble. It is, after all, a simple matter to put on
one’s hat while lying on the floor, should it seem
advisable to complete one’s toilet in this manner.
** * *
“ Cyprienne,” translated and adapted
from the French play “ Divorcons,” was pro-
duced at Sydney Criterion in aid of the Sydney
Hospital and German Benevolent Society, on.
Wednesday and Friday last week. It is an
interesting, up-to-date drama, wherein all the
ladies at Rheims are depicted as extremely
anxious for divorce, and waiting eagerly for a law
to be passed that will enable them to leave off
being honest women whenever they choose. The
clamor for divorce is very great in the drawing-
rooms of the aristocracy, and occasionally
the populace clamor outside as well. One
woman wants general divorce because it will
promote a circulation of husbands, and Frau
Buhrow, as Cyprienne, wants it because then she
can have her husband as a lover, and go to dubious
restaurants, and have the waiter believe that they
are not really married to each other—which, by
that time, will be the case. Certainly, the woman
who can find soul-excitement in dining out with
her own husband, even though he is disguised
in some other character, must be hard -up
for amusement. But when Cyprienne finds,
later on, that the circulation of husbands
means that her own old man will revolve round
with the others, and be liable to be annexed
by all the enterprising widows in Rheims,
she grows dubious about divorce. And finally,
when she recollects that the other lady
will have a right to drive in her carriage, and
sit in her boudoir, and alter the arrangement
thereof, she is quite broken up, and the
desire for divorce fades utterly. Frau Elsa
Buhrow, in a magnificent yellow robe and a tak-
ing broken accent, made many strong points, and
amongst a long cast of people of little importance,
Mr. A. B. Davies did well as the calm methodical
husband.
** * *
That the Empire and two other music halls
should do well in Sydney shows that the citizens
have an enduring affection for the serio-comic, the
artificial nigger, and the impossibly drunk person.
With much the same company as before, the
Empire continues to do good business.
*# * *
Mademoiselle Celinski will shortly intro-
duce “The Arcadian Nights” entertainment to
Sydney for the purpose of producing a novelty in
the world of art. The idea is to present the
masterpieces of great composers simultaneously
with the actual scenes which prompted the com-
positions. The scheme is daring and original,
and will no doubt excite much attention.
** * *
Up to Friday night, Wilson Barrett will
continue to bask in the limelight of his latest
character, at Her Majesty’s (Melb.). “The
Christian King” is neither a fine commercial
speculation, nor a dismal failure. The first two
acts promise a fairly good show, after which it
tails off into an exhibition of Barrett’s voracious
appetite for “fat.” If that massive, heavy-toned
veteran were a slim young ruler—the original
Alfred, by the way, was 22 years of age when he
started kinging the situations he dominates
would appear less unreal, but a perpetual Wilson
Barrett shining as a central star emphasises the
dramatic hollowness of his five-act undertaking.
The little bit of plot has no love interest
apart from Barrett. There are two girls,
Miss M'Carthy and Miss Latimer, and they both
of them adore the gentleman who plays the name-
part. They fear no other foe in shining armour
(besides, Barrett monopolises all the shining
armour in Engle-land, anyhow), but when He
comes along they surrender on the spot, and as
his intense Christianity confines him to one girl
(Miss Latimer), poor Lillah M‘Carthy is left to
gnash her teeth and rant hopelessly of her con-
suming fires. One brief squeeze from Barrett in
the first act is all she ever gets to make her
happy. Her attempt to poison the other girl
is a failure, and subsequently she retires to the
Danish camp to wait for her Saxon god with the
Roman nose. He comes along in due course and
occupies the middle of the stage whilst gammon-
ing to twang a dumb harp. Then the Danish
potentate, naturally objecting to the intrusion,
ties Barrett to a tree in the same old stage centre,
so that love-sick Lillah may heap adoration upon
him, and kiss his Apollonian brow. She is about to
die for Barrett, who all this time has been absorb-
ing limelight. The royal Dane bargains with the
lady to set her Alfred Barrett free in exchange
for her “sweet body.” Alfred rushes off to save
Engle-land, and his tempestuous girl take 3 the
precaution to commit suicide before resigning her
sweet body to its fate.
m • * *
Two or three improvements happened to
the drama during last week. The 20th century
shop-walker’s moustache which Barrett had origi-
nally worn in the Danish camp was laid aside as a
superfluous attraction. Also, the vision from on
High took a comparatively back seat, instead of
putting Barrett’s light out pro. tem. Never-
theless, there is room for an amount of recon-
struction in “ The Christian King,” and somebody
who possesses a livelier fancy and a more ancient
vocabulary than W.B. ought to undertake the
job. The last five nights of the season, com-
mencing on Saturday, will he given to four
revivals of tragedies that figured on Mr. Barrett’s
list when he brought his first co. to Melbourne.
On Saturday (28th) he plays Yirginius, a parental
Roman part which suits him very well. Then
Hamlet and Othello for one consecutive night
apiece. Finally, Claudian for two nights and a
matinee.
** * *
Other Melbourne houses will hang out
new bills shortly, or in the immediate vicinity
of that date. At the Princess’s—where Miss
Edith Crtae is still rolling down 13 stairs, and
the other lady, who was said to have the influenza,
is back again in the unaccountable character of
Eureka Grubb —a revival of “The Only Way”
was to have eommenced on Wednesday, and pro-
bably did so. At the same theatre, a matinee in
aid of the Women’s Hospital is due on Thursday
(Oct. 3).
** * *
At the Bijou, “A Message from Mars”
will be delivered to Parker for the last time on
Friday. The pretty little comedy has paid its
way for five weeks, in spite of numerous weak
spots in the performance. Melbourne speaks of it
affectionately. But a stronger company might
have made the story more human and interest-
ing. Ross —who presents a cheerful, unaffected
Parker —is somewhat too small for the character in
every respeot. It shrinks to his size, just as
naturally as it would fit a 13st. person whose
selfishness and reformation looked fat and impor-
tant. And yet Ross, as Parker, gets nearer to the
truth of his stage identity than any other member
of the co. On Saturday they set up “Tom, Dick
and Harry,” with “A Highland Legacy” for
curtain-raiser.
** # *
“Riding to Win,” the remarkable Bland
Holt drama of wheel and woe, proceeds as usual
at the Royal. Some fine Saturday night it will
retire in favor of “ Hearts are Trumps,” but for
the present bikes are trumps, and the dawg in the
tank is an amusing joker.
** * *
At Melbourne Opera House, the latest
new arrivals are the acrobatic family of Tylers and
the stranger who sings and gambols under the
name of Bluett. Also, Lizzie Kirk has returned
almost as good as new, and Frank Leon is there
once more, and the voice of Whitburn is heard in
the land.
BAKER & BOUSE PROPRIETARY, LIMITED,
I ‘ : ___.
UF-ﬁ'x—véiiém
H may),
7'1 ‘
‘ I‘s' .7 .\
, ( .
' \‘ this” ‘\
, .‘-._:-__l_ ‘1'. .‘ w."
_ ‘; 9&8} lanai 9.,
‘ _ ;.__F “‘7 1.;— a -‘
Have JUST LANDED the Celebrated
No. 15 Popy Pr€n>o
This is a Camera we can thoroughly recom/mend,
and can safely say that no Amateur should he
without one.
Send for Catalogue. Price £4.
375 orge St., Sydoey,
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, and Brisbane.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland’s railways, for the year ended June
30, according to the report of the Queensland Com-
missioner for Railways, yielded £258,955 over and above
working expenses. This means that they paid only
£1 6s. 3d. per cent, interest on the money borrowed for
their construction. The money costs about £4 per cent.,
so the Queensland railway deficit is about £552,135. This
is the biggest railway shortage in Australasia Yet the
good old drought can’t be held responsible for the fall.
The earnings for the year just ended were actually greater
than in 1898, and nearly as great as in 1899. Here are
some curious facts :
Representing
Gross Working Net on capital
Earnings. Expenses. Earnings. invested
in the lines.
£ £ £ £s. d.
June, 1896.. 1,085,494 644,362 441,132 212 7 p.c.
„ 1897.. 1,179,273 684,146 495,127 217 5 „
„ 1898.. 1,215,811 686,066 529,745 218 5 „
„ 1899.. 1,373,475 784,811 588,664 3 3 0 „
„ 1900.. 1,464,399 948,691 515,708 213 5 „
„ 1901.-1,316,936 1,057,981 258,955 1 6 3 „
There has been no increase in the mileage this year to
account for all these extra expenses—not one single mile.
And since 1896 the increase has only been from 2400 to
2801 miles—that is to say, less than 17 per cent, increase
in the amount of railway to be worked, and 64 per cent,
increase in the working expenses.
If the increased expenses ari:,e from paying better
wages or paying for repairs and improvements out of
revenue, instead of out of loans, they are not onlj' justi-
fiable, but commendable. But they probably arise in
great part from sheer bad management. At all events, it is
no use blaming the disaster on the drought, and assum-
ing that things must improve when the rain comes. The
Queensland lines, in the bad year just closed, have yielded
more per mile than they did in 1896, when the profits
were twice as large. Compared with the best year (1899),
the earnings have only dropped about £55,000, but ex-
penses have increased about £273,000. That expense
item is the whole cause of the trouble.
* * * »
Westralia’s loan, it now appears, f§ ' for
£l,soo,ooo—not £1,000,000, as stated in the early cable-
grams. The only difference is that this makes nearly
£6,300,000 added to the public debt of the Commonwealth
inside a few weeks (N.S.W., £4,000,000 ; Westralia,
£1,500,000; Tasmania, £200,000; and Queensland £528,000
of deficit coverted into permanent debt), instead of
£5,800,000, or nearly £ll3s. of extra debt for each inhabi-
tant. Things in this country are at times even more
sudden than they look.
• * * *
Camperdown, one of the 43 pockethandkerchief-
municipalities of Sydney, was recently haled before the
law courts by its unpaid debenture-holders, who applied
for the appointment of a receiver. Then things took an
unusual turn. The law specifies that every municipal
council which intends to borrow must give 14 days’ notice
of its intention, and also publish, for the information of
the ratepayers, particulars of the uses to which the money
is to be put. In this case it was merely specified that the
money was for “ permanent improvements,” and no par-
ticulars were given, so the Court held that the debentures
were bad. This is rough on the lenders of the money, and
the slovenly ways of the ridiculous penny-alderman are
calculated to bring municipal securities into ill-odour.
Further, it is regrettable to see that the habit of going
broke is spreading among the Sydney municipalities.
If Sydney was all one municipality it would be large
enough and sufficiently dignified to make some serious
effort to avoid disasters like this, but when the city is
cut up into 43 municipalities they are mean little con-
cerns, and the breakage of one of them makes hardly more
excitement than that of a suburban ham-and-beef shop
or the suspension of an apple-stall. Camperdown,
apparently, drifted into trouble from the usual cause.
The rates were Is. 4d. in the £and the N.S.W. Statistical
Register shows this sort of progress in recent years :
Revenue. Expenditure. Deficit.
1897 £2868 £3431 £563
1898 3151 3461 310
1899 3048 3656 608
The weary aldermen never made any apparent attempt to
put things straight, but kept on with the old rate of Is.
4d. in the £, and let things slide. At February, ’99 (the
latest date covered by Coghlan’s figures) the liabilities
were £24,007, of which £17,000 was borrowed on deben-
tures at about 6 or 6 j per cent., and £6OOO was an unse-
cured overdraft at 8 per cent. There is something very
miserable and helpless about this kind of drifting process,
but most of the Sydney municipalities plod on after much
the same indefinite fashion. It wasn’t the aldermen, by-
the-way, who entered the defence that the debentures
were bad. They told the court to fix things how it
pleased, but the bank, which reckoned if the debenture-
holders were paid its overdraft would be badly left, did
all the fighting.
* * * •
The People’s Prudential Assurance Co. (Syd-
ney), one of the multitude of petty proprietary life offices
which have sprung up of late years in Australia) com-
pleted its fifth year on 31st August, 1901 :
1897. 1898. 1899. 1900. 1901.
Income .. .. £8,611 £11,670 £11,782 £11,544 £12,255
Outgoings:
Claims .. .. £3,966 £6,173 £5,935 £5,164 £5,517
Expenses .. .. 3,796 4,646 4,674 4,737 5,932
Div. 5 per cent. 217
Written off good-
will 1,500
£7,762 £10,819 £10,609 £9,901 £13,166
ance Fund .. £849 £1,700 £2,873 £4,516 £3,605
The People’s Prudential started by buying for £3500 a
SawmiliT machinery.
BAND or CIRCULAR MILLS, very heavy for
hardwood timber. Complete Outfits of any capa-
city. BAND RESAWS. ENGINES. BOILERS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
PULP MACHINERY. GRIP PULLEYS.
FLOUR MILLING MACHINERY.
“ALLIS” ROLLER FLOUR MILLS on the
UNIVERSAL BOLTER SYSTEM.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 24 Clarenoe-street, BYDNEY.


ready-made business conducted by one Mulligan, and the
£3500 (now reduced to £2000) has ever since been called
an asset under the name of “ goodwill.”
The most notable feature is the serious increase
in expenses, which have averaged as follows upon total
income : ,
1897.. £44 1 8 per cent. 1900.. £4l 0 8 per cent.
1898.. 39 16 3 „ 1901.. 48 8 1 „
1899.. 3913 6 „
Including the dividend, £6O 3s. 6d. per cent, of the total
income went, during the year to 31st August, 1901, for
purposes other than assurance, which is a very heavy
rate, and the very worst on the co’s record. By
reason of this, and the amount written off goodwill,
the assurance fund has decreased considerably. Tne
People’s Prudential has just held its first quinquennial
investigation. It is a concern which does many small
and complicated varieties of assurance, but the actuary
cheerfully cut the knot by assuming that it wasn t
necessary to make any reserves whatever against
the liability for accident insurance, compensation for
temporary disablement, the medical attendance benefits,
and the temporary life assurance afforded to members
children. Under these circumstances, it_was decided that
the present value of all policy-liabilities is £8266, so there
is an apparent surplus of £349.
There are no separate accounts for ordinary
assurance, industrial twopence a-week assurance, and the
promiscuous accident and medical benefit and midwifery
business. The probabilities are, however, that the
latter, which seems to be only another branch Of the
great art of sweating the medical profession and of
hiring a doctor cheaply and sub-letting him at a large
profit, does more than anything else to keep the concern
going. There are so many small things mixed up with
life assurance in the People’s Prudential that it wouldn t
make much difference if an undertaker’s shop and a
ham-and-beef emporium were added, to round matters
off.
• * • *
The Cascade Brewery Co. (Hobart, Tasmania):
Deficit
Dividends and (goodwill not
Profit. Dividend-tax. reckoned as
an asset).
'une, 1895 .. £4,327 6 per cent. = £4,218 £8,478
Dec., 1895 .. 3,363 5 „ „ 4,219 9,334
June, 1896 .. 4,602 5 „ „ 4,429 9,161
Dec., 1896 .. 4,444 5 „ „ 4,429 9,146
June, 1897 .. 4,428 6 „ „ 4,429 9,147
Dec., 1897 .. 4,429 6 „ „ 4,429 9,147
June, 1898 .. 4,450 5 „ „ 4,429 9,126
Dec., 1898 .. 3,129 3 „ „ 2,658 8,655
June, 1899 .. 2,668 3 „ „ 2,658 8,645
Dec., 1899 .. 2,374 3 „ „ 2,657 8,928
June, 1900 .. 3,108 3 „ „ 2,658 8,478
Dec., 1900 .. 2,998 3 „ „ 2,658 8,138
June, 1901 .. 3,354 3 „ „ 2,658 7,442
The Cascade Brewery 00. had, until lately, a nominal
reserve fund -of £16,600, but as this was more than bal-
anced by a huge paper item, “ Goodwill, £25,000," there
was really a large deficit. Six months ago the co. wisely
applied the whole reserve fund to reduce goodwill to
£B5OO, and decided to write off the balance by half-yearly
instalments. This paper item now stands at £7600, less
£5B undivided profit, reducing the deficit in the assets to
£7442. If the present increase in the profits can be
maintained it should be possible to completely shift this
burden in about years.
9 * * •
Marshall’s Paddington Brewery (Limited)
Sydney, makes a reasonably good showing, yet by reason
of the movement tor the abolition of “ tied ’’-hotels, this
is a parlous time for breweries. When that abolition
comes off, then the brewery whose beer pleases the public
best will have better times, and the other brewery will
have worse times, and as no one knows which brewery
his brewery may be, the public taste being unaccount-
able, it is a dangerous time to buy beer-shares. Recent
accounts of Marshall’s co. have been as follows :
Net Nominal
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
July, 1896 £6,024
„ 1897 £3533 6 per cent. =£l7Bl 7,776
„ 1898 3652 6 „ „ 1781 9,647
„ 1899 5147 6 „ „ 1781 13,013
„ 1900 5958 6 „ „ 1789 17,182
„ 1901 5970 6 „ „ 1789 21,369
The situation looks promising, barring the dark suspicion
that hangs over the prospects of all breweries just now,
when a practice which has brought much grist to the mill
is in serious danger of abolition. As with many other in-
stitutions, by the way, the largest item in the accounts
of Marshall’s Brewery is “ Buildings, Land, Plant, Good-
will, and Furniture, £56,589.” How much the genuine
reserves would be after the wholly paper-item of goodwill
was deducted it is impossible to say, for the amount of
that item doesn’t appear. This very common system of
including in the assets an imaginary item of unknown
size makes a balance-sheet a humorous conundrum rather
than anything else, and the reserves shown are purely
nominal, inasmuch as they are subject to the deduction
of an unknown amount, which will leave another un-
known amount.
» • • *
The Australian Newspaper Co. (Sydney), the
concern which owns and publishes the Australian Star :
Nominal
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
June, 1898 £B2B
1899 £922 4 per cent=£l,6oo 150
„ 1900 1,963 5 „ „ „ 2,000 113
„ 1901 2,006 5 „ ~ „ 2,000 119
It is difficult to say exactly whether even this very
humble reserve is real. The largest asset appears as
“ Premises, Plant, Stationery, Furniture, Goodwill,
£31,523.” How much of this is goodwill doesn’t appear,
but if the amount is (say) £2OOO, then there is no real
reserve, but rather a deficit of £lBBl. Goodwill is an
objectionable “ asset ” at any time, and it is especially so
when it is an unknown quantity. The gross receipts from
sales and advertisements appear to be decreasing, but by
steadily cutting down the expenses, or the allowance
made for depreciation, or both, the net profits show an
improvement.
Expenses and
Gross Allowance for Net
Earnings. Depreciation. Profit.
1899 .. £29,064 £28,142 £922
1900 .. 26,611 24,648 1,963
1901 .. 25,921 23,915 2,006
• • * *
Some condensed particulars about the Dis-
tillers’ Co. Limited (D.C.L. whisky), of Edinburgh—the
largest whisky-distilling co. in the world:
Dividends Written off Total
Profits, less Income-Tax. Property. Reserves.
1899.. £134,650 10p.c. =£85,810 £30,000 £234,326
1900.. 134,775 10 „ = 85,687 30,000 253,614
1901.. 124,253 10 „ = 84,281 20,000 273,486
The Distillers 00. (Limited) has a paid-up capital of
£887,680 ; reserves of £273,486; and a world-wide repu-
tation. The fact that its 10 per cent, dividend gives to
the shareholders £1529 less than it did two years ago—in
other words, that the deduction for income-tax is £1529
more—shows how a bad war may interfere with a good
whisky.
* * * •
Melbourne Mutiial Store has completed a very
moderate half-year :
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
July, 1900 .. £1,967 £3 6s. Bd. per cent. = £1,875 £6,844
Jan., 1901.. 2,448 „ „ 1,875 7,417
July, 1901.. 2,062 „ „ 1,875 7,604
The co. is making profits in a small way, but at the same
time its situation looks very bad. Of the shareholders’
funds (capital, £112,500, and reserves, £7604 ; total,
£120,104) no less than £110,559 is invested in land and
buildings. Whether they are worth the values set
against them, seeing that they were acquired in the boom
days, is a serious question, but that may stand. This
arrangement leaves the co. £9545 with which to carry on
a business involving £78,827 worth of stock, and £21,403
of book debts. Its business is practically all done on
money raised by mortgage and overdraft. So we get
these results:—
Mortgages and Interest
Overdrafts. paid.
July, 1900.. ... £64,713 .. £1872
Jan., 1901.. .. 69,047 .. 1925
July, 1901.. .. 73,101 .. 1924
The business is growing, but apparently any extra returns
only suffice to pay the interest on the increased overdraft,
and there is no material increase in profits. Unless the
Mutual Store decides to stop paying dividends for a num-
ber of years, and devote its whole earnings to clearing off
the liabilities—though, at the present rate, even the total
earnings wouldn’t stop the increase, for the Mutual Store
made only £4510 in the last year, and the liability grew
by over £BOO0 —it looks as if something serious would
happen. The whole trouble appears to lie in the fact that
it doesn’t pay to have £llO,OOO worth of buildings in
which to hold £79,000 worth of goods, almost all bought
with borrowed money.
« * * •
J. Robertson: It isn’t the best co., but it is
sound, and you run no risks beyond what attend on all
earthly enterprise—war, revolution, national bankruptcy,
general resurrection, and the like.
• * * •
As here anticipated, the specifications show
that the “new Broken Hill sulphide process ” leaves the
biggest loss in sulphide treatment untouched. This
biggest loss is in concentration—a loss of much over 50
per cent, of the metals. To make the concentrates more
suitable for smelting it is usual to roast the ores and then
subject them to a current of air to complete the oxida-
tion ; in this new process, by mixing the ore or concen-
trates with gypsum or calcium sulphate, it is claimed
that the complete desulphurisation of the sulphides and
the cineration of the ore (things which are necessary
before smelting) are completed without any prelimi-
nary roasting. The independent laboratory tests
made by the B.H. Prop, having been satisfactory,
an experimental plant will be erected on the mine.
If it succeeds the process will be worked on a
royalty. Opposition to the granting of the patent on the
part of the patentees of another roast reaction process is,
however, mentioned. And Greenway, general manager of
Block'll, has filed application for a patent for a somewhat
similar process.
» • * •
The British, which had to shut down more for
want of ore than through the lead slump, has picked up
the central ore-body at 500 ft. —excellent stuff, so far as
tested. Now we shall see whether the co. will make its
common mistake of rushing at an insufficiently developed
ore vein, or whether, wiser from experience, it will
thoroughly open out before re-starting the mill.
* • * *
Partly on an improvement in the lead market,
but more upon certain improvements in the processes for
treating the sulphides about which there has been a great
deal of mystery and humbug, silver shares have had a
little recovery. The metal-market reaction was bound to
come, though perhaps not to stay ; the other, for present
purposes, is the more important. But it is, for all that,
too much to call it a new sulphide process. A new sul-
phide process ought to be a process for treating the sul-
phides ; this is only a process for getting sulphide
concentrates ready for smelting. That would not be so
important a distinction if the concentrates contained a
fair percentage of the metals. But they don’t; they
usually contain 70 per cent, of the lead, 45 per cent, of
the silver, and 10 per cent, of the zinc—and the zinc is of
less than no value at all there. This new process will not
improve this extraction; the loss of a-third of the
lead and from a-half to two-thirds of the silver
and all the zinc will go on as hitherto. What it
will do, if it does on a big scale what it has done on a
small, is to allow more of the metal in the concentrates
to be smelted out and at a much reduced cost —this
reduction (with the proviso just mentioned kept in view)
would probably mean from £85,000 to £lOO,OOO a year to
the B.H. Prop, alone. Broken Hill silver-lead ores are,
for the most part, of two classes —oxidised and sulphide.
Nearly all the former can be smelted in the common
water-jacket furnace ; that is the sort of stuff the co’s.
made their fat divs. from even when they knew hardly
anything of mining, &c., and when costs were prepos-
terously high. Generally the ore was not very rich;
but it was easily mined and cheaply reduced—re-
quired no crushing, no concentrating, no prelimi-
nary roasting ; ran through the furnaces rapidly,
and so cost little for coke, coal, and attendance,
items which now mop up most of the old profits. On the
other hand the sulphides (which are all the most of the
mines have left) cannot be smelted ; their zinc will not
permit it. They might be roasted before smelting ; but
that is very costly and wasteful, owing to their silicates.
The present proposal is to roast the concentrates (and
Erobably also a portion of the slimes, which are now little
etter than a waste product of concentration), employing—
this is the new part—gypsum as a flux, and subsequently
smelting the roasted mass. Sulphuric gas is driven off in
the roasting, and the lead, hitherto in the form of sulphide,
becomes mostly oxide and sulphate, which are good
smelting ores. Though at the time of writing not dis-
closed, this is understood to be the process. A small
experimental plant will probably first be erected
at the B.H. Prop, mine; but as there is much gypsum
near the S. Australian coast the operation, if it should
succeed, will soon be transferred to Pt. Pirie. The pro-
cess is the discovery of Carmichael, B.H. Prop, experi-
mental chemist, and Bradford, of the same co.’s metal-
lurgical staff—the former with a Scotch, and the latter
with an Australian training.
» * * •
J. H. Curie, the mining commissioner to Lon-
don Economist, sums up the leading Westralian mines.
Investment in them he does not recommend, because
intrigue rules the market. Those of Kalgoorlie are not
improving in depth, as is shown by developments in the
Great Boulder and Boulder Perseverance, the latter’s
700 ft. level being admittedly the poorest, although it has
opened a lot of payable ore above it. The mines looking
much worse than when Curie was there some years ago
are the Associated, Lake View, Brownhill, and Kalgurli.
He previously described the Associated as “ the greatest
mine in Western Australia, if not in the world.” Evi-
dently he was grossly deceived, and this statement has
led writer to think that Curie, who is a very
able mining scribe, is a better examiner of men
than he is of mines, and that he arrives at his
conclusions from a consensus of opinion, and is
not solely guided by his own judgment. If he
had thoroughly examined the Associated on his
first visit some years ago, and was capable of arriving at
a correct estimate of its value, he would have known that
the prospects then were infinitely less than they are to-
day. Curie made probably the biggest mistake of his
life in setting up the Associated as Westralia’s biggest
mine ; and this scribe is almost satisfied that he has
made another, though smaller, mistake in his last article.
At the time he called it a great mine it was being robbed of
its patchy richness, the eyes picked out of it, its develop-
ment shamefully neglected. Its plant, that cost nearly
half-a-million, was an abortion ; in fact, the mine was run
to earth. Eighteen months ago its management was
handed over to Hewitson, and it has taken him all that
time to get the show in order ; it will take another three
or four months to put the plant in shape. An enormous
amount of development has been done. Big ore-bodies
have been disclosed, and it is almost certain that when
the plant has been completely re-modelled the Associated
will turn out for a long time to come from 6000 to 8000 oz.
a month. The profit will be considerable, although it will
not be enough to warrant the present price of the shares,
but it will in all human probability be greater, and the
mine will be more permanent, than Curie’s latest article
indicates.
Mr. Curie is absolutely correct in re the Brownhill,
but it was always suspected that that mine was working
a flat run of gold which would pass out at a comparatively
small depth. Its best ore is mined near the N. Associated
boundary, and it would not have had these reserves had
it not acquired the Cygnet lease. The purchase of that
lease was another proof that the ore was passing out of
the ground. Other leases have been acquired, but as they
were side-on to the original property, nothing has been
found in them, although a statement was lately made
that a new ore-body had been picked up in one of them.
So many little pipes and pockets of ore have been
found in different parts of this mine that the
chances of hitting any permanent ore-body outside
of the original are very remote. The Kalgurli looked
remarkably well in the oxidised zone, and the tellurides
came in at a comparatively shallow depth. At one time
a part of the mine glistened with tellurides like a
jeweller’s shop with diamonds. It was not long, how-
ever, before it was established beyond doubt that the ore
body was limited in extent, that while it was of great
width in places it had no length anywhere. With depth
the width has become less and no greater length has been
proved. It has been crushing for 18 months, producing
an average of about2oooozs. permonth.andhaspaidnodiv.
It is increasing its plant, and no doubt for a time will
increase its gold production. It is not likely to ever
become a steady div. payer, and if it were owned in Aus-
tralia instead of in London it would not have half its
market valuation.
Of the Lake View, manager M'Kinnon reported
over a year ago that then there were only 70,000 tons of
ore in sight. Fully that quantity has been milled since,
so it must be now very short of ore, or a great quantity
has been developed since. Of the latter there is not the
slightest doubt, but it is impossible even to imagine that
the developments have been such as to warrant the pre-
parations being made to deal with 12,000 tons a month.
Remarkable developments of new ore bodies will have
to take place to prevent another collapse in Lake
Views. The mine is drifting to that end. The
new chairman, O. D. Rose, at last annual meeting, in
speaking of quarterly divs. of ss. and a bonus distribu-
tion of the balance at the end of each year, said, “ Unless
something unforeseen occurs.” He possibly had the in-
evitable collapse in his mind’s eye, in making that reser-
vation.
Curie incidentally refers to the number of
mines working on the Kalgoorlie field having no prospects
whatever. He is also right there. The most appalling
feature of Kalgoorlie field is the great number of mines
working without hope of reward. Water is their only
excuse for working at all; to work them as gold-mines is
to waste money by a false pretence. Curie says of
the Great Fingall that it is likely to become
one of the great gold-mines of the world; that
shares, which were then nearly £lO, would probably see
£l5, and would be a fair investment at that price. Of
the market generally, he thought it had reached its lowest
ebb, and, as he wrote some seven weeks ago, he was
right, for at that time Westralians, almost without excep-
tion, were lower than they are to-day. He anticipated
the early improvement which has taken place, but de-
clared that it would be only temporary, and strongly
advised people to take advantage of the opportunity to
clear out of stocks where the prices are not warranted by
dividends or future prospects.
Present writer thinks it not unlikely that the
present good prices will be kept up for the next two
months, and it is probable a further improvement will
occur during that time. There is no possible chance of
their ever being carried to the figures they once reached
—Lake Views over £2O, Boulders 405., Perseverance £l7,
Kalgurlis £l2, and others in proportion ; but it may be
regarded as a certainty that, in the next slump, which
will come as surely as night follows day, they will be car-
ried to prices lower than they have ever reached, and
this may have the effect of placing them on a fair mining
dividend-paying basis, where, up to date, they have
never been.
« » • *
Chillagoe Railway and Mines: “Main Shaft”
obviously has no knowledge of mining, or he would not
have made so many absurd statements ; consequently,
others that cannot be contradicted are largely discounted
and carry no conviction. “I am in a position to state
that there is no such thing as an immediate scarcity of
ore to be considered.” The co. has been working these
mines for three years, and it was alleged almost at the
start that there were half-a-million tons of ore available.
Now we have the consoling fact that there is no “ imme-
diate scarcity of ore.” Writer wonders whether there
will be any scarcity of ore before the furnaces have been
working three years ! “ Stewart’s estimates of tonnage
are not attacked—his values are.” This is a distinction
without a difference, if you like. How can one attack
values without affecting tonnage? “The railway is a
fine piece of work ; should pay profits on public traffic
alone, excluding the proprietors’ traffic. The Ohillagoe
line as a profit-maker will be a bigger concern, and will
show greater profits per mile, than the Silverton Tramway
Oo.”
The equivalent to the first part of this state-
ment would be that the Mt. Lyell railway would pay’ if
the mine were shut down. To say that a railway
that is just finished will be a bigger profit-maker
than one which has been running, and making
profits, and declaring huge divs. for many years,
is taking on a big contract. In fact, it is all
prophet. “Coke and mine supplies will have only
a third of the haulage Broken Hill had to pay.” How
silent re the fact that one railway has a route as flat as a
billiard-table almost from starting point to terminus ;
while the Govt, section of the other was the most ex-
pensive railway ever built in Australasia, and haulage
is the most expensive per mile of any railway in
the Commonwealth. Of course the mining developments
are wrong. They always are when ore becomes scarce.
“ The present management sank big shafts off the lodes,
and generally behind the lodes, when, for all purposes of
prospecting, the obvious course was to get under the ore
already exposed.” Big, permanent shafts are invariably
sunk off the lodes. To sink a main-shaft in the lode
means either to sacrifice a large quantity of ore, or the
shaft itself sooner or later. “ For all purposes of pros-
pecting.” That conveys the impression that these groups
of mines—which were formed into a co. of a million, and
have spent about half-a-million in the building of a rail-
way—should have done their prospecting before they
started on the other bigger and more expensive works.
Of the Mungana 00. “Mainshaft” details
developments, and, if his measurements and figures in
this instance are reliable, they go to prove that the best
group of the lot has been parted with. It was given out
last week that Danvers Power’s report would fully con-
firm Stewart’s estimate of tonnage and value —and if this
proved correct some resignations would follow. Also
rumored that Mr. Weinberg, the general manager, had re-
signed, and shares took a 3s. 6d. jump. It is now officially
stated that it will be another month before Danvers Power’s
report is ready, and that Weinberg is only leaving for a
short holiday. The smelting has started ; the first 500 tons
gave an average of 8 per cent, copper, and the manager
says that this average will be approximately maintained.
Writer is informed by a much greater mining authority
than “ Mainshaft ” that the six furnaces could be put in
blast almost immediately if it were deemed advisable ;
that the discrepancy between promise and performance
of Chillagoe is most glaring ; and that, while (after three
years’ working) there is plenty of ore at grass to start the
she furnaces, it would not be long before they would have
to stop for the want of it.
The market too clearly indicates that that is the
real position, or why is it that this co., which had a
market-valuation of nearly two-and-a-half millions long
ere either the railway or the smelters were finished,
should now have a valuation of little more than half a
million when both are running? There is but one pos-
sible answer —that the mines are not what the public
were once led to believe. When the newspapers were all
barracking for this inflated concern, the writer, at any
rate, sounded many a note of warning. The public were
carried away by the Mt. Lyell, Broken Hill, and other
mining magnates, who took up this gigantic scheme, and
could not believe it possible that a £IO,OOO a-year manager
could make a mistake. That he has made one is now
only too clear, and to-day the position is even more
appalling than the public have any idea of; the
ravings of “ Mainshaft ” will not alter it. This is how
things stand : The co. has a tremendous debenture-debt,
secured on the whole of its property as well as on reserved
shares. There is no possibility of the latter being
accepted when they are far below par, or when the whole
property can be collared for the debt. In addition to
this, it recently borrowed £50,000, and has no means by
way of shares to repay it. It will probably soon need to
borrow another £50,000, and where _ it is coming
from is hard to foresee. It is wasting money and
time by paying fat fees for examinations that can
do no possible good. It has a smelting plant, the best in
Australia, in which all the improvements of Mt. Lyell
have been copied, and all the defects remedied, with
which to prove values in a practical way instead of assay-
ing in a laboratory, which is always surrounded with
doubt.
One of two endings is inevitable —reconstruction
or liquidation. The latter would mean that this gigantic
concern, in which so much hope was centred and money
sunk, would pass away to the debenture-holders. No
doubt reconstruction will be determined on, and that
will mean shareholders taking upon themselves a further
liability. Big men with big money may make mines big,
but they cannot create them. At the very inception of
this scheme these big men were advised, by a
copper-mining man of world-wide experience, to spend
£50,000 to £IOO,OOO in locating and proving the extent
and value of the ore-bodies. No attempt had ever been
made to establish the depth of the ore, and the precarious
and treacherous character of the country in which these
lateral surface ore-bodies and veins exist was often re-
ferred to. But the Chillagoe authorities rushed headlong
into an expenditure that has never been equalled in Aus-
tralia, and when the time has at last arrived to prove
what the undertaking is really worth, the market,
which seldom makes a mistake, says “ something only
equal to the cost of the line,” and the barracker, “ Main-
shaft,” says there is no immediate scarcity of ore.
stocks Kept of
RAND ROCK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
BY THE SOLE AGENTS—
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ; WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
214 HIGH STREET, FREMANTLE; KALCOORLIE.
I - .
,3 -' . ‘
- i
" "#4 7“ . .- ‘
- mg” :4 A ”a...“
.-:~.> - -
c. >- t1»
. ¥ - “I 7‘ l
7RA.lkrWik'E‘S. TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p. "TNI
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World, upon
application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castle reagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
About the best brand for sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich & Co.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* » * *
Local Government Journal, London, 20th
July, 1901: “ The Colonial Mutual needs no endorsement,
its stability is beyond question ; its policies are drawn in
the most liberal manner that experience can possibly
justify.”*
* « * *
The Hecla mine, Lake Superior, U.S.A., have
recently given an order for 80 Wilfley concentrators in
one lot. They have decided, after trying every known
concentrating machine, that the Wilfley table is by far
the best. The Wilfley' concentrating machines continue
to gain in favor in these States. The sole manufacturers,
The Austral Otis Co., South Melbourne, inform us they
are kept fully employed in turning out these machines,
and have sold a very large number. *
* * * *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
ftllan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
John W. H. Piper, C.E., M.A.1.M.E.,
M.Am.I.M.E., &e., Australian representative of Cutten
Bros., Dunedin, mining and dredging engineers, is leaving
for London about the end of September to establish a
Home Office for the firm, the increase of foreign business
necessitating this action. Mr. Piper will be pleased to
undertake any commissions that may be entrusted to him.
Equitable Buildings, Georg e-street, Sydney.*
• • * •
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * » *
If further proof is needed that Luhrig Vanners
are the best and most economical machines for dressing
fines and slimes, it will be found in the fact that the Tas-
mania gold mine, Beaconsfield, Tasmania, has decided to
increase the number of these machines in the extension
of the present mill and reduction works. When com-
pleted it will have over 100 head of stampers at work, and
60 Luhrig Vanners, including the additional 24 of the
large type. Before finally adopting plans the Tasmania
board sent its manager to inspect the chief reduction
works in other States. Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, of
Melbourne, are the Sole Agents for the Luhrig appli-
ances.*
* » * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts, forgings, andallsortsof iron-work.*
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges,
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Kayle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
“WILD CAT” BRIAR PIPES
8
D.
ea.
IN A DOZEN DIFFERENT SHAPES.
Posted, lOd.; 6s. per Dozen—posted, 6s. Bd.; 725. per Gross— tsr Carriage Free to any
Railway Station in New South Wales.
8
D.
ea.
WOOLF & 00., 378 George-street (next G.F.0.), aiTD»TEY.
Wild
Cat
/


Society
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
It is a rather regrettable fact that Bishop
Barlow attended the last, instead of the first, per-
formance of “ A Message from Mars,” when that
cheery little comedy was played in Townsville,
last April. For, as the advertisement “dodger”
stateth betwixt the leaves of the “Mars” pro-
gramme, the Bishop said to himself next morning,
said he—“lf I had seen the play on Saturday
night I would not have hesitated to introduce a
commendation —a strong commendation—of it
into a sermon. I was very pleased, indeed, with
it all, and very glad to have been able to go.” He
would not have hesitated —mark the word, dear
friends! —to commend the entertainment in his
sermon. Brave, “broad-minded” Bishop! He
must be the original Rev. Barlow who was pleased
to approve of the stage-ladies in “ The Vicar of
Bray.”
The Bishop’s views re “ The Message ” remind
present scribe of an incident that befell him on
the second night of the original ‘‘Sign of the
Cross” production at Melb. Princess’s. He
sat behind a godly theatre-party in the d.c.—a
party numbering 16 believers in all—ls of them
young men, with incipient Nonconformist beards,
and the 16th a patriarchal person, to whom they
seemed to sit in the capacity of body-guard. At
the end of the first act, when they had finished
applauding with all their hearts, and hands, and
souls, .and feet, the aged dissipationist leaned for-
ward and caught the eye of the sandy-haired cap-
tain of the guard, who occupied the end seat.
And, saith the shining old light to that early
Christian —“I am glad you brought me, Emanuel,
lam glad you brought me.” To which his young
admirer replied—“ I told you I had no hesitation
in asking you,to join our little party.”
* * * ♦
“ Puyyaka ” joins in the controversy :
“A Father in Israel” (8., 14/9/’01) may be right in his
strictures upon the modern Cissie-nurse, but he has
gott.n a curious notion of the luxuriance of medical mid-
wifery-fees. In Israel they may run to £lO 10s., as stated,
but the Australian medico is lucky if he gets £3 3s. for a
difficult case, with subsequent daily visits for nine days
included. Present writer, indeed, knows of many cases
where a guinea has been taken, and of one where lodge-
pressure has sent fees down to 17s. 6d. Of course, the
medico in question was “foolish,” but he, too, was an
extensive father, and six hungry boys mean much. One
may fix the average medical cost of youngest Australia at
£2 25., and the Semitic Parent’s estimate of £2l for
clothes, drugs, and appliances is also too high, except
for No. 1, because the things needful will serve for a good
many succeeding numerals, and £3 would well cover
renewals in each instance. Thus, allowing nurse’s fees—
of which more anon—at the “ Father’s ” £lO 10s. esti-
mate, and incidental convalescence expenses at £2 25.,
we have as the cost of the incipient citizen’s advent (if
he is the second or third incipient citizen in the family) a
total of £l7 145., instead of £50 —and in the present state
of the birth-rate he’s extremely cheap at the price. But
the great bulk of middle-class families do not
engage a doctor at all. They depend upon a
local “wise-woman” of the variety considered by
“ F- in I.” to be of necessity skilled by virtue of personal
maternity. The victims of accidents are not looked upon
after recovery as being of necessity expert surgeons, yet
this “motherly” fallacy always holds. If all is well, the
“experienced matron ” gets the credit. If it isn’t, she
hangs on to the last in the hope of “ things coming right,”
and only sends for the doctor when the victim’s life is in
serious danger, thus shifting to his shoulders the respon-
sibilities incurred by her own ignorance. Should he
succeed in averting serious consequences, the “motherly ”
one again takes charge and follows such of his directions
as she thinks fit. Present scribe has no liking for Nurse
Oissie and her kind, but she has a great superiority over
the irresponsible Gamp-party with the grubby nails, in
that she generally knows enough to send for medical
assistance in time, and has a thorough regard for cleanli-
ness. Be she ever so taken up with the set of her cap,
she knows something about antiseptics. The “ experi-
enced ” fraud may be “ able to manage a baby ” (generally
by filling it up with narcotics), and even to cook, but
neither is of much use as a prophylactic against
septicaemia. If the allegedly “trained nurse” would
stick to her plain duty she would be useful, but, although
the thirst for domestic admiration—mostly male—renders
her dangerous, she is never quite so dangerous as the
average comparatively unclean person with the “ personal
experience.”
Now, as to fees. The ordinary nurse’s charge is certainly
too high. A guinea per week and help is ample, unless
the nurse possesses special qualifications as to invalid-
cookery, &c. The real nurse is free from airs, and will, if
need be, cook and sew. She is priceless—but very rare !
Having said which, present writer will seize his bag and
go off to perform an intricate and risky obstetric opera-
tion under chloroform for the usual fee of £3 3s. Would
that he were in glorious Israel 1
* * * •
“ A Parent in Sydney ” writes :
If “ A Father in Israel ” shifts his camp to our district
before the next new arrival the job can be fixed up safely
and comfortably for a fifth of the £5O he quotes. Our
doctor doesn’t get a 10-guinea fee ; he thanks his stars if
he can secure three plain notes on time-payment, and he
conscientiously attends his lodge-cases for one guinea,
with a shilling or two knocked off for cab-fare when the
happy father is too absent-minded to defray midnight
travelling expenses. So the new baby’s first month in an
ordinary middle-class suburb doesn’t cost its Scotch
parent more than £lO, all told ; and if an honest middle-
class man isn’t prepared to squander that amount on his
HIS GRIEVANCE.
WIFE: “My poor dead husband never,” do., &c.
HUSBAND (airily): “No! Decent sort of chap. Only did vie one bad turn that I remember .”
WIFE (indignantly): “He never did anything of the sort. Why, you didn’t know him ”
HUSBAND : “No matter. He died I"
A FINE COUNTRY.
HIS REVERENCE : “ Good evening,
Mick, how have you been yetting on
lately?”
MICK : “ Och, yer Riverence, I’m all right, but
I’ll be better this day month whin I git
me pinsion. It’s a fine country this! Ye
would be a long time in Owld Oireland
before 'you would git two quid a month jest
for being an owld mahn.”
new baby (doctoring, nursing, and clotmng included),
well, then, don’t have ’em. The “ chit of a girl ” learning
to nurse, at all events, knows how to keep her finger-
nails aseptic and clean—a state of toilet unknown to the
good, “old-fashioned midwife.” “A Father in Israel”
will have to find some other cause for the decreased birth-
rate. Let him advocate diminishing the death-rate by
better care of infants.
* * • *
The brewer who owns “tied” hotels
always insists that his enslaved publican shall buy
not only beer from him, but also wines and spirits,
and often cigars and aerated waters as well. As
regards the wineS and spirits, a merchant in that
way of business gave this significant item of evi-
dence before the N.S.W. “Tied’’-House Com-
mittee :
Several brewers bought quantities of low-grade liquors
from his firm. They only imported that quality to supply
brewers. So far as his experience went, the brewers
bought only the low grades of wines and spirits.
Pity that some tobacconists were not also called
to report as to whether they had to import a
specially infernal variety of penny cigar to supply
tied houses with. Anybody who has wasted his
substance on a cigar in the ordinary second-class
Sydney pub. would naturally assume that it was a
special horror, made for a special and nefarious
purpose that wouldn’t bear daylight inspection.
And these low-grade spirits, specially imported
for the “tied’’-hotel trade, are charged to the
luckless publican at quite the ordinary price,
or more than the ordinary price of good
spirits. No wonder it is difficult in the
Sydney suburbs to get a drink that doesn’t taste
as if doormats and dead men’s bones had been
soaked in it, or a cigar that doesn’t burn sideways
with a black knob like a lump of coal in the
centre, and go to rags before it is half-consumed.
Also some more “ tied ’’-hotel evidence as
to where the adulterated beer comes from :
Dennis Jones, licensee of the Prince Alfred Hotel,
William-street, said he entered his house at a price of
£5OO, and paid £l5O. His was a “ tied’’-house, and he
had been supplied with bad beer. In one week he had to
send back to the brewery four barrels. His trade had
suffered, especially since his prosecution for selling beer
containing salicylic acid.
The Chairman : Do you swear that you never put the
salicylic acid in the beer ?—I swear it on my oath.
You sold it just as it came from the brewery ?—Yes.
When the Customs officer was in my bar I challenged him
to come down into the cellar and test several barrels of
beer there that were unbroken, to see whether they also
had any salicylic acid in them. The Customs officer re-
fused to do that.
Witness said he went to the brewery and complained of
the quality of the beer, declaring that if he did not get a
better quality, he would have to buy other beer to save
his custom. The manager threatened that if witness did
that he would be dealt with. Witness then offered to
pay off his debt to the firm in 24 minutes if he was freed
from the bond. The manager was willing to take the
money, but refused to release him from the bond.
* • * *
Rumored that the shell of the Red Rover,
wrecked nearly 60 years ago, has been uncovered
by easterly gales on the Moruya coast. The news
should bring a thrill to Sydney hearts, for the Red
Rover carried to Port Jackson many a bouncing
convict lass who was fated to assist in the foun-
dation of a First Family—or eke a second or third
one.
* » • •
Deadly outrages committed by “pushes”
in Melbourne owe their origin to the in-
sanely-lenient view taken by magistrates towards
against the person, as distinct fiom
offences against property. North Melb. bench
recently fined one of the Crutchy Push 2s. Cd. for
hitting a passer-by in the mouth with a crutch,
and then a vagrant was fined 20s. or 14 days for
being found sleeping in an unoccupied house !
North Melb. bench is not open to the charge of
corruption as others are, but it is one of the very
worst for the administration of justice in Victoria.
“ Pushes ” will never be suppressed by an honorary
magistracy.
South Australian population figures for
1900, lately got together, are most gloomy, girths,
with one exception, are the fewest since ’77 ; the
birth-rate per 1000 the lowest, with one exception,
for 40 years. The “ illegitimate " birth-rate was
far the highest on record, more than doubling the
mean of a few years back. By move-
ments of population the State
lost nearly 500. The marriage
rate per 1000 has gone down
from 8-87 in 1882 to 6’37, which
is lower than that of any
other State or first class
European country; and,
except for Maori land
and France, the birth
rate is also the low-
est. Last year’s Wes-
tralian marriage-
rate (10'03 per
1000) put up, by
the way, what
must be almost
a record, though
Queensland
once showed a
marriage rate
of 13.51 per
1000 —unless
its statistics
were very
drunk in the
’6o’s.
«r •
When a
railway line
is opened
for traffic
beyond a
temporary
terminus,
prosperity,
or most of it,
passes out of
that town with
the locomotive. And
when the electric
trams travelled
George-st., Sydney,
to a dozen populous
western suburbs,
house values in
Elizabeth-st., Syd-
ney (for over 20
years the concen-
trated pathway of all
the steam trams), slum pi d
tremendously. The returns of one
leading hotel in Elizabeth-st. fell off 50 per cent.
The evil-minded female is not confined to
Australia. A girl, the other day, appeared at a
M.L. magistrate’s court with the old tale of out-
raged virtue. She was a domestic, and the burden
of her tale was that she was never previously inti-
mate with the man, but on the occasion complained
of he asked her to go into the orchard with him.
She did not do this, but he went first and she
followed, and “ was ruined.” The remarkable
feature of the girl’s statement was that “she was
sure it was him because she marked the date on
the almanac!” Case dismissed. But a young
woman of such business-like habits is quite lost as
a domestic servant. She should be a book-
canvasser or an egg-fancier, or something calcu-
lated to enlarge the mind.
* * * *
A trooper with a fancy name, hailing from
Mudgee (N.S.W.), writes from South Africa to
the newspaper of his native town :
We took five prisoners not long ago, and one of them
had a bandolier full of explosives. One of the chaps put
one in his rifle and blew the top of his head off with it,
and would have served the other four alike if he had not
been stopped. The proper thing, too. I reckon they
ought to shoot everyone they get hold of, and not take
them prisoners at all. We laid a trap for them in a
deserted town we came through. We shot four dead,
put three bullets through another, and left them there.
. . . By Jove ! the Boers are a dirty lot. You can always
tell when you are close to a house on account of all the
filth and stuff about. We are burning every house we
get near, and shoot all the ponies. My squad was out
running ponies in one day. We brought in 750 head, shot
every one of them in a yard behind a kaffir’s hut, and
left them there. I guess they would have a splendid
odor in a few days. . . . The only trouble out here is
scarcity of wood. If we don’t happen to strike a fence or
a house near camp we are “ goosed ” for a fire, and that
means no tea.
After a few months’ rioting among the “dirty
Boers ” in this way, what a charming citizen will
that cold-blooded ruffian and murder-apologist be
for Australia ! But as to the dirt of the Boers,
the same paper (same issue) prints this from
another trooper
I was very much surprised with the Boer farms, for,
from newspaper accounts I had read of the people, I
thought they were an ignorant, dirty race, but the sight
of their homes totally dispelled that idea, for, almost
without exception, they were scrupulously clean and
neat, and in many houses there was, either a piano or
organ, and books were to be found in every place.
* * • *
John Tolley, 67, old age pensioner, locked
up and fined at Armidale (N.S.W.) for drunken-
ness, was subsequently found to be suffering from
pneumonia, not drink, when arrested. He died ;
and the authorities express genteel regret at the
“ distressing blunder.” But that sort of blunder
never happens in regard to the £lOOO-a-vear
pensioner. His drink-torpor may be charitably
ascribed to illness, but never vice versa.
* * * *
Yet another muscular limb of the law in
Melbourne has been ordered to pay for the keep
of his casual infant. Young constables are not
encouraged to marry ; they have to be of a fine
stamp physically ; and the life has unreasonably
good opportunities of temptation. So, all things
considered, Bobby must have lots of luck, or he
would be publicly asked for maintenance much
more frequently.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
Street, SYDNEY.
SHIRT TAILORS
MERCERS HOSIERS
and GLOVERS
Ajpeoiality SHIRTS & COLLARS
Cut and Made by our EXPERT.
FIT GUARANTEED. PRICES MODERATE.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
515.. ,:j; '
t'n‘ J‘ h '
'I it ﬁt t
\L" h , A)
\‘ 1th.! ¥ ‘
\m
b." , L' Q
The New
Field Glass
For the Faces, <fcc.
Very powerful, as used by
Officers of the British Army
in South Africa. Easily
focussed by the patent
quick draw. j
Magnifying 5 times, 65s ; Aluminium, 84s.
Magnifying 6 times, 73s ; Aluminium, 85s.
In Solid Leather Sling Cases.
WOOD, “The Optician,”
Only address in N.S. IF.,
299 George-St., Sydney (opp. Hunter-St.)
and EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
Elizabeth St., Melbourne,
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses debts,
In peaceful eujcyment of
HOME CIGARETTES


Some Brisbaneites, parsons, Boodle-
wraithians, and others, evidently with an eye on
John Norton, ask that the sale of Sunday papers
(theoretically illegal there, as in Sydney) be
stopped. Melbourne took its John by the fore-
lock, and long ago specially legislated against
Sunday newspapers. It is said that Norton had
an idea of circumventing the law by establishing a
dairy and distributing Bpp. of objurgation,
nominally free, with the Sunday’s milk. The
cart would thus come round flowing with milk and
honey.
* * * *
If the Sunday sale of papers were for-
bidden, it would beahard knock to oneSydneyß.C.
journal which is regularly sold in the churches on
Sunday mornings.
• * * *
From “ a Man who is Afraid ” :
When Lyne was N.S.W. Premier he, “in the interests
of safety,” ordered the removal of the Norddeutscher-
Lloyd line from its berth at the Circular Quay, Sydney.
The week after the huge Liverpool White Star liners took
the vacant berth, and have stayed there ever since ! On
a recent, Saturday, about the time everyone was going
home for lunch, the North Sydney ferry-boats were
blocked for some time while a steam collier tried to get
alongside the Medic lying at the wharf. A Mosman boat
laden with passengers attempted to get round, when a
tug-boat towing a punt, laden with locomotive machinery
from the big steamer, suddenly shot out under the stern
of the collier. The ferry-boat had a miraculous escape.
As a remedy for this state of affairs it is proposed that
—all the Parramatta River and Lane Oove ferries shall
add their quota to the confusion of Circular Quay 1 If
the authorities are looking out for excitement, why not
also berth the warships in Sydney Cove ?
NASTY !
MRS. CLUCK: “My work is never done. My girls
grow out of their dresses so quickly.”
MISS RASP : “ Hereditary tendency , no doubt.”
A railway collision evidently strikes par-
ticipants differently. Some of those in the recent
Melb. shock lost their wits entirely and were so
unnerved as to utterly decline to go on or back in
the train, or even to ever use such a vehicle again.
Others had their wits so sharpened as to annex
any portable property they could lay their hands
on. Quite a number of passengers said they had
money, watches, eye-glasses, etc., jerked from
their persons by the sudden stoppage, but not a
solitary lost article was found. A well-known
dog-training “ professor” was tossed violently into
the stomach of a respectable person opposite, and
when he found equilibrium he was minus his
beautiful set of false teeth and a purse
containing £7 odd—and not a sign of either
article was to be found anywhere afterwards,
not even a solitary tooth. Of course it is
safe to assume that not nearly all the missing
properties were stolen. In almost every accident
there is to be found the prompt and business-like
female, who fills the air with screams for the
restoration of her diamond necklace or her Koh-i-
-noor ; and the seedy man, who is calling out
dismally for his roll of notes and his gold watch
with his monogram in diamonds. They do this in
the hope that the Department will pay for the
alleged lost property. In such cases the person
who yells first has the best chance. The person
who calls out two weeks after the accident is
seldom believed, but the one who calls imme-
diately inspires a certain amount of confidence.
* * * *
There is a growing tendency on the part
of people suffering from mental strain and worry
to shed their clothes. Nowadays when the active
and underpaid policeman finds himself compelled
to escort a lady to the watch-house he has to con-
stantly guard against sudden attempts, not to
escape but to undress. A gentle and inexperienced
constable was assisting a lady across a Sydney
park the other day to the nearest haven of rest,
when she suddenly wrenched herself free and ran,
and before he could recapture her the rounded
outlines of Venus di Woolloomooloo had nothing
on but one boot. In Dunedin (M.L.) a respect-
able woman, whose sons had all got into gaol,
became hysterical lately, rushed on to the railway-
line, and tearfully began to strip in front of an
approaching train. In Melbourne, last week, a
woman, whose husband had disparaged her cook-
iug, burst into tears, and before the startled
complainant could interfere, had rushed out and
deposited her draperies on the pavement. “A
man what had a wife what had a figger like that
ought to be grateful if he got no dinner at all,”
said one onlooker.
The returned Victorian cohentingenters are
still loudly complaining of the apathy of the
Government in not finding them billets. Let
Peacock treat them as Britain treated its
war-worn veterans a couple of centuries ago.
These wrecks were graciously permitted to beg at
street-corners without danger of being run in by
the police of those days. The kookaburra should
abolish the Vag. Act on behalf of the Yic. fire-
eaters, and allow them a similar privilege. The
warriors will then be enabled to see at what rate
Australians value their “services.” If this privi-
lege was good enough for the battered heroes of
Blenheim and Malplaquet, it should be good
enough for the five-bob swaddies who went to
S’Africa and were asked to help six soldiers to
jump on one farmer and his wife and children.
* * * *
A Gatton (Q.) deputation, mostly of O.’s
and Fitz.’s, has protested to Home Secretary
Foxton that the removal of a police-officer from
that grisly township was due to his having arrested
an influential Mason for alleged cattle-stealing.
The matter is to be further investigated, and
Gatton police will be once again under the lime-
light.
• * * *
Daily-paper news illustration is degenerat-
ing into foolishness. Sydney “ D.T.,” announcing
the wounding of M’Kinley, gave a huge bird’s-eye
view of the Buffalo Exhibition. As if that had
anything to do with the case.
Nearly 20 years ago Christchurch
(M.L.) City Council imported an elaborate
tram-hearse, to be used on an intended
branch-line to the cemetery. The public
wouldn’t use the thing, however, and t’other
day it was auctioned for £3, outlay on th e
scheme to date having been £717-... ,
. . * *' • '
A policeman with a delightful sense
of humor has come to light at S. Melb.
When an indignant resident growled that a
Eack of street-corner youths were in the
abit of interfering with his domestic peace,
the resourceful “ trap ” promptly went along
and arrested the resident’s own son for a start.
■* * * *
Re the discarded and discontented returned
cohentingenters, sundry Maoriland papers have
struck the idea of granting workless warriors
free space wherein to advertise for employ-
ment. The Bulletin commends this fact to the
notice of the Sydney and Melbourne dailies, but
hardly expects that their fervid “patriotism ” of
a couple of years back will now have enough life
left in it to follow the example. There’s no money
in the backwash of the war !
* * * *
The Methodist Conference, it is cabled,
informs the Anglican Bishop of London that
‘ there are great difficulties in the way of union
with the Anglican Church.” Perhaps the chief
difficulty is that no Wesleyan parson could ever
satisfactorily fill an Anglican pulpit; it takes
generations to attain the propah trim of whiskahs
—the well brought-up-old-maid air, which is the
big bulwark of the—haw—G. of E. priesthood.
The Melbourne University frauds get
bigger every day, and now reach something like
£20,000, all of which has been taken right under
the nose of official auditors, who seemingly
accepted the'word of the embezzler that all was
correct. The so-called University finance com-
mittee, composed of Supreme Court judges and
professors, seems to about reach the high-water-
mark of financial incompetence. It owns up
cheerfully and unreservedly that it knew nothing
whatever about finance generally, and University
finance in particular. For years it had simply
done what the embezzler told it to do with the
docility of a trained poodle. What is to be the
upshot of the frauds nobody can tell. Probably,
by the time all the revelations are out, ’Varsity
will have to close its doors as a seat of learning,
while the building is turned into a butter-factory!
* * * *
The York visit will cost Brisbane munici-
pality £7OOO. Out of this the celebration com-
mittee presented themselves with £57 worth of
medals. The committee, in fact, were celebrating
themselves, the little Duke being thrown in as a
side-show.
“Jerome Darnet” samples a
new creed :
Of the making: of religions, as of books,
there is truly no end. Recently I had for
fellow passenger on top of a ’bus a pros-
perous-looking, mild-mannered man who
wore his hair long and “ done up ” in
feminine fashion. On*top of it was a peculiar
half-mast sort of bell-topper. It occurred
to me that I had occasionally seen, in the
different Australian States, a few individuals
who affected the same style of hair-dress and
head-dress. After apologising for my in-
quisitiveness, I asked the reason of "these
peculiarities, and was courteously toid that my
informant, and the other persons I had
noticed, belonged to the Christian Israelite
Sect. This sect professes absolute belief in
the Christian religion, yet denies that the
Mosaic Law has been in any way abrogated by
the newer creed. Hence the abstention from
hair-clipping and shaving, the practice of cir-
cumcision, etc. In reply to a remark of
mine that so far as the Old Testament laws were
concerned the sect seemed more Jewish than
the Jews themselves, I was told that the
modern Jew had greatly fallen from
grace. The long-haired Israelite’s idea is
to so live as to be included in a certain
144,000 elect, whom it is stated,
“ somewhere in Revelations ” said my
friend, are to be translated alive,
somewhat after the manner of the
“chosen number” mentioned in A 1
Koran. There are 170 Christian Israel-
ites in Melbourne, but fewer in
Sydney. No person of great social
importance is numbered in the ranks,
the head clerk of a big Melbourne
timber-firm being their biggest gun in
this respect. Most members of the
sect practise vegetarianism in order
to obviate the necessity of eating
questionabty-prepared meats when
travelling. I was kindly invited to
attend the church of the sect (located
in Campbell-st.), and came to the con-
clusion that the Christian Israelites are a well-
meaning, clean and decent people, whose unob-
trusive attempt to solve the “riddle of the skies”
gives considerable satisfaction to themselves, and affects
a material economy in hair-cutting.
The fulsome flatterers of a live king or
jook are not more irritating to a people’s common
sense than some politicians who pretend to. voice
public sentiment re the assassination of Presi-
dent M'Kinley. The man-in-the-street squirms
over such nonsense as M‘Millan uttered in the
House of Reps, last week -“He said it was im-
possible to depict the feelings of the people of
Australia in their profoundest sympathy with the
millions of people of America who were now
grieving. Language was insufficient to depict
their feelings for the death of the late President.
But under the dark mantle of the cloud which had
fallen upon them there was a small gleam of light.
Such an act as this created the idea of a universal
brotherhood of man.” The fact is that the average
toiler for a living has no grief, or even sincere
regret, to spare for any but his own immediate
troubles. He has no real sympathy with the
orthodox official hysteria of grovel, gloomy or
gay. And he knows that the universal brother-
hood of man is no more advanced by the recent
despicable murder of President M’Kinley than it
was by the cowardly slaughter of Julius Caesar
two thousand years ago.
* * * »
Of all the outbursts of blather and bathos
elicited by President McKinley’s death—-as
“ messages of sympathy ” to the unfortunate U.S.
Consuls in the various States—the gem, so far,
hails from Ballarat, whose Mayor wired—“ The
flag flies at half-mast on our city hall. The hearts
of our citizens throb in sympathy as their tears
mingle with those of your bereaved nation.”
THE TEMPTATION OF EVE.
HIS NIBS : “ Nicee arpull? ”
The Adelaide national (cohentingenter)
memorial fund is already in a state of stagnation.
An art union, with shilling tickets, was suggested
to help it along, but the pious element on the com-
mittee stopped that, although it had been arranged
that the first prize should be the warriors’ tomb-
stone itself, the winner to have the honor of
handing it back to the nation ! The latest idea is
a street collection, which the members of the
ladies’ committee have volunteered to take up.
♦ • * *
If the charge against the young fellow
committed for trial in connection with a recent
N.S.W. back-country sensation is proved, it will
probably be found to be another case of tuppenny
awfuls.
ANOTHER MARTYR.
GEORGE: “ Say , Pally, people will think us a bit
mean if ice don’t go to that charity ball.”
POLLY: “ But, dear, I couldn’t think of leaving
baby!”
GEORGE: “No, that’s just what struck me. Look
here — it’s for a good cause! Suppose I go ?"
S.M. Herald publishes with thinly-veiled
approval (it says that “ many people ” agree with
its correspondent) a scream from one Osborne, of
Sydney Union Club, that murderers should be
kept in gaol some months before banging, and
lashed at frequent intervals. The Union Club has
been the home of some queer opinions. Wasn’t it
the Union Club which loyally declined to admit as
an honorary member barrister Aspinall, who
came from Melbourne to perform the treason-
able task of defending lunatic O’Farrell,
charged with wounding the Duke of Edin-
burgh ? It was a deputation formed very
largely of Union Club members, which prayed
Gov. Carrington to by all means stretch the necks
of the Mt. Rennie boys—and that ordinary Smith-
minded person lost the opportunity of a life-time
by failing to kick downstairs men who (instead of
recognising that his function was not to choke
people but to extend mercy wherever it could be
granted) put him in the position of hangman-in-
chief. Behind the classic pillars of the Union
likewise was hatched Reid’s famous Yes-No
Federal policy. But for mediaeval gruesomeness
and general lack of civilised instincts, this instal-
ment-flogging-and-hanging plan takes even a
Union Club record.
By the way, as Mr. Osborne (whoever he may
be) believes in torture, why doesn’t he propose to
do the thing thoroughly ? Flogging is no sort of a
punishment compared with the insertion of
splinters under the nails, or dropping boiling lead
into the nostrils. Besides what about'the rack, the
thumbscrew, the scavenger’s daughter and the
pitch-cap ? The Siamese trick of pinching the
abdominal skin with red-hot nippers is also a
handsome kind of punishment which the good old
Tories of the Union Club must surely have over-
looked.
* * * 9
S. Australian farmers, looking round for
draught stock for the coming harvest, find that
the army remount-man has left his mark behind
him. “Gunners” in the Adelaide market have
been selling at £4O, and medium draughts to £3O
—from 50 to 75 per cent, more than the prices of
two years back.
“ J.M.” to The Bulletin :
As a returned contingenter let me ask “ G.M.” who was
in charge of the Australian camp between Zwartkopies
and Pretoria when rifles were being fired at helmets to
make close-shave war-souvenirs. I belonged during the
campaign to an irregular corps, in which our officers
allowed us more liberties than any of the Australian
officers of regular corps, yet it would have meant certain
“clink” and probable court-martial for anyone firing off
a rifle in camp. And, in any case, few Australians have
any need to make bogus war-souvenirs.
The wharf-strikers at Albany, W.A., thus
appeal, per circular, to recent arrivals:—“Will
you join hands with ours, and strive for a white
man’s wage in a white man’s country ? Or will
you become the means of bringing upon this town
a calamity to be feared as men fear the plague ’
The name ‘ blackleg ’ will be branded upon you •
and you will be shunned as lepers are shunned.’
• • • Let not poverty detain you in semi-prisons.
Come ashore, and walk about as free men in a free
country. . . .” The squabble arose over a reduc-
tion of 3d. per ton in lumping rates. The old
price was Is. 6d., which, considering the Western
living-rate, and irregularity of work, is little
enough.
WHILE SANDS OF ETERNITY RUN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ilark ! A thrush, on a bough, thro’ the leaves
Lets float his round note to the dome
Of the world overhead. And the trees
Shed sweet scented tears on the loam.
The pale Moon is a maiden that loves,
And the sea sighs over the sand,
And the cote it is dumb of its doves,
And the wings of the world expand.
And my darling sleeps in the earth
In silence, awaiting the rain,
Which will bring her in sweet second birth
To me, as a lily, again.
And I, from my cypress-gloomed grave,
Will rise like a rose in the sun,
And will throw her my kisses, and wave
While sands of Eternity run.
N.S.W.
TROUVERE.
THE OLD COUCH.
It stands on the station verandah ;
It is crooked and leans to one side ;
In length it is just quite proper,
And it isn’t a bit too wide.
It has listened to many a love-tale,
Been weighted with numberless forms ,
Has creaked and baked in the sunlight,
And weathered the fiercest of storms;
It has learnt so much in its lifetime
That I am free to confess
It knows more or less than I do,
But I really don’t think that it’s less.
J.D.K.Z. GIN.
—♦
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16"5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
99
TheWhiskvof The Wise
The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOS. WHITELAW & GO.
WALL PAPER MERCHANTS.—
TELEPHONE 3768.
LONDON,
SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE
Artistic Wall Papers.
Latest Designs and Colorings.
Novel Ceilings in
Plaster Effects.
Absolutely Fireproof.
A Charming Assortment.
The full London and Continental Collection of the above Goods are now on view at the Firm’s
New Warehouse and Showrooms—39l GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
These Decorations comprise the most delightful Assortment ever shown in Australia. Invited.
Clients mil find our Art Goods are most inexpensive. Patterns forwarded on application.
Harper’s
Always Pure and Fresh.
Sold in 71b. Bags.
“STAR”
Oatmeal


A WOMANS LETTER.
Sydney, September 24, 1901.
My Dear Arini,—
Sun and sky and dust and flowers. The man
w h° invented weather ought to have a statue
erected to him—by the persons who write about
his invention. I shall evade sending my subscrip-
tion, though, for I’m not going to write anything
about weather, save to remark that, according to a
local doctor, our climate is peculiarly favorable to
the Asiatic cholera germ. So the germ and the
coming of the cricketers will be something to
which we may look forward. There must be a
dearth of topics all round, even in the spot from
whence Britannia rules the waves, for I note that
a big aristocratic Fog-town daily is running a
discussion—“ Have Nurses Flat Feet?” When
the Italian Opera co. and the Broughs are else-
where and the dogstar is here (not before) I shall
Eut a discussion or two on the market: “ Should
obsters be Pedicured or Manicured?” or “Do
Wasps Tight-lace?”
How impressive are often the last words of
great men—if we could be sure that the words
were really spoken by the dying great one: “I
wish I had one of Putnam’s meat-pies,” were
really the last words of the Duke of Wellington.
The sky-filling “Roll up the map of Europe”
was not uttered by the great man who is reputed
to have said it, but by one of his physicians.
And, look here, I won’t be sure that Putnam is the
correct name. Anyhow, it was the name of a man
whose meat-pies the Duke loved. Now, I don’t
intend the slightest irreverence, but the expiring
words of President M'Kinley had a singular
fineness and fitness. The going-out of his light
was a harmonious blend of the dramatic and
religious, and in this case there is no suspicion of
physicians’ or Reuter’s “ fake.” He was religious
by instinct —a lover of Whittier, of nature, and
the devoted husband of his always ailing wife.
They had been married 30 years, and their two
children died in infancy. In a King-street shop
there is a copy of a Buffalo Express of
September, 1880, announcing the death of
the murdered Garfield. “The President is dead.”
He was shot some months earlier, but lingered till
the same month in which President M'Kinley fell.
As one with a September birthday, I cannot help
noticing what a number of great or disastrous
events have occurred in this month. Battles,
shipwrecks, assassinations. People die, too, with
considerable eagerness in September. Awhile ago
I went for a stroll into that pretty little bush
cemetery at Chatswood, and the writing on the
first five headstones in my path proclaimed the
sleepers to be September-reaped.
The Women’s Franchise Bill is agAin checked.
Both Houses profess to desire its passing, but the
cunning Upper House pretends that it wants
women to be eligible to sit in both Houses
of Parliament. The same moth-eaten argu-
ments were advanced against the measure, but.
the feeblest of all was that the exercise of the
franchise will interfere with woman’s domestic
duties. Also, that she’ll have the friction of un-
desirable persons at the polling-booth. Even if
she had to “exercise” once a week, instead of
once in three years, what would it be compared
with golfing and visiting ? I know women whose
whole objective in this life is golf ; whose idea of
Heaven is first-class links. As for the undesirable
friction at the booths, I have watched crowds filing
into polling-booths and I never saw anyone half
so undesirableJoo&mp as the Musical Burglar with
the Polite American Eagle Co. now at the Palace.
He is an insanitary-seeming, versatile ruffian, and
you don’t know what rags are till you see his.
The dead-beats in the Domain are dressed for a
Governor’s levee beside the M.-B. The night I
was at the Palace I had the joy of hearing for the
first time (in the d.c. of a theatre) the phrase “ By
Cripes, but this is an awlright show ! ” accom-
panied by shouts of laughter. What called it
forth was the Tramp’s striking a match on
the nude marble figure that stands on the counter
of the stage bar. I wish Mr. Ambrose Pratt’s
friends would read “Quo Vadis” and get some
choice swears. “ By the white knees of the Graces ”
sounds ever so much better than “By Cripes.”
In one of the stage boxes was the Baronetess
Clarke and a couple of youthful escorts. The
Baronetess long-necked, long-faced, bediamonded,
with style all over her and a lovely theatre-coat
half off her.
She who plays the long, keyless Egyptian
trumpet at the Palace show is a most attractive
bit of womanhood. Such outline, such arms and
shoulders and Dana-Gibson head ! We’re always
being told that the American girl is fragile, and
Bret Harte writes of sickly American wifehood.
I haven’t yet seen one fragile American woman.
Nance O’Neil, Mrs. Clay Clements, Mrs. Van-
derveer Green, Madame Sapio, Maud Jeffries,
the Egyptian trumpet-girl—they are of heroic
build.
When Musgfbve’s opera co. was in Auckland,
the local Savage Club attended a performance of
“Carmen,” and felicitated Harry Musgrove, and
sent up a bouquet to the Carmen of the evening.
When told of the bouquet proposal a couple of
days before, M. said that similar marks of favor
from representative bodies to individual members
of the co. had caused heart-burning; to the residue.
He hinted that it could not be permitted. Whereat
the Savage retort was that, though Musgrove might
fairly claim to boss his own co., he had no control
over the Auckland public—at least while Seddon
was about—and that as the posy gew-gaw had cost
four or five guineas it was going to its destination,
even if it produced real murder in the third aot
instead of tne paste variety. Accordingly it was
handed up to Carmen (Madame Janson). But, to
prevent unnecessary laceration of artistic feelings,
it had previously been addressed to every possible
Carmen in the 00., the right address being affixed
only at the last moment.
In “La Traviata,” at Her Majesty’s, last week,
Madame Sapio was not at all at the top of her
physical condition. She had a touch of influenza.
In the first act, the Verdi-ized Lady of Camellias
wears a Paris gown of brocade, hand-painted, and
crepe de chine. Concerning Paris materials : Prof.
Warren, the engineering authority who had been
sent from Sydney to Europe to study steel
bridges, pumping gear, and such like, was
wandering through an annexe of Paris Exhibition
when he ran across Prof. Gurney. After the
“ fancy meeting you ” greeting the engineer’s first
question was “Have you seen Worth’s exhibit?”
Madame Sapio lost her purse, containing £l5, on
Saturday night, after leaving the theatre. It’s
very amusing to hear people wondering if the
American soprano can speak English. Dani, as
Alfred Germont, didn’t look his best in his three-
quarter brocade coat and black curls. The 26-
year-old tenor gets nearly as many love-letters
from unknown women as the late Charles Ryley,
but he has to take them to the co.’s interpreter to
read, so that rather discounts their charm and
adds to their idiocy. Signor Tondini has got
engaged to one of the chorus (Miss Crawford), a
Melb. girl, whose late father was high up in the
tramway service.
The playing of Madame Buhrow and Mr.
Davies in “Madame Cyprienne” was capital.
Madame was high up the dramatio hill in Vienna
before she married. Mr. Davies is a young solici-
tor, and used to play with the old University
Dramatic Club.
Manager Edwin Geach passed through Sydney
this week en route to Brisbane, in order to play
the parts of a pillar of cloud by day and fire by
night to the Arnold co. He will bring the Arnold
tribe to Sydney Criterion at Xmas.
A public school inspector, watching the physical-
drill items at last week’s annual public school
sports, said that since the introduction of these
■exercises he had noticed a great difference in the
growth and development of the children. Which
is satisfactory hearing. Six thousand children
entered for the different competitions, whilst four
thousand were in the various display events. It
was a splendid spectacular display, and Mr. D. C.
Hook (hon. sec.) deserved the cheers that were
given for him.
“ George Egerton, ” the rather tropical writer,
was married, the other day, for the third time.
She was born Dunne (in Melbourne), and married
first a Mr. Melville, then a Mr. Egerton Clair-
monte ; now she’s Mrs. Bright. Rather a good
record for a woman still under forty. Mrs. Bright
is a little, skinny, dark-eyed woman with a lot of
nice brown hair.
A legislator, whose friends think he’s mostly
dreams and torpid liver, introduced someone to
the Minister, saying, “This is Mrs. Blank, a
journalist of—of—with the best intentions ! ” The
little big man saw the unconscious (?) irony and
promised to put a sum on the estimates to pension
■off tactless legislators.
Lord Somebody’s jewels have been stolen, the
cable is telling us, from the Walsingham Hotel.
Which reminds me that a friend in London writes
to me of the Walsingham as an insignificant-
looking but very swell place. Rupert Clarke
stops there, in the flat his wife occupies when
she’s in London, said flat costing 15 guineas a day.
The late Mr. John Wagner, of the firm of
Robertson and Wagner, left estates in Vic. and
Q. valued at over £133,000. His eldest son, Mr.
Jack Wagner, who some years ago was Mr. J. H.
Want’s junior, is at present in Sydney. He was,
at the time of his father’s death, literary critic of
New York Sun, and will shortly return to his
work there. “Jack ” Wagner is one of the most
modest of men and society bores him as much
as squatting does. You’ll mostly see him with
musicians or music-lovers. His only unmarried
sister has just gone to England. “ Stonington,”
the Wagners’ house in Melb., will be the residence
of State-Governor Clarke.
“Governor Tennyson and his unassuming wife,”
writes an Adelaide friend, “are easily the most
popular couple S.A. Government House has yet
known. Lady Tennyson has now, after a year of
continuous hard work, practically carried through
a scheme for a maternity home for the poor, one
of the most-needed of local charitable schemes.
Absence of “ side ” is the chief trait of the Tenny-
sons, a quality which was not too characteristic of
their immediate predecessors.”
Curious thing how sculptors, male and female,
seem to have, at one time or another, the bust of a
bishop under their chisels. Bishops seem to like
busts—when done in marble. Miss Theodora
Cowan writes to her friends here that she has
just completed a bust of the Bishop of London
and is meeting with great encouragement. Our
local Arohbishops have been busted in marble or
modest plaster again and yet again.
A pasear through rooms filled with bronzes,
porcelains, buhl and marqueterie furniture. Chairs
and cabinets and vases that recall the time of the
freat Louis. You remember the room in Conan
)oyle’s “Tale of Two Continents,” in which
Madame de Maintenon and the King’s discarded
mistress had their ‘ ‘scrap. ” Well, to-day you could
almost furnish a replica of that room from Walter
Bradley’s auction mart. W hat artists have done
with rare woods, the tints they have given to rare
china, makes you think of the phrase, “dreams
in flower.” Among the bronzes, a splendid group,
the “Educationof Bacchus ” will hold you—as the
wine-cup does Bacchus. And there are two vases
of Austrian ware—poppies are they with the figure
of a sleeping woman in the heart. They are
poems—Swinbqrnish poems. Your pasear will
lead you upstairs to the picture-gallery, where
you will see some just-opened pictures. Four
exquisite miniatures by Fred Goff; a water-color,
“ Rough Weather, Boulogne Harbor,” by H.
Caffieri. This, and John Richardson’s “Cheshire
Lane,” and Sheridan Knowles’ “Phyllis is my
only Joy” were exhibited in this year’s Royal
Institute Exhibition of Water-colors.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ At the Findon Harriers’ meeting, last Satur-
day, the North wind blew a hurricane. The
descent from the drags at Moonee Valley course
was the laughable part of the show. Some of the
women, in flapping dust-coat sails and flying
gossamers, resembled draggle-tail kites touching
earth after a boisterous aerial voyage. Others,
minus the protective gossamer and tarpaulin
covering, looked worse, for their hats were askew,
their furbelows in strings, and their back-hair in
straggling ends. Two figures only arrived on
the wings of the wind in immaculate, speckless,
irreproachable attire —His Waxellency and the
Dowager ; the latter came, however, in a closed-up
carriage, letting her girls perch up aloft the ‘ Clive-
den ’ drag. She was the wonder of all; even the
caperish winds whirling over Moonee Valley
respected her person, and left her fine purple
inviolate. She was tricked forth in heliotrope
silk, wonderfully fashioned, perfectly fitting—the
one perfect figure of that buffeted and blown-to-
pieces feminine bevy. A tricky toque, that re-
called her son’s marriage-feast, rode through the
storm unharmed. The smiling hostess of Ruperts-
wood sported a familiar Paddy-green garb and
earrings to match. Sister Hilda held on to her
oilskin moorings with both hands, till her pinkish
face was the color of cochineal. Mrs. Charlie
Ryan, who is ready to die in the cause of chiffons,
presented the new straight-corseted kind of figure
in a check-tweed costume and an assertive what-
do-you-think-of-it toque in ink and paper tones.
Miss Muriel Miller wore a wilful runaway-shaped
hat topped with big blue bows. The Excellency
played her old trick by disappointing people at
the last moment.
“All the theatrical world that could spare the
time and the effort were at the meeting. Marie
Lloyd, louder in her black silken and blue
raiment and jewelled hangings than the dust-
fiend, signalled all eyes every time she moved;
her silk-arrayed companion jingled and frou-
froued in a similar way. Miss Wilson Barrett
looked at the crowd and the racing-track through
severe glasses, and under a hat whose vivid pink
garniture was at variance with a most serious
garb and air. Harrie Ireland’s burnished-gold
head was never far from the villain Steyn’s eye-
glass ; her biscuit coat, with Inverness sleeves,
was a staggerer.
“Wilson Barrett, as ‘Alfred of Engle-land,’
makes no attempt to be like anyone but himself.
Pe»-tmps he thinks that the Wilson Barrett
sufficient unto its owner, the great
‘ author-‘am c '»r-manager,’ as'he habitually calls
himself, more than fulfils the comparatively
modest requirements of Alfred. Does • the
Barrett fancy himself John Bull, Shakespeare,
Garrick, Nelson, Wellington, Franklin, Captain
Cook and Washington rolled into one? I ask
because of his new poster. It shows W.B. as a
beauteous youth, backgrounded by the two
World hemispheres and the flags of England,
America, and Australia. Grouped round Crea-
tion’s hero are the British lion, a grim polar-bear,
Uncle Sam’s eagle, the kangaroo, black swan, and
the mask of drama. In the Alfred play, dark-
haired Lillah M'Carthy, as a handsome Celtic
syren, indulges in various rich color-blends.
■Robes of warm yellow, embroidered with gold and
emeralds, are topped by an Oriental head-scarf of
vivid orange. Later, the same charmer brightens
the Danish camp in a kingfisher-like and beautiful
combination of pale-blue gown and gorgeous
purple cloak.
“For out-door conquest, Miss M‘Carthy still
pins her hopes to the large, innocent white hat
with the chastened feathers. They are not the
bold, hoydenish feathers, nor the dashing woman-
of-fashion feathers, nor the racy kind, nor the coy
kind ; but the innocent, stitched-down, kept-in-
their-place, demure order of plumage. When you
look at Miss M‘Carthy’s beseeching eyes and that
chaste characteristic hat, one of Marcus Stone’s
pictures comes before the mind, and you begin to
liken the lean and rather lovely languisher to
‘ The Peacemaker ’ —but only with the one ex-
pression and the one hat, mind 1
“ Edyth Latimer, a nicely brought-up |Saxon,
wedded to Alfred, shares his exile in the neat-
herd’s cottage, and volunteers to bake cakes for her
lord. You never saw such a poor turn of spec-
tacular cookery. Neophytes should take a lesson
from Mr. and Mrs. Bland Holt. It’s both a
pleasure and profit to watch their deft, convincing
treatment of stage steaks and pancakes. ‘ Queen
Alfred,’ on the contrary, provides a warning
to all amateur bakers. Curls dangle down
her back, she neglects to tie an apron over
her stuff dress and covers herself with flour.
When hubby comes home she prints both
her dear, doughy little hands on his russest vest,
and dandles baby with floury paws. As the result
of all this muddle and litter, she poses prettily
between finger and thumb a dough-pellet, big as a
hazel nut, which never gets as far as the griddle,
so that Alfred has to dine on kisses. As Alfred’s
Saxons must still have been pretty German in
their ways, I wonder that “Elsurtha” was such
a muff at cooking. Teutons of to-day are simplv
mad on that subject. Papa Barrett’s “Alfred”
is overfond of silver armour and white Lohengrin
plumes. Such a dandy king would scarcely have
made his mark in rough Saxon days. A bird which
soars high hasn’t much time for preening its
plumage.
“ Off the boards, Edyth Latimer has much more
to say than the dux of the school. And if Miss
L.’s lip only got rid of that scornful, or tearful, or
painful tilt at the left corner, she might be passing
pretty and dangerously animated.
“At Saturday’s ‘Nadjezda’ matinee Lillah
M‘Carthy and colleagues filled the manager’s box.
Lillah’s expressive face looks much the same off
the stage as on, but like predecessor Maud
Jeffries, her every-day coiffure and dress-methods
seem a shade careless and slap-dash. Edyth
Latimer rustled impressively to and fro m ear-
attracting silken underskirts. From opposite box
round-faced actor Manning looked on with a
friend. In the d.c., Alice Crawford sported the
wind-blown tresses, blouse-like bodice, and limp
muslin and lace collar, affected by Barrett leading
ladies, past, present and future.
“Edith Crane’s most successful ‘Nadjezda’
frock is a plain, well-fitting princess-robe of pale
fawn-cloth cut in a small square at the neck. Its
only trimming is a knot of brown chenille, with
long ends falling from the corsage. The play im-
proves with acquaintance. Principals Crane,
Power and Glover are not to blame for short-
comings, but I think the support is weak.
The young lover, nice as possible in pleas-
ant times, seems almost a stick, when he
should be a modern Ajax, vainly trying to
defy the lightnings of fate. Then there’s an
American girl, dragged in as relief to tragic
‘Nadine.’ Her impersonator, bright and cheeky
enough, is another stage neophyte, not pretty, and
handicapped by badly-cut frocks, all wrinkled
round the hips. Young men, who hate dismals,
can’t bring themselves to fall in love with her even
as a distraction from the general gloom.
“Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis haunts the circle at
‘Nadjezda.’ The disciple of tragedy brings her
most massive and portentous frowns to consider
the play and the actors. Those deep lines of
thought and concentrated study between her eye-
brows were etched in when the Tragic Muse first
won her dramatic affections; they give her, in
these mature days, a somewhat fierce and Gorgon
ook.
“ The ‘ Christian King ’ matinee on Wednesday
last had a bumper house. In one box Tyrone
Power sat, with Edith Crane and young
Hammond, who looked like a bank-clerk consider-
ably perturbed by the presence of play-actors.
Hammond, the hero of ‘Nadjezda,’ is such an
innocent. Tyrone looked as on villainy intent,
bending forward and watching every movement
on the stage, his shaggy black locks tumbling over
his heavy brow. Edith Crane’s hat was the target
for all eyes feminine. It was a strawberry-and-
cream creation, masses of lace foaming about the
crown, strawberry-pink roses blooming forth on
the further side. A tuft of lace, in true French
fashion, flourished at the back of the ruin, and
drooped towards the neck-slope.
“ Frances Ross grows more of the languishing
Lydia every day. Large, floppy picture-hats
crown her dark, neglige thatch. Skirts sweeping
the earth languish about her limbs. She gives the
feminine observer the impression of wearing no
petticoats. But she rustles in up-to-date fashion,
and her heel-taps make the common click-click of
all fashionables abreast of the times. Still,
Frances languishes in her walk and her talk, and
even in the very manner of giving her thrum to
the awed and admiring tram-conductor.
“The latest photos, of the Countess represent
her with a tweed cap, a tailor-made coat, and a
couple of poodles submitting to a petting. Her
predecessor was taken in exactly the same position
here. These sporting Excellencies are » great
salve to the Horstralian conscience.
“A Melb. widow faced the hymeneal rails,
t’other Saturday, in sky-blue silk, low-necked and
no-sleeved. An aigrette stood with an undaunted
air of aggression in her coiled masses of fair hair.
Four short-skirted sprites in buttercup-yellow
backed her up, whilst two rejected and dejected
lovers looked on with lack-lustre eyes at the other
fellow’s capture. Hitching-up was an evening
one, which is to say that all went with a r> extra
show of —er —complexion and chiffon.
“Ever the luck of children ! Among the pas-
sengers in the outgoing Melb. train that came to a
sudden stop—against another—t’other day, were a
husband and wife and their baby girl. The man
was severely bruised on the head, and his wife had
h"r teeth forced through her upper lip, besides
losing one or two, but baby’s sole annoyance was
in being woke-up so suddenly.
“A particularly sinful result of the rise in the
price of Melbourne butchers’-meat is a twopence
per lb. rise in the price of smoked fish. The fish-
supply could easily be doubled or trebled if neces-
sary, but the big dealers prefer to meet the largely-
increased demand with a slightly-increased supply
at “famine prices.”
“Italian warship officers are not given to dis-
tributing buttons to the social sirens of the harbors
they visit. Flowers, boxes of perfume, and rosary
beads are their usual souvenirs. The beads are
incentives to goodness or aids to picturesque
repentances.
“ A prominent State politician never wearies of
telling the story of his love and courtship. The
other day he repeated it over the walnuts to a
large and varied dinner-party : ‘ I never looked at
a woman, orthought of one, till I went to someopen-
air affair, and I was introduced to some ladies,
and sat next to one of them. I thought
a cigar would relieve the situation. I struck
a match. She blew it out. I struck another.
She blew that out. I struck the third, and said :
“ That’s never been done to me before ; if you do
it again I’ll kiss you.” She did—and I did.
That’s all. In a week we were fixed up.’ A
match of this sort, if made in Heaven, at any rate
had a brimstone-and-phosphorus tip.
“ Mr. Jenvey, the nice-looking champion of the
telephone Trilbies—so he constituted himself at a
recent Inquiry Board —is a bachelor, and one of
the politest officers in the service. The girls are
delighted at his championship. It is sweet to be
believed in. ‘The married men,’ they say now,
‘are brutes—they know too much.’
“ By the way, a Toorak matron, the other day,
gave a telephone tea; and everyone on earth
wants to know what that was. It was a mere
ringing up of all the guests in request on the
telephone. Impromptu, quite, and so cheap!
such a saving of stationery and stamps on the
part of hostess and guests. Economy rules the
day.
(Continued on page 1.)
|
I ~.'
The Charm of MARK FOY’S is the Price.
One of the keynotes of Mark Foy’s success is the working
up of the Men’s and Boys’ Outfitting Trade. '■■■
To young gentlemen in offices, students, apprentices, and others,
who wish to present a good appearance, we call special attention to
MARK FOY’S SMART SUITS FOR BUSINESS YOUTHS.
Every youth on entering his business career desires to be smartly
dressed, but the stern necessity of rigid economy with small
salaries necessitates care in spending the coin.
MARK FOY’S NAVY SERGE YOUTHS’ SUITS (Ready-Made)
but not what is known as slop-made. These are manufactured in
our own factory only, from
GUARANTEED PURE INDIGO DYED ALL-WOOL WORSTED SERGES
The cut, style, and finish of which are perfect, and the value is
unknown but at Mark Toy’s.
CNZKEZ HRS
. . . CELEBRATED . . .
PORT WINE.
Known in all parts of the world as
THE VERY BEST.
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT &
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
m
&
All Drapers Everywhere.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
j( Ex-Judge Martin (Maoriland), hero of the
Lord Ormont and his Aminta ” escapade, is now
flourishing exceedingly at the Auckland Bar.
Some tip Major Ferguson, Hampden’s
son-in-law, as next N.S.W. Governor. Ferguson
is rich but verra Scotch, and would teach us how
to save.
An actuarial investigation of the financial
position of the three Federal leaders—Barton,
Beid, and Watson—would put the Labor leader in
the best place.
“Snell”; I dreamt I saw Rudyard Kip-
ling in a poke-bonnet, with the British Empire
over his knee, alternately spanking and powder-
puffing the chubby infant.
Mrs. Coningham has written a book on
the eternal case ; whether it is going to be pub-
lished as a serial in the projected red-hot anti-
Rome Sydney weekly is not announced.
Barristers and budding barristers fill the
benohes of N.S.W. Assembly. When a member
will not admit he is studying for the Bar, the
House regards him with suspicion and curiosity.
Some of Gr. H. Reid’s particular cronies
among the N.S.W. Federal members have, to
save hotel fees, a little residential club in Mel-
keepe 6 ' res^ OVPr by a most charming house-
Sydney D.T. ’s favorite plan in its fight
with Crick is to publish all the Minister’s rough
interjections and worse than blunt remarks in the
.® u ® 6, H Crick does not keep a cooler head he
will find himself on the rocks.
St. Peter, to a newcomer at the gates
of Paradise : “Well, sir, what have you to say
about yourself?” The Newcomer : “I regret to
report St. Peter : “ Why, it’s Kitchener !
Come right in, General.”— Yankee.
Pursey Chirnside, according to the Age,
“ was standing near some machinery at Melb.
Agricultural Show when a passing steam-roller
crushed him against a threshing-machine.” Pursey
is too smart to be run over by a church, anyway.
Died at North Sydney recently, the widow
of old Deputy-Master of the Mint Hunt, a local
official of long and useful record. The Mint Hunt
was closely related to Leigh Hunt, and had
himself a pretty taste in “ chaste ” English.
The heart of S. Australia’s fine, robust
Judge Boucaut, who will be 70 next month, turns
more and more towards the country and high-class
horse-breeding, to which he has for years given his
leisure. He has just added three more fine im-
ported Arabs to his stud.
Apropos of the fact that, on two days re-
cently, 15 persons were fined for expectorating on
the Sydney footways. What about the high poli-
tical magnate who has a chronic habit of “ spitting
through his teeth,” all over the floor of N.S.W.
Leg. Assembly ?
Sydneyites will be interested to hear that
that clever decorative artist, the wife of Dr. Felix
Roth, has been divorced by her husband in
England, and that there was no need to worry
over the custody of the lady’s only child as he was
21. The man in the question was one Penstone,
an artist whose name was once familiar in Sydney.
A CASE OF EMBEZZLEMENT.
LARGE PARENT: “ What! Got the sack, have you? And for why?”
SMALL AND ILL USED SON (late chemist’s assistant): “ Please , mum, it
was only jest fer suckin’ off the lolly off ther pills.”
William George Cassidy, who died last
week, was for many years caterer to N.S.W. Par-
liament, and “uncle” to its needy members,
Cassidy made much money out of sandwiches and
small loans, and was wont to cut quite a dash in
fashionable holiday resorts when Parliament was
out or season.
A visit was paid last week to Parramatta
by Mr. A. Batman Weire. There, in 1800, was
born his grandfather, John Batman, one of the
founders of Melbourne. Mr. A. Batman Weire is
an official of the Vic. Old Age Pension depart-
ment, and in his duties encounters many Aus-
tfajian pioneers.
Jf <3 w Chief-Justice and Lieut.-Governor
Darley, who has just completed his 71st year, is
about to take a year’s holiday in Europe. Still
hale and hearty, his Honor has no present inten-
tion he says, of finally doffing harness. Which
news puts out of joint the noses of several
expectant people.
Coincidence : Alexander, a penal official
m early Botany Bay, always claimed to be right-
ful heir to the earldom of Stirling. Dillon, the
reported Labor candidate for Dalby (Q.), is said
to be trying to prove his claim to the earldom of
Roscommon. Bell, sitting member for Dalby, is
Alexander s grandson.
It took Mr. Samuel Hordern just 10 hours
p,* 1 ® t,le vouchers necessary to collect tlie
±..500,000 or so of insurance on liis Sydney Hav-
market buildings and stock. Altogether he had
to sign his name 1700 times. The claim is a
record one for Australia. Having collected it,
Mr. Hordern still holds £750,000 in fire-policies.
Strange that the initials of the principal
Catholic in S.A. Assembly—Lands Minister Larry
O Loughhn should be L.O.L. The coincidence
is not much noticed in Adelaide, as the bellow Pup
does not flourish in that city. Indeed as a sign
of peace and amity R.C. Archbishop O’Reilly
wears both a yellow and a green ribbon on St.
Patrick s day.
In 1894 Arthur Gralton filed his agree-
ment with Dibbs; £l5OO a year for three years
and on his merits for the next three years, were
Ins terms for N.S.W. History from the Records,
lhe agreement was squashed by Reid, and now
Rev. Mr. Gal.ton writes that for the last ten
years he gave his mind solely to religion.
They tell of a legal luminary down South,
who marched into the drawing-room, where com-
pany was being entertained with music, and
deliberately bashed the piano to ruins with an axe.
Asked why, he calmly replied : “ Well, I couldn’t
kill the girl, could I? ” Then he returned to his
study, followed by the sympathy of all right-
thinking people.
“E.K.,” re Bulletin par. 15/9/’Ol, as to
cure of a jockey’s damaged spine: “The late
William levers, M.P. (Carlton, Vic.) hurt hie
spine in a boat-accident and was given up as a
hopeless case. When in Melb. hospital he jumped
out of a second-storey window on a wardsman
below. Cured his spine, but nearly killed the
wardsman.” The latter is so like an M.P.
The late Dr. Wright, of Wynyard Square,
Sydney, was not, as stated in the press, »the
oldest medico practising in Sydney. Dr. Crooke,
of Bourke-street, Woolloomooloo, qualified in
1838 and, now almost 90 years of age, is still to
the front. Dr. Bowker, M.L.C., started in the
same year, and Dr. Bassett, of Bathurst (1849),
and several others date professionally from the
forties.
One of the victims of the recent lamp-
explosion in a Melbourne suburban temple of
Venus was, a few years back, one of the beauties
of a very popular comic opera, and the possessor
of a reputation that won her a wealthy husband,
whom the world deemed a lucky man. Like most
of the oldest profession in the world, she changed
her name on assuming her vocation, and, also like
many of them, her last thoughts when dying in
Melbourne hospital were about the child she had
borne when a virtuous wife.
Kingston continues to boss the Customs
dept, with the firmness of a Czar. A few days ago
he received word that aTreasury officer was inspect-
ing the different departments, and would be at
the Customs in a day or two. Charley seized the
telephone and demanded to be switched on to the
Treasurer. “Is that Turner?” he demanded
with a transmitter - fracturing roar. “Yes,”
replied the Treasurer. “Then,” continued
Kingston, “if that man of yours comes along
fooling about this department we’ll chuck him
into the Yarra ! ”
The perennial
W. R. Merry, of
Geelong, who has
been suing Victorian
Governments, Rail-
way Commissioners
and Boards of Land
and Works for almost
half a century, is
once more on the
warpath. His claims
have at times run
into millions, but the
present matter is a
mere trifle of £77,420
—£27,000 work and
labor done under
contract when build-
ing the Geelong-Bal-
larat line, and
£50,420 interest at
10 per cent, for 31
years. There is a
large discrepancy
here somewhere, but
that is how the state-
ment of claim puts
it—and in any case
it matters little, as
all Merry is likely to
get out of the action
is a robust bill of
costs.
Fastest talkers
now in Vic. Assem-
bly : Prendergast,
Peacock, Duggan. Wordiest: Shiels and Reay.
Loudest : Warde and Peacock. Closest rea-
soners : Trenwith and M'Kenzie. Least co-
herent : Maloney and MTnerney.
There wasa merry millon board the steamer
which brought a more or less prominent political
personage back to Sydney t’other day. Feeling
combative, and having no other safe vent for his
pugnacity, the politician tackled a dead sheep
which was hanging in the cook’s galley. The car-
case was battered long and furiously. The humor
of the incident developed when the sheep swung
off its hook and gave the personage a dreadful
black eye. Even a dead sheep turns sometimes.
Asked if he thought Christianity had been
“played out,” “General” Booth retorted, “it has
never been played in.” Butsurely Booth has “played
it up ” for all that it is worth. Apropos , Booth in
his old age dodders and takes his Moses-ship very
seriously. During the cantankerous old theocrat’s
last Australian visit hosts who entertained him
PUGILISTIC LOOKING PARTY (re-
fer ring to sign): “ That ought to be a good
'scrap,’ Bill.”
were not allowed to talk directly to the Apostle
of the Big Drum; he had to be approached
through his secretary.
One Yic. Legislative Councillor neither
reads nor writes, and takes most scrupulous care
to cover up these deficiencies, although they are
well-known to his brother Fatmen. The spectacle
of the statesman in question gravely pretending to
read Parliamentary documents is one of the most
entertaining of Upper ’Ouse shams. On railway
journeys he carries enough newspaper literature
to stock a bookstall.
Wire from Brisbane :
The library of the late Mr. James Tyson was sold by
auction to-day. There was a good attendance, and
bidding was brisk, the sale realising over £3O.
Over £3O ! How much over ? A life of almost
80 years, with the resources of a millionaire, must
have left at least an additional half-crown’s worth
of books. If so, Jimmy should reap the specific
credit. Give him the half-crown.
Tommy Walker, ex-M.L.A., and Hugh
Mahon, now M.H.R., who have devoted them-
selves to the brightening up of Westralia, were
both once connected with the Sydney press.
Tommy worked all round, producing “pomes,”
“tragedies,” and “novels”; Mahon sat in Syd-
ney Parliament gallery, and as each duffer legisla-
tor arose cursed audibly as he chronicled.
Thus rudely Chief Jeerer Madden (Vic.)
on hearing evidence that a “young person”
wished to become a governess :
That is the intention of all of them. The world is in-
fested with women who want to be governesses, chiefly
with the object of seeming to be more respectable than
they are.
Now His Wax (who came from the ranks) is him-
self a past-master in the art of Seeming More
Respectable Than He Is.
Obit. : Mr. George Colquhoun, N.S.W.
Crown Solicitor, aged 72 years. He was admitted
to practice in July, 1855, and had very few seniors
in the “lower branch” of the legal profession.
Mr. Colquhoun, an able and well-educated man,
had a stirring experience of the roaring goldfields
days, and once successfully defended bushranger
Ben Hall on a charge of cattle stealing. As a
civil servant, he kept a remarkably stiff upper-lip
and, in consequence, fell out with various
prominent politicians.
Told of a pertinacious Melb. pressman
who endeavoured to interview Bill Lyne recently,
when the Minister was squirming in the agonies
of rheumatiz. Twice the scribbler sent up his
card, and twice he was told that Long Bill could
not be seen under any circumstances. “ Tell the
Minister,” said the P.M.P., “ that I must see him,
if only for five minutes.” The long-suffering
waiter went back for the third time, and returned
bearing a card and a 3in. grin. On the card was
the simple legend—“ Go to H 1! ”
Brisbane Street :
Meagher, Crick, and Norton illustrate the permutation
of combinations. Each new phase represents a fight to
gaol or death. At the close of the George Dean poisoning-
case it was Crick and Meagher indicated, with John
Norton the bosom friend of both. Next, we had Crick
acquitted, Meagher convicted, and Norton, the friend of
Meagher and sworn foe of Crick. Next, we had Norton
and Meagher in open fight with revolver and sticks in
Sydney streets. Next, Crick and Norton chums, and
Meagher the outcast. Next, Crick and Norton foes, and
Meagher hovering around. Now Crick and Meagher are
friends, and Norton is Ishmael. Meagher supports Crick
in Parliament, Crick invites Meagher to a seat on the
Ooningham select committee inquiry, and Norton’s name
is scored off the list.
English papers resurrect
W. T. Carter, ex-M.L.A. for
Williamstown, Vic. ; this time
with “an invention for propel-
ling ships” under his arm. Car-
ter has “submitted it to Lord
Kelvin, and the verdict is so
favorable that he has had sub-
stantial offers for an interest.”
A remarkable man is Carter.
A Methodist parson in S. Aus.,
he turned up in Vic. because
there was more scope for a man
with nothing to do, fought Wil-
liamstown on a credit balance of
ss. 3d., and won it; invented a
torpedo, got enough support to
send him to England, and for
some time past has been figuring
as a naval expert.
Receiitly-deceaseq Sydney
sportsman, W. Forrester, better
known as “Black Bill,” was, in
his oarly days, an athlete of
mark, and for some time held the
100yds. record (lOAsecs.). He
was clever with nis Lands, too—
albeit, like most good men, slow
to resent mere insolence. When
no longer able to “stand off”
somebody who was looking for
gore, he had a knack of grabbing
his assailant by the muscles of
the neck and giving them a
twist that generally kept the
subject's head canted backwards
for a week or so. This was known
as “Forrester’s wrench,” and ns
man was ever known to court a second
application thereof.
Pd. Bulletin. —With regard tu ‘‘Lake
Amadeus ” and a few other places supposed to
have been named by the late Ernest Giles, his
original names were quite different. His inap
was, before publication, handed to the late Baron
Von Mueller, who substituted “ Amadeus ” for
Giles’ name, which, I think, was “Lake Despera-
tion.” “ Mt. Olga” was at first “ Mt. Un-
approachable,” and “ Mt. Liebig” was named
after your humble servant, whose hope of being
thus immortalised was ruthlessly swept away by
the botanist Baron in favor of the bull-broth
Baron.—Soak.
In M'Lean, the Christchurch triple mur-
derer, “Tom” Long (Maoriland’s Government
man-butcher) dispatched his 18th victim. Long
lives with the Maoris at Kawangaroa Pah—the
abode of the late Harry Laing, Maori pugilist—
some eight miles from Wanganui. He receives
£25 per job, and spends his blood-money in
‘ ‘ setting them up ” for ghoulisbly-inclined
acquaintances, to whom he discourses on his grue-
some performances. His money gone, he dis-
appears until again officially required.
The late Queen was undoubtedly (writes
The Bulletin’s London correspondent) a “ dear
old sentimental creature.” The spacious room in
which her favorite personal attendant, John
Brown, died was, by H.M.’s order, hermetically
sealed for 18 years. His dates, his virtues, and
his deeds, inscribed on brass, ornamented the wall,
but—the old order giveth way to the new King.
To-day the room, re-decorated, &c., reverberates
to the click of the ivories : J.B.’s death-chamber
is now No. 2 billiard-room of Windsor Castle,
The Coronation-oath controversy is an-
swerable for much verbal violence. Bishop Doyle
(B-.C.) thus flares at his brother shepherd :
The paragraph in the Archdeacon’s letter which says
“ Bishop Doyle, by hi 3 vows owes civil allegiance to the
Pope.” Any person making such a preposterous state-
ment must be either hopelessly ignorant or viciously
malicious. For, if Archdeacon Moxon, or anyone else,
says that I, Jeremiah Joseph Doyle, Bishop of Lismore,
have vowed or sworn civil allegiance to the'Pope, he is a
liar, and the truth is not in him.
So far, nobody has been “ bound over.” They
keep anything but the peace on the North Coast.
John Madden, the heroic Ballarat miner—
who, after being blinded in an explosion some
months ago at the Star of the East, climbed up
the interminable ladders of the mine to get help
for a dying mate —has, after rather paltry assist-
ance from the Miners’ Association, had his case
taken up by the Ballarat East C«incil, which is
endeavouring to get the A.M.A. pittance in-
creased and to start a public subscription to obtain
enough to support the brave man in reasonable
comfort for the rest of his days.
In his public life 'the late J. P. Abbott,
long-time Speaker of N.S.W. Assembly, went on
the don’t-care-a-hang-for-you principle. When he
stood first for Gunnedah his address was, in effect,
“I’ll condescend to represent you if you like, but
I’d just as soon not.” Afterwards the same plan
worked at Wentworth, and he persisted in it right
through ; he rarely visited the district even at
election time. Same in the Convention election;
he did not make one speech in support of his
candidature. But that was on the surface; the
under-currents were working hard enough. What
made him so “solid” with his Western con-
stituents was that he was prompt and punctilious
in answering correspondence.
Printed that Father Bernard Russell,
a R.C. priest, has been received into the
Anglican Church at St. Paul’s Cathedral,
London. Quite lately, Father “Bernard,”
whose secular name is “William Charles,”
was officiating in Tasmania. He was a typical
giddy little curate, who wore a sac coat
and glasses, and once sang “Fiddle and I,”- with
great effect, at a R.C. concert, in Hobart Town
Hall. He had come out to Tasmania for his
health, which was delicate, and Archbishop
Murphy sent him up to Latrobe, as curate to -
Archdeacon Noone. Little Russell was an Eng-
lish ’vert from Anglicanism ; so he has just gone
back; that’s all.
Citizens’Cifeflssurance Company [imited.
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
POLICIES IKT FORCE EXCEED 216,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Absolute Security. Annual Bonuses.
Moore and Castlereayh Streets,
Sydney.
Resident Secretary,
W. J. BLOOMFIELD, 8.A., LL.B.
| FACILE PRINCEPsH | SEMPER IDEM. |
BUCHANAN WHISKY
BLACK and WHITE.
Lightest Wines in Australia
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York.


Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— ln the case of ethnological and
natural history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
Segenhoe, near Scone (N.S.W.), a station,
in its way one of the historic spots of Australia,
anil probably the first settlement on the Hunter
River, was recently cut up and sold by auction.
It was abandoned in the old convict days; and
when, later, a party of pioneers came across it,
the only living thing on it, beside cattle, was an
old convict servant, who was a jabbering imbecile
and could give no coherent story. Many queer
yarns are told of -Segenhoe. It has a fortress-like
homestead, guarded by cannon of ancient type.
The old triangle, where the convicts were
flogged, is still standing. Another relic is a
marble bath, which, the legend says, was
filled with milk every morning by convict
servants (a special herd erf cattle being kept
for the purpose), and in this the squatter’s wife
took her morning dip, the milk being afterwards
served out to the convicts. Her ladyship is said
to have been wondrously beautiful, though not
particularly chaste, and later became a reigning
beauty in London. A little Segenhoe history was
once published, but was suppressed. It is said,
however, that many interesting documents re-
lating to Segenhoe incidents of 100 years ago are
in possession of a N.S.W. solicitor, and may some
day see the light.
• » * *
‘‘ The finest and rarest collection of Maori
relics” (writes The Bulletin’s London corres-
pondent) “ in or out of Maoriland is in the posses-
sion of Major-General Robley—good name !
who fought to some purpose in the native wars of
Seddonia. No museum in M.L. nor the pick of
all the museums can compete against the British
soldier’s ‘little lot.’ His twenty or so smoke-
praserved heads of Maori chiefs and children are
superb—in the expert antiquarian’s eyes. To the
man-in-the-street—with their eyelids stitched to-
gether, the nqstrils plugged with iridescent halio-
tus shell, and the facial skin hidden beneath
scrolls of perfect tattooing, while the clenohed
teeth grin between the dried, drawn-apart lips,
they are, bunched in their cupboard shelves,
‘devilish scaring.’ (Somebody should tell The
Bulletin readers something of ‘ moko.’) With
these hi.ieousities are greenstones, carved boxes,
weapons, &c., &c., that should never have been
allowed to leave their island home. Recently a
wealthy Austral offered £4OOO odd for the collec-
tion, .and the offer was accepted on condition
that it did not leave England. The Austral
swore and the deal was off. Perhaps King
Seddon, however, can win these treasures back to
their homeland.” Why not send a contingent to
take them ?
• » * *
The Holy S. A us. police have just decided
that weight-guessing competitions at fat-stock
shows are illegal! And this in spite of the ’fact
that, so far as many of the competitors are con-
cerned, it isn’t mere guessing at all, but a solid
test of a man’s ability to do what every grazier,
stock-dealer and butcher ought to be able to do.
Whether the courts will support the rev. police
is not at all certain.
* * • *
Probably the best-known man on western
N.S.W. rivers, John Egge, died this month. Of
his something over 70 years, 40 had been spent
trading on the Murray and Darling. He was the
Quong Tart of the outback, without the Sydney-
ite’s propensity for making speeches. After Egge
had been trading on the river for yearn, and had
established himself in a pretty big business, the
S.A. Govt, woke up and demanded poll-tax from
him. He paid, of course ; but the amount was
quickly made up by a shilling subscription in
Adelaide and offered to the old man, who, how-
ever, passed it on to a charity. He leaves a
name which thousands of men with whiter skins
might well be glad of.
According to an editorial “reply” in an
English country-paper, the P. and O. steamers
run to Australia, “ whence ferry-boats ply to New
Zealand every quarter of an hour.”
POINT OF VIEW.
OUTBACK BARBER (to shearer whom he has just
shaved): “How did yer like it? Not too
bad, eh?”
SHEARER : “ Well, if yer thought yer was SKIN-
NIN’ me it wustn’t bad at all. But if yer
meant ter shave me ” (Departs for lack
of suitable expletives.)
A Yic. clergyman was holding forth to his
flock, on a recent pre-election Sabbath
morning, urging them to choose a man
of sterling worth and irreproachable
oharacter as their Parliamentary 're-
presentative. As if to emphasise
the good man’s appeal, obviously
made on behalf of a certain
goody-goody candidate, a fine
Newfoundland dog, owned by
a local publican who had a
reputation for Sunday-trading,
strolled in from the street,
carrying in its mouth a
man’s hat of a peculiar shape,
affected by the goody-goody
candidate aforementioned.
The dog marched up the aisle,
climbed on to the platform,
walked round the pulpit,
gracefully saluted it in
the usual doggy man-
ner, “scratched
gravel,” then sat down
facing the audience,
and exhibiting the
crown of the hat,
whereon was chalked,
“Vote for Goody-Goody
and Sunday beer.” There was
, half-a-minute of strained silence,
during which the dog seemed to
have caught the echo of a far-off whistle
for he? pricked up his ears and trotted amiably
i C Jc j°- w^ence h 0 came. The congregation
stuffed its handkerchief into its mouth, and the
service was hurriedly closed, even the singing of
the dog’s-htoliday being dispensed with.
* * * •
The West has developed a new pest for its
flocks in | the common fish-hawk. The hawk’s
specialty lies in ripping up the loins of young
lambs and tearing out their kidneys. On some
stations the lambs are killed in scores.
Quite a feature of Port Augusta
(S.A.)inthe old days was a black
sheep named “King Billy.” He
was used as a decoy to lead mobs of
sheep on board vessels, and when his
woolly friends were safely bestowed,
he would march off the boat and up
street to a friendly publican, who
would fill him up with beer till he
was gloriously drunk. His subse-
quent antics in the back-yard were
the joy of all beholders. He would
sleep off theeffectslike any Christian,
and, when he awoke in his right
frame of mind, would walk home
as decorously as a churchwarden.
• * *
“Rep.,” concerning bush
hops: Was recently at one when
the M.C. made himself scarce with
his girl. Another son of the soil
undertook to officiate, but soon the
original M.C. turned up and insisted
on doing battle with his successor. A
ring was formed in the room, and the two
gladiators had a lively five minutes, to be
joined presently by their respective donahs,
who took part in the fray to the apparent
delight of all spectators. The original
M.C. and his partner came off vic-
torious, and the discomfited couple
were “fired.”
» * *
“ Hobbles ” : Be sending Aus-
tralian missionaries to China. Last year,
while harvesting in N.S.W., I became
aware of a hideous familiarity between
brother and sister, and directed their tather’a
attention to it. The old man, on taxing
the son with being responsible for the
then-evident trouble, was coolly
answered : “Oh, well, you needn’t
get on your ear over it ! If
anything does happen, I oan
Hanky well marry her ! ”
Signboard over a butcher’s shop
in an Australian metropolitan suburb :
General Undertaker. Builder and Contractor.
Embalming—New Process. Painter and Paperhanger.
Estimates given for general repairs.
* * * *
“ Gnome ” : At the White Rock mine,
Drake, the main-shaft (abandoned) is down
280 ft., and is “driven” in every direction —there
being about a mile of drives altogether—and the
shaft is full to the brim with water. Well, for
the last four years, every day about ten minutes
to 1 p.m. (time never varies more than two minutes
either way), there is a report like the long rumb-
ling b-r-r oom of a distant explosion sounding
away down in the drives under the water. There
is not, however, the slightest disturbance of the
water-surface; not even a bubble can be seen
rising, although people have watched for an hour
before and after the report. Can any reader
throw a glimmer ?
MORE FOR HIS
MONEY.
PARSON : “I'm surprised
at Jim spending his hard-
earned cheque in this hole.”
MATE : “ That's wot I bin
tellin’ him. ‘Go,’ says I,
‘to some place where you gets four long beers
fer yer bob.’”
The passing of the ’posst>m ! In the 10
weeks ended mid-September, two men in the
Manilla (N.S. W.) district snared 3560 ’possums !
* • * *
“ Hannibal ” : The saying “ I’ll chance it,
as Oakes did his oath ” refers to one Oakes, a
Parramatta celebrity, who, tradition tells, was
prosecuting a man for cattle-lifting. Evidence
showed that prisoner had a pair of horns in his
possession, and Oakes, asked if he could swear
that the horns belonged to any beast of his, hesi-
tated for a space—then suddenly burst out :
“ Well, I’ll chance it! Yes ! ”
* * * *
Bill and Jim, on the west coast of Tas-
mania, found a native tiger,” and Jim took it to
Zeehan on spec, while Bill went on with the job—
splitting. Jim was to wire up the result, and this
was the wire : “ Blued-up all the gonce. Sell the
maul and wedges. Hyena dead. n
MINE MANAGERS REPORT.
“ The workings are very wet, but thank good-
ness, I can now cope with the water-difficulty.”
“ Joe ” to The Bulletin :
Who is looking after the Shearers’ Accommodation Bill
in N.S.W. Assembly? Years ago, that Bill was demanded
—that is to say, a Bill with the same name, and meant to
cover what the words denote. But the Govt.’s scheme
looks like the invention of an enemy, who foresaw some
democrat coming along with a good measure, and winked
to his associates. It goes whelly to machinery-provisions.
Nothing is legislated. The Governor-in-Council may name
districts, may name boards, may name times for applying
this regulation and that—or may go to sleep and not name
anything. No shearing-shed outside districts named by
the Governor-in-Council comes under the Bill. Where
less than six shearers are employed the Bill is not to-apply
at all, whether the Governor-in-Coungil names anything
or anybody or not. It is a solemn fact that this Bill may
pass without making the accommodation of any one
shearer a penn’orth the better. What is the good of it
all?
• * * •
“ 8.R.” : Re “ Safa’s ” fear (8., 14/9/’01)
that Australia will have to fall back on bear and
’possum. In this town (Junee) we live largely on
rabbits, because, although we are in the centre of
a pastoral district, beef and mutton are “off.”
Also —leaving aside the professional rabbiter —
scores of cookies about here have been making £2
to £3 per week trapping rabbits during the winter
months, and about a quarter-of-a-million pairs
have been sent from here during the last four
months. The people who say that rabbits should
be infected with a contagious disease should be
lynched as enemies of the State. Crick’s legisla-
tion and trapping will keep bunny in sufficient
check.
* * * •
“ Scotty the Wrinkler ” : “A padclymelon
was shot at Combanning homestead recently,
close to the fowl-yard, having a turkey
egg in its pouch ! The shootist is only a
boy, but his chum was with him, and
both know the nature of an oath.”
This story should conclude with an
assurance, based on Mrs. Campbell
Praed’s authority, that the paddymelon
is really a fruit.
* * * •
In Wilcannia t’other day a swaggie pub
down his bluey in front of a pub., went
down on his knees,.,clasped his hands fer-
vently together, and cried out several times
“In vain—in vain!” At length a smarty
asked him what was in vain. “Why, ‘v’
you fools ! ” said the swaggie, shouldering his
bluey.
“Trotter”: In drought-stricken C.Q.,
t’other day, I struck a selector’s humpy; had
with me a sorry, half-starved moke : asked for a
camp. “Well, mister,” was the reply, “I must
charge you a shilling a time; the drought has
ruined me.” He did, too. Flapjack for tea, and
a camp on the hard floor, swarming with fleas.
* * * *
“Vril”: Should no rain fall in Central
Queensland before Xmas, experts prophesy the
biggest financial crash Q. has ever seen.
Downs, that stood by the West last bad time, is
now a desert, devoid of stock and grass. Lpng-
reaeli and surrounding country are getting anxious,
and if trouble does come there will be no haven.
* * * *
“ Werrimee ” : Re big cedar (B. 14/9/'01).
The largest cedar log cut in Australia was got in
1885 in the famous cedar scrubs of the upper
Richmond River, NJ3. W. I saw it on the jiggers
in Casino after it was squared, and it was then
12ft. x 12ft.—a girth of 48ft. It was cut from
several feet up the trunk, and its original girth
wouldn’t be much short of 60ft.
A DROUGHT ITEM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now Paddy was known on Moama side
As a swimmer of great renown,
For he’d beaten the “ Pet ” and the “ Sawmill Pride,”
And most of the blokes in town ;
But Paddy, whose subsequent name was Dunn,
Was slow as a ship on shore,
For he ran to flesh when he tried to run,
And, walking, he ran to more.
Well, things went crook with the Dunn folks’ biz.,
So Paddy procured some stock,
And hawked his wares where the big drought is
With a cart and an old brown crock.
And over the great, grey, bleaching plain
He travelled, without a pal,
Till he camped on the skirt of the Devil’s domain
At the township of Booligal.
Now Paddy had heard that the Lachlan flows
Quite close to tHe~pub. just there,
And he’d dreamed of swimming (without his olothes)
As a luxury rich and rare,
But still (as a true-born Irishman)
He thought of his liquor first.
So he went on his prad to the publican
And started a real good burst.
But, when for the fourteenth time he “ came ”
At a bottle of unknown brand,
A long, lean drover proposed a game
And offered to take a hand ;
And, alas for Paddy, he played and played
Till sobered he seemed to be,
Then-he stopped dead short, and “ Me frind,” he said,
“ It’s the lind yez are havin’ av me ;
“ Ye have bate me bad for a quid or so,
But meself, sure, has played the fool;
Now give me revinge at a game I know
And he wanted to play him pool.
But the drover smiled as he answered Pat—
Whose name at the end was Dunn—
“ I’m out of fettle and rather fat,
Bub I’ll race if you like to run.
11 It's the c nly game that I know save cards,
And I ain’t done much for a while,
But I’ll give you a start of a couple of yards
In anything up to a mile.”
Then Paddy waxed wroth—he was dairy-fed,
And stood only five feet four—
And he called down a curse on the Booligal-bred
As he waddled towards the door.
But, ah 1 a thought of the river came
And a thought of his prowess there,
And, “ Me - frind,” he said, “ Oi will play your game,
And O’ll wallop yez fair and square.
We’ll race from that twisted tree in the bend
’Cross the river and up to the ridge,
Then back to the tree, where the race will end ;
But yez mustn’t go over the bridge."
Then the drover paused ere he placed his stake
In the hands of the publican,
For he wondered awhile if he’d struck a “ fake ”
As he looked at the Irishman ;
But he knew the river and knew the track,
And the doubt cleared away from his brow ;
“ I’m with you,” he said—“ to the ridge and back ;
Will you run the event oft now ? ”
Well, the publican started the race with a “ Go !’’—
The drover away in the lead ;
But Paddy just trotted on easy and slow,
Though the other went on full speed ;
And Ireland was fully ten yards to the bad
As he came to the edge of the bank,
When lo ! with a shout of “ Begorrah 1 Bedad I ”
In the shade of a gum-tree he sank.
’Twas an easy race that the drover won,
And he lifted the stake with glee ;
And he told his pals that “ it took the bun”
When they asked for the historee ;
And they tell of it still in Booligal
When the drovers are “ on the bust
For what in the West a river they call
Is only a streak of dust.
MILKY WHITE.
DAVID STORED, & SONS’
In Throe Colors—BLACK, RED and BLUE
Registered
Trade
Hark.
TATTOO OIL
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking
or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker. OSHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.


‘ W. 8.” : Met a man t’other day wheeling
His belongings in” a wheelbarrow from Clermont.
wife and three daughters were stumping it
with him. “ Clearing out of the Godforsaken
country,” he told me. Apropos, a certain selector
in the drought-stricken district named could, in
1885, muster 7000 sheep, 2000 cattle, 120 horses,
and had a running account of three figures. Now
lie lias 900 sheep, 20 horses, and under 100 cattle,
with an overdraft of £2OOO.
* • * *
“ Veteran ” to The Bulletin :
Re an “ Australian military officer’s ” suggestion
(B. 7/9/’ol)that the perpetrators of the Hawthorn sticking-
up case, and certain other recent crimes of violence
should be sought among returned contingenters. The
S’African war has been carried on in a wav that makes it
an admirable training school for criminals. Europe was
once full of men who had belonged to some “ free
company ” or other (ver3' like an Australian contingent)
and who were “soldiers” when in Government pay, and
robbers when out of it. The men who, in S’Africa, called
themselves “Scouts,” “Fighting Scouts,” or similar
fancy names, are the direct representatives of Trenck’s
Pandours. The regular soldier is habituated to order and
discipline. He fights as a matter of business, does as he
is bid, and does not regard his antagonist as his personal
enemy. As a matter of fact, indeed, when two armies
have been long opposed to each other the soldiers become
quite friendly in the intervals between active hostilities.
They have no enthusiasm. They have ceased to
believe in “glory,” and when that faith is lost, there is
nothing left but “ duty,” which is not a very inspiriting
sentiment.
* * • *
“Ne’er-do-weel” re social gatherings in
the Queensland bush :
I have attended hundreds of social gatherings in the
bush, and can bear testimony that, as a rule, they are
most drearily proper. “ Silvertails ’’congregate at one
end of the room, “ Ooppertails ” at the other, and the
line of demarcation is rarely crossed. The M.O. is, of
course, a free lafice with a roving commission, and, by
virtue of his office, is not so rigidly bound by custom —he
favors either clique if necessary. A good M.O. is an auto-
crat of autocrats. Occasionally circumstances arise to
vary the monotonj' of the proceedings and to provide
every old tabbie in the township and district with a
choice subject of conversation for a week or two.
Once I remember hearing the M.O. —a small, belli-
gerent public official—announce, in a loud tone, that
another couple was wanted to make up the coppertail set
of Lancers. There were only two not dancing at the
time—a dejected-looking coppertail, Who answered to the
name of Smooger, and an auburn-topped damsel, a silver-
tail of the choicest brand of pure merino. The M. 0.,
finding no attention paid to his announcement, glared
round the room and spotted Smooger. From his place in
the silvertail set he yelled Hi! You there 1 Smooger 1
Didn’t you hear me say another couple’s wanted for that
set?” Smooger replied in the same tone : “ Yes, but I
carn’t git no bloomin’ clinah.” “ Gan’t what ? All rot I ”
then, pointing with outstretched arm to Miss Auburn-
head, “ What in thunder’s the matter with Ginger,
there ? ” His strong will conquered, and Smooger and
Miss Aulmrnhead danced the Lancers together in the
coppertail set.
Another time, I remember an indignant coppertail
(male), spitting in the outstretched hand of a silvertail
(female) who had got into the wrong set, and who refused
to “swing” with him. Also, I saw an inebriated male
silvertail prancing round in the ooppertail “ clfain,” gaily
flicking each “ clinah ” in the face with his pockethand-
kerchief and asking her, “ How yer poppin’ up, ducky ?”
These two last incidents led to fights, which were much
enjoyed—the males (of both varieties of metallic tail)
temporarily deserting the ballroom.
To keep a drunken medico away from the hospital ball
w-e put him to bed and removed his clothes. He turned
up at the hall, though, clad only in his singlet, and
wanted to dance. We bad some difficulty in removing
him, but the incident did not seem to seriously disturb
the harmony of the proceedings. I heard one lady re-
mark that she wor‘ ’ never have believed that the doctor
was so’knock-k. ef- if she had not seen fot herself, but
nothing more.’ . welcome these little vagaries J they
make us forgt , nought, dust, dirt, drink, death, and all
the other bush sfoieffi-ior an hour or two.
• r * * *
“ A.C. : At a raffle recently held here
Yio.) there were 60 members, and 60
FORWARD TIMES.
“ There's great things goin’ on nowadays. I see they got a cable now
stretched right round the earth.”
“ Yes, these is forward times. Pm thinkin’ myself o’ puttin’ a barb-
wire fence round that ten-acre paddock.
numbers (1 to 60) were put in one receptacle, 60
blanks (instead of 69) being by mistake placed
with the one prize-ticket in an'other. Then the
usual course of drawing was followed—one number
as against one ticket—and the whole of thenumbers
were drawn as against the 60 blanks, leaving the
prize-ticket over. What are the odds against this
occurring again ?
• * * *
At Raratonga, a one-horse island annexed
by Bull in 1900, the nigs, have Had prompt ex-
perience of the blessings of civilised rule. Two
officials embezzled between them about £llOO,
which will make a deficit for half-a-century. One
was blown by a rocket to a land where the King’s
writ does not run : t’other has got two years hard
fishing on a small adjacent islet. The stolen cash
was spent in whisky, which probably threw a fur-
ther rosy light on civilisation in Raratonga.
START FOR SPRING STAKES AT KENSINGTON, SYDNEY.
Herewith is given a presentment of the start for the Spring Stakes at the pony meeting of Kensington (Sydney) Race Club To those
never seen a race started with the barrier, the picture will give a good idea of the Australian-minted device by which
sent off with the precision of a troop of cavalry. The term “ pony-race,” as applied to the Kensington event, is a misnomer
the horses which started in the Spring Stakes stand 15 hands, and are sired by the best blood m Australia. The race was won by Freedom,
the grey horse standing on the rails.
“ Alpar ” : About that minimum-wage. I
was talking to a farmer last week, when one of his
“ hands ” came up for orders. After the man had
left, I remarked that he was a sturdy-looking
fellow. “Yisl” said the farmer, “I give that
fellow eight bob a wake—and he is worth iviry
pinny of it! ”
* * » *
“ Vril” : Had a dog poisoned by strych-
nine; his first fit was a “crumpler,” but, on the
advice of a shepherd, I gave the animal \oz. of
tincture of iodine in same amount of water. He
had no more fits, and Recovered. Subsequently
tried this remedy on another poisoned dog after
second fit, and he, too, recovered. What is the
rationale —or is there any ?
* * * *
“Hob.”: Re“ Y” (B. 23/2/’01). I had
the same experience of a snake swallowing eggs
and getting fast in the handle of a jug—but not
the same luck, because when I got back from the
wood-heap, witH the axe to kill the snake, I found
he had swallowed the jug and cleared.
* * * *
“ Scotty ” discourses :
The death-tax is as big a grab as the birth-swindle.
Only lately I have known two cases where the lowest
charges (after haggling) of the undertakers Were £8 and
£6 respectively. The first man was poisoned by raw
whisky on raw oysters, given him by a publican, who
evidently doesn’t know the nature of taking the oath.
Same week a man was billed for £& for a pine-box and
one-horse shay used at the local hospital for his father.
A neighboring squatter was mulct in £lBO for a shift to
Wagga.- That puts one in mind of the Cold Meat Train,
where late revellers sat on coffins so as to save their
leave at Aldershot. But a chum of mine “ had ” them.
He died with a bottle in one hand and a pound in the
other. The inquest collared the quid, but buried him in
Christian ground—if there’s any Christianity on the
Colombo. The cemetery folk make you buy the allot-
ment (30s. in Narandera). I refused to pay for my mate’s
bed, and told them they might dig him up, and I’d plant
him on the Sandhill. Then they let me rail him in (this
was on the Oranko), because it improved the look of the
cemetery.
“ Crespin ” : The
dying away of the boree
and myall trees can
hardly be resultant of
the ring-barking of “the
timber which draws the
rain.” The widespread
theory that timber
draws rain is altogether
unsupported by evi-
dence. The fallacy pro-
bably arises from the
fact that rain draws
timber —a confusion be-
tween cause and effect.
After ring-barking, gut-
ters wash out in the gul-
lies, and all subsequent
developments of the
ground tend to prove
that actually more water
runs off the ground
than when the forests
lived. Consequently it
is hardly possible that
less rain falls. The most
logical conclusion is that
exactly the same amount
falls, but the absence of
living tree-roots renders
it necessary for a certain
proportion of the rain
which was previously
soaked into timber to
now run off the surface
of the ground.
• * *
“I have often,”
writes.E.S.S., “watched
Riehmond River district gins picking up firewood.
A gin will seldom stoop if she can help it. She
stands ereot, and picking the sticks up with her
toes* lifts them a little above her knee, when she
takes them in her hand and places them on her
head or shoulder.”
Antiurio removes all impurities from the
blood in man, woman or ehild. It is the one
simple, cheap, and certain cure for rheumatism.
Sent post paid to any part of Australasia, ss.
Antiurio Co., Box 842, G.P.0., Sydney.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur 11..ir Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
CLEARS
the BLOOD
through the
KIDNEYS
SCHNAPPS,
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notiee will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
W.H.B. : Your pars might have some chance if
we could read them. Is that your best writing ?... .0.0.:
If there is one ray of light in connection with M’Kinley’s
death it is that the word to rhyme with Ozolgosz has ap-
parently not yet been invented.... Melchior : Moderate
doses of opium are no more hurtful than moderate doses
of tea or tobacco. But how many people are there among
neurotic whites who can regularly take a moderate, com-
forting dose of opium, and not increase it ?... .San Remo:
Any goods imported from, say, England into a State before
the uniform Federal tariff started can’t pass into another
State without paying the difference between the duty
originally paid on them (if any) and the Federal duty (if
any). For instance, the N.S.W. duty on confectionery is
2d. a lb., and, if the Federal duty is 4d., none of the con-
fectionery imported into N.S.W. before the Federal duty
was put on can be sent into any other State without pay-
ing the extra 2d. per lb. duty. This arrangement lasts
for two years, to give time for old stocks to be exhausted.
There must be some such provision, else great stocks of
articles would be laid in wherever they could be imported
free, and sent wholesale into other States when the border
duties were removed, to the damage both of the revenue
and of local industries Jabez : You’re the third person
who has sfent along that silly comment. Webster’s Dic-
tionary : “ Draft, a current of air.” Evidently the Critic
ain’t got no Dictionary.. Jimmy Stickensides: The scenery
is good, but the preaching is stale to wearisomeness....
E.L. :' Only a 9in. dividing-wall! Why, lots of the
terrace-houses now going up around Sydney have but
the breadth of the brick—4£in.—between them. Lovely
places to be ill ini Miner (W.A«): Noble notions in
ignoble garb JosephF. : “Let us help our brother
along." Ladies first, Joseph! Vulcan: It is but the
natural revulsion from the late Jook and Jingo
drunk J.S.O. : Tell us why do so many
women adopt as a pen-name So-and-so “Carew?”
What are the special points of “ Carew ? ” J.B.M. SP.):
Will print “ Private Bill,” and shall be glad to see others.
T. Cranim: Smart eiiough, and no doubt all your
own : but we want something more or less distinctively
Australian. The sort of thing you send might be cut out
of a London Bits paper of tne better class, and nobody
would give The Bulletin any credit for it T.H.B. :
“Matter of O.” —treatment good, but motif not strong
enough. And G. of G. is too tame a cat —send something
with more claws in it J.O.H. : A huge quantity of that
sort of typo, humor has appeared in Life, Judge and
Puck. Have made up our mind that your “ Miss Print”
is too reminiscent, though doubtless original, as far as it
goes. Try something else... .Miranda : Two columns of
eminently good, tame reasoning on very bilious paper. ...
J.R. : * Electrical engineers never hesitate to charge
their conductors to the full extent of their theoretical
capacity.” Nonsense ! For the smallest unstranded
wire allowed (18,-guage) fire underwriters allow only 2£
ampferes as the safe carrying capacity, though the fjising-
point is 107'7 amp&res ! Also, as regards the power-house
accidfent, the engines and dynamos could not have been
used for charging batteries or anything else whilst the
switch-board was useless ; and the storage-car-system
has, in any case, been proved to be most expensive and un-
satisfactory Shellback: Nothing fresh in “Signing.” —
... .H.S.R. : Nothing printable G. Gam : Not new or
forcible J.A.O. : Unique, at all events. Here you are :
In younger years he loved a girl,
And thought of the wife she woulds’t be ;
But, alas ! his tale of love he dared not unfurl,
Lest it refused scornfully ;
His heart to break and his love to hurl
Him into misery.
In later years he met this girl
In the street; a rude shock got he,
Bdr she who once had his brain in whirl
Had grown fat and slovenly.
Then he loved himself for the fancied refusal,
His escape from misery.
O.J. : Noo - chum ” is funny, but has too much
dialect for Bulletin M. J. 8.: Rather too tame and
domestic.'... .Mars : Continue to “ mix with Earth’s great
throb.” Ruby : Don’t parody ; write yourself... .J. 8.:
“ Daisy” pretty; not force enough.... Pagan : “ Diamond ”
neat, but uninteresting; possibly “Agatha.” R.B.H. :
Too long or too slow ; want spirit P.M. : Verse very
stiff —writer careless.... John C. : “ Wind” insignificant.
....Sobs: Try them on a ft. dog V.M. : Annotated
and returned Fakir (no address) : Read through ; but
of course unprintable. You should have sent it to the
lady A.B. : That Q. politician seems to have been
practically guiltless. Let him be.... Letters at this office
for Werner, Mackinlay, Hardwick, Seaborn, Farroll,
Mury, Stanford, Forbes, Greenlee, Marshall, Armstrong.
Harpy: Thinking over. ...G.R.H. : “Settlement”
wants to be shorter and brighter ; perhaps other... .Tim
Try : Sorry unusable as put... Frau : Quite a small comic
Irishism with a sub-flavor of staleness... .J.W. (Melb.):
Thin wine of Bohemia and water, which is not fortified to
drinking-point by its excellent moral... ,Quex : Good
story Eller : But leeches are not very often used now-
a-days Ran.: Don’t care for “ The Returned.” Don’t
like to touch the subject except with a knife P.M. :
Neither up D.Y. : Why send her to Heavenly Will
nothing less suit her 1.... Old Board : That question is
done with Reggy : Pathetic, but conventional and
wordy ...Sydney P. : Rather rough workmanship, and
idea stale... .Telsic: Interesting and life-like, but not
well-enough finished.. ..Wurry M. : Please send address
to Bulletin accountant... .G.T.O. :an ineffective letter.
P.B. : Go to Oriekville 1 Judas : Declined : “ Tan-
taddlin,” “Convincing,” “Go Home." Considering:
“ Swim Out,” “ Home.” E.B.T. : Soul of a sheep
E. :We put it on the burning fire His Mate :
Your pigs are prettily' penned, but they haven’t
squeak enough. Try again.... Cookliebeans : Men are
not such fools as’ all that: so your yam laeks
realism., ..Albar : Your six-shooter missed the mark,...
W. J. : Some good stuff, but written in sprawly fashion.
Interest wants concentrating T. 8.0. : Don’t overdo it
—one’s enough... .R.P.B. (M.L.) : Thanks ; but too tech-
nical for Bulletin E. Walker : Motif’s good ; mattter
so diffuse that each page stands-30 phr, cent, cutting
F. : “Fossicker” very dull.. ..D.B.G. (Murchison):
Simple little bread yarn, but unconvincing Papoose:
“Babbling Boyhood” is rather dull babble by rather
dreary boy... .'Gozo (Kalgoorlie) : Dear friend, have you
ever been in the Northern Territory? T.W.: Barbara
T. makes a rather flat and matter-of-fact piece of
biography. A few interesting lies would much improve
it S.B. : The “White Snake” is a weird irreverence,
and mere irreverence won’t carry a story. A few yarns
like that would kill any paper except Jos. Symes’.... Sa
Yanaka: A diary of words only. 'Emotion unreal. Try
again.... Omicron : Ghost-yarns must be creepy as centi-
pedes to get into The B F. A. 8.: “ Megsy ” not strong
enough, but shows great promise. The verses, pretty,
but the thought hackneyed.... J.O. : Yes, too mixed
N.M.R. : “Philosophical Bagman” rejected out of con-
sideration for woman readers.... W.B. : “Dis.,” a tragic
adultery yarn, which never gets to tragedy point..,.
Sketch of a notice displayed by a Victorian
selector. On top of the post was a piece of
decayed liver which was, presumably, doctored
with strychnine or something.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
ASP. : Too finically-drawn for direct reproduction.
Strengthen your lines.. ..K.W.O. : Barmaid retort a.bit
ancient.. . it’Gregor : Weak dilution of old and effective
subject. Your drawing- looks promising.... Aramac :
One may serve as suggestion.... F.J.W. : Ditto....
N.C.R. : Ons will just about do. Your work shows much
promise. Who are you ?... .Theo. (ft.) :An expressive
drawing, but legend old. Wanted, a new “ gag.”
R.C.P. : We hope it is all your own. If so, you have a
future... .C.W.T.: Unpublishable, of course.... J.A.G.M.:
Chestnut ; already printed in Bulletin .... WHI. Mae. :
Good idea for any artist capable of expressing character.
....A.R.B. : Push item too brutal in sentiment
Unavailable.—W.C.P., W. Jardine, Jack-a-Ciubs, S.TI.,
Xenia X., S. Symon.
Proclamation (type of a score of obhe»s)
lately issued at Cradock, S’Afriea :
MARTIAL LAW.
NOTICE.
All male adults in the township of Cradock are
hereby ordered to attend in the Market Square to-
morrow morning, at, a quarfcer-to-eleven, to witness
the promulgation of the sentence of death to be
passed on Johannes Petrus Coetzee for high treason
and attempt to murder.
All places of business must be closed from half-past
ten tih after the promulgation of the sentence.
C. C. Wiseman Clarke, Major,
Commandant, Cradock District.
Thursday, July 11,1901.
THE BEST NATURAL. APERIENT WATER.
Hnnyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes —
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose :—A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “ Hunyadl Janos,” the signature of the Propr:etor,
' ANDREAS RAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.


Ivfr. j. Johnson; chief cook. Bal'd 'that 'manyfy
had to work from 4.30 a.m. to 6.80$
for 12/6 and 15/ a week. Inspectors £
under the City. Council paid very perfunctory
visits to restaurants. He had worked at a£j
& restaurant where on one occasion he
upon to make up some fowls.that had’?
trodden to death in a too.-closelyr
fowl boose. but he refused and
got the sack.
m
mmmmmmusam
f ' B VAV,-
cY v\
°Vl|l
o> v li
r i '\M
t\%
-X
.£oji
SraHHi
"q '^ 1
V T»4jo<:
S'®*?
''
| gA
mp c"p>
p 5 “The idea of federation, be said, was
||in the air. and all who loved religion
|§md the church should help on the move-
sfncnt. not-when it became fashionable,
when it was as yet a babe in the
IJananser. despised and rejected of men."
§£— The Rev. Dr. Strong on tlve Tedera-
rr/vian of some of the. cluirches.
-Told Jubilee 'exhibition
-;;ffOLL> J WaUer and w. Welch, two
■v. MesPts 0.l- h() hove been io Bemllco
Ir y °Y»" ».ae »» -«er to lead the
to m e Sg costume at the open-
i‘“EOf the«hibH,on.
. Qyfpi I *7* 4^wr
MELBOURNIANA.


- a motion in the Senate touching the Federal ”
Senator Neild view 0 f the fact that the Commonwealth Par-
napital in the following p ar)iamentary Buildings, Melbourne, on sufferance, and
liament is occupying „„ tiations n o agreement for an authorised tenancy has
that, after ‘tat iC is not consonant With th °
been arrived at, this p ar ] im ent to continue its present unsatisfactory occu-
0f the the Payment and h for?
- P anc y of l tl * e . Sald ,- V^ p : te ° shou °i d be taken to select the site for the Federal capx-
of temporary ,cco»modat»n for .he Coma*,
wealth Parliament and departments.” .
V How would open-air “ temporary accommodations meet the case > ■
Summer is coming on, and see beiow^
M(ST ER SPfAKeR
A COOKIMQ tfls VIWER AN_
» To a DFffATir
/ - N l>'
ETA
RwQTHE GRLLERY
y 4 syM^Tm-
I THi2 Lot
!>y
U/vDlrftsTUDy
Dr. Ross asked the Premier if he would in view of the
detnic of pneumonia, obtain the opinion of the Board of He ’
whether it might not be caused by germs blowing from old Devon
shire-street cemetery now being, opened up by the Governm
It was bound to A. II /A A Vv*(r\- u
come. The Aus- L
tralian Common- 11
wealth seal has a horse on it. Considering the way Australia is always running to
the old country for a loan, it looks like a case of a beggar on horseback.
AN EXPENSIVE RESPONSIBILITY.
Sow of Selector (at Starvation Sandhills) : “ Old Bailie’s dead, and Straw-
bery has got pleuro pretty bad.”
Selector : “ Yes, ’ere’s the wind been blowin’ from Sydney for a week now ;
we’ll get mother to write to O’Sullivan ; if he wants to go openin’ them
old cemeteries he’ll ’ave to pay for it.”
Mr. Wise : “After the vote just passed, we may see ladieei
taking part in the debates in this Chamber.”
Mr. Dangae : “ Young ones 1 ” (Laughter.)
Mr. Wise : “If the Govt, made any appointments-of the!
kind, he would see that they were acceptable to honorable I
(Laughter. ) —Doily Pct-per Report.
notice that any foreign DE/I L to cane 4 Long. KERB
READ AN p IVRITE
sons Japanese tongue
Or Chop off His Head.
We
way
| / M
WHEN WOMEN ARE LEGIS-
LATIVE COUNCILLORS.
The Hon. Mary Jane Bung ad*
dressing the House.in the “ Tied
house 2. interest
REFRESHMENT ROOM ITEM. V ‘ *
“ Now, my dear, this is much better than listening to
those fish-stories of Want’s.”
THE EDUCATION TEST.
WJaat if the Japansae should, apply it
to Jack Want wheanegfe tmvifflta-Japaa.?
CARTOONLETS.


THAT NAME,
A. SAUNDERS,
IS A GUARANTEE YOU HAVE A RELIABLE ARTICLE.
ON A WATCH
Trump,
10s.
Series J,
16s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
WATERBTJRY WATCHES.
Few Shortwind, 10b : Guard, 12b 6d ; Serieß J. 16b
6d ; Railway, 18b 6d ; New Model Gent.'s, BOa ;
Silver, 35s ; Gold,. £2 15s and £3.
All the above Watohes are Specially Regulated
and Oiled.
20s»
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
* UNRIVALLED ” NON-MAGNETIC LEVER.
Strong, Reliable, Perfeot Timekeeper, Screw Cases,
Dust and Water Tight, 20s ; Solid Silver Cases,
85e ; Hunters, £2. A Written Certificate with tie
“ Unrivalled.’’
The KNOCKABOUT LEVER, Iss.
The MARVEL, 8s fid.
Nickel,
255.
Silver,
£2 2s.
A. SAUNDERS.
“LONDON LEVER.”
Extra Finished, f-Lever, Full Chronometer Balance,
Dust and Water Tight Sdrew Cases, 25s ; Silver,
JB2 2s j Silver Hunting Cases, ,£2 10s and i!3
A Written Certificate for 2 and 8 Years.
Nickel,
Solid
Silver,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Special Direct Agents.
Silverloid G.F. Keyless, ! Works with Chronometer
Balance, 355; Hunters, .£2 ; Pnre Solid Silver
Hunting Cases, Extra Quality Movements, £2 los,
J? 3, £3,105. £4, and £5 ; Gold Patent Cases Wal-
thams, £4 4s, £5 ss.
20s.
20s,
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ 1 WATCH.
Black or Nickel Silver, Keyless, Reliable Works,
20s ] Bure Silver, 85s ;
Solid Gold, £2 10s, £8 10s.
For a Cheap,! Reliable Watch these are
Recommended.
£6 10s.
m ios,
m
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES* WALTHAM SOLID GOLD KEYLESS.
J -Movement, Chronometer Balance, Jewelled, Per-
ect Timekeeper, Extra Strong Case A Full Size, £8
10s ; Small Size, £5 10s. Pure Solid Silver, Same
Works, £2 10s and £B.
Guarantee d Years to keep in Thorough Repair.
Send
for
Illustrated
Boo^
Post
Free.
18ct. Gold,
£5 10s.
18ct. Gold,
£5 10s,
m
A. SAUNDERS.
18ot. Solid Gold, Full Jewelled J-Watch.
Reliable Timekeeper, £5 10a } Large Size, £6.
Solid Silver, £2 ; Large Size, £2 10s.
These Watches are Beautifully Chased, and
Guaranteed for 8 Yean,
Most
In
14ct.
Gold,
£Blos.
18ct.
Gold,
£lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ot. Solid Gold Keyless WALTHAM LEVER,
Full Jewelled Works .Patent Action, New Model,
£lO, £l2 10s.
You Can't Get a Better Watch.
14ct. Solid Gold, £Bloa.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN and MINERS.
ROTHERHAM SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH LEXERS
Full Cap, - Hand Finished, Extra Jewelled Works, Perfect
Timekeeper, with Pure Silver Cases, Dust and'Water Tight,
£3 10s. Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance, £4 10s,
£5/* £BlO6, £6.
A written certificate for 8,4, and 5 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
A. SAUNDERS.
WALTHAM RAILWAY KEYLESS LEVERS.
LARGE' SIZE, as supplied to all the Railways ip Australia, with Sorew
Dust-tight 'Cases. The Works- are Strong, with full Chronometer Balance. £2,
£’2los,£3 ; Solid Silver, £4', £5, £6, £7, £B. Price of these Watches are-accord-
ing to the grade of works.
A. SAUNDERS.
SPECIAL MADE ROTHERHAM ” KEYLESS
ENGLISH LEVERS,
The Most Reliable and Best Fished Watches made. Guaran-
teed to give the utmost satisfaction. Pure Solid Silver Hunting
Cases, Extra Finished. Works, £6. Extra Quality, x 5 10s;
Superior Quality, £6, £7 ; Acme, £B.
These Watches are made especially for A. Saunders only.
Guaranteed for 5 and 8 Years;
Solid
Gold,
£7 10s.
14ct. Solid
Gold,
£lO.
m
m
mMM
m
m
. *•>'
gssra
- ~
<@as
mES&i
<% - "
AS*
A. SAUNDEKS.
PRESENTATION GOLD WATCHES.
SPECIALLY MADE SOLID GOLD KEYLESS
WALTHAMS,
I Works, Extra Jewelled Actions, Chronometer Balance,
£7 Ids. 14ct. Solid Gold, £lO ; 18ct. Solid Gold, £l2 10s,
£15„£20. Guaranteed for 3,4, 5, and 6 Years.
Guarantee
Satis-
faction.
A written certificate for 2,8, 4,5, and 6 years.
Thousands in wear give, untold satisfaction.
N
w
A. 'SAUNPERS. v
PRESENTATION SOLID GOLD ROTHERHAMS J-PLATE
KEYLESS LEVERS,
Full Chronometer Balance,, 19 Jewels action, Hand Fjnrshed, with' Dust-tight
Cases, £lO 10s and £l2 10s. lSet. Solid Gold, £l5, £2O.
4,5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
Inscription for Presentation Engraved Free.
Send for
1901
Price List.
Silver,
£5.
Silver,
£6.
v V l ,' ’Km, „
Sv
im
“FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS”
These we have at Every Price and Style. In SoM NiekeJ or
Black, 30s : Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s ; Split Seconds, £3 10s.
Pure Solid Silver, £5, £6', £7, £B, and £lO ; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O,
£25, and £3O. A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and ©‘years.
TRY ONE.
A. SAUNDERS. WATCHMAKER, 815 GEORG E-STREET,
NEARLY
OPPOSITE
STATION,
RAILWAY
SYDNEY.


Concerning a much i 'discussed N.S.W. civil-
[vice question
State-Premier See has just promised that .the Govern,
ment will consider the advisableness of bringing in a Bill
this session to authorise repayment of civil servants’ con-
tributions to the Superannuation Fund. The fulfilment
of this promise will he but bare justice. The case stands
thus : The O.S. A,ct of 1884 provided that 4 per cent,
should be deducted from civil service salaries towards a
Superannuation Fund. In ’96, the Govt.—not to benefit
civil servants, but to lessen its responsibilities and to
lighten the burden on the Fund, bankrupt through said
Govt.’s improper use of the money-gave all civil servants
the option of withdrawing by ceasing their contributions.
Many did so, but the Govt., instead of refunding past
contributions, arbitrarily retained and borrowed said
amounts from its employees at 3 per cent, simple interest,
to be paid when the employee leaves the service. It
must be clearly understood that those who retired from
the Fund never reaped any benefit from it while they
were contributing; neither could they, for the 8* Act
provided‘that no pension could be granted on voluntary
retirement from the service, unless the retiring officer
had reached 60 years of age. Therefore, as ex-contributors
didn’t get any benefit in the past, and, furthermore, have
absolutely surrendered all contingent rights or benefits,
why, should their past contributions be withheld 1 No
doubt there are many civil servants who owe money on
which they are paying 10, or perhaps 100, per cent., and
who would therefore be very glad of a refund of the
money on which Govt, generously pays thefn 3 per cent,
simple interest. Even if they lent it to the Government
through the Govt. Savings Bank they would obtain, at
all events, compound interest.
Nervous sufferers \yill find it worth their
while to peruse Herr ltassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue * .
m
mm
S'l ffi
.
. i *>■ I .h i
i ' ’ : > ■ -
' —. - i
i
, ■ ,
’ ‘ .
'
'•.H
e i.
m. as
ROB6RTS’
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS;
BEDROOM (Single) ..38. PER DAY.
BEDROOM (Double) .. 08. PER DAY.
TERMS:
Cash in Advance. No Booking-
Meals Paid For when Obtained.
Letters and Telegrams addressed to
“ THE MANAGER ”
will receive prompt attention »
J auL
l aabo7it
No. W 7. Silver-Plated Hair-Pin
Box, 83 6d,
No. W 9. Silver-PJated Jewel-Case,
Satin-lined, £1 Is.
No. W 24. Embossed and Silver
Plated Hair-Pin Box, 10s 6d.
No. F5173A. Silver.
'Plated Spectacle
Case, 10b 6d,
No. F 839. Silver-Plated Butter Dish,
with Knife, 9s 6d»
No. W2OlB. Egg-Shape . Satin-lined
Jewel-Case, beet Silver-Plated, £1 Is.
No. F 4467. Silver-Plated Ink-
Stand, 18s 6d.
No. WSO. Best Silver-Plated
Shaving Mug, &1 2s 6d.
No. F 4587. Leather
Spectacle Case,
Plated Mounts,
7s 6d.
No. F 4707. Carved Ivory Handle Bread Fork, 11s 6d.
No. F 4688. Silver Glove Button-Hook, 2s.
No, E9OTO. Combination Egp Frame and
Cruet, Out-GlaSs and Best Silver-Plate,
£1 15s.
IT
V
No. F 4709. Curved Pearl
Handle Bread Fork, 13/6.
No. F 4549. Silver-Plated Fern Pot,
Height, 8 inches, £3.
yVrite for our Illustrated Catalogue.
Eradicates Scurf.
Promotes Growth.
u.i*. ■
M
sas
ran
Prevents Hair Falling.
Contains no Dye.
THE MICA LUBRICANT CO; SOUTH SHIELDS, ENG.
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate.
Sole Agent for Australasia : R. 'A . HARVEY. Dep6fl7l Clarence^. , Sydney, N.S. W.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free-. . .
French’s Acting Edition.
‘ v.
. .z
.
.
Bare Books
French Novels
Books
for
the
Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Books Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes ot any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Beurke Street, Melboim e
TEAM
FROM 5 HP. TO 100 HP
&
FROM 1 HP. TO 60 hp.
CAN BE SUPPLIED PROMPTLY
FROM STOCK.
NOYES
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY j 17 Queen-St., MELBOURNE.
*A.aCJXEaJSLB JISOTI
‘((latLiwrj)
OSf'B , T)
oxjcva
SnTJiam s
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
fine silver.
.. .. 31,..11 -’1‘ ~ ‘ .. M W' V ‘ ‘ .1 - <1 . 17.1.11}, . ‘1 ‘ 1 ,. ,. '- 1 1. .,. :
- 1W ':"11‘v-;w ' '1 1 ‘ 9 : ' 1 : ' :1 31.: 1, *1'“h'%.*1<:»w.1,11.3=3'»> f’" . . 9 “a 1.331%“; M _ Q“: 5,.
,vif- 3.";i 5&7)» ~ . . ‘ ~7 1 ~ 1 ,: '1 3 . 3 : H13; “1:: 3 .2 3 . 13-3-31:#13.M,.:.33‘3, 3:
P11. 21' 1“,» 9 ‘ 1: ‘ - ' : ' ‘ ' = ‘ 'J " " : g 3 1. 3 ”M 111.9291. v.1? - .11
1 j ‘ ‘ 1 3 ' , - L .1 ' V ’ 9r .3
1'13“: T5" . 33.3 ‘., . ‘ ', . ‘ :1 1" : 33"” ,.. V , - I "' 3 h'. '
:°:-°~‘1‘/£*‘- ‘ ‘ g g 3 . . 1 V .‘ I .
"3‘:"'3.:;:,- *K’ﬁ'é 1... ‘ ~ ~. 'I , . ‘1 .' ~ .
,2) "<1, . l " - . ‘ :
m1~m. - 1.: 4
a a o ”53‘ 3331.», , 31,3, \ mnﬁsm’v ‘ ’ ” "‘ ‘mi‘s ' Z ‘ 'f" .. -.-. -
- w ;, 3 : .ﬁu.‘ ., w ‘fe‘ :51.- "TL.” - .2 ‘ {v - Q11 : . - u 1H; _--- ~11“ 3 . . m _ ‘
.‘i ".:¢g*“{y)“ ‘ ' "" .— 3‘ -~ : 1 g . n, c A. u o a ‘
. - 3 _ .,... . . - : : .3— — - ._ __3__.
a -. 33. x; * i . ~ ‘ . .‘ ‘ , 3,. ‘ - . a,\u,
. .1 \- - . . ~ . ~:,v§..,.§y((r~v.“:.:gigg:'
1 .U' _ ‘ _ " “~ *1 . .1 - - g ’ -~“:'- . 3!; .11 -~‘»:' "12:17?“ "1: .51“-'::i_*3*"2',""\,:,.-1
. WWW ’ .13 K ham: 33w3¢W1v ,yv «1 «3:13,,» $111-$195»: {”WWW° ”9;."
3 1 . -3_.:. ., -_ ;- ~, 1-1111: »-,=-'-"'\.'-;3,.3.;.,3:.;:.11:1;1'.~.¢...~ 41: 41w1w3121=5§=3729 Hanan-1:,» ,.<I:":1zr«t: 9111: ' . ~
.1 . .3311 3 “.‘"-:-‘1.5 3314-93: :- 11x 1m:-‘..»:3-:1:-";-_1 .1 1 ‘~.; 3111-. $519311; 1.,3:3.3‘,3;,a._1_. . :. 5133.01.11 .1 1:31., . .3 ~
MAKERS OF
" S.Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AMD
“ ILLAWARB,A’ J
..BRAND OF.. •
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes
GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORBS, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP RSFI&E&S of SILVER t.T!4TI ECJLLIOj*
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR GRES, PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P, S. Mosaic, Manager, The Smelting Company of A ustralia, Ltd., DAP!TO, N,S.W>


POLITICAL
POINTS
Wanted—lnformation which will lead to
the discovery of the whereabouts of Mr. Gr. H.
Reid.
Kitchener’s stern proclamation—which
was to end the war—has, so far, only been fol-
lowed by two serious British reverses.
Up to the end of July, Britain has paid for
its S’African war this little bill: 15,933 deaths;
558 missing and prisoners ; and 51,828 soldiers
sent home as invalids—total, 68,319.
So far, Australian Old Age Pension Acts
have been most useful to the democracy in showing
with what Cannibal Island callousness most people
in authority regard the infirm and aged.
Cardinal Moran : “We have all the free-
dom and liberty that a Republic can enjoy.”
This, while the papers are filled with daily discus-
sions on the Imperial veto on anti-alien legislation !
A well-known fact. In a Melbourne libel-
action, the other day, Mauger, M.H.R., secretary
of the Protectionist Association, swore that
David Syme was “alwavs consulted” as to the
candidates at elections.
Q. civil servants apprehend an early Black
Wednesday. Only the nearness of the general
elections (early next year) has hitherto stayed
the hand of the destroyer, but the blow will be
forced by a falling revenue and an empty
treasury.
People still wonder why George Adams
so suddenly squelched the agitation against the
Postal Bill started by his Sydney representative.
It is whispered that a “ satisfactory understand-
ing” has been come to, and that Australia will
not lose Tatts., for a while, anyhow.
Straight-goers in Queensland hoped that
the Boodlewraith wouldn’t have the nerve to
reintroduce the “strengthy” Cloncurry-to-Nor-
manton syndicate railway-grab, but, after all,
“me brother Janny ” was only counting noses,
and the late-comers make a certainty of it.
If Cardinal Moran were sincere in his
belief that the State schools are godless instru-
ments of evil, surely he would, by spiritual duresse,
force out of their billets the very many hundreds
of R.C: public-school teachers. It is not logical
to damn the Devil, and then dine with him.
IN THE BY-AND-BY—AT SHADEVILLE
FIRST SPOOK : “ What are the crowd waiting
for? ”
SECOND SPOOK: “Oh, they as mortals were mem-
bers of the first Federal Parliament, and they
are now waiting the long-expected arrival of
one, Turner, who is expected to bring his first
budget.”
Cairns (Q.) Morning Post speaks of the
employment of white men at cane-feeding at the
sugar mills as a “ White Labor Experiment,” and
puts itself away by declaring in a leading article
that though the work is not heavy or arduous, it
has no.faith in the white man’s ability to perform
it. It requires so much “ constant and continuous
attention.” This is a new departure. Hitherto
it was the physical superiority of the piebald
alien that was written up, but now it. turns out
that the trouble lies in the mental incapacity of
the white man and his lack of any fixed purpose.
There is nothing like being cautious.
After President M’Kinley’s death Sydney D.T.’s
financial editor states that it was M ‘Kinley’s
intention to modify the American tariff consider-
ably. The dead President was well into his
second term of office, and it’s curious that he
didn’t mention his intention to anyone but the
D.T. man. Also, when did aTJ.S. President get
power to alter tariffs “ on his own ? ”
Victorians overlook one striking fact about
their awful Leg. Council. Its laziness is appalling,
even for a legislative body, and it is only when
some democratic measure is to be obstructed
that the members trouble to meet seriously.
During the rest of the session they make a
pretence of carrying on business by coming
periodically together, at long intervals, and
adjourning almost immediately afterwards.
This august body met on Tuesday afternoon
of last week, started business about half-an-
hour behind time, and adjourned one-and-
a-half hours later—for a fortnight. Only
one measure, a simple Bill of half-a-dozen
clauses, providing for wild dog destruc-
tion, was dealt with, and the 48 Rich
Landlords were then led out by their
keepers for a 14-days rest, leaving
the country waiting for the legalisa-
tion of half-a-dozen other measures
which lay untouched on the notice-
paper.
Queensland’s Syndicate Ministry last year
passed _ a very liberal Early Closing Act to
square its deal in Syndicate Railways. Now that
the syndicate measures are safe it talks of amend-,
ing the Early Closing Act—in a Tory direction, of
course. The city shop-workers, for their apathy,
deserve to lose the Act altogether.
The Queensland Ministerial organisations
are busy “ Bulcocking ” the electoral rolls. The
metropolitan Bulcocks boast of having knocked
495 Opposition votes off in three electorates, and
put 1300 Ministerial votes on, with 1250 more to
follow. A dissolution after the annual Revision-
court will spell trouble for the Labor Opposition.
Chamberlain’s cable to Barton re the Inter-
State Bill was a crusher to the shipping people.
Australia can thank them for so early establishing
a precedent that she is to be left to manage her
own affairs under the Commonwealth Act. If
anyone has a grievance let him appeal for redress
to the Federal Parliament, not to the Colonial
Office.
West Bourke electorate has returned the
son of its late Tory member, Staughton, to Vic.
Assembly, without opposition, allee same as
though it were an English pocket borough.
Staughton fils, who is a gallant capting, by the
way, “ rejoices to know that his unopposed return
is largely due to the respect felt for his late father,
who left a high standard for him to follow.” The
effect of Capt. Staughton’s trip to S’Africa will be
observed in his figure of speech. One would sup-
pose that the standard he intends to follow is a bit
of bunting on the end of a pole.
Tasmania, having now 11 members to the
Federal Parliament, proposes to practise rigid
economy by taking
four members
from its State
Parliament.
Premier Lewis
suggests reduc-
ing the Assem-
bly from 38 to
35 (five elector-
ates returning
seven members
each), and the
Council from 19
to 18 (the State to
be one electorate).
Now what in the name
of all that is huge and
bulgy and ridiculous
does Tasmania, or
any other State for
that matter, want
with four Houses of
Parliament (two Fe-
deral and two local)
and two governors,
and four general elec-
tions (for the Federal
House of Representa-
tives, Federal Senate,
State House of Assem-
bly and State Legis-
lative Council) ? This
sort of thing is calcu-
lated to bring the
whole Parliamentary
system into derision.
Moreover it is wholly contrary to British prece-
dent. There is only one other Federation in the
British empire (Canada) and six out of its eight
divisions have only one House of State Legisla-
ture. This attempt on the part of ill-disposed
billet-hunters to subvert a good British tradition
and introduce the worst features of American
politics into Australia can’t be too severely jumped
upon.
Again and again the claim of ecclesiastics
to sit in Parliament is advanced. The See-O’Sul-
livan-Crick rule revives the stormy topic in
N.S.W. That clerics should so sit is wholly
within constitutional right, and an Executive
minute is the only thing needed. Bishop
Broughton was a member of Council; Bishop
Polding was nominated.
Let every Australian go down on his knees
and thank Heaven that there was no shooting
whilst the Duke of York was here, for anything of
the sort would have again riven the community
for a generation. However, had the tour been
under advanced Continental stage-management
WHAT CAUSED THE FIGHT.
“If you knew she knew he knew she knew he
knew, why didn’t you tell him so?”
“ Because he knew she knew he knew she knew he
knew she did.”
there would most certainly have been an ‘ ‘ attempt ”
in order to thaw the frost which was blighting
loyalty.
“ T.D.” : Parliamentary adjournments
over the deaths of distant rulers are a holy sham.
When the Victorian Houses expressed formal woe
at President M ‘Kinley’s tragic end, I purposely
made the round of the theatres, and found 27
mourning legislators, 11 of whom had gone to the
Bijou to join with Marie Lloyd in shedding tears.
In addition, a few were, no doubt, weeping in
pubs, and other places.
“It is time to show the Boers,” says
Joseph Chamberlain, “ that they cannot continue
to make war at little risk to themselves and with
no risk whatever to their families.” There was a
time when it .was said to be an Englishman’s
pride that he didn’t make war on women—and so
it is yet with most Englishmen. Joseph, the
Screw-maker, after all, is only a capable savage
who has strayed accidentally into the wrong
century.
It was by the “ ratting ” of two so-called
Labor members—Roberts and Poynton—that the
Kingston Govt, was thrown out in S.A. Yet
now the Labor members are constantly bemoaning
the absence of Kingston from State politics. He
had pledged himself to forego his Federal ambi-
tions until household suffrage was made the basis
of the Legislative Council franchise, and it was
only the dismissal of his Ministry which relieved
him from this undertaking.
Dan O’Connor (his eye on the R.C. vote)
gave notice in N.S.W. Assembly last week of a
motion favoring State aid to religious schools.
Jessep (his eye on the L.O.L. vote) promptly
asked the intentions of the Government. Educa-
tion-Minister Perry (showing that Crick hasn’t
converted them yet) retorted with emphasis—No,
that they were not going to revert to “the cus-
toms of the dark ages”—which was quite a suf-
ficiently offensive way of putting it.
Gov.-General Hopetoun, if a common-
sense interpretation can be put on his words, is
coming back from his brother-in-law’s North
Queensland plantation much impressed with what
he has been told by planters about the
value of nigger labor, and prepared to give the
benefit of his impressions to Ministers. The
Bulletin would be sorry to see Hopetoun make
such an egregious blunder, and hopes that he will
keep his views on black labor carefully to
himself.
A. G. Downer, of S.A., got up the other
day to express his grief—
That miserable fears should be entertained lest after
all their (the Snow tramway grab crowd’s) enterprise
they should make something out of it.
Yet if A. G. Downer found a burglar in the
middle of his sixth hour’s enterprise at breaking
his (Downer’s) safe, he would probably have such
a miserable fear lest the burglar should make
something out of it that he would run like an
antelope in search of the police.
Methven, M.L.A., proposes to ask the
opinion of Vic. Parliament on the proposal that
the House of 48 Rich Landlords shall be reformed
by allowing all Leg. Council electors to be
qualified to sit in the Council. The idea is one
which The Bulletin has advocated for years.
The Council nominally represents 129,000 Vic.
electors. It says proudly that they comprise the
intelligence of the community, and its claim to
consideration rests on the fact that it speaks for
129,000 of the brightest, best-educated, and most
capable citizens. Yet 127,000 of these are abso-
lutely disqualified from sitting in the Council ! If
they are as intelligent as the House of Landlords
alleges, then they are quite fit to sit in that House.
If they are so dull, ignorant, and mentally deficient
that they aren’t fit to sit there, then the House of
48 Rich Landlords, as the representative princi-
pally of 127,000 fools, shouldn’t be listened to.
Somers Vine and his precious Papuan
syndicate have not been heard of for some time
but an indistinct rumble of gossip would indicate
that the gang’s claim for compensa-
tion is to soon re-appear as cur-
rent history. The death of
Premier Byrnes was bad luck
for Vine, and the death of Dick-
son more bad luck, but Philp ia
of the stuff that syndicates trust
to, and so there is a little balm in
Gilead. The “ honor of Queensland”
is to be the cry. But N.S.W. and Vic-
toria did not participate in pledging
Queensland’s “honor,” and are therefore
under no obligation to redeem it. Again,
Queensland did not pledge its own “honor” ;
it was the Nelsons, the Dicksons, and the
Byrnes that, at the back of Queensland, pub
their heads in the exploiters’ halter
Cardinal Moran, vexed at N.S.W. Minister
Perry’s perky remark that denominational educa-
tion was “a relic of the dark ages,” remarks that
in N.S.W. the Minister of Public Instruction is
“ a mere political agent, knowing nothing of the
work of education.” It used to be the gibe that a
man got the Education portfolio in order to attend
to his own education —a gibe justified by one
Education Minister, who wrote “pigs” with two
“g’s”—piggs. By-the-way, Victoria once had an
Education Minister who spelt “ recommend ” with
one “m,” and “until” with two “l’s”—and he
was a “Major,” too.
At the beginning of the Boei war, when
it was reported (though the report proved to be
wholly false) that the Boers were going to destroy
the Johannesburg mines, what a howl of indigna-
tion went up in Britain about the sacredness of
private property, and the rules of modern warfare
which forbade its destruction, and the utter
savagery of any nation which would dream of such
a thing ! And now that the British are destroy-
ing private property wholesale, and making the
whole country a blackened desert—well, there is
no howl now, and the alleged rules of modern
warfare are off, and the utter savagery of the
business has dropped quite out of sight.
As showing what Australia has to expect
from the dear old Mother Country (this half-
brick consists of extracts from a speech by the
British Chancellor of the Exchequer, printed in
Bradstreet’s, on the propoal to give a prefer-
ence to colonial products) :
There was, the Chancellor said, a strong, feeling- on this
subject in Germany, and the acceptance of the amend-
ment would mean running a most serious risk of losing
the favored-nation treatment Great Britain now enjoyed
in Germany. . . . The Chancellor declared that he was
not prepared to risk the loss of Great Britain’s foreign,
trade, which was greater than the trade with the colonies.
When the Empire is again in danger the kawlinies-
had best tell Britain to seek soldiers from her
foreign traders in Deutschland.
The truth is a great thing, but good, solid,
concentrated lying gets ahead of it three-fourths
of the time. The crucial clause in the Federal
Immigration Restriction Bill sets forth that every
immigrant must show his ability to write 50 words
of English WHEN called upon to do so, but every
nigger-loving paper and every Opposition paper-
in Australia declared that the Bill said every
immigrant must show his knowledge of English
whether he was called upon to do so or not,
and lamented about the alleged intention to-
exclude French and German and Scandinavian
immigrants. Apparently, the greater part of
Australia believes this silly invention by now-
all through dull, monotonous, persistent iteration.
Straight talk from Wellington (M.L.)
Post —which, with other Maoriland papers,
strongly suspects Premier Seddon of muting for
an Imperial billet
If it were to become an understood thrng that, che
Imperial Government could and would reward colonial
Ministers over and above what they could obtain from,
the suffrages of their fellow citizens in their own colonies,
an insidious blow would be struck at the independence of
colonial public life. The statesmen of Greater Britain
would not be able to keep a single eye upon the interests
of their own countries ; they would naturally feel that
the Imperial authorities must be considered at least as
much as the people who placed them in office. There
would be a tendency to use colonial politics as a means of
Imperial advancement and not, as they should be, as a
means of increasing the prosperity of the colony in,
question.
And this applies just as strongly to K.C.M.G.-
hunger as it does to Imperial billet-hunting.
An American gentleman, Eugene F. Loud,
transpired in Sydney last week and proceeded,
per medium of Sydney D.T., to give this country
some highly-superior advice
In my opinion you have here in Australia, with your-
State-owned railways, tramways and telegraphic services-
and so on, the embryonic elements which make for the
stifling of this personal incentive towards progress. . . .
I hear that the Government here finds work for the people
out of the public funds. You will, however, find that you
cannot go on doing that sort of thing long.
And this gentleman comes from a country where
nearly one-fourth of the public funds go, not to
find work for the people, but to pay people for
doing nothing. The U.S. bill for war-pensions
runs to nearly £30,000,000 a year—allowance to the
alleged widow of the man who stubbed his toe on a
root in the Mexican war 60 years ago, and such
like. It isn’t finding work for the people out of
the public funds, but the raising of public funds
by loans instead of taxation, that is the matter,
with Australia.
A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
3We learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attached to every bottle of Condy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
curing most of the ailments and accidents
affecting Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry,
ftftd Birds of all kinds.
Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses.—Scab, Foot Bot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Rinderpest, Hoove, Foul in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle.—Distemper
Mange, Canker, and Eczema in Dogs.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of local substitutes, all are
inferior. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
WSMm
CrO TO HELL-
-0 IGOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP. IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price*
lis gratis.
H ATS HATS. hats.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes titted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY » CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney*
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the A action Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-sb
I
OWWPS
ODOI^TO
OR PEARL DENTIFRICE.
Known for 75 years to be the Best and !
Purest Tooth Powder, as it contains no •
acid or gritty substances which ruin the'
Teeth and produce premature decay; it
WHITENS THE TEETH,
Prevents and arrests decay; strengthens the
gums, and gives a pleasing fragrance to the
breath. It penetrates to the hidden flaws;
and crevices of the teeth, and preserves and
beautifies them for years. Ask Stores and
Chemists for ROWLAND’S ODONTO,
of 67, Hatton Garden, London.
ujLiaiA'iHvaJ noJ
HIGH-GRADE
FARM —»
W®-
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd
35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Sydney.


Everything that is
BEST in
Musical
Instruments
at
O
We are exclusive dealers
in Musical Goods of
every description*
*
Our facilities for buying
are unequalled.
*
We deal direct with the
Manufacturers.
&
All Instruments are fully
Guaranteed.
*
They are the kind that
enable you to produce
the
BEST
RESULTS.
&
s
I
i
i
'[:Wm
1
ViolioS
BaojoS
Mapdofips
Aii to barps
PolyfcpooS
Cooccrtipas
Accordsoos, Ac- Ac.
BAND aod
ORCHESTRAL
INSTRUMENTS
At Cheapest Rates
~er
V
O
&
</
cP
$
G
❖
S>
&
STRINGS
and FITTINGS
for All Instruments
Lowest Prices.
EASY
TERMS
«PALIH<S*C°L TD
UJ
\Ji
CA 00
Cu ft
a n
m O
/©
(A
CoOQtry Readers
In Need of GLASSES for FAILING or
IMPAIRED VISION should write for my
PARCEL OF SPECTACLES
.. CONTAINING ..
6 PAIRS ASSORTED SIGHTS
and an ILLUSTRATED SHEET of INSTRUCTIONS
to aid you in selecting the right power, at prices from
3/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 21/- per pair,
case included.
Forward me the PRICE OF ONE PAIR and I will
send you the six Spectacles to select from, money returned
, if you are not suited.
H. A. BARRACLOUCH,
CONSULTING OPTICIAN,
371 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
Next door A. J.S. Bank (King & George Sts.).
And at 232 Collins Street, Melbourne.
USB
SPOONER’S
SPOONERS
v e^.
iWTtKt UATr*£?S SOOTS
CLA2F.D USDS *«
4*i*a-+' : -a **'**«'
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream,
For Cleaning: and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
VITADATIO,
The Greatest Blood Purifier
of the Century.
DEBILITY
COMPLETELY CUBED BY,
VITADATIO.
A resident of Magill, S.A., has added his testi-
mony to the many others in praise of this wonder-
ful remedy. He says : “ A member of my family
was suffering from debility, and became so weak
and ill that the carrying out of daily duties became
a burden, and at length impossible. Medicine did
not appear to do any good, and a change of air was
suggested, but as this was impossible under exist-
ing circumstances, I looked for something else to
afford relief. In looking' over a paper one evening
the words ‘Try Vitadatio’ caught my eye. I did
so, and after the sufferer had taken the first bottle
an improvement was noticeable, and three other
bottles effected a complete cure. This was 2 years
ago, and there has been no return of the illness
since. I have recommended Vitadatio to several
similarly afflicted, and the same good results have
followed.” HARRY CRAKER.
Brougham-street, Magill, S.A., 3.11.00.
For further particulars,
s. A . PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Te stimonials
Legal Notices.
U EENSLAND.
NEXT OE KIN.
The persons claiming to be next-of-kin, accord-
ing to the statutes for the distribution of the
Estates of Intestates, of THOMAS J EFFREY
(otherwise known as Thomas Jeffreys), late of
Charters Towers, in the State of Queensland, of
the Commonwealth of Australia, a native of St.
Agnes, Cornwall, England, living at the time of
his death, on the thirteenth day of May, 1896, or
to be the legal personal representatives of such of
the said next-of-kin as are now dead, are requested
to send in particulars of their claims to the
Curator of Intestate Estates in Brisbane, in the
State aforesaid.
Dated this sixteenth day of September, A.D.,
1901.
(Signed) J. B. HALL,
Curator of Intestate Estates,
Brisbane, Queensland.
Missing Friends.
R. FREDERICK CONSTANTINE HOPE
CHARLESWORTH. Information re-
quired concerning the whereabouts of him and
his children (if any) for their advantage. Last
heard of at Parramatta in 1887. Refer to
THYNNE & MACARTNEY, Solicitors, Bris-
bane, Agents for CULL & BRETT, Solicitors,
Staffordshire, England.
OUR SECOND CRADE
Oceanic Tyres
n
OCEANIC
CEANIC
TYRES
• CHEAP 4
AND \
DURABLE 1
have proved
!> such a success
since they were
put on the market at
the beginning of the year
that we have
decided to give a
6 Months’
Guarantee
with all “ OCEANIC ”
Tyres leaving our works
from this out.
Should
you
want
Cheap and Reliah?3 Tyres,
we can confidently
recommend
“ Oceanics ”
as ahs&Butely the
Second Best Tyres
on the marlot
They are not as good as
11 DUNLOPS”
but they are better than all the rest.
Obta.ina.ble ail Cycle Agents.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. OF AUS. LTD., 150 Clarence Street, Sydney;
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - cf
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
i*
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
(|]ont depiete o.#l.C®-»CW.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174. CASTLEREAGH ST., *7A.
1 SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Managed
“ -’l'll IC-.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robbrts,
C.M.G., M.L.0. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident. Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,872 —assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576 850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COL.LINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
file Bank of Barth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director - JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... ... *700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 000 ... *350.000
Queensland Smelting Compu.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
■DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap. ly to GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Bern Zealand Insurance go.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,009
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sidney.
Tb« Trustees, €x€^titorS,
AND
AgSOCV ConjpaOY Linjited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £BB5B 7 3
Amount, at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901 16,388,976 5 3
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
0. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.O.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED. J
CAPITAL PAID-UP £385,187
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 245,119
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 55,000
£685,306
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Ass. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Loudon.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors —Sydney : Sir W. M‘Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks.
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq. Wellington : H.
Beauchamp, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M ‘Faplane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar ; Wellington, N.Z., O. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Established 1879.
the ________________
United Australian mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Oollins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £590,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance.
AGENTS REQUIRED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
Alfred Webster, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
The savings bamk in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £10)0 to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15.000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 28, 12 Noon.
Gabo, Tuesday, October 1, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 5,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, October 1, 5 p.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tuesday, October 1, 5 p.m.,
takes passengers and cargo for S.S.
Buninyong, leaving Melb. Oct- 4.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUN I)A BERG
Peregrine, Sat., Sept. 28, 12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tuesday, Oot 1, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Oct. 5, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat., Sept. 28, 12 Noon.
Letira, Saturday, Oct. 5, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Caryo
booked throuah.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter -
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to Sail on or about 19th OCTOBER,
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
SUEVIC, PERSIC, RUNIC, and MEDIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
freneral y is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels. .
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class oidy, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout.
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA.
Huddart, parker & (o’s [ine
"—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST A USTKA LIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERSCA
CANADA
EUROPE
a: jxe i n
QJNCV
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCR-iW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., BTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts., SYDNEY.
TIME TABLE
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
STEAMERS LEAVE ARRIVE
Sydney. Auckland. Honnlulu Frmslgigco. (£12223?
Ont. 16 Out. 19 Oct. 29 Oct. 14 Nov. 15
Nov. 5 Nov. 9 Nun-.19 Nov. 25 Dec. 0
Nov. 26 Nov. 30 Dec. 10 Dan. 16 Dec. 27
Dec. 17 Dec. 21 Den. 8! Jan. (3 Jan. 17
Jun. 7 Jun. 11 Jun. 21 am). 27 Feb. 7
Jun. ‘28 Fab. 1 Feb. 11 Feb. '17 Fill). 28
Pub. 18 Feb. 22 MM. 9. Mar. 10 Mar. 21
THE “ALL RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OF TIIE
CANADIAN-AUSTRA'.IAN LINE
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
‘ Arrive
Leave Maila Leave Arrive Victoria
Steamer Sydney. Leave Brits. ilono- and
' 1 p.m. Sydney. bane. lulu. Van-
aouVer.
Moan: .. Oct. 7 Oct. 9 Oct. II Oct. 23 Oct. 31
Miowera .. 30v. 4 Nov. 6 Nov. 8 Nov. ‘20 Nov. ‘28
Aonmgi .. Dec. 2 Dec. 4 Dec. 6 Dcu. 18 Dec. 98
Connecting at Vancouver with the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold oi Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about i davs, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world—over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, applv to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ... .. £2,500,000
Hank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. .. 2,000,000 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,250,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 2,000,000 0 0
Total .. .. ... 5,250,000 0 0
Directors :
Hon. Chas. K. Mackbllar, M.L.C., President.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.C.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
Auditors:
F. W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Rank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
THE KTEW
EDISON TALKING MACHINES.
m
The Bijou Phonograph '
With Complete Outfit, including 6
Assorted Records, £2.
The Standard Phonograph
With Complete Outfit, including 24
(2 dozen) Assorted Re-
cords, 2 Blanks, £5 10s.
Undoubtedly the Best
Value ever offered.
Extra Edison Records,
20s. per dozen ; 12s. per
half-dozen. Concert (5J
inch) Records, 6s. each,
60s. dozen.
Send for Catalogues con-
taining 3000 selections.
BEEVES & CO., ADELAIDE and BROKEN HILL
nxr. id. x_.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Ado-
G.M.S. Tons Commander. 813'an hide,
p.112. 2
17.111.
KARLSRDHE 5057 (5. Ron. .. 00b. 19 Out. 26
*RHEIN . . 10058 G. Dunncmnnn Nov. 16 Nov. 23
~NEOKAE amt-3‘7 l{armasoxvttz...'vec. 7 Dec. 14
‘1’. R. LUITPOLD 628814. Mun.“ WIDL-‘o. 28Jnn. 4
*FRIEDRIOH u. G. 10568 M. Einhul . Jun. 18 Jan. 25
'G. KURF‘URST 13182 Rehnkuaben ...Il“ob. 81"eb. 15
'BBEMEB ...11500R~ Nieriuh ..-Mnr. 1 Mar. 8
♦Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to HONGKONG,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA and YAP.
G.M.S. NUEN TUNG, 1341 Tons,
Captain Schoenberg,
LEAVING SYDNEY, 27th SEPTEMBER NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Publications.
“FAUST.”
Yd RAND SELECTION from Gounod’s popular Opera
arranged for Pianoforte by Warwick Williams.
Published at 4s.
Also,
The celebrated WALTZ and stirring SOLDIERS’ CHORUS
MARCH from the same Opera.
Of all Music Sellers.
W. PAXTON & CO., London & Melbourne.
Catalogues Free.
THE BALLET GIRL
33x .
-' f ' -r .. .
(I a" eggs“:
2‘“ #1.;
.3 l l\
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Noveltii
Madame Panza,
913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
PHOTO
} From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beau tv, and
( Chic; Carefully Selected Assortments, >
( Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated '
) Catalogue and M matures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
• Money Order or Cheque on Loudon.
English, French, and German Rare Books.
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GENNERT,
83c Faubourg- St., Martin, Paris, France
Banking.
THE PEOPLE’S PRUDENTIAL ASS USA 'MI
1 COMPANY LIMITED.
SHAREHOLDERS of the PEOPLE’S PRUDENT!,
ASSURANCE CO. LTD. are hereby notified that
DIVIDEND at the rate of Five Pounds per centum h
been declared, and is now payable at the Company’s
offices, 14 Moore-street, Sydney.
F. SPARROW, Secretary.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR AIELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Allinga, Friday,
September 27.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday.
October 5.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Adelaide, Friday,
September 27.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A. U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith aiid
Sons. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY,
A. U. S. N. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINK
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Nornmnton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Rasseni/er Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO, Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
D AND O. COMPANY’S
*" ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
" Sydney
steamer. ‘3 Connnnnder. , '
a Noon
CHINA 7912 '1‘. 8. Anﬁuﬂ .. .. Oct. 5
ARUADIA .. 6663 A; 0. Loggia .. Oct. 19
-mmA .. mnlw. D. (M masher,R.N.n.0ct. 31
OCR-ANA lwua u. Gadd .. .. Nov. 10
BRITANNIA 6325 F. A. Seymour Nov. 80
* Leaving- two days earlier on account of Melbourne Races.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £7llos to £l2l
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific, and
Messageries Maritimes Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
06m- Sydney I Me!» Aﬂe'
Summer ' bonnie, hide,
_ \mnnder- | Noon. l ”U". 1pm.
TONKIN Durrauda'Sept. 80 Och. 300:. b
ARMANI) BE-Lu Coin-l I
BIC . .. pwllivr .008. 280%. ‘ﬂNoV. 2
AUSTRALIER .. Verron .uh'ov. 2621M. ssxov. so
v.nm.mum\'rwmmm lDec. 231m; 2009c. as
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
anil Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DETHUY, Principal Agent.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. iTns | Commander. Leave Sydney.
GUTHRIE .. '2500 W. G. M‘Arthur .. September 28
EASTERN .. 3600 Winthrop Ellis ..'October 19
AIRLIE .. 2500 St. John George November 16
AUSTRALIAN .. 3000 P. T. Helms .. December 7
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALG-OORLIE, 4500 tons,
GOOLGAEDIE, 3500 TONS.
SAIL FORTNIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
EVPILWRAITH, M'EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle
ytiney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.
GENTS.^
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
\ddkbss.—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
A POLICY FOR THE
COMMONWEALTH-
Now Ready.
Price (id. ;
Posted, Bd.


S.A. Govt, has so far repurchased 39,281
acres for closer settlement, at a cost of £81,367. It
has sub-divided this among 249 lessees, and gets
£2915 per annum in rent —equal to £3 11s. Bd. per
cent, per annum on its outlay. The return is
really more than this, for the purchase money
included improvements which the new lessees pay
for separately by instalments. Probably trie
State gets rather over £4 per cent, on its outlay,
and gains a number of new taxpayers as well.
From the British Medical Journal:
The open-air treatment of consumption, of which we
are hearing much at the present day, is . . . bidding fair
to come under the baneful influence of routine. . . .
What, think you, does the consumptive and his friend
see in this ? He sees a residence for a few months in a
Home, and a cure at the end of it. Is that what he has
any chance of obtaining? Certainly not, and in propor-
tion to the exaggerated hope will come the bi tterness of the
disappointment to the sick, and the discredit to us. The
benefit to be obtained in these sanatoria is that there will
be learned a habit of life —what we mean by plenty of
good food and plenty of fresh air ; and having learned his
lesson, the tuberculous man will need to practise it all
the rest of his life. There is no cure in this treatment,
as the sick man understands cure ; for although it is true
that there is no disease that is more often arrested than
phthisis, it is equally true that there is no disease that
has a more inveterate tendency to relapse, and I very
much fear that when you come to strike the balance
between arrest and relapse, the latter has the best of it.
Therefore, if the open-air treatment is to take its real
place, and be of any abiding value, the principles of the
sanatorium must be introduced into the home.
lAVE YOU
A BAD LEI
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion V If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering, till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the jointß being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
mav be discoloured, or there majj be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/l§d. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents ; ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE'S
fNLOROPyNE
Oantion. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLBS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Bays’ Trial.
1% L17“???
..-g'..$:,,-__‘.,‘V «£4537 ‘x;
w/JAJ ('3 s ,
I”)??? W
J" v,-
-~~' -, J-_..-
Eifiéﬁ, 13:33?
"£1 , .‘_ $2.": ‘
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECT ETC
KELTS and
AEELIA ACES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC! ERA.” Our Electric
lieits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Mnrvi llous Electric
lieits give a s' eady sooth-
ing current that can be
f< It by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will pernum-ntl.v cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICE.— Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), Riving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
German Electric Appliance Agency
G 3 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
s: 9;;
--;3Hﬁ.)'1&' It
HOTELKEEPERS!
MAKE YOUR OWN
>ERATEDWATERS.
rj>HE “AUSTRAL” AERATED WATER MACHINE occu-
pies only Four Feet Square, will produce 150 Dozen per day of
Finest Waters (LEMONADE, GINGEE ALE, SODAWATER, &c.)
at a Cost below Fourpence per Dozen. This machine
supersedes all others for SIMPLICITY and USEFULNESS, as it
requires no skilled labor to work it.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214-216 Queen-st,, MELBOURNE.
VINOLIA SOAP
FOR DELICATE, SENSITIVE SKINS.
The Public think Soap is Soap.
So it is—but there’s a great
difference in Soaps. Some injure
the Complexion, but VINOLIA
improves it.
VINOLIA SOAP is Specially prepared
for delicate , sensitive skins , and is acknow-
ledged in every country the Finest Soap in
the World for the Complexion .
Dr Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
mu . u, u u y condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Clarkson’s Sle-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
vigour** energT ’ and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGOR ATOR
Will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves n . . ,
r , „ THEIR TOUCH IS & MAGNETIC JNerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
Price ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
“"§
(4%)
CAM. OR WRITE-
owx.
CUT
RATE
store
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
■at.
s
s
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnece sary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
arid Debilitated. Sufferers from Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia, .ZEnemia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
-kCbISTERtD
IIHILMeS
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Item-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERB RASSMUSSEFS CHIEF LABORATORY,
ALFALIHE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Affections, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Course, 23/6.
ALFALIHE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases, Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6,
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
JUnemia, Waiting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALIHE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOXES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
bago. 1> xes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Aifaline Electric Suspender Bandage—
This Suspender imparts Sir.ngth and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A
Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
posted, 35., 65., 12s. and 235. 6d.
Electric Belts —Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
cure for all Spinal and Kidney Affections ;
425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Correspondence held confidential.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/*
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
CORN CURE, 1/-.
OINTMENT, 1/-.
fifths
V-Ai'-r 8
p ::
mmm
H ERBAL ALffttlME PIUS IfflfflHASSHUStf
HjjHElffl RASSHUSSIW
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST„ SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and hia
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke-st.
BRISBANE —309 Queen-st.
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney-st.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W. A—PERTH, 481 Hay-st.
K ALGrOORLIE—Hannan - st.
BOULDER ClTY—Piesse-st.
FREMANTLE—Henry-st.
' A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALFALINE REMEDIES,


SPORTING NOTIONS.
There was. a lovely mix-up at Randwick on
Saturday. Eulowrie finished first in the Flying Stakes,
and was subsequently disqualified because trained by
an unlicensed trainer. But he was not disqualified
till he had weighed in and the few cash bets
made—he was a rank outsider—had been settled.
Oxenham’s T.M. S., the second horse, was given the
stake, and ’twas decided that bets remain unaffected.
Rule 28 makes it clear Eulowrie should never have been
allowed to start, but rule 2, governing bets, compli-
cated the matter somewhat. Nevertheless, Eulowrie had
“transgressed the rules of racing” by starting when he
had no right to, and he was legally disqualified from com-
pet'ng at all. So why Eulowrie’s backers should receive
and T.M.S.’s pay when their horse was adjudged the
winner, and beat all horses who were qualified to start,
is a question that puzzles the racing public greatl}'.
The A.J.C. will probably constitute itself a Full Court
to hear the appeal ; but in the meantime Mo has paid
out the few sovs. he laid against Eulowrie, and if the
judgment goes against him there will be a howl that,
having paid out on one winner, it is calculated to scare
capital out of the country, and lead to the utter destruc-
tion of racing and the absolute ruin of the ring, and is
also against all principles of justice and religion to be
compelled,to pay out on two horses—when he has already
paid out on the cheapest.
• • * »
Barragunda (Rand wick’s second sensation on
Saturday—Eulowrie was the other) is a large, handsome,
four-year-old by Bill of Portland from Melodious, the dam
of Wallace, and fetched a big price at the breaking-up of
the late W. R. Wilson’s stud. Many judges picked him
as the best of the lot. Saturday’s was his initial win.
* * * »■
The recent accidental drowning of the owner
and one of the crew of the ketch Rachel Thompson, on
the Tas. east coast, recalls a few old-time happenings.
The ketch, a 15-ton ner, was built for bookmaker Joe
Thompson as a cruising-yacht, and named after his wife.
Joe subsequently gave the craft to his wife’s brothers,
Lou and Dan Jones, two daredevil young Tas. fisher-
men, and Lou sailed the Rachel continuously until
drowned the other day. During a big blow they anchored
the ketch, and he, with two others, tried to reach shore
in the dingey, which was swamped—two of the three
perishing. The genial Lou was a great favorite with the
fisher-folk of the Flyspeck, and many a yarn is told about
him. On one occasion he sailed from Tas. for Sydney
with several tons of trumpeter, all-alive-oh in the “ well.”
Lou had never been in Sydney before, and knew nothing
of scientific navigation, so, like Captain Cook, he missed
the Heads altogether and wandered away up North for
about a week. Then he came South again, and, seeing a
steamer which was ahead of him suddenly disappear,
stem-on, into the cliffs, he decided to follow “on spec.”
Next morning the cargo was in Sydney Fish Market;
and, as the trumpeter had been all along carefully fed,
they were in good order and realised high prices.
♦ ♦ * •
Holy Church took a deep interest in the recent
A.J.C. Spring Meeting. If Mr. Eden George’s Kenley
won the Epsom £lOO was, as per the owner’s promise, to
go to the Cardinal. If Mr. Crick’s First Consul scored a
win his Eminence benefited to the same extent The
Church lost on Kenley, but won on First Consul. This
sort of thing should be encouraged to extend. No R.O.
horse-owner would imperil his immortal soul by running
stiff a horse on which the Church had got its beans.
* • ♦ •
Luck again. A Riverina Mo got a license to
bet at recent A.J.C. meeting, but jibbed at the last
moment, an.d punted instead. His haul totted up ’tween
six and eight thousand, and he reckons changing his
mind enriched him to the extent of at least £lO,OOO, as,
had he donned the bag, it would have cost him all £2OOO.
* * * •
The practice of naming racehorses after pro-
minent local men is increasing and should be stopped at
once. “ John See” and “ Crick” were prominently before
the public on the race-track during the last week or two.
A future Melbourne Cup might be run for by “ Cardinal
Moran,” “ Dill Macky,” and “ John Norton.” A man has
a right to his own name, and a right to demand that its
pirating should not make him liable .to ridicule and
derision.
“Ancient”: Jockey Frank Kuhn’s nine wins
at recent A.J.C. gathering recalls that T. Hales, at V.R.O.
Autumn meeting in ’BB, had 14 mounts and got home 11
times. Four of them were on the opening day, and in
succession. At Sydney City Tatts.’ races, Saturday last,
Kuhn was out four times, but didn’t get a “drum” till
he won the last on Barragunda. His big crowd of
followers conseauently unloaded much of their A.J.C.
winnings.
• » • *
Kogarah trainer-owner Andy Gollan, who
brought Australian Star to light and then had a parlous
period till he won a Tatt’s sweep on S.A. Cup, has another
promising nag in Lady Grafton—half sister to Crosslake.
She owned City Tatt.’s Trial Handicap, Saturday, from
end to end, and will do heaps better when asked.
.** * »
San Fran was sold last week for £2500. Late
owner. Smith offered the horse to an English buyer for
£l7OO, but the vet.’s report was adverse. Now the man
from Tucka Tucka has got £BOO more and won £3OOO
Erize-money in the interim. The price is big, but unless
a Carabine is at her zenith, San Fran promises well for
most of the coming Vic. long distance w.f.a. races.
■fr * ♦ *
Lucknow, Kelso’s latest acquisition, is fancied
by many for Caulfield Cup. Was bred by the Rev.
Winter, of Rylstone (N S.W.), out of a buggy mare, whose
origin, except that her sire was a son of Kingston, is com-
pletely lost. He first attracted attention racing for
bridles and such. Original owner sold him for £l2 ;
Kelso bought him for £4OO, and has already done well out
of the investment. ,
**■ • »
Thoroughbred stallion Correze dropped dead
at Cumnock (N.S.W.), after being in his new
owner’s possession only a few days. He was by Newmin-
ster from Ouida, by Yattendon from My Fancy, sister
to My Love and Lady Emma. His career was brilliant:
A.J.C. December Stakes at two years, and following
season he ran third to Carbine in Melb. Cup ; won V.R.O.
Handicap (lfm.) in record time,of 3.3 ;an extra fast run
A.J.C. St. Leger; won Sydney Mail champion prize of £l5O
at N.S.W. Agricultural Society’s Show in 1900. Best of
his progeny, so far, are First Consul, T.M.S. and Zurich,
winner of Q.T.O. St. Leger. Correze was a hot-pot forMal-
volio’s Cup. Had the big thing pome off, then owner
Jack M'Laughlin would have landed quite a big fortune.
But it didn’t.
* • ■* *
Wren’s sly tote, conducted so successfully at
Melbourne despite the law, must often make the gentle
punter yearn for its legalisation. When Tilbury won at
Caulfield t’other day the books’ price was Bto 1. The
tote paid 45 to 1, and 24 to 1 for a place ; and when, pre-
viously, another horse won on same course, the books
laid Bto 1, and the tote paid 44. No wonder Ikey Mo culti-
vates the parson, and sometimes even goes to church.
• * • *
Adelaidesportsmen are wondering whether, after
the Federal Govt, has suppressed Tasmanian Tattersall’s,
it will be encouraged to try its hand on the destruction
of the S.A. Totalisator. One thing seems just about as
rational as the other. But The Bulletin is almost
tempted to predict that “ Tatt ” will not be suppressed
after all.
• • • *
The sly-tote has reached such dimensions in
Adelaide that the racing clubs begin to fear loss of busi-
ness. Clients of the sly-tote don’t attend meetings, but
collect their divs. directly after the names are posted at
the news-offices. Whereas the racing machine only pays
on first horse, the sly-tote pays on one, two, and three.
As this is apparently more popular with the public,
S.A.J.C. and A.R.O. have decided to split divs. between
first and second at a ratio of 66 and 33 per cent, as an
experiment, provided the police raise no objection.
V.R.C. Sec. Byron Moore, summing up racing
in Victoria, says when he first joined the club, the
owners pooled £13,585 to get £lO,OOO added money. Last
season, they contributed £11,287 to win £32,807, which
means that where, one time, every £ won cost owners
about 275., it now only calls for an outlay of 7s.
* • * *
Sydney cricket season has started. Charley
Turner will bowl again for the Sydney team. Paddington
should have a mortgage on the premiership. But if the
idea of carrying out the programme irrespective of what
“ big ’’ matches are going on is adhered to, the team will
be handicapped, since Noble, Trumper and Kelly, who
form its backbone, will be picked in any inter-State or
international fixtures.
* * • *
Bowler Blythe, of Maclaren’s team, promises to
be the merest passenger, as far as their batting is con-
cerned. The 10th man in of most All-England elevens
has rarely given the Australians any trouble, but Blythe
is a phenomenal duffer. During the past English season,
when big scores were the rule rather than the exception,
Blythe made an average of six.
* • • *
The only W.G., at 54, and scaling 18st., is still
a marvel. Recently, for Crystal Palace against Wiltshire,
he knocked up 188 of his side’s 366.
* * * *
The startlingly-sudden death of footballer
W. A. Shortland, was ascribed to influenza and kidney
trouble, but it has since transpired that he was kicked in
the back at the Invercargill match, and often had to be
rubbed to ease the stiffness. He played for City against
Country in ’97, ’9B, ’99 ; for N.S.W. against M.L. in ’97 and
present season, and against Queensland in ’97, ’9B, ’99, ’OO
and ’01; also against England. His field position was
five-eighths. He was also a very capable cricketer, having
put up 155 for Sydney against Melbourne ’Varsity three
years ago. A Bachelor of Engineering with honors, he
held a good position on the staff of the Sydney W. and S.
Board.
* * • •
Costello, captain of N.S.W. football team to
M. was kicked on almost the same spot in the head in
the first and last matches at Wellington, and on the last
occasion so badly injured that he had to remain behind.
When accidents happen about once in 10 years in boxing
there’s a yowl for the suppression of the sport, but
nobody ever dreams of suppressing football, though every
season has its dead and wounded roll.
* * * *
“Spring”: The disasters which overtook the
N. footballers in Maoriland were expected by
the few who knew that the selectors aimed at making
the tour a “social success.” The M.L. forwards
are weighty bullockers, whose methods smashed
up the N.S.W. men—lamb-like gentlemen whom N.S.W.
sent over because they could talk good “ grammar.”
Poor Shortland got a kick which went a long
way to kill nim Costello lies dangerously ill in Welling-
ton from cranial injuries ; and several prominent players
swear they will never play the game again. Next tour
the N.S.W. forwards should be men of the carcase-butcher
type who won’t distinguish between collaring a Maori-
land forward and the side of a guessing-competition
bullock.
* * • ♦
Crack ’Murkan middle-weight, Jim Scanlon,
descended upon Sydney, last week, in search of scalps.
He carried those of two 11.4 men, Mick Oreedon
and Jim Ryan. Oreedon has been on the down-grade
for years, and Ryan was not what he used to be, there-
fore these victories don’t prove very much. Still, Scanlon
looks remarkably fit, and (good sign) skites not at all.
He is willing to fight anyone for anything, stake, gate, or
both combined. Armidale pug., M'Coll, who had gone
back to maintenance work, has stowed away his tools,
and will meet the invader at Newcastle, where a good
gate is assured. Mac will scale 11.8. Scanlon is willing,
and, if he wipes the floor with Mac, will reach for Stur-
geon’s hair. After him, Tut Ryan and heavy premier Bill
Doherty, physical disparity notwithstanding'. Altogether,
Scanlan has a delightful little programme before him.
* • • *
Some weeks ago, Pyrmont (Syd.) pug. Frost
made mincemeat of the lightweight Riley, who, fresh
from ’Frisco, lacked preparation. On Saturday night
they again collided cheerfully at the Golden Gate
(Sydney). Riley was bigger, but not stronger, than
the Cornstalk, and he bashed Frost heavily about the
ribs, and bustled him with Yankee tricks. Frost
retorted with smashes across the lower countenance
generally. The ’Friscan ma’de picturesque, bull-like
rushes, which bore Frost on to the ropes, where the
Yankee smashed savagely at a rampart of forearms and
elbows around the face, regardless of the defenceless
bingey below. Frost’s head bumped the ring-post, and,
after squinting round to see who’d struck him, he got his
face back just in time to stop Riley’s elbow. There was
a whirling scramble on the ropes, and a wild hook just
skimmed the face of an enthusiastic barracker who had
put his nose too far into the scrum. In round eight Riley
commenced to tire, and in the 11th a swirling right
smashed him all up. Frost fights too intelligently for the
Yankee.
* * • *
Bruising management is a low-down game. In
Melbourne, recently, Abe Hicken was matched against
George O’Neil. Abe is a tottering old man now, who
ought to be worrying about old-age pensions instead of
boxing matches. Over 40 years ago he won the ’Murkan
lightweight championship, and nearly 25 years ago Larry
Foley downed him at Echuca (Vic.). O’Neil is younger
and more vigorous, but a 30s. gate squelched the dis-
graceful affair—the ancients were not going to fight for
barely enough to pay for steak and sticking-plaster.
* * * •
London Referee’s tribute to poor, black-bodied,
white-hearted Peter : “Mostßefereereaderswereprepared
to hear of Peter Jackson’s death. He was, so far as we
knew him in England, a gentleman—a nobleman in all his
dealings ; one of the finest boxers ever seen, and as brave
as he was strong. Few heavy-weights nowadays ever are
as good after a big fight as before it. One hard one is
enough. Jackson might have gone on but for being feted
so greatly. Probably he never recovered from that awful
set-to with Slavin.”
* * * *
One-time top-notch bruiser Tom Lees has re-
appeared in the British ring, and at a trial match badly
clawed an English amateur champion. Lee is now well
into the 40’s, and when he fought Jackson in the White
Horse'Gym., George-st., Sydney, he showed splendid
sprinting powers, powers that would have made a fortune
in the then-flourishing Carrington and Botany Handicaps.
His last bashing was from English middleweight Jack
Scales, who simply walloped him flat.
• • * •
Judging by N.S.W. Rowing Association’s
Regatta, Saturday, amateur aquatics are done, although
Towns’victory may boom the professional branch some-
what. On Saturday interest was tepid, entries poor, and
racing very mediocre. Few clubs were represented, and
the Champion Eights were won in a hollow fashion from
’Varsity by Glebe. Ten-stone Daley’s win of the Premier
Sculls was a mere paddle all the way from his club chum,
Lichtscheindl (10.4) of the Mercs.
* * * •
Raymond Terrace (N.S.W.), Towns’ habitat,
jubilated twice over its man’s defeat of Gaudaur. On the
day originally fixed for the race a Sydney daily got a wire
from its local correspondent announcing that “ Raymond
Terrace received with great joy the news of the victory” ;
yet the race had not been rowed. When the event had
been decided in Towns’ favor, the Terrace filled ’em up
again. *
* * » *
N.S.W. long-distance runner “Wally” York
won the three-mile supremacy at Redfern (Sydney)
Saturday. Grindal led until the last quarter, when York
came with a spurt that set /OQO onlookers cheering madly
as he went home 50 yards in front. Time, 16.9,-42 seconds
slower than W. J. Burk’s Dunedin record of eight years
ago. Only a few days previously he won the N.S.W.
Cross Country Championship, and yet a year or so ago he
was bedridden with rheumatism and seemed a confirmed
invalid for life.
Spider-legged, pancake-chested section of Vic.
athletes had a day out at Caulfield, Saturday, in the 10-
miles Cross-country Premiership. Essendon rep. Stillwell
got home in 62min. 4sec., with R. A. Ferguson ssec.
slower (second), and D. M'Donald lmin. 4sec. further
away, third. Last year’s premier team (East Melbourne)
scores again—B points better than Essendon.
* * * *
Professional wheeling may revive this season.
A big contingent of Yankee wheelers are coming per s.s.
Ventura, including champion Kramer, Canuck M‘Leod,
Floyd M'Farland, Ivor Lawson, J. Chapman and W. B.
Vaughan, in company with Australian and English cracks,
Walne and Green.
• * * *
Ponderous Sydney D.T. bikist, Arthur Smythe,
on Saturday did the half-mile in 1.3 1-5, which is 2-5
inside his own previous best. He has now all unpaced
records up to 10 miles, and is training for a raid on the
amateur paced ones.
At Poverty Point.
The red-haired super, came out to adjust the concert
grand. A woman in the stalls : “ That’s him ! ” Her
escort: “No fear ! He’s red-headed. He can’t play ! ”
Query : Oan’t red-headed men play pianos ? Any instances
to the contrary available?
Adorable Catherine Bartho, formerly primibre danseuse
in the Firm’s “ Blue Ballet,” made her first appearance
at London Palace Theatre, t’other week, and
knocked ’em with “ some excellent cake-walk business on
her toes.” The Russian girl is billed as Miss Bartho, and
one supposes that she is not so Russian nowadays as when
she used to be interviewed through her duenna and in-
terpretess by Australian pressmen. A Melb. Age press-
man told a pleasing story of how his interview with
Bartho led to a trial of her alleged wonderful wrist-
strength, which ended in the wily charmer falling
“ beaten ” against his manly chest. She was wearing her
scanty ballet costume, and the journalist enjoyed his
victory immensely, but he fancied that Bartho let him
win because it suited her better to fail against his chest
than to reverse the result.
A benefit for Tom Kennedy, sec. of the Melb. Distressed
Actors’ Fund, is now afoot. The injury that Kennedy
sustained through falling down a restaurant cellar-hole
was even more serious than it seemed at first, for, after
being about for some months with his arm in a sling, he
has had to undergo a serious operation.
If Melba’s voice were as big as her head ! She has been
telling the papers that her fee for an “at-home” is 500
guineas, and her condition—“ I don’t want to meet any
young man. I don’t want to meet any poor man ; I don’t
want to meet any stupid man. I don’t want to meet
many women, and I don’t want to meet any who are not
lively, well-dressed, and brilliant.” From manager J. C.
Williamson she asks £5OO a night to come to Australia—
her own dear country, her beloved Australia!—and
though J.O.W. is a great sportsman, he doesn’t feel
equal to that.
“0.C.” : An original touch about “ Lady Huntworth’s
Experiment ” is that which makes the heroine 40 years of
age, and still sought after. When the disguised cook
begins her story of marital misery with the remark
“ When I married Lord Huntworth, I was” —the astute
theatre-goer expects the next words tobe—“ ayoung and
innocent girl,” and is agreeably disappointed when the
concluding observation is “a woman of 30 who had spent
her youth in nursing a sick father.” A realistic touch.
The mature woman who has lived a secluded life is far
more likely to make a foolish marriage than the aforesaid
young and innocent girl, who has only the ignorance of
youth to mislead her, and not the added ignorance
acquired by 10 years’ reading of mental “ soft tack,” to a
decaying wreck. Lady Huntworth seems not to have had
any proposals till she was 30, and then an unsteady peer,
who used coarse metaphors, such as “ taking one’s pigs to
market,” annexed her, no one else apparently being to the
fore. Disguised as a cook, however, and with 10 more
years to her age, Lady Huntworth has whole households
at her feet. Lady Huntworth is a good cook, though
absent-minded. The moral is obvious. Hope is never
wholly lost for the woman who can cook.
Harry Leader, “ the well-known Australian dramatist,”
has a 20min. “sketch” at a London hall. The sketch
seems quite new and original in its powerful absurdity
It shows how a young husband shoots his mother dead,
she having broken into his wife’s bedroom disguised as a
man, with intent to wreck the bride’s reputation ! But
who is the well-known H. Leader, anyhow ?
One Great and Majestic Actor, now in Australia, has
not endeared himself to his brethren by his method of
receiving (and dismissing) the mere ordinary actor who
applies for a billet. The interviews usually take place
in the Great One’s dressing-room what time he is
“ making up ” and are punctuated by hand-mirror exer-
cises and the flourishing of grease-paint sticks. A recent
encounter was not without humor. Ordinary Actor
enters. The Great One does not turn rou> d, but con-
tinues to dab his face with a towel-end. O.A. : “Good
evening, Mr. Greatactor. I hear you are in need of a
second ‘lead.’ I beg to, &c.” G.A. : “Ah! um—yes.
(To dresser) Heat another No. 2. Who have you been
with?” O.A. : “Mr. Soanso and Mr. Suchausuch.”
G.A.: “Ah! um—slippers—red ones !—Yes ; what
salary?” O.A. : “Well, I’ve never got less than £lO a
week.” (Pause.) G.A. : “Ye-es {rouge). Ah! (towel).
Shut—the door after you, will you?”
Elliot Galer, the one-time popular English operatic
tenor, who died in June last, made his first essay with a
co. which included Lucy Escott, Aug. Braham, and
Aynsley Cook. When the Pyne and Harrison Opera Co.
was being formed Galer wrote to Harrison with commend-
able brevity : “ Dear Harrison, I want an engagement.
Yours truly, Elliot Galer.” Harrison was equally short:
“ Dear Galer, I’m sorry to. hear it. Yours truly, William
Harrison."
Strange that the paragraphists have made little or no
allusion to Walter Everard in connection with “ The
Message from Mars ” co. The dapper Walter, who is finan-
cially interested in the tour, came out from London some
six months ago, and his irreproachable belltopper adorns
the front of the house. Seems that after playing for four
consecutive years in Penle.v’s original London production
of “ Charley’s Aunt,” he broke loose from the stage, and
ran a military journal for three years on the noblest
advertising principles. Time flies. The Everard who
made his first appearance at the old Melbourne Opera
House (Oct. 9, 1886) in “ Turned Up,” under the manage-
ment of Brough, Boucicault, and Harwood, has allowed
his hair to grow white over the ears, but he looks capab'e
of being just as young as ever behind the footlights. By
the way, how comes it that this brisk comedian has been
back in Australia for six months without notifying his
presence from the stage ? If Walter Everard were to re-
introduce himself to a Melbourne audience, he would
probably be surprised at the warmth of his reception.
Lots of people remember “ Turned Up ” and “ Our Regi-
ment,” and the lapses into Boucicaultian drama of the
pioneer B. and B. Co. Everard was the interesting young
man in those early shows, and the [girls viewed him
approvingly. Also, he appeared as a highly genteel
Ferdinand in Rignold’s production of “ The Tempest ” at
Melb. Royal.
♦
The usual protracted stone - throwing
mystery at Manilla (N.S.W.) has been cleared
up in the usual way by the confession of the usual
little girls. At a certain age the spirit moves
very many little girls to throw stones (or accusa-
tions in regard to their honor) about in a careless
and unreasoning fashion. Psychological medicos
will soon have to give very serious attention
indeed to the young-hussey problem.
The Yic. Pecksniff Govt., threatened with
further trouble over its Convention Bill, talks of
bringing in a proposal to test the sincerity of the
numerous Tories who “want Parliamentary
reform, but don’t want to be interfered with by a
lot of outsiders.” Of course, the reform will be
jumped on just as heavily as the Convention Bill
itself, but its refusal would strengthen Smiler
Peacock’s hand wonderfully, if he really wants it
strengthened—a matter of considerable doubt.
“ Housework.’
Housework seems easy to a man, but there is a
great deal of lifting and reaching to do, a great
many trips up and down stairs to make in the
course of a day’s housework. It’s hard when a
women is well—for a woman suffering from some
form of disease it is daily torment. There are
thousands of such women struggling along, day by
day, in increasing misery. There are other
thousands who have found
a complete cure of their
ailments in the use of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
Mrs. Jew, propi-ietress of
the Theatre Royal Hotel,
Brisbane, states clearly what
she means in a few words.
She writes “ For some
years I have suffered from a
sluggish liver, accompanied
at times by severe pains in
my chest and shoulders.
These pains not only caused
me intense suffering, but
they often kept me from
doing my household work,
and confined me to my bed.
No medicine gave me per-
manent relief, and many
failures made me despon-
dent, so when I tried Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills I
had little hope that they
would give me any great
relief ; but I can assure you
that one bottle made me feel
a different woman. I find
they are a very good pill,
acting mildly and search-
ingly, benefiting the whole
system ; and I can recom-
mend them to anybody
needing sucli a medicine.”
Vi
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood
purifier and,a positive cure for biliousness, indiges-
tion, constipation, headaches, sallow complexion,
liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils,
blotches, and female ailments. Sold by chemists
and storekeepers, Is 1/td per bottle, or six bottles
6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the full
name blown thereon.*
The compiler of Sands’ Sydney DritECTOBY
notifies the public that desired alterations for
1902 in names and addresses in city and suburbs
should be sent in not later than the Ist week of
October prox.
Editor Bulletin. —Re “G.A.P’s” par.
(B. 14/9/01). I will allow you, or any other
responsible party, to select for treatment a person
of unquestionable baldness—no matter of how
long standing—and, providing there be the faint-
est down on the scalp, I will treat the subject
fratis for 16 weeks—paying over £25 to Sydney
lospital, if, at the end of that period, Capilla
has not produced hair from 1 to 2 inches long.
W. Richards, Proprietor, Capilla Hair-Tonic.*
Arthur Griffith and Allen, 169 Phillip-
street, Sydney, Patent Agents and Consulting
Engineers. Patents, Trade Marks and Copyrights
protected throughout the world.*
“Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled “ Piles and the Wav to
Cure Them,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.*
Messrs. Brandt Bros., 236 Pitt-street,
Sydney, have brought out a new self-acting ice-
cream freezer, which requires no labor ; price, 15s.
Fresh water poured daily into their well-known
butter-cooler reduces the temperature 20 degrees;
price, ss. Catalogues free.
The Rotorua district (M.L.) has developed
a new geyser of huge proportions. The liquid
surface is a quarter-acre in extent, and the up-
heaval, when the thing “performs,” can be seen
miles away.
The prohibition of the adulteration of wine
with potato-spirit was only passed by the Federal
House of Reps, by a majority of one ! Which
shows that if the people want to get rid of adulter-
ation they’ll have to make the matter a hustings
question.
k Suit iiino
FOB the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY Al
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
W. W. GREENER’S NEW RIFLE
f
Hade expressly for Cadet Corps.
An entirely New & Exclusive Design.
The new Rifle has been produced
solely to supply the wants of Cadet
Corps for a REALLY RELIABLE
and ACCURATE RIFLE at a low
price, £3 3s. "*3
Ten Shots in 3 inch Square at 100 yards.
GENUINE ENGLISH MANUFACTURE THROUGHOUT
Every Rifle guaranteed and named
W. GREENER, Birmingham, England.
On Hand—Greener Guns from 9 to 30 Guineas ; Martini
Sporting Rifles, take 44 Winchester Cartridges, very
accurate; Lee Enfield and Metford Rifles. “ Sharpshootikg
for Sport and War,” posted 1/2. Stamps from other States
not accepted. KSf All Rifle Shots should read this Book.
Chas. "W. Buck and,
Representing W. W. GREENER,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
REUTER'S
UTTLE
PILLS FOR
THE LIVER.
Are particularly adapted to the needs
of the family, act in such a manner as to
cause no inconvenience, specially intended
for the cure of all ailments arising from a
disordered LIVER and STOMACH.
7W
7W
Advantage
is a term used in the game of tennis. When selecting a Bicycle
- it is a word of great import. The buyer of a bicycle wants'-the
machine which embodies the greatest advantages in respect to speed, quality and strength.
RED BIRD BICYCLES
Are constructed by British experts. The Mechanism is simple, the Frame rigid and graceful in design.
The Easy Payment Terms will suit you.~»J Red Bird Bicycle Department—
Branches in Every State, 64 KING STREET, SYDNEY.


NELLIE
> STEWART
BANGLES.
Always Popular.
In all sizes .
* * *
_/~——;’""‘ ¥ ‘»~:* ,;
2.?“
74"" M .
,6 /::.:—~ ~ '*:\::3x\
" /— 7* ‘7; A’ , §> r.
. -, ./< """\\\
4 \- u
’2 k '
0:. ‘.~ / .,
'51" '43:”. ‘17., , ,,.-"’~(':~.'
" _bkﬁ; ‘“ “M.- -- .'.;~;;-.”"- ' 2 .
——————ﬁ__\
15ct. Gold
- - 37/6 42/- 75/- 77/6 100/- 120/-
9ct. Gold - - 21/- 47/6 56/6
Sterling Silver - 4/6 5/- 6/-
The Modern Art Jewellery Co.,
187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY (Next Shadier’s Caft).
PO you WALK?
This seems a superfluous question. What we mean to convey is that
you are foolish to waste energy, time and money when by riding a
(Wassey Harris Btcyctfe
you can economise. The cost of tram, train or ’bus fare mounts up and you have nothing to show for it.
The cost of a Massey on our easy payment system amounts to but little more per month, and you have a
valuable asset in the shape of a bicycle.
West Australian Depots: Hay Street, Perth; and Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie.
throughout N.S.W., Victoria, South Australia, Queensland, New Zealand.
The Price of our . . .
No. 70 Ceylon Globe Tea
(The finest Ceylon in Australia)
is Is. Bd. per lb. in 241 b. canisters —that is Two
Pounds cash down over our counter in Sydney.
6LOBE TEA
You could not buy better Tea, even though you had Carnegie’s millions, simply because there
Is no better Tea.
You could not buy Tea like it at a lower price, because no one sells Tea at a loss, and it
costs nearly Is. Bd. to import this Tea.
BUT WE MAKE A PROPOSAL!
The Bulletin man “blows" such a lot about his paper being more read than any other paper — advertise-
ments and all—that we are specially interested in testing his statement, so that we may ascertain which paper
is most valuable to us for spreading the good news about our Teas.
For this reason we offer to send a %klb. canister of this particular Tea, carriage paid to any
railway station or seaport in New South Wales , on receipt, within a month from the date of this
paper, of the price for which this Tea is sold in Sydney, namely, £2, and on two conditions:
Ist. That the purchaser states that he read this notice.
2nd. That the purchaser undertakes to recommend this Tea to his friends, provided he is satisfied that he
never before bought its equal for the same money.
We are so certain that this Tea will be appreciated by anyone using it, that we undertake to
refund the money paid, if the purchaser should not be satisfied and returns the Tea to us.
Let us confidently assure you that
GLOBE TEAS have NO EQUAL.
ATCHERLEY & DAWSON,
284 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
THREE * * «
DESIRABLE
FEATURES
Absolute Purity « « Richness in
Cream « Absence of Chemical
Preservatives «««••««««««
THESE POINTS EFFECTIVELY DESCRIBE
tfic n.S.IU. fresh feed & lee Co’s
Pasteurised milk.
S3E3S3S3 .
wmmtm
; -
HEBBLEWHITE’S
377 George-St., Sydney.
DIRECT IMPORTERS —
Sewiog JiacbiQcs, Bicycle SCigdriss,
Letter-Filiog CabioetS. . .
PRICE-LIST OF SEWING MACHINES:
WILLCOX & GIBBS,
NEW AUTOMATIC
Hand Machines .. £7 5 0 No. 3 Drawer and
and £7 10$. Cover (as print).. £9 9 0
No. 1 Treadle .. 8 0 0 No. 3J Cover, 3
No. 2 Treadle and Drawers and Flap 10 10 0
Drawer .. ..8 5 0 And upwards to .. 18 18 0
NEW VICTORIA,
Silent, Light-Runnings Lockstitch.
Hand Machine and Cover £3 10
No. 32 Cover, Drawer and Treadle .. 4 5
No. 34 Cover, 3 Drawers and Drop-leaf 5 0
No. 35 Cover, 5 Drawers and Drop-leaf 515
0
0
0
0
NO TIME PAYMENT.
All above Prices
are on a . . .
SPOT CASH BASIS.
Why pay Exorbitant Prices when you can Buy for Cash
The Ides of September have passed, but
De Wet is still at large.
The Salvation Army farewell to Herbert
Booth was rightly described as the most successful
Army ; meeting ever held in Vie. —the most suc-
cessful from Mr. Worldly Wiseman’s new point,
with Barton, Lyne, Deakin, and Isaacs as the
stars. Nevertheless, the public didn’t rush the
show. There were 500 paid officers present, and
all the Melb. and suburban barracks were closed
that Harmy adherents might muster in force, but
the Hall was not full, and the old-time enthusiasm
was wanting. No “ Amens,” no “ Hallelujahs ” !
Scarcely any singing or praying. All was “piz-
ness,” under the management of the amiable
Shylock, junior.
If Australia wants a military commandant
of the proper sort (a late cable tells that Gen.
Hildyard is unwilling to accept the post) it pro-
bably couldn’t do better than get hold of Gen.
Hutton, the smart officer and hot curser
who earned the enmity of many fossilised
swashbucklers when he bossed N. S. W. de-
fences. Hutton severely tested the nerves of
various fat field-marshals, &e , who whiskied pro-
fusely on their forage-allowances and hired their
chargers from livery-stables. His favorite diver-
sion was to make them take their cab-nags over
stiff fences and fall off for the edification of a
soldier-loving public. The latest characteristic
news of Hutton is that he has run foul of the
War Office for cheeking some old-lady General up
Canada way.
ANOTHER
SURPRISE.
Solid Silver Shoe-Lifts, 6 inches long . . .. 2/6 each
Solid Silver Handle Nail-Files, inches long .. 1/6 each
Solid Silver Button-Hooks 1/. each
Horse-Shoe Shape Folding-up Button-Hooks . . 1/6 each
Solid Silver Curling-Tongs (to fold up) .. .. 3/9 each
Solid Silver Lid Hairpin-Holders 3/6 each
Solid Silver Clothes Brushes.. .. .. .. 8/6 each
Toilet Table Requisites in endless variety
at proportionate prices. . . .
SILVER
BACK CLOTHES-BRUSH,
6 inches long, 8/6.
Plain Figures.
London Prices.
Strictly Cash.
We Sell every line at London Prices.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
23 HUNTER «>-»«-
How easy is the path of the detective !
A “notorious forger and oft-convicted criminal,”
sentenced at Melbourne the other day, found him-
self in court because he “casually saw Detective
M ‘Manamy in the street, and, taking him fora
fellow-criminal, revealed a number of fraudulent
schemes to him.” No wonder such a botchful
malefactor was “oft-convicted.”
Some inconvenient members of W.A. Par-
liament have been asking that a preliminary trial
should be made of the Coolgardie water-supply
scheme, as far as it has gone. They allege that the
pipes will not be able to stand the pressure put on
them ; and there is a wild rumor that, when a
half-mile length of pipe was tested, there were
more leaks than a person who was not strong on
mathematics could count. But the Govt, abso-
lutely refuses a preliminary trial. Hundreds of
thousands sterling have been spent already, and
the final cost will almost run to millions ; but
there is a cheerful go-the-whole-hog spirit in such
matters in Groperland. If the thing is going to
fail, let it fail completely, handsomely, dramati-
cally.
There was some curious lobbying in and
around N.S.W. Leg. Council last week when
lovely woman got her vote, with a tag (the right
to sit in Parliament) tied to it which may yet ruin
the gift. Jack Want and Pilcher on one side,
Suttor and Barney Wise on the other, fought a
good fight, not because of any particular pre-
judices one way or the other, but just for the fun
of the thing, and to try and dish the other fellow.
T. M. Slattery was entrusted with the ladies’ log-
rolling, and, moved deeply by the compliment to
his powers of political management, worked like
a bazaar-attendant. One curious result of the
division wa3 to bring into being a solid Labor-party
among the fossils. Hitherto there have been
Labor members, but not a Labor-party. Some of
these Labor members, such as Flowers and Stuart,
either intended to vote nay or not to vote at all,!
but they were urged not to “desert the party,
reminded that adult suffrage was the first plank of
the “party’s” platform, and over-persuaded. If
the Council has much longer to live, this new
“solid Labor party ” may vex its grey hairs.
Joseph Cook, has written at
great length to Sydney Telegraph pointing out
that the “educational test ’’proposed by the
Federal Govt, as a means of keeping out aliens is
a feeble expedient, that we should demand the
straight-out exclusion of all coloured races, and
that Britain will grant this if we stand firm. If
only Joe Cook had been half as valiant in office
as out of office, the position might be much easier.
He belonged to the Reid Government, which
passed a straight-out exclusion measure, saw it
rejected by the British Government, and didn’t
stand firm, but fell back on the educational test.
The result was that the educational test was
adopted by other States, and a precedent was
thus established which the British Government
apparently intends to adhere to. Joseph Cook
probably couldn’t prevent the Reid Ministry
backing-down in this manner, but if he had valued
his principles more than his portfolio he might at
least have thrown the latter up by way of protest.
Having saved one portfolio by adopting the
educational test, Cook may now get another by
damning the other fellow for adopting it likewise.
Honest Wear
In Every Pair.
B mm
Our Boots can bo
EXCHANGED If not
correct, as we wish
DISTANT customers
to be as pleased as
those in town.
Your money RETURNED If you
are not satisfied with the
Boots.
Tb«
Callagbai)
Boot
This Boot is
PHOTOGRAPHED
from STOCK.
Fine French Calf Button, full goloshed, calf-kid legs, 22/6 ; post paid, 23/6
„ „ Lace, „ „ „ 21/-; „ 22/-
All sizes and fittings.
Your orders are filled
the same day as received.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 George St., Sydney
8-Hour gemonstration $ Sports
....TO BE HELD AT..
•+ £1250 IN PRIZES
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL GROUND,
ON MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1901.
Grand Sports Programme, PRIZE MONEY £250, including Bicycle Races ; Five Mile Championship
of Australia, all the Champions taking part; many other interesting events.
Dancing in Spacious Pavilion. Hot and Cold iVatev Provided.
Grand Procession of Societies through the CLy, smarting at 10 a.m.
The Grand Art Union
(Under the sanction of the Hon. the ATTORNEY-GENERAL)
FIRST PRIZE, value £5OO ; SECOND PRIZE, value £lOO •
THIRD PRIZE, Hapsburg Piano, value £5O; FOURTH PRIZE, Three-quarter Cabinet Sewing Machine, value
£l4 14s, presented by BEALE & CO., Sydney ; and 171 other Valuable Prizes. For particulars see Lists at Agents.
TICKETS, ONE SHILLING EACH.
Including- admission to Ground, and Chance in Art Union. Equal Chance whe her present or not.
THOS. H. THROWER, Secretary Trades’ Hall, Go alburn-street, Sydney.
COPE’S NAVY CUT and PRAIRIE flower
(SPECIAL MIXTURE)
As supplied to the ARMY and NAVY.
TOBACCOS
Manufactured in England.
Agents—Virgoe, Son and Chapman.


XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx X xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
,r THAT OFFICE COAT
Wants Replacing for the Summer Weather.
Past Heat Waves have given us a wrinkle in
Cool Office Coats ; we are not only prepared for
the Wave but also the rush of your orders.
Pitt Nordcrg’S
GARMENTS are exactly what is needed for the
Hot Weather.
IN COLORS you have a nice choice lot to
choose from.
The BLACKS are Real Blacks ; no chance of
their going prematurely old by turning grey in
a hurry. ;
Buttonholes, Pockets, and the Buttons are
made with the idea that they have to do their
duty, and last as long as the Coats.
It is only a matter of a moment to glance at
them during your luncheon hour. We have
civil, obliging assistants, who will show you, and
not press you to buy ; or, if any of these prices
will suit you you can order by post or telephone.
No need to worry about quality, YOU’LL FIND
THAT RIGHT.
BLACK ALPACA SACS, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6,
9/6, 10/6.
DRAB:! and GREYS, ditto, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6.
BLACK and WHITE STRIPED ALPACA
SACS, 8/6, 10/6.
GREY SILK SACS, 11/6, 13 6, 16/6.
BLACK RUSSELL CORD SACS, 8/6, 9/6, 10/6.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL CLOTHIERS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXX XX XXXVWVVVY\ v
The G-reat Tax
that is levied upon your constitution by indigestion
demands relief in a remedy like Seigel’s Syrup.
Mr. F. Yoltz, Mary-street, Dunellen Estate,
Brisbane, Queensland, in a letter dated September
Bth, 1900, says: “My three years of weakness,
wretchedness, and misery from indigestion were
completely cured by three bottles of Seigel’s
Sybup.” If you are ill you will find that Seigel’s
Sybup is a saving on your income.*
The Hotelkeepers’ friend.
m
Soda Water, Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Gingfer Ale, 3d. per doz.
HOTELKEEPERS MAKE THEIR OWN SUPPLIES OF
/ERATED WATERS.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn
to operate the Machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Pear Sirs.—The Machine purchased from you is per-
fect. The stuff turned out is splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers.—Geo. Niciiolls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.”
Mr. Klug, Hotelkeeper, Charlton, says :—“ It is worth
its WEIGHT IN GOLD.”
Mr. P. Kennedy, Coolgardie, says : —“ Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says :—“ I have made
thousands of dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, andit has not required six]' :iv worth of repairs.
No Hotelkeeper should be without one of them.”
,Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W.,
says:—“lt is the greatest money-maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Yafgo, W.A., says : —“Since getting one of
your Machines, and making my own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says :—“Machine great
success.”
E. Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says : —“ Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says:—“Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable.”
T. H. Williams, Mossman,Queensland,says:—“Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.”
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland,says :—“Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists for
a good quality of Aerated Waters. Observe the profits.
Call and see these Machines, or write for Circular describ-
ing them, also Price List.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water Co-
-407 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
AMUSEMEHTfor OLD and YOUNC. )(
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character), That Hideous
Dancing Skeleton (turns himself inside out), Mafeking
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Spider and the Fly
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
“In my opinion, the only practical way to
reduce the evils of alcohol to a minimum would be
to make the retail liquor traffic a State monopoly.”
Dr. Creed, M.L.C. (N.S.W.).
Connor, M.L.A., of Westralia, is to the
fore with an extraordinary Bill for the suppression
of newspapers. It provides that all weekly
newspapers, except those mentioned in a schedule
attached to the Bill, must deposit a large sum with
the W.A. Treasurer before they are allowed
to publish. No daily or bi- or tri-weekly has
been making itself especially unpleasant to Mr.
Connor, so they are excepted from this clause,
and those weeklies which have been respectful
will presumably be mentioned in the schedule,
but one which has been eminently disrespectful
will assuredly have to put up its deposit if the Bill
passes. Further it is proposed, among a few
other trifles, that if a libel verdict is given against
a paper, and all the getatable assets won’t pay it
in full, the proprietor or editor may be imprisoned
till the debt is paid, even if it takes 45 years to
raise the money, the bankruptcy law being sus-
pended in his case. Plainly Connor, M.L.A., is
very angry about something.
Last session, the Opposition proper in
Tasmanian Assembly comprised, all told, one
man. He was a host in himself—Edward Braddon
—still, he was only one man. Braddon went to
the Federal Parliament, and, when the present
session opened, there was no one on the front
Opposition bench. The House was adjourned for
a few weeks to let the Government prepare its
work, and, meanwhile, ex-Honorary Minister
Reibey sent out a circular, inviting disaffected
members to join in making an Opposition. A
queer crowd responded. Lyne (brother of Wil-
liam) strode right across from the Ministerial
cross-bench to the back Opposition. Nicholls,
who had sworn everlasting attachment to the
Government for its support of the Great Western
Railway syndicate, and Sadler both appeared on
the front Opposition bench. And the ancient
Reibey sat in Braddon’s old corner. “My vener-
able friend,” said Treasurer Bird, talking of the
new leader of the Opposition. Whether this was
sarcasm or serious is not certain. Years ago,
Reibey was the “ Venerable Archdeacon Reibey.”
Now, he’s an owner of racehorses and a fighting
man in Parliament, and, at the age of 80, he wants
to be Premier. He was Premier for 12 months a
long 24 years ago, and he has been waiting ever
since for the wheel to come round again.
An Argus interview with Alderman Cor-
nelius Job Ham is an interesting sketch-history of
Melbourne. Young Corny Job arrived in that
city with his saintly father Ham in 1842 (the year
when the City Council was founded), and he
remembers the old man preaching in the
Mechanics’ Institute, Collins-street, a building
that developed into the Athenaeum. One can’t
take a drink in the Athenaeum Club even now
without feeling that worshippers must have for-
merly assembled "thereabouts; and as for the
Athenaeum Hall, it will ever seem sacred to the
memory of R. S. Smythe’s parsons and serious
lecturers. One of the earliest Govt, institutions
established in Melbourne, says Ham, was “the
stocks.” True, they were not mining-stocks at
first, but thick wooden lockers with holes in them
and the feet of early offenders sticking through
the apertures. All the same, they were stocks
which provided temporary investment for the
rogues of the period No doubt they were
fixed where the Exchange now stands. Ham
reckons that the lawyers’ quarter of Melbourne
grew out of the fact that a popular solicitor named
Moore had his office somewhere near where Sel-
borne Chambers eventuated. A Mr. Ogilvie, and
other pioneer sharks, lay in wait for prey at the
same part of the young city, and eventually the
Law Courts came for the convenience of adjacent
practitioners. The medical quarter, at the east
end of Collins-street, had a similar inception. Dr.
Howitt and Dr. Wilmott were the big men of
the profession when Melbourne was shaping itself.
Patients flocked to the top of Collins-street with
their diseases, and other doctors came after them.
Old Dr. Youl, the late coroner, used to speak
of the time when his house in the present doctors’
quarter was confronted by green paddocks where
cows browsed promiscuously. Of the northern
suburbs of the city, Richmond and Collingwood
started long before Fitzroy, because the Eastern
Hill, now dominated by St. Patrick’s, had an en-
campment of blacks on it, and settlers fought shy
of the blacks. Brighton, Toorak, Hawthorn and
Glenferrie were each of them one-man suburbs at
the outset. Hawthorn grew from St James’s
Park, the estate of Sir James Palmer; Toorak
House, standing in 150 acres of park, was the
beginning of Melbourne’s plutocratic district, and
Glenferrie was originally the wooded property
appertaining to the mansion of rich man Ferrie.
Ham’s historical statement disposes of the natural
fiction that Glenferrie took its name from a ferry
across the Yarra.
THE AUSTRALIAN' GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
all Ttlusical sundries
Collins 51..
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR.
A great proportion of all Australians have Catarrh in either the first stage or
chronic form. Probably 20 percent, of all the people we meet have but one good
nostril—the other is clogged with catarrhal deposits, or by some weakness whose
parent was a neglected cold. This forces them, perhaps unconsciously, to breathe
through the mouth, and, unless attended to, will reutft in a life-long annoyance
and serious trouble. Home treatment with our Medicator will restore the organ
to its natural condition, and enable it to perform its functions properly and
healthfully. It relieves and cures Catarrh, Hay Fever, Cold in the Head, and all
Nasal inflammations. It soothes, cleanses, heals; contains no injurious drugs.
Pamphlets Free on request —a postcard will do.
Medicator, with. Complete Treatment, post free, 10/-
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
229-231 Collins Street . Melbourne,
m
Mkdicator.
PHOSFERINE
The Greatest of all Tonics.
Piiosferine is the most powerful Nerve and Recuperative
Tonic known. It removes Mental Depression, want of Tone and
Nerve Power. It has remarkable Health-giving, Strength-giving,
Energising, and Rejuvenating properties.
No other Medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions, and
in giving back to the prematurely aged New Life and Energy.
It is an unfailing remedy for Neuralgia, Nervous Dys-
pepsia, Ansemia, Brain-Fag, Depression, Impoverished Blood,
Rheumatism, Sleeplessness, Indigestion, Influenza, Nervous
Headaches, Debility, and all disorders consequent upon a
reduced state of the nervous system.
ROYAL COMMANDS.
Piiosferine enjovs the distinguished honour of having been supplied by commands to
MEMBERS OF THE BRITISH ROYAL FAMILY.
H.I.M. the Empress of Russia.
H.M. the King of Greece.
H.M. the Queen of Roumania.
H.I.M. the Dowager Empress of Russia
H. S. H. theHereclitarv Princess olßeiningen
H-< HH >-H HH K 4
H W W W H
.I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of Russia.
.R.H. the Crown Princess of Routnania.
.I.H. the Grand Duchess Serge of Russia.
.R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse.
.I.H. the Grand Duchess Xenia of Russia.
And the principal Royalty and Aristocracy throughout the World.
No other Medicine has been awarded this unique distinction of Royal favor,
and it speaks volumes for the wonderful restorative properties of Phosferine.
CURES
Neuralgia,
Sciatica,
Lumbago,
Gout,
Rheumatism,
Impaired
Vitality,
Debility,
Brain Fag,
Weakness,
Nervous
Exhaustion,
Melancholia,
Impaired
Digestion, etc.
&
V
Vitalizing
Tonic,
imparting
New Life
and
Energy
to the
Entire
System.
CAUTION.
GENUINE PHOSFERINE.
Ashton & Parsons, Ld., 17 Farringdon Road, London,
the original and only genuine makers of PHOSFERINE find it necessary to
put the public on their guard against mendacious imitations of their well-known
medicine that are being offered for the sake of extra profit.
It is necessary, when purchasing Phosferine, to see that it bears the name of
the genuine makers, viz. :
Ashton & Parsons, Ltd., 17 Farringdon Road, London
Price in Great Britain, Bottles, 1/H. 2/9 and 4/6,
The 2/9 size contains nearly four times the 1/1J size.
The Genuine Phosferine can be obtained from Washington H,
Soul & Co., Pitt Street, Sydney, and all respectable Chemists.
Wholesale A vents: SAYERS, ALL PORT <£ CO., SYDNEY.
UklUUk
E.
R?
‘ .; 1.2-: F. ..;-_-'-‘:-‘.-p‘ ~":.'.- .
'7]I"';‘,€.7.' l»,\:“.:‘.‘7ﬂ‘ "' 4'“ “'1 o" f
a1:-:f!fir,:=:'r4¢- (3;... ' "~41 5‘1:
r “5?”, :‘i-uiv 3352‘} I*‘-"7\‘"“"~Nr'
A 53413;. ..=;_.,.,.-.‘ “Mfr—E" m,_\‘1_r,_.-‘.,.
puma. 1,5544% .. u .- Mn" Ir“
.2 Eff ‘W ~11: "1* J," ‘
,c-a: w“; .LL— 4 H
.G'Lﬁ L‘ w I .;.-;x v.
'...'.‘:'.-_, .!“’f: ' ' . #932151. 0.. I
13;?552‘P=2'5Ji‘7.:2{1”" "u'r‘.»‘”r”"i"”"r5 1""! "
Us 3:2:2w‘a“55‘.f2i.w=*"~g.=75 1h‘h'hiiu‘JJ’JI'. ,‘r' ‘ HS
.».‘21-J?Y§i=}w \zl""""(',/‘~<'r" «WW
‘ my. 1, "IM‘M'V‘ ,.l mt.-
“,' .rq an ‘,- : .‘xwy’l‘ r A
u :;':.’:‘-"-74H“-‘ :vWIsLeri' - n
, 27"‘b05’ib 2‘." ‘- "n -. ‘1 J
"W1" -._'7}".: " N ‘L‘ 1..” '-
ur r". ’ ‘erF'x-u'
, .ﬂ‘ﬁ‘Whhha‘.‘ ‘1'.Jr‘.'
1'] ‘...’>;‘-:Ya:~nw‘-;\ ._-, '
K " 5‘ MirjuvAW“ v 'L
. -1 HM,“ ‘ "pu- a
‘.".': :IL.I’:_";".‘?"" ”"_. v
.V. IA - '
If you
VALUE
a Smart Appearance
IS THE
Cuits to Order
42 -
with Extra
Trousers.
T' our 42/- SUITS
OF
THer CHEAPNESS
is only equalled by their Durability.
The Commonwealth’s Record for
STILE, FIT, and FINISH.
Send for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms to ov/r only address —•
OPP. G.P.0., BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
The Jolliest Book of the Year
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
“By Steele Rudd.”


WHEAT: PRODUCE GRAIItf.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
A.CT A. 9 SELLINGS BROKERS.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a elaute in the Memorandum of Association of this Company .
WOOL
COMMISSION ITOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
•( will be.. 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb • 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
, under Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation to the Company.
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving oost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., eto.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills, Buncle and Sons’ ChafFcutters.
Donald’s Patent Woolpress.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIF.
PRIZE MEDAL DRESSING.
HAUTHAWAY’S
PEERLESS GLOSS
takes first prize medals at Boston, Vienna, London, Phila-
delphia, Melbourne, and all other leading cities, for pro-
ducing the finest possible polish, and absolute freedom
from all substances injurious to the leather.
It is the favorite dressing of the world for
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
shoes; as it is easily applied, retains its brilliancy, and will
not rub off and soil garments. Try it once and you will
use it always. Sold nearly everywhere. Made only by
C. L. EIAUTHAWAY £> SONS, BOS '£,?I:
MASS.
A.
ARE YOU BALD?
CAPILLA Hair Tonic
(Registered under the Provisions of the Trades Marks Act of 1900).
ASTOUNDING CHALLENGE.
mSE Proprietor of Capilla Hair Tonic being desirous of having a public test made to
prove the infallibility of his now famous Hair Restorer, known as Capilla Hair
Tonic, is prepared to treat any gentleman troubled with absolute Baldness (it is
immaterial of how long standing) Free of Charge for a period of 12 or 16 weeks,
and guarantees in that time to produce- Hair long (by the aid of Capilla alone, used
according to the Direction supplied with bottle) on the scalp affected by Baldness.
Failing which, he is prepared to forfeit to the Sydney Hospital the sum of £25 sterling.
The conditions to be-::—list. That a committee of'six Sydney medical men, or well-
known Sydney gentlemen, be appointed to substantiate the fact of CAPILLA having
done what we claim for it. 2nd. That the gentleman upon whom the test is to be made
has upon the scalp a down or slight fluff. It is immaterial whether it is discernible with
the naked eye or not, so long as a microscopical examination proves it to exist.
We can procure actual living Proof of Capilla
having cured actual Baldness.
If the above challenge be accepted, we particularly Tequest the attendance of
Newspaper Reporters, Medical Gentlemen, or any person interested, to watch
the progress made day by day.
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC will make Ladies’ Hair increase in length and
strengh, by about 1 inch to lh per month-
CAPILLA is not a dye, containing 1 no oils or injurious ingredients.
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC, 2s. 6d. per bottle. Your chemist or storekeeper stocks Capilla.
If not obtainable locally, we will forward one (1) bottle to any address in the Australian States
for 3s. 2d., or the full course of six (6) bottles for 17s. 6d. post free (under cover).
W. RICHARDS
168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer ,
T-A-ISZIE! ZCsTO STJIBSTITTJT^.
• THE
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This Is the only Medical
Institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all contracts.
Elcctro-Hedical apd
SOrgical IpStittite—.
IN AN AGE
which is so remarkable for its progress in all departments of Art, Philosophy, Mamifacture and
Science it is surprising to find the practice of Medicine so deplorably in the rear, while thousands
of practitioners in the healing art prefer to remain in the conventional groove of their predecessors The Freeman
and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise superior to the false code> of ethics'
tyrannically bind the medical profession, and announce to the public that upon all special complaints they still con
ti nue to be consulted by the afflicted at their old address, Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
I
HU
S*g§
m «
iP» I
\
, /«
& £?
m
min
EXPERTS FREEMAN ANB WALLACE,
The Specialists who conduct the largest practice in Australasia.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
No one should hesitate to consult us, as consultations either by letter or In
person are given FREE OF CHARGE, and Striotest Privacy Is always assured.
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
Every Farmer, Miner, Mariner, Station-hand, Book-keeper, and other Toilers should send for a copy of this
Useful Memorandum Book. POST FREE ON APPLICATION—ALL COLONIES.
400-PAGE MEDICAL WORK (Illustrated, containing 80 Engravings, Many Useful Prescriptions,
Hints on Sick Room, Accidents and Emergency) Price 6d (POST FREE) ON APPLICATION.
v^SP€CIALITI€S
Heart, Kidney, Liver Affections,
Nerve and Brain Complications.
Gravel, Bladder and Spinal Affections.
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
Rupture and Piles Cured without Operation,
Blood and Skin Diseases.
Sill!
#' ISil -
HEALTH ?
■ n
m
WHY WE ADVERTISE !
Because Advertising is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people,
to acquaint eacli other with their avocations and wants. If a man has a
Speciality, and has devoted years of his life and expended large sums of money in studying that Speciality and in
purchasing the necessary appliances, etc., for treating certain diseases, it would be absurd for him not to announce
the fact, and disseminate the knowledge universally, We have no apology to offer for informing the world through
this advertisement and otherwise of the means of relief we can afford to sufferers who need our help. Therefore,
however opposed to your own preconceived ideas and to those of your medical advisers, our method of treatment
may be, the fact still remains that it is successful, and this is verified by the thousands of testimonials received from
grateful patients. We make no secret of our mode of practice. We only claim to have utilised in a common-sense
way the result of scientific research and long experience. If you listen to the counsel of your sceptical friends and
jealous physician you may omit consulting us, but remember if you allow the disease to run riot in your system, you
are guilty of culpable neglect, and are alone responsible for your future pitiful condition.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government
medical Boards of New South. Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Great Britain
and America Open to Inspection by Dr. Wallace, our Physician-in-Chief.
Late Consulting; Staff, Homeopathic Hospital, Melbourne.
Late Medical Staff, British Army,
HOME TREATMENT.
-If you live out of town and cannot visit us, this need not deprive (
you of the benefits of our wonderful treatment, because in the new '
system of combining medicine and electricity a complete Electro-Medical home treatment is provided for. Scarcely a
day passes that the news does not reach us of some wonderful home cure of a person living so far away that a per-
sonal visit could not be made. Write a plain statement of your condition, explaining your feelings 'and symptoms as
clearly as possible, and from it we will be able to accurately diagnose your case. It only costs you the trouble of
writing, and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia’s Leading Specialists.
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS
When there are so many quacks and impudent pretenders in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to themselves
the monstrosity of giving counsel and advice in matters of which they are profoundly ignorant, and who have
nothing to recommend them but their audacity, sufferers cannot be too careful whom they consult. Although
liberty of choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessary. In consulting THE FREEMAN AND WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shall receive the advice
of those fitted by superior skill and education, the result of special study. Our reputation and unparalleled
success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of the WorId—CONTENTS
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
a Elizabeth»S BatbOrstSts, Sydijsy
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs. F. & W.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
N.B.— QUEENBLANDERB are hereby informed that a person advertising as Dr. Wallact
in Brisbane is in no way connected with the institute.


The Darling Downs Federal election gave
the bumptious Philp Government a nasty knock.
The Philp Government backed candidate Bell
for all it was worth ; the leading Ministerial
organ in Brisbane supported him vigorously, and
wires were pulled in all possible directions to
secure his return. Groom, Having given in his
adhesion to the White Australia policy, received
the individual support of the Labor-party which
is waxing a big power on the Downs, and (thanks
to the blundering policy of the Courier, which
tried to rouse up the German and Scandinavian
farmers on a false cry) the almost solid vote of the
Teutonic settlers all over the district. A majority
of almost two to one in favor of Groom was
the answer of the Downs to Philp and
his wire-pullers. Out of seven State con-
stituencies in the Darling Downs electorate, six
voted for Barton and his White Australia policy,
by enormous majorities— six constituencies, by
the way, all represented by Philpites or semi-
Philpites in the present State Parliament; to
crown all, Bell’s own constituency of Dalby re-
turned a heavy majority against him. Now, the
Philp Government is trying to demonstrate that
it didn’t back Bell at all, but only sat on the fence
and wished him luck. And the Bananaland public
smiles.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
PIRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST HILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
J- Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
m
Estd.
1770.
CONCERTINAS
and/EOLAS
Unsurpassed for
TONE and . .
WORKMANSHIP.
Manufactured and Guaranteed by
WHEATSTONE & Co.
(Original
Inventors &
Patentees),
20, Conduit Street, LONDON, W., England.
Of all Dealers ; or send direct for Pi Ice Lists.
Busi-
ness
F eder al
Suits
To Measure
Extra Pair of TROUSERS
GIVEN WITH EVERY SUIT
40/=
Great Value! Our Famous Ready-Made
Federal Sac Suit
In Good Colonial or Imported Tweeds
all-wool Navy Serge or Black Vicuna.
In
All-Wool
Colonial
or
Imported
Tweed,
Navy
Serge,
Blue or
Black
Vicuna
Your money
back if not
satisfied
Well-Cut
and
Trimmed,
Properly
Tailored
and
Thor-
oughly
Depend-
able
Patterns
and Self-
Measure-
ment Forms
postedfrea
Any size from 3
to 7, Special Tailor
20/-
made.fitted with Italian
Cloth inings
Padded Shoul-
ders, in and out
breast and ticket
pockets, etc.
Carriage paid to any address in the Australian
Commonwealth or New Zealand,
DON Cash Trading Co.
173 a to 214 John9too Street
Collingwood, Melbourne
tWhen ordering give this number, No. 0123 j
NOW READY at Turner & Henderson, SYDNEY,
Toilet & Troubles of the Skin & Hair
by Dr. ALFRED NEALE ; new edition, post Is Id.
TRICH OLOGY, a. Study of the Hair, post 7d.
Amusements.
OICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
*» Sole Proprietor Mr. Harry Rickards.
MADAME DANTE in her Illusionary Dance Creations.
ZOBEDIE.
PROFESSOR DE WYNNE. Mr. EDGAR GRANVILLE.
Mr. TEDDY BOX. WINS3HERM ANN’S BEARS.
THE POCKET COMEDIAN. LITTLE GULLIVER.
THE DIAMOND DUO. Miss IVY SCOTT.
LENNON, HYMAN and LENNON, FLORRIE RANGER,
STELLA RANGER, &c., &c., including
THE AMERICAN BIOSCOPE.
Box Plan at Paling's. Matinees Saturdays & Wednesdays.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Sub-Lessee .. .. .. Mr. William F. Hawtrey.
THE HAWTREY COMEDY CO. t
SATURDAY, SEPT. 28,
the Funniest of Farcical Comedies,
TOM, DICK, and HARRY,
Preceded by “ A HIGHLAND LEGACY.”
PRICES—Ss., 35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Allan’s.
Rickards* new opera house,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY
COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, THE TYLER FAMILY,
in their Unique and Unequalled Risley Act.
FRED. BLUETT, Comic Vocalist and Eccentric Dander.
Re-appearance of FRANK LEON, England’s Greatest
Character Comedian and Champion Dancer of the World.
And Miss LIZZIE KIRK, the Fascinating Young English
Serio and Comedienne, and all Our Great Co.
KJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■■ Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. E. J. Tait.
THE WILSON BARRETT SEASON.
FRIDAY, SEPT.'27, LAST NIGHT of THE CHRISTIAN
KING. SATURDAY, SEPT. 28, VIRGINIUS. MONDAY,
SEPT. 30, HAMLET. TUESDAY, OCT. 1, OTHELLO.
OCT. 2 and 3, LAST TWO NIGHTS of the SEASON,
CLAUDIAN.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
• Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING.
4th WEEK of the Typical, Topical Australian Melodrama,
RIDING TO WIN.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan jit Allan’s CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Sole Lessee .. . Mr. George Musgrovei
Under the Direction of Mr. Tyrone Power.
THIRD WEEK of THE CRANE-POWER CO.
FRIDAY, SEPT. 27, LAST NIGHT of
NADJEZDfI.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, THE ONLY WAY.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager, FRANK MUSGROVE.
AUSTRALIAN TOUR
OF WEST’S
DELIGHTFUL MOVING EXPOSITION OF
LIFE IN “ OUR NAVY.”
COULBURN .. .. OCTOBER Ist and 2nd.
WAGGA „ 3rd and 4th.
ALBURY .. .. „ sth and 7th.
TASMANIA AND NEW ZEALAND TO FOLLOW.
Medical.
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope,
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO. 4-7 Queen St,
Melbourne ; Wholesule Agents for New South Wales—
Australian Drug: Co., Ltd., O’Connell St., Sydney. All
Chemists, or Box 165, C.P.O.
Dr. LANGSTON'S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible remedy,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY,
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps.' Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Amusements.
Empire theatre, Sydney.
Quit Trams and ’Buses at Bathurst-street.
Every Evening at 8. Saturdays at 2.30.
SUCCESS EVEN GREATER THAN EVER.
FULLER’S EMPIRE SPECIALTY CO.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPT. 28, First Appearance of
Mr. JACK STEELE, Comedian and Whistler.
MONS. CARLO, Australia’s Ambidexterologist.
Miss CLARA SPENCER, Comedienne.
Mr. WILL WATKINS, Witty, Whimsical.
Tremendous Success of This Week’s Programme.
Prices—2s., Is., and 6d.
Theatr e royal, s y dim ey.
Under the Management of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
LAST FOUR WEEKS of
THE BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
Lady Huntworth’s Experiment.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPT. 28, First Production in
Australia of SWEET AND TWENTY.
Box Plan at Elvy’s, George-st. Prices as Usual.
Y C E U M THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. ~ William Anderson.
ENORMOUS DRAMATIC BOOM
Achieved by the Latest Surrey Success,
THE ORPHAN HEIRESS.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday) and 7 Following Evenings,
THE ORPHAN HEIRESS.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
J. O. WILLIAMSON’S ITALIAN OPERA COMPANY.
THURSDAY, SEPT. 26, LA TRAVIATA.
FRIDAY, SEPT. 27, for the Last Time, LA BOHEME.
SATURDAY, SEPT. 28, Verdi’s World-famous Opera
(founded on Victor Hugo’s Romance, “Hernani”) ERNANI.
Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Stalls, 3s. ;
Family Circle, 25.; Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
pALACE THEATRE, BYDNEY.
THE 810 NEW PROGRAMME
by the
THE WORLD’S ENTERTAINERS
(POLITE VAUDEVILLE)
HAS MADE AN IMMENSE HIT.
REMEMBER!! !
EVERY NIGHT and at the
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30 p.m.
No Extra Charge for Reserved Seats.
PRICES—Is., 2s. and 3s.
Seats at Elvy’s and Theatre.
cc<
FOR
LABOR-SAVING
APPLIANCES
" ... the Best House is .
Mean jjros. & Rigg, [Sd.
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. PERTH.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
BUSHMAN WATCH.
W,' OUR FAITHFUL
wflPI TIMEKEEPER
METAL
r 6 • CASE
ur,J6/«
- Will run for 20years :
A
Camden Buildings,
420 George St, Sydney.
Three Doors from
Strand Arcade.
A Saving: of
25 per cent.
JEWELLERY,
SOLID SILVER GOODS,
SILVER-PLATED WARE
Write for 80-Paged Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
i
Sft
§
_
PLAIN NCW TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Ohromos. 200 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
•which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afEord to dispense with the information embraced
in its cavers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free IS.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of ,Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic, Is 6d, post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Ohiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Ooates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
;How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, Is 3d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid.
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Metal Working, Brazing, etc., Is 3d.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
R
PHYSICIAN
AND
Registered by the
Medical Board
of N.S.W.
SURGEON
HAVING had 30 years experience in all parts of the world, and also having lately made an extended trip through Europe and America, he
is in a position to treat every case submitted to him according to the methods of the most recent and eminent Specialists of the
whole world.
Every Case treated on its own Merits.
Sufferers at a distance, unable to describe their cases to their own satisfaction, should write for Dr. Watson’s
“Guide to Diagnosis/’
which will allow them to give exact and full particulars, so as to enable him to report fully as to the disease and its radical and rational
method of treatment.
COKTSUIjTA.TIO3Xr FREE (Personally, or by Letter).
The publication of crowds of symptoms, testimonials and puffs of one’s skill and attainments savours too much of self-praise ; so the public
should look with a doubtful eye upon all those who “ doth protest too much.”
Dr. Watson does not pretend to say that “ One Pound is sufficient to send," as stated in certain advertisements, for he considers that the
public are quite satisfied to pay a fair price for fair and legitimate treatment.
Write for small
“ Guide to Health,”
and Method for Self-Diagnosis.
(Please mention this paper when writing.)
NOSiVMSHuQ
137 Elizabeth-St.,
SYDNEY.
wm
• ' ;
W
m
i


ANOTHER OBSTINATE
t.s'VEin.
Another Effectual Cure.
Tha Oom of
Mr. E. TUCKER.
(a special REPORT.)
In consequence of information received, a
reporter interviewed Mr. Edwin Tucker, of
No. 108 Wilson-atreet, Redfern. A cordial
reception was extended to him, when a de
sire was expressed to let us know the follow-
ing facts :
“It is now fifteen years ago since my
physical well-being was upset for the first
time in my life,” sid Mr. Tucker. “ I was
then living in Goulburn, where many friends
of mine are still located. My liver asserted
undeniable proof that it was seriously de-
ranged, although I experienced more
anxiety from attacks of palpitation of the
heart, which I thought was diseased. It was
a common thing to be seized with sharp
■ipasms in my left breast, the violence of
wdiich almost doubled me up in agony.
These fits took away my breath for a while,
leaving me gasping and in an exhausted
condition. I observed great care in regard
t'' f ->od, everything that I ate and drank
oeiug of an easily-digested character, with
a view to obviating the development of my
complaint.”
“ Was your carefulness rewarded?”
“No; notin the least degree. Instead
of allaying the progress of the disease, my
sufferings became more intense every day.
Pains in the stomach after meals were daily
increasing in severity. The wind arising
from the same quarter was in greater abun-
dance, belching continuing long after meals
were concluded, i Vomiting often took
p’ace, the matter generally being green and
sour in taste, which was a source of un-
pleasantness in my mouth. My tongue was
never free from a coating of an unhealthy
rubstance, do whatever I may to try and
remove it, and I often had ringing sensations
in the ears, accompanied by dizziness in the
head, which made my sight quite weak,
with black spebks sometimes appearing
before my eyes. My complexion was
yi llow, and, with the thin, drawn aspect of
my face, I looked frightful. Behind the
shoulders there were continual pricking
p ins, and I had a lot of trouble with my
i idneys also. There was a never-ending,
dull, heavy, dragging pain in the lower
portion of my back, which was particularly
bad after lying down.”
“ How did your strength keep up ? ”
“ Whilst I could eat a little food I was
fairly stro g, taking everything into con-
sideration; but eventually my appetite left*
me altogether. I used to try very hard to
take something sustaining, but my efforts
were fruitless. Things that I could have
eaten ravenously before my illness came on
were obnoxious, and the smell produced a
feeling of sickness. Sometimes I had a
feeble desire for food, but the fulness in my
chest afterwards, besides the aggravation of
other pains, made me loathe the idea of eat-
ing for days. And I slept very indifferently
—turning from side to side in a restless
spirit of vexation, usually falling asleep
when it was time to get up. I felt more
dead than alive, with aching limbs and
leaden eyes. Just fancy a man getting up
in that condition to go to work ! No
- wonder I was always drowsy and disliked
exertion. Why, on Sundays and holidays
I made the most of my opportunities to rest,
'but the same old feelings of lassitude and
fatigue were always apparent. Relief from i
occupation did not diminish the acutenesß
of my Ailments. I believe, on the other
hand, my miseries were intensified when I
was not at business. Being too restless to
read or interest myself in anything, I spent
the leisure time in reflecting upon the
seriousness of my illness.”
“ Such ruminations would not benefit
you ! ”
‘‘ Of course not. But my general weak-
ness took all pluck out of me. I was too
low-spirited to take a hopeful view of my
case. My future seemed dark and cheer-
less, having been invalided so long. A
feeling of melancholy took possession of my
brain, and the unhappy thoughts w hich ran
through my aching head were enough to
distract me. Nervousness was one of the
most conspicuous symptoms of my disease.
Without knowing the reason, I frequently
found myself trembling most violently. J
had shocks to the system from causes which
were so trifling and insignificant that they
would have escaped a healthy person’s ob-
servation. My health was irretrievably
lost, I thought, as every medicine I had
taken did not show any beneficial effect.
Pills also proved equally useless. Then a
friend told me to try Clements Tonic. I
told him it would be folly to waste any more
money on medicines, as they could not cure
me. His persuasive eloquence at length
prevailed, and when I had taken about two-
thirds of a bottle of Clements Tonic, I could
see I was making rapid headway towards
recovery. After taking a couple of doses I
had a really refreshing sleep—the first I had
enjoyed for weeks. The distressing agonies
•of my liver complaint began to ease off, and
the palpitation of my heart ceased to trouble
me. As a matter of fact, there was soon a
wonderful change in my condition. I com-
menced to eat my food again with a relish,
and the disappearance of pains from the
stomach and shoulders intimated that my
digestive organs were improving. Giddi-
ness, nervousness, and headaches submitted
before many days to the remarkable sooth-
ing qualities of Clements Tonic, and my de-
nuded frame regained its lost flesh" and
healthy vigour.”
“ Has your health failed you since ? ”
“ With the exception of a bad turn whilst
working in the mines at Mount Zeehan,
Tasmania, seven years ago, my health has
been grand. The dampness in the mines
accounted for a severe cold, which resulted
in distressing complications setting in. I
took on my old remedy—Clements Tonic —
and again it cured me. It is the only medi-
cine that ever did me good, and at a time,
too, when all other physics had failed.
Clements Tonic worked my complaint light
out of my system, as I have not been
troubled with any of the symptoms since.
For the benefit of others, you are at liberty
to publish my statement how you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Edwin Tuckkr, of 108 Wilson-street, Redfern
Syrtney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have care-
fully read the annexed document, consisting of three
folios, and consecutively numbered from one to three,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any way
my statements—which I give voluntarily, without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act made
and passed in the ninth year of the reign of her present
Majesty, intituled “An Act for the more effectual
abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken and made
in the various Departments of the Government of
New South Wales, and to substitute Declarations in
lieu thereof, and for the suppression of voluntary and
Extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits.”
Declared at Redfern t this 27th day of September, one
thousand nine hundred, before me,
J. GABBETT BOURCHIER, J.P.
STRENGTH
FOR
THE
WEAK
Dr. JAMES WILSON writes: “ I have thoroughly examined and tested Hale’s
new Patent Electric Belt, and I am satisfield that not only is it a genuine article, but
it generates an electric current capable of overcoming the resistance of the body. I
consider it a valuable agent, especially for ladies and gentlemen of tender skin, as no
metal substances come in contact with the body, and I am only too pleased to recom-
ipend a genuine: electric appliance.” - . • •
“ Dr. FOWLER presents his compliments to Messrs. Arthur Hale and Son, and
has much pleasure in stating that he has carefully examined their new improved
Electric Belt, and finds that it is perfectly genuine as to electric properties.” . ,
. Dr. DEWAR writes : “ I have examined Hale’s new Electric Belt, and find that
it is capable of generating a powerful electric current, although no metal substances
come in contact with the skin. I consider this a great improvement, as it prevents
the irritation so often caused by other appliances.”
PERCY NEWELL, L.R.0.5., L.R.C.P., writes: “There is no doubt about the
Electricity, as my patients constantly feel the current.”
“ THE MEDICAL MONTHLY,” August, 1893, says : “ The firm of Arthur Hale
and Son, of 105 Regent Street, London, W., has distinguished itself in the develop-
ment of electrical science as a medical agent. By an entirely new method of applica-
tion they have succeeded in producing an Electric Body Belt, which for comfort
efficacyand genuineness, is unquestionably far superior to any previous invention
y
n nd r. a * en * ed E| ectro-Galvanic Belts and Appliances are
R^ S J°rf r « 8, i°P r Pam Be,t » our Special Belt and Suspensor for Gentlemen,
and our Abdominal Belt for ladies are guaranteed to be the most Scientific and Genuine
Electric Appliances yet produced. They will speedily relieve and Cure Nervous Exhaus-
tion, Rheumatism, Pain and Weakness in the Back, impart tone and vigor to the whole nervous
anC t ake * rf ® a P‘® asu re. We invite all sufferers, no matter what the disease or ailment may be,
to call or send for our Free Book, entitled, “Modern Treatment of Disease by Electricity.”
HALE & BON, Medical Galvanists,
105 Regent. St., London, W., and 44 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
Please mention this paper.
Now
Ready,
A POLICY FOR THE COMMON WEALTH
Price 0d; IPosted Bd.
Business Announcements.
(apod Tailoripg.
SPRING.
New Neat Designs in Worsteds
and Tweeds .
PURE INDIGO SERGES-
FANCY TROUBERINGS, VESTINGS, &C.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post tree.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Mercers,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Bole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
ANEW
KODAK.
The No. 2 Plico Kodak.
n
n,
For Pictures 3J x 3J inches.
Price 21/- Only.
Loaded and Unloaded In Daylight.
Send for Illustrated Leaflet and mention
this Paper.
KODAKS ALL PRICES, FROM ss. TO £7 15 3 ,
Now on Sale by all Photographic Dealers.
KODAK Ltd.
“THE BLOCK,” 284 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
Medical.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Hoad, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
POWELL’S BALSAM
IF MISLED
WILL CURE YOUB COUGH
All the world over, it has 1)6611 the recognised
Cough Remedy for the past 75 years, and is
to-day the Safe and Reliable Cure for
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and all Lung Troubles.
Loosens the Phlegm immediately, and re-
moves the tickling sensation in the Throat,
which deprives so many of rest curing the
night. It Strengthens the Voice.
WARNING When purchasing
Powell’s Balsam of Aniseed
see the above Trade Mark on each wrapper
and beware of Imitations.
Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers through-
out the world. Prepared only by 'J homas
Powell, Ld., Blaekfriars, London, S.E.
T\EAR SIR, —I have been cured of Weakness and De
_ bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURST) Pitt-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Be t,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia.
■■ LINCOLN, STU ART&TO.
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
262 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
1E!»
55%: \fn
2’25;:§‘ \s‘ a
52% " i=1
Q S\;\
\Q\
2 § 5:5
I. A2 ,9
I :2: z
”5;, ¢
Our Suit to order at 4'Js. is
marvellous value: made from
all-wool Tweeds,Vicunas, or fast
color Sergos ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class * f material. £3 3s. To
measure, capital Trousers, very
good patterns 12s. 6d.
Dress Suits, to measure. £7*
Clerical Suits, to measure.
Biding Breaches, 255.
Hiding Habits, Ac,
We supply ready made. Men’s
l capital T\\ eed Suits 21s, & 255.
| Fam us Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 2 s.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergerette suits, 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers. ss, I Id.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests. 19s lid.
Men's Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19s «d. Waite Drill
Sacs and Trousers, 10s. lid.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, 12s lid.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sacs,
6s. 9d, White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9d., 4s 9d., ss. lid.
Travelling Trunks, Ba.s and
Hugs in great variety.
Men’s White Shifts, colored
front and cuffs. 2s 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. lid.
White Mat'e Shirts, collar and
pocket 3s. |;d.
So t Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d., all
colors
Hard Hats. 4 ■ lid. Caps. Is,
' erino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d,
Neckties, all shapes and colors.
Is.
White Shirts to measure. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6*. 9d . Oh. (pi.
Walike to write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for any
information. Our hook, “'the Philosophy of I ros " and
patterns of a 1 kinds and self-me surement forms posted free
Write for them.
r /IATTRI "
GOUT
PILL!
F°R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA
LUMBAGO,
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Procjt & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Aust-alian Colonies.
€V€RY MAN
Should send for a VALUABLE PAMPHLET explaining
how all NERVOUS and ORGANIC derangements may be
SUCCESSFULLY TREATED by a NEW METHOD. It is
EASY and PLEASANT, and will effect a PERFECT and
PERMANENT CURE. Sent post FREE. Address—
THE BOTANIC INSTITUTE, VICTORIA CHAMBERS,
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
ffHE|
DEAF
by using Wilson’s Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Wonderful Results obtained in
cases considered beyond any
treatment. Soft, comfortable,
and invisible when in use.
Head Noises Relieved.
Pamphlets and Australian
Testimonials Free,
il. CHALMERS, Sole Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
Beat
i
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no mutter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo~n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. £
Address A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
left $97k
m9 ,
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re*
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, &c.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 CEORSE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
m
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne
Is your Hus-
band, Son,
Brother, or
Father a
DRUNKARD
If so, send us your Name and Address, with Id. to cover
postage, and we will send you in a plain envelope our
Booklet giving full particulars how to give EUCRASY
secretly in Tea, Coffee, Pood, etc. It is odorless and
tasteless, and will cure this dreadful habit quietly and
permanently without the Patient’s knowledge or consent.
GOOD FOB BOTH SEXES.
Write THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney.
NOW REAPY~
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being a reprint of a large number of articles from
Tub Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
Price 6d; Posted Bd.


Maoriland proposes to deal with the usurer
by legislation on the lines of the British Money-
lenders’ Act —the court to have unlimited powers
to go behind the contract and, if it appears
extortionate, to reduce the interest by anything
per cent, at said coui’t’s discretion.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Sydney Cooper, the veteran cattle-painter,
has given a nasty blow to certain writers who
ascribed to his “ temperance principles ” his being
able to do good work at 95 and over. He writes
to say that he has not touched tea or coffee for
over half-a-century, and latterly he has sworn off
milk. “Old Scotch” is his drink at luncheon
dinner and bed-time —“with an occasional glass
of champagne, or old port,” adds the cheerful
patriarch.
When Carnegie’s mother left Scotland
for Yankeeland she had to borrow 11s. to make
up her family’s fare. Andrew was only abairnthen.
The other day, 54 years after, he retired from
bu iness to his Scottish castle with a fortune of 70
millions and began to throw it round. So the
children of the woman who had advanced the 11s.
wrote to him to say they had none too much
siller and while he was splashing gold it wouldn’t
be a bad idea if he paid off the “wee bit score.”
Andrew did, with interest, and gave the two old
ladies enough-to live on comfortably till the end
of their days ; also he endowed the children of the
married one with a substantial amount. Carnegie
is a weary old dyspeptic, on whose soul the blood
of the murdered workers, shot by Pinkerton’s
police'll the Homestead riots, lies heavy as lead,
and now he is pouring out money like water to
wash that stain awaj and to get a fresh digestive
apparatus. The indigestion became acute and
chronic just after the Homestead affair, and
Andrew, a dour Scot at heart, has a supersti-
tious dread that it is a joodgement, ye ken.
FALIERE’S PHOSPHATIME
r PHOSPHAT/WE
FAUERES
The Only
Food
containing
Phosphate
of Lime*
For INFANTS and
INVALIDS
AN ESSENTIAL REQUISITE IN THIS COUNTRY.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
THE
| OUis* Velveteen.
NOTE WELL ! —Each Yard of Genuine “ LOUIS ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L“0“U"l“S ant * * n no ot her
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEITY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cnre.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain o
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com
foi ling in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption hai
never been known to exist where “ Coughs" have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient
anrl a Complete Core is certain.
OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY' ONE BOTTLE OP HEARNE'S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“Mr. Hearnf. —
“ Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. I do not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully,
Extract from letter alluded to above: —
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
*. •'-ir.W-'-' ’ •
» AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
[ was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours", and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
*m a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY."
Wf, tlie undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
fleame’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
•eotly and rapidlv successful under circumstances which
inddubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
;hp Rev. JOI&I SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
Iffy-rune other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
*'I used your Bronchitis Cure tor three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Oowie’s Creek, Victoria."
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine .vet; but lam sending’ for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S. W.”
1 Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.— A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
both
Victoria
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that vour Brochitis Cure has done us ■
i a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both. —R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
“I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria."
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria."
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—O. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
“ i lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W."
‘Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” 0
‘Your medicine for asthma is wmrth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE,- Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” •
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN C.
TRF.LAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria."
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria."
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—OH AS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“ Dear Mr. Hearne,—The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitii
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was 8(
marked that he has ever since been continually reoom
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value ol
Hearne’s most, valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings . f hundreds and hundreds of people ever
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 3d
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
eured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
* THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemistai
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OP THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“lam, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong) Advertises."
“Upon looking through our books we arestruok with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholeaala
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally .
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food r*
Infants
9
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Sc., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
AND
THE AGED.


“A funny incident relieved the monotony of
Melbourne Block one recent afternoon. Much
attention had been attracted by a very pretty and
evidently happy young girl in a daring but
successful gown, who was promenading with a
long, lean young actor. Suddenly a cab drew up
at the kerb, a stout, flushed, white-haired citizen
bounced out, charged down on the pair, took the
radiant little girl by her sweet, pink ear, and
bundled her aboard. The long, lean genius was
left without explanation gazing after the wake of
the vanished charmer.
“Re that story about the man who climbed the
railway-carriage partition to escape the dainty little
maiden who wanted her shoelace tied. A damsel
of that sort, travelling on the Brighton (Vio.) line,
saw a certain prominent business man enter one
compartment and promptly jumped into the next.
On arriving at the next station the dear little
thing complained, in heart-broken accents, to the
station-master that the capitalist had attempted
gross familiarities, her game evidently being to get
the matter settled on the spot for a lump sum.
But the young lady overlooked the delusiveness
of the ordinary mirror, and was astounded when
the officials pointed out that the partition between
the compartments went right up to the roof, and
that what appeared to be a space through which
even a Fatman could clamber was solid wood-
work covered with looking-glass. In the seclusion
of the ticket-office the railway authorities held
that young lady over the counter and impressed a
lesson in optics upon her by means of a strap,
which some evil-disposed person had out from an
earlier train.
“A well-known family in R.C. circles, out St.
Kilda way, have paid toll to Charon, one after
another, in extraordinary and most pathetic
fashion. One elderly married sister fell ill, and
another went to nurse her. The patient died, and
a few days later the sister who had nursed her
became seriously ill. A third sister, who has teen
a Sister of Charity in Sydney almost since the
establishment of the order, as a matter of privi-
lege was allowed to come to Melbourne to nurse
the patient. A few days later that unfortunate
succumbed ; then the nun became ill, and she, too,
died some days after. The three sisters perished
in less than a fortnight.
“ Two nurses in a Melbourne hospital have re-
cently netted gold-fish—and other desirable
patients at this present time are casting con-
valescent and grateful eyes at their ministering
angels. No wonder girls are crowding in shoals
to take up nursing. Hundreds clamor to be ad-
mitted to the Melbourne, Alfred, and Homoeo-
pathic Hospitals. There’s tremendous luck in the
calling. Given a wealthy widower, a serious
operation, and some time for convalescence
(another term for melting sentimentality), and ten
to one the sweet-voiced nurse carries the patient
to the haven of Hymen.
“ The secret of a leading lady’s many dress-
changes has leaked out. She wears her smart
frocks three or four times, then sells them,
and the proceeds help to get in fresh ones.
Of course these days every sensible sassiety
whirler disposes of her past frooks to the old-clo’
dealer. Nowadays the dealer is a very respectable
and presentable person, whom one is not ashamed
to ask into the sitting - room or the boudoir.
Appointments are generally made beforehand and
the coast cleared to allow of the deal being nego-
tiated privately. But cases have occurred when,
callers having arrived and encountered the minion
of the Three Balls, open confession under the seal
of secrecy has been considered the better part of
valour. .Sometimes the fashionable caller and the
old-clo’ dealer have exchanged smiles of recogni-
tion, and then the matter turns to laughter and
candid confidence. 9
“ Crematorium urns are the latest fad of curio-
collectors. A Toorak matron (one of the so-called
souls of academic and aesthetic circles) has been
the first to get hers in readiness —a beautiful gem
of mosaic and Greek lettering, in which the heroic
ashes of Dido might have rested. As a receptacle
for the remains of a modern dear departed, the urn
fails to justify its presence in the drawing-room.
The effect is bad—one seems to smell death in the
afternoon-tea.
“ Fashionable golfers are sporting these days
waterproof boots that reach to the knee. The
boots are a blessed boon. Heretofore, when fences
had to be climbed and creeks negotiated, the high
lift of the skirts, disclosing heterogeneous hues of
hose, bloomers, &c , led to some blushing and
giggling on the part of the caddies. Now
these young rascals need no longer risk
their moral propriety, for the high boots
will do away with all calf distinctfulness.
Yet it seems rather a shame to rob the caddies of
the joy when a specially lovely limb bursts into
view. They used to watch fence-climbing as one
looks on pyrotechnics, with a lively sense of grati-
tude for the expected.
“ A little while ago a Melbourne champion
golfer won a three-guinea trophy. The club asked
him to forward the account for the trophy he chose
to that amount. He did so, with thanks. But
the club scarcely-considered the account, ‘Hat—
three guineas,’ from a fashionable milliner’s estab-
lishment, the proper or legitimate kind of club
trophy to show for the money. Besides it was a
lady’s hat. So the champion was appealed to for
an explanation. He acknowledged that it was
for his best girl—‘and what’s hers is mine, and
what’s mine’s hers, don’t you know ? ’ But the
club didn’t know anything of the kind, and he had
to make the present of the hat out of his own
pocket, and content himself with a masculine
memento.
“Guy Madden, son of His Wax., is lieutenant
in the Melb. Scotch Regiment. G.M. is a
Pickwickianly fat boy, and in kilts is comically
reminiscent of the gargantuan ‘Evangeline ’ Rice
in ballet-skirts. Tust now he is the most popular
local leg-show.
“ In Robert Gordon Hyndman (who died Sept.
sth, at Miss Kelly’s Hospital, Melb ), Victoria
loses one of her most artistic architects. His
colored elevations came as a pleasant surprise
after the stiff mechanical productions of the ordi-
nary house-designer. He was also one of the best
and straightest of men, and his vocation was his
delight; no one worked harder. His face was in-
tensely artistic, yet full of virility, with strongly-
marked brows and deep-set eyes. He was an in-
timate of Phil. May and Spong, and was for
some time secretary to Vic. Artists’ Association.
After serving articles with Reed, Tappin and
Smart, he set up in business with one of his fellow-
pupils, E. T. Bates. His success was enormous,
and his office was considered a shining example of
good taste, and certainly of industry. The new
Agk office was one of his last big works. He
died in his 37th year—“fatal thirty-seven”
and quite suddenly.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
The Father.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A child wrapped in blankets sat before the log*
fire.
“ Are you wanting anything, Sonny?” the m’nn
asked, pleadingly. The child did not stir or lift
the head that rested wearily on the pillow, b..t
gazed dreamily in the fire and murmured;
“I want Mums.”
A look of disappointment twitched the man’s
features; in a coaxing voice he continued :
“Won’t I do, Sonny? Your Mum’s busy
baking. Do you want a drink ? Shall I get you
a drink ? ”
“ I want Mums.”
Again, the reply seemed to hurt the man ; he
tried to take one of the child’s shrunken hands
in his own big palm, but the child pulled it
impatiently away.
“Shall I tell you a yarn about little pigs—or
the horse that wouldn’t go—or the ’possum with
three tails ? ”
“I want Mums.”
The man said no more, but sat silently by the
child, his eyes hungering. At the sound of a step
in the doorway the child turned his head about,
and the pinched features gave a flash of welcome.
“ I want you, Mums ! ”
The man clenched his teeth, as though to stifle
an imprecation.
“ What is it, my sweet ? ”
“ I want a drink.”
The mother held up the cup, with a glance, half
of triumph, at her husband. Whenever the father
spoke to the child his voice had a softer tone,
his face took a new expression. The wife had
noticed this change in him, a change she had never
seen at other times, not even at their courting.
Yet she said:
“You know the child does not like you to come
near him.” Perhaps the sharp look of pain in the
man’s eyes affected her, for she added—“ Not
when he is sick.”
He replied with a savage glance, behind the
child’s back. The woman returned it defiantly.
“ What would my sweet like to eat?”
The child would not say, nor, for much plead-
ing, give a sign of inclination, till, with a sort of
weariness, he answered :
“ Mums, I should like a little fish like Tom
caught.”
“But we have not got fish, sweetie ! ”
The child began to whimper. The father started
to the door, prompted by a sudden resolve.
• * * '9
Outside, the day had changed ; big drops of rain
fell, and a black bank of clouds in the south gave
token of a storm. The man did not heed this ;
but, reaching down a fishing-pole from under the
verandah, strode away towards the ereelc. On his
way he turned over some bark rotting on the
ground, and gathered up the black crickets that
sprang out.
On the bank of a big waterhole he unfastened
the line, baited, and threw it in. By this time
the rain was sheeting down, drenching him
through and through, but he did not heed it ; he
fished resolutely. He was not a skilled angler;
many times he caught himself, the bushes on the
banks, the boughs overhead; fish he could not
catch. He swore terribly, yet with a certain reti-
cence, so as not to scare the fish. Hours lie stood
there, numbed with cold and wet. It was nearly
dark ; his last cricket was on the hook ; when the
cork went under with a sudden tug. It was a
good bite, and he landed the two-pound perch
with joy and pride as though it had been so
much gold.
“ That’ll please him ; won’t he be glad ! ” he
cried aloud as he hurried home. He opened the
door with confidence, and hurried to where the
child sat.
“ I’ve got one, Sonny ! such a beauty ! ” Ex-
pectant joy beamed out of the man’s face.
With languid glances the child looked at the
prize.
“ I don’t like it; it’s too big ; I want a little
fish like Tom’s.” And he turned his face away.
There was scorn even in the mother’s eyes, and
they said as plainly as spoken words, “ What did
I tell you ? ” Night and darkness in his face, the
father laid the fisn down without a word and stole
out of the room—then on to the stable, where he
commenced to groom the horses, swearing as he
brushed and combed. And Tom, coming home
with the cows, knew his father was “crabbed,”
for it was always a vent for his rage to groom
his beasts.
Presently the wife came out and called across
the yard authoritatively, “Dad ! Sonny wants to
go to sleep; don’t make such a row.”
“I’ll deal with you!” he answered, threaten-
ingly; but it was under his oath, and, though
he continued to curse, his words were hissing
whispers,
The mother cunningly prepared the fish by
cutting off the middle and piecing head and tail
together, and so gave it to the child at supper-
time.
“ Mother’s got a nice little fish for her Lovey ! ”
The child smiled gratefully.
“ That’s better than Daddy’s fish. Dad’s fish
nasty ! ”
The father saw and heard all ; and blood
trickled from the lip his teeth clenched.
* • * •
Next day the child grew worse. He had pre-
viously been taken to the doctor, but there could
be now no question of that. Besides, it rained
torrents.
“I’ll go and fetch the doctor, mother!” the
father said resolutely.
“Perhaps'you’d better, Jack ; but think of the
money, think of the cost of it ! ”
The man went out into the storm, taking his
way to Pierson, who, like himself, was a surly,
dictatorial man. They were neighbours, and
Pierson was the last man from whom he cared to
ask a favor.
But the neighbor owned the only pole-buggy in
the district. “ Yes, you can have it, and welcome,
Harris,” said Pierson ; “do you want horses ?”
“ No,” said Harris, “ I will drive my own.”
Arrived at the township, the doctor was not at
home —was not expected home for twd hours. No
help but to wait." Harris drove into the store-
keeper’s yard and fed his horses, swearing the
while.
The doctor had not alighted when the waiting
father met him.
“The boy’s worse, is he? That’s a bad job.
Want me to come to your place now? Nine
miles, isn’t it ? I thought so. You know, it’s a
pound a mile, paid in advance. (Strictly in ad-
vance ! ” repeated the doctor, with emphasis.
“My word, doctor ! Surely you’ll trust a man
till the corn’s sold ? ”
“Not my own brother,” said the doctor, tum-
ing on his Heel; “ besides, as I told you when you
(Continued on next page.)
The yEOLIAN
THE JBOUAN is really a solo
orchestra brought wilhin the
home and can be played by
every member of the family. It
opens up the rich field of orchestral
music to every one.
As its technical capacity is un-
limited, it enables the player to
execute every note of the score —
an achievement which it is next to
impossible for two hands to ac-
complish.
While the JBollan has techni-
cal powers immeasurably beyond
those of the most skilful techni-
cian, the performer is complete
master of the expression.
This is the secret of
fascination. It is responsive to
the player’s every feeling.
The great popularity of the ./Eolian in Country homes is a
pertinent illustration of their practical value. In these retreats
away from musical entertainment, an riiolian provides the
pleasure of hearing any composition one’s mood may call for
any time , with the added pleasure of producing the music
one’s self.
The jEolian is sold at no other
address in Sydney.
Send for Catalogue
trations and
L_eJ
containing Illus-
fullparticulars.
Henry M. Birge & Co.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
323
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
mm
%
Ik
&F
PEARS
vz
Reduced Facsimile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAKERS,
BY
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.


brought him in, medicine can do no good in this
case.”
“ Give him a chance, doc. ! give him a chance ! ”
the man pleaded, following. But the doctor was
inexorable, not appearing desirous of the journey,
even with the fee forthcoming, as he glanced at
the black sky and still-pouring rain.
The man crossed the road and entered the
store.
“Wet to-day, Harris. What can Ido for you ? ”
said the storekeeper, blandly.
“ I came to fetch the doctor, and he wants nine
quid; can you let me have it, Jamieson? You
know it’s right.”
“No, I can’t,” said the storekeeper, decidedly.
“I never lend money.”
“But it’s for my little Sonny, I tell yer; he’s
sick to dying.” The man’s words choked in his
throat.
“ Can’t help it. Very sorry, I’m sure. Glad,
as you know, to let you have a few months’ credit
for any stores you want; but money is out of the
question.”
“ Then curse you for a mean Scotch hound ! you
—you son of a cow ! you cold-blooded gohanna ! ”
said the man, bursting with wrath.
. As though the speaker had merely “ passed the
time o’ day,” the storekeeper, without the least
show of annoyance, continued weighing-out tea.
“Come outside, you wretch, and I’ll fight you
for it.” The man shook his fist across the
counter, and strode up and down the shop.
“ Come out in the yard, and I’ll fight you with
one hand, you dog ! ”
For half-an-hour the man stormed, threatened,
and pleaded with monotonous iteration ; finally
he drifted into the street, and to the public-house
bar at the corner. He drank two glasses of raw
spirit rapidly, one after the other. At ordinary
times such indulgence would have made him
drunk; now the nobblers seemed to sober him.
Declining an offered “shout,” he went into the
rain and the stables again, and he walked as
though with a sudden resolve.
“It’s a bad day for us. Bob,” he said, patting
his big horse and rubbing its forehead; “ I’d
rather chop my hand off, and you as good a horse,
Bob, as ever looked through a collar. My oath !
it’s rough, old horse : but you’ll have to go, Bob,
so help me ! You’ll have to go ! ”
The man entered the store again, speaking
hurriedly :
“ I’ll tell you what it is, boss. You know my
shafter; let me have him to drive the doc. to-day,
and he’s yours for the nine quid ; and you know
he is well worth twenty.”
The storekeeper did know, but gave no sign as
he quietly went to the ledger and turned up the
account of Dr. Cheeseman.
“I tell you what I might do,” he said, after a
slight pause ; “perhaps I can make it right for
you with the doctor ; and here’s a pen and ink—
you can make out a receipt while Igo over.” He
was at the doorway, when he paused and turned
back. “ Now, are there any groceries you want ?
Tea—flour—sugar salt rice—sago tapioca—
mustard vinegar oatmeal ? ” He rested a
moment interrogatively on each item.
“ For God’s sake, go over to the dootor ! Don’t
I tell you Sonny’s sick to dying ! ”
Paying no heed to the man’s violent negations,
the storekeeper continued: “Jams pickles—
sauce—salad oil—castor oil—tinned fish—herring-
salmon—sardines—and there’s a nice line of ling,
just opened, look at that! ”
For answer, the man took him by the shoulders
and forced him from the store.
• * • •
A few minutes later and Harris was at the
doctor’s door. “Come along, doc.! The trap’s
waiting outside.”
“ All right,” replied the doctor, who appeared
troubled; “but just come with me and look at
this room. Look at that wet now ! all streaming
down the wall, and that miserable Jamieson won’t
have the roof mended ! ”
“ Smother him ! Get another house, then ! ”
siid Harris with fierce impatience, stamping his
feet and grinding his teeth.
“ But there is no other house to be had in the
township, and Jamieson knows it. He wants me
to get it mended. To mend his house ! what do
you think of that ? ”
“Come along, doc. ! for Heaven’s sake come
along ! Sonny’s real bad, I tell you ! ”
“ Well, it’s a robbery, and that’s what I just
told him. He agreed to do all repairs, and now I
shall have to get it done. Now, if you are quite
ready, Harris, we’ll make a start.”
“Have you got your box of chemicals?” the
man inquired anxiously, as the dootor climbed
into the buggy.
“ All I require,” replied the doctor, touching a
bulky pocket.
A crack of the whip like a pistol-shot, a plunge,
a vast scattering of mud and slush, and they were
off. Leaving the township and the formed road,
they followed a bush-track at a hand-gallop. Al-
ready it was dusk, the rain continuing unabated.
“He didn’t eat his tea last night; nor his
breakfast this morning, doc. Does that count for
much?”
“Be oareful, man ! Look at the ruts ahead ! we
shall be thrown out.”
“ Never you worry ! we’re as right as the bank.
He was talking in his sleep all night—talking sort
of silly-like—didn’t know his mother. Is that bad
doc ? I’m thinking the like o’ that don’t count,
does it ? ”
“We were nearly over then! Shaved that
stump to an inch ! ” groaned the doctor, olutching
the seat as it danced with the jolts and ruts of the
road. The driving looked to him a sort of mad-
ness, for, the usual track being full of sloughs and
bog-holes, the man drove through the bush, turn-
ing and twisting as stumps and trees compelled,
and, now and then, going fairly, over some
prostrate log not otherwise to be avoided, and all
this —except the log-crossing—at full speed.
“ I’ve heard say’lectricity is a great thing; do
you think, now, it would do for Sonny ? I feel
sort o’ certain ’lectricity 'ud fix him up.”
The doctor’s answer was not audible above the
noise of the storm; he was tossing about as though
on agitated springs. The man did not turn his
head ; his eyes were in front, picking his road ; he
urged the horses by calling to them, and looked at
the sky anxiously; he was racing to get through
the bush before night came and utter darkness.
“ For mercy’s sake, go slow ! ” ejaculated the
doctor, suddenly, as he clutched the man’s arm ;
‘ l l cannot see my hand in front of me.” But the
driver, recalling his memory of the bush, was
watching the black foliage overhead as it pat-
terned on the starless sky, and so guided the
unchecked horses.
“ We are nearly there ! ” cried the driver at last,
as thev emerged from under the trees.
* • « •
The doctor could see nothing but a solitary
gleam of light blinking from some unknown dis-
tance, and, presently, the gleam and froth of a
flooded creek just ahead. If he had put his hand
on the driver’s pulse he would have felt it beat
then; for what seemed shrouded and dim to the
doctor was clear to Harris: there could not be
less than six or seven feet of water on the cross-
ing, with a current like a sluice. Knowing the
full danger, he did not waver for a moment; the
whip cracked with a volley of reports ; there was
a churning, splashing sound; and they were in
the flood.
“ We are not going to cross this ? ”
“ Oh, that’s nothing; only a bit of a fresh ! ”
“Stop, man ! Stop ! I wouldn’t cross this for
a, thousand pounds!” And the dootor clutched
ineffectually at the reins.
“ You sit quiet, doc. ; you’re as safe as the
bank. Feel if your chemicals are all right.”
. The doctor had to submit; they were so far
in the stream that it appeared safer to go on than
turn back; but presently, as he tried to peer
ahead in the gloom, it seemed to him the horses
sank suddenly into the shining flood, and he felt
the water round his feet.
“ Stop, you madman ! ” he yelled, as he felt the
buggy sway and toss under his feet like a rocking
boat. At the same moment the driver lifted him
bodily out of the trap into the stream.
“Hold on tight, doc! on that side; and I’ll
balance her on this ! ” So saying, Harris slipped
into the water, and, holding on witli one hand,
drove with the other. Now came a string of
oaths and curses, for the swimming horses wanted
to make straight for the landing, while the driver
headed them up stream, for only so was there
hope of not being swept away.
The doctor, clinging desperately to the floating
buggy, up to his neck in water, saw darker masses
loom up in the darkness, and with a swish and
swirl.roll by. White, glistening froth raced by in
eddying circles, and the boughs of floating trees
brushed him, hung to him for a moment, then
twisted away. And all this time Harris, with his
one free hand, was fighting a desperate battle for
leadership with the horses ; his only guide the ray
of light from the distant window of his own house.
The horses swam well; the danger was not in
them, but in the current that bore all down
stream. The doctor, after the first shock of
immersion, finding life still within him, had hope.
He prayed silently. The man, judging from
where they were that all was over, yelled the
curses of the damned. The buggy swayed and
nearly rolled over as a snag bumped it in its
course ; both men for a moment were pushed
under. Then they felt the stamp of feet, the
grate of wheels upon the stones. With a spring
Harris was in the buggy, helping the doctor to
climb up.
“ Are the chemicals all right, doc?” were his
first words.
“My God, man! you did all but drown us.
If I had only known ! ”
“Only a bit of a fresh, doc ; and now we’re
there. Come in the house gently; he may be
asleep. Perhaps he’s better. Do you think he’ll
be better ? ”
The child was in a chair-bed by the log fire, the
mother by his side crying silently. The two men
crossed the room on tiptoes. The doctor gave
one long glance at the little, wasted face and
sunken eyes, and said, gently, “I can give you no
hope.”
“ Don’t say that, doc—don’t say that ! ” the
man pleaded, desperately. The doctor shook his
head.
“Why, man!” said the father, with savage
madness, “I gave you nine pounds.” Still the
doctor shook his head. “ Well, make it twenty !
—make it all I’ve got; only give the kid a show! ”
The mother made a gesture, the child
moved, and the man was quiet suddenly. The
child parted hi 3 lips to speak; the father stooped
forward, eagerly.
“ Mums ! ” was the faint cry. The mother
waved the man back and took the child’s hand, as
though her share was all and undivided. Broken
sobs shook the man.
Still holding the mother’s hand, the child turned
his head wearily on the pillow, and motioned
slightly with feeble fingers. “ Dada! ” he
whispered ; and a light, almost of love, was in his
eyes.
It was the first, the final recognition.
HENRY FLETORER
The late Dowager Empress of Germany
was onetime the heroic child of whom Queen
Victoria wrote in her diary—“ Little Vicky sat
on a wasps’ nest, but was not in the least flurried
or put out.”
A journalist whose signature is sup-
pressed on principle writes to The Bulletin
on the Signed Article (a Bill introduced by P.
E. Quinn to N.S.W. Assembly, provides that all
leading-articles be signed with the real name of
the writers): —
“ Rappelle ! rappelle 1 et encore, rappelle /" This
phrase sounds quite convincingly in French, as the cap-
tion of a French article, signed by a French journalist.
And all France answered to the call—at least, all Paris
did, and that amounts to the same thing. Emilb db
Girardin was, moreover, commissioned to wait upon a
king, and make terms in the name of a People, and db
Girardin was the father of modern French journalism
and the creator of the authority of the signed article—in
France. But this thing would never work in an
English-speaking community, for the simple reason that
the literary mandate has never been accepted or obeyed
by the Anglo-Kelt as it has been by the Franco-Kelt.
American communities have tried the signed article
with varying results, modified by horse-whippings and
street brawls. The signed article can never flourish in a
nation where the duello is unacclimatised. Besides,
what value would signatures have among a people who
recognise newspaper politics as the affair of a board oi
directors, with an editor as middleman ? The writer of a
political leader is a journalistic servant who voices the
opinions he is told to voice ; just as a barrister is briefed
to plead, independently of his own abstract opinions on
the merits of a case. The writer as voter, and the
writer as professional, are two different persons. The!
signed article would simply limit his journalistic
opportunities and decrease his bread-and-butter)
wages. Perhaps, however, the public would be betten
served by a division of professional writers into
sheep and goats, Protectionists and Freetraders ; but
would it be just? The politician changes his politics!
according to the rules of political expediency. Why)
penalise the professional journalist ? When all is said, the
editor is the author of everything to which he gives edij
torial sanction. He issues his instructions like a Scriptural
centurion, and behold! that which he commands is!
obeyed. A modifying sentence or paragraph scored from
an article destroys its meaning as an expression of indi-j
vidual opinion. It becomes then the utterance of the;
editor—the most autocratic of all press-censors. Nay, it!
becomes the utterance of the board of management, of
which the editor is only the servant. But article-signing)
would do positive harm to the average pressman, without
benefiting the public one jot. Under such a system the
work of journalism would soon be run by a clique bearing
well-known names. The imprimatur of the mighty
“We” would only be authoritative when affixed by a)
widely-advertised writer, who would be singled out by!
the irritated recipient of his verbal castigation, and held
responsible for the sins of his employers. Plain-speaking
and honest comment would die, or else become the
usurped privilege of physical bullydom. No, the signed)
article is an impossibility without its natural concomitant
of the legalised duel.
Which suggests an idea : “ The writer of a politi
cal leader is a journalistic servant who voices tht
opinions he is told to voice; just as a barrister i(
briefed to plead, independently of his owi)
abstract opinions on the merits of the case.” Then
plainly we should have anonymous
appearing in disguise.
A Newcastle Miner Strikes Gold.
Mr. John Perry, a miner who lives at Albert-
street, Wickham, Newcastle, N.S. Wales, has
i’ust had a stroke of excellent luck. For years he
las worked in a local mine, handicapped amongst
his fellow-workers by attacks of Liver disorder,
Indigestion, and excruciating pains in the chest,
back, and shoulders, as well as many other ills.
Recently he struck gold in the form of Bile Beans
for Biliousness, and to-day he is amongst the
healthiest men that go down the pit. To an in-
terviewer he said : —“ I have suffered enough in
my time, and am not ungrateful enough to refuse
telling you that Bile Beans for Biliousness cured
me, as it may be the means of getting others to
take the Beans, and thus succeed in getting cured
like me. I have suffered more than anyone
could imagine. For years I had a bad liver,
and the doctors were unable to afford me any
relief. I became a martyr to indigestion, which
caused me great pain in the chest, on the back
and shoulders. It became almost impossible for
me to stoop to drive a nail or drill. Then I
became a victim to piles, and suffered from con-
stipation. Nothing I took seemed to do me any
real good. After the doctors failed, I tried vari-
ous patent medicines, but still I did not improve
in health. At length I became so distressed that
I could not eat my meals with relish, and I passed
many a miserable night for want of sleep. I
really did not know what was going to become of
me, I felt so frightfully ill and distressed. My
sight became quite dim, and I had dizziness in the
head. My mother read about Bile Beans for
Biliousness, and it was on her advice I took them.
My condition began to improve after I had taken
the first four doses of the Beans, and by the
time I had finished one box, I felt that I had
been cured. Bile Beans for Biliousness have done
more for me, at the cost of a few shillings, than
all the doctors, upon whom I have spent
pounds. It is a pleasure for me to work
now, and I shall ever be grateful for what
Bile Beans for Biliousness have done for me.”
Bile Beans, which cured Mr. Perry, are the
world’s specific for biliousness, indigestion, liver
and kidney disorders, constipation, piles, head-
ache, debility, nervousness, female ailments,
change of season ailments, colds, chill, rheumatism,
and as a preventative or curing the after-effects of
influenza. All chemists stock them, or you may
obtain direct from the Proprietors, 39 Pitt-street,
Sydney, by sending price—thirteen pence half-
penny. If it is still true that health is fortune, Mr.
Perry may now be regarded as one of the richest
men around Newcastle.
Starch Eating by Young Ladies.
A FOOLISH AND DANGEROUS HABIT.
It has recently befcn stated on the authority of a lady-
doctor that the eating of starch is a habit practised by
many young ladies in the hope of improving their com-
plexions. Many young ladies are led to contract this
dangerous habit because they overlook altogether the
fact that the complexion is a matter which the liver and
digestive organs govern by keeping the blood pure. To
have good blood the liver must be in excellent working
order, the stomach able to perform its part of the con-
tract, and the system must be absolutely free from all
digestive troubles. Bile Beans for Biliousness bring
about this condition of things, and girls with a pasty
white skin cannot do better than try them. Once the
organs of the body are in good order, the skin will soon
assume a beautiful color without aid from harmful
cosmetics.
c. .
K
HOW TO HAVE
Good Health
THROUGH SUMMER.
The present season, with its
rapid changes, is particularly
trying to the health. It often
destroys the appetite com-
pletely, robs the system of its
strength, and lays it open to
the ravages of various diseases.
A short course of BILE BEANS
for BILIOUSNESS, taken at
this season, will put the system
into fit condition to with-
stand the heavy calls made
upon it, and by so doing will
ensure good health during the
summer season.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Mr. Chas. A. Munday, The Grulf, near Emmi
ville, N.S.W., says: “I would like to mention
that I find your Bile Beans for Biliousness a
splendid medicine for the Liver Complaint from
which I was greatly troubled.”
€
v
z
z
GEORGE
4-id
YDne
No. F27B7,— New Twin Heart and Arrow
Brooch, 9c. Gold, 8s 6d.
No. F37o4.—New Lucky Bell and Leaf
Brooch, 9c. Gold, 11s 6d.
No. FS93.—Fine Pearl New Moon and Spray
Brooch, 160. Gold, £6.
No. F 4299. —16c. Gold Bird and Leaf
Brooch, £1 6s.
No. F269l.—Strong Bar Brooch, New Design,
9c. Gold, 13s 6d.
No. F4Bsl.—Fine Pearl nd Sc. Gold
No. EB739.—Fine
mond and igc.
fiin 2> £4 10s.
Dia-
Gold
Magnificent Diamond
and Opal Cluster Ring,
£l7 10*.
No. F 4540 —l6c. Gold
and Pearl Pendant,
£2 10a.
No. EB6oo.—Pair of 9c,
Gold Tie Clips, 5a 6d.
Heavy Make, 10s 6d.
No. F2254.—15c. Gold Brooch, Ruby
Centre, £1 10a.
No. F3553.—]
jr Bell Brooch, 9c. Gold,
12a 6<L
No. F4s4o.—Fine Quality Pearl and 15c. Gold Spray
Brooch, £9 10s.
No. E 6629. —New Bar and Bell Brooch,
9c. Gold, 10s 6d.
No. F 976.—Fine Pearl Scroll Brooch, 15a. Gold,
£1 16*.
Shamrock Brooch, £llss.
Illustrated Catalogue
Free to all.


A Living Skeleton
Changed into a Healthy and Robust Child.
The trying weather of summer makes children drowsy, lifeless, and with-
out energy. They lose appetite, their blood becomes impure, and they break
out in sores.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
£
m
W5r
•9
&
B
&
m
m
*s
1/
A
&
Mrs, Emily Air, of Murray Park, Adelaide, So. Australia, very kindly sends
us a photograph of herself and family, which we reproduce above, accompanying
the same with the following testimonial:
“The trying hot weather of our summer has a very debilitating effect upon
children. They run down in health, become drowsy, lose appetite, and break
out in sores on the face and head.
“I have invariably found Ayer’s Sarsaparilla a perfect remedy for this condi-
tion. It purifies the blood, restores the appetite, and tones up the whole system.
“One of my children only twelve month old was transformed from almost a
skeleton into a healthy and robust child simply by giving it small doses of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla.”
Do you wonder, then, that people call it
“ The World’s Greatest Family Medicine”?
It is the greatest family medicine the world ever knew, good for all ages and
all conditions. When you take it you get more benefit from your food, your
blood becomes richer, your nerves are made stronger, and the whole system be-
comes filled with new life and vigor.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
A Great Medicine for Weak Children.
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other.
mbf' 26
YEARS’ SUCCESS
AS THE
UNIVERSAL REMEDY
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
f A sthma,Bronchitis,
ya Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Consumption,
HAS MADE
XungTomc
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY IN THE HOME
08. KIT OF EVERY COLONIAL.
it saves many Lives.
There is no difficulty in obtaining it , so
when you ash for Owbridge’s Lung
Tonic , insist wpon having it , as
other so-called remedies are
often substituted.
Prepared by
W.T.OWBRIDBE, M.P.S., Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is lid., 2s. 9d.. 45.6 d., & 11s., _
by all Colonial Medicine Vendors.
OOPYBIGHT.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
T7OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills,. Flush-
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to he WORj.H A.
GUINEA A BOX.’’
BEECH A M’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health, They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System /restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud or Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame, these
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham's Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is lJ,d, and 2s 9d each.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
s. freeman SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER-
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WTNTABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
A POLICY FOR TH€
COMMONWEALTH.
Bcipg a series of articles repripted
fron> “Tb* BCillctio* 99 v/itb ap
appepdix dcalipg v/itb tbc Fiscal
QCicStiop.
PRICE 6d.; posted, Bd.
m
:: : i
The Universal Remedy lor Acidity oi tue Stomacn,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Bheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most grentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregrnancy.
DIHNEFORDS
m
Sold Throughout the Worj
8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIi
o
<8
&
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
BONNINGTON’S
IRISH MOSS
, sssSi€SrjS3SS»
srarKSsf,Sara:
GCORQE**BOnn)NGTOn 1
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
, Bronchitis, Coughs
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACT
id Colds


Wl>at will be tbs P(stv ©o HoSS ?
IX MAY BE 15 OR 25, OR EVEN 33J PER CENT., BET YOU CAN SAVE ALL THAT IF
YOU BUY AT OUR PRESENT
FR.EEXiVA.3DB PEIICBS.
HOSE
RUBBER HOSE.
|x3 Ply, 50 feet Coils, 20s, 2os, 27s 6d, 30s, 32s 6d, 40s.
ii ii 60 ~ ~ 37s 6d, 50s, 60s.
COTTON-COVERED HOSE.
| inch, 50 feet Cpils, 17s 6d, 21s, 255.
EVERY HOSE IS GUARANTEED RELIABLE.
RUBBER GOODS ARE OUR SPECIAL LIME.
ANY LENGTH CUT TO ORDER
PERDBIAU and CO., 270 George St., Sydney.
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK,
WaSHEKESS'
««
32 8l 34 Clarence Street, SY DS^EY.
Worthington Pups
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Catalogue.
• . , _ • .-y v
SPOONS &
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
@6309
«m.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
m
TEARS DYEING
for the ladiss.
W. c. &c GO.,
DYERS ft CLEANERS,
40 Y OKK STICK Ef, SYDJVEST
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post irom all the colonies promptly
attended to.
The Bulletin's latest publication—
“ Dreams in Flower,” a book of verses by Louise
Mack—contains all the best poetical work of this
writer for the last ten years. Price half-a-crown,
post-free from this office.
MEWMm’S
jff ANTISEPTIC
THROAT PASTILLES
mi
St.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
E PPS'S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST SUPPER.
ERASMIC
PEERLESS
Unequalled as a Preserver and
Beautifier of the Complexion. It diffuses an exquisite
odor, and imparts a stimulating: and refreshing: influence.
SOAP
AIL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
&k
o
V
1*
*
-
M
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 216.
Sole Makers— M, BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLANO
ELTON, GRIMWADE & Co.,
Melbourne;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
AIR
COMPRESSORS.
111"“‘WE7 .- f. -
12‘4«;"%"’\1'/ I'J'”’iﬁﬁ7§ '
[HIV/\ER‘WW»WW WW]! 9’“ 1., {13;
32W" 7 WW WJLWLMWM W W’ T _égﬁ
aw“ 7mm»7.7mm}!munnnm WW '
W“:
Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors hold the highest
average records throughout the world. They have met and defeated in fair competition
every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain their reputation for
doing the most work at the least expense. Write for Catalogue to
The Representatives in Australia of
ROCK
DRILLS
New Ingersoll. l
'mu
"J
PARKE &
: V.’V . .
LACY C°. Y . L T . D .
s-sriDiwES'sr, ikt.s.'OT.
. .( 1
74 Clarence Street SYDNEY &
~7
435 Bourke Street
.1119?
71W
.44“ L
4," ‘1‘
Jy‘g'f
. 1n: ‘ "
M \u / I
'm‘ AIL» “
mm
guy/5177 * ‘
r /,:-;u.\“"‘ 4 " "
.h‘srn'ﬁtﬁmwu - ” I
“ “ . , me.
n: ‘54
‘.,~:::§:1'--x-‘4/ ’
gray ,
w '7
_ "MW ‘ '
{Amalia
kg? ' '
, . agﬁmm‘ “.— N
M" " gawk? "‘ ‘
~‘ ' uni; “ ”:3“: E
, , =22-uﬁﬂ $135":
iglwsﬁ‘JMvNEr-z i‘;' ’
:zziwmj "-
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES :
Blake Steam Pumps
Pay’s Woodworking Machinery
Tanite Emery Wheels
Sturtevant’s Pans and Porges
Pickering Governors
Ludlow Valves
Scbuttes’ Korting Injectors
“Champion” Lubricating Oils
Hoyts’ Leather Belting
Genuine “ Atlas ” Metal
Empire Laundry Machinery
Stratton’s Steam Separators
American Tool Co’s Lathes
Goubert’s Eeed Water Heaters
iSp"
Mpa
■
nocLMcaxsta
-Sg • j
ucmti.y,.
Pjfllli
- ■-
.
