

’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM.
Pur©,
therefore
Best
Cadbury's Coco
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
G. WATKIBTS «S£ CO..
107 Kent Street, *
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
1^1:
Send for
Prices and
Particulars.
Descriptive
Catalogues
on
Application.
Most
Up-to-Date
Machines.
JJOTICE TO MELBOOaVS VISITORS.
WJMI.VH-K’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Kailway Station and .Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
■
sawing & Woodworking Machinery,
Vertical & Horizontal Band Mills,
mmmrnrnßMM: HOLD THE WORLD’S RECORD
“ Frix,” Paris, 1900
(HIGHEST POSSIBLE AWARD.)
SOLE AGENTS ;
Pitt Street,
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
NOW READY. NOW READY.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
A Reprint of articles from The Bulletin.
Price SDC3eiJE»JE3Mrc;3E=JE»ost Free.
, ■ *
Sole Wholesale Agents: EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
fa
k
faf
BART.
X-sJW
-■ . i >
watch Repairs by Post
gp
nn
YVATOHES Thoroughly Cleaned, 2s. 6d. ; best English
Mainspring, 2s. 6d. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
355. Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send for catalogue.
D. S. MAIR,
Watchmaker, Jewellter & Optician
684 George-st. (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.
■ ' , 1 1 *
CHAMPAGNE
Extra Dry.
99
G. H. Mumm’s
CHAMPAGNE
Extra Dry.
AM TJSD DIE NT for OLD and YOUNGt.
Wonderful Value—~a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
oarried in vest poeket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
y-our character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to anj r address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d,
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.
ijfjfc
PIONEER
LEATHER
E LT INC
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SOM, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches:—P. Frankel & Co., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.;
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
00., Collins-st,, Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Go., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
Fair girls and gray horses.
3nd Edition. Price 4/6.
™ ABBOTT FILTER
•™ Absolutely Pure Water.
ABBOTT FILTER COY., S 3 William-street, Melbourne.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Agents, 71 Clarence-street, Sydney; Fremantle, and Kalgoorlie.
S. FREEMAN # SONS L!£?^E2
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING "C : POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
S®A2_OFF!Si WTNYAKD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BY ROYAL WARRANT.
Joshua's BOOMERANG BRANDY
JOSHUA BROS, haye been authorised to
SUPPLY BOOMERANG BRANDY
to the Cellars of H.M. the Queen, the Prince of Wales, and the Duke of York.
Henry Skinner,
Glarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10U3.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in ’the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bails
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Partied
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORB
of various sizes supplied.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n)brocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it. MAN and
BEA.ST. As tmserupulous persons ar»
offering injurious counterfeits.
SEE THAT YOty GET
Row’s Crobrocatioo.
The Ways of Many Waters
Collects the dashing ballads and verses of sailor-men’s
and wharf -men’s life which E. J. Brady has contributed
to The Bulletin and the Sunday Times, /Sydney. It is
the first attempt on the part of an Australian verse-
writer to chant the life on the sea and the margins of
the sea ; though there is one horse-poem—the story of
“ How Jaek Bowlin Steered * Jones.’ ’’ The volume is
bound in buckram, with gilt top, in a size that will go
into a pocket without squeezing; and the price is 5s
post-free. '*
The Bulletin
Voi 22. No. 1093 j
{Saturday, January 26, 1901.
ppuF-tn-art at tbe Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission bv TW as a TNTewsnaner.


the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
A. The Larynx, or
voice.
B. The Trachea or wine .
C. The Bronchial Tubes
dissected lung.
D. A iohe of one of the
a
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
Contain NO Cocaine or other poisonous drug
(Registered).
_„ v ... (.UCMISTS in Tins, 1s 6d; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich,
SOLD BY ALL d f iey Dep ’ ot . 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
THE RED PAGE .
Poems by Oscar Wilde.
OSCAR WILDE’S poems are for the most
part to be read in the small editions, the
rare copies, of 1881 and 1892. Several of
the shorter pieces are from time to time
reprinted; but the bulk of the work is to many
students of poetry unknown. So the poet may be
more advantageously here permitted to speak for
himself.
A staled Whistler story suggests the chief
quality of Wilde’s performance both in verse and
prose/ Whistler said a good thing. “How I
wish I had said that ! ” sighed Wilde. “ Never
mind, Oscar; you will.”
Throughout his literary life Oscar Wilde was
for the most part occupied in saying other men’s
good things. He was keenly receptive, fulfilling
the woman’s function,—as the cerebral inversion
attributed to him would lead one to expect. In
life, as in art, he cuckooed continually. His
aesthetic Grecian pose was mere rococo. Per-
haps never was there a writer so brilliant at
secondhand. “The Picture of Dorian Gray” is
a paradise of borrowed devices. The “ Poems
mimic thought and phrase of Milton, Keats,
Swinburne, Rossetti, Tom Hood, Matthew Arnold,
and others of Wilde’s youthful epoch.
Nevertheless, they are a splendid performance
for a young man of twenty-five who was not a
poet born ; and the sensuous beauty of some of
them might almost make them classic. Wilde’s
chief misfortune is that every achievement which
he attempted in verse had been already better
achieved —by his masters. Weft and warp, his
cloth of gold was spun by other hands. What he
gave new, if aught, was the pattern magnificently
flowering.
The best manifestation of Wilde himself is in
“Charmides,” a long poem here inadequately
represented by a few stanzas. It is admirable
verse, with a flavour of the academy, an odour of
the classics, flowing so easily that the labour is un-
seen, full of warm colour and seductive imagery.
“Panthea,” another piece of verse in similar
form, not here illustrated, is well written ; but
loses force by merely echoing Arnold’s “Empe-
docles on Etna” in a less exalted air. “The
Burden of Itys,” a third memorable piece, attunes
Thought with Nature in the style of Arnold’s
“Thyrsis” and “ Scholar Gipsy.” “Ilumani-
tad,” a fourth long piece, also draws much
of its inspiration from Arnold, by whose
philosophic melancholy Wilde was deeply
impressed. In all these instances Wilde
steeps himself in others’ moods so thoroughly that
they become his own ; and upon others’ themes
he invents variations which go never far from the
source, are never new or subtle, but are sweetly
and delicately phrased and finely mingled.
To gild refinfed gold, to paint the lily,
To throw a perfume on the violet,
To smooth the ice, or add another hue
Unto the rainbow, or with taper-light
To seek the beauteous eye of heaven to garnish——
that was Wilde’s- poetic office; and, despite
Shakespeare, his is not “wasteful and ridiculous
excess.”
The promise which Wilde gave in his poetic
heyday he never fulfilled. The lyric flame was in
his breitst a wavering lamp, soon extinguished,
though its warmth remained. Or it would be
more truly said that his “Poems” give no pro-
mise ; that they manifest recoil as well as force ;
that they hold the visible marks of early fatigue.
The poet’s temperament Wilde owned, but not
the poet’s power. His work is no bright dawn,
but a rich evening sky, dyed with the splendours
of a sunken sun.
Stanzas from
A F/v IMP ERA TRTX.
Set in this stormy Northern Sea,
Queen of these restless fields of tide,
England ! what shall men say of thee,
Before whose feet the worlds divide?
The earth, a brittle globe of glass,
Lies in the hollow of thine hand,
And through its heart of crystal pass,
Like shadows through a twilight land,
The spears of crimson-suited war,
The long, white-crested waves of fight,
And all the deadly fires which are
The torches of the lords of night.
For southern wind and east wind meet
Where, girt and crowned by sword and fire,
England, with bare and bloody feet,
Climbs the steep road of wide empire.
Here have our wide war-eagles flown
And flapped wide wings in fiery fight;
But the sad dove, that sits alone
In England—she hath no delight.
In vain the laughing girl will lean
To greet her love with love-lit eyes :
Down in some treacherous black ravine
Clutching his flag, the dead boy lies.
And many a moon and sun will see _
The lingering wistful children wait
To climb upon their father’s knee ;
And in each house made desolate
Pale women, who have lost their lord,
Will kiss the relics of the slain—
Some tarnished epaulette —some sword—
Poor toys to soothe sad anguished pain.
For not in quiet English fields
Are these, our brothers, lain to rest,
Where we might deck their broken shields
With all the flowers the dead love best:
For some are by the Delhi walls,
And many in the Afghan land,
And many where the Ganges falls
Through seven mouths of shifting sand.
And some in Russian waters lie,
And others in the seas which are
The portals of the East, or by
The wind-swept heights of Trafalgar.
O wandering graves ! O restless sleep !
O silence of the sunless day !
0 still ravine ! O stormy deep !
Give up your prey ! give up your prey !
And.thou whose wounds are never healed,
Whose weary race is never won:
O Cromwell’s. England ! must thou yield
For every inch of ground a son ?
Go ! crown with thorns thy gold-crowned head,
Change thy glad song to song of pain;
Wind and wild wave have got thy dead,
And will not yield them back again.
Wave and wild wind and foreign shore
Possess the flower of English land—
Lips that thy lips shall kiss no more,
Hands that shall never clasp thy hand.
What profit now that we have bound
The whole round world with nets of gold.
If hidden in our heart is found
The care that groweth never old ?
What profit that our galleys ride,
Pine-forest-like, on every main ?
Ruin and wreck are at our side,
Grim warders of the House of pain.
Where are the brave, the strong, the fleet ?
Where is our English chivalry ?
Wild grasses are their burial-sheet,
And sobbing waves their threnody.
O loved ones lying far away,
What word of love can dead lips send !
0 wasted dust! O senseless clay !
Is this the end ? Is this the end ?
Peace, peace ! we wrong the noble dead
To vex their solemn slumber so ;
Though childless and with thorn-crowned head,
TJp the steep road must England go.
Yet when the fiery web is spun,
Her watchmen shall descry from far
The Young Republic like a sun
Rise from these crimson seas of war.
MAGDALEN WALKS.
The little white clouds are racing over the sky,
And the fields are strewn with the gold of.the
flower of March,
The daffodil breaks under foot, and the tasselled
larch
Sways and swings as the thrush goes hurrying by.
A delicate odour is borne on the wings of the
morning breeze,
The odour of deep wet grass, and of brown new-
furrowed earth,
The birds are singing for joy of the Spring’s glad
birth,
Hopping from branch to branch on the rocking
trees.
And all the woods are alive with the murmur and
sound of Spring,
And the rosebud breaks into pink on the climbing
briar,
And the crocus-bed is a quivering moon of fire
Girdled round with the belt of an amethyst ring.
And the plane to the pine tree is whispering some
tale of love
Till it rustles with laughter and tosses its mantle
of green,
And the gloom of the wych-elm’s hollow is lit with
the iris sheen
Of the burnished rainbow throat and the silver
breast of a dove.
See ! the lark starts up from his bed in the
meadow there,
Breaking the gossamer threads and the nets of
dew,
And flashing a-down the river, a flame of blue !
The kingfisher flies like an arrow, and wounds the
air.
APOLOGIA.
Is it thy will that I should wax and wane,
Barter my cloth of gold for hodden-grey,
And at thy pleasure weave that Web of pain
Whose brightest threads are each a wasted day ?
Is it thy will—-Love that I love so well—
That my Soul’s House should be a tortured Spot
Wherein, like evil paramours, must dwell
The quenchless flame, the worm that dieth not ?
Nay, if it be thy will I shall endure,
And sell ambition at the common mart,
And let dull failure b& my vestiture,
And sorrow dig its grave within my heart.
Perchance it may be better so—at least
I have not made my heart a heart of stone,
Nor starved my boyhood of its goodly feast,
Nor walked where Beauty is a thing unknown.
Many a man hath done so ; sought to fence,
In straitened bonds, the soul that should be free,
Trodden the dusty road of common sense,
While all the forest sang of liberty.
Not marking how the spotted hawk in flight
Passed on wide pinions through the lofty air
To where the Steep untrodden mountain height
Caught the last tresses of the Sun God’s hair.
Or how the little flower he trod upon,
The daisy, that white-feathered shield of gold,
Followed with wistful eyes the wandering sun
Content if once its leaves were aureoled.
But surely it is something to have been
The best-beloved for a little while,
To have walked hand in hand with Love and seen
His purple wings flit once across thy smile.
Ay ! though the gorged asp of passion feed
On my boy’s heart, yet have I burst the bars,
Stood face to face with Beauty, know indeed
The Love which moves the Sun and all the Stars.
HER VOICE.
The wild bee reels from bough to bough
With his furry coat and his gauzy wing,
Now in a lily-cup, and now
Setting a jacinth bell a-swing,
In his wandering ;
Sit closer love : it was here I trow
I made that vow,
Swore that two lives should be like one
As long as the sea-gull loved the sea,
As long as the sun-fiower sought the sun,—
It shall be, I said, for eternity
’Twixt you and me !
Dear friend, those times are over and done,
Love’s web is spun.
Look upward where the poplar trees
Sway and sway in the summer air,
Here in the valley never a breeze
Scatters the thistle down, but there
Great winds blow fair
From the mighty murmuring mystical seas
And the wave-lashed leas.
Look upward where the white gull screams,
What does it see that we do not see ?
Is that a star? or the lamp that gleams
On some outward voyaging argosy—
Ah can it be
We have lived our lives in a land of dreams 1
How sad it seems.
Sweet, there is nothing left to say
But this, that love is never lost.
Keen winter stabs the breasts of. May
Whose crimson roses burst his frost,
Ships tempest-tossed
Will find a harbour in some bay,
And so we may.
And there is nothing left to do
But to kiss once again, and part,
Nay, there is nothing we should rue,
I have my beauty,—you your Art,
Nay, do not start,
One world was not enough for two
Like me and you.
Stanzas from
CHARMIDES.
[Charmides, a Grecian lad, dares to love a templed
image of Athena ; and by the vengeful goddess is given
to the Sea.]
But some good Triton-god had ruth, and hare
The boy’s drowned body back to Grecian land, _
And mermaids combed his dank and dripping hair
And smoothed his brow, and loosed his clenching
hand,
Some brought sweet spices from far Araby,
And others bade the halcyon sing her .softest
lullaby.
And when at dawn the wood nymphs, hand-in-
hand,
Threaded the bosky dell, their satyr spied
The boy’s pale body stretched upon the sand,
And feared Poseidon’s treachery, and cried,
And like bright sunbeams flitting through a glade,
Each startled Dryad sought some safe and leafy
ambuscade.
Save one white girl, who deemed it would not be
So dread a thing to feel a sea-god’s arms
Crushing her breasts in amorous tyranny,
And longed to listen to those subtle charms
Insidious lovers weave when they would win
Some fenced fdrtress, and stole back again, nor
thought it sin
To yield her treasure unto one so fair,
And lay beside him, thirsty with love’s drouth,
Called him soft names, played with his tangled
hair,
And with hot lips made havoc of his mouth
Afraid lie might not wake, and then afraid
Lest he might wake too soon, fled back, and then,
fond renegade,
Returned to fresh assault, and all day long
Sat at his side, and laughed at her new toy,
And held his hand, and sang her sweetest song,
Then frowned to see how fro ward v/as the boy
Who would not with tier maiden mod entwine,
Nor knew that three days since his eyes had
looked on Proserpine,
Nor knew what sacrilege his lips had done,
But said, “ He will awake, I know him well,
He will awake at evening when the sun
Hangs his red shield on Corinth’s citadel,
This sleep is but a cruel treachery
To make me love him more, and in some cavern of
the sea
Deeper than ever falls the fisher’s line
Already a huge Triton blows his horn,
And weaves a garland from the crystalline
And drifting ocean-tendrils to adorn
The emerald pillars of our bridal bed,
For sphered in foaming silver, and with coral-
crowned head,
We two will sit upon a throne of pearl,
And a blue wave will be our canopy,
And at our feet the water-snakes will curl
In all their amethystine panoply
■Of d ia moulded mail, and we will mark
The mullets swimming by the mast of some storm-
foundered bark,
Vermilion-finned with eyes of bossy gold
Like flakes of crimson light, and the great, deep
His glassy-portaled chamber will unfold,
And we will see the painted dolphins sleep
Cradled by murmuring halcyons on the rocks
Where Proteus in quaint suit of green pastures
his monstrous flocks.
And tremulous opal-lined anemones
Will wave their purple fringes where we tread
Upon the mirrored floor, and argosies
Of fishes flecked with tawny scales will thread
The drifting cordage of the shattered wreck,
And honey-colored amber beads our twining
limbs" will deck.
I knew that thou wouldst come, for when at first
The dry wood burgeoned, and the sap of Spring
Swelled in my green and tender bark or burst
To myriad multitudinous blossoming
Which mocked the midnight with its mimic
moons
That did not dread the dawn, and first the
thrushes’ rapturous tunes
Startled the squirrel from its granary,
And cuckoo flowers fringed the narrow lane,
Through my young leaves a sensuous ecstasy
Crept like new wine, and every mossy vein
Throbbed with the fitful pulse of amorous blood,
And the wild winds of passion shook my slim
stem’s maidenhood.
The trooping fawns at evening came and laid
Their cool black noses on my lowest boughs,
And on my topmost branch the blackbird made
A little nest of grasses for his spouse,
And now and then a twittering wren would light
On a thin twig which hardly bare the weight of,
such delight.”
[Dian’s indignant arrow cleaves the thicket, and]
Sobbing her life out with a bitter cry
On the boy’s body fell the Dryad maid,
Sobbing for incomplete virginity,
And raptures unenjoyed, and pleasures dead,
And all the pain of things unsatisfied,
And the bright drops of crimson youth crept down
her throbbing side.
[But Queen Venus passing tombs them worthily, and
prays to Proserpine that they may love beyond the icy
ford. ... So young Charmides, wearily lying- by a dark
Lethsean well, saw a shadow pass across the mirror, and a
little hand stole into his.]
Then turned he round his weary eyes and saw,
And ever nigher still their faces came,
And nigher ever did their young mouths draw
Until they seemed one perfect rose of flame,
And longing arms around her neck he cast,
And felt her throbbing bosom, and his breath
came thick and fast,
In that wild throb when all existences
Seem narrowed to one single ecstasy
Which dies through its own sweetness and the
stress *
Of too much pleasure, ere Persephone
Had bade them serve her by the
Of the pale God who in the fields of Enna loosed
her zone.
THE NEW HELEN.
Where hast thou been since round the walk of
The sons of God fought m that great emprise ?
Why dost thou walk on common earth again .
Hast thou forgotten that impassioned boy,
His purple galley, and his iyrian men,
And treacherous Aphrodite’s mocking eyes .
For surely it was thou, who, like a star,
Hung in the silver silence of the night, ,
Didst lure the Old World’s Chivalry .and might
Into the clamorous crimson waves of war .
Or didst thou rule the fire-laden moon ?
In amorous Sidon was thy temple built
Over the light and laughter of jhe sea .
Where, behind lattice scat let-wrought and gilt,
Some brown-limbed girl did weave thee tapestry,
All through the waste and wearied hours of noon ;
Till her wan cheek with flame of passion burned,
And she rose up the sea-washed lips to kiss
Of some glad Cyprian sailor, safe returned
From Calpe and the cliffs of Herakles !
No ! thou art Helen, and none other one !
It was for thee that young Sarpeddn died,
And Memnon’s manhood was untimely spent;
It was for thee gold-crested Hector, tried
With Thetis’ child that evil race to run,
In the last year of thy beleaguerment;
Ay ! even now the glory of thy fame
Burns in those fields of trampled asphodel,
Where the high lords whom Ilion knew so well
Clash ghostly shields, and call upon thy name.
Where hast thou been ? in that enchanted land
Whose slumbering vales forlorn Calypso knew,
Where never mower rose at break of day
But all unswathed the trammelling grasses grew,
And the sad shepherd saw the tall corn stand
Till summer’s red had changed to withered gray ?
I Didst thou lie there by some Lethsean stream
Deep brooding on thine ancient memory,
The crash of broken spears, the fiery gleam
From Shivered helm, the Grecian battle-cry?
Nay, thou wort hidden in that hollow hill
With one who is forgotten utterly,
That discrowned Queen men call the Erycine;
Hidden away that never mightst thou see .
The face of Her, before whose mouldering shrme
To-day at Rome the silent nations kneel;
Who gat from Love 'no joyous gladdening,
But only Love’s intolerable pain,
Only a sword to pierce her heart in twain,
Only the bitterness of child-bearing.
The lotos-leaves which heal the wounds of Deatl
Lie in thy hand ; O, be thou kind to me,
While yet I know the summer of my days;
For hardly can my tremulous lips draw breath
To fill the silver trumpet with thy praise,
So bowed am I before thy mystery ;
So bowed and broken on Love’s terrible wheel,
That I have lost all hope and heart to sing,
Yet care I not what ruin time may bring
If in thy temple thou wilt let me kneel.
Alas, alas, thou wilt not tarry here,
But like that bird, the servant of the sun, _
Who Hies before the north wind and the night,
So wilt thou fly our evil land and drear,
Back to the tower of thine old delight,
And the red lips of young Eupli orion ;
Nor shall I ever see thy face again,
But in this poisonous garden-close must stay,
Crowning mv brows with the thorn-crown of pain
Till all my loveless life shall pass away.
0 Helen ! Helen ! Helen ! yet a while,
Yet for a little while, O, tarry here,
Till the dawn ca.neth and the shadows flee !
For in the gladsome sunlight of thy smile
Of heaven or hell I have no thought or fear,
Seeing I know no other god but thee :
No other god save him, before whose feet
In nets of gold the tired planets move,
The incarnate spirit of spiritual love
Who in thy body holds his joyous seat.
Thou wert not born as coinmon women are !
But, girt with silver splendour of the foam,
Didst from the depths of sapphire seas arise !
And at thy coming some immortal star.
Bearded with flame, blazed in the Eastern skies,
And waked the shepherds on- thine island-home.
Tnou shalt not die : no asps of Egypt creep
Close at thy heels to taint the delicate air ;
INo sullen-blooming poppies stain thy hair,.
Those scarlet heralds of eternal sleep..
Lily of love, pure and inviolate !
Tower of ivory ! red rose of fife 1
Thou hast come down our darkness to illume :
For we, close-caught in the wide nets of Fate,
Wearied with waiting for the World’s Desire,
Aimlessly wandered m the House of gloom,
Aimlessly sought some slumberous anodyne
For wasted lives, for lingering wretchedness,
Till we beheld thy re-arisen shrine,
And the white glory of thy loveliness.. ,
HELAS'
To drift with every passion till my soul
Is a stringed lute on which all winds can play
Is it for this that I have given away
Mine ancient wisdom, and austere control ?
Methinks my life is a twice-written scroll,
Scrawled over on some boyish holiday
With idle songs for pipe and virelay,
Which do but mar the secret of the whole.
Surely there was a time I might have trod
The sunlit heights’, and from life’s dissonance
Struck one clear chord to reach the ears of God.
Is that time dead ? Lo ! with a little rod
I did but touch the honey of romance—
And must I lose a soul’s inheritance ?


\..V h * , ' ■ v*.jho.BA*f« ■
W. Jpo. Baker’S FINE STEEL CARVERS
Handsome Design, Stag Handle, Gapped and Ferruled, Blade 9in. long.
Price, with Pateut Guard Fork to match, 12/6 per pair (Carving Knife and Fork) ; Steels, 6/6 each.
Post Free throughout UNITED AUSTRALIA and N.Z.
Catalogue of other Design Carvers, Table Knives, and other Outlery sent Free on application.
W. JNO. BAKER, Cutler, 3 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
PRICES
FOR
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN
OBTAINED BY CONSIGNING TO
Goldsbrough, Mort*Co.
Circular Quay, Sydney,
Who render PROMPT RETURNS and safeguard your
Proceeds by their TRUST ACCOUNT System.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
"‘'til
LAWRENCE S PATENT TOBACCO CUTTER.
PRICE £6
Lawrence’s No. 2: Improved Automatic and Self-Feeding. Price £3 15s.
These machines are giving universal satisfaction, and are specially recommended to tobacconists
in the' country, so as to enable them to supply their customers with Fresh-Cut and Moist Tobacco.
IVIICK StlvnviOftlS, Haymarket, Sydney.
g®- THIS IS THE LATEST TYPE !
GRAMOPHONE-or
ZONOPHONE!
Phonograph Records
ƒaf
REDUCED TO
22/6
PER
DOZEN
For a Feiv Weeks Only .
OIRODIEIE?, PROMPTLY.
Edison Electric Company
1 & 3 Rowe St., Sydney (Nearly opposite G.P.0.)
IV. J. N. Oldershaw, Manager.
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK OUCHT TO CONTAIN A BOTTLE of
ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’
T 0
Fop Preventing* & Curing* by Natural Means
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
TESTIMONIAL.—“ I have been a nurse for ten years, and have nursed cases
of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles, gangrene, cancer, and almost every
mentionable disease. During this time I have not been ill for a single day, and
this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a
pure state. I recommend it to all my patients during convalescence. Its
value as a means of health cannot be overestimated.”— A Professional
Nurse ( Qualified ).
THE EFFECT OF ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. IT IS, IN FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION —See capsule marlted ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it, you have a
. i WORTMLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. 0. ENO’S Patent.
For Removing:
Superfluous Hair.
By post—2s. 6d. a packet.
NEWMAN’S
SPECIAL
DEPILATORY.
C. E. NEWMAN, Chemist,
52 King Street, Sydney.
Now
Ready.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d ; Posted BdL.
WOOL SEASON, 1900-1.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED CHARGES:
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charges will be
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ...
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under
WAY BILLS sent on application.
§ per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
WHEAT.
SALES last season sliow an increase of 25 per cent, as compared noth previous years. Unrivalled
accommodation. Three months’ free storage. .
CIRCULAR giving fullest particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired. . .
CONSIGNORS are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association o
this Company.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
WOOL WOOL. WOOL
Winchcombe, Carson & Co, Ltd,
Selling Agents '»»»■*«
Reduced Wool
Commission
21 per cent.
f on all lots.
[ Large or Small.
WRITE AND CONSULT THEM ABOUT SALIt OF YOUR PRESENT CLIP.
WINCHCOMBE, CAESOM & CO. LTD.
BRIDGE STREET, SIDNEY.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 O’CONNELL STREET. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Cliarge : 3 Fer Cent, to the Growers.
BONUS | PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge \<i. per lb. to the Buyers.
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL!
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to'the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
US’ For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively.
Price, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & 00.,
Pitt-street, Sydnev.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
fii
LAWRUS” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS & STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents far the
Wholesale Trade only:
-"SJPS- EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
STOGDALE & DUFFUS, 326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, &422, George St., Sydney.
0 lo
ki
4
r*<y
fill
V-
v( j\
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment;, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL) APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Bheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands. (
THEY WILL CURE YOU.,
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0 I
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0 |
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 880 I
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0 I
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and i
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, i
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to— I
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney |
vVhen
writing
please
mention
The


TATTERSALL’S
Address :
Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
Hobart 0. Jan. 30.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address
Launceston C. Feb. 6.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
£
Address
Newmarket H. March 2, 1901.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name.
£
Address.
Australian C. (Special) March 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 6.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name_
Address •
£, s s
Rosehill C. March 23.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in above.
Name
£
Address
City Tat ter sail’s H. April 20.
60,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circular.
r r . . . • »
Address “ Tatters all,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
sHUs
\
V
\
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S. Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
L©*
ss>
.vO
» v ~%«•
******
&
,^-
v »
Soft, silky,
glossy, abun-
dant, beauti-
ful, elegant,
splendid,
handsome
you can’t find
words to de-
scribe a mag-
nificent head
of hair. Is this
the kind of
hair you have?
Is your hair long enough to suit you ?
Does the color exactly please you ? In
a word, are you perfectly satisfied with
your hair ? If not, give it a good hair-
food. Give it
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
’Twill make you have long, vch, abun-
dant hair, and it will stop falling of the
hair, too. Ayer’s Hair Vigor always
restores color. You can depend upon
it every time. It brings back all the
rich, dark color you had when you
were young. If you are 30, there is
no need of looking as if you were 50
]ust because your hair is gray.
And you will like our Hair Vigor,
also, as a hair dressing; while it forms
a valuable addition to any toilet table
because of the elegant way in which it
is put up.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass.,ll. S, A.
I'll Try It:
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
MHMHffI
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS :
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKENj 680-682 George-streat, Sydney.
“DOWKIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk strife
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
SSI- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
Australia!? flOtOal Provident Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On
Or on
security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
on FREEHOLD and-O.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney.
RICHARD TEE Cl'], General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
UMnUtfS
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 IOSr
H.^iSer,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
&3T Send for a
Catalogue.
ƒaf
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
YORKSHIRE
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World
RELISH
millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England,
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
BOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining- or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours bemou, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
# Proprietors :-GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiaco, Perth, W.A.&6S, King St., Melbourne
Paris exhibition, 1900.—British Awards
The Only
Grand
Prix
She
highest jiw art
ever made!
SOLELY FOR TOILET SOAP
HAS BEEN AWARDED TO
(Established 1789.)
-ta>|RFHTT REC f r>
BP
Appointment
to
/M
tirnf\
fier ißajestp Cbe Queen ana fi.R.fi. Cbe Prince or Wales.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1900 inclusive.
Tff.S.'W. Carriage & Saclcllery AXazif- Company
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay ug a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Prioe List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 16s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Cataloerue and Price List. NOTICE.— Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we oan. They oannpt do so, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
ƒaf
Delivered at any Wharf *r
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
An English general in India lately had a
chimpanzee that wore clothes, went to bed, ate
and drank like a human creature, using knife and
fork and a glass. It was fond of cleaning win-
dows. When the master wrote, the chimpanzee
would scribble in imitation. It was locked some-
times in a cage. One day the chimpanzee found
the key, which it put in its coat-pocket. The
cage-door locked of itself when shut. The animal
being thus put in, watched till nobody was about,
then let itself out with the key.
“ Ovis ” to The Bulletin on a woolly
matter:—
As there is much difficulty at Calcutta in getting the
correct weight of woolpacks, why not help ourselves at
home? If a grazier can brand his bale of wooIX.Y.Z.,
Wantabadgery, or some other such long name, why can-
not he put 121bs. or 111 b. “ tare ” on it ? Of course he
does not want the trouble. It costs something, but the
trouble will cost something at the mill, and the buyer
would pay all the same. But it’s not the weight of the
pack the grazier is so anxious about; it’s the lib. or more
of wool the seller gains by the difference in weight.
Make the seller mark his fair tare and the difficulty dis-
appears. We cannot command distant manufacturers,
but we can command our own wool-sellers. A regulation
that every bale of wool should be branded with the tare,
or stripped (expense to be paid by the owner of the wool)i
would soon mend matters. Why should our growers be
paid for jute instead of wool? The lesson is being
learned by the jute-people, who are watering the bales of
packs, so that they weigh 121bs. when landed and lllbs.
when dry, to the loss and annoyance of importers and
storekeepers. Buyers of 121 b. packs are very indignant,
when they discover the shortage in weight of packs that
the storekeeper is no way able to prevent, but they
mumble the Lord’s Prayer when their wool is sold in a
131 b. pack which they are allowed lllbs. for.
A dreadful story of cruelty to birds is
printed in a recent number of Nature, showing
the wanton and barbarous destruction by ships’
officers of the beautiful, but ferocious albatross. It
is related with the cold-bloodedness of a vivisec-
tionist how the officers of s.s. Star of New Zealand
caught the birds with hook and line, choked them
by tying string round their necks, and placed
them in the ice-box :
After several days two of the birds were discovered to
be alive. One, after 10 days in the ice-box, with the
lower half of its body frozen hard, emitted groaning
sounds ; and on being taken out it raised its head and
gaped, and stared about with wide-open, living eyes
after which it was strangled a second time and put back
into the ice-room. The captain of the steamer announces
his intention of experimenting with the' birds he may
capture on the return voyage, to find out how long they
will keep alive in these low temperatures ;,and her owner
Sir William Corry, Bart, is said to take a lively interest
in these investigations!
In most Australian States such brutality would
involve a week’s imprisonment “without the
option.” And what has become of the spirit of
Britain’s ancient mariners :
“ Ah, wretch,” said they, “ the bird to slay,
That caused the breeze to blow ! ”
Tannin.
You oan see the funnel pokin’ just above the
stunted trees,
And you’ll know the place directly if you chance
to sniff the breeze
That’s been wanderin’ round the precincts, gather-
in’ odors here and there
From the “ soak ” and “ pure ” and fleshin’s, till
it’s quite a heavy air !
For it isn’t a rose-garden, and it’s not a bed of
thyme,
And on still, hot summer mornin’s, Oh, the tan-
yard’s somethin’ prime 1
When you grip the scudder tighter as you’re bend-
in’ o’er the beam,
And you’re shiftin’ hair, or fleshin’, you’ve no time
to muse and dream !
For it’s bullockin’ from mornin’ till the dusk o’
cornin’ eve,
And it’s shift the perspiration with a side-stroke
o’ your sleeve;
It’s the sweat and stink and graftin’ are a trio
never fails—
For it’s hard to get a livin’ makin’ “tripe” in
New South Wales !
Yes, it’s “ tripe ” they call our leather, and it’s
true it’s little worth,
For we’ve had to fight the shoddy from the ends
of all the earth ;
And the auctioneer’ll tell you when he sends along
your cheque:
“Try and turn out better leather.” So you work
till you’re a wreck ;
And next time you get a letter couched in lan-
guage sweet and nice:
“Great improvement in your leather” — but it
don't improve in price !
So to work you go disgusted, with some blas-
phemous remark,
And your temper’s no way sweetened if your work
is grindin’ bark;
For the dust gets up your nostrils, and it mounts
into your brain—
It’s a day and night together ere you get a sleep
again.
Or you do a long day’s skivin —that’s like bein’ on
the rack—
And it takes ten hours of restin’ gettin’ kinks out
o’ your back!
Ah well! after all it may be other toilers graft
as hard,
And they get as little leisure, and as little cash
reward;
But the tanners don’t believe it, and a legend that
they tell
Is that God Almighty’s fixed it that no tanners go
to Hell!
There’ll be no “ Eternal Justice ” if the principle
prevails—
That a man may burn in Sheol who’s made
“ tripe ” in New South Wales !
n.s.w.
ULOOLA.


The Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
mms SOPiftv i Established 1871.
J. wliioh is«n o = - it! 0 , 1 ? • transacting all the usual forms of Assurancs, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
I I R 18 ® ue . s b P eG,a] Policies granting—
II a'pl^i 0 ,? °^P^°P c ! rt > 011 of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
a ram-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.0., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds exceed H 1,350,000 Annual Income exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BONUS YEAR, 1901. GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
A. BOWMAN’S
. . . You Can Have . . .
English Boots at-
-14/0 per pair.
Tan Boots at
16/6 per pair.
Porpoise Hide at
17/Q per pair
Best Style.
Best Quality.
JVo
Better
Made.
af
We do One Line—Gentlemen’s Boots—only.
That one we do Well.
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St.,
also 145 KING ST., opp. Theatre Royal.
NOW READY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being a reprint of a large number of articles from
Tub Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a sol.vent, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
Price 6d; Posted Bd.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
Of RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, *900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
■X'O DEFY COMPBTITIOU.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
manufacturers of mineral WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDSTIIir.
ffegEMg
1.0. F.
L.B.C
0 s
order
Registered under the “Companies
Act, 1890,” as a Company, having
secured Assets in Victoria.
It has also deposits, as required by
law, in Great Britain, U.S.A., Canada,
and wherever operating in other parts
of Australasia.
Benefits Paid, over £1,650,000.
Monthly Income, ever £40,000.
Accumulated Funds, over £838,581.
Head Office, TORONTO.
ORONHYATEKHA, M.D., J.P.,
Supreme Chief Ranger.
™ INDEPENDENT ORDER » FORESTERS
Incorporated by Special Act of Parliament (Canada), 52 Vic. and 59 Vic.
A Great International and Fraternal Life Assurance Society.
The lOP gives Life Assurance at a Lower Cost than any other Society in the World.
The not only for Life Assurance, MjJ. for OH A ? e Pe«»o»
18 to 54 years of age, at Equal Rates.
Office for South Australia :
J. H. GILMOUR, D.S.C.R.j
Victoria. Buildings,
29 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Chief Office, Australasia :
ROBT. McNAIR, P.H.C.R.,
73, 74 and 75 Temple Court,
Collins St., Melbourne.
Office for New South Wales :
W. G. STOTT, D.S.C.R.,
283 George St.,
Sydney.
Prospectus , with full Table of Rates , <&c., on A.pplicatiou.
(Stood TailoriQg
SUMMER.
Light Weight Tweeds
AND
Worsteds.
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
LIGHT AND TROPICAL WEIGHTS
TO STAND THE SUN.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &C.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
STICK T©
CAME© -
CIGARETTES
*
mm
k
\
■sy o
EY
Firmly Founded
P&B 1895
RUBCROID ROOFING.
Since which time it has so grown in popular favor that, to-day,
the 113th anniversary of out Colonial Establishment, and the
6th since we first introduced P&B Materials into Australia,
P&B RUBEROID ROOFING s,„ovn
to the remotest parts of this great Commonwealth as
The Most Compact
The Most Convenient
The Most Comfortable
And the most ECONOMICAL ROOFING now procurable.
Fullest particulars from the
Agents: E. Rich & Co. Ltd., Sydney & Brisbane


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney , for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 22.—N0. 1093.
SATUKDAY, JANUARY 26, 1901.
Priob 6d.
. Nj ok D lurnore^
H \ f or %
Ajyfß-AUA /
few ,y
H:
aL( o t'T'Sfor}'ft}* ap t'ifr
/ C 'I / QnnSstot)^
BURNING QUESTIONS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.’*
Printed and Published by William MaCleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ...
Half-yearly ... ... —0 1 f
Quarterly ... ... ••• U o b
NOTICE.
By sending direct to XH® Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required-
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns m length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street <b Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 3U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., n Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
%1 , with 3s. 3d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of\\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —l Jd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 26, 1901.
Tasmania “Wants a Low Revenue
Tariff.”
The Freetraders of Tasmania have taken up the question
of a low revenue tariff for the Commonwealth with en-
thusiasm.— Telegram to Sydney daily papers.
The Bulletin has some vague recollection
of hearing somewhere about a dog that took
up the question of being a man with enthu-
siasm, and the above remark indirectly re-
minds it of that alleged animal. The Free-
traders of Tasmania apparently take up the
question of having a low revenue tariff as
cheerfully as the dog did—just as if either
of them had any say in the matter. Pos-
sibly this is carrying the comparison to
extremes, for if the little green island likes
to repudiate its public debt, or to go partly
broke and pay 10s. in the £, or if it cares
to multiply its land and income taxes by
about eight or so, it can have a low-
revenue tariff easily enough. But there is
no other visible way, and when the im-
porters of Hobart and Launceston, and the
peaceful cow-infested parts adjacent thereto,
talk as if the country had only to choose
between a high tariff and a low one, and as
if there were no side issues or considerations
in the question, they are talking foolishness
for the benefit of their own pockets. There
are a whole multitude of other considera-
tions.
* * * *
Tasmania is certainly a heavily-taxed place.
Its people pay £3 Os. lid. per head per
annum in State taxes alone, against £2 10s.
7d. in Victoria, £2 Bs. Bd. in South Austra-
lia, and £1 18s. 7d. in N.S. Wales. They
also pay heavier local taxation than any of
these other three States. They have two
tariffs—one on top of the other, like two
policemen sitting on the chest of
one small offender. There is first
a Protective tariff, which yields a
considerable amount of revenue incidentally,
and also gives valuable returns in the way of
aiding local industry, and finding work and
wages for the local inhabitant. And there
is also a revenue tariff which is put on purely
to raise money, and which hits almost every
article that a merely protective tariff would
pass free. The revenue tariff also produces
revenue, but it encourages no industry and
furnishes nobody with work or wages. In
this respect Tasmania is in the same diffi-
culty as Queensland and Westralia, though
it is in a worse case than either of them.
They all levy protective duties on about one-
third of their imports (the goods which can
conveniently be produced locally), and
revenue duties on a lot more (the goods
which can’t conveniently be produced
locally). This is the difference between
their tariffs and the purely protective tariff
of Victoria, under which the great bulk of
the imports come in free of duty. The situ-
ation is as follows (figures for 1899) :
Value of Value of Proportion
Imports Imports of Total
which which Imports
pay come in which come
duty. free. in free.
New South Wales £2,531,360 £23,062,955 90 per cent.
Victoria .. 5,934,926 12,017,968 67 „
S. Australia .. 2,531,728 4,352,630 63 „
Queensland .. 4,467,515 2,296,582 34 ~
Westralia .. 3,116,357 1,357,175 30
Tasmania .. 1,351,951 417,373 23 ~
* * * *
Victoria’s purely protective tariff taxes 33
per cent, of its imports and lets 67 per cent.,
pass free. Tasmania’s tariff more than
reverses the figures—it taxes 77 per cent, of
all imports and lets only 23 per cent, pass
free. On a rough estimate, Tasmania taxes
33 per cent, of its imports by a Protectionist
tariff, and for the sake of helping local indus-
tries first and gaining revenue afterwards ;
and it taxes 44 per cent, under a purely
revenue tariff for the sake of revenue only.
That is to say, about three-sevenths of
its customs taxation arises from following
Victoria’s accursed system of Protection
and four-sevenths from following George
Reid’s beautiful system of Revenue-Tariffism.
Tasmania could throw Protection wholly
overboard and yet be much more heavily
customs-taxed than Victoria is. Of course,
Tasmania doesn’t tax itself in this serious
fashion for the mere joy and pleasure of the
thing. When some superficial shuffler with
an eye-glass asks Tasmania if it will keep on
being ground-down like this (mostly by his
own policy of Revenue-Tariffism), or if it will
have a low revenue tariff on a few articles
only, he implies that Tasmania has only to
choose—that it has been going on like this
out of sheer devilment. Wherein the super-
ficial shuffler with the eye-glass shows him-
self the kind of person that he habitually is.
* • * *
Tasmania’s trouble simply is that it has,
so far as reliable statistics show, the biggest
debt burden in the world, one State only
accepted. It hasn’t the biggest debt, but in
old times its low tariff people fooled away so
much of its loans on works which yield no
cash return, and which should have been
paid out of revenue (if the shiftlessness and
cowardice of the island’s rulers hadn’t made
them averse to facing the situation, and their
pitiable faith in a low revenue tariff hadn’t
led them astray), and its allegedly productive
works pay so badly, that it has the biggest
interest burden (bar one) to meet out of
taxation. Here is the amount of the wholly
unproductive debt—the debt incurred to pay
for roads, bridges, immigration, parks,
statues, revenue deficiencies, and all manner
of sundries—of the six States of the Com-
monwealth, as shown in Coghran’s “ Seven
Colonies ” for 1899-1900, pages 824 and 825 :
Unproductive Unproductive Debt
Debt. per inhabitant.
Victoria .. £3,554,413 .. £3 010
N.S. Wales .. 11,831,878 .. 813 11
Westralia .. 2,799,800 .. 15 14 3
S. Australia .. 5,928,709 .. 16 1 1
Queensland .. 10,407,275 .. 21 6 6
Tasmania .. 4,042,547 .. 22 3 6
Tasmania is in the joyful situation of having
a larger unproductive debt—a larger debt
not represented by any revenue-yielding or
saleable assets than Victoria, N.S. W.,
South Australia, Queensland, Westralia,
Great Britain, Germany, Russia, Austria,
Italy, Spain, Sweden, Norway, Denmark,
Holland, Belgium, Switzerland, Roumania,
Servia, Bulgaria, Greece, Turkey, United
States, Canada, Argentina, Cape Colony, the
West Indies, China, Japan, India, Cuba,
Ceylon, Chili, Peru, Venezuela, Mexico,
Brazil—in fact, it is almost the boss-indebted
State of the world, if regard is had only to
debt which is represented by no revenue-
yielding assets. Maoriland, France and
Portugal are almost the only places which
show up worse in this respect than it does.
* * * *
Tasmania has to raise by taxation about
£151,600 per annum to pay interest on its
unproductive debt—the debt which was in-
curred because earlier Tasmanians had a low
revenue tariff and wouldn’t pay enough taxes
to cover their ordinary expenses. In addi-
tion, that part of its debt which is repre-
sented by railways, telegraphs, and other
productive works was so badly spent that
these works don’t yield enough by £103,201
(Coghlan’s figures for 1899, on page 793 of
his “Seven Colonies”) to pay interest on
the money borrowed for their construction.
This makes £254,801 to be raised annually
by taxation to pay interest on borrowed
money alone-*—equal to about £1 Bs. per in-
habitant per annum. This is not
only more than has to be raised by
taxation for interest purposes in any other
Australasian State, or in any other country
in the world , bar Queensland, but it is
equal to the entire taxation levied on each
inhabitant for all purposes by the Govern-
ments of several European countries. And
despite Tasmania’s recent burst of prosperity
and its alleged big surpluses, it really has
a deficit every year. Every year it pays on
part of its old deficit with its surplus, and it
steadily borrows a larger sum than the sur-
plus to be spent on unproductive works
which yield no revenue. This is how things
have gone:—
° Said Surplus
Surplus created by borrowing-
used to reduce and using for pur-
old Deficit. poses of unpro-
ductive expenditure.
1896 .. .. £47,333 .. £54,801
1897 .. .. 59,993 .. 66,226
1898 ~ .. 78,055 .. 84,245
1899 .. .. 90,180 .. 111,290
The surpluses are taken from the successive
financial statements of Tasmanian Trea*
surers, and the misappropriated loan-money
for each year is set forth in Coghlan s
annual “ Statistics of the Seven Colonies of
Australasia.”
» * • •
And the Tasmanian Freetrade party, of
all parties in the world and of all countries
in the world, wants a LOW revenue tariff ! If
it gets such a thing, Tasmania has either to
go broke, or to multiply its land-tax, dividend-
tax and income-tax by eight or thereabouts.
It was the possession of a low revenue tariff
in the old days that brought Tasmania into
its present awful situation. In 1870 the
Tasmanian paid in all taxes, direct and in-
direct, £1 7s. 2d. per inhabitant per annum.
—about one-third less than the present taxa-
tion in N.S.W. ; and as it couldn’t build its
roads and bridges out of that very moderate
taxation, it charged them to loans wholesale.
Then it had to increase its taxation to pay
interest on these loans. By 1880 its taxa-
tion was £2 12s. 4d. per inhabitant, and
in 1890 it was £3 2s. 6d. per inhabitant.
It has remained thereabouts ever since. But
every year Tasmania only increased its taxa-
tion about enough to pay its increasing in-
terest bill, and still charged its necessary but
unproductive public works to loans. Where-
fore the interest that had to be raised by
taxation still grew larger, and the taxation
kept growing heavier, and the original curse
which fell on Tasmania by reason of its low
revenue tariff of many years ago was never
lifted.
* * * *
During the last six years Tasmania has
not been misconducting itself in a financial
sense nearly so much as it used to do. Its
financial system has been comparatively re-
spectable as compared with that of its neigh-
bors. But still it hasn’t fully paid its
way even in these years. In 1889 Tas-
mania didn’t meet current expenses with
land-tax, income-tax, dividend-tax, probate
duties, heavy local taxation, and a very high
tariff on all its imports (£1,769,324).
Under Federation the inter-State imports
(£1,218,942) will be free of duty, and the
local freetrade party votes for a LOW
revenue tariff on the foreign imports
(£550,382). It asks Tasmania to choose
which tariff it will have —just as if the island
had any choice in the matter. Tasmania can go
in for a low Federal revenue tariff if it puts
its income-tax up to about 4s. in the £ and
its land-tax up to about 6d. in the £ ; or it
can have it if it defaults on its public debt,
or if a miracle of some kind happens to its
railway revenue. Otherwise the prospect
isn’t worth much, and the person who talks
to it about a low revenue tariff is playing a
very poor joke on a distressed country.
The Accurate Reid—Again!
N.S.W.’s Freetrade authority, George Reid,
broke out afresh the other day at Launceston
(Tas.) with his old stock anecdotes, and his old
stock jokes, and his withered flowers of rhetoric.
As is usual with Reid, there was hardly a state-
ment in his speech at Launceston that was wholly
true, and very few that were even partly true.
At the same time the biggest and most glaring
fictions, and the most gorgeous masses of bogus
figures which decorated his Melbourne oration,
were absent this time; apparently the constant
disgrace of being bowled out and shown up is tell-
ing even on his thick hide. Yet, despite all
deductions, there was not the least danger of any-
body mistaking the speaker for the other George,
whose hinder name was Washington. Some ex-
tracts (taken from the report in Launceston
Examiner of 11th Jan.) follow:
He was proud that no sooner had he been gifted with
political power than he threw himself into the work of
giving effect to the political principles of a lifetime ....
and gave to one of the Australian colonies the distinction
of possessing the freest tariff in the whole world ....
N.S.W. had stood before the world for FOUR YEARS, ex-
posed to the foreign competition that they were told
would destroy the industries of the Australian com-
munity .... open to all the colored races from China to
Peru. They had put their industries to that crucial test.
. . . There were no whining industries there now ....
Industries like this resembled the dog—
Good old dog!
—that had never been thrown in the water and couldn’t
swim. They were like the baby—
Good old monotonous infant!
—that, if it had its own way, would never be weaned.
For 30 years or so these protected industries had lived on
the support they had received from the bosom of the
State. But when he tore them off and threw them into
the water to swim for themselves —what then ? Why,
they all swam.
So it appears that Mr. Reid either tore the dog
from the breast of the State, or else threw the
baby in the water. But, as a matter of fact, he
did nothing of the kind. He hadn’t the courage.
He is merely the man who ran away as soon as
the battle got hot, and who brags afterwards about
the valour he displayed. He didn’t tear the dog
from the breast of the State, and he didn’t drop
either it or the baby in the water. He said that
Freetrade was good for all industries —and he
heavily protected newspapers, wine, beer, to-
bacco, biscuits, cigars and cigarettes, sugar, mo-
lasses, confectionery, jam, &c. The stereotyped,
dreary boast about how he manfully abolished Pro-
tection, and, consequently, put his alleged Free-
trade principles in practice, and tore the dog off
the. breast, and dropped the baby overboard, is
merely the boast of the political cocktail, who had
a unique opportunity to put his theories fully to
the test, and dared not do it.
Therefore, he never made N.S.W. the freest-
tariff country in the whole world. And he didn t
leave it open to all the coloured races from China
to Peru, but kept on the £lOO Chinese poll-tax m
the good old way. And as to there being no
whining industries in N.S.W. now, Coghlan (in
his N.S.W. Statistical Register for 1899, pages
579 and 580) enumerates 15 industries in
which employment has diminished since Reid’s
tariff came into force. And the other day a con-
gress of protected Freetrade newspaper owners
met to urge the Federal Government to continue
the old 50 per cent. Protection on their penny
papers, and to point out that, under this
“coddling ” policy, N.S.W. circulated 46,000,000
papers through the post last year, while Victoria,
where papers aren’t protected, only circulated
23,000,000.
* * * *
And here is some more of G. Reid
She (Britain) had her shipping all over the world. Out
of 71,000,000 tons 52,000,000 flew the British flag and only
19,000,000 flew the flags of the world.
Truly, it begins to look as if somebody was drunk.
The whole of the world’s shipping in 1900, accord-
ing to Lloyd’s Register, was about 28,000,000
tons, and the whole British Empire owns less than
14,000,000 tons of this.
• * * *
Again, speaking about England in its Protec-
tionist days, up to about 1841: —
When Sir Robert Peel took office in 1841 every indus-
try in the country was alike depressed ; shipping was laid
up useless in the harbors, agricultural laborers were going
out of the country, the revenue was insufficient to meet
the national expenditure, and the country was brought
to the verge of national bankruptcy.
Yet Mulhall (“Dictionary of Statistics,” page
2C2) shows, curiously enough, that bankrupt
Britain in 21 years of Protection from 1816 to 1837
(no figures given for 1840) reduced its national
debt by £112,000,000 out of the surplus of that
revenue which wasn’t sufficient to meet expendi-
ture ; and in the next 52 years (1837 to 1889),
when it was enriched by Freetrade, it only reduced
the debt by £90,000,000. Also that in 21 years,
between 1816 and 1837, under Protection,
Britain’s national wealth increased by £3B for
each inhabitant—an increase of £1 16s. 2d. per
inhabitant per annum; while in 52 years, from
1837 to 1889, mostly under Freetrade, it in-
creased by £92 for each inhabitant —an increase
of only £1 15s. 4d. per inhabitant per annum.
And the same authority shows (page 245) that in
34 years (1816 to 1850) covering the last years of
Protection in Britain, 2,369,000 emigrants fled
from that country; while in the next 37 years
(1851 to 1888) the people grew so much more
anxious to leave, that 7,491,000 emigrated from
Britain, and cheerfully left the blessings of Free-
trade behind them. And Reid actually talks
about the people going out of Britain unde.
Protection. Ye Gods!
* * * *
Some more extracts from the great inventor of
things:
To come nearer home, they would have to choose
whether they were to be led by the Protectionists of Vic-
toria or the revenue-tariffists of N.S. Wales. Victoria had
tried her policy for nearly 30 years, and the Protectionists
had promised Victorians constant work, high wages, and
cheap living. It was within the memories of everyone
there that when a panic had come over the face of Aus-
tralia, and thfese two policies had been tested, the result
had been that the shock had been most keenly felt by the
protected industries of Victoria, and the factories were
closed up and the workers driven out of the colony.
The only bad discrepancy here is that the shock of
1893 did not cause any comparison between
N.S.W. revenue-tariffism and Victorian Protec-
tionism, for both States were Protectionist at that
time. Reid has already said that he started
Freetrade in 1896. N.S.W. certainly got out of
that trouble best, because Ribbs saved several of
his banks by coming to their aid with an unlimited
State guarantee, while Patterson, in Victoria,
followed Reid’s advice, and let the banks shift
for themselves, and refused to protect or aid or
coddle them —in other words, he let the dog swim.
* • * *
More samples :
From 1891 to 1899 the little island of Tasmania had had
a larger increase of total population than the great colony
of Victoria. The increase in the former had been 37,000,
while in the latter it had totalled 30,000 only. Between
1891 and 1899 New South Wales, with her Freetrade
policy, had had a greater increase of population than Vic-
toria, Queensland, South Australia, and Tasmania put
together.
Three fine large discrepancies stick out here.
First, the fact that the population of one Protec-
tionist State increased faster than that of another
Protectionist State doesn’t prove that Freetrade
is the best policy, any more than the fact that one
white man is whiter than another white man
proves that a black man is possessed of £1 2s. 7pd.
Second, no one really knows how the population
of any Australasian State (bar Maoriland) has in-
creased since 1891, because the numbers (except in
M. have never been counted since 1891; every-
thing since then is mere guesswork. Third,
N. hadn’t a Freetrade policy from 1891 to
1899 ; the clumsy Reid boasted in this very same
speech about how he introduced Freetrade in 1896,
and before that there had been 30 years of
Protection. Therefore most of the increase in
N.S.W.’s population since 1891, if it was owing
to the tariff at all, was owing to Protection.
Reid can’t have both things. He can’t claim that
the increase of N.S.W. population from 1891 to
1896 was a proof of the blessings of Freetrade, and
also that he started N.S.W. Freetrade in 1896.
* * * *
Further specimens :
In manufactures, where Victoria paid millions for her
industries, N.S. Wales paid nothing for here. In one
respect Victoria had gone ahead. The number of women
and girls in her factories had increased from 8700 to
16,000, while N.S.W., though employing more men and
boys, had but half the number of women and girls in the
factories.
The Victorian workman pays less rent, gets his
food a shade cheaper, and gets rather better wages
(the wages in all leading trades, as shown by State
statistics, were published in The Bulletin of 19th
January) than the N.S.W. one, so that it is hard
to see where the “ millions ” alleged to have been
sacrificed come in. But apart from this, Reid
here claims as one of the blessed results of
Freetrade the prosperity which N. S. W.
industries achieved in N.S.W.’s distinctly Pro-
tectionist days. He has already said he started
what he calls Freetrade four years ago. He
also claims, as one result of the Freetrade
which, he says, he started four years ago, the fact
that N.S.W. weathered the bank panic better
than Victoria did seven years ago. Yet, if the
tariff had anything to do with the way N.S.W.
pulled through then it is evident that N.S.W. was
saved in 1893 by Protection—so far as it was saved
at all. If G. Reid won’t admit that, and still
says N.S.W. was kept up in 1893 by Freetrade,
then he must give up saying that Freetrade
started under his fat and blessed auspices in 1896.
This sort o^ thing shows that a man should stick
to one truth, or one lie, and not mix up his tarra-
diddle, for when he does his Ananias grows hazy,
and his prevarication gets so mixed up that his
deception doesn’t know where it are. The fact is
that Reid, four years ago, brought N.S.W., for
the first time, within measureable distance of


Freetrade, but didn’t arrive there because he got
scared of his own policy. And as a result of this
modified Freetrade N.S.W., so far as its manu-
facturing industries were concerned, promptly got
left by Victoria in this fashion :
Hands Employed in Factories.
Increase
in four
1896. 1899. Y ears.
Victoria .. 50,448 60,070 9,622
N.S.W .. 49,840 55,646 5,806
Vic. majority : 608 4,424 3,816
Four years Four years Total in-
increase in increase in crease in
male em - female ern- four
ployfes. ployts. years.
Victoria .. 6,262 3,360 9,622
N.S.W. .. 4,155 1,651 5,806
N.S.W. was practically level with Victoria in
manufacturing industries until the date when
Reid says he started Freetrade.
* * * *
A further casual specimen of the muddled
alleged Freetrader with the eye-glass :
Statistics showed that while British trade to-day
amounted to £lB per head that of the United States and
Germany totalled only £5 10s. per head
This is probably about as near to accuracy as
could be expected from a man who gets his facts
at second-hand and then mixes them up so terribly
in the delivery. The trade of Germany in 1899
was £9 per head. The difference doesn’t matter
very much, but it is an example, in passing, of how
impossible it is for the splashy fat gentleman
to be reasonably accurate about anything. And
here is a fine specimen of the old man’s language
in conclusion :
The fact that an industry required artificial aid showed
that it was not a naturally profitable one, and to give it
protection meant that naturally profitable industries were
placed under a toll in order to' keep it alive. . . . When
industries come on the charitable racket tell them they
had better try to live honestly, as others had to do. Drop
the pauper industry. Bury it.
Then why on earth has that wonderful N.S.W.
Freetrade Government spent £50,000 a year of
the people’s money for so many years in carrying
Freetrade papers gratis through the post, whereby
other industries are put under toll to keep the
Freetrade newspaper man’s industry afloat, and
to pauperise it, and all the rest ? Victoria doesn’t
pauperise its papers that way. It throws its
journalistic dog in the water and lets it swim.
Can’t the Freetrade dog swim also? That Dry
Dog who stands so persistently on the bank, bor-
rowing money to keep him going, and boasting
about his swimming powers, grows wearisome.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Premier Barton’s Programme.
Edmund Baeton, the first Premier of all Aus-
tralia, has laid before this country the programme
of the first Australian Ministry. Its leading
features are these eleven :
Protection to Australian industry.
The land contained in the Federal Territory (i.e., the
Federal capital and the district immediately surrounding
it) not to be sold to private owners, but retained as
Federal property, so that the increased value created by
the expenditure of the people’s money in making a
Federal capital will be solely the people’s property.
Federal Old Age Pensions.
No direct taxation by the Federal Government, direct
taxation being reserved as a source of State revenue only.
The taking over of the railways by the Federal Govern-
ment.
A Federal conciliation and arbitration law for the
settlement of industrial disputes.
A transcontinental railway to connect eastern and
western Australia.
Manhood and Womanhood Suffrage.
The absolute exclusion of Asiatics.
The gradual abolition of Kanaka labour—process to be
gradual in order to allow time for the Queensland sugar
industry to adapt itself to the new conditions.
No financial juggling, but a straight, honest, solvent
policy of keeping the public cash and the public
a .counts.
It is a straightforward, democratic and vigorous
policy so far as it goes, and if it doesn’t go so far
as it might it is certainly better to promise too
little than to promise too much. The fluent indi-
vidual who promises everything generally ends by
performing nothing. All the same, it is a pity
Premier Baeton didn’t go a little further in some
directions. It is wholly satisfactory to know that
the Federal Government is to be sole ground
landlord of the Federal Territory for ever, but
the Constitution only specifies that that Territory
shall be of at least 100 square miles (10 miles by 10).
And if it is restricted to 100 square miles much of
the increased land values created by the expendi-
ture of the people’s money on a Federal capital
will slop over into the pockets of private landlords,
outside these limits. A Federal territory of
5000 square miles (say 70 miles by 70) should be
taken over, with the Commonwealth as sole per-
petual ground landlord, and then if the Federal
city is planted in the centre of this area, there is
fair reason to hope that all the increased land
values will be reserved to enrich the people’s
treasury. And the Federal Government should
levy direct taxes, even if it hands the money back
to the States. Australia badly wants an absentee
tax to prevent it becoming another Ireland, and
a graduated land-tax to wipe out huge, ruinous
land monopolies. It wants these things almost
worse than anything else on earth, if it is ever to
be prosperous ; and it can’t get them because such
uushiftable bodies as the Upper Houses of Vic-
toria, Tasmania and Westralia stand in the way.
If its democratic Federal Legislature won’t supply
these wants, then that body will miss one of its
biggest opportunities. And the new Federal
Government has said nothing definite as yet about
abstaining from foreign borrowing, or about estab-
lishing a sinking fund to pay off existing debts—
especially foreign debts, and it doesn’t commit itself
so forcibly as it might do to the policy of taking
over and consolidating existing debts, taking over
the railways, establishing a uniform railway
gauge, and several other matters. But every
single item of its proposed legislation, so far as it
goes, is of the kind which every good, honest
Australian democrat must approve from the
bottom of his heart; it is only the absence of
direct-tax legislation and other items that can
be complained of. The programme is one
which should secure an overwhelming majority
for the Baeton Government at the Federal elec-
tions. And as regards the things that are not in
it, it must be remembered that, with all the vast
mass of detail that has to be attended to —the
organising of departments, establishment of law
courts, appointment of Federal officers, regulation
of finances, &c.—very many things can’t possibly
be even looked at in the first Federal session. The
tariff question alone is likely to fill most of a
session. Under these circumstances many things
are probably omitted from Premier Baeton’s first
programme because they can’t be attended to
during the approaching session in any case, and to
put them in now would only be a valuable adver-
tisement. A careful avoidance of gush, lavish
advertisement, and impossible promises is the
keynote of the Bartonian programme.
The “ Blush of Shame.”
Reid reckons that the “ blush of shame ” should
come to the countenance of the Barton Minis-
try because it doesn’t. see its way to give
British goods special tariff advantages here,
unless Britain gives our goods special advan-
tages over there. Reid (the slippery shuffler
who “put aside” those Contingent papers,
and now seeks to pose as one who was
always an aggressive Jingo to the core and marrow)
holds that Australia should let British goods in
here at 5 or 10 per cent, less duty than German,
French, or American goods, and thus give the
British Freetrade manufacturer Protection to
that extent in Australia! And at the same
time he thinks it quite fair that Britain
should not give Australia any preference at
all in its market, and that Australian wool, wheat
and wine should scramble in the British market
on exactly the same terms as Argentine wool and
U.S. wheat and French wine. Hitherto Britain
has given the Frenchman, German, Russian,
Turk, Chinaman, Dutchman, and all its other
enemies exactly the same advantages that it gave
to Australia. Now Reid proposes that it
should give all these enemies more advantages
than it gives to Australia—that it should admit
Australian goods on the usual terms and get
special concessions in the Australian market in
return, but that it should let the goods of the Turk
and Russian and Frenchman and Dutchman in
as freely as Australian goods without asking
any special trade concessions in their markets by
way of return. And he is of opinion that the
Barton Government should blush with shame
because it can’t see the advantages of Australia
occupying a worse position in Britain’s markets
than Britain’s enemies occupy. Yet, by the way,
Reid himself never offered to let British beer or
whisky or biscuits or confectionery into N.S.W.
at a lower duty than foreign articles. There was
no reciprocity about him. And if he blushed
with shame, he did it on some part of his anatomy
that was conoealed by his clothes.
No Fiscal Issue to Sink.
The Parliamentary Labor-party, in N.S.W.
especially, will shortly have to sit down and think
hard —for the first time for a long while. It came
into existence, it said, “sinking the fiscal issue.”
As a matter of fact, so far as the N.S.W. party is
concerned, it sank Protection for about 12 months,
because old-man Parkes gave it no option, and
finally has for eight years gone on steadily sinking
Protection. Still, assuming that it can go on sink-
ing, or pretending to sink, the fiscal issue like this
in the House of Representatives, playing Protec-
tionists off against Freetraders, it is faced with
the problem—what will it do to be saved in the
State Assemblies ? For in the latter there will not
be any convenient fence to straddle between
Protectionists and Freetraders; the post-and-
rails will most likely be between Liberals and
Conservatives. And what is the Labor-party
going to do, then? Its object in “sinking the
fiscal issue” was to offer itself for sale to the
highest bidder, Protectionist leader or Freetrade
ditto; but when there are only Liberals and Con-
servatives buying in the market-place, what
chance have the Laborites of getting a genuine
bid from the Tory ? A condition will, in fact,
arise very like that which has for some time
existed in Victoria and S. Australia, where, Pro-
tection being the settled policy, the Labor-party
found its only choice lay between Liberals and
Conservatives—between Turner on the one side,
and the Gillies-MTntyre-Murray Smith crowd
on the other, in Vie. ; and between Kingston or
Plolder on the one side, and Sudden Solomon on
the other, in S.A. Yet, even there, the Laborists
hung on for years to a silly pretence of absolute
independence, refusing portfolios, and so on.
Within the last two or three years, however, the
farce of putting themselves up for auction when
there was only one possible serious bidder dawned
on them ; they found that they had to go on his
valuation, and not on their own at all—he settled
the terms, not they. Moreover, they sensibly
realised that, seeing that administration is
almost, if not quite, as important as legisla-
tion, they were losing a vast deal of power
by keeping aloof from every Ministry. There-
fore they permitted their leader, Batchelor,
to take a portfolio in S. Aus. ; and, since
then, leader Trenwith has taken one in Vic.
So in those States the dead-and-gone pretence of
complete independence is decently buried. And
something of the same sort will have to come in
N.S.W., and most likely also in Queensland ; and
the sooner the better. For this division of Liberals
and Progressives into sections, mainly according to
whether they have corns on their hands or not, has
grieved this paper for a long while, and grieved
thousands of good Radicals besides.
The Punishment of Flogging'.
Editor Bulletin. —The question of flogging is
one which is always, in one form or another, with
us. As no doubt many of your readers would
(perhaps quite unthinkingly) at once recommend
the degrading and loathsome punishment of the
lash if at any time they should be suddenly con-
fronted with the problem of suppression of serious
crime, I venture, through your columns, to call
their attention to the remarkable fact that a
“Corporal Punishment Bill,” promoted by Mr.
Wharton, M.P., which came before the British
House of Commons on March 28th last, was
opposed by the Home Secretary and Mr. Asquith
(the previous Home Secretary), and defeated in
debate by one of the largest majorities ever known
in the House, viz., 193. Both the Home Secre-
tary and Mr. Asquith based their opposition
to flogging on official experience; I enclose
copy of a leaflet which led to the Bill being
thrown out by a Conservative House of Com-
mons, in the hope that you will be able to find
room for the interesting document in your paper.
It gives all the reasons why the measure was re-
jected, and I may add that literature on the sub-
ject of flogging may be had from the offices of the
Humanitarian League, c/o Mr. Joseph Collin-
SON, Hon. Secretary, Criminal Law and Prison
Department, 53 and 54 Chancery-lane, London,
W.C.—Yours faithfully, Edward Bcnns Jack-
son, Salisbury Mansions, St. Ann’s, London.
WHY MR. WHARTON’S FLOGGING BILL SHOULD
BE REIECTED.
(Down for Second Reading on Wednesday, March 28th).
Because it seeks perm'ssion for County Magistrates to
usurp the power of the Judges of the High Court, by en-
abling them in their Courts of Quarter Sessions to flog
and birch men and boys for certain offences, a power
which English law does not now permit even to Judges of
the High Court.
Because county magistrates have shown by petitions
got up by them and sent to the Home Secretary that they
are eager to inflict the cat and the birch upon the adult
manhood and free peasantry of the English people. The
Bill states that any instrument may be used specified in
the sentence. It is a class punishment which would be
applied mainly to the poor and ignorant.
Because the Bill applies to England, Ireland, and Wales
but not to Scotland. Why is this distinction made ? The
Scotch are an intelligent people, who will hot tolerate
brutal and disgusting punishments. The last flogging
sentence in Scotland was in 1833 ; in 1862 it was form aU
abolished for adults by Acts of Parliament, and has not
since been revived.
Because crime in Ireland has diminished enormously
and very few prisoners are in the Irish gaols. Why
should the lash be necessary there, and placed in the
hands of Magistrates over the Irish peasantry ?
Because crime in Wales, with the exception of Glamor-
ganshire, is almost unknown.
Because crime in England is decreasing, and appar-
ently stands low at present. The Courts of Assize in
February, 1900, have reported the lowest averages of
charges on records, and in several cases the Judge has
been presented with white gloves; there is therefore no
need for more stringent legislation.
Because flogging is an irrevocable punishment, which
cannot be undone if an innocent man should suffer it by
mistake of Magistrates or jury. It is a punishment from
which there is no appeal to another court. Flogging in
this Bill applies to offences of which men and boys are
often accused by women and girls out of malice, revenge,
or for blackmaiiing purposes. The provincial press teems
with reports of such cases. The Bill, therefore, would
make innocent and respectable men liable to a degrading
penalty.
Because flogging, as applied to men and not to women,
is unjust. If it is right to flog one sex, it is right to flog
the other. Flogging is wrong for both sexes equally.
Because flogging does not deter. The belief that garot-
ting was put down in London by flogging is entirely
erroneous, and has been authoritatively refuted by Lord
Aberdare and successive Home Secretaries. The late
chairman of the board of directors of convict prisons has
told us in unmistakable language that flogging had
nothing whatever to do with the so-called extinction of
garotting. Moreover, the criminal statistics of the Home
Office show that where a flogging Judge has regularly
attended a particular Court of Assizes, the crimes of
garotting and robbery with violence have increased in-
stead of diminishing. For example: The crimes of
robbery with violence have been more numerous under
the present Recorder of London than they were before.
The crimes of robbery with violence at Liverpool Assizes
under a flogging Judge increased from 56 cases in 1882 to
79 in 1893. They declined elsewhere.
Because flogging was general in the early part of the
century, and yet crime was greater and more widespread
than now. Flogging is a failure : that is the clear verdict
of history and experience. Why, then, should we, on the
eve of the 20th century, return to the barbarities of our
forefathers ?
Because flogging has been discontinued by other
civilised countries for offences against the criminal law ;
even Russia having abandoned it in her criminal courts.
Is England to be below the level of Russia and on a level
with China?
Because the English people in the past have not had
such confidence in the county justices, in their admini-
stration of the law, as to wish to increase their powers ;
nor will the Judges of the High Court approve of their
own restricted power being handed over to men from
whose sentences there is no appeal.
Men of all parties are therefore urged to join hands to
defeat the extension of a degrading and useless punish-
ment.
The Bulletin invites M.’sP. and the public to
paste the foregoing in their scrap-books, so as to
finally choke the squawk about the efficacy of
flogging when the subject comes up again.
♦
The S’African War.
Naturally the horrors of the Boer war find no
place in the well-censored British cables ; but
every week brings, in private letters from Africa
to Australia, new proof that the conduct of the
conflict would eternally disgrace any so-called
civilised nation. The last such proof is printed
(as an extract from a letter written by a member
of the Army Medical Corps) in Sydney Tele-
graph of 21st inst. :
Botha’s Farm, Zeerust district, Transvaal, 2Cth Novem-
ber, 1900.
We —that is, Methuen’s column —arrived here this
morning on our chasing, or rather looting, expedition.
We very rarely came across the enemy. When leaving
Jacobsdaal Methuen “ was sure to catch the Boers this
time.” We started early on the 11th from Jacobsdaal for
Lichtenburg, the transport and supply column being
separated from the flying column, and no mistake
we did fly, and we, or rather the Bushmen, did
get up to the Boers, but our artillery being with the main
body, we had to retire before a Vickers-Maxim fire before
our’guns were in position. When this happened, the
Boers had taken French leave. The scouts lost sight of
him, and we were duly taken to Lichtenburg.
For our failure, the women and children had to suffer.
All women and children of the Lichtenburg surrounding
district were brought in, with their goods and chattels,
and then forwarded to Mafeking.
Is it not beautiful ? —to make the Boer women and
children pay for the failure of the invaders to
exterminate their husbands and fathers? Even
in the bitterest among great conflicts of the last
century, that between Germans and French, the
courtesy and kindness of the victors to the women
and children of the vanquished, was a marked
feature. And the correspondent goes on—
As I mentioned in my previous letter, Methuen leaves
nothing for either beast or man. A commandeering
party, consisting of a horde of black fiends (Bechuanas)
precedes our main body, and destroys crops and com-
mandeers everything in the shape of cattle, food,
waggons, etc. Homesteads are burnt down en masse.
Brute force of the most deplorable kind here does the
work which the strategist has so far been unable to do.
And not one strong man in the world lifts his voice on
Dehalf of the women and children of these unfortunate
Boers. Humanity is deaf otherwise. But “ silence is
the mother of wisdom,” and I had better tell you a little
about Lichtenburg.
All that the cables tell us about Kaffirs is that the
British Govt, will not employ the black race to
destroy a white one. Yet here are a pack
of “ black fiends, Bechuanas,” in full cry after the
Boers, destroying—as the writer of the Telegraph
le'■.ter goes on to say—a prosperous little nation
with a “civilisation” every whit as good as our
own.
You would travel all over Australia, and you would
not come across a prettier place than Lichtenburg.
As the centre of a cattle-raising district—the most
fertile one of the Transvaal Lichtenburg - is un-
doubtedly the abode of the better-class Boer. lam told
that in times of peace the English element is prac-
tically absent. Is is an essentially Dutch town. .. .
A typical Dutch church and a very fine school—now used
as a hospital—with spacious classrooms and a large play-
ing ground, and an equally fine courthonse, made it quite
clear to me that all talk of a higher civilisation having to
supersede the Boer civilisation, in order to keep pace with
the advancement of modern times, is hog-wash.
As far as the people themselves are concerned I must
honestly confess that, to class them as inferior people to
those of any Australian country town, is as ridiculous as
it is untrue. Corsets, paint, and powder may not be the
order of the day, street-corner larrikins may be absent. One
thing is certain : that the Britisher is not at all disin-
clined to gain the favor of the Boer girl. As to che
manhood I a&n say little ; but what I have seen, how-
ever, satisfies me that the Britisher is as prejudiced
against the Boer as is the German against the French-
man.
There is no reason to doubt either the good faith
or the good judgment of this letter, which quite
fits in with scores of other communications The
Bulletin has seen. What Chamberlain and his
allies have done is to bring about civil war in
S’Africa among communities where (as English
historian Bryce and other observers on the spot
testified) the Dutch and English were
gradually fusing themselves peacefully, and in
another century (if they had been let alone) there
would have been a true union of interests and
hearts. Now one virile race has been set against
another virile race in a deadly feud, of which
no man can see the end ; scores of thousands of
brave and valuable men on both sides have been
flung away; and a community of freemen scat-
tered to the winds, its prosperity destroyed and
its hearths laid desolate ; and for what ? For two
of the very worst reasons that the beast in
humanity can offer—Greed and Revenge.
That terribly muddled person Max Hirsch, who
is a candidate for the Federal Parliament, has
been breaking out in his favourite spot once more
at Echuca (Victoria):
Under our protective policy we imported 50 per cent,
less than N.S. Wales, and so we had fewer steamers
trading here, and there being no competition, freights
were higher, ships having to be brought in ballast from
N.S.W. to Melbourne to take our produce away. At
least 16s. per ton extra had to be paid in freight through
this, which meant 2d. per bushel on wheat. Every section
of the community would benefit by the prosperity of the
farmer, and this could only be brought about by Free-
trade.
Just figure this interesting problem out. Victoria
in 1899 imported by sea 9g million pounds worth
of goods and exported 13 millions. N.S.W. im-
ported 13J millions worth by sea and exported. 19
millions. Max’s theory is that the ships which
brought £9,500,000 worth of goods to Victoria
couldn’t carry away £13,000,000 worth (£3,500,000
worth more to carry away), but that the ships
which brought £13,500,000 to N.S.W. could easily
carry away £19,000,000 worth (£5,500,000 worth
more to carry away). Therefore ships were brought
in ballast to Victoria (34,944 tons of shipping passed
through Victoria ports in ballast in 1899). And
N.S.W. wasn’t put to the expense of bringing ships
to its ports in ballast (313,239 tons of shipping passed
through N.S.W. ports in ballast in 1899--Goo HLAN
supplies these figures on page 325 of his “Seven
Colonies” for 1899-1900). And owing to the
necessity of bringing more ships in ballast to
Victoria than to N.S.W. (when in reality eight
times more shipping came in ballast to N.S.W.
than to Victoria) freights from Melbourne to
Europe were 16s. higher—they were really about
the same —per ton. And this non-existent 16s.
made a difference of 2d. per bushel in the value of
wheat, though as there are 37 bushels of wheat to
the ton it would really, if there had been any 165.,
have made a difference of sd. per ton. The
melancholy and muddled Max always gets his
Freetrade facts upside down after some such
fashion as this.
♦
No sooner did Reid find that Tasmania had no
salaried Minister in Barton’s government than he
packed up his other collar, and his Dry Dog, and
his Yes-No, and fled to that island to sympathise
with it, and to hint that if it helps to make
him Premier he will see that it has a port-
folio all to itself, and otherwise to stir up
the flames of parochial jealousy. He doesn’t
hint that he will provide that Tasmanian portfolio
by cutting down N.S.W. or Victoria to one
salaried Minister, or that he will leave Queens-
land or S.A. or Westralia with no Federal
Minister at all—if he explained where that Tas.
portfolio was to come from he would make bad
trouble with some other State, so he just sym-
pathises generally. A year or two ago, when
he was cadging for the vote of the parochial
party in N.S.W. —the party which objected to
the power of the Small States —he hinted that
Tasmania should be deprived of part of its
representation in the Senate; also, that it should
be ejected from the Commonwealth altogether, or
only be allowed to come in as an appanage of
Victoria. In those days, instead of being shocked
at Tasmania having no salaried Federal Minister
in Barton’s Cabinet, he pointed out that Tasmania
had less than half the population of Sydney, and
that Barton, in recognising it as a State at all,
was a Traitor to N.S.W. The wind has changed
since then, and the variable Dry Dog blows from
quite a different quarter.
♦—
Truly Premier Barton’s promise to check the
influx of Kanakas, and start a gradual clearing-
out of the fuzzy-headed islander, comes none too
soon. The gentle Tommy Tanna has just broken
out again—this time at Cairns—and has been
having an old-man drunk. Two-hundred-and-
fifty of him mobbed the police, freely using knives,
slung-shot, boulders, broken bottles, and revol-
vers ; and many injuries resulted. There were 17
arrests. At Bundaberg, about 1000 took posses-
sion of the town on Xmas eve, and raged up and
down the main streets till a late hour. Their sym-
posium ended with a big tribal fight. At Ayr some
of the gentle and harmless Polynesians broke into
the house of a crippled white man and hacked
him to pieces, and up and down the coast any
number of Kanakas are “wanted” for serious
offences, '“but have established an alibi by mixing
themselves up with other Kanakas so that they
can’t be identified. The “mild and reliable”
nigger is putting up a ghastly record of crime,
brutality, vice and indecency up North, and he is
just beginning to understand that in some districts
he is strong enough to burn the white man’s town
about.his ears when he feels that way.
♦
To students of Australian national development,
the recent alien row at Thursday Island is worthy
of some little attention. The local Polynesians
attacked the local Manilla men, wounded several,
and wound up proceedings by smashing into and
raiding Zareal’s jewellery shop. Since the
riot, one of the islanders has died of his
injuries, while others have put in a spell in the
local hospital. Running through this riot,
however, there was a thread of semi-civilised
observance of anything that was infinitely
amusing. In the first place the Islanders
waited on Govt. - Resident Douglas and
asked his permission to have a battle with the
enemy. Douglas told them to call round next
day at 3 o’clock. The Polynesians, however,
understood that he granted them leave to fipht at
three and acted thereupon. The editor of the Pilot
was also requested to advertise the intended con-
flict and to issue a challenge to the men of Manilla
and a telegram announcing the warlike attitude
of Polynesia was also to be despatched to “big
fella Guv’ment.” The Islanders are evidently of
opinion that a public fight is quite legitimate, pro-
vided the proper formalities are attended to.
(Perhaps they read the war-news.) Joking apart,
these savage outbursts are becoming far too
frequent, and the end of it (in the alien districts)
will yet be the Vigilance Committee. Let us see,
wasn’t it John Douglas who patted the alien on
the back (in a Govt, report) and said we could
never do without him? Is he still proud of his
jet?
♦
An advt. in Pall Mall Gazette of last Nov. re
an extension of capital of the Brisbane Tramways
Co., stated that “ the revenue accounts of Brisbane
Tramways Co., for the six months ending
June 30th 1900, showed net profits at a rate,
which, after payment of all expenses, gave a clear
profit of £36,000 per annum.” The Brisbane
Courier people must have been reading the above
and reflecting thereupon, for the other day that
Conservative organ commenced to cry aloud for
the munieipalisation of the city gas, electric
and other services. “Had there been greater
energy and foresight” says the Courier, “in the
past, the ratepayer, instead of being burdened by
an ever-increasing debt, would have possessed
very valuable assets, the profits of which etc., etc.,
etc.” But surely the Courier forgets that the
principal mission of Australia (by its own too fre-
quent showing) is to provide a field for the invest-
ment of British capital. Surely the Courier has
not forgotten the fulsome eulogies of British enter-


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
lIRFRAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STANDING
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S W. D’ARCY-IRVTNJi, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney ; or to
G. G. MoCOLL and B. H. PASCOE, Managers for Victoria, S. Australia and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
e. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
Va
rm.
mm
HEL!DON SPA WATER
m mm xl mm
Sulphide Corporation
V V LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital: £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, ■ff Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought —*
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Targe Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A E. SAVAGE,
Manager.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia.
prise that filled its columns when the running of a
private tramway was first seriously mooted. If
the Conservative press would only understand
that the “investment of British oapital for the
development of the resources of this great
country ** is merely more debt and more absentee
landlordism, it would be better for Australia. It
has long been a bye-word that Ireland was ruined
by absentee landlords. That was “ the invest-
ment of British capital.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Sheridan’s “New East Lynne,” at Sydney
Lyceum, is a production which makes this present
scribe swear a great deal less than he expected.
It may not be high-class art, and it is a trifle
vulgar in plaoes, including the place where Mr.
Dill turns his back on the tall, white bleak
deceiver and throws up his coat-tail in scorn ; but
it is not without merit. Sheridan has cast a
streak of humor aoross a tear-sodden and broken-
hearted drama, and by reason thereof the world
ought to rise up to some extent, and call him
blessed in moderation. The principal variation
consists of the Carlyle family’s new Irish serving
man, who is inserted that he may wear a suit
with a red stripe down the side, and fetch the
wrong things wrapped up in brown paper, and
drop them all over the parish as he comes back.
His other duties are to meet everybody every-
where in a powerful brogue, and to strongly sus-
pect all the bad people, and to be confident of the
innocence of the good people, and to sit down
familiarly in the drawing-room, and talk familiarly
to his employer’s sister, and to whistle in a friendly
off-hand fashion up the family speaking-tube,
and look complacently through the family key-
hole He is the sort of servant that the stage-
family prizes for his faithfulness and regards as a
brother, and that no real family would tolerate
for an instant, and his whiskers stick out like the
hair of a kindly and honorable gorilla. This good
old retainer finds out the wickedness of highly-
respectable-looking visitors with belltoppers long
before anyone else drops to it, and explains
frankly that these visitors are a bad lot. He is
always right, but in real life he would be sacked
after he had exposed the first visitor. He has
early realised the fact that his masters sister
is sour and not beautiful, and he doesn’t conceal
the fact from the lady. Other pleasing revels
which have been added to the drama are cer-
tain violent rows between Hare, J.P., and Miss
Cornelia Carlyle, who behave in a loud and per-
sonal fashion such as an English lady and gentle-
man should be ashamed of. But, despite all
drawbacks, “New East Lynne” is a great im-
provement on the ordinary damp, crushed, old
“East Lynne,” and the latter should now be
obliterated by Act of Parliament. Sheridan, as
the interpolated servant with the red stripe on
his clothes, uses up his old stage Irishisms with
rather pleasing effect. H. O. Willard lifts up a
tall figure and a long chalky countenance over-
hung with black hair, as the deceiver. Frank
Crossley, Edmund Duggan, and one or two other
people are satisfactory within limitations. Miss
Gracie Whiteford doubles the parts of Afy and
Joyce, the difference being that one is a neat bad
girl with light hair, while the other is an untidy
good girl with dark hair. Miss Maud Gwynne’s
Lady Isabel is rather above the average of that
dreary but well-dressed woman ; and pretty Celia
Mavis is wasted on the unsatisfactory pait of
Barbara. Also, Miss Helen Fergus makes
Cornelia Carlyle an extraordinary gorgon, whose
back hair is the sort of thing that one meets on
the boarding-house stair after a lengthy drunk.
** * *
“Maritana,” which isn’t quite new, and
“Tannhauser,” are to fill in the remnant of the
opera season at Sydney Royal. “ Maritana”
didn’t get under way in time to be noticed in this
issue, and by the time next issue emerges from
the printing-machine the Sydney opera season will
be a thing of the past. The work of writing its
obituary is rather difficult. Musgrove’s co. has
charged the public 7s. 6d., which is something to
its credit, as calculated to bring down the pride
of a possibly over-inflated community. It has
proved itself on the whole a good combination,
though with the exception of Agnes J anson and
Madame Slapoffski, there is no one m it who is
so unusually good as to be much regretted. _ It
maintained a higlHevel of scenic and mechanioal
effect; the ancestral castle never fell on there-
turned wanderer, and the curtain didn t come
down sideways. It was dressed with great taste
and irrespective of cost, and the chorus was
not only a good singing chorus, but also a vision
of loveliness. It introduced one or two new and
historic operas that everybody wanted to hear, and
that hardly anybody dared to denounce as a long-
drawn German weariness after he had heard them;
and it cast a new magnificence on one or two his-
toric old operas. Australia would have been
poorer in an artistic sense if it hadn t come, and
it would have been 7s. 6d. richer if it had stayed
away, so things may be set down as about even.
** * *
The Pantomime at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
has now explained for a good many weeks how
people are going to look and behave one hundred
years hence, and it is still explaining profitably,
though the writer seems slightly hampered by the
feeling that Federation is too holy a thing to
be treated in a frivolous spirit. Probably this
religious sentiment is also responsible for the
slightly funereal ring in the opening music of
each act. For the rest Sydney looks a good deal
cleaner a century hence than it does now, and the
Federation Arch of the future shows less tendency
to fall down and strew itself on the heads of un-
offending citizens than did the Federation Arch of
the past. The spectacular part of the panto shines
with a bigger and brighter refulgence as time
wears on—all except the whirlpool, which rather
resembles a large tea-tray spinning round with a
Boer bullet hole in the centre. But the ballet
wherein the dancers are attired mostly in volu-
minous jibbons speaks well for the beauty and
grace of our descendants, and people who are un-
married had better marry in haste, so as to have
some of these descendants. Also people will be
glad to learn that the Push Brigade is to grow a
good deal more ladylike and much less violent
during the next hundred years. The Cinemato-
graph pictures of the Commonwealth procession
and the swearing-in are a new feature, though the
Cinematographed Procession is becoming as
wearisome as the Kinetoscoped Boer War.
* * * *
“ For the Term of His Natural Life ”
rollicks a good deal at Sydney Criterion. Con-
siderable ability in the way of jest and repartee is
shown by the convicts, almost the only really
melancholy people being those who have three
good meals a day without any flogging after it.
The scene on the island where the cannibals cast
lots for each other’s flesh is brightened by the
continual appearance of one of them in a ballet-
girl style of costume, with bare arms and red
splotches of ink on his knees. There is also a sea
which rolls up and down the beach in a painstak-
ing way, the noise of the surf being made behind
the scenes just after the waves have stopped
moving. It is notable that this sea curls back
all in one piece, leaving the sand perfectly dry
each time. Alfred Dampier doesn’t seem to fit as
well as usual into his character of the good but
drinky chaplain who reforms the convicts with the
aid of ’baccy, but Forde and Buller are cheerful as
another parson and a frivolous convict respec-
tively, and serve to keep the rather monotonous
drama from falling to pieces. Rose Dampier has
a difficult part to play as the girl who loses her
memory because she sees her mother about to be
tomahawked, and she does it reasonably well.
There is some doubt at the end as to whether she
finally marries the good but drinky parson or the
man accused of the various murders that he did
not commit. Neither of them quite deserves it.
* * * *
The immense brown man from another
planet, where they take all things in a serious
spirit, doggedly pursues the reformation of Horace
Parker at Sydney Palace Theatre. The Bulle-
tin started with a good opinion of the ‘ ‘ Message
from Mars,” and it finds its opinion steadily im-
proving as time coes on.
* # * *
Old friend Snazelle, who endeared himself
to Melbourne as a mariner bold, in Paul Jones’s
buccaneering days, has returned to these coasts
with “Our Navy,” a biograph entertainment that
appeals to the higher Jingoism by showing what
is best in the character of Union Jack. Last
Saturday night was an occasion when nothing
less than Snazelle could have induced anybody to
seek amusement at the Athenaeum Hall, so the
numerousness of his audience, and the fact that
people made themselves much hotter by applaud-
ing, may be taken as evidence that “Our
Navy” will do very nicely. The biograph is
always happiest in its dealings with marine sub-
jects. Women especially will find a strange
attraction in this show —the same attraction that
enables two of them to go halves in one blue-
jacket without coming to blows. It is
breezy. The pictures are good and genu-
ine, and pleasantly instructive, telling of
the men who work the Na-vee, the British
Na-vee, and not of the officahs who put on
frill. One picture explains how the mere grovel-
some toast of a longshore Fatman may be a hearty
sentiment of loyalty for the able-bodied toiler out
on the deep. The bo’sun’s mate, or somebody, is
seen serving grog in a generous pannikin to other
sons of the sea. Perhaps they got double allow-
ance because the photographer was looking—but no
matter. The cauldron from which the liquor is
distributed bears this inscription—“ The Queen:
God bless her!” Regarded as the gracious
spirit of Rum in the naval service, the
monarch is entitled to the blessing, every time.
Heaving the Lead in a heavy sea is a fine, ani-
mated picture ; likewise the Torpedo-practice, the
Diver, the Hornpipe, &c. Snazelle helps the show
along with descriptive journalese, the old humor-
ous yarn of The Whistler, and sundry recitations
and songs. His bass voice has lost a little of its
volume, but the unctuous melody is still there,
and the songs are sea-songs—that is to. say, when
they are patriotic they have the healthful odour of
ozone more marked than the savour of blud.
The only modern fighting sailor mentioned during
the evening is a Ladysmith man who died of his
wounds in England. His funeral procession ap-
pears on the sheet, and the sympathetic Snazelle
sings him through the gates with “ Tom Bowling,
timing the ballad to the progress of the coffin.
** * *
A few further remarks upon Bland Holt’s
drama at Melb. Royal went astray in the post, or
otherwise came to grief last week. Consequently
the story of Bland’s right-of-way cottage (where
everybody feels at home except the owner) is now
numbered among the unpublished gems of litera-
ture. The time has passed for further remarks
on “With Flying Colors.” It didn’t catch on to
the public as a Xmas show ought to catch, so it
will make room for “ The Great Ruby” on Satur-
day. Rather sad to find that a melodrama, of
literary merit, with strong situations, has failed
in its intent upon Bland Holt’s public. The co.
had a chance to act better than usual, but, with
the one exception of Styan, Bland’s people moved
along in their old easy grooves, as though they
saw no difference between tripe and truffles in melo-
drama. “The Great Ruby,by Cecil Raleigh and
Henry Hamilton, will give them another oppor-
tunity to shake up their natural intelligence and
introduce a few variations of style. Albert
Norman’s mechanical grin, which has stuck to him
through all his stage moods for the past five years,
must be taken off his face. Likewise Baker’s too
familiar giggle when he makes love to the inevit-
able lady in the huge flop hat is a mannerism
which can consider itself under orders to quit.
Miss Ross is counselled to put some bloom of
roses on her cheek and be less calculating in her
elocution, and if Charlie Brown is not too haughty
to take a hint he will bathe his voice in melted
jujube before the new piece comes. Miss Flor-
ence Seymour, who is always interesting, will be
included in the full strength of Bland Holt’s forces
next Saturday, and the dresses and the scenery
are expected to play their parts for all they are
worth.
#* * #
At Melb. Princess’s the original husky
parent of Cinderella has seemingly gone upon the
sick list, and John Wallace, the stage manager,
takes his place. In justice to the imported
stranger, who appeared to have more husk than
kernel in his mumming, it must be said that he
lost nothing by comparison with his successor.
The “comic” scenes of “Cinderella” have a
purpose of course. They break the monotony of
splendor, but if they broke it more cheerfully the
general effect would not suffer, whereas the
audience suffers much under present conditions.
Still Melbourne is rolling up eight times a week to
appreciate the truth of George Musgrove’s advt.
He declares the costumes to be “ the most beautiful
and costly ever seen,” and the congregation has
no comment to make other than “Amen, or
“Hear, hear.” A costume which wasn’t beauti-
ful would be almost welcomed as a change. At
any rate, it would amount to a joke, and the pan-
tomime wants a joke. Also, it wants brighter
music. But as to whether the unprecedented
gorgeousness leaves any room for complaint re the
lack of ordinary requirements in Musgroves
dazzling spectacle the present scribe begins to feel
doubtful. Judged by the law of averages, Cin-
derella,” with its dresses, its Dartos, and its dull-
ness, is perhaps the Greatest panto, on Melbourne
record.
** * *
This is the sixth week of “ Floradora ” at
Her Majesty’s, and all goes well with that estim-
able combination of music, song and comedy.
The missing tenor has come back to his Colleen
Oge Asthore (whatever she may mean) in his
original form. Lauri. who never seems to have
anything the matter with him, is perhaps a
little funnier than at first, though he started
by cutting all his own records m char-
acter fooling. Tweedlepunch is the drollest
Lauri we have seen thus far, which is to
say that the phrenologist was an elastic creation
and the short, broad George stretches it to fit his
humor. A thin, pale, cadaverous Tweedlepunch
and a fat, pompous Cyrus are conceivable but not
worth considering in the light of “ Floradora s
success. Also, it doesn’t really matter that Miss
Maud Chetwynd is not a Decima Moore. Money
talks, and when the managerial takings express an
emphatic opinion on a show, it is for all practical
purposes the voice of Providence. Here endeth
the Fifth Epistle to the Floradorians.
Thirty-four reporters “ took ” Barton’s
inauguration speech at Maitland. S.M. Hkbald
and Telegraph each had seven men on the scene.
And Reuter’s people oabled 8000 words straight-
away to Europe.
PAXI
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
H.M. QUEEN VICTORIA.—HER MOST RECENT PORTRAIT.
Empress and Queen of Land and Sea,
Of climes of oak and palm,
This is her hour of majesty,
Quiet, and cold, and calm.
Kaiser-i-Hind : sits by her bed
Inexorable Fate :
By Osborne Palace kneels the dread
Black camel at the gate.
The peasant hut with roof of thatch,
The palaces of pride,
Death presses softly on the latch—
The door is opened wide.
He takes, the gentle God and bland,
With kind and smiling mien,
The needle from the seamstress’ hand,
The sceptre from the Queen.
The rose of silence at his lips>
The doom upon his knees,
The purple girdle round his hips—
So comes Harpocrates.
And he his stamp august has pressed
Upon her brow serene :
The royal woman lies at rest —
God save the Queen 1
VICTOR J. DALEY.


. a
x> a
Profit*.
S'!* g
fa SJ 3
iJ’o'-Ja
a-~ t •*>
S.'S'gl
> o
C T3 -
01T3
June, 1806
£19,888
£10,419
£18,M0
December, 1S05
20.6S2
10,410
26,762
June, 1896
16,068
10,410
31,411
December, 1800
17,923
10,410
38,920
46,373
June, 1S97 .. ..
17,877
10,410
December, 1801 .
22,730
10,119
58,680
June, 1808 .. ..
24.38 J
10,410
72,650
90.031
December, 1808 ..
27,800
10,419
June, 1800 ..
27,037
10,410
107,240
December, 1809 ..
June, 1900 ,.
27,906
28,604
10,419
10,419
£13,266
124,786
129,005
Sperccnt
div. on
ordinary
shares..
December, 1900 .
80,178
10,419
16,919
133,145
Written
off
2 per cent.
Dividend On
Total He-
—
Profits.
Assets
Trust.
Preference
Shares.
ench date.
June, 1896
Dee.. 1896
£41,636
£20.000
t21,171
£f.. 475
6,010
4,200
June, 1807
52.530
33,000
21,171
Dee., 1897 ..
53,223
30,000
21,171
6,350
June, <398
52,863
30,000
21,171
7,5*2
Dee.. 1898
52,801
80,000
21,171
0,172
June, 189D
52.247
30,000
21,171
10,218
3 per cent.
Dividend on
Preference
Shares.
Dee.. 1899
85,351
30,000
31.7-56
18,3*3
June, 1909
58,205
30.000
31.756
10,352
Dec., 1900 ..
65,153
so,eon
31,755
13,7*7
FiFIFIF
liiilli
1
£
It
o
S3
to - i -* « £i rt &
s&
£
O
Written off Losses
t- I-* — I-* — ttl
wc* cn cc.jO go yz
not pifirirted tor
ae Ust
— -j w - i ::. w
U CIO V-
Reconstruction.
J2
cn
ft
wutjto to t<»»
ifj
s
QC O O fA± 3
o
o c o c © o c
' r
cc
Ci
cote o» •*-
«5
o£ ;rc»—
o
■5
o o © © cn cr» G
8888883
?|| |
ft-
*-*
0o
o
« 05 « tO « *B t3
sssssfsi
5*0
a? 0 !
lo
• iL
The Pioneer Tin Mining Co., of Bradshaws
Creek, Tasmania, have ordered from the Austral Otis
Eng. Co., South Melbourne, a large dredging plant for
the treatment of their tin deposits. The plant is a very
complete one, and includes vertical compound engir )
400 h.p. suitable boilers carrying 1501 b. steam pressut),
and one of the Otis newest design 15in. gravel pucp.
The plant is to be completed and set to work within six
months.
• • * •
Sound Pbogkess of 17 August, 1900, writes re
the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited :
“ Everywhere it is making rapid progress and is meeting
with a proper response from those who understand soumf
investments.
• * * *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob«
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* * * *
Gentleman having only a limited time at theii
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil
Allan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*.
• * * *
Ward off inAuenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * « «
If you want to borrow money, go to Is.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
*.* * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 G& )rge-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agent! here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor HorsAeld Improved National Rock Trills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
• * * *
Since the start of the Broken Hill Proprietory’s
new 5000-ton mill, most of the Barrier mines have been
engaged in remodelling their concentrating plants on up-
to-date lines, and wisely show a preference for machines
which have proved most successful on the difAcult Anes
and slimes. The machines that can claim this distinction
are the “ Luhrig ” Vanners, as supplied by Messrs. W. &
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne. The South’s new mill will
include a dozen or so, and the Junction Co. has also de-
cided, to erect a number of Luhrig Vanners as an impor-
tant adjunct to its large plant. Other mines would do
well to follow this good example.*
* » * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbo jrne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with optian of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne.*
• * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, Aanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, Auming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andall sorts of iron-work.’
* * * »
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buciiu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemist*
• * * *
The authorities of the Buckland River Gold-
Dredging Co. (M.L.) relate that they have had very satis-
factory news from the district. The Ovens and Junction
dredge cleaned up on Friday week for 104 oz. smelted gold
for 16 days’ dredging. This dredge is now working in the
Buckland River, and the ground is improving as it goes
ahead. The “Buckland co.’s” claim is further up the
river, and this looks like good news for shareholders,
The Buckland co.’s dredge, which has a working capacity
of about twice as much as the Junction co.’s, will be at
work in March next.
* * » *
Waihi (W.A.) Gold Mines: A meeting of
shareholders in Coolgardie approved of registration in
Adelaide. All the good things said about this concern
come by way of Coolgardie, which is a mistake. No good
can come to any mine which is boomed in Coolgardie
Liquidation has been the fate of all previous attempts—
General Gordon and many others. Also, the Waihi i»
more than 100 miles from Coolgardie.
'r ENGLAND’S FAVORITE.”
player’s |avy Cut
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
*3
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/1 QO£
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM,
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Hy. flarkwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ;68 Currie-st., Adel.; 21 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STRKF.T,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per cent
pure), Bleaohing Powder, Mining Requisites,
Candles, eto.
The Wild Cat Column.
“ P.D.M.” : Can’t do better than insure in the
A..M.P. or National Mutual. Both are superior to the
office you name.
* • * *
The Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney shows
another increase in profits, and for the second half-year
in succession a 10 per cent, dividend is paid. Some recent
figures are as follows : _ . ,
Total
Profits. Dividends. Reserves at
each date.
June, 1894 .. £25,560 8 per cent. = £33,901 £1,024,334
Dec., 1894 . 36,599 „ = 36,498 1,024,435
June, 1895.. 38,036 ~ ■= 37,984 1,024,487
Dec., 1895 .. 39,474 „ = 39,227 1,024,734
June, 1896 .. 40,303 „ = 39,966 1,025,071
Dec., 1896 .. 40,067 „ ■= 40,000 1,025,138
June, 1897 .. 40,119 „ = 40,000 1,025,257
Dec., 1897 .. 40,150 „ = 40,000 1,025,407
June, 1898 .. 40,410 „ = 40,000 1,025,817
Dec., 1898 .. 40,864 „ = 40,000 1,026,681
June, 1899 .. 42,340 „ = 40,000 1,029,021
Dec., 1899 .. 45,251 9 per cent. = 45,000 1,029,272
June, 1900 .. 50,880 10 „ = 50,000 1,030,152
Dec., 1900 .. 51,509 10 „ = 50,000 1,031,661
The Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney pays the largest
banking dividend in Australasia barring only the Bank of
New South Wales, which has just raised its dividend to
10 per cent., and the Westralian Bank (Perth), which
pays 17J per cent. The last half-year’s earnings are at the
rate of £5 Is. sd. per cent, per annum on the capital and
reserves, which is a good deal higher than ordinary
bank earnings nowadays. And it is a magnificently solid
institution as well as a good profit-earning one. Deposits
stand at £11,218,244 : note circulation is £514,013 ; cash
and State securities are £5,114,026 —equivalent to almost
40 per cent, of all liabilities. The only thing that seems
capable of pulling down the Commercial Banking Co. of
Sydney is the breakage of some of the Australian Govern-
ments, whose securities it holds, and thel-e is a hope that
this country will swear off the Gillies and Reid and For-
rest and Lyne variety of cheap politician in time to avert
that calamity.
• * * *
The Bank of Victoria, which has now paid off
all its reconstructed deposits, and is making rapid ad-
vances, has just completed (to 31st December, 1900), its
most profitable half-year since 1893, and the dividend on
ordinary shares is increased to 3 per cent. Some com-
parative results are as under :
The half-year’s profits are at the rate of
£3 15s. Id. per cent, per annum on the shareholders’ total
funds. The reserves consist of reserve fund, £120,000,
and undivided profit balance £13,445. In the bad year of
1893 the Bank of Victoria’s old reserves (£259,380) vanished
out of sight, but in the 71 years since then it has more
than half rebuilt them,” which is a very rapid and
surprising recovery. This time, however, it is to be hoped
that the management will aim at piling up a reserve
fund of £1,000,000 ; the old one was quite inadequate for
an institution of the Bank of Victoria’s size, and in the old
days the management had its weather eye too much fixed
on 10 per cent, dividends, and too little on things more
essential.
The Bank of Victoria has a note circulation of
£132,000, and £4,651,000 of deposits, so the old-time big
business is rapidly growing up again. Cash, State securi-
ties and other liquid assets are £1,727,666 —equal to 30
per cent, of all liabilities to the public. Taking every-
thing into account, the Victoria is a strong institution,
and should have a good future before it, if the craving for
increased dividends doesn’t come on the management
again too soon. The promptness with which the div. on
ordinary shares has been increased appears to point that
way, and it would probably have been better if the rate
had been kept down to 2£ per cent, for a year or two
anyhow. As things are, the addition made to the re-
serves this half-year (£3840) is the smallest for some
years.
* * « *
The Ballarat Banking Co., of Ballarat, Vic-
toria :
Total Re-
Profits. Dividends. Ser e V ach at
date.
Dec., 1895 .. £3,463 5* per cent. =£2,337 .. £53,410
June, 1896 .. 3,250 „ = 2,338 .. 54,322
Dec., 1896 .. 2,937 „ = 2,338 .. 54,921
June, 1897 .. 2,881 „ = 2,338 .. 55,464
Dec., 1897 .. 2,637 „ = 2,338 .. 65,763
June, 1898 .. 2,755 „ = 2,338 .. 56,210
Dec., 1898 .. 2,906 „ = 2,337 .. 56,779
June, 1899 .. 3,022 „ = 2,337 .. 57,464
Dec., 1899 .. 2,991 „ = 2,338 .. 58,117
June, 1900 .. 3,154 „ = 2,338 .. 58,933
Dec., 1900 .. 3,335 6 per cent. = 2,550 .. 69,718
The Ballarat Banking Co. has a paid-up capital of £85,000,
so the reserves are very solid by comparison. At the
same time this is no reason why the present wfse
policy of building up the reserves should be re-
laxed ; if they grow so large as to be out of
proportion to the capital it is always possible to capitalise"
part of them, and the Ballarat Banking Co. Is a very
small affair which should be all the better for an enlarged
capital. This institution was one of the very few which
paid handsome dividends all through the Great Depres-
sion. Its business keeps increasing a little, but it aims at
a small, steady, reliable trade, rather than at anything
sensational. The reserve of cash and liquirl securities
(£92,785) is equal to 39J per cent, on all liabilities to the
public, which looks even more substantial than circum-
stances are likely to require, and its earnings amount to
£4 12s. Bd. per cent, per annum on the shareholders’ funds
as at the beginning of the half-year.
* * * *
The Commercial Bank of Australia (or rather
that part of it which is called the bank and of which the
accounts are published, as distinguished from the equally
important part which is called the Assets Trust Co. and
of which the accounts are not published) shows a con-
siderable improvement for the half-year ended 31st
December, 1890. Some recent results are these :
The profits are equivalent to £4 Is. Id. per cent, on the
capital and reserves, though what they would be per
cent, if the profits or losses of the Assets Trust could be
ascertained is a mystery. There are still £3,385,020 of
deposits of the Assets Trust unpaid, so it owes almost as
much to depositors as the bank itself. How much assets
it holds against these deposits is a mystery—they may be
equal to the deposit liability, or they may be a million, or a
hundred pounds, or ten thousand, or any other sum, short,
so far as the published evidence goes. The income from the
Trust’s assets (whatever they amount to) may be suffi-
cient to pay the interest on its deposits, or it may not.
So far as the evidence of the published balance-sheet goes
the £30,000 which the bank pays to the Assets Trust may
be sufficient to cover the deficit in the Trust’s income ;
or it may not be sufficient and the Trust may be get-
ting more and more insolvent; or it may be more
than sufficient and the position of the Trust may
be constantly improving —in fact, there may be
no deficit at all. All these things are mysteries.
And as the Commercial Bank is responsible for all the
losses of the Assets Trust the last mystery is that the
balance-sheet doesn’t give the faintest idea as to what the
earnings of the whole institution are, or how it stands.
At all events, it seems as if the securities of the
Assets Trust are being realised very slowly, for this is the
rate at which its deposits are being paid off :
i year to June, ’97.. £27,907 £ year to June, ’99.. £26,525
„ Dec., ’97.. 41,949 „ Dec., ’99.. 20,682
~ June,’9B.. 45,474 ~ June,’oo.. 12,715
„ Dec., ’98.. 56,591 „ Dec., 'OO.. 25,138
These results are rather interesting. The' Commercial
Bank has helped its Assets Trust by transferring £263,000
to it from the bank’s earnings, and yet the Assets Trust
has only contrived to reduce its own liabilities by £256,981.
Also the process of paying off the Trust’s liabilities
appears to be slowing down instead of accelerating; in
the last two years the amount paid off was only half as
much as in the previous two. And the boss mystery of
all is : Why should the Commercial Bank directorate
take the extraordinary course of publishing no accounts re-
garding an institution which represents nearly 3| mil-
lions of the bank’s responsibilities? It refuses to even
assign a reason for this most remarkable silence; when
it is asked to state how the Trust’s income compares
with its outgoings, it generally says that it can’t take the
responsibility of valuing the Trust’s assets —which no one
asks it to do. And yet Victoria has a Banking Act which
is very rigid on the subject of a full statement of banking
accounts, and these are the bank’s accounts ; they are as
much the bank’s accounts as are the accounts of the
bank itself.
The visible part of the Commercial Bank of
Australia shows an increase of deposits during last half-
year of £238,000. Advances have increased by about
£440,000. Liquid assets' and cash stand at the substan-
tial figure of £1,526,946. The profits have increased, though
they have not quite got back to the level of December,
1899. In fact, everything looks well enough with the
visible end of the Commercial Bank of Australia. It is
the invisible end which sets this paper thinking hard.
• * * *
The Queensland National Bank, on 31st Dec.,
1900, concluded its seventh half-year since the last recon-
struction. Progress has been as follows :
The nominal net profit of £12,000 represents £5 12s. 2d.
per cent, per annum on the nominal shareholders’ funds
at the beginning of the half-year (capital, £412,823, and
reserve fund, £15,000).
As already mentioned, however, the Queens-
land National Bank’s balance-sheet doesn’t contain any-
thing like an accurate statement of its assets and liabili-
ties. There is an enormous liability which does not
(except in a very small degree) show itself in the state-
ment of figures, and against which the bank holds no
assets. This consists of the ss. in the £ which was nomin-
ally written off the old deposits in 1897 in order to make
the assets and liabilities look a little more like level, and
if this sum had been really and wholly written off it
could quite fairly be removed from the accounts. But as
the bank pledged itself to pay the allegedly written-off
amount out of profits, and has already devoted £54,000 of
its earnings to doing so (£lB,OOO on account of Govt,
deposits and £36,000 on account of private deposits) the
liability was nob really written off. This mostly invisible
deficit, which has to be made good before the
shareholders can get a show, was roughly esti-
mated three years ago at about £1,500,000. What
it is now is unknown ; but presumably it has
been reduced only by the £54,000 above-mentioned.
In the last three years the visible reconstructed deposits
have remained absolutely stationary, so apparently no-
thing is being done to reduce the loss by repurchasing
the deposit receipts at a big reduction in the open
market. Why no attempt is made in this direction it is
difficult to say, for at present prices there should be a
lot of money in the business.
And in addition to this deficit of, probably,
something like £1,400,000, there are apparently other
losses (amount unknown) which were not fully provided
for at the last rearrangement. The bank has written
£90,095 off these in the last 3J years, and bow much re-
mains to be provided for is a mystery. The most shadowy
item in the assets reads “ Private Ledger Accounts (Debts
in Suspense pending Realisation of Securities),” and it is
presumably here that the trouble lies. This item stood at
£742,835 in December, 1897, and by a slow process of writing
down, or by realisation of securities, or both, it has since
been reduced to £640,934. When this is wholly cleaned up,
there will, providing the bank makes no more serious
losses, be so much the more to apply towards paying off
the reconstructed depositors, and progress should be
more rapid. All that is known for certain is that the
bank, by writing off losses, making repayments to de-
positors, and accumulating a reserve fund, has improved
things in 3J years by £l62,o9s—provided no further
serious depreciation of assets has occurred in the interim.
But after all it would be much better if the Q.N. Bank
wrote down its “ private ledger accounts ” to bedrock,
and included the loss thus arising, and the ss. in the £,
nominally written off deposits but repayable out of pro-
fits, in one big definite visible shortage. Then each
balance-sheet would show how the shortage was being
reduced, and how the bank was progressing towards
renewed solvency. The present hazy method of doing
things is neither one thing nor another.
The Queensland National Bank’s new business
isn’t very large, though it keeps reasonably steady. Its
deposits, apart from reconstructed deposits, are £1,578,189
of which £1,029,900 are private deposits, and the rest
Government money. Its cash reserve is solid enough as
compared with current liabilities ; a bank which has fixed
so much of its deposits for so many years doesn’t require
a very large cash reserve. As for its prospects, things
look bad all round in Queensland just now, and a bank
with so stupendous a dead-horse to clear off faces the bad
times under serious disadvantages.
* * * *
A man in the swim writes that everything has
gone on steadily and satisfactorily at the Sydney wool-
sales since the opening day, 22 Oct. last. At that time
the full force of last season’s disasters was being realized.
Despite the immense amount of money lost last year—
£B to £9 per bale—no failures have been reported in
Australia and very few in Europe. This gives probably
the best idea of the great stability of the wool trade.
More attention is now being directed to the future than
to the past, and things ahead look really promising.
Prices ought to advance as the year goes on ; supplies are
short and demand increasing, especially from America
and A much-needed improvement has been
initiated at ''The Sydney wool auctions with a
view to stop some of the ridiculous noise and confusion
which frequently occurs at these sales. Hitherto, buyers
have been accustomed to bid for the next lot of wool before
the previous lot was knocked down, so as to get the
preference usually given to first bidder. This habit
causes most of the confusion at the sales and is now to be
stopped, as per printed notices in saleroom. Further
trouble often arises through the inexperience or in-
competence of an auctioneer. The system is better in
London and ought to be copied here. In London the
auctioneer is a seasoned man, who takes good care not to
accept bids for another lot until he has knocked down
the lot being sold, and even writes the buyer’s name—
which is never done here. Also, the London seller does
not bind himself to accept the first bidder. It is im-
possible to know who is first among so many yelling out
at the same time, so the lots are distributed fairly among
the buyers. But in Sydney a few buyers have mono-
polised’ seats close to the rostrum to oompel attention,
and smother other bids by hurry and lung-power.
* • • *
Lake View Consols : Cabled that the winding-
up of the London and Globe Corporation under the super-
vision of the Bankruptcy Court has been sanctioned. A
few days ago Whitaker Wright had the front to propose
that its creditors should accept 10s. in the £. That
would mean, in many cases where “bears” had sold at
£l5, they would require to cover at £7 10s. to escape
loss ! The proposal now is to reconstrv f, giving one 15s.
share for each now held and calling up the ss. to set the
co. on its legs, or probably to pay its debts ; if the latter,
no doubt another reconstruction is ahead. Only a fort-
night before tbe collapse the L. V. directors issued a cir-
cular in which, of course, they took the usual “ great
pleasure ” that the decision of the Privy Council in the
cyanide suit had been practically in their favor. This,
they said, meant a great deal in the adoption of the
Diehl process of bromo-cyanide treatment. It was
intimated that the last 56600 z. - return was the
last of the small outputs rendered necessary by
adapting the reduction work 9 to the Diehl pro-
cess ; that Diehl plant would be in operation in Dec.,
and that the next return would exceed 12,0000 z.,
and their policy would be to gradually increase both plant
and output as the future of the property was assured.
Where is the 12,0000 z. for Dec. ? Nothing is known of it.
Something has gone wrong with the works, no doubt, and
since this glowing circular the market has depreciated
nearly two millions sterling! Always sell before the
crushing—and immediately after a London directors’
glowing circular.
* « * *
Loddon Valley Goldfields (not “ London,” as
inadvertently printed last week): Within a few days of
the closing of the list Financial News reported that a
good many buying orders were placed on the market
which caused the shares to command a premium of fths.
Later it said : “ Business is expanding in Loddon Valleys
which have already established themselves ; the shares
gradually rose to |ths premium.” Alas! a few days later
they were down to ss. discount, proving how fictitious
the other business must have been. And since that time
the Lake View and London and Globe horrible collapse
has taken place, and if Loddon Valleys are more than 55.,
representing a discount of 155., writer will be rather sur-
prised.
• * • » *
“ Plunderderry ” Gold Mine : One more meet-
ing of shareholders, one more shilling to call up, and then
probably one more re-construction. Propose to spend
the remaining Is. to have the property thoroughly
examined by a competent authority, on whose advice the
directors will frame their future policy—which may be to
finally shut down.
* * • •
Westralian Mt. Morgans: Situated in Mt.
Margaret district and named after A. E. Morgans, who
may be regarded as the ruling W.A. mining monarch in
London. Supposed to have the longest and largest lode
yet found in that State—in some parts forming out-
crops measuring over 200 ft. above the plain. Develop-
ments at 100 and 200 ft. levels show ljoz. ore of an average
width of 22ft. Last recorded crushing, 1611 tons, 13890 z.
Gold from tailings cyanided, 1109 oz. ; total value, £9282.
With two small Termaine mills and a light 20-head stamp-
battery it had crushed, up to six weeks ago, 22,000 tons
ore for 38,0000 z. gold—value, £142,000. Proposed to
discard the present light mill and sell it to the Mil-
lionaire mine, working same lode, and to instal in
its place a new heavy 30-head mill, 13001 b. per stamp,
which will crush 150 tons ore daily. Accumulated
slimes expected to give a profit from £lO,OOO to
£12,000, for which a filter-pressing plant has been
ordered. Morgans claims to have discovered a process
for treating the sulphides when he gets them ; says that
he will avoid all the expensive roasting plant erected on
the big mines at Kalgoorlie, and that his system will be
that of crushing, fine-grinding and the treatment of
tailings and slimes with a solution of chloro-cyanogen, a
very marked modification of the cyanide process and one
which can be successfully applied. He made the dis-
covery himself, and has given the benefit of it to the co.
without royalty. Morgans’ declaration is a large one—that
the mine is one of the biggest in Westralia, had been
made great by economy in the purchase of second-hand
machinery, the finding of abundance of water in the
immediate vicinity, and the payment of divs. with a small
plant before ordering a big one. All this had been done
with the issue of 40,000 shares.
* * * *
South Kalgurli: 1020 tons treated by the mill
for 7980 z. ; 580 tons per Riecken process an oz. per ton.
Total, 13780 z. The process is said to be doing excellent
work at a low cost. Beyond the fact that it is an elec-
trical-precipitating process little is known about it. What
is known as the Lake View lode has been cut in this mine
at 700 ft. level, and where intersected it is 13ft. wide,
giving an average of 4oz. per ton. This mine has been
producing gold for eight months without paying a div.
Shares have been up to £7, and are now down to 525.
» * * »
Boulder Main Reef : 1107 tons ore for 13500z5. ;
1296 tons of slimes, 4620z5. ; 28 tons smelted at Fre-
mantle, 5480z5. Total Dec. yield, 23600z5. The directors
have issued a circular with a plan of the mine, and inti-
mating their intention to increase the roasting capacity
of the plant to over 2000 tons a month. It was the first
sulphide plant to start on the field, has not been changed
in any important respect ; so far, in extraction, capacity,
and working costs, it has not been much improved on
elsewhere.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance : Ere leaving London for
the States, Frank Gardner, chairman and general boss of
this concern, publicly stated he was prepared to buy all
the shares at £lO apiece. When he returned to London
six weeks ago they were down to £9 and Frank started to
sing another tune. “He was much grieved to find that
the selling had not been confined to the smart ‘ bear ’
element who generally knew how to take care of them-
selves. If he could buy up the Perseverance divs. for the
next 5 years at the rate of £1 per share per annum he
would expect to make a big profit on the transaction.”
He said nothing about taking the shares at £lO. They
have since been down to £7 and are only a few shillings
above that at time of writing. Probably some of the so-
called “ bear element ” have offered to sell Perseverance
divs. at £1 a year and if so there is not the slightest
doubt that F.G. has again declined the offer. The mine
has an enormous debt to clear off before it can start
paying divs., and will have to increase its output of gold
and much decrease the expenses of getting it before it can
pay £1 a year in divs.
* » » *
The New Golden Gate (Tas.) crushed for Dec.
2350 tons for 42300 z., worth £16,900.
* * * *
Tas. Dec. divs. : Mt. Bischoff, 15s. per share,
£9OOO ; New Golden Gate, 55., £BOOO ; G.0.M., Is., £3OOO.
Total, £20,000.
* * * *
The Tasmania mine again : Last cake weighed
27580 z., averaging loz. Bdwt. 17gr. per ton, and valued at
£10,614. Tons crushed to date, 422,686 ; gold obtained.
603,3290 z., worth £1.841,288. Divs. paid, £733,071
16s. Bd.
• • • *
Western S.M. Co. (Zeehan) figures. Total neb
value of ore sold, £468,000 ; divs. ana div. tax £107,137.
Ore won during 1900 valued at £67,202.
* « * •
Those plucky tributors, Fahey Bros., won from
the Silver King mine (Zeehan, Tas.) last year 3800 tons of
ore, worth £35,000. All but £15,000 of this was wanted
for wages and royalty. Still, £3OOO per man is a tribute
that distinctly is not too bad.
* * * *
Dredging in Australia : Says London Critic :
“ Eighteen months ago the attention of Melb. and Sydney
speculators was riveted on schemes for working poor
alluvial ground by dredging. The propositions were con-
sidered good enough to keep .to themselves. Up to the
present they have mostly proved expensive failures,
wherefore it seems reasonable to expect their speedy ap-
pearance in the London market.” Quite correct. In the
midst of a multitude of failures there are a few successes.
That known as the Macquarie No. 1 appears to be one.
Week before last’s return, 95£0z., two-thirds of which, at
any rate, should be profit; last week’s, 61oz. odd for five
day’s work. The question,'however, remains—does this
represent the average yield or will it go back to less
than half the amount ? One of the Turon dredges had a
big yield one week which was announced as the aver-
age, but was only a sensation, for its richest return
was followed by one of the poorest. Araluen Valley Con-
solidated : Last week’s return, 530 z., and as it has had
several over 50oz. this looks like a div.-paying concern.
Araluen Proprietary: 16oz. for four days’ dredging —
enough for wages, &c., no doubt, but nothing for divs.
Turon River : 16oz. —a dredging co. of great expectations
and disappointing results. Little River : 6oz. for a week;
too disgusting for comment. Shoalhaven : 20oz. There
are a number of other working dredges from which no
returns are given, wherefore it may be reasonably con-
cluded there is nothing respectable to announce. One
dredge on the Macquarie, sank in the river and has been
raised with difficulty. With many others shareholders
are sinking, with no hope of a refloat.
/ Continued on page 12.)


Complete
Outfits.
AN ORIENT BOOT
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT-*-
63/-
TO MEASURE
ALL CLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE ..
“Orient To measure” Slothing
SPECIAL PRICES.
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
\
PAVIP JONCS & COMPANY,
6*orgc & Barrack Sts., Sydocy
“ARDATH”
The Highest Class Tobacco.
Has no Equal
in
Quality
and
Aroma.
Will not affeot
the Nerves.
&
SSS
S &
999
mmm
1A
m
m
pi
ip
The most
Luxurious
Form
of
Smoking.
Free from all
scented matter
In Three Strengths—Mild, Medium and Full.
Name of nearest agent post free on application to M. RUTTY & CO.,
Sydney.
SOCIETY
The higher ranks of N.S.W. military
officers have never been a particularly good lot,
and some difficulty is found in selecting a man for
the command of the outgoing contingent. It is
quite possible that Col. H. B. Lassetter will take
the post. The Kernel is now on the retired list,
but is gratefully remembered among men military
by his raising of the volunteer Mounted Rifles
some few years back. It is still undecided how
far the officer commanding is to go. As the
British War Office’s ostensible reason for asking
further assistance from the Australian States is to
make up the gaps existent in the former drafts, it
seems probable that he will only be required to
hand the contingent over to the military authori-
ties on their arrival at Table Bay.
» « * .
Writes “ Lilli —who has “ been there ” :
The best of British officers are men whom Australians
like and all other white men admire. They are magnifi-
cent. But before we get a fair proportion of them in the
Imperial army the said army will have to adopt different
methods of sorting out its raw material for commission-
holders. It ought to be said, by the way, that all Aus-
tralian officers do not make the stupid mistake of apeing
the haw-haw Johnny come-lately type of Bwitish ofiicah.
There are such men as Capt. Nicholson, of the N.S.
Wales Lancers, devoted to the interests of his men, not
half-tight half his time ; nor merely a brave man in action
and a cad elsewhere. There are 'in Australia plenty of
men of a similar type ; but by a natural law of selection
they don’t hustle and push and get others to- push for
them, up the back stairs of Government offices. And that’s
how it is that we are breeding an Australian analogue of
the British ass-officer who has done so much during the
present war to make the Imperial arms ridiculous.
* * • *
Poor old South Australia ! Deluded by the
cables, months ago it turned out its pockets and
bought a large consignment of “peace medals”;
and now it feels so foolish over the business that
it is going to scatter the tawdry toys round the
schools and be done with it. But the bill for
them really ought to be sent in to the local news-
paper bosses, the biggest claim being made on the
hall-marked S’langdon.
* * * *
Hooray ! Here is one Australian, any-
how, back from S’Africa and the war, who
exhibits something besides Boers’ teeth and
whiskers and bayonets with blood on them, and
who talks of other things besides the time when
he and Bill Adams routed 50 Boers and captured
13 more. About all that Lieut. White, of the
S.A. Bushmen, has said has had to do with
the bird and insect life of the country—he has
even read a paper to an Adelaide learned society
on the subject. He kept off the war strictly; the
nearest he got to it was when he mentioned that
the vultures, once the scavengers of the veldt, had
latterly become useless through the laziness that
comes of constant surfeiting.
* * * *
Australia’s meddlesome interference in
Chinese matters was the cause of a pathetic scene
in a city nolice-court last week, when an unfortu-
A CAREFULLY-SELECTED PERSON.
FAIRY: “I saw the lady loot’s (join’ ter be
divorced, en she’s a real stunner.”
PIRATE : "Er course she is. Yer don’t think us
blokes is gain’ ter risk our reputations over
the common garden variety, do yer!”
One day, quite recer tly, a crumb of
nate woman was proceeded against for neglecting
her children. Her husband, one of the contin-
genters in China, died or was killed there. The
W1 j 6 ’ s^e . er despair, took to drink, and the
end of a family, apparently happy and prosperous
a few months ago, is a State asylum. For the
State to abet any familied worker in leaving work
to go to war in a foreign country is a cruel crime.
» * , ,
It was a touching and beautiful sight to
note the joy of the Hindoo hawkers in Brisbane
at the sight of their warlike compatriots who
formed part of the recent military procession.
Pride, honest pride, was visible in their faces as
they noted the evidence that Chunder Bagh and
Ram Dass could on occasion carve human mince-
meat as well any Feringhee of them all.
* * * m
As a warning to any unsophisticated capi-
talist who may be conspired against when York
arrives —if he ever does arrive The Bul-
letin drags forth the story of Bob Moffatt
from memory’s dusty cavern. The Duke
of Edinburgh’s festive programme in Australia
included a visit to old Jock Moffat, at Hopkins
Hill, Victoria, and some time later his eccentric
brother, Bob, happening to be in Melbourne, was
persuaded by a deputation of local jokers that he
also ought to keep up the family name by giving
a dinner to the Duke. Entertaining royalty
wasn’t much in Bob’s line, but the boys told him
to leave the arrangements to them and hold his
tongue about the “ honour ”in store for him. A
dinner for 40 was ordered at Scott’s Hotel, a bogus
Duke and a spurious equerry Elliott York took
their places languidly on the right hand of the
abashed * host, and they had a glorious night.
Next morning the victimised host started
to babble of his friend Edinburgh, and
then the truth came out, so he rushed
to Bendigo and drowned his feelings in liquor.
After an awfully wet three weeks at Bendigo
he retired for repairs to his station. Poor
Bob hadn’t been long there when Bishop Perry
came along on a diocesan tour, and found him
nursing his sore head on the verandah. “I am
the Bishop of Melbourne,” said the visitor in
the tone of an exalted shepherd prepared to
feel thankful for corn, and oil, and lodging. Bob
jumped up and brandished a chair at the man in
gaiters: “Get out of this, you impudent impostor !
I’ve been got at by a blanky duke, but I’m”
The Bishop, who had heard the squatter spoken of
as “ Cranky” Bob (which he certainly wasn’t) fled
to his buggy and made for the next station.
* * • .
“ Yes,” calmly say the beautifully self-
confident Melbourneites, “the Sydney show was
very fine, but it was only a dress-rehearsal for
ours.”
* * * *
It is now tardily proposed to dine the
naval and military veterans who were so utterly
neglected during the Sydney Commonwealth
rejoicings. On Swearing-In Day neither bite nor
sup was given to the old fellows after their 5-mile
march in a sun so killing that 14 men of the Im-
perial Contingent had to receive Red-Cross
attendance in Centennial Park. Doubtless the
ancients were forgotten ; but that they could be
so forgotten on such an occasion provides surely,
to our battle-thirsting young heroes, a grim object-
lesson upon the aftermath of “Glory.”
* * * *
Decided recently at Adelaide police-court
that the mayor-elect was not the mayor, because
he should have been described in his nomination
paper as a licensed victualler instead of a “gentle-
man.” It is thus officially declared that Bung in
general is “no gentleman.” floral: never be
ashamed of your trade !
Apropos —“ You cannot,” says Brander
Matthews, “frame a definition of an English
gentleman that will exclude an American tramp.
It must turn on abstinence from work.”
*.* # .
“ Australian jam,” it is printed, “is much
appreciated by the Imperial (War) authorities.”
Also British marmalade is much appreciated by
. the Australian authorities, who consume it in
incredible quantities. But it is permeated by an
accumulative poison, as Australia will yet find
out.
* • * *
An enterprising small Sydney storekeeper
has school-bags hung outside his premises labelled
“Real Boer Hide, Is. 6d.”
* « * *
“ F.C.” : After bumping against a number
of these returned Boer-stickers in all sorts of
places for the past month or so, I would much
like to know if they sleep in their putties and
bandoliers.
* * * *
£56,000 were collected in N.S.W. in a few
months to equip men to fight other men with
whom we Australians had no quarrel. But when
a call is made for half that amount (£25,000) to
equip a decent hospital for the sick children of the
country, the humane public subscribes £7OOO after
six months’ hard begging ! Yet where people will
not subscribe for mere humanity they will cash-
up for dogma. Rev. John Walker energetically
S' irsues his lone-hand collecting tour in aid of his
■ S.W. Presbyterian fund. At present he is
resting at Woy Woy, suffering from persistent
headache. Up to date he has garnered £lB,OOO
worth of promises, and has in cold cash got nearly
£l3,soo—in all about £31,500.
cyanide conspired with a bic
of jam to kill a man. The
man was working in his
shirt - sleeves, and the
crumb of cyanide fell from a
jar-lid and concealed itself
in the thick hair of his arm.
Later, the man went to his
lunch-bag and took out a
piece of tart. Taking the
hint from the cyanide, a
rosy bit of jam splashed
down from the man’s mouth,
covering the cyanide-crumb
on his arm; instantly the
man licked it up again with
his tongue. Cab —doctor —
near squeak. The man now
holds strange theories con-
cerning inanimate matter.
* * *
Parson, in Northern
N.S.W. town, to farmer:
“What sort of a lad is that
you have working for you,
Mr. Wapstraw?” Wap-
straw : “ Very good—■
honest, industrious, and re-
liable.” Parson : “ Then,
for goodness sake, don’t
send him to my Sunday-
school, or he’ll soon drop
all that ! ” Fact.
• * •
“ Curious,” writesa Bul-
letin correspondent, “ that
the N.Q. police hunt white
‘ ladies of pleasure ’ from pil-
lar to post, whereas in places
like Cairns, Townsville, and
Geraldton the Jap. women are
allowed to sit at the doors of
their filthy dens openly so-
liciting custom.”
* * •
We all know of men who
by will have penalised their
widows in case of re-marriage,
but how is this for comprehen-
siveness? A Melbourneite,
lately deceased, left everything to his wife ; but
if she “married again, lived with another man,
or took in boarders,” the entire estate was to
pass to his children. Logical man !
• * * *
Dr. Quick, in palliation of his bauble :
“ I would like to tell you how I agreed to accept
the honor of knighthood. I never aspired to it,
never asked for it, and when the message came
from the Lieutenant-Governor I candidly confess
I was almost startled by the request. I never
dreamed of such a thing. Before finally deciding
I wrote back to His Excellency stating how I
stood and asking advice —asking whether it were
not possible for some honor less exalted and less
dignified to be conferred upon me. His Excel-
lency replied that Her Majesty was the best judge
as to what honor should be conferred.”—
WHERE ANGELS FEAR TO TREAD.
“ Oh , how ungenerous you musicians all are!
You know that piece was a most difficult
thing for him to play."
“ Madame , it was more—it was impossible !”
The latest useless inspiration is to partly
block Elizabeth-street, Sydney, with a “perma-
nent Commonwealth arch.” The designer is
Varney Parkes, and the work is to be of granite
with Corinthian columns. Statues of “ leading
statesmen ” are to be dotted over the arch (natu-
rally the leading statesmen will whoop up the
idea and agitate to get funds out of the Treasury
in consequence). Also, portraits in bronze of
30 public men (the public men will presumably
whoop up the idea in consequence) are to be
affixed to the work; likewise the names of the
members of the Federal Convention (who will
presumably give the proposal an enthusiastic lift
in consequence), and the names of the subscribers
to the arch (who will yell for the arch as a
matter of course). In addition to all this,
100 sentiments supplied by public men (100 more
public men will thus be roped-in to give the
arch a leg-up with great violence) are to be
graven on its crowded surface. If that
Commonwealth arch doesn’t eventuate there
must be woefully bad management somewhere,
for the scheme is so comprehensive and ropes-in
so many people that it has all the elements of a
brilliant success. The picture of the Great
Advertisement Arch printed in Sydney D.T.
shows two statues of men in closely buttoned-up
frock coats, and an allegorical group at top, and a
rooster on each side, and the usual figures of tall
young women without very much on; and when
all the portraits, statues, names, sentiments and
sundries are added it promises to be an arch of
much cargo and responsibility.
* * » *
The alleged centenarian generally passes
muster all right while his claims to extreme old
age are subjected to no greater scrutiny than that
of the people who are having a beer at the local
pub., but very few of the centenarians can stand
legal inspection. Jeremiah, the Melbourne
“Waterloo veteran,” when legally investigated,
proved to have never seen a gun or a uniform till
years after Waterloo, and now the Old Age Pen-
sion inquiries are breaking up alleged centenarians
on all sides. About the oldest inhabitant of them
all said she arrived in Melbourne in ’35, and gave
the names of a parson and a priest who were well-
known residents at the time. But the hunting
up of musty records proved that neither of these
ghostly comforters was in Melbourne till ’39 Or
’4O, and the lady’s immigrant-ship made its first
visit to Port Phillip in ’4l. A harmless craze for
putting on a few years seems to possess most of
the aged. Possibly the legend of Methusaleh
rests on the old man’s babbling in dead languages,
to a credulous posterity in Shinar, and as likely
as not posterity asked him in to have a drink
when it heard of his extreme age, just as it some-
times does now.
* ¥ ¥ •*
If someone would only invent a kind of
Prohibition that would prohibit, it would be a
much more prohibitory kind of Prohibition than
anything up to date. Mildura was a Prohibition
town for years, and, being about the most lone-
some town in Victoria, it looked a good place to
try the experiment. Yet steamers leaving Mildura
nearly sank beneath their loads of empty bottles,
When first the offer came to Quick
To label him a Knight,
It did not turn the Doctor sick
It filled him with delight;
But, fearing he could hardly claim
A dignity so bless’t
He wrote to Madden—“ Does my fame
Deserve this handle to my name ? ”
Then through the post the answer came—
“ Her Majesty knows best.”
That answer issued from the heart,
Or, rather, from the soul,
Of John, who fills a Jeamsey part
With credit on the whole,
And poses in his dapper way
(Ignoring cruel jest)
As one who to the world would say—
“ Don’t ask me why the bandsmen play
And children greet me with ‘ Hooray ! ’
Her Majesty knows best.”
There’s Matthew Davies ! Him salute,
Ye privates in the ranks ;
His labours bore prodigious fruit
On Yarra’s smellful banks ;
His claims to “ honours” from the Queen
In happier days were press’t,
And when we think of what has been
Since Davies dawned upon the scene
We chorus Madden’s chant serene—
“ Her Majesty knows best.”
Jock MTntyre and Bingy Ben.
The Monarch had in view
Before she placed the famous men
Among her chosen few.
She tried their virtues, we surmise,
By some conclusive test;
They loomfed up in her watchful eyes
Full worthy to receive the prize ;
The Anthem’s heroine is wise—
Her Majesty knows best.
Reflect on all the knights you’ve known—
The gifted and the mean ;
Reflect on all they’ve said and done
To serve their grateful Queen —
The war-contingents, jubilees,
The loyal “ gags ” impress’t
On infant minds at picnic teas ;
The Sargood flags and draperies !
The public worth of such as these
Her Majesty knows best.


Cooling ! Health-giving !
ftDD A LITTLE
COKDV’S FLUID
TOiptiß Bam oh Fcat-Batr.
The Cooling, Invigorating
and Strengthening
Effects are Simply
Magical.
Of nil Chemists k Stores.
Insist on having “CoNDY’S Fluid.”
The name Candy & Mii“u. ot London, Enidund '
should be at font o_l Label b ’
Tinware of Inferior Australian Substitute.,
af
J.I.K.Z. GIB.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. t Full strength, 16‘5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Race, Sydney.
“ APENTA,”
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER
> l ,t Contlnu . ous ,H £ ? e b V the Constipated, the Goutv and
the Obese. Apply to chemists for “Regimen for the
Obese Card.
Published by the APOLLINARIS COMPANY Ltd., Lond.
THE CALLASHBN STYLE.
Those who have never critically examined Callaghan Boots
and Shoes do not know what the Callaghan Style means.
It means the highest art in workmanship and appearance;
it means that the Callaghan Boot and Shoe will look well
all through the time of its long service.
Ladies’ Vici-Kid Shoes, 11/6,12/6,15/6, 17/6.
Ladies’ Tan Lace Shoes, 12/6,13/9,14/6, 15/6.
Add 9d. postage.
Gent.’s Calf Lace Boots, 16, 6, 18/6, 21/-.
Gent.’s Tan Lace Boots, 19/6, 22/6, 25/-, 28/6.
Add 1/- postage.
CALLAGHAN BOOTS,
395 George Street, Sydney.
After all, WALKER’S WHISKY is the best.
and it was understood there that any shop or
dwelling with a crayfish on a plate in the window
was a place where grog was obtainable, if asked
for with proper precautions. And the casual
stranger who struck Mildura had an idea that
half the town had had crayfish for breakfast, and
had left one accidentally on the window-sill. Now
the police have, been raiding the Maori land Pro-
hibition town of Balclutha, and they find that
about half the town is selling grog without a
license. Balclutha is only a small town, yet the
illicit grog seized is sufficient to stock a large
warehouse. In fact, it seems to be about
twice as much as would ordinarily be contained in
an openly and publicly drunk town of the same
size.
* * * *
From a recent speech-report, “ Boulder ”
Brookman, Mayor of Perth, being the speaker
So long as I am in my present position I will be pre-
pared to assist any widow or person in distress, or any
church or charity that wants a contribution.
And that seems the main feature of Boulder Bill’s
policy. If he lives up to it he will probably find
it more expensive than twenty ordinary features.
* * * •
A curious and unexpected result of the
new Truck Act (N.S.W.) has cropped up. The
Broken Hill hospital, upon
which foraccidents, typhoid,
and pneumonia exceed-
ingly heavy calls are
made, was long chronic-
ally on the point of bat-
tening up its windows,
h iving only a working-
class population to draw
upon for subsistence, until
the mine employes agreed
to let the co.s deduct gd. in
the £ of their earnings.
This, with a £ for £ sub-
sidy by most of the
co.’s, has wonderfully
enlarged the usefulness
of the hospital. But
now the co.s have been
advised that they may not make
any deduction from the men’s
pay; and they jump at the
chance as a way out of pay-
ing their own subsidy, which
for some time has been galling
them.
The coming fiscal fight will be the first in
which Sydney and Melbourne have an equal
interest. Consequently the Daily Telegraph
and the Age in the respective cities must come
into direct conflict. For business purposes
the two journals are in the closest relations —they
are connected by private wire. During the last
federal struggle they exchanged leading articles,
the Age s. drastic comments on Sydney and her
people being reproduced in Sydney Telegraph
with a view to fostering inter-State jealousy.
This privilege will probably not be so much used
during the next month or two. Melbourne Argus
and S. M. Herald, similarly combined, will be
better placed, their Commonwealth politics being
almost identical.
♦ * * *
The Bulletin' invites ’apenny subscrip-
tions for the purpose of erecting a symbolical
statue, “Australia chasing the Dark”—to com-
memorate the Governors of N.S. Wales. It will
be a group representing a policeman stooping
down searching for footprints, and Jimmy stand-
ing oehind him with a waddy.
* * * *
The Sydney servant-girl paper is down-
right mad because the military authorities sent
the Imperial troops back to the boat by special
tram, instead of marching the wearied men
through the city, “so that we might cheer
them.”
* * * *
Tiie Sydney Citizens’ smoke concert to the
Imperial soldiers and sailors brought ill-luck to a
signahnan of 11.M.5. Porpoise, who got so far
inio the wind that he struck his superior officer.
In consideration of his previous good character,
the resultant court-martial awarded him the mini-
mum penalty for such an offence—6 months’
“ hard”
* * * *
hen any of Victoria’s surprising
honorariums do go out of the beaten path to get
at the rights of the case they mostly achieve
notable results. At N. Melb. t’other day a couple
of J.’sP., followed by several “ traps ” and the
customary crowd of small boys and disengaged
females, solemnly proceeded to inspect an adjacent
hotel, whose licensee the police had sworn had had
his bar-door open during illegal hours. The
alleged breach of the law had been observed
through a peep-hole in a frosted window. So the
beaks applied their optics to the peep-hole and
saw that the glimmer in the bar was merely the
reflection from an inner room and that it was im-
possible to see the bar-door at all from the point
of view. Case dismissed with contempt.
* * * *
How many Ministers of the Crown in this
and preceding N.S.W. Administrations have had
telephones attached to their private residences
free of charge ? And how many Ms.L.A. are fol-
lowing suit ?
* * * *
The custom of adorning Australian shop
fronts with Xmas greenery (which fades and looks
hideous in a few hours) has always appeared
somewhat foolish to persons with an eye for
beauty. The northern Kanaka, however, utilises
the frondage with great effect. When a row is in
progress the boughs are pulled off shop verandahs,
stripped of their foliage, and laid on to the backs of
decent citizens. Not all the Xmas adornment is
lavished in vain.
The debt-burdened Maclean (N.S.W.)
council lately sanctioned the purchase of robes for
Mayor David See. A solicitor-ratepayer has
written angrily, stating that the ratepayers’
money cannot be legally used for such a purpose.
Other ratepayers complain that although the
robes are to be the citizens’property, the council
is not likely to again produce so obese a Mayor.
* * * *
A clergymen has just donated a marriage-
certificate to a Bendigo raffle.
* • ♦ *
Dear Bulletin, —What a kick-up there
will be when the Big Bill comes in ! I know from
an importer that a line of goods he usually sold
for decoration-purposes at Bs. 6d. per bundle, has
been charged to the N.S.W. Govt, at 17s. 9d. per
do. ! And that’s only one instance.-—W.S.
* * * *
Evidence given at a recent Melb. inquest
showed that the certificate of death bore the
signature of an unregistered medical practitioner.
Under the present law the certificate of any
civilian may be accepted, and immediate amend-
ment is needed, especially in view of the frequent
occurrence of cases of catalepsy in which the sub-
ject has narrowly escaped being buried alive.
An American millionaire the other day be-
queathed lOOdols. to a man to cut his throat after
THE USUAL.
MANAGER : “ Either you or your wife, but not
both.”
death, so that he might be sure of escaping
Juliet’s fate in the vaulted tomb.
* * * ♦
A Napier (M.L.) girl of 15 has already
been twice a mother. There is still hope for the
birth-rate.
“ Viator ” : How curious the idea
of a small hypercultured set of Ameri-
cans that the publication of births is
indecent! It sends back to
mediaeval notion that womai* '
an unclean animal, an idea
based in its turn on tt-b
Mosaic regulations
which put the
“churching” of
women into the
Anglican rit-
ual of to-day.
COULDN’T WAIT.
“ Yah! Why don’t yer hit
one y’own size?”
"Blimme, d’yer want me
to wait here till yer
grow?”
Five inquests were held at Mel-
bourne on one recent day upon the bodies
of boarded-out infants. In one case a
police-sergeant deposed that he visited
the house and found two dogs lying on
the sofa with two infants. Excoriations
found on the thigh of deceased were
probably caused by the dogs. The nurse
conducting the house had not been long
registered. She had charge of five in-
fants. Wanted, a foundling hospital,
where no questions are asked.
• » *
Reports from Norfolk Island con-
firm first impressions that Magistrate
King is not the best man to rule that
unhappy territory. The complaints of
the residents against Mr. King only
affect his age and general capacity for
work. The magistrate is 70, and was
better suited for superannuation when he
left the N.S.W. Bench than for taking
over the whole conduct of affairs on the
island. As it is, he has practically
supreme power. Cases of all sorts, how-
ever serious, he hears without a jury, and
there is no appeal from his decisions.
What is wanted is a benevolent adminis-
trator, vigorous both in body and mind.
What would be better still would be
an entire change in the system of govern-
ment, with right of appeal to Sydney.
A monumental instance of Australia’s
Tired Feeling was that of the North Sydney
letter-carrier who, instead of delivering his
letters, used to hold them over for a few days, and
then, becoming alarmed at their inability to
deliver themselves, would cremate them in the
bush. In this way £6O worth of scrip ended in
smoke—but that wasn’t so very unusual!
• * * m
Convict King, the Melbourne negro whose
case has excited so much attention amongst
students of criminology, has been playing up in
Pentridge again. For the third time since his
latest incarceration, King has tried to “do for” a
warder, having made a* “ murderous attack ” with
a cell stool. The Visiting Magistrates, driven to
their wits’ end by a degenerate who treats the
severest punishments with contempt, have tried a
new and startling experiment and forgiven him
his offence. If King is not cured by this kindness
officialdom will certainly see nothing for it but to
wait with all possible patience till he has killed a
warder in order that he may be hanged up out of
the way.
• • • *
A correspondent of Sydney Evening
News, writing about the Commonwealth ode,
signed himself “O. Lord.” Quite so !
* * * y
School Inspector (trying to educe from
infant-class that birds flew) : “What
can birds do that I can’t ? ” Small
boy : “Please, lay eggs.” In-
, spector : “No ! Watch me.” (In-
spector waves his arms about and
throws up coat-tails). “ What was I
trying to do?” Small boy : “Please,
sir, acting the goat! ”
* * * »
Sign for a Melbourne gun-shop :
“Why bother about divorce when you
can get a revolver for
15s. 6d. ? ”
UNDECEITFUL APPEARANCES.
SHE: “ There goes De Bron, he doesn’t look like
an actor, does he?”
HE: “No; doesn’t act like one either.”
The discussion started in Sydney Tele-
graph by the representatives of the N.S.W.
Evangelical Union as to what are the real doc-
trines of the R.C. Church on the subject of
speaking the truth in the witness-box has
attracted many people who ordinarily take no
interest in polemics. Incidentally it may be pre-
sumed that Cardinal Moran—who is not supposed
to be particularly enamoured of the Jesuit body—
is duly appreciative of the keen and masterful
manner in which “Edward Masterson, 5.J.,” of
whom the general public has never heard before
is holding up the R.C. end of the log.
* * ifc *
Melbourne Tramway Co. has, apparently
out of pure benevolence and overwhelming love
for its employes, raised the wages of gripmen and
conductors 2s. per week, and also undertaken to
supply them with uniforms gratis—equal to
another 2s. per week. The co. is so notorious for
lavish generosity and spontaneous munificence
that this is probably done to disarm criticism
when it declares an extra div. or presently de-
mands further concessions.
* * * *
An extravagant crank has upreared him-
self in Melb. Recently he smashed a £l5 window
to get into gaol. The experience was so satisfac-
tory that he was no sooner released than he heaved
blue-metal through £BO worth of plate-glass, re-
tiring across the street to admire the effect, and
then toddling to quod with the pleased expres-
sion of one who has attained his ideal. But
this sort of thing is a waste of good energy.
These cranks ought to be encouraged to rebuke
Js.P. suburban Mayors, M’s.L.C. and such like
by striking them robustly on the—er—white waist-
coat. They would thus attain the desired end
without doing any damage worth mentioning.
• * * *
A Victorian clergyman created a scene in
his church the other Sundav by outbursting
most excitedly after finding" a button in the
plate. “ Fancy,” he cried, “ anyone committing
such a gross insult as offering a button to
Almighty God ! ” And yet a button is probably
of just as much consequence to Almighty God as
a half-crown. How cheerfully blasphemous is the
average man of grace:
You tread upon a parson’s toes
And God’s convulsed with mortal throes.
• « * *
At the first meeting of Melb. Benevolent
Asylum committee after the New Year - when
Victoria started paying old-age pensions—for 12
vacancies there were only four applicants. Usually
there are about three for each vacancy. Evidently
Victoria’s New Year’s Gift to its citizens is an
economical and profitable outlay as well as the
noblest and most impressive method of celebrating
the new century and the Commonwealth inaugu-
ration.
* * ♦ .
A poverty-stricken old woman, charged
with having no visible means of support—she had
gone to the watchhouse and asked to be locked
up, as she was homeless—protested to Fitzroy
(Vic.) bench t’other day that she was not “ ratty.’’
Whereupon the stolid beak took the cap and fitted
it on his own head. He fined her £5 or a month.
And yet Victoria is supposed to be a Christian
country !
* * • *
The other day, at Northcote (Vic.), a
young woman sued a man for maintenance of her
illegitimate infant. According to the daily news-
paper report, he admitted paternity, but declared
he was unable to pay anything— not even the
usual 7s. 6d. a week. He offered,, however , to marry
the girl. The girl refused curtly, on the ground
that she wouldn’t marry a man who had treated
her as he had done. She might have added that
marriage with a man who hadn’t 7s. fid. about
him was a poor prospect.


“He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’S success is a Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY'B.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
’or the fun of the thing i
_ mark Foy, sypNEy.
Bame prion, and attertJMi a* If you bought amongst tho dally orowds at tho oountors.
Simplest—Most Durable —Best
I IIGHT"'- 3 ''
fftUNNINC
EV ,inG./y
5 .MACHINES,
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
af
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St-, Brisbane.
It
GLOBE TEAS hate wo
Atcherley & Dawson, 284 George-st., Sydney.
The British Australasian: “I can picture
the long faces with which the occupants of the ‘ hears’ ’
table at the Palace Hotel, Kalgoorlie, must come down to
breakfast, with the daily dread staring them in the face
of a ‘ rise in Lake Views.’ They had a rich harvest in the
not distant past, but now have come for them the days
of ‘ weeping and gnashing of teeth.’ Many of these nns-
caloulators sold as low as £lO, and with Lake Views at
£l5 one can imagine what their feelings must be. They
have to face the chance of a rise to £2o—no wonder the
weaker and more prudent amongst them are hastening to
‘ cover.’ A lot are still holding out, so that holders may
look forward on purely market grounds for a further big
rise. It was impossible to put the shares up in the
face of a diminishing output, but it is now equally
impossible for the ‘ bears ’ to put them down in
the face of an increasing one. There will be
more buying back on the part of the ‘ bears,’ as the
days run by and the hopelessness of their position reveals
itself. There can be no pity for them in their present
straits. They have made the market the sport of their
selfish wiles and no one can sympathise with them now
that luck is turned against them and the honest investor
and genuine speculator bids fair to come by his own.”
Writer wonders what sort of picture Phil. Mennell is
giving of the fact that within a few days after this was
written Lake Views fell from £l5 to £7 10s. and that the
despised “ bears ” have pocketed the difference, making
some hundreds of thousands by the deal ; while the
“honest investor and genuine speculator” have no
possible hope of the shares going to £l5 again, much less
£2O, unless something phenomenal happens in the
mine. The British Australasian is “ playing the goat.”
* * mm
Henry Hess, of London Critic, professes to
believe that he has at last got right home on Henry
Labouchere of London Truth. In Nov. ’97 Truth pub-
lished an article attacking Hess for conduct in the Trans-
vaal. Hess immediately brought suit for libel ; tried to
get from Pretoria the papers of a trial in which he was
acquitted, found they had been abstracted from the
Court, and had to discontinue his action against Labou-
chere in consequence. When Roberts entered Pretoria
Hess’ agent was one of the first civilians to get in after
him. He failed to find these particular documents, but
found one quite good enough for his purposes. The
alleged original was handed over to the authori-
ties after a photo, copy had been taken. Trans-
lated from the Dutch it reads: “Office of
the State Attorney, Pretoria, 26th Oct., 189 —.
Received from the Government of the South African
Republic (per W. E. Holland) the sum of three thousand
pounds sterling, being charges (costs) for the publication
in Truth of an article against a certain Henry Hess.
(Sgd.) H. Labouchere.” In withdrawing the action Hess
remarked : “ Mr. Labouchere and I will meet again ”
and now in an article on this exposure he refers to the
. fact that while the Court of Appeal was dealing with the
question of the missing documents, which would have
proved his innocence, Mr. Labouchere was sitting in
Court with 3000 golden sovereigns jingling in his pocket,
“ the wages of sin ” received by him from the Transvaal
Government. The Bulletin doesn’t believe a word of
this yarn. Think of an acute old fox like “ Labby ”
doing a simple little thing like that ! The blackmailer is
seldom so childish. And Labouchere is a rich man, and
by no means a greedy man. A thousand to one the
signature to the receipt is a cold-blooded forgery.
* * * *
That Hobart-bossed and muddled silver mine,
the once prolific Oonah (Zeehan), is evidently in a weary
way. Its manager, the capable Con. Curtin, has accepted
a Govt, billet as Assistant-Inspector of Mines. Con.
reckons to get more money out of his billet than he could
ever get from his directors for fairly developing his much-
loved Oonah. Which isn’t saying much for Govt, salaries
in the Flyspeck.
• * * »
The Tas. Smelting Co., Zeehan, is said to be
owned by the Rothschildren, and that large and keen-
nosed family are after a big monopoly of Zeehan mines.
By the non-erection of Govt, smelters, the Lewis-Mulcahy
Govt, is helping the grab all it knows. Whereat there is
great joy in German Judea. Small silver shows
are woefully handicapped by the present smelting mono-
poly at Zeehan. It pays best to export first-class ore ;
seconds must be treated locally. But, of course, the
smelting co. doesn’t care to smelt seconds unless it also
gets the offer of the firsts and a chance of making a profit
thereon. Govt, smelters would help more genuine miners
to a good living than the inclusion of 50 Lewis’s in the
Federal Cabinet. But Lewis, being a dull person, with
no strong convictions, lets his chance go by, and swears
by Private Enterprise.
* * * *
During the six months to 31st Dec. last, Vic-
toria exported over 26,223,0841 b. of butter!—valued at
£1,026,736.
* * * m
Kalgoorlie Mint: “The supply of tailings has
become exhausted, and the plant is now idle.” With no
ore in the mine and an exhausted tailings-dump, it is a
poor, look-out, and that is the position of the Mint. Like
its neighbors, it started with a few good crushings.
* * * *
Hannan’s Hundred Acres : The name given to
a corporation that started a mine for gold three years
ago ; so far it has got nothing but water. The chairman,
L. Aarons, late of Sydney, at last meeting :—“ We have
been, receiving a certain amount of revenue from the sale
of water to the Ore Reduction Co., but we do not want a
water-mine ; we want a gold-mine, and unless we go
down with our shaft we have not much chance of ever
developing one. However, we can only do our best.”
Well, they ought to be very thankful for having a water-
mine. The pity of it all is that Hannan’s Hundred Acres,
like a hundred other mines in the same district, continues
to look for gold where none is known to exist.
* • * «
J. J. Williams, an old Vic. goldfields man, and
later on a useful and public-spirited pioneer of Broken
Hill and the Westralian fields, offered a prize some
months ago for the best settlement of the evergreen
alluvial difficulty—the difficulty that arises between the
alluvial digger who wants to come on a gold-mining lease
which has been taken up for reefing, and the lessee
who in most cases wants to get every sort of gold
there is for himself. But Williams’s competition educed
nothing original, as might have been expected. The
prize went to a man who proposed that the Minister
should grant an alluvial claim upon getting a report from
Govt. Geologist, Warden, or Inspector of Mines, that
alluvial gold was likely to exist on the gold-mining lease
which the digger wanted to peg, provided' buildings,
machinery, and the proper working of the mine would
not be interfered with. At the same time the
Minister was to decide the percentage to be paid
by the alluvialist to the lessee, being guided by the
quantity of work done on the lease, and whether the
lessee and his employes, or some outsider, had discovered
the alluvial. Which altogether is, theoretically, a very
good solution of the difficulty ; probably the only better
one, in fact, is to prevent the difficulty arising; by
getting a thorough report from a competent officer as to
the likelihood of the occurrence of alluvial before any
lease is granted. Yet even that would not prevent it
always.
* * * *
Waihi (M.L.) : 10,000 new shares of £1 each are
to be offered to the present shareholders at £lO per share.
Object of calling up this £lOO,OOO not yet announced —
probably to again increase the plant for a still bigger out-
put.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 22, 1901.
My Dear Myee.—
I have little to write about this week. It is
still The Week After, and looks like being so for
several more weeks. The decorations are all down,
and the streets have gone back from being fairy-
avenues to just mere streets, and narrow at that.
Sydney never looked plainer. Everything seems
to have turned a grimy grey or brown. Perhaps
it’s a champagne sequence, or the inevitable con-
sequence of looking prettier than you really are,
but it is quite exasperating to find that we live in
such an ugly town.
Commonwealth Day left its mark on so many
fair white shoulders that when you go to the
theatres now you see a succession of brick-red
arms and necks flaming away all round you.
That’s your lovely transparent yoke and sleeve.
They let the blistering sun in as well as the eye of
the admirer. A white neck is not to be found in
Sydney at present.
A pretty Tasmanian matron—constantly in
Sydney—isonly just getting over a nasty adventure
with a veil. She wore one of a thin white
net, with little black spots on it. At the
Swearing In she stood in the blazing sun for two
hours, not able to put up her parasol because of
the people behind her. After the ceremony she
went on to the races, and got caught in the rain.
The sun was attracted through her veil till it
burnt her cheeks sore. Then the rain washed the
glaze out of the net into the sores, and the veil
gradually melted and got washed in also, result-
ing in a terrible smarting and stinging, followed
by a skin that took days to heal. Since the Com-
monwealth I notice a sudden rush into old-
fashioned green and navy gossamer—that thick
kind that has been discarded contemptuously in
favor of black chiffon for ever so long.
A second visit to Williamson’s Pantomime
found a fair house. I went to see the new Cine-
matograph of the Procession and Swearing In,
but what I saw was blurred and disappointing,
and went off prematurely, as cinematographs do
sometimes, leaving the band to play vacantly for
several minutes, until a signal was given to scatter
the people with “God Save.” However, it was
the first showing of the new film, and the pictures,
I hear, are going excellently now.
Golden-haired Irene Franklin, in silver-span-
gled white frock, half short only, wears a lovely
grass-green petticoat and green stockings. She
doesn’t do anything else to speak of, except sing
gently in that small voice of hers the silliest of
silly songs called “Chicken,” and a couple of
others. The gods love Irene, and those whom
the gods love come back now-a-day 3, whatever
they did in the classics.
The dressing in “Australis” is uncommonly
good, but never in a gorgeous way, as the frocks
are nearly all brief little things. I like May
Beattie’s little green polonaise, pointed over scar-
let chiffon skirts, and scarlet shoes and stock-
ings. The girls dressed as the Push Brigade
wear cigar-brown check coats and trousers,
and brown sailor-hats on one side. They
whistle, and slouch, and talk Austrilyian, but :
will there be larrikins in 2000 ? It looks as if they
were near their end even now, in 1901. The
Ribbon Ballet is considered a thing of joy, but I
can’t see it in that way. The ribbons—hundreds
of bits —fluttering instead of frocks, suggest rags
and tatters. I prefer the animal act, a breathless
ten minutes with Prof. Godfrey’s dogs and apes.
The human laugh becomes painfully expressive
when you watch the smiles on those nice dogs’
faces, although hanging the tongue out such a long
way is part of the expressiveness. Such excite-
ment ! Every dog hopping off its chair, and rush-
ing to see if its turn is now, then darting back into
its little seat, and sitting bolt upright till called.
A Cruelty to Animals’ woman said she thought
it was all unspeakably cruel, but if dogs’ faces
mean anything these are the gayest dogs you ever
saw —with four feet, that is.
“Who’s Henry Parkes?” isn’t one of the
new puns. It is a straightforward question from
the Panto, answered with, “You’re like a lot
more people, you’ve forgotten all about him now.”
That’s all, but there are more things of that
calibre scattered through Australis.
I was glad, because I thought it was going to be
something like, “ Why is Bernard Wise ? ” “ Be-
cause he heard George Reid.” “Why is Mac-
leod ? ” “ Because he sees Victor Daily.” “ What
did Jack Want?” “To see Joe Cook.” That's
what we have come to after a Commonwealth.
The Governor-General will get to the theatre
some day. He has made two attempts, first to
“Carmen,” when the theatre rushed into extra-
vagant rose decorations, and then to “ Aus-
tralis,” but neither effort was successful. His
Ex. managed to arrive at the Art Society
on Tuesday, along with Lady Hopetoun in
dark blue foulard, a big, black, feathered hat, and
a fussy white ruffle round the neck. It was an
informal visit, Lord Hopetoun keeping off Art as
much as possible and telling how his clothes were
being let out.
The lovely Imperial troops went away last
week, but left behind them a big grievance. They
didn’t meet any ladies in Sydney. The bitter
irony of this sad grievance is that Sydney women
went about for weeks with the question on their
lips “ Have you met any of the Imperial troops ? ”
and the girls who could flaunt bowing acquaint-
ance with even one of them was envied furiously.
It seems a pity that things couldn’t have been
managed differently for the girls as well as the
officers, but everyone was so busy Common-
wealthing that the troops never got beyond being
an official affair.
Another Imperial grievance is that the heroes
■Were never treated as Society pets, but were
put on view at the Agricultural Society’s
grounds at a charge of sixpence per head
where no other attraction was on.
Imagine beautiful gold-braid officahs viewed
at sixpence a quiz—Zoo price, don’t you know?
‘The only splash they were able to make was at
Miss Eadith Walker’s dance, and that two days
before they sailed.
Speaking of braid, from the country comes
.a little story about an attractive young woman
with “ways,” who smiled so hard on the mounted
■constable of the district that somebody broke
the news to papa. The latter danced the
paternal war-dance conscientiously, but in vain.
The last step was a letter to the Inspector,
the purport of which was : “ Remove this
lumber.” The Inspector retorted: “Shan’t!
Nothing to justify such a course—man does his
■duty—nice man—likes the district; if anyone is
removed remove your daughter ! ”
By-the-way, the explanation of the much-dis-
cussed outrider that heralded Mrs. Corbett—from
Govt. House—as she returned her calls is that the
new coachmen and footmen don’t know where
■Sydney celebrities live, and the outrider had to
;go along and point out the dens—lions’ dens I
mean, of course, although some of the back streets
■visited were so narrow that the kerridge could
scarcely turn round.
A dinner will be tendered to poet Ogilvie by a
number of his literary and other friends at the
Hotel Australia on Monday, 28th inst.—prior to
■his departure to Scotland after eleven years spent
in this country Particulars may be obtained
from the hon. secretaries, Mrs. J. P. Creed and
Victor Daley.
That glorified tent-maker, Apostle Paul, ought
to be anathema to women. He, or rather his
wordy remains, are the real hindrance to Woman-
hood Suffrage. If we desire to harry a husband,
■or bully a brother, or to preach a sermon, the
Pauline doctrine goes like a steam-roller over
ns. If wer desire, as a few of them in America have
■done recently, to go hatless to church, our bare
heads are bowed in shame beneath Pauline re-
proaches. One would think that the man who coun-
selled, “Slaves, obey your masters,” would be
something of a venerable fossil by now, but the
Anglican and Catholic churches keep his
texts fresh and green as a salad. Archbishop
Williams, of Boston, says his female congregation
must come hatted or bonnetted to church. Some
■of them have been taking off their head-gear on
hot days. Yet he failed to give any reason (but
■St. Paul and moth-eaten custom) why they should
not come “ in their hair.” The innovation of the
“shirt-waist man,” said the bishop, he had en-
dured (no doubt he searched the Scriptures' for a
text against him), but he would not endure a
woman without something on her head. It’s a
perilous thing to be a woman—or an Archbishop.
That master - craftsman, Rene Lalique, has
finished a crown for the Czarina of Russia that is
calculated to make the crowned beasts of Revela-
tions turn envious. The Czarina for a long time
had a large green diamond of wonderful brilliance,
and when Lalique burst suddenly upon the world
the imperial lady decided to send the gem to
Paris, and leave it to the new artist to decide how
it should be worn. Lalique decreed that the
great king jewel was worthy of a diadem abso-
lutely to itself, and was accordingly instructed
to build one “ regardless.” Siberian gold is
of a’whitish tint, and after being fired a .few
times turns a brilliant green. The circlet
is made of this green gold, “rippled,” to resemble
running water, out of which rise two ivory nymphs
grasping in their dainty hands two writhing water
pixies of cloisonne of opal and amethyst. Then
the pixies hold in their outstretched hands the
great flaming diamond, over the parting of the
Empress’s hair. This is without doubt the most
beautiful and artistic crown in the world, and to
obtain such lovely creations who wouldn’t wade
through slaughter to a throne !
Writes my Melbourne correspondent
“Does anyone believe that story of that Aus-
tralian University professor and the Widow?
The learned man’s enemies allege that after he
had urged his suit unsuccessfully in choice En-
glish, he flung himself into a French attitude on
one knee, and made a rocky appeal to the feelings
of his gilt-edged ange adorable in the language
which she has taken under her special patronage.
Something after this style : ‘ Je vous implore
d'accepter mon coeur ct main. Dites moiquejene
suis pas indifferent A vous. Ah! Comme j'a ime la
terre sous votres pieds!' Whereat the smiling
oh jet de son passion pur ct simple, not quite sure
as to whether her visitor was mad or otherwise,
told him to remain in that position whilst she sent
for an interpreter and a camera-man. Then it
appeared that the Prof, was sane enough to arise
and flee.
“Rupert Clarke has promised £lOO a year for
three years towards the Marshall-Hall Conserva-
torium guarantee. By this time it should be good
enough for anyone to put down his name for a
modest ‘ tenner,” seeing that the guarantors will
surely not have much of a deficiency to meet, and
the contributions, if required at all, will
be pro rata, one supposes. And now to see
what sort of a show Melbourne’s coming Univer-
sity musical professor, Peterson, will make
against the tall, saturnine man with the appalling
eyebrows.
“According to accounts now current among the
very Naicest, Melbourne Society has still its Des-
demonas. It has transpired in a casual sort of
way that, for a long while past, a very black gen-
tleman (who has already made more or less un-
savory public appearances) has lived on money
supplied by fair fingers from the lordly halls of
Toorak.
“One version is that Colonel Tom Price is
going to marrv again ; another and more pathetio
(published by 'M.A.P.’) is that the fat colonel is
‘lonely and tired of his life and will be glad
when a rifle-ball ends it.’ .Colonel lorn could
never kick a lady under any circumstances, but lie
would no doubt like to say things to the ex-Melb.
woman whose gush tends to make him look
ridiculous.
“ Hon. B. R. Wise lost no time in scrambling
out of the Celebrations Committees’ harness and
getting South to enjoy the Brighton breezes.
While in Melbourne Bernhard Ringrose is led
about on a string as a social lion, and the. Arthur
Moules, with a select coterie of Academic lights,
strew rushes at his feet and sparkle about the
ready-witted young man as if he were one of the
Magi from the East.
“Reginald Bright, in the season of the Grand
Fizz, was lost to sight among throngs of visitors.
His eye lost its old fascinating lustre, and, when
spotted at one of the junkets, the Tired Feeling
was upon him. Even his coat was without its
scarlet button-hole, and the cigarette seldom
aglow. Reggie must take care not to degenerate
into an old man. The very thought of a
‘ Reggie Antique ’ is ridiculous.
“The sequel to an extraordinary romance.
Some time ago a certain official committed suicide
suddenly, unexpectedly, and without any conceiv-
able reason. He was pledged to be married at the
time to a smart Melb. girl. She fretted awhile,
then cheered up, but vowed to remain true to his
memory. Her vow was kept. The other day,
while sitting at dinner in a seaside hotel, she fell
from her chair, dead. Her heart, they said, had
lately become affected.
“ Sir Charles Holled-Smith has remembered his
Melb. friends and sent out real topical Xmas
cards of kharki color with the old stereotyped wish
for Australia’s happiness, protruding from a
swallow’s beak. There is also a kharki kangaroo
up in the right corner and all is colored suitably.
The name of his spouse does not appear, so
properly speaking these remembrances are of an
official kind’. ’Tisn’t likely Lady Holled-Smith
would care to shed her affectionate regard (even
at Xmas tide) on the Melbourne she abhorred.
With very evident pleasure she took her leave of
the City of the Yarra, her last care being for her
poodle. The genial Commandant (who had fared
better) had to lean over the bridge of floral
souvenirs and deliver all the tender farewells.
Her colonial troubles 1
“A Vic. globe-trotter, looking up many old
friends (artists, scribblers, musicians) in the Big
Smoke, writes out that the smartest only are
doing indifferently well, with one or two notable
exceptions. This slab also from a communication
to a Melb. girl, written by a Vic. journalist pushing
ahead on the London, dailies : ‘ London is a
grand j big, mystical, overwhelming, com-
posite world, but never a home in the sense
you know it, and I know it, under the Southern X.
.... We live in a mansion of flats, and don’t
know a soul outside our own quarters ; and the
joke is, we’re so Anglicised we don’t want to. A
girl in London who hasn’t relations (pests at any
time) to live with, boards—ugh ! the horrors and
deadly clamminess of London boarding-houses.
You couldn’t imagine the misery of this life—or
its loneliness! There are crowds of young and
old girls knocking put decent livings on such
despised publications as Home Notes, Home Chat,
&c., but what a life, even if you haven’t the soul
of a dancing pump ! In the newspapers Woman
is seldom employed. I think we have the only
she-reporter in London on this daily, and do not
believe there is one thing she has done -a male-
repor-ter would not have done better. The lone-
liness of London life is bad enough to a man, but
it is ghastly to a woman. It is not necessary to
tell you ability is not the main thing necessary ; it
is push, self-confidence, the capacity to chew your
heart and wake up in the morning with it whole,
and sound and buoyant again.’
“Queen Victoria is reported to be dying or dead
(at the venerable age of 82) as this letter is
finished for the press. The individual herself
is hard to disentangle from the debris of loyal
legends accumulated round the monarch ; but the
Queen seems to have been an excellent woman,
who did rather more good than most monarchs have
done, and as little evil as she could help. It may
have been with a foreboding of the end
that H.M., in giving her consent to the promised
visit to Australia of her grandson and his wife,
made it conditional on nothing happening in Eng-
land to interfere with the arrangement. It is, of
course, now rather improbable that Australia will
be visited by the Duke and Duchess of York.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULL.
After all, it is only natural that the Im-
perial soldiers should excite a certain amount of
fervor. A manly, beefy form, clad in a gorgeous
uniform, provides all the elements of palpitation
to the female heart. And the Same effect on the
male heart only more so, hath the female form
when its lines of beauty are gracefully displayed
by the P.D. corset. P.D. and palpitation are
natural concomitants.


Value of Indications !
In 1898 twenty-five of RAFFAN’S Bronchial Catarrh
Remedies were bought. In 1899 the numbers were
250. In 1900 the sales were 2000—convincing testi-
mony of merit and efficacy. In mental and physical
exhaustion it acts like a charm. After a single dose
you feel a sturdiness and firmness of nerve, as if
something had become suddenly unbound. By nutri-
tion it corrects the cause of an unhealthy state of
mouth and stomach. It gives rapid and happy results
m neuralgias, dyspepsias, headaches, eye, ear nose and
throat troubles. Originally made by a London physi-
cian, and sold for a fortune. Now bought by the
public for 2/-, per post 2/6. R. RAFFAN, Pharmacist.
3 Garraway’s Rooms, Queen’s Walk, MELBOURNE
Largest and Best Company in the World.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
The Reports of the State Insurance Departments show that the Mutual Life of New York
had, on December 31, 1899,
Larger Total Assets
A Greater Gain in Assets during- the Year
A Larger Total Income AND
Larger Amount paid to Policyholders
than any other Company.
ASSETS, at end of 1899, £61,980,398.
Policies include Insurance, Investment, and Trusteeship, as required. Write for particulars giving
name, address and date of birth, to “ The Manager,” at any of the undermentioned Branch Offices.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
Bii>kcii Offices :
SYDNEY— -Company’s Building, Martin Place.
MELBOURNE —2B9 Collins Street.
BRISBANE—377-379 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE — 73 King William Street.
PERTH —St. George’s Terrace.
HOBART — 93 Macquarie Street.
One of the dangers of Sydney during the holi-
day season will be die burglar and sneak-thief. The
Federation festivities will attract all the rascaldom of
Australasia, and plate and purses will be constantly
menaced. Those who are leaving Sydney, and visitors
to Sydney, therefore should deposit their plate, cash
and valuables in the Sydney Safe Deposit for security
Access can be had to them at any time during* business
hours. The vaults are situated behind Paling’s, off
George-street, and are always open for inspection. ° They
are in themselves a sight worth seeing.*
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hai*>
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
FOR TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland’s ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Trenwith mentions that his Federal Con-
vention election only cost £4.
George Turner has great faith in beer,
and most of his political savings are invested in
brewery-shares.
One fact which no doubt has tended to de-
press the octogenarian Queen is that her eldest
daughter, the Empress Frederick, is slowly dying
of that most terrible of diseases, cancer.
Mr. Douglas Hope Johnston, great-grand-
's 0 " of the Colonel Johnston, of Annandale, who
deposed Governor Bligh in the early part of the
century, has been called to the Bar in England.
haSvdney t 0 ow ie Practice of his profession
“ Will you sign a requisition for Mr.
Barton ?” said a signature-canvasser in the Single-
ton (N.S.W.) district recently. “Barton?”
queried the free and independent. “I don’t
know who Barton is. I never heard of such a
man. Jb act.
Donald Macdonald, whose Westralian
boom has exceeded the highest expectations of
manager Geach, states that he will sail for Eng-
land on March 7th. And the chances are against
this country seeing any more of Donald Mac. ex-
oept as a visitor.
Jimmy Governor was N.S.W. hangman
Nosey Bob s GOth patient—which makes an aver-
age of under three a year during Nosey’s official
existence. All the same, the total is big: if
Nosey s dead were laid head to foot they would
cover a length of at least 110yds.
South Australians who pretend to know,
assert that Barton will be anxious to give friend
J<mn Downer a Federal Judgeship, and that the
influence of Kingston will go towards iSymon. It
is pretty certain that, in view of inter-State
jealousy, both cannot get judicial appointments.
, .^ >a '. r^es 8 tribute to the character and
abilities of John Murtagh Macrossan, the Queens-
Knd delegate to Sydney who died in the thick of
Federal business, rang more genuine than Barton’s
effusion over the late Dickson. But long ago
gallant little digger-man Macrossan was forgotten.
How Fate mocks our little ambitions!
T. J. Byrnes had scarcely grasped the Q. Premier-
ship, the goal of his desire, when Azrael cut him
down. Dickson just secures his British bauble
and his Australian Federal portfolio when the
mandatg bids him follow Byrnes. The irony of it
Editor Bonython, of Adelaide Advertiser
showed his gratitude for the work done by the
staff, during his recent European holiday, by
paying double salary to everyone in the establish-
ment for the week immediately succeeding his
-turn. Llie amount thus distributed was nearly
Thos. Henry Peet, lately deceased, was
considered to be the oldest settler in Victoria.
He arrived in Tasmania 78 years ago, when two
years of age, and landed in Victoria in ’4O. After
varied experiences, including whaling at Port-
land, he settled at Harrow, where he died. He
wrote an autobiography, which will be published
shortly.
“ The Queen,” exclaims democrat Quick,
“is thp best judge of whether I should accept a
title.” But you bet the bebaubled Bendigouiau
is not stich a Tom fool as this implies. He is per-
fectly aware that the Queen’s judgment is never
appealed to, and .that she, with a thousand and
one big State affairs and little personal affairs to
attend to, does not know the Quick from the
dead.
Adelaide press and public
sorely miss Kingston ; his accession
to Federal politics has cast a gloom
over the pious city. Kingston
generally contrived in ancient
days to have two or three ueated
discussions on hand, but all is
•hanged now. Symon and Baker,
of old two of his most reliable
enemies, are now Kingston’s
•worn friends, and only recently
Sparks, another permanent
enemy, died suddenly. It is
now suggested that if Kingston
will only come back a dejected
community will willingly nomi-
nate some prominent person
for “ good old Charlie ” to have
a go at.
Dear Bulletin. — Gor-
don’s jump (B., 1/19/’1) was a
really daring feat, and S.A.
Sheriff Booth by errs in saying
that no notice was taken of it
at the time. As a matter
of fact it created a great
sensation, even in a com-
munity possessing many
daring riders —all of whom
acknowledged that Gor-
don had no equal. Also
though the present writer
was Gordon’s bedroom-mate
for six months in the S.E., and
stayed some weeks with him at
his home near M ‘Donnell Bay, no-
tiling was ever said of such a rank
mpossibility as the carrying “ of a bucket
of water in one hand riding a horse at full
gallop and taking a fence without spilling a drop.”
Perhaps the so-called bucketwas a billycan
with a lid on it.— Harry Stockdale.
John Darling, junr., miller and'merchant,,
admittedly thestaunchestandmoststraightforward
of S.A. Tories, was 49 on Jan. 24. He hopes to
try for the Federal Lower House. Though a strong
personal friend of Kingston he will be an uncom-
promising opponent in Parliament just as he was
m the local Assembly.
( The story goes that while in England
Barton never met Premier Salisbury, though" there
was an occasion upon which Salisbury might,
without inconvenience, have become personally
acquainted with Barton had he chosen to do so.
As a matter of fact, the story proceeds to say.
►Salisbury chose not to do so.
A. W. Ware, who has been legally de-
prived of the office of Mayor of Adelaide, because
lie described himself in his nomination as a “ gen-
tleman instead of as a licensed victualler, is not
a mere ordinary publican. He is a toney beer-
®f e L r 'vb° makes his own tanglefoot, and brands
the bottles with the familv crest.
A certain attorney appearing the other
day before a N.S.W. licensing bench made some
most unprofessional comments upon the decisions
magistrates, to whom he imputed bias,
(b interrogatively remarked one beak, “he is
t b 13 , he • ” “° f course,” replied another
- can t you see that by the way be behaves ! ”
Indirectly there is no doubt that Dr.
O Haran has professionally suffered by reason of
the divorce court allegations against him. In two
recent elections for Bishop he would have com-
manded a majority of votes were it not for the
pending case. The abstention from voting for
him did not, of course, imply belief in the charges.
“ Young Starr ” writes from Brisbane :
When Q. Premier Byrnes died, every religious body in
■Brisbane paid respect to his remains by being represented
at bis funeral, said funeral being the biggest thing in the
way of obsequies ever seen at the R.CT. Cathedral. When
J. K. Dickson was buried the other day every religious
body was again represented—except the R.C. Things of
tnis kind don’t conduce to the peace of a community.
Our old friend Lord Shaftesbury, the
harum-scarum young man who was A.D.C. to
Brassey, has apparently settled down to a
u ®cml life since his marriage to the present Duke
of Yvestininster’s sister. Me has just been elected
for Hackney to London School Board. Oddly
enough, his position on the poll is between those
two strong Socialists, Rev. Stewart Headlam and
Graham Wallas, one of the Fabian leaders.
Melb. Age reprints the crack-brained
that Christian de Wet, of the Transvaal,
is Chas. Stewart Parnell. The idea is that “ the
uncrowned king” did not die, but quietly removed
himself to S’Africa, with the idea of biding his
time and setting up Home Rule there. The sup-
position is based mainly upon a fancied resem-
blance between Parnell and the Boer. If de Wet
is Parnell —which he isn’t—Parnell must be en-
joying himself immensely just now.
Janies Smith, the veteran Melb. pressman,
has been created a Cavalier of the Equestrian
Order of the Crown of Italy by the King of Italy,
“in consideration of valuable services rendered
to the language and literature of Italy.” Those
services have been rendered during j.S’s presi-
dency of the Dante Society of Melbourne. The
Bulletin does not know for certain, but believes
that the honor conferred upon the learned veteran
qualifies him to run a hand-organ over all Italian
territory.
Mr. Justice Bundey, the most genuinely
(and perhaps most deservedly) popular man in
S.A., will complete his 63rd year on Wednesday
next (Jan. 30). He is the only member of the
Adelaide Supreme Court Bench who has kept
rigidly out of all outside possibilities of complica-
tion, and who lives up to -the olden ideal of a
Judge. Justices Way and Boucaut are both
interested m squatting, lodges, and so on, while
Way butterflies round in society, and misses no
opportunity of presiding over something.
Alfred Deakin has the most artistic-looking
signature in the Federal Cabinet and Barton’s is
next best. Neil Lewis has a small, plain, cramped
autograph.. Lyne’s signature is a scrambling
affair, but is at least discoverable, while most of
the others are as great a mystery as the lost grave
of Moses, and George Turner’s looks like a fan tod
dipped in ink.
THE MAN IN POSSESSION.
FLATTENED.
“ I fitter myself I dance very well.”
“Yes, you do.”
"What?”
“ Flatter yourself.”
A well-known Sydney temperance advo-
c ite, now facetiously “Beauchamp,”
always takes with him to any banquet a blue and
white seidlitz-powder, and nonchalantly toasts the
whole listwith the drink, which he mixes at the
table.
A certain Victorian Bishop was easily
offended. He, after staying with some friends for
a considerable time quite contentedly, one
afternoon burst in upon his host, and declared his
intention of immediately departing : “ I have
been insulted, sir—grossly insulted,” he exclaimed
hotly. Utterly taken aback, the host demanded
to know the facts of the case, which His Gaiters
gave : “ I have just discovered that your cat has
had kittens in my bed.” He was successfully
soothed, however, and stayed on.
An application for a title under N.S.W.
Keal Property Act discloses the acreage of the
numerous grants given to John
Macarthur at the magnificently
fertile Cowpasture, now known as
Camden. Mrs. Macarthur-Onslow,
granddaughter of John Macarthur,
applies to bring under the Act
21,392 acres, in Camden parish,
comprising 2365 acres and part of
1655 acres granted to John Mac-
arthur ; parts of 2250 acres and
2750 acres, granted to John Mac-
arthur ; parts of 4368 acres, granted
to the same; 5000 acres, granted
to the same; the original grant
from the Secretary of State, and
5400 acres granted to same ; also
part of 1150 acres, granted to James
Macarthur; part of 1150 acres,
granted to William Macarthur,
and part of 2000 acres, granted to
Walter Davidson.
The many-sided Windsor re-
tires from the Age editorship and
Schuler, leader of the reporting staff,
gets the vacant chair. Fox takes the
staff leadership, and Windsor gets £lOOO a year
pension.
When the various Premiers were hasten-
ing to Sydney to help Edmund Barton form a
Government, one of them was so deeply buried in
thought on matters of profound Federal policy
that he opened the door of his carriage when the
express was at top speed and tried to put his boots
out to be cleaned. Another Premier, who wasn’t
quite so imbedded in contemplation, snatched
them just in time, else an unshod statesman might
have stepped out at Bed fern Station next morn-
ing.
The freetrade-protection controversy is in
full blast in the Melb. papers. The Argus is a
complete fact-factory, with the reliable Max
Hirsch as chief inventor. Valuable man, Hirsch !
He would start out to prove the non-existence of
the Pyramids and establish the reality of the sea-
serpent by mountains of statistics. A French
philosopher tells of a man who came to a chemist
saying that he had discovered a system which
explained all the facts of chemistry. The chemist
listened while he declared his system, and then
Baid, “But, my dear sir, all your facts are
wrong “Well,” answered the theorist, “tell
me what the facts of chemistry are, and I will
make my system fit them.” That man was a
Hirsch. Max is capable of making any fact fit in
with freetrade.
Alfred Deakin had one chance to
make a sensational speech at
the Bar, and that was when
he defended Deeming in the
Criminal Court. He might have
painted a brilliant word-picture
of two Deemings—the boast-
ful, open-handed, obliging,
companionable ex-plumber,
and the brutal, crafty mur-
derer who took possession of
the other fellow’s body and
soul occasionally. Seeing
that his client couldn’t es-
cape the gallows as one
individual, no matter how
forcible the pleading, there
was an opportunity for
Deakin to let his imagina-
tion run riot and put up
a record in fantastic argu-
ment, making the mad
Deeming too black to be
mistaken for the appar-
ently sane prisoner in the
dock. But the fluent bar-
rister’s honesty controlled
his eloquence. His heart
wash tin the job. As a
matter of fact, Deakin never
took very kindly to the pro-
fession of a hired advocate,
who must, as often as not, be
an enthusiastic liar if he would
talk himself into a big practice.
Like Charles Gavan Duffy, he
prefers press work and politics to
the charms of a wig-and-gown career.
Better to think you are always fighting in a good
cause than to know you are often advocating a
bad one.
The new member for Hawthorn (Vic.),
Barbour, is a well-read man, and in a speech
towards the end of last session finished up by
quoting some lines which Shakespeare put into
the mouth of Salisbury. He introduced them by
saying, “ as Lord Salisbury says in the well-known
lines ’’—just as one might say, “As Hamlet says.”
thereupon local able editors fall severely upon
the member for Hawthorn. One assures him that
the lines are by Shakespeare, not by Lord Salis-
bury. Another says it is a mistake to suppose
that Premier Salisbury ever dropped into poetry,
whilst a third gravely remarks that if Lord Salis-
bury ever used those lines he must have been
quoting Shakespeare. So he must!
Sam Lewis, the notorious London money-
lender, seems to have, in a measure,' robbed the
rich to benefit the poor—after his death. But his
poor widow is to have first use of the spoil. He
left £4,000,000, one million of which is for
Madame absolutely ; of the rest, which ultimately
goes to charity, she gets life-use. Lewis was a
“genial” and remorseless usurer, who would give
a client dinners worthy of Sardanapalus as a pre-
liminary step towards reducing him to beggary.
Also it was his habit to give good advice as to the
madness of borrowing at high interest—with the
IN FAIRYLAND.—AT THE PANTOMIME.
“What’s the matter?”
“Please, Miss, the Blue Devil ate the Red Devil's
supper, and the Spirit of Peace hit him.”
reservation, however, that if you were forced to
finance -at 300 or 400 per cent., Sam Lewis was
your pauper Moses. Apropos , the daily papers
always shine brilliantly in their notes on cables.
In its. obituary notice of Sam Lewis aforesaid,
who died of good living on the right side of 60,
the Argus said : “ Amongst some of his largest
transactions which became notorious were his
dealings with theiate Marquis of Ailesbury and
the late Marquis of Hastings.” Now, the last
Marquis of Hastings died 35 years ago, long
before Lewis was heard of. The man who
financed the plunging Marquis was one Henry
Pad wick.


MACONOGHIE’S
FRESH HERRINGS
KIPPERED HERRINGS
HERRINGS IN TOMATO SAUCE
FINDON HADDOCKS
PRESERVED .FISH OF ALL KINPB.
MARMALADE
UNIVERSAL PICKLES
BOTTLED FRUITS
POTTED MEATS
SALMON and SHRIMP PASTE.
Worcestershire Sauce
MACfINGCHIE BROS., L™ LONDON
Australian Representatives—
SWIFT & CO., 7 SPRING ST., SYDNEY
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Hotel
Australia——
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
£3 10s. per week,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
The COOLEST Hotel in the
Southern Hemisphere during
the summer months.
J. SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Castlere&gh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
Concerning a bush-girl’s smile :
During the Commonwealth celebrations, a certain bene-
volent Sydney pressman had a distantly-related bush-girl
of 18 consigned to his care, with instructions to “ look
after her a bit, Joe, and take her to where she will hear
plenty fireworks." Upon her arrival in the city, Joseph
escorted her to a very respectable hotel, where he thought
she might find pleasanter quarters than in his own stuffy,
overcrowded boarding-house. The man in the box-office
looked at the tired Joe suspiciously.
“ Room for a lady, you say ; may I see her?"
Joe sighed. “ She’s hiding behind that pillar, old man
—she’s a bit shy.”
The box-man darted round the pillar and went back to
his office sharply. “ Sorry, sir, but we can’t let a room to
that young lady."
Joe flushed. “ Rot 1 I know her people. She’s from
the country—Boggabri. There’s nothing else wrong with
her.”
The box-man smiled. “ I’ve got 30 lady boarders at
E resent, and if I put up your lady friend they’d come
ere in a body and call me names.” *
A look of tired interest crept into Joe’s face. He leaned
towards the box-man. “ I’m a newspaper-man, and . . .
everybody to his trade. I can’t see anything about her
that would offend the public eye. She’s only a bushie ;
I can’t detect a wicked signal about her.”
The box-official began to write rapidly. “It’s her
smile, sir; and her type is offensive to women.
The girl may be good enough, but that smile of hers
would'empty this hotel in two days. She’s no control
over her smile. Look at that girl on the verandah read-
ing * The Master Christian ’ —yellow hair, loud as a gun ;
in private she simply eats brandy, but her style’s all nght,
and she controls her smile ; it doesn’t get in your way—
she’s got a Westinghouse brake on it. If you were to
speak to her without an introduction she’d send the lift-
boy for a policeman. Sorry we can’t accommodate your
young lady. Good day, sir ! ”
Tired Joseph was last seen trudging through the
crowded streets, a large brown girl bringing up the rear
smiling at everybody—the newsboys, the policemen, and
the delivery-vans. Once she stopped, petrified with joy
qji the sight of a red-haired man driving a meat-cart.
A BIT MIXED .
ENGLISH NETT-CHUM : “ Hooray I At last I've
seen a real live 'Boomerangaroo ’ !”
M S.S.” discourses to The Bulletin
The suicide of the secretary of Melbourne Exhibition,
who hanged himself in the dome of the big building, has
awakened strange recollections. I remember climbing up
into that lofty and commodious dome one day, and
whilst looking down into its depths receiving a grim sug-
gestion : What a splendid place to hang oneself in 1 The
idea was probably Inspired by a remembrance, but there
was certainly an appeal to my blatant egotism. The
surroundings were so suitable; the dim religious
light, the spaciousness of the dome, its monumental
lines and its grand air, all seemed to lend them-
selves to a fine tableau, the central figure of which would
be my dark figure swinging melodiously, slowly, from a
tense cord. I wonder if Sherrard had often felt that
appeal before succumbing. Probably. But, as I have
said, in my ease the suggestion was half a recollection. It
was an outcome of the story of Dick’s Tree, on the Hoddle
Range, near Morwell. Dick’s Tree shot out of the side of
the range over a grand gorge. There had been a landslip
from its roots, baring one great rock, and giving a clean
sheer fall of 200 ft. This is the tale of Dick’s Tree as
told to me: “Well, see, Dick e useter go by here
twice a day to an’ from his work, he bein’ engaged pros-
pectin’ the coal seams, an’ every time Dick went by he’d
cock his eye over at this tree an’ say: “Lor’, whater
place to hang a cove ! ” Sometimes he’d stop for a minute
er two, examinin’ the place an’ plottin’ out a hangin’, an’
reg’lar waterin’ at the mouth over it. “You’d jest have
ter sling a rope ter that limb there,” he said to me one
day, “ hitch it roun’ yer neck, an’ then swing clear out
inter space soft and lovely.” It seemed to him ’twas
Ilyin’ in the face o’ things not ter use that
tree for the purpose for which it was designed by an all-
wise Providence. We got used to seein’ Dick contem-
platin’ that there tree, an’ by-au’-bye it never excited no
remark. But one morning Darley’s boy, white as death,
came howlin’ things at the tent that sent us runnin’ for
the gorge. There was Dick swingin’ like a penjulum out
in space, dead as a pick-head. On the bark of the tree
there was scratched these words : “ Pity to waste it 1 ”
From the medico at Tibooburra Hospital
(N.S.W.): —
Dear Bulletin,— Let me call attention to the awful
destitution prevailing among the old hands on this
(Tibooburra) field. For years these men have earned a
living as fossiclcers, but, through the complete absence of
water, they are now practically starving. Many of them
have been dumped on my hands simply through exposure
and starvation, but, thanks to the local police-officer, the
present liberal “Country Ministry” has in three cases
granted the colossal sum of ss. per week. There is a
crying need for a Bushmen’s and Miners’ Home. To shut
up a crowd of old mining men—the most independent of
all classes —in stone barracks at Liverpool, when 10s. a
week each would keep them, is equivalent to murder.
The state of the country is beyond description. Ruin
—total ruin—is not “ within measurable distance ” —it is
here. Unless rain comes during the next 10 weeks there
will scarcely be a hoof left. There has been no mutton
for weeks ; nothing but darned poor beef. At Whitta-
branah station—3 miles out from here—the manager has
18,000 sheep, 125 cattle and 40 horses on one well, and
another month without rain will see every head dead.
Were it not for a splendid well at Cobham Lake Hotel,
coach-traffic would be blocked south and east. Some of
the stations have good wells, but as they have to go out
6 and 8 miles for feed, the poor brutes give up the fight
and die near the troughs. The contractor who runs the
mail from Tibooburra to Yalpunga has been carting water
at that place from Onepah waterhole, 5 miles away, for
over six months ; yet a new man has taken on the con-
tract a £BO per year 11
Out at Warri bore the contractor has quitted sinking, and
is amusing himself with piscatorial pursuits, and he is en-
joying himself. Fishing for a ton or two of iron “ dutch-
men ” and other tools, fast at the bottom of a 3300 ft.
hole, is an exhilarating pastime when the mercury is
boiling in the tube and the drinking-water thick enough
to eat from a fork.
Out of 400 head of horses from Thargomindah station,
put through tbe border some time since at Yalpunga,
160 head died before reaching God’s country.
* * * *
“Pukaki”: In reply to “Kiwi” (B.
14/10/00), spelling was made for us; we weren’t
made for spelling. “Pukaki” is far commoner
than “ Pukeko; ” and I shall stick to it. The
U.S.S. Co.’s Pukaki was named, not after the
bird, but, like nearly all the co.’s boats, after a
lake.
Alleged that an S.A.
Mayor, having Had disagree-
ments with the Council, put
on record his contempt for
all concerned by publicly
washing his feet in the town
reservoir. It was a compre-
hensive insult, yet, years ago,
a Queensland man went one
better. He was the loudest
and most profane irreconcil-
able of the local governing
body, and he was remarkable
both while he was in it and
in his way of going|out. On
the last day of his career he
arrival with an old carpet bag
from which poured a shud-
dersome effluvia. Rising
with the bag in his hand he
told the other members for
the very-manyth time what
he thought of them. Then
he took from the bag a very
dead lamb with his letter of
resignation tied to the eak
thereof, dumped the fearsome
object down on the table be-
fore the Mayor, seized his
hat and quitted. He left the
carpet-bag on the table, and
when the councillors mus-
tered up courage to look into
it they found about 81b. of
very old meat which had
apparently been included by way of ornament or
frill. The eccentric one died in a lunatic asylum
two years later, greatly missed by a depressedc
ommunity.
**’•**
The rush of passengers per steamer from
the N.S.W. northern rivers this Christmas has
been remembersome. One excited would-be
passenger was paralysed when refused passage per
last boat from his river. “No use, old man,”
said the skipper; “I’ve got my complement, and
I can’t take one more.” “Wot is yer comple-
ment?” “Forty.” Sawdust, looking forward at
the pig-pen, which was crowded, asked, with tears
in his voice: “Well, how many pigs are you
allowed to carry ? ” “ Oh, as many pigs as I like.”
“Well, book me as a blanky pig. I won’t be
licked.”
♦ * * *
“ Burragorang ” says some nice and some
nasty things about the Germans of South Queens-
land :
The German is much in evidence in Queensland, and
I’ve found him industrious and honest, an obliging neigh-
bour, and a good employer. But he works his women !
I know many German girls who can and do fall scrub,
dig potatoes, plough, split posts and rails, mow and sow,
kill pigs, and cure bacon with any man. I have swung
an axe for 10 hours along with two horny-handed, sun-
burnt German girls of 19 and 21, and felt ashamed of my
country and my sex. I have heard Germans say that
they don’t want boys—girls pay better. And they seem
to get their wish, as girls predominate in every family I
have met. It is an error to suppose that Germans amal-
gamate with Australians; they are as exclusive as Hin-
doos, and very seldom inter-marry with Australians.
When they do, it is, 9 times in 10, a male German native
who takes an Australian wife. Also every German in-
sists upon his children speaking German only when they
go to stores to make purchases ; consequently every big
merchant is compelled to have German employes.
Next to the Chinaman, the German is an expert in gar-
dening, and supplies all the local towns with vegetables.
He makes wine, also, which is consumed, not by the
Frauenfelders and Schneiders of the district, but by the
Smiths and Murphys. When a he-German marries he gets
a wife, housekeeper and cook, axewoman, ploughwoman,
and horse-driver all in one. Cape gooseberries ran to
waste in Queensland before the advent of the German ;
these berries now bring in from £3O to £BO per annum to
hundreds of German settlers. And so with everything
else. Politically, the German is all-powerful in South
Queensland. Australian settlers complain much about
Germans working their women, and speak of legislative
reform ; but the Germans can defy them at the ballot-
box.
* * » *
“0. de C.” : Be number of mopoke’s
eggs : Found four in a nest near Nyngan in ’9B.
ON OUR SELECTION.—WHEN MOTHER
BRINGS THE WATER.
A well-known character in S.W. N.S.
Wales for some 20 years was a certain surveyor,
who rode an ancient skewbald horse and carried
his scanty wardrobe in a pair of old saddle-bags.
He was a highly-qualified man in his profession,
and well-read on most subjects, but had a great
antipathy to soap and water and a huge affection
for liquor of any description. He had no fixed
place of abode, but used to stay as long as he liked
at any station he chose to visit. Should he get
the cold shoulder, his first move was to search the
parish maps, locate any good land on that run
available for selection, and put somebody on to
take it up. For this reason, on most of the big
holdings, which were not well secured in those
days, he was made welcome and supplied with
the best of everything, It was not supposed that
he had any “beliefs” until, just before his
death in hospital, he requested of Ted Under-
wood, of Quirindi Station, that ho should
be buried deep so that no part of his anatomy
could get astray. “For,” said he, “at the Resur-
rection I want to come before the Almighty with-
out a member missing, as I have no doubt first
appearances will go a long way with Him, even as
they do here.”
J * * * *
The latest bush horror comes from Went-
worth (N.S.W.), where a shooting-party found a
man, who had been lying with half hiB body para-
lysed for eight days, foodless, and—after he got
too weak to crawl to the creek, 50yds. away
—without drink. Most of the time, too, in that
awful heat, the poor creature’s head had been bare,
his hat having been blown out of reach. Such a
situation would certainly have driven most men
mad—even if the effect of the sun on the uncovered
head had not done it.
* * * *
The drought still rages in Bananaland. A
few weeks ago the bore at Roma suddenly burst
into eruption and sent up a stream of hot water
some 50ft into the air. This is the first time the
geyser trick has been known to occur in Western
Queensland. What does it signify? Probably
Mother Nature wants to tell man there’s plenty
qf water waiting for him when he oares to tap it.
INCLINED TO BE FAST.
PARSON : “Ah, my poor little orphan, are you not
going to your dear mamma’s funeral? ”
LITTLE 'LIZA: “ Neow; funerals is too slow fer
me.”
The tale of a gaunt Western man :
Can show you a waggonette-track made six years ago
by a party going out exploring. (The blacks killed the
poor fellows.) The track is still visible. There has not
been enough rain in six years to wash it out.
They tell queer tales in some districts of young-
sters three years old who don’t know what rain is.
* * • «
* ‘ R. W. ” : A friend of mine has a kooka-
burra, which, since.its arrival in town, has taken
to eating sparrows. Jack goes to sleep, with one
eye open, near some fowl-food, and every time
the sparrows come down to feed one less goes
away, for “ Jack ” never misses catching one.
Ah Kee had a fat
banking-account, and ere
he had time to arrange
about it, he was “taken
over.” His mates put
the corpse in a spring-
cart, stuck a horse-rug
over it, and drove to the
bank. There the de-
ceased’s “ cousin ” ex-
plained to the manager
that Ah Kee wished to
withdraw his money, but
was “ welly bad,” and
couldn’t come in to sign.
The accountant filled in a
cheque and took it to the cart,
and the pen was put into the
man’s hand, which was
held by the obliging relation.
A crowd gathered,, and the
butcher —a meddlesome fellow —
went to lend a hand with the
autograph, but soon as he touched
flesh he jumped into the cart, slewed
the Chinkie round, and exposed the fraud. John
had been dead more than 24 hours. Then the
“ haythen ” drove off cursing their luck.
Concerning a recent remarkable aggre-
gation of fish in the Diamantina River, Q., Mr.
Tom Coward writes to the Adelaide dailies to say
that the occurrence probably indicates the advent
of the eagerly-desired rain. “In ’04,” he goes on,
“in one of the anabranches of the Mackenzie
River, I found one morning hundreds Of fish on
the surface of the water, gasping for breath. We
secured more than we could eat, but as soon as the
sun came out the fish disappeared. In ’O9, again,
on the Norman River, I had a similar experience,
the fish appearing, as before, at the surface of the
water for two mornings ; and in ’7l, at Hughen-
den, in a waterhole connected with the I linders,
there was to be seen a shoal of fish, whose appear-
ance and disappearance were as mysterious as in
the other cases referred to. But the point is that
in each of these cases the surrounding country was
soon afterwards deluged with rain. In the first
instance Rockhampton was flooded, while the
Dawson, Mackenzie, Fitzrov and Nicholson were
running bankers. At the Norman there was the
biggest flood ever seen in that part of the country ;
and at Hughenden the waters came down and
absolutely transformed the whole condition of
affairs. The squatters of the Diamantina, there-
fore, are likely soon to have their patience re-
warded.
* * * *
“Yale” : R. L. Stevenson gets mystical
on a curious phenomenon in his “Travels with a
Donkey.” He says: “. . . . there is one stirring
hour unknown to those who dwell in houses, when
a wakeful influence goes abroad over the sleeping
hemisphere, and all the outdoor world are on
their feet.” Says he experienced it invariably
when sleeping in the open, and found all animals
began to stir for a little while at the same time.
He suggests a wave of influence passing over the
earth from an outside source. Have asked several
drovers and other campers-out, with varying
results. Would like light on it out of the experi-
ence of Bulletin readers.
» * ♦ •
At a certain bigN.S.W. station this shear-
ing, a man owning 900 acres of land adjoining the
station was working for £1 a week picking dags.
Go on the land, young man !
“ Bunya Be length of time animals can
live without water. A knocked-up ewe and lamb
from a passing mob were placed in a yard by a
boundary rider, who thereupon forgot all about
them, and the yard was not visited for nine
months, when a fat ewe and a sturdy weaner were
discovered therein. There was no water in the
yard, nor anything to catch rain, but good feed
was abundant.
“ Rep ” : “ A.S.” asks (8., 24/11/’00) if
snake can ascend the outside wall of a weather-
board house without getting into crevices or
between boards ? Certainly it can. Once
found a brown snake, 2ft. 6in. long, pilfer-
ing a swallow’s nest at the top of the
outer wall of my house in Gippsland.
The only support was the small ridges
which mark the connections of the hoards
and some slight inequalities in the sur-
face.
* » • *
“ G.E.S.” : Be curiosity of emus.
Out duck-shooting once with a black,
fellow came across six emus feeding on
a small plain, and asked the nig. now
many he could shoot. “Baal, mine
tink it I bin get one I bin get lot,” he
said. He then smeared his head
over with slime from the swamp
and crept towards the emus, moving his head from
side to side so as to attract the birds’ attention.
Presently he shot one, and the others made off,
but soon returned to their wounded mate. Then
the darkie, who had remained quiet, potted
another, and this was repeated until five out of
the six were shot.


Government House Musician.
MR. A. MANYERS’ CAREER.
Mr. Albert Manvers has gained an enviable
reputation as a high-class banjoist, and his pupils
embrace the 61ite of society. At the Government
House, Vic., garden parties and elsewhere his
instrument is almost indispensable. Mr. Manvers
had just completed a masterly selection when a
press representative questioned him as to his skill.
“ I have had rather a strange career,” said he.
“I am an American, and in my early youth I
served in the Indian campaign, being severely
wounded and invalided. I had to earn my living,
and being especially fond of music I took to my
favorite instrument, the banjo. But the after
effects of the exposure and the wound I had
received remained with me, and at times
interfered with my playing. Fifteen years ago I
came to Australia, hoping vainly that change of
air would improve me. Doctors told me my
blood was out of order, but prescriptions proved
useless. Kidney troubles caused me great pain,
and liver complications rendered it impossible for
me to apply myself to my profession, and at times
I had to break engagements. My old wound
pained me greatly and I had to take to bed.
After being laid up for some weeks my attention
was directed to the good effects following Dr.
Williams’ pink pills, and I tried them. The first
two boxes did not appear to benefit me much, but
with the fourth box the improvement became
noticeable ; after using a few more boxes I grew
quite well and strong. The liver and kidney
troubles have gone, ana I suffer no pain from my
old wound.”
Mr. Manvers’ blood was so vitiated that serious
disorders were induced, but Dr. Williams’ pink
pills, by enriching and increasing the blood
supply, removed the foundations of disease. In
the same way they cure anaemia, debility,
faintness, dizziness, paralysis, consumption,
rheumatism, sciatica, dyspepsia, etc. Sold by
the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place,
Sydney, two and nine per box, six boxes fifteen
and three, post free, and by chemists and store-
keepers—but mind you ask for Dr. Williams’.
Mr. Manvers resides at 10 Henry-street,
Northcote, Vie.*
As the date of closing the Benevolent Societies’
F6te is drawing to a close. Agents and others interesting
themselves in the sale of tickets are requested to send
their returns in as soon as possible. A large number of
tickets have already been sold, and intending purchasers
had best apply at once to their newsagent, or direct to the
hon. sec., W. MoHtt Burns, 36 Castlereagh-st.*
ƒasf
WEDDiKra
jAresektts
London Catalogue.
Cash Prices.
ƒ
m
m
nm*.
Bearing the impress of the approval of the most fashionable people
of Europe are now shown in Sydney by MAPPIN & WEBB, of
London (Silversmiths to Her Majpstv).
So lb Agents : FAIRFAX A ROBCRTS,
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS,
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Franz Josef Lager Beer
... The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality
Order
SCHWEPPE’S DERATED
SARSAPARILLA
MADAME DANTE (M’d’lle. Edmunda, widow of
the late Dante the Great) as Mephisto in “ The
Beggars’ Dream” Illusion. Madame has just
concluded a very successful Queensland tour.
Photo, by Wiley, Brisbane.
Harry S. to “P.H.C.” and “Pelican''
(B. 15/9/’00): —
No doubt there is hardly any odour from the preserved
aboriginal child’s remains when such have been “ cured ”
before being carried about in the dilly-bag ; yet I have
known many cases in which it was most pronounced. As
showing, however, that this doesn’t trouble the natives
much, those about the Murray mouth, when drying a
corpse upon an elevated wooden bier, for some days
actually live thereunder, eating and sleeping there, and
at times anointing themselves with the juices melted by
sun and fire from the decaying body above them. During
the whole process the body is never left unwatched and
untended ; the women at times breaking out into piteous
wailings and cutting themselves with flints and mussel-
shells. Lucian wrote : “The Persians bury their dead ;
the Hindoos anoint them ; the Scythians eat them ; and
the Egyptians embalm t hem.” Now all these practices
are still in use in Australia.
* * * •
“Peterkin”: Recently my cabbage-John
has had a weird and wandering eye. Three times
I had reminded him to bring the asparagus, and
three times had he forgotten it. At last I
peremptorily asked why, and, said he : “ Oh, me
Olistian now. Me too full of Holy Ghost—no can
tink aspalagus ! ”
“Fuzz”: Can confirm “Buz”
(8., 10/11/’00) about “fusion of races”
in Central Queensland. I knew of two
haut ton johnnies who for years have
used only the dark strain, but one has
now shipped his “fair” to Fraser’s
Island because she is getting fat, and
he has his eye on another dusky beauty.
Three “ pledges of affection ” have been
foisted by him in cold blood on Govt.,
and the girl, since he won’t write for
fear of incrimination, is mourning his
supposed death. The other johnny is
being fast killed by his paramour. She
boasts a sewing-machine, a side-saddle,
and false teeth, and thrashes her partner
when so disposed.
Those Victorian relief-works have left
some bad stories behind. One is that of a
poor old fellow named Brown, sent forest-clearing
up near St. Arnaud. The man was over 75 years
of age, and after doddering about amongst the
timber for two days got bushed, and spent anight
in the rain. He was found in an exhausted state
and sent back to Melbourne, where he died a day
or two later. Perhaps, after all, it was better, in
the absence of the Old Age Pension, to send this
kind of criminal to gaol than to pack him away
to the bush, to chop his own feet off or die of
rheumatism or of heat-apoplexy. Relief-works
are generally so called because they relieve Gov-
ernments of their responsibilities.
* * * *
The struggle for a crust :
At a metalling contract on Windsor (N.S.W.) road car-
ters get 4s. per yard for metal carted about five miles.
Man with dray and two horses makes two trips a day ;
load about If yds. Each load has to be handled twice,
two trips from quarry to road (about J-mile), then load
up full. Earnings for day of about 17 hours, about
10s. ; out of which have to he paid for forage and wear of
cart and harness.
“ Ben S." tells the gruesome story
of the Dog Avenged :
Whaling handy to Mclvor, once, I struck an
old fossicker’s tent, and, while yarning, a man
—or rather what was left of one, for he was
minus a leg, an ear, and some of his nose—
stumped out of the scrub and said, “ Didn’t see
me dawg about, did yer.” When he had passed
on, I said, nodding after him, “ Dynamite, eh ? ”
“ No,” was the answer. “It was this way : A
few years since, when there was a big camp
here, a digger, known as the Skite, was about,
and he had a great, ugly, hungry-looking dog.
Dunno what breed the beast was, but he seemed
built to pick up ailments and things. He took
to investigating the camp during working-
time, and 1 cleaning up’ tents for tucker. When
the Skite came into a tent, the blessed dog
came too, and tried to put up a record at scratch-
ing’ andmoaning. Once, Jack Devon scalded the
hair off the brute, and had to fight the Skite
over it till we stopped the mill. Most of us
hated the Skite, partly on his own account, but
mostly because of the dog ; and one day Devon
threw the cur down an abandoned prospecting
shaft. When the Skite missed the brute he
whistled, and called : ‘Tyke, Tyke!’ up along
the gully and round the ranges for hours. Then
he went among the claims, inquiring : ‘ Haven t
seen me dawg about, have yer ? ’ No one had,
of course ; but the Skite kept on searching for
days. Sometimes he’d start baling —he was
sinking in wet ground—lift perhaps a dozen
buckets, and then set out for some place he
hadn’t searched, calling ‘Tyke, Tyke,’ until we
began to feel sorry for the poor devil, and the
blessed business got so much on Devon’s mind
that he went on a ‘ tear. ’ The Skite disappeared
on the same evening, looking in some new place
for his dog, and next morning someone rushed
into camp with—' Give’s a hand, mates ! That
fool’s bin tryin’ to git his dog up, an’ he s fell
in, too.’ ‘Broke up?’ ‘Must be; can barely
hear him groan.’ Didn’t take long to whip
a windlass from a handy claim, and 1 was
lowered, and found —not the Skite, as we ex-
pected—but Jack Devon, all broken up, and the
dog as well as ever he was in his life. Devon had
gone to throw rocks on the dog to finish him,
and he and the 16th rock fell in together. He
was badly smashed by the fall, and as he fell on
the dog, the dog naturally bit him. Then he had
snakes down there along with the dog all night,
and what’s left of him has never been quite right
in the head since. He thinks he’s the Skite
looking for his dog. And he’s also looking for
himself to wallop himself for throwing his own
dog down a shaft. He’s been inquiring for his
dog for six years now.
* * *
Dear Bulletin. “ Gorang ” (B.
l/12/’OO) is correct about “chaffing,” es-
pecially as regards navvies. Have seen a
ganger driven almost frantic by his men
talking “at” him and relating how their
last ganger did things. On the other
iiand I know of cases where a ganger, by
mean tyranny and constant snarling, has
completely broken up a man under him ;
though in a few instances it was the
“hand” who broke up the ganger—with
a spade 1
A far-northern correspondent :
The circumstances attending the suicide of Frank Sten,
a Swedish miner on the Normanbj' (near Bowen, Q.) are
worth noting. Sten, a, well-educated man, had found
a few decent nuggets some time ago, but .of
late had been abandoned by Fortune. A proud
man, he could ask no one for help, and so
determined to end the game —said ending being
effected per medium of a plug of dynamite placed in the
mouth and exploded by fuse. Sten left a letter : —•
“I am old enough to know what I am about, I
cannot stand this existence any longer, so I will
blow out my brains to-night It will be close
to a hole, and I will put two shovels and a pick
to cover in. Good-bye ! A merry Xmas ! ” How {strong
was the desire to be a burden to no one ! He would neither
cumber the world with the trouble of supporting him nor
give it any more trouble than was absolutely necessary
in the matter of his burial. Poor old hatter !
* * *
Scandinavian (carrying cross-cut saw about
7ft. long) to Maorilander (felling tree): “ Vas you
zee dat noder zaag ; aboud six inches not so long
as dis ere noder von ? ” Facetious Maorilander :
“ Yaze, my mades (mates) him dook (took) to cut
log on drack (track) aboud ten chains nod so far
as de camp. They pack (back) him pring aboud
A RIGHT-DOWN
FACT.
BOSS (excitedly):
“ Why, I thought
you said he could
sit a bit?”
BILL (who has secured rations on the strength of
his mate’s supposed riding abilities)'. “So he
can, boss. You jist wait ’till ’e gits ter ther
grown!!”
two hours nod so lade as ve knog-off.” Exit
Scandy, whistling contentedly, and Maorilander
resumes work with a chuckle.
Every democrat should have a copy of The
Bulletin pamphlet, “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” now receiving vicious notices from the
Calico press. On sale at Bulletin Office, 6d.; by
post to any Australasian address, Bd. in stamps of
any State.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Infidel: How do we—or you—know they are
perjurers? If we “shrieked” for their prosecution, the
Judge (whose business it is to “ shriek,” if he thinks they
deserve punishment) would send us up for contempt, the
whole case being still sub judice M.R.D. : Nonsense !
Anybody can get a Federal Senate requisition who pays a
collector 10s. per 100 signatures to obtain it.. .C. B. Cains:
No, he was not elected ; he was deservedly beaten. In
fact, the voters elected the gentleman to private life
Charles West: Now, how much do you think the people
of the other States would raise by subscription to erect
in Sydney harbor O’Sullivan’s £70,000 statue of “Aus-
tralia Facing the Dawn ’’—even if it wasn’t a plagiarised
idea A. Manson : It comes to this—we can squash
the “ precedence ” pretensions of all the churches by
running one sect against the other. The Anglicans would
fry the Cardinal in the fat of a priest before they would
grant him precedence ; and the R.O.’s would be ready to
return the compliment; also, the Wesleyans would see
Primate Smith boiled alive rather than give the
pas to his most respectable church. And do
you think the Presbyterians and the Baptists
would walk behind the Wesleyans or the R.0.’5!....
C.A. : The competition between Williamson and Mus-
grove looks about as keen as you could get it G.: 18
months ago S’Rupert Clarke was said to be going to trip
to S’Africa, and afterwards it was stated that the war had
changed his mind. Don’t remember him ever being
credited or debited with intentions to shed his or anybody
else’s bleed for the Hempire P. : Mrs. Dr. Bevan’s
lecture on Palestine, illustrated by masquerading assist-
ants, is only a pallid adumbration of the Von Finkelstein
entertainment of years ago. Did you never see the
Finkelstein’s bearded Joseph strut about the platform in
a silk hand-woven coat of many colours? Meadow:
We never said so, but we do say that it is not impossible
the girl’s deficiencies in the matter of general education
and dramatic dash have a lot to do with her failure to
catch on with the famous lady teacher. Anyway, a
good deal of what has happened was predicted before she
left Australia Jason: As to the “External Affairs”
title of Barton, foreign Governments wishing to yabber
about the South Sea islands will yabber in the
usual quarter. Mr. Barton’s office of External
Affairs is employed in the Imperial office
M. 0.: “Support in return for concessions” may be right
enough politically; but it doesn’t always work out
satisfactorily in the relations between man and women—
as a certain sour and disappointed politician could
testify... .G.R. : In attacking a small entrenched position
the besiegers, firing from say half-a-mile away, know
that, even if they can see no defenders, every bullet that
just clears the parapet must land among the men and
animals that crowd the interior, while the bullets of the
defenders are scatttered thinly round a large circle. The
long holding of such a post is therefore a matter of
absolute impossibility East Kent: Letters of intro-
duction would in that case make no difference. The
editor who really took an interest in his paper wouldn’t
publish your matter even if you were introduced to him
by Albert Edward, Emperor William and the Czar, unless
he thought it good enough. In fact the mere circum-
stance that you were known to such people and travelled
on it would make him suspicious as to your ability
A.H. W. : Please sing it at a long distance from this office.
... .Quericus: May print your wail. Both the “Library
of Famous Literature ” and the “ Encyclopaedia Bri-
tannica ” are poor value, to our mind—and latter’s out-of-
date. It’s very rarely safe to buy without seeing
sample Glucose: Too much mixed. 'Cours*
the planters will hang on to the cheap
kanaka as long as they can. Are you a planter ?
F.SIM. : The Dutch narrative, published some 18 years
after the occurrence of the Batavia’s wreck, issued by the
Amsterdam press. There is no question as to the authen-
ticity of the narrative, as the compiler had access to
Pelsart’s log G.V.A. : What need to put in the Vic.
Old Age Pension Act a penalty for imposition ? The
ordinary laws against fraud, getting money by false pre-
tences, "and making false declarations are quite sufficient.
If the rest of your criticisms are no more intelligent than
that one they - aren’t worth much R.A.K. : How would
the publication of a list of “ free ” pubs, lead to a boycott
of- the tied houses ? In many districts you would have to
walk too far for your beer if you avoided tied houses.
Anyhow, you have to drink the same brewers’
beer at free and tied pubs. If free pubs, got
their beer from some brewer who didn’t own tied
pubs, it would be different, but they don’t—
there is no such brewer that we know of
H.G. : “ The Melb. Jews approved of that Sydney watch-
night service, if they thought of it at all.” Are you
imagining vain things, or merely trying to pull our leg ?
Charles E. : Would gladly print it, but that we see it
—minus Jingo deletions—in a daily paper Anon (in
shorthand): We never even try to read other people’s
. shorthand ; always have enough trouble in reading bur
own Too Quick : Tell us, where should a good Demo-
crat like our friend look for sage counsel in such a matter
as the acceptance of a title, if not to papa Madden?
C. : De Wet couldn’t be mistaken for Parnell
by any sane person. Parnell was a more-or-less
skinny man; De Wet has limbs, and particularly
hands, like those of a Grseco-Roman wrestler
D. : The flag of truce is quite commonly used for what
Major Lee would, rio doubt, call the “treacherous pur-
pose” of getting information. Half the messages sent
with flags of truce are mere excuses for seeing how the
other side guards itself, and finding out weak places in
its outpost line. As for flags on buildings, or shown by
men in the ranks, the man who is taken in by them
deserves all he gets for his ignorance Barry Sprayton :
Will print.... Ah Kee : Finally resolved that it takes too
long to get to the climax, which more or less protrudes
all the time Seal P. (339) : Always glad to hear from
you on such subjects Prospect Good : Neat and melo-
dious. .. .Rewi: No guarantee that your speoial nostrum
is worth anything C.R.M. : “Sermon” good idea,
feebly handled.. .. Wat T. : Ver3 r flat, and ends obscurely.
His Mate : Not quite up to mark Honi Soit: An
unprintable brutality W. S. Shaw (Eng.) : This isn’t a
Jingo paper. ..C.C.F. : Please don’t mix literary and busi-
ness matter in your letters. Re business address manager..
Theorbo : All you say about Carrie Moore has been said
half-a-dozen times previously N.H. : Thanks for offer ;
but can’t say till we see it Coll Rabb : Nearly good
enough, but not quite Broken-hill : The Federal Par-
liamentary reporting will be done by a staff selected from
the various Australian Hansards Teelf : Very, very
old.. ..Roughrider : Forecast not well enough done....
Native of M.L. : Thanks... .Eldorado : Has in it the back-
bone of a story, hut lacks vividness and force J.S.N. :
Very readable Barbara : Can’t say. Write direct to
the University Will J. : “ Interception ” too enigmati-
cal. Don’t cultivate obscurity R.A.K. : Rather
twaddly—with redeeming gleams of humor... .Gobung :
Please don’t send such rll-metred doggerel.. ..D.D.B. :
Hardly interest enough.... Judas I. : Its length would
bar it, in any case D.L.D. (Kalgoorlie): No. Guess
you mean “valued.” Narrang: Four lines de-
[“THE BULLETINS” AMATEUR ART
GALLERY.]
AT THE INDIAN ENCAMPMENT.
“ Say, Skinny! If you go up to that Chutney bloke
and say “S’lam,” he’ll let yer shake hands with
him,”
dined.... Plymouth : Not funny D.B. : “Antidote”
not bright enough.... Helen I. : Possibly... .Wintonia :
Mere feminine fluency.. . .Cliftonian : Don’t want second-
hand matter... .G.H.W. : No chop... .G.A.P. : Not
funny... .Yarrevah : Will print.. . .Kornie : Climax hack-
neyed. .. .Onlys : A couple of good points, but the rest of
the verse impossible.. .. J.B. : Material good enough, but
treatment flat and feeble.... D.H.R. : Both too rude and
clumsy Alone : Very awkward verse Will J. :
“ Fixtures,” same old straining after forms of expression
which are only original in being unnatural. Be simpler
and you’ll do better. ..C.E.W.: Choice brand of doggerel.
William : No “hints ” will avail where the literary gift
is so entirely lacking A.0.G.: Thanks; hut the account
of the proceedings doesn’t appear to have reached u 5....
G.A.P. : “ Bill Thurston” well-enough written, but plot
rather feeble Wandering J. : Mention date of any par.
you refer to C.G. : Already printed in Bulletin
Ripple: To all three questions—no 1 Milky White :
Pretty and well-imagined, but rather young-ladyish for
“B.” Kos : Both pretty well done, but there’s not
enough in them The Diver : Too trifling—though you
have some natural humor H.S.V. : Would need too
much tinkering to make it presentable.
The recent (and first) London sales of
Australian rabbits in fur began briskly enough,
but suddenly and mysteriously slumped ; so that,
out of a total of 633,000 bunnies, only about four
guineas’ worth were disposed of ! The minimum
price.fixed was 14s. per lot, the first lot consisting
of 25 crates of 24 rabbits each —600 in all, or about
3£d. each.


IMITATION THE SINCE REST FLATTER?.-
Tirst Sydney Man (reading out from daily paper) : “ The city of Brisbane to J
night presented a mag-
nificent spectacle. Many
buildings,' as well as
triumphal arches, were
brilliantly
and the streets were
thronged with thousands
of people, the number
being fully equal to those
who this morning wit-
nessed the procession-'’
2nd Sydney Man : “Ot
course ! All these one-
horse Australian towns
must imitate Us. Syd-
ney) you must remem-
ber,-had the plague first,
then Brisbane and Mel-
bourne took it up.”
Mars (who has been
signalling to Earth
for some 50 odd mil-
lion years): “By
Cracky! they are
' Look, here, old fellow, I don’t mind send-
ing more Bushmen to be made permanent in-
valids of in Africa, but for good-
ness sake don’t let Kipling turn]
loose any more “ Absents!
Minded Beggar ” verses.
answering at last!! ”
Hia Minister fob Foreign Affairs (the wisest man in the whole
Ghow): “ Well, then, if I were-you I’d drop it.”
Maes: 11 Drop ijb I Why?"
Wise Man : “Because, if you don’t, we'
we shall soon see big head-lines in their
daily papers aboujfc ‘ The Partition of
the Planet Mars by the Powers of
Europe/ and it won’t require
very strong glasses, either! ”
ANOTHER' MESSAGE FROM
MARS.
London, Thursday.—At the Lowell
Observatory (in Massachusetts, U.S.A.,
26 miles from Boston) during the month
of December a shaft of light was observed
projecting from the planet Mars.
According to the official report, the
light was observed for the space of 70
minutes. I
“NONE SO DEAF,” & c .
Editor Syd. Telegraph {listening at the ’phone) r “ Hello ! I say I don’t seem to
i recognise the word ‘ Protection,’ or anything that sounds bke id I murt
|k gettmg deaf or this is a defective record 1 -
We shall next hear that Yankee enterprise has
established a hydraulic elevator service between,
say, Boston and the planet Mars !
THIS AND OTHER WICKED WORLDS.


"Kov/ R*,CotK i$ »•?***■iei
|i e will be more v s, '' ,oa S
K u sb le ss
''fW 'futjerzJ f^cocK's^^l^llo9^
It was announced some weeks ago that as
Government House would be required from time
to time for the use of the Governor-General, it
would be necessary for the Cabinet to e ®gore //
another residence for the State Governor. Sinoe j
then numerous offers -have been received, I
Treasurer has been inundated with Ero ”J
enterprising estate agents, anxious to dispwe or
“ Sable 8 residences.” The va uee placed on
the maiority of the properties at all suited for the
l h ur S 2o high, however, that thc Tre«,n«r
fa thinking of requesting the De-
paSmmbtP furnish an estimate of toe
Greeting a residence ra portion of tne
i Gtouhds, 'fiontuig St. Kilda-road.
!;a..
*****
&>^yss^
Xv '**&'>>
:_>ev e
'v/e Could •?+ do a, ti r V** 7
bu.ld you as *7 -, ce little Ha.ce o«r
-fee aaC% of"fee £*.l
[odpe . you KnoW.
- if you JD
could h7asKe a. poiyr of ra
'lounges 09 M j
) stte bs ‘7 l
/youi- lively,
you KI7OW , fee
■« i rp«
, <S ' / Kr±
/ gj'jref e^
There are threetvery eager applicants for enroFS
ment in the Fifth-Contingent, and these were to|
be seen at> the Viotona Barracks this morning.!
They are boys in uniform, and one of them hasß
already achieved some renown. His name isß
Charles Gavagan, and he lives at Kensington. ■
When the First Contingent was being formed hel
applied for a post as trumpeter, but wasirejeoted. 1
He then embarked as a stowaway, and being dis-|
covered on the troop-ship, was promptly landed!
,-Ton shore and returned to his home „ u
l ified, he tried again and again, and on his fourtn
\ (attempt he was successful, for he managed to.
| 'get to Cape Town. There he was allowed trfl
Kjjoin Roberts’s Horse, and aaw service as trum
/ peter for 14 months. About two months ago//
1 he returned home, and is noW eager to embark / /
again for the war. Colonel Price tooV.afJ
fondly interest in the lad when he saw him' #
at the Barracks thfs morning, and ex- / /
pressed the opinion that hifl application Aft
«rbu Id be successful. J
vV - ’ «n
■ Ife-/ ss 3v^ f TO'/j
I>^ c s’ “ /\ /
ll.coclC- V/ell. We/ [L
if *P>- 111
t
J metropolitan board '
J That assailant, the proprietor of the Age news-
paper, unabashed, by his.discomhtunyllas. »»»
the publication of the Inquiry Board s report, _
' grossly insulted that Board by representing the
, Judgment which it has arrived at from the evi-
i dencegiven before it not as a lust decision, but i
only as a "Whitewashing.” I now, from tins s
chair, presiding over the most (
v next to Parliament in this country, declare this
t mart to be an unscrupulous, vindiotive jperverter |
S of the truth, and a suborner of mercenaries to aid ,
\ him in attempting to ruin whomsoverthe may _
\ nominate for destruction.
! BASPBEBEY TICKING.
' A demoralising occupation.
Mr. Barbour : “ I would like to make a
■marks on this subjeot,iu>d hope the press wui
taka a note. Savon years ago I sent *>. m ®
aiok raspberries, but I found it had ruined thorn
I have refused to send any since.
The result, both morally and physically, of a
Reason's raspberry pioking is far worse than I care
to unction to the panob '
> )4*. ye> Worsb«)» • r f
'\n) ftcftei* * desjjewtf? Snjrugy*
"iie x)<fT oijty J>€ iot?<Q ~k> -f^A
“ yxty < v>
o f
*S To
rartfWry J **7
o\ r*6)Vm y >"7
MELBOURNIAN A.


j. S A UNDE&&
' Co *4on Lever*
A. Saunders’s
Strong, Reliable LEVERS —“ THE CHAL-
LENGE,’; 15a. The UNRIVALLED LEVER,
in Black or Nickel, 20a—perfect timekeeper.
The LONDON LEVER, new J-plate model,
25s ; in Solid Silver, £2 2a; in Double-case,
£2 10a, £3. ROTHERHAM LEVERS, £3 10s,
£4, £5, ■ £6, £7, £B. Gold Watches, £4 4s,
£5 6a, £6 6s, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Mind, we guarantee you the utmost satisfac-
tion, “ otherwise we will exchange watch for
you.” Send for illustrated book of particulars,
post free.
A. Saunder 3.
Registered Gold 2-Bird, 2-Heart Amethyst
Brooch, 20s ; Pearl Set Bird, 22s 6d ;
15c. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders.
Brooch Crescent, Pearls and Turquoise,
Pure Silver-gilt, 5s 6d ; Heart Shape, 6s 6d.
The Latest Style.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Brooch, Diamond and R lby
Horse-shoe, 355. A Pretty Brooc.i.
A. Saunders.
16c. Gold Brooch, 2 Bar Scrolls, 3 Pure
Diamonds, 2 Rubies or Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Baundera.
Gold Brooch, 14 Pearls, 7 Opals, 355. A Very
Choice Present. Bracelet to Match, £2 15s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Twist Bar, Bow and Heart
I>rop, 6s od. Special Value.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 15c. Gold, 2 Bar and Scrolls,
Pearl Set, £2 6s. Very Strong and Pretty.
A. Saundera. 9
Bonded,l e M n f.M n V nd h Keeper *' 9c -
u. ; extra heavy’, °°l A ’
»«vy, 80., 86., & S’enfforrard. 5
A. Baundera.
Registered 16c. Gold Secret Name Brooch.
2 Rubies or Sapphires and Diamond, £2 10s ;
8 Diamonds, £8 and £4. 9c. Gold, siiuLar
pattern, 20s and 255.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Pearl Set Bird’s Chain and
Red or Blue Stone, 17s 6d. Very Dainty.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Scroll, Diamond, 2 Red or
Blue Stones, 20s. Very Pretty.
A. Saunders.
New Motto Registered Gold ‘‘Dinna Forget”
Brooch and Amethvsts, 9c. Gold, 17a 6d : 16c.
Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 4 Opal Hearts, Pearl Set Scrolls,
355. The Latest and Prettiest Style.
A. Saunders.
New Style Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird,
Amethyst Heart, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
15c. Gold and Pure Diamond, 2 Bar
Brooch, £2. Neat and Strong'.
A. Saunders.
Cold Brooch (Registered), “ Good
Wishes,” Chain and Heart, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 255. A Very Pretty Brooch.
€H
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Brooch, 2 Diamonds, Ruby or
Sapphire and Ivy Leaves, 255.
A. Saunders.
Silver Gilt New Turquoise Initial
Brooch ; any Initial, 2s 6d.
Solid Gold Chain (Single or Double),
£2 10s, f 3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15c.
Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, JtT, £B,
£lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20*.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 15c. Gold, 2 Bar, Red or
Blue Stone, 2 Diamonds, 21s.
Very Cheap and Neat.
BMS =4
A. Saunders.
Gold Bar, Raised Ivy Leaves, 7s 6d.
Very Neat.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Diamond-cat Amethyst
Hearts and True Love Knot, 20s.
Very Pretty.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Hearts, Diamond and Ruby,
2 Bar and Scroll, with True Love
Knot, 17s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Nellie Stewart” Bamboo Gold Bracelet, 20».
Size thicker, 255. Latest style.
A. Saunders.
Ladies’ or Gent’s Newest Tie Pin, 15c. Gold, Forget-Me-Not and
Spray, Turquoise and Pearls, 20s. Very Dainty and Pretty.
A. Saunders.
Name Bracelets, Gold Bands, Any Name, 265;
16c. Gold, £'3; Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s,- 30s to £l.
Ladies’ Curb Gold Chain
Snap Padlock, 255, 30s,
355, £2 ss, £3; 15c.,
£2 10s, £3, £i, £4 10s,
£6, 16, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety
Chain.
A. Sa indere.
Gold irooch, Diamond-cut Amethyst, 2 Bar ; Large
Size, Extra Strong, 255, 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooc'i Amethyst, Diamond-cut, 2 Bar, Extra
Strong, 22s 6d ; 100. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders.
Latest Designs: Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Diamond and
Red Stone, Scroll and Bell, 21s ; 16c. Gold, £2 ss.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Shields and Hatchet, Ohain and
Heart, Ruby and Pearl, 15s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 355.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Pearl Set Scroll, Red or Blue
Stone, 20s. Very Pretty and Strong.
A. Saunders.
New Style Gold Bird, Ruby
and Turquoise and Leaf,
6s 6d. Very Neat.
Silver Initial Hat Pins.
Parisian Diamonds, 4s 6d ;
Turquoise, 3s. Any Initial.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s,
Solid Gold £3, £4, £5 ;
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed. Send for Price List.
SB
A. Saunders.
Gold Bar, Raised Flowers, 5s 6d.
Ladies’ Long Gold Muff Chain, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5, £6.
Price According to Pattern and
Thickness.
Front Studs, 9c. Gold, 3s 6d each ; 15c.
Gold, each 5s and 7s 6d.
Front Studs, Diamond, Rubies or
B hires, 10s 6d and 12s 6d each ;
lamonds, 20s, 255, 30s to £5 each,
and Size ot Diamonds.
Saph-
Larger
Price
af
Gold Grosses,
Chased or Plain,
12s 6d; Larger,
20s ; 15c, Gold,
20s and 30s.
A. Saunders.
Gents’ or Ladies’ Pin, Pearls and Turquoise, Rubies or Sapphires.
Floral Design, 21s.
A. Saunders.
Band Bracelet, 9c. Gold, Diamond and Rubies or Sapphires, £2 5s •
15c. Gold, £3 10s, with 3 Diamonds, £4, £4 10s and £5.
Very Neat and Effective.
A. Saunders.
16c. Gold Baden-Powell Sword Pin, Turquoise and Pearls, £2.
Gent’* or Ladle*’ 16c. Gold Tie Pin, Pearls and Turquoise Centre
Star, 20s. All the Rage.
Call and See Our Jewellery Exhibition.—A Splendid Display;
Or Send for Our 1900 Complete Illustrated Book, Post Free Anywhere.
Solid Gold Fine Opal Links, £2.
15e., £2 10s. Monogram, 2/6 ex.
A. Saunders.
Opal Bracelet, J Hoop, 11 Pretty Opals, £B. Very Stylish.
A. Saunders.
Gold Charm Envelope, with
Twopenny Stamp, 12b 6d.
Silver, 6s 6d. Name Free.
Baden-Powell Gold Sword and Pearl Set Spray Brooch,
Diamond, 25s ; without Diamond, 22s 6d ; 16c. Gold, £2 ss.
Charm, Old
English Coin, Gold
Mounted, 10s.
A. Saunders.
Bold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d.
Our Own Registered
Design.
The Lucky “ Erin
go-Bragh ” Charm,
Solid Gold, 10s.
Charm, Gold,
Amethyst and
Pearls, 15s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 255.
Latest Design.
Real Lyddite
Shell, Gold
Mounted, 8s 6d.
Only a Few Left
Charm, New
Gold Bell, 7s Cd.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires,
Rubies, or Opals,
4 Diamonds, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4los, £5.
Latest Style.
Tiarquoise and Pearl,
Solid Gold Ring, 21s.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 5 Opals,
J-Hoop, £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s.
18c. Buttercup Single-
stone Diamond Ring,
£3, £4, £5,
Opal Band Bings,
9e. Solid Gold, 17s 6d
15c. Gold, 30s ; 18c.
Gold, £2.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 3 Pure Dia-
monds, 2 Opal Hearts,
£4 10s. Latest Style.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, Pure
Double-cut Diamond,
£5. Larger, £6 6s,
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Price according to size
of Diamond.
18c. Solid Gold, Pure
Diamond and 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, £2,
£2 10s, £3 ; 3 Dia-
monds, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £5.
18c. Solid Gold
Diamond Band, £2,
£2 10s, £3; 15c.
9c. Gold Name Band
Rings, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s; 15c. Gold, 20s,
255; 18c. Gold, 255,
30s, 355, 40s.
18c. Solid (jold Mar-
quese Diamond and
Ruby Ring, £3 10s ;
Larger Diamonds, £7
10s, £lO, £l5, £2O.
Special Value.
15c. Solid Gold, 2
Diamonds, Ruby or
Sapphire, 20s.
A. Saunders.
(Registered) Gold Links,
20s; 15c. Gold, 32s 6d ;
Silver and Gold, 10s ;
All Silver, ss.
Solid Gold Monogram Links,
9c. Gold, 20s and 25s ; 15c.
Gold, 355, £2 and £2 10s ;
Solid Silver, 5s and 6s 6d
Monograms, 2s 6d extra.
A. Saunders. Gold Heart and Dnmbell
Large Size Gold Shield Links, 12s 6d ; 15c., 25s ;
Links and Dumbell, 21s ; Silver, 3s 6d.
15c. Gold, 35s and £2.
Solid Gold Pearls and
Rubies, 10s ; 16c.
Gold, 16s.
Latest Style.
Gold Ring Turquoise
and Pearls, 16s.
As
9
LEADI3XTG ART JEWELLER,
815 & 817 George Street
/nearly opposite \
\Railway Station/?
SYDNEY.


fMs£Z233Sm
Tl
A
LL
FOR
THE
\nm
THE GREAT HAIR PRODUCER AND RESTORER .
The Finest Dressing, Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
Has the distinguished honour of being used in almost every Royal
Palace throughout the World.
ƒaf
Monsieur Philosophow is commanded by
HER MAJESTY
THE QUEEN OF GREECE
to forward cheque for the six bottles of
“ Harlene ” duly received.
H.B.H; Princess Marie of Greece wishes six bottles of Edwards’
“ Harlene ” for the Hair sent immediately.
Crown Prince's Palace , A tkens, Greece.
H B.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE writes: Messrs. Edwards’
Preparation, “ Harlene ” for the Hair, has given entire satisfaction.
H.R.H. The PUKE OF SPARTA
Marlene ” for the Hair sent by express parcel post.
Palace of Prince Royal, A them.
requires six bottles of Edwards’
H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHINLOHE
of “Harlene” for the Hair by return.
Etierhazy Uteza.,3o , Buda-Pest.
writes : Please send me three bottles
Canea, Crete.
H.R.H. PRINOE GEORGE of GREECE (.High. Commissioner of Crete)
writes: Please to forward three bottles ” for the Hair at once.
JL/., 2/6, and (3 times g/6 size), 46 per Bottle,
everywhere.
ELECTRIC
MINING
OP EVERY DESCRIPTION.
BROS*
31 O’Ccnnell-st., SYDNEY; and 15 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
“By Steele Ruckf.
Government Notices.
Public Works Department,
Sydney, Jan. 17, 1901.
CITY RAILWAY EXTENSION AND DEVONSHIRE
STREET, CEMETERY.
P having been determined to extend the City Railway
to Devonshire-street, notice is hereby given that in
all cases where application has been made to the Minister
of Justice, by the representatives of deceased persona
buried in the Devonshire-street Cemetery, and permission
obtained to exhume such bodies with the sanction of the
Cemetery Trustees within two months from this date, the
Department of Public Works will bear all reasonable
expenses incurred in the re-interment of such bodies m
such Cemetery as the'said representatives may desire.
The cost of removing and re-erecting all monuments,
stone-work, etc., now in a fair state of preservation, will
also be borne by the Government.
In the case of those bodies for which no applications
will have been received at the expiration of this notice,
exhumation will be carried out by the Government, and
re-interment effected at Rookwood Cemetery. _
Forms of application and other, information may be
obtained on .application to the Clerk in Charge of Bonds
and Contracts at this Department.
ROBERT HICKSON,
Under Secretary for Public Works and
Commissioner for Roads.
Public Notices. /
ghe federal gailiamentary flections.
TO THE ELECTORS OF VICTORIA.
Gentlemen.—
I have the honor to announce ray Candidature for
a seat in the Federal Senate, and to respectfully ask' to
cast in my favor one of the six votes whieh each elector
will have.
I am, Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
JAMES STYLES.
Business Announcements.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Vo. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of" the Colonies.
Directors —Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks,
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, » .
N. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiorb.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
'Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
0 RNRM6NTAL, HRS R-
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 3Qs each. English Hair
Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and .write for
any Information. Country Orders receive our prompt
and careful attention.
HAIRDRESSERS &. WIGWIAKERS.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in-Stock.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
New South Wales . . . \
Barbers’ Supply House >
680-2 Georgs-st.,
SYDNEY.
Publications.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature has not Riftedyou with words and manners that
win hearts, the Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will supply wc ait.
To love is to wish to possess. You can—the knowledge im-
parted! by this book unlocks the gate and you have; only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from tho time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for basbfulness, and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproduction#,*)! curious love
letters, and FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bitsrin prose ami poetry
that you can find daily use for. 2s. Gd. (stamps 2d. extra) will
brliv* you tho book by mail, post free, aiul incidentally hap*
piueas with one you love. Anolo-Ammhican Publishing Co.,
Waterloo Chambers, 4158 George-st., Sydney, N.S.W. Mention
this paper when writing.
TRIMS
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
d their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers: Turner find Henderson, SYDNEY,
“ The Best Book of Motor Hand Verse."
Maori land and Other Verses
By ARTHUR ADAMS. 69.
“ The Best Australian Book of Sea and Sailor Verse."
The Ways of Many Waters
By E. J. BRADY. ss.
“ The Best Australian Book of Short Stories.”
Castro’s Last Sacrament
By ALBERT DORRINGTON. 4s 6d.
“ The Jolliest Book Printed in Australia."
ON OUR SELECTION.
BY ARTHUR DAVIS. 6s.
Post Free from “ Bulletin” Off\ce.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses
Will Ogilvie has given what Victor Daley calls “ the
most charming book of verses yet issued in Aus-
tralia.” The second edition is considerably enlarged
and improved, and the publishers have been informed
by a happy lover that “it makes the beauiifulle-t
present.” The price is 4s. 6d. post free.
DA.PTO
(IjTMTTEI)Jj
(X.alse Illawarra),
near
SYDUBY
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
mm*
-r—
-m
H
WM
:
.
I
MAKERS OP
“ s. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ’ K
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
.. BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS' fiWSSP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Wbinbkbg. Manager, Tbe Smelting Company of Australia, Lt DAPTO, N.S. W. ;or Mabtut Plaok, SYDNEY.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
A Stats Drink Monopoly.
Interesting item from Engineering on the
Russian State Liquor Monopoly
Under the old methods, adulteration and raw spirit of
the coarsest kinds had been the’ rule ; under the new
regime,'nothing but properly rectified and pure alcohol
was to be sold. Another object in view was to encourage
agricultural distilleries, conauoted, of course, under pro-
per supervision ; the question of revenue to the State was
a matter of minor consideration. This very important
reform, established experimentally in 1895, became the
general law of Russia in 1897. The Govt, has no mono-
poly in production, but very strict regulations control-
ling the distilleries are enforced. The department work-
ing the monopoly purchases one-third of the quantity re-
quired, by public tender; the other two-thirds are
brought from local distillers. In this way the Russian
Govt, stands between the producer and the customer.
It no longer limits itself to placing a tax of 7 or 8
per cent, on alcohol; but it purchases all that is to be
consumed, refines it in its own works, and, by its agents,
stores it in its own warehouses, whence none is issued
without being labelled as to quantity, degree, and price.
The drinking bars that used to belong to private owners
are now entirely the property of the State ; or, rather,
the old bars have been done away with and Govt, bureaux
established in their place for the sale of alcohol in bottles
only, which must not be opened on the premises. All
possible discouragement is given to excessive consump-
tion. The Govt, price per litre is fixed at 3 francs 92
centimes ; this price is supposed to suffice for paying the
2 francs 13 centimes excise duty no longer collected, in-
cluding all expenses, and the compensation allowed to
towns and provinces for the losses they sustained when
the change was made, and licences suppressed, on which
the local governments levied taxes. No compensation
was allowed to spirit merchants or bar-keepers.
When the State can refine the liquor itself there
is no reason why it should not go a step further and
make the liquor itself—be the maker, the whole-
sale and retail dealer; the whole show, in fact.
Then it could absolutely prohibit importation,
and £1,800,000 a year that now goes out of Aus-
tralia would remain in it. As to the quality, any-
body who hints that the Australian, a man of
British descent and a part of the great British
empire, can’t make as good brandy or wine or
whisky as the German, Spaniard, Frenchman or
. Hollander is a traitor to the Empire and to the
Anglo-Saxon race, and a degraded pro-Boer.
Anyhow if the Australian can’t make good liquor
it is poetic justice that he should drink the liquor
he can make until he learns how to make better.
Every nation gets as bad law as it deserves, and
as bad liquor as it deserves.
Our “Natural Industries.”
The Australian agriculturist contrives, if he has
reasonable luck, to drag about 6J bushels of wheat
per acre off the face of this dreadfully dry land—
much less than half the European average and
less than the average of every other wheat-grow-
ing country in the world. Even Greece, the most
awful country in Europe, where Demetrius
Phriedphish raises.a scanty crop on the graves of
the immortal dead, shows up better than Aus-
tralia in this respect. Yet the Foreign-trade
economist preaches that Australia should stick to
its “natural industries’’—said to be agriculture
under the above conditions, and the growing of
stock, which at this moment are perishing by
hundreds of thousands on the backblocks plains
from thirst and other miseries—and shouldn’t
strive to artificially establish manufactures.
Rats! Manufactures are as natural here
as anywhere else, provided they get the same
chance to establish themselves as other coun-
tries afford them. It is agricultural and pastoral
industries that are wholly unnatural so far
as nine-tenths of Australia are concerned. They
are kept alive in many places by the building of
unprofitable railways out of loan funds, by the
making of roads with loan funds, by remissions of
rent, by aid in the shape of seed-wheat, by special
and wholly unpayable rates for the carriage of
starving stock, by the construction of dams out of
loan funds, and by the money which the pastoral-
ists and agriculturists borrowed in better days
from Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., the N.Z. Loan
and Mercantile Agency and the banks —to the
great undoing of those institutions. Continental
Australia is the most barren white man’s country
in the world, bar Iceland, and it must needs have
artificial industries or else 90 per cent, of it must
do without any industries at all. It is about time
to give up talking about relying on natural indus-
tries and realise that this is mostly an unnatural
country, seemingly constructed by the devil in
one of his 'humorous moods, which has got to
reach out with all its claws for every means of
support it can get.
From “Coxa”:
The Anti-Consumption League recently formed in
Canada is an important step towards stamping out what
Dr. Murchison calls “ the only disease which is at present
likely to exterminate the human race.” Briefly put, its
objects are : —The establishment of rural sanatoria in
early eases ; the backing up of these by more isolated
sanatoria for more advanced (and hence more dangerous)
cases ; and the establishment of a system of notification
of tubercular disease, as in the case of scarlet-fever, &c.
Since the spread of consumption is mainly due to the in-
fection of the healthy from the dried discharges of the
diseased, and since the Australian percentage of deaths
from it is so alarmingly high, even a M.P. can scarcely be
excused for not taking an active interest in its suppres-
sion. The initial expense is very small comparatively
speaking—the Federation champagne account would
build half-a-dozen of such sanatoria—and a visit to any
hospital will show the urgent necessity for early action.
Now when the Glorious Australian ' Confederation is
Bursting into Being (see small hand-bills) there is a fine
chance for some able-bodied public man to say “ Con-
sumption ! ” in a very loud voice, and to keep on saying
it. Such a man would have a far better chance of hand-
ing down a name to future generations than the raucous
individual who maunders of “Glory” in a champagne-
sodden voice and sacks a returned warrior as soon as the
enthusiasm is over. In this writer’s blasphemous opinion
one such sanatorium is worth a dray-load of Dukes of
York.


The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
it!
Before booking- your Steamship
passage, write . for Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing List with map’
THOS. COOK & SON,
69 Collins-st., Melbourne;
4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
af
<3-0 TO HELI.-
« IUOLANIJ for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real (rood stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, prioe-
lists gratis.
HATS. HATS. HATS.
Mountcastle & QuaitJs
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes iittedi with this
* j valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
DR. MACKENZIES
ARSENICAL SOAP
for a pearly skin and brilliant
Complexion. Chemists sell it.
NOTHING ELSE LIKE IT.
Used by the Elite of English
Society. S. Harvey, Limtd.,
London Bridge S.E.
DR. MACKENZIES
ARSENICAL SOAP
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTCR BRAPL€y * CO.,
I' urniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
%gT" Stiles Held at the Auction Itooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
HIGH-GRADE
FARM—-
A
r
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd.
35 BROADWAY,
George-strect West, Bydney.
POLITICAL
POINS
Postmaster Forrest—where’s the blunder ?
A wooden one is no such wonder.
—Swift.
Argus was a mythological personage who
had a hundred eyes and could only see dimly out
of one.— Ancient belief, revised.
“The proud Oak resists the winds, is up-
rooted, and dies. The humble Reid bows to every
breeze, and lives.”— Hans Andersen.
When Dickson was defeated last year the
reason was not clear on the surface. To a close
friend who inquired why, Dickson replied : “Be-
oause I could not give away 32 portfolios.” Al-
ready Philp wears a worried look.
Ministers of the Crown who sent broad-
oast through the Federal electorates for which
they have notified their intention to stand invita-
tions to that special Sydney spread deserve to be
“ dealt with ” by theelectors.
“ The War Office announces that it hopes
to raise a fresh force of 10,000 mounted troops in
Australia,” says a recent cable. Australia has only
herself to blame if the horseleech’s daughter proves
insatiable. The War Office doesn’t directly ask
for the 10,000 men—it gets the daily press to
feel the way.
It was indeed a beautiful sight of late to
see Barlow and Morehead rise in Q. Leg. Council
to denounce the crooked Toryism and democratic
backslidings, not of the ancient fossils indigenous
to that venerable Chamber—but of that erstwhile
champion of purity, progress and independence—
J. G. Drake !
The real Freetraders won’t stand G, H.
Reid. M’Millan doesn’t roughly criticise Barton,
nor does Bruce Smith. And as Wise more or less
approves of Barton’s Ministerial forecast, Sydney
D.T., in its list of Federal candidates, doesn’t set
down B.R.W. as either a Protectionist or a
Revenue-tariffist, but leaves him untagged.
W. M‘Millan, prospective candidate for
Federal honors, is showing the wisdom of the
political serpent in directing, in the export branch
of the M‘Arthur and Co. business, that rates of
pay to day-workers shall be even better than those
of the O’Sullivan, 7s. But when will he equally
consider a minimum wage for puny knights of the
yardstick ?
Colonel Kenneth Mackay has wired from
Capetown that he proposes to do N.S.W. the
honor to represent it in the Federal Senate, and
will, if elected, “at once, on receipt of a cable to
that effect, sail for N.S.W.” Now, as Col. Mac-
kay is in a staff-billet at Capetown, and almost
certainly in receipt of British army pay, how can
he —while thus “bolding an office of profit under
the Crown be eligible for election to the Federal
Senate ?
The hat is
being vigorously
circulated for
N.S.W. Works
Minister O’Sul-
livan. The Min-
ister presumably
knows it (it has
been mentioned
in the press) and
raises no public
objection. The
proposal is to
collect as much
money as will
purchase a sub-
urban residence
for Mr. O’Sul-
livan. No man,
while Minister
of the Crown,
should, even by
silence, sanction
such a proceed-
ing. The O’Sul-
livan, as Minis-
ter for Works,
has it in his
power to confer
favors innumer-
able. The people
soliciting his in-
terest are like
claimants in a
court. If the
people in court
sent round the
hat to buy a
house for the
Judge on the
Bench, what
would the Judge
say ? Mr. O’Sullivan should at least restrain his
admirers until he loses his billet. And when that
time comes he will find that nobody wishes to
buy him a house; they will want to buy a house
for the new man. The world worships the risen
sun and greases the fatted swine.
The election for the vacancy in S.A. Leg.
Council, caused by Kingston’s resignation, takes
place early m Feb. Candidates are J. L. Parsons
(Ass. nominee), whom Kingston beat last year,
and W. A. Robinson, a Labor-leader. The con-
test will be fought out on the Suffrage question,
and the Democrats hope to begin the campaign
with a speech by Kingston.
Eden George, the Sydney Federal Senate
candidate, who proposes to give every ancient
inhabitant a pension of 30s. per week regardless
of cost (the bill would be something like
£8,000,000 a year) is pushing things for all they
are worth, and unless somebody rises up who is
in favour of giving every ancient inhabitant a
pension of 60s. a week he should get in.
S.A. Premier Holder to a Register re-
porter on his exclusion from Barton’s Ministry :
My claims were such that, if I had pressed them as
some others did theirs, I should doubtless have been in-
cluded, but I preferred not to sacrifice my self-respect.
Holder's self-respect ? The elastic shadow has
been in office in S.A. Protectionist Ministries for
nearly seven years, although an even more pro-
nounced Freetrader than Reid, and is now clearly
disgusted because he wasn’t invited to join Barton’s
Protectionist Ministry. Holder’s self-respect!
Announceda fewdaysago thatßeid reckons
Barton’s promise to tackle the question of a
railway to Perth is merely a political trick
intended to influence the Westralian vote.
Of course if Barton had opposed the trans-
continental line Reid would have been of
opinion that Westralia was being meanly sacri-
ficed to the interests of Victoria. Latest news
is that Reid is rather indignant at the weakness
of Barton in not being more anxious than he is to
get the transcontinental line. The Yes-No habit
seems incurable.
When George Reid takes to shovelling
figures about he shovels manfully. In his latest
Freetrade speech, as reported by Hobart Mercury,
he said that, owing to the horrors of Protection,
90 per cent, of the U.S. industries were controlled
by trusts with a capital of five hundred thousand
millions of dollars—rather over a hundred thou-
sand million pounds. At that rate the capital of
the trusts is just about equal to all the wealth in
the world—every kind of property reckoned in !
Reid evidently isn’t the man who would see a
deserving fellow-creature stuck for want of a
billion or two.
The(contemplated)appointmentof N.S. W.
Lands Minister Hassall as commercial agent for
that State in London would be a shrieking farce,
to say nothing of a most disgraceful job. The
, Minister would, no doubt, do his best, and it would
be well enough to send him ’Ome as a fine speci-
men of a Cornstalk, or as a crack Australian whip',
but as a commercial agent—ye gods ! Where did
Mr. Hassall get his commercial training or ex-
perience, and when was his name ever heard in
commercial circles, except when he threatened to
go to South Africa and shake cows from the Boers
—cows being articles of commerce ?
A very premature gentleman, Frank Cot-
ton, one-time M.L.A., writes to the Sydney
papers to say that the Federal Protectionist
tariff will probably give N.S.W. £1,000,000 of sur-
plus revenue (all dragged from the suffering people
by the operation of a nefarious fiscal system), and
proposes that the money be applied to reduce rail-
way rates. There is no need for Mr. Cotton to
trouble himself. In 1894, under Dibbs’ Protec-
tionist tariff, N.S.W. only raised £722,000 more
customs revenue than it did in 1899, so, with bor-
der duties abolished, there isn’t likely to be any-
thing lik-j £500,000 surplus under the Federal
A NATURAL QUESTION.
PRESIDING BEAK (to prisoner, rather deaf): “Did you. hear all that witness
just said?”
PRISONER: “No, your worship. ”
ARRESTING CONSTABLE : "Then fwhat part of it, me mahn, didn't yez hear?”
tariff. And in 1899 N.S.W. had to use £849,000
of loan money for. revenue purposes to keep up
even a pretence of being solvent, so all the pros-
pective surplus that is available to reduce railway
rates wouldn’t buj a bit of cats-meat for Reid's
Dry Dog.
OH, GLORY!
SHE: “ Many girls, no doubt, like their admirers
to be hesitating and timorous, but SOME of
us prefer to be taken by storm.”
He. “Good gracious! Surely you haven't read
‘ The Christian ’ ? ”
Victorian democrats now have a fine
chance of reckoning with members of the Leg.
Council in that State. Several of the sprays
of that corrupt fungus growth are offering them-
selves for the Federal Senate. It should be a
rule with conscientious democrats to vote against
every Leg. Councillor who offers himself. There
is a danger that David Syme will put on the Age
list one or two of the Fatmen who are personal
friends of his own, as he did with those absurd
persons, Simon Fraser and Zeal, at the'Convention
elections. These also should be solidly voted down.
“No Leg. Councillors need apply ” is a good rule
for Victorians.
Premier Phil p says that a line from North
Queensland to Victoria River, Northern Terri-
tory, would make the distance to England shorter
than the cross-Australia line to Perth. Possibly
it would, but then what is wanted isn’t to shorten
the distance to England, but to link the Austra-
lian States with each other, and make this con-
tinent commercially as well as politically united.
Even if Philp’s line made England three weeks
nearer than the line to Perth, or even if Philp’s
line was so short that it brought England right
out here and dropped it in Queen-street, Bris-
bane, that has no more to do with the case than a
Dutch cheese has with Jupiter.
Isaacs decides to.quit VictorhufState poli-
tics and enter the Federal Parliament, and Pea-
cock is to be the next State Premier of Victoria.
The N.S.W. State Premiership remains unsettled.
Lyne hangs on to both billets with both hands
and all his teeth and feet, and, though it is
understood that John See will be his successor,
nothing is decided. Also, rumor has it that the
leadership of the Opposition lies between Joe
Cook and Sunday Brunker. Cook has never
been tried as a leader, but Brunker has, and
Cook’s appointment should be a certainty. The
fact of Brunker being the other candidate should
make anybody’s appointment a certainty.
Perth (W. A.) City Council took a referen-
dum lately on the question of a municipal lighting
system, or the giving away of the gas or electric
monopoly to a private syndicate. The syndicate
won by a huge majority. As nearly every valu-
able concession in Westralia has already been sold
or given away to foreign syndicates, or foreign
syndicates have been paid to take it as if it was
he week’s ashes that wanted removal, this de-
cision was just as well. It makes things sym-
metrical, so to speak, and rounds them off nicely.
When a country has gone on such a stupendous
drunk that it has seen every possible snake save
one, it is almost a pity not to see that last snake
also.
When The Bulletin hears the doctrine
that to truly represent the proletariat a man must
be a rough customer and have corns on his hands,
it always thinks of the charming manners and
the delicate fingers of Hori Grey, and wonders
whether the corny party (which rejected Higin-
botham for Bent) would do the same again were
the great democrat alive. The Labor people deny
that they are going to ask Higgins to stand for
Northern Melbourne. They intend to nominate
a “ purely labor ” candidate. Why this distinc-
tion between Democracy and Labor ? No man in
Victoria has proved himself a more thorough
democrat than Higgins; and if the Laborists
reject him they deserve to be represented by Sar-
good ! It is such actions as those attributed to
Labor in this N. Melb. matter which deprive it of
the enthusiastic assistance of many a brainy
scholar who, however whole-hearted, has still to
earn his bread.
Provincialism dies hard. Eve*
so consistent a federalist as Brad do*
urged at the Reid public meeting at
Launceston (Tas.) as a r eason why his
hearers should lend their support to
anti-Barton candidates, that if G. H.
Reid had been the first Federal Pre-
mier, he would have taken care that
Tasmania would have had a paid re-
presentative in the Cabinet. Yet it
was Reid and party who so deeply
resented Tasmania” and her sister
mall states being granted equal re-
presentation in the Senate, and it is
Reid himself who takes all the credit
(in N.S.W.) of having secured, the
alteration in the “joint - sitting ”
deadlock clauses which are so greatly
to the disadvantage of the smaller
states. The idea of posing in his
own province as the protector of
N.S.W. from the rapacity of the
Southern states, and touring the
Southern states as their particular
friend against the demands of the
larger ones, is one that could only
be carried out successfully by Yes-No
Reid.
The excited cry of that wor-
ried Freetrade organ, Launceston
(Tas.) Examiner : *
What we wish to impress on the pro-
ducers is this : An export trade must be
built up if Tasmania is to flourish.
There is no special objection to this
theory. A curious side issue, how-
ever, is that Tasmania, though it
has the smallest export trade in Aus-
tralasia, still exports twice as much
per inhabitant as Britain does. Also,
Tasmania’s exports have almost doubled since
1895, while Britain’s have remained stationary.
Yet the same Freetrade paper perpetually urges
Tasmania to give up Protection, under which it
has achieved these results, and adopt Britain’s
principles of Freetrade in order that it may emu-
late Britain in the matter of commerce. If Tas-
mania ever does that it will have to emulate back-
wards.
Maoriland’s new Compensation-for-Acci-
dents Act will have far-reaching effects. If a
workman is injured or killed by any accident not
caused through his own fault, he or his family
will have a claim up to three years’ wages against
not merely the employer and the landowner, but
the land where the accident happened. This
claim has priority even over a mortgage. The
result will be a very wide extension of accident-
insurance. The Govt, contemplates establishing
a State Accident Insurance department, and it
can’t be too quick about it or private co.’s will
annex the business. Lawyers are meanwhile
drafting fresh clauses to protect the mortgagee
as far as possible.
Seeing that the Australasian Old Age
Pension laws all insist that the 10s.-per-week pen-
sioner shall live and s,:end his little income in the
state which pays that income—how about apply-
ing the same rule to all pensioners? The man
with 10s. a week isn’t likely to take a saloon pas-
sage for London, and cab it on landing to the
Hotel Cecil, so the precaution in his case seems
almost needless, but in the other fellow’s case it is
very essential indeed. Victoria in particular has
a gorgeous list of rich pensioners, some of whom
it has been maintaining in London for 30 years or
so. It is almost time these people came out and
were identified again, if only to make sure that
the real pensioner isn’t dead and some bogus indi-
vidual collecting the money.
“ Yia ” : lie Dr. Ahearne’s White versus
Black in N.Q. It is as well to remember that
thousands of white men sweat in the depths of the
earth at Charters Towers, Croydon, Georgetown
and other fields, with the thermometer in the 90’s
most of the time (some in wet shafts 2000 ft. deep),
and that is worse than any cane-fields. A fair
proportion of these men are Australians of the
first and second generation, and where could be
found a tougher or hardier crowd ? They will
shift a load of quartz or a pint of beer with any
man on earth. Their troubles about the climate
so long as “she” looks well and the ghost walks
regularly. Boiled down, Dr. Ahearne’s argument
seems to be chiefly : White wages against Black
pittance, and the doctor is an avowed black-labor
man.
Maoriland Chief Justice Stout generously
suggests a solution of the difficulty in S’Africa :
In the laudable anxiety to help the Empire in the
South African trouble, I am surprised that no suggestion
has been made by the colonies, say, of Queensland and
New South Wales, which have vast tracts of land and a
climate similar to that of South Africa, to take some
thousands of Boers as settlers, and give them land and
all the privileges of colonists. This would prove to the
Boers that there was no ill-will against them, and it
would help, perhaps, in a solution of the South African
trouble,
How truly noble! The Boer, we have
been told 20,000 times, is fifteen kinds of a
dirty hog, a foe to civilisation, a waster,
a murderer, a bandit, and a treacherous cur.
Also, his domestic relations are unspeakable.
But, despite all these things, Australia
should take him to her bosom, and call him
brother, just to prove that John Bull, in shooting
down his father and his son, pillaging his land and
burning his homeland turning out his wife and
children on to the cold veldt, was prompted by
the kindliest motives, and now, after stripping
him, and driving him forth a pariah, entertains no
ill-will against him. Superb benevolence ! “We
seek no goldfields,” said Salisbury ; yet we grab
the Boer’s golden land in Africa and offer him a
few barren acres in Australia and call it square,
and there is peace on earth, and good-will towards
men.


A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
VITADATIO
The Great Herbal Blood Kemedy.
Black Bock, South Australia,
June 16, 1899.
Hr. S. A. Palmer.
Dear Sir,—My daughter has suffered for years with
Eczema in its very worst form, caused through poorness
of blood.
We have tried several doctors and all kinds of patent
medicines, and although some of the medicines gave relief
none of them cured her.
Then we heard of your wonderful Vitadatio through
the Rev. G. B. Bees, late of Melbourne, so my daughter
commenced taking Vitadatio about a month ago, and has
already received great benefit.
She looks very much better, and has lost the tired,
weary feeling which she almost habitually had.
She is now taking the third bottle, and I hope by the
time she takes three more the Eczema will be quite gone.
—Yours faithfully,
(Signed) SARAH CRAM.
(Mrs. D. F. Oram.)
For further particulars,
S . A. PALMER ,
184 JPitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
af
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
a
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for ail Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
MILES AHEAD OF ALL OTHERS
. Are America’s Representative Typewriters .
V- -
m
The yost ,
,
, (|eu) Century
Why Search Elsewhere ?
WE Alone can Offer Ton
a Choice.
WE WILL ADVISE YOU WHICH IS BEST FOR YOUR WORK.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue— Freb.
UNITED TYPEWRITER & SUPPLIES CO. O-arcest dealers m AUSTRALIA)
114 Pitt-st., SYDNEY ; 362 Collins-st., MELBOURNE ; Barrack-st., PERTH.
Webster & Co., Brisbane ; Reeves & Co., Adelaide ; Hedley Button, Launceston and Hobart.
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Belt;
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other bod}' appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
VIS °To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memoiy, Dys-
oentic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
h THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
V
OATX, OR WRITE
OWL
CUT
RATE
DRUG STORE,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
f
A PENNY SAVED
IS A PENNY GAINED
And the same applies to the many Pounds that the
NATIONAL
CASH REGISTERS
Would Save tor You.
5]
D
Built Like a Watch
and accurately adjusted in every
detail is the . . .
NATIONAL
CASH
REGISTER
which carries with it a 2 Years’
Guarantee, showing we have
faith in the workmanship of our
machines.
Natiooal CaSl) Register C°
335 Pitt Street, Sydney.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
~ "m /
r l
V
Cyclists
can
climb
hills
far
easier
when
riding
The
Only
Way
ensure
Comfortable
and
Easy
Cycling
is
by
riding
DuNifiP TYres
First in 1888.
Foremost ever since.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of A us. Ltd.,
150 Clarence Street, Sydney
AND AT
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
Barton on the telephone (to Holder) :
“Hello! Are you there ? ” Holder (mournfully):
“ Hell-o ! I ain’t.”
Every National Protectionist should get a
copy of The Bulletin’s “A Policy for the
Commonwealth.” Price 6d. at Bulletin Office ;
posted to any address in Australasia for Bd. in
stamps of any State.
Righteous Wrixon, pseudo expert on the
Commonwealth Bill, opponent of Woman Suffrage
and hair-splitter in general for Vic. Leg. Council,
asked permission to address Melb. Trades
Hall Council on the Federal Constitution. That
body, remembering the ennobbled lawyer’s past
services to the cause of progress and democracy
and mindful of the approaching elections and the
kudos to be obtained by Trades’ Hall influence,
promptly administered a severe snub, declining
his offer with thanks. Individual members treated
Wrixon’s pretensions with contempt, and one
satirical unionist wanted the Council to inform
him “that it would be injudicious on the part of
this Council to permit him to lecture before it
prior to the Federal elections, lest the contamin-
ation of the Trades’ Hall Council injure his chance
of return to the Federal Parliament.” Which was
areally choice jibe to fling at the theorising lawyer.
“ Shellback ” to The Bulletin
Re “ H.8.T.” (B. 29/12/’00) on the Campania-Emberton
collision. The sailing-ship-master doesn’t always slow-
down,-any more than the steamboat man, so that some-
times it is the steamer that comes to grief. Last year
the sailing ship Cromartyshire ran into and sank the
French liner La Bourgogne, and about 25 years ago, near
the same spot, the sailing ship Loch Earn ran into and
sank the French mail steamer Ville du Havre, which sank
in XO.nin., the Loch Earn herself foundering about a week
later through the collapse of the forward bulkhead under
Cressure of the water admitted through her damaged
ows. Writer once went from London to Glasgow in a
1600-ton sailing ship, and when Land’s End was rounded,
we had a slashing breeze on the quarter, likewise a fog as
thick as a hedge ; but, instead of shortening down to
lower-topsails, the old man clapped the top-gallants on
her, and we tore along, 13 knots, right up to Ailsa Craig.
Now, as the Irish Channel is thick with ships crossing
and re-crossing, it was sheer luck that we didn’t crash
into something. If we had— ! Fact is, the “ wind-
jammer ” captain likes to drive ahead—fog or no fog—as
well as the steam-pot skipper, and is even more ready to
take all chances.
Joe Chamberlain evidently has his little
string through the gills of J. Quick. Knight
Quick is indeed most ’umble. He tells that when
offered the bauble he was “startled,” and asked
Waxcelleiiey Madden’s advice —
Asked whether it were not possible for some honor less
exalted and less dignified to be conferred upon me. His
Excellency replied that Her Majesty was the best judge
as to what honor should be conferred. (Loud applause.)
He further said that no citizen of this country should
hesitate to accept any honor conferred upon him by the
Queen, in accordance with the law and constitution.
[Madden’s own tail is in that trap.] That decided me,
and I rejoice that I accepted it. I felt that had I not I
would have been rejecting a jewel of great price, and
although some may entertain lingering thought that the
honor is too great for the man—-(cries of “No ”) —still my
reply is, the Queen is the best judge.
That’s so, by Jingo. The Queen knows the right
bottle to dose the Quicks from. But lest Quick’s
nervous system should crack under the “exalta-
tion” and “dignity” of his gewgaw, let him never
forget that he is now brudder belongah Bingey
Bengy and allesame Matt. Davies.
“ Chamberlain made the war, and his
family the ammunition.” — Dundee Advertiser.
Stated that recruiting in the British
Islands is almost at a standstill, and that 15,000
time-expired soldiers are being kept with their
regiments, because the drain to S’Africa prevents
the usual annual drafts being, sent out to relieve
them. Looks as if the whole armv-mechanism
has been thrown out of gear by the S’African war.
Another big batch of Asiatics recently
arrived in Melbourne per Darius. All over Aus-
tralia the Indians and Syrians are pouring in, and
in every hamlet the yellowish man slinks around
with his big bundle of trumpery, and his greasy
hair, and his oily smile. Premier Barton has
promised that the exclusion of Asiatics shall be
part of the Federal policy for certain, and Aus-
tralia had better chain that promise firmly by its
tail to a post to make sure it doesn’t get away.
TO CURE SORE EYES,
Apply Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment, and
avoid intense suffering. Never be without it.
O ver 50 years in use. Ref use all substitutes. Pots,
2s. Sold everywhere.
An ex-M'.P. named Johnson agitates for a
change in the name of' South Australia, and
suggests Adelaide as the name of the State
as well as the capital. Johnson, by the way,
suggests that “ N.S. Wales” be. changed
to Kingsland in anticipation of Albert Edward’s
early accession. Apropos, from London an appa-
rent crank sends The Bulletin— boldly inscribed
in French upon a post-card—the announcement
that ‘ ‘ The great Queen, whose luminous shadow
encompasses the earth, will sleep suddenly with
her ancestors on either the 14th or 28th December
next—days and numbers fatal to her family.”


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon aU -dasses -of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
&
BILLS
discounted.
axr.s,-w.
f|)ont depiete I.Co.,Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Established 1879.
THE “ ~
United Australian mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital .. 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Brucf. Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4,800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23, 4/’oo'i .. £3.196,353 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : 0. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager : Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishop agate Street Within
corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
SOUTH wales:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
The gank of ||ortli flu eenoland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... ... *700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 000
£350,000
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
[jeui Zealand Insurance jjo.
FIRE and MARINE.
PAPTTAL • • • • • - £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
s. A
81 p jt t St., Sydney.
Shipping.
The HOWARD smith line.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Friday, Jan. 25,5 p.m.
Tyrian, Friday, Feb. 1, 6 p.m.
ADELAIDE .
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Ear Ty.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Saturday, Jan. 26,12 Noon
-Burwah, Tuesday, Jan. 29, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Feb. 2, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Saturday, Jan. 26,12N00n
Leura, Saturday, Feb. 2, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Building-s, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Jbe Trustees, €*€cCitorS,
AND
BgeiKV Conjpaoy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... 16,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£2,500,000
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO. on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
T siLYER WATCH
FOR NOTHING.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR. 1500.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF OUR
vv FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the Correct Reading of the follow-
ing puzzle :
TR*TH *ND J*ST*CE C* H*ND *N
H*ND W*TH D*TY.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct you
purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to wear
with the watch.
SEND NO MONEY ; simply forward your answer, and
enclose stamped and addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you ii you have won the watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of intro-
ducing and advertising our goods.
Mr. F. Hughes, Lidsdale, N.S.W., writes : “ I received
the watch quite safely, and am very well pleased with it.
I thank you very much.”
Address— THE MANAGER,
ENGLISH WATCH & JEWELLERY COY.,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MASON'S EXTRACT
OF HERBS.
NO OTHER EXTRACT MAKES
BEER
LIKE IT.
The Best of all
Beverages and
the Cheapest.
NON-
INTOXICATING,
DELICIOUS,
WHOLESOME.
af
Agents :
GOLLIN & CO., Sydney and Melbourne.
NEWBALL & MASON,
NOTTINGHAM,
ENGLAND.
HOW TO
SAFELY
CURETHE
LIQUOR
HABIT,
A PAMPHLET with thousands
of Testimonials from Clergymen,
Physicians, Merchants, and all
classesdes-C* lr .*. ?lC x 7 will be
criptive of sent
gratis and post free. This is the
only remedy which can be used
SECRETLY at home with cer-
tainty of success. Address —The
EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismat, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Callina at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz.:—
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about 27th January.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
MEDIC, RUNIC, SUEVIC and AFRIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
' consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout.
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell-st., Sydney, and Watt-st., Newcastle.
TO GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE,
via AMERICA.
A. AND A. LINE.
TO ENGLAND IN 30 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE,
BY THREE MAGNIFICENT NEW TWIN-SCREW
STEAMSHIPS,
EACH OF 6000 TONS AND 8000 HORSE-POWER.
BUILT EXPRESSLY FOR THE SERVICE BY THE
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF
SAN FRANCISCO.
The steamersof this line leave Sydney and Auckland for
Tutuila (Samoa), Honolulu, and San Francisco every
three weeks, as under: —
Arrive
’Frisco.
Feb. 25
March 18
April 8
Passengers booked to all the principal parts of
EUROPE, UNITED STATES and CANADA
AT LOWEST FARES.
Passengers are booked through to San Francisco, Liver-
pool, London and chief cities of the Continent of Europe,
with special advantages, and have choice of the unrivalled
Atlantic Steamship Lines of the American, Cunard, In-
man, White Star, and other Companies, according to fare.
Full particulars, Illustrated Guide Maps, etc., gratis on
application to
UNION STAMSHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.,
Equitable Building, George-street, nextG.P.O.
UXT. 33. L.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEEI.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000 ; Over 3f million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
Leaving Melbourne Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE via QUEENSLAND, NEW BRITAIN,
NEW GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
STETTIN | 2478 |J. Niedermeyer | Feb. 20 | Singapore
TO QUEENSLAND, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
YAP, SHANGHAI, and HIOGO or YOKOHAMA.
MUNCHEN | 4636 |H. Krebs ... | April 3 | Japan.
And regularly thereafter every six weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOIIMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street,
Sydney.
Business Announcements.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Bed;,
Cheapest, and Most StiIish.CLOTHING in Australia.
STUART&OO.
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
252 & 251 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 p'eces of Woollens to select from.
r
Our Suit to order at 425. is
marvellous value; made from
aU-wool Tweeds,Vicunas, or fast
color Serges; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
an y class tfin a' 'al, £3 3»- To
measure, cap*' Jfrousers, very
good 6d.
Dress Swits, to measure. £s®
Clerical Suits, to measure. £s*
Riding Breeches, 255.
Riding Habits, <fcc.
We supply ready-made. Men’s
'capital Tweed Suits. 21s. & 255.
f Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 255.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
gergerette Suits, 3Ps.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss, l id.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests 19s 6d.
Men’s Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19s. «d. VV ite Drill
Sacs and Trousers. 10s. fid.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, 12s Od.
Black and Grey Alapaca S. cs.
Os. 9d. White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9d., 4s 9d., ss. 6d.
Travelling Trunks, Ba.s and
Rugs in great variety
Men’s White Shirts, colored
front and cuffs. 2s 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. <kl.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket. 3s. gd. *
So t Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d., all
colors.
Hard Hats, 4s. fid. Caps. Is,
Merino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d,
Neckties, all shapes and colors,
Is.
White Shirts to measure. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
fis. 9d., 9s. <;d.
We like to write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for any
information. Our book, *' The Philosophy of Dress.” and
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement forms posted free.
Write for them.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
af
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole A gents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, <Sec.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(I'd MIT ED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOE MELBOURNE '
ADELAIDE
POET PI It IE’
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Woilowra, Saturday,
■ January 26. (Without
Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Rockton, Friday,
January 25.
Best and Cheapest Iloate to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A. U.S.N. Co. and VV. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
_ Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. IN. Coy. Ltd
royal mail coastal service.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despateh their Magnificent Steamships, as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, llackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS —Weekly
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
f£s5 EY ’ NEVV CALEDONIA, AND FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenf/er J cronmualalrmi, .-I ttend.*tnee ft ini
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
nrst port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
sunjeet to conditions to be ascertained on application.
Lor Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agerds, In Bridge-
Agencies at all Australasian Ports.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows •
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Steamer.
Commander.
Syd ney,
Noon
♦Calling at Hobart.
The Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON-Smi.de,' 13810 s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return 171 Ills to fe!2l
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
tralia, Exchange Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries If aritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELLOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including- table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydnev.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
jjuddart, parker § go’s Qine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND B.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. |Tns. Commander. ILeave Sydney
AIRLIE... -. 25005 t. John George .' January 29
AUSTRALIAN ... 3000 P. T. Helms .. JFebruary 16
GUTHRIE ... 2600 \V. G. M'Arthur ... March 16
EASTERN ... 3600 Winthrop Ellis April 4
The above steamers wen- specially' built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilhourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
m‘|luraith,fn‘Eachar«SC<>-
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'ilwraith, M‘Eacharn Sc Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
GENUINE REMEDIES
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc.
ALPALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long- standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ADFAXINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind. Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Wane of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAY FREE.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains ft vast fund
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
morous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful patrons,
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope
of the Alfa line
Remedies,
Sent Post, l'ree
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
life -%■
i
r
*-•
ms-
■ :
m
IMPORTANT
■ ■ ■ WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSmilSSeil,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVICE FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans R&SSnTUSSGII.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders— A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 68. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts;
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 03.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectua
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal ;\nd
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Hans peter Hassmussen
Head
Office
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
N.Z., WELLINGTON : i)l Lambton Quay.
PERTH: 181 Hay-street.
KALGOORLIE : Hannan-street (next Lindell’s),
BOULDER CITY : Piesse-street.
Eli EM A NTLE ; Henry-street.
The C. 1. V.’s nick - name throughout
S’Africa was “ Chamberlain’s Innocent Victims” !
As illustrating the difference on occasion
between “by” and “with.” From Australian
Star summary:—“An old man has been mur-
dered near Townsville (Q.), apparently by a toma-
hawk. ”
According to Biack and White Budget,
“on the West Australian coast ships are run high
and dry upon the beach, left there for weeks,
loaded with wool and other Australian produce,
and then, with the spring tides, towed off by the
tugs.” IsRougemont taking a turn again ?
“Scotty, W.” : He hansom cabs and
respectability in Melbourne. Having occasion to
change my lodgings, I shifted in a hansom, and
was refused admittance, my money for first week
being returned because, “We are respectable
people here, and will have no hansoms at our
door.”
“ P.” : The theoretical analogy between
good surgery and good carpentering (evident
enough if you think over it) is becoming more and
more capable of practical proof. A late develop-
ment (from Germany) consists in the open treat-
ment of fractures. Hitherto a “ simple ” fracture
has been splinted-up, and every precaution taken
to avoid its becoming “compound”— i.e., with a
wound leading to the seat of the break. But now
with magnificent confidence in aseptic methods,
one Steinbach proceeds to “ fish ” the broken
bone. Cutting down on the break he adjusts the
ends and fits on a silver plate with four screw-
holes. This he screws firmly on, splints the limb
lightly, and all possibility of union-delaying
movement between the broken ends is gone. The
skin is sutured together and aseptic dressings put
on. If necessary the silver plate is easily removed
after the bone has united. As yet only the shin-
bone has been thus treated, but the principle
seems good enough to apply to other bones lying
more deeply, provided that the aseptic conditions ;
of the operation can be relied on.
HAVE YOU
A BAB LEG
mlnnS 0 ™! 3 '.'“i Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
w ' th inflammation and swollen that when you
shni finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
the remlrn’ Ullder , the **'» you have poison that defies all
never t aye tried, which, if not extracted, you
™ pm Tet,b " KO on suffering till death releases
«? yum ' !‘l’ ecs are swollen, the joints being
m.nvhirnJ’f sam ? Wlt, i tile ankles, round which the skin
han™« L“ ™ r r’ ° l ' th .eee ma ? be wounds ; the disease
walk • Von l m»^l ,nne « lU flepnvc you of the power to
medical! ,SvW y n V l a tf ' l V < ;' < ) varlous hospitals and had
med'cal advice, and been told your cnc is hopeless or
CURhVnn 11 ’’? 11 ] 1 l< > ainputatioi) ; but do not, for I CAN
othfrshavc " 1 Say P evha P s i but I WILL. Because
Send at once for ”° rCaS °" f ° r " 0t now being "'red.
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
remed y for the cure of Bad Legs,
" e “ d 8 Krl “ e ’ Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
ml n; a ) Ura li Ur i;- Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
vc Prf;„ and -Rruflworm. Of all Chemists, Stores
‘vtßPßm’ I V }r !& l ? r " a , ,n ’ Vl * d - P« box. Prepared by
ALBERT, (3, iarrmgdon-strect, London, England
ooVfor^hS^? 1 ’ Syd ,‘ !cy , Purchasers should
0o «, ? v‘H eregl8 l??? d ™ d ~ !n iuk of ‘be Grasshopper on a
*” °u -ahnTbOx. Regd. copyright).
ƒ
fa
FRINGES,
Ktttural Curly, from 3/0 eacfc*
PLAITB and TAILS,
CtHn. lone, 5/0. all real bate.
CUTTINGS & COMBINSS
up, 2/0 per oz.
vVe are the eheapeStin Ao*,
lrt.lla far oil Hair Work
Send Color of Hair.
W. H. Wigz^ll;
IIOWIM.IAM STHBET,
eoroer of Palmer-atroat,
3?SY»NEY.
Coble Tram will stop at Door.
fà
Send stamps for full Price
fHOfepl at&ctifeiorfgiven to Country Or3«t&
Medical,
Dr. BoxweH’s PILLS.
VT ON-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEO-
TIVE. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert —Dr.
Boxwell having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
all leading Wholesale Druggists in Australia or Pill
Manufacturing Co., 539 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
* COMMON SENSE EAR DR UM.
IYHEI
SEAT
pOMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-dav for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
af
Is a restorative and physical regenerator of
magic power. A broken-down or weakened
system rejuvenated. Vytol acts on the
nerves, brain and blood, quickly and perman-
ently restoring to the sufferer the lost vim,
energy, strength and vigor of youth. Price posted 7/6.
A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street, North Melbourne.
Pamphlet, Testimonials, &c., sent Free.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
Medical.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYNE
Caution. —G enuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, bears on •
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
af
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which' is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,'we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
G-erman Electric Appliance Agency-
-63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
af
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin
Nasal Ointment, only
10/-
/ Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible Remedy,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
.
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
inventor of Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c.
use Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. ild. and 2s. gd. each of all Drue
Stores. s
Sole Makers: BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd.
BRIPPqbt, England.
Mrs. WALSH E’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
T'IIESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posted, ss. 6d. per
box. Write to A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street North,
Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-street, Prahran,
Melb. says: “ Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
diate relief, although I had during two months previous
tried all sorts of remedies without success.”
BEAT
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
(Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
* <
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne


It is just as easy to drift into danger as to drive
into it. The progress is slower, but the end is
equally sure. It is the gradual progress of drift-
ing which blinds the danger. Men and women
drift into ill-health in such a way. There is a
little feeling of oppression after eating. After a
time it passes away. Some day it returns, and
brings another symptom—headache, perhaps.
Something is done to relieve the headache, but
nothing to relieve the cause. So one more victim
goes drifting on to the rocks of disease, and, if not
checked, grows. The organs of digestion and
nutrition are totally deranged, and the one so
affected becomes a victim to disease of the
stomach. There is a medicine that cures, and
that one medicine is Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills; and when other so-called remedies fail, they
have cured thousands, and will cure you. Mrs.
S. Gardiner, of 70 Green-street, Richmond,
Victoria, writes:—“For many years I have
suffered from biliousness, sick headache, and
morning nausea, and for which complaints I have
tried many patent remedies, but all to no purpose.
About nine months ago I saw Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills advertised, and doubtfully gave them
a trial. After the first few doses the nausea fled,
and the headaches disappeared ; after taking one
bottle and a-half I felt quite well again. I may
also state that my son, aged eighteen, who has
suffered since childhood from urinary troubles,
has been taking the Pills, and he has derived more
benefit from their use than from any other remedy
he has tried. He was operated upon at one of our
public hospitals, but left it as bad as when he
entered. He intends to persevere with Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and if they do not cure
him permanently nothing else will.” Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood
purifier, and a positive cure for biliousness, in-
digestion, constipation, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
boils and blotches, and for female ailments. Bold
by chemists and storekeepers, Is. l|d. per bottle,
or six bottles 6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., (Australasian Depot)
58 Pitt-street, Sydney. Packed in amber bottles,
and the full name blown thereon.*
a 3sr rss'W'
E. Wtuvscii
af
Wnn the Brisbane One Mile Handicap at the N.S.W. Carnival in lmin. 58 2-ssecs.—Australasian
Competition Record. The speed and strength of the Massf.v is daily demonstrated.
Branches Everywhere. SYDNEY DEPOT s 385 GEORGE STREET. Easy Terms.
af
a
JEALOUS PEOPLE
Have to acknowledge that
RED BIRD BICYCLES
Are FAST and ABSOLUTELY RELIABLE.
Austral Wheel Kaces—lB96 and 1900—won on this machine. No better proof of Speed and Quality.
BRANCHES IN EVERT STATE. GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney.
The
Original
JOHN JAMESON WHISHT
Agents:
J. Barre Johnston & Co.,
Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Appearance of Doncaster and Sydney Cun
weights at Sydney Tatts., on Monday, induced Httl?
„ A a c u rsor y fdance over the lists reveals that
’ Se( l uenc e and Malster9.4,
Fulminate 9/The Watchdog 8.7, First Consul and Fides
8.2, Tam O Shanter 8, My Queen 7.13, Zero 7.12, Revenue
vVri Je " n / M<? ore and Bange 7.8, Allinga 7.7, Lady
Mostyn 7.5, Clifton 7.3, San Fran 7.2, Captain Towse and
Noble Lady 6.10—a1l have good chances. The best in the
Cup seem to be Merriwee 9, Malster 8.13, Lancaster 8.11,
01e a n Sweep 8.7, Ingliston 8.6, Blue Metal and Vocalist
8.3, Nevermore 7.12, Flodden 7.11, Cyanide 7.9, Kulaui
I‘Tn /l . ?* P° r^an( i 7. Barbarossa, Eulongand San Fran
6.12, Gnzzle 6.10, and Hi Hi 6.9.
* * * *
Doncaster and Sydney Cup and Newmarket
and Australian Cup weights appeared simultaneously in
Tuesday’s papers. The different estimates that Victorian
and A.J.O. handicappers apparently have of the various
nags’ relative capalilities are interesting. In Sydney
Cup, M.L. crack Advance gives La Carabine lib., while
tis the other way about with a big difference in Aus-
tralian Cup, for La Carabine has 61b. more to carry than
Advance. Paul Pry’s load is 61b. heavier in the Vic. than
in the Sydney event. The V.R.C. allotter only sees a
difference of 21b. between Malster and Clean Sweep, but
the A.J.O. man’s view of it is 61b. Australian has 101 b.,
Fides 81b., Oarline, Ruskin and Wild Heath 71b., Massi-
nissa and Sapir 61b., Bobadil, Coralie, The Watch Dog,
Fortune Teller, Sagacity, Debenture, Tam O’Shanter and
Henley 51b., and Cornquisb, Roscommon, Bange, Isa and
High Jinks 41b. more in the Newmarket Handicap than
in the Doncaster Handicap, while Private Willis is 31b.
and Advance, The Chief, and First Mate 21b. better off in
the former than the latter. Ranfurly, Dandy, Warrior
11., Peppercorn and Iron Hoop are among the few cases
wherein the two handicappers agree. Sixteen prads have
impressed the Victorian more than the N.S. Walesman.
Paul Pry and Fleet Admiral are up to the extent of 61b. ;
George Frederick and Carolina, 51b. ; La Carabine, War
God, Mitre, and Barbarossa, 41b. ; and Tarquin, Horace,
and Grizzle, 31b. But it is not a higher handicap all
round, for it will be seen that Warrior 11. has 101 b., Fin-
land and Kinglike 61b., Debenture, Private Willis, and
Hurrah 61b., British Admiral, Dirk Hammerhand, and
Juggler 41b., and Advance 31b., less in the Australian
Cup. Allotments agree only in a few instances.
• * * *
Tocal (N.S.W.) stud, which dates back 40 years,
was auctioned at Maitland (N.S.W.) on Tuesday. The
late Charles Reynolds originated it and young Frank
took up the running after his father’s death. Mare Van-
guard, by vEther (imp.) out of The Giggler (imp.), by
Tomboy, and stallion Cossack, by Sir Hercules from the
original Flora MTvor, started the business. Then came a
long list of famous sires and dams, whose progeny during
the past 20 years included, besides dozens of others, such
turf notabilities as Honeydew, Chicago, Cardigan, Melos,
Arsenal, Medusa, Tom Brown, Morpeth, Keith, The
Jewel, Jeweller, Hilarious, Sou’-Wester, Petronal, The
Broker, Impulse, Algerian, Merriment, Ellerdale, Brock-
leigh, Kilmore, Mabba, Agate, Ruby d’Or. Massinissa,
Candour, Albecore, Kallatina, Othmar, King Olaf, Pano-
ply, Splendide, and Newcastle. In the time mentioned
Tocal stallion Goldsbrough’s stock have appropriated 550
races, representing verging on £75,003 (from ’BB to ’00),
and Splendor's get have been successful in 395 races,
worth £12,507. The catalogue was made up of 35 brood
mares, 13 three-year-olds, and the stallions Splendor,
Medallion, Simmer, and Sweet William.
* * * *
Though ’tis hard to remember when Lady
Mostyn won a race last she looks like shaking up the
S.T.C. Challenge Stakes at Rand wick this Saturday, and,
failing her, Dick Wotton’s Cordon must be given a great
chance. Kuluai and The Prize should have a big say in
the Anniversary Handicap on Monday, while Mr. A.
Hooke, jnr.’s, Jeweller—Lady Robinson nag, on her gal-
lop t’other morning, isn’t out of it, especially as she seems
to stay. ' -
* * * •
“H.S.”: Though it is hardly to be expected
that any two handicappers will agree about the capa-
bilities of even well-known public performers, some .con-
sideration might at least be shown for public form in the
case of horses that have been facing with varying success
for several seasons. Now, War God—a horse that has
never yet shown himself first-class and has been racing
for years with only about three wins—should certainly
not —good horse though I believe him—have been placed
on the same mark as the best horse of his year, Malster,
and within lib. of Merriwee, a Derby and Cup winner.
The Vic. handicapper, in fact, actually makes War God
concede lib. to Merriwee in the Australian Cup, and 51b.
to Malster. Verily the Squire of Warwick may be excused
a few Big D’s.
• * « *
“Newport”: If Majestic ran straight, there
wasn’t any sporting “crookedness” in the transaction.
Apparently, the horse would not have run at all but for
the inducement offered by the ticket-holders.
• « • •
The Imperial cavalry, it is said, returned the
horses lent them by N.S.W. Govt, in a disgraceful state,
six valuable animals being useless for further work, and
others knocked about terribly. The Indian warriors sent
back theirs in the pink of condition.
* * * •
Luck ! A residentof the Tweed River (N.S.W.)
named A. E. Collins is said to have drawn nine consecu-
tive prizes in Tattersall’s sweeps. The last was a second-
placed horse, worth £1350.
* » * *
When the S.A. cricketers returned to Ade-
laide they were pestered with inquiries as to the re-
cord score of 918 made against them. All questioners
received the same answer, however: “ The illuminations
were grand!” “Couldn’t you fellows bowl a straight
ball ? ” “ Don’t know, but you should have seen the
illuminations. They were grand ! ”
* * • ■
Mostyn Evan, manager of the recent S.A. team
in Sydney, addressing a semi-public cricket gathering
after their return “Itis a great shame, gentlemen, to
attribute our defeat to ‘ illuminations ’ or ‘ fireworks.’
We were beaten because we met a better side. Cham-
pagne has been mentioned, and our boys felt the insinua-
tion very much. Why, all the champagne consumed in
Sydney, so far as I know, was one small bottle, and I had
half of that myself.” (Loud applause.) George Giffen
(jocularly) : “ Quite true. Meanest manager I ever
travelled with ! ”
« * * *
Clem Hill, on top of two nights of train-travel-
ling, put up a great performance in Adelaide on Jan. 12,
making 178 (not out) out of 247 made by his club for four
wickets. The ground was sticky from rain, and Hill’s
innings was probably the best he has ever played.
* * * *
The S.A. public has taken the departure of Joe
Darling very quietly. He returned to Adelaide t’other
day to settle his affairs, but the only farewell given him
was by his old club, East Torrens. His brother, M.P. for
the district, was in the chair, bub judiciously left the
speech-making to others. The old international now
wears a beard.
* • * •
In Adelaide senior cricket this month East
Adelaides won an oval match after batting only five men,
of whom four were Hills—Clem (the Australian Eleven
man) and his brothers.
9 * * *
“The ‘warning-off’ of three pros, and five
amateur bowlers,” writes Tiib Bulletin’s London corres-
pondent, “ with hints to four others, comes with as
much surprise as a decision of l.b.w. does to any
batsman. Mr. Ernie Jones is undoubtedly responsible for
this—-not that he throws, but because nine out of ten
English experts think he does. Anyhow, he bowls too
fast, and in the past two trips wiped off a big score from
the Australs’ slate incurred by Richardson, Mold, Hirst,
Woodcock, Lockwood and co. Never shall I forget the
letter-slit smile on ‘ Joey ’ Trott’s face, at Sheffield Park,
ln , 96, when he told me they’d brought a bowler
who d get a bit of their own back. Then «Jonah’s ’ open-
ing to YV.G., a beautfful whack on the knee, the veteran’s
undulation of his limb to be sure the foot was still at-
tached to it; second ball high up on the thigh and a
sound like a bat hitting a bag of wet mud, while the vet.
set-to-corners ; ball number three about half-mast on the
left ribs and W.G. dropped his bat and circled like a
branded bull. He made but few that trip and he had no
warmth of affection for Jones ever afterwards.”
“ Mold will be a serious loss to Lancashire ”
(continues our correspondent) “ though Mayne is said to
have an equally fast and fair man in Sladon—not Douglas
B. Sladen. M. got 27 wickets for 14.01 in ’OO, but did not
play in ten matches and his day is all but over. Poor
Roche will, I’m afraid, have to trek back, for although he
and others will be allowed to boivl yet—‘ give a dog a bad
name &c.’—the umpires will always be suspecting
throwing, and the ‘ Hermaphrodites ’ are the last team
to play a suspect. The next Australian team will closely
inspect its bowlers, for all this merely prognosticates a
very close scrutiny of all new and good trundlers they
may bring.”
• • • *
“Jack” M'Kell and “Monty” Andrews
snatched at and tapped each other for perhaps an hour
in Sydney on Saturday night. M‘Kell did all the snatch-
ing, and Andrews most of the tapping. M‘Kell might
have got home more often, but t’other entrenched him-
self behind a barricade of arms, or (in ring lingo)
“smothered” every few seconds ; and M‘Kell hadn’t the
gumption to try the rib-banging remedy for such tactics.
M’K. staggered and tottered through want of condition,
while Andrews became more lively as the thing pro-
gressed, though he couldn’t hit hard enough to let M’Kell
feel it was a punch. Gradually M‘Kell’s face assumed a
woebegone appearance, while Andrews never turned a
hair. M’Kell gave it up after the 15th round—he’d had
enough ; ditto the spectators. Andrews hadn’t a solid blow
in stock, and M’Kell didn’t seem trained sufficiently to
show his best. All the same the pair drew a big crowd that
crammed the place, and literally steamed for two hours.l
* » » *
Starlight-Phillips fiddling (mis-named boxing)
match, at Golden Gate A. 0., last week, was a farce.
Phillips has no claim to be put up against any but
“ chumps,” and they’ve got to be very verdant. Star-
light simply fooled his man from end to end of 11 rounds,
and Phillips quitted—not hurt, but wearied and worried
through poor condition, and through the merry jig his
coal-hued ais-a-vis set him. A redeeming feature was
that, though the thing lacked much as a match, Star-
light’s pantomimic methods and grimaces supplied fun
enough to almost smother the disappointment experi-
enced.
* * * •
Broken Hill (N.S.W.) miner, Jim Hiscutt, early
in his battle with Jack M‘Gowan, at Melb. Democratic
Club last week, went close to supplying a surprise for the
S. Melb. miniature giant and his big force of admirers.
M’Gowan was staggering before the onslaught in the first
rounds, but pulled himself together and had Hiscutt
weak in the sixth ; the latter went weaker thenceforth, till
referee Yirgoe stopped hostilities and gave M’Gowan the
verdict. ’Twas noticed that that badly-injured hand of
M’Gowan’s—the alleged cause of his not materialising to
meet “ Cocker ” Tweedie in Sydney a few weeks back—
won him the fight. Writer would like to know the real
reason of M’Gowan’s non-appearance then.
» • * *
Most talked of and genuine mill arranged in
Sydney for months is that ’tween Bob Turner and Hughie
Napier, fixed for Golden Gate A.C. (Sydney) Wednesday
next week. Club gives 50 sovs. and the pugs have 50
i-side tip. It ! s a faction affair. The milk-trade is behind
Napier, and Pyrmonb sports will be with Turner to a man.
Napier is old enough to be his opponent’s father, as he’s
close on 38, and 'Turner has only just thrown 17 behind.
The youngster is charged to the brim with combative in-
stinct, and the old ’un has had more than enough of
fight; still Napier should win handily—albeit his showing
against Tim Hegarty in Sydney months ago isn’t too
assuring.
* * » *
Sydney pug. world is much upset at nothing
being cabled from ’Frisco re Oribb’s first fight in the U.S.,
which was to have occurred Dec. 20. Absence of infor-
mation is ascribed by some to the probability that Otto
was licked. But writer doesn’t forget that Otto (one of
the Chosen, by the way) has much affection for the
shekels. A cable of three words would make a big hole
in a sov., hence information from Otto is not to be
thought of. The cable man wouldn’t notice the result—
because (1) the fight was unimportant to Yankees ; and
(2) Otto was made to appear by those pulling the strings
a comparatively new hand at the game.
* * * *
M‘Connell —Otto Cribb’s first antagonist on
Yankee soil —looks a tougher task than he really is by
reason of the fact that he beat Griffo on points once.
There wasn’t much to boast about in that, however, as
Griffo had been whooping things up for months before
and was brought into the ring at only a few days’ notice.
The fight took place on the same night and in the same
enclosure as when that other Sydney Rocks development,
“ Cocker ” Tweedie, came a cropper at the hands of the
’Frisco lightweight, Lawler, through indulging in too
much gallery-play.
* * * *
Reported that another M.L. freak will be
launched upon Sydney pugdom shortly. He owns more
of legs and wings than even Fitzsimmons. The new-
comer, who has the endorsement of being Otto Cribb’s
brother, is said to stand over 6ft. high, and scale some-
where about 9st. Otto used to tell that his streaky rela-
tive was as strong as a horse, but where such a lathy-
built fellow can have more than ordinary power stored is
a tough puzzle.
* m * •
Word from India is that on Dec. 9 Jack Slavin
was in Calcutta to fight M’Auliffe, erst of Melb. Jack
once held the middleweight supremacy of Vic., but has
been away for years in America, England and elsewhere.
• * * •
Victoria, the scene of this year’s Austra-
lasian swimming championships, beginning Feb. 1, is
poorer than any other State (bar W.A.)in good swimmers.
Local sporting' scribes deplore the fact. Fifteen years
ago Geelong owned several almost as fine performers as
the absolute best now—the M’lndoes, de Littles, and
others ; while Arthur (now Dr.) Kenney held sway at St.
Kilda. Well-managed galas were frequent, but the whole
thing almost died out, with the result that a fourth-rate
N.S.W. than might, to-day, go over and sweep the board
of all championships. It may nob be generally known
that Mr. Watkin Wynne, manager of Sydney Daily Tele-
oraph, was once among Victoria’s premier swimmers, and
it was he who appropriated the first championship, half-
mile, of N.S.W., contested nearly 20 years since.
* * * *
World’s premier swimmer, Fred. Lane, is
apparently copying the methods of all champions—pugs,
and otherwise. Sydney papers recently trumpeted his
retirement from active participation in the natatorial
biz., and yet, last week, the N.S.W. Swimming Executive
selected him with Dick Gavill to represent N.S.W. in
the Australasian championships next month. Fred de-
clined with thanks, as he had arranged for a spell (no
mention of permanent retirement) in the country. Bal-
main crack Craig will fill the breach.
Boy C. Gr. Tolley, with a boat tending him,
swam from Brighton to Glenelg (S.A.) jetty (said to be
3J miles) in lh. 37mins. t’other day. If the distance is
right the feat will take a lot of wiping out.
* * » *
At Christchurch, this month, Malcolm Cham-
pion (previously comparatively unknown) won the whole
of the M.L. premierships from 100yds. to a mile,
evidencing marvellous stamina throughout. His times
were not brilliant, but good for a man who’ll undoubtedly
improve a heap. His style is rough and susceptible of
much polish, which would mean considerable improve-
ment in pace. He “ trudges ” with the body from the
waist up clear of the water, and swings round on to his
side as each stroke is taken. The rolling, of course, much
interferes with the way of the swimmer, and it is only his
remarkable leg-stroke and exceptional strength that
stick to him. Champion has the build and power of a
world’s top-notcher—he only needs coaching.
* * * *
Fourth round of N.S.W. Bowling Association’s
Pennant matches was dealt with Saturday. The finish
rests with Victoria Park, Waverley, Balmain, City, and
the hitherto-despised Strathfield. First-named two won
all matches, and t’other three have suffered defeat once
each. On form, so far, the flag looks a pretty rosy thing
for Victoria Park, which has up to now evidenced much
greater strength than any of the opposition. Waverley
will probably again achieve the barren distinction of fill-
ing second place.
* * * *
The Sunbeam—specially built to represent M.L.
in inter-state 30-rating class event at 20th Century Regatta
this Saturday—reached Sydney by steamer Friday last
week. She looks a racing-machine pure and simple, as
does that other Auckland-built craft —Mr. M’Murtrie’s
Janet. The Sunbeam seems more of a racer than the im-
ported Magic, and her appearance suggests an enlarge-
ment of the flying 20-rater Mercia turned out by the same
firm—Logan Bros. She has been built diagonally of
kauri and extremely light. Her displacement is less than
that of any other boat of her class yet seen in Sydney.
She is fitted with a steel fin and bulb attached, carrying
about a ton of lead, a balance rudder, and spars and rig-
ging of the lightest. She is minus a bowsprit, and her
fore-and-aft sails are a single headsail, mainsail and top-
sail, the total sail area being about 750 square feet.
* • * *
P.A. Y.C.’s third event (Saturday) for Commo-
dore “Sam” Hordern’s 100-guinea cup over a 21-mile
course (twice round Manly) supplied a hot finish. Thirteen
lined up, and though the limit boat had 42mins. there
wasn’t much more than smin. difference ’tween the first
and eighth as they crossed the line. Conditions suited
Mr. W. M. Marks’ Isea to a turn and she won. Inside a
mile from home Isea was behind Mr. Dempster’s Petrel
which had been going great guns all the way and might
—with a little luck—have been ahead at the right end.
Cup conditions are that it must be won three times (not
necessarily in succession) by the same member in his own
yacht. Mr. James Cox’s Herreshoff was successful in ’99,
beating White Wings by £min. Next year Mr. 0. T.
Brockhoff’s Aoma proved best. Saturday’s “ field ” was
unusually large.
A monstrous public inconvenience results,
during the summer months, from the non-running
of the Sydney trams between 7 and 8.15 on
Sunday evenings—the result being an accumula-
tion, in the neighbourhood of Circular Quay,
of many thousands of persons, encumbered with
children and picnicking adjuncts —who arrive by
steamer about this time from the various down-
harbour localities.
The hysterics of the daily press concerning
the Queen’s illness excite, among level-minded
people of all political beliefs, a feeling of con-
tempt. Here we have one newspaper printing a
scare-heading about the multitude going round
full of “stifled sobs”; and we also read that
the Sydney broking-sharks called their stocks “in
hushed tones ” while the bedside bulletins were
coming through. ♦
A London policeman, Ernest Thompson,
who of all the force came nearest to capturing
Jack-the-Ripper, being at one time within a few
inches of consummating that end, was stabbed to
death last Dec. Ist, in Whitechapel, by Hooligans.
Though so badly wounded as to die ere reaching
hospital, he pluckily held on to his assailant —one
Abrahams —now awaiting trial.
According to London Express, arrange-
ments are being made for sending telegraphic
messages on Marconi’s wireless system from Eng-
land to Australia, with 18 repeating stations en
route. If any kind of success attends this pre-
liminary experiment, the proposed Pacific cable
will begin to look like a melancholy waste of two
million good sovs.
Some one disinters and publishes in a
Sydney daily the alleged fact that an old law,
which has never been repealed, makes it a heavily-
punishable offence for any R.C. priest to wear his
official attire in public except in church. There-
fore, it is unlawful for Cardinal Moran to wander
through Sydney in his robes of office, and that
potentate, as a law-abiding citizen, had better
haste to rig himself out in David Jones’s Orient
clothing at 3Gs., and David Jones’s cheap and
substantial five-and-sixpenny soft brown hat. For
if he doesn’t, some violent Protestant may be
hauling him before the police-court on a charge of
unlawful red garniture, and a great scandal will
ensue
According to Sydney D.T. “ Hardly had
the Commonwealth festivities at Sydney ended
than applications from suburban districts and
country towns, backed up, in some cases, by the
local member, began to shower upon the Govern-
ment Architect for the use of portions of the para-
phernalia.” One application from a town 400
miles away, “strongly supported by the local
member, was for—
Fifty gas devices (not too large), 13 gross of fairy lamps
(are the candles included ?), 1000 small flags of different
nations, 8000 colored streamers —equal to one mile of
material—soo national flags, 30 rolls of bunting (colors to
be white, blue, and red—equal to 1200 yards), a number
of coats of arms, 120 shields, and 120 Venetian masts, if
possible those decorated with metal finials, and, further,
please see that pulleys and cords are included.
“ Only this—and nothing more ! ”
Writes “ Melbournite ” :
Re the new underground conveniences in Sydney, is it
proposed to supply accommodation for women also?
Same is badly wanted in Melbourne, where women and
girls who don’t come under the Factory Act suffer tor-
tures daily. Brit. Med. Journal took up the question
last year, urging women doctors to preach a crusade on
behalf of health and decency. Last return of London
County Council shows 94 street underground con-
veniences and 28 above ground in the parks. Thirteen of
the former and all of the latter provide for women as
well. About one-fourth return a profit. The others,
many of them only recently opened, are for the present
worked at a loss The modern idea is to have two classes
of accommodation for both sexes—one set charged for, the
other, somewhat plainer, free.
Interesting Central News telegram m all
the London papers of Deo. 10 :
De Wet ig at length cor nered. He stands at bay in a
desperate position between the Caledon and Orange
Rivers, with the latter in full flood, and all the drifts
strongly guarded by our troops. News of his actual cap-
ture may arrive at any moment. The credit is due to
Generals, &c., &c.
_
Creorge Held has been fishing afc bcaman-
Australia’s best black-bream ground. It is
Qn the east CQast of Tasmania be tween St. Mary’s
“<>„*• Helen's, and w«a •'di»oc,v.red” by G.
Walker, who saw the black bream from the bridge
crossing the river, fished for them with big suc-
cess, and decided to build an hotel on the banks,
baa b o 6ll running for several years, and
fe now the great summer resort for black-
who include many big saints and
sinners. Jack Want has been there, also Joe
Oarruthers, J. L. Purves, and Joe Woolf. Re*
markable how many legal lights love black-bream
fishing. There are very few sharks in the river
an d nothing at Scamander but the hotel—that is
-i tb , qn,„ nrnnr ; P t nr Walker
r ne charm or tne place. 1 lie proprietor, vv ai ,
1S an ©uthusiastic sport who fishes all the year
round and will take out and instruct the veriest
amateur. George Reid, the papers say, went
therefor black bream. Toby thinks he went for
good red herring,
Late Oil Monday night Sydney was struck
suddenly by a big sheet of water. Down Wool-
ooloo the streets were impassable, and in
Liown-st. one man who rolled up his pants and
made straight for home was swept away, and had
an exciting time till he managed to grip a lamp-
post. In that portion of King-st. between Pitt
and George sts., where it is flat and most of the
, are level will, the ™ vemenf Winess neonle
doors are level with the pavement, businesspeople
had a bad time. Ihe first intimation of anything
wrong was when a fleet of dirt-boxes sailed down,
with disastrous results to the windows. In some
cases even the doors were wrecked, and a turgid,
muddy stream poured in, and in a few minutes
had mled all baseme nts and cellars. One firm
u u n u a c ooaa p-iaaa
a J one ec^ 01 ! S rOTr ! £BOO to £lOOO worth
goods.destroyed. Altogether, it seems to be a
good thing not to use cellars and basements for
storing valuable goods in Sydney, and the careful
m an will for a time decline to start business in
premises that have not a high door-step.
1 b F
The comparative calmness of the crowd on
d , bp rWni- m n6„ront . lrr .;, w i Mpl-
day tlie ynent contingent arrived in Mel-
bourne was not so much due to the waning of en-
thusiasm as to the fact that only 70 of the men
were Victorians. Another strong factor in the
general orderliness was the management of the
sboW) this time in the hands of Major p ar nell,
the common sense and utterly “unmilitary”
head of the permanent engineers. To avert a
repetition of the previous trouble, Parnell got the
police to keep the streets wide open, which not only
prevents crushing but enables the crowd to get a
much better view, and on each side of every third
row of contingenters he marched a Permanent
Artilleryman for the double purpose of fending
any enthusiastic damsel off and keeping the con-
tingenter from responding to her advances and
getting lost on the way. Of course all these pre-
cautions would have been as straw had the whole
contingent been of Melb. men, every one with a
hundred male friends eager to shake hands and a
hundred female friends more eager in other
respects.


a—
' KMT VOTHM SUM! «
A*
Other Bun6> 0
Sj>W;
rasi jjk , w/iu
I^l
Derby 30Bnotovt
«8B
/ JP“-
**r J
~t
fc
*<;. r =
# riS
«>4 4 •> * . M *
'* \K.
SCORES
EVERY
TIME
0$
Derby Wins Respect.
The Largest Average » §
The Longest Innings • t
The Biggest Sale • & s
To Admirers of The Bulletin.
A BARE CHANCE.
THE whole of the 6d. Edition for Sale, cheap ;
nearly 18 years, complete. Bulletin, Box
694, G.P.0., Sydney.
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottle of medi=
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. R00T, 28, Endsleigh Gdns., LON DON.
Missing Friends. ____
McKIM, deceased. Information required of where-
abouts of John McKim, brother of William
McKim deceased, late of Talbot, Victoria, carter.
E. S. HERRING, Solicitok,
Talbot, Victoria.
■ F this meets the eye of William Hamblin, for-
■ merly of Kyneton, Vic., or anyone knowing his where-
abouts, please write to his brother George Hamblin,
Ganmain, via Junee, N.S. Wales. Father dead.
G. H. G.
Will Develop or Reduce
any part of the Body.
A PERFECT COMPLEXION
BEAUTIFIER and
Remover of Wrinkles.
Dr. JOHN WILSON GIBBS'
the only
Electric
Massage
Roller
(Patented
United States,
Europe,
Canada.
i
“ Its work is
not confined to
the face alone,
but will do good
to any part of the
body to which it is
applied, developing or
reducing as desired. It
is a very pretty addition
to the toilet table.”
—Chicago Tribune.
“ This delicate Electric Beauti-
fier removes all facial blemishes.
It is the only positive remover of
wrinkles and crow’s feet. It never
fails to perform all that is expected.”
—Chicago Times Heral.d
“The Electric Roller is certainly productive of good
results. I believe it the best of any appliances. It is safe
and effective.”—Harriet Hubbard Ayer, New York World.
For Massage and Curative Purposes
An Electric Roller is all the term implies. The invention
of a phvsician and electrician known throughout Ameiica
and Europe. A perfect complexion beautifier. Will re-
move wrinkles, “crow’s feet” (premature or from age),
and all facial blemishes. Whenever electricity is to be
used for massaging or curative purposes, it has no equal.
No charging. Always ready for use on all parts op the
body, for all diseases. For Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neural-
gia Nervous and Circulatory Diseases, a specific.
Price —Gold, 21/-; Silver, 16/- PAMPHLETS FREE.
Sole Agent tor Australasia—
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins-street,
Melbourne.
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY CO.
TELEPHONE 3490.
187 pitt Street, Sydney
Silver Open-Faced, Crystal Glass
Geneva, jewelled in 8 Holes, Centre
Second, suitable for the Hospital or
Invalid Room. Price 35s ; in Gun
Metal, 27s Gd.
OUR WATCHES GIVE ENTIRE
SATISFACTION.
Our Gun Metal “ Collegian ”
Keyless Lever Watches, f-plate,
Jewelled, Compensation Bal-
ance, adjusted Hair Spring,
Crystal Glass, 218.
OUR WATCHES ARE GUARANTEED
RELIABLE TIMEKEEPERS.
Own Make
Our
ss
Gent.’s 14c. Gold Keyless Lever
Watch, |-plate, Jewelled in 10 Holes, Compen-
sated Balance, Brequet Hair Spring, Price £6.
Silver Lever, £2.
ROTHERHAM’S EHGLISH LEVERS
Expressly Manufactured for Us.
Our Watches are imported Directfrom
the Largest Factories in the World.
Ladies’ 18c. Gold
Keyless Lever, Jewelled in 10
Holes, Brequet Hair Spring,
Compensation Balance, £6.
REMEMBER! by Purchasing: our
Watches you save 25 per cent.
1 #
s
m
£
Gent.’s 18c. Gold Hunting- Keyless
ROTHERHAM English Lever WaUh,
f-plate, Jewelled in 10 Holes, Brequet
Hair Spring, Compensated Balance,
Highly Finished with all latest Im-
provements, £1515s to £lBlBs. Silver
Hunting Keyless Rotherham, £5.
OPEN ALL DAY WEDNESDAY till 6.
• 99
SATURDAY NIGHTS, from 6* to i).30.
One Hundred, and Fiftli Half-Yearly Report
OF - c -
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
Presented to the Shareholders at an Ordinary General Meeting held at the Head Banking House,
Georye Street, Sydney, on Friday, the 18th January, 1901.
The Directors submit to the Shareholders a Balance Sheet shewing the Liabilities and Assets of the Bank on the
31st December, 1900, and present the following report :
The balance at the credit of Profit and Loss Account, after deducting rebate on current bills and accrued interest
on fixed deposits, reducing premises account, paying note tax, providing for land and income taxes and
Dad and doubtful debts, and granting to the Officers a bonus on their salaries, amounts to .. .. £71,661 3 8
out of which the Directors recommend the following appropriations :
To the payment of a Dividend for the half-year a>, the rate of 10 per cent, per annum £50,000 0 0
~ Balance being undivided Profit .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 21,661 3 8
£71,661 3 8
The Board report, with profound regret, the death on the 7th instant of the revered Chairman of the Bank, Sir
Edward Knox, who so ably directed its affairs in the capacity of Manager, Director, or Chairman continuously for
upwards of fifty-five years.
Mr. Geo roe J. Cohen has been appointed Chairman of the Bank, and the Honorable H. E. Kater has been
appointed Depuiy-Chairman.
During the half-year branches have been established at Gilgandra and Trangie in this State, and at Glassford Creek
in the State of Queensland.
The Dividend, free of Income Tax is now payable.
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
The following resolutions were carried unanimously :
“ That the Report and Statements of Account be received and adopted, and ordered to be circulated among the
Proprietors.”
“ That the Shareholders record their high appreciation of the services of the late Sir Edward Knox, and desire to
express their deep sympathy with Lady Knox and family in their bereavement.”
“ That the Board be requested to devise a means of perpetuating the memory of the late Chairman, Sir Edward
Knox, by placing in the Head Banking House of the Company a tablet or other memorial.”
“ That a similar memorial also be placed in the Bank to perpetuate the memory of the late Mr. Richard Jones,
for many years a former Chairman of the Bank.”
“ That the thanks of the Shareholders be presented to the Directors, General Manager, and Officers of the Bank
for their very satisfactory management of the affairs of the institution.”
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
In moving the adoption of the report, the Chairman, Mr. George J. Cohen, said :
“ Since our last meeting in this room the Bank has suffered a great loss in the death, on the 7th inst., of our
venerable and revered Chairman, Sir Edward Knox. The Directors and General Manager deplore his death and deeply
sympathise with Lady Knox and family.
As our late Chairman took such an active interest in the affairs of the Bank for a period of 55J years, and as the
six States of Australia and Tasmania are now welded together in the Commonwealth of Australia, and, further, at
the commencement of the new century, I think the time opportune to trace the history of the Bank from its incep-
tion, to show the great progress and prosperity established during the lengthened period referred to, in which Sir
Edward had so large a share.
The Bank was founded in the year 1834 and commenced business in October of the same year, having no less than
twelve Directors, men holding good positions in the colony at that time. They were: —
LIABILITIES AND ASSETS.
(Including' London Branch to 31st December by Cable.)
To Capital
~ Reserve Fund
~ Reserve Capital
..£1,000,000 0 0
.. 1,010,000 0 0
.. 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
To Capital Paid-up ..£1,000,000 0 0
~ Reserve Fund .. 1,010,000 0 0
~ Notes in circulation ..
~ Bills in circulation
~ Deposits and other liabilities
„ Profit and Loss Account
2,010,000 0 0
514,013 0 0
1,094,346 16 0
11,218,243 11 2
78,374 14 2
£14,914,978 1 4
£ S. D-
By Coin and Bullion in
hand £2,073,461 19 7
~ Cash at Bankers .. 236,431 6 4
~ Government
securities .. .. 1,312,775 14 9
~ New South Wales
Government .. 500,000 0 0
~ Queensland Govern-
ment Notes .. 42,425 0 0
~ Remittances in
transit .. 921,516 6 4
~ Notes and bills of
other banks .. 27,415 9 0
5,114,025 16 0
~ Bills discounted, and all debts due
to the Bank 9,375,552 5 4
~ Bank premises, furniture, &c. .. 425,400 0 0
£14,914,978 1 4
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Rebate on current bills .. £6,713 16 6
~ Dividend Account for payment of a
Dividend for past half-year at the rate
of 10 per cent, per annum .. .. 50,000 0 0
Balance of undivided profit carried to
next Half-year 21,661 3 8
£78,374 14 2
By Amount undivided from last half-year.. £20,15112 0
~- Profit for Half-year ended 31st Decem-
ber, 1900 58,223 2 2
£78,374 14 2
RESERVE FUND.
1900—December 31st £1,010,000 0 0
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
T. A. DIBBS, Gkneiial Manager.
A. J. SOUTAR, Accountant.
Sydney, lhth January, 1901.
We hereby certify that we have examined the bills, compared the balances and counted the coin in the Head
Offices of The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited, and have compared the returns of the Branches, and
have found the same as specified in the foregoing Balance Sheet.
W. L. DOCKER \
E. S. CAPE /
Auditors.
WILLIAM MACPHERSON, Chairman.
THOMAS BARKER.
ROBERT SCOTT.
ROBERT JOHNSTONE.
THOMAS MARSDEN.
ROBERT HOW.
JOHN LAMB, Deputy-Chairman.
FREDERICK A. HELY.
JAMES TOD GOODSIR.
JOSEPH H. GROSE.
ROGER THERRY.
THOMAS P. MACQUEEN.
The First Half-Yearly General Meeting was held on the 10th January, 1835, in premises situated in George-street,
a few doors north from King-street, rented on a 7 years’ lease at £285 per annum, which were vacated in 1853, prior
to moving into the building we now occupy.
To show from what a small beginning the large and important business now transacted has grown, I quote from
the first printed balance-sheet, of Ist January, 1835 :
Capital £30,467 10 0
Government Deposit .. ... .. 6,000 0 0
Individual Deposits .. .. 17,630 1 11
Notes in Circulation .. .. 8,143 0 0
Profit and Loss „ .. 624 14 6
£61,865 6 4
Coin .. ..
Bills Receivable ..
Banking House Stipulated Price, £1950
£22,232 1 4
38,183 5 0
1,450 0 0
£61,865 6 4
In those days advances were made in a different form to what they now are, securities being taken as collateral to
the bills discounted, which were generally renewed or partly so at maturity.
The small progress made by the Bank up to the year 1847 as compared with later years, notwithstanding the
large and influential Directorate, was shown by the Report of the Ist January, 1847.
It was in this year that the Directors determined to re-model the Constitution and obtain an Act of Incorporation.
This was successfully carried out by Sir Edward Knox, who formed practically a New Bank with enlarged powers.
At the meeting held on the 20th January, 1847, the following Balance Sheet was exhibited to the Shareholders
Capital paid up £125,235 0 0
Surplus Fund 7,543 0 8
Deposits and Circulation .. .. 220,399 18 7
Net Profit 6,654 19 4
£359,832 18 7
British Coin
Bills Discounted and other Securities
Balance due by other Banks..
Landed Property
£78,247 0 9
267,742 6 5
6,249 19 7
7,593 5 10
£359,832 18 7
Of the 151 shareholders on the Register in the year 1848, there is only one Shareholder now alive, but I am glad
to say that our General Manager, who was appointed by Sir Edward Knox in July, 1847, is still with us.
To complete my statement, let me refer you to two details in the Balance Sheet of the Bank placed before you
this morning (being the first one since the birth of the new nation) in comparison with the same items of previous
years . The figures read :
1835. 1847. 1901.
Reserved Profits .. Nil .. £7,543 .. £1,031,661
Totals £61,865 .. £359,832 .. £14,914,978
Comparing the items in the Balance-sheet with those of the corresponding period of last year it will be seen that
we have to again congratulate ourselves on an expansion of our business. On our total figures there is an increase
for the 12 months of £661,058, made up on the debt side as follows .'—Note circulation, £43,906 ; bills in circulation
£339,142 ; deposits and other liabilities, £270,223; and profit and loss, £7787. While, on the credit side, though our
coin and bullion and cash at Bankers have decreased respectively £192,889 and £87,405, and there is a reduction of
£77,366jh remittances in transit, yet our Government securities and advances to the Government have gone up
£480,970, causing an increase in our liquid assets of £124,948, and during the same period there has been the satisfac-
tory-increase m bills discounted and all debts due to the Bank of £530,677.
I have much pleasure in moving the adoption of the Report, and that it be circulated among the Proprietors.”


To Country Residents.
NEW CENTURY SHOPPING.
To enable you to buy your
DRAPERY and CLOTHING
at our Economical
NEW CENTURY PRICES
please write for our General Catalogue,
containing 87 Pagpes of Useful information.
A compilation of everyday C O BUT g"
requirements, ——f“ §"C EL EL ■
(Post Free to any part of the Commonwealth.)
IS IT WORTH A PENNY to secure a copy ?
(An application on a penny post-card is
sufficient.)
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL DRAPERS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Should you happen to be in Town please
call or ask for
OUR GENERAL CATALOGUE.
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx
XX |
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
HHHHHHHHHHIIH HH H H HHHHHHHHH
Qhrfstmas tailoring
e
MOST GENTLEMEN like to appear
at their best during- the Christmas
season. Handsome, well-fitting
clothes are essential to that«cnd. C.. G.
Hatte, of Newtown (Sydney), invites at-
tention to his To-Order Tailoring Depart-
ment, which has obtained a reputation
the envy of competitors. He can supply
you with a nice soft Serge Suit, indigo
dye, for 555. ; a first-class suit in Serge,
Sergerette, or Tweed for 635. ; or a suit
of Apperley and Curtiss’ renowned West
of England Serge for 755. His Two
Guinea Suits (with extra pair of trousers)
of Serges, Sergerettes, and Tweeds are
still the marvel of modern tailoring.
Hatte’s has the largest selection of the
newest and choicest materials, he em-
ploys one of the smartest cutters in the
colony, guaranteeing a perfect fit; whilst
the workmanship is of the best. If you
cannot pay a personal visit, write for
patterns and self-measurement forms,
and your orders will he satisfactorily and
promptly executed. Hatte also keeps
one of the largest stocks of ready-made
clothing—everything the latest and best,
his prices being at least 30 per cent, under
ordinary city houses. He is now making
to measure a special line of Linen Crash
Trousers for 7s. lid. White Serge
Cricketing Trousers, well-made and :
thoroughly shrunk, for 9s. 11d. Men’s
Striped Khaki Shirts, collars and :
pockets, 2s. 11Id. The Baden-Powell
Khaki Shirt, collar and two pockets,
3s. 11d. A splendid line of Gent.’s Silk :
Shirts (the best value in the trade),
7s. 6d. Place your orders with Hatte :
for everything you want. You will find
he will treat you well, and you will re-
main a constant customer.
H
H
H
H
H
H
II
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
II
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
II
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
II
H
H
H
s
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
HHHHH H HHHHHHHHHHHHH HHHHHH
af
PRlCE— Single Razor, 10/6; or with Ivory Handle, 157-
Pair Razors in Double Leather Case, 21/-; or with Ivory
Handles, 30/- Plum Razor Strop, 7 6 each. This
Razor is superior to any in the market, and never requires
grinding. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to
Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Real Germ an Hollow Ground
rttrrßKoil
**&!*****
to *
A
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADSc
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO.. '
Publications.
DANCE MUSIC
EVERYONE.
A RARE NUMBER
. . OF . .
Allan’s
(Husic
Books.<
N
No. 37—Contains One Hundred Hornpipes, Reels,
Jigs, &c.
Bridge of I.odi Hornpipe
Fisher’s Hornpipe
Manchester Hornpipe
Liverpool Hornpipe'
Jolly Jack Tar Hornpipe
(original)
College Hornpipe
Lord Brassey Hornpipe
(original)
Wonder Hornpipe
Cutty Sark Reel
Clyde Side Lasses ~
Corn Riggs ~
Captain Keeler „
De’il Amo: g the Tailors ~
Flowers o’ E linhoro’ ~
Fairy Dance ~
Gillie Callurn ~
I’ll Gang Na Mair to
Yon Toun ~
Keel Row, The ~
Perth Hunt, The ~
Fold willy Bridge ~
Reel of Tulluck ~
Speed the Plough ~
Soldier’s Joy, The „
Wind that Shakes the Bar-
ley, The Reel
Blue Bonnets, The Jig
Campbell’s Are Cornin’,
The
Drop of Brandy ~
Garry Owen ~
Hundred Pipers, The ~
Irish Washerwoman,
The
Lannagan’s Ball ~
My Old Ken tuck} 7 Home
(Sand Jig)
Massa’s in the Cold Ground
(Sand Jig)
O Dear, What Can the
Matter Be ! Jig
Plough Boy, The Dance
Recovery, The ~
Sir Roger de Coverley ~
There’s Na Luck About
the House „
r ' riumph. The ~
Circassian Circle, The ~
We Won’t Go Home till
Morning ~
Wait or th ‘ Waggon Dance
We’re a Noddin’ „
Yankee Doodle ~
American Top B )ot Dance
(original)
Ruddy O’Rafferty Jig
O d Folks at Home
(Sand Jig)
Paddy Whack ~
Pibroch o’ Donuil Dhu Jig
Rollicking Irishman,
The
Rory O’Moore ~
Sprig of Shillelah, The ~
St. Patrick’s Day ~
“My Fancy ” (Sand Jig,
original)
Who’s dat Knocking (Sand
Jift)
Braes of Tulimet Strathspey
and Fling
Duncan Davidson Fling
Delvin Side ~
Laid.y Baird ’,
Marquis of Huntley’s
Highland Fling
Marchioness of Huntley ~
Miss Drummond of
Perth ~
Tullochgorum Highland,,
Woo’d and Married and
A Fling
Whistle or the Lave o’t ~
Old Lang Syne (Country
Dance)
Ap Shenkin ~
Blue Bells of Scotland,
The
British Grenadiers, The
Duncan Gray ~
Dixey’s Land ~
Girl I Left Behind Me,
The
Haste to the Wedding ~
Lass O’Gowrie ~
Lass of Richmond Hill ~
MacGregor’s March ~
My Love, She’s But a
Lassie Yet ~
Nora Creina ~
Nut, The
Pop Goes the Weasel ~
Cracovienne, The
Fandango, Spanish Waltz
“The Melbourne” Clog
Dance
Spanish Dance, The Cachu-
cha
Minuet de la Cour
Brig o’ Perth, The High.
Schott.
Braes o’ Mars, The ~
Cawdor Fair ~
Green Grow the Rashes
°’
Monymusk ~
Wha Wadna Fetch for
Charlie ~
What’s a’ the Steer
( Kimmer ~
Price 1/-, or Posted 1)2.
Obtainable at all Musicsellers throughout Australia,
or direct from the publishers,
ALLAN $ CO. Propy. Ltd
276 AND 278 COLLINS ST.,
Books. Books. Books.
"POPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 for £1 ss. The
Home Physician, £2 10s. +' l nhamW
for £l. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
for £2 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, 1898 edition,
£3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
R.W. SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh-streec, Sydney.
LADIES-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
“ The Most Charming Australian Book of Verse.”
Fair Girls and Gray Horses
By WILL OGILVIE.
4s 6d.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST
Of TRICKS, PUZZLES, Etc.,
Etc., FREE.
af
Rare Books
French Novels
Books
for
the
Married
EXTRA SPECIAL CATALOGUE
OF BOOKS FREE.
STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTES OF ANY COLONY TAKEN.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE,
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
NOW READY.
A POLICY FOR THE
COMMONWEALTH _
Being a series of articles reprinted from The Bulletin,
with an appendix dealing with the Eiscal Question.
Price 6d. ; posted, Bd.
THE
FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical apd
SOrgical IQStitCitg .
This is the only Medical
Institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all contracts.
I3ST A.3XT A.GrE
Which is so remarkable for its progress in all departments of Art, Philosophy, Manufacture and Science it is
surprisin'-- to find the practice of Medicine so deplorably in the rear, while thousands of practitioners in the
healinf art prefer to remain in the conventional groove of their predecessors. The Freeman and Wallace Electro-
Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise superior to the false code of ethics which tyrannically bind
the medical profession, and announce to the public that upon all special complaints they still continue to be con-
sulted by the afflicted at their old address, Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
i
.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director,
Dr. Harmon’s College, Washington Cor., Cal., U.S.A.
4
1
■9®-
\1 X
RICHARD WALLACE, Chief Consulting Staff,
M.D., L.It.C.P., L.F.P.S.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
No one should hesitate to consult us, as consultations either by
letter or in person are given FREE OF CHARGE, and strictest
privacy is always assured .
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
Every Farmer, Miner, Mariner, Station-hand, Book-keeper, and other Toilers should send for a copy of this
Useful Memorandum Book. POST FREE ON APPLICATION—ALL COLONIES.
400-PAG-E MEDICAL WORK (Illustrated, containing 80 Engravings, Many Useful Prescriptions,
Hints on Sick Room, Accidents and Emergency) Price 6d. (POST FREE) ON APPLICATION.
Heart, Kidney, Liver Affections. Crave!, Bladder and Spinal Affections.
Nerve and Brain Complications. Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
Rupture and Piles Cured without Operation. Blood and Skin Diseases.
tHS
m
5T HEALTH THEpDtt -
. J^iDlC M- il ™ «««;««», ,
I £jif 1 I 111 I |
I *f» '• S | • : : . ■'"' *
m
SK i
■
l. ' •
I. : :?
*3*
■
■
WHY WE ADVERTISE!
Because Advertising is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people,
to acquaint each other with their avocations and wants. If a man has a
Speciality, and has devoted years of his life and expended large sums of money in studying that Speciality and in
purchasing the necessary appliances, etc., for treating certain diseases, it would be absurd for him not to announce
the fact, and disseminate tne knowledge universally. We have no apology to offer for informing the world through
this advertisement and otherwise of the means of relief we can afford to sufferers who need our help. Therefore,
however opposed to your own preconceived ideas and to those of your medical advisers, our method of treatment may
be, the fact still remains that it is successful, and this is verified by the thousands of testimonials received from
grateful patients. We make no secret of our mode of practice. We only claim to have utilised in a common-sense
way the result of scientific research and long experience. If you listen to the counsel of your sceptical friends and
jealous physician you may omit consulting us, but remember if you allow the disease to run riot in your system, you
are guilty of culpable negiect, and are alone responsible for your future pitiful condition.
Niue Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government
Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia,
Great Britain and America Open to Inspection.
Late Consulting Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne;
Late Medical Staff, British Army.
Do Not be Drugged to Death by Quacks
When there are so many quacks and impudent pretenders in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to them-
selves the monstrosity of giving counsel and advice in matters of which they are profoundly ignorant, and who
have nothing to recommend them but their audacity, sufferers cannot be too careful whom they consult.
Although liberty of choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessary. In consulting THE FREEMAN AND
WALLACE ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shall
receive the advice of, those fitted by superior skill and education, the result of special study. Our reputation and
unparalleled success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of the World—
CONTENTS FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
Sydoey
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs. F. & W.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
N.B.— QUEENSLANDERS are hereby informed that a person advertising as Dr. Wallace
in Brisbane is in no way connected with the Institute.


“ Puyyaka ” to The Bulletin on an im-
portant subject:—
The recent experiment of two doctors in the Roman
Campagna appears to have conclusively proved the mos-
quito-causation of malaria. For three months of the
malarial season these men lived in a hut in the worst
part of the Campagna, took no quinine or other febrifuge,
spent the day in the open air, and went whithersoever
they would amongst the fever-stricken inhabitants. With
them they had two Italian workmen who followed their
ordinary avocations during the day, returning to the hut
before sundown. The only precaution taken was to
render the hut perfectly mosquito-tight with fine wire
netting. Doors and windows were otherwise left freely
open and the ordinary food and water of the locality were
used, the latter filtered and boiled. None of these four
men evinced the slightest trace of malaria during or after
these three months, and periodic examinations of their
blood showed no trace of the easily-recognisable malaria
organism. In their published report these doctors con-
firm the supposition that malarial fever is caused through
the agency of the Anopheles species of mosquito, which
is very rarely seen by day, though extremely active at
night. There is now, therefore, little doubt that the
existence of malarial fever is solely dependent upon the
presence of the insect, and that its introduction into a
healthy district will be followed by malaria. Elephan-
tiasis also undoubtedly depends on a variety of mosquito,
and its recent introduction to the South Pacific is coinci-
dent with the importation of the insect in question by
shipping'. The Anopheles may exist within very wide boun-
daries of latitude, and with the modern rapid means of
transit the introduction of malarial diseases may yet form a
very lively problem for the public health authorities of the
Southern States of Australia. During the experiment of
Lambori and Low, they sent to the Liverpool School of
Tropical Diseases a number of live specimens of Anopheles.
Dr. Manson, a healthy young man, who had never had
malarial fever, allowed himself to be bitten by these
insects, and duly developed a typical attack of tertian
malarial fever, which ran its course as uncompromisingly
as if he had been in the Indian Terai instead of Liverpool!
Such an experiment is absolutely convincing. We ha ve
plenty of malaria in the North of Australia, and the evolu-
tion of a species of Anopheles capable of standing colder
climates might make a very serious difference in Southern
’affairs. Some Cuban army-surgeons, by-the-way, have
recently demonstrated that yellow fever can be trans-
mitted per the versatile mosquito. Plague, cholera, and
other virulent tropical diseases are suspected to have an
intermediate connection with one or other of the lower
forms of life, and the writer is strongly of opinion that
the true solution of the cancer problem will be found to
lie somewhere in this direction. It is easy to airily dis-
miss the subject as a medical fad. Fads are not tolerated
among the keen-witted leaders of modern science, and
irrefutable proof has been already given of enough
instances of insect-transmission to make it probable that
we are on the edge of a very big discovery indeed. For the
present, however, the resident in malarial localities will
do well to shun the attention of a largish grey and black
mosquito, who stands very much on his head while in-
serting a well-developed proboscis, and who is excessively
active after sundown. And to do this he may begin by
kerosening all ponds and puddles near his home at the
rate of about one tablespoonful to the square yard each
week ; for it is here that the enemy lays its eggs. The
use of fine wire-screens for all openings in the house-
walls —including chimneys—is difficult, but a mosquito-
net is essential, even though kerosene and wire screens
are not obtainable. In camp many things have been
used for causing a smoke, but the result of a number of
experiments made in Africa show that a mixture of cow-
dung and coarse native tobacco is the most effective.
But, above all, the mosquito net.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
A POLICY FOR THE"^*-
Price Gd. ;
Posted, Bd.
commonwcrlth.
The Bulletin Booklets, No. 111.
THE CIRCLING HEARTHS,
A New Collection of Verses by Roderic Quinn.
Enveloped; Is. 9d. post-free.
ttW Only 500 copies are printed for sale. “ The Hidden
Tide,” a companion booklet by the same author, was
sold out almost immediately on publication ; and many
orders have been refused.
Post-free for postal note or stamps of any province.
Orders received now will be forwarded immediately on
publication.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 Georse Street, Sydney, Australia.
. . BESCH’S ..
WAVERLEY BREWERY
DOWLING STREET, MOORE FARE
S'XTDIDTIE'X"
Telephone, 206.
. . AGENTS FOR . .
Watson’s Whiskies
Sazerac Brandies
Hy. Goulet Cham-
pagne
Bols Bitters,
Liqueurs & Gins
-■ m
H %
m
. . AGENTS FOR . .
Jubilee Schnapps
Princess Lager
Beer
Guinness’ Lantern
Stout
E. RESCN - - Proprietor.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
the FA.aa:oxjs remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OE ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have *talcen this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. ' Consumption has-
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEJWARE OF COUGHS 2
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION. TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot- Q. u oi 5 j>i oor; Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Fast to any Address when not obtainable Locally:
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD FOR
INFANTS
9
BENQER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, 4 c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


The Wolf And The Balloon.
“The sleep of the labouring man is sweet,
whether he eat little or much,” says the pro-
verb.
It depends upon the condition of his digestion,
and the character of his last meal for the day.
Observation shows that certain forms of
dyspepsia are even more common among labour-
ing men, meaning those whose work is chiefly of
the hands and largely out of doors, than among
the classes who take life more easily.
“ Whether I ate little or much I felt blown out
like a balloon, and exceedingly uncomfortable,”
says Mr. W. H. Johnson. This gentleman is a
stationer, doing business at 252|, Abercombie
Street, Redfern, Sydney, N.S.W.
His ailment was just what he calls it in his
statement of November 10th, 1899—incipient in-
digestion. And, too, the fact is worth noting
that he was blown out with the same substance
which swells a balloon—gas ; manufactured by a
slightly different process.
Taken into the stomach, food must either
digest and pass on its way, or ferment and create
gas and other products of decomposition. In the
latter case we have the condition (often com-
S Heated) known as indigestion or dyspepsia.
lost of our complaints arise from it, or are
aggravated by it. It is subtle as a creeping ser-
pent, and pitiless as a hungry wolf.
In Mr. Johnson’s case, had he not had a busi-
ness of his own, and been, therefore, his own
master, he would have been compelled to lie up,
and abandon his work. As matters were, he
humoured himself, and lost nothing except his
enjoyment of good health; which, he admits, was
an item to make account of.
“ After enduring this most disagreeable affec-
tion for a time,” says Mr. Johnson, “ a confectioner
■of Annandale, Mr. Cowling, recommended Mother
Seigel’s Syrup, which relieved me immediately.
I thoroughly believe it cured me, and I commend
it to everyone I know.
“ Whenever I have the least suspicion that I
am threatened with an attack of indigestion, I
take a dose, and it never fails to ward it off. I
am persuaded that if I had not used Mother
Seigel’s Syrup in the beginning I should by this
time have been suffering severely from this pre-
valent malady. I trust that the publication of
my experience may lead others afflicted with
digestive troubles to use the medicine to which I
am indebted for my own speedy recovery.”
Mr. Johnson puts the point clearly and
strongly:—Stop the disease at the very outset;
don’t let it assume the chronic form which, in-
volving more or less all the organs and functions
of the body, is so hard to cure. Remember the
adage about the ounce of prevention.*
UNDER DISTINGUISHED
a
ROYAL PATRONAGE,
R
HR
■
■
m
m
1
m
m
("MB
%
Prom H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHENLOHE.
(The German Ambassador’s Daughter.)
“ • KOKO ’ tor the Hair iB the BEST Dressing I
know. It keeps the head cool, promotes growth,
and 1b in EVERY way excellent.
Prinoess HOHENLOHE.
Recommended and IT Bed by H.M. The
Queen (of Greece). Princess Victoria
(or Schaumburg Lippe), Princess
Hohenlohe. Princess Marie
(of Greece), Princess Henry Reuss,
Rear-Admiral Tlnklar. &c.. &c.
KOKO FOR THE HAIR
«is a tonic, cleansing, invigorating preparation, causes the hair to grow, keeps it soft and pliant, imparts
to it the lustre and freshness of youth, eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling, is the most
cleanly of all hair preparations, and is perfectly harmless.
OLD PKOPMt LIKE IT
lit for its wonderfulpower to invigorate decayed hair, and induce an entire new growth when that is possible.
MIDDLE- AGED PEOPLE LIKE IT,
lit because it keeps dandriff away, and makes the hair grow thick and strong.
YOUNG LADIES LIKE ITT
ill as a dressing, because it gives the hair a beautiful glossy lustre, and enables them to dress It in what-
||l ever form they wish, where it will remain.
CHILDREN LIKE XT,
HI because it keeps the hair and scalp cool and clean, allays irritation, and keeps the hair in whatever
•1* position deßired.
THEY ALL LIKE ITT. *
because it is pure as crystal perfectly colourless, contains no poisonous substances, dye. sugar of
lead, sulphur, nitrate of silver, or grease, does not soil or colour the scalp, face, or the most delicate
fabric in clothing, produces a wonderful, pleasant and cooling effect on the head, and no other dressing
is needed to give the hair the most elegant appearance possible. Try it once, and you will use no other.
f
Is., 2s. 6d., and 4s. 6d., of all Chemists, Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
Australian Depot: Koko-Maricopas Co., I<d., 14, Castlereagh St., Sydney,N.S.W.
I CAUTION.—See that this Registered Trade Mark is on every bottle.
af
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, BYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Enormous Success of the Grand Comic Xmas
PANTOMIME,
Written by that great London Author, Victor Stevens,
PU.S3 X XX Boots.
A Gigantic and Unparalleled Oast of Characters.
New Scenery, New Costumes, New Music, New Artists.
In fact, everything new and up-to-date. Plan at Paling’s.
Matinees Saturday and Wednesday.
IJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE^
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Gigantic Success of our Latest Importations,
MISS LOTTIE COLLINS.
808-THE LEONARDS—JENNY.
THE SISTERS PINE.
Splendid Reception of Messrs. Will Whitburn, Tod
Callaway, Billy M‘Clain, Chas. W. Walker, Pope & Sayles,
Madam Cordelia, Misses Ida May, Susie Anderson, and
all our Great Co.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrove.
Business Manager .. .. Mr. Harry Musgrove
EVERY EVENING.
SIXTH WEEK of the GRAND PANTOMIME,
CIHTDERBLiLA..
The Most Beautiful Spectacle Ever Seen on any Stage.
Dress Circle, 7s. 6d. ; Reserved Stalls, os. ; Unreserved
Front Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Family Circle, 2s. ; Amphi-
theatre, One Shilling. Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne. “
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
FRIDAY, JAN. 25, LAST NIGHT OF
WITH FLYIN6 COLORS,
Saturday, Jan. '26, will be presented for the first time
a Dramatic Story of Modern Life, entitled “THE
GREAT RUBY.’’
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 2s, Is. and 6d. Box Plan
at Allan’s. CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
Town hall, Melbourne. ~
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Business Manager Mr. Harold Asiiton.
The Birth of the Empire.
Unparalleled Attraction, Monday, Jan. 29, and Every
Afternoon and Evening. MARVELLOUS ANGLO-
AMERICAN 810-TABLEAU, a series of Magnificent Repro-
ductions of the SYDNEY COMMONWEALTH FESTIVITIES.
General Admission, One Shilling; Reserved Seats, 25.,
at Allan’s, Menzies’ and The Grand.
HALL, MELBOURNE.
TRIUMPHANT RETURN OF
SNAZELLE
in the Most Delightful Entertainment Extant,
00 R JNAVY.
Manager for Messrs. West and Sons, CAPTAIN F.
EDWARDS, R.N.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
1900 CHRISTMAS ANNUAL 1901.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
Matinee Performances at 2 o’clock Every Wednesday and
Saturday Afternoon.
The PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA, entitled
AUSTRALIS, or THE CITY OF ZERO.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
QRITERION THEATRE, 3YD NE Y.
Lessee and Manager Alfred Dam pier.
ALFRED DAMPIER,
and the Ladies and Gentlemen associated with him.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 26,
“ The Bush King.”
New Australian Dramas
M T HEAT RE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
SUCCESS. SUCCESS. SUCCESS.
THE EMOTIONAL, INTERESTING DRAMA,
The New East Lynne.
JOHN F. SHERIDAN as MURTY O’FLYNN.
GRAOIE WHITEFORD as THE SISTERS HALLIJOHN.
And an Augmented Dramatic Co.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDN E Y.
HAWTREY COMEDY COMPANY.
FIFTH WEEK.
HUGE and UNQUALIFIED SUCCESS of
A MESSAGE FROM MARS.
Mr. Herbert Ross
Mr. H. Stephenson Miss Ruby Ray
Mr. T. Holding Miss Roxy Barton
Mr. R. E. Watson Miss Madge Hope
Mr. Wilson Power Miss Lena Brasch
and Mr. W. F. Hawtrey.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY, at 2.30 o’clock.
Box Plan at Paling and Co.’s, 338 George-st.
PRICES, 55..,. 35., 25., Is.
Business Manager, Mr. E. F. BRADLEY.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
EVERY EVENING.
SEVENTH WEEK of the New' Musical Comedy,
FLORODORA.
All Melbourne is raving about it.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan s.
.... TAKE ONLY ....
LEA & PERRINS’ SAUCE
MOST DELICIOUS AND PALATABLE.
Agents—VlßGOE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN & 00., SYDNEY.
Is China Crumbling?
Interest at the moment seems centered upon
China, and the struggle between the Great Powers
tor supremacy is watched with eager interest. To
what nation shall belong the honor of developing
this great and populous country which many con-
sider primitive and uncivilised, and its Govem-
ment unqualified to protect its vast territory and
millions of people ?
Perhaps it is egotistical on our part to say
uncivilised ” because their customs differ from
ours. Perhaps we forget that when our ancestors
were barbarians the Chinese had a civilisation
hundreds of years old. Before we had a history,
theirs was ancient; and they claim to have a
record much older and equally as reliable as that
which we borrowed from the Hebrews. They had
letters, arts, sciences, and a highly organised
Goyemment when we had none; and the compass,
gunpowder, and printing, were in use with them
long ere known to us.
There are, however, many scientific discoveries
emanating from the new world which give it
power and precedence beyond any comparison
with China. One discovery in particular which
has resulted in doing more for humanity in general
than any other, was that of Warner’s Safe Cure.
About a quarter of a century ago this herbal
medicine began its career, and now it is almost a
household word in every country on the globe.
We have marked instances of its curative effect
right in our midst, and we quote from one of
many.
Mrs. Isabel Fraser, of Morewell, Vic., under date
Dec. 8, 1900, says: “I am pleased to be able to
testify to the great benefit I derived from the use of
Warner’s Safe Cure when suffering from insomnia
and rheumatic pains in my body and legs. I have
only used a few bottles, and the results h ave been
simply marvellous.”*
At Poverty Point.
It would rather astonish Sydney Lyceum theatregoers
who have smiled at Semolina of the iioorbrush and battered
bonnet box in Sheridan’s recent drama to see Semolina
off the stage. She is a childish-looking schoolgirl whom
one feels inclined to pat on the shoulder with inquiries as
to how the dear child is getting on in sums. Ethel
Buckley is only 15, and looks 12, and has been behind the
footlights since she was about six years old. She owes
her training to George Rignold, under whom she played
Puck in “ Midsummer Night’s Dream.” Three years ago
she toured the Australias, and has since been with Hollo-
way. Ethel, spite her tender years, has a preference for
ugly parts, where she can act a really objectionable
female to her heart’s content. And her wild-eyed girl-of-
all-work Semolina was the brightest thing in the rather
dreary “ When the Lamps are Lighted.” Compared to the
grown-up person who was going about trying to recover
his lost character she was a gem.
“Melb.” : Snazelle I Snazzy I He drops down from
the clouds like the bobby in the shadow-pantomime. He
is overwhelming, chokes you off with “ I know exactly
what you are going to ask, my dear boy,” whereupon the
greatest show on earth is unfolded before your dazzled
vision. Such a whirlwind, tourbillon of a fellow there
never was. His talk is like a cyclorama, where you can-
not tell where the actuality ends and the painting begins.
Edwin Forrest said “ I act Othello, but lam Lear.” So
Snazelle is Bill Adams. I have a dim idea now that he
put up Marshal Roberts to the taking on of this here job.
Anyhow, he organised the whole Spithead naval review.
He ran away from England because Chamberlain was
searching everywhere to collar him for First Lord of the
Admiralty, instead of Goschen.
Harry Leston, well-known in theatrical circles,
completed his 50th year on Thursday 17th inst. Thirty-
two years ago he made his first public appearance as a
mesmerist, and shortly afterwards joined Martinetti’s
French Pantomime Co. ; Paul, of that ilk, who recently
visited us, was then only a youngster. Leston then
drifted through various stages of show-business, including
circus-clowning, conjuring, ventriloquism, nigger
minstrelsy, song and dance, and comic opera, until he
finally settled down to the “ legitimate.” He is con-
sidered, at the present day, one of Australia’s best
Shakesperian scholars.
“ Marguerite Cornille, the French music’allienne,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ who
enters the ring with pugilist Kid M‘Ooy, or rather Norman
Selby (his top-hat name), on Xmas Day, is one of the most
piquant vocalists that has ever ‘ gay-Paree-d ’ London.
Yvette Guilbert was never more popular with the crowds
than she is, and to help Max O’Rell ‘ the nervous per-
spiration on the foreheads and neck-napes of her ever-
changing admirers has crystalised on the Siberia of her
snowy chest and shoulders in clusters of diamonds.’ But
Mrs. Kid M‘Coy will be a ‘ fust-class nime ’ to keep those
‘ bull ’-ants off with now.
“T.S.” : Apropos of the death of Helen Vivian, she and
her husband will be long remembered by their drama,
“ Neck for Neck,” wherein they hanged a man on the
stage. Arthur Vivian generally acted as the hangman,
for the co. shirked the business most unanimously. The
hanged man used to be rescued by a servant girl, who
rushed in and cut the rope while the Law, as typified by
one policeman drawn up in line, looked on with a dazed
expression in its eye and offered no resistance. After
that the rescued man became deranged and wandered
about the country publicly, with a red mark round his
neck, and the Law never made any attempt to recapture
him. It didn’t want to spoil the drama. It would be
interesting to find out in what lunatic asylum the
average cheap drama is built and slumped together.
The weirdest joke of all in “ Neck for Neck ” was a foul
and awful tramp and beer-cadger, caked with dirt and
in an incredible state of rags, red nose, shock hair and
general struck-by-lightningiiess. This person pervaded
the drama, with clods falling off him all through three or
four acts. Then the curtain rising again found him
clean and speckless, clothed in evening dress, with a
bleached nose and his hair cut, and while crossing the
stage he remarked incidentally : “My mother’s good
name having been cleared I am now able to resume my
place in society.” No one had heard*of his mother be-
fore this, but apparently she had been suspected of being
a Flossie, and that made it impossible for her son to wash
himself.
Ada Crossley, in an interview published by a London
paper, the Young Woman, is made to utter some pain-
fully loyal remarks. “ The honor of singing to the Queen
has been mine on many occasions, and I specially treasure
the memory of Dec. 9th last year (1899), when, during the
performance of ‘ Elijah ’ at Windsor Castle, Her Majesty
paid the tribute of her tears to my rendering of ‘ O Rest
in the Lord.’ ” It is incredible that Australia’s Ada should
talk in quite those words, which probably flowed from the
grovelsome soul of the Young Woman who told the tale.
But The Bulletin willingly believes that Her Gracious
shed a tear or two upon “O Rest in the Lord.” The
memory of an 82-year-old lady is necessarily full of
funerals, and “ O Rest ” is no laughing matter of a tune.
In fact a second-rate singer might easily have moved the
Queen to groans and anguish.
Next month, entrepreneur J. C. Williamson is at last
really starting on his oft-postponed trip to England, the
Continent, and U.S., for the purpose of enjoying a well-
earned holiday, and having a general look-round.
Lauri has held his place as principal comedian in the
Royal Comic Opera for nine years, barring only a few
months’ break, what time he filled an engagement at
Rickards’. He made his first Australian appearance at
Melb. Princess’ on Boxing night, 1891, in “ The Merry
Monarch.” J. C. Williamson was just then running the
theatre on his own, Musgrove being in opposition. The
tenth year of Lauri finds him going very strong in
“ Florodora ” for Williamson v. Musgrove.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their ad vantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
In some places in this world a sudden
upheaval generally means a sudden subsidence.
Still there are exceptions to every rule, and the
rapid upheaval of Dixson and Sons’ Conqueror
Tobacco business seems to be a pretty large ex*
ception. The factory is being increased to twioe
its present oapaoity, and the business gathers
speed and volume as it goes. In 1898 the
increase was 109,3971 b., in 1899 173,3321 b., while
in 1900 it was 228,2681 b., or roughly 102 tons.
From the Freetrade organ, Sydney Daily
Telegraph :
In the event of the death of the Queen, Mr. Reid will
turn the remainder of his addresses in Victoria into
accounts of her long* and glorious reign.
According to this, there is one man who would
pasture his political goat on the grave of his
grandmother. Another delicious D.T. item :
So interwoven with our daily life, so inseparable from
almost every hour of it, is the obligation to conceal our
real thoughts, or to express opinions which we do not
entertain, that few of us could say when “ first we ven-
tured to deceive.”
“ You may talk about starch till you are
blue in* the face but you can’t get over these
figures,” said G. Reid, triumphantly, to a Mel-
bourne audience the other day, after explaining
that it is owing to the blessings of Freetrade that
N.S. W. (four times the size of Victoria) has rather
more people. George’s contempt for people whotalk
about starch is so stupendous that anyone might
think the bowled-out fiction about the cheapness of
starch' in Sydney as compared with Melbourne
was someone else’s fiction instead of his own. The
cheeky figure-faker talked about starch persistently
till the bottom so completely fell out of his yarn
that even he had to give it up. Then his con-
tempt for starch became something enormous.
The reported signals from Mars probably
mean only Yankee sensationalism. The “dis-
coveries” of the Lowell Observatory (whence the
Martian “beam of light” was reported to have
been seen) are always dubiously received by the
scientific world; and the chances against any-
thing of the sort being-observed may be estimated
from the fact that Mars is never nearer to the
earth than 35,000,000 miles, while, at greatest,
the distance is nearly seven times as much. The
planet will be in opposition (showing a fully-
illuminated disc, and being thus most favourably
placed for observation) towards the end of next
month.
That mine of information, John Sands’
Sydney, Suburban, and Country Directory, has
now been brought up to 1901. The Directory has
shed its old-time serviceable cover of red for a
gorgeous draping of banners— The Bulletin pre-
fers the old red cover. Every year the Directory
grows; this year it has grown by nearly 300 pp.,
and a whole new section. As usual tlie book
opens with a general index, in which every item of
the work is alphabetically arranged. . Then follows
that portion which tells which particular person
lives in each particular house and street, city and
suburbs. This is followed by the new section, a
Country Commercial Directory, alphabetically
arranged, showing practically the whole of the
traders in N. S. W. The Alphabetical Directory, as
usual, tells in which particular house and street
each particular person lives, while the Pastoral
division gives the names and addresses of all the
principal Sheep and Stock holders, and where
they can be summoned for debts due and written
to for the loan of kangaroo-tails, &c. Other parts
of the Directory tell where one can send his off-
spring to have wisdom hammered into them, or
where they can effect a fire-insurance on the
future, where to find a J.P., and a crowd of other
things which space-considerations forbid mention
of. The volume is quite up-to-date, and there is
hardly a subject upon which it does not contain
valuable information.


According to Labouchere’s Truth : “Red-
vers Buller is infinitely the best soldier of all the
military geniuses that have been puffed for their
strategy in South Africa. But I do not agree
with him (goes on ‘Labby’) in his denunciations
of all the Boers in the field as mercenaries and
bandits. The resistance of the Boers is as natural
as was that of the Tyrolese peasants against
Napoleon when he declared them bandits and
rebels.” By-the-way, the Australian city dailies
have now got to calling them “ rebels,” “ dacoits,”
“brigands.” The Lord send that if Australia
ever puts up her hands on her own soil against a
foreign foe she will fight as bravely and as endur-
ingly as the farmers around the Yaal.
Compact framework of Capt. Cook’s life,
from the Dictionary of National Biography.
Born 1728, died 1779. Son of a Yorkshire agri-
cultural laborer. Apprenticed to a storekeeper.
Indentures cancelled. Then apprenticed to the
sea. Served some years in the Newcastle, Nor-
way and Baltic trade. Was mate in 1755 when
war broke out between Britain and France.
Volunteered as common sailor A.B. on the Eagle,
GO guns. Master in 4 years. In 1759 sailed for
North America as master of the Mercury. Em-
ployed on the St. Lawrence in valuable and dan-
gerous soundings which materially aided Wolfe at
Quebec. Became master of the Northumberland.
Executed important marine surveys of the New-
foundland and Labrador coast, also scientific
observations, for which study at Halifax had
qualified him. Made Lieut, in 1768. Appointed
in London to command the Endeavor in expedi-
tion to Tahiti for observation of transit of
Venus. On this voyage visited Maoriland and
Australia, Appointed commander in 1771.
Then ensued his Antarctic exploration, witli
the ships Resolution and Adventure. Pro-
moted captain in 1775. Went with ships Resolu-
tion and Discovery on the unsuccessful Arctic
mission to discover a passage round America.
Was still at sea this trip when killed at Hawaii.
A Mr. G. Knight, of Bendigo, offers a
good-looking suggestion for the spread of agricul-
tural wisdom among the young men of Victoria.
He proposes that the judges in every department
at an agricultural show shall be accompanied by
two young associates, whose duty will be to hear,
see, and say nothing until the prizes are awarded.
Then they can turn-to and question the grey-
bearded experts, cross-examine them on their
decisions, and so acquire technical knowledge by
object lesson j4 u *s verbal instruction. Somebody
met Knight’s simple proposal with the Tory
objection that all young men “think they know
more than any judges,” but the fact of a young
farmer having paid a guinea to be appointed a
silent “associate” would be a considerable
guarantee of a genuine desire to acquire experi-
ence.
AFTER TYPHOID
.*\ - A , ~ |
WEAK. WEARY AND WORN
A Complete Resuscitation,
Yha caea or
IVSR3. E. 8. GLENN.
vtKBPOETKD FOR The Journal,.)
in consequence o£ hearing a few remarks
llnent the indisposition of a lady residing at
78 Cleveland-street, Sydney, our repre-
sentative called at that address and ex-
pressed a desire to her husband, who
answered the door, to be granted the favor
of an interview with Mrs. Glenn on the
subject. “By all means,” replied Mr. Glenn.
“Just step inside, and I'm sure my wife
will be glad to tell you all alxiut it. The
invitation was accepted, and the erstwhile
patient related her story in the following
manner:—
“ Some time ago—between two and three
years, it must be—l became conscious of the
fact that an illness of some kind was
creeping on me, almost imperceptibly. It
Was quite clear to me that I was becoming
unwell, because of a most unpleasant sense of
general lassitude, a feeling of lack of interest
and absolute indifference to every tiling that
previously absorbed my attention, a feeling
of unusual languor and depression. I was
always ill at ease, being so restless and dull.
A sensation of drowsiness v. as continually
upon me, but yet m days and nights were
nearly always sleepless. What little sleep
1 did manage to obtain was not at all refresh-
ing as I would awako just as weary as
before. The work of the day, which hitherto
had been a pleasure to me, gradually became
an aversion. Everything ~ I tried to do
speedily developed itself iut-o a monotony,
and had the effect of dragging out what
little strength remained in rny body. I was
altogether exhausted, and the listlessnoss
and apathy that had seised hold of me was
made mqre unbearable by the incessant, pre-
sence of dull frontal headaches. I became
weaker and weaker through a total lo.ss of
appetite, and lost flesh rapidly. At times
I had a strange ringing sensation in the
ears, and would feci chilly at regular inter-
vals. My state of prostration was now so
complete that the mere action of raising my
head from the pillow produced a feeling of
dizziness and sickness at the stomach. At
other times I lay in a state of utter stupe-
faction, not even being able to engage
myself in thought, and would remain for
long periods gazing into vacancy. I would
arouse myself from this predicament after a
while, bub only to realise more clearly the
weak condition I was in.”
You had a doctor’s attention, surely ? ”
enjoined the reporter.
Oh, of course ; and nay case was pro-
nounced to be one of typhoid fever. Ido
not know whether such a thing is customary
in typhoid fever cases, but I had swellings
of various sizes all over my body/ They
caused me no end of anxiety and pain, and I
was afraid of other complications setting in,
although my medical attendant at length
persuaded me there was no reason to be
unnecessarily alarmed. To add to the long
list of other ailments, I must not forget to
tell you that on numerous occasions I was
suddenly made aware of dull, heavy pains in
the chest, as though it were indigestion ;
but considering that I could not eat I do not
think it could have been that. Well, this
State of affairs went on for ten weeks, and
luring that time I was just about as bad as
u can imagine a patient could be reduced
Tne doctor’s medicines I drank during
term of sickness, would surprise you ;
th -y evidently did not suit my case.
* 'Y made me no stronger, and did nob
remove any of my distressing symptoms
length I got tired of taking physic, and
iecided to act upon the advice of a friend
[rho was continually advocating the ex-
jcllence of Clements Tonic. This gentleman
wquaintaace had himself suffered from the
lame complaint as my own, and he was so
rathusiastic regarding the amount of benefit
ae had derived from Clements Tonic, and
Jhe way it restored his lost vitality, that he
convinced me there must be something in its.
preparation which would do me good.
Without any more delay I procured a bottle,
and discarded the doctors medicine alto
gether, being quite satisfied that the stub)
he had ordered was not doing me an atom ol
good, although his instructions were care-
fully carried out. I had been almost desti
tute of hope for a thorough recovery from
my long and serious illness, even after the
fever had left me, until the necessary
assistance arrived in tho form of Clements
Tonic; and my feelings of gratification can
be more easily imagined than described
when I found the great amount of benefif
which had accrued from the consumption o'
the first bot tle.”
“ What effect did it have upon you ? ” i
“ The most noticeable result of my first
bottle of Clements Tonic was a marked
decrease in the swellings on my body, which
clung to mo in spite of my convalv-tonce ;
and the agonising pains in my head, yhich
had been the cause of so much torture and
anguish to me, sewn left me altogether, and
I was then in such a happy frame of mind
that my prospects of regaining strength
soon became quite bright. I could also par-
take of the nourishing food which mv
enfeebled condition so much required, anti
which for weeks had been returned un-
tusted. And after eating there was an
absence of that dull, heavy feeling on the
stomach which I had previously experienced,
and I knew that my meals were beins.
properly digested, I continued Clements-
Tonic, and I seemed to reap advantage from
each dose. My cheeks began to display a
healthy colour, and each day added more
strength and vigor. By tho time I had
arrived at the bottom of the second bottle
the swellings had gone down entirely, and 1
wa3 able to go about the house with an
appreciable degree of comfort and energy.
With my daily increasing appetite came an
increase in flesh, and I could now take an
interest in my household arrangements
having sufficient vitality to do my work
with feelings of mingled interest and
pleasure. When night arrived I could look
forward to have plenty of rest, for I no
longer, turned from one side to another in
the vain hope of gaining repose. No ; I could
always feel sure of a good sleep, and would
arise in the morning feeling very much
better for it.”
“You appear to have made a complete
recovery ? ”
“ Yes; I am thankful to say that
Clements Tonic has restored me to the best
of health, although when I sometimes catch
a chill I get an attack of neuralgia ; but I
always keep to the one remedy, and after
taking two or three doses of Clements Tonic
the neuralgia leaves me.”
“May I make your case known?”
“ Indeed you can, and I trust it may be the
means of alleviating the suffering of other
people.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
G Eliza 1 6th Sarah Glenn, of 78 Cleveland sfree.
t ydney, in the Colony of New South \Va!rs
do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have care
fully read the annexed document, consisting of fiv
folios and consecutively numbered from one to five
and that it contains and is a true and faithful accoun
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and als
contains my full permii-sion to publish in any wa
my statements—which I give voluntarily, and withtr
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn d
claration ccncientiousiy believing- the same to be true
and by virtue of the provisions of an Act made an
h f ; "‘, r,t ) h .y ear of the rei ' n her presen
‘of'&ulod An Act for the more effeetiv
fn b °th« OB 0aU ?? and Affirmations taken and mad
TW b LrLh ftUS t De B a « me » ts of the Government c
New South wa*es, and to substitute Declarations i
ile ’ a a.Ki for the suppression of vJunt-
and Extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits.”
Declared at Sydney, this 2Sth day of Ju
thousand nine hundred, before me,
F- MCKENNA
m
af
Medical,
Hypnotism
Reader, why not be able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to II pnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
that are po?sible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hypnotism you c»n cure disease
conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the hind
ever publ shed. For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply.
Remember this costs you noth-
in?. A postal card will bring it.
Order to-day and learn to Hyp-
notize. It is a chance of a ;
life-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Na
m
af
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys 1
all Parasites of Head or Body. c
sold in two sizjcs, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstrk & Truman, (
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all <
Chemists in the Australian Colonies. <
A Vapor Bath Cabinet
af
Is a Necessity in Every Home.
BUY a
QUAKCR
Batl) Cabinet
(Best American Imported),
and enjoy the luxury of a
TURKISH, VAPOR, or MEDI-
CATED VAPOR BATH at
home, instead of at public
institutions, and save money.
Cures Rheumatism,
Sleeplessness, Obesity,
Kidney and Skin Diseases.
Price only 25/—, including Heater, and Prescriptions
for Medicated Baths.
Head and Face Steaming Attachment, 3/6 extra.
Cabinet folds flat to 1 inch thickness, when notin use.
Call and Inspect. Pamphlets Free.
J D CHALMERS,
Premier Buildings, 22&-231 Collins St., Melbourne.
X
RCsptCsrf
Ctirsd-^
Y\' HEN we say “RUPTURE CURED"
' ’ vve mean it, for it is a fact that
thousands of cures have been accomplished by Dr.
Pierce’s World-renowned ELECTRIC TRUSS during
the past twenty-five years. There is nothing else like it
on earth ! It does the work ! Have received so many
letters and testimonials that we hardly know what to do
with them all. If ruptured investigate at once. Our
prices are reasonable, but not cheap. We make no dis-
counts. “Dr. Pierce’s” is THE Truss, and you cannot
be happy till you get it.
You can get our “ BOOKLET No. 1 ” for nothing by
calling, or it will be sent to you on receipt of a stamp.
It tells all about this TRUSS. Address :
Magnetic Elastic Truss Go.,
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO., U.S.A.; or
160 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. H. SOUL & CO., Agents.
Business Announcements
Awarded GRAND PRIX,
PARIS EXHIBITION, 1900.
ON YOUR
HOLIDAYS
TAKE A
KODAK
WITH YOU,
And secure pleasing mementoes of interesting
places visited.
No dark room is required for changing the films,
as Kodaks are ....
Loaded and Unloaded in
Daylight.
Kodaks all prices, ss. to £7 15s.
OUR LATEST NOVELTIES ark
r. PANORAM
KODAK
for taking Panoramic Views 7in. x 2£in.
Price only — £2 12s. 6d.
THE . . .
No. 3 Folding Pocket
KODAK
For pictures 3£in. x 4|in.
Fitted with Rapid Rectilinear Lens, Brilliant
Reversible View Finder and Focussing Adjust-
ment. Made of Aluminium.
Price only —£3 16s.
Send for Illustrated leaflet and Irice
List and mention this paper.
To be obtained of all Dealers throughout
Australasia, and of
KODAK, Lie
“THE BLOCK,”
284 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE;
. . . AND AT . . .
LONDON, GLASGOW, LIVERPOOL, PARIS,
BRUSSELS, BERLIN, VIENNA, MOSCOW,
ST. PETERSBURG, and ROCHESTER, N.Y.
~GOUT v
PILLS.
for gout,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
USE
SPOONER’S
spooner’s!
V
*
■ -
****** 1 *»•-*«
IWTBNT LEATHER BQOT|
‘CLAZE3 WOSW V
' i
*«**•♦* »'*4
-n— «**■■ wiL"' ,r » v '*
*■*•*♦.*■»#
SUli)>
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
'ihe Best Dressing for
11 AIIXJiSS DEATH Bit (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing j,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Soot Shops, Saddlers, ete
A Golden Shanty:
Australian Stories ana Sketches in Prose
and Verse, by Bulletin Writers. Paper
covers, Is. ; Cloth boards, 2s.


THE. LEADINC HOUSE
NO MIDDLE-MEN
WE SAVE YOU 2 5 TO 50 PERCENT
■ :
THE SIX PREMIER ESTABLISHMENTS
STQG s
LONDON SYDNEY MELBOURNE PERTH AUCKLAND WELLINGTON
No. 201a —Set Links, 9-carat
Gold, £1 Is; 15-carat Gold, £2;
Silver, 6a 6d.
Lady’s Gold Tie-Olip, set with
Pearls and Turquoise, 18s 6d.
No. 116a—9-carat Gold and Fine Amethyst
Brooch, 18s 6d. Superior Design and Finish.
No. 193 —Set Links, 9-
carat, 15s 6d ; 15-carat,
£110s; Silver, 4s 6d.
No. E7478—9-carat Gold Chain, Bell and Leaf
Brooch, 11s 6<L
No. 021--15-carat Gold and
Fine Opal Links, £4.
No. E 7347. —Solid Silver Shaving Mug,
£4 10s, either Plain or Chased ; Best Silver*
plated, 18s 6d arid £1 6s.
Cut-Glass Toilet Box, Solid Silver Top. Small, 15s 6d
Medium, 21s ; Large, 265.
Very Massive Solid Silver Cake Basket, £l3 10s.
No. 284.—Cut-Glass Puff Box, witl
Solid Silver Top, 3in. high, £1 Is.
Others, 9s 6d and 13s 6d.
No. 558. —Very Massive 15c. Gold Brooch, 9 Fine
White Diamonds, £8 10s. Special Value.
No. 150.—15 c. Gold Bracelet, 1 Diamond, 2 Rubies, £4 7s 6d.
No. 017. —9c. Gold and Fine Opal Brooch, £1 ss.
No. 139. —9c. Gold Bracelet, Ruby Centre, £1 2s 6d.
No. P 3739 —Best Silver-plated and
Satin-lined Collar Stud Box,
7s6d.
Solid Silver Shaving Brushes, 11s 6d, 13s 6d, £1 Is, £ll2s fid.
No. 383 A Ohased Oake Basket, Finest Silver-
plate, on Nickel Silver, £2 10s. Others, £1 Is and £llos.
No. 371—Silver-plated Salts
Stand and Spoon, with Fancy
Glass, 3in. high, 5s 6d.
No. 373—Beautiful Silver-plated Toast
Back, 6 divisions, 7in. long-, 12s 6d
No. 208.—15 c. Gold
Heart, 10s 6d ;
Oc. ditto, 6s 6d.
No 177.
Gold Keeper, 18c.,
£1 Is.
No. 178. Wedding
King, 180. Gold,
£1 Is.
Heavy, £llss.
No. 193 A.—Set Links.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d ; 15c. Gold,
£1 ss. Silver, 3s 6d.
No. 169.
2 Diamonds, 3
Rubies, 18c. Gold,
£2 12s 6d.
No. 194 A Links.
Sc. Gold, £1 5s ; 15c. £2 10s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 163.
6 Fine White Dia-
monds, £5 6s;
2 Diamonds, 3 Sap-
phires, £3 10s.
No. 167.
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
No. 216—Pearl and 18c. Gold, £2 6s.
Ruby Heart, 9c.
Gold, 16s 6d.
ƒa
f
*v
No. E 7849 A Charming 1 and
Novel Wedding Present. Silver-
plated Egg-Boiler for the Break-
fast-table, £1 ss.
No. 416 Handsome Clock, 7in. high,
Gilt Fox Head, two Hunting Crops,
and two Gilt and Leather Traces,
£1 7s 6d.
Silver-plated Egg Frame 2-Cup,
£1 5s ; 4-Cup, £2; 6-Oup, £3 3s.
No. E 6851 —New Clasp, antique design, very
handsome, heavy make, Solid Silver, £l. (En-
graving drawn hall size.) Others, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
13s 6d. Silver-plated, 4s 6d and ss.
No. £9601- Beautiful Silver-plated Bis-
cuit Box, £llsa
No. 103.—9 c. Gold Bar Brooch,
10s 6d.
No. 130.— 15 c. Gold, Opal and Diamond Bracelet.
New and Handsome Design, £l2 10s.
No. 015.—15 c. Gold and Finest Opal Heart
Brooch, £3.
No. 137.—9 c. Gold Bracelet, set Sapphires and Pearls, £3.
Others at £2, £2 ss, £2 10s, £2 15s.
No, 319—Silver Button-Hooks and Shoe-Lift’
lGs 6d ; smaller size, 11s 6cL
TSSBai
No. 295—Silver-plated Serviette Rings, 2 in Case,
8s 6d ; 4 in Case, 16s 6d ; 6 in Case, £1 ss.
No. E 946 Morocco Case, containing
Solid Silver Shell-Pattern Butter-Dish
and Knife, £1 5a
No. 268a —Set of Solid Silver Manicure Instruments—Nail File,
Scissors and Cuticle Knife, in Case, 17s 6d.
Others, 14s 6d to £6 10s.
Any of the Articles Illustrated above will be sent
Free and Safe by Post on receipt of Remittance.
Write for onr Illustrated Catalogue. Sent Post Pree.
412 (forge St. * Straod, SYDNEY.


KUTNOW’S POWDER
BE
S 3
i ii
?r
KUTNOW’S
improved Effervescent Carlsbad
POWDER.
?fi
€
yj
%
Hirschensprung or Deer Leap.
it
tr.tfW'
Yg
m
™ m
*■ ,am LONDON:' I
-'■ 41, FARRJNGDON ROAD, E.fr *
REGISTERED TRADE MARK I
EXACT/SIZE
OFTHEBOmE
EXACT SIZE
OF THE BOTTLE
Is a COOLING, REFRESHING, PURIFYING APERIENT
which does not Weaken, Purge, nor Nauseate, and is
Palatable and Inexpensive.
Kutnow's Improved Effervescent Carlsbad Powder is a safe,
palatable, and effective remedy for sluggish liver, biliousness’
constipation, and dyspepsia, and for the lassitude, depression’
insomnia, headache, nervousness, and despondency which these
disorders of the stomach, liver and kidneys give rise to.
It is composed of the purifying, cooling, medicinal pro-
perties of the noted health springs of Europe, but with their
lowering, drastic, nauseous features removed.
Kutnow’s Powder cleanses, stimulates, and strengthens all
the digestive organs, and refreshes, purifies and reinvigorates
the entire system.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
KU i NOW’S POWDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles from all Reliable Chemist s ant 7 T -
See that the Registered Trade Marls, (i Hirschensnruna ” (or T>eer Tran) //, 7 ~ dtcrne Vendors,
JTTTTA/nTT * rm ~ "sprung (or ueer Reap), and the autograph facsimile sianaturp “
and ZZT / Ld -’ / lre ° n the ,abH nna Only these ensure genuineness. Insist on
and firmly refuse any substitutes ; they may be worthless, probably injurious. ’
PROPRIETORS——.
S. KUTNOW & GO., Ld., 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C.
PROPRIETORS IN n g a
KUTNOW BROS., Ld., 853 Broadway, New York City.
"Soochow.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Midnight on a Chinese river !
Close-in to either bank, tier upon tier, are
moored junks, lorchas,. papicores, and many name-
less small craft of fashion antique ere the building
of the Pyramids. In the stream, abreast the small
English concession of Ningpo, lie a. few foreign
square-rigged vessels, their masthead lights cast-
ing pale silver blotches .on the muddy flood. In
the stream, to seaward of all and alone, deep
rides the lorcha Wanderer, waiting daylight and
the ebb to put to sea. Her bleached canvas,
black-gasketed, shows ghostlike; the ebon of her
sides is emphasised by a broad gold line, upon
which and the polished brass trunnions of ner
guns, the moonlight, watery and uncertain, fitfully
and faintly glistens.
A hush is on land and water ; the bestial din
and gabble of a Chinese day are done. Ever and
anon comes the inconsiderable tinkle of a ship’s
bell, or, drowsily, the cry “ All’s well!” or the
yelp of an outcast dog dreaming of the agony of
scalding water on a mangy skin. These are the
only voices of the night.
* * * •
Astern, under the curtained awning of the
Wanderer, stretched on a bamboo chair, his feet
on the taffrail, smoking and absorbed, is the
owner and skipper—blithest man that night in all
that flowerless “Flowery Land.” For “Gentle-
man George,” as the beachcombers call him, after
sweat of body and soul for five years, each
moment of which he has carried his life in his
hands, has “made his pile.” This day he has
written • his younger brother in Sydney—the
,°f David and Jonathan is between them —
bidding him come out and take the lorcha and her
assured trade as free gifts; also to the woman he
loves, telling of fortune won and future happi-
ness. He has accomplished his life’s programme.
Such triumph the Fates, Weaving pitilessly, per-
mit to few. The smoke of his Manila curls as the
smoke of incerise round his head. His thoughts
are long thoughts.
A * ' '
A sampan , narrow-gutted and low, sculled by
two great UUoh ,- writhes swiftly in the deep
shadow of the moored junks. Wads of greased
jute have been thrust over the iron tholes, and the
oars chum noiselessly. Passing the most seaward
of the foreign ships, she is soon two cables’ lengths
ahead, but inshore of, the Whnderer, which, rid-
ing to single anchor, lies bow-on to the scurrying
flood. Then the sampan shoots into mid-stream
and drops with the tide, until her bowman, with
muffled boat-hook, grips the lorcha’s chain. A
pause, and eight men dressed as Chinese, their
feet naked, swarm over the low bow, and, seeking
the obscurity of every spar, mast, and gun-car-
nage, win aft until they crouch behind the uncon-
scious skipper. Like a flash they throw a heavy
rug over his head, lash his hands, and carry him, a
revolver pressed against his temple, to the sampan.
Dropping him into the boat, they push off and go
leisurely down with the tide. There is but one
other witness to this drama, Hoshu, the skipper’s
Chinese servant, who has shared the varying for-
tunes of his master for the past five years. He,
coming sleepily up the companion, sees all, but,
unarmed and opposed to such odds, shrewdly
makes no sign, and is unnoticed by the kidnap-
pers. Yet when he hears the sampan under
weigh, he crawls to the bulwark and notes her
course. Winding his queue tightly around hi g
head and tuoking the wide legs of hi 3 silk pyjamas
into their waistband, he drops into the stream and
swiftly follows the boat.
. At daybreak, Hoshu, bleeding, wet and shiver-
ing, looks out from the shore upon the river. The
Wanderer is gone ! _ ..
* * * *
A hong, gloomy, vast and solitary, walled front
and rear. At base of the front wall the murky
river laps. In the long narrow-paved passage
between the face of the hong and its river-wall
there paces the day through, and everyday—until
at nightfall he is thrust into a filthy room—the
captain of the lorcha. And daily his step
weakens, for he is- undergoing ordeal by starva-
tion. Chinese sailors of villainous aspect, pirates
unmistakably, squat on the stones, sunning their
vermin, smoking foul tobacco, and bandying
obscene jests at the expense of the prisoner. And
every day a white man in Chinese dress, on whose
handsome face strange vices and crimes have
written large signatures, comes sneering :
“Welk-starved out yet, George? Are you
going to tell where those dollars of yours are
planted ? ”
The other, pacing onwards, answers nothing.
But a day comes when the prisoner halts.
I amine has weakened his step; his voice is very
feeble, yet he answers clearly:
“Yes; the money’s safe now. It was aboard
the B. and O. boat which left Shanghai yesterday.
I sent it up by Schofield’s lorcha which left
JNmgpo the day you kidnapped me.”
‘‘You lie!”
“I do not. I knew you and pirate Apak were
waiting to take the Wanderer, and I wasn’t fool
enough to carry my money in her. You’re late
this time.”
The evil in the face of the other becomes more
evil.
“Is that God’s truth?”
What have you to do with God—pirate, mur-
derer and renegade? Nevertheless it is God’s
truth.”
“ Tie him to the wall! ” the other says to the
Chinese who watch. They lash the skipper, stand-
m?> to an iron ringbolt in the angle of the walls.
The ruffian draws a revolver, slowly examines
it, smiles blandly, and asks :
“Where will you have it, Gentleman George ? ”
The Chinese, comprehending, guffaw. This is
merry play_ they can. enjoy. George, his face
deathly white, but set firm, says nothing. The
other takes aim. The hammer of the pistol rises—
ns®B higher—higher. Then he lowers the muzzle.
“‘lam the resurrection and the life ’; let’s see
—how did it go when we were young, George ? ”
“ Shoot, you cur, shoot! ”
God knows; save for those words the brute
might have stayed his hand. But, stung by the
tone of ineffable contempt, he brings the pistol up
and fires. The bullet strikes George obliquely in
the breast. The blood spurts; yet the wound is
not mortal.
He fires again, shattering his victim’s right arm.
Kill me ! Kill me quick ! ” gasps the wounded
man.
“Not much! Let him go ! ”
They loose him.
“There’s the gate; you may go. Remember
me to all at home in Sydney. George ! ”
. George feebly puts up his left hand, and, grop-
ing with it as those in the dark grope, staggers
towards the closed gate.
The other laughs. “The damn fool actually
believed it,” he says, simply, and shoots him
through the head, and looks and sees that he is
dead. But he does not see the passion-riven face
of Hoshu, who, from without, peers through a
chink in the gate.
* * * *
Thirty months later.
“ Those ruffians whom you engaged, my young
friend, to guard the hongs across the river have
been playing up particular merry jehannum
again, so the compradore reports.”
Thus the chief, morosely, to me.
It was in Ningpo in ’6l. The Taiping rebels
had just captured the city from the Imperialists.
Ningpo city, on the left bank of the Chentung,
faces the European concession, on the right. The
“long-haired men,” then well-disposed to Wes-
tern civilisation, respected foreign treaty settle-
ments to the extent even of refraining from plun-
dering buildings in vanquished cities flying foreign
flags. Therefore, the wealthier Chinese of
Ningpo—before retiring to Shanghai, habited as
mendicants, but with costly furs, priceless pearls,
and other collateral securities tucked beneath
their malodorous rags—had arranged with my
chief (one having authority) to hoist the Union
Jack over a certain block of city hongs surround-
ing a temple of Sakyamuni, thrice sacred as the
nest of much-hidden treasure of Ningpo. A
dozen white men had been hired to guard the en-
tombed fastnesses, of which they were ignorant,
or they would have looted them, even unto the
ultimate tael.
• • • •
Mine had been the task to rake from the two
unspeakable grog-shops of the squalid settlement
this unholy assortment of Shanghai-rangers—
sweepings of California, Hell, and Australia,
especially of the latter two —given over, each man
of them, to rum, rapine, and unjustifiable homi-
cide. At peril of body and soul, I had gathered
them, and here was the chief repining because
they were unintermittently crapulous, and made
night so grisly with blare of internecine free
fight that sanguinary old “ Cockeye,” the Taiping
Wang or King in command, cogitated their de-
capitation as a specific within the region of prac-
tical politics.
* * • •
“Go,” said the Chief ; “go through the settle-
ment, and try to find two men who will captain your
carbonari. They should be quick to shoot, and
sober—-figs not gathered from the Ningpo thistle.
Yet if, peradventure, you discover such, pay them,
in reason, what they ask.”
I had luck. Schofield, Ningpo’s one European
storekeeper, whose dingy finger was in every pie,
said:
“Got the very men. Merchant-ship mates—
chucked the sea; lookin’ for someone on the
coast. Don’t rightly know the yarn—suit you
down to the ground—have ’em here two o’clock ! ”
Wherefore I said smooth sayings to Schofield,
partook of his notorious square-faced gin from
Java —Dutch, and damaged—and hinted the
blindness of the Chief to his (Schofield’s) next in-
fringement of the somewhat elastic laws of the
settlement.
* ■* m m
Dick Heneage and Charlie Clissold were willing
to skipper my desperadoes. The former, large,
hairy and cool, looked fit; the latter, younger,
slight, and rather ladylike as to expression and
complexion, was not the ideal tiger - tamer.
“We’re harder cases than we look,” explained
Heneage; “ I’ve had three years at an Australian
diggings, where society was largely unrepentant
horse-thief, and I’ve been second-mate with
Yankee-packet rats; while Charlie here is a Corn-
stalk, and has knocked round on this coast for
near two years.”
It looked like franking two decent Britons to
death and judgment, but the Chief was one to be
obeyed, and, after all, gentlemen-adventurers
with any delicacy about being murdered had no
call to Ningpo those days.
I took them across in the house-boat that even-
ing to introduce them to the “lambs.” .They
were accompanied by Schofield, a case of his gin,
a Chinese servant, and other impediments.
“I’m just goin’ over to make ’em solid with
Black Douglas—lie’s a pal of mine,” said Scho-
field.
Now, “Black Douglas” was the only passably
respectable cut-throat among the crowd —not
guiltless of manslaughter, but incapable of
treachery, taking manfully all hazards of his
iniquities.
The lambs, rather, but not immoderately, sober,
camped in a big room, bare, save for much dirt,
a few cots and a large charcoal stove, around
which they were seated, ruminating tobacco as
cattle cud. They shot swift side-long glances at
the new-comers, and spat, saluting Schofield with
epithets, as forms of endearment, and demanding
of him drink. The world is small. Heneage and
Douglas, after mutual contemplation, shook
hands.
“ Old mate o’ mine at Yackandoolah Creek
diggin’s, chaps—sabe ? ”
The “chaps” expectorated.
He looked at Clissold : “ Fren’ o’ yours ? ”
Heneage nodded.
“Fren’ o’ mine, fellers —sabe? ”
The “ fellers ” spat acquiescently.
“But who’s the dumed Chow, to come
among us white gents?” demanded a Yankee
crimp whom the Vigilantes had run out of ’Frisco
for shipping dead landsmen as dead-drunk sea-
men.
“He is a friend of mine / ” replied Clissold, and
his tone and glance were so stringent that awk-
ward silence befell.
But observant Schofield kicked off the head of
the gin-case, and each of the gang forthwith
poured solemn libation to his god—each drank to
himself.
I stated the position.
Heneage and Clissold were to have supreme
command, with Douglas for lieutenant. “Any
gentleman ” objecting could have his money.
Avid expectoration was their sole comment.
Only Douglas observed, “Count me in,” and
where Douglas went the crowd generally fol-
lowed. Heneage, Clissold, and Douglas, attended
by Hoshu, Clissold’s Chinese servant, took up
quarters already prepared for them at the far end
of a big hong, some 300 yards, from the main
guard. This detached hong, built with sloping
roof against a high wall, was faced by another
high wall washed by the river. The only access
was by a heavy gate 80 yards from the rooms
selected. A wire, attached to the gate, rang a
bell in one of the rooms whenever the door was
opened. The narrow passage-way from the gate
to the parallel wall at tne far end was paved.
“Clissold seems a bit tame for that job?” I
hazarded to Schofield as we were being sculled
back to our own side of the river.
“Think so? Well, he don’t come of a tame
family or a tame colony,” he replied, dryly, and
turned the subject.
It * * *
For the next month there was comparative peace
at the hongs. The lambs took to Heneage, who,
though free-and-easy, had the reputation of being
“ ugly ”in the day of trouble. And I)ouglas j


A Sensation in Sydney,
500 SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED IN THE
LAST THREE MONTHS. NOTHING LIKE
IT EVER KNOWN BEFORE IN SYDNEY-
NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF THE
PEOPLE GIVEN. A REVOLUTION IN
MEDICINE. “ KEEP THE KIDNEYS
WELL, AND THE WHOLE BODY
WILL BE WELL.” THE EFFECT 01
DOAN’S.
Backache Kidney Pills
<S
L
r
/I
pmm
“THE PAIN IS JUST HERE, DOCTOR.”
It used to be considered that only urinary and bladder
troubles were to be traced to the kidneys, but now modern science
proves that nearly all diseases have their beginning in the disorder
of these important organs. . . .
The kidneys filter and purify the blood —that is their work.
So when your kidneys are weak, or out of order, you can
understand how quickly your entire body is affected and how
every organ seems to fail to do its duty.
If you are sick or feel badly begin taking Doan s Backache
Kidney Pills, because as soon as your kidneys are well they will
help all the other organs to health. A trial will convince
anyone.
The people whose names appear below are all
Sydney people. They have all been cured by
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and their cases, as
well as scores of others, have been fully reported
in these columns.
Was ever any other medicine supported by such
a mass of local testimony? Would any other
medicine stand so sure a test ? Think of it. Here
are your friends and neighbours, all Sydney
people, telling you week by week in the Sydney,
papers what Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have
done for them.
Does not this speak volumes for the sterling
merits of this great medicine ? Why an', Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills so popular in Sydney?
We will tell you why. Because they cure
diseases in a new way—viz., by healing the
kidneys, which are the most important and deli-
cate organs of the whole body, and are the cause
of most diseases. Sydney people have found this
out, and 500 of them have received benefit from
using this medicine in the past three months. Is
not this a glorious record ? “Yes,” you will say,
“ but how does it interest me ? lam not suffering
from kidney disease.”
Wait a bit, don’t make too sure of that. Do
you know that the kidneys are the blood-filters of
the body, and if they are sick your blood becomes
charged with impurities that permeate the whole
of your system ?
Do you suffer from neuralgia, pains in the back
and shoulders, loss of flesh, weakness of the
muscles, palpitation of the heart, shortness of
breath, poor appetite, swellings of the ankles, or
urinary disorder? Well, that is kidney trouble;
your kidneys have become clogged, they cannot
do their work properly. They must be healed
before you can be well. That is just what Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills will do for you ; they will
cause the kidneys to filter properly, and do for you
just what they have done for 500 of your friends
and neighbors in Sydney during the past three
months.
Here are some of their names and addresses :
Mr. James Hudson, 10 Lennox-street, Newtown,
Sydney; Mrs. Patrick Duffy, 43 Marion-street,
Leichhardt, Sydney ; Mr. Jas. Rees, 6 East-
street, Surry Hills, Sydney ; Mr. W. Hubbard,
St. Paul’s-street, Randwick, Sydney ; Mr. W.
Lane. 102 George-street, llrskin ville, Syd-
ney ; Mr. P. O’Sullivan, 237 Nelson-street,
Annandale, Sydney ; Mr. J. Cameron, 297 Bal-
main-road, Leichhardt, Sydney ; Mrs. W.
Gow, 31 John-street, Leichhardt, Sydney ;
Mrs. Kate Helmka, 27 Ada-street, Ultimo, Syd-
ney ; Mr. E. Hansen, 41 Rosser-street, Balmain,
Sydney; Mrs. Geo. Cook, 20 Bennell-street,
Waverlev, Sydney ; Mr. P. Smith, 1 Cheltenham-
street, Balmain, Sydney; Mr. J. Bicknell, 12
Chapel-street, Woolloomooloo, Sydney; Mrs.
Fred. Russell, 7 St. Andrew’s-street, Balmain,
Sydney; Mrs. W. Mullins,. 49 Hunter-street,
Sydney ; Mr. J. Frodd, 99 Crown-street, Sydney.
Yes, and it was the genuine Doan’s Bachache
Kidney Pills which these people used, not some
substitute or cheap imitation of a similar name.
You need not be imposed upon, however, when
you buy if you make sure that the full name
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
is on the wrapper. You will see the name in bold, plain type. Sold by all chemists and storekeepers
a t 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes 15s. 3d.), or same will be forwarded on receipt of price by the proprietors,
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
under responsibility, proved potent on the side of
order. But the erowd couldn’t stomach Clissold,
who neither drank, swore, nor conversed, except
on points of duty. 'They nick-named him
“Missie, openly mimicked his soft voice and
quiet manner, and were only restrained from more
pronounced defiance by the accidental discovery
that he was a dead-shot and, perhaps, by a
peculiar look which occasionally oame into his
usually cold, blue eves. That there was some
mystery about Clissold I early decided, also that
Heneage, Douglas, Hoshu, and Bebofield knew it.
» * t •
One morning the Chief, ramping, spoke :
“ More trouble brewing over these oursed honr/s.
That scoundrel Soochow, who disappeared for
two years or more, is in Ningpo again. Robbery
and murder follow him all the days of his life.
With his knowledge of Chinese and of Chinese
ways he’s sure to smell the treasure in the
temple, and equally sure to stir-up those
other thieves over there to steal it. And
I’ve no gunboat here and not six white men I can
trust !”
Everyone in Northern China in those days had
heard of Soochow, the white renegade,
educated, of unknown antecedents, and the most
desperate and cold-blooded miscreant on that or
any other coast. Owing to his unique mastery of
Chinese and various dialects, he had been
employed by the British on “secret service,” had
taken their money and promptly betrayed them
to the Chinese. Arrested by the English for
numerous murders, he cl.-imed to be a Chinese
subject. The Chinese acknowledged the claim,
and promised to behead him. Instead, they em-
ployed him as a spy upon the Taipings. He sold
the Imperialists to the Taipings and vice versa.
The Chinese next used him against the great
pirate chief, Apak, who terrorised the northern
seaboard and derided even British gunboats, and
had agents in every port. He assisted
Apak in innumerable piracies, and then tried to
kill him in order to sell his head to the
authorities. Sell! He would have sold the
mother that suckled him ! He had kidnapped,
tortured and killed numberless Chinese and not a
few whites. He had sat high mandarins on live
charcoal to squeeze their treasure from them, shot
one English comrade slowly to death while the
latter was bathing, and had crucified another to
the mast of his lorcha. Armed parties of Euro-
peans and Americans—there was little conven-
tional law in the Nor:h then—had gone out gaily
to lynch him, and had come to grief. Neither
vengeance nor justice touched him, and, though
he had never kept faith with man or woman, the
worst cut-throats would follow him to death and
out the other end.
That night, in a heavy snow-storm, I slipped
over the river to warn the leaders concerning
Soochow. Schofield, however, had taken the
news the previous evening. Clissold and Hoshu
had gone over to the settlement. Heneage
and Douglas were exercised about another matter.
“These are pleasing quarters,” volunteered the
former ; “a ghost has been prancing round lately
at nights!” .
“ A ghost ? You haven’t been drinking Scho-
field’s gin ? ”
“Not quite. But something in European boots
paces up and down outside—something invisible.
We thought it might be an echo ; but people don’t
walk in heavy boots on a river. It don’t come in
at the gate and it don’t go out, because the bell
never rings.”
“ Holy Sailor ! there’s Boots now ! ” said Doug-
las, blue to the lips.
And, though the bell was silent and the falling
snow deadened all other sound, heavy footsteps
slowly paced towards us from the gate. We sat
quaking. The boots approached, passed the win-
dow, reached the end wall paused, turned, passed
the window, sounded faintly, paused, turned, and
again approached. Fear flamed into desperation ;
we dashed out with cocked revolvers.
Louder and louder, nearer and more near, the
footsteps!
They were close ; they were abreast; no living
thing visible, no footprint on the fast-falling snow.
Something spirit, shadow, or colder blast-
passed. We emptied our revolvers, the bullets
spattered on the snow-encrusted river-wall.
The footsteps went on, turned and passed,
turned and passed again, then ceased.
“ When did you first hear it ? ” I asked.
“ Last night, just before Schofield told us about
Soochow.”
“ Clissold scared ? ”
“ Don’t know—Charlie keeps his coat buttoned
over liis heart. Hoshu was, damnably.”
Here the bell rang ; we challenged. Clissold
answered and entered witli Hoshu —the former
calm, the latter wildly perturbed.
“Well, what else ? ” said Clissold to his servant,
as if continuing a conversation.
“Wait; I catchee light”—and Hoshu, trem-
bling, lit a lantern.
“Come now; looksee ! Me show you ! Mi too
muchee fooloo. Mi no sabee this place befo’. Mi
sabee be now—dam bad place. Come ! ”
They went out, wondering, we followed. The
Chinaman brushed swiftly through the snow to
the angle made by the river and end walls, held
high his lantern, groped a moment in the angle,
found an iron ring let into the wall and screamed :
“Hiyah! look! looksee! This place he tie
Missie Geoge! This place lie shootee lie. Close
by gate Missie Geoge makee die ! Look ! ”
Charlie bent forward. The lantern shone upon
his face, and it, save for the lurid light in his
eyes, was the face of the dead and cold.
“ I see ! ” he said.
The footsteps sounded far away by the gate,
coming faintly, but coming always. We listened,
but there was that in Charlie’s pale face more
terrible than footsteps of living or dead. As the
footsteps closed up Hoshu gasped :
“Missie Geoge ! Missie Geoge ! chin-chin you !”
and dropped, a shapeless heap, at the foot of the
wall.
But his master turned and threw out his hand,
saluting one, invisible to us, passing.
The bell rang. Schofield called and we went
in. But Schofield spoke aside to Douglas, who
went out into the night.
* * * »
We sat silent. Clissold cleaned and re-loaded
his two revolvers. Schofield smoked a bad cigar
thoughtfully, casting repeated furtive glances at
Clissold. Hoshu, squatting in a far corner, sought,
with shaking hands, to fill his long brass pipe.
Once again the bell rang, and Douglas, entering
quickly, said : ‘ 1 Soochow’s in the guard-room
and there’ll be hell to pay and no pitch hot.
They’re going for the temple to-night, boys !
There’s only six of them and Soochow there just
now. What’s to be done ? ”
Before he finished Charlie had gone out. Hoshu
throw down his pipe, snatched a big Chinese
knife and followed.
“Where’s Charlie going?” said I.
“To death—sudden death ! replied Schofield,
with a gulp; “going to tackle Soochow single-
handed—Soochow that no dozen men tackled
yet.”
“ But, why ? ” I persisted.
“Hell! Cease talk! Come on, boys !
“ We’ll see this thing through,” said Heneage.
And, taking arms, we hurried down the long
passage to the gate, hearing, not heeding, the
pacing of the “ boots.”
Charlie opened the guard : door and Went in so
swiftly that the “lambs ” had scarce time to lift
their eyes. We, grouped round the window,
looked into the lighted room. The gang, in semi-
circle round the front of the stove, faced the door.
Soochow sat at the baok of the stove and, conse-
quently, with his baok to the door. He sat bowed
on a benoh, his hands between his knees,
cogitating. His pistol was lying on the bench.
The other rascals regarded the greater ecoundr ■
admiringly. Charlie walked straight up to
Sooohow, put a revolver to his head, and said
coldly, “If you move, William Glissold, I’ll
shoot! ”
We pushed in.
“Bail-up, the lot of you!” shouted Douglas,
as we covered the crowd.
They had “been there” before. They were
unarmed. Their hands went up.
Soochow, smiling, slowly raised his head. A
cooler man never looked at death down the barrel
of a pistol.
“What’s the trouble?” he said, then raising
his eyes he saw Charlie for the first time.
His face bleached beneath its weather-tan, his
jaw fell, his arms hung nerveless.
“What the—who, in the devil’s name, are
you?”
“ I’m Charles Clissold. Get up and come w’
me.”
“ What —little brother Charlie —you ? ”
The other said only “ Come ! ”
Soochow rose slowly; but, in the act, duclu
beneath Clissold’s arm and snatched the revolver
from the bench. The movement was quick as the
dash of an angry snake, but not quick enough.
Douglas fired and shattered the renegade’s right
wrist.
Charlie led Soochow out.
“Well, chaps,” said Douglas, “you’d best see
this deal out. Keep ’em covered ” (this to Scho-
field, Hosu and my self;.
He went to each cot, took what arms were
there, and brought them and tucked them in our
belts.
“ Now, two and two, same as you walked in the
chain-gang. Mr. Schofield, go first; Hoshu, you
take the flank; you and me, sir, rear-guard, and
the first of ’em as scratches his nose ’ll be dead
meat. March, you gallows-birds, march ! ”
* • * *
“Tie him to the wall! ” said Charlie.
And Hoshu tied the renegade to the iron ring
bolt in the wall. Douglas had lit two flares am
stuck them in the iron sconces in the veranda-
posts. They threw long, black shadows of th(
cowed loafers on the white snow, and made mor<
pallid the faces of Charlie and Soochow. Tin
former turned to Hoshu. “Tell them why I’v<
brought this man here.” Hoshu lifted his righ
arm and pointed a quivering finger at Soochow
But before he could speak there was a suddti
tumult at the gate, and in a moment the long pas
sage was ablaze with torchlights, resonant with
fierce shouts and the clash of arms, resplendent
with the sheen of many colored silks. It was the
old them//, “ Cockeye,” and his body guard. They
came leaping, gesticulating, with ferocious cries,
as was their wont. Their long, coarse, dull,
black hair streamed to their knees. They wore
costly body furs, satin-lined, the loot of many
cities, but their legs and feet were bare; their
broad spears had silk pennons. They were old
rebels who had swum in blood, survival of the
fittest that had marched down the. rugged Kwan-
tung hills long years before with the student
Hung, who later became the “ Heavenly King.”
They opened their ranks and the Wang
passed through, grim, tall and squinting. He
signalled and there was silence. He strode up to
Charlie Clissold and asked, in broken English,
“ What thing you do ?”
And Charlie spoke, a wild-eyed Taiping inter-
preting each sentence into Chinese :
“He killed his brother, who was also m\
brother. My brother had much money, which
this man would have stolen, and this man took
him from his lorcha, and kept him here in this
place many days—starving ; and mocked him and
shot him, but did not kill at once—shot him, here,
tied to this iron, as he is now—and let him go, and
came behind and shot him dead.”
“ Who saw these things ? ”
Hoshu lifted his right hand and swore a mighty
Chinese oath. “ Through the gate, these things
and more I saw ! ”
“Cockeye” stalked on and looked Soochow,
who glared like a trapped wild beast, in the face,
and Soochow spat at him.
The old Wang calmly wiped his cheek with his
long sjeeve and spoke to a Taiping, who went and
looked at Soochow earnestly.
“ It is the man,” said the soldier to the King.
Then, said “Cockeye,” in Chinese, turning and
walking a little space from the wall, “ This man,
this Soochow, is a Taiping. He has sworn the
Taiping oaths. Twice he has betrayed us. He
belongs to us. His life is ours, and we will take
it —but slowly.”
Then to his guard, “ Take the white devil! ”
“ His life is mine ! ” said Charlie Clissold, and
he shot the renegade through the head. Then cut
his bonds.
But, even as Soochow fell, Charlie slipped on
his knees, supporting the prone head with his left
arm, and put his pistol to his own temple and
fired, and, as he sank in death, both his arms went
round Soochow’s neck, while the left arm of the
latter went feebly up to Charlie’s face and stroked
it.
And so embracing, as child brothers, loving and
innocent, might embrace, they died.
* * * *
The iron ringbolt was taken from the wall. In
its place we put a small white stone, on which,
deep-cut, was this inscription :
George Clissold, died June 24, 1859, aged 26.
Charles Clissold, died Dec. 24, 1861, aged 24.
William Clissold (“ Soochow”), died Dec. 24,1861, aged 30.
J. EVISON.
Australia’s champion litigant at present is
Jonathan Falkingham, of Melbourne. Some
years ago he started an action against the Vic-
torian Railways for breach of contract. He won,
and the Commissioner then appealed to the Full
Court and got a new trial. On the second trial
Falkingham was beaten, and in his turn appealed,
but his appeal was dismissed. He then went to
the Privy Council, which in Aug. last decided in
his favour. In this final appeal he was financed
by the National Bank, to which he gave a deed
of assignment. Under this deed the bank col-
lected from the railways the money due under
the Privy Council judgment—claiming that the
assignment was absolute. Jonathan, however,
asserted that it was only partial and promptly
sued the bank; but in Dec. last Hodges found for
the bank. Now the irrepressible Falkingham is
appealing against this judgment to the Full
Court. Whichever side is beaten there will pro-
bably go to the Privy Council, and then—


The Father of Wellington
Eighty-eight Years of Age; Cured of Rheumatism
One Bottle Made the Cure.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
V
m,
Mr. John Plimmer, of Wellington, New Zealand, sends us his photograph,
from which the above illustration was made. He is known as the rather oi
Wellington.” He is eighty-eight years of age and one of the best-known residents
of the city. His letter, which we give below, was written in a strong, clear, bold
hand. He says :
“I consider Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla a great remedy for the Thenmatism I Had su®ere,d
from that painful disease for many years. 1 was asked ro try Dr Ayer s return of
purchased a bottle. This one bottle of it cured me and I have not felt slightest return oi
the trouble since. I always keep a bottle of it m the house, for I find it a very refreshing remedy
for many conditions.”
After reading this letter you are certainly not surprised that in all parts of
the civilized world people call Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
This great remedy takes out all poisons from the system and makes the
blood pure and rich. You cannot have rheumatism, scrofula, boils, pimples,
nervous exhaustion, and general debility if you will use Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
During the trying hot summers a few doses of it will rest and refresh you.
It is a wonderful medicine for weak and delicate children, too ; it gives them a
the strength and vigor that belong to youth.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Restores the Sick to Health.
AYER’S PILLS are the best liver pills you can buy.
sen
m
■k
PMnlk
3
M«a>CHAV£I
INVALUABLE 10
SWGEHS &
THROAT iASE
perfume
m
m
fa
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. S 6 CJhromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, hub about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy. i s gd post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette—Parties,Love, Dress, etc. is6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
W riter, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post.
Up-To-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest song 9,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
»IR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYPNEY.
Sick Headache, Constipation,
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion,
Disordered Liver, Female Ailments,
ANT) ALT,
BILIOUS AND NERVOUS DISORDERS
They brace up the nervous and muscular systems, revive the long-lost
complexion, bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into action
the too-often slumbering energies of mind and body. As a blood purifier
it is not too much to say that, they have no equal. They eliminate what-
ever septic matter may have altered the condition of the vital fluid, while
at the same time they induce a new “building-up-force,” the effect of
which is quickly visible in tba most marked and gratifying improvement
in the general health. One of the best guarantees that can be offered to
the nervous and debilitate 1 is that Beecham’s Pills have by far the
Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine in toe World, being over Six Million
Boxes per annum.
This has been achieved Without the publication of Testimonials. The
convincing fact is that Beecham’s Pills
RECOMMEND THEMSELVES.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEEOHAM, St. Helens, ENGLAND. Sold
Everywhere in Boxes, and 2s. 9d. each.
WORTH
A GUINEA
A BOX.
THE
WORLD’S
MEDICINE ,
TOOTH PASTE
Recommends Itself^^ 9
It is Efficacious, Economical Cleanses the
Teeth, Perfumes the Breath, and is
a Reliable and Pleasant Dentifrice.
In Collapsible Tubes, of all Druggists
SHILLING EACH.
“STEELE RUDD’S" BOOK-
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
M&ORIL&HD : ai>d Verses.
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
The Best Booh of Verses Maoriland has produced. Price, Fjve Shilling's (post free).
“THE BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., LTD., 214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Wholesale 'Agents : Edwards, Dunlop, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Llsar
a.Hd
The Physician’s Cur©
for Grout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity oi the Stomacn,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
DINMEFOStDS
w.
Sold Throughout the Worm.
N.8.-ASK FOR E>INNEFORD*S MAGNESIA.
N ° T°/V
IRISH MOSS
FOR
-The besf remedy-
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.
Ask for Banning ton's
and seethatyou get it.


HOSE.
HOSE
Perdriau’s
„ fin- x 3 PLY RUBBER.
0 GARDEN, 50 FEET COILS,
for 20s.
Hose
Perdriau’s
B DELIVERY, 60 FEET COILS, for
455.
Perdriau’s
SUP. DELIVERY, 60 FEET COILS,
for 50s.
Perdriau’s
Perdriau’s
fin. Cotton Covered.
Hose
Perdriau’s
MEDIUM EUREKA, 50 FEET COILS
for 20s.
Hose
SUPERIOR EUREKA,
COILS, for 22s 6d.
60 EEET Hose
PERDRIAU & CO.,
270 G-eorge St.,
Sydney.
the WORTHINGTON
....IS THE ORIGINAL. ..
DUPLEX PUMP.
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
32 and 34 Clarence Strei
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
JLKB . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
CopV^iMT
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.
HAVE STOCKS OF MATERIAL & FURNISHINGS
for MINING and engineering.
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES IN AUSTRALIA OF
TANGYES LIMITED.
PUMPS. ENGINES. BOILERS.
DEPOTS IN SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, QOOLGARDIE.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O- & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOKIi S Tit nil’, SYDNEY
COj>p. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by-post Irom all the colonies promptly
attended to.
HOTEL
George and
Market-Sts.
Board or Apartments at
THE fcIOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
TO WAY-BACK RESIDENTS
and COMMONWEALTH
YOU CAN OBTAIN FROM THE
,
"
' ■
N.S.W. fresh Food & ice Co. ltd.
by Rail or Parcels Post, the very Finest Christmas Cakes and Puddings, Pastry, &Cm
Poultry, Fish and Game forwarded in a frozen condition to all parts of the Colony.
Butter— “ GoJden Star” and “ Berry” Brands, of Splendid Keeping Quality—sent by Parcels Post, packed in tins.
ICE, ICE, ICE— Pure Crystal Ice—packed in Special Transport Boxes, and consigned (freight paid) to any Railway Station in N.SsW.
Head Office : HARBOUR ST., SYDNEY. — Send for OUT Price Lists, -- H. PATESON, Manager.
Parke & Lacy Co ltd
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Knowles Steam Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Com-
pressors, Nagle Horizontal and Yertical Engines and Boilers,
Pennsylvania Return Tubular Boilers, Buffalo Blowers and
Exhaust Fans, Morris Dredging Pumps, Bullock Diamond
Drills, Dodge Rock Breakers, Roger Rolls, Gates’ Rock
Breakers, Challenge Ore Feeders, Huntington Quartz Mills,
Wood and Iron Working, and Laundry Machinery, and
Mine and Mill Supplies.
m
Hm
• i#
74 Clarence ft., Sydney; 435 Bourke St., Melbourne,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
BLA Kit’S STL A M PUMPS (Single and Duplex)
FAY’S WCM ID-WORKING MACHINERY
STEAM ENGINES (Horizontal and Vertical)
ENGINEERS’ HAND and MACHINE TOOLS
STEEL PULLEYS
. ' SHAFTING PLUMMER BLOCKS
EMPIRE LAUNDRY CO’S LAUNDRY MACHINERY
STURTEVANT’S FANS and PORTABLE FORGES.
& CO.
àf
