

MeEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. lEROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
Absolutely
Pure,
'5
“The Standard
of
ISghest Purity-”
The Lancet.
107
lESZoint
Byaney,
Mining ancl Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
2ss2
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam,
E soT 3
SAW,
iriv/;
IBm
SEND FOB PBIOES AND PAETICULAES
WINS l
wine!
_ WINE!
Bukkulia Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED ] 319.
OLPEST WINE.4^'
AUSTRALIA.
' S3T Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
2G3 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
BB
1 9
85 Pitt Street
*TS FOR
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
STEAM
and BOILERS AND PUMPS.
■ '~ v AND - -
Jk'Eei.olxxao.ess.. Saw T=e*=>,-*-»<-.v»«P»ss-
US
That’s All!
i
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd., Sydney.
dfg
f,
df
ECOR
TFt“X*
m*
.
si
SQi
OTICE TO
VISITORS.
/'%
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trains. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL, RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME
SAN DEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
v > 3-3=3. 3PITT STREET, S"Sr333Sr JES"Sr. ■
Telegraph —» llEßVEY, SYDNEY."
Mining & Contractors’
Machinerg and
Explosives.
m
Bfctf
17
Jiuildnrs ■' .fe
Engineers’
Sundries, netting,
Oils, Pdcleings, &c.
“ Campbell'’ Gns& Oil Engines,
1 Clarence St., Sydney.
IF
PIONEER
LEATHER
fBELTING'
The Leading Beit of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWIGI & SOW, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches:—P. Frankel & 00., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.;
jr Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ;H. K. Fysh and
Oo O'oilins-jt., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & 00., Auckland ;
Blaclcburne & Smith, Oashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
“ Tales of the System.
*
k*RIOE Is. ... per Post la. 3d.
Fair girls and gray hors us.
2nd Edition. Prioe 4 IQ.
G
uUL
G
SYDNEY
71 f L A R ENCE ST
. . STOCKS KEPT OF . .
“Hand” Rook Drills
Rand Air Compressors
“ Wilfley” Concentrators
“A-TCCHOBL” :3E33F£ -A-ixr DO* FUSE
IVA.MHOE 3VTX3Xri3XTGr SSTIESIESISI.
EXPLOSIVES
OIL
MELBOURNE
486 CO LLI N S ST
ir
hi
|S
3£
m a .
g<
©22
Oo
JO
Jfc.-
iig
ULI (..
-1
I-
tf»
<S
T.
bl
G
NEVER !
NEVER!!
NEVER!!!
Did
you
make a
bigger mistake than in thinking that a
is a Common Watch. V
It may be CHEAP, but it is also
ACCURATE, RELIABLE, AND GOOD VALUE.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-si, South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10h3. , •^CRTERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far. the largest and most complete in ’the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
MSS
iita'ffftSi
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have i no Worthless
Imitations.
IHI
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildin s Edward-st., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Vol. 22.—N0. 1112 ]
[Saturday, June 8, 1901.
TWiVprpf! at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as, a Newspaper,


Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For
GOUGHS, GOLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
IN TINS, Is. 6cf.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Sincere
and Public Speaker*.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FJtEE FROM THE PROPRIETOR
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia,
THE RED PAGE .
Being a Duke.
DEAR Bookfellow, —You have jeered and
denounced me as a duke, the representa-
tive of monarchy. You have pointed
out that a hereditary monarch is a sense-
less thing, the State’s traditional appendage from
a more primitive timeaud, between ourselves,
1 quite agree with you. But worms are born to
crawl ; and I suppose the Jingoes will go on
crawling until the order of vertebrates extends
its boundaries to include them too. I thoroughly
understand that you have been mocking the
official duke, and not the personal duke; and, so
far as I am concerned, there isn’t the least
coolness between us. Yet I want to point
out putting the popular side of the
case, you have so far paid little attention to
the side which most concerns me - my aide.
Being a duke is n’t all champagne and oysters, by
any means. If it were, I don’t know that I’d
like my dukedom any better j because I have n’t
got much constitution—l can’t stand cham., and
oysters are apt to disagree with me. Anvway, I
can assure you I have no soft job. I would just
like you, before next you poke borak at me, to
stop and consider what this duking business
means, and whether you could do much better
yourself if you had the billet.
• * * .
I wish to the Lord you had the billet. I’m dead
sick of it. If I could drop monarchy and retire
into private life to-morrow with a fair income
I d do it gladly. But I can’t: that’s the
worst of being born in the purple, as they call it.
I here are lots of men who would make far better
dukes than I do : as I say, duking is hard labour,
and I haven t got the stamina for it. But people
are such fools that they think because one of my
far-back ancestors was a good, capable duke and a
substantial monarch, therefore/ must be the only
man in all the world fit to take over his graft.
When you breed race-horses, you don’t cocker
and value a weed because his g. g. g, g, g, g. g_.
etc.-sire won a race 1000 years before. But when it
comes to monarchs, you value them not for what
they are, but for what their historic “old man”
was thirty or forty generations ago. The farther
away the vital ancestor, the more you
value the anaemic descendant. There’s no
sense in it. And the joke is that, as an English
monarch, I’m not English at all. I’ve a drop
of Scotch blood to a gallon of German—my proper
place when I’m duking is somewhere in Hanover.
And if I had my way, I don’t know that I Would n’t
go back to Hanover, rather than be hawked
around at this rate to preserve the British
monarchy. Bother the British monarchy !
Where’s the fun of it ? Here .1 ’m supposed to
be out in Australia on a holiday, and I 'ye got to
take my wife. You people would be unhappy if
1 did n t bring my wife. Where’s the holiday ?
I m slaving from morning till night: I don’t get
a minute’s decent rest—not a minute ! People
complain I look bored: how can I help
looking bored? I am bored. So would you
if you had to keep eternally grinning l
and bowing at people you never met in your life
before, and never want to meet again—for fear
they’ll say something disrespectful of the
monarchy if you let your mouth fix for a moment.
How would you like to have to shake 1000 mixed
paws one after the other ’—with the knowledge
that there were 1000 more waiting in the next
place, aud in the next? How would you like
to be jostled and stared at and breathed over as
if you were a wild beast in a circus, instead of a
tame duke in a temper? You wouldn’t stand
it for one instant. But I’ve got to stand it—l
can’t get away from it—if I try to get away from
it there’s a row at home at once ; they say I’m
knocking the bottom out of the monarchy.
* • * *
If your notabilities were a manly lot of fellows
and had the sense to come along and pass the time
o day in a manly way, I would n’t mind so much.
But they’re all on their bellies crawling until
I feel inclined to kick them upright, and
ask them what God gave them legs for.
I his continual adulation is the most sickening
thing about the duke-profession. Ido hate servile
flattery. I tell you the only really pleasant
momenc I had in Australia was the time I shot
that snake. There’s a poet—Byron or somebody
—who says he wishes womankind had all one
lovely mouth,-so-that a fellow could kiss them all
at once from North to South. Well, when that
snake crawled past, I wished all the
dignitaries in Australia were that one snake, so
that l might finish them off together. I gave
that snake both barrels—l’d have given him a
dozen barrels if I’d had them. I couldn’t tell
the other crawlers what I thought of them, for
fear of damaging the monarchy ; but the snake
knows—l was safe in telling the snake.
* * m m
You think it pleases me to be fussed and flum-
meried over with flags and illuminations and bands
and speeches, do you ? Say, did you ever see a
farmers’ show ? Did you ever look up a long
building and see exhibit after exhibit of potatoes
Pity the sorrow of the poor young duke,
Whose trembling limbs have borne him to your
door!
From Sydney TRUTH.
hundreds of exhibits of potatoes? You might
or k tS I lota ' J hVt U -f° ne l0 K °J fJOt;lfcoes - or in two
or three lots, but if you had to go ud the whole
t?wd^^ ble alld profess a separate and par-
ticular interest in all the lots, would n’t vou get
ghastly sick and tired of potatoes? Well,that’s
Potato^SoT g potatoes. Potatoes /esterday,
over P^ at ° 6S all
in Maonlani ’ a s d more Potatoes waiting for me
CMG-’s bent i‘ a! u ers f, nd coloured lamps and
1 loath? w t double—all potatoes. See here!
LfXXS i S ° WOuld y° u ' B ot when
can’t r’m ] \ Potatoes, you oan go away ; I
S££&£ ‘ffi kTI h h e af T^ d rl’ Ve got (° so
for a change there’sTyTj ££?
you must n’t! Think of the Monarchy ! ’’ ’ '
* 9 * *
m^fli n °v doubt some of y° u People envy me
“ v iob away - 1
* $ jj,
countrv X ’ ve seen of Australia-the
Yon’vl T d 10 u P e °P le? Practically nothing
You ve always had a loyal mask on. I nevlr
see your cities in their shirt-sleeves. Always the
How StT d fr and P rGces3 i°nsof flunkeys!
the W 1 * 1 what /, ou really are ? Look here 1
the best evening I’ve had in your country
was one night when I shammed sick and
Georgrst y rei r ° m TJ the ga “ g and wa)ked down
creorge-street. There was a sailor’s girl (down
near your office, by the way) who didn’t
S'L7'. f A a d '‘, ke » WWW. and becfaSri
°? m , e , alon £> duckle ! ” I liked that.
d f me kuman - I had half a mind to
? r r eak T f .r had nt been for fche monarchy.
The sword of the monarchy is always getting in
the way of my legs when I want to enjoy myfelf
timA C T° n t i la f. ev emng was about the only good
JhI e Jn a t m A “ straha ~ l that, and the time I
.hot the snake. You can shoot a snake every
day , and the sailors girls walk past your office-
door. Lucky beggar !
Excuse me a moment, there’s somebody wants
me . . I thought as much ! More graft ! Would
I mind processing half-a-mile farther in Adelaide
to go round some Tom-fool’s building or other?
,„ U ] d i. X / ! d them to send word to
til© fellows I d see them politely . first
Then the trouble came. ‘‘ Oh, Your Royal High-
ness think what loyal subjects will say ! ” Hang
l^Li lOy K ¥ 1 f hn / ?? s! Su & ar and spiflicate the
loyal subjects ! Of course I had to climb down.
I always do. They only have to say “ Monarchy,’’
blitheringly
* * * *
Well, I was going to say that’s not all. I never
hurt anybody in my life as far as I know; yet
those blessed anarchists will persist in chasing
me. 1 have to be shadowed by detectives all the
time for fear somebody will throw a bomb or
something. , Cheerful, is n’t it ? How’d you like
that/ bposn you had to look under the bed
every night for fear a chap had got past the D’s
and was waiting to stick a knife into your gizzard
as soon as you got comfortably to sleep, would n’t
the strain begin to get on your nerves and break
you up ?
9 • 4c
Well, that*B what’s the matter with me: I’m
broken up. What I want is a good long rest with
a decent pal or two to keep me company—some-
where m the South Sea Islands for choice, where
I can lie on a beaoh in the sun all dav, with a nice
brown girl to bring me fresh cocoanuts when I’m
thirsty. . . . Excuse me a moment. . . . Might
have guessed it ! More graft! And I’m worked
and worried to death as it is. Some fellow called
Sneddy wants something or other—will only take
a little time—every convenience provided—loyal
subjects will be for ever grateful. The loyal sub-
jects settled it. Blank and dash the loyal sub-
jects ! Can’t they see I’m ill, and leave me alone ?
lhat reminds me, some of the loyal subjects were
indignant because they could n’t get into our bed-
room on the Ophir. They wanted to drink the
slops or something, I suppose; they used to bottle
off our washing-water last time X was here.
* * * *
Well, you see how it is. I’m out of health ;my
heart s not too good, and there’s something the
matterwith my kidneys ; and sometimes I dream
of Lddie and wake up in a sweat for fear I ’ll go
off his way. I went the pace a bit since I was
here last mot very much, considering my chances
—not enough to hurt any ordinary man. But
Im not an ordinary man ; I’m a duke; and
degenerated blood in me. If you notice
all our men are a pretty weak lot; the women seem
stronger. But my father isn’t as good as his
mother; I’m not as good as my father; and Lord
knows what sort of monarchs we ’ll be presently
if the new blood does n’t take hold. And now do
you think you’d pick my billet out of a basket
for th reepence ? Why . . . excuse me a minute
. . . Oh, flaming furies ! more graft—and I’ve
got to go at once. Mustn’t stop, or the
blessed monarchy would be up a tree.
Don’t laugh ; it’s no laughing matter. Well
good-bye ! Think of me kindly ; and—l say—
don’t print any more hard things about me than
you can help—it’s not my fault I’m a duke, don’t
you know. .. . All right ! I’m coming . . O
Sheol !
No: of course the duke didn’t write that—
would n’t dream of writing it. But he.might have
written it; and who would think the worse of him
if he had ?
An “Academy” Column.
AI. mere threepence, the new series of The
Academy began too well to last: in the
competition of London literary papers it
, is difficult to find advertisements: and
the era of portrait-supplements and expensive
contributors has given place to a workaday time
for The Academy's editor (’still Lewis Hind)
Naturally the paper falls flatter from the knife.'
But the issue of 20th April scissors so many items
foll l ows reSt t lat a column of dipped clippings here
W ; V -’' 1S dead poor precocious infant !
and all who have read of her will regret her-a
to ° ™ th ® to . bear the winter’s unkind air.
bhe was Winifred Vida Canton, and her father
shrined and worshipped her in “W.V. Her
Book. to Lond. Morning Post came’ these
memorial verses—
“ W. V."
Here’s a flower for you, lying- dead,
Child, whom living I never met.
Friends a-many I may forget—
Not you, little Winifred.
Men grow sick when they live alone,
And long for the sound of a childish’ voice,
And you—how often you’ve made me rejoice
In a simple faith like your own.
So here’s a flower for you, Winifred-
Out of London, a violet—
Little child whom I never met,
Winifred, lying dead.
• ' s , a P assa £ e from a notice of Maeterlinck
in last Edinburgh Review —
As an artist he has penetrated his dreams —his art —
with sadness. But his sadnesses are not, any more than
those of Verlaine or a Villon, the sadnesses of the Salve
Regina, of the exules filii Hevat , who, if they regarded
themselves as prisoners in this vale of tears, yet held in
secure hands of faith the key of their prison-house. Sad-
ness—M. Maeterlinck himself has reiterated the lesson-
even the greatest, does not mould the strong man, but is
moulded by him. It is as clay to the potter ; out of it he
fashions the weights or the wings of life. M. Maeterlinck
has fashioned the weights. His shield of life is a field
sable ; its flag floats for ever at half-mast high. The
escutcheon of love is a twilight emblazoned with dying
flames ; Death might be imaged as a gateway into the
mist; the record of Time is marked as the hours of the
dial only by the shadow that passes until the shadow
itself is lost in the night. M. Maeterlinck is so great an
artist that it is impossible to forgive him for not being a
greater.
Here W. D. Howells’ account of the way proofs
were corrected when he was editor of The Atlantic
Monthly— -the way proofs ought to be corrected if
we would save our souls alive from the printer.
As for the author of Uncle Tom’s Cabin, her syntax
was such a snare to her that it sometimes needed the
combined skill of all the proof-readers and the assistant-
editor to Extricate her. Of course, nothing was ever
written into her work, but in changes of diction, in cor-
rection of solecisms, in transposition of phrases, the text
was largely re-written on the margin of her proofs. The
soul of her art was present, but the form was so often
absent, that when it was clothed on anew it would have
been hard to say whose cut the garment was of in many
places. In -fact, the proof-reading of the Atlantic
Monthly was something almost fearfully scrupulous and
perfect. The proofs were first read by the under proof-
reader in the printing office ; then the head reader passed
them to me perfectly clean as to typography, with his
own abundant and most intelligent comments on the
literature ; and then I read them, making what changes I
chose, and verifying every quotation, every date, every
geographical and biographical name, every foreign word
to the last accent, every technical and scientific term.
Where it was possible or at all desirable the proof was
next submitted to the author. When it came back to me
I revised it, accepting or rejecting the author’s judgment
according as he was entitled by his ability and know-
ledge or not to have them. The proof now went to the
printers for correction ; they sent it again to the head
reader, who carefully revised it and returned it again to
me. I read it a second time, and it was again corrected.
After this it was revised in the office and sent to the
stereotyper, from whom it came to the head reader for a
last revision in the plates.
Here some verses of William Watson’s—on “ the
war ’’—with a workmanship less good than he
usually supplies.
LAMENTATION.
0 early fall’n, uncrowned with envied laurel,
O lives that nameless come and noteless go,
Our vainly brave in an ignoble quarrel,
That fought unhating an unhating foe !
Ye pass, ye cease ; in alien dust your dust is ;
Carnage and tears depart not, wrath remains ;
And Power derides the lips that counsel justice,
And nations wonder, and the world arraigns.
And foresight of how long the end yet tarries
To no man born of woman hath He given,
Who marshals all his flashing legionaries
Nightly upon the silent field of heaven.
Here, finally, a passage from W. B. Yeats’ pre-
face to the altered apd enlarged edition of his
poems : he is one of the few stylists who snap
their fingers at Macaulay and his cut-glass legacy.
I must leave my myths and symbols to explain them-
selves as the years go by and one poem lights up another,
and the stories that friends, and one friend in particular,
have gathered to me, or that I have gathered myself in
many cottages, find their way into the light. I would, if
I could, add to that majestic heraldry of the poets, that
great and complicated inheritance of images which
written literature has substituted for the greater and more
complexinheritance of spoken tradition, some new heraldic
images gathered from the lips of the common people.
Christianity and the old nature faith have lain down side
by side in the cottages, and I would proclaim that peace
as loudly as I can among the kingdoms of poetry, where
there is no peace that is not joyous, no battle that does
not give life instead of death ; I may even try to persuade
others, in more sober prose, that there can be no language
more worthy of poetry and of the meditation of the soul
than that which has been made, or can be made, out of a
subtlety of desire-, an emotion of sacrifice, a delight in
order, that are, perhaps, Christian, and myth and images
that mirror the energies of woods and streams, and of
their wild creatures.
♦
Walter Murdoch, the Melb. schoolmaster who
earned the label of Devil’s Advocateletkin some
time since, unexpectedly wakes up in Melb. Argus
just when he ought to be going into winter quar-
ters in the long grass with the others. Mr. Mur-
doch will persist in the old method of garbling and
suppressing here-complained-of a couple of years
ago. His article—‘‘Some Recent Verse: and
Criticism” —occupies two columns in Argus of
May 11; and much of the article is a fair ex-
pression of Mr. Murdoch’s opinion. But his
“humble protest against the ways of the Austra-
lian critic ” is unfair and misleading—by reason
of the malignant Murdochian method.
He postulates that English critics remain cold
;o Australian verse; and he declares this is
because Australian verse i 3 over-praised in
Australia. His four examples are four Bulletin
bards—Ogilvie, Adams, Brady, Quinn.
The postulate is in a cocked hat as regards
Ogilvie, for the simple reason that, pending
publication of his verses in England, no copies
whatever of the Australian editions have been sent
for English review. The English reviewer doesn’t
notice what he doesn’t get—that’s all.
As regards Adams and Brady, everything con-
sidered, they probably received as much reviewers’
notice as English verse-writers on the same
plane who have not been log-rolled into
prominence. That Mr. Murdoch has not seen the
notices does not affect the questioxi. Daley, who
stands poetically higher than either Adams or
Brady, had no “ press notices printed at the end ”
of his volume; aixd he seems to have received less
attention from English reviewers than either
Adams or Brady received. Further, Australian
press notices of Adams are not “printed at the
end” of Adams’ volume, or of Brady’s, or of Quinn’s.
The English reviewer could not be biassed against
Adams by notices which were not there for him
to read, and which he never had opportunity to
read elsewhere. Australian press notices of
Brady were printed at the end of Adams’ volume;
but that could not influence English reviewers
against Brady’s book, which they had received
six months before receiving Adams’ book. Nor
could over-praise of Brady influence them against
Adams. Finally, Mr. Mui’doch’s argument
would be foolish even if the facts supported
it instead of destroying it. An English reviewer
takes a publisher’s advt.-sheet at its worth as a
publisher’s ad vt.-sheet—and expresses his own
opinion.
So far, Mr. Murdoch is merely ignorant ; it is
when he begins to garble and suppress that he
becomes venomous. He quotes from the pub-
lisher’s advt.-sheet the opinions of the Richmond
River Express (on Ogilvie) ; the Ur alia Times (on
Quinn) ; the Queenslander (on Brady) ; the Aus-
tralian Nation (on Goodge). For Adams, Mr.
Murdoch attributes to the publisher’s advt.-sheet
a statement which is not there.
Mr. Murdoch refers to these notices as “ a oar-
nival of mendacity ” ; but they are nothing like
so mendacious as his reference.' /
For in every case he suppresses the name of the
paper whose criticism he quotes; and he goes on to
argue that the quotations from the Ural!a Times
and the rest repi'esent Australian criticism. The
publisher’s advt.-sheet, more honest, quotes
authox-ity in every case, so that the authority can
be taken at its worth. Mr. Murdoch dishonestly
gives ho authority, and imposes his quotations on
Argus readers as the opinions of “our literary
critics.”
Not content with this suppression, Mr. Mur-
doch, having supplied a criticism for Adams, de-
liberately garbles the quotations relatiye to
Ogilvie and Brady. Th e Richmond River Express
wrote that Ogilvie’s book “ will last for all time as
one of the best contributions to Australian song.”
Mr. Murdoch omits the qualifying clause. The
Queenslander wrote that Brady’s work “marks an
epoch in the literature of this country, for it shows
that Australian poets can go beyond themselves for
subject matter and still appeal to Australian
minds.” Mr. Murdoch omits the qualifying
clause, and alters the sense of the remainder by
misquotation.
As a commentator Mr. Murdoch is either ignor-
ant or malicious—he can take his choice.
Proceeding to Quinn, he writes that if Quinn’s
work “had been allowed to go to the old world
with no introduction save such as is afforded by
its own intrinsic merits ” (as it was allowed) “ft
is odds but some keen-eyed critic would have
‘discovered’ those merit’s’’, (as Yeats and Le
Gallienne did discover them). Praise from W. B.
Yeats is as much as any local poet can hope for.
The rest of Mr. Murdoch’s article is concerned
with the expression of his own Opinions—which
don’t matter. If his “carnival of mendacity”
had not appeared in the Argus, that might not
matter either. But seeing that the Argus is a
leading Australian daily-paper, it was necessary to
follow the trail to the hole. Pity the Duke of
York did ix’t meet a few more of them.
: * -
. To bring up to date Heaton’s “ Australian Dic-
tionary of Dates ” —that is an enterprise com-
mended to an energetic man with evenings to
spare. A concise cyclopedia' of local history is
very much needed.
Sydney’s pride in its duke-illuminations was
very much like a savage’s pride in his new outfit
of coloured beads. As street-decoration, some of
the work wasn’t bad ; but the whole effect, after
all the trouble and expense, wasn’t artistically
worth one-hundredth part of the effect of the city
itself, seen at sunset from the North Shore.
Sydneyites can get that effect every day ; but it
costs too little, and it is too common a gift, so it
goes unvalued. The average s ght3eer is chiefly
impressed by the unusual and the incongruous.
Thousands of people strain their eyes to see a
corpet, who never give a glance to the majestic
spectacle of the nightly heavens. When a so-
called actor rides a horse across a stage, hundreds
willingly pay to see, because the combination of
horse and stage—uninteresting in itself -stimu-
lates their curiosity. Reverting to Sydney illu-
minations—there was just one piece finely done,
the Lands building tower. That was well designed
and executed, and the effect .was triumphant.
The red lights were only a small flaw: and
you could lose them in distance. Almost
everybody’s idea was to collect coloured
lights in monstrous devices—& M. Herald office
was a gaudy example—and to stun the eye
with the glare of a misbegotten rainbow. The
Post-Office was enough to make one weep for
local taste. Here was a man who had a .long, lofty
sky-line and a fine tower —he could have made it
almost as beautiful as Venus rising from the
waves. And what did he do but convert his
tower into an illuminated corkscrew ; and destroy
its special spire-value by extending ropes of light
to the extremities of his sky-line—turning his
spire into an ugly gable !
THE BOOK FELLOW


BEST PRICES
.... FOR . .
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN
OBTAINED BY CONSIGNING TO
Goldsbrough, MorteCo.
LIMITED, and Reduced .
Circular Quay, Sydney,
Who render PROMPT RETURNS and safeguard your
Proceeds by their TRUST ACCOUNT System .
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
iji-
C B B
*2
\
•Cuncj jo oj joci paajCM&u'&OQ
OQBS
f( osv
*oas
0085
CBB
BRIAR
CERTIFICATE.— \ShouId any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
application. Thousands Selling Daily.
SUOUIUIIS X3IUI
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
WHITE’S
PATENT.
iosstl jUtedmwft
WHITE’S
PATENT.
Without Attachment.
The “TITHN” (Regd.)
Indispensable with the present tight-
fitting skirt.
Produces straight front without in-
creasing size of waist or impeding
action in walking, as it does not
require stocking-suspenders to
keep it in position.
Guaranteed not to ride up or wrinkle.
Idealises the symmetry of the figure and
gives indescribable elegance to the simplest
gown.
Reduces High Figures and Large Hips.
Restores the Figure after Confinement.
Affords great support with perfect ease and gives
permanent satisfaction to the wearer.
Can be attached without sewing- to any corset. Underskirts
can also be attached without sewing to the lower edge, thus
further reducing size. Worn by Royalty.
Recommended by the Medical Profession. Thousands of un-
solicited Testimonials. To be obtained of all the best Drapers
and Ladies’ Outfitters throughout Australasia.
'tV
With Attachment.
N.B.—When ordering, the size round largest part of hips should be given. Every Attachment is stamped “ TITAN!.”
In Black, White, and Ecru. Price 6/6.
Patentee and
Sole Manufacturer!
Mrs. A. WHITE, 1,2 & 3, Langley Court, Long Acre, London, W.C.
'suitlied through all the principal Wholesale Houses in Australia and New Zealand.
T raSe
ENOS
HEALTH GIVING,
COOLING,
‘FRUIT
REFRESHING
AND INVIGORATING.
SALT.’
0 h
4
f <
•Orii
When
writing
please
mention
Tub
Bulletin.
I
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL. APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
! CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
| THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
IDO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
i LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
aiiaihments 3 3 0
Radies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &o.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
THE CONINGHAM CASE.
The Suppressed Book of the First Trial.
Together with the report of the SECOND TRIAL,
with its exciting and dramatic ending and subse-
quent developments.
A Complete History from Start to Finish. —Illustra-
ted with Photos and Sketches of Principals. A
Fair, Unvarnished Account.
THE BOOK IS NOT FAKED
The Parties to the Suit.
The Abigail Case.
Private Detectives at Work.
Petitioner’s Story.
The Written Confession.
The Baby in Question !
Co-respondent’s Denial.
“ I’ll be a Protestant in the Morning !
The Teachings of Liguori.
Who’s Zero ?
Jury Addresses.
The Second Trial.
Spies Galore !
The Relief of “ Burrilda! ”
Drugged Colonial.
The Mysterious Mrs. B
The Final Verdict!
Subsequent Developments.
Price SEVENPENCE (posted anywhere).
ALL BOOKSELLERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA, OR
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st, Sydney.
SKINS
Send Your Consignments of . . .
-*€
KANGAROO,
WALLABY,
RABBIT,
OPOSSUM SKINS
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
They obtain the Highest Possible Prices.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and U O’CONNELL STREET. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, to the Grower*.
BONUS J PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
cs LAWRUS ” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS & STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
f 41>
OC&lMU)
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
STOGDALE & DUFFUS, Finks Buildings, Corner of Elizabeth & Flinders Sts.,
Melbourne; and 422 George St., Sydney.
Or. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and' give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
V ' g °To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
r,ontic Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
Darts the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. OLA RKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR .
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful,
will m-mg in' THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, ®r Three Bottles for £l.
V
GALL OR WRITE — OWL
CUT
RATE
DK.XTG STORE
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HIGHEST AWARD-GOLD MEDAL—PARIS EXHIBITION, 1900,
For INFANTS
and INVALIDS?
FOOD
MELLIN’S FOOD yields a complete diet for the youngest
iufants, in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD retains its properties for any length of
time and is adapted for use in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD when dissolved in milk, makes a simple
nutritions diet for growing children.
Samples etc., may be obtained of GOLLIN & Co., 172, Clarence Street, Sydney, 562 4, Bourke
Street, Melbourne, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, and Wellington.
Mellin’s Food Company for Australia and New Zealand Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, London.
MELLIN’S EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS,
and BSONCHITTS.
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & 00., 172- Clarence Street, Sydney.


Address: Care GEO,
ADAMS, Hobart,
June 15.
NEWCASTLE CUP.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
above. “ ~~
Name
Address
shares in the
Grand National H.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name.
July 6
.shares in the above.
Address
Silver City C. July 31.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name,
-shares in above.
Address.
£ : i
Spring H. (Special) Aug. 10.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name.
-shares in the above.
£
s
Address,
Adelaide G.N.H. Aug. 10.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name.
.shares in the above.
Address
£
Metropolitan S. Sept. 9
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALLi
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name.
Address.
t •
metropolitan S. Sept. 9.
(SPECIAL)
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name _
.shares in above.
s
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circular.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


<
fINGIER’S
petroleum
EHUISION
.WITH HYPffPKOSPHITES„
FOR
BRONCHITIS
AND
STUBBORN COUGHS.
ANGIER’S Petroleum Emulsion not
only quickly relieves the most ob-
stinate cough, and soothes and heals
the throat and lungs, but at the same time
it promotes appetite, aids digestion, and
greatly improves the general health. It is
equally good for the cough of chronic
bronchitis with profuse expectoration; the
dry, harsh, throat cough; the irritating
cough of influenza; and for whooping
cough and croupy coughs of children. To
those who are subject to bronchial attacks
it is an especial boon. The cough and
breathing are made easier, the irritation in
throat and bronchial tubes is soothed, the
character of the expectoration is altered,
and a general improvement effected in all
the symptoms. We have had hundreds of
reports from all parts of the English-
speaking World attesting its remarkable
power to relieve and cure troublesome
coughs.
A FREE SAMPLE
On receipt of 4d. for postage.
Mention SYDNEY BULLETIN.
DO NOT accept inferior imitations made with ordinary
Petroleum.
BE SURE TO GET ANGIER’S.
Of all Chemists & drug Stores.
7 he A NO! Eft CHEMICAL Co., Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
m
If you stop eating you
will surely get thinner
and thinner, until at last
you starve to death. Grass
won’t answer, although
it is good for the horse.
You must have a food
suitable to your needs.
Ayer's
Hair Vigor
is a hair food. It
won’t take the
place of grass or
bread. It is good
for the hair, and
that is all. It
f feeds the hair
with hair food. The
hair can’t keep from
growing. It stops
falling out because it is
hearty and strong. And
it always restores the early
rich, dark color to gray hair.
We say that “gray hair is starved
hair”; and the only way to treat it is
to supply the best kind of hair food.
This is where Ayer’s Hair Vigor differs
so greatly from other hair preparations;
it feeds the hair. Just keep that in
mind all the time you are using it.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
■"■■in wiiim mjWWi lfl "
SVofi.VJ.IW/
Jo
pi Salo) Svoo<D
SaWfloM faiyiyr
. |
fVoJIIO "d\
pwvzg
A r JLO yWd
LADIES >•
J WRITE FOE VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.1., 300 Collins Bt., Melbourne.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustrnlia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
AOstraliao tyCitGal ProVideot Society
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment cf any tine.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE. General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10»r
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-sfc.,
SYDNEY.
A2f Send for a
Catalogue.
gdf
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HIIiLIETt, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNK-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Brou-hams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
Paris exhibition, 1900* —British Awards
The Only
Grand
flie
highest jimrb
ever made!
FOR TOILET SOAP
HAS BEEN AWARDED TO
(Established 1789.)
-L—^
REC r
BP
Appointment
to
/la
19
»er ißajestp Cl)« Queen »»« fi.R.fi. Cbe Prince of Wales
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1900 Inclusive.
MOIR’S
Table-Jelly Powder
In Pint Packets. Assorted Flavours.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
3KJ . S. . Carriage &: Sad tilery Ma.af. Compa
Note our New Address: 193 to 195 C.eveiand-sireet, Redfern, SYDNiiiV
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, ell.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we oan. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirement*.
(.close lo Kedfern Railway ocatioa).
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
£.
Delivered at any Wharf « r
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Refuge.
There came three men to the office door;
They tapped three taps of fear :
The Caretaker lived on the lower floor,
Quoth he—“ What brings you here ? ”
Haggard they were, and wild of mien,
Wrinkled in cheek and brow,
“ No matter,” they said, “ what we have been -
Give us a Refuge now ! ”
The Caretaker held the door ajar,
His brow in doubt was bent—
“ Dammit, old man,” they said, “We are
Three members of Parliament.”
He did not value them at their word—
These queer nocturnal spooks—
A thing that, of course, would have been absurd
But judged them by their looks.
“Election comes. We must roll the log,
Or the log on us will roll —
Father, and mother, and son, and dog,
Will leave us at the Poll.
Charity Concerts, Cricket Clubs,
Billets for Bill and Mike,
Eleemosynary Temp’rance Pubs,
Benefits—and the like.
These are the things we must stand by, We—
Person, and Purse, and Powers —
Holy Mother of Charity
Was ever a case like ours ! ”
The Caretaker oped the door full wide—
He murmured, “Sayno more”—
And those three haggard Statesmen hide
Under the Office Floor.
C.R.
After Parting.
I loved you on Earth :
Shall 1 love you in Heaven ?
Shall we carry our love through the hush of the
grave ?
Bear it, unbroken—
Give to each other the soul that we gave
Each to the other on earth ?
Oh, for a sign ! oh, for a token !
I found you on Earth :
Shall I find you in Heaven?
Shall I feel your warm breast on my breast after
This,
Carven and frozen ?
Feel ever more that white mouth in a kiss ?—-
Smiling and stubborn it gleams,
Cold as young lips Love never rose in.
No, no ! as you lie,
In insouciant silence,
Death reveals that the love on your lips was a lie,
Insolent coldness.
What! Had you loved could you meet me like
this . . .
Woman, you lied when you loved !
Death has betrayed the bounds of your boldness.
Ah, see ! But I kneel:
Do you hear, do you listen ?
I will wait, I will wait, till your arrogance melts,
Till your insolent whiteness
Fires to these tears of red flame on your hands.
God ! For this soul of my soul
Smiles , while I weeping yield up my life’s bright-
ness.
LOUISE MACK.
Love’s Life.
The stars are warm in the heavens above,
As I go down to the sea ;
And life that is born of a new-found love
Stirs hot in the heart of me.
An unborn night her eyes
With undreamt dreams aglow.
Ah ! ’neath the purple skies
She waits, and I must go—
Impetuous passion cries,
And yet—Love dies, we know.
The waters croon at the city’s feet,
In broken rhymes and measures,
And you in your mockery sweet, most sweet,
Of all God’s fairest treasures.
Great eyes, as waters brown,
That dance o’er depths below —
Sun-kissed ; bright shadows drown
Your glance—and I must go,
Till mockingly you frown—
And yet—Love flies, we know.
The roses turn to the kiss of the winds ;
Warm lips breathe wondrous power ;
Is it not more sweet than love that binds
This passion-life of an hour ?
Your eyes that wistful change—
From blue to purple glow ;
Your fancies wanton range—
I cannot let you go.
O yes ! why distant, strange ?
And yet—Love wanes, we know.
The Dawn sings warm to the stars above,
O Love, that is heart of me ;
Throbbing the dusk, I feel your love—
Dear life across the sea.
O eyes of twilight grey—
See all strange visions go—
I worship, Love, I stay
The Gods that dowered you so,
Turn, wondering for the day ;
And yet—Love lives, we know.
Manly, N.S.W.
CARO.


g
V.3DODG-B^
s w P 0 r PULLSES
Guaranteed to transmit from 25
to 60 per cent, more power than
any iron pulley made with same
tension of belt.
70 per cent. Lighter than cast
iron.
40 . » ii wrought
iron or steel.
No Key Seat to cut.
No Set Screw to twist ofF.
No Shaft to take down.
Perfect Balance.
Perfect Shaft Fastening.
Write for Prices and Particulars to Sole Agents
for Australasia—
PARKE &W Co. [td.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
Art
Jewellers
Ac.
K
sO Kinc ST
Sydney.!
53 6d. BEST SILVER-PLATED BELTS, 5s 6d-
-50 Other Patterns,
at 4s 6d, ss, 7s 6d, 10s fid, 15s.
PLEASE SEND FOB
OUR ILLUSTRATED
SHEETS OF
LATEST NOVELTIES.
All Goods Forwarded
Post Free.
Novelty PURSE, real Crocodile, with
Silver Mounts and Glove Hook, 12s 6d.
Hundreds of Other Kinds from
5s to 255.
'V ■
Stamp Charm, 3s.
Sjlver Enamelled.
Silver-mounted Crocodile
PURSE and CARD CASE
Combination, 5s 6d.
20 Patterns.
TELEPHONE 3642.
Silver-mounted SHOE LIF T,
Hook and Glove Hook,
in lovely Velvet Case, 12s 6d.
Button Hook and Shoe Lift only,
10s 6d. Six Patterns.
il
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 63. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
A. BOWMAN’S
df
You Can Have
English Boots
. . AT . .
London Prices.
Best Style.
Best Quality.
No
Better
Made. •
We do One Line—Gentlemen’s Boots—only.
That one we do Well.
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St., and
145 KING- ST., op. Theatre Royal, SYDNEY
Also 294 Collins St., Melbourne.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
Brandy
Disarms
Influenza
of
All
Its
Dangerous
After
Effects.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
-crarry
I
\' %
'3 V?
mu
«s
(lli
~i>
ym.vT/:
. v
Wc
IP
i
[&>■'.
'.'■'in/
iWCSK
w«i'
• i
Tf^' 1
i//M
yo'ymm
)/>i
1 1 i '' \l}'
m
'
Wm
II
■
sons
OIXSCN
m
m
Ira
m
irmftS,
' - -
3!rT3MgBgW
i if
i
S : v
$BH$
\
U
££23522$
; • 1
r<ii
rid Wl :.wstf*
ih*
f . i -*•, l
pn;:J r r-
la
3'
.-■ 4
b!*3«y
Manufacturers of the Great
YANKEE DOODLE light &
DARK TOBACCO


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Pod as a Newspaper
You 22.—N0. 1112.
SATURDAY, JUNE 8, 1901.
Prior 6d.
D uKS hr
"Hfc
VR AW N
tjoPs UMpExSTuby
ROYAL SPORT.
“Some difficulty has been experienced in finding an easily accessible looality in New South Wales that would provide good sport for the Duke during his shooting expedition.
it is anticipated there will be found an abundance of duck, hare and other game.” SYDNEY D.T.
BOSS OF THE GAMEKEEPERS : “ ’Ere he comeal But mind, now, don’t any of ye let go till the toff on 'ossback drops the 'ankercher!"


The Bulletin
Tlio National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the .1 ust rgli a ns. 99
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverle.y, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... •••
Half-yearly ... ... ... f "
Quarterly ... ... ••• (Job
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia-,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of\\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—l\d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
. NOTICE.
By sending direct to Xjie Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with pottage- added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and nil Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to 3. P.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable.), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand . that, we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyohe supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on accentance. Any picture con-,
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
. — i.e. any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for ■ a suggestion only. The under which
such ■tistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Coqnes of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 2k6 Sutler-street.
South Africa. — It. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
7%t^&xxl2eZz/)i.
SATURDAY, JUNE 8, 1901.
The Jap on the Horizon.
Australia has heard much of late about the
assured and undying gratitude of Britain for
the aid rendered by this country in South
Africa. Said undying gratitude duly arrived,
the other day, per cable—or, at least, a pre-
liminary instalment of it did ; and Australia
received something of a shock. Some time
ago, Queensland passed a measure whereby
it was provided that the Government should
give large cash-assistance to local sugar-mills
under' certain conditions, one condition
being that only white labor was to be em-
ployed at the, mills so assisted. This clause
was only inserted at the urgent demand of
the local Labor-party —but, though it was
greatly to the credit of the Queensland Labor
members that it was so inserted, and greatly
to the discredit of the Philp Government
that it only adopted the proposal under ex-
treme pressure, the origin of the clause has
no bearing on the present case. The mea-
sure did not pick out any special brown, or
black, or yellow alien for disqualification ;
if it was an insult, it was a very general
one. It dealt • only with State-assisted
mills, in which the State might be fairly
regarded as the employer, find the State, one
might reasonably suppose, has the' same
right to select its employes as any private
individual. The idea wasn’t in any sense a
new one ; in fact it was a very mild adapta-
tion of a very old policy. In New South
Wales and other States the Government has,
before now, in times when employment was
scarce, so arranged things that the men en-
gaged for Government works should be resi-
dents and electors of its own State, all others
being excluded. When the N.S. W. Govern-
ment has thus disqualified for State-employ-
ment the white Victorian or Tasmanian, tem-
porarily residing in N.S.W., without being
regarded as having in any way exceeded its
rights, Queensland’s action, in disqualifying
for quasi-State employment the .black man ■
from outside Australia; only followed in a
very well-trodden track instead.
* * * *
Yet the news comes by cable that the
British Government has disallowed the mea-
sure, and the general assumption is that it has
done so at the instance of Japan. The in-
-1 la ted little person from the Chrysanthemum
Land has already intimated (so the London
papers state) that he intends to terminate
the existing treaty which restricts the influx
of his brown multitudes into Queensland, x
lie has further explained (so the : London
papers state) that he doesn’t intend in future
to be classed as an “ Asiatic ” in the ordinary
restrictive sense of the term. Also that he
proposes to be a respectable white man,
with full rights of access to every white
man’s country, the same as another white
man. Britain has found the Jap a useful
ally in furthering purely British interests in
Eastern Asia, and expects him to be still
more useful. Britain also found Australia a
useful ally in furthering purely British in-
terests in South Africa. And, apparently,
Britain has half-formed ideas about re - ird-
ing her Japanese ally by giving that devas-
tating sample of Cheap Labor the free run of
the territory of her Australian ally. It may
be only a half-formed idea as yet, but there
is reason to suspect that it exists.
* * * •
Japan, apparently, has sufficient foresight
to demand the price for her support of British
interests in the East in a tangible form. Japan
wants that price at Australia’s expense —
wherein she further shows her wisdom, for
every country is more ready to pay at some
one else’s expense than—at its own. Aus-
tralia hadn’t the foresight to demand pay-
ment for services in South Africa in the
shape of enlarged powers of excluding black
races (British and non-British), or in any
other form whatever. When the late
lamented Jingo riot was in full blast the
person who even spoke of negotiating for
concessions in return for contingents would
have been denounced as a disloyalist, and a
Fenian, and a Boer of the deepest hue. Aus-
tralia plunged madly without asking ques-
tions, and her reward is the unpaid bill,
the loss of many valuable men, a dread-
ful poem or two by Fitzgibbon and other
persons, the visit of a tired duke, and
a very small title for Premier Lewis of Tas-
mania. * As a set-off to these there is mani-
fest some beginnings of a tendency to sacri-
fice this country to appease the more
far-seeing colored ally Up North. Of course
it may he that, after a little pressure, the
difficulty will disappear. Britain always had
a certain inclination to placate, at this
country’s expense, strange niggers and others
who might be useful to her in a commercial
sense. The Queensland law restricting
Chinese miners from rushing new goldfields
was disallowed in the same manner as the
present Act, bub for once Queensland was in
earnest, and when the Bill was passed a
second time by the Parliament at Brisbane
the disallowance was withdrawn. But the
cases, unfortunately, are not similar. China
was not strong enough to threaten, nor for-
midable enough to be an ally worth buying
at any great cost. Nor did Britain just then
urgently want allies in Eastern Asia. Japan
is strong enough to argue the point danger-
ously—at least she appears so, though she
may prove only another evanescent brown
bubble on the surface of Asiatic politics.
And Japan is badly wanted as a permanent
ally against Russia and many other possible
and probable enemies. And though Japan
wants British support quite as badly as
Britain wants Japanese support, and there
is just as much reason why Japan should
buy Britain’s goodwill by submitting to the
entire exclusion of her people from Aus-
tralia as there is why Britain should buy
Japan’s goodwill by procuring their admis-
sion, yet there is a difference.
* * * *
The difference seeing to be just this :
Japan is certainly in earnest 7 in demanding
admission for her people to Australia, for
the Jap, in the pride of his new-forined civi-
lisation, his army and navy, his public debt,
his deficit, his banks and insurance offices
and his Nippon Yusen Kaisha, makes no
secret of his objection to he classed any
longer with other Asiatics. His pride is in re-
volt at the idea of being herded witli the beaten
Chow arid the abject Corean. Britain, on the
other hand, isn’t in the least degree in
earnest about facilitating the exclusion of
the brown man who is rising in the East. ‘
Britain has no sympathy whatever with
this country’s desire to create and iire-
serve a White Australia. Britain is pre-
served from any serious inroad of coloured
races' by her climate in some cases, her
remoteness in others. Being safe her-
self from the curse of inferior peoples iu her
midst to undersell her artisans, and mon-
grelise her race, and lower her standard of
civilisation, Britain cares very little, or
understands very little, what happens or
may happen to Australia in these respects.
If Australia stands firm she can, no doubt,
carry her point, and insist on her right to
keep her race pure, even if Britain thereby
loses the goodwill of some useful brown man
who might help her some day to plunder a
helpless yellow man, and even though Aus-
tralia must needs-, for the preservation of
her race, exclude all the colored races of the
great, mostly-nigger British Empire. But
the time may come—it may come soon—„•
when Australia will only carry the point
by bidding Britain choose between the people
of her own race and her friend, the
Asiatic pagan. The time may come when fit
will have to be explained that Australia
values her white descent so highly that, if
her purity of race is sacrificed to Britain’s
selfish interests in Asia or elsewhere, this
country will thereafter be a perpetual and
reliable enemy whose opportunity will be
found in every British difficulty, and whose
hatred will not cool by waiting. It will take
a good deal of explanation to make that matter
clear ; the recent Jingo hysteria has half-con-
vinced Britain that, this country’s loyalty is
proof against all happenings. And it will take
a strong man to make the explanation —cer-
tainly a stronger man than Premier Barton.
Kingston might do it. He is the only front-
rank man at present in Australian politics
who seems at all equal to such an emergency.
The Warfare of the Future.
The Bulletin’s insane correspondent writes: —
Within the past ten warfare has-been revolution-
ised by the perfection of smokeless powder, magazine
rifles, and quick-firing artillery. Electricity, which so
far has accomplished but little in military matters, pro-
mises to effect a change even more revolutionary, possibly
within another decade, and to wipe out the whole pro-
gress which military science has made during the past 500
years. The possibilities of wireless telegraphy as a means
'of communication have already been recognised by all
civilised nations to-day. But it is now some months since
it was demonstrated that wireless telegraphy is capable of
exploding a mine at a considerable distance from the
sending-station—a fact that would have paralysed the
British transport service during the present war had the
enemy only been provided with the necessary appa-
ratus. Having provided the means for firing a mine of
known position and previous preparation, it is not too
much in these days of scientific progress to assume that,
within a very few years, the world’s electricians will have
solved the problem of firing the explosives of the enemy
as well. In his fascinating noVel, “The War of the
Worlds,” H. G. Wells pictures the invasion
of the world by inhabitants of Mars, armed with
machines capable of precipitating a ray of intense, heat
as the operator may direct. By this heat-ray, armies are
scorched into cinders, houses are set on fire, guns and
magazines in readiness to oppose the Martians are ex-
ploded before the soldiers have an opportunity to use a
round of ammunition. The wireless telegraphy that will
very probably develop in the immediate future may not
wither armies or burn houses ; but, considering its capa-
"bilities at the present day, there is every indication that
it will be capable of being used to ignite the ammunition of
the enemy while miles away. If so, warfare, as we now
know it, will be a thing of the past, for the one thing that
no army will dare to carry will he ammunition.
* « » *
The nation that first obtains possession of this secret
will sweep through its adversaries as a battalion of well-
armed European soldiers of to-day would through the
Chinese archers. But the secret will soon become
common property, and then all explosive ammunition
will he abolished, and the next war will resolve itself into
a series of hand-to-hand fights, with the bayonet in the
ascendant, and the side that possesses the best cavalry
winning the day. By this time even military conserva-
tism will he forced to admit that the day of firearms is past.
The bayonet will go out of use because it implies carrying
a useless and out-of-date gun, and its place will be taken
by the spear. Museums will be ransacked for models
of clubs, crossbows and battle-axes. Greaves and
gauntlets will he searched out, and the armorers of the
world will work overtime turning out suits of mail.
Every soldier will be provided with a chain singlet and a
shield. The infuriated populace will storm the residence
and wreck the goods and chattels of Dr. Conan Doyle for
speaking disrespectfully of the lance and the sword ; and
the diplomatists of the world will bid against each other
for the support of the recentl} 7 despised archers of Pekin.
Chattering pom-poms and lyddite howitzers will adorn the
front doors of influential subscribers to the fund for pro-
viding shanghais for growing lads, and the factories of
Krupp and Armstrong will put forth their best energies
in constructing up-to-date ballistas and battering rams,
and the architects of the day will deem no home com-
plete without a moat, a drawbridge, a portcullis, and the
necessary plant for pouring molten lead on the heads of
invaders.
* » * *
Other things will happen, too. The system of open
order, universally accepted since the Boer campaign, will
be summarily abolished. Every soldier, provided with
his sword and buckler, will feel the touch of his com-
rade’s arm while the latter remains standing. The re-
spective merits of the Greek phalanx, the Roman tor-
toise, and the Viking wedge will be practically tested, and
generals will wrangle at street corners about their various
merits. There will be no long-distance fighting. While
a man is an arrow’s flight away from his foe he will know
he is safe, and war will lie divested of the nerve-racking
effects of waiting eight seconds while the shell comes
from a Long Tom three miles away. There will be
greater opportunities for personal prowess and the soldier
of the future will need first and foremost to be an athlete.
He will need to be a brave man as well, for the death-rate
of battles will increase to an enormous degree. The
armour which will repel the arrow and the sword, will
also hinder the retirement of the beaten side, and the
greatest losses will be, as they were in the Middle Ages,
in the flight rather than the fight. Spies captured in
camp will be executed after holes have been cut in their
cuirasses with a tin-opener, and the list of killed and
wounded will be so large that it is probable the ambul-
ance corps will be abolished and the mediaeval custom of
killing all wounded men and prisoners will be accepted.
* * * *
After the experience of a few wars, armies will become
accustomed to the weapons of their fathers, but at the
outset the most able soldiers will be the Chinese Archers,
the timber men of Gippsland and Tasmania, furiously'
wielding eir tree-cutting implements, and the larrikin-
pushes of Melbourne and Sydney, prized beyond measure
for their accuracy with road-metal. Australian contin-
gents for' the defence of the Empire will be chosen for
their physical fitness, their ability to ride, and their skill
in throwing the boomerang, and will spend three weeks
at Langw,. rin perfecting themselves under the tuition of
expert aborigines. Sailors will be armed with slings and
stink-pots. Not a particle of gunpowder will be found
within i files of any arsenal or camp, and for a soldier to
have any explosive in his possession will be deemed an
offence more serious than desertion to the enemy. The
age of heroes will return, and every man who survives a
battle will lie magnificently about the foes that he
chopped up by hand. With no necessity to hide oneself
from the foe, kharki will disappear, and armies will enter
into campaigns glittering with scarlet and gold and
with the best available musicians pla.ying them into
action. Battles will be better and more accurately
described, for they will be more compact, and war cor-
respondents no longer need to risk their lives in witness-
ing the conflicts. Within a couple of hundred yards of
the thickest part of a pitched battle the correspondent
will stand, dictating his copy to the telegraph operator,
while the cinematograph man at his side will hand his
films one by 7 one to an assistant, who will take them
to the developing-tent, and send them away to
town by 7 the train that night. All round the battle-
field long-haired men, attired in the ordinary work-
ing garb of poets, will be seen dodging around in search
of incidents to turn to account ; while outside the cordon
of police, which will keep the spectators from crowding,
in, vendors of ice- cream and lemonade will do a brisk
trade selling their stock to perspiring knights in armour.
* * * *
This is the type of warfare which will assuredly 7 follow
the probable developments of wireless telegraphy 7 during
the next few years, and it will continue until the world
overlooks the - fact that there was ever any other sort
of warfare. The apparatus which resuscitated it will be
forgotten, and will have lain unused for.years,. when some
ingenious student of the methods of the past will propose
to some War Office that its army should wipe its foe off
the earth by a sudden and unexpected return to the
weapons of the early 7 twentieth century. This revolu-
tionary person will be ejected from the front steps of the
War Office as speedily as the janitor can impel him. Then
some exalted official of the same office will pretend that
he thought of the idea all by himself, and will lay a series,
of ingenious plans, and the next battle is to he
fought the army will suddenly find itself taken out of its
brilliant armour and garish trappings and put into ill-
fitting suits of kharki, with a bandolier, a Lee-Met ord
rifle, and 100 rounds of ammunition apiece. It will march
out unarmoured and intercept the enemy several miles
away from the expected battle-field, while the public is
pouring into the grand-stands erected bv speculators,
and the police are dragging the boys down from the
verandahs. Then the enemy will hear a jarring,
unmusical sound from a hill some miles distant, and wi.l
begin to drop like stalks of wheat before a reaper. Th -
mass of them avill never know wh&L hit them, but one or
two who retain their presence of mind in the distressing
situation will call for the wireless telegraph apparatus to
be brought from the rear, where it was ordered to be
kept for the past century. It will here be found that the
post of wireless telegraphic operator has long been
classed with that of the Royal Falconer and the Lord
Privy Seal and like sinecures, and before the command-
ing officers have time to give orders for the official to be
sought out and beheaded the pom-poms and the Lee-
Metfords will pick off the few survivors.
That is as far as prophecy can go at present.
DUDLEY W.
Compulsory Arbitration.
In Sydney, when this is written, there continues
a strike of ironworkers’ assistants, which com-
menced a fortnight ago. The number of men
concerned is vaguely stated at ..eight hundred.
The kernel of the men’s demand is" a “ mini-
mum wage of 7s. per day practically the
establishment in N.S.W. of the Victorian iron-
workers’ wage-rate. The employers insist that
age and capacity shall constitute’the’wage-basis,
and want such very wide latitude in making
allowance for these factors that the result
is a wholly inadequate wage all round. The
issue is complicated by various union disputes,
regarding which men and masters make contra-
dictory and confusing statements. The result
which concerns the community is that, while
the strike continues, local industry is to some ex
tent thrown out of gear. Employers suffer by
interference with execution of orders ; the em-
ployed suffer by stoppage of wages ; there is less
circulation of money, fewer orders for trades-
people, an all-round decrease of business. And
the men; are idle : the value of their labor is lost
to the potential wealth of the community.
' * » * * ■
Presumably the strike will proceed in the usual
way that a strike proceeds when both sides are
in earnest. There will be crimination and
recrimination—a cloud of ex parte statements in
which the public judgment will be befogged.
Some of the men’s places will be filled ; some will
drift back to their places. Some will gain an
increased wage ; some- will be driven to other em-
ployment, possibly at a less wage. This process'
may extend over further weeks or months before
trade returns to equilibrium. Then the employers
will consolidate anew; the men will organise
anew ; and by-and-by the strike, in a new phase,
or under different circumstances, is only too
likely to commence all over again.
* * * *
This process is crude, unintelligent, barbaric.
In the present system of industry, conflict of in-
terest between master and man is perpetual. The
man al ways seeks to gain the greatest wage, the
employer to pay the least. There is no inter-
mediate power to strike a fair average between
them. In the present system of industry, the
community may look forward to a series of re-
curring strikes—every one of them disorganising
industry to a greater or less extent; the cost of
every one of them, to a greater or less extent,
coming out of the community’s pockets. Indus-
trial interests are so related, so interdependent,
that it is impossible for one to suffer without
- inflicting damage on all. The actual cash-loss in
wages, the actual loss in idle labor, may cost the
community hundreds, or thousands, or millions of
pounds. How much has the series of miners’
strikes cost the Newcastle district ?
* V * *
The question is : Is there not some better
of settling labor disputes ? And the answer is :
Compulsory Arbitration. It is no longer a valid
objection that the master is a free agent, and the
man is a free agent, and they ought to be left to
fight their quarrel out —tooth and nail, strike and
lock-out.- If the effects of their quarrel could be
restricted to themselves, their right to fight it out
might be valid. Similarly, if two political or reli-
gious factions desired to rise in arms and fight out
their quarrel by battle, they would, perhaps, have
a perfect right to do so, if it could be done without
direct or indirect injury to the rest of the com j
munity. But the effects cannot be restricted to
the combatants. The whole community suffers.
If Australian capital lies idle, or Australian labor
is wasted, that is something out of the pocket of ,
every man in Australia, be it measured in doits or
in thousands of pounds. We are not used to allow
other quarrels that injure the whole body of
citizens: why allow this quarrel ? The com-
munity’s loss is the justification for the com-
munity’s interference—to the community. And
to the master, to the man, as individuals, the
justification of community-interference is their
own profit : it will pay them to have disputes
fairly judged, speedily settled—if the community
can supply a means of fair judgment and speedy
settlement.
* * * »
Such a means is found in Compulsory Arbitra-
tion. There is no profit in Conciliation while
human nature is what it is ; there is no sense in
having an arbiter whose awards are not binding.
Several Australasian States have tried Conciliation:
and the result has been always inefficacy—waste
of money—waste of time. In Maori land the Con-
ciliation courts are said to have been chiefly a
means of fomenting disputes, aggravatingquarrels.
The Maoriland Court of Arbitration, with power
to enforce its awards, power to fine recalcitrant
suitors, is a success. Strikes in Maoriland have
been practically abolished through its agency.
By its agency both masters and men have been
made more cautious in entering'a quarrel the issue
of which the community’s representatives may
decide against them.
* * * *
There is urgent need for the Australian States
to follow the example of Maoriland, profiting by
Maoriland’s experience. Tire maintenance of a
Court of Arbitration, with a Judge at its head,
supported by experts in all trades, would cost
yearly far lesi than a single comparatively un-
important strike; in the course of years it would
probably earn its keep thousands of times over.
The point is simply this : In the community-
interest some scheme must be devised for the
settlement of labour disputes. Compulsory arbi-
tration is the best scheme visible. Even as an
experiment, it should be tried. And if, against
experience, against expectation, it prove fruitless,
at least it will bring us knowledge to devise some-
thing better.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Monopolies.
“Jack O’Reilly ” writes to inquire :
What about the Colonial Sugar Co. as a beautiful ex-
ample of the monopoly-building power of the Protection-
ist faith, which I hope to see you abandon?
Well, what about it ? Protection made the Colonial


V 7 --
Sugar Go., which has prevented much good
Australian money going away from this "country,
supplied an immense amount of employment, and
created much Australian wealth. Now, it is the
business of democratic- legislation to see that
that wealth is a little more ekenly distributed.
If Australia had had Freetrade, of course, this par-
ticular, evil would riot have existed. - There would
have been "no Colonial Sugar Go., millions more
money would have gone out of the country to
buy siome foreign monopoly’s sugar, the em-
ployment wouldn’t have been provided, and all
the democratic legislation, in Australia couldn’t
more .'equitably distribute . the .wealth above
alluded to, because it wouldn’t be here. But -in
the absence of democratic- legislation it is
better that tile wealth should be here, and be
badly distributed, than that it shouldn’t be here
at all. : It is better that there should be a Colonial
Sugar Gb., ; even if it all belonged to one man,
than that Australia should buy all its sugar
abroad. It is bad to have great, riches in the
hands of a few, but it is worse not to have the
riches at all. -And in any case, why should all
the howl be directed against manufacturing
monopolies. The Bmk of New South Wales, and
not the Colonial Sugar Co.; is the great over-
whelming monopoly' of this country. It and
the Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
have paid far larger dividends than the Colonial
Sugar, Co. ever did—the Commercial of Sydney
used to pay 2 5 per cent, against the Sugar Co.’s
10 per cent. The B.N.S.W. has three times, the
Commercial of Sydney 2\ times, the Sugar Co.’s
accumulated reserves. Arid these concerns supply
far less employment than the Sugar concern does.
How do they look as samples of the commercial
monopolies that grow up under Freetrade, or
what is called Freetrade? N.S.W. has the biggest
commercial monopolies in Australasia, but the
Freetrader, when he denounces monopoly, always
points' to the comparatively small manufacturing
samples. Why this strange reticence or brain-
kink on his part? Again, if this country had
never had Protection, and there had been, conse-
quently, no Colonial Sugar Co., Australia would
probably have got its sugar from an equally big
English, German, or American sugar co. It
would have lost much employment, have sent
away many millions of pounds which now remain in
the country, and the monopoly would be there just
the same. The -M-'Millan denounces the little
Ballarat woollen factory as a ghastly monopoly
bred in the mire of Protection, and his own goods
are bought from gre.rt Trusts and Combines, and
brought out here in the ships of the Shipping
Ring. And so it is in almost every other branch
of trade. The whole gang of Freetrade importers
are mere agents and stationary bagmen for the
huge foreign monopolies, pools, trusts and
combinations—and when a little local indus-
try starts and interferes with their agency
for foreign monopolies, their virtuous indignation
against monopoly is something tremendous.
": ‘
The Land of Jolly and Pat.
The National Amalgamated Union of Shop
Assistants, Warehousemen, and Clerks (London)
lately entered a specially loud protest against the
conditions under which the London shop-
assistants live—if such a state can be called
living. The Union even persuaded a section of
the London press to take the blatter up, and here
are some of the revelations which followed :
In order to compete with each other, employers are
driven to adopt the system of boarding and lodging their
assistants on the premises, and as economy is-the object,
comfort, health and morality .perforce receive -the mini-
mum of consideration. As many as-25 assistants occupy
a single room ; separate beds are not always provided,
baths are seldom thought of, there is often an insufficiency
of water for ordinary washing purposes, the food -is not
sufficiently nourishing, and there- are limited oppor.
tunities of getting into the open air. The rate of wages
appears to be 2Jd. per hour.
Out of a hundred assistants only fifteen or twenty
at the most are in a position to marry. . . .
Not only is marriage impossible for the average .assistant,
but employers recognise the fact, and will not employ
married men, or allow their men to marry. We have just
had a case of a man who had been secretly married for
six years. His wife lived in obscurity under ati assumed
name, and he was only able to see her clandestinely once
a week, both knowing that if the fact of his marriage was
discovered he would be discharged. At last his em-
ployers have discovered the fact, and he has been dis-
missed. An employer says, “ There is no room for
marrying in the economics of the drapery trade ” ; and
the organiser of the union says, “ The results.of forced
celibacy are the same among shop'assistants; as in the
army.”' That the stress of uncontrolled competition is
alone responsible for all the horrors of this system is clear
from the evidence of a reputable employer, who says he
is in favor of its abolition, “ but it is-simply a matter of
competition with other traders. If I paid mwassistants
to live out and put the rooms to the' best use I
could, it would mean an all-round addition to prices of
11 to 2 per cent., which the publifc Would have to pay.
And, of course, I could not do it if other traders kept up
the cheaper system.”
And here is another item, also from London,
which throws further light on the Jolly and Fat
policy of Freetrade, Free Competition, and non-
interference by the State : —•
An unhappy Russian Jew, named Myer Altman, aged
18 years,' came to England, a few months ago, with a
young wife. His trade was boot-finishing. He seems to
have been his own master —that is to say, the serf of some
contractor. He paid 3s. 6d. a week for the room in which
he lived, and Is. 6d. a week for a seat in his workshop.
For “ finishing ” boots he received 3s. 6d. for two dozen,
less 3d. or 4d. for materials. From the evidence, it
would in fact appear that a fairly-skilled hand might have
earned about 3s. 2d. a day by working for 22 hours out'of
the 24. The unhappy man actually appears to have done-
something of the sort. The terse record of the tragedy
runs as follows On Tuesday night, about midnight,
he went to bed muttering and crying, and at 2 o’clock on
Wednesday morning he rose to finish some work,'; He was
obliged to take the work in every Jay, or he would not
have got any more. About a quarter to 7 a.m. the land-
lord wentinto the workroom, and there found the deceased
lying on the floor, with a cord fastened round his neck.
He had evidenWyffiung himself to a beam by the cord,
which had broken.”
The remedy for horrors like these is a legally-
enforced minimum wage. But only a JProteetion-
ist country can enforce a legal minimum wage, for
when the bootmaker gets 6s. or Bs. for eight hours
work boots must be dearer than when he gets
3s. 2d. for 22 hours work, and'when boots become
dearer then, in a Freetrade State, imports of cheap
boots from outside are always liable to destroy the
trade. As a matter of fact, only two States in the
world have anything like" a"legal minimum wage,
and they are both Protectionist States. Victoria
is getting there directly by statute; Maoriiand,
indirectly, by_ its Compulsory Arbitration system ;
but both are getting there.- No Freetrade' State'
dares follow them, however, in this humane and
enlightened policy. The Freetrade State must
live by paying as low wages. Tor as much work as
the most barbarous of .its competitors. What
wonder that scieritific men declare that the
average London family dies out in three genera-
tions, and that London would become a wilder-
ness if it were not constantly fed by t-1 e influx of
people from the country: Myer Alt Manx’s
family only lasted one generation in the Shoddy
Babylon.
Astonishing 1 Proposal off Certain
Merchants.
' ; . '
PEbBABLY the average Minister, if he could,
would .despatch all deputations to the further side
of Gehenna quicker than immediately, yet, how
and again one chances. his way that relieves the
tedium of things in office. Such a one lately
interviewed Minister of Trade Kingston. It
alleged that it represented the Associated
Chambers of Commerce, but appeared to be
mostly Robert Reid, R. J. A lcook and S’Mal-
KUM M‘EacharN. After starting by urging the
immediate fixing of the Federal Tariff, and desir-
ing that Eight Hours Day be annulled in the case
of the shipping interests, the deputation—or the
merchant part of it —made the most surprising
proposition that has been heard of hereabouts for
a long while. It actually wanted the Common,
wealth to abolish the sacred principle of Freedom j
of-Contract. Conscienceless shipowners, it
appears, are in the habit of inserting
in their, bills of lading clauses which
enable them. ri tp collect freights, while avoiding
certain responsibilities which the merchants don’t
want them to avoid. The merchants have argued
earnestly with these ruffianly owners of the hollow
thing that goes upon the sea, but they refuse to
budge. They say that even as arrangements are
their business pays none too well, and if they were
to take more;responsibility for the same freight-
money it would pay still worse. Probably they
wouldn’t mind taking extra responsibility for
extra payment. The remedy, of course, accord-
ing to the doctrine of freedom of contract,, is for
the merchants to goon strike and not ship any
goods until the obnoxious clause is repealed, or
else get 1 their own ships, or else pay the
market rate fbr the services the shipowners
have to .sell. But the deputationists asked
for State Interference. They wanted Com-
pulsory Arbitration—the same thing they object
to so much in wage disputes. They desired the
Government to forcibly break the contract be-
tween them and the shipowners by cutting the
obnoxious clause out of the bills of lading with
an axe or otherwise. The clause got there
by a process of Free Competition, and the mer-
chants (Freetraders of the deepest dye) almost
swore at Free Competition. M’Eacharn, who
came to represent the shipowners, was the soli-
tary dissentient. He said that Freedom of Con-
tract was a beautiful thing (his party having the
best end of the contract just now), and held that
it was objectionable for any industry to be
coddled and pauperised by State.aid. But filie
frantic Freetrade merchants wanted State aid,
and wanted it badly, and tbeir.opinion of Free-
dom of Contract was quite violent.
♦
Re a Colored Fellow-Subject. .
“F.R.S.” on our Hindoo brother :
“Anglo-Indian’s” defence (B. 25/5/1) of the Hindoo
from my charge of perjury is very inconclusive. My
uncle, who put in nearly 40 years in India, finishing up as
a police-commissioner, always affirmed that the- Hindoo
lied from preference, and that the corruption extended
from the native magistrates and police downwards. In
his district, a native magistrate gained a great reputation
for integrity because, when he decided a case, he returned
the bribe given him by the losing party, the general rule
being to stick to both bribes. On one occasion my uncle
had to proceed against a .Hindoo servant, the witnesses
being the other servants. Knowing their weakness, he
gathered the latter together, and gave them a severe.lee-
ture on the great necessity of telling only the truth. At
the trial next day, to his great disgust, he heard the
servants lie like Trojans, and they made such
a. shocking case against their unfortunate fellow-ser-
vant that he fell in far more heavily than he deserved.
My uncle afterwards discovered that, immediately
after his lecture, the servants had held a meeting, at
which their leader said : “ We all heard what the master
said?” “ Yes.” “ And, of course, we all know that the
master did not mean a word of it, and that he only said
it because of his official position?” “Yes.” “ And we
understand that master expects us to do our best for
him ? ” Chorus of “ Yes.” Whereupon the case was dis-
cussed at length and the story they were to give decided
upon. As confirming my p iragraph two other cases of
perjury have since occurred at Warrnambool. One was
remarkably audacious. A Hindoo summoned another
for goods and got a verdict. The defendant then applied
to have the case re-heard, on the ground that he never
got the goods, that he paid for them if he did, and that
he never got the summons, which the plaintiff swore he
delivered personally. Unfortunately for his case, defen-
dant also swore that he wasn’t in the village mentioned
on the day the plaintiff said he gave him the summons.
-To the relief of a distracted bench a European was on
ihand who saw the two talking, and this settled defen-
dant’s hash. The other case concerned a horse, which
has been already five times before the court, and three
different Hindoos have sworn that he belongs to them.
The magistrates have! wearily gone on the principle of
possession being nine points of the law. Every nowand
then one Hindoosteals the horse from the other, and a fresh
court case is started. The horse is getting quite thin
from standing outside the court waiting to be sworn to
again. ,
♦
The Mosquito as a Disease-Bearer.
PuYYAKA attacks this insect with fury :
The recent experiments of surgeons Reld, Carroll, and
Agramonte on the mosquito-transmission of yellow fever
form another link in the evidence in favor of disease-
transmission from lower forms of life to mem The results
were striking. A number of healthy persons were segre-
gated in a fever-free camp. After sufficient time had
elapsed to prevent the possibility of previous infection,
these persons were each allowed to he bitten by mos-
quitoes which had fed upon a yellow-fever patient. Over
70 per cent, of the persons so treated developed yellow
fever. Incidentally it was noticed that unless at least 12
days had elapsed between the feeding of the mosquito on
the infepted person and the bite, the fever did not
develop, thus pointing to a life-cycle for the yellow fever
bacillus which requires to be passed partly in
the mosquito host. In other words, the period
of residence within the digestive track of the mos-
quito enables the bacillus to re-develop poisonous
qualities. A coincident experiment where healthy
people did not develop the disease after handling, sleep-
ing on, and even wearing, in a mosquito-proof hut,
apparel and bedding which had come straight from a
yellow fever ward, goes far towards knocking the bottom
out of the “ infected clothing” theory which is made to
explain so much where Yellow Jack is frequent.
It is the fashion to laugh at the theory of insect propa-
gation of disease, but it is in this direction probably that
the greatest discoveries of the future will be made in pre-
ventive medicine. Manson and Ross have proved to the
hilt the mosquito causation of malaria. Bancroft and
Manson Worked out a similar origin for elephantiasis, and
already an insect origin for leprosy is well on the way
towards elucidation. The organisms found by Plimmer
and Buffer in cancer are only matched in the known
animal world by certain parasites which inhabit the ali-
mentary canal of certain species of frogs, and, broadly
speaking, a cancer district is a frog-infested district.
This, of course, is not to lie taken as any thing more than
a coincidence, since the form of -the cancer organism in
its extra-human host is probably widely different from
that of the psorosperms found by Plimmer and Ruffer.
Anthrax, plague* cholera, typhoid fever, ophthalmia, and
a dozen other diseases have been proved to be
directly carried by insects—notably in the cholera out-
break at Burdwan /India) prison in 1897—but the diges-
tive action probably, kills ttie infective qualities after a
few hours. It is not in this direct transmission that the
danger lies, but in the facility with which insects and
other low forms may serve as host during an intermediate
stage in the life history of an organism which produces
disiase in man during a further different developmental
stage. An analogy is found in the hydatid cestode, which
during its developmental stage in the dog or ox is not
more than Jin. in length, but in a human being may
become an enormous cyst and kill its host..
Modern .methods of communication are becoming so
rapid that new disease factors must receive the earnest
■attention of Australian health authorities. The introduc-
tion of malaria and elephantiasis to Northern Queensland
and the South Pacific by means of Eastern goods contain-
ing the insects required for their propagation, is
now proved beyond doubt, and with the opening of the
Panama canal and the consequent short voyage in low
latitudes, it is possible that the yellow-fever culex may
have to be reckoned with by Queensland health authori-
ties. The science of Public Health is daily becoming more
exact, but until some nathologically-inelined Darwin
arises to link together (Tie myriad scattered facts, the
study of the causation of disease must remain uncertain.
' ♦
The Continuous Fraud
The glorious Continuous Government of Queens-
land, having wasted its substance in riotous liv-
ing, Royal Commissions, and Boer wars, is once
more driven to its old device of pawning its shirt
and picking the pockets of its unborn children.
In other words, the Philpites are again going in
for the wholesale alienation of Crown lauds. In
the Hughenden district, a few weeks ago, certain
valuable blocks of country (advertised and sold in
distant Brisbane) were handed over to five differ-
ent members of the same family. At the present
moment the same Government advertises its in-
tention to dispose of 103 blocks of 320 acres each, in
the Clermont district, in one act. Despite legal
enactments to the effect that not more than 320
acres can be alienated in one block, it is generally
understood that, by a species of legal jugglery, an
area of 32,000 acres is going to one big owner.
Everything (in the way of preliminaries) is now
squared up; the cheque is ready (terms adver-
tised—strictly cash), and the thirsty Treasury
will suck in a little drop of financial moisture to
soften its parched and panting gullet. The lands
of the Clermont district have received the highest
eulogiums from agricultural experts with regard
to their suitability for close settlement; but the
question of planting a race of hardy yeomen in a
fertile district is a very small one to a Govern-
ment whose one ambition is to scrape together a
little hard cash so as to make some sort of a decent
show on settling day.
■ 4
Dear Bulletin. — Re your recent picture of W.A.
aboriginal prisoners. I spent six months at Roe-
bourne in ’96, and on my return to Colac (Vic.) a
report of my trip was published in the Colac
HERALD. Following is an extract therefrom :
The thing that proved my greatest eyesore, and often
made my heart ache, was to see the black prisoners
at work along the tramline. All the repairs and ballast-
ing are done by this gang of seven or eight natives, who
are undergoing terms of imprisonment for various crimes.
Some of them are really fine, strong, stalwart fellows, and
each is dressed with a blue serge shirt and a skirt of the
same material, which is tied around the waist, the shirt
being put inside the band of the skirt, the skirt descend-
ing to just below the kneecap. A drab-colored soft felt
hat covers the head, and the rest of the costume is a
chain about the weight of an ordinary plough chain, some
seven or eight feet long, one end of which is securely
locked around the throat. The remainder trails on the
ground, or else they throw it over their shoul-
der as a person would the unused portion of a cravat, and
thus they go about their work, What must they suffer
with this lovely ornament (an iron necklace) when at
their work in the summer sun with the thermometer
standing at from 110° to 115° in the shade. The iron links
must become hot enough to almost burn their way
into the flesh, when we think that water
in the sun becomes so hot that one cannot bear his hands
in it. The onty humane consideration they get, as far as
I could learn, is that they are allowed a couple of hours
respite during the extreme heat of the midday sun. At
night, I was told, that in these chains they ate secured in
their cells. Yet this accursed barbarism is not only tole-
rated, but is legalised and commanded by those who have
the audacity to call themselves Christians.
I believe John Forrest lias positively denied
that the blacks are thus treated in W.A. I am
sorry I did not see his denial in the papers, or I
should have given him the lie direct.—W. T.
Tregilgas.
• ♦
The inquiry into the cause of the wreck of the
British barque Artisan at Cape Paterson (Vic.),
throws a curious light on the way in which ships
are manned nowadays. Two-thirds of the crew
were Malays and Filipinos, most of whom could
not speak a word of English. The second officer
gave evidence that he had six men in his watch,
one English seaman, one Argentine, and the rest
Malays. He said he could make the Malays un-
derstand the ship’s course by showing them the
“ lubber’s mark,” and telling them to watch it.
A foreign sailor was at the wheel when the vessel
struck. The decision of the Marine Court was
that everything was natural and proper, and that
no one was to blame for the disaster. Quite pro-
bable, yet the circumstances were peculiar. The
Argentine above-mentioned understood English,
so out of a watch of six there were two men who
might be depended on to know what was wanted
in a hurry, and four more who would probably get
the hang of the situation when it was illustrated
by signs and diagrams. Very often at sea there
is no time for diagrams.
--
The very remarkable Victorian J.P.—the Carlton
(Melbourne) sample—has decided that an old age
pensioner can be sent to gaol on the charge of
“ having insufficient visible lawful means of sup-
port”—in other words, for not having a large
enough pension. The person who got three
months on this ground was certainly a hard case,
inasmuch as he sunk his pension in beer, and then
slept in doorways awaiting the next instalment.
Still if he was a public nuisance he could have
been rushed into the large appropriate stone
building for obstructing the street, or disorderly
conduct, or on some other expansive accusation.
Apparently the charge laid against this
public sleeper was the cantankerous J.P.’s
way of expressing his contempt for the old
age pension system. And it establishes a prece-
dent whereby the aggregate J.P. may “jug” the
whole race of old age pensioners. It having been
once decided that the State pension is insufficient
means of support, they are equally liable to three
months’ hard labor. Of course, it may be ex-
plained that, though the pension is sufficient for
some people, it is quite insufficient for a man with
such a beer-capacity ; but, if the law is going to
draw distinctions like that, there are at least two
high-salaried Australian politicians who come
under the Vagrancy Act, and the one with the
bigger salary is the-worse specimen of the pair.
Every Tory candidate at recent S.A. by-election
went solid in favor of the Snow Tramway Syndi-
cate Grab, which is strongly supported in
S.A. Parliament. Snow’s London syndicate
philanthropically proposes to take from Adelaide
citizens £llO,OOO in commission, £40,000 in in-
terest, £134,000 bonus, £lOO,OOO profit on con-
struction (which is fixed at so much per mile), and
£140,000 on conversion—in all, £524,000 for pro-
viding Adelaide with electric tramways. That is
to say, when its proposed concession expires, the
public may take over the syndicate tramways at
their real cost, and £524,000 added. The Tory
crowd says that neither the State nor the munici-
pality will ever make tramways pay. They are
certainly not likely to do so if they have any dealings
with Snow, but in places where there has been no
grasping Snow as middleman, profitable State or
m nicip.il management is not absolutely unknown.
Sydney State-owned trams, for instance, yield a
profit over and above interest on borrowed money,
and charge the lowest fares in Australasia as
well.
The following statement is printed by S.M
Herald, on the alleged authority of a N.S.W,
Treasury official: —
In some instances men had arrived here from South
Africa with only their khaki uniform and without any
papers. It was, therefore, impossible to tell up to what
date they had been paid. In South Africa the returning
troops are told to take their passages, and are informed
that the paners will be sent after them by r the next mail,
but it is believed that it sometimes happens, that docu-
ments‘are not sent. In such cases advances of money
have been m dj here on the guar mtee of friends to in-
demnify the Government against loss- if the statement
made by the soldier should not be correct.
That, if true, explains a lot of things —why re-
turned contingenters have to sleep in ttie Domain, ■
for instance. But who is responsible ? The con-
tingents were supposed to be formed as nearly
as possible on the model of British regiments,
in which the paymaster hands to each captain the
month’s pay for his company. Every soldier has
a regular debtor and creditor account in the com-
pany ledger—a guard-book with loose leaves ; this
is balanced monthly, and the balance is entered in
the .soldiers “ pocket ledger,” which he keeps him-
self. It is the captain’s business to see to that.
It is also his duty to see that when the soldier
goes to another regiment or company, his leaf of
the ledger, his “defaulter sheet” (record of
punishment), and other records go with him. If
they don’t, it is the captain’s fault, or, in. his
absence, that of the senior subaltern. Assuming
that the captains of companies have been so
ignorant, or careless, as not to send or bring with
them the proper records, every man ought to have
had his “pocket-ledger.” N.S.W. has an ex-
pensive, up-to-date Commandant, a British Major-
General, imported expressly to teach it all that is
to be known about soldiering in the British
fashion. He has a numerous staff to help him,
and among them all they have apparently failed
to keep the accounts of a very small force in under-
standable shape even for a few months.
: —♦
An M.B. to The Bulletin :
Although about 1-15 of the total yearly N.S.W. death-
roll comes from the consumptives of the Lung Brigade,
we have no reliable statistics of those afflicted with tuber-
culous joints, bones, skin, or internal organs (other than
the lungs). We cry out for a White Australia—why not
also a Clean Australia? To my mere medical mind, one
of the greatest arguments for the exclusion of the Kanaka
is his extraordinary liability—under so-called civilised con-
ditions —to develop phthisis, and thereafter act as a disease-
spreading centre. I appeal to The Bulletin in the matter
because it’s no use writing to Medical Journals —they don’t
reach the public ; and the daily press is hopeless. Also,
while anonymity partly damns a letter, a signature sub-
jects the writer to the petty sneers of his professional
“ brethren.” But if you, Bulletin, would take the
matter up in earnest, lots of up-to-date men would send
you, in non - technical language, the wherewithal to
gradually educate the People on the point. Once the
people realise, the politicians will soon be inspired. And
these men will be glad to do it—as I write this—without
any desire for personal puff.
♦ 1
A month or two back N.S.W. Electoral Commis-
sioners thought out a plan for the reconstruction
of the Assembly constituencies. Their scheme
added about eleven new members to the metropoli-
tan area at the expense of the country districts.
The authorities looked on the matter with an un-
friendly eye, and the report was referred back to
the Commissioners for revision. Another elaborate
scheme is now put forward. Old seats dis-
appear, and most of the electorates are knocked
out of all previous shape and semblance.
There will be much Parliamentary time wasred in
discussing the proposed new system, and much
expense in advertising the new boundaries if the
scheme is accepted. The said scheme comes too
late to be of any use at the near-approaching State
election, which will have to be conducted accord-
ing to the old divisions. And long before another
election is due the whole thing will almost cer-
tainly be waste paper, for it provides for 125
members, and some day or other the Assembly
must be reduced in size with a corresponding
reduction of electorates, which will involve
another new scheme. In fact, the expensive
revision appears to be worth about one old postage
stamp.
. ♦
Re the necessity of a Public Defender as well as
a Public Prosecutor : At the recent trial of Fre-
derick Locke, aboriginal half caste, charged with
rape, it was discovered that the principal witness
for the defence had not put in an appearance.
The solicitor assigned for the prisoner by the
Attorney-General had instructed the authorities
to subpoena this witness, and he learned that this-
had been done (as is the custom). But the police
authorities, apparently, made no serious attempt
to secure the attendance of the defence-witness, .
though all those for the prosecution were
rounded up and brought from Rooty Hill
district to Sydney, The prisoner’s counsel
hastily asked the Crown to try. and get the absen-
tee sent for. This was done, but when the
Crown case closed, the witness was still mis-
sing. Counsel had reluctantly to ask for a
postponement. The Judge refused, so the case
closed with practically no evidence for the
defence. The circumstances afford proof that the
State should do more than it does in securing the -
defence of prisoners under trial, for capital
offences. The whole of the engines of policedcrm
are working for the prosecution, while the
prisoner has only an inadequately-paid solicitor
(the solicitor and the barrister assigned by the
Crown share til-5 15s. between them), who, in
Locke's case, worked with all his might' for the
man, but who could not leave his business in
Sydney to go 60 miles, to Rooty Hill to-act. as special
detective to work up evidence in rebuttal of
the carefully-prepared po'ice case. If . Locke is
executed there will have been a miscarriage of
justice, and all through the want of some
machinery by which evidence may be collected
and a dase prepared for a man who, though on
trial for his life, lies helplessly in gaol, unable to
move hand or foot to aid in his own; defence.
« . , '
Interesting suggestion, by a correspondent of
Adelaide Register, by way of.reply to a right-
slinking person w h> had previously addressed the
same paper in the T.i ift interest: —
Sir,—Your correspondent, “0.,” deserves the thanks
of all right-minded citizens for his remarks re old age
pensions, but he is too fil l of the milk of Iranian kind-
ness ;■ he is too soft for tills w.ndGa-day world. He hardly 7
goes far enough in his denunciation of this wicked
scheme. The idle and vicious must, from their very
proclivities, assuredly read) old age, an I th reby become
recipients of the provision wrung from the unselfish and
thrifty portion of the .community.which die worthy “C.”
adorns. Actuarial research confirms the longevity of the
adventurous and improvident, so it is humbly suggested
by the present writer that all who have failed to secure a
competence by the time fixed be then cremated at the
public expense, and their ashes sold asf rtilising material
for the benefit of the State Treasury. £ urely the smug
tradesman who ambles joyously through life on the pro-
fits made from customers, and has an assured and suffi-
cient income, has a right to predicate the survival of the
fittest. Economic politics forbid any temporising with
the vicissitudes of this mortal life. My warm wishes are
that “O.” may reach considerably- beyond 70 (Fahr.). —I
am. &c.. Tri.odel's.


THE ROYAL VISIT
K 2
PREMO CAMERAS
PERFECT PICTURES
And you can rely upon getting good results of
the festivities if armed'with one of our
No. 15 PONY PREMOS.
The Latest and Most Up-to-Date Cameras.
Price, from 265. up to £2O.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue to
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.
375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and at Melbourne, Adelaide & Brisbane
TH E
Sulphide Corporation
** LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W,
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, " d Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Large Parcels or
Regular Supplies tinder Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A E. SAVAGE,
Manager.
CIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Centennial Hall Imperial Concert Co.
Royal Grand Opera Co.
Lyceum “ Night Birds of London."
Bueen’s Hall Snazelle.
riterion “ The Milestones of Life."
Palace “ Message from Mara.”
Her Majesty’s “ Florodora.”
Empire Fuller Co.
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Redfern Wirth’s Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Italian Opera.
Theatre Royal “In London Town."
New Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Bijou “ Robbery Under Arms."
Athenaeum Hall Charles Bertram.
“ Tannhauser ’ endured one night at
Sydney Royal. It is the story of a young man of
the middle ages who pays a protracted visit to a
lady of light morals, Venus to wit, and of the
questions that are asked him when he returns to
respectable mediaeval life, and is met by his com-
panions—all good young men, with plenty of
moustache and feathered hat and rather immature-
looking legs. They are exceedingly shocked when
they hear of Tannhauser’s proceedings, and,
strangely enough, do not rush him for the lady’s
address—in fact, they evince no curiosity whatever
about her. One of them, who happens to be present
when the mountain where she resides opens and
shows her with her damsels, is so exceedingly well
brought up that he will not even look at her, and
turns his head away when she begins to sing. Pil-
grims who seem to have been the cheap tourists of
these days wander in and ou t of the opera consider-
ably, being generally on their way to “ do ” some
shrine or other. Tannhauser gets into further
trouble through singing a love song that seems to
have been improper, whereat the good young men
are still more shocked. At the same time the
girl who reproves Tannhauser for saying things
like that is quite willing to give herself to any of
the six young men who can sing the best song,
which seems an inadequate reason for marrying,
besides showing a rather too accommodating dis-
position.
* • * •
For once, the good girl looks more enticing
than the bad one. Elisabeth, however, seemed
to have her train rather too much on her
mind in the combat scene, and even when
imploring the minstrels to kill Tannhauser
for religious reasons, she gave that article
of dress little kicks behind to make it
desoribo a curve at the critical moment. Berthald,
in the name part, died somewhat floppily beside
the body of Elisabeth, who seemed to nave fallen
ill, perishe'd from consumption, and been laid out
for burial, all in a quarter-of-an-hour or so. A
good word must be said for the four noble pages,
but the nobles who were escorted up to greet
Elisabeth, though they looked gay and nappy, did
not seem to have had many lessons in deportment.
** * *
“ The Flying Dutchman " which followed
“Tannhauser” at the Sydney Theatre Royal, re-
sembles the latter inasmuch as the Man gets
into trouble with Providence, and is cursed on
what seems to modern minds very small provoca-
tion. The peripatetic Hollander didn’t do much
more than remark on one occasion that he would
be damned—whereupon he was doomed to travel
for centuries on the high seas till some maiden
was found to love him till death. He goes on
shore occasionally, with one piece of luggage, to
find the maiden, but apparently without success,
till an anxious father annexes him, seemingly
with an eye to the luggage as a possibly
food spec, in the way of jewellery. The
ero, when presented to Senta, looks exactly
like a belated Guy Fawkes, while Senta, as
played by Ella Russel, is a rotund-looking person
m a hooplike blue skirt, and has long hair plaits
warranted to kill Romance in a second. Never-
theless the two stand for five minutes or so, gazing
at each other in ecstatic admiration, after which
they resolve by means of duets to love each other
till death. Half an hour later Senta disappears
into the blue sea so that she will be sure of loving
her Hollander to the very last. These are the
lowest terms on which Yanderdecken can be re-
leased from his long servitude on the sea, and the
girl, having undertaken the contract, is resolved
to see it through. She wisely reckons that the
surest way to love her Ancient Mariner till death
is to die quickly before her misplaced affection
fades.
• * • •
Ella Russel, as Senta, has an imposing
presenoe as well as a great voice, but there is a
suggestion of shriekiness in the latter, though the
music, of course, lends itself to shriekiness.
Also she makes an impression of having to
fight hard for this or that note. She always
reaches the note, but the effort is as obvious
as the success. She is well - supported by
Lawrence Mooney, as the man who gets into
trouble with Providence, the favorite form of
entanglement in those days, when Providence was
supposed to be always ready to quarrel on small
provocation. The chorus of sailors, who dance in
one comer of the stage in the last act, is charm-
ingly quaint, and there are beautiful effects in the
opening act, where the storm roars melodiously,
and the waves dash up and down in exactly the
same shape all the time, and courteously leave off
their roar when the baritone or tenor begins to
sing. The spinning chorus, which begins the
second act, is another of the melodies one wants to
bear again, and the dame who .scolds the girls for
wanting to go out and see the sailors should be
persuaded to be angry continuously. She has a
pleasant manner of showing ill-temper, and scolds
in a voice that is food to listen to.
#* * *
A big audience tilled the available floor-
grace of Sydney Centennial Hall, at the Imperial
O mcert co.’s song-recital, Saturday night. The
hill was as the Juke had left it, and Madame
Belle Cole sang the same “ Creation’s Hymn” in
exactly the same voice with which she had warbled
to Divin—that is, royalty. “Creation’s Hymn”
is a thing to dream about, and Madame Cole’s
contralto filled the hall with it till you might
almost think you heard the planets getting
hurriedly into line ready for the starter to fire the
comet that would set them going on their long
race round the sun. The two Pechotsohs dis-
coursed pleasantly on their violins, but their
music is not sufficiently entrancing to make this
scribe forget, even for one moment, that Rai-
mund s hair wants cutting—and music can
do that it is not really divine. Mdlle. Cheron
was not up to her first-night standard. Avon
Saxon has the saving grace of humor, and can
make some rather ancient items, comic and other-
wise, sound reasonably modern. As usual, the
major portion of Saturday’s programme was made
up of encores.
** * *
The subtle odour of “ Florodora,” com-
bined with the gambols of Gilfain and Professor
iweedlepunch, still lures decent houses at Her
Majesty s; and the enthusiasm seems to keep at
the same high pressure all through. Whereat
this scribe can only say “ Whaffor ? ” and conclude
that Sydney prefers operatic shandygaff to spark-
ling hock—and when it gets that ‘fluid it goes in
for a skinful.
** * *
The “French Spy ” continues at Sydney
Criterion, and this seems as good a time as any
other to complain of the scene wherein the
flighty Russian Johnnie gets into the variety
actor’s room instead of the actress’s. Why
these three or four dressing - rooms should
lopk so like a row of bathing-machines is a mys-
tery. Also, the funny Irishman is becoming
a little monotonous in melodrama. He is intro-
duced into every nation wherever the drama may
wander, doing wonders with his accent, which
seems to overpower the warder of any prison he
wants to get into, and to break up the military and
na _ v r a l forces. The funny Irishman merely says
“ y«r whisht” to the Russian man on duty,
and then leads him off, the weird words having
broken the Muscovite up and made him a ruin.
** * *
Sydney Lyceum Night Birds seem in-
clined to last for a little longer, though very little
is seen of the dissipated fowls in question, and
when seen they are mostly trying to earn an
honest living by means of a hot potato-stall, or to
wear the white flower of a blameless life at the
baking board. There is plenty of up-to-date
mechanical effect in this drama, except that the
villain is not run over by an electric tram. The
melodrama is noted for being as modern in its
mechanical effects as it is antediluvian in its mo-
tives and legal decisions.
«* * *
At Sydney Empire Sad-Eyed Shriek
Stevens adds “Only a Leaf” to his long list of
clever atrocities, and in the midst of a raging
paper snowstorm John Fuller lifts up his silvery
tenor about Lena. The words and music of Lena
were composed by John’s son Ben, and this globe
has heard many worse songs. But the veteran
singer could make a success of any song that had
any points about it at all. The musical clowns,
Faust and Walhalla, play the violin after a fashion,
in a good many weird positions. As clowns
and acrobats they deserve great credit, but as
musicians . The duettists, Eva St. Clair and
Tilly Dunbar, are two light-footed, pleasant
little girls, one of whom trampled over the soul
and feelings of a would-be Johnnie on Monday
night. The Johnnie heaved a bunch of flowers,
with a most obvious letter in the middle thereof,
on to the stage. The young lady most adjacent
when it fell looked at it, and then with unerring
toe kicked it right into the wings. Wild applause
and collapse of Johnnie.
## * m
Further visits to Sydney Palace confirm
the previous suspicion that the stage management
is a thing of excellence. The way in which the
papered halls of Mrs. Clarance flash into’ view when
the painfully selfish apostle of Otherdom waves
his hand is creditable. Also, the rapidity with
which the outward and visible signs of affluence
vanish from Horace Parker, and leave him in the
rags of honest poverty, borders on the marvellous.
Someone might do Berthald Faust a good turn by
taking him round to view the way it is done.
During the somewhat long intervals this scribe
carefully thought over the doctrine of Otherdom,
and came to the conclusion that it is crude, against
nature, and therefore foredoomed to failure.
When the Sydneyites have tired of the
“Message,” the vagaries of Tom, Dick and
Harry will be again held up to public scorn and
ridicule.
** * *
By the time this issue is in the shaking
hand of the public, and the people’s drink-dimmed
and duke-blighted eyes have gazed thereon,
Wirth’s Circus will have reached its second-last
night—unless the holiday boom unexpectedly con-
tinues, and induces the management to extend
the farewell performances. Those who saw the
first performance are hereby notified that there is
a change of programme and the wise horses do new
tricks, and the leaping rout that runs its weird
course, under Mr. Salvini, displays fresh leaps.
#* * *
The things lately written of Sydney Tivoli
are hereby understood to be repeated, the show
being much the same. Frank Latona’s donkey is
bearing up bravely, and the exquisite Rosie
Aquinaldo is another week nearer the inevitable
occasion when she will forget which particular
knot she has tied herself in, and get so inextric-
ably twisted up as to be compelled to call
in the assistance of the medical faculty to get
straightened out again. The Pine Sisters and
sundry other people are about to flit, so there will
be a variety of new things at the Tivoli in the
near future.
## * *
The first appearance of Williamson’s
Italian Opera Co. at Her Majesty’s (Melb.), last
Saturday, was received with enough genuine enthu-
siasm to indicate a prosperous future. As compared
with the grand opera lately given at the Princess’s,
the Italian treatment of “Aida” seems bigger,
and stronger, and more tempestuous. The stage
is nearer to the audience, the orchestral pitch sup-
plies the half-tone of excitement which was
lacking at the other house where they took “a
little bit off the top,” and made admirable music
m a subdued spirit. Williamson’s opera will
endeavour to lift the roof. The voices must be
powerful, or the orchestra will overwhelm them.
As a matter of fact, the 44 instrumentalists ex-
ceeded the limits of reasonable competition on
Saturday night. But, if the effect was rather
rough in places, the achievement as a whole was
finely impressive.
* • » •
Verdi’s “ Aida” is 20 years more modern
than his “Trovatore.” The story and the
orchestration and the staging are matters of
greater importance in this spectacular work than
they were in the old Italian lyrical operas, though
the singers, nevertheless, get more attractive
melody than Wagner ever gives them. The
soprano heroine in the name-part professes to be
the daughter of the Ethiopian King, and after
falling captive to Pharaoh, King of Memphis,
she falls in love with the tenor who commands
the ancient Egyptian forces. Also, Pharaoh’s
daughter loves the tenor, and when that esti-
mable vocalist defeats the Ethiopians a second
time he is appointed to marry the princess
aforesaid, whereat he and Aida exchange musical
condolences, and the Kingdom of Egypt enjoys a
grand finale to the second act. One of the
prisoners taken by the tenor proves to be Aida’s
father —a chocolate-brown Chirgwin, with white
rings round his eyes. Chirgwin brings about an
unlooked-for tragedy. He induces his daughter
to obtain a military secret from her tenor, who has
arranged to meet her amorously on the banks of
the Nile the night before his marriage. The plot
at this point is very interesting and violent.
Chirgwin has to bang Aida on the ground,
and apply terrible baritone language to her,
ere she will consent to wheedle informa-
tion from the tenor, and he, for his part,
needs a lot of persuasion to make him give it
away. And when the military secret is betrayed
he finds that his bride-elect and the High Priest
of Isis were listening. Being arrested for treason,
the tenor is granted the option of renouncing Aida
for ever or getting entombed alive. He chooses
entombment. Consequently, the High Priest and
others consign the tenor to his vault with much
pomp and piety, and Pharaoh’s daughter sings
sorrowfully on the stone, what time the tenor’s
voice is growing faint for want of oxygen. Then
Aida comes out from a dark corner of the vault,
where she had concealed herself, and joins her
lover in a soft duet, and they die together whilst
the funeral service is proceeding overhead. A
grand finish to a rich and gaudy entertainment.
• • m *
The advt. says that over 250 people are
® n Sf a f?od in the “ Aida” show. Counting the
crowd in Hazon’s orchestra, and allowing for a
good few people behind the scenes, the advt. looks
truthful. There are imposing processions, sweet
Egyptian girl ballets, and dances by small brown
Ethiopians to interest the eye. The chorus is
very good; and the scenery is handsome and
extensive. “ Aida ” gives a wonderful lot for the
money. Even the prima-donna drammatico is
about the plumpest prima-donna that Melbourne
has seen for years.
* * • *
This lady, Signora Benedetto, would fill
the title rdle more satisfactorily if she were less
compact. Signora Benedetto’s notes are of the
shrill and .durable order at high pressure, with
sweetness in her half-volleys. As a singer she
improves greatly on acquaintance, and then the
exceeding round ness of her personality ceases to
mar the illusion. Signorina Marcomini, described
as a mezzo-soprano, is taller than the other lady,
not .a good actress, and certainly not a sympa-
thetic mezzo. The four men principals who
appeared on Saturday included one brilliant
success, two pleasing basso artists, Travag-
lini and Lombardi, and a passable bari-
tone in the character of the white-eyed Kaffir.
Larizza, the tenor, was the brilliant success. His
robusto voice, though never quite charming in a
Phil. Newbury sense of the word, is full-toned
and musical, and its capacity for hard work seems
to be great. Moreover, Larizza is a smarter
figure than the average Italian tenor, with an
easy bearing (which they mostly haven’t), and a
bright, manly dramatic style. “ Aida ” was to be
played up to Wednesday of this week. To-night
(Thursday) “Lucia” will be staged with new
people in the cast, and on Saturday, presumably,
14 Aida ” will take another turn.
mm m m
At Melbourne Royal the woman with the
marble heart will corrupt Walter Baker’s jockey
for the last time on Friday, and on Saturday the
full strength of Bland Holt’s co. is to be devoted
to “In London Town,” a drama by Geo, R. Sims
and Arthur Shirley, said Shirley being one of
the men who devised “Woman and Wine.”
Therefore it is hoped that the moral senti-
ments and coster characterizations of G.R.S.
will be tempered by the sinful suggestions of
Shirley. Melbourne has now arrived at a definite
opinion re Bland Holt’s melodrama productions.
It likes them best when the principal character is
a thoroughly abandoned female in gorgeous
apparel. The virtuous heroine has grown weari-
some, and the old farmer's giddy girl, who repents
her folly when the wicked cousin refuses to keep
his promise, is no longer an object of interest.
The tide of human sympathy has turned towards
crimson vice, with bead trimmings.
** * *
Madame Lucretia, the somewhat different
dance lady, is a recent arrival at Rickards’ New
Opera House, also the remarkably clever De
Wynne Bros. Otherwise the bill is much the
same as before, and the nightly rush to the nice
new house has not abated. Marie Lloyd and
Celina Bobe are chief favorites. The sex which
reserves to itself the right to blush when least
expected has made up its mind to smile at sister
Marie, who is now established in the estimation of
many superior persons as an all-right identity.
** * *
“ Robbery Under Arms,” the hardy Dam-
perian drama which almost persuades one to be a
bushranger, is having another Melbourne revival,
and the Bijou is the place where Jim gives up the
ghost. Captain Starlight and his gang are mostly
the same people as previously seen at the Alex-
andra in the days before J. C. Williamson con-
verted it into Her Majesty’s, and abolished the
adjacent odour of onions. The drama seems
all the more bush-like for being purged of its
fried onion smell. It is a particularly popular
and immoral drama as regards its treatment of
the police, and the joy of the amphitheatre on
Saturday night suggested that Dampier will get
rewarded with a free pardon for his sins until
further notice. All the same, there is a general
feeling against the decease of Jim. Death comes
to everybody in one way or other; even the days
of an undertaker are numbered; but the doom
that overtakes Jim in the third act is a dishearten-
ing circumstance. The dramatist should have
killed a trooper instead.
** * *
Jean Gerardy will perform at Melbourne
Town Hall, to-night (Thursday), and again on
Saturday, after which he journeys to Bendigo,
Ballarat, and other places. The success of
Gerardy is explained, firstly, by the fact
that his ’cello playing far surpasses the
best ’cello solo of anybody else whom
Australia has heard, and secondly, by
his good luck in striking a time when the public
were ready to appreciate his skill. The same
public didn’t roll up to hear Musin’s violin last
time, but they enthuse over Gerardy’s ’cello as
though it could be made as delightful as the
smaller fiddle, which it certainly can’t. Eduard
Scharf, at the piano, assists the Gerardy Boom,
and Miss Olive Kingston, a clever young soprano,
who is in the way of becoming a very pretty
artist, sings an operatic number with encore
results.
«* * m
Charles Bertram, king of conjurors, appears
at Melb. Athenaeum, next Saturday (Bth), under
the management of Robert Brough. The mo-
narchial Bertram is limited to a season of 13
nights, and on the word of Brough, which is
excellent security, his conjuring will deserve
crowded audiences during that brief period.
Anyhow, it is stated that King Edward, before
he became a crowned head, commanded Bertram
to amuse him on 23 different occasions.
*t « * *
Adelaide Tivoli has been giving a strong
programme, ranging from Lamont’s educated dogs
up to the Dartos, who throw each other all over
the small stage in surprising fashion. One of the
most popular turns is that of Albert Whelan.
His imitation of the late Oscar Gerard is dead
easy, for to Adelaide he was Oscar Girard. The
American was seized with his fatal illness on
arriving there, and Whelan took his place on the
opening night (when nobody suspected any differ-
ence) and kept it nearly all through the run of
the “ Belle.”
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The London Bank of Australia presents ;<
report for the year 1900 which is less cheerful than might
have been expected considering the improvement shown
by most other banking institutions. The troubles of the
London Bank are the exorbitant 4£ per cent. interest paid
on reconstructed deposits, and the cumulative dividend
of 5£ per cent, per annum on preference shares. When it
suspended in 1893 and renewed its deposits at 4$ per cent,
some one struck the extraordinary idea of converting
Eart of the deposits into preference shares on which the
ank is pledged to pay 5£ per cent, dividends, whether
they are earned or not, thereby making the preference
capital a much worse burden than the deposits. The
preference dividend is now two years in arrear, but as the
arrears are a liability of the bjyik they are reckoned in
the statement which follows. It is these arrears which
make up the deficit now existing :
Dividend paid or
Profits. owing on prefer- Total
ence shares. Reserves.
Half-year to
December, 1893 . .£5,987 6J per cent. =£3,904 £2,083
June, 1894 .. 7,026 „ = 4,728 4,381
December, 1894 .. 8,215 „ = 4,728 7,868
June, 1895 .. 7,082 „ = 4,728 10,222
December, 1895 .. 5,673 „ = 4,728 11,167
Loss.
June, 1896 ..231 „ = 4,728 6,208
Total
Deficit.
December, 1896 .. 4,396 w ™ 4,728 2,916
Year to
December, 1897 .. 8.125 „ = 9,456 20,497
Profit.
„ 1898 .. 10,885 „ = 9,456 19,068
„ 1899 .. 15,056 „ = 9,456 13,468
„ 1900 .. 14,816 „ = 9,456 8,108
The management presents its accounts somewhat differ-
ently. It shows a credit balance of £10,804 13s. 6d.,
which forms the sole reserves of the London Bank of
Australia. But against this the cumulative preference
dividend of 5J per cent, is only paid up to December,
1898, and the two years owing (£18,912 65.) leave a deficit
of £BlOB as shown above. The Bulletin’s way of putting
the accounts is really the more favorable of the two, for
it shows that steady progress is being made, while the
published balance-sheet shows a credit certainly, but one
that is practically stationary.
The London Bank’s profits are a trifle smaller
than they were last year—this at a time when most banks
are showing an improvement, and despite the fact that
£320,712 of the burdensome 4J per cent, reconstructed
deposits were paid off during 1900, which should be a
material saving of interest. Earnings are at the rate of
only £ll2s. 4d. per cent, per annum on the shareholders’
funds, which is so low as to suggest that a further
heavy writing down of capital is badly wanted. On
the other hand, the London Bank is still paying
about 1 per cent, above current rates on £1,911,964
of reconstructed deposits, and if it got those at
3£ per cent, the profits would be about £33,93s—equal to
about £3 14s. per cent, per annum on shareholders’


“ ENGLAND’S FAVORITE.”
) PLAYER’S
. ■.» :>«saisHc.«saßas9 r
NAVY CUT
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
3*
The Cobar Chesney mine, Cobar, have lately
placed an order with the Austral Otis Engineering Com-
pany for a pair of powerful winding engines to haul from
2000 feet. These engines are rapidly approaching com-
pletion, and will be delivered about first of next month.
The same firm of engineers have also supplied the Occi-
dental mine, Cobar, with a handsome pair of winding
engines, as well as a boiler. This machinery was delivered
in very quick time and should give great satisfaction.*
* * * »
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The Age of 24th October, 1900, writes regarding
the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited :
“ The results of the investigation of its affairs for the
quinquennium ending the 31st December last, show that
the Society is in a very sound position.”*
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Bow’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
All Barrier Mines remodelling their mills on up-
to-date lines include a number of Luhrig vanners. The
South and Junction companies each have about a dozen,
no slime treatment plant being now considered complete
without these excellent machines. In Queensland tin
concentration is the latest accomplishment, the Irvine-
bank Mill having introduced Luhrig Vanners with success-
ful results, the example having been followed by the well-
known Coolgarra Tin Mining Co., who are installing a
number of Luhrig Vanners in connection with their new
Tin Dressing Mill. Messrs. W. &J. Lempriere, Melbourne,
are the general agents for the Luhrig Appliances.*
e * » *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
fee., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, burning, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
# » * •
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Bucuu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. — Re par on Organised Robbery
(11/5/’Ol): Some seven years ago I was a clerk in one
of this country’s English banks. About that time some
member of Parliament (I forget who) brought forwards
motion to the effect that all unclaimed balances held by
the banks should be handed over to the Government,
which was to make good any subsequent lawful claims.
The bank I was in took fright so badly at the idea of
parting with money which didn’t belong to it that it im-
mediately passed entries transferring all said balances to
the London office. There are thousands of pounds held by
banks in this way to which they are not entitled, and
which they will never disgorge until compelled to. Knew
one poor devil, a bit careless, who had close on £lOO to
his credit, and didn’t claim it, as he believed his account
was exhausted. Money transferred to Unclaimed Bal«
ances, where it remained for years. I gave him the tip ;
inquiries were instituted ; bank bluffed him all it could,
but at last reluctantly admitted that it had the money,
and acknowledged his identity, and let him have his own
coin again.— Oowra.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shaving-8, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting- Charges.
; PI eM)jJ *w “* H
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel. ; V Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
‘ Auckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL GO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per cent,
pure), Bleaching Powder, Mining Requisites.
Candles, eto.
funds. Even this is a sufficiently humble rate to suggest
that some further writing-down of capital would do a lot
of good, but it is much better than the surface appear-
ance of things. The new business has improved consider-
ably during the year, and the reserve of cash and liquid
securities (£1,033,227) is very solid as compared with
current liabilities. There is very little information about
the assets, by the way, in the London Bank’s balance-
sheet. Everything goes in five lines. It isn’t even shown
whether the bank lias any reserve of State securities. The
line “ investments and bills receivable, £756,191,” throws
practically no light on this point.
* * * •
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society :
Premiums
including Total Added
considera- Interest. Expenses. to
tion for Income ’ Funds.
Annuities.
1892 .. £312,491 £80,115 £392,609 £85,120 £150,236
1893 .. 308,730 81,026 389,756 84,069 139,704
1894 .. 305,530 86,953 392,483 79,391 131,328
1895 .. 303,983 89,703 393,686 78,429 130,207
1896 .. 311,558 81,147 . 392,705 78,180 117,137
1897 .. 312,450 84,562 397,012 80,404 112,370
1898 .. 322,768 90,130 412,898 79,996 108,314
1899 .. 317,548 92,196 409,744 75,832 123,610
1900 .. 311,354 95,074 406,428 77,734 106,724
The premium revenue and the total income show a falling
off for the second year in succession—probably a further
result of the war, as the Colonial Mutual did a consider-
able business in South Africa. The addition made to the
funds (which now total £2,491,990) is also the smallest for
a long term of years. And expenses have increased ; they
now represent £24 19s. 3d. per cent, on premiums, or £l9
2s. 6d. per cent, on total income, which is a decidedly
heavy figure.
The expense rate of the Colonial Mutual in recent
years has been as follows :
Expenses Per Cent, of Total Income.
1893 .. £2l 11 5 per cent. 1897 .. £2O 0 0 per cent.
1894 .. 20 6 2 „ 1898 .. 19 4 7
1895 .. 19 14 2 „ 1899 .. 18 10 1 „
1896 .. 19 13 0 „ 1900 .. 19 2 6
This means that a good deal of the improvement effected
last year has disappeared again, though the rate is still
decidedly lower than it was in the years previous to 1899,
The worst feature of the case, however, is the
Interest rate, which now represents £3 17s. lid. per cent,
bn the average funds for -the year, or about £4 Is. lOd.
per cent, if the investment fluctuation fund of £99,333 is
deducted. The investment fluctuation fund is supposed
to be at least sufficient to provide for all known losses.
When it is deducted it should be understood that the
assets ate on a perfectly sound footing with no
possibility Of any inflated values among them. Yet, with
the investment fluctuation fund deducted the Colonial
Mutual shows the very lowest interest earnings among
the large life offices of Australasia. On the face of things
it seems that this must mean one of two alternatives —
either the assets are still not worth the values set
against them, despite the heavy provision made for losses
at the recent quinquennial investigation, and a much
larger sum should be carried to the investment fluctua-
tion fund to make things secure; or else the very
large foreign business done by the Colonial Mutual com-
pels it to invest heavily in countries where it can’t get so
good a return for its money as in Australia. The first
possibility is bad for the bonuses and bad in other ways
as well. The second is only bad for the bonuses.
The foreign business appears to have brought no material
compensating advantage in the shape of reduced expenses,
bo there is every reason to be glad that the A.M.P. didn’t
follow the Colonial Mutual's lead.
• • * *
The following are the interest rates earned by
each of the life assurance societies specified, on their
average funds, according to the latest published balance-
sheets, the reserve for depreciation of securities (if any)
being included in the funds in each case :
Interest Margin
earned estimafced
percent. P ercent ’ cenfc ’
Citv Mutual £5 3 9 £4 0 0 £l3 9
M.L. State G...0e 4 111 3 10 0 111
A.M.P 497 3 10 0 0 19 7
Mutual Life Assn. 490 3 10 0 0 19 0
Widows’ Fund .. 488 3 10 0 0 18 8
Temperance and
General, Ordi-
nary Branch .. 461 3 10 0 0 16 1
National Mutual 4 13 3 400 0 13 3
Citizens’, Ordinary
Branch 402 3 10 0 0 10 2
Colonial Mutual 3 17 11 3 10 0 0 7 11
The margin between the assumed interest rate on which
estimates are based and the rate actually realised is one
important safeguard for the policy-holders ; and in the
list of assurance offices quoted above the Colonial Mutual
shows the least margin of all, though it stands very much
better in this respect than it did a year or two ago.
To sum up, the Colonial Mutual has been, for
some time, the least fortunate-looking of the six large
Australasian life offices—whether through its properties
having depreciated in the bad times and the slump not
having been fully faced, or through its large foreign busi-
ness having taken much of its funds into countries where
interest is low, it is impossible, in the absence of a State
audit, to determine. But it looks rather better than it
did, though even now it doesn’t compare favourably on
the surface of things with any of the other five big Aus-
tralasian life institutions.
« * * *
Swan Brewery Co. (Perth, W.A.):
Profits Dividends, &c., Total
per annum. Reserves.
September, 1897 £47,387
March, 1898 .. £24,048 177 percent. = £39,312 32,123
September, 1898 13,171 Written off 3297 41,997
March, 1899.. 17,7<»{ $ = ««} 46,157
September, 1899 9762 {- ggl 45,115
March, 1900.. 15,971{“^" *g} 61>482
September, 1900 16,861 -f ~ 2579 } 68 ’ 155
March, 1901.. 17,031 { = ggj- 66,030
Things are distinctly improving, for the profits at Septem-
ber, 1900, were swollen by the inclusion of £5OOO, forfeited
deposit on a transaction which didn’t come off, while this
time, they are all made out of plain beer. The Swan
Brewery Co. has practically no outside liabilities, and its
dividends are very large ; also, as its capital is partly
capitalised profit, the return on the original investment is
even larger than it looks. Said capital now stands at
£76/87 paid up, so the reserves (reserve fund, £35,000 ;
contingency fund, £20,359 ; and undivided profit £10,671
= £66,030) are exceedingly solid in proportion.
* * * •
“ H.D.” : Take the A.M.P. policy even at the
higher rate. You get better. bonuses, which is some-
thing, and better security, which is everythfng.
* * * *
“Wordsworth” wants to know what is being
done at the Port Phillip G.M. at Clunes (Vic.). Nothing
is being done. Operations are suspended for want of
capital, but in the absence of convincing evidence to the
contrary the character of the property may still be re-
garded as respectable.
* ■ * •
Glenfine South : Last week the shares touched
38s. At the beginning of this year they touched £l2.
There is no hope of their ever touching £l2 again, .
although they may see 12s. within the next few months.
Some Adelaide and Westralian speculators went into this
concern at big prices, and it is clear that the Ballarat
crowd had the best of the deal. It is also apparent
that most of the gold is confined to 200 ft., and that out-
side of this shoot the ore is barely payable ; also, that
the shoot has been pretty well gutted out, and the
little remaining cannot be taken .away on account of the
alluvial above it. Everything', now depends on the
developments of the next lift, and so far they are not
encouraging. The winze going down showed that in a
few feet the reef pinched in a remarkable way. In the
stope above the Winze there was 12 to 15ft. of stone, and
the winze had not gone 20ft. before it had thinned to 2ft.
6in. Last week the winze was stopped, the excuse being
that it was flooded, but there was a very persistent rumor
in Melbourne that the reef had gone altogether. There
is a good deal of water making in the cross-cuts in the
bottom level. This may be coming from the western leg,
which is admitted to be poor. People are begin-
ning to wonder now whether what was regarded
a few months ago as the biggest quartz mine in
Victoria is only, after all, a big blow or roll
of stone such as has been found in other places not far
from Pitfield. As they were mostly barren, little notice
was taken of them ; in the case of the Glenfine South, be-
cause it was rich, the conclusion that it was permanent
seems to have been jumped at. When last fortnight’s
return came out and proved to be equal to the previous
fortnight (9idwts.), shares firmed to 505., but how much
of this came from the rich run ? And if this rich run
gives out, what is going to become of the mine ? A few
months ago it was described as a magnificent saddle reef
—the like of which had not been seen outside of Bendigo.
To-day, it looks more like a “ spider ” reef—big body and
very thin legs.
» * * *
To most shareholders B.H. Block 10’s report for
the half-year to the end of March must have come as the
worst surprise in all the history of a remarkably-success-
ful co. They all knew that profits must have suffered
seriously ; a mine turning out over 17,000 tons of lead a
year can’t be knocked by a fall of several pounds a ton in
the lead market and look as though nothing had hap-
pened. But they were told that the co. was doing a lot
of things to counterbalance this slump—had made
economies all round, had put up new plant to re-treat the
secondary products, and was turning out nearly 20 per
cent, more concentrates. Also, they were told that on
the basis of operations and profits during the March-Sept,
half of 1900, lead would have to go down to nearly
£lO a ton before a balance would show up on the page
where it isn’t welcome. Yet, in spite of all the economies
and the other things, profits fell from £53,268 in the
March-Sept, half, to £22,811 in the half-year just past;
and this fall of 55 per cent, was due to a fall of 5 per cent,
in silver and per cent, in lead. During that naif-year
silver averaged 2s. 2Jd. and a fraction, and lead £l5 Is.
lid. Present prices are somewhere near 2s. 3Jd. for
silver and £l2 ss. for lead. The improvement in silver
helps the co. up to the extent of about £3OOO a half-year.
The further fall in lead knocks it down again to the ex-
tent of over £20,000. Taking no account of the
silver variation : “If a fall of £2 4s. 9d. (from
£l7 6s. 9d. to £l5 25.) reduces profits by £30,457,
how far will a fall of £2 17s. reduce them ? ” And when
you take the answer from £22,811, it won’t go. The
problem set the management is to make it go. The
directors say : “ Abundance of ore exists in the mine to
last for many years to come ; but should present low
value of metals continue, the profits, even under the
most economical and skilful working, will show but
poorly as compared with the average of the past
two years.” The general manager says : “ The
returns still show a small margin of profit
over cost of production, and extensions are now being
made to the concentrating plant and economies are being
effected in every possible direction.” That is the position
of a co. which, in about nine years, has paid £915,000 to
shareholders, and which, only eight months ago, was
making profit at the rate of £9OOO a month ! It doesn t
appear to be now making 9000 pence.
The future of Block 10 ? Price of metals and
development of metal-extraction purposes must answer
for that. The directors say that the lead market is likely
to improve ; and so it is, but not more than perhaps £1
per ton. In the extraction of the metals there is more
to work on. The concentrates produced by the mill, last
half-year, contained only 39'8 per cent, of the silver and
72-89 per cent, of the lead. The zinc (the ore averaged
18'63 per cent, of zinc) was not saved at all. Approxim-
ately, therefore, only one-third of the metallic value was
saved ; the rest went over the dump “ for future treat-
ment”—when they know how. Also, something may
possibly be done by reducing costs, though the
trend has lately at this mine been in the
other direction, notwithstanding that the actual break-
ing of the ore now costs only Bs. IOJd. per ton as
against 9s. 7£d. in the preceding half. Of ore of a
grade about equal to that lately treated there is abund-
ance—over a million tons ready for mining—so there is no
ground for uneasiness on that score. The further econo-
mies will begin at the top. For some time there has been
a general manager and an assistant ditto ; one of these
has been dispensed with, probably. But that is another
story.
But Block 10 is rioting in fatness compared with
Broken Hill Junction. That unfortunate co.’s mine occu-
pies an elbow of the lode, and no doubt on that account
the ore-body is much disturbed, and takes a lot of
propping up. Five years ago this wasn’t done ; a fall
followed, and pretty well the whole mine was strained.
Result—forests of timber have been swallowed up since,
shafts have given endless trouble, and it has been found
impossible to get at some known bodies of ore, while
others are only reached at great expense. Mining costs
alone (excluding developments) totalled 16s. 6d. a ton
last half-year, whereas they ought not to be more than
10s. Add to that the co. had to take what ore was
handiest, and lead slumped nearly £3 a ton, and it
isn’t surprising that during the few months of the half-
year that the mine was worked the co. lost £13,627, be-
sides sinking £lO,OOO in plant which is idle ; so bang goes
the £25,000 which the shareholders anted-up last year in
the sure and certain hope of fat divs. Before anything
is done, somebody had better take the keys of the ore-
dressing mills and lose them for a couple of years while
the mine is being opened up a bit. Or, better still, why
don’t the directors get the loan of an experienced man-
say, Mr. Courtney, manager of the Sulphide Corporation’s
Central mine—to advise upon a course of action ?
For the second time the B.H. South has had a
serious fall of ore and rock, killing six men. (There were
nine names on the former blood-bill.) Apparently it was
through working too far from timber, though no ordinary
timbering would have stayed this ground. Apart from
the loss of life (all six men were married men with
families), the crash of several hundred tons of ore
shakes a mine, however it happens. The worst-
sort of a fall is a slide, striking shafts, &c., sideways.
This was a clean fall, the result of a “ greasy head,” and
so less harm was done to the workings than might be
expected.
N.S.W. dredging is still in a bad way, chiefly
from want of gold. It has had to put up with other trou-
bles, not the least of which is the never-ending praise
of the Sabbath tipster, who gives the names of the dredg-
ing co’s that will be in the dividend-list before long. Of
course, the Turon is one of them. There is going to be a
big advance in the shares before long, too. And the im-
proved tone of the last few weeks is quite noticeable. He
has no hesitation whatever in repeating the statement
that dredging will be a very big industry. It is the most
substantial form of mining that has ever been introduced,
the risks are small, and the profits are going to be
large, and the people who realise this fact, and take ad-
vantage of it will be congratulating themselves before
many months. The public is also beginning to realise
that over £250,000 has already been spent on N.S.W.
. dredges, none of which has paid a div. Some have been
shut down already from want of gold. Others arc
useless through bad construction, and, with most of the
working dredges, returns are so small as just to pay
working cost and allow a fair margin for rapid deprecia-
tion. A few dredges are working at a profit, but the
capital is so much greater than is warranted by the
industry that divs. will be mighty few and a
long way between. Buckland River Dredging Co. has
made a fair start in Vic.—l24oz. for the first month’s run,
though there were some stoppages. “ The results
obtained justify the directors in the confident belief that
they will he in a position to declare a div. at no distant
date.” Well, there are 34,000 shares in this co., so it does
not require much calculation to show that the directors,
to realise their ambition, will want to make it a very
little dividend, or to do many months dredging before
they can pay a big one. If this industry is going to do
such great things, why are the shares, almost without
exception, at an alarming discount ?
Brown Hill: If the management and directors
can be believed, it is likely to remain one of the great
mines of Westralia. Another 7000 shares issued, this
time in paj'tnent of the Deihl process and plant, consist-
ing chiefly of a 20-head stamp mill. At 905., the last
quotation for the shares, the cost is represented by
£31,500. Brown Hill started with 60,000 shares, and
there are now 155,000. The London and Hamburg Co.
first got a block of shares for the erection of an oxidised
mill that was a deplorable failure. Another dry
crushing mill, costing over £lO,OOO, and paid for,
as usual, in shares, followed. It was a costly
success. The same work might have been done
with an ordinary stamp mill at half the cost, and the
stamp mill could afterwards have been altered to suit the
Diehl process. Now proposed to change the old
oxidised mill so as to run it on low grade sulphide ore.
Chairman said they had enough sulphides in sight in the
mine to keep the new mill running 18 months, quite
irrespective of further developments, and the manage-
ment believed that before the rich reserves of ore began
to fail they would be justified in recommending the
extension of the new sulphide plant or in altering the oxi-
dised mill to treat low grade sulphide. Moreing, being
questioned re the sudden giving-out of the oxides, and
the information leaking out, said certain people in Lon-
don kept spies down the mine in W.A. and operated upon
information thus acquired. The management believed
that the ores between the third and fourth levels were
mainly oxidised, but when they came to stope between
the two levels they found a great mass of undecomposed
sulphide ore. The moment this was known the directors
were informed by the management in Westralia and
circulars were sent to shareholders. If this is true
the Brown Hill management was blind to things which
were obvious to all the mine workmen, and also to hun-
dreds of people who were not allowed to go near the mine.
In reality it was only the great body of shareholders who
were kept in the dark. Besides, the changing from
oxides to “ undecomposed sulphides ” —whatever that
means—would not affect the situation as long as the gold
remained. The Brown Hill shareholders have been
grossly deceived by one particular mining firm, whose
name they once regarded as a blessing, though
they never hear it now without a curse. In a
few months the shares fell from £lO to £3, and in
another few months they will probably fall from £4 10s.,
their present price, to £2, which is more than their value.
Admitting that they have 18 months’ ore in sight, and
taking the divs. of the last 18 months ore as a basis, the
present price is as great an anomaly as that of a year ago.
Some months ago several well-known mining engineers
reported on this mine, in view of the proposed amalgama-
tion with the Northern Associated. If these reports were
published, one of them, at any rate, would demonstrate
that there are only a few months’ payable sulphides in
sight, that the dipping of the sulphide zone out of the
property into the Northern Associated has been estab-
lished beyond the shadow of doubt ; that the
barrenness of the property outside of that particular
zone of ore has been clearly proved by a great number of
bore holes, and that it is in consequence of these unfa-
vorable reports that all hope of amalgamation with the
Northern Associated on the terms proposed by the Brown
Hill Co. has been abandoned. Why, if Brown Hill people
have such a great mine, were they so anxious to amalga-
mate, taking much less than half the deal, with a mine of
less than one-fourth their area, without any reducing-
plant, and with a comparatively poor oxidised zone ?
The proposal to amalgamate having ignominiously failed,
nothing has been said about it to the shareholders, and
the whole policy of deception has been renewed.
• * » •
Ivanhoe (W.A.) made a remarkably good record
last year. Profit, £225,560 ; paid 17s. 6d. per share in
divs., and carried forward £45,388 ; £38,000 spent in
machinery came out of revenue. 74,372 tons milled for
62,5600 z., averaging 16fdwts. per ton. Concentrates,
sulphides, slimes, and sands brought the total
output for the year to 97,4270 z., representing an
extraction of 91 "65 per cent. Value of gold recovered,
£408,065. Working costs, £159,785. Ore-reserves given
at 227,827 tons, including 10,000 tons of ore at grass.
It is proposed to largely increase the capacity of the mill.
* * • *
Hannan’s Hundred Acres: Wanted to work
with six men, and the concession was granted. It
pleaded that £4,500 had been spent in six months and that
the sinking of the shaft cost £l4 per foot. The most
pathetic spectacle of the Hannan’s field is the number of
big main shafts going down in desperately hard diorite
country, with no hope whatever of striking gold, and
they never stop till the money gives out. Such an exhi-
bition of folly is seen in no other part of Australia.
* * * *
Hannan’s Proprietary : Applied for exemption
on 20 leases, and gave as its excuse that upwards of
£14,000 had been expended without result within the last
six months. The founder of this concern imagined that
if he took up leases in all directions outside of the Golden
Mile a payable reef would be bound to be found in one or
more of them. Since that time a working capital of
£150,000 has been exhausted, and no permanent payable
ore body has yet been disclosed. Rich little veins have
been found and worked out. Fairly heavy deposits of
alluvial have been milled, but the general result has
been disastrous. If any further evidence is wanted that
good mines do not exist outside of a certain defined area
at Hannan’s it can be found in all directions.
* * * *
Brown Hill Junction: Secured exemption on
the ground that all the capital had been used and that
the company intended to take advantage of the present
state of the money market to reconstruct. The best
argument that can be used against its reconstruction is
the undeniable fact that, like most of the other mines
around it, it should never have been born.
* » * *
Mount Lyell: Shareholders were told last week
that the directors were not in a position to say what
benefits had been derived from the purchase of the South
and Royal Tharsis mines, in view of the fact that it might
be considered desirable to purchase other mines. Al-
though the report of the general manager was less en-
couraging than was expected, it was a cautious, careful,
and accurate estimate, on which the shareholders might
rely and base their own calculations. Sticht has entered
into another three years’ engagement with the co. There
is no getting away from the fact that this mine has seen
its best days—that the best of the ore has gone, and
that developments in'the lower tunnels go to show that
the bottom of the huge basin of ore is not far away. There
is still an enormous tonnage to deal with, but the great
bulk of it can only be used in conjunction with higher grade
material when copper is at a good price. The estimates
of a few years ago have been upset, showing that
a great deal was taken for granted. Nevertheless, Mt.
Lyell is a big concern with a long life because of its rail-
way, its enormous, modern smelting plant, and, above all,
because it has the only smelting base of that district, and,
while it is in this position, it must profit by the de-
pendence of other mines which cannot stand alone. The
talk of its being crushed out by the North Lyell when
latter gets its own smelting plant running is not worthy
of serious reflection. It will take that mine all its time to
recover from its own mistakes without making any
attempt to crush out a property without which it
probably would not itself have lived."
• * * »
A very illegible correspondent writes :—“ The
old Crocodile field outside Rockhampton is awakening to
renewed vigor. The Victor Mine, owned by Manuel and
Co., bids fair to be a better property than the far-famed
Mount Usher. As much as £lO,OOO was offered for the
Victor a few weeks back, but owners want £30,000
Further big developments along the same line of reef may
be looked for. Wheel and 00. are only now proving their
ground, and by report they have as good a thing as the
Victor. At the Hector, phenomenally rich in the old
days, the reef has been dropped on again at the lower
level, and report has it that it goes 6oz. to the ton. Any-
way, a large amount of money is being spent on
machinery.”
* • •
Kalgoorlie : “ A new find has been made on
some of the Lake flats. A ferruginous formation was
disclosed in the costeens worth several oz. to the ton fora
great width. Operations are hampered by want of water,
but a Tangye pump is in position equal to 30,000 galls,
an hour.” There's a whisky flavor about this par., but as
there are no “flats” in London taking any Hannans
mines at present, it isn’t likely to do much harm, and it
may be allowed to pass without further comment.
* » • *
Writes a Central Queensland correspondent: —
“ The Crocodile Dredge has had its first clean-up with a
prospect of handsome dividends already. In the very
first wash there was a big show of coarse gold. This will
be good news for dredgers generally, and if the good pros-
pects continue it will mean a big boom for Crocodile.
And not one word about the amount of gold that this
allegedly successful clean-up yielded. The Bulletin is an
old, soured, suspicious paper nowadays, and it reckons
that even lOoz. gold are better than a page of glowing
generalities.
* • * *
Maurice Lyons wanted to give Edward VII. _ a
Queensland opal valued at £50,000. Now the official
value of all opal obtained in Queensland for last four years
is £32,500. Has he been saving it up? Or—no. Perish
the thought.
* * * *
The Australian Agricultural Co. complains of
not doing as well in N.S.W. these late years as in the
piping times of yore. Grave hopes are entertained that
the co. will do worse in the near future. Earl Bathurst,
in 1826, granted, the co. the coal monopoly of N.S.W.
The Earl was, of course, kind to his own, and the N.S.
Walers of that day were not considered worth consulting.
For 20 .years the monopoly' endured, and it was a punish-
able offence for anybody bar the A.A. Co. to dig coal in
N.S.W. It was a hideous, grinding tyranny, and in 1849
the little community showed fight, and the grant made
by' Bathurst was stigmatised as illegal. The British
Govt, invited the London residents of the co. to meet for
a discussion, and after a couple of days’ talk the co. an-
nounced that Bathurst’s monopoly would be surrendered.
But it kept its mines and its immense land grants, and its
dividends, even in recent years, have been as high as 23J
per cent. The emaciated modern div. it is now weeping
about is 13 per cent.


Complete
Outfits.
AN ORIENT BOOT
t6/6
AN ORIENT SUIT—
-63/-
TO MEASURE
ALL GLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE ..
“Orient To flleasure” Clothing
.. AT ..
SPECIAL PRICES^
W i iti' for Particulars and Patterns.
PAVID JONCS & COnPANY,
--/# gorge & Barrack Sts., Sydney
WENTWORTH HOTEL
Church Hill, SYDNEY.
Entirely under
Neiv Mnnuf/ement .
D- MIA.CLXmcA3Sr,
Late of Queen’s Hotet, Townsville, Q,
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
Iri peaceful enjoyment of
HOME CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
A PAG 1 FROM BRISBANE’S DIARY.
Monday, 13th May, 1901. —Execution of Charles Beck-
man.
Monday, 30th May, 1901. —Reception of the Duke of
Cornwall and York.
Monday, 37th, May, 1901. —Execution of Wanti (Kanaka).
Oil, they strangled Charlie Beckman when the morning
mists were gray,
And they did it in their usual, thorough, scientific way ;
Then while the man they’d strangled
From the gruesome fallows dangled,
They started out to decorate and make the city gay.
For a real live prince was coming in their town awhile to
stay,
And they had to hustle round tg make their sombre
streets look gay.
Oh, they roofed the city in with flags, they bnilded arches
grand,
There were bright festoons in thousands, there were
palms on every , hand,
For, ’mid trumpeting and drumming,
Were a Prince and Princess coming,
And the music of rejoicing rang throughout the smiling
land ;
They’d forgotten Charlie Beckman in the rhythm of the
band ;
And the'splendor of the presence of a Prince was o’er the
land.
A PROBLEM.
LADY (who has done business with previous owner , since deceased): “I don’t seem, to have seen
you before, I suppose you are the new owner?”
AGENT: “ Yes!" LADY: “ Any relation to the late Mr. Payup?”
AGENT: “ I— er — er — don’t know. You see I— er — er—married his widow.”
Oh, the Royal Prince departed from the gay and gaudy
town,
And they laid aside the palms and dragged the decora-
tions down ;
Then another Thing they strangled,
Arid again a body dangled
From the gallows, ere the drooping palms had changed
their green to brown ;
Oh, a Royal Prince and Princess with an Empire-wide
renown,
And a dangling corpse before and aft had driven through
the town.
Johhn Smitth.
« • * *
Dear Bulletin. —You quote Melbourne
’Erald as the worst sample of a newspaper pros-
trate before the Jook. In my bumble opinion the
alleged poem in the Argus will give all the other
Jook-literature a long start and a beating. It is
called “ A Voice—and an Answer,” and describes
Australia as a young female pitifully wailing
for the Jook to come and see her. The Jook and
his royal missus are in bed when they hear the
voice (which is mighty indelicate of the Argus,
anyhow), and the third verse describes York’s
missus waking up and hearing it. But, alas, she
thinks it is the children howling for nourishment.
A slab: —
“ My heart, alaok,” said the King’s son’s wife,
“ Hath hearkened to pain and woe ;
I have heard the sobs of the little ones
In the small white cots a-row.”
Tlia Argus then has the audacity to state that
after the Jook bad tumbled out of bed and hurried
out to meet this improper young person (with the
full consent of his missis) he finds Australia, who
has evidently broken in the front door with a
crowbar, waiting apparently in the hall:
He found me waiting to greet him here
With a smile on my parted lips.
And then (presumably after the Jook had counted
the hats and umbrellas in the hall, and made sure
that the midnight female hadn’t got away with
anything):
On the steps of the throne of nationhood now free and
contained I stand,
For the King’s own son from over the sea hath taken me
by the hand.
Then the whole thing culminates in a frenzied
screech :
’Tis to the King’s son and his sires (sires ! ! !)
My brethren owe, and I
A noble country for which to live,
Or, if needs be, to die.
I beg to enter this poem as an exhibit in the de-
partment of things without legs, and have great
hopes of gathering in the prize.—The Swimmer.
* * • »
Part of Secretary Wallington’s instructions
on dress to be worn at various functions :
FRIDAY, MAY 31.
Evening.—Concert by Citizens : Full dress, with
trousers.
SATURDAY, JUNE 1.
Morning.—South African Medals Presentation : Full
dress, with trousers.
Awful visions of possibilities during the progress
of the national beer must have been on Walling-
ton’s mind. The average respectable citize
clothed gorgeously on Monday. Collar gom- >-
the button-holes and a dent in his hat on Tuesday.
A howling wreck .with no coat-tails on Wednesday.
By Thursday one boot and a borrowed kilt. A
bloodshot apparition disguised in a table-cloth on
Friday ; and on Saturday a mere irresponsible
carcase, shrouded in a gunnybag, clamoring at the
private entrance of Government House for the
Juke to lend it sixpence to save its life. Walling-
ton’s warning that the loyal public must brace up
and not lose the run of its pants till after Monday
showed him to be a man of foresight.
* * * *
“ Though last, not least in love,” was one
of the mottoes hung out to welcome the Yorks in
Brisbane. It was possibly intended to signify
that Queensland, though the last of the States,
visited, bore no malice on that account, but, as
Queensland isn’t the last of the States, the mean-
DEAR LITTLE DUKE.
ing went wrong. The general impression was
that it was an uncouth allusion to the Duchess’s
previous matrimonial engagement. .
* * * *
Melbourne, having' got over its jookal
outburst, settled down to business again, and no
sooner had the Heir Apparent got across the
border than the usual J.P. sent no leis than four
>ld ladies to gaol, for long terms, for not having a
sufficient private income;. One week it is cham-
pagne and feasting (for the rich); the next —
hominy and bare boards (for the poor).
* » * *
Adelaide Corporation recently decided to
spend £5BO in illuminating the local Town Hall
during the York visit in July. At the same
meeting a proposed vote of £lOO for entertaining
the poor on the same occasion was reduced one-
half !
* • * *
A few months ago Australian loyalists said
that Queen Victoria’s birthday should be a
national holiday for ever—that such a personality
as hers could never be forgotten, and so on. And
on the 24th May, the two intensely loyal Mel-
bourne dailies had already forgotten so completely
that they made not a mention of the occasion.
Further, almost every other paper in Australia
forgot likewise.
•Jr * * *
“Zoo” is luminous on the subject of
lluminations :
I once saw Vienna en fSte at night during a Royal Pro-
gress. Was reminded of it by Sydney’s late attempt at a
flare-up —not by what was done but by what wasn’t. This
• place is fair on details, but has no notion of “ splashing its
effects,” to use a scene-painting term. A whole city
doesn’t illumine well without breadth, not only as to
area, but as to items. Our recent lighting-up consisted
of nothing but many thousands of glass bottles—plain
and vari-colored—with electric fixings in them, hung
from cornices, festooned from poles, and trailed over
window-ledges. “ Pretty ” enough, perhaps, but what a
bold effect might have been wrought by one or two great
arc-lights at prominent spots, by a few Viennese lanterns
with kaleidoscopic reflectors, or a mighty search-light on
the summit of the Town Hall and the P. 0., casting a long
radiance over the city, and lighting up the dark facades
of many buildings that, unillumined, rose stark and
dead between their brighter sisters. The Lands Office
tower provided by far the finest spectacle, because every
cornice, every relief-angle, every abutting line was picked
out in light, till it resembled one of Haroun A 1 Raschid’s
hanging palaces. But to do that sort of thing properly,
and when there’s a tower of any height and bulk in the
bill, costs a parlous sum. Which is why our P.O. looked
what it was—a long block of masonry with a fairish num-
ber of bulbs hanging to it like necklaces wreathed round
a tall woman. For originality and a certain daintiness,
the Star office came a good second to anything. And
the lit-devices were conventional enough to extinguish
each other. Writer counted 28 “ Welcomes ” in two
streets, and then gave it up. One big sky-sign, written
aloft in naptha cressets, such as Brock turned out by the
dozen for the London Jubilee, might have been something
to remember in after years; but, alas! it must be ad-
mitted that Sydney’s Jukular illuminations lacked '
bigness.
* « T
Probably the Jookanduchess fetl horribly
bored by the intense sameness of all the Aus-
tralian demonstrations, which are all more or less
arranged on the old, old British lines. Tens of
thousands of pounds have been spent in efforts to
astonish these weary globe-trotters without giving
them even a sensation of novelty. Nothing has
interested them so much as the water fete at
Singapore. “It consisted of sailing races, in
which Malay kolos narrow boats, with
enormous sails) and sailing sampans took part,
and rowing matches between Tringganu, Payang,
and Malay sampans. Other boats, filled with crews
dressed in parti-colored costumes, surrounded the
Ophir, their crews cheering and playing tom-toms.”
Nothing new or awakening of that sort happened
here. The invariable ordinary-looking mayor
wore his frock-coat and his best pants, and stood:
on his two plain, white legs, and read the methodi-
cal old address, and all was dreary. Yet-Aus-
tralia had something new to show to its visitor,
only it never thought of showing it. If it had
taken him to the end of the transcontinental line
at Oodnadatta, the furthest inland railway ter-
minus in Australia ; and also shown him Broken
Hill and Hungerford and Birdsville, and the _
black, -blighted mountains of Lyell, and the
wildlv-staggery Zeehari-Williamsford railway, he
would have fetched away some really new infor-
mation about his future dominions. As it is, he
probably thinks this country is an ordinary green :
place full of mayors. The path of royalty is,
strewn with regrets, dry forms, dry ceremonies, .
and empty bottles. • - 4
“ G.H.R.” : The Hobart
citizens are going to boom the
ancient vehicle in which the
late Duke of Edinburgh sat
during his visit to the Oity
of the Sweet Drain. This
musty old trap is now a cab,
and it is proposed to place
it at the service of the l)ook
and Dookess. What this
writer knows of the Hobart
cabs is that they are rather
comfortable, loungeful con-
cerns, smelling , of cheap
cigars; and drawn by rocky-
looking, rat-tailed mokes.
They are considerably smoother
than the trams and much safer
to travel by. Most of the
Hobart gee-gees are rising 40
years.
» * . . »
“ Vulcan ” : A medical
friend tells me that .the re-
port that the .Took, would pre-
sent a piece of plate to all
Australians born on the day
of his arrival was far-reach-
ing. At least two ladies
wanted him to make an in-
teresting event apd the Jook’s
landing -coincide. One wor-
ried herself so much over the
matter that it happened just
10 hours too soon. The other did it with
air hour and a-half to spare, and was the
happiest of women—till the royal present
proved to be only a weather-report and a fish-
story.
When the late Prince Alfred was in the
Land of Sleep-a-lot, there was great, scrambling
among the loyal Slumberers to snip shreds off his
ducal garments as mementos. His sailor hat,
being rashly bung up somewhere, was soon de-
prived of the ribbon, pieces being cut out of the
tile itself. One high and mighty dame tipped
one of the Dook’s valets in order to get the hairs
out of the royal brush. These fragments she. had
manufactured into a curl, which she wore for some
time just above her ear. Edinburgh dined once
at “ Woolmers”—Mr’. Tom Archer’s residence —
and on the back of the chair in which lie sat was
carved an ’anchor; which is Still shown to visitors.
What price that chair now ? Or any price ?
Writer asks these questions in view of the’alleged
importation from Melbourne of a kitten by a Tas.
contingenter. Said kitten was seen cavorting
around the Duchess, and was secured by the cute
trooper, who refused £lO for it. (It doesn’t pro-
fess to he her kitten, you see, but merely an acci-
dental cat’s baby that got into her near vicinity.)
After, landing in Hobart, £2O was o'fered for the
baby cat; but the sojer wasn’t taking any. His
last assertion that the animal was fondled by
Mrs. York, has brought forth a further demand
for it, dead or alive. Such is groveldoru.
• . • ♦ - , '
“ Melb.” : The Duchess of York took her
photographer to the Melb. Children’s Hospital.
She posed talking to a patient, and again,
dandling a baby. You remember the’delight of
the Election Agent of Mr. Slumkey, M.F., in
“Pickwick,” “He’s kissiqg all the babies.”
♦ ♦ ■ • •
“C.H.R.”: Draper Mulcahy, Tas. Lands
Minister, has bought a second-hand arch in Mel-
bourne. I did not attend the late* functions Over
the water, but some relatives went, and viewed
the Duchess’s forget-me-not eyes, and the spot of
desert on the Duke’s head, from the outskirts of the
crowd through a telescope: They also mailed to me
enough illustrations of the demonstration to paper
a barn; said illustrations mostly consisting of
arches, and views taken at midnight with explo-
sions of fizz in the far distance and bottles of beer
bursting in the foreground. However, Mulcahy
has purchased an arch, and as nothing definite
appears to be known of the decoration since, it is
presumed that the Minister has brought it over
secretly in his portmanteau. I merely mention
this in order to hint at the possibility of the Yorks
being utterly weary and deathly sick of. arches by
the time they reach Slowbart. I hereby advise
the authorities to lose the Mulcahy article on 'the
black and withered Lyell mountains, and erect
something with the least semblance to an arch
they can devise.
*, * * m
An aggravating thing about thq Jook is
the way he interferes with the Sydney city traffic.
Officialism demands that all business is to be sus-
pended along the routes about to be used by the
royal pair, and it stupidly decrees that such routes
shall be along as many tram lines as possible.
The day York visited the University, he drove
along College, Park ani George-streets, which
means that for over an hour, in the busiest part of
a busy day, the whole of, the city tram traffic,
steam, electric and cable,; was laid up. Appar-
ently, the trouble is that Sydney has few streets
which are regarded as good enough for a royal
visitor to look at, and lie can’t get into these
streets without breaking up the traffic. Sydney
streets aren’t wide enough to allow df Jooks and
trams simultaneously.
* » * »
“ Melb.” : It is amazing what a number
of women are able to cultivate a resemblance to
the Duchess of York. No Dukes appear.
* * * *
Is it P.M.Gr. Drake who presents complete
sets of the Australian State postage-stamps to the
philatelic Jook, likewise to the Duchess? This
particular job will he extended, it seems, to his
Gracious Majesty, King Edward VII., who has
never yet done anything to warrant the suspicion
that he hankers after postage-stamps.
* * *' *
A Sydney man recently lost a valuable
diamond ring, and advertised a reward of £5.
The finder called with the ring—he came at night
—was given the reward, and thanked for "his
honesty. Next day owner, thinking the diamonds
were very dull-looking, took the ring to a jeweller
to have the stones tested. The honest man had
taken' the diamonds and substituted about six-
penn’orth of paste. Talk about rubbing it in '


The PUREST WHISKFY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE &
CO.
JOHN MEACHER & GO.
Australcman Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
1
iSKYOF iHE WISE
iHEW
I
J.D.I.Z. CID.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only —largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16'5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
lie best value for their money. Agents for
A.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
place, Sydney.
gd
The Right Boots
for the. Right Feet that are . to
wear them are a good deal like “ the
right man in the right place.” Neither the
Boot or the man is* ever in any sense “ a square peg in
a round hole.” They both fit the situation accurately and are never ill at ease.
fg
df
'The Callaghan Willow Calf
Boot, wide welts, specially
tanned for softness com-
bined with firmness of wear,
in pointed, medium, and
narrow toes,
22/6 a pair.
Callaghan & Son,
395 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
HE BEAN
cU^Tan^-
A SUMMER ITEM.
ELDERLY AUNT: “I'm quite shocked at you, Violet, carrying your gloves in the
street instead of wearing them. — it’s really quite unladylike .”
VIOLET: “ Oh, I’m a deal more unladylike than that, aunt; I haven’t worn
corsets for two months; and, look here, I haven’t any stockings on
either—just like all other girls.”
S.A. has received a nasty fall over the
proposed dookal visit. The crow-eaters conceived
the idea of a royal wallaby-hunt for York and Co.
About seven miles but from Murray Bridge they
carted waggon-loads of posts and wire-netting,
and employed men to erect'some five miles Of
wallaby-proof fence to keep the animals in for
easy slaughter; but when two miles of mallee bad
been enclosed the Duke decided to let the walla-
bies slide. Anybody who wants to buy a lot of
fencing material cheap from a disgusted com-
munity will please apply to the S.A. Treasurer.
The Full Court of N.S.W. set itself, the
other day, to consider whether Judge Stephen was
right in deciding that a. man who had cruelly
beaten his wife three times in three months had
not “ repeatedly’’.beaten her within the meaning
of the. Divorce law. The dictionary, which is
usually a sober volume,, holds that to repeat a
thing is to do it again, and that “ repeatedly ” is
“more than once.” Perhaps the Divorce Court
dictionary has been pawned—to help the war
expenses.
In a M.L.
Court lately,
two men were
needed to in-
terpret one
witness, a
Greek. There
was no one
available who
could speak
Greek and
English, but
one man was.
found who
could speak
Greek and
Italian, and
another wli o
could speak
Italian and
English. The
information
thus gradually
soaked round
till it got to the
bench, which
knew a good
deal of Eng-
lish and some
Scotch.
* *
“ H. I. ” :
Re beneficial
effects of' al-
lowing letters
t Q be with-
drawn from
post-office by
the poster (8.,
11/5/’0l), the
following
shows the
other side of
the question :
A woman in a
N.S.W. coun-
try town had
a grudge
against a
neighbour — a
married
woman —and
also suspected
her of writing
letters to a
man who
wasn’t her
husband. So
she lay around
till she saw
the suspected
one posting a
letter. Then,
being young
and hand-
some, she be-
guiled a sus-
ceptible boy
official to ‘ ‘ let
her have her
letter back for a moment, as she had for-
gotten to enclose a postal-note.” She got the
letter, put a Is. postal-note in the envelope before
the youth’s eyes by way of lending corroboration
to the narrative, didn’t put back the letter —the
guileless youth didn’t notice that—and the com-
munication went on its way. The amazed Lothario
at the other end received an obviously opened
envelope and one bob. The principal old cat of
the town received the love-letter anonymously
and did the circulating. And the boy swore so
profusely to save his billet that the story didn’t
leak out till long afterwards.
* » * *
The good Samaritan is still difficult to
find. The other day, a few miles from Albury
(N.S.W.), a young man named Schubert, who
had been accidentally shot', lay bleeding to death.
One of his mates went to a woman who was driv-
ing past with her son and daughter, and offered
10s. for the use of her buggy to convey the injured
man tO the hospital. The woman and her son
refused, on the ground that the trip would take
them ten miles out of their way home, Schubert
was eventually got into the hospital, where he
quickly died. At the inquest, the Coroner made
the usual “severe remarks” —but then the world
is full of severe remarks.
* » * *
Maorilaud’s new Public Health Act is an
up-to-date piece of sanitary legislation, and Chief
Health Officer, Dr. Mason, seems determined to
leave no evil-disposed microbe alive in the land.
He has begun a good fight with the high and in-
creasing consumption death-rate. Tuberculosis
has been made a notifiable disease ; the new
Dairy Regulations, of which some of the cow-
spankers are making a grievance, should remove
one of the causes by, so far as possible, obliterat-
ing the tuberculous cow ; and sanatoriums for the
treatment of phthisis patients by the open-air
method are shortly to be established in mountain-
ous districts. A medical department which starts
its crusade by a war against consumption isn’t
afraid to lift the heavy end of the log first—
which, in itself, is a good sign.
* * * *
There was some terrific chest-expansion
indulged in at a recent meeting of Hobart City
Council: Mayor Davis had returned, carrying
his tail (a C.M.G.) behind him, and the usual
profoundly respectful person named Smith—
the respectfulness of people named Smith
is something terrible arose and said he
was heartily glad to see his washup back
again; and . especially the tail. He though
the tail was deserved. One Kerr then arose, and
tried to stretch it an inch further. He referred
to “the honor and dignity” thrust upon the
Mayor, and thought it was earned by “ the very
useful and distinguished services ” the city father
had reudered as an alderman and Mayor. Then
he fell down into his seat, overcome by the great
effort. Benjamin struck another note: He
thought that, tremendous as the honor was, .Tas-
mania deserved to have still greater dignities
heaped upon it. The bearer of the gorgeous
bauble almost wept with joy as he explained how
he got his tail. When he was through, the Coun-
cil tied its disinfected handkerchief over its nose
and went out to slink past the open drains, the
abolition of which is not among the useful and
distinguished services rendered by Mayor Davis,
C.M.G.
A remarkable misadventure happened to
about 80 visitors to the Ormuz at Largs Bay (S. A.)
some days ago. The visiting medical officer had
granted pratique when the ship’s doctor drew
attention to a case of “acne,” as he described it.
“ Smallpox ” was the other doctor’s verdict, how-
ever, and it was subsequently confirmed. Mean-
while about 80 visitors had come on board, relying
on the fact that the ship had been passed as clean,
and they were bundled off with, the Adelaide
passengers to the quarantine station. Over 130
people' spent the first night in the miserable,
draughty station on Torrens Island, the majority
being compelled to sleep on a hard floor without
even blanket!. Included in this community im-
prisoned fctf three weeks “without the option
are pressmen, shipping reporters, a theatrical
agent, businessmen, sundry parsons, and numerous
women and children. They enthusiastically started
a paper, The Yellow Flag and To it kkn s Island
Terror, edited by shipping-reporter Skipper, in
which the whole community heaves a unanimous
curse on the Health authorities.
* * * *
As time went on the S.A. quarantine
muddle developed gaily. Arnold Ferry, the well-
known amateur jockey, had been vaccinated in
February in India, and was released. The rest -
reporters, parsons and all—settled down for three
weeks on the island. A few days later the
Arcadia came along, and was promptly diagnosed
having smallpox too. Only eight landed this
REFRESHING CANDOUR.
EASY MORALIST: “ If I were to give you half-a-
crown you’d only drink away.”
THE APPLICANT : “ Well, I’d be only taking part
in the celebrations, anyhow."
time, the rest preferring to go on to Melbourne
and chance getting a fresh verdict there. Sure
enough, Melbourne said it was not smallpox,
whereupon the S. A. Govt, threw overboard its own
experts and released the Arcadia people, who had
in the meantime had a fair chance of catching any-
thing that was about. The Ormuz people,including
the kidnapped visitors from shore, made the best
of things. After being incarcerated a week, they
held a meeting and formally cut the painter,
declaring themselves the Republic, of Muddle
Island, with Variola as the capital. Archdeacon
Dove was elected president, and John Hill (mail-
contractor, and Clem’s father) the first premier.
The latter at once declared a tax of £lO on all
vessels passing,up and down the Port River, this
being reckoned to produce a trifle of £l4o,oUUper
annum revenue.
* * * *
Sacred Ibis Meston was responsible for
the best bit of decoration seen in Brisbane during
the recent Shivoo. His aboriginal arch m the
form of a gigantic letter A, was both original, ab-
original, and artistic. It was covered with ti-tree
bark, and-decorated witli birds’ nest and staghorn
ferns, and grass trees. On each side was a native
gunyah, in which squatted several gins and
piccaninies, guarded by a fine, large, special y-
selected dingo—at least, it was a dog, and it
looked as if it might be a dingo. The entire arch
was outlined with armed aboriginals in full war-
paint, rising step by step to the summit, where an
enormous grass tree sheltered a fine specimen of a
Fraser Island blackfellow, 6ft. 4in. in height. In
the centre, on a small platform, which formed the
cross stroke of the A, was a living coat of arms
(presumably Meston’s), composed of an aboriginal
supported on either side by an emu and a
kangaroo. It was an excited living arch which
bowled and corroborated (if that is the right term
for holding eorroboree) with all its might.
“ Take note, O ambitious Austral authors,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent, ap-
ropos a par in the B. of 9/3/01, “that the lhan,
woman, or child who
sends-a MS. to an
English publisher
or journal
iieect from
‘down un-
de r ’ has
well-earned
a padded
cell for life.
The gentle-
man who re-
ceived 10s.! per
1000 words for
his special article
was robbed iff the
barefa c e d
manner
worthy
of aSuh-
d a y
School
Union ;
but why
did he
not send
his MS.
through 1
London friend
or representa-
tive ? There is no
writer, even of
suburban repute,
in Australia,
who could not
get an intro-
ductory letter
to accompany
his MS. to a re-
spectable resident—
most likely a fellow-
countryman —here. It is
not an uncommon practice
for publishers and editors to
write to Australia asking for
books, stories, &c. When they
get diem from the flattered
fly they offer niggardly
terms, which, in nearly
all cases, interven-
ing distance and
disgust compel the
writer to accept.
Barring the very lead-
ing and oldest London
publishers (I speak after
- several years experience on
the spot), I would not trust one
of the tribe across Wynyard.-square, Sydney.
‘Now this Barabbas was a publisher.’”
* • * *
Wellington (M.L.) Evening Post lately
included among pending divorce-cases “ Doyle v.
the New Zealand Candle Co.” If petitioner wins
this will probably be the only occasion ever known
when a whole candle co. was divorced simul-
taneously.
* * * *
“There are only two kinds of women—
ordinary women and your best girl.”
AT THE COURT.
I’ve met some bloomin’ pleecemen in my time ;
The most of ’em are quite a decent lot,
But the coppers as I’ve met in this ’ere clime
Are the rankest of the rank—they’re just red-’ot.
I’m a man as drives a blessed cart, you see,
An’ just because my name—which same is Jones—
Wasn’t on it, why, they fined me three pound three,
An’ almost shook the house down with their groans.
An’ next a man was charged with battery ;
The missus, she appeared with bandaged ’ed.
She tells the court that he’d been on the spree
An’ left ’er on the floor—as he thought, dead.
So now the beaks their spectacles adjust ;
The case, they says, has greatly been enlarged;
. They looks upon the woman with disgust,
And to the man they answers, “You’re discharged.”
I saw a woman who was in disgrace
For pilfering articles in drapers’ shops.
In her pocket was a yard or two of lace.
“ It’s a clear case,” says two shock-’eaded slops.
The beak sat there with ’orror in his eye,
’E said she must have two years, if not more ;
An’ as he did ’is broken-’earted sigh
It blew the depositions through the door.
M.G.C.
MIRAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The thirsty Arab, travel-worn and tanned,
Who saw, with eager eyes, a misty shine
Of waters on the far horizon line,
Where palms and verdure clothed the shimmering
strand,
And cast away the pitcher from his hand,
To hasten quicker to the welcome sign,
Had no such drear awakening as mine
In finding it a phantom he had scanned.
I read a promise in thy vacant eyes
And shattered all my store of hoarded hopes,
Which now the sand has drunk and is not wet.
Around my feet the past in fragments lies :
Above, brass Heavens ; beneath, Life’s arid slopes :
And, ah ! that rapturous vision mocks me yet !
CLIFTONENSIS.


“ He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’B success is a Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY’B.
• If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’s!
For the fun of the thing I
—' r NARK FOY, SYDNEY.
Same prleee and attaUaa aa It yea bought amongst tha dally onaada at the counter..
The Govt. Prizes
Three
Firsts
were Awarded to
Coolalta Claret
AT THE .. ..
COMMONWEALTH SHOW.
All Drapers Everywhere.
ATCHERLBY & DA.WSOKT’S
Have NO Eaual CELEBEATED GLOBE TEAS
nave nu equal. you may obtain these delicioU9 Xeas atall .
neTcL a h 88e o”ly a , n f„r ntS ' “ “* D ° W BelUng ° Ur GLOBE TEAS at * reduction*of Forty
Absolutely the best Tea in Australia at is. 9d. per lb.
ATCHERLEY 4 DAWSON, Tea Merchants, 284 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, June 4, 1901.
My Dear Arini,—
I met the Duchess face to face, as we say
in melodrama, at the reception at Government
House. Captain Wallington sought me and said
that the Duchess would not allow the receptingto
proceed until I had been presented. This is an
absolute falsehood, but it is no falser than “our
correspondents,” both English and Australian,
who have told U 3 that the Duchess has a hard ex-
pression and a stout figure.
Her portraits are misleading. In them you
always note a curious expression of the eyes—as if
May were looking at the tip of her nose. In fact,
it’s a slight, ever so slight, cross-eyed expression.
After seeing the lady at a fan’s breadth distance I
found the peculiarity to be pictorial ; it arises
partly from the deep-setting of the canthus of the
eye and partly from the dent between the
forehead and the top of the nose. The eyes them-
selves are not large, but they are full of
character and charm, and occasionally of
humor. The contour of the face is longish
and narrow, the nose in profile seems to tilt a
trifle, the lips pout a trifle, the chin is prettily
rounded and prominent. All chroniclers agree
that May’s complexion and hair are good, but I
don’t remember any of them saying what a god-
send it must be for the English Royal family to have
one of their number with such a neck and figure.
The Queen is, of course, not wanting in
these points, but the late Queen’s daughters and
daughters-in-law are all stodgy in figure, and have
only neck sufficient to take one string of jewels
apiece. Some of them even take that with diffi-
culty. Now, the travelling Duchess has a real
Book of Beauty neck, and it can carry four inches
of pearl or diamond dog-collar without chronically
tilting the chin. Her figure is fairly perfect, and
inclinos to slenderness; her height must bb five
feet eight.
Both receptions were splendid crushes. So
tightly were we wedged in the ballroom and sup-
per pavilion that you might have worn a cycling
or walking skirt without your neighbor being any
the wiser. Only heads and shoulders were visible
whilst the Yorks stayed on the dais. The Duchess
made an “Arabian Nights” jewel show. Her
diamond crown—well, there’s nothing like it in
this office.
The Duchess’s black satin, with black flowers
on the left shoulder, was a good setting for her
jewels and orders and fair hair. Neither she nor
the Countess of Hopetoun have attempted the
“ Regent-street dip ” form of hair-dressing. They
wear the Princess of Wales’ style of fringe. A
few womenin the crush had the “dip”—a flounce
of hair festooned across the middle of the fore-
head. It suits a classic face well enough. Miss
Rawson, a member of Admiral family,
was the first to step up Duchesswards. She is a
tall girl with lovely shoulders, bronze-brown hair,
a laughing face and coquettish small eyes set in
fat eyelids. Not a scrap of aught but black in her
dress. Lady Hopetoun, not nearly recovered in
looks from her late illness, wore the black of
satin and the white of diamonds. Mrs. Corbett and
Mrs. Keppel helped the black effect, and assisted
in showing up the scarrlet and gold of the York
and Teck and Wenlock and Roxburghe and other
uniforms. His Serenity, Teck, is a fine, dark,
foreign-looking person who moves stiffly in the
solitary cell of his uniform.
More uniforms, naval and military; more
swagger, and greater crush at the second recep-
tion. The procedure was about the same as on
Tuesday. At 10.30 the Gov.-Gen., teapot-handled
his arm to the Duchess to lead her into the
supper pavilion. The Duke and Lady Hope-
toun and the rest of the comet’s glittering tail
swept after. The Duke carried his huge busby by
its chain—it looked exactly like a coal-bucket.
Other officers humped their helmets—big, spiked
things, or surmounted with a bottle-brush. They
carried them all in the same fashion in the hollow
of their arms. When Mr. G. H. Reid rolled up
the Duchess seemed to get renewed spirits.
When National Guardsman Dibbs, in white knee-
breeches and cut-away gold-laced coat, swooped
along, she grew quite merry. Mrs. G. H.
Reid was talking to the Duke, probably
telling him some of her husband’s jokes, for his
laugh could be heard above the clatter of supper-
china and crash of band.
When Captain Watson and his now historic flag
(the flag with which he rode into Pretoria de-
manding its surrender) were presented, the Duke
fingered the rag, and seemed intensely interested,
and questioned like a census paper. Presently
Lieutenant Dufrayer was standing with his dark
head on one side listening to the Duchess telling
him she knew all about his “act of heroism” in
Africa, All around people were asking “What
was it ? What did he really do ? ” and getting in-
correct answers.
Next to the Duchess, Mrs. Rupert Clarke made
the best diamond display. She was all in shining
black and had a lot of scarlet men in her train.
Her sister-in-law, Miss Mary Clarke, made a good
appearance in white satin and jewelled net.
The effect of those ten vessels lying below
Government House, with their masts, decks, and
water-lines painted in light, was the sight of this
Duking week. The illuminated city seen from
the harbor had also a dream-like, shining, New
Jerusalem look.
Thousands of persons have paid their shilling,
and swarmed over the Ophir, and flattened their
noses against its windows to peer in at its costly
decorations, its moonlight-blue brocade curtains
and daffodil-silk bed-quilts, its—in short, to peer
at the result of £50,000 expense. These
ahilling swarms were angry because they
C °?i d !k t -Jf 0t “*<> the Duchess’s bedroom
and the Ducal bath-room. “Why can’t we?”
demanded a damsel of a young Ophir sailor. He
smiled sympathetically. “’Cos you’re sufferin’
for the sins of Melbun’,” was his reply. “ You
see Melbun had the ship all open, and Melbun’
stole what it cud lay its mauleys on. They took
down curtams-them little stiff silk ones on the
saloon windows—we caught ’em at it, and they
walked off with cushions, and got fair away with a
cruet. So we shut up over here. But the laun-
dry s open—have yer seen that ? And yer can pat
the royal cows in the stall round there.” The
damsel turned the conversation back to Mel-
bourne, and got the information that “ Melbun
ladies was sharp as they make ’em.” A friend of
the speaker s—another Ophir sailor—walked down
Bourke-street and met a young lady he thought
he knew ‘ I’m going to have some kawfysays
he, will you join me?’ ‘ I’ve just had some
kawfy, said the lady, * but I’ll wait for you in the
doorway and hold your stick while you have
yours cos it’s so crowded inside.’ The stick was
a vallyable one, too, rhinoceros-hide. He’d
fetched it from China. Well, when he come out
the lady and stick had gone for good. He was
■a jay. Yes, the Melbun ladies know a thing or
two, °
. Bat. concerning that cruet: now, in what man-
sion in Toorak, or in what little fish-shop in
it ranran, is th&t cruot with its York crest ?
In the city which is plastered over with remarks
anent brotherly love and union, the Industrial Ex-
hibition is showing symptoms of feeling much the
reverse. For one thing, May does not visit it till
the last day, and consequently the home-made
jams of the big girls, and skirt-dances of the little
ones, seem likely to receive scant attention from
our Greatest. In addition, two mothers have
already quarrelled with umbrellas because the off-
sprmg of one got a prize and the offspring of the
other did not. Everyone wanted to be judges,
and wouldn’t clear out of the ring, to the abbrevia-
tion of many a high kick. Altogether, an Old
Oats Committee-meeting was nothing to it.
The daughter of the member for an out-back
constituency came to the first reception. She was
to meet friends in the cloak-room at Govt. House
at 9.15. But her train got in at 7.30, and as she
knew no one in town, she took a cab (and a book)
to Govt. House, determined to put in the time in
the cloak-room. It was sto 8 when she arrived
and, after dismissing the cab, Ermyntrude (I call
her so to disguise the fact that her name was
Jane) found she could not enter. She could see
into long, lighted halls, but the doors were
fast. Ermyntrude got nervous, for she saw men
standing motionless under trees watching her.
She guessed them to be detectives, got more and
more frightened of those mysterious men, and
determined to ring. After a little hunt she found,
as she thought, an electric bell. Her nervous
fingers seized it and—the front of Govt. House
went black. She had turned ofif the outer electric
light. And by the footsteps she reckoned that
the detectives were rushing at her with all
their might, so she fled round to where a man-o’-
war sailor was reading behind a glass door. He
admitted her to the cloak-room, but seemed as
astonished as if the bunyip had called. Two
lackeys came, stared at her, and were unenthusi-
astic about her remaining. The adventure ended
in a cab being called for Ermyntrude, and she
drove to the Australia and settled down to wait
in the dressing-room, after warning her friends
by telephone. After that she fell asleep, and
woke when the reception was about over.
At the laying of the Hospital foundation stone
mauve dressing naturally predominated, though
one aggressive green ribbon wagged itself
at May during the whole of the proceedings.
The sunshine was brilliant, so that every
woman could see how aged the other one looked.
Some of the dressing was peculiar; a blue
serge jacket was worn over a white skirt that
looked as if it had already done duty at last
night s shivoo. The crush was immense ; the lady
who wanted to get in because her husband was an
alderman did, and the other who explained that
her aunt had given a good sum to the
X rince Alfred Hospital didn , t, winch seems a
miscarriage of justice. When the Duke took
up the trowel he was observed to smell it sus-
piciously ; people are still wondering what sub-
stance he found on the last trowel.
The hard-worked pair were at the University
Commem., the Mighty A. being under the red
rob© of a D.C.L. Before they arrived the
undergrads, laid bound copies of their pro-
gramme of songs on the ducal seats. As the Duke
read his copy furtively he must have seen the
reference to his “Dad, who is minding the kids
at home.” Some hundreds of undergrads, took
care that no speeches save their own should be
heard. “Now, Andy, what about that baronetcy’”
was yelled at the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine
and the Jook laughed audibly. Prof Munm
M‘Galium was entreated to “Rise STr
Mungo,” which he didn’t, being too angry
Nearly everyone but the Duke looked bored
or angry. He seemed to enjoy the row.
Ihe Profs, marked their displeasure by staying
away from the Garden Party, given the same
afternoon by the Undergrads. Association Only
one—Prof. Gurney—showed up. Report says
that some Profs, were actually on their way to the
crush, but were stopped and turned back by a
picket of other Profs. Anyhow, the Garden
Party was a large, all-round success. There
was nothing remarkable about the dressing
save that a lot of it looked as if the wearers got
their gowns direct from Miloarinka. By the way
don’t you think that a girl undergraduate ought
not to show more than a third of her length of leg
I saw two damsels whose skirts were close below
their knees.
The Mighty Atom said quite loud to the com-
nnttee of the State concert when it was seeing
him off the Town Hall premises, “So far this is
the most brilliant function we have attended ”
-Light and life and colour and music. The usual
diamond and scarlet blaze on the dais, the usual
black frocks on the women seated therfe. It was
all very fine save the coming out. Exits were
most mismanaged, side-doors not opened, and
rivers of people converged at the one George-st.
entrance. What a crop of funerals would have
resulted from a panic ! I was from 10.30 to 11
getting from the gallery to the front door. When
you are moving like a corpulent caterpillar in
such a crush, and are afraid of missing your last
train, and your escort is rasping fifteen shillings’
worth of jewelled net off your bodice at every
fresh effort to keep your body and soul together,
doesn’t it make you frantic to hear the
banalities around. One lady said in a high
voice to her friend, “Sauve qui peut,” and the
friend replied, “ Cooraajh,” which I take it is the
I rench for “ Courage.” You knew those persons
had used up all their foreign language.
An Ornithological Show doesn’t draw so big a
crowd as grand opera, but it’s often more musical.
Mayor Graham opened the third exhibition week
before last, and was given a few song-fowls as reward.
Some lovely finches were there. I wouldn’t ask
for anything finer than (say) five of those dainty,
bright-red and steel-blue birds for the hat I’ll get
when the Duke’s departure leaves me free to wear
red and dark-blue. Some proud owners showed
canaries wearing natural Tam o’ Shanters. And
the “color-fed” birds were as orange as certain
gentlemen who don’t want the Coronation oath
diluted. As I gazed upon those hypher-canaried
canaries a dream my heart stole o’er! If the Orange
and Green factions fed themselves upon food of
their respective favorite colors, and so acquired
complexions that would let the public know when
to keep off the grass but life is full of “if’s”
more important. The 40 persons, or so, at the
show neglected the song-birds to stand round a
raucous parrot, whioh said “Shut-up” 70 to the
minute, and said it badly, in the voice that
breathes any night over Pyrmont. The open-
mouthed listeners could have said it better them-
selves.
A. J.C.’s Saturday meeting will long rankle in
Sydney’s Society-conscience. A duke (not he of
York), a couple of lords, a prince, much military
in mufti, and Mesdames Corbett and Keppel were
there. Sydney women didn’t know they were
coming, so, with the exception of half-a-score or
so, Somebodies and Anybodies were absent. Lady
Clarke looked unstylish in a long driving-cloak of
the shade of bath-brick. And from under it a
skirt of the same hue trailed, and gathered up one
million wisps of straw and twigs, ten cigar stubs,
a large quantity of shredded race-tickets, one
withered spray of flowers, two unpublished poems,
a lost sandwich, and—l forget the rest. The driving
cloak kept the train of the gown down solidly to its
dirt-sweeping work. Mesdames Corbett and
Keppel hold their skirts well up. Both ladies made
books all the time, and Prince Teck put their little
bits on for them. H.S.H. and the rest of the
ducal male following wear shortish—you know
what, so I suppose the fashion of turning them up
has gone out. Grey undressed kid gloves with
black stitchings is what they and the Duke wear
at daylight functions.
Mrs. Tooth, Misses Mary and Vera Clarke and
Miss Burdekin were there in pretty frocks.
Commander Winsloe gave two “ At Homes ” on
board the Ophir, both perfectly managed func-
tions. A copy of every picture that was ever
painted of the late Queen hangs in the saloons.
Theresa shelf full of the Encyclopedia Britan-
nica for the enlightenment of the suite about
ancient Hittite history, and in the gilded staff’s
smoking-room the writing on the notice-board was
interesting. The ladies’ maids who. are to stay on
board or sleep at Govt. House are chronicled—
and these maids have such funny Dickensonian
names. I suppose if an Ophir maid were really
named Clifford her mistress would re-name her
Sawkins. We didn’t get into the Duchess’s bed-
room—a matter of great regret to me, as I wished
to roll on the eau-de-nil coverlet and point lace
bed spread. I have never rolled on a future
Queen’s couch.
Bandmaster Wright is the best of his band. He
rises on tip toes when the music soars, he huddles
down when it sinks, he contracts at a sorrowful
bar, and at a joyous note he swells out till he
hangs over both sides of the ship at once and
crowds the deck.
The Ophir band—a first-class one, by the way—
calls to mind the extraordinary custom which pre-
vails on the liners of employing musicians in the
treble capacity of stewards and waiters and bands-
men. Thus you may see the gentleman who
scrubbed the cabin out in the morning, conducting
the band in a military uniform in the afternoon.
On a German boat, I was once enraptured by a
pianist of the most approved pattern—long hair,
far - away look, who played Beethoven,’
v\ agner, List, and Chopin, and who was especially
soulful in the last-named composer. Later, came
across the same gentleman peeling potatoes in the
galley with the same rapt expression and soulful
eye, and with his long hair streaming over the
vegetables like a cataract or a doxologv.
The Belle-Cole Co. had a large house—the first
house of their season—last Saturday. After hear-
ing the co. warble on three consecutive occasions
I nave come to the irrelevant conclusion that four
suits and one ace is not a Nap hand. Avon Saxon
and his wife sang “Trust her not,” first mildly,
but as they warmed up to their wrongs they
shouted, and finally they yelled the dreadful thing
at the audience. The trades protection society is
hereby warned that She is a bad mark; likewise,
milliners, dressmakers and tea-shops are exhorted
to cease chalking it up forthwith.
Allan and Co., of Melbourne, send along two
songs. “Spring Roses,” by Albert Wheeler, is
not a bad sort of ditty of the chirpy, domestic
kind. The composer also did the words, and a
thing with so many unexpected feet in it has no
business to halt so. People ought not to write
poetry until they are quite sure they know the
difference between a trochee and a hairy cater-
pillar. “ Grant me thy Pardon ”is by J. W.
Eggleston, who must repent of his harmonic
errors before he can be received into the bosom
of the family ; his song is full of large fore-
quarters of raw harmony, that should be put back
into the pot and allowed to simmer over a slow"
fire for two or three years.
Mrs. Mackenzie Fairfax debuted as a songstress
at the Royal Marine Band Concert in aid of the
Victoria Memorial last Monday. The audience
was large and fashionable, so Mrs. Mackenzie
Fairfax debuted with some aplomb. The voice is
not good, and not bad. In fact, like every ninety-
nine voices you hear—bad low notes, fair middle
ones, and top notes that shudder back into a dark
hole and quarrel with the breath.
Fresh Air League Ball comes off at Town Hall
on June 2(5. Mrs. Richards and Mrs. A. A. Cohen
are Hon. Treasurers. Mrs. Julius Caro is Hon.
Sec. The F.A. Leaguers had no ball last year, so
they ought to have a crowded floor this time.
Small men now walk about with tall women in
order to resemble the Visitor, just as grey-headed
pa’s seem to have taken to looking after little
Tommy since the Royal Edward said, “ I’ll mind
the children for you, George.”
In Maoriland, it is alleged, the Jook is to be
met by a fleet of war canoes, and peaceful and
obese Maoris are being hunted up from all the
dark corners of the land and trained-up to be
ferocious and awe-inspiring for the interesting occa-
sion. The land of democracy is already beginning
to tip up through the number of people that are
swarming to its hotter end. Maoriland is becom-
ing a disreputable and demoralised country, and if
the Jook doesn’t hurry up and arrive, he will be
met at Guv’mentouse by some one who has draped
the best tablecloth round him for a blanket, and
converted the silver (???) trowel for foundation-
stone-laying into a spearhead, and who will jabber
the Address of Welcome written on a blue-gum
leaf ia Maoriland’s native dialect, and altogether
behave in a manner unprecedented in history.
A Brisbane correspondent writes :
“Incidents of the Duke’s visit to Brisbane still
form the chief subject of angry conversation.
There is no doubt that at the reception, when the
rain drove hundreds of well-dressed people
almost to destruction in the search for shelter, the
suite was a bit too zealous in its efforts to keep the
vice-regal residence from the ‘vulgar crowd.’
People sought shelter in tool-houses, kitchens,
bicycle rooms—everywhere, in fact, where doors
were not locked, and the scurry was terrible.
The result was that the proper bow was scarcely
made by anyone—the one thought being to save
one’s train from the trampling feet of the rear-
guard, and to obey the commands of the excited
suite who cleared the way in front. One
aristocratic-looking society woman was standing
well away from the crush, quite out of sight of
Royalty, looking at the gathering clouds, when an
officious bobby signalled her out as his lawful prey.
‘ We’ve made special arrangements that the
Duke and Duchess are not to be stared at,’ he
said, and was deaf to her explanation that she
couldn’t see the top of the regal bonnet! The pretty
little wife of an ex-A.D.C. was hurried off the
verandah into the rain in spite of her appeal for
mercy to her chiffon flounce. In fact, Brisbane
society was thrown out, and thrown in again, and
driven to seek refuge with the chookey-hen and
other inferior animals in a way that it will not
forget for many, many days.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The talk about keeping the decorative arches
in Melbourne standing for a year makes me feel
sorrowful. They are looking shabby and dirty
and mean already. The gingerbread affair on the
St. Kilda Road is here and there punched through
with holes. The best thing Melbourne can ao
now is to clear away the debris of its debauch as
quickly as possible. As well pile up the empty
bottles, and make mounds of the cigar-ends and
the sandwich-crumbs, as leave any of the arches
standing.
“The ‘Royal Divorce,’ when sampled recently,
seemed rich as ever in historical mares’ nests.
Bony, according to said play, was intensely
attached to the first Mrs. B.“ whom he threw
over purely for ‘reasons of state.’ So noble of
the Emperor-patriot to give up his ‘ Shosephine ’
for his country’s Good. The blot on the page of
this stage fairy-tale is the position of poor Marie
Louise, tolerated as a mere baby-providore, while
Nap and Joe continue to love, honor and obey one
another under her very eyes.
“Mrs. Sandes, in an auburn wig, dished-up
‘ the Austrian woman ’ as rather nice and very
handsome. Showy Elliot Page, remember, cari
catured said Imperial Personage as a cheeky up-
start, playing at being a patrician. But during
the recent revival Linda Raymond’s Josephine,
neither refined nor pathetic, was just the render-
ing to be expected from this buxom, comely
actress, who of old made such a success of that
Sign -of - the - Cross pagan with the high laugh
and the low bodice.
“When the Lieutenant-Grovemoress, with her
married daughters and attache Campbell, sampled
‘The Divorce,’ they looked the quietest possible
group, shorn of- *Gor Save’ and glitter. Mrs.
Madden herself seemed interested in the whoop-
ing-cough performance of infants in the stalls.
Mrs. Osborne, in plain blaok, twinkled all over
with good humor, and Mrs. Vallange appeared
tossed and tumbled in a passe pink wrap.
(Continued on page 25.)


piZßOS’C'fe Assurance Company pmited.
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
POLICIES I3XT FORCE EXCEED 216,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Absolute Security. Annual Bonuses.
Moore and Castlereagh Streets,
Sydney.
Resident Secretary,
W. J. BLOOMFIELD, 8.A., L.L.B
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Child en it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
FOR THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland’s ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
facile princeps.
BUCHANAN WHISKY
The Only Scotch Whisky officially ordered for the “ OPHIR.”
PERSONAL ITEMS.
One new knight is referred to as “ The
Fluke of York.”
Bishop Stone-Wigg, of Papua, is the
youngest prelate in Australasia, and the tallest.
“ S.S.” : “ Hop ” makes Forrest much too
magnificent. In the flesh, he gives me the idea of
a small man masquerading behind a large borrowed
stomach.
D.an’l Cooper, Bart., Sydney’s ancient,
who ate as much tough bullock in his day as any
man, flowers out in London as Vice-Chairman of
the National School of Cookery.
“ L.8.E.” : Of course the Jook cannot be
held responsible for his speeches. As the great
Brahms said : “ Speak not disrespectfully of
princes’ music, for you never can tell who wrote
it.
“Melb.”: Check Cheong, our scholarly
Chinese, speaking last Sunday, said the Chinese
Cyclopaedia, 33,000 volumes, published 600 years
ago, would fill all the shelves of the Melb. Public
Library.
In a very far North Queensland town the
Mayor is also parcel delivery man and dust
carter. And the inhabitants, being a sensible
lot, don’t snigger when his Wasliup removes the
ash-tin from the back gate.
The exact reason why a certain “distin-
guished Australian ” missed the brand of Royal
favor will become manifest before many months,
and when it does it will probably be the very last
reason that occurred to the public.
San Francisco Examiner publishes the
startling statement that Edward VII. is dying of
cancer in the throat, and “his case is exactly
similar to those of the late Emperor Frederick
and of the Duke of Edinburgh.”
Senator J. C. Neild has another volume of
verse almost ready for the press, and further
information about the Nocent Waterspout is
hoped for. Three other members of the Senate
meditate a similar unholy attack on the public.
The lirst person to receive a title on
account of an Australian office was Justice Forbes
in 1837. Mitchell got his decoration in 1839;
Dowling in 1839; Justice Burton in 1844 ; and
Alfred Stephen in 1846.
Solicitor L. F. Huydon is advocating
changes in N.S.W. law, with a view to keeping
down law costs when small estates come before
the Court. Having had his eye on the Moss
estate —now only the Moss vacancy—he should
know something of the subject.
Ex-Premier Throssell, when he departed
from W.A. Treasury, left a Shakespearian quota-
tion gummed to his official table, with a memo,
for Premier Leake to the effect that he would be
back soon, and wanted the document left undis-
turbed.
MULTUM IN PARVO.
“ How little goes to make a King ! ”
The people said in melancholy,
Forgetting one stupendous thing—
The mighty force of human folly !
S.
“ E.K.” writes :
I seen the Dock mounted. Never forget him. No—it
will haunt me. A 17-hands charger, a five-foot-four man,
and a two-foot liat. I seen by the papers he looked
splendid —every inch a king, &c. Never seen king.
Han’t say. Seen Look. Can say.
“ Bhoy ” Keating, the 30-year old Senator
from Tasmania, though totally devoid of Parlia-
mentary experience, promises to develop into the
orator of the Chamber. His Address-in-Reply
speech made a good impression—not deep, but
exquisitely symmetrical.
Among recent cornstalk J.’sP. is a person
whom Parkes struck off with keen delight 10 or
12 years ago. The J.P., a poli-
tical opponent, owned a country
paper. His editor, in default
of any thrilling local intelli-
gence, published a leader
in which he poured
boiling oil on royalty
and royal institu-
tions, and Parkes
thereupon tore the
proprietor’s J.P.-
dom from him in
such haste that the
poor man had
hardly time to read
the article which
made the trouble
before the Crown’s
disapprobation
streamed down on his
head. Now he comes
back to the bench after
his long exile, when the
drunks he used to fine are
dead, and the policeman he used
to hear swear about his torn uni-
form is superannuated, and he will sit
in the court like a ghost giving other ghosts seven
days without the option.
Barlow, M.L.C., Queensland, solicits sub-
scriptions to renovate the tomb of Commodore
Goodenough at North Shore, Sydney. No doubt
the tomb is falling away, and Goodenough was a
brave man, but what better memorial can any
brave man have than the “Goodenough Royal
Naval Home ” in Charlotte Place, Sydney J
A Victorian -navvy, named Wright, ought
to get a medal for ill-luck. When a sailor, a few
years ago, he fell from the main-brace to the deck,
and broke his thigh. Then he parted from the
sea—but not from his luck, for he descended sud-
denly again, and disarranged several ribs. Later
on, he once more over-balanced, and broke a fore-
arm-losing his hand, and henceforth using a
hook. T’other day, he gravitated some more, and
broke the same arm higher up. Up to then he
was one of the most expert axemen in the Rail-
way Dept., fixing the hook through a hole in the
axe-handle, and hewing with the best of them.
Alleged that the Heir-Apparent is almost
entirely tailor-made, and that only after pene-
trating through many strata of padding do you
come to a very small modicum of real Royal
Highness. And yet, the King—though only
about the same height—has a 45-inch chest, and
weighs 18st. 51bs.
It jg stated on good authority that a cer-
taan newspaper proprietor has addressed a letter
to the Government of his State asking that Han-
SARD Balaries should be reduced) a | he suffer 3
severely through the defection of members of his
reporting staff, attracted by the superior pay of
the Parliamentary organ,
No member of the first six Ministries
under Responsible Govt, in N.S.W. is now alive,
Charles Cowper (ex-Sheriff) is the only living
representative of the seventh Ministry. Old dad
Cowper was Premier in 1860, and lie found his
son a nominal billet in the Ministry with the title
of “ Clerk of the Executive Council ”—the only
time such a functionary was included in any
N.S.W. Cabinet.
The death of Mrs. George Kirk, of
“ Avoca,” South Yarra, severs a link with old
Melbourne. Slie arrived in Port Phillip in 1841
and resided in the one house (where she died) for
7** I*-' 1 *-' ? er d^ u iv htei \ the W £ ife ° f
Hall, of racing and Mount. Morgan fame. Heorge
Kirk ’ a w fii. knoW n figure in stock and station
oircleS) at one time lesse e of Kirk’s Bazaar, though
, t . ■ , •
it was not named after him. . ,
Mr. Quiller Couch-the Lord forgive him !
wntmg a novel in winch John Wesleyfigures
f bera f 4 11 , the tr,lfch concerning the canting
faU,er °L Wesleyan,sm-his bitter bigotry, his
abominable severity of discipline for children and
his utter incapacity to convert his own wife to a
belief in his alleged goodness—all this will, pre-
sumably, be found missing in Q.C.’s novel. The
ghastly John will be pictured as a sweet and un-
commercial General Booth.
John Benjamin Tucker (it is an awful
handicap to be called Benjamin) is probably the
worst speaker in Vic. State Parliament, and is
locally known as “the Dismal Member.” By
reason of the fact that he never makes a speech
without saying that something or other is his
“bounden dooty,” he has also been occasionally
designated “the Dutiful Bounder.’ lucker is
strangely honest for a politician, but he seems to
have been bora Wlth an undigested sorrow lying
heavily on his chest.
Parson Ronald, Federal M.H.R. (Mel-
bourne Southern), is a man with a good deal of
brain, though it is a somewhat windbaggy style of
brain, but he is a liberal-minded parson sitting
for a bright yellow electorate, and sooner or later
that will kill him. The yellow dog and the green
do & rage bitterly at South Melbourne and local
dog-fanciers are of opinion that the yellow one is
th | more influentia f animal. Ronald sent his
raite to the O’Haran testimonial, and that seems
tQ have losfc hi the yellow auima r B support,
. .. «
The widow of one of the nine victims ot
the Broken Hill South mine disaster of six years
ago married again four months back. Her second
husband was one of the two men who were dragged
out alive from under the falling ore in the same
mine the other day, when six others were killed.
f 6w we eks before this a man was killed in
another B.H. mine, leaving a widow who had lost
her first husband in the same mine six years
earlier. The ambulance is one of the best-known
types of vehicle in Broken Hill.
“WF M ” • Accidenfallv steimed on a
W.i.iVl. . Accidentally SteppCU <n a
relic of Julian Thomas (the * Vagabond ) the
°, ther da y- an a^ ed dress-coat stowed away under
the staircase of his former flash-tower. I might
have har some more relics but for the unreasoning
an^, r of f «! d v cl ° , ma "; „ H f bo^ ht
tb ey contaffied doHfing They proved to be full
of proofs. I would have liked to have those
interesting mementoes, but I believe the old-clo’-
igt cast them to the four winds.
WORKING FOR THE CORPORATION.
About S.A.’s new State Agent :
The appointment of Allerdale Grainger as State Agent
—a new title following on Federation—last week came as
a big surprise. The Jenkins Govt, has cut down the
screw from tloOO to £lOOO, and didn’t even wait for
Agent-General Cockburn’s resignation. Opponents of
the Jenkins Ministry allege that the position has been
hastily conferred on Grainger to placate that somewhat
bad-tempered man for his exclusion from the recon-
structed Ministry. Grainger is a long, massive politician
of the Playford stamp, stands well over 6ft., and has
much ability and reputation as a financier. Originally a
journalist, like Cockburn and Holder, he has dabbled in
politics for 17 years, and generally voted on the Liberal
side. Though an Ishmael in politics, shunned by all
parties, Grainger is a man of ability, and the Jenkins
Govt, might have been stronger had he been Treasurer
instead of Butler. He is just on 50.
THEATRICAL ITEM: “ WHY SMITH
LEFT HOME."
Angelo Bresci, the assassin of King Hum-
bert of Italy, committed suicide the other day,
after putting in about a year of his life sentence.
The description of his cell is interesting. It was
so low that he couldn’t stand up, and so short
that he couldn’t lie down at full length. It was
almost wholly dark, and the convict never left it,
saw no one, had no occupation, and was not
allowed to speak. Every person whom the awful
Italian law has sentenced to this living death up
to now has had one of two ends—suicide or mad-
ness. The Inquisition never invented anything
more awful; in fact, the Inquisition was often
sudden and merciful by comparison. It didn’t
mean to be, but it was.
Zeal, Fraser, and Sargood, the three most
objectionable of the Yic. senators from the demo-
cratic standpoint, promise to find their level some-
where near Zero in the new Parliament. Zeal is
much cut up over the hopelessness of his ambition
to preside over the Senate, and evidently regrets
his precipitation in abandoning his placid joys
and cheap glory as High Panjandrum of the
House of 48 Rich Landlords. There has even
been talk of his returning. Eraser has already
given the House a fairly comprehensive idea of
his dullness. He is so drear that “The Old Man
Plain ” fits him admirably as a sobriquet. Sar-
good, the venerable cadet, is impossible in an
assemblage with any sense of humor, and all three
are quite out of their element in a Senate that
betrays no intention of making absurd concessions
to old age.
One of Tasmania’s oldest and deafest pub-
lic officials is about to retire from the seat which
he has worn out with many years’ hard sitting.
Even Tasmania’s respect forthings thatareOld falls
through sometimes. Writer remembers hearing an
inquiry in which a well-known civil servant was
being examined by this functionary. Functionary :
“What is your name?” “William Finch.”
“Pinch?” “No, Finch.” “Oh, Winch?” “No,
Finch.” “And what are you?” “I am Super-
intendent of, &c., &c., and Inspector of, &c.”
“Supporter of what?” “No, Superintendent.”
“Oh, yes—yes—yes. And you said you sus-
pected ” “ No, I said I was an INSPECTOR.”
“ Well, even if you were unhappily so superstitious
as to believe that you saw a spectre, what had
that to do with the case ? ” Then the witness,
blue with shouting and rage, opened his mouth to
the width of nine inches, but no sound came from
it. His wind had given out.
A tale of the garish irresponsible Past :
Dear Bulletin. — Maoriland Native Land Court justice
wasn’t always as it is now. I was once travelling with
ex-Native Minister Johnny Sheehan —more Maori than
I’akeha in his habits. It was at Cambridge, on the
Tipper Waikato. He was engaged as legal man in an im-
portant land-title case. Such cases were then decided by
so-called Judges, who were not of best brand; many of
them started life as Maori interpreters. At the close of
the lirst day’s hearing, Johnny was very glum. He said
h ; had forgotten, before the case started, that he owed
the Judge £lOO. I said I was certain that a small thing
like that wouldn’t influence the upright mind of his
Honor, but my certainty did not dispel the lawyer’s
gloom. After two more days were spent on the case,
Johnny’s client triumphed. 1 remarked that his Honor
was plainly superior to sordid considerations. Sheehan
remarked that he had made assurance doubly sure by
giving his Honor a cheque for £lO )in settlement. Asked
him why he didn’t do that the first day, and get the load
off his mind. Johnny replied that he couidn’t, because
his Honor might tell some well-informed friend that he
bad the cheque, and the friend might speak about
the uncertainty of Sheehan’s bank balance, and the doubt
thus raised in his Honor’s mind might make his Honor
angry and hostile. As a matter of fact, I believe his
Honor was angry and hostile later on.— Eveline D.
Thus John Burns, M.P. :
I come home from'the House of Commons through the
South-West of London. As I come along, the kindly
policeman—more kindly than men of his cloth used to be
—says, “Goodnight, John.” The reply goes back,
“ Good night., constable.” The prematurely-old watch-
man, to whom the Council’s charter of labor has given a
decent lot in life, says, as he leans upon his stick close to
his coke fire trimming his lamps, “ Good-night, John ;
you are greyer than when I worked at with you.”
As I pass along from street to street in the dark watches
of the night the wanton woman of the streets,
on whom the light falls, says, “ Good-night, Mr.
Burns,” and I reply, “ Good-night, my girl.” On I go,
and pass the poverty-stricken woman, who, perhaps,
being unable to earn the necessaries of life, has
snatched at the loaf of lust, telling some tale of woe to a
policeman. And then on to the bridges—the County
Council bridges. There, harbored in the recesses, I see
boys—hooligans, they call them—l see the lads, the
victims of a bad environment, more sinned against than
sinning, huddled up in the corners, and some of them
plead, “Give me a penny, Mr. Burns, to buy a cup of
coffee.” All these human derelicts, these moral undesir-
ables, are the victims of money, monopoly, or neglect.
Then I think and think, with the enormous city stretch-
ing far away, of the problem, the remedies to be applied
on the morrow, either in the House of Commons or the
County Council chamber—or anywhere else. There, in
suffering London town, is my incentive to work.
He the melancholy fate of Mrs. Pater, wife
of late Judge Pater, of S.A. (B., Mar.
18), there was a striking contrast be-
a tween the funerals of husband and
wife. Pater was known as the strong
man of S.A. He was one of the
few administrators of the law who
held life and limb to be almost as
valuable as property, and he acted
accordingly. When he “went
out” unexpectedly in his prime
some eight years ago he had the
largest funeral ever seen in Ade-
laide, which is great on burials.
The cortege stretched a full mile.
T’other day, passing along Eliza-
beth-street, Melb., writer saw the
last scene in the history of poor
Mrs. Pater, an estimable woman,
who had bravely struggled against
misfortune —a hears 0 , a mourning
coach with only daughter, and
another carriage—empty.
The will of the late W. levers,
of Melbourne (which makes special
reference to the alleged lack of
filial affection “in these degenerate
days”) is dotted o’er with small
bequests to churchmen and chari-
table institutions. Mr. levers left £65
to be spent in procuring masses at sundry
places for the repose of his soul—on the
principle that every little helps. One
“fiver” on this account gdes to the parish
priest at Six Mile Bridge, County Clare.
There is something pathetic in testator’s careful
attention to detail on behalf of his soul. The de-
clining years of a true believer’s life seem to be
spent in the foreshadows of Purgatory.
There is a story about ex-Govevnor
Brassey arriving late at a meeting of a charity
organisation society. On being ushered into the
chair he began. “We have to —umah—umah—
apologise for our absence at the—umah —umah
—opening of this—umah —meeting, but were—
umah —detained at a pub —umah —detained at a—
umah—pub—um—public function of importance,
and—um—owing to the falling off a hoss—umah—
the falling of a-um —hospital meeting on the same
day with—um—other engagements we were—
um.” And nobody laughed.
“ You w,ay get a St. Paul for nothing, but
never for £2OO a year.” — Oxford Don.
Suspended from the verandah of a Sydney
house of ill fame the other day appeared this
shriek of rejoicing: “The Duke will bo here
shortly.”
“ Nothing in the whole psychology of the
present war is so significant as the fact that it has
produced sheafs of speeches, bushels of essays, and
not one good song. . . . That very peculiar under-
current of irritable argument which is so con-
tinuous in the Jingo mind, is the mark of uneasy
conscience unknown in most previous wars. ’
London Daily News.
A BID FOR THE £150.
Design for the Commonwealth Seal.
According to “ Smiler ” Hales in his latest
effusion, nothing could stop a cavalry charge
when “the lions of England were leaping on her
foes; ” “ nor death, nor hell, nor all the terrors of
the world to come ” (!) Russians and others might
paste this in their hats for future reference.
Regarded critically, it seems as if the terrors of
any future existence would scarcely worry a
Tommy just at that moment, but the other things
named are likely to be more efficient. Death
would stop any cavalry charge, if freely applied ;
and if the Other Thing got in its work—well,
what is the good of a melted lance, anyway ?


THE • •
FEDERAL
SPIRIT . •
WOLFFS
"SCHNAPPS.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Kuppers Blberfeld Lager.
Aboriglnalities.
To Contributors. — Always give, in ethnological and
natural-history items etc., exact date and exact
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
“ Frauleia ” : Ee a recent Bulletin par.
anent a snake-bitten man walking round a tree in
the bush until he died. I once had a half-grown
sheep-dog that I was in the habit of tying up at
night to a stake on the lee-side of a haystack.
Going as usual one morning to untie Cadger, I
noticed he seemed excited ; his eyes were starting
from their sockets, and he was tearing up the
ground with his paws. When I let him go, he
darted away, returning, however, to fawn round
my feet, then running wildly round and round
in a large circle. In spite of my efforts to stop
him, he kept this up from about eight in the
morning until nearly sunset, when he fell ex-
hausted and died. I have always thought that he
was snake-bitten as we found a large reptile close
to where he was tied.
* * * *
Concerning an Australian national
scourge :
“Tot”: Re prickly-pear (“Vril,” B. 23/3/’l). Not
only emus spread this pest. Every bird and beast in the
bush does its share. Wallaby, goannas, and even some
dingoes eat the fruit, but the worst distributors are the
scrub-turkey and scrub-magpies. In N.Q. the country
from the Darling Downs, down the Weir, Moonie and
Oondamine Rivers, north of the M‘lntyre, out on to the
Balonne, north and east via Roma to the Lower Dawson,
to head of Burnett waters, and across the range to Dalby,
is all in the grip of the prickly-pear. Thousands of square
miles which not all the wealth of Queensland can clear !
I know of over a dozen stations in the area mentioned,
now deserted entirely, which in the Ws ran large flocks
and herds ; and dozens more will soon be in the same
plight. Yet owners are looking calmly on, and asking for
extension of leases —when they will walk out and leave
utterly ruined places. I know owners, however, who have
put thousands into the work—only to find themselves
beaten at last. Ticks, rabbits, drought, &0. , may be fought
out, but once “ pear ” gets a hold it is there to stay, and
takes possession of everything. The first bit of p.p. that
came into the Weir district was brought by the then owner
of many stations, Mr. Easton, who used to have the plant
watered regularly and covered at night from the frost.
Well, the “pear ” clean broke him afterwards and he died
a short time back in poverty.
ENLIGHTENED.
BILL: "Sag, Skinny, wot’s ther moanin' of this
’ere ‘E.R.’ stuck up all over the place? ”
SKINNY : “He Har. That means ’Er Riyhness,
er course, yer ignerant coot!”
“ C.H.L.” on “ the Weird Hour” :
The dropping of atones in mines, the stampeding of
cattle, &e. (B. 10/2/ - Ol—lG/3/’Ol), are not the only evidences
of some marked change in Nature at about 2a. in. Both
savages and so-called “ civilised ” nations generally select
that hour for surprising their enemies, because experience
has taught that humans sleep soundest about then.
Again, doctors know that between 2 and 4 a.m. is the
most critical period for the sick, because human vitality
is then at its lowest. The rationale of the matter
is doubtless connected with the earth’s daily rotation on
its axis, and with the allied fact that all life is
dependent upon sun-heat and light. At midnight in any
place not only is the sun at his farthest from that place,
but also the greatest earth mass intervenes between such
place and the sun, so that his heat has then the least
effect. Owing to various circumstances, however, the
maximum effect of these conditions is not felt until about
three hours after midnight ; just as the maximum effect
of noon-heat and light is not reached until between 2 and
3 p.m. The same thing occurs on a larger scale in con-
nection with the seasons ; the hottest part of our
Southern summer and the coldest part of our winter
occurrincr respectively about six weeks later than the
gun’s attainment of his greatest and least annual alti-
tudes. . .
Humors of the drought. In far north-
west Q. it became imperative, owing to lack of
water, to close one of the telegraph offices. The
man in charge got 40 miles towards civilisation
when the Heavens opened, and 10inches of ram
fell in 60 hours, and he was water-bound on a
sandy ridge for four days waiting for the
flood to subside. Also, those in charge of Q.
Federal elections made elaborate preparations
(oamels, etc.) for covering distances from way-
back polling-booths, and in some of these localities
what was wanted at the finish was a Noah s Ark.
* • • *
“A. Dab ” ; Re “Te Whai’s ” par. (B.
11/5/01) inquiring whether Bulletin or Banjo
Paterson was right in regard to Dunn’s exit from
bushranging life. Both accounts are correct, for
it is true that after leaving the hut with Gilbert
and escaping his fate, the police never could trace
his flight. He got down on the Lachlan and
worked there for nearly two years as a horse-
breaker on a station. Then he wrote home to see
how things were, and that letter cost him his life,
for a very near relative “ put him away ” for the
sake of the “ blood money.” He was captured,
and shortly afterwards hanged.
“ The Nark ” : Once saw on the Narran a
blue crane in the employment of a crow. The
crane would stalk the water’s edge, and, fishing
out a prawn, would retire further up the bank,
whereupon the crow, which had been looking on
from a tree close by, would descend and appro-
priate the prize This went on for an hour or
more. Will someone call me a liar ?
• • * *
It is a common practice for
blackfellows to place their belongings (“ Lar,” B.
5/1 /’l) in the trunks of hollow trees, under and in
thick bushes. Though not a provident race, there
are certain things that they prize highly and take
great care of. They obtain by barter, and after-
wards carry for years, particular chips of stone,
varieties of wilga (red ochre) not found in their
own country, stone spear-heads, gum, cement,
&c. —as well as the fat, and the emu and kangaroo-
sinews ‘‘ Lar” mentions. The sinews are specially
valuable for the mending of weapons, &c.
* • * *
The drought has been the cause of heavy
mortality among the bees in North-Western
N.S.W. Most of the bee-farmers have had serious
losses in their swarms. One fanner lost 381
swarms out of 400.
« * • •
The happy lot of a physician in a country
town: In Bandaroo(say) the hospital doctor enjoys
a salary of £l50 —no residence. Nine-tenths of the
district subscribe to the hospital—for very patent
reasons. Those who have subscribers’ tickets
supply those who haven’t, and consequently the
medico’s right of private practice (generously
allowed him) does harm to nobody. And Ban-
daroo wonders why it can’t keep a decent doctor.
* • • *
“H.M.”: Was lately told by an old
identity of the Nor-Westralian pearling-grounds
that he once saw a fleet-owner (now a respectable
spinifex squatter) take a young aboriginal lad on
board for the purpose of diving, The lad did not
know what was required of him, and when put
into the water made for a dingy, but was driven
off with a rope’s end. He then made for another,
and was driven off, being thus kept in the water
for half the day until he at last was drowned.
This was done in British waters, and in the pre-
sence of a J.P. —without comment.
“ Rob ” : While waiting to inter-
view a back-block schoolmaster I “got on
a pitch ” with some of tho scholars, out
before time. Four big youngsters didn’t
even know the name of the storekeeper or
postmaster in the three-mile-away township
—they “ hadn’t never been there.”
Another 15-year-old, on being shown a
half-sov., “ never seen one like that before,’’
and placed its value at “ about four bob. ”
Said the schoolmaster, when I told him :
“What else can be expected. Youngster
up at 4 a.m., milk cows till school-time ;
school over, milk again till bed-time —half-
time milk, quarter-time sleep, quarter-time
school.” Get on the land—also bring up
your family thereon I
* * * *
“W.H.1.”: I can “cap” Tommy
Tanna (B. 16/2/’01). In Trinidad, 8.W.T.,
my neighbor’s cook, a lady of color, after
borrowing various household articles—in-
cluding a pair of curtains which served
subsequently as a bridal-veil—requested
that I should attend her wedding to give
the bride away. But, seeing her brides-
maids were her four illegitimate daughters,
by four different fathers, I respectfully de-
clined. The line had to be drawn some-
where t
Related of an illiterate station-master at a
small country town, at the time when the destina-
tion had to be written upon the passenger’s ticket.
Swagman asks for ticket to Wallerawang. After
much scratching of the head in futile attempts to
spell the name, s.m. breaks out —“ Oh !me bhoy,
doant ye go to Wallerawang—it’s a divil of a hole.
You go to Dubbo —D-u-b-o, Dubbo.”
* * * *
“ Wrinklero Contradicente ” : “ Yarrum ”
is a hass ! Because he once tasted native com-
panion, therefore never again ! Now, the n.c. is
the coulon or counge of India, a delicacy much-
prized, and sought also for the delicate grey
feathers. But in Australia it is despised because
it is common. It must be skinned, soaked in weak
salt and water, roasted in a caul-fat, or stewed
with onions, celery and marjoram. Thicken
gravy with rice, and—“ always ” again !
* * * *
“C.W.”: In Bega district (N.S. W.) is a
small spring which is said to flow only seven to
ten days prior to a fall of rain. Have heard old
coast hand 3 assert that the banks of some creeks
become moist before rain. Can any of your
readers say if there is any scientific reality behind
such notions ?
* * * *
An appreciation of Broken Hill, by a man
just back: —
A dirty, ill-built city, sleeping under a shroud of smoke
from a volcano that never rests, but pulsates day and
night in grime and dirt. A factory, where orphans and
widows —legitimate and “ grass ” —are turned out daily.
The paradise of doctors and undertakers, and the rendez-
vous of the back-country unemployed. A place where
you never see a pretty woman, but encounter every type
of female scarecrow.
* * • *
Expert witnesses before the N.S.W. Pub-
lic Works Committee, in connection with the pro-
posed new Sydney abattoirs, declared that no
blow-fly was ever seen on Glebe Island. One
reason given for this immunity is that the island
is “ surrounded by salt water.” Can anyone
explain ? Glebe Island appears to be about the
only place in N.S.W. so fortunate.
“ 11. M.” : On an unfrequented road near
Brisbane I recently came across a woodcarter and
3-horse team with a monstrous load in difficulties.
Pulled up and watched for a short time, when the
perspiring carter came over and politely inquired,
“ Wos you born In Australia?” “No,” I said;
and then he broke out: “I thort not! I calls a
man who’ll sit on his crimson horse and watch a
pore beggar strugglin’ like me a blanky waster,
an’ no mistake ! Garn ! git to where you came
from.”
“ Alpar ” : Once lived in a
fashionable Sydney suburb, next
door to one Smith, who sedul-
ously watered his front-yard
every morning and evening. Be-
gan to fancy he had seeds down,
and was trying hard to raise vege-
tables. My wife wanted me to
go and do likewise, but I didn’t
see any prospect of a fair return
from about an inch of indifferent
soil, over rock. Smith’s labor
didn't seem to have any result,
and I made up my mind to ask
him why—first opportunity. We
met on a tram, but, before I could
speak, Smith asked, “ llow are
you off for fleas ? ” Told him we
were eaten alive. “Then,” said
he, “ why don’t you water the
place ? ” After that, I watered
both back and front industri-
ously, and no doubt my other
neighbor—to whom I had never
spoken—fancied I had turned
horticulturist. Best of the fun
was, we were driving the vermin
in upon him.
• • *
“ Boko ” : I know of a curi-
ous friendship between a crow
and a magpie. They are kept in
separate cages, but if the crow is
let out without his friend lie
makes straight for the other’s
cage and squawks till “Mag ’’ is
allowed to join him. Then .Jim-
mie (the crow) persuades “ Mag ”
to scratch his neck, and when this has been done
to his satisfaction he dances round till Alag
whistles for him.
* « * •
“ Vril ” : Re marching power of men. In
’94 the writer with over 100 others “footed” it
from S. Cross to Coolgardio (125 miles in five
days, each carrying about 201b5., there being an
eight-horse waggon to hump balance of baggage.
Our ages ranged from 14 to 78, but not one gave
up, and on arrival at Coolgardie many next day
footed it on to Kurnalpi.
* * 9 *
“ Monyah ” : Re “ Yarrum ” (B. 23/3/01)
and others on eating native companion, ’possum,
emu, &c. If hard pressed for food soak era in
salty water for half a day, and then boil with a
little flour, sale and pepper. You might eat
worse —but fancy a man grilling a jackass .
* * • *
“Scotty W.”: Re flesh-eating horses.
There was a whim-horse at the Rock Well,
Barrier, before the silver “ broke out” that would
tear down the bag-safe of the drivers and eat
their cold meat. Used also be hand-fed with
slices of Kinchega mutton at the bough-shed
where we tuckered. Witnesses: Mr. Penrosa,
manager at the Gorge, and all the & U-
MUST HAVE BEEN MAD.
1ST SWAGGIE : “Talk about balmy
blokes. I seen one yesterday —
he was fair ratty. Asked me
for a pipe of baccy. I hands him the pi ay ,
and, bli’me, wot d’ye think he done?”
2ND. DITTO: “ Kep’ it, I suppose!”
1ST. DITTO: “ No; cut a piece orf of it, and
handed me the biggest half back.”
“Tuna”: Was recently told by an old-
time dealer of this (Walcha) district how he once
bought 150 cattle, which all died from pleuro on
the road home. Then he hired the paddock
where the disease had broken out first, bought 100
cheap store pigs, turned them in to fatten on the
diseased carcases, and sold them at a smart profit.
To my certain knowledge similar things are done
nowadays, and still people eat butcher s pork !
W .
Dear Bulletin. —Me toothless Australian
girls (8., 4/5/’01). Generally, men and women
drink too much tea and milk, consequently the
stomach becomes coated with a combination of
AT THE ZOO: AUGUSTUS INTERVIEWS THE EMUS.
tannin (from the tea) and cassin (from the milk).
This sets up a constant irritation and generates
acid which combines with the calcium of the teeth
and causes decay. Test saliva with a piece of
blue litmus paper (all druggists sell it). If the
paper turns red when wet with saliva, the drinks
above-mentioned must be discontinued, or used
sparingly. Never drink milk with tea. Don t
make tea too strong, and abjure cold tea or that
made at a previous meal. Writer lias proved this
treatment on self and family. As a result, young-
sters have perfect teeth, notwithstanding they are
a second generation of North Queenslanders —born
up beyond Rockhampton. —Bushwackhb.
* • • •
This, from J. J. 1., is more likely
Re the “ goanna” : A woman at Shepparton (Vic.) was
awakened by a large “ go.” that crawled right over her
body and up wall to ceiling. The tyke had discovered him
outside, and quickly yarded him. When “done in” he
measured 4ft. 9in.
• * * »
“ Will J.” : Re estimate of bushmen’s
tucker-bill. The average farmer stables his man
at a ci’own a week, and does it easily. Rabbit-
stew, potato-flour at 14s. a bag, rag-tag tea and
treacle are what the plough-nigger tnostly gets—
with (very often) accommodation in the chaff-
house. Every cockey’s a butcher, by the way,
even if he butcher’s nothing better than a ram-
stag.
* * * *
“ H.M.T.” : lie “ Wonquin’s ” query (B.,
2/3/’01) as to how the kylie is thrown by the
W.A. blacks, the following is the modus of
the natives of the Blackwood and the
tribes along the G:eat Southern Rail-
way. The kylie (the word boomerang
is unknown there so far as l know)
is taken in t! e right hand, above
shoulder, with the concave edge for-
ward, and, with a short run, projected,
with force, according to intention,
downward to a point from 15 to
20yds. from the thrower. The missile
does not, however, touch ground,
but —from the initial almost vertical
rotation —changes in that distance
to the horizontal, rises rapidly, de-
scribes an immense circle from right
to left, and ultimately comes to grass
within a few yards of the thrower. By
increase of the initial force the kylie
can be made to describe two, or
even three, gradually-decreasing
circles before returning to the
thrower. Kylie and spear-
throwing always formed an
item of annual sports on the
G.S. R., and writer soon
picked up the “come-back”
knack with a kylie. These
blacks were very good cricket
ball throwers. In one small
town on the G.S.R. there were
at least six who could throw
from 100 to 115yds. In fact, the
white cricketers were always “out
of it” when that item of the
sports programme came, round. The
W.A. kylie is usually made from the
wood of the jam tree in the districts
spoken of, the arms being bent to the desired
shape by heat.
* * * *
A witness in Melb. County Court, the
other day, owned up to a new variety of “fan-
tods.” In place of the usual green snakes with
pink beetles, he was chased by Kruger, a cow and
a lion. Probably a last lingering effect of the
great Mafeking drunk.
* * * •
About Charlesville (Q.) before the recent
rains (if they had any recent rains about there) it
was possible to run the emus down and capture
them by hand. The birds were just standing
skeletons with a few feathers and a beak. When
the emu begins to go under things are bad.
* * * *
“ Yril ” : Items from a recent Capri-
Cornian (Rockhampton):
Our Win ton correspondent, writing on the 11th instant,
says : “ The weather lately has been mild and pleasant;
but the nights have been almost cold. To show you what
sort ot a time some stations out west have been
having, I may mention that about four tons of wool from
Carandotta arrived during the week, and this is portion
of a load that was put on the waggons to be brought to
Winton two years ago. The rest is still on the road.


DAVID STORED, & SONS’
Registered
Trade
Mark.
110 OOllYi
Is the Only Absolutely
safe Ki„ g
The Perfect Sheep-Marker.
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes —
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose :— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
Dear Bulletin. — With reference to a
statement (8., 27/4/1) that an employe on Wooler-
ina Station (Q.) behaved in a brutally-callous man-
ner to an unfortunate Austrian who couldn’t speak
English, let me assure you that from personal in-
quiry I find that the wanderer received from the
overseer the kindest of treatment, being well
supplied with food, and receiving ample directions
to the nearest township, Goodooga. The over-
seer, further—seeing the tattered condition of the
slip of paper mentioned in your par.—wrote out
another request to have the man directed all right.
The brutal addition you mention was certainly
not placed upon the paper at Woolerina ; and I
shall therefore feel obliged by your relieving the
humanity of the employes from such a stigma. 1
may add that prompt discharge would follow the
conviction of any of them of such a heartless act.
—A. Smith, Manager, Woolerina.
* * * •
This ensanguined roar appears in Inverell
(N.S.W.) Argus
INOORREOT STATEMENTS.
Dear Sir, —In an issue of the Argus a few weeks ago
there appeared a paragraph taken from The Bulletin,
signed “ Wallaroo,” in which the writer gives a garbled
account of two N.S.W. border farmers hiring wagg'ons to
take unpaid-for corn to the sun-baked west. It rained,
and, after innumerable mishaps, they found the grass so
luxuriant that they stored their grain and hastened home
with horses so reduced as to be practically useless.” Now
( is one of the farmers mentioned), 1 wish to state that for
false statements and silly twaddle “ Wallaroo ” takes the
cake. Firstly, there were no hired waggons, and “ the
sun-baked west” happened to be out north. “The
luxuriant grass ” has not yet been seen by any of the in-
habitants of that district. “ The innumerable mishaps ”
were only in the writer’s imagination. The “ reduced
and practically useless horses ” were able to make a stage
of 3 i miles the last day, returning home with a load of
Sawn timber behind them. As for the unpaid-for corn—
well, I suspect if it had been “ Wallaroo’s ” case that corn
might have been unpaid for still.—Yours, etc.,
(So-called) Border-Farmer.
Little Plain, May 22.
A local resident, who sends down this cutting,
asks that The Bulletin’s correspondent be
kicked from his native place to Gehenna for
“supplying incorrect information.” Said corre-
spondent told how two farmers went to the dry
west from a border town to sell corn, and met
with sundry mishaps. And some excited person
from Inverell (which is a good many miles from
the border), who went north (not west) to sell
something, and didn’t meet with any of the ex-
periences described, and whose name wasn’t men-
tioned, and who answers the description in no
way, says that he must be the person alluded to,
and wants blood or satisfaction or something.
Also, because The Bulletin’s farmers went west,
and there found the country doing so well after
rain that corn wasn’t wanted, this man says he is
quite unreliable, for he went north and the up-
springing vegetation The Bulletin described
in the west wasn’t there. This paper never said
it was there. The only mention of Inverell in the
par. alluded to was in connection with a different
case—one of cruelty to horses by a gang of
Government laborers, together with some reflec-
tions on the police for not interfering. The
frantic local person evidently got on to the wrong
story—possibly through a neglected education.
SYDNEIA ILLUMINATRIX.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Town to me was, in the day,
A Rag-and-Rose Fair, bright and gay.
The Town to me was, in the night,
A Chinese Lantern of Delight.
Post Office, Courthouse, all the great
Buildings belonging to the State,
Were all festooned with fairy fire,
And loops of lambent, loyal wire.
From ev’ry turret, spire, and shelf
Blazed the advertisement of Guelph.
But grimly loomed, in moonlight pale,
The un-illuminated Gaol.
llow dark the fate of those who err i
How hard to be a prisoner !
The poor unhappy ones—ah me !
They could not last week’s glories see.
In fancy I could see them all
Beating their heads against the wall,
Musing on this idea dark,
My footsteps led me to the Park.
And there I met a foolish man
Who was a grim Republican.
I will not here reveal his name,
Lest he might die a death of shame.
Besides, though I am, to the core,
Loyal as Colonel Neild—and more—
I would not let my loyalty
A Base Informer make of me.
And so I did not, big and large,
Give this Republican in charge.
But spoke to him in friendly mood,
And led him where the Statue stood.
Solenr: and dark, with seaward look,
The statue stern of Captain Cook.
Said I: “ Behold a Figure Great
For whom we well might jubilate !
Were he alive, that Seaman Bold,
Who found these lands in days of old,
Would not be creeping on his knees
Before these callow Royalties.
What do you think yourself, good man ?”
Then spake that grim Republican :
“ Alas! ” he said, “if we could see
That Statue animated be,
'Twould climb down from its pedestal
Before the Royalties to crawl.”
I left him, but the horror he
Suggested went along with me :
I seemed to see the Statue spring
Down from its stone base, clattering ;
And seemed to hear its brazen feet
Clanging behind me down the street.
Then Terror seized me by the hair,
And I rushed madly through Queen’s Square.
And plunged into the nearest bar—
Being, not then, particular.
I drank three rums without a wink,
And sighed “ Thank God, It cannot drink.”
CREEVE ROE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu ■
tions voluntarily submitted, ivhether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Pessum (Box 12): Hardly the thing, but pro-
mising. Try again Moira : Some good lines, but
metre sags badly in places.. ..Alice G.R. : Will print....
F. B. : “ Hand-in-Hand" O. K. Doubts about “ Out-
Back.’’ Y.A.O. : Funny, but we don’t care to make
jokes about the lady’s pedigree J.S.S. : Flea item
scratched.... J.B. (Wellington): Good verses ; thanks
Oarr : Struggled hard with your faint pencil observations,
and gave them up....J.A. Club: “Bonnet” rhymed
variously to “ abandon it,” “above it,” “upon it,” and
“destroy it.” Poem destroyed A. Wend: Torn up
with loud applause Occy : Mostly good items; will
print S.B. (Port Pirie): Will make good “ Aborigin-
ally.” J. F. W. (Hawthorn): Not good enough
Angus O. : Perhaps you are right. If it did appear
twice we have no recollection of the first time....
D.S.A.D. : Thanks for items Barry S. : Publican
filled beer-can with soapsuds—four pages !... .K.O. :
Returned J. (Perth) : Can’t print unsupported
yarns about English bayonet ting wounded Boers.
.....W.A.K. : Chiefly hysteria A.F.11. : Too Dan
O’Oonnorish ; but we may “prune your periods” and
print Tilly A.: Rather flat and feeble.... .J.M.A. :
None of ’em any good. No verse-gift 0.1. V. :
The trisection of the angle has been accomplished—
though not by ordinal'} 7 geometrical methods. There was
no French Govt, reward, though there was something of
the kind from trust-moneys left for the purpose
H.W.S." Read one line : “ Dear girl, though the
memory blob.” Or is it “ blot ? ”... .O.Q.R. : We were
going to print it, and then we weren’t, and then we were
again, and then we almost did, and at last we didn’t
.lack A. Clubs : Basket The Rooster : “ Only a worrier
of words.” Quite true Africa Australis: The dying
inhabitant and the sunset are old materials Siandra :
Feel disrespectful towards’“ Happy Days.” A. Sard:
“Plaint” will get through.... Slam : Slammed... .Vin-
cent Naylor : Good in spots, but it’s a long way between
spots... .M.E.J.P. (Mathinna) : Good verse. Will print
shortly Battler: Common or garden “mug.” Anti-
Jingo : Cable admitted, to end of March, 1901, British
losses in S’African war:—Dead of wounds and disease,
11,728; invalided and discharged, 2069; missing, 775.
To end of Oct., 1900, 33,169 invalided and sent home
(additional) were admitted. This did not include
wounded in African hospitals, civilians wounded, nor
Australasians and Canadians —B. and M. : Same
old conundrum again. Think it out. If I have
no brothers, “my father’s son” is necessarily me.
Therefore, “ that man’s father is my father’s son”
is simply “ that man’s father is me.”... .A.F.11. : Thanks
for suggestion, but it is an enormous suggestion. A
paper only represents a certain number of men who can
only get through a certain amount of work. And there
are only 24 hours in the day M.D.L. : Don’t want a
second edition of “ Shan Van Vocht.” P.A.: “Casey’s
B.B.” doesn't quite get there Possum-Pole: Difficult
to feel much interest in any of your characters—they are
such a mean lot Glenara : Same verdict as before, or
thereabouts.... J.O’R. : Every paper that is good enough
to be remembered “ is not what it was ” in the opinion of
the Old Subscriber. It isn’t necessarily the paper that
degenerates; mostly it is the subscriber. He grows
ancient, and loses his capacity for enjoyment. Is the
circus or the Zoo what it was ? Do you enjoy riding on
the elephant as you once did? Hasn’t even the leg-show
faded a bit? A paper needs a patent mill attach-
ment for grinding up the old subscriber of 50
and making him into two new subscribers of 25
J.T. : Haven’t such a violent objection to Tumut as all
A CONTRAST.
The pompous soldier and the real thing.
that Patches : In finding dactyls you've lost the
poetry. K. held for print W. 0.0. : Frederick Dolman
is a very small English noodle whose errors and opinions
don’t matter Will J. : Hogan yarn has too many
clumsy discrepancies. Discrepancies should be artistic.
.... Wal H. R. : Not good enough to print, but promising
as a first effort... .Worker : Any consulting civil engineer
should be able to give you the necessary opinion Con-
stance A. : Pretty, but trifling -G. M. Train : You lack
the gift of effective narration... .T. 8.8. : Horse poem
poor stuff; other better, but too unequal. . .Titan :
Fierce as a boiled butterfly Rebecca R. : Has some
merit, but is hardly well enough worked out Alta:
None very bad, but none quite up to mark Keziah P. :
Tame—stiff—unreal.... P. Stewart : Verse mechanically
correct, but desperately unpoetical Ayeum : Not bad
in its way, but hardly suitable to “ B.” H.W.N. :
Still too crude and tyro-ish W.F. : Humorous, but
parts of it too weak... .White Ant: Not crisp or vigorous
enough... .E.M.O. : Too heavy in the touch Gue :
Hangs fire somewhat, and lacks deftness in the handling.
TWO PRINCES LEARNING TO SPLICE.
Reality : Sorry they are impossible from the literary
point of view... .Winifred G. : Rather flat and tame....
L.O. : Joadja doesn’t seem a good place to make verse
about, somehow... .A.B.M. : Not quite up to standard,
yet not far off.. ..L.M.R. : Have no use for plain state-
ments to the effect that Mrs. Smith gave a pleasant
dinner, and, among other guests, Mrs. Brown and Mrs.
Jones were present... .M.F.G. :No use for “Greeting.
How on earth did you come to pour that royal ode on us,
of all people... .E.V. M'O. : Old as the Ark... ,J. Buft*n :
Good verse. Will print W.A.M. : “After Dinner,
without form and blank:...Wiggle Waggle: Received
your letter, written, as you say, “on the spur of the
moment." Perhaps if you wrote on a table next time the
result would be better... .Filigree : That bullock lie was
originally invented by a Bulletin’ writer... .E.K. : You
start— , , ,
Hail, Australia ! freedom’s land
Where liberty supreme does reign ;
No tvrant on thy continent
Ever wrought the enslaving chain.
Bah ! Read up the loathsome tyranny of the convict
system, or the records of the present-day W.A. slave-
owners ! The Swimmer : Are using several of them ...
A.B.S. : Will print Harold B. : You have a capacity
for rhyming. Try some more promising subject.....
Mi tty : But the Kanaka doesn’t work like that on the Q.
plantations. And often instead of “ returning home to
die ” he stays to be violently drunk and batter his white
“ missus.”.'.. .Oliftonensis : Two will do. Don’t care
much for “ Library.”... .C.G. : Suggestions rather a poor
lot T G.F. : The photos, unfortunately, wouldn t re-
produce we 11.... John Smith: Thanks.... 23 (Inverell):
You have such an amazing gift for misunderstanding a
simple par. that it isn’t safe to accept your contributions.
A man who misunderstands so violently is apt to lead
any paper which trusts him into trouble.... Philan-
thropus : You’re the seventh man who has sent in that
pants yarn.... Rod: Don’t see how you can have one
man-one-vote in company management. If you had
shares you would probably kick hal’d at finding your co.
run by ten men with one share each, who appointed
themselves directors at fat fees and ate up your profits.
.... A.O.H. : None quite good enough.. . .G.S. : The
Duke of York, so far as the world has been informed, has
been married only once... .G.A.P. (Rockhampton): Emu
yarn excellent..Kadina Inquirer: There are such
things attached to certain medical colleges, but that is
all we know... .Artisan : Hardly sufficient general in-
terest. Try again... L. de B. : Sorry there is no pro-
spect Prescot: Some may do....Afric: Rejected
with some vigour... .H.H.T. : Variation of old gag....
JOR. : Thanks. Will print Leodride : Send us the
address of Gubbins with the wooden leg, who was ruined
by Early-Closing, and we’ll investigate. Jack A.
Clubs : One more Dook poem. Well, here goes—
I dreamt a dream ; and in my dream
I heard the bullocky’s hell,
The last dying bubble of the billy-can
Mingl’d with the mopoke’s monotonous tune.
I saw the figure of a shapely little man,
Stretch’d ’neath a sky without a moon.
The Jook in bulloekv’s hell.
Stars, knighthoods, emblems of the Empire,
Lay in a heap, hopelessly muddled
Near the Jook.
....Amigo: Too much ducal copy coming in just now.
G. : Plea for Dishonest Government isn’t sufficiently
violent and fraudulent, somehow. Warfare article in
type.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
Pat: Declined... .Sweet Girl Graduate : Verse not good
enough to carry illustration.. ..K.B. : “Royal Game”
not promising.. .’.W.P. : May serve as suggestion only. (
But please don’t “ send sketch for your valuable paper.’’
Just “send sketch.”.. ..M.B. : Depends wholly on
attached joke, which has seen much service Garon :
Either you or the editor is drunk, and the editor is quite
sober.... Diorite : Too violent... .John Gow : Not for
direct reproduction, but has points as an idea....lV.
Macbeth : Such a subject would altogether depend for
interest on the drawing, which isn’t good enough.
Besides, idea is not new J.M.A. : Inebriate idea as a
suggestion.... E.II. (M.L.) : Drawing wooden—and your
judgment ve legends would ruin any paper in one act....
M. Gamble : One subject too far away, the other possibly
as suggestion....L. Fraser : Handed to artist... .R.E.P. :
Nicely drawn, but legend doesn’t strike us W. R. Mac-
kay : Both may serve... .T.H.8.: One kept as suggestion.
——Unavailable : E. Mantova, Mary R., Riverman, W.M.
(Bris.), J.H.8., J.E. (O. at.), J.A.O. (Yep.), Mab.
To declare that Australians are not musical
is, to say the least of it, rather extreme. Just
take, for example, the well-known music books
published by Allan’s, of Collins-street, Melbourne.
They were only started a few years ago, but the
all round sale has risen to something like a
hundred thousand copies every year, and now we
are getting four new numbers, viz., 53 to 56. No.
53 contains fourteen popular items for American
organ or harmonium ; No. 54 consists of twelve
easy pianoforte solos, each named after an
Australian wild flower; No. 55, which is also a
pianoforte number, contains eight operatic solos,
including dear old “Maritana,” “Trovatore,”
“Lucia,” “Bohemian Girl,” etc. ; and No. 56 is a
capital collection of pianoforte duets of medium
difficulty. These books are only Is. each, and all
persons whom they may concern are invited to
send to Allan’s for a catalogue. The prodigality
of musical firms in the matter of catalogues is
quite alarming.
Few Sydney manufacturing establishments
are better worth a visit than the Sunlight Soap
and Oil Works at Balmain. The premises—which
cover 7g acres and have a splendid water-frontage
—were erected under great difficulties as regards
foundation, over 800 piles having been used to give
the necessary stability to the reclaimed ground of
the site. The need for this may be estimated
from the fact that the third floor of the soap-
factory proper has, when its six immense
vats are full, to carry a weight of 422
tons. Adjoining this building are the melt-
ing-house, glycerine distillery and engine-room;
and on the other side is a huge block
of buildings—housing seven other departments of
the business—in the construction of which were
used over two miles of steel girders and joists.
The oil mills containing in themselves seven
different departments —are built upon a site from
which 7000 cubic yards of stone had previously to
be quarried to give the necessary level; and
adjoining these are two jetties, one 230 ft. long
and the other 60ft., giving ample berthing space
for cargo-craft and lighters.
The Vic. Gold Jubilee Exhibition, open-
ing at Bendigo in November, with the intention
of running for a few months, promises to be the
livest and most considerable affair of its kind that
lias befallen this country since the Centennial Ex-
hibition, in Melbourne, 13 years ago. Including
the Town Hall, which will be utilised as an arts
division, the buildings will cover four acres of
Market Square, but the applications for space
seem likely to give the committee a lot of rejec-
tionary power as regards commonplace exhibits.
The weakness of the last Melbourne Exhibition
was in its excessive accommodation for
shop goods which nobody wanted to see,
and which were dumped into the draughty
annexes merely in order to fill ’em up.
The trustees of the Bendigo Gallery have
undertaken to buy a .£5OO oil-painting from the
show, and the committee guarantees a “genuine”
Art Union for the disposal of £lOOO worth of pic-
tures. The fine arts of gold-mining, ancient and
modern, will be set forth in an educational man-
ner at the Bendigo Exhib. A gilded pyramid
representing 20 million ozs. is being prepared as
an incentive to the average shareholder, whose
mines never pay a div. except in the prospectus.
And if a. select assortment of mining directors can
be ranged in glass-cases along the main avenue
they might help to explain how Bendigo's staple
industry is worked.


BAFFLED.
"Action is now being taken by the R.C. Archbishop, who has been enabled to purchase 30 acres of land at Broadmeadows and a large house, which it is proposed to turn
into a non-sectarian Foundling Hospital.” — MELB. PAPER.
DR. CARR (to Mother Grundy): “GET THEE BEHIND ME—MADAME!”


BUSH PICNIC EN ROUTE.
(FROM OUR SPECIAL REPORTER ON the ROYAL TRAIN).
•Refreshments were soon partaken of. The Duchess sat on a
'kerosene box with a rug on top. Lady Mary Lygon was on a
seat from a buggy, and the Duke was seated on a rough bare
' iM&i f I /OCS
In Melbourne, when the Ophir was
on view, some of the visitors pocketed'
tassels and little bits of the hangings in
the Royal apartments, with a view of
preserving some s'ouvenir of the Duke’s
visit. On this account the authorities
closed the private portion of the ship to
inspection by the Sydney visitors. But
they must have something to carry away.
Failing tassels, they fell upon wisps of
straw laid down as bedding for the Royali
COWS ”
Proud Collector : “ And that’s the very section of the very
log His Ryle Ighness sat on. I bought it off a timber
getter for five pun’, and that’s the very spot ’ls Ighness
sot on 1 ” / •
| Well, give a donkey plenty of straw
I and he can worry along without
| “ tassels.’’
*1 The naval display on the harbor yesterday afternoo®
was a disappointment to the thousands who witnessed
it
It was. And, what is more, certain serious-minded
citizens of North Shore, who. were left stranded ob Cir-
cular Quay for three hours by the stoppage of ferry-
boats, regard it in the light of a failure. There was
nothing for it but to sit there in the cold wind dang-
ling your legs off the jetty and picking flaws in the
British Constitution.
Envious V isitor ( rapturously) : “Is that a'
fact? Let me kis* it ! ”
THAT TIRED FEELING.
t.B.M. : “ Your Royal Highness, it’s mutual.”
jpw / Jjf
Extract from Duke’s letter to his pa : ,~y
“ One day I had an encounter with an £
Australian bear, and vanquished him un-
aided. Ee sat up on a tree and fixed me
; with his gleaming eyes, and just as he
was about to make the fatal spring J
took steady aim, pulled the trigger, and
he fell dead at my feet.. Mr. F. B
Suttor has promised to skin him for me,
and I shall bring’ the skin home as a pre-
sent to you. Carry I ran out of knight-
hoods so soon, but I shall make the
snuff-boxes an., photos, go as far a 3
possible. - ’
“ Killed, a uurious animal
to-day It has thick, curly
hair, and seems to be gre-
garious I blazed away
among a herd of them, and
P brought down one.
T asked the guide
what it was, but
he gave an evasive
answer (don’t
think he knew),
and said we’d but-
£er cook it as so m
. , . . jis possible. We
had for dinner. The flesh tastes
unlike roast mutton
“ Shooting at
W kangaroos is rather
I fun, but why can’t they •
If sit still and give a fellow a
chance to hit them 1 ”
“ Birds in this country
grow to an enormous height Saw
one (would you believe it?) quite as tall
as I am. They call it a com-
panion It did not seem at
all embarrassed at the
presence of Royalty.
It reminded me
of Dan O’Con-
nor. It stuck
its beak quite
I close to my face,
j' and pretended
l/to remember me
when a mid-
shipman."
r
THE WANDERING HEIR.


A.
SAUNDERS
WEDDING AND PRESENTATION SILVERPLATE-
THE VERY BEST QUALITY. "SEND FOR 1901 ILLUSTRATED BOOK."
4 o’clock SPOONS, Pure Solid Silver, six different patterns
as above, in Silk-lined Case, 6 Spoons 20s and 255, wUh
Tongs 25j, 3Js, 355, £2, pure Silver-plated, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
MOST USEFUL and ACCEPTABLE.
4-Bottie Lunch or Dinner CRUET,
Pure Silver Electro-plated
on hard White Metal, 2 s.
Similar Styles, 255, 80s, 85s.
6-Bottle, 365, £2, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4.
Hot Water KETTLE and STAND, can be used
as a Teapot.—Pure Silver-plated on White
Metal, Beautifully Chased and Ornamented, 86b.
Embossed and extra Chased £z, £2 10s, Other
Styles, £3, £3 10s. Handsome and useful article.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT.-Floral China,
real Silver-plated Mounts, 20s.
Similar Designs, 15s, 255, 80s.
Very pretty and acceptable
present.
A. SAUNDERS.
CARD RECEIVER, Latea! Style,
Pure Silver-plated and Ornamented, 20s,
VERY CHOICE.
'TEAPOTS, very pretty and useful,
Pure Silver-plated, Hand Chased and Ornamented,
22 s 6d.
Other Styles and Patterns,
16s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 80s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDEftS.
Begist?red Motto, Silver-
plated CRUET
(“ Dinna Forget”), 21b.
Very choice and pretty.
Cake B ASKET, Heavily Chased and Ornamented, 85s,
Similar Designs, 20b, 255, 80s, £2, £2 10s.
OUR STOCK OF CAKES IS CHOICE AND LARGE,
EGG CBUET, Silver Electro-
plated, 4 Cups and Spoons, 20s.
• Other Styles,
22s 6d, 255, 80s, £2, £2 10s, £3.
BREAD BOARD md KNIFE,
Chase!, Silver-plated Rims aid B.ise,
21s, 255, SO*, £2.
Serviette KING, Solid Silver, Diamond Cut,
8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ IttlEND.—Pure Solid Silver
Mounts, 18s 6d.
Very useful and acceptable presents.
BUTTER, All Metal, Pure Si.ver-plated,
Nicely Chased, 15s, 20s, 255.
Most Durable,
JAMS, Shaded and Ornamented Glass,
Carvea Ornamented Silver-plated Stand,
12j 6d; similar, 15s. '1 hese are made in
6 Different Patterns.
Solid Silver PHOTO. FEAMES,
Chased and Ornamented,
Ids, 12s 63, 15s, 17» (id, 20, 25s ;
smaller,; sizes, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, ss, 7s 6d.
m
Bill®
■■lB®
Kiii—
■
msam
mmm
-;:.- --
m
_____ A MOST ARTISTIC DESIGN.
PRESENTATION TEA and COFPEE SET, HOT WATER KETTLE, WITH 2tin. SALYER, 20 GUINEAS.
The above Set is most Beautifully Chased, Eluted, and Ornamented, and the quality is the very best English
Silver-plate, which is guaranteed for 20 years. Other Styles, £6 6s, £6 6s, £7 10a, £B, £lO 10s, £l2 10s, £l5. ‘-end for Particulars.
SUGARS, Hand Chased and Ornamented,
Silver-plated, 16s 6d, 20s, 265, 30s.
SALTS, Fancy Glass and Plated Stand,
6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s Pair,
with Spoon,
ENTREE DISH, Silver-plated on Hard White Nickel Silver,
Hard Soldered, £2 12s 6d. Make two Dishes other Styles,
32s 6d, 355, £2.
SLOW lilt STANIiS,
Silver-plated, Coloured
Glass, 12s 6d pair.
■■
mm
TEA INEUSEE, to make a cup of tea, Silver-plated, 3s 6d. Very Useful.
. Child’.-. CUP,
Is 1 icely Chased, Silver-
plated,
8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s, 2Us.
pure Silver
I’oar o’clock TEA SET,
e: tro-plated on White Metal,
Similar Style.;, £2, £2 15s,
with Covers,
first-class English Make, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s, £4.
NUT CRACKERS and PICKS in Silk-lined Cate,
Ch \sed and Silver-pla'ed, 15s (id, and 20s.
VERY USEFUL
m
TOAST KA P K. Pure Silver-plated,
in Everv Style and Shae, 1(m 6d, 12s 6 t, 15s
' 17s 6d, 20s. A Nice Pres nt.
BUTTER, White Glass, Chased and Ornamented
Rim, Silver-plated, 20a; smaller, 15s 6d.
Very neat and pretty.
2 JAMS and 2 BUTTEKS,
Beautifully Chased and Ornamented, very best Silver Plate,
20s, 265, 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWELLER and SILVERSMITH.
A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PRESENTS.
Mind, 815 GEORG E-STREET,
ICE ARIA* OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


BEFORE TAKING NAT All A
Granted Royal Letters
Patent
£5
IAO.V
PIT
By his Excellency
Governor.
Uocon>fortabl« ai)d DiSfigariOg as a Cold.
FcW Tf)il)g6 ar€
Remove it by
Taking
FAMOUS
NATARA!
One Dose
Relieves.
One Bottle
Cures.
Prescribed by DOCTORS for Colds, Coughs, Influenza, Asthma, Whooping Cough, eto.
AN UNEaUALLED REMEDY. Take no Other. Insist upon Getting NATARA.
FIRST PRIZE MEDALS AT THE ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SHOWS.
NATARA cures the Chest, the Throat, the Head, and the WMeSystrai.
Me “' B - TSanf-Thi came safely to W-dW--'S‘X tVS “oTI Sd
and cough I was afflicted with began to disappear immediately I used it. I expenen g e sinoerely '
a distressing cough succumbs to it like magic. Many thanks. JOSEPH S. TEAGUE.
90 Albany Road, Petersham. _ ,
ALL CHEMISTS, Is. 6d- per Bottle; by Post 6d. Extra.
NATARA
Awarded Gold Medal
at the Royal
Agricultural Shoiv.
MIGHTY “ALOE”
TRADE MARK EOR
FISHER & CO.’S
FAMOUS KOLA
NUT TONIC.
Every Morning and Before each Meal “ ALOK ” Removes Headache and Creates Appetite.
J ' ™^arn Tnppm T.TVTCR. NERVOUSNESS, and in reviving the BJ
Jtivery morning ana ueiorc ccuuu — j RPATN
. . u ~ .... . ( . WFAKENFD STOMACH IMPAIRED DIGESTION, TORPID LIVER, NERVOUSNESS, and in reviving the BRAIN
This Tonic acts with most remarkable rapidity m restoring a WEAKENED oIDiVL , ,a m rrnwOMY
from the effects of OVERWORK and FATIGUE. nT*mn ,1 m ,o M VTGOR and HEALTH the whole PHYSICAL ENERGY of the HUM AN
It stimulates and strengthens the entire MUSCUUAR SYSTEM, acting like MAGIC, an r res tored DRUNKARDS to their NORMAL CONDITIONS OF LIFE.
It has a most marvellous effect in checking the CRAVING FOR ALCOHOL, eases
To enable one to enjoy a MEAL, a dose taken an hour or so before immensely SHARFENo IDE Arrmun.
Obtainable at All Chemists, 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. Postage, Bd. and lid.
If Yox* Want FISHER Sm OO.’S Tonic, Ixxalati on toeixxS aerVed wit*L
ALOE.'
If Yon Want nSHESH. OO.’S Tonic, *=
ALL HOTELS, with Soda Water, 6d. per Glass.
Ash for it in the “ USUAL” or “EXTRA BITTER” Form, both containing the same
tttvv™ i mill Th pvaneutic Virtues,
what MADAME ALBANI says about “ALOK,” Mighty “ALOK.”
What MAUAIYIfi y Hotel Australia, Sydney, March 29, 1898.
Messrs. FISHER and 00. . tIM - vrilir r , rAr , flrH f ioTl ALOK ”I am very glad to tell you that this Tonic was of great service to me on the sea, and in
Dear Sirs.—l shall he much obliged if you will send me two bottles of y our Feparat*° > t a3B i s tance to anyone who has fatiguing work to do.
helping me to recover from the effects of my long voyage. It is of great benefit m stopping sea-sickness, g I-am, yours very ti
XTKTI VERB ALLY PRA.ISE33.
DON’T LET BABY CRY !
MATRICARIA INFANTB’ TEETHING POWDERS
_ ..».7 fiUnh.t, neranaements incident to infancy.
For Children Cutting their Teeth, and the various slight Derangements incident to
Dose. —Under six months, half » Powder dr, on the tongue, ever, three hour., .hove six months, one Powder dr, on the tongue, ever, three hours. If th. Ch.ld
very restless, a few doses may be given evert one oe two HOURS. Boxes*, is ■ Three tiq-kbs for 2s. 6d. ; Postage, extra Id.
Symptoms of Teething.—When an infant “is about to teeth,” some of the Jo ll^ s y“P^ o ” l3 oftle ho™painful, red and swollen ; there is a difficulty
the mouth; tlJre is a greater restlessness than usual, especially at night; there are flusbesofheat and . and p U t 3 its fingersor whatever it cangrasp into its mouth, and presses the gum
in sucking the child frequently takes hold of the nipple and lets go again; it Ihas tobjteat everyth™^ .and puts their teeth with a cough, while others have brain affections,
upon it. Besides the foregoing, constipation diarrhoea, sickness, flatulence, andl are otten present. g dis atiH less a dangerous one, but simply as a natural period of the
rolling of the eyes, and, above all, those much dreaded convulsions. Dentit on however should not oe reg ar aea as hM and those of a full habit, that the derangement becomes excessive and
rvßlirl’a iWanisui. Nevertheless, if not properly managed, it not uncommonly happens m delicate, unhealthy, over Out nnlv excitimr cause of this evil, the primary origin should
_ Dentition, that the lijcoines Sxoessive, and
bo sought for in some fault in th© previous state of the system. —*-* ———
jin th© previous state of the system. . __ r . rv^T%TlT >i«q fs77 auttitt
Prepared solely by FISHER & CO., Homoeopathic Chemists, 337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
sold bv all Vendors of FISHER & CO.’S Homoeopathic Medicines throughout the Colonies.
Fisher and Co.’s PHOSPHERINE
REMOVES HEADACHE AND STRENGTHENS THE NERVES.
The Most Effectual Remedy for Weakness, Lassitude, Debility, Loss of Appetite, Nervousness, Neuralgia,
Toothache and other Severe Nerve Pains, Rheumatism and Gout.
PISHBR & CO.’S PHOSPHERIKTE Ixels toe©** ox* tHe Market for TWENTY
YEARS.
aTT-Fj-R My. CO.’S
Direetions.-For r»i»« ZM'ituie, pM«v
ST "T&oZm ™'u"ed°‘' 'AfSrrdttop™ ve“i a ™ur“ nSKe p™** 5 drops night and morning for t,O or thr.o days, for iWt.nm: Tate S drops in a tablespoonfnl of water, at
rising andatbedtime Under 14 teaks, half the above quantity ; under 7, one-foukth. , nA w ... . ,
In Bottles Is. • Four Times the Quantity, 2s. 6d. each, POST FREE. Prepared by FISHER & CO., Homoeopathic Chemists,
Caution.— -Phospherine must not be confounded with Phosphorous or any other Medicines having a similar name, and to be Genuine must bear our Name and Address.
DR. MORTON’S SARSAPARILLA
With Concentrated Compound Addition.
The Most Famous Blood Purifier
and Nerve Restorer.
A Perfect Drink!
A Marvellous Benefactor!
X/Q per Bottle, by post Bd. extra.
DIRECTIONS EOR USE.—To allay thirst
and benefit the whole system, take from three to
six drinks every day. A wineglassful in a tumbler
of water each time.
Ladies and Children will find Dr. Morton’s
Sarsaparilla a Great Boon.
The road to sound and continued good health.
Free from all Intoxicating Power.
A MEDICINAL PREPARATION CONTAIN
ING FOUR TIMES THE VIRTUE
OF
ORDINARY SARSAPARILLAS.
IPT" On Sale by the Single Drink at every Hotel In Australia. “WE
ASK FOR AND TAKE NO OTHER THAN DR. MORTON’S.
FISHER & CO.’S Special Tincture of PODOPHYLLUM
For Biliousness, Constipation, and Inaction of the Liver.
In Bottles, Is., Is. 6d., and 2s. 6d each—Postage Extra.
tt , 7 „, Arid Risinas ■ Take 3to 5 drops in a tablespoonful of water every three hours until relief is obtained, then less frequently. For Constipation - Take 5 Drops in a, wineglassful
DIRECTIONS.- For U p' 0 r i« a jtion ofthe J Liver, and as a Preventative against Bilious Attacks : Five Drops should be taken in a wineglassful of water once or twice a week, just before going to bed.
FISHER’S HOMOEOPATHIC WORM POWDERS.
most efficacious Remedy for Worms. In Boxes at Is. each. Post, extra Id.
N€URALIN€! NCURALINC!
Facial KTeuralgia ! Instantaneous Relief!
FISHER &
COMPANY
The Leading Homoeopathic Chemists of Australasia.
All Tinctures and Pilules Fresh, and Potent.
OUR BOTTLES CONTAIN TWICE THE QUANTITY OF THE IMPORTED ARTICLE.
Pharmacy: 337 GEORGE ST.
Nearly Opposite
General Post Office,
SYDNEY, also at 407 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.


In America, four States legislated against
trading stamps, or, as they are more generally
known here—coupons—but the Supreme Court
ruled that such legislation was unconstitutional.
An Act was passed in Illinois, making it illegal
to use the national flag in advertising. This Aot
was also declared unconstitutional. The Supreme
Courts of United States carefully guard against
interference with the liberty of the subject.*
A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
The Proprietors of Condy’s Fluid, of Goswell
Road, London, England, are now placing on
every bottle of Condy’s Fluid a most useful
Book containing instructions from Veterinary
Surgeons of the highest standing for the
treatment and cure of ailments affecting
Horses, Dogs, Cats, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs,
Poultry,. Pigeons & Cage Birds.
Condy’s Fluid is really a Magical Remedy
for suffering animals, and this book will be
found extremely useful. We recommend all
our readers to buy a bottle of Condy’s Fluid
and carefully read this Veterinary Book which
is now attached to every bottle.
nr
GrO XO HBLI.-
* I(j (IRANI) fcvr Pretty Stamps, but
■ if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price*
lists gratis.
HATS. HATS. h ATS.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Catalogue to B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALT€R BRADL€y » CO..
Vurniture and Vine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Booms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION A FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Piofcures
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff,
&T~ Sales Held at the Auction Itoorns,
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale,
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared,
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-sfc
high-grade
FARM—-
gd
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd*
35 BROADWAY,
George-strcet West, Sydney,
POLITCAL
POINTS
The Ballarat and Bendigo papers get their
Parliamentary speeches by telephone.
A politician is a man who thinks of the
next election ; a statesman one who thinks of the
next generation.
“F.S.” : I never properly understood the
clumsiness of “New South Wales” as a name
until I saw it figuring in Le Courier Australjen
as Le Nouvelles Galles du Sud.
A prominent politician on N.S.W. Oppo-
sition-leader Lee “He has Reid’s policy, and
Lyne’s eloquence.” Crushing ! Reid never had
any policy, and Lyjie has all the brilliant eloquence
of a dry plank.
“Via ”: Unless the Commonwealth hurries
up there won’t be many whites left in North
Queensland to oppose the influx of our black-and-
tan brother. At Cooktown six of him are up
for capital offences.
The stupendous East Kimberley (W.A.)
electorate is supposed to possess about 90 electors,
all told—anyway, it raised 05 votes at the late
election. Old member Connor was returned by a
majority of one, so he represents 33 supporters.
Pretty nearly the only thing the Duke
didn’t open, or lay the foundation-stone of, during
his visit to Australia was the sinking fund for the
gradual abolition of the Public Debt. And almost
the only thing that wasn’t shown to him was the
Deficit.
THE LATEST EXCITEMENT!
Members of Parliament nominate bar-
rackers for the billet of J.P., and swear to their
fitness and untarnished respectability. When an
M.L.A. is himself made a J.P., it is a hundred to
one he has certified to his own fitness and respec-
tability.
More signs of the coming N.S.W. State
elections :
Through Mr. W. Spruson, M.L.A., the Society of St.
Vincent de Paul has obtained a supply of blankets from
the Government for distribution amongst the poor of
Gipps Ward.
N.S.W. Oppositionists are glad because
See is Premier, and N.S.W. Ministerialists are
glad because Lee is Opposition leader. Each side
recognises that its man isn’t a strong man, but
reckons that he can’t possibly be weaker than the
other fellow.
Armidale, in Northern N.S.W., puts in
its belated claim to be the Federal City. And if
the necessary water-supply is there, a square com-
prising the three counties of Sandon, Clarke, and
Hardinge, and a bit of Inglis, with Armidale in
the centre, would be a very promising Federal
Territory.
Bundaberg (Q.) papers tell how the local
walk-about Kanaka is fast being supplanted by a
still cheaper alien. Last year the unattached
Islanders got as much as 15s. a week in some
cases, with rations —of a sort. This year Ram
Dass, the Hindoo, does the work for 10s. and
finds his own rice.
Should Philp (Queensland’s bashful
Premier) get his anticipated job on the Inter-State
Commission there will be a long pull and a strong
pull for the inheritance of his state mantle. Both
Rutledge and “Janny” Leahy will be tugging,
and as each has a square under-jaw and a big
aggressive sect to back him, the toga may split up
the middle.
For the first time in ten years, S.A. Labor-
party did not contest the two vacant seats in the
oig southern Legislative Council district, one
reason being lack of funds. This district was
onoe a Liberal stronghold, but the Tories,. by a
systematic transference of property to wives and
daughters, have created hundreds of new Tory
voters ana got on top. S.A. Council still moulders
on the firm rock of its property-vote, despite all
Kingston’s efforts.
Not only did Queensland’s contingenters
return with very little recognition, and have the
usual struggles to collect their pay, but they were
disfranchised m their absence, and, having no
votes, no M.P. cares much about their grievances.
One boiling-mad warrior writes to the Courier
and accuses .all Queensland of having turned
Pro-Boer.
Two expensive barristers, backed by five
solicitors, argued before a high-priced Judge for
four long hours in Melb. Banco Court, t’other
day, over two scraps of land measuring siin. by
2ft., and l|m. by 21ft.—and then left the matter
in as dense a fog as they found it. The area of
the bill of costs will probably be several times
that of the land.
The awful record of South Australia:
1881-’9l, increase of rural population, 6 per cent. :
ditto, metropolitan population, 28 per cent. 1891-
1901, increase of rural population, 7 per cent ;
ditto, metropolitan, 22 per cent. More than 44
per cent, of the people of the huge State are in
and around Adelaide —living, apparently, by
cutting each other’s hair.
Senator Pulsford told the Federal Parlia-
ment that Australia already enjoys natural Pro-
tection the freights on sea-imports giving the
local manufacturer a substantial advantage—and
doesn’t need more Protection. Then if Australia
has natural Protection, as Pulsford says, the story
about N.S.W.’s prosperity arising from Freetrade
is the same old he over again.
Kerr, Queensland M.L.A., in a recent
speech at Blackall:
The Premier, in order to get his private railways
through Parliament, put in the Governor’s speech a very
attractive programme. They remembered that on the
mountain the evil one tempted Christ with the offer of
the Kingdoms of the Earth. That was what the Pre-
mier did to the Labour party, but the Labour party said,
“ Get thee behind me, Bob Philp.”
If the R.C. Church is in earnest about
altering the Coronation oath, let it simply
announce that, until the alteration takes place,
no bishop or cardinal will attend a State levee or
flap his long robes at any other regal or vice-regal
function. As long as clerics hang round the King
who speaks so disrespectfully of them in his
Coronation oath their troubles don’t look genuine.
The fact that the northern
areas of S.A. have lost 500 in
population during the last 10
years is a bitterness to the crow-
eater community. The northern
areas begin with the salt-bush
a little over 100 miles north of
Adelaide. About 20 years ago,
when the country was first
opened for closer -settlement,
great things were expected of
it. There were millions of acres
of splendid wheat-growing land,
level and practically cleared.
People rushed it as a new gold-
find, but Goyder, the Surveyor-
General, kept cool and laid
down his line of rainfall where
the salt-bush began. Goyder’s
line really meant: “ Beware of
the North, with its droughts,
rabbits, grasshoppers, hot winds
and et ceteras.” The settlers
have had ’em all, not omitting
the et ceteras.
When Federation was “ in
the air,” the Sydney Tele-
graph’s top-note was that once
the capital was fixed in Mel-
bourne it would stay there for
ever and a day. Out of a deep
Victorian conspiracy members
would be made so comfortable
that they would be induced to
remain indefinitely. And 'now
the Telegraph’s Melbourne
correspondent writes : “ The
whole affair of the accommo-
dation of members and the con-
trol of the House is creating
wide dissatisfaction. If it was
not for the absurd 100 - mile
limit in the Constitution, a
motion would be submitted
opening negotiations with the
N.S.W. Government to transfer
the Federal Govt, bodily to
Sydney. Representatives from all the States
are complaining bitterly of their treatment in
.Victoria.”
“A. 8.”: A recent Bulletin par. moots
that another unemployed Advisory" Board is
to be started by" See and co. Surely not. The
Lyne-See crowd has already appointed one. It
calls itself the “ Labor Commissioners of N.S.W.”
The boss L.C. is W. F. Schey, a political rouse-
about on the Gbvt. side. The Commissioners
have an office for themselves, a staff, and a secre-
tary with a hyphen name. And what good does
the Comm ission do ?
“Tangata Mata” writes from Dunedin
(M.L.) :
The Jukoyork parade promises to freeze a bit in Dune-
din. The self-constituted upper strata led off with a
wriggle of great joy, but the horny toiler is slow to follow
suit. Subscription-lists for the “ reception ” and
“ mother’s statue ” are coming back with little on them
save a blot and a dirty" finger-mark. Indignant rate-
payers are protesting against municipal expenditure on
whisky and illuminations, and it is expected that King
Dick’s great Liberal Oircus will pay" the bill in the end.
E. B. Forrest- may fairly be classed as one
of the cheerful Fatmen of Queensland Parlia-
ment. With a shortage of £500,000 in view he
rose up at a recent mayoral dinner in Brisbane to
assure the audience that he wasn’t a man who
worried about deficits, and he hoped any" proposal
CAPITAL HAND IN HAND WITH LABOR
ON THE BANNERS, AND HOW IT FRE-
QUENTLY WORKS OUT.
for levying extra taxation to keep things square
would be enthusiastically rejected. Blow the
deficit; let us have a good time and leave our
children to pay the bill ” is E. B. F.’s simple
philosophy.
The Vic. .and N.S. W. members delight to
stir Big John Forrest up at every chance. His
transcontinental railway is a favorite subject for
“leg-pulling.” One member suggested that as
the capital value of Perth and Fremantle com-
bined was only £3,500,000, and the proposed rail-
way would cost at least £4,000,000, it would pay
the Commonwealth to rebuild those-towns some-
where nearer civilisation where there is a railway
already. This sort of talk always gets ex-autocrat
Big John ramping.
An attempt is being made just now to
create in Queensland a “Liberal Party.” The
attempt is mostly made in districts where Labor
is “ going strong,” and its supporters are mainly
the local backbone of the Continuous Government.
The “ Liberal ” policy is to cordially support the
Pliilp Government, and approve of democratic
measures—which the Government will put each
session at the bottom of its programme where
they can’t be reached owing to the urgent swindles
that are in front of them.
Big, foolish John Forrest evidently doesn’t
even begin to understand that he isn’t running
the show for all Australia as he used to do in his
own ’Groper Land. His wild threat that, if the
western Transcontinental railway doesn’t come
with sufficient speed, he will set to work to with-
draw Westralia from the Commonwealth was
suggestive of the fly on the chariot wheel which
thinks it is the whole chariot. There is no pro-
vision for secession in the Federal Constitution.
It can be done, no doubt, by successful civil war,
but if Bigjohn means civil war there is always a
policeman handy in Spring-street, Melbourne, to
crush the insurrection in the bud, and run in John,
the insurgent, on a charge of high, middle, and
low treason.
The first post-office in Australia, situated
in Lower George-street, Sydney,
was demolished a few days ago. It
was then occupied by the celestial
firm of Yeesang Loong, importer
and exporter.
LESSON IN PERSPECTIVE.
Diagram showing how a very small object close to
the eye can obscure a very large one.
The O’Sullivan is “ considering ” the ad-
visability of putting a sum of money on the
N.S.W. Estimates for the purchase of cannon to
fire at the clouds in the hope of making rain come
down—presumably because Wragge has been tell-
ing of how they fire cannon in Italy in hopes of
making hail stay up. N.S.W. has already a
£300,000 deficit ; and £450,000 of expenditure has
been paid out of trust funds, making £750,000 ;
and about =£1,000,000 of ordinary expenditure lias
been charged to loans, making £1,750,000 shortage
inside one year ; and the O’S. keeps putting new
things on the Estimates as gaily as if he was a
financial cataract coming down at Lodore.
It becomes evident that Barton was a luck-
less man the day he took Bigjohn Forrest into his
Cabinet. Forrest was so utterly detested in his
own country that (when the people got a chance-
to declare themselves on the one-man-one-vote
orinciple) they sent a powerful anti-Barton dele-
gat ion to the Federal Parliament.
Taking John in practically meant losing
the support of the rest of Westralia.
And John hints very broadly that the
Federal Government will lose him too
if the Transcontinental Railway doesn’t
come promptly. In that case the
Ministry will have sacrificed almost all
the rest of Westralia for the sake of
John, and not got John. Further, if
it keeps John he is no use, yet it
can’t drop him without great trouble.
And after the foolish remarks he has
made it is difficult to grant the Trans-
continental line, necessary as it is for
defence and other purposes, without
making it look as if it was the price
of Bigjohn’s vote. Now the Opposition
is saying that the Transcontinental
line will never yield enough to buy
steam to blow the whistle with. This
aggravates John, and his shouts of rage
are interesting to listen to.
The European storekeepers in
Kanaka districts were formerly the
warmest advocates of the Black-bird
traffic. Of late, however, they hav&
changed their tune. The Polynesian
trade now goes chiefly to Chinese and
Asiatic storekeepers, who keep a cate-
gory of attractions unknown to the-
decent European trader. There’s a
Nemesis in everything—even in alien-
cortdling.
It is unofficially circulated tliar. in future
no man is to be made a K.C.M.G. right olf. He
is to be apprenticed to the Order first as C.M.G.,.
and by diligence, orderly habits and early rising
he may work up to K.C.M.G., or even G.C.M.G.
The difficulty is that existing G.M.G.’s are a
curious lot, and eveu hardened grovellers wilL
often object to herd with them while on their way
to promotion. They might miss their promotion
and get left there, which would be like starting to
a lordly banquet in a pig-truck, and being for-
gotten and left in the truck permanently.
In the debate on the Federal Address-in-
Reply “Brolly” Hughes showed up best among
the Labor men in the House of Reps., and in the
Senate Trades-Hall Barrett “got there’’ most
successfully. Barrett seemed equally at home
with the woes of the white pearl-divers of Torres
Straits, the transcontinental railway require-
ments of the Six Families, the gridiron grabs of
Tasmania, Victoria’s rnallee water-famine, and
the S.A. Northern Territory trouble. To be
reasonably interesting on all these things is an
achievement.
The O’Sullivan, probably the best working
democrat in the N.S.W. State Ministry, declares
that he intends, if he remains in office", to follow
Maoriland’s good example, with the hope that
N.S.W. will show the same splendid results. Ho
certainly can’t do better than follow Maoriland’s
example, but there is a dark suspicion that he
hasn’t even the beginning of an idea what that
example is. The M.L. policy is just this: It
levies nearly twice as heavy taxation as N.S.W„
does, in order to get the money to carry out an
enlightened socialistic policy, and then it makes
good use of the money. If O’Sullivan adopts-
every item of the M L. policy bar the taxation
part of it, and starts to do with loans what M.L.
does out of revenue, he might as well leave the
thing alone.
The Peacock Government has prepared an
interesting Bill to be laid before the Victorian
State Parliament. It provides that the 23 Vic,.
Federal electorates shall elect each two members
to a Convention which is to draft a complete new
State Constitution, said Constitution to be after-
wards adopted or rejected by a popular vote. De-
spite all the talk about “usurping the functions
of Parliament,” and so on, this is the right course.
It compels the House of Landlords, by a single
vote, either to give up its entrenched position
behind the battlements of Property, or else to
say flatly that it dare not trust the people with
power to pass judgment on it and its works, and
decide whether or not it deserves a fresh lease of
existence. And that is the tightest place the
House of Landlords has been in for a good many
years.
Last year, in Perth (W.A.), three men,
convicted of shooting at a policeman with
intent to kill, received sentences
ranging from fourteen
months to two years.
Just recently a man has
been sent up for 10 years
for setting a house on
fire. The attempt to
destroy property is thus
from five to 8i times
more awful than the attempt to destroy life.
“The hysterical cry for a White Aus-
tralia.’’—Bruce Smith, Freetrader and alleged
Liberal , from N.S. W. “ The pettifogging mini-
mum wage.”— Also Bruce Smith, Freetrader and
alleged Liberal, from, N.S. W.


FOR
fg
ACCBRDEONS
from 8/6. post free.
Write for catalogues,
it will pay you.
df
CONCERTINAS
from 4/6 post free.
Write for catalogues
it will pay you.
gd
Anglo German
and English
CONCERTINAS
from 25/-, post
free. Write for
catalogues, it will
pay you.
fg
MOUTH
ORGANS
from 3d- Write for
catalogues. It will
pay you.
df
VIOLINS
from 5/- Write
for catalogues, it
will pay you.
gd
MANDOLINS
from 25/- Write
for catalogues, it
will pay you.
f
GUITARS
from 12/6.
Write for cata-
logues, it will pay
you.
h-J/s
BANJOS
from 25/-
Write for cata-
logues, it will pay
you.
o=33^
FLUTES &
PICCOLOS
from 4/- Write
for catalogues,
it will pay you.
11
CORNETS
from 25/-
BAND INSTRU-
MENTS
by the best
makers. Write
for catalogues,
it will pay you.
gs
AUTO-
HARPS
from 12/6.
Write for cata-
logues,
it will pay you.
df
POLYPHON
MUSICAL
BOXES
from 42/
Play any number of
tunes
Write for catalogues,
it will pay you.
«•»
m
MECHANICAL
ORGANS
from 65/-
Write for cata-
logues, it will pay
you.
Everything known in Music. Best Quality at the Lowest Prices.
PALING & CO., Ltd.,
338 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
LIPP PIANOS
LIPP PIANOS
LIPP PIANOS
“ Lipp System,
“ Same as Lipp's,”
And Names such as 11 Lippstein,”
and other contortions are
NOT THE
GENUINE
T IPP PIANOS
1j
PALING’S, LTD.,
gsd
Are Sole Agents
for the Genuine
Rich . Lipp & Sohn
of Stuttgart
When buying a Piano at Paling’s, you can be
certain you are getting what it is represented
to be, and a new one, too.
Prices commence at £65, and not cheaper.
Lipp Pianos have “been here” for over 30
years. Their “ staying ” qualities have been
well tested under all climatic conditions, and
they have proved their worth.
Hundreds sold annually. This is conclusive
proof of their popularity.
Send to Paling’s for Catalogues and prices of
all models of the genuine Lipp Pianos.
LIPP
PIANOS
W. H. PALING & CO., LTD
338 George Street, Sydney.
Road what VITADATIO is Doing-
Suffered frorrj
for 12 Mootbs.
CURED RY
VITADATIO
51 Moncur-street,
Woollahra, N.S.W.
Mr. S. A. PALMER, Sydney.
Dear Sir, —I was a severe sufferer from Indigestion for
over twelve months. I have tried a great many remedies,
but none ol them cured me. Having heard such good
reports of VITADATIO I decided to give it a trial. I
began to improve very rapidly, and to-day I am glad to
say lam a different man altogether. I know of a number
of people who are being cured by your VITADATIO, and
I strongly advise all who suffer as I have done to take
VITADATIO. If anyone likes to make further inquiries
about my case I shall be very glad to tell them more
about my case. Yours faithfully,
JOHN HOUGHTON.
I certify that the above statement is true in every
particular.—(Mrs.) E. Evans, 39 Cascade-street, Padding-
ton.
For further particulars,
'S. A . PALMER ,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
JAMCS REID
PREPARES STUDENTS FOR ALL EXAMINATIONS,
- 1 - MATRICULATION, MILITARY, SURVEY,
ENGINEERING, MINING.
Subjects —Classics, Mathematics, Physical Science,
History and Geography. Technical College, Mining, or
Engineering Students, or others requiring Special Teach-
ing carefully coached personally or by correspondence.
Mr. REID may be communicated with at
198 Springfield Terrace, Grafton St., Bondi Junction.
ASK YOUR JEWELLER TO SHOW YOU
. The Patent Unbreakable
‘ONE-PIECE’ STUDS
Masterpieces of mechanical skill,
Made in Gold, Silver, and Gold-Cased.
Once
Worn
Always
Worn.
Beauty of
Contour
& Finish.
.
Avoid
imitations
None
genuine
unless
stamped
‘ Patent.’
U damaged from ANY cause, a new
one given in exchange.
Wholesale only:
SAUNDERS & SHEPHERD, LTD.,
279. GEOROE St.. SYDNEY, & London, Eng
A POLICY FOR THE"S^
Price Gd. ;
Posted, Bd.
COMMONW6ALTN.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
- *
BUSHMAN WATCH.
m
■m
Camden Buildings,
420 G®orge St., Sydney.
Three Doors from
Strand Arcade.
A Saving; of
25 per cent.
JEWELLERY,
SOLID SILVER GOODS,
SILVER-PLATED WARE.
Write for 80- Paged Illustrated Catalogue Post Free
BALDNESS.
PAPILLA
(Registered.) Hair-Tonic,
The Captain of the New South Wales Cricket Team writes“ JS/l/’Ol. Your ‘Capilla 1 is indeed a wonderful
Remedy—it does all you claim for it. Can recommend it to anyone troubled with weak, thin, or fallint? hair.
“SYD. GREGORY."
Wherever It is possible, CAPILLA will produce hair. None need despair of obtaining: a good head of hair.
ancHrom the Proprietor— W. RICHARDS, 168 Pitt-st., Sydney.
2/0 per bottle, post 3/2 ; 4 bottles, which will effect a cure in the most obstinate cases, posted free for 10/-.
‘Dunlop Tyres” for Hard
Riding: on Roush Roads.
Stand . .
Hard Wear
on Rough Roads Is
ONE feature of
ROADSTER
DUNIOP JYRES
That all
Riders of
“ Punlops "
Appreciate.
Bawara of
Imitations*
Hie Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aust. Ltd.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth,
Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
WIMBIIIIIf
FOR
Speed and Durability.
Beware of Imitations.
Sydney Address
150 Clarence Street.


Banking. Public Cornpanies,~&c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
T.OWEST INT REST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
4
a
BILLS
discounted.
3W.S.A7V.
Hjont deplete Co., Ltd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174. CASTLEE.EAGH ST., 74
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
Till',
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mu! ual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
•Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ) 1 Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; BruckSmitii, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 92,'800- assuring- £25;474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and ‘without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— eauitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
-THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(.LIMITED).
Rbgistkrbd Capital .. £4.800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital £3,216,885 0 0
Dirkctors:
Robert Harper, E-q., Chairman ; J. C. Syme,
Es<i., J.P.; Hon. VV. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
lion N. Thornlev. M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron,
Inspectors : R. M. M‘-Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : G. 11. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street. Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager,: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London OJjice: i Kisliopaqate Street Within
corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
IV T W SOUTH wales:
S¥3>NIOU - 273 GIOOIJOK STItIdIST.
~cting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant : N. S. Bell.
liffjhiai ket, TloSlcrd vi itU aw icy at Wyongl, New-
castle ; will. Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City/
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS, :
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART v 1
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
, Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
CITY MUTUAL FI HE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 ; PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
’ ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Established. 1879.
THE
United Australian mutualfire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
• Principal Offices:
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital .. £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager.
E. B. MoKenny, Secretary.
The Bank of pith Queensland
1.1. M I.TKU.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700;000
Capital Paid-up £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... 250 100 ... £350,000
(]eui Zealand Insurance So.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES . 420,000
Largest Co'oaial Com pang.
-T. A. MIXNCT* 81 .p| tt Bti gy-fne *.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAiS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
bling t lii- constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and interesting
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“maj all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it'does nOt blacken the teeth
-»' " BY CHEMI»TS AM THE WORLD OVER
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
- Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LIME.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE "t
GEELONG
PORTLAND f
WARRNAMBOOL J
Tyrian, Saturday, June 8,12 Noon.
-Buninyong, Tues., June 11, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., June 15,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE x
WALLAROO }
PORT PIRIE (
PORT AUGUSTA )
Buninyong, Tues., June 11, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., June 11, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Eeura, Saturday, June 8,12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tues., June 11, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday June 15,12 Noon
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, June 8,12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, June 15,12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT j
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest. Current Fares anti Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colomal S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Footed Kina-street.
THE “ALL RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OF THE
CANADIAM-AUSTRALIAN LINE
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as .under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
Connecting at Vancouver with the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as wellas the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 days, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world—over the
Selkirk and Rooky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
jßank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office- GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,250,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 2,000,000 0 0
Total .. .. .. 5,250,000 0 0
Directors :
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Jlinnie, Esq. L
The Hon. Charles K. MackbllaF, M>. L.C.
Hon. Henry NorMaSd MacLaurin, M!L.O.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors :
F. W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania,-India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money, on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
TrCistccs, €*€C<itorS,
“ ' AND
Conjpaov Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150.000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ’ £8312 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1900 16,326,343 0 0
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.;;
0. M. Officer,"Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building’s, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders
Total Capital
2,000,000
500,000
£2,500,000
Ocean
A evident
and
Gtiarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks,
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
.V. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
utiflTifAK ; Wellington, N.Z,, C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. • 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Smelting Compy.
(I.IMITKD), ’ -
Aldershot, Maryborough.
j >UYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
'* Cupper Ores; Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
' to. For tariff, ap, ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
■or Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
_ Shipping
TN€ ABCRP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.) -
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LON DON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and! will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and Brd-class passengers carried.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd..
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
ixr. x>. l.
IMPERIAL HERMAN MAIL FLEET. .
1 . . COMPRIBINO .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754-; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000 ; Over 3J million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to
HONG KONG, via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW
.BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and YAP. i
S.S NUEN TUNG, 1341 Tons,
Captain Schoenberg,
LEAVING SYDNEY, 10th JULY NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Spteed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exceflent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents.
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Medical.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
fg
With Patent RUBBER'FEET
aid HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TR.USSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings', Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, <SsC.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 CEORCE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
Business Announcements.
Kerosene Bath Heater
HOT SHOWER INSTANTLY.
NO WICK. NO SMELL. From 755. Each.
NO PLUMBER’S WORK. FIX IT YOURSELF.
COSTS HALF THE PRICE OF GAS
Large Stock BATH HEATERS for Gas and Wood.
' ■ - Send for Catalogue.
B R. A. KT 13 "X" B Ft <3
236 PITT ST., SYDNEY, and
422 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
USE
SPOONER’S
sum
H
SPOONERS
V
*
INTENT.LEATHER BOOTS
,1 CUZEO WO5 &?
W .. ■ :
<1
W (f/ ||U
1“. * \ *-^"7**
•*» *-* '«*,» ir+- •«»">■'—»»*A
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers ol
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP, - -
Plate Powders, .
Harness Dressing'^,
Etc., Etc.-
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Sblpplng.
fHE ADELAIDE ST£A?iI3HIPCC
(I.IMITKDJI I
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.';
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
p ORT pirie
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping' at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
5.5, Cintra. Friday, June 14
(Transhipping, at Mel-
bourne).
5.5. Wollowra, Saturday,
June 15. (Without
Transhipment.)
. *£ •'.V i
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
;V' %
i
And BortsNorth to Cairns
S.S, Albany, Fiiday, June
Rest and Cheapest Route, to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A. U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. Kor Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A. U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to Con-
ditions to'be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
6 BIUDCI-; STB MET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N“Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THIC POPULAR PASSENGER iI.INE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships. as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN mail I.IKR -Weekly,
Via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maekay,
Jiowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYI >NhY and BURKKTOVVN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktovvn, Thursday Island,
and Nornmnton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, amd FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
i*asson <i e i* A eeo nunodation, A ttemla nee and
Cuisine unrivalled. ?
- Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. 11. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
I'or Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, BHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents; In Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
■Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Sydney
Noon
Steamer
Commander.
ARCADIA .
INDIA
OCEANA
BRITANNIA
AUSTRALIA.
6603 A. 0. Loggin June 15
7911 W. I).G. Worcester, R.N.R. June 29
6603 C. Gadd ... ...(July 13
6525 F. IT. Seymour .. July 27
69011. Reeves .. ...Aug. 10
The Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto RetuYn £7l 10sto £l2l
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial pores
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
tralia. Exchange Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at-MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
Steamer
ARMAND
HIC
AUSTRALIEN
BE-
Com-
mander.
Le Oois-
peliier
Yerron
V.DE LAOIOTAT Fiaschi
Sydney,
Noon.
Mel-
bourne,
I p.in.
June 10 June 13
July 8 July 11
Aug. s|Aug. 8
Ade-
laide,
1 p. m.
June 15
July 13
Aug. 10
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports, are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s. Corner, Pitt Street, Sydnev.
__ R - BRASIER 1)E THUY, Principal Agent.
jjuddart, parker | go’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORT’S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. BNP A.” LINE.
The Steamships 6f"theabove Gompany will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for fie Eastern
passenger trad A and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company. ’
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and GO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and . AUSTRALIAN S.S. Co. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ro‘|luraith,fH‘EacharnSgo.
PROP. LTD.
THE ’ FAVORITE STEAMERS
ZK-A-ZLiG-OOIRIILIje], 4500 tons,
GOOLG-AKDIE, 3500 TONS,
SAIL FORT XIGHTRY beta ven
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
Vlest Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation U n surpassed. Liberal Cuhine.
MHLWRAITH, M‘EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle.
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.


On© of the most prominent features of
Kalgoorlie now is the vast quantity of “ pubs.'*
There must be more liquor for sale to the squ re
inch there than in any other Australian town.
Bars: are everywhere; while at the Boulder it is
getting hard to find a house which hasn’t a license.
And yet still more licenses are being granted. In
fact, hardly anyone who asks for a license is re-
fused it. JThe Westralian Government wants re-
venue badly, and liquor brings revenue. Every
drunk who breathes rum on the Colonial Trea-
surer is another guarantee that the surplus will
be all right ai; the end of the year.
Prof. Heim, a Swiss geologist and Alpine
tourist, says that life contains few experiences
more agreeable and enjoyable than dropping over
a precipice. Even the landing after the fall is
said to be free from anything of pain or terror ;
and death from falling contains horror only for
the observer. He relates his own experience of a
fall, and also that of two others, one of whom
says : “ I seemed to be borne in the most pleasant
manner gently downwards, and had complete
consciousness during the whole fall. Free from
all pain or fear, I contemplated my position and
the future of my family.* . . . And this contem-
plation was accomplished with a'rapidity which I
had never known before. Of the losing of my
breath, Of which people talk, there Fas no sugges-
tion, and only the heavy fall on the snow-covered
ground caused me to lose suddenly and painlessly
all consciousness. ’
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion V. If so, under the skip you have poison.that defies all
the reinedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover* but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and. had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURD YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured,
.is'end at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are' a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, jn Great Brilain, l/ljd. per b >x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
gieenTabei on each bpx. (Regd. copyright).
sdf
fringes,
WoturaJ Curly, from S/6 nufe
PLAITS ond TAILS,
IfMn. long, &/C. all real ha£*>
CUTTINGS * COMBUI®@
•orited up, 2/(1 per 02.
\V« are the chcapestia ba»
l«alla lor nil Uair IVorb.
Sand Color of tlair-
W. H.'wigzefl,
110 VVIU.IAU BTBSPT.
earner of Paltner<«tn*V
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door. 1
Send st amps (of tall Price MeV
f*fipf atUuiUon'frivcß to Country OiJ«Wb
gs
•
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Qoids, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-*
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
■ pound Inhalent, and 1 tin 4 /
Nasal Ointment, only * V/ “ Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOUBNK
DON’T POISON 1
fei ;
YOURSELF
With DRDCS. All Diseases of the Nervous System l
Lame Back, Sciatica, Liver Complaint, Dyspepsia, Des-
pondency, Brain Fao, and, in fact, all chronic weaknesses
and ailments can now be Speedily Relieved and Cured
without Drugs or Medicine of any kind. Address—
ARTHUR HALE, 44 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
dfg
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Chic; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets... or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque on London.
English, French, and German Rare Books.
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GENNERT,
895 Faubourg St., Martin, Paris, France.
CARBOLIC
TOOTH
POWDER
IS THE BEST DENTAL
PRESERVATIVE.
Has the Largest Sale of any Dentifrice,
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
s
3C
m
H
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE .REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers from Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia, ./Enemia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
HHUUMpSUS
b[oim#tp
lIHITneJ;
mUiIIMB
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed liem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’Sj CHIEF LABORATORY.
ALF ALIKE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed-Cure for All Nervous Affections, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 61- & 12/-. Course, 23/6.
ALFALtME BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin'Diseases. Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
ASnemia, Wasting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Topic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/r and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS *
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indige-tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOAES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and
235. 6d, Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A
Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
posted, 35., 65., 12s. and 235. 6d.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
cure for all Spinal and Kidney Affections ;
425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. itegister all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Correspondence held confidential.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/• and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
Jff> . •
CORN CURE, 1 /-.
OINTMENT, 1/-.
h mam
HER
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN) _ „
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office arid his
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES:
MELBOURNE, 150 Bourke-street
BRISBANE, 309 Queen-street
ADELAIDE, 154 Rundle-st
N.Z., 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A.-rrPERTH, 481 Hay-street
KALGOORLIE, Hannan-street.
BOULDER C/fy, Piesse-street.
FREMANTLE, Henry-street.
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALFALINE REMEDIES.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
sate*
Caution.—Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—-
Pr. J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ot
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to tie
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’
sd
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
A TELIA NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ I'JLE.G-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will, cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health. .
Our Marvellous Eleotric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guaran tee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount, paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,'we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
i‘ COMMON BMNSE: S4 H DItUM.
THE
/COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from'all the colonies. Send a
Eost-card to-day for illustrated
ook, free. Address,
. J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
A Tested and infallible remedy.
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write lor treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1534.
INVENTOE OP Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, ted. - ■
use Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. i£d. and 2s. 9d. each'of all Drug
Stores. ■ '
Sole Makers: BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd,
BRIDPORT, England
iiTRI
JV3Q
fg
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head N.oises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. ' Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal*
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. V
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.., Melbourne.
GENTS
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
sdf
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from. Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&e., should have one' of these
Cabinets. Price 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMEBS, Agent;
229 Coltins St., Melbourne.


Don’t Hesitate.
There is just one thing to use if your stomach,
liver or kidneys are “out of order,” and that
“one thing” is Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
The supposition is that you want a prompt cure
and a lasting cure. That is why Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are recommended as the one
thing for your condition. They cure promptly,
perfectly and permanently. One of the thousands
cured gives strong proof.
HE SUFFERED FOR YEARS.
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS CURE.
Mr. John Kerr, 161 Church-street, Camper-
down, writes Wish to inform you that for a
number of years I was a great sufferer, caused by
Biliousness, frequently been laid up for a week,
sometimes a fortnight at a time, constantly taking
medicines, and seemingly deriving no benefit A
friend advised me to give Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills a trial. Did so, and after taking them
for a time found myself getting better, and now
for the last two years I have only lost one day. I
still keep them by me, and occasionally take a
dose, which keeps me right.” Strong proof he
speaks after being cured two years. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills positively cure Biliousness In-
digestion, Constipation, Dyspepsia, Headaches,
Liver and Kidney Complaints, Piles, Pimples and
blotches. Sold by chemists and storekeepers, price
Is. bottle, or six bottles 6s. 6d. Sole pro-
rietors, The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd. (Australa-
sian Depdt), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney. Packed in
amber bottles, and the full name blown thereon.*
■ REUTER’S
LITTLE
\ PILLS FOR
THE LIVER.
Are particularly adapted to the needs
of the family, act in such a manner as to
cause noinconvenience,specially intended (
for the cure of all ailments arising from a
disordered LIVER and STOMACH. <
YOU CAN TELL
Red Bird Bicycle
Rider when he passes ydu on the road. His machine glides swiftly and smoothly along-—he harrtlv
pedal. The RED BIRD is so accurately and faithfully built that it is a pleasure to ride on! y needs
POOLD BICYCLE CO„ 64 King Street, Sydney
The
Origin*!
JOHN JAHESON WHISKY
Agents:
J. Barre Johnston & Co.,
Sydney
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Happenings on opening day (June 1) of A.J.O,
recent meet evidenced what a gold-mine Sydney betting
“ shops” are for those who run them, and how great the
odds are against town punters (who pack these places)
unless they happen to “know something.” There Were
113 names in the book for six events ; but of these only
61 lined-up, and in, one race—the June Handicap—l 2 of
17 carded withdrew, leaving but five starters. To the
uninitiated it may seem strange that owners or trainers
cannot make up their minds whether to start or not till
the last moment, but to those who know the number of
glaring “ stiff ’uns ” the “ shops ” get hold of each week
(often from stables that might appear far above that sort
of thing) there’s nothing puzzling about the matter.
.•♦ . *
Warwick Farm and “Bill” Forrester sprung
another of their periodical surprises, on Saturday, at the
A.J.O. meeting, when The Watchdog romped away from
end to end with the Ellesmere Stakes, and, probably, a
big “ cut ” of Tatts.’ sweep, covering the six furlongs in
I. and making hacks of all other starters. Three
weeks before, in Rosehill Senate Handicap (six furlongs),
won easily by Pretence, The Watchdog finished nowhere,
though the winner’s time was 1.17. As evidence of how
dark this good thing was kept, it’s worth telling that,
while money went on Belus, Ferryman and co. in heaps,
14’s were plentiful about Watchdog. But, when his
party did come, they backed him down to first favoritism
at 4’s. Latest, was the Gibraltar-Rose Flaneur’s nag’s
first win since his Newmarket Handicap success.
•:• * •
Bookmaker Oxeriham’s Gozo-Cerise-and-Blue
nag, recently sold to “ Tommy ’’ Kelly, continues a big
money-making medium for the latter, who has already
won three good handicaps with him, latest being the rich
A.J.O. Exeter Stakes at Randwick on Saturday last.
Lygon isn’t too good from hhe general punter’s point of
view, as there’s a deal of “ in-and-out” about his running.
He is full-brother to Syerla and half-brother of Laura and
that sterling galloway, Water-Color.
• • • •
Following on Undaunted’s scoop of the Turf
Club Handicap (25/5/’01), the same crowd, with the Cran-
brook-Formosiosa gelding, Taiwan, on Saturday last at
Randwick, gathered in the Novice and June handicaps.
Fact of all these nags being prepared at Rosehill accounts
for the public being so much in the dark regarding their
capabilities. Ere long there’ll be more from the same
quarter worth an investment—or present scribe is no pro-
phet. Taiwan is a fine stamp of nag, just the shape and
make for “ lepping,” and big and strong enough to hump
the heaviest of burdens.
• * * #
The A. J.C. Steeplechase on Monday was sensa-
tional. Only two of six starters “ stood-up.” Satan
11. usually a “ cert" to see the trip out, came a cropper
over, the first “ lep.” The stiff task at the home-turn
beat Mist badly. lonian struck the logs so heavily that
he turned a complete somersault, and My Stars,' while
fighting for first place with Volcanic, blundered badly at
the hill-fence, thus leaving Volcanic to finish alone—The
Toff being too far away to cause trouble.
• • • •
Big, angular, light - fleshed nag, Ferryman,
opened the eyes of turfmen, last Monday, at A.J.O. meet-
ing, by the manner in which he closed on the Welcome
Handicap (six furlongs). With 11.2 up and conceding
fellow starters from 14 to Sllbs., he got home easily from
16 others in 1.16. J. This rank's with the best ever seen at
Randwick, for some reputed top-notchers were behind.
Ferryman was foaled in ’93, and got by that premier pro-
ducer of winners, Gozo, from Foam by Maribyrnong, from
Surf (imp.) by Lifeboat. T’other day, carrying 9.11, he
finished second to Lady Jewel, when the May Stakes (six
furlongs) were cut out in 1.15}. >
* * • •
Abbotsfield, by His Reverence-Champs Elysees
(imp.), ranks among the most taking-looking youngsters
seen out for some time. In many respects he closely
resembles his sire, but pleases the eye much better.
Abbotsfield won A.J.O. Nursery Handicap on Monday in
good style, and promises really well.
• • • •
A.R.C. meet concluded Monday. Tote held
£15,460—£1944 in excess of same day last year.
» • * *
La Carabine easily won the only two weight-
for-age events that S.A. provides. In the one at Mor-
Shettville the totalisator had a good advertisement.
[any backers stood off, supposing that they would have
to lay 10 to 1 on, but at the last moment (as always hap-
pens with the machine) tickets were taken on the other
starters, for the sake of the odds, and the dividend was
275. for £l. At Victoria Park, with bookmakers declining
to bet unless backers would place Ist and 2nd, the divi-
dend was 235.
• * * •
The luck of it. S’Rupert Clarke gave £l2OO for
La Carabine in August last and has, through her, since
won £2873 in stakes alone. The mare is still a promising
revenue-source.
• • • •
Success of La Carabine in A.R.C. (S.A.) Park-
side Stakes, t’other day, recalls that her trainer annexed
same event with Acton in ’97 and with Paul Pry the three
following years—thus getting away with the race five
times in succession.
• • • *
Though the Adelaide Cup, run on Saturday
last, was worth £BOO, there were only 11 starters. Fol-
lowing up his win of the City Handicap a few days pre-
viously, Footbolt got home handily, giving nothing else a
chance. Machine showed £4139, and div. was £6 odd.
Sum put through the tote was £14,000 —a decrease of
£lOOO on last year, and of over £4OOO on the previous one.
Falling off is accounted for by the fact that former races
for the Cup occurred on a holiday.
* m ' • •
Worth noting- that the owner (J. Rowen) of
Footbolt, which won A.R.C. Handicap t’other day,
secured the same event last year with Fleet Admiral.
The nags are from the same dam.
• * * *
It is stated that crack-amateur ’cross-country
rider, Mr. T. S. Dean (who met his death through Tramp
falling in Findon Amateur Steeplechase at Moonee Valley,
22/5/1), dreamt the night before—and told several friends
next morning—that when riding in a ’chase, and while
crossing a fence, he saw his own corpse alongside the
obstacle. It is also said that a lady friend implored him
not to fulfil the engagement. The deceased was ahead
of most others at the game, having placed some big
things to his credit. He was up on Cerberus—second to
Daimio in V.R.O. Grand National (’94)—and second to
Dondi in V.A.T.C. Grand National, same year. He had
only just returned invalided from S’Africa, where he
served with Kitchener’s Horse.
• • • •
“ E. & 0.E.” writes from Brisbane:—“ Sydney
race-goers are hereby solemnly abjured to fasten a stead-
fast and discerning eye on Lucknow whenever he faces
the barrier. Lucknow started in the Stradbroke Handi-
cap, at Brisbane recently, with 9.4 in the saddle, and had
very bad luck in getting third place in a fast-run race,
for he was last at the turn, and it was whispered after-
wards that he ought to have stayed there. Anyway, if
his owner had wanted to back him in any subsequent
race at the meeting he would have stood a good chance of
being trampled on by the large feet of the numerous
punters rushing to get in on the ‘ good thing.’”
& * * *
The Great Metropolitan Stakes (2| miles), at
Epsom (Eng.), was run in 4min. 9 2-ssec., or fully 6sec.
slower than the average time taken for an Australian
Cup. Yet at the same meeting a couple of 5-furlong
races were put through in 59 2-ssec. and 57 l-ssec. respec-
tmdy, both times being taster than the best Australasian
records. So, if the time test goes for anything, the Eng-
lish sprinters, which are mostly trained for speed only
are more slippery than ours, whereas the “stayers” over
there are not asked to stay at such a severe pace as the
stouter Australian battlers are accustomed to. The two
Twfi* 8 0 ■, tra *, nin 2' at *d racing must be radically different.
Up to a mile the English horses travel quicker than our
ttavelled > unless the difference in
favor of the English times for short-distance events is en-
tirely due to different starting methods. When the dis-
f ° n^u r f he r,de is reversed. The Australians are
MoiK 1 £° thelr hardest pretty well all the while in a
Melbourne Cup and the winner makes a time which is
seldom equalled by the so-called “stayers” in the Jook
o York s native country. Roughly speaking, all Aus-
tralian horses have lots of stamina, but none of them
nave exceptional speed, as compared with the Britishers
iney are much the same as the racers bred in France.
* * * m
Fight between “ Albury” Clifford, of Tas., and
tne Bananaland slogger, Phillips, at Gaiety A.C. (Sydney)
Monday night, was the hottest thing possible while it
lasted—as hot even as the first Cribb-Sturgeon bashing-
b°ub - J\ rsb one . then another held the lead. Betting
changed from odds on Clifford in one round to odds on
tother man in the next. Clifford went to the boards
thumped there by the stiffest of thumps, but rose
u P,^ ld Phillips back in his own coin. So
the battle raged. Once (in the third round) Phillips was
floored by a punch on the jaw, but no sooner rose than he
jaDDed Clifford heavily on the bridge of the nose, .causing
the Tas. pug to stagger yards away, dazed, and then fall
m a heap. The sixth 3min. brought the end, which was
in keeping with all that had gone before. In the middle
of a wild rally both crossed with the right at
the one moment, as if the idea had been rehearsed,
anclgot home so effectively that both were spread-eagled-
Clifford was absolutely beyond recall within the given
lOsec., but Phillips had the ropes for support as well as
assistance from his cute little second, Abe Willis, which
was a distinct breach of the rules, but it passed un-
noticed. Phillips got the verdict while Clifford remained
oblivious.
• • • *
Bruiser Otto Cribb, who returned t’other day to
Sydney from U.S., has a heap (not complimentary) to say
about “Murka" and “Murkan” institutions. Fight-
managers in the U.S. (and no pug has a hope of doing
anything without one, for they’ve got the “pull” every-
where) are veritable human vampires. “You’re fighting
wholly for their benefit,” said Otto. “The agreement
you sign reads fair enough, but it pans-out almost every-
thing for the manager, and barely an existence for the
machine.” Cribb’s compact bound him body and soul
(professionally) to his manager, for he could fight nowhere
without that individual chipping in and claiming his haul,
and the club dared not withhold it. Otto’s man was a Ger-
man Jew, who talked eternally, and operated with Otto’s
Australian savings (which were pretty considerable)
until they dwindled so low that their owner thought it
better to leave than be “ left.” Cribb isn’t taking any
more U.S., and advises all Australian pugs to do ditto,
He also predicts that if Melbourne Tim Hegarty has a
chance of beating “ terrible ” Terry M’Govern he won’t be
allowed to. M'Govern is the hottest fighter Otto ever
saw, but out of the ring looks like anything but a bruiser.
* • * •
“Jab.”: Curious that the elusive pug, Herb
M’Kell, should return from S’Africa just about the time
Cribb gets back from America ; especially as Cribb’s home-
coming wasn’t expected for a long while hence. Months
ago M‘Kell, at Broken Hill, talked fight to Cribb, at Syd-
ney, and latter was willing, but M‘Kell pleaded an urgent
engagement in England as excuse for not allowing reason-
able time to train, and there the thing stopped, after lots
of newspaper “barney.” M’Kell'‘never got nearer
England than S’Africa, and left Capetown jis a
consequence of an “ unsatisfactory ” affair with
Yankee lightweight Everhardt. As M’Kell is billed
to meet “ Snowy ” Sturgeon whom Cribb licked
twice—it isn’t likely that first and last-named will
come together for some time ; but when they do there’ll,
be a fight worth seeing. Meanwhile, Cribb says he’ll
give Mick Dunn that promised return-match, andj as this
is the one thing Mick has been praying for, the affair will
probably materialise.
*•■■ . « ,
“Uppercut”: Several Bulletin writers have
lately gibed at the chances of Melb. Tim Hegarty with
champion Terry M’Govern. I think the fight is no fore-
gone conclusion. I have seen Hegarty fight a dozen
times (four times with M’Gowan) and I have never seen
him hit once. This is a big thing to say, but within my
experience, Hegarty has never been struck a blow worthy
of the name. He has.been jabbed and tapped, and heavy
hits have grazed along him, but, during 100 or more
rounds, not one landed him. Cadaverous-faced and very
thin, Hegarty looks a weakling, and he may be, for he
has never yet had a chance to prove whether he has any
ability in taking punishment—but he is as cunning as a
rat. I believe he has never been knocked down in his
career ; he has certainly never lost a fight; and he is a
man who, despite his weediness, can hit hard enough to
bustle even a glutton like M’Gowan. I am no barraeker
for Hegarty. I have never seen him fight without wish-
ing the other man would win. But I can’t blind my eyes
to facts-, and on those facts I would not be a bit sur-
prised to see Hegarty wear M’Govern to a standstill by
his marvellous dodging and clinching at critical moment. ’
Re cabled death, latter part of April, of pugi-
list Billy Smith, as the result of a fight in the National
Sporting Club, London. Assertion made in Bulletin
that it could not have been—as surmised by various
sporting scribes—“ Mysterious ” Billy Smith, because
Smith’s opponent (Roberts) was only a feather-weight,
proves correct. Latest ’Ome news tells that this Smith
was a 9st. lad. London Sportsman, commenting upon
the happening, says : “ It is astounding that accidents
should occur at a club where everything possible is done
to avert them. Nowhere is boxing conducted ’under
fairer or more straightforward conditions. Whereas at
muiy places the men box on bare boards, at the National
the floor of the ring is covered with 2Jin. of felt, under-
neath a stretching of canvas. So thick indeed is this
that many of the boxers complain that the padding
causes a man to get leg-weary and tired. Also the gloves
have been increased in size, and the limit reduced from
2C to 15 rou ids. Since the National opened some 10,000
bouts have been decided within its walls, and this is but
the fourth mishap.”
* * * •
Mention (B. l/6/’Ol) of Nat Langhurn’s “sport-
ing drum” reminds writer that it was recently stated
that old-time pug. Sam Thorne was still alive. Sam was
“ Ould Nat’s ” special pet, and, through Bell’s Life, Nat
offered to back Thorne against any 7.8 lad in the world.
In those days wealthy sports frequented Laiigham’s
“ drum,” and when the pugs, faced each other for the ex-
pected and always forthcoming “ showers ” (if the bout
proved hot and willing) Nat would say : “ Now, lads, with
the gloves or without?” And then the fighters went at
it as if life hinged upon the outcome. All pros, at Nat’s
place were tip-toppers. He’d have nothing but the best
brand. - Thorne boxed at Langham’s during the week
Sayers and Heenan fought, when the place was in charge
of Job Oobley, “ the enthusiastic pot-boy.” Sam has
said that, though then a mere lad, he many a time
pocketed 20 sovs. as his share of a “ shower.”
* * *
R. L. Dunn, a very ancient resident of Parra-
matta (N.S.W.), who died last week, aged 70, was one of
the oldest cricketers in the State, and played the game
in the days when matches were for a stake. There were
annual matches between Parramatta, Windsor, and Mait-
land, and Mr. Dunn was looked upon in the very long ago
as the finest short-slip or point in the State.
* » * «
Norwood, the old-time famous Adelaide club
which could defeat Melbourne’s best 20, is once again at
the head of the list in S.A. games. Port Adelaide, another
famous team of other days, has also commenced well, and
the revival of these clubs has exercised a powerful influ-
ence on the game, gates having so far beaten all records
for the early part of the season.
» • • •
Noticeable features of present season’s Sydney
Rugby football are all-round improvement in play, and
almost total absence of that unnecessary roughness so
much in evidence during past years—all through
the firm measures taken by the governing body.
Last Saturday’s round of the Ist grade’s competition
drew big crowds everywhere. ’Varsity-Eastern Suburbs
match attracted 4000 spectators. Former won by 13 to 4,
after a hot game, wherein the winners were hard-pushed
till the last ‘2smins. North Sydney beat Balmain by 9to
8, and 3000 people looked on at a most exciting struggle.
Glebe had a soft thing with South Sydney, who only
notched 6 points to their conquerors’ 17, sending a huge
crowd away sadly disappointed. Western Suburbs totted
up 9to Newtown’s 6. ’Varsity now heads the list with 5
successive wins, South Sydney being next—4 wins and 1
defeat.
• • • •
Alleged that Melbourne B.C. has a bank credit
of £7564, and this in face of the fact that the bike-game
generally fell flatter than cricket during the past year,
“ gates ” often not being big enough to clear ex’s. Aus-
tral meetings, however, have been M.8.0.’s stand-by.
* * * *
Someone has totted up Plugger Bilmartin’s
earnings since November last year as £1364 in stakes, £4OO
percentage from machine, tyres, &c., and £250 “ appear-
ance-money." Total, £2014. Successful cycling appar-
ently pays, but there’s only one Plugger—and he stands a
long way out from the rest in the biz.
• • • *
Retired world’s premier boat-puller, Bill Beach,
is the latest racing member of N.S.W. Cycling'League.
’Tis any odds that the spunky old top-notcher purposes
having a cut at the game and, taking the form of the rank
and file nowadays, he needn’t be extra good to gather in
a race or two. Beach isn’t the only ex-crack sculler who
has tried cycling. Neil Matterson and Chris. Neilson gave
it a fair turn. 8.8. junior has been a more or less suc-
cessful contestant among N.S.W. South Coast bikists for
some time.
* * * *
The top-notch road-rider (Gavin Park) of this
continent left for Glasgow last Saturday week, to com-
pete at the big Scotch cycling carnival. Park holds the
25-mile (lh. 12m.) and 50-mile (2h. 48m. 325.) Australasian
road “ bests.” He is 23yrs. old, weighs 11.7 in trim, and
has been at the game only 18 months.
• * * *
The N.S.W. Government offered certain medals
as prizes for a Commonwealth regatta at the beginning
of this year, and its liberality was much appreciated. So
far, however, the people who won these medals have met
with just about the same success at collecting them as
many other public creditors are doing. On the awful
Cash Basis fraud everything that can be postponed to
next financial year is so much saved, in appearance any-
how, this year, for the Cash Basis makes no mention of
unpaid liabilities. So the tendency is to tell the public
creditor to call round in July.
* » » *
Details are to hand of the record row, Oxford to
Putney Bridge (estimated 104 miles), in 13h. 56m., accom-
plished by M.L. sport S. Gollan and crack Australian
scullers Tom Sullivan and George Towns. For 70 miles
they had a head-wind. After the effort ended, Sulli-
van is said to have remained oblivious to everything till
next morning. Towns and Gollan also showed signs of a
big gruelling. Barring a pre-arranged halt at Henley and
another at Windsor Bridge, they never eased between
locks, and the average wait within locks didn’t exceed
3min. The trio had a launch following supplying milk-
and soda, cocoa, hard-boiled eggs, and, towards the end,
weak brandy-and-water. Their hands were troublesome
all through, and their arms and knees were much affected
by the sun.
•** . *
Re that Gollan-Towns-Sullivan record sculling
trip from Oxford to Putney. In ’B9, amateurs Grenfell,
Lehmann and Holland (stroke and bow using oars and
t’other sculls) covered the journey in 22h. 28m. Also, a
water-cycle, worked by Atkinson, Bates and Cooper, put
up the distance in 12h. 27m. 505., and this was the
achievement Mr. Gollan had his “ triple-sculler ” built to
wipe out.
• * • *
“Bias”: Cabled Saturday last that Australa-
sian bowlers have split in London, the M.L. section going
“on their own.” This wasn’t unexpected, as M.L. reps,
in all departments of sport have a reputation for that .
kind of thing. The venture originated with Vic. and
N.S.W., who invited M.L. to join, but, though accepting,
M.L. from the first appeared disinclined to do the right
thing—by refusing to subscribe to general secretary
Cudden’s and other ex’s ; ignoring the N.S.W. B.A. upon
arriving in Sydney; and writing to M.C.O (Melbourne)
and to Hobart, arranging matches for themselves en
route , without enlightening other States’ reps, who were
aboard the same boat. Then the Maorilanders insisted
that in every 4-rink match played two rinks should be
made up from their lot, thus leaving one for the Corn-
stalk players and one for Victoria—though those States
muster thrice or quadruple the number of bowlers.
Cable further states that the M.L. seceders will go to
Scotland first. This is probably the outcome of inters
vention by the Imperial Bowling Association, which con-,
t-rols bowls as far as England is concerned, but has no
power in Scotland, and which, being jointly with N.S.W.
and Vic. promoters of the present scheme, would
naturally resent the M.L. men’s action and shunt them-
off.
* * * •
News comes of further successes by Australian
champion pigeon-shot, A. W. Eales, at Notting Hill,
London. He and another (Ross) survived the 4th round
of a £3-sweep (29vds. rise), and whacked the full amount
pooled. Later that day Eales apppropriated a 30yds. rise
sweep with 8 successive kills, and also handled additional
money through successes in subsequent £1 sweeps. Ap-
parently, the Maitland (N.S.W.) crack-shot is just'
commencing to show his true form ; he was certainly not’
near himself at Monte Carlo.
* * • •
“ X.” : Have seen it stated several times within
the past year or so that half-caste boxer “Sam Cavill,’
now in London, is an Australian. He was never known
in the game here, though he alleges differently. Probably
the name of the famous Australian swimming-family has
been appropriated, with the object of giving weight to
his. assertion. Anything bearing the Australian brand
soon finds market in the Yankee and ’Ome bruising busi-
ness, where comers from other parts would have to show
something before.there’d be a demand.
* *
A Sydney sport sends this yell from up North:
“ They certainly manage these things better in Barataria.
There the stewards and committee-men are a happy
family, and, though they own horses, trust their handi-
capper implicitly. They take their secretary into part-
nership, and, with his assistance, control subsidiary
racing clubs, and they' provide their judge with several
very comfortable billets—they also provide him with an
assistant (from one of their racing club offices)
in the box to help him hoist the numbers of
the winners—a very fatiguing job in a warm
climate. Thus, when said committee-men hear
of a ‘ good thing’ they can dash it in with vim, having
every confidence that the: various officials will do their
several duties in an able and conscientious manner. And
when the general public clamorously asserts that the
* good thing’ just failed to get up and was beaten by a 10
to 1 chance’ our friends of Barataria point triumphantly
to the judge’s verdict—(‘ a gentleman of great experience
—true, he is a little short-sighted, but we provide him
with an assistant, from one of our club offices, to help
him hoist the numbers, and surely you would not assert
that two men had made a mistake in placing the horses 0
—and then they collect their winnings from the benevo-
lent bookmakers. When in Barataria, I believe in doing
as the Baratarians do—or, rather, as their committee-men
do. But I can’t always find out what they are doing.
And that is why I am going back home—per boot.”
Writes an Australian in England : “ Dur-
ing the recent beer-poisoning scare an anxious
drinker asked an East End (London) landlady if
her liquor was pure. She replied indignantly:
‘ All our liquor was paralysed by two anarchists,
an’ it’s guaranteed.’ I think the name above
the door was Pralamop, or something like that.”
Little Paunch M’Kinley has withdrawn
from his candidature for Knox’s old seat in Vie.
Legislative Council. If he had got in, his paper
would necessarily have lost the Government ad-
vertisements. The retirement is explained in
a lot of words about “difficulties having arisen,”
and the loss of the Government advertising would
certainly be a difficulty. It might even be called
a calamity or a bereavement.
The venerable “ murder-wnZLout ! ” gag is
apparently going to receive yet another flat con-
tradiction in the case of old man Schnoor,
mysteriously murdered some time back at Goul-
burn, N.S.W. There is absolutely no clue to the
perpetrator, and the police haven’t even ventured
on the time-honored announcement that they are
“in possession of information which will pro-
bably soon lead to, ” &o.
The record of Sydney baby-farmer Makin,
with his private cemetery in the back-yard, has
been beaten badly in England. On the premises
of a Birmingham undertaker were found the dead
bodies of 35 infants. This is an old trick of the
cheap undertaker. The man who doesn’t bury the
infant at all can naturally quote lower rates for
infant funerals than the man who plants them,
however economically.
Fraser and Sargood, M’sL.C. for South
Yarra (Vic.), have both gone into Federal politics,
and there are two vacancies. But the man who
gets Fraser’s seat has a steady job till Fraser’S
six-year term expires in 1904, while the man who
gets Sargood’s billet is only in till 1902. Candi-
dates can’t state which seat they are after ; sup-
posing four nominated (two for each seat), it
might result in two men being elected to Fraser’s
seat and nobody to Sargood’s, or vice versa, which
is an impossible situation. Yet if they don’t state
which seat they are after, it is difficult to say
who gets the long term and who the short one.
One idea is to let the winner who looks most like
Fraser get Fraser’s billet, and so on. Another
idea is that they should sleep for it, slumber being
natural to the House of 48 Rich Landlords ; the
man who sleeps longest to have the best job'.
There has been a curious revival of interest
in the Viotorian House of 48 Rich Landlords. For
many years a contested election was the excep-
tion; sometimes at the periodic re-elections the
whole batch of retiring members were sent back
unopposed. But all of the seats vacated by the
M. who have gone into Federal politics—
Zeal, Sargood, Knox, Fraser, Cooke and Phillips
—are being contested. In some instances three
men are reaching out hungrily for the one seat.
As showing the moribund state into which the
Upper House electorates had drifted, one—in the
N. had had no election for 17 years. The
electors’ roll had got lost; some of the old polling-
places had been overrun with scrub, and towns had
grown up with no polling places gazetted. At
latest, the returning-officer was trying to straighten
up the chaos. The revival is due probably to the
proposal that there should be a complete overhaul
of the superannuated State Constitution.
The early days of the Federal Parliament
have been woeful. That purposeless dripping of
damp platitudes called “the debate on the Address-
in-Reply ” has gone on day after day, starting
from nowhere to go round m great circles until
it ends in the same place. No earthly purpose is
served by the debate on the Address-in-Reply,
and it eats up time remorselessly. If the Federal
Government has any practical ideas about it,
it will have this oratorical fantod abolished by
the opening of next session. Then nobody tried
to make the miserable formality move fast enough
to keep itself warm. Barton deserted his post to
go celebrating in Sydney. Deakin, apparently
left in command, lacked the strength to put his
foot down heavily on the slow-crawling proceed-
ing. Kingston and Turner —the men with some
real hustle in them —were apparently not in com-
mand. And the result was like unto the haste of
a rich man’s funeral on a wet day, when the grave
wasn’t ready and the hearse was hired by the
hour.


English Hall-Marked
gsd
WEDDING RINGS
18-carat Gold
15-carat Gold
9-carat Gold
. . £llO, £l7 6, £1 15 0
. . 15/-, 18/6, £l5 0
. . 7/6, 8/6, 10/6
TS MODERN ART JEWELLERY CO.
187 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Goods forwardod Post Free. Write for illustratod Catalogue-Sent Gratis.
A Letter from Richmond.
349 Bumlev Road, Richmond, Victoria.
January 24, 1900.
Sirs
Having used Warner’s Safe Cure for Kidney
and Liver Disease, I am pleased to state that I
was completely cured after taking three bottles.
I remain, yours, etc.,
S. W. SELLAR.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.
Warner’s Safe Cure is a scientific vegetable
compound which possesses the remarkable power
of curing all Diseases of the Kidneys and Liver.
Indigestion, Rheumatism, Biliousness, Blood Dis-
orders, Anaemia, Gravel, Gout, Neuralgia, General
Debility and Bright’s Disease are all due to_ dis-
ease or inactivity of the Kidneys and Liver,
which is the reason that Warner’s Safe Cure is a
specific cure for all those maladies.*
FASHIONABLE ?
Yes, Certainly !
Solid Silver Card Cases will be fashionable
so long as human nature loves what is beautiful
and good.
We have just opened a most wonderful line,
full size, English Hall-marked, and of the latest
repoussi work at 18/6.
We stock many designs at London cash prices,
but this line is unique in value.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Cash Prices Only.
Marked in
Plain Figures.
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 Hunter Street,
3YDNEY.
SOLID SILVER CARD CASE, Full Size, 18/6
fg
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 178
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer ol
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. Ihe firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
A curious example of great but wasted in-
genuity, the work of artist J. H. Leonard, is on
view at Nicholson’s music warehouse in Sydney.
It is a picture representing most accurately the
Duke and Duchess of York side by side. Ihe
two portraits and the ornamental bordering are
all done by drawing one single line. The line
starts on the tip of the Duchess’s nose, and goes
round and round in innumerable circles till it
ends on the tip of the Duke’s nose. The faces
and figures stand out simply because the line is
darker in certain places. By reason of its patient
ingenuity Job might have been proud of it, and as
a curio it doubtless has a considerable value to
people of a certain frame of mind.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Loekyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Patents fok Inventions — Arthur Griffith,
International Patent Agent and Consulting
Engineer, University Chambers, Phillip-street,
Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights,
obtained throughout the world.
It is not often that an old, well-established
firm radically alters its system of business, but
these are moving times, and some people perceive
the trend of public opinion better than others do.
It is evidently some such motive as this that has
induced Messrs. Atcherley and Dawson, the
widely known tea merchants, to make , the
announcement which appears in our advertising
columns to-day. . They will no longer employ
canvassers, but invite the public to send their
orders direct to the firm, and offer their famous
teas at about half-price as an inducement. It
certainly appears reasonable that, in dispensing
with an army of travellers, clerks, and agents,
which a credit business, based on canvassing,
demands, there must be an enormous saving,
which should enable the firm to make the reduc-
tion which it promises. Long credit is not a
desirable element in any business, and while
Atcherley and Dawson deserve sucoess in their
“new departure,” the public are not likely to be
slow in taking advantage of the opportunity now
afforded them.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue *
WASHING and CLEANING done by Sober,
Respectable Woman. City or Suburbs.
Mrs. DALTON,
Little Napier Street, Paddington.
Amusements.
Theatre royal
Lessee
Sub-Lessee
, BYDNEY.
.. J. 0. Williamson.
.. G. Musgrove.
A Real Hearty Laugh, and the Laughing Season will
Commence on
Saturday, June
When the Renowned English Comedy Actress,
J3E33XT3NTXE3 MA-YNTARD.
Will produce for a Limited Number of Nights
THE VERY LATEST ENGLISH COMEDY SUCCESS
NURSE,
DIRECT FROM THE GLOBE THEATRE, LONDON,
Supported by
The Leading Young English Actor, Henry Ltidlow.
PRICKS AS USUAL.
Missing Friends..
WILL James Duncan, who left Hillmorton.
Christchurch, New Zealand, about eighteen years
ago, communicate with the undersigned without delay.
MEARES & WILLIAMS,
Solicitors,
Christchurch, New Zealand.
PATRICK CROBBIE. —Please communion ce
with Executors of the late P. Crosbie,
“Balmattum,” Euroa,
Victoria.
Business Announcements.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rnHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
JE low to Guard the Empire!
.. Read ..
"SbarpSbootiog for
apd War,”
i r
&
By W. W. GREENER, Author of
‘‘The Gun,” “The Breechloader,” &c.
■All about Rifles and Rifle Shooting
tor Beginners and for Experts, Rifle
Clubs, Ranges and Warcraft, to-
gether with the history of the Armed
Civilian in ancient and modern times.
Positively the Best Shilling’s Worth ever Published.
pp-180 PAGES, 100 ILLUSTRATIONS FOR 1/- NETT.
Of all Booksellers, or C. W. BUCKLAND, Agent for
W, W. Grbbnbr, 317 Collins St., MELBOURNE
I«r- »ir «<• >p 'iir - : si r
l» I* I 111 «! Jill 11 1 I U 1 l»t ik jl
i in nMifTnn
i ii i i Hviri rfri
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there i»
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 60 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor • - GEO. W. ELLIS.
“ While Pa Madden was out of town shooting
tom-tits and beetles with Royalty, his business in
the Practice Court was hung up. One day,
Williams, J., stalked in and announced that, as
he knew nothing officially of the chief’s absence,
he would only put through the most urgent cases.
Later, the absentee pleaded 4 Public Duty ’ in
explanation of his j udicial omissions. Waxellency,
unlike some of his enemies, is no loafer, but no
man (not even Pooh Bah) can honestly serve two
trades.
“ Mad jealousy hereabouts re those gay sparks
of the Royal suite ! They spent a few days at
two big local country houses, and were enter-
tained in quite a different way at each. At one
the 4 atmosphere * was almost that of a palatial
rectory, peopled by a pretty little hostess, her
similar sister, and a host, something between a
Bond-street Johnnie and a 4 fine young English
gentleman.’ At the other place, the hostess was
the dashing sort; so was her sister. The 4 women’
took part in the shooting parties, and formality
was nowhere. The only point of resemblance
between the two house-parties was the lack of
other people’s sisters.
44 At Healesville, (Vio.) the pretty mountain re-
sort where Mrs. Cornwall spent a day while Ben-
digo went down on its knees in vain, the Royal
tourist paused on the mountain-track to accept a
posy of violets tied to a gum-branch, the quaint
offering of a typioal bush-brownie. Further on, a
dressy woman was seen signalling so desperately
that the new-chum Duchess feared the wayfarer
must have been attacked by bushrangers or
kangaroos, and sent a servant to investigate. It
turned out that the poor thing was a mental in-
valid sent to the mountains for her health, and
she was now deliriously anxious that the 4 dear
Duchess’ should 4 leave her card.’ The 4 dear
Duchess ’ replied that she had forgotten her card-
case.
“Jean Gferardy’s first concert (May 30th)
brought together most local musicians, so there
was heaps of top-thatch on view. Jean’s own
black locks dangled into his eyes like the rest.
Olive Kingston’s dark tresses are fluffed over her
ears too. Musical geniuses should invest in a
shiny black wig like 4 Miladi’s ’ in 4 Three Muske-
teers,’ so as to save wear and tear of tongs, &c.,
on the natural stuff. Olive Kingston has a bright,
brilliant young voice, not handicapped by too
much feeiing. A tinge of rouge would improve
ber platform appearance. Gerardy looks like a
boy, and plays like a quiet-going angel.
“ The shears of correction must be applied, they
say, to the words of Marshall-Hall’s 4 Aristode-
mus’ before the wise virgins of the Melb. Lieder-
tafel will tackle it anew. A harvest of blushes
resulted from the first reading of the lines, and
again a smaller crop from the revised sheets. And
even now the girlish warblers say 4 It’s so awful,’
and the Collins-street coterie, headed by one of
the Oonservatorium Souls, speaks of it as 4 so
Greek, you know,’ which is synonymous for un-
draped. But the black-bearded Vandal roars
with laughter at one set and the other, and hates
to dilute it any more.
“Mr. Grainger, just selected as General Agent
for South Australia, was the big perspiring sufferer
who did the Sydney celebrations at Christmas
with a handkerchief in the place where a collar
might have been, and a palm-leaf fan always in
active service to make a breeze and keep the flies
off. But though he went about complaining in
hoarse tones of the perspiring condition of things,
he never relinquished his habit of button-holing
congenial brethren, and telling long stories with a
strong flavor of spice about them. Grainger, of
S.A., is a very picturesque figure, and revels in a
fine Greek type of beauty.
44 The daughters of a certain Excellency, when
twitted about cutting their old friends, explain
with a refrigerated lpok and lifted scalp that they
can’t help it: 4 Think of father’s position ! ’ If the
person putting in the plea for neglected friends
cannot realise the awesorneness of father’s position,
it is further explained that the offspring of Papa
are unable, for Imperial reasons, to remain on
chattable terms with girls of no status. 4 It’s the
official position we’ve to think of, though, really,
we never object to bowing terms.’ This is the
concession made to the representatives of Auld
Lang Syne—stiff ‘bowing terms.’
“ A certain dainty little actress who gave up
stage ways for the matrimonial arm-chair and
peaceful fireside, is a wreck of her former self.
People who saw her at a recent 4 At Home ’ with
a rather touzled party of Thespians were as-
tounded at the loss of all her old-time energy.
He eyes lack fire, her fair locks lack lustre,
her manner lacks sprightliness. She ought to
consult certain Toorakiennes on the subject ot
‘ How to be sparkling though married.’
“A dashing Melbourne girl, lately reported
from climes somewhat warmer than these, is on
her way home to her parents, who have grown
accustomed to her sudden goinge and comings
during the last four or five years. We now have
it as a fact that the interesting high-flyer was
neither engaged to a lordship nor married to a
melodramatic hero touring in India. Also, it is
declared that she only tried the stage in an experi-
mental spirit, and abandoned it on a caprice, and
not after an unpromising debut. The debris of
scandal collected during the sprightly ones
absence from these parts is being swept up
and removed with a shovel, and all her old friends
are anxiously awaiting revelations.
“ A youth who went forth to England to get
spine degree or other and took the memory of a
certain little daughter of a great dignitary to help
him on his thorny path, must have lost it there.
He has returned to his gun-girt home free of delu-
sions, and arrived with all the calm assur-
ance of the young globe-trotter who thrusts his
hands into his pockets and surveys the World at
his feet. Through Ducal disturbances m the
atmosphere one has not been able to see how
young Marchchick takes it, but when the mists
roll by, and the public Richard is himself again,
people will be able to see .whether the other party
wears her chagrin with a long train or cut short
in the skirt.
“ The Royally-opened Alexandra-avenue along
Yarra’s smellful banks is composed of four roads
running abreast. Just now stones and sticks are
its most prominent features, but when the trees
have grown a little and the boulders are covered
with creeping-jenny, it will look leafy enough to
deserve its ugly name. Nobody can say ‘ Alex-
andra-avenue ’ without a painfully-drunken Inc
in the middle, or vulgarising it into ‘ Alex-
andreravenew,’ in which form it appears quite
Russian. What’s the matter with calling the road
‘ Dosser’s Drive,’ or ‘ Weary William’s Walk,’ or
‘Dead Beat Alley,’ or some name suggesting a
touch of local color? Day before the Jook chris-
tened it, by the way, the police carefully patrolled
the whole route and chased away all the Yarra-
bankers who made the revised avenue their home,
as it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall
be, Amen.
“Re Wallington’s C.M.G. The freshly-
decorated one always knew that his lucky star
rose and set behind Hopey’s bald forehead.
When the Hopetouns were at ’Ome, and their
vassal was filling in time with the Tennysons, in
S.A., he counted the days till his patron’s return,
while he uncomplainingly drained his Adelaide
cup to the dregs—musical evenings and all. Re-
cently, scribe was edified by the conversation of a
group of visitors from the City of Churches.
What set them off was Lady Tennyson’s eombed-
back hair and shabby black cape at the State Con-
cert. ‘The Tennysons are frumps,’ said one;
‘ but not such frumps as the Buxtons. _ Where-
ever poor old Lady B. went she took with her a
little white shawl, given her by the dear old Queen,
a camp-stool, and a book of poems. At Mount
Lofty, you know, she was very gracious and went
to at-homes and sich, and the signal for her
arrival was always an aide, loaded up with shawl,
stool and poems. Once, the deceitful old tiling
declined an invitation “owing to indisposition,”
but just when the afternoon was in full swing, in
trotted the attache, shawl, poems and all. “Is
dear Lady B. coming after all ? ” gushed Mrs. Z.
“Believe I’ve made a mistake,”lisped the aide ;
“Remember now, I’m bound for Mrs. Y’s, so
sorry ! ” and he skipped off with the load, leaving
Mrs. Z. to realise that Lady B. was evidently not
too ill to visit that cat, Mrs. Y.
“ The Guelphs must be glad when one of the clan
brings a Teck, or a Battenberg, or somebody pre-
sentable into the family, for their children get a
chance to lose that heavy jowl which so dis-
tinguishes our ruling tribe. Present writer saw
deceased Teck pere about six years ago at Warwick
Castle (Eng.) He was decidedly a good-looking
man of the tailor’s dummy type. His son,
Alexander, is like him, and his daughter and
Duchess gets all her good looks from that side of
the house. Her mother had a pleasant smile, but
the heavy Guelphic jaw came out too strong for
beauty.
“When the Dook and his brother were here as
boys, they received lavish hospitality, and in re-
turn—well, silver and gold had they none, but
such as they had, viz., signed portraits, they gave
freely. Not that most of their entertainers de-
served any return ; they got what they wanted—
‘ the honor of receiving Royalty.’ But there were
isolated cases, where ‘the honor’ came unasked
to people not well able to afford it. At an Aus-
tralian port, for instance, the Princes were unex-
pectedly delayed for 10 days or a fortnight, owing
to some accident to their ship. No official
provision. had been made for this unlooked-for
visit, so the highest Govt, officer in the place,
with just an ordinary civil service salary, was
requested to do his best for the sojourners at his
own cost. The lads appreciated their host’s kind-
ness and ran in and out of his pretty cottage
during their stay, suggesting picnics and sich, just
as if it were tneir own home. The poor loyalist
was put to great expense, and though he valued
the autograph pictures of the departed guests,
these souvenirs were powerless to allay the pocket-
ache which followed the Royal Invasion. In
later years, when his sometime host was presented
to the late Duke of Clarence, in London, the
Prince shook hands and called him by his name,
but not a word did he utter about past kindnesses.
Another case of ‘ Benefits Forgot. ’
“An Australian naval man, back from China,
tells me the Australians killed far more Frenchies
than Chinamen. Stationed near them was a regi-
ment of French criminals, who had apparently
been offered escape from penal servitude through
the loophole of a soldier’s grave. These fellows,
always up to some devilry or other, turned on
their officers whenever the latter tried to restrain
them. At such times, the flouted superiors were
reduced to sending for their nearest neighbors,
the Australians, to shoot “cette canaille.” I
wonder if that naval man was only an unusually
brilliant weather-prophet. To go to war for the
purpose of executing alleged allies appears some-
thing out of the common run of things.
“ A Melb. globe-trotter: ‘ While in Tangiers I
discovered that the famous (or rather iinfatr.ous)
Wind dance, over which all Paris went mad last
year, is of Moorish origin, and, moreover, the
Moorish maidens are far more expert and wicked
over it than any European has been up to now
Nothing more dazzling or inspiring than the
Wind dance could be imagined. It will probably
quieten down a bit and slacken speed, and lose
some of its “ salt ” before whisking Melbourne off
its feet.’ If it doesn’t, Melbourne will never get
properly on its feet again, however substantial
they may bei
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
At Poverty Point.
Demise : Paderewski’s son, aged 19. He was afflicted
with spinal disease. Paderewski married at the age of
19, ana his wife died the next year.
“ Pro.” : Add to the list of Melb. theatres, the first
Princess. Opened 1855, as Astley’s Amphitheatre, with
G. B. W. Lewis’s circus troupe, from London, afterwards
joined by Tom Barry, as clown. In 1857 the stage was
put in, and the whole house altered, for drama, under the
title of Royal Amphitheatre. Name changed to Princess
Theatre by manager Alex. Henderson, who came from
Bendigo, went to London, and married Lydia Thompson.
“ Melb.”: Irene Franklin shows us how the German,
English, Chicago and New York girls walk. In Chicago
she will show up the Melbourne girls.
“ Melb ” : Never saw a sandwich-man here till to-day.
In front he had “ Don’t look behind.” Behind was “ Use
Buggs’s Something or Other.” The most mitre sand-
wiches in my recollection were when Wyndham acted
“ Fourteen Days.” Fourteen bogus convicts paraded the
Strand.
“L.8.E.” rhapsodises:—“Marie Lloyd is intensely
local and gives us the pure, unadulterated flavor of Lon-
don. Her voice recalls at once • visiohs of the or_ran-
grinder, the dancing servant-girl* the Piccadilly masher,
the comic coster, the seller of penny curios, the pathetic
sense of contrasts in the crowded streets, the dim build-
ings and strange, fascinating figures looming through the
fog. In contrast to Ada Reeve, her ‘ paganism,’ that
frank delight in robust, animal spirits, lacks ‘ finesse ’ and
poetry. Ada is rather French, exquisite, refined, sugges-
tive, and her ‘ intimations of immorality ’ are as dainty
and fragrant as Egyptian cigarettes.”
“ What Happened to Jones ” made people smile,
“ Charlie’s Aunt ” made people laugh, but the latest
English files report that the hew farcical comedy
“Nurse” has outstripped all previous records, and
created a phenomenal boom in theatrical circles. Sydney
Royal has been booked for this production from 15th inst.
Poet Arthur Adams, now lecturing in M.L. on his Chow-
war experiences, tells how he once arranged to interview
Li Hung Chang. Adams was coming down Pei-ho river
in a junk when he heard that Li was on his way up, and
he induced the captain to get his tow line
mixed up with Li’s junk, and cause a collision. Adams
intended to apologise at great length to the oily old dip-
lomat and otherwise improve the opportunity, but the
arrangement didn’t come off. Old Hung, deceptive to the
last, passed unnoticed in the night. On another occa-
sion, the enterprising Adams sought an interview with
Field-Marshal Von Waldersee. “No,” said a polite
adjutant ; “ the Coup* - doesn’t speak to anybody under
the rank of colonel.’
One of Dutch Daly's latest stories deals with a South
African warrior. He was walking along the Strand the
other day, and came on a hawker selling envelopes with
portraits of De Wet. The price was one penny, and Daly
bought one and went round the first corner to study the
features of the famous General. On opening the envelope
he found it empty. Back he went to the wastrel, and
told him that De Wet was not, in the envelope.
“ Blimme ! ” cried the merchant, “ you don’t mean to tell'
me that he’s escaped again ? ”
Smythe, the Much-Travelled —and he ought to know
something about the matter —reckoned that Rodney,
with his dash, and bonhomie, and power to make an audi-
ence accept him at his full value, should be a first-rate
showman for Australian up-country towns, where the
pessimistic humor of a Frank Lincoln isn’t wanted, even
when the dry jokes are more or less understood. People
who live beyond the beat of big theatrical companies, and
are open to persuasion by a one-man show, demand
warmth and geniality in the entertainer. He must sing
a rousing music-hall song, and have a festive way of filling
in his time. Rodney, the Irishman, would naturally
catch on in townships that of yore summed up Frank
Lincoln, the smileless Yankee, as a “blanky undertaker.”
There are several reasons why a Duke may not stand'
up during the singing of the Hallelujah Chorus. One of
them is
Trooper Waldie, a returned Kharki-ist, is carrying a.
confused lecture through Maoriland. One local paper
states that he has a great fund of unconscious humor, but'
complains of his statement that on one occasion “ the
British dead and wounded were picked up and made as
comfortable as possible ; ” and of another assertion, that
he was with a party which killed certain oxen and
roasted them alive. Waldie is apparently a well-meaning
lecturer, who was shot in the grammar during the war,
and has never quite recovered.


“ Farewell, land of anomalies, which fetes
me but imprisons my publisher!”— Zola, on leav-
in'/ England.
The joys of a tram-ride : The last
passenger who got in was short, wide, and
apoplectic, and he was only half way to the vacant
seat when the tram started with a jerk and threw
him on top of a thin female, who pushed him on
to the woman opposite and called him a clumsy
“ thing.” . He.tried to apologise and swear at the
gripman at the same time, and got quite mixed up
between the two women and the. gripman, and the.
ladies apparently thought the swears were meant
for them. When the conductor collected his fare
the. man swore at him and made bad friends
thoroughly. The conductor threatened to give
him in charge for slanguage, and went off as
suddenly as the tram., “ Put me down at Riley-
street! ” grunted the fat man as the lean official
disappeared through the door. The tram
rattled down Boomerang-street, swung round
the corner, and past Riley-street at full
speed. The fat man yelled ‘‘conductor T ”
The rattle of the Car drowned his voice. He stood
up and a sudden jerk made him sit’down heavily.
He bounded up and trod on the toes of the dapper ;
gentleman opposite, and nearly put his head
through the window. Then he fell back into his
seat again. He raised his stick and made a savage
blow at the electric button to stop the car, and
smashed,this mirror next to it into smithereens,
and the, bits flew all over the car and got .down
the-backs of the other passengers. The conductor
rushed in and asked him what in thunder, &c.
Then somebody, afraid of what might come next,
pressed the button ; and the apoplectic gent,- only
three streets past where he wanted to get out,
gave the conductor his card and waddled indig-
nantly down the hill. After that the passengers
shook themselves and tried to shed the glass
splinters that had got between themselves and
their clothes.
THE WORD
is a guarantee of s undress of
Material and Quality of Dye of all
Worsted
on which it is stamped.
fox’s Jure 3n9ig@.
As the result of many years of ex-
perience, FOX’S PURE INDIGO
DYE is recognised as the best
in the Market.
All Fox’s standard cloths are
stamped every two yards on the
back
FOX'S PURE IjV DIGO,
and without this stamp ate not
genuine.
fox Brothers & Co., £td.,
Wellington, Somerset, €ng.
Makars of Vforsted Coatings, Vicunas,
Serges, Tweeds, Tennis and Costume
loths. Contractors to the English
Admiralty, War Office, India Office, Crown
Colonies, and Metropolitan Police.
THEIR MILLS are capable of an
annual production of 2,000,000 yards of
material, and find emyloyment for 1,200
hands. Reliable records show that the
business at Wellington was founded
early in the eighteenth century, and the
present Company have in their posses-
sion a balance sheet dated 1733.
: ‘O’
These celebrated Serges can be obtained
from the leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Australian Colonies.
O
Australian Agents for the Wholesale
Trade only :—
STOGDALE & DUFFUS,
Finks Buildings, Corner of Eliza]
beth & Flinders Sts., Melbourne,
.. AND . . I
422 George St., Sydney.
W <m§)
K
O
K
O
H
A
I
R
- ’ Photo from Life,
l Original may be seen at 11$, Regent Street, London, WY
di
I#
< gs
bin-oi* Royal Patronage
KOKO FOR THE HAIR
I is a tonic, cleansing, invigorating preparation, causes tne hair to grow
luxuriantly, keeps itsolt and pliant, imparts to it the lustre and freshness
of youth, eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling, is the most
cleanly of all hair preparations,and is perfectly harmless.
OLD PEOPLE LIKE IT
for its wonderful power to invigorate decayed hair, and induce an entire
new growth when that is possible.
MIDDLE-AGED people like it,
because it prevents them from getting bald, keeps dandriff away, and
makes the,hair grow thick and strong
young ladies like it
hi as a dressing, because it gives the hair a beautiful glossy lustre, ensures a
Ilf luxuriant growth, and enables them to dress it and keep it in any style
that may be desired.
CHILDREN LIKE IT,
11 1 because it keeps the hair, and scalp cool and clean, allays Irritation, apd
I 1 keeps the hair in whatever position desired
THEY ALL LIKE IT,
because it is as pure as crystal, perfectly colourless, contains no poisonous
substance, no sugar of lead, sulphur, nitrate of silver, or grease, and does
not soil or colour the scalp, face, or the most delicate fabric in clothing,
produces a wonderfully pleasant and cooling effect on the head, and no
other jessing is needed to give the hair the most beautiful appearance
possible. Try it once, and you will use no other. It contains no
colouring matter or dye.
KOKO is sold in 1/, 2/6 and 4/6 bottles everywhere.
Australian Depot. KokoMaricopas Co. Ltd., 14, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
C A UTinU— See that this Registered Trade Mark is on every bottle
m
R
H
A
I
R
t Ji i
mo.
mo.
mo
mo) vtssto
ma,
mo.
Watch Repairs by Post
SP
WATCHES Thoroughly Gleaned, 2s. 6d. ; best English
Mainspring, 2s. 6d. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 25s.
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
35s. Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send for catalogue.
D. S. MAIR,
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
684 George-st. (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.
THOMSON’S
NEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING ”
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World-Renowned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long waist.
■ s ri
1k
v
Ml
Thom
ons
THE HOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE) AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST
E.B.—Old Model Cornets always in' stock.
“ LA. NOBLESSE ”
A New and Elegant Series of Corsets. Ask to see them-
TO BE HAD OP ALE DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs-W- S- Thomson & Go-, Ld-, London-
“A.F.A.”
ELECTRIC
STORAGE
BATTERIES
For LIGHTING, POWER & TRACTION.
Batteries having a discharge capacity of over
4000 HORSEPOWER
Are at present in operation, under
construction, and on order for the
SYDNEY ELECTRIC TRAMWAYS.
Batteries installed and maintained in
Private Houses, Hotels, Factories, Mines,
Launches, etc.
NOYES BROS.
13 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; and 15 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
(LIMITED),
O < Lalie Illawa/rra/),
near SIfrUKTEY.
SMELTERS,
HEE.IJNER.iS
• •. -9 *
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
me
m
MAKERS OF
‘S. Co of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
ILLAVAK&A”
.. BRAND OP..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD Birr ttab
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. FftqftjFT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Mouse, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAETQ, N.S.W.


THE
9
sdf
;■ it?.’ ■ -
THE
‘PLUM’
ri ENTLEMEN.—This razor iS'SUpefior tq any other. It is. specially tempered, perfectly, hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never retires grinding: Being- practical tradesmen ourselves, we kiiow the exact kina of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and. having had them in use for a number Of years, can testify to
Lheir-merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The " Pafi4 ,f RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. 6d.
“ RAZQLEB ” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6tl cake.
_ yshike Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d y Bair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
Price j Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
{y. Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CfsA!€a & ASTKEN, ®BO George-st., Sydney.
I’ll Try It.”
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Niiturallv Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to BOs each. English
Hair Taits. ss'6d tor£3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
HAIRDRESSERS &. WIGNIAKERS.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
jsgr“ ‘Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
CRAIG &
New South
Wales Barber’s Supply House,
CSO-GS2 CZORSE STREET, SYDNE Y
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
H ATTE’S Ropy lar Department.
Our Throe-Guinea. Dress Suit, with Silk Facings, beautifully cut and Finished. Cannot be equalled.
Our Five-Guinea Dress Suit caririot be procured elsewhere under £7 7s.
We carry an immense stock of West of Knylahd, Scotch, Irish, New Zealand and other Tweeds, at,
in the Latest Designs and Patterns.
GENTS’ MELTON or SEE.GE OVERCOATS, from £2 ss.
New Zealand or Scotch Tweed Suits, to measure, ,455.; usual City Price, £3 3s
[■latte’s Famous Tweed Suit, with Extra Pair of Trousers, hundreds of Patterns to select from, made
to measure, £2 2s.
Gentlemen residing at a distance have only to write for Self-Measuremerit Forms and Patterns to
have theirorders faithfully executed. All our Tailoring done on the premises. ~
Our Chief Cutter is the Best in the State.
C. G. HATTE, Newtown.
I WAS
DEAF
Fo r years, and almo st -frantic
Wi th He ad - Noises
I tried every known treatment and
device without kelp-Finally I cured
myself by Galvanic Electricity -If
you are deaf oryrowing deaf or
have head-noises dont waste time
and money as I did me men-
-tionirxg this paper and I will send
you full information FREE.
Address - L.R. VERNON
60.-64 HUNTER ST-S YD Nil Y.
THE
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC,
lOllis* Velveteen
NA AA AA
NOTE WELL! -Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L“0“U"l"S and * n no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
Visitors to the old country:
' • i ......
BAILEYS
GLOUCESTER ROAD,
SOUTH KE/SSIfiGTOfL
Under Ifcyal Ritronage
LOTiDOffSW.
THE NEW LOUNGE.
8* W -
r
One of the FINEST examples
OF MODERN OAK CARVING EXTANT
Self-contained Suites .
Public Rooms opening on to
PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON.
LIFE HAS
A RELISH
saug
me?,;
When our meals are
seasoned with
'&TMvU)
—^
SA UCE.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
A Reprint of articles from The Bulletin.
Price 3cl.
IFREEM AN i WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL & SURGICAL INSTITUTE-
The Two Eminent Specialists
who have the Largest Practice
in Australasia.
And the Only Sped amts in Australia
Received Highly Commendable JP re* *.™W
in Leading Australian Journals.
Specialties : Nervous and- Chronic Complaints, Blood and Skin D seases,
Heart, Kidney, Liver,- Bladder, Rheumatism, Sciatica, &c.-, &c.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by the Govern-
ment Medical fioards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, G.eat
BHtain and America, open to inspection at the Consulting Rooms
bv our Physician-in-Chier.
Pis an acknowledged fact- the world-wide over that no
single individual or combination, of men can be ab-
solute masters of every phase and branch of
medicine, or other professed avocation of a limitless
sphere of operation and magnitude. At best the greatest
scientists of the day—men like Lord Kelvin and Ldison,
m
Yours 'truli/ ...
i nowa nn freeman,
Sydney’s Lea ling Specialist.
Professor of Electricity ns applied Medically, Member
Dr. Harmon’s College, Washington Cor., Cal., U.S.A.
. Director and rounder of the Institute.
for instance, whose fame i« universally known—class
themselves as infants in scientific invention and research,
and modestly tell us that thev have but a smattering: of
knowledge of the possibilities, extent, and development
We have only to look at the fine buildings that occupy
the corner of Elizabeth and Bathurst streets to. gain sonic
idea of the extent and importance of their professional.
work. But to have the privilege of being shown thrcingh
the budding by the'Speeialists themselves, and to see and
learn something of the real character of their wide prac-
tice, isj» treat that only comes the way of a fortunate in-
dividual like the writer. , , ...
The instrument-room- was,-as usual, one of particular
curiosity. Barmen alwaVs-have a penchant for eyeing
and examining the polished steel articles with which so
"many:extraordinary 1 acts are performed upon the human
body. The collection in this room is in every way up-to-
date. Whenever a new- instrument oomes-to-the'+runl,
and its worth is proved beyond question, it is added to
this rare assortment. Another room full of absorbing in-
terest is that devoted to the galvanic batteries, of which
there are several magnificent kinds. The noted Gaitfe
batteries, the finest French makes, are here in -perfection,
irrespective of their high cost. If any article or mechani-
cal and electric contrivance is found necessary in main-
taining the fame of this institution, the price is never
allowed to stand in the way.
The correspondence department is a veritable eve-
opener. Its sacredness is a bar to a stranger’s admission,
but a full view of the work going on is -had through the
glass doors. Half-a-dozen typists are wen driving their
machine-writers at electric speed. To the principals only
are known the names of the persons throughout Australia
who are being'treated as skilfully in their homes about
the metropolis and away in the interior as if they were
present irr personal- consultation at the institution.
The packing-rooms'are likewise strut off from curious
and prying glances., and the work of one department is a
mystery to the others. No better system fra- holding
secret the nature of sufferers’-troubles, for Side-guarding
their interests, and giving due heed to the feelings and
sensitiveness of patients, could be imagined.. Packages
are not plastered with advertising labels, they are put up
in such a way that only t[ie names imd addresses are in
view. ; , .
What a practice is here revealed and what a consola-
tion must it be to these eminent specialists to know' that
they are permanently curing and restoring to hi a th and
happiness thousands of people whose lives were a burden
to them. The young, the middle agetf, apd the healthy
are treated with the same amount of success. The pro-
digious nature of the work accomplished by these
specialists necessitates —not, the stereotyped morning and
evening two hours’ consultation ticket, but their constant
attention at the institution from early morning till late
into the night. “I can assure you,” .said Dr. Wallace,
“ we don’t put in these long hours because we are fond ;r
“— *rr- r r*«r~
Premises :
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts. (Opp. Hyde Park, Sydney
(All Trams Stop at the Door).
of electricity, and only a fringe of imagination of the un-
told stores of strength and wealth wrapt up in this
phenomenal power. .
Therefore it requires no argument to convince the
most pronounced of optimists that the field in any one of
the great and honored professions of the day is far too
vast for the thorough comprehension of the most per-
fectly brain-endowed man, or body of naturally-gifted
men. Yet in respect of the most delicate and difficult of
all professions—that of prescribing for the ills and
diseases of mankind—we find doctors, scattered over the
globe, off-handedly and without careful, .minute, and
searching examination and diagnosis—without any know-
ledge of the past lives of patients—flippantly dashing off
prescriptions for every class of complaint, as if a cure was
as simple as falling over the proverbial log.
Thanks to the march of civilisation, culture, and edu-
cation, people are getting to know that .modern medical
men who are worth consulting confine their practice to a
certain class of cases. Realising the utter hopelessness of
mastering and curing everything under the sun, and find-’
ing that “gullibles” are not so plentiful as they used to
be, the wise and progressive men of medicine devote
themselves to one or other class of cases, and work out
the remedies for them to the best of their skill and
ability.
What better and more striking illustration of the suc-
cess of Specialists in Skin Diseases, Heart, Kidney, Liver
Affectipns, Rheumatics, Sciatica, Nervous, Diseases, could
the people of this magnificent continent, Australia, have
than the enormous practice of the famous practitioners of
the Electro-Medical Institute. Their skill, attainments,
position, and renowned reputation stamp them as the un-
doubted masters of the classes of diseases and complaints
which have been the study of their professional lives.
When we speak of electricity wq think of Edison. Why ?
Because he dwarfs other men in this branch of science.
In the same w r ay, when we talk of specialists, we at once
associate the names of the Freeman and Wallace Insti-
tute. So it is in every branch of scientific medicine; •
some one or two men stand head and shoulders above
their fellows. -
It is the aim, object, and devotion of certain doctors to
be pre-eminent in some defined class of disease rather
than to tinker with a host of complaints about which
they can have hut a hazy notion, arid superficial know-
ledge. To use a hackneyed but expressive phrase, they
are “ Jacks of all trades; and piasters of none.” Never
since the time Of Ricord, the noted French Specialist,
have any men conducted so gigantic and successful a
practice as that conducted by the Freeman-Wallace
Electro Medical and Surgical Institute.
of hard work than any other medical men ; we do it in
the best interests of sufferers. We don’t keep them
waiting- longer than we can help, and we suffer many in-
conveniences for our patients’ sakes.”
Noble sentiments, thought the writer, as the time came
for his departure, and the Specialists returning to their
yours truly ...
MIC HARD WALLACE,
Physician-in-Chieff,
M.D., L.R.C.P., L.F.P.S., L.M.,
Late Medical Staff, British Army; late Cojisv,ltin<;
Staff, ‘Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne.
consulting-room. How many doctors in our midst can
we bracket in this category ? Dinners and drives and
conversaziones are more frequently uppermost -in the
mind of top-loftical medicos than the speedy treatment
of sad and suffering patients.


TUB INTEROOLOUT At,
idiiestihedt, mud bud buicdihg company, etd.
14l Moore Street , Sydney,
INCORPORATED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACT. ESTABLISHED 188 ft.
Assets .. „ _ £73,689
Capital .. „ „ 34,497 (paid-up)
Liabilities, exclusive of Capital..£ls,6Bs
Reserves and Undivided Profits.. 22,406
Directors:
Wm. McCOURT, M.L.A. (Chairman). ALEX. CAMPBELL, M.L.A. G. DYSON. J. T. LAWLER. D
Bankers : BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
. J. MONK.
BALANCE-SHEET for Half-Year ending April 30. 1901.
LIABILITIES.
£ S. D. £
Subscribed Capital .. 55,843 0 0
S. D. £ 8. D.
Capital Paid 34,497 8 7
Capital Suspense Account .. 2,309 18 1
Reserve Fund 12,500 0 0
Dividend Equalisation Account.. 3,500 0 0
Deposits, with accrued interest.. 10,601 13 7
Sundry Creditors 2,543 15 7
Bank of New South Wales .. 2,440 4 11
52,807 6 8
Balance Profit «.
-15,585 14 1
. 5,296 5 2
£73,689 5 11
assets:
„ , ~ _ £ s. d. £ 8. D.
Freehold Properties and Invest-
ments 27,279 2 0
Borrowers’ and Purchasers’
Balances (after deducting Sus-
pense Account) 46,237 4 6
Office Furniture _ _ .. 106 9 0
73,622 16 6
Cash in hand _ ** _ u *,66 10 6
£73,689 6 11
Loans granted on approved securities repayable, by limtalmenfr,,
Deposits for 1 to 3 years received at current rates.
Latest Balance-Sheet and full information on application at the Company’s Offices, 14 Moore-st, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
The Condon Bank of Australia, limited.
2 OLD BROAD-STREET, LONDON, E. a
Subscribed Capital £1,645,020
Paid-Up 915,865
Uncalled, Including Reserve Liability... 729,155
BALANCE SHEET, 31st December, 1900.
LIABILITIES.
Capital— £ a. d. £ ft. d.
49,103 Ordinary Shares of
£3O each 1,473,090 0 ©
Less—
Uncalled and
Reserve
Liability £736,546 0 0
Calls in arrear 800 0 0
737,346 0 0
735,745 0 0
Add-
Amount prepaid by Trus-
tees in respect of Un-
called Capital and Re-
serve Liability .. .. 8,190 0 0
743,935 0 0
17,193 5£ per cent. Cumulative Preference
Shares of £lO each, fully paid (on which
the Dividend has been paid to 30th
June, 1897) .. .. 171,930 0 0
915,865 0 0
Notes in Circulation 173,336 0 0
Transferable Deposits .. . . .. 1,911,963 16 6
Other Deposits and Current Accounts .. 2,652,826 14 0
Bills Payable and other Liabilities, includ-
ing Reserves for Doubtful Debts .. 819,430 14 10
Balance of Undivided Profit .. !. 24,988 18 0
£6,498,411 3 4
ASSETa
£ s. d.
Coin, Bullion, Cash Balance*, and Notes
of other Banks 793,226 16 3
Money at Call and short notice in London 240,000 0 0
1,033,226 16 3
Investments and Bills Receivable.. .. 756,190 14 8
Bills Discounted, Advances and other
Assets of the Bank ..4,327,293 12 6
Bank Premises.. _ _ 381,700 0 0
£6,498.411 3 4
PEOFIT and LOSS ACCOUNT, for the Year ended 31st December, 1900.
£ a. d.
To Salaries and General Expenses in Aus-
tralia, including' Remuneration to
Colonial Directors, Rent, Rates, Re-
pairs, Stationery, Travelling, &c. ..
Salaries and General Expenses in Lon-
don, including Directors’ and Audi-
tors’ Fees, Rent, Repairs, Station-
ery, Telegrams, &c
- Land Tax and Tax on Note Issue
Interest at 4£ per cent, on Transfer-
able Deposit Receipts for the year
1900
Balance of Undivided Profit
62,110 6 5
9,428 0 9
3,102 18 10
91,335 2 0
24,988 18 0
£190,965 5 0
By Balance as per last Re-
port
Less One Year’s Divi-
dend on Preference
Shares to 30th June,
1897
Profits in London and in Australia
after providing for interest due and
accrued on current Deposits, de-
ducting rebate on Bills, and making
provision for Bad and Doubtful
Debts 180,792 15 8
£ o. d. £ s. d.
19,628 12 9
9,456 8 0
£190,965 5 0
JAMES F. GARRICKS
R. ROME V Directors.
B. WALTER FOSTER J
F. J. OURTIS, Secretary.
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1900, we certify that all our requirements as Auditors
have been complied with, and we have to report to the Shareholders that, ha vine: examined the above Balance-sheet
with the books at the Head Office, and the Returns from the Branches, we are of opinion that such Balance-Sheet is
full and fair and properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Bank’s affairs as shown
by the said books and returns.
PRICE, WATERHOUSE, and CO., Auditors.
PRIiE MEDAL DRESSING.
HAUTHAWAY’S
PEERLESS GLOSS
takes first prize medals at Boston, Vienna, London, Phila-
delphia, Melbourne, and all other leading cities, for pro-
ducing the finest possible polish, and absolute freedom
from all substances injurious to the leather.
It is the favorite dressing of the world for
lADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
jjgjf
M shoes, as it is easily applied, retains its brilliancy, and will
not rub off and soil garments. Try it once and you will
use alwa ys. Sold nearly everywhere. Made only by
HAUTfIAWAY £. SONS,
BOSTON, MASS.
1 U. S. A.
Now
Ready,
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH
Prloe 6d 5 Posted Oci.
Publications.
THE BALLET GIRL
gs
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, le.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,
913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
BA MO NO SONG BOOK,
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country. Including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d„ posted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 459 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for tills
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing
ROYAL VISIT.
>JEW GRAND MARCH, commemorating the visit of
the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York to
Open the First Parliament of United Australia, with
three portraits. Also, KING EDWARD the VII. MARCH
and QUEEN ALEXANDRA WALTZ, with superb full-
length colored portraits of their Majesties.
Of all Music Dealers.
W. PAXTON & CO., London & Melbourne.
Catalogues Free.
Amusements.
JIRESfI AIR LEAGUE
• • BALL • •
TOWICsT H-A-Lli, SYnDHSTETr
Wednesday, 26th June.
Hon. Treasurers—
Mrs. RICHARDS.
Mrs. A. A. COHEN.
Hon. Secretary—
Mrs. JULIES CARO.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance at the Tivoli Theatre of
HERR PAGEL, the GERMAN HERCULES,
THE THREE FAUST SISTERS.
Gigantic Success of the LATEST AMERICAN
BIOGRAPH.
MR. FRANK LATONIA, MR. AUSTIN RUDD, Rosie
Aquinaldo, Adelina Sarina, J. Wallace, A. Crane, Billy
M'Olain, and all Our Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturday and Wednesday.
DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE^
Sole Lessee Mr. Harry Rickards.
ALFRED DAMPIER,
Supported by a Most Brilliant Coterie of Dramatic Artists.
EVERY EVENING,
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA
MELBOURNE
HOUSE,
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY
COMPANY.
MARIE
ALEC. HURLEY,
LLOYD,
ALEC. HURLEY.
Celina Bobe, Mary Lynne, Irene Franklin, and the
Misses Noni * and Madge Rickards in the Coon Ballet.
ATHENJEUM hall, Melbourne;
Under the direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
SATURDAY, JUNE Bth,
Mr. CHARLES BERTRAM
THE ROYAL and IMPERIAL COURT MAGICIAN.
ADMISSION—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Allan’s
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS, 2 p.m.
Wyld and Friedmans’
ONLY GENUINE
BRITISH BIOGRAPH
Wcat
ON TOUR
Australia.
OPENING, PERTH, TUESDAY, JUNE 11.
Goldfields to follow.
AST NIGHTS!
LAST NIGHTS
I" OF
WIRTH BROS.’
HUGE COMBINED SHOWS,
HIPPODROME, CIRCUS and MENAGERIE,
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION.
The Leading Holiday Amusement.
“ The Big Tent ringing with the applause that greeted
almost every act.”— Daily Telegraph.
Champion Leapers, Champion Riders, Champion Acrobats
and Aerialists. A CHAMPION CIRCUS.
The same unanimous verdict given— THE BEST AND
GRANDEST EVER SEEN !
WONDERFUL PERFORMING ANIMALS.
Absolutely the Best Trained Horses and Ponies ever
introduced to Australia.
POSITIVELY LAST WEEK IN SYDNEY.
Prices—4s., 35., 25., Is. Reserved Chairs at Glen’s
Music Warehouse, George-street.
TOWN hall, m e lb ournl
THURSDAY, 6th, SATURDAY, Bth JUNE.
ADELAIDE, SYDNEY and NEW ZEALAND to follow.
JEAN GERARDY,
The World’s Greatest ’Cellist.
Under the Direction of Mr. A. H. OAUBY.
Watch this Column.
JOHN. H. TAIT.
Business Announcements.
TjEAR SIR, —I have been cared of Weakness and De
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and wil
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. :
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no chargt
whatever. _Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERI
K. PARKHURBT, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
Style with Economy.
Are you a “ Stickler to Style," and yet don’t
want to spend much for a Suit ?
Then you should see our
READY-MADE SUITS.
Cut with the same care as is exercised in
making Suits to Order, and finished in our well-
known “FEDERAL” STYLE.
You can feel quite comfortable in our Gar-
ments, because the Fit and Style are THERE.
Nobody would guess you had a Ready-made
Suit on.
Prices :
Scotch Tweed Suits, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-
West of England Tweed Suits, 25/-, 30/-, 36/-
Heavy Sergerett° Suits, 25/-, 30/-
Indigo Serge Suits, 25/-, 30 -, 35/-, 42/-
Half-Sizes, Quarter-sizes, Three-quarter-Sized.
Every Size always in Stock.
When you are Buying a Suit have a look at our
IMMENBE RANGE OF BLARNEY TWEEDB,
OR WRITE FOR PATTERNS.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL CLOTHIERS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT BT., BYDNEY.
Amusements.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ * Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
THE WILLIAMSON OPERA COMPANY.
NINTH WEEK AND CONTINUED SUCCESS of
FLOR OJD O R A.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, George-street. Prices as usual.
-fHEATRE ROYAL, 3YDNEY.
Lessee Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Under the Direction of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
IMPORTANT PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT.
.The Closing Nights of the Greatest Musical Event in the
history of New South Wales.
ONLY EIGHT MORE PERFORMANCES IN SYDNEY
of the GRAND OPERA SEASON.
Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE'S
GRAND OPERA COMPANY
GRAND OPERA COMPANY
will positively terminate their triumphant season
FRIDAY, JUNE 14.
THURSDAY, JUNE 6, THE FLYING DUTCHMAN
(Last Performance in Sydney).
FRIDAY, JUNE 7, MIG NO N.
SATURDAY, JUNE 8, IL TROVATORE.
Musical Director .. Herr SLAPOFFSKI.
PRICES of ADMISSION—Dress Circle, 7/6 ; Reserved
Stalls, 6/; Front Stalls, 6/ ; STALLS, THREE SHILLINGS.
Family Circle : 7 to 7.30, 3/ ; 7.30 to 7.45, 2/ : after 7.45,
ONE SHILLING.
Box Office, Theatre D. 0., 10 till 5.
PALACE THEATRE, BYDNEY.
Lessee : W. F. HAWTREY.
General Manager : E. F. BRADLEY.
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
Success Greater than Ever of the Celebrated
HAWTREY COMEDY COMPANY
In Richard Ganthony’s Charming Play,
A MESSAGE FROM MARS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices—ss., 35., 25., and Is.
S axr A. ZELL B.
QUEEN’S HALL, PITT ST., opp. Criterion Theatre.
The Enormous Success of SNAZELLE, with West is
Sons’ Glorious Moving Illustration of OUR NAVY, will
be continued NIGHTLY at the QUEEN’S HALL, opposite
Criterion Theatre. SNAZELLE, with West & Son’s
Indescribable Illustration of Britain’s “ FLEET IN
BEING.’’ Prices : 35., 25., Is. Matinees, Wednesday and
Saturday. Every Evening at 8.
Children Half-Price to all parts.
Manager for SNAZELLE, Mr. CHARLES MACMAHON.
Manager for WEST & SON, CAPTAIN EDWARDS, R.N.
CRITERION THEATRE, SY D I\TeY^
Under the Direction of Mr. Charles Holioway.
FOURTH WEEK and LAST TWO NIGHTS of
MR. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
and his POWERFUL DRAMATIC COMPANY, in the
New and Original Drama,
THE FRENCH SPY.
SATURDAY, JUNE 8, THE MILESTONES OF LIFE.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.55 :
ordinary doors, 7.30. Plan at Nicholson’s.
LYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. William Anderson.
4th WEEK and CONTINUED SUCCESS of
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, headed bv
Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN,
NIGHT BIRDS OF LONDON.
PRICES—3s, 2a and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
PM PI R E THEA T R E, SYDN E Y
" (Late Royal Standard, Castlereagh-street.)
12th WEEK. (Still More Novelties.) I2th WEEK
JOHN FULLERS EMPIRE CO.
Every Evening at 8. Every Saturday at 2.30.
Children Half-price to all parts (Matinees).
ENORMOUS SUCCESS of our Entirely New First Part
THE WINTER CARNIVAL.
FAUST and WALHALLA, Grotesque Musical Clowns
and Acrobats. TAIT and LOANDER, Knockabout
Comedians and Dancers. MISS LILLIAN KNIGHT the
Gifted Soprano. Prices—2s., Is., 6d. No Early Doors.
-f-HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Hoi.t
sth WEEK. GREAT POPULAR HIT. sth WEEK
FRIDAY, JUNE 7.
WOMAN AND WINE.
SATURDAY, JUNE 8, the New and Forceful Melodrama,
In London Town .
By Messrs. George R. Sims and Arthur Shirley
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is - ’ Rnv
Plan at Allan’s CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOUR JE
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson *
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. E. j. Tait
MAGNIFICENT SUCCESS of WILLIAMSON’S
ITALIAN OPERA CO.
Thursday and Friday, June 6 and 7, will be presentee
LUCIA 01 LAMMERMOOR.
Drew Circle and Rea. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Familv
Circle, 8a ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s. 3


A QUICKSAND BATH.
Serious Consequences.
A CENERAL RESTORATION.
The Case of
Mrs. F. MARTIN.
(by a special reporter.)
If the inhabitants of Sydney were all
wealthy people, with nothing but the pro-
motion of their own happiness to think
about, would they be content to while away
their time in the many picturesque spots
surrounding the city, or would they go
“ farther and fare worse ? ” People upon
whom fortune does not smile too lavishly
are philosophical in patronising the many
beautiful picnic resorts within easy reach of
their homes, and the experiences sometimes
resulting are worthy of a more romantic
period. A pleasure excursion to Botany
some time back had a sensational termina-
tion, for the details of which we are in-
debted to Mrs. Flora Martin, of No. 11
Suttor-street, Alexandria. “It was a small
family party,” explained Mrs. Martin to the
writer, “ composed of my husband, a married
couple, some children, and myself. We
were fond of taking a trip to Botany, where
we used to sit admiring the noble expanse of
water whilst the young ones played on the
sandy beach. On one particular day my
sister-in-law and I were strolling leisurely
along with the youngsters, where the tide
had a few minutes previously run out, when
I stepped on to a treacherous bed of quick-
sand and suddenly began to sink. Before
my husband could reach me I had
almost disappeared from view, my head
being the only part visible, It was a lucky
thing that my screams were heard, otherwise
I would have been smothered. My husband
ran to my assistance, and with considerable
difficulty extricated me in a fainting con-
dition from the jaws of death. My baby
was then only three months old, and I was
not ve*y strong. The shock my system
sustained had a disastrous effect upon my
cnfeeoled condition for months afterwards.
“For nearly th-ee weeks I did not stir
>ut of my bed. My doctor ordered me to
refrain from any exertion, which was
jcarcely necessary, seeing that I was in such
i condition of helplessness. I was so weak
and nervous that the slightest start brought
on a shivering fit, besides making me give
spasmodic jumps. The first two weeks in
bed were quite sleepless. I could not drive
from my brain the thoughts of the narrow
escape I had. Lying awake night after
night my mind wandered back to that day
of horror, and the most exaggerated
imaginations followed each other in quick
succession until they made me tremble con-
vulsively. I could take no solid food of any
description, and the milk diet upon which I
relied to keep me alive failed to agree with
me. After the light things which I slowly
took in small quantities I was immediately
seized with pain in the stomach, and in the
left side. There was a choking feeling in
the throat, and the stifling sensation re-
sulting filled me with dismay. I was afraid
my breathing was going to cease altogether.
I believe this distressing symptom arose
from the leaden feeling of oppression on my
chest. At any rate, the sufferings entailed
by forcing down any nourishment were so
unbearable that I did not eat a quarter as
much as my body required. Consequently
I lost all my flesh. There was not a streak
of colour left in my cheeks, and I was so
irritable and nervous that I did not care to
see anyone, and sometimes could not bear
the sound of my child’s voice. Being so
restless in bed, and not getting any better, I
leeided to try and get about a little.”
“ Did the change do any good ? ’
“No. I got worse and worse as I grew
older. I suffered from bad headaches, and
I was very often sick. Boring pains over
the eyes were very troublesome, arid fits of
dizziness made me reel and almost fall to
the ground. Every morning, on rising
from bed, a dreadful fit of nausea, accom-
panied by violent vomiting, attacked me
with unerring regularity. A bitter fluid
arose from my stomach, and my throat felt
parched. Liberal draughts of water during
the day did not ease my feverish thirst,
which, I think, was induced through a con-
tinual feeling of faintness. My weakness
prevented me looking after the house work,
and the inability to exercise my limbs pro-
duced great weariness. Constipation was
another ailment, my tongue being unclean
and unwholesome. Just below my ribs the
flesh became very tender, and behind my
left shoulder I felt sharp, darting pams. A
sensation of chilliness in my feet and limbs
was often followed by flushings of my face,
and then a dry, hacking cough came on.”
“ You had a perfect complication of ail-
ments.”
“I think I had all the ills imaginable
rolled into one severe attack, and it was
only natural that I became low-spirited and
despondent, besides being discontented
with everything and everybody. I was
always in dread of trouble arising, and had
a melancholy desire to be alone. Even
talking fatigued me ; reading was out of the
question, as my eyes were too dull and
heavy. Erom downright exhaustion I
occasionally fell into a short doze, and then I
had dreams of a frightful character, which
made me dread falling asleep.”
“ What did your doctor say ? ”
«He said I was suffering from excessive
nervousness, and that my digestive organs
were greatly impaired. He gave me a lot of
physic, which did no good. My nerves
were still shattered, and my frame was
reeking with pains. My husband again came
to my rescue. I was more dead than alive
when he brought home a bottle of Clements
Tonic. Until then I had not found a remedy
to relieve my troubles. Clements Tonic
gave relief immediately. It gave tone to
my nerves, enabled me to eat and sleep,
and destroyed all my aches and pains. My
health was soon perfected by Clements
Tonic, and that is why I desire my cure to
be made public, which you can publish in
any way you like.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I. Flora Martin, of No. 11 Suttor-stree*,
andria, Sydney,in the Colony of New Soiah 'Wales,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have care-
fully read the annexed d< cument, consisting of three
folios and consecutively numbered from one to three,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any way my
statements—which 1 give voluntarily, without receiv-
ing any payment; and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true and by
virtue of uhe provisions of an Act made anil passed ih
the ninth year of the reign of her present Maje-ty,
intituled “An Act for the more effectual abolition if
Oaths and Affirmations taken andmadein the various
Departments of the Government of New South
Wales, and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof,
and for the suppression of voluntary and Extra
judicial Oaths and Affidavits."
Declared at Alexandria this 28th day of September
one thousand nine hundred, before me.
JAMES PARR, J.P
THE HIGHEST CLASS TOBACCO.
In Three Strengths: MILD, MEDIUM, FULL.
HAS NO EQUAL IN
QUALITY AND
AROMA.
11
' Modern Scientific
Authorities declare
“ARDATH ”
The Healthiest Tobacco I
Name of nearest Agent post free on application to
M. RUTTY & Co., Sydney.
Sole Proprietors La Casa de la Habana & “ An datn ” Factory
Manufacturers of Pure Tobacco, 62, Leadenhall btreet, London, Bi gland.
C. BRANDAUER & Co/$} Seven Prize Medals Awarded,
Circular-Pointed Pens. '
Neither scratch nor spurt, the
points being rounded by a new
process.
Attention U alto
drawn to their
new
C. BRAND AUER & C os
Circular nm
pointed'! Lli
“GRADUATED
SERIES of PENS/’
Each pattern being made In four degrees
of flexibility and Folnt). %
Ask your Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either eerie*. ** Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENCLAK
Business Announcements.
good Tailoring.
AUTUMN.
Rough Tweeds and Worsteds.
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
TO STAND ALL WEATHERS.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &C.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
AWARDED “ CBAWD PBIX,” 1900.
See the Marvellous results obtained with the
No. 1 Panoram
KODAK
Which takes Wide Panoramic Pictures, 7in.
x and is Loaded and Un-
loaded in Daylight; also the
No. 3 Folding Pocket
KODAK
Taking Pictures 3£in. x 4|in., fitted with
Rapid Rectilinear Lens, Brilliant View
Einder, made of aluminium.
Send for Illustrated Leaflets, and
mention this Paper.
To be obtained of all Dealers throughout
Australasia, or of—
JwKODAK Ltd.
THE BLOCK,
284 COLLINS ST- MELBOURNE.
Medical.
Reader, why not be »ble to use the
most mysterious and- powerful force of
nature? Bv my method you canjcam
to Hvpnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
i that are possible to the Hypuonist.
Through Hvpnotism you c«n cure disease
I conquer pain, win reluctsnt affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produco
amusement by the hour. It costs yon
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistio engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever publ-shed. For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply.
Remember this costs you noth*
in?. A postal card will bring it.
Order to-day and learn to Hyp-
notize. It is a chance of ft
life-time. Address—
*9
i
•>
l)
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstuk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. &, Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdicstrk & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Sore Eyes ! Blight!
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails . Restores Eyelashes.
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT."
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
D
RUNKENNESS
Positively CURED by Administering
It can be given in
drink or food with-
out the subject’s knowledge. Perfectly
will effect a Speedy Cul-e. Write TO-DA
Address THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter-
Harmless, and
1' for Free Book.
-street, Sydney.
EUCRASY
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise, and
Buy the Best, Cheapest and Most
Stylish Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & Co. p “ p '
252-254- Flinders St., Melbourne
(Opp. Station).
dfg
Our Suit to Order at
4',*/-. is marvel’ous
value, perfect fitting
and beautifully finish-
ed.
Trousers. 12/5-
Dress and Clerical Suits,
to order. £">.
Biding Breeches, 25/-
Men’s -uits Ready for
Wear 25/-
Ballaiat Buits,
Indig • dye, 25/-
Lonur ChesterfieMs. 30/-
Tweed Overcoats 21/-
i Waterproof Coats, full
capes. 18/0.
Tweed orSergeTrousers,
5/11.
Travelling Bugs, 10/ *5
13/9.
Black and Blue Vicuna
Coats and Vests, 19/0.
Undressed Waite Shirts,
a/6.3/6, I/O 5/6
Crimean Shirts, 5/6.
7,6.
jent's Sp’endid Bal-
moral Boots 6/9.9/6
We like to write letters.
bo don’t be afraid to
ask for any informa-
tion. Our book 'I he
Philosophy of D< ess .
patterns of all kinds
and s lf-measurenn" t
forms post free. Write
for them.
Don’t Forget to Write for Patterns.
H. NEWMAN’S
SILVER KEYLESS
WALTHAM
WATCH
£2 10s.
FOE
FOE
A Splendid Timekeeper, with Beautifully Finished
Nickel Movement: Three-quarter Plate ; Compensation
Balance ; Seven Jewels; in Heavy English Hall-marked
Silver Cases.
On Receipt of Remittance one of these Watches will be
forwarded, securely packed, carriage paid, and at our
risk, to any part of Australasia.
H. NEWMAN,
The Waltham Watch Agency,
175 & 177 Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
SEND FOE ILLUSTEATED CATALOGUE.
POST FEEE TO ANY ADDEESS.
AMUSEMENT for OTA) and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book I ound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring' Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can tie
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
XH. L. HUTCHINSON Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.
r GOUT v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO*
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pbout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.


Walter Murdock, who lately contributed
to the Akgus a funeral ode, “Ave Imperatrix, ”
now launches against Australian poets and critics
a feeble diatribe like grizzly rain at a pionio. In
recent years three poets only —Quinn, Brady and
Adams, whom he praises with faint abuse—have
done work that is worth a moment’s consideration.
But they have not followed the “ acknowledged ”
masterpieces and the “ great classic traditions of
English poetry.” That.is where the unpardonable
sin comes in. They didn’t “follow” anybody.
They had the infernal cheek to be original.
Westralia has never yet quite got over the
idea that when a man is seen at large it is a sus-
picious circumstance and probably arises through
his having broken out of gaol. Consequently every
polioeman is authorised to bail-up anybody at any
hour and demand his name, business and address,
and what excuse he has for being alive. New-
comers don’t understand this, and are violently
“lumbered” for “refusing to give their names
to the police.” Then they learn that there are
still things in Westralia that don’t enter into the
Eastern man’s philosophy.
The railway bridge over the Yarra on the
Port Melbourne line is fitted with a stone para-
pet, the top of which is about level with the steps
of the passenger carriages. One evening recently
the train came to a standstill on the bridge, and a
short-sighted gentleman, thinking it was his des-
tination, stepped out on to the parapet, and then
into the Yarra. The jury found that he met his
death by drowning through falling into the Yarra
from a stationary train, but never said a word
about the necessity of placing a railing on the top
of that parapet to prevent it being mistaken by
short-sighted or benighted travellers for a plat-
form should the train be stopped thereabouts.
Had the accident happened to a visiting noble-
man the thing would have been fixed up at once,
and there is a good opening for some young man
of lofty birth to prove himself a real benefit to
the community.
.Outran Last Saeramenfe and Other
Stones, by Albert Dorrington (“Alba Dorion ”)
is the beat beak of short stories yet produoed in
The S. Daily Telegraph recogniaea
the iuthors absolute genius.” TheS.M. Heuald
says the volume •• contains dramatic pictures
which die best of our artists in words might well
6nV f' "T han dsome cloth-bound volume, 350 pp
post-free from Bulletin office for 4s. 6d.
NEWMAN’S
For Removing
Superfluous Hair.
SPECIAL
C. E. NEWBVIAN, Chemist,
52 King Street, Sycincy.
DEPILATORY
“On O.ur Selection.” By “Steele Rudd.”
Allenburys Foods.
A PROQRESSIVE DIETARY, unique in providing: nourishment suited to the growing: digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The
The
The
“ Allenburys” Milk Food no. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
“ Allenburys ” Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of liie.
“Allenburys” Malted Food no. 3
For Infants over six months of age.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
*-*l
To be prepared for use bv tne
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
, The Lqndon Medical Record writes of it that—“No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 484, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng-.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Core.
thee: FA.MOXJ3 REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain oi
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughshave been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF* COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY - ONE BOTTLE OF HE ARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“ Mr. Hearne. —
“ Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You. can see for yourself v. hat an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully,
Extraot from letter alluded to above:—
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much' interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS' TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS--CURE, AND CURED. BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the tire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully.
“ JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and-rapid! v successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fffty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
_“ I .used your Bronchitis Cure for three of iny family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only cave him four doses, and hive some of
the medicine vet; hut lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it. D. M’DONALD, Trinkey, via
Qnirindi, N.S.W.”
©
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st , Paddington, Sydney.”
“ Sly wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Broehitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good.it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.’
“I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.’’
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine. —JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.’
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly. —C. H. RADFORD, Castertori, Victoria.”
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, V\ arragul, Victoria’”
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.-
G. SEY-TER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heyw’ood, Victoria.”
“ I have tried lots of medjcine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” •
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN C.’
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did riot do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well. —H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria."
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch's
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CUBED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“169 Queen-street,, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne,— The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Ilearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Uollins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchiris Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque tb cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“ We are, faithfully yours,
“THOMASON, CI-lATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
the editor of the oldest newspaper
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES grateful
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine iii the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“ Editor Geelong Advertiser."
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch D.POT- office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d ; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food for
Infants
9
m
'*
I
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly
~ but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BERBER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Be., every*hero.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by ft
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


sd
GRAMOPHONES.
Price Complete, Net £6 Cash.
RECORDS, Extra, 2s 6d each, Net Cash.
Other Styles, £2 10s, £3 10s, £4 15s, £7, £B, £lO, £lO 10s
fgs
CATALQ&UES
FBES WITH OSTA-IMIIE OF OWF ITBAEBST AG-BUT.
A GRAMOPHONE makes a capital
present. Welcome everywhere and by
everybody. Endless amusement for
the festive season. Pleases your family
and friends. It more than takes the
place of a piano, banjo, mandolin, or
cornet, for you hear not only one, but
all these instruments, and many more,
as they are played, not by amateurs,
but by the most celebrated artists. No
matter how remote your habitation, it
brings within the family circle the
actual voices of orators, singers, come-
dians, and story-tellers, who perhaps at
that very moment are delighting
Metropolitan audiences with the same
eloquence, melody, humor, and dialect
that is coming from the Gramophone
in the quiet of a country home
hundreds of miles away.
*■ a
m
HIS MASTER’S VOICE.”
|)o Gimit to Selections
There is practically no limit, either
in number, quality, variety, or fresh-
ness. For instance, no sooner does an
artist become a popular favorite than
he or she is invited to sing or play for
us into a Gramophone. As many
reproductions are possible from one
such performance, we can secure the
very highest talent, and what costs us
originally =£2o to £lOO can be sold for
2s. 6d.
GRAMOPHONES can be seen,
heard, and put chased at all Music
Shops, Fancf/ Dealers, Stores,
&c., all over tue Colonies.
Manufactured
and
Guaranteed
by the
6RAMOPNONE CO. Ltd., tyaidco Laoe, Stragd, Loi)doi), W.C.
Wholesale Depot for Aftstralasia : 163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A Tale of the Nor’-West.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Airlie had drifted through twenty-five years of
Eastern life in the various grades of occupation
that fall to the lot of the incompetent city clerk.
He had been clerk in a grain-store, temporary
hand in a wool-store during the season, tally-
clerk on the wharves, had done odd jobs for vari-
ous small shopkeepers, and ended by going to
Perth and becoming clerk to a carrier. Then,
having gone the round of most of the inferior
positions, he at last did something decisive ; he
went on a station.
When a city-bred young man goes up-country
he usually goes a long way, and Airlie landed at
Drammagidyee Station, in the Nor’-West.
Until the niggers were fairly cowed and en-
slaved, there existed what is euphemistically called
“ a little friction ” between whites and blacks in
Nor’-West; and they were no archangels on
Drammagidyee. They oomprised the usual med-
ley of the scum, or cream, of civilisation, accord-
ing to your own philosophy. Among them were
a few former clerks who had exchanged the quill
for cattle-driving, the usual number of bushies,
some huge, some stunted, but, contrary to the law
relating to all orthodox stations of fiction, they
possessed no “colonial experience.” Of them all,
Airlie most nearly filled this billet. They were
mostly men whose aim was to get as far away
from town as possible. The nearer a station to
city-life, the milder-mannered the man. And
Drammagidyee was pitched about as far from
Perth as Hay and Booligal are remote from
Heaven.
Up came Airlie from down South. The boss,
short-handed, gave him a job straightaway, and
the men took him on trial. As a rule they were
more particular than the boss. Airlie looked
mentally weak, and instinctively they mistrusted
weak-minded men. They have often such long
tongues, when sometimes a long tongue might be
very inconvenient; and they are unable to keep
their consciences under satisfactory control. This
wouldn’t suit Drammagidyee. There had been
some little talk lately in Perth of what had been
foolishly called barbarities in the far North, “ in-
discriminate slaughter,” “ nigger-hunts,” etc. The
Government had been stirred up somewhat, and
everybody knew it was possible that some day a
police spy might be imbibing “ colonial experi-
ence” on Drammagidyee. But no one was think-
ing this of Airlie, and his first month blundered
on in comparative peace.
Bill Varden rode in at dusk one evening, with
Morris’s dead body before him. They had ridden
in single file between two wattles, when one spear
missed Billy, and another had caught Morris in
the back.
This made trouble. Morris was Irish and popu-
lar, and it took the men few words to decide what
to do. The order went to be ready at 4 p.m.
next day.
The blacks had been camped about twenty
miles away. Two outcasts reported them to be
making due east, evidently for Mingee Creek.
On the station the hands were very careful.
Everybody must go. Airlie had no wish, but
gently succumbed. There was some discussion
about him, and it ended in his being left under
the charge of Bill Yarden, who undertook to
“fix” him, as he said, and with this comprehen-
sive understanding and unbounded faith in Bill,
who was big and exceedingly bitter, they rode off,
24 all told.
It was nearly midnight when they were creep-
ing painfully round two sides of the camp,
against the wind. One of the natives’ dogs sat
up and sniffed, causing an instant stir behind the
fires. Then the edges of the scrub bloomed into
flame, and lead whistled all around. Not for
long, though. It had to be done quickly, too
quickly, the hands thought, for a satisfactory
vengeance, and in five minutes there was compara-
tive silence.
They were curious enough to count the dead,
and a kick discovered a native shamming. He
begged for mercy, and, as it happened, from Bill.
Bill was sometimes difficult to understand. He
pondered and laughed.
“Well, I dunno. What do you say, Airlie?
Think we ought to let him off or settle him ?”
This unusual appeal from Bill to one of such a
weak and weedy nature as Airlie was surprising
to the others.
“I don’t care,” replied Airlie, feebly aping
the old hand ; “ better let him off, perhaps.”
“ Think so ; we’ll see. I suppose you are tired
of shooting. Did quite enough awhile ago, eh ?
I suppose you fired now and again.”
“ Oh, yes; I let them have it a bit; not as much
as some of you, perhaps; but I think I got one
fellow, anyway.”
“Indeed! Glad to hear it, old man, because
I didn’t see you do much. And you’ve got a
very pretty-looking gun, too. Let’s have a look
at it a minute. Got a match, Jack ? Just hold it
while I take a small squint down this barrel.”
Airlie’s gasp heralded to the expectant crowd
Bill’s verdict.”
“ You’re a liar, Airlie; your gun is as clean as
a whistle. You know, my child, you should have
fired somewhere or other if you wanted to take us
down. But you got in such a funk that you didn’t
even think of that. Now, we don’t like young
fellows like you coming here to blow on us to your
friends in Perth. That’s what it is, Airlie —you’re
a spy ! ” . .
Of course Bill didn’t believe this, but Airlie
protested, and hotly for him. “ I’m no spy. I
don’t like the work, but I swear I won’t tell a
single soul about it.”
“How nice ! Now I’m just going to let you see
how thoughtful I am. Where’s that live nigger ?
Jack, tie him up to that sapling. Here’s your
rifle, Mr. Airlie, and I’ve loaded it very carefully.
Now we’ll see if you can hit that nigger at fifteen
yards. Get back, chaps ! ”
Airlie’s heart galloped so that he hit the gun
with the back of his hand in trying to clasp it as
Big Bill forced it on him.
‘ ‘ I won’t; it’s murder in cold blood ! I’ll let
you shoot me first.”
“That may happen, of course. My gun is
pointing straight at you, and it’s going to keep
pointing till you shoot that nigger. And my
finger gets jerky if it’s kept waiting above a
minute. Hurry-up! One of you goes pretty
soon.”
The two poor devils, black and white, whim-
pered for mercy—the black to Airlie, Airlie to
the line of faces, rapidly getting misty, on each
side. But Bill’s fierce scowl predominated over
all.
A few moments Airlie stood irresolute, shud-
dering. A wish, born of resentment, flitted
towards him. He caught at it, for it gave him a
choice of victims. If he must kill, why the native ?
—why not his tormentor ? .Still, it was only a black.
Still it was murder. Was it justifiable? Not
the black’s, but Varden’s death might be. And
after that ? His alternations of purpose be-
wildered him. On which side lay the advantage.
A glance saw the cowering sullen, native. Did
his eyes suddenly seem. to catch a reflection of
Airlie’s immature desire ? He thought so in tie
same second that he saw Big Bill’s stern, menacing
meaning. He hovered between decision and
doubt, each heart-throb increasing in its oppres-
sion. The throbbing distracted his power of
thought. Oh, for some relief !
The brief minute began to seem very long.
Was Varden making it longer ? No, it was not
likely; and his rifle began to move upwards.
Then his brain stopped working altogether.
That awful dead dullness held him powerless to do
aught but try to think. The effort employed all
his will power with no result. Only details
foreign to his wishes held his attention. With the
last few seconds he was wondering why they made
guns so heavy. Could they not be lightened some
way ? Perhaps there was too much steel; or was
the wood too heavy. His mental mist thickened,
and the barrel seemed to lengthen till it almost
touched the black.
Out of the mist came Big Bill’s words, “Five
seconds.”
Airlie’s thoughts crystallised again. “ I won’t
shoot him.” The stock jumped to his shoulder.
“Time !” shouted Varden, then smiled as the
black lurched forward, dead. And the man of
infirm purpose staggered off into the dark.
VIO.
E. P. GIBSON.
Recently Rockhampton (Q.) City Council
presented to R.C. Bishop Higgins a bill for £598,
being rates on the local Holy Church for the last
18 years. The Council must be in a pretty bad
way for money when it tries to collect 18 years
arrears from a man with the aggressive name of
Higgins.
Apropos doctor-sweating. Writes “Wat
Tell ” :
Our Lodge (Foresters) has about 200 members, and the
doctor receives 308. a year for each. He undertakes no
dentistry, no important operations, nor has he to attend
. children over 16 years. Besides this there is a mileage-
rate of half-a-crown per mile, and special fees for confine-
ments. Altogether he probably gains through the Lodge
about £6OO a year, and he has a private practice. I
should like to be a medical man and sweated to the above
extent. — Wat Tell.
It is not stated whether the half-crown mileage
rate begins after the usual gratis three-mile limit
or not. The “ special fees ” for confinements ar,e
usual—even a lodge-doctor would jib at eleemo-
synary midwifery—but the specialness generally
applies to the member’s side of the bargain. To
earn his 305., “ W.T.’s” doctor is not required to
undertake “important operations,” and he is
obiigingly allowed private practice. He represents
about the top-limit of lodge-practice, however, and
as compared with a Broken Hill institution which
pays its doctor at the rate of 6s. 6d. per member
per annum (most members being married men
with families) is a lodge of princely munificence.
The trouble is that whenever a competing institu-
tion comes along the bottom is knocked out of
such lodges, and the rates come down with a run
to the usual twelve-and-sixpenny sweater’s limit.
If medical men as a body were not such born asses
“Wat Toll’s” lodge would represent a satisfactory
average and we shouldn’t be troubled with so much
medical dirty-linen-washing.
The Great Thing.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Girl stood at the table with an open letter in
her hand. The Girl’s face was a study. A ci.eque
for £2OOO was enclosed in the letter—herein in
Tattersall’s sweep.
“ What sort of a blow-out am I going to have 1 ’
said the Girl.
* * » •
“ The great thing,” said the Girl, “ is to know a
man as men know him.”
• • • •
They were having a night at the club, but they
were going to supper at Monty’s. For some time
the Man had been keeping his eye on the Boy.
The Boy’s cheeks were scarlet—a color that waxed
and waned according to the strength of the yarns
that floated around. The Boy’s face was brown,
like his hands, but his brow was white and his
eyelashes long and curling. But why was it —
yes, it was when the Boy whistled—but how could
a boy’s mouth look the sweetest thing in the
world ? And with that thought came another to
the Man. He watched more closely.
Eight of them came out of the club and got into
a hansom—five inside and three out —and drove
full-tear down the street, with the nosebag still on
the horse. When they got to Monty’s it took
some time to settle with the various policemen,
and to reinstate the cabman, who arrived, breath-
less, to claim his property. The supper was a
great success till they began to try and make the
Boy drink champagne when he said he’d had
enough. The Man was getting uneasy. Then
someone began throwing bread about. They
were lounging about in groups; some standing
and smoking. A chunk of bread hit a little nasty-
tempered fellow in the back of the neck. He
turned and let-out blindly at the one nearest him.
The blow caught the Boy between the shoulders;
he lurched forward with the weight of it, then
pulled himself up quickly, though his cheeks were
white. In a minute the Man had his coat off, and
there was a scrimmage. The Boy stood quietly,
very erect, but his face got a bit white
as a thin red line trickled down the Man’s
cheek. Then the other men interfered,
and things began to straighten -up a bit. The
Man had his broken head bathed. The Boy was
lying on the sofa looking rather white. The Boy
said he wanted to walk home. Outside in the
shadowy street the Man put his arm round the
Boy’s shoulders. What slim shoulders. How
soft. He drew the Boy very close.
“ How plucky you were. How you saved me.”
The Man kissed the mouth that looked the
sweetest thing in the world when it tried to
whistle.
• * * •
“ The great thing is,” said the Girl
“To stick to your own clothes,” said the Girl’s
husband.
MARY FITZMAURICE GILL.
The Brisbaneifes got even with York and
co. He refused for various reasons to show his
ship to them, and they took a mean revenge by
showing him their decorations.


UNDER THE ROYAL PATRONAGE OF
H.R.H. THE QUEEN OF GREECE.
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE.
H.R.H. THE DUKE OF SPARTA.
ergs
H.R.H. THE DUCHESS OF SPARTA.
H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHENLOHE.
H.R.H. PRINCE GEORGE OF GREECE.
(High Commissioner oj Crete, &c., &c.)
EDWARDS’
19
FOR
THE
HAIR
Photo d specially for the “ Har’.ene " Co., by Langfler, Bond St., W,
Hay market rheatre, London.
Miss JULIA NEILSON
writes—
" I am at present trying your ' Harlene ' for my
hair, and I find it one of the best Hair Tonics and
Restorers I have ever used, and I have tried many.
Will you kindly send me two more bottles."
THE GREAT HAIR
PRODUCER and RESTORER.
THE FINEST DRESSING SPECIALLY PREPARED AND
DELICATELY PERFUMED.
A LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO MODERN TOILET
“ Harlene" Produces Luxuriant Hair. Prevent its Falling Off and Turning
Grey, Unequalled for Promoting th? Growth of the Beard and Moustache.
The World Renowned Remedy for Baldness. For Preserving, Strengthening,
and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft, for Removing Scurf Dandruff, &c.,
also for Restoring- Grey Hair to its Original Colour.
Crown Prince’s Palace, Athens.
PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE
writes—“ Messrs. Fd wards’ Preparation, ‘Harlene’ for she Hair, has given entire
satisfaction. H.R.H. wishes six more bottles of ‘ Harlene ’ sent as soon as possible. ’’
Kitegyhaza, County Bikis, Hungary.
COUNTESS DENIS ALMASY
writes—“ Please forward me three more bottles of ‘ Harlene, as lam particularly satisfied
with the two bottles sent me to Switzerland, and have been using it ever since.”
Full. Description and Directions for use in Twenty Languages supplied with every
Bottle. 1/-, 2/6, and (three times 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle, from Druggists, &c.,
all over the World.
IP-
Photo’d special!}- lor the "Harlene Co., hy Langfier, Bond St., W.
Ganick Theatre, London.
Miss VIOLET VANBRUGH
wi ites —
‘‘ / am very pleased to testify to the excellent
qualities 0/ 'Harlene,' it is most refreshing and
invigorating and l have found it very Stimulating
to the Growth o 1 my Hair.
" P.S. —/ hope fate will never take me to any
quarter of the globe where l should be unable
to procure ' Harlene.' "
EDWARDS’ “HARUENE” Co., 95 & 96, High Hoi born, London, W.C
The New Star in Perseus.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Your star is wait ing for you ; come away.
Shelley’s “Adonais.”
[Some little time ago, in Wellington (M.L.), a man was
permanently crippled by an accident on the wharf. Find-
ing that he could no longer earn anything for his wife and
family, he cut his throat to avoid being a burden on them,
and in order that they might get his life-insurance money.]
We cling to the pleasing fancy
That, when one of Earth’s great ones dies,
His strong and strenuous spirit,
Freed from the trammels, flies
To a new star made to receive him
In the many-mansioned skies.
Victoria “the Great” laid down her pomp and
state,
To tread the sombre path, as every mortal must;
The Queen of Empire vast surrendered till at last
For such a narrow house as holds a beggar’s
dust.
Without regret or sigh she laid her baubles by—
Crown, sceptre, jewels, e’en her cherished
widow’s weeds,
Less pleased that she had known the splendors of
a throne,
Than grieved to think how seldom good-will
brings forth good deeds.
The seers who scan the heavens,
And bring near what is far,
Saw spring into sudden being
A new and lustrous star,
Where Perseus, the Hero,
Wheels in his fiery car.
O, Star of resplendent glory,
Surely the brilliant flame
Was lit to guide and welcome
One noble in deed and name —
One who shall shine for ever.
An heir to eternal fame.
Half o’er the world’s wide space, when peace was
on the face
Of the departed Queen,
A poor man lay a-dying, while wife and children
crying
Saddened the tragic scene.
Across his throat a gash showed where, by deed
called “rash,”.
His own hand wrought his doom ;
He died, by wrath of man and Holy Church’s
ban
Consigned to Hell’s thick gloom.
Wounded in labour’s strife, helpless in prime of
life,
What choice were best to make ?
His frail flesh urged him, “ Live ” ; his better'self
said, “Give
Your life for others’ sake.”
How could he live, a wreck—a millstone round
the neck
Of her he should have cherished ?
He loosed with friendly knife the crimson stream
of life—
Self-sacrificed, he perished.
Calmly, before his death, he told with struggling
breath
How Duty prompted deed.
He died, unselfish, brave, his dearest ones to
save
From pangs of direst need.
For whom was the Star that waited
Its Hero-Soul to claim —
For the Empress old and weary,
Or the Man of humble name ?
Let. the High Gods make answer,
With whom is the prize of Fame.
J. LIDDELL KELLY.
Roses and Marble.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It is three years to-night, my love. Three
years ! All the nights I have held you in my
arms. All the days you have been by my side.
Can you hear me, O, my love? Through that
mass of violets, through the gravel and the clay ?
Do you remember, you sang ‘ The Farewell ’ for
me? Sang in jest what God turned to earnest,
and when I saw you again I saw you dead. Dead
at the hour you were to have stood with me at the
altar.
“O, girl, have you no sign for me? All the
nights in these years I have come here and leant
above the dead you, hoping for a sign from the
undying you—if there be such. I know every
branch on this white rose that clasps the iron rail-
ings. I think I know every root in that white
violet tangle. Even now, in the deep darkness, I
could find the one purple intruder. The stains on
this marble slab—they are not all the stains of
tain. Some of them are salt.
“I know how you would console me—that I
shall see you hereafter. But he who took you
from me, he who cheated me—and you—he wants
Souls. My soul is rotting out. I had none till I
■met you—till I loved you Only to know that
you know I do not forget !
“To what a distance must you have gone, heart
of my Life, or how pitiless He when the scantiest
sign is not—
‘ The hour when we must sever,
The farewell hour is near ;
O, thou ! my own Beloved,
Forsake thy native sphere ! ’ ”
A voice and a violin were singing together that
song of songs, Schubert’s “L’Adieu.”
• * * *
Chenery had no memory of leaving the oeme-
tery, but when the song ceased and the strings
were mute he was standing under the singer’s
window.
* * * *
Once again, and for the last time, Chenery
stood above the roses and marble and thought un-
utterably of the dead and the living loves.
Thought of them, not as twain, but one. And on
the morrow he married that one.
• « » t
We are always conscious of the eyes we love or
loathe. Emily Chenery knew that her husband
looked at her every time his pacing brought him
opposite the drawing-room door. She kept her
fair face lowered over a book in profile towards
him. It was also the dead Emily’s profile.
Every time Chenery came to the bar of light
that spanned his walk the bride expected him to
stop, extend his hand, and say, “Come out and
make the stars jealous.”
He had said so on many previous evenings.
“ Now he will say it,” she whispered as his foot-
steps drew nearer. They receded, and she
whispered : “ Next time, then.”
Under the strain of her waiting the muscles of
her mouth, and the hand that held the book were
quivering.
The monotonous pacing continued, and the
woman felt herself as a frightened animal braced
for a spring. If he spoke now she should bound
to her feet instead of rising quietly.
“ I’ll ask her to come out,” the man was saying
all the time. “I’ll ask her the next time I pass
. . . no, next time . . now then, this time:
‘ Emily, come out and see the magnolias.’ . . She
didn’t hear —what I meant to say. If she only
wouldn’t come, I’m sure I could ask her easily. But
she’d come, and lean on my arm. . God ! what an
obligation it puts a man under for a woman to love
him . . . when he doesn’t want her to. . . .
Brute, coward. . . . I’ll ask her after five
minutes. ... If only she didn’t come for me —
and wouldn’t lean on my arm . . . I’m sure I
could like her and be her good comrade. . . .
That night in the cemetery ... I thought Emily
answered me ... a miracle . . . the song, her
face, her name even . . . and her quaint tricks
. . . she, too, writes letters to herself and to
animals and trees. ... Yes, I’m really married
to my love, to Emily. She is my dead Emily’s
self. It would be just as it is now with me if she
had lived and I had married her. How I loved
her dead ! and now I don’t love her living or dead.
. . . Are the five minutes up ? . . . I will ask her.
Ah, she’s gone . . . the night isn’t as close as it
was, and the choking scent of the magnolias isn’t
so oppressive. . . . This acting, this pretence of
loving; shall I have . . . always to drag it about
with me ... I may live to be old. Ah, how
stifling the night . . .”
Chenery went into the house. On the stairs a
laughing girl rushed down past him. She was his
wife’s sister.
“Em and I are going on the lake,” she said,
without stopping. “ I found Em writing one of
her orazy letters—a love-letter, I suppose, this
time. ” She looked back roguishly at the man,
“Was it addressed?” asked the bridegroom,
trying to put the quality of her glance into his
own.
“I didn’t see. Most probably to someone in
the house.”
She laughed and disappeared.
“To someone in the house,” he echoed as he
passed the door of his wife’s morning-room. A
glance within showed a letter on the desk. He
looked into the room for a second, then suddenly,
involuntarily, he was at the desk and looking
down at the letter. The paper was large-sized,
the writing clear. Chenery’s glance swept the
page—
My dear God,—l have often written to You, but not
since I was a child. Then I always wrote to You from
“ Eden,” our old house, with the orchard and the stream
—You remember? I was so happy, and I trusted You.
Perhaps You didn’t get my letters. I used to climb that
high gum, and throw them up, then shut my eyes tight.
Yes, dear God, I wrote to You from Eden ; now I write to
You from Hell!
Six weeks ago I got married. I didn’t particularly want
to marry anyone, but we were very poor and mother said
it would be flying in Your face if I did not take this
chance, which she didn’t doubt You sent. I felt sure
You were watching me. I was certain my marriage was
more to You than the falling of a sparrow. Now give me
strength to endure the love I can’t return ! Or make my
husband not love me. If only he didn’t care for me I'
could dare to tell him I don’t care for him, and we might
be good comrades. O, answer me. . . .
Chenery took a pen and wrote an answer below
on the blank space.
When his wife and her sister got out of the
canoe, Chenery, waiting at the steps, held his
wife’s hand closely for a second.
“An answer has come,” he said, “to a letter
you wrote this evening. It is on your desk.”
A. CONOR-O'BRIEN.
A persistent grubber among old stamps
and the like, writes : “It is not generally known
that stamped letter - sheets were adopted in
N.S.W. two years before postage-stamps were
introduced in England. Also, that N.S.W. was
the first country in the world to adopt the system
of prepaying letters by means of postage stamps.”
“Osborne” writes from the West: The
Victorian Education Department is wise in some
things. Tt takes special care not to let other
States have the benefit of its trained teachers.
Those desirous of experimenting in that good old
dumping-ground, Westralia (where all descrip-
tions of men, scratch and otherwise, are em-
ployed) are allowed six months’ leave of absence,
and permitted to return disgustedly at the end of
that period to their former positions. Conse-
quently, there are few Vio. teachers left in Wes-
tralia. The N.S.W. teacher is treated differently.
He comes away with this sort of a blessing from
the person who occupies the C.l.’s chair: “You
may say good-bye to N.S. W. so far as the Public
Instruction Department is concerned, and all of
you will regret your step. There will never be
any chance of you entering this department
again.” If the indignant functionary in the chair
was less implacable N.S.W. would regain 80 per
cent, of the trained teachers who went towards
the sunset to swish an embittered rising genera-
tion.
This is the sorb of epistle that never gets a
large cross-heading in the Jingo press. It is
penned from Willowmore, Cape Colony, under
date 6/2/T, by trooper A. R. Wensley, to his
mother at Cowra, N.S.W. :
There seems to be some doubt about the Australians,
who either paid for or worked their passages over here,
getting a free return voyage. Personally I care little
whether I get a free trip or not, because I have resolved,
as soon as I get my discharge, to return home, even if I
have to pay for my passage. I won’t stop in this country
any longer than I can help. The way the officers treat
the men here is disgraceful. These men volunteered for
a common cause. It will be a long day before England
will get my services again, because the authorities don’t
know how to treat men when they get them. Some of
the officers over us have more money than brains. You
can well imagine how such a class of upstarts will
domineer over those under them- We had two severe
fights here the other day, in which we only came off
second best. Fifteen of our side were killed and forty
were wounded or missing. We only captured one Boer,
I think, and he was drunk. Nearly all the old hands
have left my corps, and their places have been filled by a
lot of boys, most of whom never saw a rifle or a horse
until they came here. They are the scum of the large
cities.


Cured Her When a Little Girl.
Cured Her Again When a Mother.
Takes Out All Disease from the Blood;
Gives Strength; A Splendid Tonic; An Indispensable
Household Medicine
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
ms
%
W
¥
m\
S'
“ I first used Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla when a little girl for debility and poor-
ness of the blood. It strengthened me greatly, built me right up, and made me
well and strong. After a recent attack of typhoid fever I found myself very weak
and again I thought of this wonderful strengthening medicine. So I began its
use, and with great and lasting benefit. All my robust health is back again,
thanks to Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It is a splendid tonic, purifies the blood, makes
it rich, and is an indispensable household medicine.”
This is a practical experience which Mrs. H. A. Steinberg, of Nelson St.,
East Adelaide, So. Australia, has had with Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. With this
she sends a photograph of herself and child, which we reproduce above with her
permission. Indeed, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Perhaps Mrs. Steinberg describes your condition, also. Perhaps your blood
is thin, making you pale and weak; perhaps you are depressed, discouraged.
Then there is a remedy that will build you up, made you strong and vigorous
again. And it is a wonderful medicine for the children, too ; giving them good
flesh, rich blood, and steady nerves.
ER’S 3 arsaparilla
Takes Out All Impurities from the Blood.
AYER’S FILLS are gentle, safe, thorough.
26
YEARS’ SUCCESS
f -DfjSjy AS THE
UNIVERSAL REMEDY
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
l Asthma,Bronchitis,
influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Consumption,
HAS MADE
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY IN THE HOME
OR KIT OF EVERY COLONIAL.
It saves many Lives.
There is no difficulty in obtaining it , so
when you ash for Owbridge’s Lung
Tonic , insist upon having it, as
other so-called remedies are
often substituted.
Prep*red by
W.T.eWBRIBBE, M R S., Gk.mi.t, HttiL
Sold in bottles, at 1* lid., 25.9 d„ 4*.6d M A
by all Colonial Medicine Vendors.
COPYRIGHT.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
* .tOR Bilious -and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
I 1 Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches the.Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. IHb rlltoi UUbll
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WOIWK A
GCjmUA A BOX.” U IM. fin.
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed,, will quickly restore females to complete health. Ihey
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud ok Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame, these
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to tne
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beechama Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine xn
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is lid, and 2s 9d each.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
■X»C> DEUTY OOMI»BXITION.
WINES n ‘ Be,t Br Z' d ‘ oniy °’ SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
“OH OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
S. FREEMAN SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPTCOI A’ I.TIES';
z
OS
Xui
ill
hn
PRI
POWDER.
PICKLES.
drg
Bg?7sg3g*gg33rg%l
The Universal Remedy for Acidity or the Stomacn,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
IDINNEFORDS
IMAGNESIA]
? .
A
A
Sold Throughout the Worid.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S
MAGNESIA,
ser
/^G)
91
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
IRISH MOSS
flgjEgßgFag
«t»fi«£“3oNNt NGTOM
ip
»»
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
i i « ■ • « » » • • * • * '
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


RUBBER GOODS
Waterproof Coats, 15s to 70s.
Rubber Boots, 17s 6d to 20s.
Goloshes —Ladies’, 2s 6d and 3s.
Gentlemen’s, 4s and
4s 6d.
Leggings, 4 s 6d, ss, and 6s 6d.
Driving Rugs,
10s 6d, 16s 6d, 21s, 30s
Hot-Water Bags, Best English
Rubber, 6s and upwards
PSRDRIAU Sz OCX,
RU33EH MANUFACTURERS & IMPORTERS,
(Catalogues post Free) 270 George Street, Sydney.
60
FOR the: I.AJDIJCS.
W- C- rFlT.TG'RTXGGKE: GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 Vokiv f syduisy
(.Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post,- irora ail the colonies promptly
attended to
WJLjJ .4;, j .PUMPPI
CECR3E & L1ARKHT STREETS, SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS : Bedroom (single), 3s. per Day, or 21s.
per Week ; Bedroom (double), 6s. per day, or Two
Guineas per Week.
83F” Breakfasi, Luncheon, or Dinner from
, ONE GHliXIWG upwards.
Letters arid Telegrams addressed to “ The Manager ”
will receive prompt attention,
SdlAMd
All have Wrought Iron Valve Gear.
PUPS* both Horizontal & ||ertical,
... KEPT IN STOCK . . .
iIMPS'ON BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives,
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Send for Catalogue.
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
0
plunger and ring pattern
amm at t * s
& FORES
SHOW-EOOM3,
<f>HE JJeBOT
J. & J. MAX FIELD, PrOPRS.. SHEFFIELD.
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St,,
SYDNEY.
Also at)
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
THE HHTJDIE OH COQEAG
T D P M€BNS
ESTABEISHEE 1795
THE MOST
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COG O A
BREAKFAST- SUPPER.
ERASMIC
■I iMSOAP
Unequalled as a Preserver and
Beauiifier.of the Complexion, it diffuses an exquisite
odor, and impart® a stimulating and refreshing: influence.
i'V' V' —S.V— ’V
ALL WHO DESIRE TO
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN.
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
m <-
tJV
&
&
KEEPS THE SKIiSi
COOL AMD
REFEESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers— M. BEET HAM & SOM, .CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
—
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
m
"r-'-.i'
■
Parke & Lacy
COMPANY LIMITED
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS,.
Manufacturers and Importers of
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
IN STOCK —r
Knowles Steam Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors, Nagle
Horizontal and Vertical Engines and Boilers, Pennsylvania Return Tubular
Boilers, Buffalo Blowers and Exhaust Pans, Morris Dredging Pumps,
Bullock Diamond Drills, Dodge Rock Breakers, Roger Rolls, Gates’ Rock
Breakers, Challenge Ore Eeeders, Huntington Quartz Mills, Wood and
Iron Working, and Laundry Machinery, and Mine and Mill Supplies.
And at
San Francisco and I»ondon
0 Clarence St., SYDNEY.
mss
SINGLE and
DUPLEX.
DUPLEX OUTSIDE PLUNGER PATTERN
Pumps for Every Possible Pumping Purpose.
Boiler Feeders
Light Service Pumps
IVSining Pumps
Vacuum Pumps
Air Pumps
Air Compressors
Sole Agents in Australasia —
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
Sydney # Melbourne.
:< Lii.
!?«
■■•■■■■ :v :
DUPLEX PISTON PATTERN
