

GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid’s London Draught Stout
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
■ * ;
Cocos,
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
Gr. WATKINS £& 00.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining' Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Prices and
Particulars.
'
Descriptive
Catalogues
on
Watch Kepairs by Post
WATCHES Thoroughly Gleaned, 2s. (id. ;-best English
Mainspring, 2s. 6d. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d,
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
355. Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit ail sights. Send for catalogue.
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
684 George-st. (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.
O’S
Sawing & Woodworking Machinery,
Vertical & Horizontal Band Mills,
Frix,” Faris,
HOI
WORLD’S RECORD
THOBNFS
'■ A 1 WHISKY.
NOW READY. NOW READY.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
A Reprint of articles from The Bulletin.
Price SlX^s;s : »^SjxrO£3=:I a *osiis.caL, Sc3L
Sole Wholesale Agents: EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
wmscxm
UOBA.R.T.
Hadley’s Orient Hotel.
J^PTXCH
WI.MI’Of,!
Hilda Eaihva.v
Acconmioilatii
Boarders, Us. ;
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
■ Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
>n in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
per Day. or 2 Guineas per Week.
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME.
SANDEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
241 jEPXTT ST3EIL3E3EIT, S.3T ZD IST JESTST.
A M USJSM lijYT for OLD and YOU Mi.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising- Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Pish (gives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.
JPJIONEER
LEATHER
BELT! MG
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches:—P. Frankel & Co., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.;
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
Co., Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st-., Christchurch, N.Z.
“Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
Fair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/0.
- ABBOTT FILTER
6 es Absolutely Pure Water
ABBOTT FILTER COY., 33 William-street, Melbourne.
N. GUTHEIDGE LTD., Agents, 71 Clarence-street, Sydney; Fremantle, and Kalgoorlie.
S. FREEMAN ■# SONS L!^S52
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
head-office: WTHTAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
JOSHUA
BRANDY
The London Times: “A Sound, Honest Brandy.”
The Lancet : “Of a, Fragrance, Purity and Quality Second to None.”
The British Medical Journal : “A Pure Product, well worth the attention of the Profession.”
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10U3, CATERER.
Mr. Skinner lias a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bails
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Sinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Crqbrocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, -Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s Cnobrocatioo.
The Ways of Many Waters
Collects the dashing ballads and verses of sailor-men’s
and wharf-men’s life which E. J. Brady has contributed
to The Bulletin and the Sunday Times, Sydney. It is
the first attempt on the part of an Australian verse-
writer to chant the life on the sea and the margins of
the sea ; though there is one horse-poem—the story of
“ How Jack Bowlin Steered ‘ Jones.’ ” The volume is
bound in buckram, with gilt top,, in a size that will go
into a pocket without squeezing ; and the price is ss,
post-free.'
The Bulletin
V01.22.—N0. 1099.]
[Saturday, March 9, 1901
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The Bulletin publications.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait; ss.
post free. *** A charming presentation
volume.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated ; price 4s, 6d. post free.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd ”). With
about eighty illustrations by Mahony,
Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher and
Fullwood ; Os. post-free. *** “ The jolliest
book yet printed in Australia.”
A Hose of Regret:
Verses by James Hebblethwaite ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 9d. post free.
The Circling Hearths:
Bv Roderic Quinn. ' No. 11l of The
Bulletin Booklets, Enveloped, Is. 9d.
post free.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top ; 55.,
post free. %* Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse. ' \ ,
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. ***The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
The Golden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Verse, by Bulletin Writers ; Is. 3d.
■ post free. • : - ,
Tales of the Convict System:
By “ Price Warungl” Paper covers, 193
pp. ; (id., post free.
The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp. ; 6d. post
free.
jlSTSupplied direct from The Bulletin Office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any
Australasian province), postal notes,, or P. 0.0,
for amounts stated.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Limited, Sydney and Brisbane.
A POLICY
FOR THE
COMMON WEALTH
Price, 6d; posted, Bd.
the LUNGS, the
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis! .
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
A. The Larynx, or
voice.
B- The Trachea or wi
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHQL JUJUBES (Registered),
Contain SO roc,nine or other poisonous drur/ . .
coin rv all CHEMISTS, in Tins, 1s Gel; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland—post
free on receipt Qf stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
THE RED RAGE.
Religious Lies and Others.
BY AN OCCASIONAL LIAR.
THE Sydney controversy about “ When to
Lie and How,” between champions of the
Roman Catholic and Protestant varieties
of lying, appears now to have come to an
end; and, as a bit of a liar myself, I desire to
congratulate my learned and religious comrades
upon the skill with which they raised dust in
the wrong places. Yet if I were the Father
of Lies, I should be only tolerably satisfied
with my children. They did not give sufficiently
personal testimony; they were content, for the
most part, to marshal Boswell and Liguori as wit-
nesses at the Great Black Throne, instead of
stating the circumstances under which they pre-
fer to lie themselves, and adducing autobio-
graphical instances.
Now, it will hardly be denied that Boswell and
Liguori are dead: I believe they have been dead
some time. Canon Kingsley and Cardinal New-
man are dead' too. So are many other religious
authorities upon lying, who were quoted in the
course of controversy.
The remark I wish to make is, that the opinions
of Boswell and Liguori and the rest are also dead.
They never were alive, except for Boswell,
Liguori, and Co.; and they were only alive in so
far as 8., L., and Co. gave them life. The authors
of the opinions being cold mutton, the opinions
also are cold mutton. And I notice green patches
here and there on the mutton, which would seem
to signify that it is no longer wholesome.
More or less luckily, I am still alive. I don’t
care sixpence for Boswell’s opinion about lies. I
wouldn’t give twopence for Liguori’s. Boswell
and Liguori were mentioned in a preceding para-
graph as dead. In this paragraph they are still
dead. They won’t lie for me. I have to do my
own lying. Point d 7 argent, point de Suisse ! No
taxation without representation ! Boswell and
Liguori lied in their day according to their
notions; in my day I lie according to mine.
Perdition take the lies of Boswell and Liguori!
Now for the drawbacks and conditions. Of
course, stupid people! Ido not mean that the
opinions of Boswell, Liguori and Co. have no
interest, are not worth examination and debate.
I do not mean that they have interest, that they
are worth examination and debate. What I
mean is that, at the end of all examination of
other people’s opinions, I must decide for myself.
The opinions of Boswell and Liguori do not bind
me. Nobody but myself can bind'me. None but
myself can think for me. None but myself can
lie for me. lam the measure of my own lying
universe.
In the Sydney controversy, great attention was
paid to the kind of lie approved by Boswell,
Liguori and Co. The disputants, seemed to think
that their lies should oh should not be modelled on
Liguori’s lies. The disputants seemed to count it
a great tiling for or against themselves when they
could show that Liguori approved the right or
wrong kind of lie, according to their notions. The
Dead Lie of the late Liguori lay heavily on their
intelligences. They keenly wished to lie, or not to
lie, according to Liguori. With Liguori at their
backs one felt that they were, or were not, large
lusty liars. With Liguori away, their lies lost, or
did not lose, all flesh and flavour. It seems a pity
Liguori is so, dead. If he had any sense of
humour, this would be amusing to Liguori.
Much of the interest pf the controversy centred
round an imaginary lady with the adventitious
name of Anna. Anna had been very naughty,
and her husband asked her all about it. If she
told him the truth, he would kill her. Question :
Was she justified in lying ? and what kind of lie
ought she to use ? The debate proceeded by
reference to the doctrines of Boswell, Liguori and
Co., and the teachings of the Jesuits. Jesuits, it
appeared, are a class of priests of the Roman
Catholic church who are renowned for their
devotion to Truth. Hence it has come about that
truthful and jesuitical are synonymous ; and who
says liar says Presbyterian plump. All over the
world, wherever Truth has travelled, she has
taken a Jesuit along with her. This has some-
times been distasteful to peoples who did
not like Truth, and the Jesuits have been
expelled from several European countries because
they were unbleriching witnesses to the Truth.-
Sometimes in France or Germany, when a hus-
ba-ndinan was digging a well, and reached the
level where Truth lies, he found instead of Truth
a tiny Jesuit wrapped in a white rose-leaf, and
the Jesuit immediately commenced to explain the
difference between pure mental restriction and
non-pure. If the husbandman’s wife happened to
be called Anna, he usually found this irritating ;
for Truth’s mirror showed him that Anna had
done quite right when she denied being very
naughty. Thence arose a prejudice against
Truth, and against the Jesuits as the servants of
Truth, which resulted in a banishment of the
Jesuits from the country.
All this seemed a little irrelevant. For it should
be clear that, if Anna is satisfied that she ought to
lie, she need take no notice of Presbyterian or
Jesuit opinion. In the last resort, she is the
arbiter of her own conduct ; Boswell, Liguori and
co., can decide for themselves, but (if she thinks
for herself, as is her right) they cannot decide for
her.
In other words, there is no standard of truth
entitled to claim acceptance. No individual has
a right to thrust his notion of truth upon another
individual. We may accept codes, and conven-
tions, and religions ; but none of them can show
ethical warrant for compelling acceptance. The
individual’s own wishes are, and must always
remain, his ultimate laws.
What of a Society ? A Society can only derive
its powers from the consent of the individuals
who compose it. These yield to others in order to
gain from others ; and the general opinion fixes
the customs of the Society. Some individuals may
not approve of some of these customs; and Society
has no ethical warrant to compel their belief—unless
it be held that the fact that they remain within
the Society implies acquiescence in the Society’s
rules of conduct. Otherwise, for the individual
who disapproves of any law or religion, there is
no reason why that law or religion should control
his life. The fact that the law has been passed
by Parliament, or the religion approved by Bos-
well or Liguori, need make no ethic..l difference
to him. From the individual’s point of view, he
is entitled to do as lie pleases.
Is there, then, any reason why any individual
should speak the truth, or what he conceives the
truth ; instead of lying ? No ; if he does not wish
to, there is no final reason whatever. There is no
final reason whatever why the individual should
accept anybody else’s standard of conduct—not
even Boswell’s or Liguori’s. He lies if he wishes ;
he speaks truth, if he wishes ; and ethically, in the
last resort, nobody has the least right to blame
him.
Practically , as a matter of social convenience,
we do blame the liar; because we believe experi-
ence has shown that it is good for a society that
the individuals who compose it should speak as
much truth as possible; we believe truth pays the
society. And, as a reason why the individual
should wish to speak the truth, we say that truth-
speaking pays the individual. Apart from its
effect on others, we believe that the habit of lying
deteriorates the individual’s character, lowers his
life-value, his life-quality, his life-result.
But the habit of truth-speaking cannot be de-
fined, and measured, and regulated, to suit every
individual, in all circumstances. There is at this
day, in some eountVies, a well-established belief
that a man should always lie to shield a woman.
If that be so, one would think that Anna of the
controversialists might lie to shield herself. But
that point may be safely left to Anna.
It is not socially safe, however, to admit that
any lie is justifiable—from a Society’s point of
view. Theoretically, the standard should always
be kept at the highest conceivable point, since any
authoritative relaxation is likely to be dangerous
to the weak or ignorant. Individually speaking,
we may lie as much as we like, though it will
rarely pay us. Socially speaking, we must never
lie, for it does not pay our Society.
In the Boston Pilot, J. B. Dollard writes this
pleasant rhyme of
THE LITTLE IRISH VILLAGES.
The pleasant little villages that grace the Irish glynns
Down among the wheat-fields—up amid the whins,
The little white-walled villages crowding close together,
Clinging to the Old Sod in spite of wind and weather :
Ballytarsney, Ball.vmore, Ballyboden, Boyle,
Ballingarry, Ballymagorry by the banks of Foyle,
Ballylaneen, Ballyporeen, Bansha, Ballysadare,
Ballybrack, Ballinalack, Barna, Ballyclare.
The cosy little villages that shelter from the mist,
Where the great West Walls by the ocean spray are
kissed ;
The happy little villages that cuddle in the sun
When blackberries ripen and the harvest work is done :
Corrymeela, Croaghnakeela, Clogher, Cahirciveen,
Cappaharoe, Carrigaloe, Cashel and Coosheen,
Castlefinn and Carrigtohill, Crumlin, Clara, Clane,
Oarrigaholt, Carrigaline, Cloghjordan and Coolrain.
The dreamy little villages where by the fire at night
Old Shanachies with ghostly tale the boldest hearts
affright;
The crooning of the wild blast is the wailing Banshee’s
cry,
And when the silver hazels stir they say the fairies sigh :
Kilfenora, Kilfinnane, Kinnity, Killylea,
Kilmoganny, Kiltamagh, Kilronan and Kilrea,
Killashandra, Kilmacow, Killiney, Killashee,
Killenaule, Killmyshall, Killorglin and Killeagh.
Leave the little villages, o’er the black seas go,
Learn the stranger’s welcome, learn the exile’s woe ;
Leave the little villages, but think not to forget,—
Afar they’ll rise before your eyes to rack your bosom yet:
Moneymore, Moneygall, Monivea and Moyne,
Mullinahone, Mullinavatt, Mullagh and Mooncoin,
Shanagolden, Shanballymore, Stranorlar and Slane,.
Toberaheena, Toomyvara, Tempo and Stabane.
On the Southern Llanos—north where strange light
gleams,
Many a yearning exile sees them in his dreams ;
Dying voices murmur (passed all pain and care),
“ Lo ! the little villages ! God has heard our prayer 1"
Lisdoonarna, Lissadil, Lisdargan, Lisnaskea,
Portglenone, Portarlington, Portumna, Portmagee,
Clonegam and Clonegowan, Cloondara and Clonae,
God bless the little villages and guard them night
and day !
A good Australian rhyme can be built on the
same pattern, and the best sent in will be printed
and paid for All the names must be genuine,
and to be found in some Australian postal
directory. The metre need not be followed.
Absolutely new sentiments must be expressed in
the verses ; there must not be a slavish imitation
of Dollard. Take his hint only, and adapt it in
an original way. Not more than four verses with
refrains —perhaps three would be better. Send
before 30th March.
‘ 7* :
Some casual observations of Mr. Dooley :
To most people a savage nation is wan that does n’t
wear oncomf’rtable clothes.
A fanatic is a man that does what he thinks tip Lord
wud do if He knew th’ facts iv th' case.
A German’s idee iv Hivin is painted blue an’ has cast-
iron dogs on th’ lawn.
No man was iver so low as to have rayspict f’r his
brother-in-law.
An Englishman appears resarved because he can’t talk.
What China needs is a Chinese exclusion Act.
All th’ wurruld loves a lover—excipt sometimes th’
wan that’s all th’ wurruld to him.
A nation with colonies is kept busy. Look at England!
She’s like wan iv th’ Swiss bell-ringers.
Th’ paramount issue f’r our side is th’ wan th’ other
side doesn’t like to have mintioned.
If ye put a beggar on horseback ye’ll walk ye’ersilf.
An autocrat’s a ruler that does what th’ people wants
an’ takes th’ blame f’r it. A constitootional ixicutive,
Hinnissy, is a ruler that does as he dam pleases an’
blames th’ people.
’Tis as hard f’r a rich man to enther th’ kingdom iv
Hiven as it is f’r a poor man to get out iv Purgatory.
Thrust ivrybody—but cut th’ ca-ards.
Dhressmakers’ bills sinds women into lithrachoor an’
men into an early decline.
People that talk loud an’ offind ye with their insolence
are usu’lly shy men thryin’ to get over their shyness. ’T
is th’ quiet, resarved, ca’m spoken man that’s mashed on
himsilf.
Miditation is a gift confined to unknown philosophers
an’ cows. Others don’t begin to think till they begin to
talk or write.
A good man'ny people r-read th’ ol’ say in’, “ Larceny is
th’ sincerest form iv flatthry.”
Most vigitaryans I iver see looked enough like their
food to be classed as cannybals.
I’d like to tell me frind Tiddy that they ’se a strenuse
life an’ a sthrenuseless life;
I wondher why porthrait painters look down on
phrenologists.
+- ,
V Sacro ” : Be. Albert Dorrington’s criticised
passage in “A Bush Singer” about the miner
laughing when lead spills from the burning roof
on to his naked arms. There is an authenticated
case of an acolyte who, rather than disturb the
celebration of the mass, allowed a red-hot coal
that had, fallen' upon his bare arm from the censer
he was swinging to remain there until.attention
was attracted by the smell of burning flesh. The
devotee gained rapid promotion. As to indiffer-
ence to physical pain, a medico once told me that
a workman ill an English manufacturing town
called on him with his coat slung loosely over his
shoulder, and talked for five minutes about the
weather. Then the doctor, growing impatient,
asked, “But what'is the object■ of your visit?”
“Oh, this,” replied the man, removing his coat
and showing an arm severed at the shoulder and
hanging by a strip of skin.
“Annie Besant,” says one who saw her lately
in London, “is as sweet, as beautiful as ever;
but mad, quite mad ! ” Poor good woman gone
wrong ! And Gerald Massey’s bootless appeal—
Now, there’s woe and wail for her,
True hearts ache and ail for her,
Poor wee faces pale for her.
And the deeds she might have done 1
Not as Sophist, but as one
Worker in a Million.
Ignes Fatui of the fog,
Lured and led her all agog
Into the Blavatsky Bog.
Cursfed fraud that could entice
Her to that great Sacrifice !
Priceless SOLD without her price.
Is she dreaming ? Let us make
One more call for Love’s dear sake ;
Annie Besant, won't you wake !
— : «
Here’s a letter—
Blanky, Blank, Blanky, Feb. 12th,
Ovens district, Victoria.
The Editor of Sidney Buletin,
Sir, you will find enclosed Coppy of a song that I com-
posed, and I have been advised to apply to you to have it
brought befor the public. If you could get it set to a
new tune and have it sung by a good singer and retain
the Coppyright it might bring in a lot of money or it
could be sung to the old tune (the red white and blue) as
you think best. I want to retain an intrest in the sale of
coppys and will share with you if you will, or I will take
a lump sum for the coppyright. lam sending anothe
virse and it will be placed as 3rd and that I think will
make an improvement. Please write me and tell me
what you think of it, and I hope you will take it up I
have no doubt it is worth a tryal.
Hope you will excuse my bad penmanship' I am only a
working man with little or non schooling.
I Remain your Etc. [Blanky Blank].
We’d rather live in peaqg
In our hard won Australian home
And pray that wars may cease
But till that time shall come
And tyrants cease to oppress
Till justice is meteded to all
While there’s are rongs to redress
Brave men will have to fall
Note—to be the 3rd verse of song.
Blank, blank, Blanky, Feb. 12th, 1901
Blank, Blanky,
Oyens-district,
Victoria.
I have sent a copy to Lord Hopetown and one each to
Sir G. Turner and Sir John Madden.—B.B.
Here’s the song—
Britannia s Young Lions Will Roar.
(To Popular Air.)
I.
Britiannia, great mother of nations,
Thy proud sons are we,
And we still take our stations
With the brave and free ;
For we are loyal and true,
True to the old Mother-land,
Under the Red, White, and Blue,
Shoulder to shoulder we’ll stand.
.(Chorus.)
Our flag is the Red, White, and Blue,
And we’ll rally round the Red, White, and Blue ;
Britannia, great mother of nations,
Thy proud sons are we.
■' '.II.
Britain won’t quarrel with neighbors
For their riches or territory,
And cares not for fears or favors,
But for freedom and liberty.
She only wants what is due —
Surely that is everyone’s right—
And she will have it, too,
Else she is going to fight.
(Chorus.)
Our flag is the Red, White and Blue,
And we’ll rally round the Red, White and Blue,
Britannia, great mother of nations,
Thy proud sons are we.
111.
A voice to us is calling,
The voice of our heroes slain,
Though for them our tears are falling,
Their deeds we’ll do o’er again.
When the bugle for war shall sound,
Britannia’s young lions will roar,
The war-er.v through the earth resound,
And echo from every shore..
(Chorus.)
Our flag is the Red, White and Blue,
And we’ll rally round the,Red, white and Blue,
Britannia, great mother of nations,'
Thy proud sons are we.
[Blank-Blanky Blank, Blanky Blanky.]
And this is the material Australia has to work
with, among other, in the building of her nation !
Well, she’ll succeed yet.
G. E. Monkshood has compiled a book of
“Woman and the Wits.” Some of his dis-
coveries—
Love decreases when it ceases to increase.
Chateaubriand.
A woman’s lot is made for her by the love she accepts.
* George Eliot.
A short absence quickens love, a long absence kills it.
Mirabeau.
One should choose a wife with the ears rather than the
eyes. Proverb.
Women especially are to be talked to as below men and
above children. Chesterfield.
When we speed to the devil’s house, woman takes the
lead by a thousand steps. Goethe.
It is born in maidens that they should wish to please
everything that has' eyes. Gleim.
There are people who are almost in love, almost famous,
and almost happy. De Krudener.
The two pleasantest days of a woman are her marriage
and the day of her funeral. Hipponax.
Heaven has refused genius to woman, in order to con-
centrate all the fire in her heart. Rivarol.
If woman did turn man out of Paradise, she has done
her best ever since to make it up to him. Sheldon
A woman who pretends to laugh at love is like the child
who sings at night when he is afraid. Rousseau.
The woman who is resolved to be respected can make
herself to be so, even amidst an army of soldiers.
Cervantes.
A man should choose for a wife only such a woman as
he would choose for a friend, were she a man. Joubert.
A woman cannot guarantee her heart, even though her
husband be the greatest and most perfect of men.
George Sand.
Before going to war say a prayer ; before going to sea
say two prayers ; before marrying say three prayers.
Proverb.
Woman—the gods be thanked ! —is not even collaterally
related to that sentimental abstraction called an angel.
Browne.
A woman who writes commits two sins ; she increases
the number of books, and decreases the number of
women. Karr.
It is neither honour nor love which makes a betrayed
man think of killing a woman. Murder comes of the
senses. Bourget.
There are only twb beautiful things in the world-
women and roses ; and only two sweet things—women
and melons. Malherbe.
There are some women who think virtue was given
them as claws were given to cats —to do nothing but
scratch with. Jerrold.
The Bible says that woman is the last thing God made.
He must have made it on Saturday night. It shows a
fatigue. Dumas.
To remain virtuous, a man has only to combat his own
desires ; a woman must resist her own inclinations and
the continual attack of man. De Latena.
When a woman explicitly condemns a given action, she
apparently gathers courage for its commission under a
little different conditions. Howells.
■ ■
E. Wilson Dobbs—
With regard to Oscar Wilde’s “Requiescat” and the
lines
All her bright golden hair
Tarnished with rust
G. A. Sala wrote on Aug. 17, 1882 (see Hamilton’s “Col-
lection of Parodies ”) —“ Golden hair (experto crede) does
not tarnish in the tomb. Read the last paragraph in
Zola’s ‘ Nana,’ which physiologically is astoundingly
accurate.”
The passage relating to the death of Nana runs thus:
“ Et, sur ce masque horrible et grotesque du neant, les
cheveux, les beaux cheveux gardant leur flamb6e de
soleil, coulaient en un ruissellement d’or. Vbnus se de-
composait.”


W. Joo. Baker’s
NEW
DESIGN
BUSH KNIFC
Grip Handle, Brass Rivetted, sJin blade,
complete with Sheath, 3/6 Post Free.
Many other Designs Sheath Knives, from 1/- each.
Please write for FREE DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE.
W. JNO. BAKER, Cutler, 3 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
PRICES
FOR
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN
OBTAINED BY CONSIGNING TO
Goldsbrough, Mort>Co.
Circular Quay, Sydney,
Who render PROMPT RETURNS and safeguard your
Proceeds by their TRUST ACCOUNT System .
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
C B B
B*M
5800
;^vsBoa
Vi Sfio7
Guaranteed nor to or burn*
CERTIFICA TE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
, application. kt Thousands Selling Daily.
f G B B
BRIAR
siunr mm
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST
Of TRICKS, PUZZLES, Etc.,
Etc., FREE.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
EXTRA SPECIAL CATALOGUE
OF BOOKS FREE.
STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTES OP ANT COLONY TAKEN.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE,
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
NEWMAN’S
For Removing
Superfluous Hair.
SPECIAL
By post — 2s. 6d. a packet.
C. E. NEWMAN, Chemist,
52 King Street, Sydney.
DEPILATORY.
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL !
eg,
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin. TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
m- For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively.
Price, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
\
m
Washington H. Soul & 00.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
F
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
ERASMIC
PERFUME
Is delightfully fragrant and pleasant to use.
A DAINTY, DELICIOUS DELICACY.
. . . ASK YOUR CHEMIST FOR IT . . .
New Zealand Loan& Mercantile
Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED CHARGES ON
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charges will be
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ...
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under ... ... ...
WAY BILLS sent on application.
WOOL:
f per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
WHEAT.
SALES last season show an increase of 25 per cent, as compared with previous years. Unrivalled
accommodation. Three months’ free storage.
CIRCULAR giving fullest particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired.
CONSIGNORS are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of
this Company.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
WOOL. WOOL WOOL
Winchcombe, Carson & Co. Ltd.
Selling Agents
Reduced Wool
Commission
21 per cent.
on all lots.
Large or Small.
WRITE AND CONSULT THEM ABOUT SALE OF YOUR PRESENT CLIP.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.,
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 O’CONNELL STREET. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge s 3 Per Cent, to the Growers.
BONUS i PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge \d. per lb. to the Buyers.
“LAWRUS” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS & STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only :
IV
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
STOGDALE & DUFFUS, Finks Buildings, Corner of Elizabeth & Flinders Sts.,
lVlelbOMrne; and 422 George St., Sydney.
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s He-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON'S RE-INVIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is trulv wonderfuL
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. organs is cruiy wonaenui.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CALL OE WRITE- O"WXjI
CUT
RATE
DKXJG STORE
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
0 D&
l v?
,v,\
vVhen
writing
please
mention
Tub
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
i
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.,
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0 |
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0 (
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 830 |
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0 (
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be '
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and(
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for’
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, (
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to— i
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney |


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hotoart.
ROSEHILL 0. March 23.
50,000 Subscribers at 5*
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
above.
Name
Address
DONCASTER H. April 6.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
above.
shares in the
Name
Address
Sydney C. April 8.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
N ame
Address.
City Tat ter sail’s H.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL,
Please allot me.
April 20.
.shares in the aboya
For full particulars read our Printed Circular
Address ef Tatter sail,” care Ctoo. Adams, Hobart.


MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
V
band saw mills. circular saw mills.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring: Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
4
w
Xju a c man
failed to shut
the door, and
the strong draft
struck you
squarely in the
chest.
A draft means
a cold, a cough,
pneumonia, and
often the beginning
of consumption
itself.
You shun a draft. But
you can’t when riding in
the street-cars; either in
the closed or open cars. Then
keep at hand a bottle of
Ayer's
Cherry Pectoral
It "will cure a “street-car cold” in a
night. The moment you feel chilly or
feverish, want to cough, or have any
tightness in the chest take a dose. The
relief is immediate.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral Plaster is a
great aid to the Cherry Pectoral. Placed
directly over the painful lung, it draws
out all soreness, relieves congestion,
and imparts great strength.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
“ D(YW KIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GE()fiGl E ST REET, 13R1513 A NE.
Pub i: at ions.
TRICOCOG9
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers: Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Auuiess— L.D.1., 300 Collins Bt., Melbourne.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk &TKIPR
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/ per Half-dozen, free by post throuyho at
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE St SONS, Brisbane, Q’land
Australia!? MGtGal ProVideQt Society
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and O.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Commercial
Bugfgy,
£l4 IQs,
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
AST Send for a
Catalogue.
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HIXLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
YORKSHIRE
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
RELISH
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS aloue.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours : —Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors : —GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiaco, Perth, W.A.&6B,King St., Melbourne
Paris exhibition, 1900—British Awards
The Only
Grand
Prix
She
highest
ever made!
SOLELY FOR TOILET SOAP
HAS BEEN AWARDED TO
(Established 1789.)
VIC 7%
REC F D'fcfAV^C
BP
Uppointmei
to
DifnA
fier ißajestp Cbe Queen ami b.li.b. Cbe prince ol Wales.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1900 inclusive.
KT.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Marif". Company
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, .17 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OCII SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Delirered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Credo in-
I do not call him king who thrones in purple,
I may not hail a crowned puppet “ Lord ! ”
I may not doff the cap that decks a freeman,
Because I see you bend in false accord ;
I only kiss the lips of those who love me,
I only hail as king the soul above me.
I may not bow me in the House of Rimmon,
And feign a worship all for slavish fear ;
I may not fawn to win the passing favour
Of them whose only god is golden gear ;
I hold it worse to creep a crooked craven
Than bend the back to image old and graven.
I hail each ancient creed whose gentle preaching
Can quell the brute inborn with charmed call;
But more I love the right of freest teaching,
For Freedom’s flag is Error’s funeral-pall.
Who seeks to hide a truth is blind blasphemer,
For Truth, and Truth alone, is Man’s Redeemer.
And this hath ever been my chiefest solace,
To banish clouds that make my vision blear;
To leave awhile this world of sordid serfdom,
To find a soul in every dawning clear,
A pulse within the breeze that flutters by me,
A god within the flower that whispers nigh me.
I hate these foolish fears of dim Hereafter,
These fetters on the mind that should be free;
I love this little life of tears and laughter,
This dreamy Isle that dots a slumber-sea;
And when the brooding Night shall nestle o’er me,
I dread no ltiss of kindly Earth that bore me.
I feel that far adown the gleaming vistas
There dawns for Man a dayspring fair and dear ;
The chiming bells of future Golden Ages
Still peal at times upon my listening ear;
And in this Earthly Heaven for Earthly Human
I see the goal of every fighting true-man.
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
The Harvest.
Ah, deem ye when the plough of war
Hath furrowed hearth and hill,
That from a sowing such as this
Springs harvest of goodwill ?
When Boer and Briton meet as friends,
Communing heart with heart,
A chance-heard name shall breed old thoughts—
They two shall walk apart.
And when the British bugles blow
Beneath their ensign’s fold,
Notes here and there will call to mind
The Boer hymns of old.
When Boer and Briton, peaceful wed,
Would sink old enmities,
Will Stormberg’s shadow o’er their path
Arouse no memories ?
Here, far from home, young Ritter fell
Upon the lone hill-side,
There, with one foot across his door,
Old Christian Haase died !
Each grass-grown mound shall dumbly speak
A hapless burgher’s fate ;
And each red bayonet blade bequeath
A legacy of hate !
SCHIST.
A M.L. Jingo journal got a nasty set-back
from one of the Imperial officers whom it inter-
viewed. Asked whether he didn’t think “drastic
measures” shouldn’t be tried “so as to end the
war quickly,” he answered, “Certainly not.
Remember that we will have to live with these
people; and the drastic measures you speak of
might end the war quickly, but would leave a
feeling of animosity for generations.”
Rev. H. J. Philpott, recently in Ceylon,
but now in Queensland, throws some new lights
on the “beastly Boers” as he saw them in cap-
tivity :
Physically they are fine fellows, and, as to their mental
calibre, I was thoroughly disillusionised. I felt that the
Boer was very much more a gentleman than I had
thought. I had pictured him a man of vulgar manners
and low intelligence ; but many to whom I talked spoke
English well, and displayed a remarkable hold of affairs
generally. They were certainly well educated men. I
felt from my contact with them that their anti-
pathy was very strong, and likely to be very lasting.
Their feeling is that they have a perfect right, a divine
right, to govern themselves, and that is why the religious
sympathy in the matter is of so strong a character.
When it was observed that they might become very loyal
and very happy British subjects, one of them said, “ that
they would never live amicably with Great Britain. They
would teach the generations yet unborn that- they were
to rise against the British whenever they could.”
The profits in 1899 of the colossal Car-
negie Steel Co., of Pittsburg (U.S.A.), were over
£8,000,000. For digging the ore in the open
mines of Lake Superior region steam-shovels are
used, one of which will load a 25-ton waggon in
2|min., taking up five tons of earth with every
stroke, and filling the truck in five operations !
Much of this mining costs less than Is. a ton.
The ore is shipped at the docks at the rate of
from 1000 to 1600 tons per vessel per hour. It
takes six hours, sometimes less, to load a 6000-ton
vessel, equal to the capacity of 750 eight-ton
waggons. During the year ’99 17,000,000 tons
were so shipped. At the works of the Illinois
Steel Co. last year in 24 hours (day and night
shifts) 2677 tons of rails were rolled ! Another
mammoth U.S. steel firm is the Federal Steel
Co., a combine of several steel and iron syndi-
cates, railroads and mines, with docks, barges,
&c., and a capital of £40,000,000 sterling.
Now the Carnegie co. is about to build boats to
ply from Lake Erie ports through the Welland
Canal and the Gulf of St. Lawrence across the
Atlantic with freights of steel for foreign markets.


The Australian tyjidouis’ pund [ife Assurance Society [td.
nijilS SOCIETY in i . . Established 1871.
■*- which issues th<s U8 “ al f ° rmS ° f AsBur * nce > ,s the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
11. R ApkTup°ter i r „ t l ol!ilLre,?iUm 0 l !ilL re, ? iUm in the . e . vent of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
* »iu up roncy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L O Chairman-
Hon. J. H. OARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES’ WATSON, M.L.CL
coutnu ted Funds ... exceed £1,400,000 Ann-ual Income exceeds £230,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
BONUS YEAR, 1901.
NOW READY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being a reprint of a large number of articles from
The Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent,, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
Price 6d; Posted Bd.
IAMOND SONG BOOK,
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC, r
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the oovers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d. t posted
2s. lod. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 468 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other East Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing-
Art Jewellers, 90 King Street, Sydney.
Send for our Illustrated
Slips Novelties.
°hs2L
SOLID GOLD and REAL PEARLS, RED or BLUE SOLID GOLD, REAL PEARLS, REMARKABLI
STONES, SPECIAL VALUE, 27s 6d. FINISH and VALUE, 27s 6d.
Post Fans 1000 (One Thousand) Other Latest Patterns in Stock. Post Free.
Note.—Kindly Cut Out this Advertisement and Forward when Ordering.
“ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
A. BOWMAN’S
. . . You Can Have . . .
English Boots at
14/6 per pair.
Tan Boots at
16/6 per pair.
Porpoise Hide at
17/6 per pair
Best Style.
Best Quality.
No
Better
Made.
We do One Line—Gentlemen’s Boots—only.
That one we do Well.
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St.,
also 145 KING ST., opp. Theatre Royal.
Registered under the “Companies
Act, 1890,” as a Company, having
secured Assets in Victoria.
It has also deposits, as required by
law, in Great Britain, U.S.A., Canada,
and wherever operating in other parts
of Australasia.
Benefits Paid, over £1,650,900.
Monthly Income, over £40,000.
Accumulated Funds, over £907,995.
Head Office, TORONTO.
ORONHYATEKHA, M.D., J.P.,
Supreme Chief Ranger.
-INDEPENDENT ORDER » FORESTERS
Incorporated by Special Act of Parliament (Canada), 52 Vic. and 59 Vic.
A Great International and Fraternal Life Assurance Society.
The 1.0. P. gives Life Assurance at a Lower Cost than any other Society in the World.
The Premiums pay not only for Life Assurance, but also for Disability and Old Age Pension.
(/ All Premium paying in the 1.0. F. ceases at Age 70, also on Total Permanent Disability.
EXAMPLES:
£lOO Policy.
:f Age 18 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
\ Monthly Ppemium Is. 7d. Is. Bd. 2s. 2s. sd. 2s. lid. 3s. 6d. 4s. 4d. 6s. Id.
Policies for £ 100, £2OO, £4OO, £6OO, £BOO, or £lOOO issued to Men and Women,
18 to 54 years of age, at Equal Rates.
'ffiob for Sooth Australia :
J. H. GILMOUR, D.S.C.R.,
Victoria Buildings,
29 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Chief Office, Australasia :
ROBT. MCNAIR, P.H.C.R.,
73, 74 and 75 Temple Court,
Collins St., Melbourne.
Office for New South Wales :
W. G. STOTT, D.S.C.R.,
283 Georgre St.,
Sydney.
Prospectus, with full Table of Rates , &c., on Application. ■
art business men can learn of a good Commission for introduction of Members upon making application to above address.
Qr'crtiesi demand
Cameo Cigarettes
Because the Best
OFFICIAL
Gentlemen ,
Public Works Department,
Sydney, 23rd July, 1900.
RB
In reply to your letter of the 14th inst. with reference to the 3-ply Ruberoid Roofing which was laid down upon the floor
of the Phillip Street entrance to this Department on the 12th December, last, in lieu of floor cloth. I have the honor to inform
you that the average number of persons who passed over the part of passage from which the sample submitted was taken, was
about 8,000 per week, or about 250,000 during the period the covering has been in use. The sample of Ruberoid removed
from the floor is returned herewith as requested.
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
24 and 26 O'Connell Street,
Sydney.
I have the honor to be, Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
ROBERT HICKSON,
Under Secretary and Commissioner for Roads.
NOTE.—It iB fair to presume that fully 400,000 people have now walked over the P& B Ruberoid which still covers the floor of the
passage above referred to, and still appears unchanged.
PUBLIC WORKS
Dear Sit's,
Public Works Department,
Government Architect's Branch,
Sydney, sth June, 19Q0.
f&B
The recdut removal of the temporary Railway Booking and Parcels Office in Martin Place has afforded an opportunity of
careful examination of the two-ply ‘ ‘ Ruberoid ’ ’ roofing supplied by you, and with which the roofs were covered in August,
1897. 1 have examined a portion of the “ Ruberoid" removed, , and, so far as lam able to judge, it does not show any signs
0] deterioration, and is practically as ggod as new.
I attach samples, as you might possibly wish to keep diem.
Messrs. E. Rich & CoLtd.,
24 O'Connell Street, \Sydney,
Faithfully yours,
W. L. VERNON,
Gove)nment Architect,
is much cheaper and cooler than Galvanised Iron.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsy ayer
Vol. 22.—N0. 1099.
SATURDAY, MARCH 9, 1901.
Price Go.
AUSTRALIA FIRST: THE POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
* Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales. -
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum, ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia, and Maoriland .
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with Us. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of\\d. postage , the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage — iyi, on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with pottage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that toe
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
. To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid .for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted .for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 2U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
SATURDAY, MARCH 9, 1901.
Ireland: An Example of the Blessings
of Freetrade.
There is only one country in Europe—in
fact, it is probable that there is only one
country in all the world—where for about 50
years the population has been steadily de-
creasing, and that is Ireland under Free-
trade. There is only one country in the
world that has lost practically half its
population under peace conditions in half
a century, and that is Ireland under
Freetrade. There is only one civilised
land which, after making great progress,
threatens to retrograde to the empti-
ness of the days of the Roman inva-
sion, and that is Ireland under Freetrade.
There is only one civilised land which is
poorer to-day than it was about half a
century ago, and that is also Ireland
under Freetrade. And the case of Ireland,
which has gone to ruin and desolation
under Freetrade, is of special interest to
Australia because Ireland started its luckless
career as a Freetrade State under almost
exactly the same conditions as Australia
must start if it listens to the bogus statistics
of George Reid and the glozing voice of
foreign-importer McMillan—the same kind
of voice which breathed on Ireland in the
40’s to its undoing. Great Britain, on the
other hand, started its Freetrade career
under circumstances so wholly different from
those of Australia that its example, what-
ever it may be worth to the world generally,
has nothing to do with us whatever. If
Australia takes to the same policy as Ire-
land, under the same circumstances as Ire-
land, there is a very fair probability that it
will get to the same destination.
* * * *
When the United Kingdom adopted the
Freetrade policy Great Britain started from
one point; Ireland from another. Britain
had risen under a long course of Protection
to be the greatest manufacturing State on
earth, producing one-fourth of the manufac-
tured goods of the world. It was also the
greatest commercial State in the world ; the
greatest shipowning State ; the greatest
banking State ; and the State with the
greatest accumulated wealth. It was even
one of the greatest of agricultural States. It
is no longer either the greatest manufactur-
ing, or commercial, or wealth-owning State,
but that is a side-issue. And, above all,
Britain was the State with the biggest
foreign investments on earth—the State that
had lent money to the whole globe, and
which had a mortgage on everybody and
everything, and a huge revenue coming in for
which it had neither to toil nor spin. That
was Britain in the early ’4o’s, after
some two centuries of Protection, and it
was under these conditions that Britain
tried Freetrade, with consequences that are
still doubtful and uncertain. But if Aus-
tralia tries Freetrade now it starts under no
such conditions. It has no foreign invest-
ments bringing in interest; it has few manu-
factures, and those it possesses are still new ;
it has practically no shipping of its own,
except coastal shipping, and that is largely
English-owned ; it has hardly even got
into the agricultural stage of existence,
and its trade consists mostly in sending
away raw material—mainly pastoral pro-
ducts—in foreign ships to satisfy its foreign
creditor with the proceeds.
» * * *
Ireland, on the other hand, began its
policy of unrestricted competition from Aus-
tralia’s starting point. Like Australia, its
manufactures were comparatively small and
new—they had been retarded by hostile
British legislation, and by civil commotions,
and in 1840—the end of the last Protection-
ist decade—the principal then-existing Irish
manufacturing industries were only about
half-a-century old. The earliest of Austra-
lia’s existing industries are probably
about the same age. Ireland still depended
mostly on extracting raw materials from
the soil—just like Australia. It had
very little shipping of its own, and
exported the bulk of its goods in foreign-
owned vessels—just as Australia does. And
it was a debtor country, exactly like Aus-
tralia. Ireland’s share of the National Debt
was mostly owned in England, and it had to
export the interest ; it also had to send
away about £2,000,000 a year in rents to
absentee landlords. Australia’s Public
Debt is mostly owned in England and it has
to export the interest; it also has to send
away much more than £2,000,000 in rents to
absentee landlords, profits of absentee
banks, profits of absentee importers (like
the great English firm of which N.S.W. ex-
Treasurer M'Millan is local and
fugleman), and payments to absentee mort-
gagees.
* * * *
The Freetrade policy tends to encourage
imports just as Protection tends to dis-
courage them. Great Britain could afford,
in one sense, to encourage imports as no
other country could. If its imports ex-
ceeded its exports it had always the huge
income'from its foreign investments and the
earnings of its shipping with which to pay
the difference. If any country in the world
could afford to adopt Freetrade, Britain,
under the conditions which it had attained
in the ’4o’s, was that country; but these
conditions were as unlike Australia’s con-
ditions as can be imagined. Ireland, on the
contrary, like Australia, required to export
an immense amount more than it imported
because it had to pay interest to foreign
creditors instead of receiving it from
foreign debtors. Instead of having a huge
annual income from outside investments, it
had a huge annual bill to meet—exactly as
Australia has. It required, just as Australia
does, to systematically discourage imports
and to keep them so much below exports
that the difference would cover its tribute to
outside money-lenders and to the absentee
fraternity generally. So when the Free-
trade policy of encouraging imports struck
Ireland, circumstanced exactly as Australia
is, its capital drained away, and it became
poorer and poorer till it grew to be the bye-
word of Europe, and became known as a
land where civilisation had failed. And
if Australia follows the folly of Reid and
M'Millan, and adopts the same Irish
policy under the same Irish conditions,
who will guarantee that the results won’t be
the same ?
» * * *
The ready lie of the Shoddy party, of
course, will be that New South Wales has
tried Freetrade and it has not become a de-
populated wilderness in consequence. But
the statement is too foolish to deceive any
save the most ignorant. New South Wales
has never tried Freetrade. Neither Parkes,
M‘Millan, Bruce Smith, Reid, Car-
ruthers, nor any of the Freetraders who
went before them ever dared to put their
alleged creed into practice. New South
Wales has been a more-or-less Protected
country for 70 years, and it is a partially
Protected country to this day. It doesn’t
know what Freetrade is like—not as yet.
Furthermore, New South Wales has never
tried what it is like to be a debtor country
in the real sense of the term, for so far it
has borrowed almost enough money every year
to pay the interest on its debts, and thereby
staved off the evil day a little longer by
making it more evil when it comes. Some
day the practice must stop, for loans can’t
be heaped up indefinitely, and lenders won’t
go on lending for ever. Some day N.S.W.
must try, as Ireland had to do, to
pay the annual interest on its debts out of
its own annual earnings. And some day,
surely, if the Freetrade party is returned to
power, that party must try real Freetrade.
Its awful Reids and M‘Millans and other
silly mountebanks can t, for very shame’s
sake, go on for ever constituting a Freetrade
party that practises Protection. When this
country tries real Freetrade, as Ireland did
under Britain’s dictation, and when this
country has to pay the interest on its
foreign debts out of current earnings, as
Ireland had to do, because the practice of
paying them out of new loans can go no
further, then it will probably be another
Ireland.
* * 9 *
The population of Ireland, in 1801, was
5,395,456. In 1841—the last census year
before the beginning of Freetrade—it was
8,175,124, the highest point it ever reached.
From the time when the civil wars ended,
all through the Protective period, both
people and wealth had grown rapidly.
The first census after the first beginning
of Freetrade (in 1851) showed a loss,
the population having dropped to 6,552,385 ;
and , the loss continued with every
succeeding census till in 1891 the popu-
lation was down to 4,704,750. The wealth
of Ireland under Protection in 1833 (Mul-
hall’s “Dictionary of Statistics,” page 589
—the only estimate given during the protec-
tive period) was £750,000,000 ; in 1896
(same volume, page 818) it was estimated at
only £650,000,000. The wealth of England
multiplied four-fold in the same period. It
is customary to ascribe the downfall of Ire-
land to its land-policy, but the land-policy
of Ireland is based on exactly the same sys-
tem of tenant-farmers and big estates which
prevails in England and Scotland. In fact
the land monopoly is worse in Scotland than
in Ireland ; according to Mulhall’s “In-
dustries and Wealth of Nations” (page 64),
66 per cent, of England, 90 per cent, of Ire-
land, and 95 per cent, of Scotland is held by
a handful of stupendous land monopolists.
It is also common to ascribe Ireland’s break-
up to the potato-famine of 1846 and 1847,
but this can’t account for the loss of nearly
2,000,000 of population from 1851 to 1891,
w hen the famine was ancient history. It was
in 1851—four years after the last historic
famine—that emigration from Ireland com-
menced in real earnest, and from that year to
1898 3,754,899 people left the distressed Free-
trade isle. And the number who departed in
1899 was 42,922, showing that the movement
still continues, now that the famine is gone
and forgotten and only the Freetrade re-
mains.
• * * •
It is also a common explanation that the
downfall of Ireland arises through some lack
of industry or business qualities in the people
themselves. Yet the Irish people who mul-
tiplied under Protection were the same who
dwindled away under Freetrade, and the
Irishman still prospers as well as any other-
man, when he gets away from his own Free-
trade island, and is away long enough to
recover from the effects of it. It is another
common explanation that Ireland’s deca-
dence arises through the too great de-
votion of the people to primary pro-
ducing industries—agricultural and pastoral
—and that is an immortal truth. Also
importers of the M‘Millan clan, whose im-
porting industry would be wrecked if great
local manufactures grew up here, urge
Australia to go and do likewise. They talk
about it being the mission of Australia to
grow raw material, just like Ireland ; and
export it to England, just as Ireland does ;
and implore the people not to be led away
into attempts to “ create artificial manufac-
turing industries by Protection.” Great
Britain, before it faced the world’s competi-
tion, had built up its artificial industries by
200 years of Protection, till they were the
greatest in the world. Ireland faced the
world’s competition with its manufacturing
industries still young, as Australia must do
if it adopts Freetrade. And the Reid and
M'Millan doctrinaires tell Australia, and
especially N.S.W., to wait and see how their
new industries, hitherto largely protected,
will grow up under Freetrade. Ireland tried
the same experiment, with the natural re-
sult, and interested British parties like
M ‘Millan helped to incite it thereto.
* * » *
The world shows two great examples of
the effect of Freetrade on a country which,
like Australia, is heavily burdened with
foreign debt and whose manufacturing indus-
tries are still young—in contradistinction
to Great Britain, which started Freetrade
with the best-established manufactures in
the world and with an immense revenue
from foreign investments. Ireland is one
of these countries. The other is Turkey,
which keeps as close to the blessed principle
of Shoddy as its financial exigencies will
permit, and levies an 8 per cent, revenue
tariff only. And Reid, and M ‘Millan, and
Bruce Smith, and Braddon, and the great
importers’ papers want to make Australia a
third. If these people can show one coun-
try in Australia’s circumstances which tried
Freetrade—real Freetrade, that is, the prin-
ciple they advocate, not the semi-Protection
which they practise without disaster
promptly following, what is that country’s
address ?
Holy Boiling Oil.
Whatever in the public career of Mr. District
Court (and erstwhile acting Supreme Court)
Judge Heydon, of N.S. Wales, was not
thoroughly understood, becomes intelligible in
the light given by his essay on “Howto Deal
witli Cur Criminals,” printed in the book of
“Proceedings” of the recent Roman Catholic
Congress at Sydney. That essay is at once
humane, cruel, scientific, unscientific. And all
contradictions are now reconciled —because united
in J udge Heydon.
* * » •
It is an interesting essay, and thoroughly
characteristic of the Religious spirit. All down
the ages Religion has been making widows and
tenderly cherishing orphans. With one hand it
has shed blood, with the other poured balm. It
has engrafted the Saint upon the Savage, but they
have never been thoroughly mixed ; and the same
Cross has signalled the massacre of St. Bartholo-
mew and pointed the Christian to a Heaven of
Peace. Religion grows Scientific, too, perforce;
and the theory of Evolution has been advanced
as another testimony to the truth of Genesis.
Judge Heydon’s essay is an interesting microcosm
of the Religious spirit.
* * * •
It begins and ends by breathing Peace and
Goodwill. “A reasonable degree of justice and
consideration” in dealing with our criminals “is
good, no doubt,” sighs Judge Heydon, “but active
Christian love is indefinitely better.” “Active
Christian love” —how sweet! Turn the pages
and read how Judge Heydon’s “active Christian
love is manifested.”
Our ancestors made use of a totally different sort of
punishments, short and sharp in the infliction, though
often very durable in their effects. Fines were imposed;
mutilations of various kinds, as branding, plucking out
the eyes, cutting off the nose, ears or upper lip, or tear
ing off the scalp, were frequently inflicted; and the
punishment of death in various forms, some extremely
cruel, was common. This state of things still prevails in
the east, and horrible as it now appears to us, had much
to recommend it.
14 Plucking out the eyes, cutting off the nose, ears,
or upper lip, or tearing off the scalp ” —how
sweet ! What an effective manifestation of “active
Christian love”! And in this there is nothing
inconsistent with the Religious spirit. Judge
Heydon merely boils his holy oil. The crucifix,
that emblem of divine mercy, is still held up to
give the sinner hope of pardon—even though the
sinner be nailed upon it first. And J udge Hey-
don has Scripture on his side — even for “tearing
off the scalp”; for we are told (Ps., Ixviii., 21)
that “God shall wound the head of His enemies,
and the hairy scalp of such an one as goeth on
still in his trespasses.” Of course the Religious
spirit is God’s interpreter.
* * * *
Judge Heydon is the interpreter of the Reli
gious spirit. “How should we deal without
criminals ? ” he cries ; and answers with the voice
of Jesus, “We must, learn to love them.” Turn the
pages, and Judge Heydon talks with the other
voice of the Religious spirit—the voice of the
Hebrew Jehovah—
The milder forms of punishment of this class, such as
branding on the forehead or cheeks, or cutting off a por-
tion of the ears, while not excessively cruel in them-
selves, had what some might still consider the recommen-
dation of warning the whole community of the character
of the man so indelibly marked.
Whom the Lord loveth he ear-marketh, appar
ently. Branding, blinding, nose-cutting, ear-cut-
ting, lip-cutting, scalping—these methods of the
Savage are good ; but Judge Heydon would not
rely on these alone. He has in his armoury the
weapons of the Saint as well.
It would hardly be an exaggeration to say that if a con-
stant supply of saints, endowed by nature and prepared
by grace for such work, could be maintained to visit and
administer to imprisoned criminals, more good would be
done than by all the improvements (great as they are) of
the century now closing.
Perhaps the Religious spirit may yet paint us a
picture of a Saint with the Divine Love in his
eyes and a branding-iron in his hand, winning
N.S.W. criminals to repentance. If their “im-
mortal souls ” be saved, what does it matter about
their bleeding scalps ?
* * * *
Admirable Judge Heydon ! He is inexhaust-
ible—
Whipping is used in some gaols (though not in New
South Wales) as a method of enforcing discipline, and in
certain eases may be imposed by law as a punishment for
the offence. It seems a pity that it cannot be more com-
monly awarded, particularly in the case of juveniles. . . .
From this point of view it seems almost a pity, too, that
methods of punishment resembling the stocks and the
pillory should have fallen so entirely' into disuse.
For, as Judge Heydon points out —
To the social right of protecting one’s self Christian
charity has added the social duty' of benefiting others. In
the field of criminal discipline this has introduced the
principle that punishments should not only be such as to
deter, but should be so carried out as to reform, the cul-
prit ; that he may not merely be scourged away from
crime, but be won over to a sincere change of heart.
Judge Heydon no doubt remembered how effec-
tively the Norfolk Island convicts were flogged
into a sincere change of heart —what touching
testimonies of repentance they offered to their
chaplains and gaolers. And after the branding-
iron and the ear-clipper, stocks and pillory are
mild punishments indeed.
* • • •
Thus does Judge Heydon manifest his Religious
spirit and his judicial capacity. So much space has
been given to the Saint and the Savage that the
Scientist must be dealt with briefly. Judge Hey-
don has made a conscientious effort to understand
the principles of scientific penology, and he has
succeeded as well as his Religious spirit will per-
mit him. His essay is most enlightening and in-
teresting ; and The Bulletin believes that it now
understands J udge O. G. Heydon thoroughly.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Two Kinds of Doctor.
By this time every prominent Freetrader in
Australia has spoken his little narrative about the
kind of Federal tariff Australia should have—and
not one of them all has declared for Freetrade.
They all, Reid and Bruce Smith and Holder and
M’Billion and Braddon and the S.M. Herald,
Telegraph, Brisbane Courier, Argus, Launceston
Examiner, &c., say, according to their varying
calculations, that the Commonwealth must have a
Revenue Tariff yielding from £6,000,000 to
£9,000,000. As to the amount to be raised they
and the Protectionists are in absolute agreement.
The Protectionists also reckon, according to their
varying calculations, that the Commonwealth will
want a tariff yielding: from £6,000,000 to
£9,000,000. The principal difference is that the
Protectionists say they will raise this amount by
a tariff which will at the same time create
industries and supply the people with employ-
ment and good wages ; while the so-called Free-
traders guarantee that they will take the same
amount from the people and not create a
single new industry in the process, nor supply
any single individual with employment, nor find
wages for anybody. They ask the people to vote
for them because of their solemn promise that they
will take as much from the people in Customs
duties as the Protectionists propose doing, and
their further solemn swear that (unlike the
Protectionists) they won’t counterbalance the evil
by finding work and sustenance for one extra


soul. The truly remarkable position of the party
is as follows: —
(1) The Freetrade party says that Customs duties are
wholly bad, and destructive to trade and they propose
to raise £8,000,000 of them.
(2) Thev say that Customs duties raise prices to an
absurd degree—and they propose to raise £8,000,000 of
sav that for every £lOO which the State col-
lects in Customs duties the consumer pays from £l6O to
£2oo—and when they propose to raise £8,000,000 of Cus-
toms revenue they propose, by their own showing, to
make the consumer pay from £12,000,000 to £16,000,000.
In other words, if they believe in their own lie, they pro-
pose to make the consumer pay from £4,000,000 to
£8,000,000 quite needlessly. .
(4) They say that direct taxation has this great advan-
tage over Customs taxation, that by it practically all the
money which the taxpayer parts with goes to the Trea-
sury, ‘while by Customs taxation the Treasury only gets
about half or two-thirds of the sum taken from the tax-
payer. By their own showing, therefore, it is a question
of the'people paying from £12,000,000 to £16,000,000 by
indirect taxation, or paying only £8,000,000 by direct
taxation.
(51 And not one miserable Reid or M'Billion or B.
Smith of them all proposes to absolutely abolish Customs
duties, and substitute direct taxation, and thereby save
the people from £4,000,000 to £8,000,000 a year. There-
fore the Reid and M'Billion and B. Smith party is in this
predicament: Either it knows its assertion about Cus-
toms duties so largely increasing prices and otherwise
injuring the community is shamefully untrue, or else it
is a public enemy who deliberately proposes to impover-
ish the Australian people to the extent of anything up to
£8,000,000 a year, without any counterbalancing advan-
tage whatever.
(6) The explanation of the Reid and M'Billion and
B. Smith party is that it is necessary to raise this sum by
customs taxation for the sake of revenue. In other
words that it is necessary to collect £3 or £4 per annum
from every inhabitant by indirect taxation when collect-
ing £2 by direct taxation would do as well; and that the
party is forced by unexplained circumstances to take, by
customs taxation, say, 3s. or 4s. out of every £ that every-
body, even the poorest inhabitant, earns, when an all-
round income-tax of, say, 2s. in the £ is all that is
wanted. It is also alleged that it is necessary to take
this alleged 3s. or 4s. in the £ from the people indirectly
rather than 2s. in the £ directly because the people can’t
afford to pay the 2s. The Reid, M'Billion and B. Smith
partv claims that it knows how to save the people from
£4,000,000 to £8,000,000 a year and won’t do it out of pure
malice, or else dare not do it lest the people should be
enraged at having so much less to pay.
The Protectionist party and the Freetrade party
both demand the people’s support at the coming
Federal elections. They both say that, if they
get into power, they wiil tax the people through
the customs to the extent of £6,000,000 or
£8,000,000 per annum. But the Protectionist
party—the Barton, Kingston and Turner crowd
—says it does this because it is the cheapest and
least burdensome way of raising revenue, and be-
cause things will be so adjusted as to give the
people a great countervailing advantage in the
shape of extra employment. And the Freetrade
party —the Reid and M'Billion and B. Smith
crowd —says it will do it because it is the worst
and most ruinous and most injurious way of
raising revenue, and because there will be no
countervailing advantage in the shape of extra
employment. The two doctors, Barton and
Reid, propose performing the same operation.
Only Barton says he will do it because he be-
lieves in it, and because it will be good for the
patient; and Reid says he will do it though he
doesn’t believe in it, and is quite sure it will be
bad for the patient, and despite the fact that he
knows a much better treatment, which he doesn’t
intend to follow. Which doctor will the Com-
monwealth have ?
4 , .
The Lie of Monarchy.
Carlyle’s summary judgment of the English—
“ mostly fools”—unluckily applies to all humanity.
And, more unluckily, every generation has to
learn its wisdom afresh —the past generation help-
ing nought or little. Every generation starts
with the accumulated instinct of bowing down to
monarchs and priests ; and the power to reason
themselves out of the instinct comes to com-
paratively few. So monarchy goes on, priestcraft
goes on, though riddled by argument; because
the instinct of reverencing exploding superstitions
is born with every individual, and the logic which
destroys the reverence can only be painfully
acquired by fiere-and-there one. Doubtfully do
we gain an inch of reason-vantage in a century. If
reason and illustration could convince everybody
of the stupidity of venerating hereditary monarchs,
everybody would have been convinced long ago.
Just look at the mockery of monarchy in the
dying of Queen Victoria, disclosed by the Ameri-
can press. The poor Queen, it appears, had been
in a state of senile decay for months past; half
asleep, her wits wandering, an object of pity.
Yet the farce of Royalty as the fountain of
authority had to be maintained ; and the mori-
bund Queen was dragged hither and thither, to
solemn function after function, like a string-pulled
puppet, in order that the idolatry of the people
should suffer no change. Says a cable to the
N.Y. World, reproduced in Sydney Telegraph —
Queen Victoria’s mind had been failing Tfor many
months. When it was officially announced that she made
felicitous responses to speeches at public functions, it was
a matter of cold fact that the poor old Queen was in such
a,daze that all she could say was, “ Where am I ? ” Yet,
but for the physical breaking-up of the previous few
weeks and an attack of paralysis in the left side, it would
have been possible for the royal household to keep from
the British people the knowledge of her mental decay for
an indefinite period.
In other words, it is only the sham of monarchy
that rules; and the people’s belief in the sham
that keeps the rule alive. Given a crowned
statue in Buckingham Palace, the affairs of
Britain would go on as well or ill as usual. “ The
last time Queen Victoria drove outside Osborne,”
continues the World’s account —
The villagers were astounded to hear the clear treble
of the son of Princess Henry of Battenburg trilling out
popular songs from the royal carriage. The boy was sing-
ing to keep his grandmother awake, in obedience to her
wishes. Now and again she dozed, wakening to tell the
boy to continue his chant, which, to the initiated on-
looker, contained a world of pathos.
How pitiable ! Yet how natural, that the lie of
monarchy should extend to the most trivial
details, should be a lie complete in every part, a
lie with circumstance! And the humbugged
people knew nothing of all this ! But populus
vult decipi now and always ; the people love to be
humbugged.
4
The Beautiful Unanimity.
The one fiscal issue which this country always
sinks unanimously is that relating to the money
that is borrowed and used for purely revenue pur-
poses (for purposes which are wholly unproduc-
tive) in order that a shiftless, improvident race
and a specially incapable gang of politicians may
avoid a little present taxation. Oil that point
there are no parties and no differences of opinion.
It is not merely that all politicians are in favor of
thus stealing the loan-funds so that they may earn
a little fleeting popularity (at the expense of
greater disaster hereafter) by “ lightening the
people’s burdens” ; the greater trouble is
that it is actually impossible to get a politician
to stand up in Parliament and admit that
the steal exists. It is almost equally impos-
sible to get a single member of the Respect-
able Press to mention that it exists. It
is not only impossible to get a party to
make the abolition of this huge national dry-rot
its watchword at an election ; it is impossible to
find a party or a candidate that will state in its
political programme that it ever heard of such a
thing. Even the Labor-party, which denounced
so many smaller and far less harmful public evils
—the evils that could be remedied without extra
taxation—couldn’t be persuaded to even allude to
the existence of this biggest and most disastrous
evil of all. In shirking taxation that is absolutely
essential if this country is not to wind up m
national bankruptcy Australia speaks, or rather
keeps dead silence, as one man. The Bulletin
has said things like this often, before, but it is
moved to say them again by this statement in a
leading article in Launceston (Tas.) Examiner
(14th Feb.) :
Mr. Woolnough is rather a pessimistic Federalist who
is of opinion that this colony will suffer heavily from a
Federal tariff. He puts down the loss at £160,000, and
shows how half of this sum can be made up, but does nob
know where the balance is to come from. He, however,
left one item out of his calculations, namely, the fact that
for some years past we have been raising: from £70,000 to
£BO,OOO more from taxation than was necessary for cur-
rent requirements, and that, as the deficit to which the
money has been applied will be wiped off by the end of
this year, we can afford to drop that amount and still pay
our way. ,
As a matter of course, everybody in Tasmania
who knows anything worth mentioning of finance
is perfectly aware that this comforting statement
hasn’t a shred of truth in it. Tasmania hasn’t
had a real surplus for years. Every penny of its
bogus surplus has been manufactured by stealing
loan-moneys and applying them to cover charges
which should be met out of revenue, and even m
its best times there has been a deficit every year.
This is how things have gone :
Said Surplus
„ _ , „ created by bor-
, urpius rowing and using Real Deficit
used to reduce j or p Ur p oSe s of each year,
old Deficit, unproductive ex-
penditure.
1896 ... £47,333 .. £54,801 .. £7,468
1897 .. 59,993 .. 66,226 .. 6,233
1893 .. 78,055 .. 84,245 .. 6,190
1899 .. 90,180 .. 111,290 .. 21,110
But though these facts are well ehough known it
is quite safe to bet that nobody will mention
them. And in the other States (four of which —
Queensland, Westralia, N.S. W. andS.A. —are far
worse than Tasmania) any paper could make the
same comforting kind of observation any day in
the year without contradiction. Australia is a
country with almost the most rotten financial
system on earth, which has agreed unanimously to
say nothing about it.
The Federal-Capital Conspiracy.
The mean little Federal Capital conspiracy,
worked up by the English importers in Sydney
and their special organ, the Telegraph, has been
having somewhat of a rest lately, but on 25th
February the Telegraph started to boost it up in
its leading article with a fresh roar of execration
after this fashion:
It is a well-known fact that Victoria, from which the
Ministry is at present dominated, is opposed to having
the capital in any part of New South Wales which is
without the sphere of Melbourne influence. When Orange
was recommended as an eligible site by the Commissioner
the Melbourne press waxed wildly indignant, and pro-
nounced the place to be “ out of the running,” because
its selection would be incidentally advantageous to
Sydney. “ Victorian interests,” it was said, would require
the choice of a site where, by placing the capital in New
South Wales territory, the letter of the Constitution could
be fulfilled, but the spirit violated, as the capital would
be a commercial and social appanage of Melbourne. Why
did not Mr. O’Connor undertake to tell the people of
Orange that the Government would be no party to any-
thing of that kind ? Then his utterances would have had
some meaning, and might have done his candidate some
good. When Mr. Barton referred to the capital question
in his Maitland manifesto, the Melbourne Argus claimed
that the effect was to “ deliberately quench the hopes of
those persons who would like to have the matter re-opened
in the special interest of Sydney.” The persons referred
to were those who had appointed the commission
which recommended Orange, a site declared by the Mel-
bourne organ to be “ out of the running,” simply because
it is the one that would suit Sydney best. The idea of
the Commission making any recommendation was de-
nounced as a sort of impertinence, and we were quite
gratuitously' reminded that the matter would be settled
by the Federal Parliament. And this Parliament, if the
Government are successful at the polls, will be under the
leadership of a Premier who has allowed it to be said that
he is a “ deliberate quencher ” of the hopes of those who
would like to see the capital fixed on a site from which
Sydney interests would specially benefit. If there is one
such place out of all those available, it is Orange. And
the Protectionist candidate is a supporter of this allegedly
hope-quenching Government. Considering the strength
of the Victorian interest in the Cabinet, and the morbid
jealousy of Sydney that is behind it, the people of Orange
take a desperate chance, indeed, if they' pin their hopes
of the capital to the vaguely non-committal remarks of
Mr. O’Connor.
The Telegraph always had a fine gift of that
thing which is said to have caused the late
Ananias to die before his time. Here is the
exact situation :
(1) In place of the Federal Ministry being “ dominated”
from Victoria, that State has less representation in pro-
portion to its population than any other. Taking the
population figures given in the “Australian Year Book”
Westralia has one Federal Minister for 171,022 people ;
Tasmania, one for 182,509 people ; South Australia, one
for 373,378 people : New South Wales, one for 452,217
people ; Queensland, one for 512,598 people ; Victoria,
one, for 590,403 people. And the State which cheerfully
put up with the smallest proportionate representation is
the only one which the Sydney parochial rag always
curses for “ dominating ” the Ministry. Also, New South
Wales has secured the Federal capital and the Federal
Premiership, and demands permanent possession of the
Governor-General.
(2) The Federal capital is to be selected by the Federal
Parliament. Nevertheless the N.S.W. Parliament ap-
pointed a commissioner to select suitable sites without
any reference whatever to the other states of the Com-
monwealth.
(3) New South Wales’ own Commissioner declared that
the best site for the capital was on the Monaro tableland,
near the Victorian border, but still much closer to Sydney'
than to Melbourne, so that Sydney would still have a big
trade advantage over Melbourne. The bulk of the trade,
however, would naturally go to the N.S.W. port of Two-
fold Bay.
(4) The Telegraph and the Sydney importers demand
that the Federal capital shall be at Orange, right at the
back-door of Sydney, so that Sydney may grab all the
trade. To bring this about they persistently declare that
their Commissioner had recommended Orange as the best
site, and thus deliberately falsify his report from the
meanest of parochial motives.
(5) And the pretty general acceptance in Melbourne of
Monaro, the site recommended by N.S.W.’s own Commis-
sioner as the best available, is represented by the Sydney
importers’ organ as a dark and horrible conspiracy on the
part of somebody to upset something or other.
It is interesting to speculate how the Telegraph
and its gang of foreign importers would have
foamed if some other State had appointed a Com-
missioner all on its own to select a site for a
Federal capital. And, seeing that Victoria’s
action in letting N.S.W. have the Premiership
and the capital, and putting up with the
smallest share of Ministerial representation,
and acquiesing pretty generally in the N.S.W.
Commissioner’s selection of a Federal capi-
tal, still leaves the Telegraph dribbling at
the mouth with frenzy, and cursing to. the
effect that Victoria is trying to “dominate”
the Commonwealth, what a smash of crockery
there would have been in the Telegraph office if
Victoria had really asserted itself! Meanwhile
Queensland, which was quite as badly treated as
Victoria, doesn’t even get a mention. Queensland
has the same claim to have the capital up against
its border as any other State has, if the Best site
can be found there. And as the foolish Commis-
sioner refused even to look at that end of New
South Wales or to consider it in any way, and as
all the places which specially concern Queens-
land’s interests were condemned without inspec-
tion, Queensland has every right to demand that
the document shall be put in the fire and the
whole question started afresh.
4
The Blighted Queensland Sugar
Industry.
Brisbane Courier continues to publish figures
and deep groans showing the impossibility of run-
ning the sugar industry without Kanaka labor. In
its issue of 22nd Feb. it uttered a specially bitter
groan about the downfall of the sugar business
between 1885, when Griffith started to shut
down on the supply of Tommy Tanna, and 1892,
when Thomas was restored. This is the annual
sugar output, by the Courier’s own figures, before
the industry was blighted, and after :
Before the Disaster.
Tons.
1876- .. .. 8,214
1877- .. .. 12,243
1878- .. .. 13,525
1879- .. .. 18,714
1880- .. .. 11,564
1881- .. .. 19,051
1882- .. .. 15,702
1883- .. .. 36,148
1884- .. .. 32,010
After the Disaster.
Tons.
1885- .. .. 59,225
1886- .. .. 56,859
1887- .. .. 57,960
1888- .. .. 34,022
1889- .. .. 44,411
1890- .. .. 69,983
1891 .. .. 51,219
1892 .. .. 61,368
These figures are instructive, though hardly in
the way the Courier intended. They snow,
among othei things, that the biggest output up to
1892 was in 1890-91, during the period when
Kanaka restriction was most severe. Also the
worst year in the Kanaka restriction period was
better than any year save one in the previous
period when Kanakas were abundant. Further,
even during the period when the Kanaka supply
was unlimited, the sugar crop sometimes slumped
badly, as witness the downfall in 1880, and again
in 1882, and once more in 1884—therefore the drop
during the Kanaka-restriction period of 1886-1890
isn’t necessarily due to that restriction. Since
1892 the industry has certainly grown immensely.
Perhaps it was because the Kanaka was restored,
though that doesn’t seem likely, for in the pre-
vious Kanaka period, when the supply of Tommy
Tanna was much more free than it is now,
progress was very gradual. Perhaps it was
by reason of the State - subsidised Central
Sugar Mills. Perhaps it was from the same
cause—whatever that might be—which made
the industry grow from 32,010 tons in 1884
with plenty of Kanaka labour, to 69,983 tons
in 1890, with very little Kanaka labour. The
Courier professes to think its figures are over-
whelmingly conclusive, but the most conspicuous
feature is that the best year when the sugar
industry was blighted by Griffith’s temporary
White Labour policy, was nearly twice as good as
the best previous year, when the industry.wasn’t
blighted. If The Bulletin could double its out-
put by being blighted it would like thaNdisaster
to happen regularly.
4
Sydney “Telegraph” Turns
Protectionist.
This actually appeared in Sydney Daily Tele-
graph of Saturday 2nd March :
But that does not justify Mr. Barton at Gympie
saving THE FREETRADERS, OR LOW TARIFF-
ISTS,' WOULD GO FOR EXCISE DUTIES TO BALANCE
THE IMPORT DUTIES.” It is no question of principles.
It is one of possibility, or impossibility. If, for instance,
a duty of 12£ per cent, on ready-made clothing were im-
posed, it would be impossible to levy a countervailing
excise duty on dressmakers and tailors, or milliners. So
with nineteen-twentieths of our imports. Countervailing
excise duties are simply impossible. But of this we may
be absolutely assured, that the more Mr. Barton and his
colleagues would depart from that which the “ low-
tariffists” have to submit to from necessity, THE MORE
MR. BARTON WILL RENDER HEAVY EXCISE DUTIES
A NECESSITY.
The Telegraph is actually angry nowadays when
it is accused of Freetrade principles. There are
three varieties of fiscal policy. Freetrade, though
it is a woefully ill-used and battered phrase, means
having no customs duties. Pure Revenue
Tariffism consists of levying revenue duties on
articles which can’t be produced in the country,
so as to make dead sure that the tariff won’t
lead to the creation of any new industries
(new industries being a crime). Or, when it is
necessary to levy import duties on things which
can be produced in the country the Revenue
Tariff policy consists in levying a corresponding
excise duty on the local article so as to make abso-
lutely certain that our own people won’t get any
advantage over Chinamen, Hindoos, and other
foreigners. That is how things are done in Eng-
land. In that country every import duty on an
article which can be produced locally is counter-
balanced by an excise on the local article. If it
is an article like clothing, on which it is impossible
to levy an excise duty, then England doesn’t levy
a customs duty, and the shortage in the revenue is
made good by lots of direct taxation. The Reid
and M‘Mill an and the Two Smiths party says
that England’s policy is the right policy, the only
sensible policy, the one we should follow because
it made England rich, and will make Australia
rich also. So Barton (simple, plain, honest man)
made the mistake of thinking the Reid party
was telling the square truth and said it was going
to follow its true policy, said policy being embodied
in the Telegraph’s shriek of large capitals above-
quoted. And the Telegraph says indignantly
that Barton had no business to assume its crowd
was telling the truth. After pointing out for years
the advantages of Britain’s pure Revenue
Tariff and direct-taxation system, and call-
ing on Australia to follow that . system,
and declaring that it believes in that system
and that it is the only system which will make
Australia rich, it says that Barton isn’t justified
in asserting that it and its party have the slightest
intention of following that system. And it talks
in quite a friendly way of putting 121; per cent,
protective duties on clothing. Yerily, parties are
getting mixed up beyond all possibility of
disentanglement.
4
More Victorian Justice.
Apparently certain Victorian judges think the
Law isn’t strong enough to punish, or vigilant
enough to detect, those offenders who commit —or
whom they think commit —perjury in giving evi-
dence, wherefore to make quite certain they
punish them there and then, for offences of which
they are unconvicted. They have certainly some
justification for this belief in the fact that the
Victorian law never punishes perjury, however
gross and obvious, committed by a Crown witness.
At Horsham (Vic.) recently four young men
arraigned for robbery swore, in the course of
their defence, that a constable had entered the
cell shortly after their arrest and “pumped”
them. The policeman himself denied this but ad-
mitted that he had listened to an alleged incrimin-
atory conversation. It was the sworn word of four
accused against the uncorroborated evidence of
one policeman who had listened at a keyhole ; but
Deputy Judge Johnston, in the vastness of his
wisdom, straightway decided that the one must
be right and the four must be wrong. He said he
“would be sorry to believe the police would be
guilty of such diabolically wicked conduct as to
concoct material evidence against a prisoner and
endeavor by a miserable trick and dodge to extort
confession.” He also said that the policeman’s
action in putting his ear to the keyhole was de-
fensible and necessary in the prisoners’ interests —
which seems quite a needless piece of humor. It
might be pleaded that he listened in the interests
of justice, but to suggest that he listened for the
specific purpose of helping the accused —helping
to prove their innocence, presumably, and to show
that he had blundered in arresting them —is too
much* And in giving a long sentence the foolish
Johnston stated that he had purposely lengthened
it because of the prisoners’ perjury—that he was
sentencing them, in fact, for a crime for which
they hadn’t even been tried, much less convicted.
• ♦
A Meaty Horror.
Melbourne had just recovered from Sydney
Mayor Graham’s insinuation that its sanitary
methods were antiquated, not to say disgraceful,
and had put it down to excusable jealousy, when it
was knocked clean off its feet by a report on its
abattoirs by its own Board of Health. By the
Meat Supervision Act of last session all metro-
politan slaughter-houses are under the direct con-
trol and inspection of the Board ; in fact, hence-
forth all meat sold in and around Melbourne must
be approved and certified as sound. The Act
came into force on March Ist, so, before issuing
licenses, the Board started to inspect. It got its
eyes opened, and nearly died of suffocation in the
process. The best arrangements were found
at the meat-canning and export and freezing com-
panies, though even there they were not absolutely
ideal. At the City Council abattoirs, at Fleming-
ton, where 1200 cattle and 12,000 sheep are killed
weekly, “a dreadful odor prevailed,” though by
the abundant use of water the place were kept
decently clean to the eye. These with the Gollmg-
wood and the St. Kilda abattoirs were the only
passable killing-places in the whole metropolis.
The condition of the rest of the public, semi-
public and private slaughter-yards ought to have
got those responsible two years’ hard labor
without the option. Here are a few _ choice
items from the ARGUS reports of the inspec-
tions: “A foul and sickening condition of
affairs —an accumulation of stale blood that
must have been here a year walls foul
with putrid blood—so heavily caked with
filth that pieces of it were sawn off, &c., &c. . . .
At a Chinese slaughter-house, whence most of the
local Chows get their pork, “foulness in the
superlative degree prevailed. . . Fowls and
young pigs quarrel over garbage,_ while refuse
from restaurants and hotels is boiled down and
pigs are penned in their filth under the same roof
where slaughtering operations _ are carried out.”
One porker was lying outside dying, but a Chinkie
carefully explained that he was not to be
wasted. “ Him dyin’; allee same killum to-
mollow, sellum Melbun.” (Here several mem-
bers of the Board grew very faint.) At the
Williamstown public abbatoirs “ there was abso-
lutely no drainage about the place and blood
and filth soaked into a soft and malodorous morass.’
Further on the “ smell of stale blood, warm flesh,
boiling entrails, steam and pig-pens ” struck the
Board heavily under its waistcoat and it said it
felt sick. Then the Board entered a slaughter-
house attached to a suburban hotel and ran against
a “ beautiful specimen of a diseased liver—hyda-
tids at that!—and great interest was shown when
Dr. Norris cut a cyst and showed how the disease
affected the beast. The place was filthy, while,
to cap all, there was lying exposed to the open
sky a pit of reeking filth —an insult and
offence to the day.” And so on, ad nauseam.
Dogs abounded everywhere. The Board dis-
covered many things and most of them were
dogs. And the cause of these horrors was clearly
stated by one municipal inspector who was
tackled by Dr. Greswell. He said: “ You’ve
talked pretty plainly to me, and I’ll talk plainly
to you. The fact of the matter is that lam a
council officer, and there are too many of the
councillors interested in the slaughtering-places,
and I can’t afford to be too particular.” Which
bears out what The Bulletin has contended long
enough : that to put the administration of Health
Acts, as also of Factories and Early Closing Acts,
in the hands of municipal councils is a farce, for
councillors are themselves among the worst offen-
ders. This contention applies with equal force
to the inspection of dairies, creameries and butter-
factories. Melbourne has made a start, but only
on one item of the food-supply. There are many
other items, and there are other cities besides
Melbourne.
4
Matches.
S.M. Herald (l/3/’Ol) takes up the Argus’s
dolorous tale about the Victorian wax-match in-
dustry :
The duty on matches used to bring in about £12,000.
A foreign firm offered, if the duty were made sufficiently
high to exclude the foreign product of “ cheap labor,” to
establish the industry in the colony. This was done.
The revenue from the duty fell to less than £2OOO. The
amount paid to the workpeople in wages—chiefly boys
and girls—is about £l5OO. The Government lost about
£lO,OOO in revenue. Victorian workers —boys and girls—
gained £l5OO. The public paid as much for matches as
they did before, or more. Where did* the balance go ?
Into the pockets of the manufacturers. Protection pro-
tects the factory, or the man who owns it; hut it does
not protect the worker. If the Victorian Government
wished to find employment for some 42 boys and girls,
would it not have paid them better to continue receiving
the revenue of £12,000 and appropriate £l5OO of it in
paying for some really profitable employment for the
young people? There may be good reasons why this
should not be done ; but it would be a much more
sensible course, in the interest both of the public revenue
and the purchaser of matches, than the one that was
adopted.
There are two ways of putting every case. When
a Freetrade Government loses £lO,OOO a year im-
port revenue by taking off the duty so that the
M‘Millan class can bring the goods in free, the
Herald says: “A burden has been lifted off the
people, and £lO,OOO that they used to pay in taxa-
tion is left in the people’s pockets. ” And when a
Protectionist Government loses £lO,OOO a year
import duty through the establishment of a new
local industry, and the same burden is taken
off the people, and the £lO,OOO they used
to pay is left in their pockets, the
Shoddy paper moans: “Owing to the nefarious
influences of Protection the Government has lost
£lO,OOO a year revenue.” The match question
condenses into three sentences: The Victorian
Government gets about £2OOO a year import duty
on matches; the N. S. W. Government gets nothing.
Victoria has an industry which pays (so the
Herald says) £l5OO a year wages; N.S.W. hasn’t.
Matches sell retail in Melbourne at the same price
as in Sydney; Moran and Cato, of Melbourne,
and Anthony Hordern, of Sydney, quote exactly
the same figure. What’s the row about ?


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STANDING
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S. W. D’ARCY-IRVINit,, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney; or to
Gr. G. MoCOLL and B. H. PASCOE, Managers for Victoria, S. Australi a and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
HEUDON SPA WATER
A NATURAL
M! NER AL WAT r % lipilll
W
A
n
7/
Vju
Julphide Corporation
LIMITED.
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital ■ £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, a O T Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought
• • ■ ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Larr/e Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
Pull Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
HaOTKVK
‘aovAvs a v
CIBBS, BRIGHT & C 0„
Agrents for Australia,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “ Convict Martyr.”
J IVOLT Rickards Co.
Lyceum “ The Ladder of Life.”
Palace “ Tom, Dick and Harry,” and
“ A Highland Legacy.”
Theatre Royal “The Scarlet Feather.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Christian.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Barabbas.”
Her Majesty's. ....... 11 Flo rex i ora. ”
Theatre Royal “ In Sight of St. Paul’s.”
Bwou “ Puss in Boots.”
Athenaeum Hall J. C. Williamson’s Bio-Tableau.
Town Hall Donald Macdonald (Saturday).
Masonic Hall O. M. Rodney.
Ifc has been decided that the vast unclean
name of Svengali will trail like a soiled octopus for
one week only over the playbill at Sydney
Majesty’s. The first night was sufficient in itself
to prove that the cult of the long-haired musician
and the unshod model is somewhat dead. Why it
should be so suddenly and aggressively dead, seeing
that it was recently alive under much the same
circumstances, it is difficult to say. “Trilby” is
nearly, _ if not quite, as good as ever. Tyrone
Power is possibly not so fine a Svengali as Reuben
Fax; he is larger and stronger, but neither so
artistically dirty, nor so crawly, nor so serpen-
tine, and he doesn’t owe his back-rent in quite
so unearthly a fashion as the first Svengali
did. But on the other hand, Trilby is as
good as of old, if she hasn’t even improved,
and though she seems to have got a rather
conspicuous corn on her bare right foot, that
can hardly be called a serious deterioration.
It isn’t even certain that it is a new corn ; long
ago, in its issue of Gth June, 1890, The Bulletin
drew attention to the fact that it had just dis-
covered Trilby’s corn, and this may be the sam&
corn over again. Also the painted blush on
Trilby’s heels is as lovely as of yore. The
present Little Billee, too, is better than a
certain Small Bill that this country saw afore-
time. There is one Brief William whose memory
is painful to recall, and the fact that the Abbre-
viated Willie now under consideration is not the
Short Bill in question is,a thing that it is impos-
sible to be too thankful for. Miss Maud Dal-
rymple lifts up a very beautiful voice behind the
scenes when she professes to be Svengali’s
victim singing “Ben Bolt”; and Carden Wil-
son’s Gecko has a multitude of good points. If
only Frank Harcourt, the Rev. Thomas Bagot of
the first “Trilby,” were back in his old character,
or if the present Bagot was anything equal to
Harcourt, it could be fairly said that one thing
balanced another, and that the drama of the un-
shod girl who sat for the altogether was as good
as it ever had been. But the “Trilby” boom
appears to have gone by. Svengali will cease to
borrow five francs from the person who doesn’t
appear on the bill after Friday night.
** * *
“The Christian” is to be staged at Her
Majesty’s on Saturday. Tyrone Power and Mis 3
Edith Crane have a large contract on hand.
Formerly the two big parts of John Storm and
Glory Quayle were played by Kingston and Miss
Henrietta Watson—both artists of no small
merit. The former, especially, was built for the
part; he had the bright eyes and the exceeding
thinness of the man who sees visions and hears
the voice of God calling to him outside the pigs’-
trotter shop on the Mile-End Road; and the long,
eager feet of the crank who has just heard that
the Resurrection is to take place in the next street
in two minutes, and who means to be there. It
will be difficult to construct another John Storm
who will satisfy a community that still remembers
Kingston. Still there is no reason why it shouldn’t
be done, and Tyrone Power is a good, useful
artist who never damages any character very
badly. As for Miss Crane, it is a long call from
Trilby to Glory Quayle. yet even that is possible.
** * *
The gradual and alleviated rush to the
“Scarlet Feather” alluded to last week continues
in much the same condition. The “Feather,” it
is now tolerably certain, is not going to blaze into
any memorable success. It is backed by a good
company, good scenery, good management, a
liberal expenditure of money, and nothing is
wanting save only the want of a better opera.
Not that the “ Feather ” is really bad, but it gives
the impression of a small opera trying to wear a
very big theatre, and the result is that the theatre
bags down the opera’s back. Yet the “ Feather”
is worth seeing for several reasons. One of them
is the color-effects in the first scene, and the
yellow sunlight on the painted walls of
some unimportant person’s public - house.
Another is the Dartos, whose dance grows
even more fairy-like on prolonged acquaintance.
Nobody that Sydney has yet seen has wiped up
the floor with her back hair in the dreamy waltz
as Mrs. Darto does it, and that intensely flexible
little woman may possibly make the latter days
of the “Feather” better than the earlier ones.
Sydney has hardly realised yet the full capacity
of “ ze polka ” as the Dartos do it.
** * *
The “Convict Martyr,” at Sydney Cri-
terion, is another version of Hugo’s “Les Mise-
rables.” Said version doesn’t succeed, as
most dramatisations do, in wholly losing the
atmosphere of tfce book. It is pretty as well as
Sathetic _in places. The spot where Bishop
lyriel, in proof of his practical Christianity,
permits the liberated convict to abscond with his
silver spoons is one where the ridiculous and the
Bublime closely approach each other, but Hugo
and Edmund Holloway pull things through.
“Les Miserables” is one of the very few
works wherein a mayor contrives to ex-
cite general admiration. The animalised con-
vict who was regenerated the day he stole
Bishop Myriel’s spoons iises to be a mayor and
his rise looks really great and dignified. Then
he falls from being a mayor, and his fall is groat
and pathetic. While he is a mayor he is a publie
benefactor, and the only sign of the foolishness
which generally goes with municipal office is that
he tells his secret to a fallen woman whom he has
befriended, and she rewards him by dropping it
around for no understandable reason, unless per-
haps she has lost some of her front
teeth and the information blows through.
Alfred Dampier is the Boer-looking convict who
drinks his soup from his plate in the first act, and
afterwards appears in the opera-like costume of
the Mayor. Lily Dampier is better as Fan tine in
the first act than as Fan tine’s daughter later on.
Edna Seaton gives a fair presentment of a small
and healthy Cosette, with two large holes in her
stocking, and Fred. Dampier, a comparatively
new member of the company, may be congratu-
lated for his playing of an irrelevant detail —an
unrepentant prodigal son named Gavroche.
** m *
Hawtrey’s tale of the three red-headed
men is apparently settling down for a long run at
Sydney Palace. “Tom, Dick and Harry” may
be classed in a general way with Arnold’s tale of
the things that “ Happened to Jones.” It is a
shriek of mirth which might be straightened out
at any moment, if anybody connected with it had
a vestige of sense, but in farcical comedy nobody
is allowed to have any sense till 10.45 p.m.
The only serious ground of complaint is
that Miss Roxy Barton, as the nice girl whose
giggle is her only drawback, mostly forgets to
giggle after her first appearance, so her distinctive
feature gets lost.
** * *
Continued inspection of the doings at Syd-
ney Lyceum, where “House Full” is generally
hoisted on the outer staircase, has set this writer
thinking that it was a very unsophisticated drama-
tist that wrote the “Ladder of Life.” In that
play the Inconvenient Infant, which, as a rule, is
fixed upon the wrong father, is transferred to the
wrong mother, as if the one falsity were quite as
easy of maintenance as the other. It has often
been remarked that the girl on the stage loses her
reputation very easily ; but in real life, on the
contrary, the woman’s reputation is much tougher
than the man’s, this being balanced by the fact
that when it is lost there is a greater fuss about
the matter. In a boarding-house, f’rinstance,
when a girl-boarder stays out all night it is
assumed as a matter of course that she has re-
mained with friends or relatives, and nobody
thinks any more of the matter ; but when the un-
fortunate man-boarder arrives home just in time
for breakfast the landlady smirks and everybody
assumes that he is a Flossie. He may make
casual allusions to what his Aunt Mary gave him
for supper last night, but that is merely taken as
a cover to cloak his Lostness. As for the incon-
venient child, a man is liable to anybody’s. In
the “Ladder” the fact that an unknown child
casually called the hero’s sweetheart “mother”
seems to get on the soul of the hero to an undue
extent. There is a general belief that the instinct
of childhood has a mysterious power of guiding
the infant mind to its maternal parent, if not to
its paternal one. As a matter of fact, the average
child is probably about as unreliable in these
respects as its elders.
** * *
The benefit to Mr. F. E. Hiscocks, the
one-time well-known manager of the Federal
Minstrels, is fixed for this (Thursday) afternoon at
Sydney Tivoli. The programme includes the third
act of “Trilby,” the one in which the gruesome
man, just when he has learned to keep himself
clean, and wear a decent boiled shirt, and comb the
bird’s-nests out of his hair, ends his tempestuous
existence on the table. Also, the “Highland
Legacy,” by Hawtrey’s co., is on the programme,
and some bits from the “Ladder of Life,” and
the “Convict Martyr,” and sundry contributions
by members of Musgrove’s Opera co., and others.
** * *
Among the Tivoli items which this paper,
through want of space, has not previously managed
to mention is the Yankee trio, Johnson, Riano,
and Bentley. Two of them are discovered as apes
of uncertain species, furnished with tails that are
not prehensile, up in the branches of the stage
tree. When the farmer who owns them appears
he tries to grab one anthropoid by the pendant
tail; but that member curls up serenely just out
of reach, and the missing link gazes at the audi-
ence with a quiet, meditative eye as though quite
unaware of the really excellent bit of stage-
management that has just happened at one end of
him. Of course there is the inevitable occasion
ahead when the tail-gear gets disorganised and
won’t work, and that far-away, resurrection-
look will be absolutely thrown away. Lottie
Collins, by the time this paper appears, will have
faded away, unless she suddenly extends “the
absolutely most expensive engagement made for
Australia.” In response to enthusiastic encores,
Lottie mostly gives her two great successes, “The
Widow” and the “ Coalman’s Wife.” All Lottie’s
performances that are any good are merely varia-
tions of the “ Coalman’s Wife ” or “ The Widow,”
or the “Girl on the Ran-dan.” If the most ex-
pensive engagement ever made in Australia is
extended much longer this country may have the
misfortune to drop to the above fact.
** * *
The appearance of Melb. Princess’s since
“Barabbas” came to hand indicates that the
good people who found comfort in “ Sign of the
Cross are not taking any more clap-traptious
melodrama of the same brand. For one thing
they don’t read Marie Corelli. They stick to
their old religious prejudices concerning the Jack
Sheppard of Christian history, and so the mere
sight of his name in large type probably gives
them cold shivers. Anyway, they have not yet
rolled up to hear the bare-legged penitent,
together with Pontius Pilate, Mrs. Pontius,
Sentle Judas, his naughty sister and other
erusalem citizens discuss the bearings of a
certain unspecified Event which led up to a
pleasing earthquake in the second act. Worldly
ones who prefer a good laugh for their money are
likewise stopping away from “Barabbas” on
general principles, wherefore the present scribe is
disposed to sympathise with the management.
“ Barabbas,” in spite of its pretentious cant and
irritating bathos, deserves much better luck than
it is getting. The show has some natural dignity
as well as impudence. It is respectably staged
and capably acted by artists whose voices and man-
nerisms have not grown wearisome to Melbourne
playgoers. Some of them have been so long ab-
sent that they are practically new-comers. There
is our old acquaintance Collett Dobson, mellowed
into a Romanesque George Rignold. Stentorian
Harry Hodson is another seasoned exponent of
fancy-dress character, and John Cosgrove, the
bygone villain of many a Bland Holt drama,
makes an interesting reappearance as Apostle
Peter. When Barabbas Woods grabs Saint Cos-
grove by the neck and calls him a lying coward or
something of that sort, it reminds the present
scribe and pharisee of the times when Cosgrove
sinned in a shiny bell-topper, and Walter Baker
used to threaten to ram the missing documents
down his throat.
» * • •
“ Barabbas ” was somewhat pruned and
improved last week. The stout, slow-going lady
cast for the part of Mrs. P. Pilate on the first
night gave place to Miss Beatrice Esmond at next
Feast of the Passover, and Pontius’s second wife
is a successful change. Her prompt acceptance of
the new faith is neatly expressed, and she rounds
on her weak - minded husband in an earnest
Christian style. The low-comedy Roman who
plays feeble larks with the virgins at the palace
of J udas Iscariot, senior, seems no funnier than at
first, yet he isn’t much less humorous than the
ancient Pagan who impersonated a shocking
example in “Sign of the Cross.” In many other
respects “ Barabbas ” is but little inferior to the
“ Sign.” If the confiding hero were to turn dis-
solute, like Marcus Superbus, and chase Judith
around the stage with cerulean intentions, this
religious drama would possibly pay a fair divi-
dend.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal the story of the
gigantic Ruby will be withdrawn this week. To-
night (Thursday) and to-morrow night will be
Walter Baker’s last opportunities of appearing as
the colored prince from India. The blood of
Albert Norman has stained his Asiatic soul long
enough, and Baker’s lady admirers yearn to see
him once again in a character beyond suspicion.
They never took kindly to the picture of a brown
Ranji Baker going astray in a balloon for the sake
of a reckless Miss Ross, though the balloon itself
was a refreshing novelty, and the murdered
man had a long way to travel before he was
dead, which seemed an extenuating circumstance.
A straight-out brutal murder by Baker, com*
mitted with a bludgeon, or a brick, would send
the girls away from the Royal in floods of tears,
and Bland Holt would be doomed to everlasting
infamy for allowing dear Walter to do the deed.
On Saturday, a revival of “In Sight of St.
Paul’s” is to fill in the time up to Easter. The
drama, aforesaid, contains a lot of temptation for
Baker, but he eventually gets purified by fire.
1 hat is to say, the bad woman of the narrative is
burned to death, and all ends happily.
# * *
The “ Florodora ” last nights are still un-
numbered at time of writing. A few old items
have been cut out, and some new ones have cut in,
but the charm of the well-balanced show at Her
Majesty’s is not affected by the coming and going
of individual turns. Grace Palotta, Lauri and the
six nice girls in the magpie frocks are, as
usual, the most important contributors to
the general effect. Carrie Moore, the hoary-
headed millionaire, Brownlow, the ballet,
and the scene-painter come next, and the rest
of the original co. are partly responsible
for “Florodora” being just now in its 12th week.
Fred. H. Graham, the new-comer from London,
who crops up incidentally at 10.40 p.m., is a short,
chirpy comedian in the Bradfield style, and the
one song he sings leaves him a somewhat open
question for the present. Probably Graham will
prove to be a quick, polished frivoller when his
time comes. Irene Franklin is now adding her
quaint young daintiness to the entertainment out-
side Cyrus Gilfain’s castle, and the introduction of
Irene suggests that “Florodora” has serious
thoughts of holding out until Easter.
** * *
At the Bijou, the lively little panto, pro-
vided by Rickards reveals changes for the better
in some of its songs, but the strength of the
orchestra, which amounts to about eight or ten
performers and a piano, has not been augmented.
Nobody expects unparalleled expenditure upon a
“ 3, 2 and 1 ” pantomime in a not very big theatre,
nevertheless, there are moments when H.R.’s
orchestra sounds rather thin for the job.
** * *
On Saturday last J. C. Williamson’s Bio-
Tableau started to whirr once more at Melb.
Athemeum Hall in place of Snazelle and the
British Navy who have sailed for Ballarat and
other inland regions. The Bio-Tab. this time is
showing African war (but not too much of it) and
a few glimpses of King Edward VII., formerly
Prince of Wales. He looks no different for being
a full-blown monarch. Also the Joan of Arc
pageant from Paris flits across the sheet, and
finally Joan flits upwards to join the angels.
Likewise the bull-fight proceeds as before, with
disastrous results for the dumb animals engaged
and a highly inglorious triumph for the toreador.
* * *
Donald Macdonald, booked to sail for
London on the 12th, is to give a farewell lecture
at Melb. Town Hall on Saturday. As there is
reason for fearing that the much-respected figure
of Mac. may stay in Britain for good when
it gets there, the rush to hear him spin
his kharki yarn for the last time will
be tinged with sufficient sentiment to justify
an infusion of bagpipes into the occasion. The
Bulletin reckons that a crowded Town Hall
singing “Auld Lang Syne,” to the accompani-
ment of an inspiring pibroch and a wild, tempestu-
ous haggis would make a suitable finish to Donald’s
tour, no matter whether he is of Irish-Canadian
parentage, or otherwise. His very name breathes
bagpipes o’er the heather, so to speak.
** * *
At the Masonic Hall, which is out of the
radius of possible popularity, C. M. Rodney, from
S’Africa, gave the first of his monologue enter-
tainments on Saturday night. The audience was
small, some of the electric light deserted him in
his second hour of need, and the conditions al-
together were very bad for Rodney, but he never-
theless held his own against adversity and threw
in a few pleasant remarks at the finish as though
he had nothing to complain of. Rodney is a
genial man with a strong voice and a stage-filling
personality. His songs are catchy tunes, and he
talks, recites, gives musical “skits” and in one
way or other keeps himself going for two hours
with the easy confidence of an old hand at the
business. He tries to be fairly amusing and he
succeeds, with the assistance of a capital pianist.
The fact that Melbourne doesn’t want a one-man
show at the Masonic Hall is Rodney’s misfortune.
** * *
“ Zip ” reports the proceedings of an old friend
of ours up N. Queensland: —
“Banjo” Paterson was speaking his little piece about
the Boer war the other day, and everybody went to see
him. When he came casually on to the stage and opened
out about the gory business in S’Africa without any pre-
liminary frill, he quite won our admiration. “No guyver
about him ; he jest sparred on to the platform and bogged
into the war, my oath ! ” said Hogan’s nephew. But his
eloquence was not level with the intelligence of his audi-
ence. They wanted gore, and Queensland gore at that.
Paterson’s neat little pictures of amid the dust and car-
nage were lost hopelessly on a crowd anxious to hear
“ How Ginger Mick won the ‘ Southern ’ Gross.”
“ Ginger ” was a local bloke. Open mouths
and long breaths were the order of the hour,
but it used to take the audience so long to assimilate the
gist of “ Banjo’s” talk—or his points slipped by so rapidly
—that some of the listeners would break suddenly out
into an irrelevant volley of applause some minutes after
the applause-place had been passed. Then the brighter
section of the audience used to reprove the guilty dis-
turbers with many aspersions on their intelligence,
sprinkled with blanky. When the lecturer told of the
successful commandeering exploits of Queenslanders, the
O’Guire family- with vivid memories of losses sustained
—opined that Ginger “ done ” 18 months for duffing
before he \vent to duff for Chamberlain. This led to
another difference among the audience. Towards the
end Sweater Mac. caused a commotion by asking dubi-
ously, “ Well, I wonder if he really was at the war.”
Sweater nearly got hurt.
** * *
The following appears to be The Bulle-
tin’s reward for its notice of a recent concert:—
To—
The Musical Carper of the Bullet in. You lovely
idiot !!!!! They say that “ critics ” as a rule are disap-
pointed people who have never succeeded in anything
artistic themselves. Judging from recent lucubrations
from your blue moulded apology for a brain you are a
glorious example of what serves that wretched rag for
copy : one thing certain if you could only hear the
opinion of those who read your literary ?? effusions it
would certainly lower you in your own estimation, that is
if your hide is not too thick already, through contact
with the slimy filth in which you exist. It is a pity that
such poor creatures are allowed to exist at all outside a
lunatic asylum, rather than that people who pay for their
copies and advts. should have to read such inane rubbish.
If you don’t have a virtue try at least and assume one and
for goodness sake if you cant write sense try and give at
least a faint soupgon of humor which you evidently
labour to achieve but always lamentably fail at.
Yours more in pity than in anger
An unfortunate Subscriber.
In 1899, snakes killed 24,621 people in
India. Wild quadrupeds killed 2956. This is a great
reduction on the number for 1897, which was 4283.
Govt, employs hunters, with payment by results.
In 1899 they killed 18,887 man-eating beasts and
94,548 venomous snakes.
Writes “ Veteran ” :
So De Wet has again given his pursuers the slip ; he
has swum the Orange River in spite of them. Again and
again his men were said to have been dispersed. Once
he and Steyn “ fled across the river in a boat.” Then they
were “ penned by three or four British columns in the
angle of two flooded rivers.” Plumer, “ having exhausted
his supplies,” stopped to refit. Now what becomes of
the howl for “mounted troops?” Every drover in
Australia knows that, if he starts on a trip with fat
horses, ten miles a day, even if the grass is good,
will work them down in a month. 20 miles a
day steady travelling will make horses leg-weary
however well-fed they may be, in a month’s steadv
travelling. Murat’s best cavalry march in 1806 was
450 miles in 24 days, and it ruined the horses.
Infantry in training can march 20 miles a day for an
indefinite time, and will simply march horses to death.
Besides, every horse and his rider require 241 b. food a day
to keep them going. The footman does well on lib. One
waggon will carry a day’s food for 500 footmen ; but it
needs six waggons for the same number of horsemen, to
say nothing of the 12001 b. or so of forage needed for
the teams. Foot soldiers cannot only outmarch mounted
troops, but will live and thrive where the others would
starve. If S’Africa is to be cleaned up, the ridiculous
mounted troops, which have to stop and re-fit every week
or so, must be cleared out of the way, and replaced bv
footmen, who can keep going even if they are a bit slow.'


The City Leader of 28th July, 1900, writes
regarding the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited : “ The security of this office is unchallengeable,
for its funds are ever increasing and now stand at
£2,385,266 including the sum of £123,609 which has been
added during the year.*
» * • *
The Pioneer Tin Mining Co., of Bradshaw’s
Creek, Tasmania, have ordered from the Austral Otis
Eng. Co., South Melbourne, a large dredging plant for
the treatment of their tin deposits. The plant is a very
complete one and includes vertical compound engine 400
h.p., suitable boilers carrying 1501 b. steam pressure, and
one of the Otis newest design 15in. gravel pump. The
plant is to be completed and set to work within six
months.*
* * * •
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grim wade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* * * *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of GU-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* 4 * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Ilorsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Since the start of the Broken Hill Proprietary’s
new 5000-ton mill, most of the Barrier mines have been
engaged in remodelling their concentrating plants on up-
to-date lines, and wisely show a preference for machines
which have proved most successful on the difficult fines
and sliines. The machines that can claim this distinction
are the “ Luhrig ” Vanners, as supplied by Messrs. W. &
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne. The South’s new mill will
include a dozen or so, and the Junction Co. has also de-
cided to erect a number of Luhrig Vanners as an impor-
tant adjunct to its large plant. Other mines would do
well to follow this good example. *
» * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bittees.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
¥ * ¥ *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
incites in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, hunting, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
“ ENGLAND’S FAVORITE.”
PLAYER’S
NAVY CUT
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Hy. Warkwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; V Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NX.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores,
importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per cent,
pure), Bleaching! Powder, Mining Requisites,
Candies, etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Victoria has a £3,000,000 4 per cent, loan matur-
ing shortly in London, and it is freely admitted that the
3 per cent, loan which is to take its place isn’t likely to
sell at more than £92 or thereabouts. When expenses
are deducted the figures will probably be about £9O, or
very little over. This means that if Victoria borrows in
London it could get the money honestly, on the basis of
£lOO for every £lOO of stock, at £3 10s. per cent. But if
it floats a 3 per cent, loan at a discount it can, by adding,
perhaps, £340,000 to its permanent debt, reduce the
interest to about £3 6s. per cent. In other words, the 4s.
per cent, of interest will be paid out of borrowed money.
There are only two ways of floating the loan honestly.
One is to offer 31 per cent, and get the money in full.
The other is to float a 3 per cent, loan at a discount as
proposed, and set aside the difference between the £3 10s.
per cent, or so that should be paid, and the £3 6s. or so that
will be paid on the new loan, to form a sinking fund
wherewith to pay off the £300,000 lost in the transaction.
If this isn’t done, it is only another instance of the old
malodorous fraud whereby part of the interest is paid
with borrowed money.
Also the country wants badly to know if no at-
tempt is to be made to raise the £3,000,000, or any portion
of it, in Australia. The Victorian Government is just
now offering a little £lOO,OOO loan in Melbourne for its
State Land Bank, interest 3 per cent., and no tender
below £97 for every £lOO stock to be accepted. And at
the same time it contemplates quite cheerfully
selling a 3 per cent, loan in England at £92 for
every £lOO stock, with heavy expenses which
will reduce the receipts to not much over £9O.
It is just possible that the Australian market would find
£3,000,000 if it was offered almost as good terms as it
is proposed to offer the British investor. There is about
£23,000,000 cash in the Australian banks at present, and
£3,000,000 might be spared out of that. Then a foreign
liability would be turned into a local one ; about £lOO,OOO
a year interest would remain in the country instead of
going out, and that would gradually replace the £3,000,000
sent away ; the cost of remitting interest every half-year
would be saved, and £lOO,OOO a year that now goes free
would become subject to income-tax, to the enrichment
of the Victorian Treasury. Of course, there would be the
cost of remitting the £3,000,000 to London to pay off the
old loan, whereas, by borrowing in London, there would
be no such expense at present—but that expense must be
faced some day. The great difficulty seems to lie in
getting over the idea that it is a sin to offer the Australian
investor as good terms as the British one. There is also
the complaint that the floating of so large a loan locally
might depreciate the value of existing securities for a
time —but it would only be for a time. Britain’s securities
are also depreciated by the rush of big war loans, but
Britain seems to pull through.
* » * *
The New Zealand Accident Insurance Co. :
Profits. Dividends. R^ves.
1891 .. £2,349 12* per cent. = £625 £9,759
1592 .. 1,598 12* „ = 625 10,732
1893 .. 1,637 12* „.. = 625 11,744
1894 .. 4,563 12* „ = 625 15,682
1895 .. 4,882 15 „ = 750 19,814
1896 .. 4,921 15 „ = 750 23,985
(£5OOO estimated profit from plate-glass
insurance and other accounts transferred to
capital, making it £10,000)
1897 .. 5,811 10 per cent. = 1,000 28,796
1898 .. 8,001 10 „ = 1,000 35,797
1899 .. 5,772 10 „ = 1,000 40,569
1900 .. 5,256 10 „ = 1,000 44,825
Certainly no one can say that the New Zealand Accident
Insurance Co. hasn’t been having a good time. Out of
the last ten years there are four in which the share-
holders received 12* per cent.; two in which they received
15 per cent., while for the last four they received 20 per
cent, in reality, though by writing up their capital out of
profits it is made to look only like 10. In these same ten
years they have added £36,790 to reserves and £5OOO to
capital out of profits. The paid-up capital in 1891 was
only £5OOO, so the ten years’ accumulations are equal to
7* tims the paid-up capital! Last year’s revenue from
interest and feints was £3208, so the co., if it had been so
inclined, could have paid 32 per cent, on its present
capital, or 64 per cent, on the capital actually paid up by
the shareholders, from this source alone. (N.B.—-Present
writer, then a youthful and perfectly unsuspicious indi-
vidual, was in Maoriland when this co. was formed 21
years ago, and declined, with scorn, the idea of being an
origi ml shareholder.)
If there is one thing that the Australian loathes
it is paying his way. Waverley (Sydney) is now in the
middle of a municipal deadlock, and the Mayor and three
other aldermen have resigned, all because his Washup
proposed that Waverley should pay its way honestly.
The proposal aroused the fury of the majority of the
Council, and was defeated, so the Mayor and his party re-
tired and left their opponents in possession. The trouble
arose thus: Waverley has a big loan falling due, and it must
borrow for renewal purposes. But the law specifies that
no loan must be floated which will raise the total debt to
more than the estimated revenue for the next five years.
On this basis there must be good and reasonable
cause to believe that the rates and other sources of
income will produce £52,000 in the next five years.
Recent experience has shown that, with property values
as they now are, the present sources of income will only
yield about £45,000. The Mayor proposed to levy
enough taxation to raise the income to the required
figure, so that the renewal loan could be legally
floated. This idea of being straight and solvent so
shocked the majority that the proposal was
promptly rejected. The only thing the majority
had to suggest was that the estimates should be boosted
by the simple process of trusting to luck and putting
them down as calculated to yield about £l4OO a year
more than experience shows they will yield. The Aus-
tralian utterly hates to pay his way in public
matters. Meanwhile, unless something is done the
rich suburb of Waverley will become bankrupt
about four weeks hence, when the old loan falls
due. By the way, the aldermen who seemingly don’t
believe in the Council paying its way on the basis fixed
by law call themselves the Reform party, of all names in
the world. “No increase of taxation” is inscribed on
their banner.
* * * *
Victoria Coffee Palace Co. (Melbourne) con-
tinues to have an occasional gleam of good fortune.
Some recent gleams:
Total
Profits Dividends, &c. Reserves
/Written off £2,7371 .
1891 £3,575 ( 2 , percent . = W
,qoo ittyr /Written off 1,272 \ uenmt
189“ 1> 59/ \2 per cent. = 800/ '1
1893 1,034 Written off 637 326
1894 988 „ 1,272 42
189? 1,080 ~ 636 486
1896 655 „ 1,000 141
(£20,000 capital written off.)
1897 690 831
Loss
1898 284 2 per cent. = 400 147
Profits.
lom . /Written off 4561 aR
1899 1,175 (4 per cent. = 800/ 66
1900 1,926 2* „ = 500 1,492
The Bulletin has many enemies. The worst it wishes
them is that thev may become a coffee palace.
• • »
Re the Cascade Brewery Co. (Hobart, Tasmania).
A depressing telegram set forth, the other day, that the
whole reserve-fund (£16,500) had been written off. This
sounded as if some great disaster had happened, but it
proves that the management has merely been
writing off out of reserves a part of the paper item of
goodwill. For years this co. has squared its acoounts
with the purely imaginary asset, “Goodwill, £25,000,’
which, in the case of a concern that pays only 3 per
cent, dividends, was specially absurd. It is impossible to
imagine that a buyer would give £25,000 bonus for the
sake of getting less out of the precarious beer business
than he could get out of reliable State securities. If
“goodwill” is left out, the Cascade Brewery Co. has
always had a deficit, but it is smaller now than it has
been, and, in view of the decision now arrived at to write
off the balance (£8500) of the bogus “ goodwill ” by regular
half-yearly instalments, things should get still better. At
the same time, either the earnings must be larger or the
dividends smaller than they have been if there are to be
any funds out of which to take these regular half-yearly
instalments. Recent results have been these :
Deficit
(goodwill
Profit. Dividends and not rec-
Dividend-Tax. koned as
an asset).
Dec., 1893.. £3076 6 per cent. = £3501 £8591
June, 1894.. 3882 „ = 3793 8502
Dec., 1894.. 4134 „ = 4219 8587
June, 1895.. 4327 „ = 4218 8478
Dec., 1895.. 3363 „ = 4219 9334
June, 1896.. 4602 „ = 4429 9161
Dec., 1896.. 4444 „ = 4429 9146
June, 1897.. 4428 „ = 4429 9147
Dec., 1897.. 4429 „ = 4429 9147
June, 1898.. 4450 „ = 4429 9126
Dec., 1898.. 3129 3 percent. = 2658 8655
June, 1899.. 2668 „ = 2658 8645
Dec., 1899.. 2374 „ = 2657 8928
June, 1900.. 3108 „ = 2658 8478
Dec., 1900.. 2998 „ =_ 2658 8138
The process of wiping off the deficit is certainly a pain-
fully slow one—in fact, from ’93 to ’99 the shortage grew
worse, rather than better. When the Cascade Brewery
Co. was enjoying good times it devoted itself mainly to
paying 9 and 10 per cent, dividends, and now, in the bad
times, the absence of any reserves and the deficit in its
assets are very bad for the co.’s earning capacity.
* V * *
The Australian Metropolitan Life Assurance
Co. (Brisbane), now five years old, has just held its first
quinquennial valuation. The results are not strikingly
healthy. Assuming future interest earnings at 4 percent.,
the assurance fund should be £10,324 to make it solvent;
of course, if the safer rate of 3.) per cent, was estimated
it would need to be more. And the co. has saved out
of its premiums and interest earnings only £6455, or
£3869 less than it should have to keep its assurance fund
solvent. It makes itself square, however, and even
creates an apparent surplus of £6226 by the cheerful
process of assuming that an office-building it pur-
chased is worth about £10,095 more than it paid for
it. It hasn’t sold the building and realised this profit; it
is merely assumed that the profit could be realised if it
was wanted. This obliging conduct on the part of the
office property of small insurance co’s in becom-
ing worth —on paper—so much more than was paid for it
is altogether too common, and is always more or less sus-
picious. The situation now is: (1) If the Australian
Metropolitan Assurance Co. has made a mistake in
assuming that the office property is worth nearly
twice what it paid for the same, and it is really
only worth cost price, then the assurance-fund is
badly insolvent, partly through the inordinate
greed of the shareholders in voting themselves 10
per cent, dividends without even waiting for the first
actuarial investigation to show whether there were or
were not any profits out of which to pay these dividends.
(2) If the co.’s assurance fund is more than solvent now—
that is, if the office building really did its duty like a
building and a brother and became worth £lO,OOO or so
more than it cost—the co. can’t expect to buy obliging
buildings like that regularly. Wherefore the inference is
that, unless the shareholders will grab rather less re-
morselessly after 10 per cent, dividends, or unless the
expenses can be reduced, or unless something good hap-
pens, the Australian Metropolitan’s assurance fund may
easily become insolvent by next investigation, or next
again.
Including 10 per cent, dividends to share-
holders, the Australian Metropolitan’s expenses for the
last four years have averaged a shade over 66 per cent, of
all receipts. In other words, out of every £1 paid in
premiums 13s. 4d. has gone in expenses and shareholders’
dividends, and only 6s. Bd. was left to accumulate towards
paying the policies at maturity. This isn’t a promising
situation. And the expenses were higher in 1900 than in
1897, though they were lower than in 1898 or 1899. Also,
the expense rate for the two years 1899 and 1900, taken
together, was higher than that for the two previous
years, 1897 and 1898. This doesn’t look promising, and
the dividend should certainly be cut down to 5 per cent,
(which is ample) for the next dozen years till the co. gets
fairly on its feet. The saving, compounded at 4 percent.,
would mean £4500 more funds at the end of the 12th
year, and that might be an important matter.
The Australian Metropolitan, by the way,
makes three Australasian proprietary life offices which, at
one time or another in their career, would have shown
that the life assurance fund was unequal to the present
value of the liabilities, if it hadn’t been that the office
building became suddenly worth a good deal more than
was paid for it, or a good deal more than the previous
estimate of its value. And The Bulletin has looked
suspiciously on that building every time.
* * * #
The report of the Newcastle Coal Mining Co.
(Newcastle, N.S.W.) shows that there is an occasional ray
of light on the path even of the down-trodden coal-
owner. The co.’s experiences for the past 11 years have
been :
Profits. Dividends.
1890 .. £17,803 .. 17* per cent. = £17,500
1891 .. 21,865 .. 20 ~ „ = 20,000
1892 .. 7,309 .. 5 ~ ~ = 5,000
1893 .. 5,537 .. 5 „ „ = 5,000
1894 .. 8,844 .. 61 „ „ = 6,250
1895 .. 9,927 .. 7* „ „ = 7,500
1896 8,011 .. 7* „ „ = 7,500
1897 «. 15,437 .. 9 „ „ = 9,000
1898 ... 14,086 .. 10 „ „ = 10,000
1899 .. 15,892 .. 10 „ „ = 10,000
1900 .. 18,573 .. 13* „ „ = 13,500
Profits are not quite so large as they look, for out of the
balances remaining after payment of dividends large
sums have been written off in an irregular sort of way for
renewal of plant, &c. Still the dividends have averaged
£lO 2s. 3d. per cent, all through the last 11 years, and the
total reserves have increased during the same period by
about £2OOO, which is by no means a bad result.
* • • «
Judge A’Beckett’s decision in the matter of the
secret profits made by certain directors of Montgomerie’s
Brewery Co. (a very deceased concern in Melbourne)
should help to make commerce walk a more anxious
chalk-line by Yarra’s banks. In 1888 Montgomerie agreed
to sell his brewery to David Munro at the boom value of
£105,000, in cash and paid-up shares. Munro sold it to
the new Montgomerie’s Brewery Co. at the still more
boom value of £140,000 in cash and paid-up shares.
Certain directors received among them 8500 paid-up
shares out of the £35,000 cash and shares which Munro
made out of the transaction. The luckless brewery co.
perished mostly through having borrowed too much
money in order to pay an exorbitant price for
its beer establishment ; when bad times came the
interest bill killed it, or was largely responsible
for doing so. Then the lamentable share transaction came
out, and the shareholders began to remark that it looked
as if their directors had a direct interest in unloading on
them a poor brewery at an exorbitant price. In the end
Judge A’Beckett ordered the directors to pay to the co.
13s. a share for their 8500 shares. Only one of them
seemingly knew that the co. had really bought Mont-
gomerie’s Brewery for £35,000 more than Montgomerie
sold it at. He is ordered to pay £3526 for his wastepaper
Bhares in the defunct co. And he has the further satis-
faction of knowing that but for that extra £35,000 burden
the co. might be alive to-day.
* * * *
Sandhurst and Northern Districts Trustees,
Executors and Agency Co. (Bendigo, Victoria) is a con-
cern which appears to make no progress worth mention-
ing nowadays, beyond earning and paying away its regu-
lar 5 per cent, dividend. The profits for 1900 were £1272,
and after paying 5 per cent, dividend (£1000) on the capi-
tal of £20,000 there is a balance of £272. This, added to
£735 brought forward, leaves £lOO7 at credit of profit and
loss. There is also a reserve-fund of £l5OO, so total re-
serves are £2507. Seven years ago the total reserves
were £2640, so things have gone backwards instead of im-
proving. The dividend stood for some years at 6 per
cent., and the decline in the co.’s affairs was mostly
through keeping up the 6 per cent, dividend after the
earnings had ceased to warrant it.
* * * *
The Standard Mutual Building Society (Mel-
bourne) has now apparently got over its worst difficulties
and has resumed active business. Before it suspended in
1891 it was a large affair with over £105,000 capital, and
£153,000 of deposits, and 10 per cent, dividends—also it
had disastrously small reserves of only £7616. When it
came to grief it was agreed that it should pay its deposi-
tors 5 per cent, interest and return their principal inside
seven years. In 1895 interest was reduced to 2* per cent,
and the idea of repayment in seven years was abandoned.
It has now repaid all its deposits save £36,000, and by the
very latest agreement interest is raised again to 4 per
cent., and the remaining deposits have been fixed till
1905. Also, after writing off about half its capital the
society is again making reasonable profits. Recent earn-
ings have been on this scale :
Pmfit-a Losses and Total
.uro cs. Depreciation. Reserves.
July, 1897 .. £BB5 £13,542
January, 1898 .. 476 Written off £1,191 12,827
July, 1898 .. 657 „ 2,250 11,234
January, 1899 .. 904 12,138
July, 1899 .. 1,011 Written off 692 12,457
January, 1900 .. 739 „ 73 13,123
July, 1900 .. 1,269 „ 660 13,732
(£49,600 capital written off)
January, 1901 .. 2,659 Written off 6,942 9,449
The management of the Standard Mutual Building Society
appears to consider that all losses are now written off,
and to be sanguine about the future. At the same time,
it is noticeable that £l2OB of the greatly-increased earn-
ings of this half-year are profits on sales of property (pre-
sumably some of the properties have sold for £l2OB over
their recently written-down values, and that much of the
lost capital has been recovered), and the profits of the
ordinary business are only £1451. Still even that is at
the rate of very close on 6 per cent, per annum on the
written-down capita! of £48,617, which is a very good
rate as things go nowadays, and if it can be maintained,
and no more losses are discovered, everything should go
well.
• * * *
Sunlight: Another N.S.W. mine gone wrong.
“ That in view of the apparent hopelessness of continuing
to work the mine without loss the directors are em-
powered to close down the mine and take such action as
they consider expedient in the interests of shareholders.”
Seldom do you see so clear-cut a resolution in re any
N.S.W. duffered-out concern. For the year it crushed
10,335 tons of stone and treated 88 tons of concentrates
for 48510 z. gold valued £16,112 —for a loss of about £lOOO.
Stone in sight worth only 2dwt. per ton. The directors,
who have certainly done their best, promised not to dis-
pose of plant without letting the shareholders know.
* * * *
Great Cobar Copper: Another shareholders’
meeting to pass the resolution—” That the co. be wound
up voluntarily under the provisions of the Companies
Act.” Adjourned without any decision being arrived at
—indicative of a fight about to begin, the best of which
the lawyers will have for a dead certainty.
* * * •
The Brokers’ Joy, Girilambone Copper co.,
N.S.W., half-yearly meeting : Rock-drilling plant in-
stalled, concentrating plant put in good working order,
and directors confidently hope that the ore raised from
development work alone will pay current expenses. Trials
being made with different machines with the view to
treating 30,000 tons accumulated slimes. The mine’s mill-
stone is a debt of £15,439, which will take a mighty long
time to shift by shipments of ore to other smelters.
41 » * *
Grassy Gully (N.S.W.): If this mine was as
good as the newspaper reports it would pay a daily div.
Take the last. The mill has been running regularly from
the old mullock-dump. The returns yielded a profit
which has helped to pay for other machinery ; 200 tons
left, out of which “ the coarse mullock will be picked to
enrich the remainder.” So it is still a mullock-dump 1
Only a fair thing to label as ore that which can be profit-
ably crushed. Neither tonnage nor yield given. Cyanide
plant working satisfactorily, and is expected to yield
good profits from the “ 1000 tons of tailings already accu-
mulated.” A small cyanide plant would absorb the lot
in a month. The new shaft on top of the hill has yielded
assays 6* to 13*oz. ; lode, 12in. wide from surface down to
60ft. Then why not crush the stone that came out of the
sink ? Two men are driving 7ft. a week, and the ore is
assaying 3*oz. to the ton. Why not crush it and allow
the mill to do the talking ?
* * • *
Kalgurli : Again told that very rich telluride
ore is coming from the 640 ft. level, and the big stopes of
the No. 2 level are yielding large quantities of payable
stone. All the underground workings are looking exceed-
ingly well —in fact nothing is sick but the share-market.
Shares 755., and though less than half what they have
been, the price probably represents their full value.
* * * *
Lake View Consols: If newspaper-booming
would make a mine, what a mine this would be 1 The
latest is that the diamond-drill from the 400 ft. level has
located the main lode at a depth of 1000 ft., and it is 14ft.
thick. “ Values have not been furnished, but it is quietly
reported that the average assays are exceedingly satis-
factory.” Is it not remarkable the management should
give the particulars of boring and nothing of results ? If
newspapers had any independence, and were not things
to be played with, they would refuse to publish one with-
out the other. “The value of the discovery in the Lake
View Consols may be easily imagined.” Quite true—it is
all left to the imagination. “As no stoping whatever
has been done below the 500 ft. level, it means that the -
mine has 500 ft. of absolutely untouched backs for future
operations.” It doesn’t mean anything of the kind. The
statement is a cram ; the man who makes it knows it,
but the Eastern newspapers who print it, don’t.
“ With the treatment-plant in first-class order, and
all the levels opened up to a depth of 1000 ft.,
the Consols may look forward to a long period of pros-
perity.” How commonplace and conventional such
“yabber” is! It doesn’t take a mining man to knpw
that to open up a mine from 500 ft. down to 1000 ft. cannot
be done under at least two or three years, while this man
would like to disseminate the impression that it can
be done in less than three months. Two days before
this the same newspapers published a summary of the
mine’s report for last year. That report admitted that
the bores put in from the Golden Link 800 ft. level were
disappointments, no lode being met with in any bore,
and it infewed that a disturbance had taken place. The
total ore-reserves above the 500 ft. level were estimated as
equivalent to only two years’ supply— 6s,ooo tons, average
value, loz. 12dwt., with unlimited quantities of ore
assaying from 2dwt. to Bdwt. not' taken into account
because it is valueless out there ; also, the ore exposed
below 500 ft. level only brought the total tonnage up to
71,000 tons, and the report concluded by saying that it
is intended to prospect virgin ground east and west of
the present workings.
• * * *
London and Globe: As here anticipated the
meeting that followed the annual one was of quite a
different sort. In the chairman the shareholders had the
pathetic spectacle of the venerable Lord Dufferin
admitting the mistakes that he had made ; the manipula-
tion of the Stock Exchange had been left to Whitak-r
Wright; he (Dufferin) never did understand the
intricacies of the Exchange and was too old to learn. He
would have liked to resign before but was induced to re-
main. Then Wright made a speech in which he under-
took to pledge his life and his private fortune —if need be
—to redeem the co.’s lost position. The shareholders
cheered and the fact that Wright had already pledged the
whole of the capital of the co. seemed to be forgiven or
forgotten. The London and Globe would like to get its
creditors to accept 10s. in the £ but is not likely to
succeed. The British Australasian, after barracking
for the co. and booming its shares on every possible
occasion, has the monstrous effrontery to come out with
this : “In some important instances creditors of the
Corporation for large amounts have refused to accept the
10s. in the £ compromise accepted by the primary credit-
ors. It is impossible, however, to believe that the former
will stand out, seeing that it is practically a question of
getting half or nothing out of the defaulting Corpora-
tion.” And this after all it has printed in praise of
the concern 1 Is there a more disgusting thing in the
world than a lick-spittle newspaper ?
The writer, who has watched Mr. Whitaker
Wright’s career, and who has a personal acquaintance with
a good many of his mines, would like to point out to the L.
and G. shareholders, if they have decided to let him
handle any more of their money, a few of the disabilities
under which he will now labor. There will never be in
Wright’s lifetime another Westralian boom like the first.
It enabled him through his then henchman, Kaufmann,
to float about a score of all sorts of shows for big cash and
many shares. When all the working capital of each mine
was exhausted—often in the erection of machinery where
there was really nothing valuable to crush—a lot of awful
duffers were resurrected, under influential patronage, as
the hopeless “Standard Exploration Co.” Wright will
never be able to do that again—he can rope-in no more
Lochs and Dufferins. The W. A.-ruling crowd, too, cannot
be placated again by the “ vinking” Kaufmann taking an
option on another “ Wealth of Expectations.” Never
again will Wright get the control of a mine like the Lake
View for £50,000 working capital—which happened to be
never wanted.
That was Kaufmann’s great stroke of luck,
enabling him and Wright subsequently to secure the
Ivanhoe for about one-third its real value. It is not
reasonable to imagine that Wright will be favored w th
another bonanza such as they had in the Lake View, in
that or in any other mine, it was the greatest found in
Westralia ; it produced over six tons of gold from less
than 2000 tons of ore. And should Wright ever strike
another it is not likely to be barricaded up to enable an
emissary from London to meet the manager half-way to
London and quietly learn all about it. Lastly, even printed
puffery will not for long to come be so efficacious in
creating and keeping alive a boom.
(Continued on page 25.)


Complete
Outfits.
AN ORIENT BOOT^
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT-*-
ALL CLASSES OF GARMENTS
. . IN THE . .
“Orient To measure” Clothing
.. AT ..
PRICES^
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
PAVIP JONCS & COMPANY,
(Sgorgg & Barrack Sts., Sydoey
“ARDATH Highest Class Tobacco.
Has no Equal
in
Quality
and
Aroma.
Will not affect
the Nerves.
pci
W
££s3
3®
'J<D
SHQ
In Three Strengths—Mild, Medium and Full.
The most
Luxurious
Form
of
Smoking.
Free from all
scented matter
Name of nearest agent post free on application to M. RUTTY & CO., Sydney.
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjoyment of
HOME CIGARETTES
Society
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRAMDY
The names of most of the recent N.S W.
appointees to military commissions indicate
plainly that the State has already begun, in a
small way, to set up her privileged class, which is
to have first chance at any good things that may
be going. The names aforesaid are mostly of the
Bloggs and Higgins sort, but in this respect they
are just becoming the local He Veres and Mont-
morencies and Cholmondeleys, and what not. The
Australian ‘ 1 Army ” is not to be officered by men
of merit from the ranks, but by persons in the
good graces of Govt. House, and the sons and
nephews of politicians.
* * * *
“ Where shall we land the Dook ? ” is the
burning question of the day around Melbourne,
iiivery municipality with an inch of bay-frontage
seems to think that that particular inch was de-
signed by Nature for landing Royal Dukes. The
latest scheme is that the Duke should procesh up
Chapel-st., Prahran—which hasn’t even got
an inch of water-frontage. What’s wrong
with taking York up the Saltwater in a boat as
far as the boiling-down works at Footscray—Mel-
bourne’s proudest boast ? He’ll have to go there
some day, and he may as well start early.
* * * *
Now that the Anglican prayer-book, as
altered by the King in Council, has arrived, it is
seen that Primate Smith fell in very badly when
he sent out his circular for the “ alteration of the
Church Service ” and notified the clergy to insert—
In “A Prayer for the Royal Family” : “ . . . to bless
our Gracious Queen Alexandra, George, Duke of Corn-
wall and York, May, Duchess of Cornwall and York, and
all the Royal Family,” &c.
The cablegram on which he based the alteration
did not warrant his calling the Duchess by her pet
name. It ran thus :
King Council altered in prayer-books prayer Royal
Family substituting for name Albert Edward following
SHED BEEN THERE!
LANDADY: “I never take in actors.”
ACTOR: “ But, madam, your own son is an
actor.”
LANDLADY: “ Yes, but he doesn’t live here.”
words Our Gracious Queen Alexandra George Duke of
Cornwall and York Duchess Cornwall York.
Moreover, in the previously-existing prayer the
Princess of Wales was not mentioned by name.
It was “Albert Edward, Prince of Wales: the
Princess of Wales and all the Royal Family.”
Had The Primate followed the model or the cable
lie would have been safe. He might even have
taken a hint from the fact that the lady’s fac-
simile signature “ Victoria-Mary ” is to be seen
under her photographs in every stationer’s in
•Sydney. Archbishop Smith wanted presumably
to show off his familiarity with the family nomen-
clature. Why did he not tell the clergy to pray
for the King as Bertie? Not that it matters
much.
* * * *
Melbourne has fixed up a programme for
the Duke of York’s visit which looks ineffably
dreary, on paper anyhow. For nine days Mr.
and Mrs. York are to plod from one function to
the other, the list including two processions, three
dinners, one levee, four receptions, one concert,
one review, one opening of Parliament, a Univer-
sity commencement, two gatherings of school
children, and the laying of a foundation-stone
at Ballarat. This latter has made Bendigo
curse in a disgraceful fashion. Bendigo de-
mands that the Yorks shall come there also,
and if it can’t be arranged, Bendigo will
m? lon £ er support the Kookaburra Ministry.
Then there is to be one ghastly Scotch Sabbath on
which nothing is to happen, and one odd day on
which the Duke will be allowed off the chain in
order that lie may go into the country and hit
something with the butt-end. By the way, the
official programme sets forth that Melbourne will
have the use of the Duke for 11 days while Sydney
gets him for 12, so Sydney scores once more.
* » * *
The Vic. programme officially issued pro-
vides for five royal dinners at Government House
during their Royal Highnesses’ royal stay. This
is called, with a fine fruity humour, “entertain-,
merit for the people.”
* * • *
The outgoing N.S.W. Contingent, instead
of attending services at the camp on its last
Sunday, visited the surrounding churches accord-
ing to creed. At one church no collection was
made among 1 the men, but the money was evi-
dently burning holes in their pockets, for as soon
as church came out they rushed an Italian ice-
cream cart, and it was as much as the officer in
charge could do to get them back to their places.
The geniuses who have charge of the
Queen s statue in Adelaide have fixed up a
hideous arrangement to provide for its night
illumination. A big gaspipe runs along tiie back
of the figure, rising over its head into what
imaginative people might take to represent a
halo, but which, to most minds, is reminiscent of
the instrument of torture used by photographers
to keep your head straight. This ugly device
is manifest from every point of view, and com-
pletely spoils the whole statue, causing her late
Majesty to look like a well-dressed female prisoner
in the act of pleading not guilty.
* * * *
The first ball held in Govt. House (Syd-
ney) in honor of Queen Victoria took place on 24th
May, 1838, Gov. Gipps being then at the head of
affairs. An unseemly row occurred in the ball-
room. A Mr. Macdermott and his wife, two of
the invited, were ordered to quit the house, the
Governor having given a silly ear to some stories.
The Governor afterwards apologised. Mr. Mac-
dermott subsequently became Mayor of Sydney.
* * * *
The march of the Imperial troops through
Adelaide was marred only by the weather. Sun
heat 160; shade heat under 100; but very
steamy and trying—in fact, what Adelaide always
calls Sydney weather.” Much feeling was
aroused by a move from Montefiore Hill
to the old Racecourse, the idea being that the
Nicest did not wish to mingle with the beastly
crowd. This idea was apparently unfounded, and
on the spot selected 50,000 people (estimated) saw
more or less of the proceedings. The one blot
was the absence of all refreshments. A caterer
offered £5O to Lady Tennyson’s pet charity, the
Maternity Home, for catering rights, but the
tender . was declined. The consequences were
something painful. Three or four standpipes
were available, otherwise everyone went dry.
* * * •
It may not be through the loss of a few
score healthy young men from enteric and wounds
that Australia will suffer most on account of the
Contingent mania ; the breeding of an indisposi-
tion for ordinary steady work among those who
return may be a still worse result. One mother
went to the S.A. military people in support of the
candidature of a returned warrior for the Fifth
Contingent. “Take him,” she pleaded; “he’s
good for nothing else now.” And, doubtless,
there will be scores of such cases. Twelve months
of Domain-loafing will spoil nine men out of 10 for
work; and 12 months of soldiering is very likely
to end the same way. Contingenteering will lead
lots of men to the threepenny doss-house.
* * * *
Last session M.L. code was amended so as
to make incest punishable. The Bill met with
much opposition in the Upper House, where it
was described as “an insult to the province.” But
already there have been several convictions under
it.
As part of a raid against
local matrimonial bureaux,
N.S.W. Registrar-Gene-
ral (no doubt acting on
Ministerial instruc-
tions, issued for the
purpose of currying a
political favor with
the clerical trades-
unions) is refusing
to re-register the
parsons who offici-
ate thereat, which
means that they
can no longer cele
brate marriages
Proceedings are
being instituted
to test the R.-
Gr.’s power, and
till then bureau
managers have
to fix the knot
somehow. One
solemn old cleric
—one of those
affected affirms
that, of the hun-
dreds of marriages
celebrated at these
bureaux, just about 90
per cent, are done to
“save the child,” whose
near approach to a sinful
world would be noticed in more select ecclesias-
tical quarters. Consequently the parson (who,
by the way, makes £4OO a-year in fees) argues
that matrimonial bureaux do rood.
* • * •
A lady and gentleman, married at a Fitz-
roy (Melb.) church the other day, had a lively and
original wedding. As they stepped down the
aisle, to the tune of the “Wedding March,” cer-
tain lady friends opened a deadly fusillade of
over-ripe tomatoes. The bride’s uncle saw the
first volley coming. He ducked, and the mushy
fruit caught the bridegroom on the ear. Then
tomatoes squashed all over the happy pair ; whilst
the crowd cried “ Shyme ! ” At the police court
proceedings the swearing as to who had rice and
who had tomatoes got fearfully mixed. The
Bench, in dismissing the case, called attention to
the voluble and unblushing perjury manifestly
committed.
* * * *
Considering that the subjoined startling
suggestion only applies to people over 65 years of
age, it may not be so liideously-wicked a pro-
posal after all:
Dear Bulletin.— Your par (23/0/’01) re N.S.W. Benevo-
lent Asylum inmates admits that even on 10s. a week old-
age-pension per adult, the future is not alluring. Why
then should the Darbies and Joans who intend pairing-off,
forego ss. a week per pair, when by omitting a merely
conventional ceremopy, they can draw the full 20s.
between them? An introductory agency at Newington
might supply a real want; a matrimonial one would be a
decided drawback. —Sap. Sat.
HE WASN’T TAKING ANY.
(On the eve of washing-day.)
MISTRESS (in the passage): " Is that you,
Bridget? ”
BRIDGET: “Yes, mum!”
MISTRESS : “ Well, I am going to church now,
Bridget. Oh — ah—but mind you fill that
copper up with water before you go to led.”
HE WEREN’T.
RETURNED WARRIOR (narrating experiences to
young lady): Suddenly they opened fire on
us at short range. We thought ice should all
be killed ”
SHE (with a yawn): “And weren’t you?”
A large number of Boer women have been
gathered in as prisoner-refugees in S’Africa,
mostly, it would appear, because' the British
troops have burnt their houses. Regarding these
an astounding and almost incredible cablegram
appeared in last Friday’s papers. Accord-
ing to this ’gram the House of Commons was
informed by Mr. Brodrick, Secretary for War
in the Salisbury Government, that the Boer
women whose husbands were still fighting were
put on reduced rations, while those whose
husbands were not with the commandoes received
full rations. In other words, according to the
cable-man, the British Government admits trying
to force the Boers still in the field to surrender by
making their wives go hungry, or semi-hungry, or
comparatively hungry. Is that cable-man in his
right senses ? Nothing smaller or meaner or more
degrading has been charged against the British
name for a century. And as yet not one Jingo
paper in Australia appears to have even expressed
a hope that the story isn’t true.
* * * *
A wonderful authentic human docu-
ment has arrived at the office of this paper.
It is a memorandum of agreement entered
into by a laborer, his sweetheart and her
mother. The girl in the case is a domestic
servant; the mother has married again, but
still retains a deep interest in her offspring’s
welfare. The si natures show thrift not one of
the three contracting parties can spell, while
their hand-writing is an Arabian-script
mystery. The agreement is exclusively one-
sided. The man pays—the man is very much
in love. The girl contracts to marry the
man (who is R.C.) in whatever church or
chapel she pleases, on condition that on the
wedding morn the man hands over “all his
property, money and other possessions then
belonging to him, the same to be her own
property to do with as she pleases.” But this
is not enough ! The man “further agrees to
allow the said (girl) the sum of ss. per week
from the date of signing this contract until
married.” But still the daughter of the
horse-leech is not satisfied 1 The man yet
“further agrees” to insure his life, on the
morning of the marriage, for the sum of
£250. And this precious document is
signed on the day of peace and goodwill
to men, 25th Dec. “And it was Christmas
Day !” Mad or drunk? But you can’t tell
either of ’em from True Love.
* * * *
In addition to the Salvarmy, Melbourne
Seventh Day Adventists run a printing and
publishing business. They start their week’s
work every Monday morning with half-an-
hour’s prayer, asking the Lord to bless the
work of their hands. Jehovah seems to attend
to the matter, too, as both businesses show
exceptionally large profits.
* » * *
Apropos of a recent criminal case, in
which, although the Crown evidence seemed clear
enough for a conviction, the jury unexpectedly
failed to agree. There is a class of persons who
never by any chance consent to vote for a verdict,
and when they are on a panel a disagreement can
be confidently looked for. Their object is to get
their names omitted from the jury rolls. Of
course their action does not lead to their omission
from the lists, but the police, who are practically
always desirous of a conviction, take care that
those persons known to be contumacious are not
served with jury notices.


Cooling ! Health-giving !
ADD A LITTLE
UMTS FLUID
toyour Bath or Foot-Bath.
TJle Cooling, Invigorating
and Strengthening
Effects are Simply
Magical.
Of all Chemists & Stores.
Insist on having “CoNDY’S Fluid.”
The name Condy & Mitchart, of London, England,
should bo at foot of Label.
TVware of Inferior Australian Substitutes.
jim. tin.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only —largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16 '5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuvper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
J
FLEXIBLE
SOLES.
Flexible Soles and Soft Tanned Uppers are
essential in a Boot combining ease and
durability in wear.
The CaiSaghan . . .
Tan Willow Calf Boot
Possesses this combination to the fullest extent possible, and has recently become a general
favorite with men of taste.
22/6 a pair—23/6 post-paid to all States.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The impossibility of accurately foreseeing
public action is shown by the experience of Mel-
bourne importers who secured stocks of about
100,000 small flags at the beginning of 97,
with the intention of selling them when
the Record Reign celebration came. But
the public didn’t cotton to the idea, and
the sales hardly ran into hundreds. The flags
were stowed away and forgotten until the madness
of Mafeking night, when one smart Elinders-
laneite remembered his dead stock and ran it out.
Within a few hours wild-eyed Maffickers were
buying penny flags for a shilling, and the whole
of the warehouses were cleared of the banners that
had lain there useless for three years.
* * » *
At Broken Hill the Labor-party, with a
socialistic platform and a cast-iron solidarity
pledge, now owns 10 of the 12 seats in the Muni-
cipal Council. It has a Labor Mayor, of course —
it had one last year —who, according to one plank
of the platform, has to attend at the Town Hall
throughout office-hours. For this he gets £2OO a
year. Also he may spend another £l5O on “ enter-
taining visitors ” and charity, but he must give a
detailed account of that. So absolutely has the
party abolished the contractor that the munici-
pality actually builds its own drays and plant.
Up to date about the only man it has been unable
to induce to work at day-wages is its lawyer.
* * * *
Under her Old-Age Pension scheme Vic-
toria lately acquired a pensioner aged 21 and
another of 24. The former was permanently dis-
abled while mining, and the latter lost his leg in a
marine accident, intermittent paralysis interven-
ing. This gives a precedent for the plea that a
sailor’s is a hazardous occupation.
• * * ’*
A brilliant example of the possibilities of
a youthful marriage turned up in Vic., the other
day, in the person of an aged gentleman of 72,
who requested a joint old-age pension for himself
and wife. Asked why his wife had not come with
him, he explained that she was “ too old.” “ You
don’t seem a chicken yourself, ” said the presiding
magistrate—“ what age is your wife?” “ Ninety-
one ! ” was the reply. Further questioning
elicited the fact that the youthful husband had
married when only 19 a dashing widow of 38.
The moral is various.
• * » •
Absinthe seems to be the favorite tipple
of Syrians out here. A Northern publican writes
that 90 per cent, of our brothers from Beyrout
and Lebanon favor the decoction.
« * * *
Melbourne newspapers that have ex-
pressed lofty democratic indignation at the
shocking prevalence of privilege in the
British army, where the listless and buck-
toothed aristocrat with the silly smile is
born to command, have not one word
to say against the same evil in its
local manifestations. And yet class
preference has been, comparatively
speaking, much more out-
rageously apparent in the officer-
ing of Vic. contingents. The
soft-headed, useless son of a
Somebody who was packed
oflf to Africa to get him
out of the road has, in
many instances, been
worked into good
positions, that carry
kudos and excel-
lent pay, over the
herds of men
vastly his super-
iors in every
soldierly quality
and all manly at-
tributes. Worth
makes the man, in-
fluence makes the
officer.
* *
The latest adver-
tising dodge of Pear-
son’s has just taken
hold of England. Pear-
son’s is the firm that
runs rag papers on the
strength of word-com-
petitions, football-cou-
pons, and every other
scheme under the moon
barring the seemingly
unheard-of-in-their-office
idea of supplying attrac-
tive literary and artistic ma-
terial. The editor of the weekly
Pearson announced recently that he had
placed £lO each in the hands of some men whose
identity was rigorously concealed, and who were
instructed to give the money to the first person
who asked them for it. The result is that the
question, “ Have you got that £lO ? ” has become
a maddening gag in London. Respectable citizens
are knocked up at ungodly hours by Hooligans
who want to know “if they happen to have that
ten quid about the house,” and business people
are harried to death with the query. The thing
has eclipsed “ Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay ” as a common
horror.
Judging by the evidence at a recent Chel-
tenham (Vie.) inquest, the keepers of certain
inebriate retreats, &c., have very cursory, free-
and-easy ways. The patient under inquest had
escaped from her watchers and jumped over a
70ft. cliff. She was carried to the Home and the
doctor called in, but nobody told him about the
awful fall, the attempt at suicide or anything.
He merely saw a slight bruise on the forehead
and went away to return in an hour. Ere then
the patient was dead —from broken ribs and
terrible internal injuries. This inebriates retreat,
registered as a private hospital, is really a private
lunatic asylum, most of the patients suffering fiom
hysteria, melancholia and suicidal mania, and not
being allowed the use of knives or forks. Also
the place is supplied with padded rooms.
* * * *
From Ballarat comes a story of mysterious
stone-throwing. Adjacent houses in Scott s
Parade were bombarded for four days and nights
with bricks, rocks, and blue-metal, thrown by
some unseen hand. The chief sufferer was a Mr.
Eddy, who had barely a whole pane of glass left
in his windows. Police were utterly baffled until,
after watching all Saturday night, at 7 a.m. on
Sunday they saw Maggie Eddy come out of her
front door, pick up a stone, and throw it through
a window, tnen immediately rush inside in simu-
lated terror crying, “ Another window smashed ! ’
The charming Maggie, who is described as “ being
14, but looking 18 years of age,” penitently owned
up, but couldn’t account for her conduct in any
way. “ Fourteen, but looking eighteen,” is just
the sort of hysterical damsel who mostly does
cause a lot of mischief, and generally in much
more serious directions than stone-throwing. By
the way, in every recorded Australian case of
mysterious stone-throwing the culprit, when dis-
covered, has proved to be a girl. All the same,
writer was once informed by a man who smelled
of various drinks that he had invented a
mechanical stone-throWer which would break all
the windows in Melbourne in one night. Presum-
ably he has thought better of it.
In the famous Cock-lane Ghost affair, in Dr.
Johnson’s time, when windows were broken
wholesale by stones from an unseen and long-
undiscovered hand, it was ultimately proved to be
the work of a small girl. At Ballarat, the case
was on all-fours, except that the girl did not
puzzle a crowd. Nevertheless, she puzzled three
constables, and broke windows before their eyes.
Of course she never heard of the Cock-lane Ghost.
An illustration of the automatic mechanism of
woman-nature.
* » * *
Sundry awful Carlton (Melb.) J.’sP.,
after fining the usual push larrikin the regular
10s. or three days on a recent morning, dealt out
justice to an old woman charged with vagrancy.
Accused produced a bank-book showing a balance
of £8; also evidence that she was maintained by
her brother, but the bench calmly fined her £2 or
one month. Why, only Heaven knows—if
Heaven really does know 1
THE SAME OLD GAME.
“ Yes, dear friends, it’s only six months since I
was released from gaol after serving two
years for obtaining money under false pre-
tences. And look at me now I Why, brethren,
if you'll throw five shillings into this cap I'll
tell you all about th ’ Almighty and what Vs
done for me."
TRADE SECRETS,
MILD EGYPTIAN: “ I usually create my best ideas
in the early morning.”
STRONG MANILLA: “I generally crib mine late
at night.”
Acting-Judge Pring, who sentenced Baker
to deaths the other day, for his attempt on the
life of Detective Toomey, at the Commonwealth
celebrations in Sydney, seems to have erred in
having accepted without comment the jury’s ver-
dict. Baker had admitted a grudge against
Toomey, alleging that the latter, knowing him
innocent, had had him unduly convicted and
sentenced, in Brisbane, some years before. This
allegation was not proved or disproved in the
trial before Judge Pring, yet the jury recom-
mended accused to mercy on account of the
“fancied” injury he had sustained at Toomey’s
hands. By pronouncing the injury “fancied”
the jury really tried an issue not before the
Court.
* * * •
A recent Sydney death has been engaging
the attention of the detectives, and now that
their investigations are nearly complete, Sydney
may expect an additional sensation within a few
days. The implied accusation is the gravest form
of the gravest crime known to the law.
* * * *
“ Melb.” : To-day I saw a mysterious two-
horse hearse trotting briskly at an early hour
along Swanston-street to the cemetery. Nothing
whatever followed. Yet this was not a pauper.
It was a tip-top hearse, with plate-
■*lass sidess, and a fine, decor-
ated adult coffin inside. Must
have been a fearfully wicked
he or she —or possibly too
good for this world. Per-
haps the party who got the
money was cynical. N.B. —Even
the horses were high-steppers, not
Mr Mould’s second-class ones, with
the white spots lamp-blacked.
“The practice of bone-borrowing preva-
lent among some of the undertakers at Devonshire-
street cemetery” (the old Sydney graveyard
whence the remains of the long-buried dead are
now being removed to make way for a railway-
station) shows, writes a Bulletin correspondent,
“to what extremes those worthies are reduced.
Clients refuse to pay unless supplied with some
relic of the late departed—be it only a few teeth,
a jaw, or a shinbone —and as many of the graves
are empty recourse must be had to some device.
In these cases the undertakers borrow the bones,
and the bereaved are satisfied.”
* * * *
Great credit was assumed over six months
ago by the Lyne Govt, for its “ prompt ” action
in resuming the wharves of Darling Harbor and
other portions of the plague-infested area of Syd-
ney. But the all-important duty of administering
this area has been put off from day to day and
week to week until another case of bubonic plague
is inside Sydney Heads. The Board responsible
for the management of the resumptions, at time of
writing, is not even appointed, and there is no
valid excuse possible for this delay, which is
purely the outcome of personal, not political,
reasons. The temporary commission which has
been acting for the past few weeks has had no
real power, and if another outbreak of plague
occurs inside the area supposed to be dangerous
the Lyne Govt, will indeed be politically damned.
* * » *
But for an engine-driver's presence of
mind, "Victoria would have had a railway-accident
to match the recent one in Sydney. The Ballarat-
to-Maryborough train had just cleared a heavy
decline outside Talbot, and was running between
30 and 40 miles an hour, when a truck next the
engine left the rails. The train was then on an
embankment, and 200yds. away was a bridge. _ Had
the driver jammed the brakes hard on, according to
rule or custom, the whole concern would probably
have gone over the embankment or into the creek;
as it was, he took the risk of running on, and
brought up gradually in 500yds. All the Vic-
torian papers speak kindly of that driver, but, if
things had gone differently, they would probably
have demanded his trial for manslaughter.
Nothing succeeds like success. Also, which is
still more worth bearing in mind, nothing fails
like failure.
There was a bright and lively row in a
Collins-st. (Melb.) tram one night recently.
The theatres were out, and the tram was
crowded. Suddenly a gaunt female sitting
in one end arose and, clutching a large
gamp with nervous force, advanced
upon a dejected wretch crum-
pled in the further cor-
ner, and fell upon him
with great vehemence,
smiting him hip and
brisket, and knocking
his hat and a bundle of
peaches all over the com-
partment. Then a small,
quiet-looking woman sit-
tmg opposite intervened,
demanding, in a somewhat
cold and impartial way,
why the gaunt stranger
was hammering her lawful
wedded husband. “The
viper ! ” gasped the assail-
ant. “The wormj! He
promised to marry me five
years ago!” “Did he,
though ? ” gasped the wife.
“Well, you can bloomin' well
whack him again for not lteepin’ ’ia
word. It ’ud ’a saved me a lot of trouble.” But
the conductor interfered and the gaunt woman
was cast overboard,
* * * *
The Queen Victoria statue fund continues
to go very lamely in Melbourne, and it is now
evident that the people are “ not taking any.”
The two morning papers having preached of the
popular adoration of the late Queen feel the
neglect of the masses keenly, and have been print-
ing tearful leaders contrasting the splendid dona-
tions in India with the cold reserve of the
Victorians. But only a thin trickle of shillings
flows in, and if the necessary £lO,OOO or £12,000 is
to be secured the Man of Means will have to fork
out liberally ; in return for which the dailies should
offer generous display advts., givers of £lOO and
upwards being guaranteed the appearance of their
names in large type in the lists, with allusions
to their numerous virtues in pars, and sub-
leaders.
In Maoriland the evidences of hysterical lip-
loyalty are equally strong. A few hours after
news of the Queen’s death came a movement was
initiated in “ the Empire City” (Wellington) to
erect a statue. Gov. Ranfurly warmly approved
the idea, and started the list with a donation of 25
guineas, the members of the Ministry giving 50.
Although both local papers most zealously “ ran
the movement, subscriptions somehow didn’t roll
in, and when, in reply to cabled inquiry, Agent-
General Reeves stated that fully £3OOO would be
needed to furnish a decent statue, and it was found
that not more than a sixth of that sum was on hand,
the Governor freely confessed his disappointment.
He also suggested that the movement should be a
national one in order that the whole country
might participate in the honor of suitably com-
memorating the reign, &c. Then both Welling-
ton papers cruelly blamed H.E. for the fiasco,
pointing out that had he not limited his donation
to 25 guineas, other opulent citizens would have
done better, but, as it was, they felt that good
taste required that they should not go higher than
the Governor. The fact that any man might send
ten separate 25-guinea donations anonymously
without overshadowing His X wasn’t men-
tioned. The Dunedin papers voiced the feeling
of the canny folk of that Scotchified centre,
and objected to Dunedinites being called on to
subscribe to a' statue which the great majority of
them would never see, while the Aucklanders,
true to the rivalry which obtains between their
city and Wellington, refused point-blank to fall
in with his Ex.’s suggestion. In fact Auckland
Herald cruelly suggested that if Wellington
couldn’t afford a statue there would be no disgrace
in their getting a replica ! And now it seems that
Wellington must see the thing through in agony
and sweat.
* * * *
Apropos the death of Queen Victoria, The
Bulletin’s London correspondent writes
The most striking sign that followed the announcement
of the death was that of the universal respect shown by
the “ people ” for their late sovereign in the shape of the
black tie, scarf, or neckerchief. The streets of the
“ West ” were thronged with theatreless and music-’all-
less crowds, and it was strange to notice that while the
“ Johnnie,” the cabman, and the “well-dressed” person
generally was scarfed in his ordinary every-day hues, the
people—the mechanic, the manual worker generally, down
to the border-line where the collarless and tieless con-
tingents begin, displayed black. Of these classes, there
was not one person in 50 who was not thus sably bedecked
—and this hardly an hour or so after the Royal demise.
Of course, it may be explained that it is the custom of
this class to wear “ black for best,” but, nevertheless,
there is no getting over it that the “ people ” of London
mightily respected and loved—if it be possible to love
a great Royal personage—the Queen. She never liked
London, and saw as little of it as she could, but London
undoubtedly liked her.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Railway Commissioners have
not yet succeeded in getting a decent tram-car for
Sydney city service. They have tried several, but
none can be pronounced satisfactory. The car
with seats across, open all along, looks very nice in
fine weather, but when, in wet weather, the blinds
are down you can’t see which are filled, and have
to struggle in as best you can under the blinds
that won’t run up. The cars with seats length-
wise are uncomfortable to sit in and they afford
no view of the surroundings; for their size they
hold very few.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“ Owing to the municipal apathy of Cape-
town, the Government has undertaken the work
of suppressing the plague.” Well, to be muni-
cipal at all is mostly also to be slow of mind and
sluggish of liver—fat-witted and large-stomached,
and red-jowled and white weskitty generally.
Can’t get blood from a stone !


“ He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’S success is a Town Trade.
.The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY’B.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun of the thing t
MRRK FOY, SYDNEY.
Bame prices and attention as If you bought amongst the dally crowds at the oounters.
Will the N.S.W. Govt, send away the
latest contingent by the ship that brought the
plague to Sydney last week ? Another question—
W ill the contingent cheerfully go ?
Sydney D.T. claims that the Sydneyfruit-
shops were strictly closed last Sunday, which
is ail tiam. They never were wider open, and
well the authorities know it. The Government
which seriously tries to impose a Calvinistic Sun-
day on Sydney, the city of outdoor pleasure, will
soon find itself Dead.
Pantomime season affords an interesting
study of the feminine form as originally designed
by the first artist Mother Nature. Soft as are the
lines of the “altogether” (to use a Svengali expres-
sion) the delight of the male onlooker is greatest
when ravishing forms are half concealed by flow-
ing drapery, and when the P.D. corset adds its
matchless and flexible curves. The P.D. assists
INature by aiding its expression of the beautiful.*
li
JL
Lightest Wines in Australi
GLOBE TEM have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson, 284 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMANS LETTER.
Mr Dea» Mm.- Syd “ sr ' Marol ’ s - IMI - .
. The engagement' to which I alluded last week
}L nOW A e a ery w ly jV P r °P ort y : Miss SvlviaDar-
ley and Sir Wyndham Anstruther. I’he bride-
groom-elect is just 24. The attachment began in
bydney last year, when the Darley party at balls
and races often included the tall, weedy-looking
youth in an eye-glass, who was never taken much
notioe of by Potts Point—presumably because he
put forward so little about his relatives. In fact
often heard doubts as to whether he really was
anybody ” or not, but his engagement to the
Chief-Justice’s fifth and youngest daughter settles
all that.
Sydney remembers the baronet at a Beauchamp
garden-party, when he and a certain young Melb.
lady got two chairs and seated themselves, away
from the crowd, just inside the entrance-gate.
I hey sat there all the afternoon, and seemed to
find much joy in the sight of Sydney Society
struggling through and trying to get its name
shouted rightly, and several good local folk found
the gaze of those four eyes distinctly and un-
pleasantly embarrassing.
Mr. Lachlan Beaton, one of the newly-appointed
bydney Harbor Trust Commissioners, has “slung
ink m his time. He began life as reporter for a
Scottish journal, then made for London, the
Mecca of Scotchmen, and held a position in a
|hipping-office there for some years. When Mr.
H. M. Collins was coming out to Australia to
organise Reuter’s agency he received polite atten-
tion from young Beaton, who handed him his
steamer ticket. By pure accident, a couple of
hours later, the pair sat opposite to each other at
luncheon in a restaurant. Result—an engage-
ment for Mr. Beaton in Reuter’s Australian
Agency at a largely-increased salary. After some
years manipulating cables in Melb. and Sydney,
amiable Excelsior blossomed into the successful
manager of Howard Smith and Sons’ shipping
firm in Melbourne and Sydney, Three or four
vears ago he went to Europe for a trip, having-
become a man of considerable means. On the
voyage home he (again by pure accident) sat at
the steamer s table next to a daughter of the late
YV. B. Dailey. He helped that charming young
lady with her baggage through Italy so obligingly
that on reaching London she married him. After
12 months more at hisshipping work in Melbourne
he retired, and now he is Harbour Trust Commis-
sioner in Sydney at a salary of £lOOO per annum.
Yet people say that the age of romance and ad-
venture is gone. Moral: Always carefully polish
up the handle of the big front-door.
I want to draw your attention to a Benefit
Concert for that pretty young actress, Vera
L.yton Bella in Message from Mars. Miss
Lyton is a Sydney girl going to London to study
singing and her concert comes off at the Centen-
Hall on March 20th under the able care of
Mr. H. R. Southwell.
Another songstress going homewards is Miss
Amy Simpson. At her benefit on Saturday, Miss
Simpson was overcome with nervousness, but the
delicious quality of her delicate, bird-like voice
was not to be denied. The fair-haired, petite
benehciare was in white mousseline-de-soie, with
a black velvet chou on the corsage and faced a big
friendly house with “Regneva nel Silenzio ’’
(Rucia) and Solvieg’s song for encore. Miss Maud
Dalrymple, in yellow, sang the sad (and silly)
story of _ Douglas Sor-hor-hor-ordon ” who was
drowned m the sea. An encore was called for
but by that time Miss Dalrymple had rushed
round to Her Majesty’s, where she takes Regina
iNagel s old place with Ben Bolt in Trilby.
The departure of Miss Marion Drewe has
robbed Sydney of something blse than a rising'
woman-artist with plenty of pluck and ambition,
miss Drewe had also the reputation of being 1 the
best woman chess-player in N.S.W., and was a
frequent and victorious problem-fighter at the
School of Arts chess-board. Miss Drewe and a
Ej, . frisnd set out last week to try their luck in
b risco, and the popular little lady’s many friends
in Sydney will look forward with interest to her
future doings.
A divorce tried in London last month looks
very like the end of a silly comedy that started in
Australia some three years ago. Constance Terry
(nee .Johnston) sued for a decree nisi, and got it
against William Edward Terry. “ Both parties
were members of the theatrical profession
and they met on tour in Australia.” The
said Edward Terry is presumably young
Herbert Terry, son of Edward Terry, and the
wife was Noney Seabrooke, that dark, pleasing
little actress with journalistic tendencies. They
jointly retired from Frank Thornton’s co. in ’97
and there was some talk at the time of the
manager suing Terry for libel for writing home
tnat the co. had gone bung. Terry’s marriage was
a sweet thing in holy unions. Soon after the
wedding Noney was penniless in Australia,
friends m Sydney helped to keep her going, and
finally raised some money to get her back to Eng-
land, where she gave up the stage and went in for
journalism as a profession,
A pleasant little ceremony came off at Dr.
Baynton’s house last Saturday night, when George
Reid presented that well-known journalist and
poet, John Farrell, of the Daily Telegraph, with a
testimonial—cheque-shaped—from a number of his
friends and admirers. The presentation was made
at supper, with one of Mr. Reid’s airiest, most
graceful speeches. Mr. Farrell replied in the
condensed manner of your good journalist, and
Mrs. Baynton, the good genius of the testimonial,
also added a few words. Among Mr. Farrell’s
well-wishers were Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Smith
Miss Rose Scott, Miss O’Connor, Mr. and Mrs.
M ‘Millan, Mr. Albert Dorrington, and Mr.
Ernest Hoben.
Lottie Collins’ last nights drew lots of people to
the Tiv. By the way, the play-bill designates
Lottie as “ Absolutely the most Expensive Eivjaue-
ment Made for A ustralia . ” Isn’t that rather cruel ?
She sang “The Widow” inawickedlydemureblack
dress, and long crepe veil, that somehow prepared
you for the sudden revelation of killing scarlet
petticoats spangled in silver. The “semi-detached
young Lady ” was sung in a low-necked frock of
pink duchesse, with long sleeves and an enormous
white feather fan. For my part I think the
Collins’ voice is the best of her, a charming
soprano, and managed with the most perfect art.
Most people are disappointed in her style and
dancing. They expected more dash, more aban-
don, and more legs—more Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay
and less of the clever artist.
A greater attraction, Madame Celina Bobe, is a
lithe, dark Frenchwoman, just from Paree. She
wears a short pink decollete frock, and stands over
a weird instrument called the Xylophone, which
she plays with little sticks. Her execution i 3
wonderful. The sticks bring out what sounds like
the most astoundingly brilliant music. As a
violinist Madame Bobe is not first-rate, but she
puts plenty of sensation into her fiddle, has an
excellent staccato, bows with the Frenchiest of
movements, and brings down the house with the
Carnival of Venice—on a not too good violin, by
the way.
Nellie Stewart has returned to her old haunt,
the Oxford Hotel, where her clear voice is
frequently heard calling “ Francine,” the French
maid who looks after Nellie and her little girl.
Nellie and Musgrove are very fond of the Botani-
cal Gardens and afternoon callers are generally
informed Miss Stewart is out in the Gardings.
4 From Paling & Co. comes one new song,
lommy’s Guardian Angel,” by Adrian Ross and
Augustus Barratt. The words are very taking :
So it’s Sister, where’s the paper ! Sister, how’s
the war ! Sister, won’t the doctor say I’m fit to
fight once more ! Sister, am I better? Sister,
what say you ! You know he’ll never fight again
But what is Nurse to do.” A second and better
name for this dear little song is “What Is Nurse
To Do.”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
At the Princess’s Alfred Woods has been serv-
ing up Barabbas as a ladylike sentimentalist.
JN ature, understand, hasn’t handicapped Alf with
pink eyes, white hair, or a squeaky voice, but his
gestures and attitudes are so girly that one sus-
pects him of having been coached in stage deport-
ment by a lady. Asa wooer he suggests a startled
fawn, and even towards men his bearing is
characterised by Missy poses.
“Misled, maybe, by the feel of his bare,
white arms and muslin skirts, the womanly
Wanderer” (such is the profession of the Corel-
,n -‘^VM'oas) °ne point roamed up the wings
with his fin hooked round the middle of an elderly
man, jiist as if the histrionic duet portrayed
not two males, but Sign-of-the-Cross Mercia,
Christianising a hoary Pagan on the daughterly
system. °
“As Judas’ fast sister, handsome Maud Wil-
liamson tied back her streaming curls, a la Maud
J e Series, and out of doors covered her silver-
corded classic, white robe with an effective hooded
cloak of scarlet.
Barabbas ’ is the sort of piece to please spec-
tators who see something to laugh at in spots not
labelled comic by the playwright. When the
hero, after grovelling in a dungeon for months
without a change of clothes, is suddenly set free,
ms short kilt is torn and tattered to display
patches of pink stage anatomy, rather as if his
rear tunic had been subjected to ordeal by fire,
llie ex-gaol-bird concurred solemnly when a
friend hinted that prison dishabille might shock
t le eye of the girl of his heart, but when lydies in
the audience tittered blushfully by way of en-
dorsement he looked quite hurt.
“There was another giggle when Maud Wil-
liamson clutched suddenly at her bodice and
screeched weirdly of ‘ agonising.pain.’ Her lover
fk *i • an / r ° ote d out a big, clumsy cross, just
the thing by the look of it, to impale a careless
wearer. Maud s spasm turned out to be remorse,
awakened by the touch of the sacred symbol, but
the episode awoke memories of a fat passenger on
the box-seat of an out-back coach. Owing to
reasons connected with ankles, petticoated occu-
pants of that steep perch were privileged to dis-
mount by jumping into the driver’s arms as he
stood on solid ground braced ready for the shock.
When one heavy-weight cast-off poor Jehu
staggered and sank to his knees, while simul-
taneously with the collision, an awful yell made
all hearts aboard stop beating. Next came an
eerie pause, and then the blessed relief of the
driver s voice blurting out. ‘ Only frightened, was
you, mum! Scissors! You gave me a blanky
scare ! Blowed if I didn’t think either me or your-
self was staked on your blooming stay-busks ! ’
. The joke of a recent lugubrious play was its
specially-written ’ music. For a circus the melo-
dies would have been ideally houp-la, inspiring
clowns and gee-gees to break their record. The
least-festive tune in the score, if I don’t mistake,
was a 1< forodorean love-song which preluded ‘ The
Orack of Doom,’ or a scene to that effect, while a
stirring Mazurka heralded the Golgotha picture.
Made one think of the Mopokeville undertaker,
who bought new hearse horses specially for the
townships first military funeral. The brutes
were o!d circus performers, billed in their day as
b ,T° no3 -’ Soon as the 7 heard the
Dead March they began the ‘ slow waltz,’ and
polka 0 ’” J t^eir turn ' en ded with the ‘ larrikin
“Nellie Stewart’s page-suits, one hears, don’t
shock Sydney a bit, though they called blushes to
local cheeks. Nellie, however, has kept compara-
tively slim, and so affords a less startling spec-
tacle, especially as regards back view, than cer-
tain other notabilities who seek fame in a some-
what similar direction. But, really, the dress
tactics of stage-youths are over-daring. She-
beholders of present glove-fit hosings sympathise
with David Harum’s old Yankee sister. Dave
took her to see the ballerinas, but she flounced out
at the first glimpse. When she got to her bed-
room she felt so ashamed that she blew out her
candle and undressed in the dark.
“ Comparing our pretty, tuneful, shapely Nellie
with London favorites, one wonders why, ‘on her
own,’ she failed to set the Thames afire. Maybe
she’s too much of a betwixt-and-betweener.
Hardly gifted enough for a London comic-opera
star and not condescending to sufficient bounce
and sauce for an ideal music-hall idol. Perhaps
she lacks humor. Anyway, now that Nellie
seems to hug the role of a stage-boy, mightn't she
just as well go the whole hog and discard the
serious, high-toned remnants of her comic-opera
demeanor? Have you noticed her pale, chastened
way of acknowledging applause ? At that “Ma
Mie Rosette ” matinee she curtseyed and east down
eyes and mouth-corners as tragically as if all her
zest in success lay coffined at her feet. At the
start of her Melbourne season, when a man up
above yelled ‘ Bravo, Nellie ! ’ the recipient of this
crude homage lowered her lashes and quivered her
lips with an air of pained dignity. The gods
soon fell to the fact that a stage-boy hedged in
with pomp and ceremony is insipid as peanuts
served up for dessert in polite society.
“ Williamson’s chorus rapidly thins out. A few
days prior to sailing for S’Africa a well-known
subaltern belonging to a ‘big’ Vic. family was
married very quietly to a dainty chorus girl, to
whom he had been engaged prior to his previous
Boer-slaying expedition. Following closely upon
this union came another : one of the six pretty
maidens of ‘Florodora’ became the wife of an
English military officer, on a visit to Melb.
Neither of these latter brides has retired from the
stage up to now, their intention apparently being
to see out the present run of ‘Florodora.’
“After all, it appears that Donald Mac-
donald does not intend stopping in Enol-
- permanently. He is going to talk war
and Australia—chiefly Australia, since the war-
drum is about beaten soft. But Mr. M. has an
inexhaustible stock of yarns about Australia, and
is a first-class raconteur. Instead of appearing on
the platform in war correspondent’s garb with a
revolver in his belt, he should hump a bluey and
carry a billy on to the stage, and, lighting a fire
on a slab, proceed to yarn while the pot’s a-boiling.
“De .Rougemont, the teller of picturesque
truths, is now in Melbourne, trying to get some
manager to engineer him on a lecturing-tour. He
does not seem to have made a fortune, so far.
You cannot miss knowing De Rougemont when
you meet him in the street. He looks all over a
man who has seen Wombats flying through the
air.
“ Melbourne’s women doctors and their friends
of the softer and more practical sex have struck a
very good idea. When the York visit was first
announced the gentle docs, decided to send round
the hat—the large matinee hat, so to speak—for
subscriptions to their very own Queen Victoria
Hospital, and the names of the subscribers were
to be set forth on an illuminated address to the
dear Duchess. But the event which put all loyal
subjects into mourning seems to have given a new
turn to the original plan. The latest circular in-
viting subscriptions for the good cause is headed
—Memorial to Her Majesty Queen Victoria, in
aid of the Queen Victoria Hospital (Late H.R.H.
the Duchess of York Women’s Welcome). The
literary construction of this appeal to charity-
cum-loyalty is simply awful, but the black edging
to the circular looks impressive and ‘ hospitallish,’
and one hopes that the Memorial will catch on.
“ Talking of public subscriptions, when is Mel-
bourne going to get something for the money
given towards a Queen’s Diamond Jubilee In-
fectious Diseases Hospital? The Q.D.J.I.D.H.
showed signs of animation in the Law Courts
some year or two ago, when certain architects sued
the trustees for breach of contract or something
Nothing more was heard of it until January last.
I hen a subscriber wrote to the A«e complaining
that he had parted with a ‘ fairly large sum,’ and
was fairly well tired of wondering how much
longer he would have to wait for the satisfaction
of helping to reduce the death-rate. People who
interest themselves in the sicknesses of three-
roomed vifla residents can supply the influential
Q.D.J.I.D.H. trustees with evidence of infectious
diseases that resulted-in funerals instead of cures
all for want of the unborn Hospital.
Our City Council’s share in the out-door pre-
parations for the York visit threatens to be posi-
tively artistic. It is understood that Mr. Moun-
tain the City Surveyor, commissioned Mr.
Desbrowe Annear to design triumphal arches and
things on bold lines, whereupon the archaeological
young man sketched a scheme of Moorish and
Venetian effects, which will give the maximum of
novelty and color at the minimum of cost. One of
Ins ideas is to utilise the tall building’s of Collins
and Bourke streets for the fixing of suspension
budges in the Venetian style. The question as to
how far he can go in his plan of harmonious deco-
ration rests with the householders. It is under-
St™* *]»* the City Council will spend £7500 on
the Melbourne spectacle, without touching any of
the Govt, buildings. Parliament House is ex-
pected to hang out a brilliant assortment of
colored calicoes on a clothes-line stretched across
the steps, and the city railway-stations can be
trusted to do something worthy of a Sunday-school
picnic.
“ President Gibb, of Vic. Agricultural Society,
surpassed all other loyal suggesters for Duke of
York reception honors by proposing that H.R.H.
should be welcomed by a procession of cows and
sheep. How the cows were to be kept from rush-
ing Royalty, and making other disloyal demon-
strations as they passed along Collins-st., was not
explained. The proposal was too much even for
the assembled Scotchmen of the Agricultural
Society, who would have none of it. Mr Gibb
consoled himself with the fact that the society
would have none of anybody else’s suggestions
either, deciding to express its devotion to the
ihrone in every way possible so long as it didn’t
cost any saxpences.
“In the repairing and renovating of Melbourne
Govt. House it is to be hoped that insecticide will
be used. Hopetoun used to complain of the fleas
most bitterly. It was said that he and Walling.
n on wet days used to spear them with a lance
y way of sport, just as Gov. Robinson used to
say he shot mosqmtoes with a rifle in Westralia.
Wlfe should be bitten, people will be
collecting Govt. House fleas and having them
stuffed and put in glass-cases because they have
Royal blood in their veins.
n+l 10 ? allar « t /' Tld Bendigo are as jealous of each
other as Sydney and Melbourne, Hobart and
.baunceston—which is saying much. Bendigo is
now very angry because the Duke and wife are to
Ballarat only Deakin, who is a candidate
tor Ballarat, seemed to have worked the business
neatly with Hopetoun. It should be worth many
votes to him He is being hotly opposed by that
most unspeakable of all bores, Vale, the sitting
member in the Leg. Assembly, who will play the
local tune for all it is worth. Deakin will cer-
tainly nave to fight hard for his seat.
• rJ i ho r , ec , ent marriage of a handsome Malvern
mi ec *° , s °me complicated relationships
ihe bridegroom is the brother of the bride’s step-
father, so that the bride is her own mother’s
sister-in-law, so to speak, while her husband is the
bride s step-son-in-law.
A carelessly-written and somewhat imagina-
tive paragraph re the late Mrs. Dr. Springthorpe’s
monument at Kew (not Brighton) cemetery ap-
peared in The Bulletin of Feb. 23, and has pro-
voked a wrathful correction from little Doctor S.
Alas . the Sprmgthorpeian cenotaph, has come to
be regarded as an advt. for the living rather than
a tribute to the dead. By reason of its magnifi-
eence and consequent notoriety it partakes little of
grief araC^er an ex P ress^on °f private personal
.- “Said that golden-haired Mrs. Dr. Fraser
after retiring from her hotel business with a lot
more money than she put into it, has gone to
Jlitigland—perhaps to revisit the dear old church
where the doctor married her. Pastor Cole, who
lately made a round of calls at the haunts of Hebe
(on behalf of the Wesleyan Spectator, if you
please) was rather rough on the hotel ‘ kept by a
lady who figured in the Criminal Court for firing
a bullet into her husband’s brain.’ If the land-
lady didn t know the true inwardness of private
bars previous to Pastor Cole’s visit, she must have
been very shocked when she saw what the Wes-
leyan bPECTATOR had spectated. Therefore she
put ashes on her golden hair and sold the business
at a handsome profit.
* ™ b - ne frjmids of Tennyson Cole, who left
for S Africa a while ago, have been agreeably sur-
prised to hear that ‘ Tenny ’ did very well for
himself in that troublous land of lies. What time
he wasn t knocking around and laying in a stock
or local color sketches, which will give him a cer-
tain standing as a specialist, he painted portraits
of the best subjects,’ such as Milner, Gordon
® O, •^■ s f lO resu b ; Of getting his name up
at Capetown, the enterprising Cole has made a
start in London, with commissions from two of
the noble dukes—-Norfolk and Marlborough—who
went through a form of fighting for the Empire in
the Imperial Yeomanry.
Baronetess Clarke received an English grand
dame s welcome at Sunbury, when she went up
with S rupert last week, after her two years’ resi-
deooo in England. There were troops of school-
children in clean white pinnies, baskets of flowers
with the word “ Welcome” on a ribbon, and all
that sort of thing. People profess to be eager
that her high-stepping ladyship shall stay in Mel-
bourne now. She is always good to look upon,
and a high-spirited lass. Also, there is no heir to
the baronetcy yet.
“The art-critic of the Age is a lady. Her ac-
count of the nudity of Mackennal’s Circe is inte-
resting—
To look at the nude is as perplexing to the ordinary
spectator as daylight to a bat, and to expect him to im-
prove his mind by its contemplation is about as reason-
ame as to expect a man who has no sense of smell to im-
prove his nose by walking him round a sun-warmed bed
of mignonette. The modern play and up-to-date opera
having created an ideal of beauty in the triumphs of the
milliner and tailor, how can eyes accustomed to delight
m smart clothes find beauty in the unadorned work of the
Almighty!
One would have thought the tendency of the
up-to-date opera had been rather to create a taste
for the nude with limitations in the way of
corsets and pads.
Maori landers seemingly pamper contingen-
teers even more than we do. At a ‘ social,’ held
at Mandeville (Canterbury) in honor of a returned
trooper, 60 nice girl-hostesses drew lots for the
first dance with the guest of the evening.
“ Maoriland papers are full of the Judge Martin
ailair. His Honor was a dutiful son, it seems,
and resolutely kept on the rails till his father
died. JNow he is censured for not having further
deferred his break-away till after the impending
marriage of his only child—a daughter. His com-
panion culprit, the wife of a Christchurch mer-
chant, is described as a fascinating woman, with
eloquent coal-black eyes. Before her marriage
she was nurse in a Christchurch hospital.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


IN THESE VARIABLE AUSTRALIAN CLIMATES KEEP COOL !
AND ALWAYS MAINTAIN YOUR PRESENCE OP MIND.
PRESENCE OF MIND in sudden emergencies depends
on the placid condition of the faculties. A Weak
Throat, a Faulty Chest, a Wasting Lung, an Exhausted
Nerve, an Ache in the Bones or Kidneys, a Headache,
Earache, Toothache—are fatal obstacles. They deprive
you of your Strength, give you the “ Shakes,” and
make you “ go to pieces.”
Raffan’s Bronchial Catarrh Remedy
rejuvenates the whole system, and makes you feel
yourself a “ New Person.” 2/-, per post 2/6.
It has to be Tried to be Believed.
R. RAFFAN, Pharmacist, 3 Garraway’s Rooms, Queen’s
Walk, MELBOURNE. Agents wanted. Everywhere.
BEFORE INSURING ELSEWHERE ascertain what
The Mutual Life Insurance^
Company of New York
Established Over
Half-a-Century.
CAN DO FOR YOU
FOR YOURSELF—
An Income for Life.
An Endowment for Early Retirement.
A Pension for Old Age.
FOR YOUR WIFE—
A Definite Amount at your Death, and
A Fixed Income for her Life.
FOR YOUR SONS -
Money to start in a Business or a Profession.
FOR YOUR DAUGHTERS—
Marriage Settlement Money, or
An Income for Life at your Decease.
FOR YOUR BUSINESS—
Additional Capital at your own or Partner’s Death.
All Policies note issued by THE MUTUAL LIFE embody conditions of guaranteed Automatic
Paid-up Insurance ; Extended Insurance Free of Further Charge ; Loans ;
Liberal Cash Surrender Payment.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
Branch Offices :
SYDNEY— Company’s Building, Martin Place.
MELBOURNE —289 Collins Street.
BRISBANE—377-379 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE—73 King William Street.
PERTH —St. George’s Terrace.
HOBART—3B Macquarie Street.
Do You Realise
That the great trouble of the Australian nation
is kidney disease ?
Very few men and fewer woman have perfect
kidneys. Did you know this ?
And did you also know that there is but one
remedy known to science for this great trouble —
Warner's Safe Cure?
If you have pains in the back, or anywhere else
in the body, they probably come from disordered
kidneys. If you are weak, sickly and do not
know the cause, the chances are it is kidney
trouble.
When the great and only cure is so easily ob-
tained, are you not wasting time and running a
great risk if you do not secure it ?
Mr. Edwin White, Manager Gas Works,
Frankston, Vic., writes on 2nd Feb., 1900. “I
have pleasure in giving my testimony as to the
value of Warner’s Safe Cure. I was a sufferer
from the kidneys for over two years until I tried
this remedy, which has effectually cured me. I
can recommend it to all sufferers from kidney
complaints.*
One of the dangers of Sydney during the holi-
day season will be Che burglar and sneak-thief. The
Federation festivities will attract all the rascaldom of
Australasia, and plate and purses will be constantly
menaced. Those who are leaving Sydney, and visitors
to Svdney, therefore should deposit their plate, cash
and valuables in the Sydney Safe Deposit for security
Access can be had to them at any time during business
hours. The vaults are situated behind Paling’s, off
George-street, and are always open for inspection. They
are in themselves a sight worth seeing.*
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
for the teeth.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland's ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
In Adelaide rumour fixes Holder as the
Bartonian candidate for the Speakership of the
House of Representatives.
Atheist Jos. Symes has abandoned his
Bourke-street shop. The Moranites were too
liberal with blue rock on the windows.
Princess (the late Queen) Victoria was
reared in such a G-erman way that she answered
George IV. by saying “ Goot Mornink ! ”
Subscriptions hang fire in Melbourne for
the Queen’s statue. If you want to draw like a
blister, propose a statue of Edward Rex.
De Rougemont is in Australia, but lies
low while Dry Dog Reid holds the floor. Clearly
seeing that there is no room for two such cham-
pions at once. De R. will not start lecturing until
after the Federal polling.
The Bulletin’s London correspondent:
“The late Queen had her great wish fulfilled —
that she might die a Queen. Had she survived
this stroke there is little doubt but a Regent
would have been appointed.”
The late Walter Church, manager of the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, who
died suddenly in Sydney last week, owns the dis-
tinction of having originated, some 30 years ago,
the N.S.W. Mines Department under a respon-
sible Minister. He was then M.L.A.
Baron Von Mueller poured out a fearful
amount of dead type, but one book of his made a
downright hit—that called “ Extra-Tropical
Plants.” He supervised the 11th edition in 1895.
This work grows in favor all over the globe.
Very few Victorian residents of the Bat-
man era survive. Mrs. Annie Brown, who died
the other day near Fryerstown (Vic.), arrived in
Port Phillip in ’39, and her husband was the first
man who drove a bullock-team through the streets
of Melbourne.
The minutes of Minister Murray (now Q.
Minister for Education) were always a source of
joy in his last department. The office wag dubbed
him “ Lindley ” Murray from the very start, and
an absent-minded clerk called him that to his face
one day. But the Minister didn’t see the joke.
Ex-Minister Jacob Garrard is not coming
out of his snug Sydney bird-in-the-hand Water and
Sewerage billet to grab at a Federal seat. By the
way, the clerks in the W. and S. service now
accent the last syllable of Jacob’s surname,
though it took some of them quite a long while to
learn the trick.
Giving evidence in a disputed lease case,
Bendigo Quartz-King Lansell mentioned that he
had spent £43,762 in the South Belle Vue without
getting a dividend, but had made £90,000 out of
the Red, White and Blue line. Lansell, who says
he is a soapmaker first and a mining-man second,
went to Bendigo with £l9, and is now supposed
to be a semi-millionaire.
Barrister Conroy, Reidite candidate for
a seat in the House of Representatives, was,
with his brother “Jim”—who went as a special
service officer to the S’African war—a tower of
strength to Parkes in his early Federal fights.
The brothers are energetic and possess a capacity
for organising which is sometimes better for a cause
than higher talents.
Still doing Adelaide block is Samuel
Davenport, 83 this week. Davenport was a
nominee member of S. A. Leg. Council ten years
before that State had a constitution, and was
Works Commissioner in the first Ministry formed
in 1857. Davenport used to ride 40 miles in those
days to attend Parliament, and he is still active,
both bodily and mentally.
The new Victorian Mines Minister is now
Mr. J. Balfour-Burton, no longer “Jim, the face-
man ”; and the trans-hyphenation is proudly
proclaimed on the ministerial Gladstone, the
ministerial portfolio, and the ministerial night-
shirt, no doubt. Similarly, Mr. J. L. Fegan, the
N.S.W. Mines Minister, is Mr. J. Lionel Fegan.
They all do it—or someone does it for them.
The experience of Parkes and other poli-
ticians who died in beggary is not utterly lost on
certain modern Ministers. The Bulletin knows
of three N.S.W. Ministers who each saved a com-
fortable competency during his reign ; and now
it hears of a Minister who sleeps economically in
a folding bed fixed up in his office, and who
likewise takes his washing home with him
weekly.
Dr. Garran, ex editor of S. M. Hekald,
who has been quietly drawing his fees as member
of N. S. W. Public Works Committee for some
time past, emerged last week as a vigorous
anti-Bartonite. The old journalist generally
makes a decent plea for any cause he takes up,
but as he is now 76 years old, and is one of a
family of thirteen children, he fights under a
handicap that gives Barton a strong lead.
Rev. Woolls Rutledge, the gravamen of
whose charge against Sydney Sunday fruit and
lolly selling is that children spend pennies on
these things which, were the shops closed, they
would put in the church-plate, is brother of
Queensland’s Attorney-General Rutledge. The
Attorney-General was also a parson in early life,
and there is a third brother a parson somewhere
else in Australia. The father of the Rutledges
was a Parramatta schoolmaster.
The remains of N.S.W.’s first two Chief
Justices were shifted from Devonshire-st. cemetery
last week. The first, Chief Justice Forbes, sat on
the Bench from 1824 till 1837, a period of 13 years;
while his successor, Dowling, ruled 17 years.
Forbes lived four years in retirement after leaving
the Bench, but Dowling died in harness. A son
of each took to law and reached a seat on the Dis-
trict Court Bench. Both retired years ago and
are now living on their pensions.
What did Tummy mean when in his
accession speech to the Privy Council, of which
we now have the full text, he said that “the
name of Edward had been borne by six of his
ancestors.” Surely he does not suppose that
Edward Y. and Edward VI. were amongst the
“ancestors” of Edward VII. or of anyone else!
This is of a piece with Queen Victoria’s compli-
ment to Lord Macaulay on “his interesting his-
tory of her ancestor, King James the Second .
Mr. Laurence Harnett, N.S.W. Sergeant-
at-Arms, will probably have the refusal of the
similar post in the House of Representatives.
Although 27 years in his present billet, he is still
young and hearty enough for the wider sphere.
He was bom in ’42, and is physically a fine speci-
men of the back-country native. If lie takes the
transfer it should be a question with members of
N.S.W. Assembly whether there is any need to
continue such a costly and merely ornamental
personage. Only a drunken or a fool member
needs to be fired out bodily, and there are police-
men about the doors who could be called in.
The members of the Federal Senate will
not carry the title “ Honourable,” which is borne
by members of Leg. Councils until it is conferred
upon them by license. This, however, will most
likely be done directly after the Senate is elected.
When Canada federated there was a proposal
that Senators should all be knights right off
—and be “Sir-ed.” John Macdonald opposed
the idea hotly, as he said it would lead to
the degradation of knighthood by making it too
cheap. But how could it possibly be made
cheaper or more vulgar than it has been made in
Australia ?
The late Sir E. W. Stafford, who recently
died in England at the age of 80, was the last of
the aristocratic Premiers of Maoriland. In ’72 he
was finally ousted by Vogel, whom he had always
looked upon as an impossible and untrustworthy
adventurer, and thenceforward a new reign of
liberal leaders was inaugurated, the fine old
crusted Tories disappearing for ever. Stafford
was twice married—in ’46 to a daughter of Col.
Wakefield, and in ’59 to Miss Bartley, daughter
of the then Speaker of M.L. Leg. Council.
There are in England one or two descend-
ants of the author of “Robinson Crusoe.” Jas.
Wm. Defoe, the great-great-grandson of the
genius, recently died in a workhouse in Essex.
Although Lord Beaconsfield obtained a Civil List
pension for his three sisters, James never received
any assistance. He sustained a great shock in ’96
by the loss of his little son Daniel, who, on leaving
the Bluecoat School, was apprenticed to the mer-
chant service, and after visiting Sydney went to
’Frisco where he died.
G. H. Bennett, M.L.A., manufacturer of
Rechabite drinks though he be, is perhaps the
most popular plain member in Victoria. Demo-
cratic Richmond votes for Bennett with even
greater enthusiasm than for Trenwith, and the
Labor man is guide, philosopher, and friend of
his constituency. One of Bennett’s little origi-
nalities is to run something like a private grave-
yard at Boroondara cemetery, where he buries old
Richmondites who have died without enough real
estate to cover them decently.
Ex-Premier Turner told some of his old
electioneering friends, the other week, that he
gave up his seat for St. Kilda regretfully, because
he regarded it as the “blue riband” of the As-
sembly. At that same gathering the festive
“Billy” Williams (Turner’s successor) endea-
voured to drive dull care away from his host and
his constituents by giving them two comic songs,
so probably the Blue Riband electorate would
have even preferred a variety artist who could fill-
A “GRAIN” ELEVATOR.
in minor parts at Harry Rickards’ show, Billy,
so far as his constituents know at present, can’t
do a clog dance. He’s just a plain, ordinary
singer of the stuff that is brought into notice by
comedians of the sham-nose order. St. Hilda
should present him with a sham-nose and other
humorous accessories.
Mr. J. S. Shearston, whose confidential
report on the Commonwealth inebriation of his
wards of the Royal Navy shocked the public a
few weeks back, has been close on 30 years the
guardian angel of men-o’-wars’ men in Sydney.
In that time a baker’s dozen of commanders-in-chief
have held the station, and all of them, from Stir-
ling to Beaumont, have loaded him with praise.
Cyprian Bridge presented him with a pair of
silver candlesticks. Commodore Goodenough and
Admiral Try on, both tragically ended, make fine
themes for Shearston’s eloquence.
The committee dealing with the statue to
be erected to the late Premier Byrnes of Queens-
land, has decided to have nothing but the old-new
style traditional effigy, stern-visaged frock-coated
and with a scroll in the right hand. Byrnes, by
the way, was only known to have worn a frock-
coat once in his life —on the occasion of a relative’s
wedding, and nobody living ever remembers him
walking along Queen-street with a scroll. Sculptor
Mackennal, it is reported, did his best to persuade
the committee into having a decently artistic
memorial, but they would have none of his
suggestions and told him to go ahead with the
frock-coat. In Mark Twain’s “ American Claim-
ant ” is an old journeyman painter who depicted
everybody leaning against a cannon, and the first
man whose portrait appeared without the cannon
kicked up a row because the cannon wasn’t there.
The Brisbane committee is possibly related to
the intelligent Yank.
Geraldton (W.A.) Express on recently
departed Governor “ Jerry ” Smith
That tactless, pompous, and despotic bounder, Gerard
Smith, for some mysterious reason, was pitchforked
from the directorate of some obscure railway co. at Hull
into the Governorship of this state. Smith made him-
self unenviably notorious in a very short time. He first
stamped his name on W.A. history by refusing to pay the
bill rendered to him for gravel he had ordered to make
the path along which his daughter would travel on the
way to her wedding at St. George’s Cathedral. He then
branded himself as an intolerable cad by refusing to sit
down with his host at lunch somewhere up Coolgardie
way, and subsequently he drew down upon himself tor-
rents of ridicule for attempting to dictate to a goldfields
railway guard, who told him, in response, to make a hur-
ried visit to a locality which is unmentionable in any
decent public print. Towards the close of his inglorious
reign, he linked himself, and lent himself, to a renowned
company-monger. He reported on the Peak Hill mines
with all the self-assurance of a Maryanski, and when the
time came for him to shake the dust of Westralia off his
number tens he left the State detested by all and re-
gretted by none, save and except the enterprising news-
paper man anxious for never-failing sources of copy.
“Veteran”: Re that par. (2/3/’01) about
the respective rewards of Wellington and Roberts.
The point is, what were the services in each case
worth ? In India, Wellington, before he was tried
in Europe, had done more in smashing the Mah-
rattas than Roberts has ever done, even in
Afghanistan. Roberts never held an indepen-
dent command till he went to S’Africa, and
there he did one thing only the flank-
march to Bloemfontein. He has never
been tried in European war. Wellington
had seven years of it, and was never beaten, though
he out-manceuvred and beat five of Napoleon’s
.best men-—Junot, Soult (twice), Massena (twice),
Marmont, and Jourdain. What might it not
have cost England if any one of these had been
more than a match for Wellington (who led Eng-
land’s only army) ? In short, while a bad general is
about the most costly luxury a country can have, no
amount of money is too much to pay for a really
good one. Why, at this moment it would pay
Britain to give a capable man a million to finish
the Boer war in three months with the forces on
the spot; and a really capable man could do it, if
he began with a little hanging and shooting among
the officers—making death the certain penalty for
negligence or disobedience. Again, as regards
war and peace-service. To Waterloo, Wellington
had 12 years war, and 14 years peace-service. To
date Roberts has had four years war and 45 years’
peace. Wellington and Roberts are not in the
same street !
At Onehunga (M.L.) the official presiding
at the proclamation of the King lost his head and
called for “Three cheers for King Edward the
Sixth ! ”
As regards attracting Australians to its
service, the Imperial Government evidently
believes in keeping the ball rolling. The widow
of Lieut. Grieve (N.S.W. military), killed in
S’Africa while serving with the Royal High-
landers, is to receive, besides a gratuity of £llB
12s. 6d., an annual pension of £BO ; and for each
of her three children a gratuity of £3O 10s. 10d.,
besides a “compassionate allowance” of £l5 a
year.
Thus N.Z. Mail on De Wet :
His methods are sufficiently harassing to justify the
British in Caking any step to capture and remove him.
As the Transvaal is now British territory this Boer leader
is clearly a rebel and amenable to the laws against
rebellion. A reward for his capture large enough to
tempt some of his following to hand him over would be
justified by precedent and circumstances.
“Ten thousand pounds for De Wet, dead or
alive.” How it would enhance British national
honor! If Napoleon I. had only thought of
declaring Britain to be annexed territory, he
could then have offered £lOO,OOO reward for the
capture of the rebel Wellington, couldn’t he?
Strange that so vigorous an annexer never thought
of that.
A LARGE CONTRACT.
SMALL VAGRANT: “ Will yer give me a ’ apenny ,
kind lydy? ”
THE LYDY: “ Why, what cam you do with a
halfpenny, you poor little creature? ”
S.V. : “ I want ter buy me little brother some
clothes, lydy."
Sample of proceedings at a wayback
Federal-election meeting :—F. Candidate: “Noo
South Wales, I tell you, is the grandest country
on Grod’s earth. (Cheers.) Look at the lot of raw
material sent from America here to be man’fac-
tered!” (Applause.) Intelligent Elector:
“ What is the raw material you refer to ? ” F.C.:
“You are a bit of raw material yourself."
(Laughter.) I.E. : “That is not answering my
question. I want an answer ! ” Here the police
cautioned the “free and independent,” and the
gaspipe went on with his address, which waa
“ listened to attentively to the end.”—Fide wire
in Sydney daily press.
“ Regret will be widely felt that Mr,
Henry Trelawney Boodle, whose name has been
familiar to many through its association with the
Grosvenor Estate in London, has passed away.
For several generations the heads of the Boodle
family have acted as solicitors and agents of the
Duke of Westminster’s valuable properties in the
metropolis, and the deceased has filled that double
post for upwards of 40 years ."—English paper.
Sing hey ! the young town-landed lord,
The newly-wed Westminster !
He’d only got to say the word
And win a lovely spinster.
He’s born to fame, though, all the same,
His Grace may be a noodle ;
He lives beyond the pale of blame
Whose agent’s name is Boodle.
From London’s richest streets and squares
He draws their values rental.
Thanks merely to his dead forbears,
And circs, quite accidental.
At Fortune’s fluke ’twere vain to puke
We’ll chorus “ Tooraloodle ”
Whilst Tory songsters praise the Duke
Whose agent’s name is Boodle.
The folks required to make this world
Are rarely ranked by merits.
We don’t begrudge a darling curled
The place his Birth inherits;
For, bye-and-bye, beyond the sky
Some men who now lack food ’ll
Look down, no doubt, with pitying eye
On ducal Dives, hot and dry,
Whose agent’s name was Boodle.


MACONOCHIE’S
FRESH HERRINGS
KIPPERED HERRINGS
HERRINGS IN TOMATO SAUCE
FINDON HADDOCKS
preserved FISH OF ALL KINDS,
MARMALADE
UNIVERSAL PICKLES
BOTTLED FRUITS
POTTED MEATS
SALMON and SHRIMP PASTE.
Worcestershire Sauce
MACONOCHIE BROS., Lj° LONDON
Australian Representatives—
SWIFT & CO., 7 SPRING ST., SYDNEY
WATSON’S WHISKY.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
$ -
Hotel
Australia «■*
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
The Hotel Australia is the
ideal rendezvous for Squatters
and their families who need
rest and change at the close
of our enervating summer.
J. SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
Reference has been made to the vast dis-
tances of some of the Q. Federal electorates.
But hark back to the early days up North ! In
1849, voters in Brisbane had to record their votes at
the nearest polling booth —at Maitland (N.S.W.)
(previous to this the Crown nominee “ repre-
sented ” the whole of Australia north of the Rich-
mond and east of the W.A. boundary). In 18(31
G. W. Herbert stood for the electorate that now
bears his name, north of Townsville, and having
got a nominator he had to travel 20 miles to get a
seconder ! To make sure of getting botli together
he put his nominator in the lock-up till he re-
turned with the second man.
* * * *
“C.M.E.” : He came in one day when I
was quite new at the hair-faking business, and
said: “I know you ‘toilet-specialists’ can do
wonderful things. Now, do you see this upper-
lip of mine? Well, I want you to make it a
decent color. It’s all right when I shave in the
morning; but in a few hours this beastly black
stubble disfigures it.” A brilliant idea struck me.
Asking him to sit down, I tied a macintosh round
his neck to protect his clothes, got some peroxide
of hydrogen and vigorously rubbed it into his
upper lip. I let several applications dry in, but
then I was terrified, for on his long, lean face,
amidst a greeny-browny waste, appeared a glis-
tening, golden oasis of bristle —just like a halo,
only in the wrong place. I tried all I could to
keep him from the mirror, but it was no use, and I
stood with trembling knees until he turned round,
positively beaming with delight, and exclaimed :
“By Jove ! Now, that’s some thing like ! 2s. fid. ?
Nonsense —here’s five bob ! Good afternoon ; I’ll
send some other chaps along.”
» * • *
Introduction—during certain Bananaland
elections —of a storekeeping and money-lending
candidate by a chairman selected from the
crowd: —
Electors, —I ain’t no friend of this candidate, although
I now take the chair to see he gets what fair play he
ought to get. (Hear, hear.) Most of yez know ivhat this
man is—from experience. (Uproar.) However, I’ll try
an’ analyse him for the binifit o’ those who are so fortu-
nate as not to know him. He’s made up o’ : political
dimock-er-acy, A p’cint. ; statesmanism, nought p’cint.—
(hear, hear); common or garden decency, 2 p’cint;
shark-osity —(loud cheer)—twinty-wan p’cint. ; and froth,
forty-four p’cint.—(continued cheering); and, what’s
more, it’s all mixed together in a hide like a ri-o-noss-er-
ous-esses’. Now you’ve got him in a nutshell. Voice
from the rear: “ What’bout th’other thirty p’cint.?”
Chairman: “Oh, that’s what he charges down-trodden,
rabbit-ridden pilgrims as interest.”
Then a. tremendous tumult arose, during which
search was made for the candidate in order to
deal out “fair play ” to him, but he had respect-
fully held over his froth .and sharkosity, and
passed unostentatiously further down the river.
“IT IS SURE THE HARDEST SCIENCE
TO FORGET!”
Re the case (lately mentioned in Bulle-
tin) in which a man and six horses were killed by
lightning at Gawler, S. A. , a local paper prints
It transpires that the two men who undertook to bury
the six horses in a waterhole are now unable to work
owing to their arms and bodies being filled with
electricity. A still stranger and more incomprehensible
fact is that the bodies of the horses are continually rising
to the surface of the water, although they have been
repeatedly covered with earth.
The i laic 1 of Science .
A first Contingenter explaining a strike
over the tucker at Brisbane Exhibition Grounds :
“S’elpme, th’ meat was that raw that when I
stuck th’ fork in it th’ bullock bellowed /”
* * * »
“Lar.”: Be the Australian aboriginal
custom of destroying deformed children. A lame
priest once struck the station where 1 was and
held service. Tommy Toprail, the nigger dog-
poisoner, attended, and at the close walked up to
the priest and asked, “ Whaffor ’em no knocka
you alonga cobberah w’en you lil pfeller picca-
ninny ? ”
• * ♦ *
N.S. W. country-town constable is ena-
moured of daughter of local publican, who is
keeping pigs upon the Govt. Reserve and thus
polluting the water in the public dam. Father
objects to suitor, who thereupon remarks : “ Just
you try to block me, and Oi’ll make ye sty yer
piys ! ” Love’s romance !
* * * *
A supposed tumor recently cut from a cow’s
neck at Richmond River (N.S.W.) turned out to
be filled with hair. The size of the sac was 2gin.
by lin., and the hair was growing from its inner
wall much as if a piece of skin had been rolled into
a ball—the edges afterwards growing together.
* * * *
“Louis M”: Fe “ W.S.’s ” query (B.
2/9/’01) as to composition of “scrub-balls.” If he
soaks one he will find it to be chiefly wool.
Flocks, while eating their way through fallen
scrub, leave portions of their fleece on each
bramble point. If insufficiently fed they go over
the timber a second time and, of course, are too
tired to remove wool before starting on the wood.
Cutters seldom work on Sunday, and that is the
day on which scrub-balls are mainly manufactured.
Cobweb, with which most trees are covered, may
also be a factor. Why call them scrub-6aWs
though ? They are usually an almost perfect cube,
save for a slight depression on the side that joins
the next formation. Have seen as many as six
inside a fine fat wether, slaughtered for station
consumption. N.B. —I refer to accumulations
found in the intestines. Have seldom noticed
anything wrong with the paunch of a scrub-fed
sheep—excepting that it might be a bit dry.
* * * *
“ Yarrum ” : For a jibbing horse. Pour
a little water, from a height, into his ear—nothing
shakes a moke up like it, except a lighted match
in the ear, which is cruel. Another : Get a bit of
strong twine—fishing-line is good—make it fast to
the bottom lip, and you can lead him anywhere,
with any reasonable load behind. Then take the
line in with the “ribbons,” and sit up. Should
he attempt to stop, just haul on the lip. It was a
Ballarat Chinaman I first saw at the game. Catch
a nag by the under-lip and he’ll run forward every
time. Get him by the top lip, and he’ll run back.
Nearly every Chow’s horse, by the way, has a
hanging nether lip.
* “ A good deal of the potted meat supplied was so bad
that it was no uncommon thing for tins to explode, often
to the damage and discomfort of the Tommy standing
near.”— Officer’s letter.
“ Phoa ” : Having been told that the
eunjevoi plant which flourishes along the northern
N.S.W. rivers is one of the most nourishing plant
foods of our coast-blacks, I chewed
some, but couldn’t swallow it.
Result : raw mouth and tongue,
the latter swelling to twice natural
size and hanging out like a poisoned
pup’s. The aborigines, it appears,
soak the herb in water for several
days, then crush it between stones
to expel the poisonous juices, and
afterwards knead into cakes and
roast. Have any “B.” readers
had any experience ?
“Coll”: Talk about
horse-sense. In a quarry on
a northern N.S.W. river
works an old mare, which,
when a long rake of wag-
gons is brought in by the
loco, engine, is hooked-on
to as many of them as
are needed for one place,
and walks off through
the points, stepping
straight along the middle
of the line. Then she is
taken back, and the
points are turned on to
some other part of the
quarry, but the old lady
knows all about it, and
without hesitation takes
the middle of the other
line with her waggons.
This she has done for
years without making a
single mistake. There is a
travelling crane in the quarry
which is run out at 11.55 and
4.55, and when the old mare
hears the crane make a start
for ‘ ‘ out ” she makes a
start straight for the
stable. Sometimes the
crane is run out two or
three times a day for other
purposes, but the mare is
never “had;” she takes no notice except at the
proper time.
* * * *
“ Cobo ” : Very strange that “ Ababon ”
(B. 10/11/’00) “ has never met a busli-schoolmaster
who could speak grammatically.” It is true that
in many bush places if the schoolmaster speaks
correctly he is classed as “flash.”
* * * *
“Kosei”: “A.F.” (B. l/10/’00) errs in
saying “all lizards have five toes on all feet.”
Have seen a lizard on Monaro—6 to 7in. long—
with only four toes on each foot. Did not seem
to make much use of its legs in travelling, but
wriggled along snakewise. Tail ended in a point
almost sharp as a needle. Never saw the creature
elsewhere.
* * * •
“A.G.”: Our homes! I know of—in
a played-out N.S.W. mining town—a two-roomed
humpy in which 13 souls are herded. The parents
“old man” a drunkard—sleep in one room,
where also cooking and eating are done; and the
boys and girls, ranging in age from four to 24, doss
in the other. Why don’t our parsons make a fuss
about this sort of heathenism ?
• * * *
“ A.P.R.” : Was attracted, t’other day, by
the wild guffaws of a kookaburra, which could
hardly stick to his perch for laughing. On the
topmost branch of the same tree rested an eagle-
hawk, apparently much annoyed by such frivolity,
to judge by his downward glances. At last he
swooped, gave the jackass a fearful thwack on the
head, and returned to take up the broken thread
of his thoughts; 30secs. afterwards Jack was a
speck on the horizon, and silence reigned.
* * * *
“ Vril ” : Re eccentricities of missiles (B.
S/11/’OO). T’other day, I was standing about
3yds. to right of a shooter who was firing at a
mark on a stump about 20yds. off. Simultaneously
with crack of rifle (a 22 bore), the flattened bullet
tore through my shirt-sleeve and ran up my arm
to the shoulder. I felt the heated lead, and, not
dreaming what the cause was, was astonished
when the battered bullet fell to the ground. The
angle of deflection could not have been more than
3deg.
* * * *
“C.H.L.”: Re bullet-vagaries (B. 3/11/’00).
In the days of muzzle-loading rifles and percus-
sion caps I once fired a spherical bullet into some
trees at short range, and immediately heard a
“ping” close to my right ear. Investigation
showed that a small twig had been barely grazed
by the bullet, which had, nevertheless, been by
this slight touch sent almost straight back. I
afterwards learnt that such elastic obstacles are
just those which cause the greatest deflection.
* * * *
N.S.W. annually spends on its 6891 abori-
gines (amount expended in hunting them not in-
cluded) £16,591, or £2 Bs. Id. a head ; Vic., £4846
on 433, or £ll 3s. lOd. a head ; and SA., £4262 on
2861, or £1 9s. 9d. a head.
» * * *
Several further deaths as the result of
Tohunga quackery have lately occurred among
Maoris. When the Tohunga visits an invalid, he
inquires in a casual, doesn’t-matter sort of way
what the patient has been doing latterly, and if
the latter has walked over a grave, smoked a
chief’s pipe, crossed the shadow of a Tohunga, or
so on, the sickness is attributed thereto, and a
prescription is given—which mostly means a
coffin.
♦ * * *
Re the edibleness of the “native com-
panion,” about a dozen correspondents reply to
“ W.J.” (8., 27/10/’OO) —the verdicts ranging from
“Oh, h !” up to “Tip-top, if young and
well-cooked.” Cranes, it is stated, are also good
eating, if decently cooked.
ART VERSUS .
“But, my dear, she was the best model I could
get for my subject .”
“I quite believe you, you wretch; but who don’t
you select better subjects?”
The other day in Maoriland a native ('who
practised witchcraft) was charged with fraud.
His victim was a Maori in receipt of an old age
pension who was ill and had consulted' him. He
diagnosed the disease as “ suffering from pension,”
and said there was no hope for the invalid until
he transferred the complaint to his adviser. Six
months’ hard.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : Re remarks of “Alex. M.”
(8., 27/10/’0) on Australian mispronunciation. I
want to ask where his experience has chiefly lain.
He is undoubtedly right in giving school, as
lengthened into sJceeool; hallo! into allao, my as
me. But how about the common charge that long
a is changed into long i ? It is a Cockneyism
often attributed to Australians, and lie repeats the
charge. In face of the evidence of so close an
observer as “Alex. M.” clearly is, it would be
absurd to say that the distortion does not exist ;
but I am positive that it is not universal. His
typical sentence, “Open the gate,” I have just
induced a very bad speaker to utter, and it came
out “ aopen the gate,” with the first word horribly
distorted, but the last one clear and clean. In
my own observation (long and careful, but limited
to S.A.), it is just the long i that is sacrificed, in-
stead of being dragged in. Bite is called boil, and
the offender, on being questioned, admits that,
when properly pronounced, it sounds to him like
bate. (Boit is perhaps near enough, but the exact
sound is a French a or a short i — bah-it.) The
other chief sufferer is the apparently easy sound
old. “Alex. M.” puts long e before it—“ meeoun-
tam ” —but it is long a hereabouts. The common
cow becomes a two-syllabled thing, kayow, with
the accent on the first, too. Cat comes out pretty
well, but car gets lengthened into care. Off is
orff, nicely balanced by Australia becoming
Ostrelia. Generally speaking, the short-vowel
sounds fare best, being only drawled a little,
while the long ones get lengthened almost beyond
recognition. To string some of the most striking
examples together—“Allao, Jao ! yeeou gaoin to
taown in the care to-nahit ? ”
* * * *
“ E.8.Q.” : Once had for neighbor a goat-
fancier, who, after frequently missing kids, per-
suaded me, with a promise of plenty rum, to keep
him company one night while on guard. Nothing
happened until, as day began to break, the bleating
of a goat made us rush to catch the thief red-
handed. He was a 12ft. carpet snake, and was
making off with a fair-sized nanny, which he had
tried to swallow, but was obliged to stop while
the horns and front legs argued the point as to
which should go down first.
PRIVATE BENN, HERO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Back from fields of blood and valor,
With a sentimental pallor
And a limp that touched the hearts of all the girls
who ran to view-,
Game our hero, tall and stately,
Private Benn. Rejoicing greatly
Waddy fed its fervid fancy with his deeds of der-
ring-do.
On his brow of alabaster
Was a horrid patch of plaster,
He was punctured like a crumpet, and his middle
toe was off ;
He was patiently dyspeptic,
Bathed in waters anti-septic,
And he shook the anxious township with a most
pathetic cough.
When he struck the district Waddy
Rose to greet him in a body,
And we fSted him and flattered him, and killed the
fatted hen,
And all day we told the story
Most adventurous and gory
Of the prodigies accomplished by that reckless devil,
Benn.
Half the Boerish land we littered
With his fragments, and we frittered
Joints and junks of Benn at random on the kopjes
far and near;
Then, whene’er we could contrive it
At the public filled the private.
With heroic resignation Benn consumed the votive
beer.
Modestly our hero hinted
He was smashed and slashed and dinted
By a terrible explosion. Then he talked of other
sights.
But in faith, with grief corroding,
We could see the shell exploding,
See the legs and elbows whirling, and behold the shooting-
lights.
So for weeks our soldier battered,
In his khaki stained and tattered,
Was the idol of the women and the pride of all the men,
And the folks from neigh’bring places
Showed their envy in their faces
When they passed the tragic figure of that splendid fellow
Benn.
We’re not whooping much at present,
For the truth is most unpleasant,
And at last the touching story of our hero is complete.
But it seems he saw no battle,
Never heard the mausers’ rattle,
And was injured by the bursting of a can of potted
meat.*
SILAS SNELL.


CEREBOS SALT
Used instead of common salt, on the tables of
Her Majesty The Queen, T.R.H. The Princess of
Wales and The Duchess of York; all
“Society” Houses, and most high-class Hotels
in England.
DAINTY, DRY, ECONOMICAL.
Sold by Grocers
and Stores.
Wholesale
Agents
HARRISO & ATTWOOD,
334 and 336, George Street, SYDNEY
Franz Josef Lager Beer
... The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . .
Ortier
SCHWEPPE’S
DRY GINGER ALE
“ Bushie ” : Be scrub-turkeys. “Fred
B.” (8., 10/11/’OO) is wrong. The s.t. is not a
bustard, nor did I confound it with the mallee hen
or lowan. We have no mallee hens in S. Queens-
land (where I saw 15 s.t.’s kicking up a nest);
neither are s.t.’s eggs pink—they are pure white.
But the plain-turkey of the interior is a bustard,
and lays two or three eggs in the most primitive
of nests. N. Queensland —on coast —has a locally
known “scrub-hen,” possibly identical with the
mallee-hen. If you scratch out a scrub-turkey’s
nest where biz. is either meant or incomplete (say
in the afternoon), next morning will see the ruin
completely built up again. I have seen birds re-
sembling hens building up .sand-mound nests in
the desert country between K. Cross and Coolgar-
die. Pei’haps these are identical with mallee-
hens; they had not the crimson-and-yellow neck-
skin of scrub turkeys.
* * * *
“X.”: Apropos children’s local games.
Way-back where the quandongs (native peaches)
grow, the youngster bores a hole through the hard
round nut, ties it on a long string, and yells “ Last
lay” when he meets another youngster. The
latter then puts his nut, called a “bully,” on the
ground; the former whirls his own “bully” at
the end of the string and with a twirl aims at the
“bully ”on the ground. If he hits and smashes
the motionless “ bully ” his is “ ‘ bully’ over one.”
If he misses or neither is broken the other has a
“dig” or “ whip.”
* * * *
Concerning the rapidly-disappearing liuia,
the feathers of which are so highly prized by the
Maoris, a Maori said : “ You shoojein missus,
husband lie stop tree ; come down. But you
shootem husband, missus fly away, no more see.”
“Cecil W.” : In Cobbadah (Barraba dis-
trict), N.S.W., the other evening, a black swan
apparently mistook the iron roof of pub. for water
and swooped down upon it with force enough to
disable itself. One elderly, and several young
Australians had never seen a black swan before !
« m * *
“ H.0.C.” : Be finding two joeys in pouch
of kangaroo (“ W.T.,” B. 27 10/’OO). In the Gulf
country, between Georgetown and Croydon, I
shot a doe grey-’roo which had in her pouch two
joeys well enough grown to hop along “on their
own. ”
“ That tired feeling ” is so far from being
a myth in some parts of Northern N.S.W. that
“comeanavalaydown ” is quite a frequent saluta-
tion to visitors.
Windsor of “The Age."
Arthur Lloyd Windsor, off to England by the
Ormuz last week, looks back on 37 years of jour-
nalism in Victoria. In ’63 the Argus Wilsons
imported young Windsor to fill a foremost posi-
tion on the staff, at a salary of £lOO a month.
Freethinker then, as now, the dashing writer soon
found the Argus office too narrow for him. He
couldn’t flourish his pen according to the devices
of his own heart. He was out of harmony with
his coadjutors, one of them a parson, and when
this reverend brother took to dis-
playing the name of GOD (large
capitals) in the middle of his dreary
leading articles the horrified Wind-
sor gave the firm notice —12 months
notice as per contract. Altogether
he put in two years at the Argus
office. But, though dissatisfied with
his billet, he left on good terms
with the Wilsons, his determination
to go being hastened by a jiurely
domestic reason. For the sake of
his consumptive wife Mr. Windsor
made a new home at Mt. Alexander,
bought a half-share in the local Mail,
and vegetated within the bucolic
sphere of that organ’s influence for
some years after his great bereave-
ment.
Back in Melbourne, tlie widower
was again a contributor to the
Argus, but in 1872 the Age made
a bid for his services, and then he
settled down to work with a will.
Windsor, who started to edit the
Age for £l2 a week, was the very
man the penny popular paper
needed. There can be no gainsay-
ing the fact that he came to be
the greatest political power in Vic-
toria. The Protectionist policy,
which was only a young and strug-
gling policy 29 years ago, found its
ablest apostle in editor Windsor.
His literary style was attractive to
all sorts and conditions of readers.
He drew Bishop Moorhouse into a
discussion on things spiritual which
added much to the paper’s reputa-
tion. It was the virile editor who
swayed the multitude at the exciting
period of the “ Berry Blight,” and
who, when troopers were already
assembled in readiness for trouble,
stayed his masterful hand in time to spare
Melbourne a catastrophe.
“A few more lines from your pen, Windsor,
and the streets would have run blood,” said a
political someone who, knowing the identity of
the oracle, had called upon him at his sanctum to
thank him. Very few people knew Windsor,
even by sight. One night a crowd gathered out-
side the Age office, roaring enthusiastically for
the editor to reveal himself. He didn’t take the
flattering “call,” but he told one of the staff, a
Spanish Jew named Telo- no Sheikh of the
desert had ever a beard so wondrous as
Alfred Telo’s—to put his head out of a
window, whereupon ye people cheered, and the
WHEN THE DROUGHT BREAKS.
big-nosed impostor bowed his acknowledgments.
Windsor, by the way, has a small, straight nose,
keen blue eyes, grey hair and beard of much the
same growth and cut as David Syme s A
scholarly-looking man, stronger in full face than
in profile, with a sturdy, well-knit frame. Stands
sft. 7in , or so ; takes a constitutional walk before
breakfast. A young man for his age, say 65, he
shows the dramatic instinct when his feelings are
roused. Scratch the impulsive litterateur, the
man of heart as well as brain, and you find the
born actor in most cases.
David Syme was always in thorough sympathy
with his friend the editor. They are radicals by
educated conviction, and freethinkers who think
as one. They have considered spiritualism from
the same mental standpoint, and it is interesting
to know that the result of their inquiries into
spooky phenomena and manifestations of the in-
explicable is—a mutual scepticism. Both men
are impressed, yet not persuaded. I hey would
Believe if they could, but they can’t.
Windsor speaks most admiringly of David
Syme. In his opinion the tall, grim Scotsman
has a very high order of intellect, far higher than
he is usually credited with. Whilst giving
the editor a free hand in the working out of the
political policy they had agreed upon, the boss
exercised a talent that amounts to genius in
matters of departmental inquiry. Syme, not
Windsor, conducted that irresistible attack on
Vic. Railway management, which drove poor
Champagne Dicky Speight out of office, and it is
Syme who now has his teeth into the irate litz-
gibbon’s precious Board of Works. The Age pro
prietor is a natural enemy of public abuses other
people’s abuses, anyhow. As an Italian or a
Russian he would certainly have been alsihilist,
presuming, of course, that he wasn’t a capitalist.
But the Davidian character would tend to the
A GREAT JOURNALIST.
ARTHUR LLOYD WINDSOR , ex-Editor of the AGE.
Thoto. by Johnstone O’Shannessy & Co., Melb.
attainment of wealth in any country.
Needless to say that Windsor, of the Age,
shunned notoriety from professional motives. He
holds that a. radical editor in a small community
cannot afford to knock about much in miscellaneous
society. True, he once went to a party at Govern-
ment House when Sir George Bowen was the
host, but bis first and only experience of a vice-
regal gathering was so unpleasant that he
promptly struck the name of A. Lloyd Windsor
out of the visitors’-book at the mansion aforesaid.
His friend, and literary colleague, the late Dr.
Pearson, had an even nastier experience. Some-
body introduced him to one of Toorak’s proudest
hens, and she, on hearing that the gentleman was
“of the Age,” spread her feathers, swished her
tail, and stalked to the far end of the ball-room.
Should the departed Windsor return to Mel-
bourne he may act more or less as an adviser at
the old office. Certainly he will have nothing to
do with any other journal. On resigning the edi-
torial chair he was offered by Mr. Syme the
choice between a generous pension and a lump
sum. He decided to accept the bulky bonus.
No financial or social link binds him to Melbourne,
so if he finds congenial literary work in London,
and this is practically assured to him, he will
make his home there, provided the climate be
endurable.
He has contributed to the Quarterly Review,
the Sunday papers, and other publications down
under. His name is known to editors in the Big
Smoke. The chances would be very much against
Windsor returning could one only take a supply
of bottled Australian sunshine to the land of fogs.
The legitimate successor to Windsor is Schuler,
longtime an ideal leader of the Age staff. A
sound, safe man, with a first-class knowledge of
Government departments and departmental work,
and much experience in the paper’s habits and
ways of policy. He will make no tactical errors
without knowing how to retrieve them. Boss
Syme may perhaps import a new leader-writer,
but Schuler, the Bendigo native, and reputed
Ones us among pressmen, will continue to wear
the Windsor mantle.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
jVo notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
L.A.A. : Don’t care for allegories. Say your
say straight out J.R. A. : Rather shorter than a tele-
graph-post ; but just as wooden.. Maraquita : Please
don’t keep on bombarding us with Ollendorf. Send
address and we’ll show you how little you know, after
all Vril : Your dawn-chill theory is plausible. The
other point is a matter of common observation, and
shows merely that the other animals share with man an
uneasiness due to diminished atmospheric pressure....
O.M. : The facts set out constitute the very reasons
why Mr. Cape might have spared himself the trouble of
championing “ those who, being absent, cannot defend
themselves, and of others, who, though still with us may
be precluded, owing to the discipline and rules of their
service, from resenting the unwarrantable and regrettable
attack made upon them (in re the Imperial-contingent
orgies at Sydney Town Hall).” The man-o’-war’s man is
legally an infant. All his actions are the province of his
superior officer. He can no more do anything responsibly
“ on his own ” than can the minor, the criminal, or the
lunatic. Public opinion cannot be exerted on his behalf,
because he is not one of the public. When he signs
articles he signs away all legal responsibility, indivi-
duality, and the rest of it. He becomes simply a machine
to whom punishment is as oiling or emery polishing....
Percy N. : Please don’t “ dash ” things off, Percy ; write
them carefully, and when you have written them put
them by, and presently have another and more cold-
blooded look at them. On re-reading, “after sleeping
on it,” you will generally find that you can omit
half. And then, when we get hold of them,
we can leave out most of the other half
S.O. : White paper and hlack ink, please ; not light-brown
ink and blue paper. Also, larger writing and more
space between lines... .J.J.S. : Good heavens! How
were we to know that you have for 15years written under
the pen-name of “ Suffolk ” ? You might just as well
have claimed copyright for the pen-name “London,” or
“New York.” Also, “ nom -de-plume ” is most execrable
French. In fact it isn’t French at all. It is pure Cockney.
. ...M.E. : Protection is essential to National Complete-
ness. We want to see Australia a nation strongly
seasoned with clever craftsmen—ingenious mechanics,
highly-scientific engineers ; and not (as would be the
case under the Calico Jemmy “ Freetrade ” policy of ex-
porting raw material in exchange for manufactured pro-
ducts) an aggregation of hopeless, ignorant barbarians
toiling painfully as bank-helots in the back-blocks
Old Newtown : Bulletin is quite sure Bruce Smith never
in all his life said anything about shooting recalcitrant
workers : also, he denies having said it, and all who know
him will accept his denial. The proper ground on
which to oppose Bruce Smith is that he is a
hopeless Tory and an ingrained Calico-Jemmy
Secoro : All the influential S’Atrican papers are owned by
the mine-owners—the Cape Argus, Johannesburg Star,
Buluwayo Chronicle, Rhodesia Herald, African Re-
view, the Cape Times, the Diamond Fields Advertiser,
and Transvaal Leader. Also, editors have been removed
even from influential English papers, such as the Daily
Chronicle and others, because they are not acceptable to
the capitalistic section... .Couvade: That notion is
widely spread ; and scientific observers do not deny that
in some cases the mind may influence the body so far as
to produce actual physical effects in the man. But it’s
not expedient to encourage the discussion of the
subject in a paper of mixed circulation O.C.P. :
Probably the “loyal” fever, like the Jingo fever,
is merely a species of delusion, like the reli-
gious mania, equally evanescent, equally ground-
less, arul equally destructive of mental capacity....
Judas Iscariot: it would take six hours to get through
your hideous scrawl, ffe don’t propose even to try to
read it O. : All games of billiards in Germany are
cannon games, played on small tables with large balls.
Every bier break includes a number of cannons which are
practically “flukes,” in so far that the striker goes for
more than one chance of scoring, and doesn’t care which
way it comes 0ff.... J.F. : But you send no cuttings to
verify your yarns. Circumstances alter cases. You may
he misjudging the circumstances... .P. Jacey : Sargood’s
Bill for Mondayfying the bank holidays was generally
approved. Your verse is not approved. It is the assem-
bled wail of the housewife who can’t go for A days at a
stretch without “ running short of sugar ” or something.
....Critic: The management in question issued season
tickets to all the well-known press representatives. As
for the “ scanning ” you complain of, it is incidental to
all shows where the men around the doors are strangers
to the country. You can’t expect to be a welcome dead-
head “ on your face ” at any place of entertainment until
your phiz, is familiar to the scrutineers as that of a critic.
Showmen need to be suspicious of the man whose card is
his only evidence of claim to free admission. Evidently
you are an inexperienced deadhead L.M.D. :
“Dawn” not up A.P.I. : Good idea; treat-
ment too slow and ponderous... .Josser: Some-
thing to that effect already printed Percy V. :
“ Thus Far” is rather a shapeless yearning Malcolm •
Don’t take too much interest in church management
Russon : Acceptable. Will consider anything else sent.
.... Vannie : Rather funny, but would need too much re-
writing Watch : Wasn’t there anybody in the place
man enough to put the police on to the brute?.. ..Bob
F.: Necessary alterations too difficult J.R. : Have
some remembrance of story mentioned, but sorry cannot
locate it.... ,Wm. H. : “Slightly” altering the names
would be worse than giving them straight out. Item
would need too much re-writing in any case G.A.P. :
“ Truth ” fair idea ; verse not bright enough E.H.H. :
Not up R.M. : Not bad, but not interest enough
M. or N. : Considering W.J. : Neither good enough.
... .L.L. (Melb.): Too girlishly unreal Isobel: Wants
distinction T.R.S. : Not usably put G. Archer:
No value Judas: Put by for a calmer hour. Your
script takes 10 times as long to read as it ought to
W. (Ivalgoorlie) : Sorry unusable J.S. (Watson’s Bay):
Worthless J.S.T. : Not yet good enough R.H.L. :
No interest P.H. : Off our beat J.B.R. : Unusable.
A. : Too long and dull as written R.A.T.: Sorr,
can’t use Octopus: One not new, t’other not up....
Rex : No, should not be reversed. Prescribed distance
Oft. below top of staff or mast.... M. Ba.vol . No ; ideas
all right, though a little trite and belated, but manner
insufferably verbose and grandiloquent .. . Roughrider :
All depends upon what the youth is intended for in after
life. The study of geometry is indispensable to mam
of the most practically-usefui sciences—to §ay nothing o
the arts R.A.K. : Neither has quality enough
B. (Nar.): Far too long-drawn for this paper... .Nil .
And many of ’em! “Irish Lords” for illustration....
J.P. : A strong personal attack on an absent man. Better
leave it alone L.P.O. : Nobody who writ'. -
what he calls “ tit-bits ” ever succeeds with this paper.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
E.N. : Rather too “ straight’’—and it wouldn’t do for
print, anyhow Finoo : Neither suitable... .Louis M. :
Neither of those two hit it.... Y. : Wouldn’t do, e ther a-
regards drawing or subject... .Unavailable :—B.W.C.,
The Result of a Fright.
Repeated warnings have been given as to the
dangerous practice of exposing children to sudden
fear, but unfortunately it is often done. Althougl i
the case in question arose from no practical joke,
it shows how serious the results of a fright may be.
“ When .my little girl, Lizzie, was thirteen
years of age,” said Mrs. Elizabeth Gonsell, of
East Maldon (Vic.), wife of the respected Mana-
ger of the Eaglehawk Consolidated Gold Mining
Co., “she received a severe fright. This so told
upon her nerves that St. Vitus’ dance resulted.
Her limbs moved involuntarily, and the twitching
of her hands made it impossible for her to hold a
cup and saucer. Whenever 1 spoke to her she
would give a convulsive jump. She became quite
debilitated and in spite of skilful medical atten-
tion she did not recover. Acting on my sister’s
advice I began giving her Dr. Williams’ pink pills
for pale people. At first I gave her half a pill
after each meal, and later on, one pill. Before
finishing the first box she was wonderfully im-
proved, and her convulsive movements lessened
greatly. Four boxes cured her. Tone has been
given to her nerves, and she is now in perfect
health. Naturally I recommend Dr. Williams’
pink pills in all cases of this sort.”
Miss Gosnell’s cure is convincing evidence of
the nerve-toning properties of Dr. Williams’ pink
pills, which also cure neuralgia, paralysis, loco-
motor ataxia, early decay, hysteria, heart palpita-
tion, etc. By enriching the blood they cure
anaemia, debility, rheumatism, sciatica, skin dis-
eases, etc. Sold by chemists and storekeepers,
and by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s
Place Sydney, two and nine per box, six boxes
fifteen and three, post free. Write for list of
cures in your neighbourhood.


POSITION OF'PRAHRAJI.
EXCITED DISCUSSION.
The Prahran Council, at its meeting laaf
evening, appointed the mayor (Councillor
H. M. Gooch) as delegate to a conference
called by the Essendon Council to consider
matters in regard to street decorations for
Royal visit.
h As to the proposal to get the Royal pro-
cession to pass along Chapel-street from St.
Hilda, the mayor of Prahran (Councillor
Gooch) stated that, in company with Mr.
Donald Maekinnon, M.L.A., he had waited
, on the reception committee, and was in-
formed that the Governor-General had al-
ready decided that the line of route from
St. Hilda to Melbourne should be along St.
■ Hilda road. All he (the mayor) said in’
favour of the Chapel-street route was,;
therefore,. of no avail, but he had expressed;
a determination that he would, on behalf'
of the council, yet write or .even see the
Governor-General personally to have the
Chapel - street ronte adopted. (Loud
cheers.)
Councillor John Turner said the loyalty
of the mayor to the citizens of Prahran
was worthy of all praise, but he was afraid
the mayor’s mission to Lord Hopetoun
would not be successful. “Do not do it,
Mr. Mayor,” pleaded Councillor Turner, in',
conclusion.
, Councillor Naylor (-excitedly).— I hope,
Mr. Mayor, you will take no notice of
Councillor Turner,. and that you will go,,
and place your cause at the Governor-
General’s feet. (Laughter.)
V Councillor Simmons thought the Duke
should be taken through as many muniei-
fialities as possible on landing, ps it would
ead to the spending of money. He hoped
’ the mayor would go further, and make an
application to Lord Hopetoun,
The matter was left in the hands pf the
mayor to continue the Chapel-street route
agitation.
the visit shortened.
by one day
telegram from lord hopetoun.
Mr. M'Culloch, chairman of the reception
committee, last night received the foilowms
telegram from the Governor-General.-*
•‘We are keeping 'Wednesday, loth
May, clear of all engagements, m case
his Royal Highness.wishes to shoot.
THE DUKE’S BATTUE.— (A BULLETIN. Suggestion.)


SUNDAY-CLOSING DOGGEREL.
WAS TT SARCASM 3
E&ITOR: “ By-the-bye, I see somebody has mentioned O’Sullivan as a desirable'
candidate for the Federal Parliament if he only would consent to stand. You
might make some pictorial allusion to it in your full-page series this week." *
'“Bananers is the enterin’ wedge”
(The fourth Commandment was his text),
- “ Sin grows, and if we don’t look sharp
We’ll have the Sunday pumpkin next!”
Our Artist (in sudden Jit of abstraction) “ O’Sullivan,
O'Sullivan 1 Let me see, where can *1 have heard that
name before 1 ”
“ In six days Shalt do all thy work,”
I heard the good Sky-pilot say.
This speech was made upon the seventh—
The good Sky-pilot’s Busy Day.
Speaking of lectures,
De Rougemont is now
in Australia, and it i*
said that he has threat-
ened to lecture here.
~t\TOP
NJ.V
G. H. Reid “ Look here, Rougie, }
have got the floor in Australia for
that sort of thing just now,'and
there isn’t room for two-of us’”
rads Psychology of
legs.
Professor . “ Gentlemen, in this
illustration you see the legs
are warped and the toes
• r ,turned inwards A person so afflicted must of- necessity be a
wobbler ; his natural tendency to kink amounts to an absolute
inability to go straight in any given direction. If you know such a person. Beware,
strike him off your list ” -
CARTOONLETS.


The cable tells that out of 65 lives lost at
a mine explosion near Vancouver, B.C., 29 were
Chinese and 9 Japs. When the yellow and the
brown men get the least encouragement they don’t
stop at market-gardening and cabinet-making.
“ I venture a prophecy : Some day Holland
will enter the German Empire, under a treaty
which fully recognises her separate nationality,
and she will become the naval member of the
Federation. The Dutch were our warmest friends.
In Holland we have not a single friend left. All
friendship has disappeared under the strain of our
war with their kith and kin at the Cape. Holland
perceives that a small Power has no chance, if
our present attitude towards suoh Powers is to
prevail. ” — Labocchere.
A South Australian trooper of S’African
experience writes to Adelaide Advertiser : —
Largely recruited as the Imperial officer is from the
class of youth whose mental attainments offer little pros-
pect of success in the professions, or in commerce, he is
further hindered in obtaining a grip of experience by the
deadening possession of a private income. The case of
his brothers, the remittance-men of many colonies, is
notorious. . . . The insolence of caste, sometimes joined
with the consciousness of an education, lead him to re-
produce in the army the social conditions of the past. . . .
He will fancy himself in his fine manner of command,
gained at the expense of hotel-waiters and deferent'..U
menials. . . . Let it be recognised that his courage is too
often as conventional in its forms as the affectations of
his speech, and as useful ; the indication of a want of
common-sense. . . . One had the expectation of insult in
approaching a strange officer even on business. The talk
about our hardships is mostly bosh. The real hardship is
the silent putting up with the treatment of our superiors.
ELECTRIC
MINING
MACHINERY
OE EVERY DESCRIPTION.
KRUPP BALL MILLS
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st, SYDNEY; and 15 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
XSOD&E
WOOD
SPLIT
PULLIES
Guaranteed to transmit from 25
to 60 per cent, more power than
any iron pulley made with same
tension of belt.
70 per cent. Lighter than cast
iron.
40 n n wrought
iron or steel.
No Key Seat to cut.
No Set Screw to twist off.
No Shaft to take down.
Perfect Balance-
Perfect Shaft Fastening.
Write for Prices and Particulars to Sole Agents
for Australasia—
NiKEUiCgCoEM.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT
Issue of £1,000,000 Debentures
Beinc Dart of a sum of £2,374,213 authorised to be raised by the QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT
b 1 LOAN ACT, 64 Viet. No 24, 1900.
To be in addition to, and to rank pari passu with QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT LOANS already existing.
Repayable at Par, Ist January, 1951.
but may be redeemed on or after Ist JANUARY, 1926, upon twelve months’ notice being given.
Interest being at the Rate of per Centum per Annum,
payable from Ist January, 1901.
THE TREASURER of the STATE of QUEENSLAND invites tenders for £1,000,000 QUEENSLAND GOVERN-
MENT DEBENTURES bearing interest at the rate of £3J per cent, per annum, repayable at par on the Ist
JANUARY 1951, but which may be paid off at par on or after the Ist JANUARY, 1926, upon twelve months’ notice
being given by notice in the Government Gazette and in the principal newspapers circulating in Australia.
These Debentures will be in addition to, and will rank pari passu with the Queensland Government Loans already
existing*.
The Loan is secured upon the Consolidated Revenue of Queensland and is part of a loan of £2,374,218 required
for
£2,374,213
The Debentures will be issued free of Stamp Duty, and will be made out payable to the holder.
The Dividends on the Debentures will be payable half-yearly, on the Ist JANUARY and Ist JULY. A full six
months’ interest calculated upon the nominal amount of Debentures will be payable on the Ist JULY, 1901. Dividends
will be paid, free of exchange, by the Banking Agents of the Government at Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, or
Adelaide.
Tenders may be for the whole or any part of the Debentures in multiples of £lOO. No tender must be for less
than £lOO. Each tender must state what amount of money will be given for every £lOO of Debentures. All Tenders
must be at prices which are multiples of sixpence.
Tenders must be addressed to the Treasurer and delivered at the Treasury, Brisbane, before 2 o’clock on TUES-
DAY, the 19th MARCH.
The Treasurer retains the right of accepting or rejecting any Tender.
A deposit of £5 per cent, on the amount of Debentures tendered for must be paid at the time of the delivery of the
Tender, but the deposit must not be enclosed in the Tender. Where no allotment is made the deposit will be returned,
and in case of partial allotment the balance of the deposit will be applied towards the first instalment.
The dates at which the further payments on account of the Loan will be required are as follows :
_ ~ , lnAl fso much of the amount tendered for each Hundred Pounds of Debentures as,
On Thursday, 28th March, 1901, y when added to Deposit, will leave Eighty Pounds (Sterling) to be paid ;
On Thursday, 25th April, 1901, £3O per cent. ;
On Monday, 27th May, 1901, £3O per cent.;
On Thursday, 27th June, 1901, £2O per cent. ;
but the instalments may be paid in full on or after the 28th March, 1901, under discount at the rate of £2 per cent,
per annum. In the case of default in the payment of any instalment at its proper date, the deposit and instalments
previously paid will be liable to forfeiture.
No further issue of this Loan will be made within the Commonwealth until after twelve months from this date.
Brokerage of £i per cent, on the face value of the Debentures will be allowed upon accepted Tenders to members
of recognised Stock Exchanges of Australia.
The only Loans authorised and floated in Queensland by Local Authorities are those issued by the Municipalities
of North and South Brisbane amounting in all to £490,000.' All other Loans to Local Authorities, including those for
the construction of Waterworks and for Harbour Improvements, are made by the Government and are included in
the general debt of Queensland. There is no floating debt represented by Treasury Bills.
Applications must be made upon the printed forms which may be obtained at the Treasury, Brisbane ; the
Queensland National Bank, Limited, Sydney ; the National Bank of Australasia, Limited, Melbourne and Adelaide.
THE TREASURY,
Brisbane, 21st February, 1901.
The Royal Agricultural Society of R. 5.111.
FIRST
Commonwealth Show
3rd to 10th APRIL, 1901.
—^
£3QQQ pr» zes ;£3QQQ
ENTRIES in the various sections close as follows:
THURSDAY, 28th FEBRUARY
SATURDAY, 9th MARCH ...
TUESDAY, 12th
SATURDAY, 16th
MONDAY, 18th
WINE.
HORSES, PONIES, CATTLE, PIGS.
POULTRY, PIGEONS, CAGE BIRDS, DOGS.
FARM PRODUCE, BUTTER, &c. ; FOODS, &c.;
HONEY.
MACHINERY, COMMON AND LIBERAL ARTS,
COACHBUILDING, &c. ; FERMENTED DRINKS.
EXCURSION TRAINS to Show from all parts
of Australia.
SPECIAL RATES for Exhibits by Rail or Steamer.
PRIZE SCHEDULES and FORMS OF ENTRY may be obtained on application to—
1. WEBSTER,
Tattersall’s Buildings, Secretary.
Hunter Street, Sydney,
Now
Ready.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d; Posted Bd.
DAPTO
(LIMITED),
(Xialse Illawarra), near
SITDIUUIT.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
ft
m
- 3 ■"';
MAKERS OP
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
ILLAWARRA”
.. BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
’urchasers
of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, MAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W. ; or Martin Place, SYDNEY.


#8 m
m
Lever
A. Saunders’s
Strong, Reliable LEVERS—" THE CHAL-
LENGE,” 158. The UNRIVALLED LEVER,
in Black or Nickel, 20s—perfect timekeeper.
The LONDON LEVER, new f-plate model,
25e : in Solid Silver, £2 2s; in Double-case,
£2 10b, £3. ROTHERHAM LEVERS, £3 10s,
£4, £6, £6, £7, £B. Gold Watches, £4 4s,
£5 ss, £6 6s, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Mind, we guarantee you the utmost satisfac-
tion, “ otherwise we will exchange watch for
you.” Send for illustrated book of particulars,
post free.
A. Saunders.
Registered Gold 2-Bird, 2-Heart Amethyst
Brooch, 20s ; Pearl Set Bird, 22s 6d ;
15c. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders.
Brooch Crescent, Pearls and Turquoise,
Pure Silver-gilt, 5s 6d ; Heart Shape, 6s 6d.
The Latest Style.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Brooch, Diamond and Ruby
Horse-shoe, 355. A Pretty Brooch.
A. Saunders.
Isc. Gold Brooch, 2 Bar Scrolls, 3 Pure
Diamonds, 2 Rubies or Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 14 Pearls, 7 Opals, 355. A Very
Choice Present. Bracelet to Match, £2 15s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Twist Bar, Bow and Heart
Drop, 5s 6d. Special Value.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 15c. Gold, 2 Bar and Scrolls,
Pearl Set, £2 ss. Very Strong and Pretty.
A. Saunders. o
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keener* Bo
? fi 0 . ld „ G ? ld ’. 68 6d ’^ B M-lOieSch;“feGoM
15s ; extra heavy, 25s : 18c. Gold on. . . *
heavy, 80s, 36., m. Send for “rd. 1 “ tr *
A. Saunders.
Registered 160. Gold Secret Name Brwch
2 Rubies or Sapphires and Diamond, £2 10s ,
3 Diamonds, £8 and £4. 9c. Gold, Simi.ai
pattern, 20s and 265.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Pearl Set Bird’s Chain and
Red or Blue Stone, 17s 6d. Very Dainty.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Scroll, Diamond, 2 Red or
Blue Stones, 20s. Very Pretty.
A. Saunders.
New Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget”
Brooch and Amethysts, 9c. Gold, 17a 6d ; 15c.
Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 4 Opal Hearts, Pearl Set Scrolls,
355. The Latest and-Prettiest Style.
A. Saunders.
New Style Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird,
Amethyst Heart, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
15c. Gold and Pure Diamond, 2 Bar
Brooch, £2. Neat and Strong.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch (Registered), “ Good
Wishes,” Chain and Heart, 13s 6d;
15c. Gold, 255. A Very Pretty Brooch.
A. Saunders.
16c. Gold Brooch, 2 Diamonds, Ruby or
Sapphire and Ivy Leaves, 255.
A. Saunders.
Silver Gilt New Turquoise Initial
Brooch ; any Initial, 2s 6d.
Solid Gold Chain (Single or Double),
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15c.
Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, Sh, £B,
£lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s od, 15s, 20s.
Send lor Price Illustrated Book.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 15c. Gold, 2 Bar, Red or
Blue Stone, 2 Diamonds, 21s.
Very Cheap and Neat.
A. Saunders.
Gold Bar, Raised Ivy Leaves, 7s 6d.
Very Neat.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Diamond-cut Amethyst
Hearts and True Love Knot, 20s.
Very Pretty.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Hearts, Diamond and Ruby,
2 Bar and Scroll, with True Love
Knot, 17s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Nellie Stewart ” Bamboo Gold Bracelet, 20a.
Size thicker, 265. Latest style.
A. Saunders.
Ladies’ or Gent’s Newest Tie Pin, 15c. Gold, Forget-Me-Not and
Spray, Turquoise and Pearls, 20s. Very Dainty and Pretty.
A. Saunders.
Name Bracelets, Gold Bands, Any Name, 255;
15c. Gold, £3; Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 30s to £4.
as
Ladies’ Curb Gold Chain
Snap Padlock, 255, 30s,
355, £2 ss, £3; 15c.,
£2 10s, £3, £4, £4 10s,
£5, £6, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety
Chain.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Baden-Powell Sword Pin, Turquoise and Pearls, £2.
Call and See Our Jewellery Exhibition—A Splendid Display;
Or Send for Our 1900 Complete Illustrated Book, Post Free Anywhere.
Solid Gold Fine Opal Links, £2.
15c., £2 10s. Monogram, 2/6 ex.
A. Saunders.
Opal Bracelet, J Hoop, 11 Pretty Opals, £3. Very Stylish.
A. Saunders.
Gold Charm Envelope, mtfct
Twopenny Stamp, 32s 6d.
Silver, 6s 6d. Name Free.
A. Sa inders.
Gold Brooch, Diamond-cut Amethyst, 2 Bar ; Large
Size, Extra Strong, 255, 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch Amethyst, Diamond-cut, 2 Bar, Extra
Strong, 22s 6d ; 16c. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders.
Latest Designs: Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Diamond and
Red Stone, Scroll and Bell, 21s ; 16c. Gold, £2 6s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Shields and Hatchet, Chain and
Heart, Ruby and Pearl, 16s 6d ; 16c. Gold, 355.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Pearl Set Scroll, Red or Blue
Stone, 20s. Very Pretty and Strong.
A. Saunders.
New Style Gold Bird, Ruby
and Turquoise and Leaf,
Ss6d. Very Neat.
Silver Initial Hat Pins.
Parisian Diamonds, 4s 6d ;
Turquoise, 3s. Any Initial.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s,
£2, £2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5 ;
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed. Send for Price List.
A. Saunders.
Gold Bar, Raised Flowers, 5s 6d.
Ladies’ Long Gold Muff Chain, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5, £6.
Price According to Pattern and
Thickness.
Front Studs, 9c. Gold, 3s 6d each ; 15c.
Gold, each 5s and 7s 6d.
Front Studs, Diamond, Rubies or
,phires, 10s 6d and l‘2s 6d each •
Diamonds, 20s, 255, 30s to £5 each,
and Size ot Diamonds.
Saph-
Larger
Price
Gold Crosses,
Chased or Plain,
12s 6d; Larger,
20s ; 15c. Gold,
20s and 80s.
A. Saunders.
dents’ or Ladies’ Pin, Pearls and Turquoise, Rubies or Sapphires,
Floral Design, 21s.
A. Saunders.
Band Bracelet, 9c. Gold, Diamond and Rubies or Sapphires, £2 5s ;
16c. Gold, £3 10s, with 3 Diamonds, £4, £4 10s and £5.
Very Neat and Effective.
Gent's or Ladies’ 15c. Gold Tie Pin, Pearls and Turquoise Centre
Star, 20s. All the Rage.
Ba&en-Powell Gold Sword and Pearl Set Spray Brooch,
Diamond, 25s ; without Diamond, 22s 6d; 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
Charm, Old
English Coin, Gold
Mounted, 10s.
The Lucky “ Erin-
go-Bragh ” Charm,
Solid Gold, 10s.
Real Lyddite
Shell, Gold
Mounted, 8s 6d.
Only a Few Left
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires,
Rubies, or Opals,
4 Diamonds, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4los, £5.
18c. Buttercup Single-
stone Diamond Ring,
£3, £4, £5,
A. Saunters.
18c. Gold, Pure
Double-cut Diamond,
£5. Larger, £6 6s,
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Price according to size
of Diamond.
18c. Solid Gold, Pure
Diamond and 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, £2,
£2 10s, £3 ; 3 Dia-
monds, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £5.
18c. Solid Gold
Diamond Band, £2.
£2 10s, £3; 15c..
Gold, 30s.
9c. Gold Name Band
Rings, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s; 15c. Gold, 20s,
255; 18c. Gold, 255,
30s, 355, 40s.
IBc. Solid Gold Mar-
quese Diamond and
Ruby Ring, £3 10s ;
Larger Diamonds, £7
10s, £lO, £l5, £2O.
Special Value.
15c. Solid Gold, 2
Diamonds, Ruby or
Sapphire, 20s.
A. Saunders.
Jold Dinna Forget,
10a 6d.
Our Own Registered
Design.
Gharm, Gold,
Amethyst and
Pearls, 15s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 265.
Latest Design.
Charm, New
Gold Bell, 7s 6d.
Latest Style.
Turquoise and Pearl,
Solid Gold Ring, 21s.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 5 Opals,
i-Hoop, £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s.
Opal Band Rings,
9c. Solid Gold, 17s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 30s ; 18c.
Gold, £2.
m
A. Saunders,
18c. Gold, 3 Pure Dia-
monds, 2 Opal Hearts,
£4 10s. Latest Style.
A. Saunders.
(Registered) Gold Links,
20s ; 15c. Gold, 32s 6d ;
Silver and Gold, 10s ;
All Silver, ss.
Solid Gold Monogram Links,
9c. Gold, 00s and 25s ; 15c.
Gold, 355, £2 and £2 10s ;
Solid Silver, 5s and (is fid ;
Monograms, 2s 6d extra.
A. Saunders.
Large Size Gold Shield
Links and Dumbell, 21s
15c. Gold, 35s and £2.
Gold Heart and Dnmbell
Links, 12s 6d ; 16c., 26s ;
Silver, 3s 6d.
Solid Gold Pearls and
Rabies, 10s ; 15c.
Gold, 15s.
Latest Style.
Gold Ring Turquoise
and Pearls, 16s.
A. SAUNDERS
LEADING
ART JEWELLER,
815 & 817 George Street
/ nearly opposite \
\Railway Station/?
SYDNEY.


The PUREST WHiSKFY
in the World ■ . .
GEO. ROE & CO.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing List with map’
THOS. COOK & SON,
260 Collins-st., Melbourne; 4 Hunter-et., Sydney.
GrO TO TT~F!T -T
0 RIOLAN 1) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagci),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
C, lists gratis.
HATS. HATS, hats,
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
eclogue to B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
for a pearly skin and brilliant
Complexion. Chemists sell it.
NOTHING ELSE LIKE IT.
Used by the Elite of English
Society. S. Harvey, Limtd.,
London Bridge S.E.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALT€R BRADL€y * CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have alwaj’s on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-sfc
HIGH-GRADE
FARM-
xV
«iv
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd.
35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
That 4J per cent, million loan. Won’t it
smash the present N.S.W. State Ministry when
all the cats get out of the bag ?
As the Australias are getting deeper and
deeper in pawn to the British money-lender, how
would it do to call the Federal city Uncle ?
Barton, at Adelaide (with a look towards
the centre of the hall which was language in
itself) to a very rude man : “ Some people stumble
because of many ideas ; others, because they have
so few.”
So far four N.S.W. knights enter the lists
for seats in the Federal Parliament —M'Millan,
Manning, Lyne and Mat. Harris. Ex-Speaker
Abbott takes turns of being willing and not
willing.
MTntyre, knight, of Vic. Assembly, con-
siders the old age pension business should be left
to friendly societies “ who can manage it infinitely
better than the State.” And if the State were
managed by MTntyre, the assertion would be
quite true. If the friendly societies were managed
by MTntyre it certainly wouldn’t.
It is a matter of speculation in S. A. whether
any of the four Federal Labor candidates will get
elected. In ’97, when the whole State voted as
one, none of the Labor nominees succeeded. Simi-
lar voting conditions exist this time, except that,
whereas 10 were required in ’97 only seven are
needed for the Lower and six for the Upper
Chamber.
N.S.W. is not threatened with an embar-
rassing array of new talent to chose from as a
result of the influences of Federation on political
life. The only absolutely new man with the ghost
of a show for Federal honors is Dr. Hay, who is
making a big fight down Cambewarra way as a
Bartonite. And he has yet to show that he is
worth a seat in the House.
As a casual example of how Protection
raises prices against the poor down-trodden con-
sumer, the protected locally-made packet of
cigarettes sells both in Melbourne and Sydney at
3d. Before there was any local industry the cheap
imported packet always cost 6d. Cigarettes may
not be a wildly desirable thing, but as an example
of how Protection finds work for the people, and
yet reduces the cost of the article produced, they
have some value. Similarly the protected local
beer sells in Sydney at about half the price of the
imported article —that is to say you get about
twice as much of it for 3d. Tanglefoot is about
the most strongly-protected article in N.S.W.,
and it is one of the cheapest.
THE NEXT GAPER.—VIDE DAILY
PAPERS.
AUSTRALIA (missionary-parson-inspired, to Police-
man Bull): “ Here! move France out of
that! ”
Chaffey Baker, S. A.’s boss Tory politician,
who stands for the Senate, comes out as an advo-
cate of old-age pensions, a uniform franchise, and
pronounces for a white Australia ! This is the
first time Baker has ever declared for anything
democratic, and his conversion may be attributed
to the liberal Federal franchise. Baker’s Tory
party still refuses to enfranchise for S.A. Leg.
Council 100,000 men and women who are declared
by the Commonwealth Constitution to be entitled
to full electoral privileges for both Federal
Houses !
The Freetrade literary factory in Sydney
has notified the country press that articles will be
supplied gratis on any question affecting Common-
wealth intei’ests. The articles are, of course, all
anti-Bartonian. The same article is not supplied
to two papers in the same town, but such article
is given to a score of papers in the territory.
Getting it for nothing is a tremendous bribe.
Unless Kingston hurries along to vitalise
S.A. Federal election campaign the Tories may
place local majorities into both Houses. Their
recent heavy defeat for the Leg. Council has not
put the Laborites in great heart, and Holder’s
impassiveness has increased the dullness of the
campaign considerably. A few thundering
speeches are wanted from Kingston, who is very
popular in S.A. just now.
Thus Robert Reid—Flinders Lane Free-
trade magnate, importer, and Fat Landlord—on
his Victorian Federal Senate Campaign : “People
who were honestly opposed to something ought
to be returned, rather than have the terrible
political unanimity into which Victoria is drift-
ing.” Right! Victoria can’t do better than
return men who are honestly opposed to Robert
Reid and every other M.L.C., to begin with.
S’Malkum McEacharn made a big
blunder when he visited Findlay (Labor M.P.)
personally, and solicited his influence in his
Federal contest against Dr. Maloney. Findlay,
who is a personal friend of Maloney, and the
strongest supporter of his candidature, told the
story of McEacharn’s domiciliary visit to a meet-
ing of Maloney’s supporters, and ridiculed
Mac’s “impudence ” in trying to influence him.
Premier Throssell, of Westralia, says
candidly that he doesn’t expect his Government
to survive the coming State elections. They will
be on a wider franchise than ever before, and,
when the masses get even a fair semblance of
political power, Throssell reckons that he and the
rest of the old brigade will be no longer wanted.
There is time, of course, for the affluent old miller
to get out a good democratic programme that will
appeal to the new electors, but lie probably
despairs of finding such a thing about him.
Even the Argus protests against a repeti-
tion of the warlike mummery of Sydney’s Com-
monwealth Celebrations at the opening of the
Federal Parliament in Melbourne. “ Our one
great achievement is the colonisation of this con-
tinent, therefore it seems to us that military dis-
play in connection with the inauguration of a
national legislature should be upon a modest
scale. The military spirit has made us what we
are. It has a place in the national scheme of
things, but there is a danger of exaggeration,”
Ex-Minister “Joe ” Cook, whose fight for
Parramatta seat with the solid Sandford will be
one of the most stubborn of the coming Federal
elections, complains of someone calling him a
Protectionist. He cutely limits opponents to a
period. But did not John Osborne, when editing
the Star, reprint a letter written to that paper by
the same “Joe” Cook years ago, in which letter
the present Freetrader argued vehemently for
Protection for native industries? Joe’s aspect
of the world is always changing. He has been
Protectionist, Singletaxer, Laborite, and Free-
trader, and the end is not yet.
Tasmanian political meeting addressed by
Big Potentate, and presided over by local trader.
Many questions asked, leading to hot discussion.
Vote of confidence moved in
Big Potentate. Then one of
the audience, after a forcible
speech, moves amendment,
which is declared carried. The
local mine-manager (the dis-
trict’s boss employer) demands
another show of hands, stating
that this time he will count
the numbers, which he does,
assisted by one of his shift-
bosses. Result, a reversal of
the chairman’s decision, to the
great amusement of the audi-
ence.
Apropos a current discus-
sion. Suppose King Edward
VII. had believed in transub-
stantiation ! How can a man
control his belief ? Can any-
one be made to believe either
in transubstantiation or no
transubstantiation by the paltry
bribe of half-a-million a, year?
Would a man peril his soul
for such a thing ? There is no
guarantee that after King
Edward arose from his knees
(if he got down upon them)
he did not mutter with
Galileo, “ The world moves
for all that.” If a man of his
great calibre and far-reaching
thought has a belief in transubstantiation rooted in
the fibres of liis nature, the oath may be of no value,
being taken under compulsion. It is not fair to
subject an earnest and conscientious Christian to
such a test. It is as bad as the Inquisition. Such
a thumbscrew is almost enough to make an inde-
pendent-minded Englishman believe in transub-
stantiation.
Premier Lyne’s limpet-like tenacity in
still holding on to the State Premiership is causing
trouble in the N.S.W. Cabinet. The chief growler
is naturally W. P. Crick, who lost his Ministerial
billet when the Federal Executive assumed con-
trol of the Post-Office on March 1. Though he
remains nominally in the Cabinet, Crick cannot
draw salary or discharge Ministerial functions
until he is given another portfolio. This cannot
be done until Lyne’s successor reconstructs. So
Crick is anxious for Lyne’s resignation. But the
A HALF-HEARTED TILLAGE.
The attitude of Australia.—Ready to assist the Empire.
“old man” is obdurate and will probably hang
so until he lias a better idea of how the Federal
elections will go.
Burst of candor from Sydney Telegraph:
Mr. Cook is fighting at Parramatta a powerful manu-
facturing interest.
Exactly. The Freetrade crowd represents the
huge foreign importers who have their head-
quarters, and spend their profits, mostly in
England, and who send out men like M‘Millan to
represent them here. And they are fighting the
Australian manufacturers as a matter of course.
The Australian manufacturer has to be killed off
when his product interferes with the importing
business.
Brother Alick’s paper, Perth Morning
Herald, gives Brother John a kindly send-o‘f on
his retirement from the W.A. Premiership
Western Australia needs a Premier of the energy and
resource of a Seddon—a man who has never believed that
the expenditure of money was all that was needed to
drive a State ahead. Vogel had as great a belief in the
lavish expenditure of money as the sum of statesmanship,
as had John Forrest, but Ballance and Seddon have
proved that brains and energy, combined with Demo-
cratic ideas, are better than loan moneys for putting heart
into a people, and for making the best use of a country.
The Democratic party must find its Seddon before Wes-
tralia can attain the vigor of Maoriland.
Edward Pulsford in his little revenue-tariff
organ :
The “ open-door” policy of Great Britain has been ac-
cepted by the world in connection with the settlement ki
China —a triumph for the principles of Freetrade.
And when the Boers are compelled to agree to
annexation it will be a great triumph for the prin-
ciples of Freedom. When the three European
Powers partitioned Poland among them, the
principles of Freedom again triumphed. England
forces the “open-door” (she forced her Indian
opium upon China at the point of the bayonet
and in the name of God) wherever she can, to
allow her present stream of policy to run free ;
but Germany and the U.S. concur in the policy
solely because it is a Protectionist principle that
it profits Protectionist countries to have all others
Freetrade.
A correspondent :
Whoever was in charge of the compilation of the elec-
toral rolls for the city of Sydney has made a lovely start
for the Commonwealth, by the employment of the Mile-
sian copman in collecting electors’ names. Every second
person on the roll has either had somebody else’s Chris-
tian name entered with his own surname, the latter
spelt wrongly, or the address stated incorrectly ; and in a
very great number of cases the person has been omitted
from the roll altogether. The modus would seem to have
been thus; The policeman, calling at some hotel or
private house, would find that there was -a. lodger who
was out. “ Phwat’s his furrust name?” he would
ask. The landlord didn’t know, but thought it might
be Duncan, while the daughter was almost sure it was
Arthur. “All right,” the “copper” would remark —
“ we’ll put it down Pether, joost to privint mishtakes.”
Our constabulary are, taking them all round, a fine body
of men, and perform their duties efficiently, but they
are not cut-out for this class of work.
N.S.W. Labor leader M‘Gowen and
foreign-importer M‘Billion both demand the
abolition of the Braddon clause in the Federal
Constitution —the one which provides that, for
ten years anyhow, three-fourths of the Federal
Customs revenue shall be handed back to the
States to pay interest on their public debts with,
or else reserved by the Federal Government as a
fund with which it shall itself pay interest on the
State debts—the only clause which stands be-
tween the States and Repudiation. Also,
M‘Gowen demands that the whole Constitution
shall be upended by the abolition of equal State
representation. And the same Freetrade papers
which report (and covertly applaud) these direct
attacks on the central principles of the Con ,titu-
tion ask what on earth Barton means by saying it
is necessary to defend the Constitution !
Had Federal Minister For-
rest clung to the State Premiership*
with Lyne’s bold Dick Turpiru
grasp it would not have astonished
people, for it was he who moulded,
the Commonwealth Bill to make
such dualism possible. Adelaide
Convention of’97 made the holding
of dual offices illegal. The Melb.
Convention of ’9B held the same
view, and that would have been
the law now had not Forrest, as
an after-thought, moved that at
the start a Federal Minister might
retain his State office till he con-
veniently wound up its affairs.
Forrest said it was simply of him-
self he was thinking. R. E. O Con-
nor supported him, and the Con-
vention in a tired way the
subject go. Of course, the State
Parliament has power to throw a
clinging Minister it of its pre-
cincts, and that is just where the
essence of Lyne’s offence lies —that
he has shut Parliament and keeps
the key in his pocket.
The two Westralian Labor
candidates for the Senate, Pearce-
and De Largie, propose to sink
the fiscal issue and advocate that
the fiscal question shall be settled
by referendum. That is certainly
the best idea of all; but. Perth
Morning Herald very pertinently
asks : Supposing the Federal Par-
liament rejects the referendum
idea, which way will Messrs. Pearce-
and De Largie vote? The long
and the short of it is that it is
time to give up “sinking the fiscal
issue.” The fiscal issue won’t sink.
It is the most buoyant thing in
politics. It would be just as easy
to drop Europe, Asia, and Africa ; and a man
might as well try to sink his own past, and his.
debts, and his mother-in-law, and his fatal
kidney complaint, and his affection for his.
wife’s younger sister. Why not face the thing?
Everybody knows it is there all the time.
It is solemnly alleged that when John
Forrest was leaving the W.A. Premiership to be-
Federal Minister for Stoush, he offered the inherit-
ance to Throssell on condition that the latter would
take all his orders from Forrest. Bigjohn, though
no longer W.A. Premier, was to run the Govern-
ment by postcard from the Federal capital. The
offer was declined. Several other persons are said
to have refused it on similar terms, and Bigjohn
had an anxious time hawking the billet around as
if it was a suspected sausage on a plate. In the
end Throssell got it without conditions. That is
how the legend goes, anyhow.
Melb. Argus has been trying its hardest
to work up a case against Barton, whom it charges
with having said that the British Army was a
shocking aggregation of slum weaklings and
gutter-bred ruffians. Barton’s words would not
boar any such construction, but a whole stream of
ardent Argus loyalists and foaming Jingoes bore
down upon the Fat paper’s late idol, and stoned
him with hard words and frantic abuse, finding
him a shocking pro-Boer, a foe to dear old Eng-
land, and everything that is hateful to true Im-
perialists and flea-bitten C’s.M.G. Fortunately
for Premier Barton, the day has gone by when
this kind of thing could totally damn an Aus-
tralian politician. The Argus is a little late,
that is all.
Sydney Telegraph is never done grieving
over Barton’s dissimulation, and his desire to
dodge the real issue, in putting “ the defence of
the Commonwealth Constitution ” in the fore-
front of his policy. It wants to know' who is
endangering the Constitution, and why Barton
should get votes on the ground that he is going to
defend something which is quite safe. Which is
true enough—yet Barton’s whole mistake arose
through his inability to understand the depth
and vastness of the Telegraph’s shiftiness. That
paper declared wildly at Referendum time that it
and Dibbs and Haynes and Kohen with a “K,”
would never rest till they had radically altered
the Constitution, and Barton thought it meant
what it said. Now it is quite mad at Barton for
his foolishness in imagining for a moment that
it could possibly tell the truth.
Sargood. of the Victorian House of 48
Rich Landlords, is a candidate for the Senate,
and these are some extracts from his non-
committal address :
.... The all-important question of the Defence of the
Commonwealth will receive my earnest attention. . . .
Most careful consideration must be given to the en-
couragement and development of our important Agri-
cultural, Pastoral, Mining and Industrial interests. . . .
The existing unsatisfactory condition of affairs in the
Islands of the Pacific demands prompt action. . . . Other
subjects, such as the taking over by the Federal Parlia-
ment of the State Railways and State Debts, the Improve-
ment of our Postal, Telegraphic and Telephonic services,
and the very important question of the Federal Supreme
Court will require early consideration.
Sargood is also in favor, to some extent, of Old
Age Pensions, Industrial Arbitration, and, in a
very dubious way, the Exclusion of Nigger Labor.
But the bulk of his creed is as above—that one
thing demands prompt action, another earnest
attention, another careful consideration, and some
other things need early consideration. And that
sort of tale tells nothing. Judas Iscariot gave a
certain matter his early consideration, and he
considered it so badly that he has been a dis-
paraged man ever since. This isn’t necessarily a
case in point, but it shows that even the earliest
kind of consideration doesn’t necessarily amount
to much.


A Prahran (Melb.) J.P. actually gave a
man 24 hours gaol for contempt of court in inad-
vertently putting on his hat before reaching the
Court door.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM' TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
P erio( j °f 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
S.M. Herald, under the scare heading,
“Cutting the Outposts’ Throats,” recently
printed a letter from the front in which the fol-
lowing occurs
About a week ago Gen. Clements lost 650 men at Com-
mando Nek (mostly captured). Before the attack, which
was a night one, Boers, specially selected for the task,
crept up silently in the darkness and cut the outposts’
throats, who were found stretched out dead in the morn-
lng-of course after the 650 men had been captured.
There is no doubt the attack took the British completely
by surprise, and from the Boer’s point of view was a great
success. ® u
Well, as regards the British point of view, the
latest Imperial drill-book, in its directions for
night-attacks, says:
When outposts are met, every endeavor should be made
to capture and destroy them, without noise. They must
be rushed in silence with the bayonet without cheering
or a moment’s hesitation. ®
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives ’away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The Aertex Cellular Underwear (sole
agents David Braham and Co., 73 and 75 King-
street,) is gaining more and more in popularity as
its special qualities are becoming better known. It
is practically a supplementary skin, retaining
warmth and vet permitting free evaporation ; and
it is a positive safe-guard against chills. It is
therefore, greatly valued by all classes who are
familiar with its extraordinary merits, and the list
of doctors who have recommended it for its
hygienic value would make a good-sized volume,
ihe cyclist who wheels his bike round the great
continent of Australia, and the luxurious tennis
bi° u n ,j e ?i ln hia linage to a fashionable
match, both hold the same high opinion on Aertex
Underwear. If a summer underwear had been
invented specially for Australia, such an ideal
Clothing * P ° ssess the f i ualities of Aertex Cellular
VITADATIO
The Great Herbal
Remedy,
XS YOTJE IFLRXIEJXTID.
Good News for the Afflicted.
A CASE OF HEMORRHAGE OF
THE LUNGS.
10 YEARS A SUFFERER.
NOW THOROUGHLY CURED.-READ.
Tennyson-street, Anh Hill,
„ Auckland, 23rd April, 1900.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir, —I am writing to let you know what Vitadatio
has done for me. Two years ago I had to give up my
work, as I was suffering so severely with coughing and
hemorrhage of the lungs. I could keep nothing on my
stomach, and therefore became very weak. I went under
treatment with both Melbourne and Auckland doctors.
I have also tried all kinds of medicines, including Cod
Liver Oil, but I found no relief until I tried Vitadatio,
which has proved a thorough cure. I took six bottles
before feeling any effect. I was suffering verj' much all
the time, and quite lost faith in it. However, I was per-
suaded to persevere with it, and I am very thankful that
I did, for when I was taking the seventh bottle I felt the
reaction, and from that time I have gradually improved.
I have gained a stone in weight and am now quite strong
and able to work ; in fact, I have not felt as well for ten
years. I have taken twenty-six bottles in all. I will be
glad to testify to the merits of Vitadatio to anyone who
may call on me, or I will write to anyone on receipt of
stamped envelope. You may use this testimonial in any
way you please.—Yours truly,
(Signed) WILLIAM MANTLE SMITH.
Witness: E. A. Smith, Mother of the above.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
(S DOORS FROM
STRAND ARCADE).
0:P 25 o;H,:,srr --
FORKS AND SPOONS.
Camden Buildings, 420 George St., Sydney.
A trT-NTn
“Flag Brand”
Table Forks, 25/- doz.
Dessert „ 20/- „
Table Spoons 25/- „
Dessert „ 20/- „
Tea „ 8/6 „
OLD ENGLISH OR FIDDLE PATTERN.
Write for our SO-Paged Illustrated Catalogue—POST FREE.
COMMISSIONERS OF SAVINGS BANKS.
Debentures for £lOO,OOO at 3 per gent.,
To Mature 30th April, 1910.
To be issued under the authority of the Acts of Parliament of Victoria, Nos. IfBl and 1722.
Conditions for Tenders.
“ Tenderer Debentures?” addreSSed t 0 “ The of Savings Banks, Melbourne,” and endorsed
but I'll a,nl “ D * p * rt “ ent ,1 “ 11 “ 0l be » <»■»»«*« with other Tender*
Bank, /SSSrttaJtow'S-wSTiuhe toXta&aSiSX' B * n, ‘ D ,™« W>>'««“ Con,mi,,loner, of Savin*,
S»^*3sff MWta * ,l ~^“ s^^S!aWß-£rSS«S^IS3JSs i a-S2:« I SSS:
»►
19 * mf 1 ! 1^ 8, WI be payable at the Head Office of the Commissioners in Melbourne
Government of Victoria. division a oi rare l of the Act No. 1481, and is also guaranteed by the
applicat|Tat S t°hVHLToffice oT ° f Te “ der be obtained u P on
invest amy \unds
some particular mode of investment iftherebV Doited? aL~T ?t T ent sJnde5 Jnde J r whicb the y a ct, or unless
a due investment of any such funds or prescnbed)l and ever >' such investment and purchase shall be deemed
261 h Februar V' 19<JL By order of the Board, GEO. E. EMERY, Inspector-General of Savings Banks.
MILES AHEAP OF ALL OTHERS
. . Are America’s Representative Typewriters ..
•• .'-I' '
, J
••
«fe*
The yost .
.. flensmore
.. |)eui Qentury
Why Search Elsewhere ?
WE Alone can Offer You
a Choice.
WE WILL ADVISE YOU WHICH IS BEST FOR YOUR WORK.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue—Free.
UNITED TYPEWRITER & SUPPLIES COi (largest dealers in AUSTRALIAN
114 Pitt-st., SYDNEY ; 362 .Collins-st., MELBOURNE ; Barrack-st., PERTH
Webster & Co., Brisbane ; Reeves & Co., Adelaide ; Hedley Button, Launceston and Hobart.
A PENNY SAVED
IS A PENNY GAINED
And the same applies to the many Pounds that the
NATIONAL^
CASH REGISTERS
Would Save for You.
BJ
u
Built Like a Watch
and accurately adjusted in every
detail is the ...
NATIONAL
CASH
REGISTER
which carries with it a 2 Tears’
Guarantee, showing we have
faith in the workmanship of our
machines.
National CaSl) Register C°
335 Pitt Street, Sydney.
W. A. hi UGH AM., General Manager.
Notice To Cyclists!
THERE IS NO DOUBT
about the running and wearing qualities
of ... .
m
They being far in advance of all other
Tyres for . . .
EASE OF REPAIR,
COMFORTABLE BIDING,
AND
DURABILITY.
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed
for 12 Months.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS— None
genuine unless the tube and
cover are embossed with this
<9
TRADE MARK
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre Co. of Jus. [td
AT 150 Clarence Street, Sydney;
Melbourne, Adelaide, .Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
c#»
#
BILLS
DISCOUNTED-
uxr.s.'v^r.
|||ont deplete Ltd
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
' SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
\9
Assurance Society
Limited. . . •
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Manager.
_ .—/»
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. U 4.500.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital £3,216,885 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman ; J. C. Syme,
Esa., J.P.; Hon. W, IT. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon, N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager : Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Biahopagate Street Within
corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NfW SOUTH wales:
SYDNEY * 273 GEORGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford (with asrf icy at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
|)eui Zealand Insurance Co.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Established 1879.
THE
United Australian (|)utual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital .. £500,000
Subscribed Capital .. 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass , Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Wbbsteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny. Secretary.
Queensland Smelting gempg.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
JL> Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
The Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Mnmo-pr- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J P Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. - £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share - „ _ _
holders 250 TOO ... £350,000
Shipping.
THE HOWARD" - SMITH LINL
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRN AMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, March 9, 12 Noon.
Tyrian,Saturday, Marchl6,l2Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., March 19, 5 p.i
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyonff, Tues., March 19, 5 p.
BRISBANE I
MARYBOROUGH |
ROCKHAMPTON |
BUNDABERG J
Peregrine, Sat., March 9,12 Noon.
Burxvah, Tuesday, March 12, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, March 16,12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat., March 9, 12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, March 16,12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GEEALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tbe Trustees, €*cc<itors,
AND
Ag?iKV Conjpaov Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s i
business) £8312 0 0 i
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1900 .. £6,326,343 0 Oj
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
0. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.O.
JAMES BORROVVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ... .. £2,500,000
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-GeneraL
Savings Bank, Market-street. Melbourne.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M ‘Mill an, Hon. A. W. Meeks,
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., 0. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Write for Prospectus.
ESTABLISHED 55 YEARS.
Galvanised 3-strand wire, suitable for fencing, 4,6, 10
gauge, 12s cwt.
Roofing Felt, 75ft. x 32in., 8s roll ; Tar Paper, 4s per roll.
500 tons Bolts and Nuts up to 36in. long.
Soft Soap, for Wool-washing, 14s per cwt.
Tar, in 5-gallon drums, 3s per drum.
Good Quality Hand Pumps, from 6s each.
Galvanised Gutter, Ridgecap, Downpipe, slightly
touched, 9d 6ft.-lengths.
Black, Galvanised Steampipe, \ to Bin. diameter.
Milk Dishes, 20in. 13s 6d, 22in. 15s doz. ; Blueware Dish-
covers 16s doz.
Black, Green, Slate, Blue Paint,,lBs per cwt.
Slightly-damaged Wire Nails, from 1J to 6iri. 9s. per cwt.
Copper Boilers up to 120 gallons.
Copper Boilers, 25 gallons, 35s each.
Bullock Leading, Drag, and Back Chains, 2d per lb.
Bullock Bows, Id lb. : long-linked | Chain, 12s cwt.
Good Quality Fuze, in cases 500 coils, 4|d per coil.
Navvy and Road Picks, 18s doz. ; Shovels, 18s doz.
Utica" Washing Compound, 9s per cwt.
Wooden Split Pullies, 20in. x 3 x 3| face, 5s each.
Fruit Press, 1,4 s 6d; 2,8 s 6d. Williams’s Salting Pumps,
35s each.
Hay Knives, 3s 6d each ; American Axes, 3s 6d ; Snaring
Wire, 3d lb.
Sheepshear Comb Plates, 2s 6d per doz. for machines.
V.R.L. Ploughshares, 10s. doz. ; E 2. Slides, 7s 6d each.
Beater Plates for machines, 3s 6d pair.
Slightly-touched Steel Mattress Wire; 19 to 22 gauge, 10s
cwt.
Crosscut Saws, 6ft., 6s ; Pitt Saws, 7s 6d each ; Rabbit
Traps, 9s doz.
Cut Lath Nails, £lO ton ; 3in. Patent Nails, £lO per ton.
lin. Octogan Steel, £2O ton.
Importers, Builders, Contractors, Engineers, Plumbers,
Gasfitters, Cabinet-makers’, and General Ironmongery
and Painters’ Materials.
JOHN MACINTOSH AND SONS,
Wholesale and Retail Ironmongers,
307, 321, 276, 278 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
9
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send foi ■ Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, ifee.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 CEORCE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne , Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
RUNIC, 12,380 tons, to Sail Bth March.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
MEDIC, AFRIC, SUEVIC and PERSIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most, liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout.
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell-st., Sydney, and Watt-st., Newcastle.
TO GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE,
via AMERICA.
A. AND A. LINE.
TO ENGLAND IN 30 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE,
BY THREE MAGNIFICENT NEW TWIN - SCREW
STEAMSHIPS,
EACH OF 6000 TONS AND 8000 HORSE-POWER.
BUILT EXPRESSLY FOR THE SERVICE BY THE
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF
SAN FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line leave Sydney and Auckland for
Tutuila (Samoa), Honolulu, and San Francisco every
three weeks, as under
Passengers booked to all the principal parts of
EUROPE, UNITED STATES and CANADA
AT LOWEST FARES.
Passengers are booked through to San Francisco, Liver-
pool, London and chief cities of the Continent of Europe,
with special advantages, and have choice of the unrivalled
Atlantic Steamship Lines of the American, Cunard, In-
man, White Star, and other Companies, according to fare.
Full particulars, Illustrated Guide Maps, etc., gratis on
application to
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OFN.Z., Ltd.,
Equitable Building, George-street, nextG.P.O.
UNT. 33. L.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000 ; Over 3f million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
Leaving Melbourne Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW
BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA, MACASSAR & BATAVIA.
And regularly thereafter every six weeks.
[ Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
| WEBER LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-st., Sydney.
Medical.
MASON’S EXTRACT
OF HERBS.
NO OTHER EXTRACT MAKES
BEER
LIKE-IT.
The Best of all
Beverages and
the Cheapest.
NON-
INTOXICATING,
DELICIOUS,
WHOLESOME.
ft
*sr
Agents :
GOLLIN & CO., Sydney and Melbourne.
NEWBALL & MASON
NOTTINGHAM,
ENGLAND.
D
RUNKENNESS
Positively CURED by Administering
EUCRASY
It can be given in
drink or food with-
out the subject’s knowledge. Perfectly Harmless, and
will effect a Speedy Cure. Write TO-DAY for Free Book.
Address THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney.
&
*s
Those
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
USe mm
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
ALL CHEMISTS.
SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness and De-
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope to IVIr.
W. KELLOGG, Melb. Chambers, Pitt-street, Sydney.
. Shipping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPCCT
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Bullarra, Saturday,
March 9. (Without
Transhipment.)
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
March 23.
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Adelaide, Friday,
March 15.
lletit and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
■Saloon Passage ticket,s are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.G.S.N. Co. and VV. Howard Smith .and
Sons. For Adelaide and VV.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. C,
OY. LTD.
royal mail coastal service.
the PO PULA it PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships, as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOVVN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
T'assent/er Accommodation, Attendance and
On isin e a nri vailcd.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to eond tions to be ascertained on applic .tion.
For Adelaide and \V. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P. AND oT'coSS NY
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows r—•
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
♦Calling at Hobart.
The Company’s steamers now call at Fremantlp
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON-Single, £3B lOsto £77
Ditto Ditto Return £7l 10s to £l2l
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial pores
are available for lteturn by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on applic.ition
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
t.ralia, Exchange Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Con! raot with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER 1)E THUY, Principal Agent.
Huddart, parker & (Jo’s Qine
—TO—
M EL BOURN E, HOB A I IT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORI’S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. END A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers wer ■ specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
IDlliraith.lD^acharntCi-
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALGOOELIE, 4500 TONS,
COOLGAB3DIE, 3500 TONS,
SAIL FORTNIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine,
M'ILWRAITH, IWI'EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle.
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & 00. Ltd.


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
GENUINE REMEDIES
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc.
ALP ALINE
Vitality Pills
Rre the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long- standing'. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Seres from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy' is Purely’ Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiyeness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineXJniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alf aline
Herhml Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVICE FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Rassmussen.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders -A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 68. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifler— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifler—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Wart%
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectua
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts ” Price 215., posted.
Herr Hans peter RASSMUSSEN,
HEAD
OFFICE
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BRISBANE : 309 Queen-street (near Creek-street).
MELBO URNE: 150 BourUe-street (opp. Eastern Marhets),
: 154 Bundle-street (near Yorlc Hotel).
N.Z., WELLINGTON : 91 Lambton Quay.
BERTH : 181 Hay-street. ~
KALGOORLIE : Hannan-street (next LindelVs),
BOULDER CITY : Eiesse-street. "
FIiEMANTLE\ Henry-street.
At Perth (W.A.), a long way back in last
year, two things happened : It was found that
some persons connected with Perth Ice Co., in
which Premier Eorrest and many of his friends
were shareholders, had perpetrated a series of
huge and elaborate frauds on the railway depart-
ment ; and Kalgoorlie Sun used rather intem-
perate language about a railway - official whose
failure to detect these frauds it regarded as re-
markable. In the case of the paper, which only
got angry about the frauds, justice whirled with
such velocity that the proprietors were run in,
bailed out, committed, tried for criminal libel,
and (to the disgust of many affluent gentlemen)
acquitted, many weeks ago. But only the other day
did the law get so far as committing for trial the
m<?n who are supposed to have done the fraud.
Westralian law varies in speed from a tombstone
to a streak of lightning, according to circum-
stances.
Discovered recently in the Mount Kosci-
usko district of N.S.W. distinct evidence—in the
grooving of the granite rock —of the former
presence of glaciers probably 200 ft. in vertical
thickness. It is therefore now considered certain,
as had been previously surmised by scientists,
that Australia has had its glacial period in com-
paratively recent times.
According to an article by Miss Barnicoat,
of Maoriland, in an English paper, adult suffrage
has not improved the personnel of M.L. Parlia-
ment. In the empire city (Wellington), she says,
two out of the three representatives are “ the
biggest scoundrels to be found outside the four
walls of a gaol.” Refined satire is evidently not
Miss Barnieoat’s strong point. The public are
much exercised as to which is the virtuous third,
and inquiries from the audience of every meeting
the libelled ones attend are generally answered by
each of the three M’s.H.R. taking the people into
their confidence in turn, and telling them quietly
that they think the “other two” must be the
black-sheep.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
"with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
jou. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
maybe discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation : but do not, for I CAN
■CDKK YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
•others have failed is no reason for not now being cured
Send atonce for B
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores’
1 -., Gr< i.? t B ri ‘2 in > 1/lid. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, /3, Earnngdon-street, London, England
Agents i ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
FRINGES,
Ifttunl Curly, from 8/8 eaA,
ruirrs »n<i tails,
ttHn. long, all real befck
CUTTINGS & COMBUMt
•orlted up, 2/G per 02.
\Va are the cheapostlo tap
trail* for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H.Wgzgll.
ll# WrlilAM STBBET.
earner of Palmer-atroet,
SYDNEY.
CkbU Tram wiil slop at Doo*.
Send stamps for (all Price U«V
t*tm& atteotioo'giyen to Country Or4tr%
Medical.
Dr. Box well’s
FAMOUS i
a* - '
SILENT PILLS.
N ON-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEC-
TIVE. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert —Dr.
Boxwell haying been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
all leading Wholesale Druggists in Australia or Pill
Manufacturing Co., 539 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
" COMMON SENSE EAR Eli UM.”
rtHEi
[deaf
4
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-da.v for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
CQURAUD’S FRENCH DERMATIC PILLS
A SILENT but Sure Remedy for bringing to the face of
Woman that happy flush which means that health
and happiness are established once again. Universally
used by the ladies of France. Guaranteed to produce the
result in an incredibly short time. Mrs. Thompson,
Cardigan-street, Carlton, says : “I was for three months
taking all sorts of remedies—wrinkled, anguish-stricken,
and careworn ; but now bright and happy-looking for,
thanks to Mons. Gouraud’s Pills, I am myself again.”
Price per box, posted anywhere, 5/6. Write to PILL
MANUFACTURING CO., Elizabeth-st., North Melbourne.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. V/A- each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT &. COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
Medical.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE'S
fHLORODYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, & c. 3 bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
30 Pays' Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing-, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment , Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin 4A /
Nasal Ointment, only lv/" Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
LANGSTON’
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible Remedy,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C-S. Eng:.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
■ gag
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
INVENTOR OP Dr. ROBERTS*
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c.
use Dr . ROBERTS*
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. iAd. and 2s. od. each of all Drue:
Stores.
Sole Makers: BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd,
BRIDPORT, England.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
fpHESE Famous Pills are now universally used through
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison o '
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on t;
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posted, ss. 6d. per
box. Write to A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street North,
Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-street, Prahran,
Melb. says: “Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
diate relief, although I had during two months previoui
tried all sorts of remedies without success.”
(EE
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE 800
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address L.D.1., ,300 Collins St., Melbourn


The Bananalanders can fairly claim to be up-to-
date in things military, as the Queensland Government
have purchased 51 Massey-Harris bicycles with which to
equip the Cycle Corps of the sth Contingent about to
start for South Africa. This is the first Military Cycle
Corps established in Australia. *
Going through Hyde Park, Sydney, on
Saturday night, a citizen met a man who not only
had been robbed of his Labor Bureau ticket,
whilst slumbering under No. 1 elm, but was re-
lieved of coat, vest, shirt, hat, and trousers ! The
Foorce happening to eye a lydy who was enjoying
the fun, commandeered her skirt and cloak, and
lodged poor Adam in No. 3 Police Station.
Piles and their Cure. —The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp of Sydney, entitled, “ Piles, and
the Way to Cure Them,” without operation, sent
free, on application to the Depdt, 259 George-
street, Sydney, or Frank Buckhurst, chemist,
Melbourne.*
TO CURE SORE EYES,
Apply Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment, and
avoid intense suffering. Never be without it.
Over 50 years in use. Refuse all substitutes. Pots,
2s. Sold everywhere.
A Lady’s Evidence.
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS CURED
BILIOUSNESS AND HEADACHES.
“ Having been a sufferer from biliousness and
headaches, and having tried different medicines,
also doctor’s powders for the head, but getting no
relief from them, and seeing Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills advertised, I purchased a bottle, and
the first dose relieved me. My husband also uses
them. I recommend them to all my friends
suffering the same as I was. I may say I have
been using them some time, and never known
them to fail. You may make what use you like
of this.” This is the evidence of Mrs. Noble,
Woid’s Avenue, Hurstville, N.S.W. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills positively cure biliousness, indi-
gestion, constipation, dyspepsia, headaches, liver
and kidney complaints, pimples, and blotches.
Sold by chemists and storekeepers, price Is. lfd.
per bottle or six bottles 6s. Gd. Sole proprietors,
The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd. (Australasian
Depot), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney. Packed in
amber bottles, and the full name blown thereon.
N.S.W. State Labor Leader M‘Gowen’s
candid statement that Reid would move a voteof
want of confidence on the Barton Govt, in the
House of Representatives, no matter what policy
the Govt, might bring forward, and his emphatic
statement that he would vote in the House to give
the Ministry a fair trial, came as an electric shock
to the N.S.W. Freetrade Association. As leader
of the “solids,” M'Gowen’s sizing-up of the situa-
tion must have considerable influence in the Labor
caucus, and it cannot be pleasant reading to the
Freetrade party, which has already nominated as
running on the Freetrade ticket at least three
Labor members for want of the slightest hope of
successfully opposing them.
The fruit crop is very good this year, and
the prudent housekeeper is busy looking after the
year’s supply of preserves and tilling up shortages
m Jam Jars. There is but little satisfaction in
using a common, badly-fitting, badly-made jaf,
which, moreover, is liable to break when the fruit
is poured in. Some new patterns have been intro-
duced this year by M’Lean Bros, and Rigg, Ltd.,
Melb. and Sydney. Notably the Gilchrist —this is
a large-mouthed jar, with porcelain immerser ;
and the Canton jar, a clear, white glass, with easy-
fitting spring top showing the contents to the best
advantage.*
A member of N.S.W. Assembly attempted
to repeat John Haynes’ successful petition or
round-robin dodge a week or two back. He pre-
pared a document demanding of W. J. Lyne that
the latter should resign instanter his position as
Premier of N.S.W., consequent upon his having
accepted a portfolio under Barton. A Ministerial
supporter, having heard of this, managed to get
the long politician up to dinner at the House
when an extra number of members were present.
During a lull in the general conversation this
member announced the fact that a movement was
afoot to oust the Premier, and loudly asked if any
of those at the table had heard of it. “ What ? ”
demanded the enraged Lyne. Those present who
had signed the petition smiled in a sickly fashion,
and joined with the others in laughing at the idea.
No one, including Mr. T. W. Taylor, member for
Liverpool, had got the slightest idea of what the
interrogator was driving at, and the subject
dropped hurriedly. And that was the last heard
of the petition.
John Norton, who is running for the
Senate as a “State Righter,” on the representa-
tion of N.S.W. in the Federal Parliament:
Joint Sittings.—Here are a total of 111 members. In a
joint sitting on disagreement between the two Houses
N.S. Wales would be in a hopeless, helpless minority.
She must not—recent experience shows that she dare not
—count for security of her State rights on Victoria and
the minority States ; she cannot even count on the whole
of her own delegates. Even if she can reckon on all six of
her Senators to stand by her, amid the mercenary
manoeuvres and corrupt cabals of Federal policy in Mel-
bourne, she must be prepared to see three or four of her
representatives from the Riverina district of N.S.W. on
the side of Victoria whenever a conflict of interests be-
tween Sydney and Melbourne arises.
Surely a shocking state of affairs ! N.S.W., with
one-third of the population of the Commonwealth,
is actually out-voted by the remaining two-thirds.
To remedy this John Norton is to be returned for
the Senate. Norton’s motto is “State Rights”
(for N.S.W.). The “minority” states, the
“bankrupt” states, the “corrupt” states, the
other states have no rights.
The Korangamite (Vic.) electorate has
been reduced to the sad necessity of advertising,
practically, its need of a Liberal candidate for the
Federal House of Reps. —somebody who will put
up a fair fight against Squatter Manifold. Up to
last week young Manifold was the only canvasser
for Korangamite’s vote and interest. Seemingly,
his propputty and his polo-playing represent his
sole claims to a seat in the House. He is a
Moderate Tariffer of the Freetrade tint, and if
he gets the seat the hard-shell Tories will
promptly educate him in their old . political
vices, and make a public calamity of him. Far
better that J. C. Manifold should remain a
breezy capitalist and a respectable owner of
jumping horses. The Korangamite electorate
includes Warmambool, so at time of writing the
Liberal vote was under offer to Jack Murray,
M.L.A.
The Commissioners of Savings Banks
invite tenders for £lOO,OOO at 3 per cent,
debentures, to mature in 1910. The debentures
will be issued in denominations of £5OO or £lOO as
may be desired by successful tenderers. _ The
minimum is fixed at £97. Brokers will be
allowed a commission of a per cent.*
GOVERNMENT EXPERTS have set the seal of quality upon
IN VICTORIA IT IS THE STANDARD G.P.O. BICYCLE and its success has heen
THE QUEENSLAND GOVT. EXPERTS HAVE also PURCHASED 51 MASSEYS TO EQUIP THE 6th
CONTINGENT CYCLE CORPS FOR SOUTH AFRICA h
Gould you have any better proof of Quality ?
'SYDNEY DEPOT ; 385 GEORGE STREET.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor 15. LAMBL, of Warsaw. Professor of Clinica' Medicine at the University, writes—
Funva^''Janos Bitter Wafer, besides being ar excellent aperient,
h»« proved specially efficacious in tbe treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity
Averagb Dose — A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
Note the name “Hunyadl Janos, 1 ' the signature of the Proprietor,
' ANDREAS BAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
The
Original
JOHN JAMESON WHISHT
Agents:
J. Barre Johnston & Co„
Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Hot, muggy weather for the first day of V.R.C-
meeting had a bad effect on gate-money receipts, but it
u prevent six first favorites getting home in the
half-dozen events. And because it was a favorites’ day
the horse-reporters and bookmakers declared, as usual,
that the public had a great time, whereas the mob of
small punters mostly dropped their coin. Starting prices
of the winners make a beautiful study in Ikey Mo betting :
Ist race 6 to 4 against winner
2nd 4 to 1 on „
3rd sto 2 against „
4th 6 to 2 on „
6 th „ Even money on „
6th „ 2to 1 against ~
Was there any punter who had the marvellous luck to
put a sovereign (limiting himself to one bet for each) on
every winner, at starting price, that lucky mortal landed
£7 Bs. as the result of his phenomenal achievement. In
the one race where his twenty shillings investment yielded
fifty “ bob ” there were 18 runners, and two of the beaten
ones started at not more than 9 to 2, and 7 to 1 respec-
tively. The public don’t prosper on such days as
Saturday. A few heavy backers and followers of stables
take lumps of money from the books who have previously
taken pecks of gold and silver coinage from the many-
headed. Prices are too short to tempt small investors.
They support outsiders on the off-chance—and lose.
They want the Tote, in which the market is made by
backers, not dominated by Ikeys according to early stable
wagers and secret information as to what is “ going ” and
what is “ stiff.” They want the Tote, the democratic
Tote, the one-horse-one-price Tote.
The tote doesn’t offer all the cream of the
market to the initiated few, and all the sour skimmed
milk to the multitude. It encourages the Public to take
turn and turn about at backing favorites and outsiders,
the short price being not so absurdly short as Ikey’s
skimmed milk quotation, and the off-chance prices being
on an average about four times as long as the loud-voiced
gentleman’s most generous offers. Saturday’s racing at
Flemington must have been arranged by Providence for
the encouragement of a Tote Bill in Vic. and N.S.W.
In the light of the above list of figures Isaac
Moses, the bagman, stands condemned. Let him bet
h owners and trainers and sharps at his club if they
want him, but give, O give the public a Tote on the
course.
The Newmarket Handicap race this year was a
battle between recognised fliers, and a triumph for
recent “form.” Wakeful, the Oakleigh Plate heroine,
Won from Fulminate and Advance, because they were
each of them giving more than 301 b. to the mare, but she
didn’t prove to be quite such a “ cert.” as the St. Albans’
people had reckoned her when they decided to take 6’s
and 7’s to 1 for their money earlier in the week. All the
same Wakeful ran up to her trial or thereabouts, and
the story of her trial served to satisfy the astute
William Forrester that he hadn’t got the best chance of
winning the Newmarket. When the whisper went
around that Forrester was afraid of Wakeful, his own
horse, The Watch Dog got a severe knock in the betting.
Then he took some of the long prices and brought the
Dog back into favor. Last year’s winner started at 7’s,
and seemed to be going strong until its near neighbor
Wakeful began to assert a superiority. Then Watch Dog
dropped back, finishing at the tail-end of the field.
Advance was the only one that appeared to have
a chance of beating Wakeful a furlong from home, but in
the last 100yds., while Leslie M'Donald’s mare was making
a decisive spurt, it seemed that Fulminate outstayed the
Maorilander, beating him for condition rather than speed.
Both the heavy-weights ran a great race. The Advance
people, who had made a long journey in expectation of
his victory, gave the gallant black steed a big round of
applause for running third. Good sports, these visitors,
who could raise an enthusiastic shout in honor of the
animal that had lost them their money. They come from
a country where the Turf has been improved by the Tote.
* • * *
Interesting to note that prior to Wakeful’s vic-
tory no starter in any previous Newmarket succeeded
under a penalty. Difference in estimates of Wakeful’s
then probable capabilities held by Vic. and N.S.W. han-
dicappers when Newmarket, Doncaster, and Sydney Cup
weights were allotted, is interesting now. Mr. Dakin
S r ic.) let her into the big sprint with 6.10, while Mr.
aly’s impost for the Doncaster was 7.3, though the
journey is 2 furlongs longer.
• • * •
Mares have often had a say in first money of
Newmarket H'cap. Maid of Avenel, Calumny, Lady
Ellen, Aspen (twice), Hyacinth, Tyropean, Sedition, Wild
Rose, Laundress, Maluma, and Amiable appear in the
long list of successful nags. Only one winner carried the
same load as Wakeful, who is the eleventh four-year-old
to “ cop.” Exactly the same number of five-year-olds
scored. The last was the 28th. of these races. Best
judges agree that over 6 furlongs Fulminate never had
an equal among Australian mares.
* * * *
Wakeful’s Newmarket win penalises her to the
extent of 71b. in Doncaster Handicap, and 101 b. in Sydney
Cup. She’ll therefore carry 7.10 in each of the big A.J.O.
events, and shouldn’t find the mile too great a task, what-
ever may be said of the long race.
* • * *
Had Fulminate (second) or Advance (third) got
home in Newmarket Handicap, either of theirs would
have been the greatest burden taken to the front in this
race. First-named had 9.10 and Advance 9.11. Bunge-
bah’s performance was the best in this respect, for he had
9.3 up. Two years subsequently Fortunatus scored with
just lib. less. Other winners near were Cranbrook and
Amiable 8.12, and Sultan 8.10. Poodle (9.3) was second
to Sultan. Lochiel carried 9.4 when he followed Sedi-
tion (7.3) past the post. Boz (10.1) was second to Church-
ill (8.4), and Stand Off (9st.) occupied a similar position
to The Watchdog (7.4) last year. Carbine (8.12) could
get no closer than third to Sedition and Lochiel, who, a
few days later, accounted for Australia’s whilom pheno-
menon in the Australian Cup. Hence ’twill be seen that
Fulminate and Advance did wonderfully well to fill
places—particularly Fulminate, who, seeing that she is a
mare, was actually conceding weight to the Maorilander
—marvel and all though he is said to be.
*** - *
Rupert Olarke won another two races on
Saturday—the rich Sires Produce Stakes and the Essen-
don Stakes. The latter event was a picnic for Scobie’s
stable. Rupert supplied the hot pot and ultimate win-
ner in La Carabine, and the place monies (£2OO and £100)
went to his relative, Mr. Cuniiuing (otherwise “Forrest”)
and Malster Orr. The odd thing was that Clean Sweep,
with a recent brilliant defeat of Paul Prv in his favor,
went out at Bto 1, whereas Malster started at 2’s. Clean
Sweep made a great pace up to the distance where La
Carabine came out and won by a length. The Derby
winner ran a rather bad third all the way round. The
time, 2min. 35|sec. was a Flemington record for 14 miles,
and the result suggested that the Champion 'Stakes
to-day (Thursday) will be a good thing for Clean Sweep
and La Carabine “ mixed.” If Clean Sweep is the stable
fancy the colt should win, but rumor says La Carabine
will be the favored one.
• • • •
Saturday was the eighth time that only three
nags contested R.R.C. St. Leger. On six occasions two
lined up. Volley beat the biggest field (7) in ’B9.
Essendon Stakes at Flemington (Vie.), on Sat-
urday supplied something rarely Witnessed. Three nags
—La Carabine, Clean Sweep and Malster—from one stable
(Scobie'e), but differently owned, filled the places as
named. All were legitimately backed. The journey
(li miles) was thrown behind only £-sec. in excess of Fairy
Prince’s and Survivor’s record (2.35), and is the best ever
done under w.f.a. conditions this side of the line.
* •
Likely winners at Flemington during the last
two days of the meeting are Watch Dog, Juggler,
Advance, Clean Sweep, La Carabine, Dreamland and
Boreas.
* • • *
But the dangers of trying to pick ’em before they
are actually at the post were rather strikingly exemplified
in the cases of Commander and Gosport for the New-
market Handicap and Australian Cup. Up to the night
of Feb. 22 the much-improved Gosport and the dark
horse Commander looked a promising “double” for any
punter to put £ 1 on. That night Gosport hurt his shoul-
der. Four or five days later Commander struck his leg.
Each horse had to be scratched for his big engagement.
Had they both gone to the post in the.best of health and
spirits the chances would have been quite 3 to 1 against
them getting what is reckoned a good run, free from
interference or other mishaps. And yet punters will pre-
sently be whispering “good things,” not to say “moral
certs.," for handicaps that are four or five months distant.
• » * «
Number 6 won the first three races at Sandown
(Melb.) last week. On this coincidence backers rushed
that number (Carita) in the fourth event, only to see the
mare finish almost last. They should have remembered
the mark of the beast, 666, and stopped.
* * • •
G. G. Stead had a picnic at Christchurch (M.L.)
midsummer meeting, scoring seven wins out of 10 starts ;
14 races programmed. His two-vear-old flier Menschikoff
galloped over Middle Park Plate (six furlongs) with
ridiculous ease in 1.14—a second below the Aus. record.
• * * •
Messrs. Slate and M'Millan dropped upon a
beautiful mare’s nest over the confounding of trotters
Maoriland Shylock and Australian Shylock. Writer knows
for an absolute certainty that at the time M.L. Shylock
was racing in Maoriland his namesake was being shown
at Singleton (N.S.W.) Show, a fact which can be proved
by a perusal of the Singleton programme.
♦ * * •
Whilom sensational mare Mora won’t worry
punters again. She was bought in Sydney for the stud
last week and fetched 500 gs.
* • • •
Erstwhile Australian orack Merloolas died in
India lately. The big Queenslander cost his latest owner
2000 gs. and never once showed abroad anything like his
local form.
• • * *
Racing bits from the Bulletin’s London cor-
respondent:—“The Grafter heads the weights for the
Lincolnshire Handicap with 9.2, Syerla 7.6 and Australian
Star 7st. The last is to go over hurdles for Sandown
Grand Prize, two miles, 11.3, and should win; but
he’s a fine, reliable disappointer. These three horses are
the most prominent Anglo-Austral representatives in the
big handicaps. Manifesto, the G.N. winner of ’97 and ’99,
has top weight (12.10) for the 4£ miles at Liverpool in
March, and, although 13 years old, may be first home.
It is likely that ‘ all the King’s horses ’ will be struck
out of their numerous engagements. He appears in the
calendar as ‘ His Majesty,’ and with the great Diamond
Jubilee had already a safe mortgage on the three £lO,OOO
events—the Princess of Wales Stakes, the Eclipse and the
Jockey Club Stakes.”
• * • •
A big field of, so far, very mediocre candidates
are entered for the New South Wales Senate Stakes. To
lend the contest some shadow of public interest Tattersall
should start a consultation on the event.
* * * *
Seventh round of Sydney Senior Grade Cricket
began Saturday. Wickets favored batsmen, but they did
nothing sensational. N. Sydney came out best in this
respect, notching 350 for six wickets—of which R. A.
Duff made 185, his third consecutive century ; others
were 121 against Redfern, and 227 (not out) against Nor-
thern District.
* * • •
M'Kibbin has recovered bowling form. Play-
ing for Pt. Adelaide he captured 7 West Torrens wickets
for 43 (his side only won by 12 runs) and on following
Saturday against E. Adelaide (Clem Hill’s team, which is
running top) he took 8 wickets for 80 in a score of 216.
M'Kibbin was, until recently, a solicitor’s clerk.
* * * *
Victorian tennis players soundly beat S.A.
representatives on Adelaide Jubilee Oval last week, the
latter only securing one solitary set. S.A. was expected,
in Kearney’s absence, to make a great show, but failed
utterly. Two Victorian men, Heath and Barnard, per-
formed grandly and promise to develop into champions,
but Bowen, S.A.’s champion, was the only local man to
show any form.
* * * *
Australian pigeon-shots Messrs. Fitz Hill, Don
Mackintosh, Kenna and Eales were at Monte Carlo to
compete for the blue ribbon of Continental pigeon-shoot-
ing—the Grand Prix Du Casino —but news of the Queen’s
death stopped them. All had previously shown fine
form. Conditions of the shoot usually are—twelve birds,
three at 25 and nine at 27 metres. Four are shot at on
the first and eight on the second day. What a good
thing the Australians missed is shown by the fact that of
83 shooters 9 (of whom 3 were Italians, 3 Belgians and 2
Frenchmen) killed 4 each. During the previous week
Mr. Fitz Hill (Sydney) had tied for one of the good prizes.
* ♦ * *
’Ome mail tells that Australian pigeon-shot
Don. Mackintosh won the Prix Curling at Monte Carlo
(Jan. 15). Cable was silent regarding this. 45 cracks
competed. Mac. “grassed” 10 in succession, and was in
such form that next and following days saw him whack
several sweeps. In one, 28 out of the 50 birds trapped
fot away. They were small English blue rocks. London
portsman’s Monte Carlo correspondent says of Mr. A.
W. Eales, the crack N.S.W. shot, who had just arrived—
“ He has received the support of the ring, through the
manner in which he uses his first barrel here where the
limited boundary must be puzzling to those who get
‘ snipers ’ from the end traps.”
* • • *
“Slip”: Re Bulletin par. (23/2/’01) anent
doping dogs. Practice has been common and was par-
ticularly noticeable last season. Officials of N.S.W.
Coursing Association must have been blind not to have
seen what was plain to most others. Betting indicated it
often. The better dog of a brace would open up and
continue sometime a 3 to 1 on favorite, but before the
pair got to the slips ’twould be the other way about.
Instances of “ ringing-in” were frequent and barefaced,
but only at the latter end of the season was any action
taken, and then not till those operating poked the thing
under the very noses of officials with impudence born of
long immunity.
m * * *
Re par. herein (2/2/’01) re oyclisfc Bilmartin’s
disqualification and the subsequent mysterious lifting of
the embargo by N.S. W. League. ’Tis now explained that
the racing-board which shut down on him had ceased
to exist, whereupon the new board straightway con-
sidered the matter and failed to see that punishment was
called for, hence old Plugger’s quick re-appearance. The
management was in a mess till this way out occurred to
it.
» • • *
The recent billiard match at Brisbane between
Fred Weiss and lad Joe Smith, wherein Weiss conceded
500 in 1000, showed that the N.S.W. man had profited
much by his experience with Roberts. When scores stood,
Smith, 899; Weiss, 673; the latter rose to the occasion,
and totted up the necessary points to go out; then con-
tinuing, he accumulated 426. Weiss’ absolute best break,
so far, is 463 against Bragge, of Melb.
• * * •
N.S.W. plunging premiership, contested Feb.
87, at Ooogee, supplied a fresh Australian record. W.
M'Donald won with 68ft. 7£in. Previous holder (W. S.
Coates) was second (61ft.). and Keers, who represented
N.S.W. in the Australasian plunging supremacy t’other
day, just got into third position with 60ft. 2in. Bethel’s
60ft! brought him a close fourth. Conditions allowed
three efforts and limited the duration of each to lmin.
Worth mentioning that all four men named got their best
work in at the last attempt. M'Donald’s feat wipes out
W. H. Peate’s figures (66ft. lOJin) created four years ago
and with J-min. longer limit. Previous best under same
conditions as M'Donald’s performance was ex champion
Coates’ 61ft. 6£in. done at same place two years ago. The
world’s record (78ft. 9in.) belongs to Britisher Taylor, who
made it in ’9B.
* * • *
Apropos N.S.W. plunging supremacy : Latest
holder of the title (M'Donald) is a big, burly swimmer.
Others who preceded him were likewise —notably Harry
Mulcahy (about list), “Tom” Moloney (perhaps 16st.),
and Pierce Stapleton (probably 17 or 18st.). First,
second, and fourth in this year’s contest were all weighty
men, and the world’s record holder, Taylor (England)
scales unusually high. Bulk within reason is almost
essential, as it provides great floating power and impetus.
Keers (third to M'Donald Coates last week) is by far the
best at his poundage (about lOst.) N.S.W. has ever had.
* • • •
Swimmer Dick Cavill’a achievements this season
have been extraordinary and much ahead of anything
ever previously done in Australia. Brothers “ Ernie,”
“ Turns,” Percy and “Sid,” who preceded Dick, were bril-
liant in their time, but the latest development of that
remarkable aquatic family easily tops them all. Last
month Dick swept the board of every Australasian cham-
pionship from 100yds. to a mile and, so far in present
year, has appropriated 220yds., 300yds., 440yds. and half-
mile local supremacies. Prospects of his adding to the
bunch ere winter comes round are more than rosy. Dick
owns Australasian records for 300yds. (3m. 404-55.),
600yds. (6m. 521-55.), and one mile (26m. 521-55.). The
latter (strangely enough) is shared to the fraction with
his brother Percy now touring Yankeedom.
• * * *
At Western (Vic.) S.C. carnival at Geelong the
quarter-mile swimming supremacy of the State went to
A. J. Pearson, in 6.29 1-5, which is good for Victoria but
about second-class in N.S.W. Saturday last, at Middle
Brighton baths, Pearson won Vic. half-mile premiership
by 10yds. from ex-champion T. Maynard, in 14m. 6s.
Which is very slow.
* * * *
Saturday last Waverley beat Victoria Park and
won N.S.W. bowling pennant, emblematic of club
supremacy. Both clubs reached the final without suffer-
ing defeat once. Each side had, therefore, to be beaten
twice before t’other could (lairn absolute supremacy.
Waverley secured the first match (23/2/01) by 3 points,
after an exciting finish. On second occasion, Waverley
started off with the big lead of 24 to 7 in the first 5 ends,
and ultimately won by 16 ; thus earning the right to fly
the champion flag for a year : Final of Victorian pennant
occurred same day, at Prahran, when M.O.C. put Prahran
out by 18, winning in every rink.
• • * •
Darkey Mitchell surprised Melb. pugdom by
his dashing defeat of Tot Higgins at the local Demo
Club in five rounds. Higgins has always been regarded
as invincible by all but Hegarty and M'Gowan, and even
those accomplished masters of the art needed more time
than the nigger to down him. At latest Mitchell was
matched against M'Gowan, and the fight should be the
" boshter ” of the season.
• * * *
Vic. lightweight pug Tim Hegarty — en route
’Ome—was induced to stop at Perth to fight Jack Cullen,
whom “ Cocker ” Tweedie is on his way to meet. Match
took place Wednesday last week ; 1500 people looked on.
Tim got the decision and the money in the twelfth round
after flooring his man five times successively. ’Tis likely
now that Hegarty will forego going ’Ome and come to
Sydney intent upon visiting ’Frisco in April next to meet
the Yankee feather marvel—Terry M'Govern, with whom
a match for a weighty purse and kinetoscopic privileges
has been arranged.
• * • •
Inter-State mill, at Sydney A. 0., Monday
night, ’tween Billy M'Kell (Sydney) and Silver (Melb.),
drew a good crowd, and was exciting all through. M'Kell
got the best hitting-work home, but Silver’s operations
bristled with tricks and dodges, which much discounted
the Sydneyite’s attentions, though his punches lacked sting.
He showed better condition than M'Kell, but a left jolt
fair on the point and, hey, presto ! Silver’s interest in the
proceedings ceased abruptly ere the seventh round was
half done with Right to this stage the Melbournite
appeared to have at least an even deal.
• * * *
Fight for heavy-weight supremacy of Victoria
at Melb. Democratic Club, Monday night, ’tween Irish-
man Tim Nolan (Sydney) and Tut Rvan (Melb.),
proved about the hottest and toughest struggle
ever seen in that State. Nolan had a fearful
time of it, but never winced once, and
in the 16th round fought Ryan all round the ring.
5 to 4 odds went liberally on Ryan at first, but the 4th
and sth rounds saw Nolan favorite. In the 7th and Bth,
however, Ryan came pretty well on top to the 20th, and
last —getting the verdict on points. Nolan’s great grit
was a big surprise to the onlookers.


H °M®dter
T®taee®»
m
r-W-Jl
m
/M
» \
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY CO. 187 P,T^
Telephone 3490.
15-ct. Hall-marked Brooch, 3 Diamonds and 2
Rubies centre, £3 ; with 9 fine Pearls, 35/-
9-'ct. Cable Brooch, with Turquoise and Pearls or
Opals and Pearls, 21/-
Open on Wednesday till 6 p.m,,
and Saturdays from 6.30 p.m.
to 9.30 p.m.
15-ct. Pearl and Diamond Brooch, 12 Pearls and 1
Pure Diamond, £3/10/-
9-ct. Double Bird and Heart Brooch, 7/fIL
Fairfax & Roberts, SKiffiS?
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
(Opticians by Special Appointment to his Excellency
the late Sir Robert Duff, G.O.M.G. ; his Excellency
Admiral Bridge ; the Walker Hospital, etc., etc.)
SIGHT TEBTED DAILY (GRATUITOUSLY)
By a Thoroughly Qualified Ophthalmic Optician.
SPECTACLES
At Lowest London Cash Prices.
Doctors’ Prescriptions at One-Half Ordinary Sydney
Prices.
Celebrated Uniaxial Spectacles, 10/6.
IT
IS NOT REASONABLE TO SUPPOSE
That Bill Martin would win on any but a
RED BIRD BICYCLE
In the A.N.A. You ask Why? Well, Bill wanted to win the 1901 A.N.A. and the RED BIRD was the
Best Bicycle he could get. I! you buy any other, than a RED BIRD you’ll kick yourself afterwards.
branches in every STATE. GOOIiD BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there Is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“Ellis’King-street Coffee Palace.”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION,
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
m
The depression in Mt. Morgan shares is, no
doubt, somewhat due to the lowness of the mine’s water-
supply. There is said to be but 10 weeks’ water in the
big dam. Also, the recent ladling-out of many thousands
of shares by the executors of deceased big holders hasn’t
helped the market.
r * * * *
The mining returns of Queensland for January
illustrate well the importance of water to the mining
industry. A decrease in output (as compared with Jan.,
1900) of 19,5650 z. is visible. Mt. Morgan is responsible
for 13,0000 z. of this ; Gympie shows a drop of nearly
2000 oz. Tailings and concentrates at Charters Towers
have gone down nearly 50 per cent.
* * * .
The Chillagoe “pup”—the Mangana group—
is to have a working capital of £40,000, and the parent
co. takes £60,000 cash and £lOO,OOO paid-up shares for
the property, cost of railway connection, outlay on the
mines and flotation ex’s.
* * * *
North Sheffield, G-ympie, lately crushed 102 tons
stone for the splendid- yield of 28390 z. retorted gold—
average, 270 z. 16dwt. 16gr. per ton. Div. 3s. per share,
representing £72OC ; total divs. to date, £lBl,BOO. Total
output of mine last year, 42,685 tons for 77,6650 z.
* * * *
Broken Hill mines and the scripholders in them
' ■are having their worst time since the knock-out of the
silver (metal) market eight or nine years ago, and the
subsequent collapse of the lead market. On that occa-
sion, silver, which had for years before been wobbling
between 3s. 3d. and 4s. 3d., shot up to 4s. Bd. on Win-
dom’s U.S. Silver-Purchase Bill; and then in a few weeks
there was a topple to 2s. 7d. and a gradual slide to Is.
lid. The price of lead had jumped forward with that of
silver; but production was so enormously stimulated
that the price came down to £9 in 1894. From that there
has been a gradual recovery until last year £lB was
touched ; and for the whole of the second half-year, one
co., the South, averaged £l7 6s. 4d. Now lead has gone
back to about £l4 10s. ; and, as the silver market has not
recovered much, two of the weakest mines, the Junction
and the Junction North, have shut down, sending
some 500 or 600 men adrift; the South (which last
year made £60,000 profit) has had to “ pass ” its regular
div. ; and others, if they haven’t had to do as the first-
named, will certainly have to follow the suit of the
South.
When the B.H. Co. began sulphide-treating
both lead and silver were much cheaper than they are
when this is written. In fact, the South, having abso-
lutely no other sort of ore left, faced the problem when
lead was £lO a ton and silver 2s 2d. (present price of
silver is from 2s 4d. to 2s 5d.). But in those days the
sulphides available were those lying just below the level
of the oxidised for free-smelting) ores, and carried up to
40 per cent, lead, while last half-year the South’s average
was 19J per cent, lead ; also most of the now-available ore
is harder, and more expensive to mine and dress. This
falling off in quality and value of ore is general through-
out the B.H. mines. It is because the Junction and J.
North have had the worst fall that they have shut down
soonest. The Junction might have kept going by sending up
only its better ores, if it had not been for the insecurity
of shafts and other workings, due to recent “creeps.”
The ore sent to the mill just before work was stopped
assayed only 11J per cent, lead and 9ozs. silver, and
moreover was so refractory that, while the Junction mill
is so incomplete, two-thirds of the silver and half of the
lead were not recovered at all! Shareholders in other
B.H. mines, then, may comfort themselves this far : That
the Junction is the worst-planned mine for economical
work on the main lode (the peculiar occurrence of the ore-
bodies being mainly responsible), that its ores, besides
being as poor as any, are the most refractory, and that
its appliances are below the average.
As for the Junction North, it is hardly a main-
lode mine at all, and has been chiefly used to gamble
with. Half-a-dozen different attempts have been made to
work it, and under the present co. a div. or two were
even paid ; but, besides having only an elbow of the lode,
the ore almost wherever encountered has consisted largely
of sandstone, usually very heavy in rhodonite —about the
worst enemy the mill-manager has ; hard, tough and
heavy. This co. issues a report only once a year ; the
last was dated July 31, 1900. There was a net profit of
£4159 for the 12 months—all that the co. could show for
42,360 tons ore raised and milled ! The ore during that
period assayed (average) 13Joz. silver and 18J per cent,
lead. In the last week during which the plant worked
(to Feb. 19) 613 tons ore gave 97 tons concentrates, assay-
ing 59 per cent, lead and 270 z. silver. Assuming the ore
to have still been of about the same value, this would
mean that in this case also half the lead and two-thirds of
the silver were not recovered. That is the extent to
which the sulphide problem has been “ solved.”
The North is neighbor to the Junction and
Junction North. Last half-year (to December 31) its net
profit was about £7500, obtained from 21,928 tons ore,
worth 20 per cent, lead and 9'2oz. silver. That is a better
ore than the other two, and it is much more easily
handled. The recovery of the lead was 61 per cent, of
the total contained, and of the silver 47 per cent. Ap-
proximately there was in its concentrates 2550 tons lead.
The average price of lead last half-year was £l7 6s. A
fall of £3 from that level would thus extinguish the
profit. The mine has, however, some fairly large and
easily-handled bodies of ore of rather better grade than
that treated last half, and so it could probably make a
very small profit with lead at anything above £l4.
* • * *
The British 8.H., which is the Junction’s
neighbor on the other side, has a much bigger area and
larger reserves than the others mentioned. Its accounts
are kept in England, and complete figures for last half-
year are not yet out. For the first half of 1900 the profit
was £30,085 from 54,298 tons ore, worth 16.7 percent,
lead and 10.8 oz. silver; the production was 9804 tons
concentrates, containing 5795 tons lead and 266,2470 z.
silver. In this case there is thus a wide margin before
profit would be absolutely extinguished, even if only
the same grade ore were worked ; though a fall of each
£1 per ton means between £5OOO and £5500 struck off
profit per half-year. The average price realised during
the half-year in which the £30,085 was made was (South
Oo.’s figures) £l6 14s. Gd. This co. has a good reserve
fund.
* * * *
Block 14’s last half-year ended Sept. 30th. This
mine still yields a little free-smelting carbonate—637l
tons in a total output of 75,377 tons. The profit was
£21,732. The sulphides were worth 14.3 per cent, lead
and 9'4oz. silver. The mill recovery was 69J per cent, of
the lead contents, and 53 - 2 per cent, of the silver con-
tents. This co. does its own smelting ; it produced 6128
tons lead and 435,0000 z. silver. In this case a fall of £3
10s. in the price of lead below the average for that half-
year (about £l7 35.) would extinguish profit. But Block
14 has large ore reserves; and during that half-year,
taking advantage of the high lead-market, it handled
some ore of very low grade—in fact, the management
tried to do without any picking at all. The mine is,
therefore, in a better position than the figures might ho
taken to indicate.
The B.H. Prop, last half-year (to Nov. 30) re-
fined 2.1,088 tons lead and 2,946,1440 z. silver, and sold
concentrates containing 1718 tons lead and 82,2670 z.
silver. This was the product of 203,451 tons ore. The
profit was £126,842. The output of both metals can be
largely increased at short notice. The co. is still more
interested in the silver market than in the lead market
on account of its considerable reserves of oxidised ores ;
yet a movement of £1 in lead either way means from
£22,000 to £25,000 in a half-year. The highest price
which the co. realised from lead in 1900 was £l7 17s. 6d.,
and the lowest £l6 ; silver (standard) fluctuated between
2/2 15-16 d. and 2/6 3-16 d.
When Block 10 got steadily to work on its sul-
phides in ’96 they were worth 19'87 per cent, lead and
20)oz. silver. Last half-year (to Sept. 30) they were worth
14 - 56 per cent, lead and 14'230z. silver, besides being more
refractory. That is a fairly typical case. Yet profits
have risen from £5740, in the latter half of ’96, to £51,747,
in the latter half of ’00; and the mine treats noth-
ing but sulphides. This was the yield from 72,246
tons ore, out of which 11,566 tons concentrates
were made, containing 7278 per cent, of the lead and 37 - 38
per cent, of the silver ; the concentrates were worth 34’03
ounces silver and 647 per cent. lead. Approximately,
the co. would be paid for about 6800 tons of lead. Block
10’s profit per ton either of lead or of crude ore is thus
larger than that of any of the other mines so far men-
tioned. Both this co. and the B.H. Prop, have large
cash reserves.
* * • *
The Sulphide Corporation’s year ended in June
last; and, as this is an English co., though the shares
are now heavily held in Australia, later figures are not
available. For the year, the net profit was £178,002.
Total ore concentrated was 195,720 tons, out of which (at
the co.’s smelters) 17,530 tons lead and 1,045,2380 z. silver
were won. The average obtained by this co. for its lead
during that year was £l6 3s. 6d., as against £l4 os. sd.
in the previous year ; silver averaged the same—2s. s|d.
—in each year. This co. adopts the practice, rendered
possible by its enormous ore developments, of maintain-
ing an output of ore on a uniform grade of about 13oz.
silver and 20 per cent. lead.
• * • •
The B.H. South, the only remaining B.H.
main-lode property, was written of here lately, when it
was shown that it, last half-year, made a profit of £30,000
with lead at £l7 6s. 4d., and silver at 2s. 7Jd. (fine) ; but
that if it treated the same ore with lead at £l4 17s. 6d.,
and silver at 2s. 6d. (fine), the profit would come down to
£15,000. At this co.’s half-yearly meeting held in Mel-
bourne a week or so ago, the chairman said that, having
consulted an expert by cable, they had been advised
that the present slump was partly caused by market
manipulators. Possibly ; for the experts have
been talking of £l6 as “ about a fair thing.”
Anything between £l7 and £lB has been regarded as a
reaction from the abnormally low price of ’93-’99, coupled
with the effects of the all-round raising of prices through
the war. But the war-reckoning is going to be a serious
matter on the financial world ; and, if £l6 was thought a
fair thing a few months back, it looks as though a liberal
slice will have to come off that on account of the general
trade depression that is looming ahead. And, anyhow
present writer doesn’t say £l6—he says nothing.
* * * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Bucuu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
The bitterest accusation which the Free-
trade Sydney Telegraph heaves at Premier Bar-
ton’s Protectionist Government nowadays is that
it is going to practise Freetrade, and the Freetrade
Telegraph implores the people to vote for Free-
traders Reid and M‘Millan on the promise that
they will practise Protection. Witness this from
its issue of sth March :
A PROTECTIONIST EXCISE ON SUGAR.
But Mr. Barton announced to the sugar-growers of
Queensland that “ it was the intention of Freetraders to
put on a £7 excise duty on sugar, and kill the industry.”
Of course, the Freetraders would not do so. When Mr.
Reid introduced his Freetrade tiriff into N.S.W. he ex-
cepted three industries—beer, tobacco, and sugar. And
what Mr. Reid did in N.S.W. he would do in the wider
field of Australian finance, because the same reasons
apply. The tariff we gave last week, based on Mr.
M’Millan’s formula, HAD NO PLACE FOR ANY
EXCISE DUTY ON QUEENSLAND OR NEW SOUTH
WALES SUGAR. There was sufficient revenue without
it. . . It is plain, therefore, THE PROTECTIONISTS DO
INTEND TO IMPOSE AN EXCISE DUTY ON SUGAR ;
while, judging by Mr. Reid’s attitude in the past, and
Mr. M'Millan’s present formula. THE FREETRADERS
WILL NOT DO SO.
The ineffable impudence of this yarn lies in the
fact that Freetrade importer M'Millan, in his
speech at Sydney, on 11th February, as fully re-
Eorted in the S.M. Herald, specially declared that
e favoured a sugar excise duty equal to the sugar
import duty. And the whole Freetrade policy
demands that either there shall be no duty on
sugar, or that the excise on the local article shall
be as heavy as the import duty on the foreign
article. Any other way the sugar industry will
be protected, and the whole business of the Free-
trade party is to prevent Protection. The Tele-
graph accuses Barton, the Protectionist, of
intending to adopt the Freetrade principle of a
sugar excise to counterbalance the duty. And it
cadges for votes by promising that Reid, the
Freetrader, will go back on his principles by pro-
tecting sugar, tobacco, and beer. Good old Dry
Dog!
At Poverty Point.
Thus the Windsor : “ The Australians return Madame
Melba’s affection for them with interest, and when she
presented a marble statue of herself to the town of Mel-
bourne, their gratitude knew no bounds.” This must
have been somewhere about the time when Sara Bern-
hardt shot a tiger at Lilydale—Melba’s birthplace.
“ To have closed the theatres, &c.,” writes The Bulle-
tin’s London correspondent, “ from the Death Day until
the Funeral would have been a colossal blunder that
would have had regrettable and far-reaching results. The
first and second evenings saw clubs, cafes, pubs, and beer-
houses all over the metropolis crowded until closing-time.
For whenever London is disturbed it drinks deeply, and
none could remember when it had been so universally
excited. Even then the place was like a tomb. The age
of the Puritan had come back suddenly, and solemnity
of countenance and a restrained conversation prevailed.
But another night or two of no open entertainment but
at the pub. might have tried the most loyal; so Thursday
evening the Palace, the Alhambra, &c., opened and were
packed. Drury Lane opens Saturday ; the Gaiety, Daly’s,
&c., on Monday. ‘La Reine est mort, vive le Roi !’ ”
“ Snell Wonderful is the language of “ Barabbas ” as
recently perpetrated by the Woods-Williamson co. at
Melb. Princess. The thing is given in old English, or
what is intended for old English, and the actors “ thee ”
and “thou” each other individually and in the lump.
Singular nominatives and plural verbs are scattered pro-
fusely all over the stage, and phrases like “Who comest
hence?” “ Dost thou knowest?”&c., &c., happen along
every few minutes. However, Melbourne critics are prob-
ably a bit squiffy in grammar themselves ; none of them
noted the barbarous misuse of the King’s English.
“ Florodora ” will put up the modern record run of 13
weeks, or longer, at Her Majesty’s (Melb.). It is not even
certain that “ The Casino Girl ” will be wanted to carry
the comic-opera season along to Easter Monday, when
Nance O’Neil is due. Should it go until then, “ Floro-
dora ” will beat “ The Tambour Major ” boom of 20 years
ago, for whereas the opera that made George Musgrove’s
fortune lasted from December 27th to Easter at the old
Opera House, the “Florodora” production dates from
Dec. 15th. Two other Melb. shows have scored a 12-
weeks’ run —“The Mikado” and “Hands Across the Sea,”
both at the Royal. George Rignold, if The Bulletin re-
mqpibers rightly, holds the Sydney record for his first
production of “In the Ranks”—which, however, was
played down to very lean business at the end.
Stated that Williamson’s Italian Opera Co. will make
its first Australian appearance at Sydney in “ Aida.” As
a matter of fact, nobody can say at present what Wil-.
liamson’s Opera Co. will do, but the tour is- pretty cer-
tain to start at Melbourne.
The latest information re Williamson’s Italian opera
campaign is a cablegram from Geo. Allan in London to
business manager Tallis, announcing that “splendid
voices are available,” but operations cannot possibly start
earlier than June. J. C. Williamson himself is in America,
and presumably no engagements will be completed or
operatic programme decided before he has met his agents,
Hazon and Allan.
W. E. Hammond, who recently piloted Walter Bentley
through M.L. and Tas., has concluded a contract as
advance agent with Mr. W. Anderson, of Sydney Lvceum,
and will leave Sydney as his representative this week.
Printed that a son of Kyrle Bellew was married lately.
Three of the “ Florodora ” ladies have married
“ Tell me, pretty maiden, has J.G.W.
Any more like you ? ”
“ Yes, a few.”
In fact a good many.
Poor little Flo. Graupner is back in Melbourne again,
not much benefited, alas, by her trip to England and
back.
“ J.P.” writes: Re visit of Madame Belle dole 00.
(“Poverty Point,” Bulletin, 16/2/01). Sydney Daily
Telegraph (16/2/01), says: “ Madame Belle Cole toured
coastal S’Africa under the auspices of Mr. Avon Saxon,
himself reputed to be one of the most accomplished
baritones of the day.” Have just returned from S’Africa,
which is my home, and I can speak from personal know-
ledge of things as they were. About three years ago
with a party of friends I heard Mr. Saxon sing at the
Town Hall, Durban, Natal, when we were none of us
deeply impressed. The criticism of his singing in the
Durban morning daily, viz., Natal Mercury, was un-
favorable, and Saxon getting on the trail of the critic,
assaulted him. Saxon is physically a big baritone, and
the unfortunate journalist, who is a small delicate man,
still suffers from the “doing” he got. For this
assault the baritone heavyweight got heavily fined,
and popular feeling was much roused against
him. I hadn’t since heard of him until his
re-appearance with the Belle Cole co., the success of
whose S’African tour was mainly due to the remarkable
fiddling of young Pechotsch—an Australian, by the way
—and the warbling of Madame B.
In re another D.T. par. : “ Mrs. Avon Saxon is said to
be a peculiarly gifted and highly cultured soprano—the
S’African Patti. As Miss Yirginie Cheron, she has won
more lasting fame and red Rand gold than any other
vocalist S’Africa has ever heard.” Which is all nonsense.
The vocalist who has won most fame and gold in S’Africa
is Madame Albani, and an easy second is Fanny Moody.
Apparently someone has been pulling the D.T.’s “ leg.”
[Avon Saxon is remembered in Australia as the rough,
serviceable baritone, whom Amy Sherwin imported for
her luckless grand opera venture, in 1888, at Melb. Opera
House. It transpired that, when the season was col-
lapsing, Saxon, on one occasion, refused to sing unless he
received something on account, and eventually Miss Sher-
win’s husband, Hugo Gorlitz, anted-up his valuable gold
watch and chain as hostages to the muscular malcontent.
Some years later we heard of Avon Saxon as a successful
vocalist at the London music halls. The leg of the D.T.
scribe has been pulled very hard.—Ed. B.]
“ Sapho,” the play that so shocked a section of New
York society, and that was refused a license in London, is
coming to Sydney to try a “ shock.” The propriety of a
play, by the way, lies rather in its treatment than in its
subject; otherwise “ Camille ” would never have been
tolerated.
Melbourne Table Talk accuses a certain actor of “ a
mechanical wild-beast grin.”
“ Adelaide”: “Demise” must surely be in error (8.,
9/2/’01) in making Wilson Barrett’s courtship of Miss
Heath only 20 years or so ago. It is just that time since
he began his great stage partnership with Miss Eastlake,
who has now (he told the writer) become too fat to appear
on the stage. Maud Jeffries, her successor, seems likely
to develop in the same direction—indeed, one paper
assigned that as his reason for the recent parting with
her. Lillah M'Carthy, her successor, came to Australia
with them, as a kind of rest, and played small parts.
How many generations of leading ladies can one actor use
up ? They fade or fatten, or are gone (always excepting
Ellen Terry), while he lives on as a hero of romance up to
70.
Composer Arthur Sullivan’s will is odd reading. He
bequeathed the MS. score of the opera “ Ruddigore ” to
old pard Gilbert. To our coming visitor, the Duke of
York, he left a carved cocoanut mounted in silver.
Sydney D.T.’s London correspondent :
The extraordinary absence of all mention of the Prin-
cess of Wales—now Queen Consort—during the happen-
ings of the week is judged very significant. Apparently
H.R.H. meant to return to Sandringham on Saturday
morning and not wait for the end, but wiser counsels
supervened. Great hopes now prevail that their common
grief may thaw the coldness which has so long existed
between the Prince and Princess of Wales and the latter
and her son George (Duke of York). Their family was
once so closely knit that it is sad to read of the Princess of
Wales living alone and taking pleasure but in her Danish
relatives.


“ Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories,” by Albert Dorrington (“Alba Dorion”)
is the best book of short stories yet produced in
Australia. The S. Daily Telegraph recognises
theauthor’s “absolutegenius.” The S.M. Herald
says the volume “ contains dramatic pictures
which the best of our artists in words might well
envy. A handsome cloth-bound volume, 350 pp.,
post-free from Bulletin office for 4s. 6d.
“ When He Feels OIF Colour.”
It would, no doubt, have been wise in Mr. D.
Ban ham to take a complete rest on Sundays,
anyway, but all the more so under the circum-
stances he mentions.
Mr. Lanham is a cooper, and for the last
twenty-five years has pursued his calling in
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Queensland. That
he is known to most of the people of the city
naturally follows ; for Brisbane, has attained its
prominence within that period.
“Some seven years ago,” writes Mr. Lanham,
under date of Sept. 28, 18!)9, “I began for the
“LSt ln m y life to suffer from indigestion.
With it were asthmatic symptoms, although I
did not then understand that the latter complaint
is often caused by the former.
“The combined diseases continued to plague
me for three years, and a miserable stretch of
time it was. I was reluctantly obliged to give up
some_ of my engagements, and found that after
working six days I needed a complete rest on
Sundays.
“No medicine or kind of treatment, doing me
any good, I finally concluded to see what virtue
there might be in Mother Seigel’s Syrup. I had
heard of it before, but never used it—possible on
account of the unreasonable prejudice so widely
felt against advertised medicines.
“However, about four years ago my attention
was strongly called to it by an acquaintance, and I
tried it, yet not with any lively hopeof its helping
me. Nevertheless, I found it extremely beneficial.
It did what no other remedy had done or even
begun to do ; it set me right.
“Nowadays I always keep Mother Seigel’s
Syrup in the house, and whenever I feel the
approach of any of my former symptoms I resort
to it ; and it never fails to give relief.
“All my family use it whenever they are ill or
depressed (probably from indigestion). One of
my sons in particular is enthusiastic in its praise s,
and says there is nothing like Mother Seigel’s
Syrup to set him right again whenever he feels off
colour.
“ I am an old resident of Brisbane, having car-
ried on a cooperage business here for the last
twenty-five years. You are at liberty to publish
what I have said should you think fit to do so.”—
D. Lanham.
“Probably from indigestion,” says Mr. Lanham
in accounting for the feeling of mental depression.
He is wholly, u ninously, right. In most in-
stances it does come from indigestion, and so do
the great majority of our troubles, of mind or
body. And for indigestion, in all its forms and
phrases, the cure is Mother Seigel’s Syrup.*
(Siood TailoriQg
SUMMER.
Light Weight Tweeds
AND
Worsteds .
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
LIGHT AND TROPICAL WEIGHTS
TO STAND THE SUN.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &c.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
The granting of old-age pensions in Vic-
toria brings to light some remarkable pedigrees—
true or false. At Bendigo, t’other day, a man
who was allotted ss. per week, claimed to be a
nephew of William IV., and stated that his father
was the British admiral who first planted the
Union-Jack on the island of Ceylon.
Always “lay to your book.” Philip D.
Armour, the lately-deceased multi-millionaire
Chicago pork-packer, having just returned from a
visit to Europe, was interviewed by a reporter,
who wanted to know on what lines had the
greatest progress been made during the past year.
“Last year,” replied Armour, “we made better
sausages than ever we did before.”
NOW READY.
New Issue of
Pair Girls $ G ra « Horses,
WITH OTHER VERSES.
By Will DEI. Ogilvie.
Completing 8000 copies.
JpOR this new issue a fresh and more attractive form
has been devised. The book is bound in blue cloth,
decorated, with blue edges, and contains the latest
PORTRAIT OP THE AUTHOR
from a photo, by Kerry taken just before Mr. Ogilvie’s
departure for Scotland.
More than ever the book of “ Fair Girls and Gray
Horses” deserves its familiar description as
The Most Charming Book of Verses
Ever Published in Australia.
Price, Five Shillings Post Free, which may be sent
direct to The Bulletin Office, 214 George-street, Sydney,
in P. 0.0., postal note, pr stamps of any Australasian
province.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
Edwards, Dunlop, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Eradicates Scurf.
Promotes Growth.
FOR THE hair.
Prevents Hair Falling.
Contains no Dye.
mtm
FOR
THE
THE GREAT HAIR PRODUCER AND RESTORER.
The Finest Dress ng-, Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
Has the distinguished honour of being used in almost every Royal
Pa’ace throughout the World. y 7
Monsieur Philosophow is commanded by
HER MAJESTY
THE QUEEN OF GREECE
to forward cheque for the six bottles of
‘ Harlene ” duly received.
H.R.H; Princess Marie of Greece wishes six bottles of Edwards’
Harlene for the Hair sent immediately.
Crown Prince's Palace, Athens, Greece.
H R.H, PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE writes: Messrs. Edwards
Preparation, “ Harlene ” for the Hair, has given entire satisfaction.
. , _ . , Palace of Prince Royal, Athens.
H.R.H. The PUKE OF SPARTA requires six bottles of Edwards’
“ Harlene ” for the Hair sent by express parcel post.
Esterhazy Uteza,3o, Buda-Pest.
H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHksNLOHE writes : Please send me three bottles
of “ Harlene ” for the Hair by return.
Canea, Crete.
H.R.H. PRiNGE GEORGE of GREECE ( High Commissioner of Crete)
writes: Please to forward three bottles of “ Harlene ” for the Hair at once.
X/., 2/e, and (3 times 2/6 size), 4/6 pet* Bottle,
everywhere,
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
XO DEFY COMPEXITIOKT.
WINES n ' BestV to d ’ OnhJ SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
A POLICY
for the
COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d.—posted Bd.
Supplied direct from The Bulletin office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any Aus-
tralasian province).
Sole Wholesale Agents:
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LIMITED,
Sydney and Brisbane.
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottleof medi=
cine and to try it. 1 am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. R00T, 38, Endsleigh Gdiis., LON DON.
HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, ror Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch-depot— Qgj ce . No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medicai Record.
Food f <®
INFANTS
9
BENQER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Sc., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
and
THE AGED.
Recess.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.B.W.
The world goes well to-day,
O pale-faced citizen 1
For I am far away
From all the noise of men.
A young-eyed god of yore
I seem, this day, to be ;
My head rests on the shore,
My feet are in the sea.
Eeyond the distant cirque
Of hills, the city lies,
Where men are hard at work
With hot and haggard eyes.
What joy of life have these,
Whose work is never done ?
I lie here at my ease,
Between the sea and sun.
The blue wave shoreward goes,
And turns to silver fleece ;
And all around me flows
The Poetry of Peace.
The troubles of old times—
A day or two ago—
Seem like the foolish rhymes
That once I used to know.
1 have no cares nor frets,
No troubles, great or small,
No hopes and no regrets,
Nor any thought at all.
[ have no lore to teach,
No secret to confide ;
My brain is like a beach
Forsaken by the tide.
But soon the tide will flow
Rejoicing to the shore;
And I shall rise and go
Amongst my kind once more.
And once more I shall start,
O pale-faced citizen !
To play my own mad part
In this mad world of men.
VICTOR J. DALEY.


*77',:
a
Ensures
+Ja(a|oy i
OldAg*
CULLED FROM THE KINDLY FRUITS OF THE EARTH.
It is a revelation in regard to the marvellous instinct of benevolence that animates an all-wise
orovidence Scientists have for years been endeavouring to discover some really natural method of
healing, i e', after the teaching of nature. “Sanoalmus” is this remedy, being nothing more nor less
than an extraction from
FLOWERS, FRUIT, HERBS AND SEAWEED.
Although the discoverers of ‘ Sanoalmus ” do not profess to have found thereby the secret of perpetual
life, they have certainly provided the means of perfect health. An elixir of health has been
established. W|RELESS TELEGRAPHY TEN YEARS AGO
would have been scoffed at as the suggestion of a lunatic, or perhaps regarded in the light of being a
CHAMPION FIRST-CLASS UP-TO-DATE LIE.
To-dav we are astounded at the simplicity of its system of working. “ Sanoalmus” is equally simple,
taken'from the natural produce of earth and sea, that we in our hitherto blind ignorance
HAVE BEEN TRAMPLING UNDER OUR FEET.
If vou suffer with your Nerves, Liver, or Kidneys, ” Sanoalmus” will put such troubles right. For
Anemia, Blushing, Weakness and Debility, it is a certain cure, in fact it puts such tone into the
system that anyone may . _ ... ~
“LOOK THE WORLD IN THE FACE”
and fear no man. Its influence on the blood is extraordinary. Two or three bottles of “Sanoalmus”
will do more in a case of impure blood than two years’ treatment by ordinary methods.
CONSUMPTIVES REJOICE
unless in a very advanced stage "Sanoalmus” will cure you—under any circumstances it will
considerably prolong life. Taking “ Sanoalmus” at regular intervals not alone cures but protects
from such everyday ills as Indigestion, Flatulence, Bad Breath, Headache, Ear-ache, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throat, Neuralgia, Giddiness, Influenza, &c. In Rheumatism and Sciatica it is most beneficial,
and will accomplish wonderful results. It conquers Backache when all other treatment has failed
For Constipation its action is simply perfect, and renders a healthy and regular working to the
functions of the bowels. Last but not least “Sanoalmus” must be welcomed as a divine blessing
for the reason that if persevered with regularly for a brief period it will entirely destroy .
THAT HORRID BLOOD POISONING MICROBE,
the recognised curse of humanity. Here you wi 1 assuredly realise the far-reaching effects of
this “ Simple Discovery,” and also the forethought which recognising an evil furnishes the
antidote. “ Sanoalmus” (as before stated) renders the blood perfect; consequently it ensures a
lovely complexion, does away entirely with all pimples, blushing, blotches, or red, rough skin; a
peach-like bloom attends the use of “ Sanoalmus.”
THE UNTUTORED SAVAGE WOUNDED BY POISONOUS SNAKE
or spear, turns instinctively to certain herbs that not only relieve the pain but save his life.
“ Sanoalmus ” contains all the properties of these herbs. It is nature’s own remedy.
MOTHERS TAKE HEED.
When baby is teething, a half teaspoonful of “ Sanoalmus ”in milk will soothe, strengthen, and
comfort your little darling. Remember, it is absolutely harmless to the smallest mite. If it so please
you it is within your power to bask in the heavenly sunshine of perfect health, no longer need you
LANGUISH IN THE GLOOM OF SICKNESS AND DESPONDENCY
To be obtained from all chemists, price 3/6 per bottle, or direct from the proprietors,
Wells Strong & Coy.. 10 Barrack Street, opposite Savings Bank of New South Wales, Sydney.
THE
‘PLUM ’
X tfj Pt
THE
‘PLUM’
ri ENTLEMEN.—'This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
VT like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
„ f Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 218.
Price | gj nK ] e p a zoi, in Ivory Handle, 15s ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 308.
Registered and sent Post Free to anv part of the World.
jsgT’ please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents : CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
Til Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(Japillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
V
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers &. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair,
gsgr" Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEN^
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, BYDNEY
Real German H olloW Grounb
jj^PRAZO*
gwaaa
0*
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
w «nP IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES,
MA f N BLACK and IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO.. LONDON. V.
Medical
Will Develop or Reduce
any part of the Body.
A PERFECT COMPLEXION
BEAUTIFIER and
Remover of Wrinkles.
Dr. JOHN WILSON GIBBS'
THE ONLY
Electric
Massage
Roller
(Patented
United States,
Europe,
Canada.
“Its work is
not confined to
the face alone,
but will do good
to any part of the
body to which it is
applied, developing or
reducinq as desired. It
is a very pretty addition
to the toilet table.”
—Chicago Tribune.
“This delicate Electric Beauti-
fier removes all facial blemishes.
It is the only positive remover of
wrinkles and crow’s feet. It never
fails to perform all that is expected.”
—Chicago Times Herald
“The Electric Roller is certainly productive of good
results. I believe it the best of any appliances. It is safe
and effective.” —Harriet Hubbard Ayer, New York World.
For Massage and Curative Purposes
An Electric Roller is all the term implies. The invention
of a physician and electrician known throughout America
and Europe. A perfect complexion beautifier. Will re-
move wrinkles, “ crow’s feet ” (premature or from age),
and all facial blemishes. Whenever electricity is to be
used for massaging or curative purposes, it has no equal.
No charging. Always ready for use on all parts of the
body, for all diseases. For Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neural-
gia, Nervous and Circulatory Diseases, a specific.
Price —Gold, 21 /• ; Silver, 16 - PAMPHLETS FREE.
Sole Agent tor Australasia—
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins-street,
Melbourne.
o
V.^s
OLD
BU
fing
r*i
CHA
&S.C
s
Y
#£7
,
SYDNEY . .
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. iV. QXJI3XT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
TIEI-EJ
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This is the only Medical
Institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all contracts.
Elgctro-Mcdical apd
SOrgical loStitCit^—.
IN AN AGE
which is so remarkable for its progress in all departments of Art, Philosophy, Manufacture an
Science it is surprising to find the practice of Medicine en deplorably in the rear, while thousand
of practitioners in the healing- art prefer to remain in the conventional groove of their predecessors. Tire
and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise superior to the false code of btmcs wim ,
tyrannically bind the medical profession, and announce to the public that upon all special complaints tne.r
tinue to be consulted by the afflicted at their old address, Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets,
fl
X 1 • -;* ,
f }
f- ''^ot
'■ *< V rP^J
! i i . - m l J .Amrz
>. i* I ■<
ife
I tw-l
1
MRkv.
Ji^si
V-<«rA m
|PP
.?.. *- * JF "S
X;
< «P*Sr^
vi
27
to;;
m< ,ji
EXPERTS FREEMAN AND WALLACE .
The Specialists who conduct the largest practise th Australasia.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
No one
person
should hesitate to consult us, as consultations elthsr by letter or in
are given FREE OF CHARGE, and Strictest Privacy is always assured.
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
Every Farmer, Miner, Mariner, Station-hand, Book-keeper, and other Toilers should send for a copy of this
Useful Memorandum Book. POST FREE ON APPLICATION ALL COLONIES.
400-PAGE MEDICAL WORK (Illustrated, containing 8C Many Useful
Hints on Sick Room, Accidents and Emergency) Price 6d. (POST FREE) ON API LICAIIOJN.
Heart Kidney, Liver Affections. Gravel, Bladder and Spinal Affect’ons,
Nerve’ and Brain Complications. Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
Rupture and Piles Cured without Operation. Blood and Skin Diseases.
»’ ■!.* .• j . .
...
m
■j
L | \'l . '■*%>{ His
f 1
:
j £/:
V * 42 »<■ @®fs'
4 : Tv '
MIS 1
O aJL33II
g-f ■■
3 ;
?V • *" .. .*x
f %U HIIV3H 3 ” 3 <■
3*4
g H i
1 ’ ■ ”
WHY WE ADVERTISE!
Because Advertising is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people
to acquaint each other with their avocations and wants. If a man has a
SDecialitv, and has devoted years of his life and expended large sums of money in studying that Speciality and in
purchasing the necessary appliances, etc., for treating certain diseases it would be absurd for him not to announce
the fact, and disseminate tne knowledge universally. We have no apology to offer for informing the world through
this advertisement and otherwise of the means of relief we can afford to suffereis who need our help. Therefore,
however opposed to your own preconceived ideas and to those of your medical advisers, our method of treatment may
be the fact still remains that it is successful, and this is verified by the thousands of testimonials received from
e-rateful patients. We make no secret of our mode of practice. We only claim to have utilised in a common-sense
wav the result of scientific research and long experience. If you listen to the counsel of your sceptical friends and
iealous physician you may omit consulting us, but remember if you allow the disease to run not in your system, you
are guilty' of culpable negiect, and are alone responsible for your future pitiful condition.^
Niue Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration fiy Government
Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, south Australia,
Great Britain and America Open to Inspection.
Late Consulting' Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne;
Late Medical Staff, British Army.
home TREATMENT-
-If you live out of town and cannot visit us, this need not deprive you
of the benefits of our wonderful treatment, because in the new system
of combining- medicine and electricity a complete Electro-Medical home treatment is provided for. Scarcely a day
Basses that the news does not reach us of some wonderful home cure of a person living so far away that a personal
visit could not be made. Write a plain statement of your condition, explaining your .feelings and symptoms as clearly
as possible and from it we will be able to accurately diagnose your case. It only costs you the trouble of writing,
and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia’s Leading Specialists.
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS
When there are so many quacks and impudent pretenders in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to them-
selves the monstrosity of giving counsel and advice in matters of which they are profoundly ignorant, and who
have nothing to recomn,end them but their audacity, sufferers cannot be too careful wham they consult
Although liberty of choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessary. In consulting THE MtEEMAN ANI)
WALLACE ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shall
receive the advice of those fitted by superior skill and education, the result of special study. Our reputation and
unparalleled success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of the World—
CONTENTS FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
Cor
s~
N.B.—
Sydosy
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs. F. & W.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
QUEENSLANDERS are hereby informed that a person advertising as Dr. Wallace
in Brisbane is in no way connected with the Institute.


The Bulletin’s pamphlet, “ A Policy
for the Commonwealth,” is-selling like hot cakes.
Fost free from Bulletin office to any Australian
address Bd. in stamps of any State.
Messrs. N. Guthridge and Co., of Sydney
and Melbourne, have issued a really beautiful
souvenir of the Commonwealth celebrations,
there are 24 p.p. of pictures chiefly relating to
Sj dney s great record drunk, and a panorama of
the city as a grand finale. The souvenir is neatly
got up in a purple cover with title and a spray of
flannel flowers embossed in green, and is bound
with the blue ribbon that the city is now wearing
while it vigorously whips the cat.*
When the Indian contingent reached
Auckland (M.L.) the local bigwig club showed its
sense of “the Unity of the Empire ” by putting
the white officers on the list of honorary mem-
bers. Not bad for the agents, attorneys, and
traders who form the bulk of the members.
That Melb. young woman who tried to
rebuke her ex-lover with a revolver was promptly
acquitted of all malicious intent, chiefly through
the chivalrous evidence of the ex-“ boy ” afore-
said. While the jury was being empanelled she
softly informed his Honor she would like “six
nice old gentlemen ”on the jury. Judge Williams
smiled—no doubt thinking how neatly he would
himself fill the bill—and told her she could chal-
lenge up to 16. She got a fair proportion of
ancients, and they apparently appreciated the
compliment—such as it was. The lady was her
own advocate, and managed to get in a few per-
tinent questions with a view of improving her
pending action for breach of promise.
“ Crank ” in reply to “ Melbournite ” (B.
26/l/’l): —
Sydney Municipal Council has been patting itself on
the hack for its advanced sanitary arrangements. But
are Sydneyites aware that, while £2500 of the ratepayers’
money is to be spent in constructing three large, up-to-
date, underground public conveniences, out of that
ample amount not one single penny is to go towards pro-
viding similar accommodation for women, the councillors
having selfishly appropriated the whole lump for the
comfort and convenience of the chivalrous sex. And
this jobbery is perpetrated during the mayoralty of a
medical man. Ye gods and little fishes !
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue *
CA.PILLA.
Hair
Tonic,
3 HAYTORS, TIVOLI THEATRE.
ARTHUR HAYTOR writes, 29/l/’01: “After using’
several well-known advertised Remedies for Weak and
Falling Hair, and receiving no benefit, X tried your
CAPILLA, from which my hair has benefited wonder-
fully.—Yours truly, Arthur Haytor, Tivoli Theatre.”
Testimonials from leading City Business Men, Solici-
tors and Members of Parliament, &c., with each bottle.
The only Guaranteed Hair Restorer, 2/6 bottle, post 3/6.
W. RICHARDS, Proprietor, 168 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
GEORGE NICHOLSON (Nulgen), last heard of at
Baltina, New South Wales, or anyone knowing his
whereabouts, please communicate with Messrs. THOMAS
RUSSELL and FREDERICK WAY, of Ballina, or Messrs.
CHENHALL & EDDIE, of 60 Castlereagh-street, Sydney,
Solicitors.
JUST OUT , FOURTH EDITION.
Price ss. 6d., Posted.
m
by P. R. GORDON,
Chief Inspector of Stock anil R rands.
Queensland.
Y/ith New Stock Route Maps of
Queensland and New South Wales.
WATSON, FERGUSON & CO., Brisbane.
And all Booksellers.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 27th February, 1901.
DEVONSHIRE STREET CEMETERY.
"VJOTICE is hereby given that the Department of Public
Works is CREATING a NEW CEMETERY at near
LA PEROUSE in a beautiful position for the RECEPTION
of the UNCLAIMED BODIES, and other property now
lying within the DEVONSHIRE STREET CEMETERY.
In this new cemetery the remains will be reverentially
re-interred, and all existing monuments, tombstones,
headstones, footstones, and iron railings re-erected over
the respective graves by skilled workmen.
Owing to the greater portion of the stone work and
iron railing now in the Devonshire Street Cemetery being
unsuitable-for admission into any of the other Metropoli-
tan Cemeteries (except the Presbyterian Division of the
Necropolis), persons who have already made application
for translation to other cemeteries may, if satisfied to
leave the work in the hands of the Department, withdraw
their applications with the assurance that their interests
will be safeguarded in every way compatible with rever-
ence, decency, and skill.
The new cemetery will eventually be connected by
tram, and is now connected by good roads. It will also
be beautified and kept up in an orderly manner.
ROBT. HICKSON,
9c21 Under Secretary for Public Works, and
Commissioner for Roads.
Amusements.
jyj A.SOKTIC JEX. A XLn Ha,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, at 8.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION AND
BRILLIANT SUCCESS
Achieved by
MR. C. M- RODNEY,
The Prince of Laugh-makers,
APPLAUDED TO THE ECHO BY A LARGE AND
DELIGHTED AUDIENCE
Accompanist Mr. T. W. HENDERSON.
PRICES —Front Seats, 3s. ; Balcony, 2s. ; Back
Seats, Is.
Plan at Allan’s.
Federal Douse of Depresentatives.
To the Electors of
The Melbourne Electorate.
GENTLEMEN—
I have the honor to solicit your vote and interest, and,
should you elect me as your representative, I shall give my active support to the
following measures :
(1) The Tariff Policy of the Barton Ministry.
(2) White Australia, reserving to Queensland Sugar Planters the right to
employ, as long as necessary, colored labor, on condition that such labor is returned
to its native shores at stated times, and under no circumstances is allowed to settle
in the Commonwealth.
(3) Federal Defences. Adequate maintenance of the fortifications and
defence forces of the Commonwealth. Increase of citizen soldiers and rifle clubs.
Any increased expenditure necessary for these purposes to be met out of revenue
and not by means of loans.
(4) Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration on lines that are fair alike to
employers and employed.
(5) Old Age Pensions subject to conditions mentioned in my public
addresses.
(6) Uniform Factory Acts for the Commonwealth.
(7) Nationalization of the State Railways by the Commonwealth on
condition that the status of employes is not lowered.
(8) Federal Territory not to be alienated. The size to be considerably
increased beyond the 100 square miles provided in the Commonwealth Bill, and the
site to be within easy access of a seaboard.
(9) Federal Public Works. AH unproductive Public Works in connection
with the Federal Capital, the Post Office, Customs, and Defence Department to be
paid out of Revenue and not from Loans which will be a burthen on future
generations.
I am, Gentlemen,
YOUR OBEDIENT SERYANT,
M. D. McEacharn.
Central Committee Rooms : Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
Ist March, 1901.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manaeer, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Houtrie.
Every Evening, at 7.45. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
POSITIVELY LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
“TRILBy.”
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 2—“ THE CHRISTIAN.”
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, George-street. Prices as usual.
Theatre
Lessee
ROYAL, SYDNEY.
.. .. Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING.
EVERY EVENING.
A REMARKABLE SUCCESS.
THE SCARLET FEATHER,
a Comic Opera, by Lecocq, with additional num-
bers by other composers.
MISS NELLIE STEWART, MR. JOSEPH TAPLEY,
BETTER THAN EVER.
THE DARTOS CREATED A SENSATION.
PRICES OF ADMISSION—Dress Circle and Reserved
Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Family Circle (7.15 to 7.45), 2s. ;
Family Circle after 7.45, ONE SHILLING.
BOX OFFICE at the Theatre (Dress Circle Entrance).
10 to 5. Seats Booked Six Days in Advance.
QRITERIOIM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. .. .. Alfred Dampier.
ALFRED DAMPIER,
MISS LILY DAMPIER,
and the Ladies and Gentlemen associated with him.
EVERY EVENING.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. , Mr. W. F. Hawtret.
HAWTREY COMEDY COMPANY
in the
ENORMOUSLY SUCCESSFUL FARCE,
TOM, DICK, and HARRY.
Preceded at 7.45 by
" A HIGHLAND LEGACY."
MATINEE, WEDNESDAY NEXT, at 2.30 p.m.
Private Boxes, £2 2s. and £1 10s.; Dress Circle and
Reserved Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Upper Circle, 2s. ;
1 Gallery, Is. Doors Open at 7.15. Commences at 7.45 p.m.
Box Plan at Paling’s, 338 George-street.
Business Manager, Mr. E. F. BRADLEY.
Y C E U M THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
FIFTH WEEK. CROWDED NIGHTLY !
TO-NIGHT, at 7.50,
THE LADDER OF LIFE.
! The Greatest Acrobatic Sensation of the Age,
THE HUMAN LADDER.
DRAMATIC PRICES —3s, 2s and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance in Sydney of those Famous Artists,
THE LEONARDS and LISTERS PINE.
Continued Brilliant Success of MADAM CELINA BOBE,
Mr. GEO. D’ALBERT,
JOHNSON RIANO and BENTLEY.
Frank Leon, Lizzie Kirk, Jalvan, Billy M'Clain, Chas.
W. Walker, Millie Herbert, Madame Cordelia, Della
Ross, Florrie and Stella Ranger, Clarence Sisters, &c.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturday & Wednesday.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Positively the Last Week in Melbourne of Mr. HARRY
RICKARDS’ BRILLIANT PANTOMIME,
Written by that great London Author, Victor Stevens,
PUSS IN BOOTS.
A Gigantic and Unparalleled Cast of Characters.
New Scenery, New Costumes, New Music, New Artists.
In fact, everything new and up-to-date. Plan at Paling’s.
Matinees Saturday and Wednesday.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
FRIDAY, MARCH 8, LAST NIGHT OF
THE GREAT RUBY.
SATURDAY, MARCH 9, the Startling and Novel Story
of London Life, “IN SICHT OF ST. PAUL’S.”
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 2s, Is. and 6d. Box Plan
at Allan’s. CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
THIRTEENTH WEEK and LAST NIGHTS of
FLORODORA.
All Records Eclipsed.
Another Attraction for “ Florodora.” Engagement of Mr.
Fred. Graham, comedian, from Gaiety Theatre, Lond.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE]
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
THE EMINENTLY SUCCESSFUL
WOODS-WILUAMSON company
in one of the Most Remarkable Plays of the Age,
B ARABBAS.
Founded on Marie Corelli’s World-famed Book.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
ATHEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. H. Ashton. Treas., Mr. G. Matheson.
Every Afternoon, at 3. Every Evening, at 8.
Return for Limited Season of the
MARVELOUS 810 ~ TABLEAU
of the SOUTH AFRICAN WAR, and
Other Interesting Subjects.
PRICES —35., 2s. and Is. Pox Plan at Allan’s.
OWN HALL, ME LBOURNE,
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 9.
Farewell to Australasia of
DONALD MACDONALD,
after
HIS EVER VICTORIOUS LECTURING CAMPAIGN.
Prices, 35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Glen’s.
EDWIN GEAOH.
Miss Ada Lawreoc*,
The Greatest Tragedienne Comedienne and Emotional
Actress Australia has yet produced.
Supported by
MR. WILSON FORBES’ DRAMATIC CO.
“Leah,” “Camille,” “Romeo and Juliet,”
“ East Lynne.”
South Australian Tour, March. Broken Hill, Easter
Monday, April Bth.
Business Announcements.
ABOUT
SUITS
MADE TO ORDER.
9
You see a well-dressed man and you involun-
tarily remark, “ There is a lucky, prosperous
fellow.” Good Clothes are the hall-mark of
Prosperity. They help .you in life in every way.
GUITS TO ORDER
for 455.
Picture to yourself a Perfect Suit—one that in
every way meets your idea of what is correct,
and you see
HORDERN’S IN PITT-STREET
455. SUIT TO ORDER.
If you want a neat, nice, fashionable and in-
expensive Suit, call in and see these or write for
SAMPLES,
SELF-MEASURE FORMS
and TAPE MEASURE.
Posted Free to any Town in N.S. Wales.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL TAILORS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
WOODHEAD’S^
IMPROVED
PATENT_>*
CRAMP
SIMPLEST, FASTEST & MOST
EFFECTIVE EVER MADE for
FLOORING, CEILING, Ac.
No. 6, 358; No. 6,30 s; No.
7 (Ceiling'), 25s each.
l/\/WNp>
If your Ironmonger or Storekeeper does not stock, send
direct to us—
PERRY BROS.
Wholesale
Ironmong-ers,
Brisbane
Sole Agents for Australasia.
Publications.
CHIEOREITS
soncs.
The Songs
the Littie Ones
Love to Sing.
«s
v:
All in Number 49 of
ALLAN’S AUSTRALIAN
||USIC HOOKS
CONTENTS.
(Little Songs for Tiny
Polly Put the Kettle On
Some Folks Do
Little Maid, Pretty Maid
Jack arid Jill
Hushabye Baby
Kitty White
I’ve a Little Dog at Home
Cock Bobin and Jenny Wren
Come Little Bobin
Come Little Leaves,
The Little Dreamer
Best Thee Now
Ding, Dong, Bell
Fiddle De Dee
I Had a Little Nut Tree
Steal Away to Jesus
A.B.C.
A.E.O.
Voices, Old and New.)
Calendar Song
Kitty Cat and the Mouse
There Was a Little Woman
Run, Littleßivulet, Run
Little Bo Peep
Play Time
Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star
A Frog He Would A-wooing
Go
Greeting
Hey Diddle, Diddle
The Dog and Cat
Good King Wenceslas
Heather Rose
Hickory, Dickory, Dock
Hop, Hop, Hop
Yankee Doodle
Georgie Porgie
(The^ following Form a Children’s Musical
Quadrille with Words.)
A Little Cock Sparrow
He Didn’t Go Home Till
Morning'
Little Jack Horner
Sing a Song of Sixpence
Three Blind Mice
Humpty Dumpty
See Saw, Margery Daw
Mistress Mary
Where are You Going to,
My Pretty Maid?
Taffy was a Welshman
The Spider and the Fly
Here We go Round the Mul-
berry Bush
Goosey, Goosey, Gander
Tooriletoo
Obtainable at all Musicsellers throughout Aus-
tralia or Direct from the Publishers,
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd,
276 AND 278 COLLINS ST.,
A PHONETIC COMPANION
to PERIER’S FRENCH METHOD.
The Guide is indispensable to Teachers, Students, and
all who wish to know how French must be pronounced.
Mr. Perier’s French Phonetic Notation, based on English
Alphabetical Sounds, can be mastered within an hour.
All booksellers, price Is. 3d.
Copies may be obtained, post free, by sending postage
stamps.
A. C. GAERTNEE, Sole Agent,
32 Norwich-ehambers, Hunter-street, Sydnej'.
a POLICY FOR THE"^'
Price 6d, /
Potted, Bd.
COUMONWCALTN.


A QUICKSAND BATH.
Serious Consequences.
A GENERAL RESTORATION.
The Case of
Mrs. F. MARTIN.
(by a special reporter.)
If the inhabitants of Sydney were all
wealthy people, with nothing but the pro-
motion of their own happiness to think
about, would they be content to while away
their time in the many picturesque spots
surrounding the city, or would they go
“farther and fare worse?” People upon
whom fortune does not smile too lavishly
are philosophical in patronising the many
beautiful picnic resorts within easy reach of
their homes, and the experiences sometimes
resulting are worthy of a more romantic
period. A pleasure excursion to Botany
some time back had a sensational termina-
tion, for the details of which we are in-
debted to Mrs. Flora Martin, of No. 11
Suttor-street, Alexandria. “It was a small
family party,” explained Mrs. Martin to the
writer, “ composed of my husband, a married
couple, some children, and myself. We
were fond of taking a trip to Botany, where
we used to sit admiring the noble expanse of
water whilst the young ones played on the
sandy beach. On one particular day my
sister-in-law and I were strolling leisurely
along with the youngsters, where the tide
had a few minutes previously run out, when
I stepped on to a treacherous bed of quick-
sand and suddenly began to sink. Before
my husband could reach me I had
almost disappeared from view, my head
being the only part visible. It was a lucky
thing that my screams were heard, otherwise
I would have been smothered. My husband
ran to my assistance, and with considerable
difficulty extricated me in a fainting con-
dition from the j- ws of death. My baby
was then only three months old, and I was
not ve*'y strong. The shock my system
sustained had a disastrous effect upon my
■snfeeoled condition for months afterwards.
“ For nearly th"ee weeks I did not stir 1
jut of my bed. My doctor ordered me to j
refrain from any exertion, which was
scarcely necessary, seeing that I was in such !
a condition of helplessness. I was so weak
and nervous that the slightest start brought
on a shivering fit, besides making me give
spasmodic jumps. The first two weeks in
bed were quite sleepless. I could not drive
from my brain the thoughts of the narrow
escape I had. Lying awake night after
night my mind wandered back to that day
of horror, and the most exaggerated
imaginations followed each other in quick
succession until they made me tremble con-
vulsively. I could take no solid food of any
description, and the milk diet upon which I
relied to keep me alive failed to agree with
me. After the light things which I slowly
took in small quantities I was immediately
seized with pain in the stomach, and in the
left side. There was a choking feeling in
the throat, and the stifling sensation re-
sulting filled me with dismay. I was afraid
my breathing was going to cease altogether.
I believe this distressing symptom arose
from the leaden feeling of oppression on my
chest. At any rate, the sufferings entailed
by forcing down any nourishment were so
unbearable that I did not eat a quarter as
much as my body required. Conscquentl
I lost all m} r flesh. There was not a streak
of colour left in my cheeks, and I was so
irritable and nervous that I did not care to
see anyone, and sometimes could not bear
f he sound of my child's voice. Being so
restless in bed, and not getting any better, I
decided to try and get about a little.” |
“ Did the change do any good ? ”
“No. I got worse and worse as I grew
older. I suffered from bad headaches, and
I was very often sick. Boring pains over
the eyes were very troublesome, and fits of
dizziness made me reel and almost fall to
the ground. Every morning, on rising
from bed, a dreadful fit of nausea, accom-
panied by violent vomiting, attacked me
with unerring regularity. A bitter fluid
arose from my stomach, and my throat felt
parched. Liberal draughts of water during
the day did not ease my feverish thirst,
which, I think, was induced through a con-
tinual feeling of faintness. My weakness
prevented me looking after the house work,
and the inability to exercise my limbs pro-
duced great weariness. Constipation was
another ailment, my tongue being unclean
and unwholesome. Just below my ribs the
flesh became very tender, and behind my
left shoulder I felt sharp, darting pains. A
sensation of chilliness in my feet and limbs
was often followed by flushings of my face,
and then a dry, hacking cough came on.”
“You had a perfect complication of ail-
ments.”
“I think I had all the ills imaginable
rolled into one severe attack, and it was
only natural that I became low-spirited and
despondent, besides being discontented
with everything and everybody. I was
always in dread of trouble arising, and had
a melancholy desire to be alone. Even
talking fatigued me ; reading was out of the
question, as my eyes were too dull and
heavy. From downright exhaustion I
occasionally fell into a short doze, and then I
had dreams of a frightful character, which
made me dread falling asleep.”
“ What did your doctor say ? ”
“He said I was suffering from excessive
nervousness, and that my digestive organs
were greatly impaired. He gave me a lot of
physic, which did no good. My nerves
were still shattered, and my frame was
reeking with pains. My husband again came
to my rescue. I was more dead than alive
when he brought home a bottle of Clements
Tonic. Until then I had not found a remedy
to relieve my troubles. Clements Tonic
gave relief immediately. It gave tone to
my nerves, enabled me to eat and sleep,
and destroyed all my aches and pains. My
health was soon perfected by Clements
Tonic, and that is why I desire my cure to
be made public, which you can publish in
any way you like.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I. Flora Martin, of No. 11 Suttor-streefc, Alex-
andria, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have care-
fully read the annexed d cument, consisting of three
folios and consecutively numbered from one to three,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any way my
statements —which I give voluntarily, without receiv-
ing any payment; and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true and by
virtue of .he provisions of an Act made an i passed in
the ninth year of the reign of her present Maje-ty,
intituled “An Act for the more effectual abolition tf
Oaths and Affirmations taken and made in the various
I'epi’tments of the Government of New South
Wales, and tosubs itute Di clarations in lit-u thereof,
and for the suppression of voluntary and Extra-
judicial Oaths s.nd Affidavits.”
©L, ILjZ.
Declared at Alexandria this 28th day of September
one .housand n ne hundred, before me,
JAMES PARR, J.C
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK ought to contain A BOTTLE of
ENG'S ‘FRUIT SALT’
*9
Fop Preventing & Curing toy Natural Means
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold,
Influenza, Throat Aifections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
TESTIMONIAL. —“ I have been a nurse for ten years, and have nursed cases
of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles, gangrene, cancer, and almost every
mentionable disease. During this time I have not been ill for a single day, and
this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a
pure state. I recommend it to all my patients during convalescence. Its
value as a means of health cannot be overestimated.” —A Professional
Nurse ( Qualified ).
THE EFFECT OF ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. IT IS, IN FACT, NATURES OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. —See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it, you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
COMMONWEALTH _
Being a series of articles reprinted from The Bulletin
with an appendix dealing with the Fiscal Question.
Price 6d. ; posted, Bd.
Business Announcements.
m
Medical.
aotirn
Header, why not be able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to H\ pnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
that are po sible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
* amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoih
illustrated UESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explain,
the mysteries and secret,
of the Art. It contain,
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever publ shed. For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply.
Remember this costs you noth-
in?. A postal card will bring it.
Order to-day and learn to Hyp-1
notize. It is a chance of a’
life-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRA DEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Hoad, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
A Vapor Bath Cabinet
Is a Necessity in Every Home.
BUY a
Bath Cabinet
(Best American Imported),
and enjoy the luxury of a
TURKISH, VAPOR, or MEDI-
CATED VAPOR BATH at
home, instead of at public
institutions, and save money.
I Cures Rheumatism,
Sleeplessness, Obesity,
Kidney and Skin Diseases.
Price only 25/—, including Heater, and Prescriptions
for Medicated Baths.
Head and Face Steaming Attachment, 3/6 extra.
Cabinet folds fiat to 1 inch thickness, when not in use.
Call and Inspect. Pamphlets Free.
J. CHALMERS,
Premier Buildings, 229-231 Collins St., Melbourne.
Weak
Men.
There is nothing like ELECTRICITY to put life, vim
or vigor into weak men or women. Drugs give but
temporary relief; act merely as a stimulant, but Elec-
tricity flies to all weak parts of the body, imparting
Nature’s force thereto and doing the required work surely
and in a permanent manner. If “ run down ”in health
and strength you had better try Electricity. Use an
Electric Belt, for that is the best method of applying it;
but be sure you get a good one while you are about it;
in short, try “ Dr. Pierce’s,” for it is guaranteed to be the
best Electric Belt on earth.
(EST" “ Booklet No. 2,” sent by mail for a stamp, tells
all about it. Address
PIERCE ELECTRIC CO.,
620 Market Street, SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A., or
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
V{. H. SOUL & CO., Agents.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia.
-"LINCOLN, STUART & r 0.
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
SP*
is
Our Suit to order at 425. is
marvellous value; made from
all-wool Tweeds.Vicunas,or fast
color Serges ; it is perfect fitting;
and beautifully finish'd.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class * f n ate rial Si i 3s. To
measure, capital Trousers, *ery
good patterns lgs. 6d.
Dress Suits, to measure. £?•
Clerical Suits, to measure. £s*
It ding Bre ches. £ss.
Biding Habits. Ac,
We supply ready made. Men’s
.capital Twee l Suits !£is. & s£.*»s.
I Famous Bal arat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 'A s.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergei ette emits. 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers. ss, lid.
All-wool blue and blackVicuna
Sacs and Vests 19s ltd.
Men's Grass Cloth Summer
Suits. 19s <>d. W ite Drill
Sacs and Trousers. 10s. lid.
Khaki Suits, shrunk. 12s lid.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sacs,
lis. 9d. White and Brown Drill
Trou.-ers. 3s. 9d., 4s 9d., ss. lid.
Travelling Trui ks, Ba.a and
Rugs in great variety
Men’s White Miitts, colored
front and cuffs Jis 9<i.
Fancy Bl.rnse Shirts, new
designs, ss. «id.
White Mat e Shirts, collar and
pocket. 3s. IP*-
So t Alpine Hats, 4s, 6d.. all
colors
Hard Hats. 4 ,< . |»d. Caps. Is,
Merino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d.
Neckties, all shapes and colors.
Is.
White Shirts to measure. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
(ps. 9d., 9s. (jd.
We like to write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for any
information. Our book, “ The Philosophy of )'ret=s ” and
patterns of a 1 kinds and self-me: sin ement forms posted free
Write for them.
AN EFFICIENT
FILM CAMERA
THE BROWNIE.
Not a toy. Takes splendid photographs,
2| by 2| inches. Complete with hand-
book of instructions.
KODAKS from ss. to £7 15s.
OF ALL PHOTOGRAPHIC DEALERS, or from
KODAK, Limited,
The Block, ZBh Collins Street, Melbourne.
£end for illustrated price list and mention this
paper
y GOUT v
PILL
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
XJSE
SPOONER’S
m
SPOONERS
V
*
*
r>«. *»
IttTENT LEATHER BOOTS
uLAZEC R:OSW
m
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning-and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers,eto


ft
:
THE LEAD INC HOUSE.
NO MIDDLEMEN
yVE SAVE YOU 25 TO 50 P£RC£Nj
BHBBE9
ILVCP-
-ON DON SYDNEY MELBOURNE PE RTH AUCKLAND WELLINGTON
No. 82018.
Sterling Silver Pepper
Pot, 11s 6d.
No. 307—Solid Silver-Top Blotting
Pads, 13s 6d, 18s 6d and £1 6s.
No. F2727—Sterling Silver Hall-marked Oake Basket, £8
No. F 1022.
Silver-plated Bedroom Candlestick, £l.
No. FI 68.
Sterling Silver Trinket Box,
15s 6d.
No. 84741.
Sterling Silver Sugar
Dredger, £2 15s.
No. 129 A.—Fine Quality Opal and 15ct. Gold Bar
Brooch, £2 10s.
Smaller size, in 9ct. Gold, £1 ss.
No. E 7302.—90.
Gold Heart set with
Pearls and
Turquoises, 16s 6d.
FASHIONABLE BAMBOO BANGLES.
9c. Gold, £1 6s, £1 16b, £2.
No. 198 A.
. SET LINKS.
9c. Gold, 15s 6d ;
16c Gold, £1 10s;
Silver, 4s.
No. E7o6l.—New Design, 9c. Gold Amethyst
Heart Brooch, 12s 6d.
No E 3184.
Polished Oak Biscuit Box, Silver-
plated Mounts, 14s 6d.
No. E 6412.
Solid Silver Clasp, 10s 6d.
(Drawn Half Size.)
No. E393B.—Silver-plated Fern
Pot, 3£in. high, 9s 6d.
No. F 2534.
Thistle Candlestick, Best Silver-
plate, 17s 6d each.
No. E 9248.
Out Glass Puff Box, with Solid Silver
Top, 13s 6d.
In all Silver, with Glass Lining,
£l l7s 6d and JE2 ss.
n
l|! x juEml
No. E 8733.
Solid Silver Menu Holder, 9s 6d.
No. 153 A . —Daisy Brooch, 8 Fine Diamonds.
3 Opals, £4 17s 6d.
No. E 6728.— Best Silver-plated Hot Water Kettle,
with Spirit Lamp, £7.
No. 015.—15 c. Gold and Finest Opal Heart
Brooch, £2 15s.
DAIVSO*™;
' LONDON
No. 326.—Pair Fine Silver-plated Pie Servers, in Case,
£llos.
uilji]ilti(lfc.;!il,
No. E7058.—15c. Gold and Pearl set Heart and Spray
Band Bracelet, £3 15s.
No. E8396.—9c. Gold Curb and
Heart Brooch, 4s 6d.
No. E 6534
Solid Silver-Mounted
Manicure Scissors,
7s 6d.
No. 163.—5 Fine
White Diamonds,
£5 ss.
No. 167 A.—Elegant Scroll Brooch, 14 Fine Dia-
monds, 2 Whole Pearls, 3 Rubies, £6 15s.
■
No. E 9137.— Silver-mounted Combs, 5s 6d.
No. 128 A.
15c. Gold Diamond and Ruby Butterfly
Brooch, £3 7s 6d.
No. 388. Silver-plated Jam Spoon, 6 inches long - , 3s.
No. 345 A.
Finest Silver-plated English
Out Glass But ter Dish with
Knife, £1 2s 6d.
No. 359.
Silver-plated Breakfast Cr
complete with Spoons
IBs 6d.
No. E 7072.
6-Bell Solid Silver
Baby’s Rattle, with
Ivory Handle,
12s 6d.
Others 4s to 2is.
m
m
No. 136.—9 c. Gold Bracelet, Pearls and Sapphires, £2 ss.
No. 178.—Wedding
Rintr 18n. OoM,
£1 Is.
No. 145A.—9c. Gold Amythyst and Pearl Bracelet, £2 7s 6d.
No. E 3777.
Combination Lamp and Fern Pot,
£2 12s 6d.
No. 122 A Gold Brooch, Fine Set Amethyst,
£2 7s 6d.
No. 333.—501 id Silver Christening Spoon, in Case
15s 6d ; Silver-plated, 6s 6d.
-
. •
No. 267 A .—Solid Silver Embroidery Set, in Case, 17s 6d.
No. 295. — Silver-plated Serviette Rings, 2 in Case,
8s 6d ; 4 in Case, 16s 6d ; 6 in Case, £X ss.
Write for Free Catalogue.
All Goods Delivered Carriage Paid.
412 GEORGE ST. & STRAND, SYDNEY.


INSOMNIA AND INDIGESTION.
KUTNOW’S
improved Effervescent Carlsbad
POWDER.
*—*
m
Rk
%>&
Hirschensprung or Deer Leap
London:
41. FARRtNGDON ROAD. E.C.
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.
EXACT SIZF
OFTHEBOTIL
EXACT SIZE
OFTHEBOTTLE
Insomnia is usually due to Digestive Derangements,
which Kutnow’s Powder Rectifies by Restoring the
Stomach, Liver, and Kidneys to Healthy Activity.
When the brain, nerves, and body are exhausted, and in need of recuperation, nothing is more misery-
causing and disabling than inability to sleep. Like insufficient food, insufficient sleep prevents proper mental
and physical recuperation, and restricts brain and muscular activity.
Sleeplessness is generally caused by disorder's of the digestive and assimilative functions. Hence the
maintainance of a strong, healthy digestion is one of the surest safeguards against this ailment.
A clean, active stomach, liver and kidneys assures a good supply of brain and bodily strength and
vigor; but an inactive and disordered stomach, liver, and kidneys are conducive, not only to sleeplessness, but
to a number of other distressing ailments, such as lassitude, sick headache, neuralgia, anaemia, low-spirits,
nausea, &c.
Kutnow’s Improved Effervescent Carlsbad Powder dispels these ailments by removing the cause. It
restores the digestive organs to healthy activity, and frees the blood, nerves and tissue of the impurities with
which they have become poisoned. The effect is apparent almost immediately. The food is properly digested
and assimilated, excretion becomes more perfect, the brain and body are more completely nourished, the nerves
are freed of the waste matters with which they have been irritated, the blood is rendered more pure, the skin
free of blotches and pimples, the capacity for sleeping, eating, and working is restored, and all the other
symptoms of imperfect digestion disappear.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
KUTWOW’S POWDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles from all Reliable Chemists and Medicine
Vendors, See that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirschensprung ” (or Deer Leap), and the autograph
facsimile signature , “S. KUTNOW & CO., Ld.,” are on the label and carton. Only these ensure genuineness.
Insist on “KTJTNO W’Sand firmly refuse any substitutes; they may be worthless, probably injurious.
PROPRIETORS
S. KUTNOW & CO., Ld., 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C.
PROPRIETORS IN U.S.A ——^
KUTNOW BROS., Ld„ 853 Broadway, New York City.
An Old Fairy Tale.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There lived, a few years ago, here in town, a man
who had a wife. He gave her fine clothes, and
never a bad word. Furthermore, he extended to
her the deference and respect that everybody
owes his wife before God and his fellow-men.
But whether it be that this man was more in-
significant than is reasonable, or she was more ex-
cellent, as it were, than most women, it happened
that she took a fancy to another man, who seemed
to her better than anybody else she had ever met.
This surprised everybody—even her husband.
However, he said nothing, but bided his time.
Things went on in this manner, to the joy of all
evil tongues, until fate would have it that he came
on the two at a time when he, under no circum-
stances, ought to have done so. And as it was
completely against his wish, he drew back pre-
cipitately into his office and began work as if
nothing had happened.
But just as he was sitting whistling a lively
tune, the lover walked in and behaved like one
who knows that the time of reckoning has come.
He put his hand in his bosom and drew it out
again, twirled his moustache, set his foot firmly
on the floor, and crossed his arms over his chest.
The husband sighed deeply and looked at him
with compassion. But when this had lasted a
while and did not lead to anything, he took the
lover’s hand and brought him amicably to a seat
in the best chair in the room and said: “Dear
friend, I am quite aware of your position, and I
have the greatest pity for you.”
The other wanted to answer, but was unable to
find anything suitable.
“Say nothing,” said the husband. “What is
the use ? Do you think I am blind ? Or do you
look upon me as an inhuman being? Believe me,
I have seen what you have endured.”
He tapped him lightly on the shoulder and
continued in a soft sad voice: “You have come
here and eaten my dinners, and drunk my wine,
and been thoroughly ashamed. What humilia-
tion have you not suffered! Always obliged to
show me respect and even deference, although in
your heart you spurned me.
“You were obliged to earnestly listen to my
least word, although you found me utterly stupid
and ridiculous. You had to behave as if you were
happy in my company, and keep me when I
wanted to go, although you wished me to the deuce.
You played chess with me, and lost always,
although you play better than I. And you were
obliged to simulate the same views as mine in
politics. You called me by my Christian name,
and yet you couldn’t stand me at any price.”
The lover rose, but the husband forced him
gently down in the chair, again hushing him.
“ Yes ! yes ! I know all about it. Every time
you came you looked earnestly into my face to see
if I knew anything, and you were afraid every
time I came to you.”
The lover jumped up and pushed the husband
away so that his spectacles fell on the floor. The
husband gathered them up, wiped them, and said
in a friendly way :
“Don’t mind ! there is no harm done, and I
understand your painful position completely.
You are thinking of the children —don’t you think
I guessed it ? The three which are not yours, and
the fourth which is, but never shall give you the
name of father. But what do you want me to do
for you ? ”
Then the lover took his hat and went towards
the door. “ I won’t keep you,” said the husband,
and wrung his hand. “I know that farewell
words give scant consolation, and you want to be
alone. But, wait a bit.”
He opened a drawer and took out a most excel-
lent cigar. '
“ I have still one of those you gave me. Oh,
nonsense ! And put a couple of mine m your
pockets. They are not so good, though you
always said they were much better, but they will
do in the open. Pray, dear friend, no thanks.
And be sure to call on us again when you have
got over this.” Saying which, he saw him to the
door and wrung his hand once more.
SGANARELLE.
The powerful cruiser Good Hope, it is
cabled, was christened with Cape wine. Apropos, a
merchant sent Lord Derby a case of Cape sherry,
“for the benefit of your Lordship’s gout.” Derby
wrote back, “ Thanks ; I prefer the gout.”
Since Queensland resumed the policy of
buying immigrants with borrowed money its
valuable time has been largely taken up with
sorting out complaints and disagreements among
its highly undesirable new unpaid-for citizens.
The male immigrants apparently consist to a
great extent of two classes—those who used bad
language all the way out, and those who went on a
large full-bodied drunk as soon as they got ashore.
(They mostly say it was the shock of seeing the place
that drove them to drink.) As for the female ones
they include, among other classes, those whose
conduct was disorderly on the voyage, and those
who took to wandering up and down the street
with kanakas and Japanese when they reached
land. Queensland appears to be perpetually
holding inquiries to find out whether some
of its immigrants were only as bad as
they appeared or a good deal worse. Its
latest woe is that it thinks it has paid for
bringing out a violent lunatic. Mary O’Brien,
the lady who is suspected of not being in her right
mind, is accused, among other things, of biting
Lizzie M‘Nally on the voyage out, and seeking to
brain her with a large brass knob, and of attack-
ing the steward violently with a hair-brush. She
is charged with having hollered at the top of her
voice most of the voyage, and with pounding for
60 consecutive minutes on a metal bath with an
iron bucket, also with throwing water over the
doctor, and with lying flat on the deck while a
dance was going on and pinching the legs of
the other sirens as they fled past in the mazy
waltz. This naturally made them jump, and
Mary O’Brien got trodden on and became violent.
The young lady did a spell in irons under sus-
picion of intent to further chew Lizzie M'Nally,
who was probably a plump girl and toothsome to
look upon. The inquiry into the alleged shouts
and disturbances of Mary O’Brien filled
columns in the Brisbane papers. The most in-
teresting witness was a doctor who swelled
up visibly when asked to give his opinion
of the plaintiff, and gasped two or three times,
and finally refused to express any views, on the
ground that if he once started he would be led
into language quite unfit for public use. Then he
turned a bright purple and went out. _ Queens-
land’s assisted-immigration policy is doing a lot
to stir up the dregs of monotony and the dull sedi-
ment at the bottom of the cup of bitterness.
“Sound the Clock” on the
Queensland Border.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nearly sunrise, and time to get up. There is a
cool breeze blowing. I feel a small thrill of that
nearly-forgotten sense of pleasure in merely
living, when the world seemed full of possibilities
—and a forlorn hope that to-day may not be as
hot as the innumerable yesterdays. In an hour
the sky turns grey; the wind is hot; the stunted
belahs and dusty grey earth —grass there is none
—all look just as they have looked for the last
four dreadful months. My neighbor’s goats—
little active creatures begin to prospect
for stray jam-tins, and with deadly persistency
drink the water provided for the dusty and de-
pressed fowls, though they are well aware there is
plenty of water —of a sort —in the river a few
hundred yards away. Once I had a few flowers
in tins, but the goats lusted for them and
eventually ate them. Three times I replenished
the tins and three times the same thing happened.
The day grows hotter and hotter, my attire
becomes airier and airier, in vain. There is noth-
ing for it but grim enduranca As the afternoon
wanes, perhaps the sun is hot quite so hot, but
the atmosphere is more sultry. I drift wearily
over to my nearest neighbor’s and find her
sitting on the floor —the coolest, or rather the
least-hot, place in the house. I gasp out “ Hot!”
She makes no reply to the unnecessary remark,
but says dreamily: “Fifty years ago, to-day, I
was in England. It had been snowing, and we
children had been having fine games in the snow,
and at night we sat round the fire ” —I shuddered—
“ and had roast-apples and nuts and cider. In
summer we used to think it a bit hot sometimes,
but there was the long, cool twilight, with the
scent of the new-mown hay, and all the country
smelling like a flower-garden, and the hedges all
full of dog-roses and white-thorn and blackberries;
and in the spring the pink and white may and
cowslips and primroses and violets in the cool
green grass. And oh ! the fun we used to have
nutting in the woods.” She broke-off with a dim-
ness in her poor old faded blue eyes that answered
for tears. (At her age there are no tears in
Mungindi. All the moisture of the system goes
off in perspiration.)
Here I take up the theme. “ I remember when
I was a child I lived in a town down-country, not
many miles from the sea, and there were gardens
and hedges of roses and Cape-mulberries—mother
used to say it was like a village in England. And in
the summer evenings a breeze would come from
the sea, and the townsfolk used to go out to meet
it on horseback and in buggies. And where my
people live now, on the borders of New England,
the house is surrounded by honeysuckle and
climbing-roses and sweet verbena, and trellis-work
with grape-vines trained over it, and hedges of
roses my brother planted. The grapes and
peaches are ripe now. Perhaps,” I went on,
“ they are all at tea now, with butter, cool out of
the dairy, and cheese, and fruit, and real apricot-
jam—not factory—and real milk and cream.”
Here I bitterly thought of the factory-butter—
or oil—in my cupboard at home, and the tin of
“ bullocky’s joy ” reposing in a saucer of water to
keep the ants out —and shed with some difficulty
a couple of tears, for I am younger and somewhat
moister than my neighbor. Finally I totter feebly
home ; and, as it is night, carefully set a mosquito-
fire to windward of me and spread myself on the
floor between open doors—there to sleep, or other-
wise, until near morning, when some small cool-
ness may be expected, and the bed may be
possible to lie upon for an hour or two’s sleep
before just such another weary day.
NELL COOK.
George R. Sims tells a grim tale of the
new century. A gentleman who had been in weak
health for some time, on joining his family in
the hall as the portals were flung wide to let in
this New Year, listened to the stroke of mid-
night with feverish excitement. “Ah!” he ex-
claimed, “ I never thought that I should live to
see the new century.” On the fifth stroke he fell
forward—dead. “Dagonet” goes on: “But, of
course, it is by no means an isolated case. Scores
died while the clock was striking twelve on Mon-
day night—because people die and people are
born every minute of the day and night all the
year round. About some of the little strangers
who came to town at midnight on Monday there
will always be a dispute as to which century they
were born in. Many of them will in future claim
to have been born in both. A medical friend of
mine has just been telling me of a case of twin
sisters who were born at midnight on Monday.
One waS bom in the nineteenth century and the
other in the twentieth. They are twins, but one
is a century older than the other.”
Lawson has wailed, more or less melli-
fluously, anent his experiences and rewards in the
pursuit of literature in Australia. Here is the
experience, and the reward, in connection with a
London publisher, of an Australian writer of
assured reputation. Last July the writer in ques-
tion received an invitation from a publishing
house with an elaborate imprint to write an
article on a special Australian subject for a paper
entitled Boys of the Empire. The request was
for 2000 words, and a suggestion was thrown out
that other work would follow. Only eight days
from receipt of the letter were given for the
completion and despatch of the article. More-
over, it was intimated that a Sydney man, then in
London, had recommended the writer referred to.
The Australian replied that he did not care for the
subject, but as Mr. had mentioned his name
he would do the work, and he concluded by stating
that he expected the usual London magazine rate
of payment. He also wrote and despatched the
article—over 2000 words in length. On Ist Feb.,
this year, he received a cheque for £1 with the
following enclosure : “Your receipt for enclosed
per return of post will oblige. The Cashier, Sun-
day School Union, 57 and 59 Ludgate Hill, Lon-
don, E.C. £l. Serial rights, etc., etc.” At the
end of the transaction the writer’s account stood
thus: To typing the article, 45.; fine on the
letter from London (enclosing the cheque for £1
and mailed under a penny stamp), 3d. ; exchange
on cheque, 2s. fid. ; other postage, fid. ; total,
7s. 3d. ; balance in hand for special Australian
article of over 2000 words, 12s. 9d. After this the
writer who makes his bread-and-butter by writing
for Australian papers unconnected with the
London Sunday School Union had better hold his
tongue. The victim is desirous that the facts of
his own case should be made known in order that
his Australian confreres asked to contribute to
Boys of the Empire should not repeat his ex-
perience. By the way, he had not the least idea
that a Sunday School Union had anything to do
with the affair.


THERE’S A LONG LINE^^
OF
SYDNEY PEOPLE
TTSX3NTG-
Doan’s Backache Kidney pills
' - y*+ /> y'
ir Y \¥3
%
8
(£y«i
ft
What They Say;
AND
Why They Use Them.
The report we publish to-day is
from Mr. E. Hanson, of 41 Rosser-
street, Balmain, Sydney. No better
evidence can ‘be had as to the merits
of a medicine than the evidence of
one’s friends and neighbors, such as
this:—
Just one word of caution here.
The merit and success of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills have caused
them to be imitated in a most un-
scrupulous way. These imitators
imitate the name, and they imitate
the package just as closely as they
dare. But the one thing they can’t
imitate is the strong endorsements
of Sydney people. Every action of
an imitator is shady and suspicious.
For instance, instead of telling what
Sydney people say about his medi-
cine, he tells what someone in a
far-away, obscure town says. Will
the intelligent reader compare such
statements with the open, straight-
forward statements of Sydney peo-
ple about Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pill’s?
But you will never be imposed on
if you will remember that the full
name is Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, and if your chemist or druggist
cannot supply you, send 2/9 for a
single box, or 15/3 for six boxes, to
the Proprietors, Foster - McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney, and the
medicine will be sent you at once,
post free.
One word more as to why Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills are so effective
in curing disease.
Because they purge the kidneys
and bladder of disease-breeding im-
purities. When the kidneys go wrong
they become clogged with impurities,
and these impurities go all through
the body, and cause all manner of
disease.
They cause you headaches, back-
aches, rheumatism, neuralgia, dizzi-
ness, bad heart, all tired-out feelings,
dropsy, general dullness of the mind,
and run-down condition.
These and a thousand more troubles
are caused by defective kidney action,
and are curable only through the kid-
neys. And Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are the most successful medicine !
in the world to-day, because they go
straight to the root of the disease —
the kidneys— and heal them.
Mr. E. Hansen says :
“For years I had a backache,
which made me helpless and a burden
to myself. I also had my right arm
useless, and could not do any work.
I had to use my left arm to feed my-
self, being unable to lift a teacup to
my lips with my right arm. I say
nothing of the agony I was in; but
only of the fact that I was unable to
earn my own living. I tried a lot of
medicines, and went to doctors and
hospitals. I would get a slight relief,
and then I’d get bad again for a moral
certainty. I took fourteen boxes of
one largely-advertised remedy alone,
and thought it had cured me twice;
but when I started work one
day’s labour made me as bad
as I had been before. There
are hundreds in Balmain who know
of my case, and any of them will
tell you what Doan’s Backache Kid-
ney Pills have done for me. I got a
box more than twelve months ago,
and when I had taken half a box of
these wonderful pills I felt so well
that I thought I could start work.
But, knowing how I had been treated
by other remedies, I finished the box
to make sure, and then I began
work, and have worked ever since.
My right arm is as strong and as well
as my left, and all the pains have
gone. I have not taken a pill since,
because I’ve not needed one. They
acted in a most magical way, as the
men in the Dock will tell you.
Through hearing of my case others
have used Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, and have been cured likewise.”
And the following cases are all from
Sydney people, and are similar in
many respects to the above :
Mr. Martin Nicholas, 16 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney ; Mr. J. J. Schuh, 77,-
Sydney ; William
jbrreenland, Printer, 22 Forsyth-
.Street, Glebe; Mrs. M. Mullins, 4S
.Hunter-street; Wm. Carroll, ex-
Rail way Guard, 749 Harris-street,
I Ultimo; Mr. Will. James, Tobacco-
mst, Manly ; Mark Tierney, Vanman,
1118 Bridge-road, Glebe ; Robt. Ryan
3J9 bussex-street, Sydney; F. Flor-
ence, 208 Alfred-street, North Syd-
ney; Jos. Grieve, Wood and Coal
Merchant, 18 Albion-street, Surrv
Hdls; Mrs. Wright, 6 Red Lion-
street, Balmain.
ITCHINESS OF THE SHIN.
Ever had any Irritation of the Skin?
There are many forms of it, and any of them
bad enough to tax your patience. Hemorrhoid, a
plague of the night: no rest for the sufferers from
that complaint. Eczema, too; hives don’t sound
dangerous, but they cause much misery to those
unfortunate enough to be troubled with them.
Doan’s Ointment is “a wonder” for any such
trouble. Any troublesome irritation of the skin
can’t resist its healing, soothing influence. Lots
of Sydney people know this now.
Mrs. M. A. Carter, “ Waratah,” Orange-street,
Randwick, Sydney, writes a most enthusiastic
letter as to how her young daughter, aged 10
years, was cured of Eczema hy Doan’s Ointment.
Mrs. Carter thought her daughter contracted the
disease at school. It affected her scalp, which
was terribly inflamed, and all broken out, and
irritated her terribly. She procured some of
Doan’s Ointment at Newman’s Pharmacy, King-
street, and, after thoroughly washing the child’s
scalp, applied it. The result was the scalp en-
tirely healed in a few days, and left no scar, much
to their joy.
“ I have also used the ointment myself for irri-
tation of the skin—a sort of Eczema —and it has
done me equally as mueh good as it did my
daughter. You are at liberty to publish these
facts at any time, and I will only be too pleased
to verify the statements should I be called upon
to do so.”
Doan’s Ointment is splendid in all Diseases of
the Skin, Eczema, Piles, Hives, Insect Bites, Sores,
Chilblains, &c. It is perfectly safe and very effec-
tive. Very frequently two or three boxes have
made a complete cure of chronic cases that have
not yielded to other remedies for years.
Doan’s Ointment has been tested in so many
ways, in hospital work, in private practice, and
has proved so successful that a special arrange-
ment has been made by which all readers of The
Bulletin who have not already tried it may
obtain a sample pot, free by mail, by sending us
their names and addresses and a penny stamp to
pay postage. We know that this Ointment will
cure these affections, that it will cure them abso-
lutely, and we want you to know it. It is per-
fectly unnecessary for anyone to suffer from Piles
Eczema, or any form of Itchiness of the Skin, for
one moment. Doan’s Ointment will cure them
absolutely, but do not take our word for it; send
a penny stamp for a sample box. The large size
box is sold at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes 15s. 3d.).
If you cannot obtain it locally from your chemist
or storekeeper, same will be posted on receipt
of price by the proprietors, Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
When writing for sample please mention The
Bulletin,
The Secret View.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Last night I saw a ragged tree—
In a sordid rockland grew it;
It had captured a beauty from the moon
So sweet that I hardly knew it.
The day makes clear what the night doth hide,
Night shows what the dull day hideth—
And the tree of the hoontide passeth away,
While the tree of the moonlight bideth.
The selfsame hour I kissed her mouth,
She was no great things to think of—
But all in her eyes there came a wine
That made me go mad to drink of.
The heart doth see what the eye sees not,
And Love is the power that moveth ;
For beauty opens a secret view
To the eyes of him who loveth.
N.S.W.
RODZRIC QUINN.
Bellman’s Neighbor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ihe houses are the usual slim, suburban affairs—
half a street of plain wooden barn, accurately
sliced into cottages, with verandah partitions, and
two - feet - two - inches of portioned - off “front
gardens,” each just the measure of a grave.
Bellman’s neighbor is a small, wiry Irishman of
about 50, and his name is Cornelius Minahan, but
the street calls him “Corns,” the sobriquet being
convenient and descriptive. “Corns” has a
stubbly scrub of hair and whisker that gives him
the appearance of a low - comedian peering
through a hole in an old scrap of cocoanut-mat.ting,
but, being fond of beer, he desires to have his
mouth always easy and accessible, and clips a per-
functory clearing all round his lips. The effect is
not pleasant—it gives his mouth, situated between
an upper lip like an arid expanse on a topographic
map and a chin like a landslip, an appearance of
utter desolation. In fact, Minahan’s whole face,
with its one dark eye, its small, inadequate,
broken nose, its mangled fragments of a mou-
stache and indented cheek, is strangely suggestive
of a mediaeval ruin.
Bellman sees very little of his neighbors.
Cornelius is naturally of reserved and melancholy
temperament, and it is only under the influence of
Drink that he becomes a power in Wexford Place,
and rises to the dignity of an intolerable public
nuisance. When sober and disengaged, Minahan
is met with, once in a way, mooching aimlessly in
the dirty lane at the back, with his hands clasped
behind him, his body much bent, and his eyes
fixed upon the ground. He is sometimes seen
coming and going with a big broom on his shoulder,
and has been discovered in distant streets, pushing
the same broom along muddy gutters, but on these
occasions he is always a pained and anxious man,
thinking wearily on the shocking inadequacy of
things. As a sober citizen, he drifts meekly
into his home and issues furtively therefrom, and
Mrs. Minahan rules him with a rod of iron. Her
voice is often heard storming him from room to
room, and the dull thud of the ruling rod is not
an unfamiliar sound to Bellman, but the sober
Cornelius is never heard in reply. It is doubtful
if Mary Ann Minahan ever disturbs his moody
meditations.
Mrs. M. is X' tall, raw-bo'ned, untidy woman,
with the pale face of a doomed invalid, and the
appetite of a navvy. She seems to spend her
time between railing passionately at a pack of
ragged young half-savage Minahans raging in the
sloppy back yard, and cajoling, with not unmusi-
cal blarney, a frowsy old fraud of a dog addicted
to fits of blind berserker fury in the dust of the
“ front garden ” whenever a passing tyke ques-
tions his legitimacy through the pickets. So far
as the neighbours can discover “Corns” never
displays any consciousness of the existence of
his children or his lawful dog—he is as abstracted
as an Egyptian mummy in its original wrappings.
The growth of a Minahan “drunk” is watched
with great concern by all the residents in Wex-
ford Place. In the beginning the only dis-
coverable change in Cornelius is a slight
straightening and stiffening of the figure. It
develops slowly, even the elimination of the
familiar stoop is a deliberate process. Then the
head comes up and back, the meekness fades from
the face, giving place to an expression of canine
truculence, the slouching walk gradually changes
into a springy gait that is almost a prance, the
eyes glare, the hair bristles—and Cornelius owns
the street. It takes Minahan two days to stiffen,
it takes him a week to get drunk, and even then
the climax may be averted for twenty-four hours
or more. As “ Corns ” stiffens Mrs. Minahan un-
bends, and when “Corns” is hovering on the
point of explosion, Mrs. Minahan is a humble and
contrite female, full of conciliatory schemes, and
an adept with tears and soft speeches.
The local interest in the rise and progress of the
“drunk” is quite unusual and applies only to
Minahan. Other husbands and fathers living
there get drunk in a casual way, and riot their
little time, and nobody heeds them, but the
Minahan “drunk” is a fearful and wonderful
thing—something that nobody living within a
quarter of a mile can afford to ignore. The dis-
coverer of the first symptoms hastens to spread
the tidings with the eagerness of one who dreads
to be forestalled in communicating great intelli-
gence.
“ D’ye notice that hitnsilf’s got goin’ agin ’ ”
“What, Minahan?”
“ Himsilf. I notice the glare in the eye of him
this very evenin’.”
In ten minutes every wife in the street knows
it, and after that progress is noted with the
minutest care; the children run in with the latest
bulletins, and as the week advances interest be-
comes feverish and nothing but Minahan’s drunk
is talked of in Wexford Place and its neighbor-
hood. Meanwhile “Corns” sees nobody and
speaks to none ; he seems to be aware of enemies
in the air, and to-defy them. As his “drunk”
deepens his self-concentration intensifies, he be-
comes absolutely silent, and continues for his
allotted time, generating force. At last comes
the explosion, generally at the dead of night, and
then for an indefinite period “ Corns ” becomes a
devil and a desolator, and the roar of him drives
peace and sleep from all Wexford Place, and his
ragings up and down make the whole row of
ricketty outages reel like the waves of the great
deep.
It is thS culmination of the drunk that is so
anxiously awaited. Everybody is anxious to
know what form it will take, for “Corns” seldom
repeats himself, and the neighbours can always
rely upon a refreshing novelty. One time he
climbed to the roof of his house and started pull-
ing down the chimney, throwing brick after brick
down the flue at the fiends infesting the rooms
below. When he had razed one chimney to the
level of the roof he started on the next, and so on
along Swinnerton’s Buildings. On another
occasion “Corns” took possession of the front
verandah, and pranced up and down on all-fours,
swarming up the wall as he turned, under the
impression that he was some quaint, uneasy
animal he had fallen in with at the Zoo. In a
third case Cornelius crowded his parlor with old
tins, wash-tubs, and other metal utensils, and
battered them furiously all round the room with a
spawling-haramer for a space of nine hours,
filling the neighborhood with such an uproar as
might have been raised in a rolling-mill run by
lunatics.
When the crucial point of Minahan’s debauch is
about due the effect upon Wexford Place is most
marked —a sort of hush falls upon the street, and
the wear and tear of a great expectation is dis-
tinctly visible in the faces of the women. The
hush deepens, the quiet that immediately pre-
cedes the outbreak is almost tomb-like. There is
over the place something of the tragic intensity of
a crowd surrounding afar off a bomb that is to be
exploded with a time-fuse the length of which
nobody knows.
Crash I Rattle ! Bang !
Bellman is awakened at the dead of night by a
banging at the partition dividing his house from
that of Minahan. “Corns” has reached his
crisis, and the noise he produces sounds exactly as
if he were making blind dashes, running up the
wall, hitting his head against the roof, and falling
heavily to the floor. The round is repeated, with
horrible iteration, for hours. The first crash
brings the neighbors out of their houses, like ants
swarming from a ruined hill, and they gather in
the street before and the right-of-way behind the
residence of “Corns,” and speculate curiously
about the nature of the development. If Mina-
han’s manifestation is an indoor function there is
disappointment in Wexford Place, and the neigh-
bors are more bitter than ever in expressing their
determination to have the law on the disturber of
the peace. Mrs. Minahan, who has a great awe
of the police, exerts herself to the utmost to keep
“Corns” within doors during the period of his
frantic reaction, but the public always hopes for
some interesting display. It has a grateful
memory of the day Cornelius chopped his way up
through the ceiling and roof over the bedroom,
and remained for hours, with his head jammed
through a small aperture in the galvanised iron,
bellowing “ The Shan Van Yocht! ”
There is only one known man who has any
influence over Cornelius Minahan when his
‘drunk” has culminated, and that is Father
Power, the priest whose mission it is to keep an
eve on the Catholic morals of Wexford Place and
the surrounding district. When “Corns” be-
comes partially outrageous and dangerous to life
and limb, a little Minahan is always sent post-
haste for Father Power, and the good priest, a
humorous man with an alert and lively eye and
a benevolent tolerance for human weakness, never
fails to subdue the frantic man with a few stern
words “Corns” might, in his most turbulent
fats, find it m his heart to resist the priest, if the
latter relied upon English alone, but a tag of
Latin overwhelms Minahan, and leaves him limp
and quaking.
Many of the people of the street, particularly
the Protestants, bitterly resent Father Power’s
interference. “Corns” is regarded as a popular
show, the neighbors submit to much from him in
what they call his “ tantrums,” and feel justified
in demanding all the possible amusement they can
get out of him when he is in active eruption.
On the occasion on which “Corns” started his
crusade against the chimneys of Swinnerton’s
Buildings, Father Power arrived on the scene in
the grey light of early morning, when Minahan
had started on his third chimney.
Cornelius Minahan ! ” he called from the road-
side. “ Cornelius Minahan, do you hear me ? ”
Corns ” paused, with a brick poised, and
looked down at the priest.
.“ Come down out av that, ye disgraceful man > ”
cried the priest.
Minahan peered longingly down the chimney
again,_ but his father-confessor thundered a sen-
tence in Latin at him, and Cornelius hastily re-
placed the brick, and, in his trembling hurry to
obey slid in a sitting position down the slope
bumped on to the verandah,
slid on that and bumped, still in a sitting position,
into the dust of the front garden, and was gathered’
up and carried inside in a state of tearful humility!
The latest “drunk” of Minahan’s was a great
popular success. It exploded in a howling and
jumping spasm that lasted two hours, during
which time “Corns” bounded in and out of the
house and over the furniture, yowling with an
eerie dreadfuJness. Then he drove Mrs. Minahan
into the street, and, armed with the wood-axe,
held the front of the house against all comers till
nearly midday, having occasional terribly ener-
Suddenly, however, he fell into an unexpected
and unnatural calm, and stood gazing in a puzzled
way at the front of his house. He had mislaid
the doorway. He looked closely for the door on
the left instead of the right, and muttered to him-
self vaguely. He looked more closely, and grew
impatient and threatening.
Someone s shtole me dure,” he murmured.
“Sure, the dure’s took, right enough ! It’s a
dirthy trick to go off wid a man’s dureway, so it
is ; an if I had a hould of the thafe, be me sowl
" But it won’t be takin’ Cornalius Minahan
long to make a new wan, so it won’t.”
With that he aimed a wild blow at the house
with the axe, and set furiously to work to cut
another doorway. He was so engaged when
Father Power arrived, and, having reduced him
to a dazed and contrite condition with a blast from
the classics, led him indoors by the ear. Then
silence again fell upon Wexford-place.
Late in the afternoon, as usual, Mrs. Mina-
han, decorated with two very black eyes, knocked
for Mrs. Bellman on the verandah partition, and
said, as she had done a dozen times before :
“Did ye hear me poor man? He’ve had
another of thim shtrokes. Glory be ! but the one
will come that’ll be the endin’ of him.” And
Mrs. Bellman, being a small timid woman,
acquiesced, and expressed Christian sympathy!
for it is a tradition in Swinnerton’s Buildings that
Minahan had a sunstroke once, and the least little
drop knocks him over.
EDWARD DYSON.
Higinbotham, before he began a great
speech, invariably placed hia left arm under his
coat-tails. Wax. Madden, when speaking, in-
cessantly twirls a piece of tape. Purves, K.C.
when exhorting a jury keeps tugging at his gown!
(x lads tone was not happy unless he could round
off his periods by vigorously pounding a tin box
which stands on the Commons’ table and which
shows unmistakable dents made by the trreat
man’s ring. 6


Gives Muscular Strength
and Nerve Power
Takes Out Every Impurity from the Blood, Makes the Blood Rich and
Red, Removes Depression, Imparts Vigor and New Life.
Sarsaparilla
Mr. Thomas Monroe, of Oriel, Albion, near Brisbane, Queensland, is well
known in football and athletic circles. He has to keep his system in perfect
condition all the time. Read what he says about Dr. Ayer’s Family Medicines.
“ I have used Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to restore the appetite and give tone and strength to
the whole system, and I have bepn greatly benefited by doing so.
“ I have also obtained marked relief from the asthma by the use of Dr. Ayer’s Cherry Sec-
toral. These t\yo remedies are well known throughout Queensland as thoroughly reliable
family medicines.”
So great is the reputation of Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla as a remedy for_ healing
the sick that it is called everywhere
“The World’s Createst Family Medicine.”
If you are sick, you certainly should give Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla a thorough
trial. It cannot fail to help you, for it cures the blood first of all. Then your
nerves become steady and strong and the hot weather of summer does not affect
you. All depression is overcome. Remember, it is a wonderful medicine for
the children, too, when they are thin and feeble, pale and languid. Put your
confidence in it, for there is no family medicine in the world its equal.
AYER’S i arsaparilla
Purifies and Enriches tiie Blood.
AYER’S PILLS cure dyspepsia; strengthen the stomach.
A POLICY FOR TH€
COMMONWEALTH.
Bcipg a scries of articles reprinted
froip “Tbe BGlletio,” witb ap
appendix dealing Witb tbe Fiscal
Q6eStiop.
PRICE 6d.; posted, Bd.
GONINGHAM
DIVORCE CASE
A Full History of the Celebrated
Coningham-O’Haran Trial.
CONTAINING MUCH MATTER NEVER BEFORE PUBLISHED, AND GIVING A
FULL AND VIVID REPORT OF ITS STARTLING, MORAL, THEOLOGICAL
AND LEGAL FEATURES.
It is the only Complete, Absolutely Fair and Unprejudiced Account of the Whole
Proceedings yet published.
ILLUSTRATED.
~ "
By Post—
Sevenpence.
SIR ROBERT
£
16 Park-St
Worth a Guinea a Box.
'
gEECHAM’S
PILLS
Are Unrivalled for the Complexion,
PATENT
Q?
PILdUS
is
PEIC
ty ft ft Propr'ieicm
HELENS
ftft
Pr
Sold
ST
LANCASHIRE
ENGLAND
■TO*?
....
AND WILL BRING
The BLUSH of HEALTH
To PALLID CHEEKS.
Are SPECIALLY SUITABLE
for the DISEASES and AIL-
MENTS common to FEMALES
of all Ages.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 1/11 (56 Pills) and 2/9 each.
6,000,000 BOXES SOLD ANNUALLY.
Beecham’s TOOTH PASTE
RECOMMENDS ITSELF.
It is Efficacious, Economical. Cleanses the Teeth, Perfumes
the Breath, and is a lieUahle and Pleasant Dentifrice.
la* Collapsible Tubes, OHE SHILLING each.
((
"STEELE RUDD’S” BOOK
ON OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
The Universal Remedy for Acidity oi tr.e Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Grout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most g-entle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
dihnefoKdsi
MAGNESIA
Sold Throughout the Woria.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA,
-s
IRISH MOSS
FOR
-The besr remedy-
Ask for Bannington's
and seetkatyou qet it.
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.


Asbestos Boiler Covering
SAVES 25 PER CENT. IN FUEL.
PACKED WET, Ready for Use, in 3cwt. Casks, 75., 95., 10s. cwt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lewt., 145., 165., 18s. cwt.
ESTIMATES given for Covering Boilers and Steam Pipes.
Our Asbestos Boißer Covering
25 PER CENT. IN FUEL.
PERDRIAU & CO.,
Telephones: 418, 467..
268-270 G-eorge St,
Sydney.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECT HI CAL ISNGINEE RS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE WORTHINGTON
....IS THE ORIGINAL ...
DUPLEX PUMP.
<£iss
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND,
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE mark.
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
BSBg
V.-Jr.Y£S
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.
HAVE STOCKS OF MATERIAL & FURNISHINGS
for MINING and engineering.
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES IN AUSTRALIA OF
TANGYES LIMITED.
PUMPS. ENGINES. BOILERS.
DEPOTS IN SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, CQOLGARDIE.
BO
YEARS DYEING-
FOB THE LADIES.
W- C. & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 If OK li STKJWUT, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post /rum all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
GEORGE & MARKET STREETS.
Board and Residence, Bs. per Day.
luncheon)
12 o’clock till 2.30. /
-■m tsar-
{
DINNER, TEA
8.30 till 7.30.
ONE SHILLING UPWARDS,
Perfect Cuisine and First-class Attendance.
Special FISH LUNCHEON and DINNER on FRIDAYS.
TO WAY-BACK RESIDENTS.
CHRISTMAS and COMMONWEALTH FESTIVITIES.
YOU CAN OBTAIN FROM THE
N.S.W. Fresh Food & Ice Co. Ltd.
by Rail or Parcels Post, the very Finest Christmas Cakes and Puddings, Pastry, &c.
Poultry, Fish and Game forwarded in a frozen condition to all parts of the Colony.
Butter —“Golden Star” and “ Berry” Brands, of Splendid Keeping Quality—sent by Parcels Post, packed in tins.
/ ICE, ICE, ICE Pure Crystal See —packed in Special Transport Boxes, and consigned (freight paid)' to any Railway Station in N.S.W.
Head Office : HARBOUR ST., SYDNEY. lend for OUT Price Lists H. PATESON, Manager.
H • «,-■ as
MINING SCREENS.
Double Crimped Wire Cloth.
A Large Stoeh of all Sizes . . . .
Write for Samples and Particulars .
TED
■uMM.Mn ENGINEERS
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OP
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
AGENTS for Knowles Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors,
Rockbreakers,
Nagle Engines and
Blowers and Exhanst Fans,
etc-, etc.*
Buffalo
SYDNEY.
I
74 Clarence St., SYDNEY ; 435 Bourke St,, MELBOURNE,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS.
BLAKE’S STEAM PUMPS (Single and Duplex)
FAY’S WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
STEAM ENGINES (Horizontal and Vertical)
ENGINEERS’ TURNING LATHES.
DRILLING MACHINES. PLANERS.
STEEL PULLEYS SHAFTING, PLUMMER-BLOCKS
EMPIRE LAUNDRY CO’S LAUNDRY MACHINERY
STURTEVANT’S FANS am. PORTABLE FORGES.
c
m
sN?S
