

7 S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
of
Highest Purity-”
The Lancet
R.
Mining
Gk WATEUNS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR— > ,
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE
Prices and
Particulars.
Descriptive
Catalogues
Most
Up-to-Date
Machines.
A POLICY
for the
COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d.— posted Bd.
iarSupplied direct from The Bulletin Office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any
Australasian province), postal notes, or P. 0.0.
for amount stated.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
4-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
mi
m
■mm
Sawing & Woodworking Machinery,
Vertical & Horizontal Band Mills,
Ghx*a<xxc3. 3E»ri3c,” I»aa,x*ia, 1900.
HOLD THE WORLD’!
RECORD
SSIBLE AWARD.)
, 85 Pitt Street,
THORNE’S
-- A 1 WHISHT.
HELIDON SPA.
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd., iLgexLta, Sydney.
w:
am
HOBART.
——
Hadley s Orient fiotel.
•JjjOTICK TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF lor
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME
SANDEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
24=1 3PII-T STREET, S'*rDCTJETST.
Tails. Plaits,
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS and PLAITS,
20in. loner, 5/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6 ; 24in.,
10/6; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address”:— W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLIAM-ST., Comer of Palmer-st.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door. All
work guaranteed IljuStrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
W'ge made on shortest notice. .
PIONEER
LEATHER
BE LTiNCI
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively: by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. G. LUDOWIGI & SON, LJD.,
117 York-street, SYDNE^T.
Branches: —P. Frankel & 00., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q. ;
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
00., Oollins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter&Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Oashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
F
AIR GIRLS AND GRAY HORSES.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
JOHN JAMESON
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents: J. BAEEE JOHNSTON & CO., Loffcus Street, Sydney.
OTARD-DUPUY
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
m
m
USE
Head Office:
ST., SYDNEY
Price 6s.
Pol| Free.
“OH OUR SELECTION.”
AT' the club, in, the home,
FOR THE SICK AND THE SOUND,
EVERYWHERE, AND FOR EVERYBODY,
RANDY
IS XECE BEST..
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Publis and
Catered for
on Host
Reasonable
Terms.
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCINQ FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Any Bushman Will Tell
yon to nse
Row’s Cn)brocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Kheumafcism,
and Stiffness of Joints it. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons ara
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n>brocatioi).
The Ways of Many Waters
Collects the dashing ballads and verses of sailor-men s
and wharf-men’s life which E. J. Brady has contributed
to The Bulletin and the Sunday Times, S vdney It is
the first attempt on the part of an Australian verse-
writer to chant the life on the sea and the margins of
the sea ; though'there is one horse-poem—the story of
“ How lack Bowlin Steered ‘ Jones.’ ’’ The volume is
bound in buckram, with gilt top, in a size that will go
into a pocket without squeezing; and the price is ss.
post-free.
The Bulletin
Vol 22. -No. 1123 j
[Saturday, August 24, 1901.
Feffistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The Bulletin publications.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated : price 4s 6d. post free.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). New
Issue. With about eighty illustrations by
Mali on y, Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher
and Full wood ; 6s. post : free. %* “The
jolliest book yet printed in Australia.”
Pair Girls and Gray Horses, -with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait ; ss.
post free. %* A charming presentation
volume.
The Ways of Many .Waters:
v By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top ; 55.,
post free. *** Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
Dreams in Flower:
By Louise Mack. No. IV of The Bulle-
tin Booklets (enlarged). Enveloped,
2s. 6d. post free.
Tales of the Convict System:
By “ Price Warung.” Paper oovers, 193
pp, ; 6d., post free.
Send Id. stamp for The Bulletin Book Circular.
Sole Distributing Agents,:
Edwards, Dunlop & Go., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Special Wholesale Agents :
New South Wales .. .. Edwards, Dunlop & 00., Ltd.
Queensland Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
Victoria E. W. Oole.
South Australia .. .. E. S'. Wilg & Son.
Auckland and district .. Wildman & Lybll.
Others to be appointed.
For the LUNGS, the TJOtOAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
A- The Larynx, or organ of
voice. . ,
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C- The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
B. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S
[OL JUJUBES (Registered).
Contf /tin NO cocaine or other poisonous drug
free on
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, In Tina, Is ed; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland—post
receipt of stamps. Sydr , e y Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
THE RED PAGE.
A Roeing Australian.
SIXTEEN months ago Australian artist A. J.
Fischer went wandering to Europe in search
of experience. Now he is back again, having
found experience, a beard, and a first-class
South Kensington certificate for success in study
of “the life”—the whole gained in an all-English
competition. And this is some of what he says
about it: —
“Well, the trip cost me about £l5O. You see,
I wdnt to England by the White Star line, paying
14gs. I had twelve months in London, six
weeks in Paris, passage both ways, and I paid
about £25 in art-school fees and painting materials
—all out,of £l5O, you know.
“You see, I lived cheaply, but well enough ;
yet I might n’t have done it if I had n’t fallen in
with Robertson, a student from Newcastle,
N.S.W., with whom I clubbed. You can’t
live in London as cheaply as in Paris;
or I couldn’t—that is, getting the same value
in food, you know. Why, for a three-course
dinner sUch as .I had in Melbourne for Is., they
would charge you 3s. fid. in London —with the
same service and everything. They asked
me four guineas a week for a small room in
Eaton Square—just the room, you know; and
they wanted £4O a year for the very cheapest
kind of studio. Of course Eaton Square is an ex-
pensive locality ; but I had to be close to the art
classes at. Westminster; I suppose if I had gone
in the suburbs I could have got a cheap room. I
paid Bs. a week for the one I had in Ebury Square.
“I went to the Westminster Art School;
to the day classes under Mouat Loudan.
He’s a fine teacher, and a splendid painter of
children. You see, he insists on tone and draw-
ing ; but after that he leaves you pretty much to
yourself;—that is, he shows you how to do things,
but He always wants you to stick to your own con-
ception ; he tries to bring out what’s ”in
you , not force himself into your work.
When I went in first there were a whole
lot there busy; and 1 did n’t know what
to start with. I said to a fellow next me,
* Are you supposed to draw with crayon,
or charcoal, or how ? ’ He was very stiff;
didn’t turn his head. ‘ Aw-haw! any way you
like.’ Presently I asked another man some-
thing, and he didn’t even answer me. So I set to
work; and presently I found there were very
few of them any better than myself ; and
by-and-by, when they saw my work, they opened
out a bit, and I began to get a say in things like
posing the model and s 6 on. Most of them
were duffers at that. Robertson, the New-
castle man, was the best hand in the class at
posing; he had made a study of those old
terra-cotta figures in the British Museum, dating
about 450 B.c. —they’re splendid models of line.
Well, after a bit I found I was getting on,
so I stuck at it ; and Mouat Loudan gave me
a bit of praise now and then —he never praises
anybody before the class, but if he likes your
work he ’ll tell you about it when you see him in
his studio.
“Then I went over to Paris, and had a
few weeks in the Colarossi school. I did n’t like
the teaching as well as Mouat Loudan’s; they
did n’t seem to take any interest in the
students —left them too much to themselves.
You could learn a bit from the other stu-
dents, bat the masters didn’t show you any-
thing. Then they did n’t work as well in Paris;
the students used to get up to tricks with the
model; nothing of that sort is allowed at
Westminster. They have separate nude
classes for men and women there; at
Julien’s they won’t take women at all; the
students don’t like it. I visited the Academie
Julien; the Whistler Academy is closed.
They say Whistler could n’t teach ; he’s getting
old now, and is painting badly; and they also
say he’s hard up—that’s why he started the
Academy. But it did n’t take on. The students
struck me as nice fellows—a bit larky; and the
best of them are all foreigners. I was with Hans
Heysen, the Adelaide student, in Paris; he’s
doing very good work.
*1 did n’t do much black-and-white in London ;
well, I had n’t much time. I sold three
sketches to Black and White for £6 10s. When I
went to the Graphic office I had a look at a room-
ful of drawings they have on show. There was
an old fellow in charge, with a very gruff voice.
I told him I was an Australian ; and he
said, ‘ Australian, mf ! Ho you'know V
‘Yes,’ I said, ‘I know him.’ ‘ls he at large
still ?’ says the old .chap ; ‘or have they put ' him
in an asylum? Then there was that other follow
—he came back here ; 1 knew them both. This
one was going to revolutionise us all—do you
know him ? He came here ; and he was going to
alter this, and improve that,’ and I said, ‘You’d
better go and see the editor.’ Well, he went and
saw the editor ; and when he came away they
gave instructions that he wasn’t to be let in again ;
and he hasn’t got in since.’
' Then I went to The King —George Newnes’s
paper—and showed them some drawings. ‘ How
much do you want for them ? ’ I was asked.
‘Well,’ I said, ‘they’re worth about £2 each ;
but you can fix your own price.’ ‘ I’ll give
you 255.,’ he said. So I said, ‘ All right,"’ and he
took them. The most civil of the papers was The
Sphere —Clement Shorter. He said he liked my
work ; and would take as much of it as he could ;
and treated me decently. But some of the
magazines pay very little for outside work.
“Many of the painters in London have a very
hard time ; and lots of them drop out. You
hear of the successes; but you don’t hear of
the failures. I saw Streeton and Fullwood.
Fullwood said he would like to go to Munich ;
Streeton isn’t doing too well. The com-
plaint is that his colour is false; he went to
the Highlands of Scotland, but didn’t please
the people, somehow; they know their own
tones too well. That’s what strikes a man
.joining back here after seeing good English
work ; so much of the work here seems
false in tone; and painty. The English students
call our Australian work “ Blue-bag and
mustard.” That’s what Mouat Loudan was
very strong on—true tone; he couldn’t stand
artificial paint. And all the best Eng-
lish work impresses you with its wonderful
•• •• \ •- .. ....
naturalness ; it’s the real thing—natural truth
seen through an artist’s eyes ; but not made false
because it is Art, you know. There’s a
picture of La Thangue’s—l used to think
Streeton could paint sunlight; but when I
saw La Thangue’s! Well, you wondered how
• , do —-and the way he puts the
hjjht and atmosphere round the girl’s arm,
picking up plums in another picture; and the
way he gets the tone on the plums—well, it makes
you understand what good painting is.
‘ Influence has a good deal to do with
getting into the Royal Academy. This year
there were about 14,000 pictures sent in, and
they could-; hang only 4,000; so there has
to be a lot of good stuff thrown out. I was told
the way to do it is to get hold of a patron or a
picture-buyer—somebody'that knows an Acade-
mician. Then, when the pictures are passed, first
the Academicians’ go in ; then, if your work has
been recommended to somebody on the Com-
mittee, he ’ll say, ‘ Oh, let that go in ; ’—and the
next fellow, perhaps no better, but just as good,
is thrown out. But introductions won’t do every-
thing. I heard of one man who had three intro-
ductions to Academicians. The first he went to
was a little old chap ; he opened the door himself.
‘ This is my card,’ says the visitor, ‘ I want to see
Mr. Briton Riviere.’ ‘ I’m Briton Riviere ; walk
in.’ He walked in and told who he was—an Aus-
tralian, and all the rest of it; and the old fellow
listened to him, measuring him with his deep
old eyes; and presently he says, ‘ Well,
Mr. , even if you don’t succeed in England ;
I should say there’s a very good opening
for you in Australia.’ Then he was shown out.
The next man he went to —Herkomer—was worse
—got rid of him very abruptly, you know. Then
he went to Luke Fildes; and Luke Fildes was
very nice at first, and asked him to dinner at his
club. But presently Fildes cooled down, and
helped him on with his overcoat, and said, ‘ Oh,
I’ll write and tell you about that dinner.’ The
other fellow went away, and waited and waited.
He is still waiting.
“ About "French art? Well, their sculpture is
good ; Rodin is splendid ; but I did n’t care much
for the paintings. The one I liked best on the
whole was “Cain,” in the Luxembourg—a splendid
thing, going all the length of a room—Cain grown
old with his family, and always wandering and
wandering—you can see the curse on him.
In London I was immensely struck by
Ralph Peacock’s ‘ The Sisters.’ Sargent, Shan-
non, and Peacock are splendid portrait-men.
But here I think Longstaff and Fox compare
well with all but the best in England; Fox’s
work is as good as anything I saw being done in
Paris ; and Longstaff is nearly as good as
Shannon, but Shannon seems to carry his
work farther. I thought English work a
long way ahead of Fr.eneh at present; Heysen
and I agreed about that. Many French
pictures seem so coarse, almost tawdry; they
don’t seem to have that refined feeling you
get in good English work like ‘ The Sisters. ’
But then the French don’t lead such a wholesome
life as the English. A Frenchman has a cup of
coffee or chocolate for breakfast; then he works
on till eleven or twelve; then he has a glass
of absinthe before his lunch, and even then he
doesn’t get a good solid meal like you get in Eng-
land. Then before dinner he has another glass
of absinthe they all take absinthe. Well,
living ■ that way, you can’t expect to do good,
wholesome work like the English painters do. I
don’t know why the sculptors do better; I suppose
they take absinthe too, and no breakfast; but
their work is large as compared with the English
work; they seem to have a bigger idea of things.
That’s what Mouat Loudan was always telling us :
‘ Take a large view of your subject; see the thing
in a large way.’ English sculpture seems all small
and pretty.
“I’m going in for painting now, and I’ll take
pupils. And when I get a few things done I want
to go to London again ; I think I can sell them
there.”
4.
S. A. Rosa writes of “ the Duke’s English ”
Would one expect to And the Duke of York’s farewell
letter—“ To the People of the Commonwealth ” —written
in perspicuous and elegant English ? Such an expectation
would be disappointed. Redundancies, hackneyed terms,
ambiguous phrases, and syntactical errors abound.
Look at the first paragraph :—“ Dear Lord Hopetoun,
—The time has now arrived when we must take leave of
the great island continent," &c. “ When we must take
leave of the great island continent ” ! So Lord Hopetoun
must take leave of us ? Well! this is an unexpected loss.
The newspapers have not even hinted at so great a
calamity. Yet, stay ! Perhaps the Duke meant that he
and the Duchess were about to leave us. But as the
letter is addressed to Lord Hopetoun, and as the Duchess
has not yet been mentioned in it, the “ we ” can refer
only to the Duke and the Governor-General.
On second thought, I imagined that the Duke was
using the “ we,” used instead of “ I ” by kings and other
potentates ; hut as, in the next paragraph, he says “ I
am proud ” (not of his bad English, I hope), I have aban-
doned this idea. After a perus'al of the whole of the
letter, I have come to the conclusion that the Duke does
include the Duchess in his “we”; and, this being the
case, he should have said “ the Duchess and I.”
The Duke says, “ The time has now arrived." “ Now "
means “ at the present time,” and is therefore not needed
to qualify a verb that is already in the present tense.
Perhaps the Duke has forgotten that, while “ arrived ” is
in the past tense, the words “has arrived” are in the
present perfect tense.
The Duke expresses his “sincere gratitude” (surely
there is no such thing as insincere gratitude?) to the
State Governments “ for everything which has been done
by them to conduce towards our comfort, convenience,
and enjoyment.” “ Conduce ” means “ lead ” ; and
“ towards ” means “ in the direction of,” and is therefore
less direct and positive than “ to.” Its use by the Duke
leads us to suspect that although he had been tantalis-
ingly led “in the direction of” comfort, convenience,
and enjoyment, he did not reach those desirable states.
Does this account for the Duke’s evidently profound
melancholy while in Sydney? Perhaps, however, the
Duke has forgotten that a preposition should be con-
gruous with its antecedent, and that the preposition
which should follow “ conduce ” is “ to,” not towards.
The Duke asks Lord Hopetoun “ to kindly make known
to the Prime Minister, and to the Premiers, and to the
whole community, our warmest thanks,” The first
“and” is redundant; and does not “the whole com-
munity” include the firime Minister and Premiers?
Surely the Duke does not look on these respectable
gentlemen as outcasts? “Kindly make known” means
make known in a kind manner : but the urbane Governor-
General is hardly likely to be unkind to so delicate a
grammarian as Mr. Barton, and to so sensitive and retir-
ing a patriot as Mr. John See.
Tire Duke says that the railway accommodation “sur-
passed any that we have ever before experienced.”
“ Have” should be “ had,” and “ before” is redundant.
In the same sentence the Duke and Duchess “ trust the
public generally did not suffer from the dislocation of the
normal working of the railways.” “ Dislocation ” means
“ the act of moving out of its proper place.” So “ the
normal working of the railways ” was moved out of its
proper place! Whither? Anywhere near Port Augusta?
If so, perhaps the Duke may be induced to favour us, and
appease that dangerous Revolutionist, Mr. John Forrest,
by moving some of our superfluous eastern railways, and
depositing them on the proposed route from Port Augusta
to Kalgoorlie.
These errors in the Duke’s English are most deplorable.
Some correspondents—
W.B. (Melbourne): You can get all the Bulletin books
from E. W. Cole, Book Arcade ; also at the Book Lovers'
Library, 239 Collins-street Tom S. M. : See The
Bulletin Reciter, ready before Xirias R.R. : The debt
to Coleridge in “ The Power of Science ” was thought too
obvious to mention. And local opinion affirms the parody
good enough to be justified M.D. : Explained and
settled long ago.
Clippings—
J. A. Dowie, the Chicago “prophet,” says'“ I am
Elijah.” Possibly. There is this difference, however.
Elijah was fed by ravens ; Dowie is fed by gullls. —Free-
thinker.
In poetrv the meaning and the sounds are one ; there is,
if I may put it so, a resonant meaning, or a meaning re-
sonance. . . . This identity of content and form is no
accident; it is of the essence of poetry in so far as it is
poetry, and of all art in so far as it is art. — A. C. Bradley,
Oxford Professor of Poetry.
It is melancholy that the poet who in his youth shrieked
himself almost hoarse in defence of revolution abroad
should now be using up the remnants of his voice as the
apologist of reaction at home. — Asquith on Swinburne.
Edward Dyson’s novel, “The Gold Stealers; a
Story of Waddy,” opens in Longmans’ Maga. for
July, and will presently be issued in book-form.
The author has drawn largely on his boyish ex-
perience of the Cornish miner in Victoria ; and the
is told in the clean, crisp style which charac-
terises all Dyson’s prose work.
“ A Few Thoughts on the Penal Problem,” by
Joseph Orton Bragg (“Joe Bragg,” of the
Domain ; author of the rare (1886) pamphlet on
“Prison Life”) is a quaint item in Bpp. The
author gives “a- few remarkable proofs of my
truthfulness”; and (himself “ a converted crimi-
nal”) suggests that criminals should.be set to
land-cultivation, and affirms that a little solitary
confinement is useful to the young offender —use-
less to the “hard case.” Incidentally, the Sydney
publishers—Brooks and Co. —should date then-
work.
Senator John A. Cockburn’s Australian Federa-
tion (London: Horace Marshall, 1901) has little
value beyond the value of a pleasant compliment
tendered by John A. to Cockburn. It reprints
speeches and articles dealing with the way in
which the Commonwealth should be made ; but
the Accomplished Fact has made half Mr. Cock-
burn’s arguments futile, . and the other half
unnecessary. As an orator the author may be
sonorous; as a writer the orator is windy.
Kg.—
. . . History stands with open page eager to record
the nativity of a nation ; statesmen and soldiers gathered
from every part of the Queen’s dominions amid the salvos
of artillery will bring to the cradle of the Commonwealth
the auspicious benediction of peace and goodwill. And
as the sun in zenith splendour wends his way westward,
every British fort and every grey-walled battle-ship will
thunder forth applause in a continuous feu de joie as
noontide puts a girdle round the world-wide possessions
of the sons of Britain.
This is the Flying Wombat with fustian wings
outspread to their fullest. A lame preface by
Charles Dilke does not help matters. Mr. Cock-
burn’s remarks were usually shrewd and sensible
enough in their da(;e; but now they are out of
date.
Nell Cook on the inheritance of ideas and
emotions—
How oftenT have had a vague memory of wahderings
in English lanes, betweeu flowering hedges, and of dis-
porting myself with the villagers on the green in the
sweet-scented twilights of the English land—a memory es-
pecially strong in our long, dusty, summer days “outside,”
with no green thing for the eye to rest upon. I seem to
have a closer, a more intimate knowledge of these cool
delights than I could have gained from the mere descrip-
tion of them by my mother, an Englishwoman, to me, an
Australian who has never left her country. Again, hear-
ing the merry music of Irish jigs and reels, I have been
set longing with all my heart for the good old free-and-
easy dances in the Irish cabin, with bare feet on the mud
floor. Sometimes, when sedately going through the
decorous quadrille, I have felt an almost irresisti-
ble desire to fling off my high-heeled pumps
and whoop and leap. So far,. I have managed
to control myself, wondering whether such notions
pointed to a failing intellect; but have felt comforted
since reading that they may be inherited from some of
my ancestors on the side of my Irish father. Still farther
back, there is a tree-climbing instinct owed to our tree-
climbing ancestors. That instinct has always been ab-
normally Strong in me, although I am of the sex which is
supposed to be—or ought to be—non-climbing. Though
strictly and “ properly ” reared, I have felt at times an
absolute compulsion to brave all pains and penalties for
the sake of indulging in this fearful joy ; and with com-
panions constituted like myself, of various sexes and
tender ages, have climbed to suspend myself by hands
and sometimes feet—our tails havirtg been lost through
evolution—from a fascinating tree-bough. Even now the
sight of anything very climbable tempts me with the old,
unreasoning desire; and only fear of the shock to the
neighbours and my family prevents this generally-ortho-
dox and middle-aged female from gambolling occasionally
in the top branches of a high tree,
A story of abbreviations—
A British colonel in Africa, repairing a railroad after one
of De Wet’s breakages, discovered a fine empty house,
which he proceeded to occupy as headquarters. Presently
he received a telegram which read : “G.T.M. wants
house.” The colonel could n’t make out what “ G.T.M.”
meant, and inquired of a subordinate who translated it
“ General Traffic Manager.” “ All right,” said the
colonel; “if he can use hieroglyphics, so can I.” So he
wired back: “G.T.M. can G.T.H.” Two days later he
received a despatch from Bloemfontein ordering him to
attend a board of inquiry. On appearing, he was asked
what he meant by sending such an insulting message to a
superior officer. “Insulting?” repeated the colonel,
innocently; “nothing of the kind!" “What do you
mean,” demanded his superior, “by telling me I can
‘G.T.H.’?” “Simply an abbreviation,” replied the
colonel. “G.T-M. (general traffic manager) can G.T.H.
(get the house)."
A letter based on George Meredith’s ,new poems
closes in The Academy:
The poet can only successfully appeal to our emotions
or suggest thoughts to us if his verses have a haunting
melody and,chasm of'diction.
Would that half our critics were as clever as our
compositors!
Blackwood’s publishing house, enamoured of
Henry Lawson, publishes for British readers a
book of selections from his two prose volumes,
The Country I Come From.
The sestet of William Watson’s latest—
And I beheld the waters in their might
Writhe 1 as a drago* by some great spell curbed
And foiled ; and one lone sail; and over me
The everlasting taciturnity;
The august, inhospitable, inhuman night,
Glittering magnificently unperturbed.
And the Spectator's pet has come to this !
A letter from Guy de Maupassant to Marie
Bashkirtseff is recently reprinted. The lady
drew an imaginary portrait of the gentleman—
and these are his comments —
1. Less paunch. <
2. I never smoke. *
3. I drink neither beer, nor wine, nor alcohol. Noth-
ing but water.
Then the beatitude before the “ bock ” is not exactly
my favorite posture. I more often squat in Eastern
fashion on a divan.
You ask me who ite my painter. Among the moderns,
Millet. My musicians ? I have a horror of music.
In truth, I prefer a pretty woman to all the art. I put
a good dinner, a real dinner, the rare dinner, almost in
the same rank with a pretty woman. There is my pro-
fession of faith, my dear old professor l I think that
when one has a good passion, a capital passion, one must
give it full swing, must sacrifice all the others to it. That
is what I do. I had two passions. It was necessary to
sacrifice one—l have to some extent sacrificed gluttony.
I have become as sober as a camel, but nice in no longer
knowing what to eat.
Do you want yet another detail ? I have the passion
for violent exercise. I have won big stakes as a rower, a
swimmer, and a walker.
All for Woman and nothing for the Weed ; —and
see how he ended !
The Rev. H. C. Marriott Watson, who died at
Bendigo recently, published a novel called “The
Decline and Fall of the British Empire ” (London,
1890). It is a curious compound of Bellamy and
moral doctrine; and imagines a period 1000 years
hence, when the might of Britain is no more :
“All who loved freedom fled away, and founded
new empires of the British blood in Canada,
Africa, Australia-.’’ The Australian Republic is in
full bloom, with a central capital at •“ Eyreton
and everything is more or less as we would like it.
The book is prosy ; but gains an interest-of-
curiosity from the literary celebrity of the writer’s
son—H. B. Marriott Watson—an Australian of
the third generation, now expatriated.
A writer in July National Review gives curious
statistics. He says that an article of his, rejected
by 25 periodicals, was published in the Argosy;
one rejected by 18 periodicals was published in
the Manchester Umpire. Other contributions
were published thus : By Onlooker, 14 times re-
jected ; Pall Mall Gazette, 11 times; Black and
White, 8 times; St. James's Gazette, 7 times.
Quite a number of his Jonahs Were vomited by 4,
5, or 6 whales, yet reached a satisfactory Nineveh •
in the end.
Louis Becke’s “ Yorke,/the Adventurer ” titles
a collection of reprint tales and sketches pub-
lished as a book by T. Fisher Unwin, London.
Unvyin, in oommon with the worse class of pub-
lishers, gives no hint that the matter has been
printed before—a point of essential literary
interest. The work is in Becke’s second-rate
style—good enough to read, not good enough to
remember in comparison .with his better work. It
is a pity that Becke did not begin his writer’s
apprenticeship earlier, with a sounder basis of
taste : he is the most notable of Australian short-
story-men, and he has in him the stuff for novels
which he will never have skill to compound.
Ambrose Pratt has made a sensation, anyway;
but does he believe the Blackwood’s yarn himself ?
Chances are that one “push”—the “Liyer” for
choice—did keep a record-book, and instal a
publican “ King.” Then Ambrose mixed Past
with Present ; multiplied the Part by the Whole ;
—and lo !—his article. Bad policy, surely ?—for a
writer just beginning to “ conquer London.” But
Blackwood’s has always had a sensational side:
remember the old-time stories that Poe parodied.
BOOKFELLOW.


New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY. %• '
REDUCED CHARGES ON WOOL:
COMMISSION ... ... ... ... j per Cent.
WAREHOUSING- (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance. Wflltrhinff T.nffinnr T?onootinrr Qnmnln Tt.l nn A J
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb.
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under
WAY BILES sent on application.
SAT «, WFIEAT.:.
.«oomS£S»£‘ pBr “”*• wilh I ,rov ™‘ 3 Vnrivalled
fullest particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired,
this Company? OKS are absoiutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association ol
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Buncle & Sons’ ChafFcutters.
Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
SKINS
Send Your Consignments op .
KANGAROO,
WALLABY,
RABBIT,
OPOSSUM SKINS,
TO
WINCHG
| F] ‘ J
ifefi k'n .; J
'ARSON & CO. Ltd.
S-yDKTEY.
They obtain the Highest Possible Prices.
Government Notices.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
Sydney, 29th July, 1901.“
T'HE attention of Trustees and others having funds for
investment is drawn to the fact that, on and after 1 st
August, 1901, “New South Wales Funded Stock,” bearing
interest at the rate of per cent., payable half-yearly,
will be purchasable at the Stock Office, The Treasury, at
par. .
The Stock has a fixed currency until 1912, after which
it is repayable at the option of the Government, upon
giving twelve months’ notice.
Forma of applications for Stock and all particulars may
be obtained upon application at the Stock Office, The
Treasury.
2a2.
T. WADDELL.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value-a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over lOaCoin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Pish (gives definition of your character), That Hideous
Dancing Skeleton (turns himself inside out), Mafeking
Grub (or nerve-strengthenef), That sidesplitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Spider and the Fly
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. Od.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X7lB George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
HAVE THE
BEST.
CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operated, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR
The Lateral Wires are two-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Steel Pickets
securely interwoven at any desired distance apart, forming a perfect Web Fence which will hold
securely all kinds of Stock.
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS ——
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE PENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
NEITHER CRACK
NOR BURN.
5806
CBB
5807
5808
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE.—ShouId any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Burn a
New One will be Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, Is. 2d.
Mick Simmons, haymarket, Sydney.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Solo Charge : 3 Per Cent, to the CS-rowera,
BONUS | PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
“On Our Selection,” By “ Steele Rudd.”
A Letter from Archdeacon Lingard.
Christchurch, N.Z.,
February 25th, ’Ol.
Dear Sirs, —
I have much pleasure in testifying to the value
of Warner’s Safe Cure.
Nearly four years ago, after having tried several
remedies for Diabetes without success, my medical
man consented to my trying Warner’s Safe Cure.
At that time there was no prospect, of my living
above a few months. At first I took six table-
spoonfuls a day. I began to improve in health
immediately, and was soon able to undertake my
regular duties. During the last four-years I have
never been without the Safe Cure in the house, at
times reducing the doses to one per diem, and occa-
sionally going without altogether for a month or so.
At the present time, though not altogether
cured (at my age I can hardly expect it), I am able
to undertake the arduous duties of a large parish
single-handed, and without much fatigue.
I have no hesitation in saying that my present
fairly good state of health is due to Warner’s Safe
Cure, and I shall ever feel grateful that it came my
way. - •••
Yours, etc.,
EDW. ATH. LINGARD,
Archdeacon of Akaroa.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited.
WARNER’S SAFE CUBE
cures all diseases arising from a disordered condition of the Kidneys and Liver.
Indigestion
Dyspepsia
Biliousness
Sick Headache
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Backache
Sciatica
Anaemia
General Debility
Blood Disorders
Gravel
Bladder Troubles
Bright’s Disease
All arise from a diseased condition of the Kidneys and Liver, and Warner’s Safe Cure cures them all
speedily and permanently, by restoring the Kidneys and Liver to health, thus ensuring the due removal
from the blood of the poisonous acids and other impurities which, by their presence, cause these dis-
tressing and dangerous complaints. s


TATTERSALL’S
Address: Car© GKO. ADAMS, Hobart
Sept. 9.
Metropolitan S.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
above.
Name
Address .
Metropolitan S. Sept. 9.
(SPECIAL)
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
Demonstration H. Oct. 1.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name _ _
Address - - - - - -
Caulfield C. Oct. 19.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
Tp TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name_
.shares in the above.
Address i.
Melbourne C. Not. 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address i
Melbourne )C. Nov. 5.
100,000, Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot met_ shares in the above.
/
| i
N" ame
> 1 (
Address
Melbourne C. (Special)
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address ,
For full particulars read our Printed Circular.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Oreo. Adams, Hobart.


WITH HYPOPI
W
<s>
e>
•SS
vs
BETTER THAN
COD-LIVER OIL.
ANGIE R’S Petroleum Emulsion is
better than Cod-Liver Oil because it
is pleasant to take, agrees with the
most delicate stomach, and aids digestion
instead of disturbing it. No matter how-
nutritious food may be in itself, it is of no
real use until it has been digested and
absorbed. It is because of its marked
power to promote assimilation of ordinary
daily food that Angier’s Emulsion is so
superior to Cod-Liver Oil in all wasting
diseases. It has besides healing and cura-
tive virtues which Cod-Liver Oil does not
possess, and which make it positively
without an equal for troublesome coughs,
weak lungs, and all chronic lung affections.
It is prescribed by the medical profession,
and used in the hospitals.
A FREE SAMPLE
On receipt of 4d. for postage.
Mention SIDNEY BULLETIN.
Do not accept inferior imitations made with
ordinary Petroleum.
BE SURE TO GET ANGIER’S.
Or all Chemists & Drug Stores.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., SYDNEY, N.B.W.
The "best cough drops are drops ot
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
The next time you
take cold, dose your-
self with a lot of
home remedies and
dilly-dally along un-
til your cough is
deep-seated and you
are threatened with
pneumonia or con-
sumption. That’s
one way, to be sure.
Here’s another way: Take
Cherry y Pectoral
at bedtime and be all right the next
morning. Isn’t this the better way?
Then continue the Cherry Pectoral a
few days until your throat and lungs
have completely healed and all danger
of future trouble is past.
Another grand thing about Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral is that it cures hard
coughs, the hardest kind of old coughs,
even after all other remedies have failed.
Put up in large and small bottles.
When it hurts your lungs to cough,
then apply one of Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral Plasters directly over the painful
lung. It will quiet the pain, remove all
congestion, and greatly strengthen.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co.. Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
PAKfcoT
Brand"
Wmf-.'O L w f oR -'
(joUGMJ (piP5 £c
of
Imitations
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Ad rms— L.D.l., 800 Oolllna B*., Melbourne
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SILK &TRIPE
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MQUNTCASTLE It SONS, Brisbane, Q’land
Australia!} WGtGal Provident Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBIHIBAN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 108-
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
B3P Send for a
Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Right Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLISK, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY,
Buyers of Light Veh ! les, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
a**?
w
mt.
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Co. Ld.,
Brisbane
Burns, Phllp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand —
D. Benjamin & Co.,
Dunedin and Wellington
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK ought to contain A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’
For Preventing: & Curing* by Natural Means
AH Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
TESTIMONIAL. “ I have been a nurse for ten years, and have nursed cases
of scarlet fever, pyemia, erysipelas, measles, gangrene, cancer, and almost every
mentionable disease. During this time I have not been ill for a single day, and
this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt,’ which has kept my blood m a
pure state. I recommend it to all my patients during convalescence. Its
value as a means of health cannot be overestimated.’ A Professional
Nurse ( Qualified ).
THE EFFECT OF ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. IT IS, IN FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION.— TAimir. ‘
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. O. ENO’S Patent.
WWA
EP
3!
|)otbing Succeeds like Appearance.
Up-to-Date Style for Up-to-Date People.
42s
The Suit
with Extra
Trousers
with Extra
Trousers
to Order
42s
Holds the Commonwealth's Reddl'd
FOR . . .
Style, Fit, and Finish.
[Only address in the states, opp.(i.P.O.Mclb.]
& Saddlery Maxxf- e S < S!S^ l>a ' lly
193 to 195 Cleveland-streot, Redfern, SyDWBX
Tjcr.S.'W. Carriage
Note our New Address:
When In town, pay ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? It so, send for our Prioe List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £6; 2-Spnng Sulk*es £7
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies; the best and strongest in Australia, Sil.
Double Buggies, £2O. BucKboiwd Buggies from £9
10s Ladies* Phaetons (single and Dog Carte,
and everv description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. N&TIOE.-Do not be
misled by any Arms who eay they wfll deliver tor less
than we oan. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.B.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
4
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To Mollie—A Flirt.
Once, when our first King Edward sat
An hour apart with some fair lady,
And no one knew what they were at,
Well hidden in an arbour shady,
When they appeared, the courtiers skipped
All ways at once to hide their laughter,
For down her knees her hose had slipped
And Ned himself had donned her garter.
The gallant monarch saw at once
The reason of their titillation,
And ‘ ‘ Honi soit qui mal y pense ! ”
He cried, and saved the situation.
I know a girl who’s not a prude,
And hardly takes her life sedately,
But who is willing to be wooed,
And finds her fun commensurately;
So when upon a verse I start,
To drive away my melancholy,
’Tis natural that tlie rhymer’s art
Should seek a sound to echo —“ Mollie.”
What power have all of Slander’s tongues
To wound you, Mollie, or to hurt you ?
Sing “ Honi soit qui mal y pense,”
And show your dainty heels to Virtue.
Though such as she no chances give
To even the wittiest Faith’s Defenders,
(For modern girls, as I believe,
Secure their hose with silk “suspenders”)—
Still does that naughty spirit wake
Which spurred a king to sport so shocking;
And should a silken ribbon break,
You may find Cupid in the stocking.
Here let me mention sans offense
A fact empirically shown, dear ;
(Sing “ Honi soi qui mal y pense”)
My chaussure fits you like your own, dear.
Dear Mollie ! when you settle down,
The moon of some suburban heaven,
And twice a week go into town
Instead of every day in seven ;
When Something in a pinafore
Has taught you what it is to marry,
Yet strangers think the darling more
Like neighbor Ned than husband Harry ;
And, once outside your gate, commence
To hint untruths about your figure
(Oh, Honi soit qui mal y pense !)
I’ll hide behind my hedge and snigger.
VIC.
PAGAN.
“Some Day Will Come an End.”
Some day win come an end
To sorrow and pain ;
Grief will go out like a light
Blown by the wind and rain,
Some day will come an end
To sorrow and pain.
Some day will come the end
To laughter and joy,
Joy will leaden and lag,
Dulled in its own employ,
Some day will come the end
To laughter and joy.
Therefore, my heart, endure
All sorrow and rue,
If sorrow and pain go by
Love will be taken too.
Therefore, my heart, endure
All sorrow and rue.
U.K.
LOUISE MACK.
Remonstrance.
When Night comes I am pierced with arrows
keen: '
My (Jouscience stands and shoots them at my
heart —
“Think of thy sins ! ” I say, “ I did my part—
God knows, He only, what they might have
been.”
I had no quarrel with the world of old,
No trouble with the glad green world had I,
I simply asked for leave to live and die,
And fish, and read old tales by poets told.
And now I stand with back against the wall,
A beetle pinned against the wall of Fate,
I think if God is, as I think Him, Great—
That he will wipe my score out once for all.
Is there no chance for him no chance,
No hope for him who feels no sure-set hope,
Beyond the starry regions and the scope
Of Heaven and Earth, and Time and Circum-
stance ?
There is; for God is just, and can discern
That I had but a little interlude —
Some forty years or so—l<? learn the good,
Which He had all eternity to learn.
N.S.W.
V.J. DALEY.
Thus a North Coast (N.S.W.) Mayor
orating at a recent political meeting : “ These
splendid hills of ours, covered by beautiful green
garbage, upon which the brilliant light of Old
Tom is shed every morning, will yet live to see
I the day,” &c.


SUNLIGHT
SOAP
IS REALLY
the cheapest
IN THE END.
Linens, Cottons and Woollens are soon reduced
to holes when wash edwi soap contain-
ing alkali in a -free state. (
SUNLIGHT SOAP does notrcontain any alkali
in a free state and is really .the cheapest in the
end, as all articles washed; with it last much
longer than if washed with ordinary soap.
i
Most
Compact
CorpbiQatioo
90
KiOS Street,
SYDNEY
90
--
PHOTO
£3B
Art
Jewellers;
Ac.,
SB
'''ADKinc ST
Sydney.
Solid Silver English Hall-Marked Combination Matcii-Box, Sovereign-Case,
Postage Stamp and Photo. Holder, with Monogram Engraved,
Richly Chased, 32s 6d ; Plain Polished, 30s.
TEL. 3642. Kindly send for our Illustrated Sheets of Latest Novelties. All Goods Forwarded Post Free.
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
IF YOU WISH TO SUCCEED
IN LIFE,
CULTIVATE YOUR MEMORY.
THE PELMfIN SYSTEM
t)F MEMORY TRAINING
ENSURES
SUCCESS AT EXAMS.
CURE OF MIND WANDERING.
SPEAKING WITHOUT NOTES.
BOOKS MASTERED IN ONE READING.
HUNDREDS OF TESTIMONIALS FROM SUCCESSFUL
PUPILS ALL OVER THE WORLD.
D»“ BASED ON SOUND PRINCIPLES.
A DOCTOR WRITES : —“ I can strongly recommend
Pelman’s System to anyone whose memory is bad or
defective. It is based on sound principles.”—Allan Perry
Stinson, L.R.C.P. and S., Edin.
THE SYSTEM IS TAUGHT THOROUGHLY BY
CORRESPONDENCE LESSONS.
Send To-day for Free Explanatory Brochure and Pros-
pectus Giving Full Particulars.
Address— THE SECRETARY,
The Pelman School of Memory Training,
G.P.O. Box 402, MELBOURNE.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
Label
is
a certificate
endorsed
by the
World’s
Best
Connoisseurs.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
ft
J I L
FACE » FACE
with facts past and present reveal a pheno-
menal growth in the uses and consequent sales
f
of P. & B. Materials, as illustrated by the
comparative sizes of these two men. Not
bad for six years, is it ? This result may be
attributed to the following facts. Honestly
made materials, well-adapted to this climate:
at a low cost. P. & B. Materials are not
perfect, but they possess a high degree of
merit (at less cost) than any other materials
made for similiar uses. That’s our reason
for recommending you to cover your roof with
P&B RUBEROID ROOFING.
Have you tried it?
E
&
LTD.
SYDNEY, BKISBANE
rj rjRUBEROJD
r&D. Roofing.
/
URSt
P&B. Paint.
P&B. Paper.
t.RICH&C«U?
Site
1901
m
m
'V,
if*
1895
1901.
■ X


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 22.—N0. 1123,
SATURDAY. AUGUST 24, 1901.
Price 6d.
FIRE!
WHAT MAY HAPPEN AT ROOKWOOD (N.S.W.) ASYLUM FOR OLD MEN.
THE COLONIAL SECRETARY FOR THE TIME BEING (to inmates shouting for help) : “ You’re all pretty old and dry, so just take a good swig of water and you won’t burn
quite so fast. The fire-engine will be along presently.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ A ustralia for the A ustralians. ,>
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
Ar 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBER S
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... 2
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... Goo
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and MaorHand.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lid- postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queenslanil Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tn E Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with portage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and off Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
u Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with A us-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding tivo columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on accentance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any pictuvc which has to be re-dvawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotcli, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — It. A. Thompson and C 0.,. 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 24, 1901.
The Other Nigger.
Premier Barton has given his promise that
the Kanaka Restriction problem will be
dealt with before the present session of
Australia’s first Parliament is over. The
Immigration Restriction Bill, at present
before the Legislature, treats of all kinds of
imported blacks, browns and yellows, barring
only the Kanaka who is brought in under
Queensland’s Pacific Islanders Labor Acts.
He is to have a measure all to himself.
Meanwhile some fresh light has been shed
on Tommy Tanna. Dr. Maxwell, Director
of Sugar Experiment Stations in Queensland,
was employed by the Federal Government
to report on the sugar business and its
attached Kanaka, and all things connected
therewith. Seeing that Dr. Maxwell is an
employee of Queensland’s nigger-labor
Government, it is plain that he has much
more chance to be biassed in favor of
Queensland’s nigger-policy than in favorjof
Australia’s white-labor policy. Yet, in the
main, his report is very different from the
sort of trash which is brought back to the
south by such Tory authorities as Robert
Reid, M.L.C., of Melbourne—the visitor
who goes up North for a few days after a
life-time spent in an office, and is stuffed
with misinformation by interested nigger-
drivers ; and comes back with a vague idea
that he has personally inspected the situa-
tion, when he has done nothing of the kind.
• • * *
In the first place, Dr. Maxwell declares
straight-out that the white man can’t work
continuously in the damp, low-lying cane
country far north without injury. He be-
comes sick, and has to go away, or ought
to go away, for a change. But as the
field laborer can be spared for part of the
year, anyhow, in the same way as the
shearer, he would probably go away for part
of the year in any case. At the same time,
it appears from the same report that the
black and brown men stand the climate quite
as badly as, or even worse than, the white
specimen. One sample case is given re-
lating to the 1899-1900 sugar season. A
force of 58 Islanders, 60 Chinese and 95
Hindoos started work in the field in one
district. Two hot months, November and
December, laid up 5J per cent, of the
Islanders, 8 per cent, of the Chinese, and 26
per cent, of the Hindoos. And the rest,
though not actually laid up, were so de-
moralised that it took 45 new men to replace
the 30 that had broken down. Around
Bundaberg, the report states, the Poly-
nesian and the white man both aver-
age 295 days’ work per year. Fur-
ther north, about Mackay, the Polynesian
averages 299 days per year; the white
man days. Therefore, even in the
sultry North, the white man so closely
approaches the Polynesian in his ability to
stand the climate and the class of labor that
he only does 6J days less work per annum.
Probably, if he was under the same compul-
sion as the Islander, he w'ould hang out fully
as well. Yet the Polynesian, as shown
above, is the most durable of the colored
laborers. Only sjr per cent, of him went
under where 8 per cent, of Chinese and 26
per cent, of Hindoos crumpled up under
similar conditions.
* * ♦ *
And, by way of evidence that the Poly-
nesian doesn’t work better—even days
per annum better—in the Northern cane-
fields than the white man does, the average
death-rates are worth considering. In 1899
the latest available returns are for that year —
the death-rate of Polynesians was 39f per
1090 ; that of white people 11J per 1000. The
Hindoos, who also work extensively in the
cane-fields, showed the appalling death-rate
of 48 per 1000. These are incredible figures,
yet they rest on the Registrar-General's pub-
lished evidence. The inference is that the
black man is less fitted for sugar-growing
than the white—except in the one respect
that he dies or can be killed off without so
much fuss, and nobody really cares, except
in a monetary sense, whether he dies or not.
In this world of sordid commercialism any
man is especially fitted for any work if he
will do it at sufficiently low wages till he
dies. The man who is unfitted is simply the
one who won’t labor at sufficiently low wages
till he dies. The latter may be ten times
more physically suited to the labor than the
other, but the commercial aspect is the only
one that commercialism takes any note of.
The sugar-growing Kanaka dies like a fly on
a window-pane ; his blood is on every cane-
field, and his bones are in every pound of
sugar, and his bleached skull grins from
every grocer’s window—but he is specially
fitted because he is an ignorant toiler who
takes these things as they come, and doesn’t
write to the newspapers, and whose burial
expenses are moderate.
* * * *
As to why the sugar-planter swears that
the Kanaka is essential, and that the white
laborer won’t work in the canefields, and all
the rest, the explanation is simple enough.
According to Dr. Maxwell’s report, the
Polynesian costs 2s. per day in the
canefields, everything included; the white
man ss. 2d. per day. The white man does
better work, but even making allowance for
that he probably costs Is. 6d. or 2s.
per day more than the islander. Whe-
ther the white man is plentiful even
at this price doesn’t appear very clearly ;
but it is tolerably certain that so long as the
two-and-fourpenny nigger can be obtained, the
white doesn’t get the slightest encourage-
ment to be plentiful. And it is equally
certain that the planter would swear that
the white man couldn’t be obtained, if by so
doing he could convince the Federal Parlia-
ment that his two-and-fourpenny nigger
must not be taken from him. Seeing that
the white man can always be obtained to
work in the poisonous mines of Broken Hill,
and to perish in mercury mines, chemical
works—in fact at every deadly occupation
under the sun, for a very moderate wage, it
is probable that at 6s. or 6s. 6d. a day an
unlimited supply of him could be obtained
in the worst sugar-fields of Queensland.
• * * *
As to the difficulties in the way of paying
a wage at which white labor can be procured,
Dr. Maxwell makes these remarks :
In other sugar countries, notably those engaged in pro-
ducing sugar from the beet root, a low rate of wage is
associated with the highest scientific knowledge and skill
in the management, both in the field and in the factory.
In Queensland, a condition of agriculture so crude as to
have led to the relative exhaustion of the soils, is com-
bined with a rate of compensation for field labor which
has no parallel in any other sugar-growing country. It
has been shown that white field labor, engaged in sugar-
growing in this State, receives ss. 2d. per day, which is
notably in excess of the average compensation of white
labor in any other country. Even the Pacific Islander, in
this country, receives a sum total of compensation which
places him upon a higher level than the white races who
are furnishing labor in the beet fields of Europe. It is most
noteworthy, and claims repetition, the circumstance that
Germany, France, Austria, Belgium, Holland, and
Russia, who are producing three-fifths of the world’s
sugar, are growing that sugar with a labor power which,
expressed by the factor of daily wage, does not cost more,
in average, than one-third of the amount paid to white
field labor, and to two-thirds of the sum paid to the
Pacific Islander, in Queensland. These facts represent
the situation of the Australian sugar-producing States to
be highly adverse, and especially when it is understood
that those countries which are growing sugar by aid of
cheap labor, combined with the highest directive skill,
are specifically aided by their Governments in competing
with other countries in the export and sale of their
sugars.
• * * *
From this it appears highly probable that
even if the Queenslander keeps his nigger,
and is allowed to kill him off at the present
rate, and if he retains his present crude and
ignorant methods of cultivation, the Queens-
land sugar-industry is likely to die a natural
death supposing the Freetrade party comes
out on top, and the Protection which the
cane-grower now enjoys is removed. Under
his incapable system the soil of the sugar
area is being deteriorated, and when it de-
teriorates a little further the time must come
when, with Freetrade and the present system
and the present nigger, the scientific grower
of European countries where food is cheap
must cut him out in his own market. With
the present incapable methods and the pre-
sent amount of Protection, and providing the
planter is allowed to kill off his nigger at the
present rate, it seems that lie can go on and
prosper unless the gradual exhaustion of the
soil by insane lack of proper agriculture
brings him up. But if the public sense of
humanity compelled him to so treat his
nigger that the latter wouldn’t die off like
rotten sheep in a swamp, it seems quite
possible that the extra expense might greatly
damage the industry in spite of the measure
of Protection it now enjoys. Apparently the
business depends wholly on Protection and
on the employment of a most unfit laborer
under conditions which kill him off whole-
sale. And this country, it is to be hoped,
doesn’t want its morning tea sweetened with
a mixture that is one-half sugar and one-half
Kanaka bones. With sufficient Protection
(say £8 a ton) and a rational system of culti-
vation, it appears certain that sugar can be
grown by white labor—if the planters
will pay for white labor. They probably
can’t do that without making sugar jd. or
|d. (probably per lb. dearer. Then let
it be dearer. A White Australia is worth
the money. There is no more reason that
nigger-labor should be employed to grow
sugar so that it may be 2d. a lb., than that
it should be employed to make boots so
that they may be 3s. 6d. a pair, or to
weave cloth and make clothes so that
suits may be 15s. each ; or to shear sheep so
that they may be shorn at 10s. per 100 ; or to
grow wheat and make bread so that the loaf
may be Jd. cheaper ; or to do everything so
that everything may be cheaper, and the
white man will be no longer wanted, because
he will be too expensive to be alive at all.
In almost every other industry, the country
pays enough for the product to allow of a
white man living in some sort of way by the
business. It can’t have white-man-grown
sugar unless it does the same. Therefore,
let it do the same.
The Two Transcontinentals.
Dear Bulletin. —When Federation was “in the
air,” as the popular term of that day expressed
it, it was predicted that the provincial feeling
would become absorbed in the higher ideal of a
national feeling. This ideal, however, does not
yet seem to have quite arrived, judging by the
eagerness with which Westralians are working to
secure the construction of the east-and-west trans-
continental railway, no matter if its construction
should leave the construction of the north-and-
south one a contract for futurity. Of course, this
is but natural, but when the relative immediate
benefit to Australia of the two schemes is con-
sidered, the national feeling, if it exists, should
incline the western people to stand aside.
* • * *
The difference between the two transcontinental
lines (though they should both be constructed) is
this : The line north and south will, directly and
indirectly, benefit the major portion of the con-
tinent ; the east and west line will directly and
indirectly benefit Fremantle and Perth prin-
cipally. The possible commercial gain to the eastern
half of Australia will be the shortening of the mail
line by two or three days, which is not immediately
essential. To the resident in the Western State,
the old typical Westralian of narrow mind and
limited provincial vision, as rampant now as ever,
such an argument does not appeal. The benefit
of Fremantle and Perth, the vested interests of
the old Westralian party, come before any benefit
of the Commonwealth at large. Having suc-
ceeded in destroying the trade of every port in
southern Westralia with the exception of their
own Fremantle, they are now. trying to play the
same game with the rest of Australia, on a larger
scale. If the projected line would traverse country
promising any other settlement than the chance —
and a very off chance, of a gold-field, the affair would
bear a different aspect, but it does not do so. At
least, by far the major portion of the line will
pass through country not fit for a destitute dog to
live in. Apart from the slender chance of a
mineral discovery, it consists of some of the worst
land in Australia. At the time the agitation
for separation in W.A. was in progress, the
favorite, and undoubtedly the best argument, used
against it by the Perthites was that, in the event
of the gold-fields being worked out, the new
polony—comprising the land through which the
failway must go—would have no industry left to
all back upon. This shows their own opinion of
the country. In fact, the railway from Port
Augusta to Kalgoorlie just bridges semi barren
tracts of country between the two places, thus
benefiting the sea-port, which is its ultimate ter-
minus. It provides no more fresh fields
for settlement than already exist without rail-
way communication. On the other hand, the
north and south line would be constantly tapping
country available for closer settlement than it
now carries; the greatest drawback it suffers
under being the difficulties of land carriage and
communication —which the railway would supply.
To put it in a concrete form, one line would not
add a single unit to Australia’s permanent popu-
lation or one square mile to its area of settled
country, while the other would add to both in a
marked and rapidly increasing degree.
* * * *
As regards the north-and-south line, the in-
creased settlement of the country that would
follow its construction would consolidate, so to
speak, the different States of the Commonwealth.
It would at once bring into close and continuous
touch the western fringe of the eastern States
with the centre of the continent, and fill up the
vacant places now existing to the eastward. When
people learn by experience (which is a thing they
rarely do, it must be admitted, though the excep-
tional and bitter experience of our Western popu-
lation ought this time to read a lesson) then, when
occupying the interior under fresh pastoral condi-
tions, they will stock down to the capabilities of a
bad season instead of up to the unlimited capabili-
ties of a good one. Carriage facilities and judi-
cious legislation will make the interior, even with
its uncertain rainfall, pay under these conditions
moderately well. And such increase both of
settlement and population will follow railway
construction, not await its full completion. As
regards the Western transcontinental line, on the
other hand, when once a certain distance west of
Port Augusta is reached the construction will go
on through a good deal of country wherein there
is no life but that of ants, and where even a
blaekfellow never ventures. The best vegetable
products of this country are some unequalled belts
of spin if ex.
* • * •
As to the'terminal points of the two lines on
the north and west coasts? The Commonwealth
badly wants a white capital on the north coast,
and the railway will give us one at Port Darwin
and enable us to get rid of the Chinese with
greater ease than would otherwise obtain. If
Port Darwin became the coastal terminus of a
transcontinental railway with lines branching off
to all the other States, our trade with Asia and
the Archipelago would be greatly increased by
reason of the shortening of the sea passage. If
America retains and settles the Philippines, our
trade there is likely to become an. increasing one,
and Port Darwin is the nearest Australian port.
The Perth and Fremantle line opens out no possi-
bilities of this sort, and really it seems as though
the people of those places expected the Common-
wealth to work solely for their use and benefit
instead of sharing alike with the other States.
They may be right—in fact, they are right, if they
can get it done, but it remains to bo seen whether
the people of the Eastern half of Australia are
quite so foolish as they seem to imagine. Both
railways should be constructed, but the Northern
one should receive first attention. It is national,
the other is provincial. The Western transcon-
tinental is wanted for purposes of defence —but so
is the Northern transcontinental. Also, the
Western transcontinental might pay its way, just
as the Northern transcontinental almost certainly
will. But, supposing both lines pay their way,
there is a huge difference between the line that
pays its way and also adds immensely to the popu-
lation-bearing character of the country, as the
Northern railway would do, and the one which
pays its way yet doesn’t make the country fit to
carry any more people than at present. A man
may make as good an income by grinding a barrel-
organ as by running a farm, but that doesn’t prove
that one benefits the country as much as the
other.—E.F.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Sydney “Telegraph” Wants a Minimum
Wage.
Sweating in Sydney, according to an article
published in the local Telegraph last week, is
growing more and more awful. Five years ago
the same paper reported that the lowest rate at
which a woman could make anything .that could
be fairly called a living at the trouser-making
business was 7d. a pair—and that the price she
was actually paid was sd. Last week the same
paper again inspected the situation, and found
that the price had been further ground down to
4d. In another five years it will, as likely as not,
be down to 3d. Five years ago it was estimated
that a party of three' women, by continuous hard
work, made 345. a week among them—about 11s. 4d.
each. In very many cases—perhaps the great
majority—there were two or three or four workers
in one house, because the solitary worker can’t
earn enough to pay the rent by herself—friends,
sisters, mother and children, husband and wife,
possibly with children or lodgers as well—and
as the factories only recognise the person who
takes the work away and brings it back, and all
the earnings of the party are set down to her, it
naturally follows that the factory books show that
a woman can make a good wage at present rates.
But in this respect the factory books tell a shame-
ful lie. The Telegraph interviewed Mark Foy,
the big Sydney draper, on this subject, and asked
his opinion as to how this horrible recrudescence
of the “Song of the Shirt ” could be alleviated. His
explanation was simple enough. The manufac-
turer, in his opinion, pays as much as he can
afford considering the price he gets from the
warehouse. Therefore:
Let the warehouses combine and raise the price they
will pay for these goods, say, 2d. or 3d. a pair, with a
stipulation to the factories that the whole of this extra
money shall be spent in wages.
Exactly. That would raise the sewing-woman’s
wage from 4d. per pair to 6d. or 7d., and where
she now earns 10s. per week she could then earn
15s. or 17s. 6d. Even that would be barely what
the Telegraph decided five years ago was the
lowest possible living wage—yet it would be
better than the existing state of things. In other
words, let the warehouses combine to fix a Mini-
mum Wage of fid. or 7d. a pair. But the ware-
housemen have no police or inspectors or legal
authority of any kind to see that their minimum
wage is really paid—as the State has. They have
no time to go round looking for breaches of the
agreement—as the State has. Their good inten-
tions would always be wrecked by one or two
“scab” warehousemen who broke the pact, and
went back to the old wage, and undersold the
well-intentioned warehousemen till they had to
revert to the old, horrible grinding of human flesh
and bone, or else lose their trade. Why shouldn’t
the State fix the minimum wage at 7d. per pair,
prevent the decent warehousemen who want to
pay a living wage being driven into bad practices
by the wage-and-price-cutting of the scum of the
trade, and take the work of enforcing the mini-
mum off the shoulders of a class which has no
legal machinery to back up its decisions ? It is no
more of an artificial interference with human
liberty, or an outrage on the Law of Demand and
Supply, or a crude and insane process of inter-
ference with trade, for the State to artificially fix
a minimum-wage of 7d. per pair than for the
warehousemen to do the same thing. The Tele-
graph fills columns with clumsy jeers at the Vic-
torian Minimum-Wage Law simply because it is
Victorian ; it is held up to scorn in pages of silly
drivel and butchered English as a sample of how
foolish Protectionists think they can alter the un-
alterable law of Supply and Demand; AND
WHEN THE “TELEGRAPH” DEALS
WITH THE SUBJECT ITSELF, THE ONLY
REMEDY IT CAN FIND IS THE ARTI-
FICIAL ENFORCEMENT OF A MINIMUM
WAGE AFTER ALL. There is no other
remedy anywhere. But then, alas, we strike this
other aspect of the case. Mark Foy speaks
again—
The trousers for which only 4d. is paid for the making
are the commonest type of goods. We don’t handle them
at all. We have in our shop tweed trousers selling now
at 2s. ll|d., but that is quite a special occurrence and
because 'it is Fair-time. These trousers were made in
London and imported by us. As a rule, the lowest-priced
trousers we sell are 4s. 6d., and they vary from that in
the common types to 7s. 6d. . . . A pair of trousers re-
tailed at 7s. 6d. would stand a manufacturing price to the
worker of Bd. . . . The trousers we are selling at 2s. 11 Jd.
are an advertising line. . . . They cost us more than
that.
But, all the same, it is only the imported pants


that Mark Foy sells, even as an advertising line,
at 2s. 11 Ijd. Even supposing he is making a very-
big loss on them, it seems that the London sweater
•can sweat harder than the Sydney sweater.
And as it costs as little to import the ready-made
■sweated pants from England as to import the
cloth and have the sweated pants made here, it
follows that if Sydney gives up sweating it must
either persuade London to give up sweating also,
or else shut out the sweated London goods hy a
Protective tariff, or see the local industry killed
hy cheaper London competition. So things get
back to where they were. Sweating and Freetrade
go together, and you can’t abolish sweating and
pay a decent minimum wage in industries which
are exposed to the foreign sweater’s competition
without Protection. The only two States in the
world which enforce payment of a decent mini-
mum wage are strongly Protective States, and it
will be so to the end of the chapter.
— : — «
The Abbotsford Convent.
A Protestant of this paper’s acquaintance writes
from Melbourne re a well-known charity
In issue of July 20th appeared a statement by “ Mel-
bourneite ” as follows :
“ People who contemplate supporting the forthcoming
bazaar in aid of the Abbotsford (Vic.) convent should re-
member the charges made against it over two years ago,
and never yet refuted or even contradicted. Abbotsford
Convent runs a big washing-establishment, to which all
local good Catholics are supposed to send their linen. It
is under no Factories Act, being exempt as an alleged
charitable institution, and the proprietors of private
washeries allege that the godly institution works its
‘rescued’ women 12 to 15 or 16 hours a day for nothing
but their tucker, even utilising the reformed sinners to
,do the laborious work of stoking the boilers, in order to
: avoid the expense of employing men. These charges
\were made in Melb. City Police-court, and were repeated
jin a pamphlet issued by one of the washing-establishments
iin question ; yet not a word of contradiction has been
: given, while the allegations have been corroborated by
iMagdalenes who relapsed to sin rather than find grace
•per medium of being sweated for the glory of God.
[Everybody who thinks of subscribing to the bazaar under
ithe impression that he is assisting a charitable movement
should paste this in his hat.”
Having given “ Melbourneite ” his screech, you re-
imarked that “ The Bulletin would like to know what
; are really the exact facts of the case.” Here are some
.facts : For more than one reason these charges against
ithe Abbotsford Convent management were allowed to
pass uncontradicted. They were the utterances of a
somewhat crazy rebel, repeated by an angry laundryman
—possibly for business purposes. They needed no
refutation among those who know the Convent’s history,
and to have challenged personal inquiry from the sceptical
would have been unkind to many inmates of the Magda-
lene Asylum, who seek privacy in their retirement. Of
the 270 women living in the Magdalene quarter of the
Convent-township a considerable proportion are “soft
cases,” though the majority are “ hard ” enough,
no doubt. But “hard” or “soft,” the work they do
in the laundry under the quiet supervision of the
nuns is free from all suspicion of sweating. The Convent
management would doubtless have preferred to “ build
up an industry ” of a more aesthetic and less obtrusive
kind than washing, had experience not proved that the
line of least resistance is the one whereon linen clothes
are pegged-out to flutter in the breeze. None of the
women are driven against their moods, or even made to
feel themselves expected to perform a heavy task within
a given time. The work of moral improvement would be
very slow if the wayward subjects in the asylum were
treated as ordinary laundry-hands ; and if they were
ordinary washerwomen they would go and earn a living
in the world. They are not prisoners. A woman, or
girl, desirous of employment outside the Convent grounds
can get the necessary outfit and money enough to keep her
for two or three weeks whilst she is looking for a situation.
As a rule the penitents, or impenitents, are restless and
incapable of long spells of hard graft. They don’t stick
iat it slavishly. A visitor looking for “ sweating ” can see
no evidences of control other than moral suasion and the
•force of example in the more naturally industrious
women. Some of them make no pretence of working.
■They are old and feeble, and they potter about in the
sunshine. The Victorian Government grants £IOOO a
■year to the Abbotsford Convent Asylum in consideration
'.of its keeping many hard cases out of gaol, and training
-,many young girls in the way that is not giddy. Some
;two or three hundred spinsters of the growing age,
’.brought to the Home by their mothers for discipline, or
gathered in as orphans or waifs, constitute two resident
.classes, and the Convent runs a school of 270 day scholars.
The convent proper has now a sisterhood of 120 or more,
so that altogether there are about 700 residents upon the
estate. The object of the approaching bazaar is to meet
the cost of a new wing. The Abbotsford Convent started
its career 10 .years ago by puttinga sinful pub. to pious uses
(the old bar of the pub. is now used by the nuns for a recep-
tion and sitting room), but it has remained a small estab-
lishment what time the asylum buildings and school-
rooms have been springing up around it. And because
the convent’s record so well deserved a more graceful
home for the record-makers, every well-informed citizen
of Melbourne hopes that the forthcoming bazaar will, one
way or other, produce the £20,000 necessary to set the
new wing of the building flapping joyfully. There now !
♦
Jobs on’s Railway.
The Jobson railway scandal again lifts its in-
termittert head in Westralia, and the ghost of
Jobson refuses to be laid. A few years ago, in
the riotous Bigjohn days, Jobson first became a
factor in Groperland politics. In these times the
Government owned a huge dam constructed with
its own money, lying some distance off the rail-
way line. It wanted water badly, and the only
way to get it was by laying a short branch to its
dam. But instead of building its own branch it
leased the dam to Jobson at a microscopic rental,
and lent Jobson the rails, sleepers, &c., to lay
down a branch line, and the rolling-stock to work
it. Jobson, having made a railway with the
Government’s own material to the Government’s
own dam, agreed to buy the railway material
(giving £4 10s. a ton for rails, though the usual
charge to other people was £lO a ton) and
to’ pay the Government for the whole lot
with water out of the Government’s own
dam at 33 per cent, more than the price
at which it could be supplied by con-
denser. And even then Jobson stopped
supplying water before he had nearly finished
paying for the material, so, when the matter was
last heard of, the Government had lost the use of
the tank, had no water-supply, had parted with
30 miles of rails and sleepers and some rolling-
stock, and was vainly demanding nearly £7OOO
from Jobson —who hadn’t supplied any security
whatever for the fulfilment of his bargain.
Whether Jobson is selling water to anyone else
for cash doesn’t appear, but he is alleged to be
doing a large and profitable firewood business on
his railway, while the Government stands at the
junction with its tongue hanging out asking when
the water is coming. Also, Jobson is dunning
the Department for £B3B, the reason whereof is
none too conspicuous. If the Sydney Morning
Herald proprietary agreed to sell their concern —
goodwill, machinery, buildings and all—to John
Norton for half its value without interest, and
take payment by indefinite instalments in copies
of their own penny paper at 2d. a copy, the
transaction might look a trifle unusual, but the
Bigjohn crowd still says it can’t see anything
extraordinary about Jobson.
♦
Kitchener’s Ultimatum.
Kitchener’s ultimatum that all Boers who don’t
surrender before 15th September are liable to be
treated as criminals and rebels, and Chamber-
lain’s threat, made in the House of Commons,
that they will be executed as murderers, mark 3
the lowest depth to which any British Govern-
ment has attained in the last 40 years. If the
threat is carried out it is a case of getting back to
the brutalism of Edward I. six hundred years
ago—the man who hanged Wallace because he
wouldn’t acquiesce in the annexation of his
country. It is getting beyond the limit even of
the Russian despot who didn’t execute Kosciusko
for defending his country under like circum-
stances. But even now the Australian Jingo
press sticks to its old fetish. One dreadful
Sydney organ defends these unspeakable
methods on the ground that “ Many months ago
the war practically came to an end. The two
Republics have been annexed, with the tacit con-
sent of the Powers ” (the consent of the annexed
peoples evidently counted for nothing) and “most
of tho leaders of the Boer fighting forces who sur-
vive have been deported.” Yet, as a matter of
fact, the Boer Commander-in-Chief, Botha, is
still in the field, and so are his two chief sub-
ordinates, De Wet and DeLa Rey. The British
captured no Boer general of much importance, save
Cronje. The acting-President, to whom Kruger
surrendered his authority, hasn’t been captured.
While the Boer Government and Commander-in-
Chief and principal generals, bar the dead Jou-
bert and the captured Cronje, are still at the
head of the resistance it is lying arrogance to des-
cribe the Boer defence as the work of mere
banditti. Of course, Britain may say that
it has annexed the Transvaal, and therefore
Botha is a rebellious subject and a criminal.
And Britain declared the country annexed
“ with the tacit consent of the Powers.” If
Napoleon I. had declared Britain annexed when
he was in the heyday of his fortunes he would
also have had the tacit consent of the Powers,
whose consent would have been just as important
in one case as the other. And he could have
hanged his British prisoners as rebels, just as
Kitchener can hang his Boer prisoners if he feels
that way, and just as Edward I. hanged Wallace
on exactly the same grounds. The BoerS never
were a uniformed force, but as a sort of side-issue
it is alleged that those still in the field should bo
treated as mere casual assassins beoause they are
not in uniform. It is only three or four years
since the British people were shocked to the core
at the methods of the Spaniards in Cuba —it has
taken their leaders exactly that time to get down
to the Spanish level. The systematic burning
of the enemy’s country and the compulsory
gathering of the non-combatant population
into unhealthy camps were the two great
features of the Spanish system, and Kitchener
has copied them both. In each case the reason
of this barbarous warfare was the same—a
bitter anger at the cost of the war and the
courage and persistence of a foe who would
not be subdued. But Spain, at least, had the
right to call the Cubans rebels. Cuba had been a
Spanish colony for centuries. Britain’s right to
deal with the Boers as rebels rests on the fact that
Britain declared the Transvaal to be a conquered
and annexed country while its Commander-in-Chief
and its principal generals were still in the field,
and when the war was so far from being ended
that the Boer leaders were still strong enough to
invade the adjacent British territories and threaten
the British S’African capital of Capetown. Of
course, great empires can only be built by methods
like those of Kitchener. They can only be built
by suspending the teachings of the New Testament
and hanging the Sermon on the Mount out to dry.
It may be better in the end that they should be
built, but the Scriptural injunction against doing
evil that good may come has to go under very
badly in the process. An empire may be a great
thing, but empire-building is filthy, sanguinary
murderous, unchristian work. And if there is a
hell how full it must be of empire-builders !
4,
More Newspaper-Postage Trouble.
A section of the Foreign Shoddy press (mainly
the Sydney Telegraph) went purple with rage
last Friday over another gross Federal “outrage
on the liberty of the people.” The House of Re-
presentatives decided by nearly two to one that
certain postal privileges should apply only to
newspapers printed and published within the
Commonwealth. Thereupon Hume Cook pro-
posed that it should be definitely explained that
any supplement to a newspaper came under the
same law as the rest of the paper —the only ra-
tional course to follow, for if it is stipulated that
one page of a paper must be locally produced in
order to entitle it to certain privileges, it is ridi-
culous that the next page should be under a com-
pletely different law—that page 4 should be pro-
tected and page 5 be run on Freetrade principles,;
But the Shoddy contingent foamed with premedi-
tated indignation at the proposition. Edwards
(of N.S.W.) said “it was an absolute dis-
grace to introduce a fiscal proposal into a Postal
Bill.” Thomson (of N.S.W.) “opposed this as
an attempt to introduce the fiscal question.”
The painfully silly Wilks (of N.S.W.) “con-
demned the proposal to sneak in the fiscal qnes- ■;
tion,” and M'Millan (of N.S.W.) howled bitterly,
and so did Pumpkin Smith (of N.S.W.),
and Holy Joe Cook (of N.S.W.). As for
Sydney Telegraph, it was shocked beyond words.
Yet all these morally-outraged legislators come
from a State where the penny paper that is locally
produced travels free by post, while the penny
paper from the next State pays lyd. postage. The
Freetrade Telegraph enjoys 50 per cent. Protec-
tion under the N.S.W. postal regulations. This
system was established by a Foreign-trade Min-
istry many many years ago, and the Foreign-
trade press has given every Ministry that
was even suspected of a desire to deprive
it of Protection peremptory notice to quit.
And the same gang of outraged Freetraders which
made the above-mentioned disturbance had always
supported this system of Protection for Freetrade
newspapers. Also, Cook and Edwards and
Wilks had just voted for the “introduction of a
fiscal proposal into the Postal Bill,” and had just
sneaked in Protection, and done all the things
they were so much shocked about, while
M‘Millan and Pumpkin Smith had got
out of the difficulty by not voting at all.
The whole servile Wilks and Edwards and
M ‘Mill an and Thomson and Pumpkin Smith
gang is owned body and soul by the Sydney Free-
trade dailies, but most of all by the aggressive
Telegraph. The proposal—which the House ac-
cepted by a huge majority—that no paper pro-
duced outside the Commonwealth should travel at
newspaper rates —was a matter of granting some
measure of Protection to the Freetrade Telegraph,
and the Wilks and Pumpkin Smith crowd let that
pass with unobtrusive approval. The “abso-
lute disgrace of introducing a fiscal proposal
into a Postal Bill ” didn’t come to the
surface once when the fiscal proposal tended
to protect the Telegraph. But the imported
supplement was a different matter. It is an
essential part of the country paper of the humbler
class. The city Freetrade paper doesn’t either
use it or print it for the use of other papers.
Therefore if the same measure of Protection was
extended to it as to the other part of the paper, it
would be protecting a local industry which is not
the industry of the Telegraph and Herald and
Evening News. The sinfulness of protecting any
industry except the Telegraph’s own industry is
too obvious to require explanation, so all the
Smiths and Wilkses put on the ready-made
indignation with which they had been supplied
by their boss newspaper, and wore the shocked
expression which had been served out to them as
if it was so much ammunition, and were grieved
to order, in a manner of speaking.
♦
The Law and the Liquorer.
Percy Mallby writes from Melbourne :
Re “Law and the Liquorers” (8., 27/7/’l). The duty
on spirits in Victoria is 12s. per proof gallon, which
is a very different thing to 12s. per gallon. Very
little, if any, spirit is imported, in bottle, at any-
thing like proof strength. The strength of spirit
in bottle is, on an average, about 20 per cent, under-
proof. In charging duty allowance is made for the per-
centage under-proof, so the duty on spirit 20 u.p. will be
9s. (id. per gallon—not 12s. as stated. That is, on an
average. At the same rate, this amounts to Is. lOd. per
bottle, not 2s. 4d. Also, an increase of 2s. per proof gal-
lon on the same average will amount to BJd. per bottle,
which is certainly less than 50 per cent, of the manufac-
turer’s price of gin. It is doubtful whether a shilling or
so per gallon one way or the other will make any differ
ence in the quality of the liquor as supplied to the public.
Sixpence, or even fourpence, per nobbier provides
ample profit in the ordinary way of business, and if the
business is not large enough to provide the hotel-keeper
with a good living at that price it is a sure sign that the
hotel is like side-pockets on a dog for situation.
Anyway this frenzied outcry against the hotel-keeper is
a yell up the wrong tree. The average man, who is pro-
foundly ignorant on the subject, wakes up every morning
more firmly convinced than ever that the publican is a
scoundrel who should be taken out and summarily
hanged by the nobbier till he is dead, but how the
said hotel-keeper does his adulterating the man never
considers. But everyone knows that the awful Bung
glides secretly in the dead of night to the darkest depths
of his uncanny cellar, and there, with the aid of potent
drugs and mysterious incantations, transmutes kerosene
and other blood-curdling liquids into bad whisky, which
he afterwards induces his customers to imbibe by the
exercise of hypnotism and other black arts.
As a matter of fact, Bung is generally profoundly igno-
rant on the subject of spirits—except, perhaps, the retail
price. He knows nothing about “ strength,” or how
much water is represented by 20 u.p., and if he suddenly
met a naked hydrometer by daylight he would not know
what it was. And yet he knows enough to “ adulterate ”
spirit!
There is a great foolishness written on the subject of
adulterated spirits. The ordinary drinker is very fond of
glibly gassing of “ adulterated ” liquor, but let him ask
himself how he would go about it. It is not so easy as
he thinks it is to prepare fictitious liquor. Adulteration,
in the sense of sophistication in a manner that will pass
muster with the ordinary consumer and return sufficient
profit to warrant the risk, is a difficult matter, and re-
quires a chemical knowledge that few hotel-keepers or
spirit-merchants possess.
Without doubt, bad and poisonous liquor is poured
down the throat of the suffering public by the thousand
gallons per year, but it is not interfered with by the
hotel-keeper except by the addition of water. The whole
trouble lies at the door of the distiller. He supplies the
hotel-keeper with any quantity of cheap bulk spirit that
is absolute poison, and so long as said hotel-keeper
can get a good profit on it, and there is no law
against selling it, he cheerfully' does so. The
spirit is cheaply distilled from potatoes, &c., and
then sent out raw as to-morrow’s bread and in an insuffi-
ciently-rectified state. Bung buys this stuff at the in-
stance of the merchant’s traveller who, without extra
charge, puts him up to dodges by which he can safely
fire it into the public. The aforesaid Bung follows his
advice, and, among other things, replenishes all his
ullaged bottles of good liquor with this poison as they
become partly empty. Then he mildly wonders why his
customer suddenly oasts himself down three flights of
stairs with great violence under the impression that he
used insulting language to himself. And aforesaid cus-
tomer acquires the firm conviction that aforesaid Bung
is a villain of the deepest water who, by some uncanny
enchantment, “did something” to that whisky, whereas
he has little or no idea of his crime. He knows that the ■
spirit is cheap and possibly a little inferior in quality to
that described by the label on the bottle he sold it out of,
but that is about the most he knows respecting it.
The quickest wav to put a stop to this sort of thing is
to prohibit the distiller from distilling except from
approved materials, insist that spirit shall be rectified till it
is sufficiently pure, and prevent its going into consump-
tion until it is matured. It is not so much the alcohol
that does the damage as the aldehydes that are asso-
ciated with alcohol as impurities. The worst of these can
b 2 driven off by careful rectification and by maturing ;
but all that adds to the cost of production, and the dis-
tillers, in their efforts to attain cheapness, neglect as
much of that as they dare—and that is a great deal. And
so long as our distiller is mostly in Great Britain, all the
laws we can pass to make him distil properly' are useless.
Let us set up Government distilleries as part of a Govern-
ment Drink Monopoly, and shut out foteign whisky
absolutely.
+
John M'Kenzie’s death may have more serious
effect on the fortunes of Maoriland Liberalism
than even that of John Ballance. When the
latter died, he left men behind him — M'Kenzie,
Reeves, and the Seddon of those days—to carry
on his work. Now, Reeves seems to have turned
his back on Maoriland; and M'Kenzie is dead.
Seddon alone is left, and he has already become
an Imperialist, and is now coming, as is only
natural, to be a reactionary. At a recent meeting
of the Labor members, after lecturing them on
their shortcomings, he told them that he did not
mean tq introduce any more Labor legislation just
now. _ Be has already withdrawn his State Fire
Insurance Bill, and has accepted without a
murmur the rejection by the Leg. Council of his
Referendum Bill. Ward is even worse. He has
never pretended to much sympathy with the
workers —as a monopolist in trade his interests
must be largely opposed to theirs —and the way in
which he rushed the tinsel gaud when it was
offered to him shows how little he is with them at
heart. The other Ministers are mere nonentities,
whose opinions, if they have any, don’t count.
The only strong and staunch man now left
on the Liberal side seems to be Hogg, and
his anti-jingo sentiments for the present leave
him no chance of office. So long as Jock
M‘Kenzie was alive, so long was there a
guarantee that the party of progress would have
at least one enthusiastic, able, and whole-souled
leader. Now he is gone, and the party is left in
charge of two stout gentlemen whose chief pride
is apparently to strut round in gold-lace and knee-
breeches, and talk wildly about “ saving the
Hempire.” .
Editor Bulletin. —Can you spare a few lines re
the agitation going on in Southern Vie. to get the
Government to purchase some of the large estates
and cut them up into farms ? There are thousands
of acres of good agricultural land in this locality,
at present only growing wool, and giving employ-
ment to a very few people. If cut up into blocks
and let on fair terms for cultivation the land
could support a much larger population. It is
fair-yielding, easily-worked ground, and, with
proper manuring, will stand working for a long
time. There are no fortunes in it, but with fair
treatment a very decent living can be made
out of it. Several of the owners are
willing—or, perhaps, are forced—to sell; and,
if Govt, does not take advantage of the
opportunity, the private capitalist will soon have
his claw on the land again. Already two or three
estates have “ passed in ” in this manner, and at
only grazing value. But Government simply
scoffed at tire idea of buying these really cheap
tracts of country. It's notion of settling people
on the land is, as The Bulletin recently pointed
out, to dump them down in a swamp and then
provide them with boats for the flood-time. On
some of the stations areas of various sizes are
being rented or let out on the “ share ” system for
cultivation, but the rents asked are usually too
high, and, anyhow, private landlordism is not a
tiling to be grasped at with both hands. Several
of the larger-hearted democrats, and the local
press, with the assistance of Toutcher, M.L.A.,
are trying to rouse up the Lands Dept, on the
matter, but that institution rouses with all the
agility of the Seven Sleepers.— Glenara.
“ X. 0.” knows a Bank
Everybody who tackles Queensland politics attacks the
Ministry. Wrong altogether. You want to get about in
the lobbies of the House, knock up and down Queen-st.,
consult the files of bills of sales, mortgages, &c., to find
out who the real governors of Kanakaland are. They
mostly meet in the directors’ room of the Q.N.B. This is
the head and front of Queensland’s Government. For
instance, more than one Minister is under personal
obligations to the bank. Two of its directors are Minis-
terial supporters, and still another aspires to the seat for
Brisbane City on the same ticket. Rumor credits another
Govt, supporter with being a land-inspector for a com-
pany mortgaged to the bank. Then you have
another Minister agent for the Australian Estates Co.
—a big pastoral concern ; and he and the Premier
are co-directors for the Queensland Meat Export
Co., which is subsidised with £33,0C0 of trust-funds.
Possibly half the Assembly members are either mort-
gaged to or, by current account or overdraft, connected
with the big octopus. The Premier confesses that the
bulk of the State-purchased estates were in the hands of
mortgagees—largely the Q.N. Bank. It owns an immense
pastoral area, hence the strong- move for extension of
leases, which will give a new life to the pastoral securities
of the banks. Wherever you go throughout the land,
freeholds, shops (retail and wholesale), mines, ware-
houses, tenements, breweries, factories, etc., etc., are all
whispered as owned or controlled by the Great Embar-
rassed Bank. The Upper House is also largely dominated
by some one or other of the Banks. The whole story of
Queensland muddle and mismanagement—financial, legal,
land, etc. —appears to wander home to the Q.N. Bank to
roost. Electoral reform and Upper House reform may do
something, but the thing that wants reforming out of
existence most is the Great National Reconstruct. While
it “ lives ” and endeavors to thrive there is no hope for
Queensland.
♦
Now that the Federal Govt, has taken over the
Customs there is a fine opportunity for some ener-
getic statesman to create new sources of revenue by
organising a State Drink and Tobacco monopoly.
There are precedents for both departures. The
Australian statesman always seems to be powerless
to act without a precedent, and like the useful and
dull-witted sheep can only follow a leader. Russia
is making money and improving the morals_of her
population by her Imperial grog-monopoly,
and for years the tobacco industry has been a
State monopoly in France and other places. In
France the system seems to have reached the
highest perfection, and anyone who wishes to test
the success of it should try some of the Algerian
cigarettes and tobacco that have rather recently
been introduced into Australia. Under that sys-
tem no farmer is allowed to grow more than a cer-
tain acreage, which makes the industry a family
matter and spreads it well over the country. The
women and children do most of the cultivation,
and when the weed has been cut and dried ac-
cording to directions the farmer takes or sends
it to the nearest Government agent, who grades it
for buying purposes, and sends a cheque by return
post. Then the tobacco is sent to the head depot,
where it is finally made up and disposed of. As
the State has the monopoly, it can always fix the
price so as to make a profit, and the profit goes to
the consolidated fund, or whatever the French
call that sink of taxation. At the same time the
farmer gets a good figure, for he saves the middle-
man’s profits—and he gets prompt returns for his
produce. Queensland can grow the best Virginian
tobacco ; NorthernN.S.W. the choicest Egyptian;
and sundry patches of N.S.W. Riverina and New
England districts are suited for the production of
a delicate Turkish-flavored article that would
command the markets of the world if cured and
made up properly. Victoria is making a slight
effort to push the sale of its tobaccos in Britain
through the wholesale and manufacturing houses.
But the real secret of success would be to make a
State enterprise of it, and capture the home
market first, and, with the experience thus gained,
to commence the heavy battle against the Yankee
and Oriental tobaccos later on.
—: —♦
Recent Vic. candidates for Parliament have
mostly declared in favor of limited hotel trading
on the Sabbath. Some of them speak as tee-
totallers, who reckon that the back-door customer
has more temptation to get drunk at one sitting
than if the front door were open to him at stated
intervals. The old Sawbath that was made for
sly-grogselling is evidently doomed in Victoria,
anyhow. A rational Licensing Act may not happen
for another three years or more, but come it must.
If the police did their duty by the existing law
they might bring the inevitable amendment to
pass within one year. Three convictions for
Sunday trading entail the loss of the hotel-keeper’s
license, and the result of three well-planned raids
would be such an awful withdrawal of licenses
from brewery-owned houses that Fatman would
organize an irresistible agitation for making the
Sunday beer lawful between church hours.
7+
Concerning certain pupil-teachers :
The Victorian Education Department takes the cake
for cruelty to animals. The pupil teachers, who are very
hard-worked in the schools, have to pass annual exami-
nations in 12 subjects, for which insufficient time is
allowed. The pay of the males is from t‘3o to £6O per
annum ; that of the females, from £2O to £SO ; and a pass
usually brings an increase” of £lO. The tension at the
exams, is so great, failure meaning a delay for a year,
that a large proportion of the girls faint, and a married
woman is kept in the room to attend to them. At a re-
cent occurrence of one of these torture-chamber affairs,
an inspector, who is an unconscious humorist, bawled
from the top of the room : “ Now, you girls who faint be
careful to stand up; then Mrs. Blank can see you and
will come and take you out.” The victims of over-wrought
nerves are bustled into the open air, and on account
of the interruption to work caused by their collapse, they
are allowed 15 minutes extra time to complete their
exam, papers. This is not being “ butchered for a Roman
holiday ; ” it only means being ground to death under the
wheels of a penurious system which rates the wage-
earning value of a teacher very much below that of the
least-skilled laborer. In the sixth and seventh classes the
pay is: Males, £B2 and £75 (with results) per annum ;
females, £64 and £6O (with results) ditto. The new
Minister of Education has promised an increase of pay for
these two classes. It is about time.
♦
“ J. Blundell ” to The Bulletin
Re the prevalent adulteration of wool with cotton, &e.
This substitution of the colored man’s product for the
staple product of this white continent is an abomination.
Therefore, though the woolgrowers of the Commonwealth
might reasonably claim that a tariff, protective at least in
incidence, should give preferential treatment to woollen
fabrics at the expense of cotton goods, the Federal Govt,
should, as a matter of public policy, discourage the
adulteration of wool by placing a heavy impost upon
goods containing an admixture, and impose a heavy
penalty upon the importation of such, unless properly so
described. Coarse wools are now so cheap that the
demand for the lower-priced fabrics might be legitimately
met by goods manufactured from those wools. And the
discouragement of the importation of these adulterated
goods, by the Federal tariff, would be an act of justice to
the woolgrowers, an encouragement to Australian manu-
facturers, a protection of the consumer, and an object-
lesson to all wool-growing communities.


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STANDING
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S. W. D’ARCY-IBVINE, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney; or to
G. Gf. MoCOLL and B. H. PASCOE, Managersfor Victoria, S. Australia and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
SPECTACLES
will be found satisfactory
if fitted by
WOOD,
“The Optician,”
who has a reputation for Testing and Fitting the
Eyes correctly. No charge for examination.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
95 Elizabeth St., Melbourne,
and 299 George-St., Sydney (opp. Hunter-St.)
N.B.—Our New Self -Testing Chart posted free, with
full instructions, to any country address. Write for
particulars.
Sulphide Corporation
LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W*
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can he Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, V Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought-^*
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Targe Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application t&
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A E. SAVAGE,
Manager.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ The Amazons.”
Lyceum “ Killarney.”
Criterion “ Death or Glory Boys.”
Her Majesty’s Italian Opera.
Empire Fuller Co.
Palace “ World’s Entertainers."
Tivoli Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Why Smith Left Home.”
Her Majesty’s Wilson Barrett Co.
Theatre Royal “ The White Heather.”
Bijou. “A Message from Mars - ”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
“La Boheme” in the libretto is a long-
way-after adaptation of Henri Murger’s novel,
“La Vie de Boheme.” The music, a very tangle
of bright, or pathetic, or wanton, or emotional
themes, that holds as a spell, is Giacomo Puc-
cini’s. Act I.—An attic in the Quartier Latin
shows us the four Bohemians —artist, poet,
painter, philosopher—starving, and warming
their numbed fingers at a candle-flame. But
they starve and freeze with such incurable cheer-
fulness that the lack of tire and bread seem to the
audience a rather humorous situation. Despite
their short, plaid-barred trousers (with about three
bars to the leg), their long, unkempt hair and
beards, their wild eyes and absolute readiness to
run after girls—other fellows’ girls—they are
loveable varlets. A pretty sewing damsel, who is
in training for consumption, loses the key of her
room which is in the same building as the
Bohemians’ garret. Rodolfo, the poet, finds
it, pockets it, and makes love to the girl.
There’s a splendid hurry of violins and harp
in the orchestra, and the duet between Mimi
the workgirl and Rodolfo, the poet, is the gem of
the opera. Signor Dani, as poet, made the hearts
of the audience beat (in fashion that wouldn’t do
for every-day pulsation) with his ringing, sus-
tained high C. It was the finest note of the kind
most of us have heard—a mellow, golden note,
with no sign of strain or sharpness. Signora
Dalia Bassich, who interprets Mimi, is a dark,
cameo-faced girl, who was a mezzo-soprano for six
years and has been a soprano for one year. But
if” is as an actress that she shines, although her
voice is fresh and clear. As her disease progresses
her face seems to shrink and sharpen, and her chest
grows more concave. She does her loye-scenes
with pathetic daintiness. She dies terribly, yet
beautifully. Some who have seen Rejane’s stage-
dying—and she is said to die as naturally and
gracefully as she lives—say that Signorina
Bassich’s slipping out of life has the art behind
the art that characterises the famous French-
woman when she departs for the great Here-
after. But Dani shares in the triumph of the
triumphant death-scene. He seems to shake his
Mimi roughly—for he has not realised that she
is dead—and the audience gasp “Oh!” But
the shake is really a violent tremor of his own
body. Despair and anguish wilt him as hot sun
does a flower—he seems to go suddenly spineless ;
and in low, broken, tragic bars the opera ends.
Mimi, by the way, does not cough enough for a
consumptive person. She gives, only a little
“hech” once or twice. Signorina Vaccari is
the bright, huggable coquette of the opera. She
“ takes up ” with the painter Bohemian, and she
teaches singing and he paints sign-boards, and
they quarrel wildly as if they were properly
church-wedded. The staging of “La Boheme”
is bewildering in its sudden changes, its great
massing of color, its snow-scenes, crowds of chil-
dren, peasants, cheap-jacks, milk-women, booths,
and outdoor-eating. In the street scene, the sound
of toy-trumpets from the orchestra is very much
in place.
** # *
People who went stolidly to sleep over
“Aida,” and slept intermittently at “La
Boheme,” slumbered not nor slept at “Un Ballo
in Maschera,” which has a good deal of bright
dressing, and music that does not require an
excess of education on the part of the audience.
The libretto shows powerfully the folly of acting
in an upright manner,- and interests itself mainly
with a stolid-looking husband in a cake-frill and a
lover who, in moments of agitation, wraps himself
in a tablecloth. There is also a wife, Amelia to
wit (the very name suggests conjugal fidelity), who
nevertheless gets into serious trouble because, being
in love with a gentleman other than her husband,
she goes honorably to a witch for a love-cure. A good
many other people turn up at this haunt, implying
that trouble with someone else’s marital property
was exceedingly common in those days, but that
most of the troubled ones had quite honorable
intentions in the matter. Amelia is advised to
pluck a certain herb, and, in her search for it,
appears in the next act at a deserted spot where
the only sign of civilisation is a gallows. Here
she meets the object of her affections, and they are
just telling each other in Italian how honorably
thev intend to behave when the husband enters.
The husband is persuaded to escort his own
veiled wife to the city, and does so with affability,
under the impression that she is merely someone
else. When he discovers that she is his own pro-
perty he becomes annoyed, and drags the lady off
the stage as if she were a bale of goods. As
she is a large lady, and he only a moderate
man, the effect is not convincing. After a
tremendously long interval the husband appears
at his own house still dragging the lady; he has
evidently brought her home this way all through
Naples. Later on, at a ballroom, the lover is once
more declaring his intention to act honorably,
when the husband steps forward and stabs him.
Then the courtiers all stand round and sing a good
deal, instead of getting a doctor and trying to
staunch the wound.
* * * *
Bozzoli takes the part of the unbereaved
husband with the justifiable suspicions, and the
song in which he makes observations on the melan-
choly fact that his own friend should have been
found wandering round a gallows with his wife late
at night is particularly effective. The honorable
lover is justly encored for his staccato re-
marks on the folly of believing in witches, while
a good word must be said for the neat little page.
Signorina. De Benedetto’s voice seems slightly
wanting in the true pathetic ring ; some less
powerful organs have been mure convincing in
this respect; also, her good-natured face rather
disclaims her tragic part, and her expression,
when her husband threatens her with his dagger,
is that of a lady who thinks her lord is being just
a little unkind. It is not the expression of a lady
who takes the small gentleman’s anger seriously.
* * * *
“ Mrs. Dane’s Defence ” ended an unpro-
tracted career at Sydney Royal last Saturday.
Possibly Brough didn’t run Jones’s play so long
as it might have been run on its merits, which are
reasonably numerous. All the same, The Bulle-
tin is still wondering whether Jones meant it as
a bitter satire on the ridiculously self-sufficient
attitude of man towards woman, or whether he is,
despite all his talent, an obtuse and conventional
Jones, who didn’t see the true inwardness of his
own plot and dialogue. Jones’s Judge explains
that he tried his level best to seduce his friend’s
wife, and the lady was quite willing to be seduced
—but on the very night of their intended bolt, her
child fell ill, and to her conventional mind it
seemed that Providence, being a lamentably bad
shot, had hit the infant on account of its mother’s
premeditated sin. And, with a strange idea of
the commercial character of the Deity, she
stated in prayer, that if It restored her
child she, as a fair exchange, wouldn’t bolt
with the Judge. The child recovered, and the
lady didn’t bolt—she only died of disappointment
at not doing it. And then the Judge brought up
the child as his own son, and when the young man
wanted to marry a woman who was suspected
of having bolted (as his mother meant to
do), the old man implored him, for his
mother’s sake, not to do it. And when it was
definitely proved that Mrs. Dane had once bolted,
the man who tried to seduce his friend’s wife
sternly told her that the marriage was off, and
lectured her tremendously about the law of God.
The son of the woman who was going to bolt, he
explained, must marry a pure and stationary
female.
# » * *
Jones’s detective is another anomaly. He
is a fashionable detective of great fame, who in-
vestigates the misdeeds of the upper classes; yet
he wears the short, cheap pants of a horsey life,
and his chin has a stubble on it, and he looks like
a mean lier-in-wait, and a shabby listener at
kitchen keyholes. And this individual, having
been hired to find out Mrs. Dane’s sin, perjures
himself on her behalf, out of pity, and also for a
large cash-consideration offered him by the
defendant. And though Mrs. Dane is a woman
of noble character, yet when she is found out she
states quite needlessly that the detective accepted
a bribe from her and betrayed his employer—the
Fat Woman who paid him to cover Mrs. Dane
with exposure and ignominy. Mrs. Dane’s utter
want of compunction about blasting the kindly ’tec’s
professional character, and spoiling his business of
listening at the keyholes of the best society, and
looking over the back-fence of the peerage, is
heartless in the extreme. Yet, with all these
drawbacks, “ Mrs. Dane’s Defence ” is a fascinat-
ing play, and its premature departure is a thing
to be regretted.
• » * •
This week the Brough company is doing
a very brief season of “Sowing the Wind,” but
that quaint, old-world comedy will be nearly at
the end of its short run by the time this gets into
print, so it may pass without elaborate notice. It
is well-played, as all Brough’s pieces are, but it
isn’t a very powerful production in any case. On
Saturday the “ Amazons’’—probably the pret-
tiest comedy the old B. and B. combination ever
placed before an undiscriminating public—is to be
revived. Whether it will look quite the same
comedy without Dot Boucicault as the Count
who states proudly that he has become thoroughly
English and has even learned to say dammitall
in the smoking-room, is a matter which is yet to
be determined. But the “ Amazons ” must needs
be a beautiful play, even if Bill Holloway pro-
duced it in a hoarse voice at a suburban hall with
a kitchen chair for scenery.
« * * *
A promiscuous crowd of “ Death or Glory
Boys ” began to be even more promiscuous than
might be expected at Sydney Criterion last Satur-
day. In this drama the old rule that the, villain
shall have a good time is wholly abandoned. He
has a very bad time. Another unusual effect
arises out of the conduct of the sub-heroine, who
declares that she has been betrayed by the villain,
or has not been betrayed, just as it happens to
suit her. In the first act she mentions that she
has been betrayed, without any great necessity
for doing so ; whereupon the villain is repudiated
by his fellow officers and shot down by the
aggrieved one’s brother. Later on, the uncer-
tain young woman withdraws her accusa-
tion, and though, according to evidence,
the villain is now a much-wronged person who
has been scoffed at and badly injured for no reason
at all, he is still repudiated by his brother officers.
Also his men are allowed to insult him in a most
unpleasant manner, the other people on the stage
invariably declaring, when appealed to, that they
didn’t hear anyone say anything. The brother,
who is now a private in the bad officer’s regiment,
is also allowed to thrash him as much as he likes.
In the latter act, however, the law regarding the
thrashing of officers seems to have been violently
altered, for when the hero does the business
again he is promptly jailed for it, and
has to escape by means of three acrobats
who happen to be in the prison just then,
but who never think of using their acrobatic
powers for themselves. All the characters
then go to Africa to fight the Boers.
The hero suffers the usual accusation of try-
ing to compass the villain’s death, and in the
space of one minute after the alleged offence is
formally shot at, without any trial whatever, by
his fellow-soldiers. Another person, however, re-
ceives the bullets, which proves that the accused
was innocent, and the matter is then dropped.
A good many charges are made against people in
this drama, and then dropped. In the last act
the trouble about whether the hero’s sister was
betrayed or not is also dropped, and she. accepts
somebody else, while the villain takes poison and
drops, like almost everything else.
* * * *
Miss Helene Burdette takes the part of
the dubious girl, and it needs all the grace of this
dainty little actress to make it probable that any-
one should venture to marry a lady in such an
uncertain state as regards her own respectability.
However, Miss Burdette, in this respect, shows
herself almost equal to the demand made upon
her. Cleopatra could not do more than that,
and her respectability was also doubtful. Miss
Ida Gresham enacts the good, nice girl, and
Miss Roland Watts-Phillips is the usual weird
female who marries someone in the regiment and
appears in the last act with twins in a pram. Ihe
humor in “Death or Glory Boys,” however, is
not very tedious, most of the characters being too
much engaged in thrashing their officers and
otherwise behaving as soldiers of the Queen to
attempt any burdensome funnyisms. Lawrence
Dunbar, as the hero, and C. R. Stanford, as the
villain, try to make the drama as little ridiculous
as is possible.
** * *
“ The World’s Entertainers ” vary their
programme this week by giving different items at
different times, and that the public consider this
idea of variety sufficient is evinced by the packed
houses that throng to the theatre in Pitt-st.,
Sydney. Charles R. Sweet, the Musical Burglar,
excuses his burgling propensities by the statement
that he had to choose between burgling and
Eolitics, and wished to be as honest as he could.
liss Josephine Gassmann introduces two pican-
ninies, and though this paper has acquired some
justifiable detestation of the infant prodigy, it
has a fairly tolerable feeling for those two minute
brown objects, one of which seems able to dance
before it can very well walk.
m* * *
“ The Days of Nelson, ” at Sydney Lyceum,
still shows up that naval hero as an amiable per-
sonage, with a tendency to pardon various
criminals he oughtn’t to have pardoned, merely
beoause a nice-looking girl expressed a desire that
they should esoape the yard-arm.
Wilson Barrett’s “ Sign of the Cross is
likely to stand more than the current week’s
revival in his quick-change season at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.). Bulletin disrespect for the cerulean
cant of this audacious fiction is shared by many
people who go to church, and by more who don’t,
but the impressionable residue in Melbourne
rushed the entertainment last Saturday, and took
it seriously. “ The Sign,” as acted by the present
co., is a rather less lurid melodrama than the
Firm’s crowd made of it. The men, with one or two
exceptions, give keener performances than Julius
Knight and co. gave—the principal exception being
Athol wood, whose Emperor Nero is perhaps want-
ing in some of the nervous diseases which made the
previous Emperor apopular horror. Wilson Barrett
is a satisfactory Superbus in appearance (although
he stands too high on his authoritative heels) and
he scores a number of artistic little points that the
beloved Julius ignored. Moreover, he is strong
and sincere where the younger actor was simply
loud and picturesque. If he doesn’t create a
character to convince everybody, Barrett at least
seems to believe in it himself. Tigellinus, and
other Roman capitalists, drunk and sober, are an
improvement on the first lot, likewise the con-
verted small boy (played by Miss Roswell), makes
the most of his early piety. Miss Lillah M ‘Carthy
is (an interestingly virtuous Mercia; the gay
Dacia (Miss Belmore), doesn’t force her
gaiety as Miss Raymond did, and the
crowd of pagan supper girls, one of whom
is Miss Alice Crawford under another name,
behave with due Pagan indecorum. But the
Berenis of Miss Edyth Latimer is a decidedly
weak suggestion of the red-hot charmer whose
Eassion threatens to carry its flood-gates off their
inges and engulph her. Miss L., in this instance,
tempers her imitation of Maud Jeffries with some
of Mrs. Brown-Potter’s vocal mannerisms. Her
fait, unfortunately, doesn’t include any Potter.
t is an exaggerated reminder of Maud’s nautical
rolling walk, a walk that ought to have remained
sacred to that large lady. Some of the imported
scenery in Barrett’s smart show is really beautiful
work.
# * * *
At Melbourne Princess’s, the short story
of Jim Gannet’s profane parrot and the three-act
narrative of “ Smith ” are filling the bill for a third
week. “Jones ” has been rather rashly promised
by the management for some time within the next
fortnight, but, if Charles Arnold can persuade
himself to go back on his word —and most
managers are equal to that effort—he may as welli
remain Count Yon Guggenheim to the end of the-
season. All the same, “Jones ” will be welcome,,
in the event of his popping up. The question?
as to whether “Jones” was a madder comedy-
than “ Smith ” is worrying some people, and they
would like to settle it to their own satisfaction..
Alternate nights of “ Smith ” and “ Jones ” would!
be quite a new departure in frivolity.
* * * *
The fall in Rand shares, which started!
before the S’African War, by the way, is happen-
ing every night at Melb. Royal, and sometime-
after 9 o’clock Charles Brown invariably gets,
hammered off this mortal coil by order of Baker..
Also sundry daughters of a hundred earls sing
Jiggetty Jane —no, Jiggetty Jig—a few minutes,
previous to Brown’s decease. “ The? White-
Heather ” has been going for four weeks,. andi
these incidents have occurred, withi unfailing,
regularity.
# * * *■
On Saturday (24th) Hawtrey’s Cbmed’y Obi.
makes its first Melbourne appearance at the-
Bijou with “A Message From Mars.” Some-
months ago Melbourne received a good account of;
the “ Message ” from Sydney, and since then it-,
has been favorably reported on from other places..
So the city will make an expert endeavor to sup-
port five theatres at once, if Hawtrey lays suffi-
cient emphasis on the fact that the Bijou is itself
again.
* * * #
At the Opera House, a shadowgrapher andi
a juggler came along on Saturday in the compara-
tively juvenile-looking person of Professor De?
Wynne. The Prof., it appears, is a parent of the;
two acrobatic De Wynnes, and his face takes;
after his clever offspring—or, rather, it takes;
before them. The Musical Tramp was to quit
Melbourne early this week, and the gap he left
behind him is being filled, more or less, by Dan
Le Mont’s educated dawgs.
A certain Marous Barrett dwelt in Rome long
time ago,
And the limelight-man pursued him as he ran the
gaudy show;
He was quite a whale for women in his autocratic
way,
But he knew too much to marry, so the Naicest
used to say.
He went about selecting “ plum3 ” and “ peaches
of the sex.
Then took them off to supper with his arms around
their necks;
For the ladies all were pagans, and their moral
code was blue:
They dreaded not the Future when damnation
falleth due.
And they suited Marcus nicely (though they
nevah touched his heart)
Till his mouth began to water for an Early
Christian “tart.”
Whilst strolling, unescorted, near the Market
Place of Rome
(Poor girl! she had no mother to look after her at
home)
Mias Mercia saw some Pagans playing football in
the street
With her dear old Bible-teacher, who was bleeding
at their feet.
She argued with the rabble, O, she gave it to ’em
hot;
Then up came Prefect Marcus, and she mashed
him on the spot.
Other girls of his acquaintance dressed regardless
of expense,
But this one wore a sheeting of the purest inno-
cence.
Quoth he, “She moves me strangely,” and to
gain his evil end
The Prefect begged the vision to regard him as
her friend,
Whereupon she blushed and left him. She was hit
by Cupid’s dart,
And Ms mouth— you bet it watered for that Early
Christian tart.
Now Nero, who was famous for hi's cruelty and
feasts,
Loved to sacrifice Believers as a dinner for his
beasts,
So Marcus oaptured Mercia, for he did not think
it fit
That a roaring four-legged lion should enjoy his
fancy bit.
He captured dainty Mercia to preserve her from
her doom,
Then tried to make her love him in his Roman
drawing-room;
He chased her round the sofa—0 ! ’twas warm,
’twas very warm,
But the virgin prayed to Heaven, and there came
a thunderstorm.
A flash of holy lightning gave the giddy Prefect
pause:
He was not so truly pagan that he couldn’t guess
its cause:
And when Mercia held a Cross up, and the light
played on her brow,
And she told him (cue for curtain) that he
“couldn’t harm her now,”
His ancient Roman courage seemed to falter and
depart,
Though he still retained his yearning for the
Early Christian tart.
Then Marcus had the notion he could save Miss
Mercia’s life
If she’d fix her hair with hair-pins and become his
lawful wife.
The offer pleased her greatly, but his hopes again
were floored _
When the gentle maiden told him she was wedded
to the Lord, .
And must stick to her religion, and go spinsterly
to death,
Though a Marcus kiss were sweeter than a tawny
lion’s breath.
Then the pagan saw Terewth where all had
hitherto been dim ; _
He heard a voice inside him sing a simple Sankey
hymn, _ .
And he went along with Mercia to the shining
golden goal;
The lions ate his body, but they could not find his
soul; ,
And some blood-stained linen fragments in the
circus-cleaner’s cart .
Were the last of noble Marcus and his Early
Christian tart.


stocks Kept
RAND ROCK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
BY THE SOLE AGENTS—
N. GTJTHRIDGrE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ; WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
214 HIGH STREET, FREMANTLE; KALCOORLIE.
TRA3MEWA.YS. TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.>
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p. “a®
STOCKS IN' SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World, upon
application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castle reagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The Austral Otis Co., of South Melbourne, has
just completed a contract for the supply of shafting,
pulleys, plummer-blocks, trommels, &c., for the Lloyd
Copper Mine, N.S.W., and has also in hand a contract
for the construction of a tandem compound steam-engine
of 300 h.p. for the same co. This engine is to be of the
highest class, and fitted with Suezer type trip valve gear,
and all modern improvements.*
» * * »
The City Leader of 28th July, 1900, writes re-
garding the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society,
Limited : “ The security of this office is unchallengeable,
for its funds are ever increasing and now stand at
£2,385,266, including the sum of £123,609 which has been
added during the year.”*
* » * *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* * * *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
« * * *
John W. H. Piper, C.E., M.A.1.M.E.,
M.Am.I.M.E., &c., Australian representative of Cutten
Bros., Dunedin, mining and dredging engineers, is leaving
for London about the end of August to establish a Home
Office for the firm, the increase of foreign business
necessitating this action. Mr. Piper will be pleased to
undertake any commissions that may be entrusted to him.
Equitable Buildings, Georg e-street, Sydney.*
• • » •
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
• * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
If further proof is needed that Luhrig Vanners
are the best and most economical machines for dressing
fines and slimes, it will be found in the fact that the Tas-
mania gold mine, Beaconsfield, Tasmania, has decided to
increase the number of these machines in the extension
of the present mill and reduction works. When com-
pleted it will have over 100 head of stampers at work, and
60 Luhrig Vanners, including the additional 24 of the
large type. Before finally adopting plans the Tasmania
board sent its manager to inspect the chief reduction
works in other States. Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, of
Melbourne, are the Sole Agents for the Luhrig appli-
ances.*
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Mr. Mepban Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andall sorts of iron-work. *
* * * .
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buciiu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
Chillagoe Railway and Mines : Gratification ex-
pressed by the directors in their half-yearly report for the
improved railway traffic, the June returns being nearly
double those for January. It may be taken for granted
that if things were as satisfactory in other directions,
nothing would be said about this. The smelting works
are nearing completion, and it is expected that £75,000,
the estimated amount, will cover the cost. In view of all
things, there is something to be pleased at in this. The
railway, including rolling stock, has cost over £380,000,
which is much in excess of the estimate. Expected that
smelting will start about the middle of next month. For
a time not more than two furnaces will be put in blast.
Why ? Is it because the others will not be ready in time,
or on account of insufficiency of ore to keep the lot going?
If the former, we should probably have been told so, and
if silence on the point is an admission of the latter, then
it is a sad reflection for shareholders to think that after
all this time there is not enough ore to run the whole of
the furnaces. £2500 a year in salaries has been saved by
the changes in the management.
The directors admit that it is quite impossible
for them to come to a conclusion as to the comparative
accuracy of Stewart’s or Weinberg’s figures regarding the
quantities and value of ore proved, and although the
latter has submitted the details on which his estimates are
based, the directors think that in the interest of the co.,
and in fairness to Stewart, he should have an opportunity
of revising his figures, and an independent report should
be made. Mr. Stewart’s health still prevents his leaving
Sydney for the mine. The directors think the financial
resources of the co. are sufficient to complete the
work in progress, but they admit that the expenditure
to date exceeds the actual moneys received by the co.,
and they have therefore had to arrange for an advance of
£50,000 to place the co. in funds. The shares are still
11s., and it will be interesting to see to what extent the
news of the copper combine will appreciate them. It
will take a very sanguine shareholder to expect any profit
out of the running of the two furnaces. They would
have to do remarkably well to pay bank interest on the
total expenditure.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, eto.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Ny. S^arkv/ald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eayle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellinjton, and
Auckland, NZ.
“WILD CAT” BRIAR PIPES Wild
Bd.
ea,
IN A DOZEN DIFFERENT SHAPES.
Posted, lOd.; 6s. per Dozen—posted, 6s. Bd.; 725. per Gross— *ar Carriage Pree to any
Railway Station in New South Wales.
85: Cat
ast. WOOLF & 00.,
3*73
George-atreet
(next GF.O.),
SYDKTBY.
%
The Wild Cat Column.
discovers that it made a regret-
table mistake last week in stating that Treasurer Uribb
clian t propose to levy any extra taxation with a view to
P*'? ve „ nt Queensland having another deficit of 1528,188
this financial year. It did that provident and far-seeing
man an injustice. Treasurer Cribb, in view of the fact
“■Fj” ? v ® r ■£!->500,000 of old Queensland deficits had been
added to the permanent public debt previous to 1899 ;
that in the year 1899-1900 Queensland had a further
deficit of £528,188 ; that owing to having to bear its
share of the Commonwealth expenses, the outlay this
•™ r liable to show a slight increase ; that there is
±lB 090 more interest to pay than last year; that the
rederal tariff will presently abolish the Inter-State cus-
toms revenue, and probably reduce the foreign customs
revenue ; that the first month of this financial year
snowed a net result which was £26,000 worse than
that of the corresponding month last year, and that there
is not only the question of preventing another deficit this
y? a r,’ , ut also of paying off last year’s shortage—in view
of all these things Treasurer Cribb manfully proposed an
increased stamp-duty, calculated to bring in £25,000.
Something was said about an income-tax (Queensland has
no income-tax so far), but Treasurer Cribb said that it
was better to wait till the Federal tariff came along.
Queensland’s customs revenue is, at present, £3 per head
per annum, whereas Victoria’s rate is £1 12s. 9d., and the
average of the six Commonwealth States is £llss. 4d. per
head per annum. So when the customs have been
levelled to some extent, and in addition the inter-State
duties have been abolished, Queensland will lose another
£500,000 a year almost to a dead certainty—possibly
£700,000. Oribb says it is advisable to wait till this extra
disaster happens before doing anything.
Also the incredible Treasurer Oribb had another
reason for not imposing an income-tax. He said that
“ An income-tax, if imposed now, could not become
operative before next January, so that, after deducting
cost of collection, any return from it would not materially
affect our financial position this year ! ” In the name of
all that is wonderful, how, or why ? If Treasurer Oribb
imposed his income-tax now, he would be able, by his own
showing, to collect the first year’s payment in January.
And even if he didn’t collect it till May, there would still
be a whole year’s tax to include in the revenue of this
financial year, which ends on the 30th of next June.
There will be exactly the same difficulty about putting it
in at next Financial Statement, and the one after that,
and the succeeding one. Truly, Treasurer Cribb is a
wonderful man ! But that great authority, the Brisbane
Courier, cordially approves of his policy of letting things
slide. And unless some stroke of luck comes to Queens-
land’s assistance, what a slide it will be 1
* * » *
Tasmania is another State which expects to
have a huge deficit under the new tariff. Following were
the Customs revenues of the six Commonwealth States
for 1899 (Coghlan’s latest figures: “ Seven Colonies,” page
357) :
Customs Revenue per Inhabitant per Annum.
New South Wales .. £0 19 10 Tasmania .. £2 7 3
Victoria .. .. 112 9 Queensland .. 30 0
South Australia .. 112 9 Westralia .. 418 3
These include a large sum derived from inter-State duties
which are going to be abolished, and all the States will
lose heavily by their abolition. Therefore, even if a
somewhat heavier tariff than the present Victorian one
is adopted, Victoria and S.A. will remain about where
they are ; N.S.W. will only gain about enough to cover
its Old Age Pension expenditure, and the other three
States are bound to lose heavily. Treasurer Bird says
quite calmly that, even if the Federal tariff is arranged
to yield £8,500,000, he anticipates a deficit of £123,943
in 1902. And he doesn’t propose to take any immediate
steps to remedy this almost inevitable shortage, though
Tasmania levies less direct taxation than any other State
of the Commonwealth, and has plenty of room to make
the shortage good. Like Cribb, of Queensland, Bird
intends to let things slide for a while. This is how
Tasmania has been getting along of late :
Total
Surplus for year. Deficit.
31st December, 1895 £442,103
„ „ 1896 £47,733 394,370
„ „ 1897 59,993 334,377
„ „ 1898 78,056 256,321
„ „ 1899 72,516 183,805
„ „ 1900 131,250 52,555
„ „ 1901 (estimated) 10,071 42,484
Deficit for year.
„ „ 1902 (estimated) 123,943 166,427
In addition to the certain loss of inter-State customs, the
practically certain reduction of foreign customs, and the
ever increasing interest bill, the State revenue has been
falling heavi'y for some time. But Treasurer Bird is too
tired to make any provision for the future.
* * » *
The half-year to 30th June, 1901, was the worst
that the Broken Hill Water Supply Co. has had since June,
1898. The following is its record in recent times, the
purely goodwill item, “Water Rights, Leases, Parlia-
mentary Bills, etc., cost £25,194,” being ignored as a
purely paper asset: —
Dividends and /rwfuil.ui
Profits. Allowance for
Depreciation.
June, 189? .. ilS.Sffi {™X'n“5 t 7“I £10 ' s '"
Dec., 1897 .. 15,705 10 per cent. = 9,325 4,127
June, 1898 .. 11,779 10 „ „ 9,325 1,673
Dec., 1898 .. 15,760 10 „ „ 9,325 4,762
June, 1899 .. 16,161 15 „ „ 13,987 6,936
Dec., 1899 .. 16,845 12* „ „ 11,656 12,125
June, 1900 .. 19,557 12* „ „ 11,656 20,026
Dec., 1900 .. 17,9234
Share Premiums. J-15 „ „ 13,987 27,341
3 379 1
June, 1901 .. 14,116 15 „ „ 16,000 26,467
This is almost the only occasion in the record of the
Broken Hill Water Supply Co. when the reserves have
shown a diminution. Considering the great falling off in
profits the 15 per cent, dividend appears a rather reckless
proceeding. And, so far as the accounts show, nothing
has been written off for depreciation during the past four
years. “ Construction account, £157,363,” and “ Filtra-
tion Plant, £6582,” which form the bulk of the company’s
assets, are still put in at cost. Yet it is impossible to
suppose that the big reservoir, for instance, hasn’t depreci-
ated by a process of silting up, and that it is of the same
value for water-holding purposes as it was originally.
The co. apparently acknowledges this by establishing a
“ contingency reserve fund ” of £35,000, but that fund
doesn’t really exist in full, except in the form of “ good-
will ” ; the actual accumulations are only £26,457. See-
ing that the goodwill must needs be constantly depreciat-
ing as the co.’s concession comes nearer an end, if it
hasn’t depreciated quite out of sight long ago, that the
principal works must have deteriorated to some extent,
that there are only about 17 years of the concession to
run, and that the earnings have a downward tendency,
things can’t be said to be looking quite their best with
the B.H. Water Supply, Limited.
* * * •
On 30th June, 1901, the Melbourne Tramway
Co. finished a year which is almost suggestive of the good
old times of the boom. This concern has a habit of
posing as an ill-used and down-trodden corporation which
can’t give its employees the eight-hour day specified in its
original bargain because the consequences would be
Ruinous. Hence some special interest attaches to these
figures
Deficit
Dividends on £250,000 (all paper
Profits, capital actually paid-up assets
by Shareholders. elimin-
ated).
June, 1888.. £88,357
„ 1889..£238,909 (^ocapital3wo} 29 ’ 44S
„ 1890.. 170,552 {^ocapital SMOo}^^ 896
„ 1891.. 131,501 38J per cent. = 96,000 £32,605
„ 1892.. 111,816 29 „ = 72,000 72,421
„ 1893.. 51,270 91 „ = 24,000 99,691
„ 1894.. 45,460 9£ „ = 24,000 121,151
1895.. 52,870 91 „ = 24,000 150,021
„ 1896.. 40,069 91 „ = 24,000 166,090
„ 1897.. 51,978 {s itfce ” ofl = 24 g} 179,068
„ 1898.. 43,159 91 per cent. = 24,000 198,227
~ 1899.. 56,629 {s itfce ’’ off = 28 ’ 899 } 216,056
1900 73 270 P er cent— 38,400 \ 240 926
„ X9UO \ Written off .. 10,000/
„ 1901.. 97,505 24 per cent. = 60,000 278,431
These reserves consist of “ reserve for renewal of tram-
ways,” £250,168 ; dividend reserve, £12,000 ; reserve for
return of capital, £30,375 ; and undivided profit, £29,254
—total, £321,797 ; less a paper asset that is being
gradually written off, “debenture interest and sinking
fund paid during construction of lines, £43,366.” This
leaves net reserves of £278,431.
The Melbourne Tramway and Omnibus Co. has
these statements in its balance-sheet:
Capital subscribed .. £960,000
Less uncalled .. .. 480,000
£480,000
(Of which £400,000 was actually paid up in money.)
This leads many people to believe that the share-
holders put up £400,000 directly, and that only the
other £BO,OOO came out of profits. But these fortunate
individuals did nothing of the kind. The nominal
5 per cent, dhidend which they received in the
very worst days of the depression was really over
9 5 per cent. During the past 13 years the Melbourne
Tramway Co. has earned nearly 36 per cent, per annum
on the capital which the shareholders actually put into
the concern, and these shareholders have received, on an
average, £l6 7s. 6d. per cent, per annum on the money
they really subscribed. When the co. is lamenting worse
than usual about its troubles, it always points out that it
undertook the tremendous responsibility of paying to
the municipalities which own the lines (the co. merely
leases them, and owns cars, buildings, and sundries) not
only the interest on the money borrowed for their con-
struction, but also bound itself to repay during the term
of its lease (which expires in 1916) the whole cost of con-
struction—to hand the lines back absolutely free
from debt. But the profits shown above are the
amounts which remain after paying the annual in-
terest (£76,050) on the cost of construction, and also
after paying the annual instalment (£34,200) towards
liquidating the debt incurred for construction purposes.
So this burden has nothing to do with the case. And the
co. isn’t entitled to any credit for doing this. The people
who use the trams provide the money by paying high
fares. The fares were made high for the special purpose
of enabling the trams to pay off their cost and become
free of debt.
Further, the co. is pledged to hand back the
lines at the end of its lease (1916) in good order and re-
pair. But there is no earthly reason to believe that the
co. will have to spend the £259,168 of renewal reserve on
repairs before it hands the trams back to the trust. It
spends several thousands a year on repairs out of earn-
ings (the profits shown above are net profits after current
repairs are paid for), and makes large additions to
the renewal reserve as well. The renewal reserve seems
to be, to some extent, rather a standing advertisement
of the allegedly overburdened and persecuted state of the
co. The Melbourne Tramway Go., in addition to £425,474
locked up in freehold property, cars, wire ropes, tools,
horses, horse-feed, and other necessaries of its trade, has
£400,303 invested in good securities of various kinds. If
it went out of the business now, the Tramways Trust
agreeing to take over its lease, and run the trains itself,
and assume the responsibility of paying the rest of the
original cost of construction out of earnings (which would
be a splendidly profitable bargain for the Trust), and if
the co. also handed over all its oars, sheds, power-houses
and material (£425,474 worth) to the Trust to pay for any
possible dilapidations of the lines, the Tramway Go.
could to-day return to its shareholders nearly £1 10s. for
every £ they invested in the concern—this after paying
them £l6 7s. 6d. per cent, per annum dividends for many
years.
And the Melbourne Tramway Co. talks occa-
sionally with much pathos about the necessity for an
extension of its lease (beyond 1916—it has still 15 years of
these glorious profits and accumulations before it) in
order to recoup it for the hard luck it has had.
* * » «
Fitzgerald’s Brewing and Malting Co. (Castle-
maine, Victoria), paid-up capital, £40,000
Reserves
Net (goodwill not
Profits. Dividends. reckoned as
an asset).
June, 1892 .. £6,633 12J per cent. = £5,000 £4,792
„ 1893 .. 7,170 12| „ „ 5,000 6,962
„ 1894 .. 6,139 12* „ „ 5,000 7,101
„ 1895 .. 4,690 11J „ „ 4,500 7,291
„ 1896 .. 4,655 10 „ „ 4,000 7,946
„ 1897 .. 4,735 10 „ „ 4,000 8,681
„ 1898 .. 4,701 10 „ „ 4,000 9,382
„ 1899 .. 6,45/ 10 „ „ 4,000 11,839
' „ 1900 .. 6,353 10 „ „ 4,000 14,192
„ 1901 .. 7,107 10 „ „ 4,000 17,299
The management proposes to transfer £lO,OOO of the
reserves to capital account, making the shares fully paid-
up. This will leave the co. with £50,000 capital and
£7299 net reserves. There are only two breweries of any
importance in Australia which pay larger dividends than
the prosperous Fitzgerald’s Co., and its record all through
the bad times shows remarkable good luck—or more pro-
bably good management.
The Standard Life Association (Sydney) issues
its second annual balance-sheet. It is a proprietary con-
cern with a paid-up capital of £12,500. During its first
year the Standard lumped together the premiums of both
branches of its business and also the expenses and assets
of both branches. In its second year it shows industrial
and ordinary premiums separately, but the interest re-
ceipts, the assets and the expenses are still lumped
together. The visible results, however, are these :
Total Funds
Including
Capital.
At commencement of co. (capital paid up) £12,500
Total Total
Income. Claims. Expenses. Outgoings.
June, 1900 £9,193 £216 £12,998 £13,214 8,479
June, 1901 24,593 453 23,833 24,286 8,786
The first year, therefore, showed a deficit of £4021 ; the
second year a surplus of £307. The total deficit up to
date is £3714, and out of the original capital of £12,500
there remains intact £8786. The first year’s expenses
were at the rate of 141 per cent, on revenue ; the second
year’s close on 97 per cent. Things mostly go like this, in
the earliest years of a co. which practises the frightfully
expensive industrial assurance business, and even when
the business is well afloat the expenses are seldom less
than 40 per cent. In the case of the Standard Life Associ-
ation the visible net assets are now £8786, but of these
£1046 are outstanding industrial premiums, which are a
very dubious asset indeed. An outstanding premium on
an ordinary policy of a few years’ standing is a solid asset ;
if it isn’t paid the society pays it itself out of the surrender-
value. Having the surrender-value in its hands the
society has good security. A new industrial policy has no
surrender-value, and an unpaid premium thereon is simply
an unsecured debt which there is no means of making the
debtor pay unless so inclined. As the expenses are all
lumped together it is impossible to say what the ordinary
life business (which represents £5044 of the premium
income, industrial premiums being -119,383) costs. This
is a very bad omission. - The Standard has already got a
large business together—a very large one for its age, and
one that reflects great credit on the energy of the manage-
ment —and it is certainly quite large enough to justify a
separate statement of accounts.
The prospects of the person who takes an indus-
trial policy in the Standard are much the same as those
of the person who is fool enough to take one anywhere
else. For £6 Is. 4d. a year paid regularly for 15 years
the Standard undertakes to pay £lOO with profits. Pro-
fits are, of course, a doubtful quantity. The same sum
invested with equal regularity in the Commissioners
Savings Bank, even if interest drops to 3 per cent., will
yield £lll, which is probably a great deal more than the
£lOO policy with profits wili amount to. And there are
these further differences :
If after four years of regular payments the assured
stops paying, all the money paid to the Standard Life
Association is lost. It only grants a paid-up policy after
five years. In the same circumstances the Savings Bank
yields £25.
If an assured who has paid up regularly dies at the end
of 14 years, the Standard Life Association gives him back
his premium without interest—a little over £B4. The
Savings Bank, at 3 per cent, is good for over £lO2.
And the bank gives better security.
The only point in favor of industrial assurance is that
a person who would forget to put his money voluntarily
in the Savings Bank sometimes keeps up his industrial
premium because the agent calls for it. But, in most
cases, he fails after two or three years in both cases.
Then the Savings Bank gives him back his money on
application, and the Industrial Assurance office doesn’t.
Industrial assurance was invented chiefly for the support
of an energetic class of shareholders, managers, and the
like, who didn’t want to dig potatoes.
• * * *
The Deniliquin and Moama Railway Co.
(N.S.W.) shows the following results for the last three
half-years. This co.’s reserve and renewal account has a
habit of increasing and decreasing without any visible
reference to anything contained in the accounts, hence
the remarks which follow
Increase Decrease 4 per . ,
Profits. of of cent. T , lotal
Reserve. Reserve. Dividend. Keserves -
Dec., 1899.. £2999 Nil £36,006
June, 1900.. 682 £390 £2OOO 35,078
Dec., 1900.. 4603 1583 2000 39,261
June, 1901.. 973 £1584 2000 36,653
The Deniliquin and Moama railway was for many years a
regular 8 and 10 per cent, dividend-paying affair, and it
is only since the time of the great financial crisis that it
has sunk to it present comparatively humble status. Its
visible profits for the last two years have averaged
£4 12s. 6d. per cent, per annum on the paid-up capital of
£lOO,OOO.
* * * *
Some figures relating to the Newcastle-Wallsend
Goal Co. (Newcastle, N.S.W.) :
Profits. Dividends. T , Total
xteservgs.
June, 1899 .. £51,766
Dec., 1899 .. £7,128 15 per cent. = £7,500 51,394
June, 1900 .. 7,577 15 „ „ 7,500 51,471
Dec., 1900 .. 10,183 20 „ „ 10,000 51,654
June, 1901 .. 15,534 30 „ „ 15,000 52,188
The reserves consist of undivided profit, £2182; reserve
fund, £28,158 ; and “ Indemnity Account ” (which looks
as if it was some kind of a reserve), £21,848. The New-
castle-Wallsend is certainly a fortunate concern. Its
dividends have ranged for many years past between 15
and 42J per cent, on a paid-up capital of £lOO,OOO, and
the last time it missed a div. is almost beyond the
memory of the oldest inhabitant.
* * * *
The Balmain New Ferry Co. (Sydney), starting
from the date when its balance-sheets became coherent
and reasonably understandable:
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
June, 1898 .. .. .. £1,477
Dec., 1898 ..£1,372 .. 10 per cent. = £648 .. 2,201
June, 1899 .. 1,355 ..10 „ „ 648 .. 2,908
Dec., 1899 .. 1,687 .. 10 „ „ 648 .. 3,947
June, 1900 .. 773 .. 10 „ „ 648 .. 4,072
Dec., 1900 .. 975 .. 10 „ „ 648 .. 4,399
June, 1901 .. 990 .. 10 „ „ 648 .. 4,741
The co. is still doing very well, yet the business doesn’t
pay so gorgeously as it did two years ago before the
management bought up the rival Balmain Ferry Go. and
went into the business on an enlarged scale. At Decem-
ber, 1899, the earnings were at the rate of about £2O ss. per
cent, per annum on the total shareholders’ funds with
which the half-year commenced. At June, 1901, they are a
fraction over 11 per cent, per annum. The earnings are
£3425 more than they were at December, 1899, but
working expenses have increased £2892, and in addition
there are more repairs to provide for, and more vessels on
which to write off depreciation, and these things make
the business less profitable, despite the much larger gross
takings.
• • • *
Spite of the knock-out of the lead market, B. H.
Prop, shows a less total fall in stock value than either
Mt. Morgan or Mt. Lyell. Approximate totals of the fall
in 12 months : B.H. Prop., £625,000 ; Lyell, £1,100,000 ;
Morgan, £1,000,000.
* * * *
Cobar-Chesney, N.S.W. : The directors have
had many overtures for this mine during the last two
years, and last week received for the first time any
money in connection therewith. Six months’ option has
been given, and £5OOO forfeitable deposit paid on account
of £lOO,OOO. The expenses of working the mine have
also been taken over by the proposed purchasers, and if
the deal comes off, after allowing for the debenture-issue,
there should be a dividend of at least Bs. per share.
Great Cobar Copper, N.S*.W. : This splendid
property is also under offer for sale, and although the
price is said to be over a million no foifeitable deposit
has yet been put up on the deal; which is somewhat re-
markable until the circumstances are known. Some
negotiations, on the basis of a million and a quarter, for
the whole of the properties controlled by the Oobar
syndicate, including the Nymagee eopper-inine and the
Lithgow works, took place some 18 months ago. They
came to nothing, but it was represented by one man, who
had something to do with them, that tie could have sold
the properties for this sum if he had been given a fair
opportunity and that he was quite sure he could get at
least a million for the Oobar copper-mine alone.
He made a long affidavit to that effect, and it
was because of this that the shareholders who
objected to the sale of the mine to the tribu-
tors for half-a-million filed a petition in Equity for
the compulsory liquidation of the co. It was then agreed
to give this gentleman an opportunity to sell the mine at
the price he named, no doubt with the understanding
that, if he succeeded, the shareholders in the minority
would be paid on a higher basis, while, if he failed, they
would be satisfied with the price the majority agreed to
take ; meanwhile the legal proceedings have been stayed.
The formation of the colossal copper combine may bring
about the sale of the mine, for there is no doubt that if
it is worked in conjunction with the Cobar-Chesney mine
it can be made the greatest copper-producer in Australia.
(Continued on page 31.)


Complete
Outfits.
ft.
m
m
AM ORIENT
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT^
ALL GLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE ..
“(Jrient To Pleasure” Clothing
.. AT ..
PRICES^
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
PAVIP JONCS & COMPANY,
6corgc $ Barrack Sts., Sydney
Urn
T
5
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjcj ,/ient of
home cigarettes
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIUEURE
BRANDY
The difficulty foreseen when the inmates of
the N.S.W. Government’s old men and women’s
aiylums were granted the Old Age Pension is-
already troubling those in authority. Many of
the pensioners have lived so long in the strictest
sort of dependency that they are quite helpless;
outside the institutions. Yet the hard, monoto-
nous asylum life makes these poor folk more than
anxious to live on the 10s. a week pension outside.
Two pounds a month is not affluence, though to-
the old people, to whom the sight of a sixpence
has been an event, it is simply wealth. And'
so they were eager to grasp the chance
of independence, and escape the soul-wearing
institution routine. But, especially in the case of
the men, the task is beyond the scope of their
monthly pittance, and already many pensioners
have drifted back to the dreaded asylums. A
truly pathetic ending in many cases where the
monthly dole has been a long-cherished dream,
and where life and spirits have been kept up by
looking forward to the time “ When we get our
pension.”
* • * * *
The present status of the N.S.W. old-age
pensioner. An out-back newspaper published
the names of the local old-age pensioners, with
the amounts coming to each, and alongside printed
the legal warning to publicans against serving
pensioners with liquor under a £lO penalty !
* * * *
The trail of the Jookand the cohentingents
is over everything just now. Almost every public
body shows a deficit in its accounts, mainly
through Jook and cohentingent. Even the board
which manages Victoria Bridge, Brisbane, had a
QUITE CORRECT .
TEACHER: “ How many bones have you in your body?”
Little Girl (brightly): “Two hundred and eight.”
TEACHER : “ Wrong; there are only two hundred and seven."
LITTLE GIRL (triumphantly): “ Yes; but I swallowed a fish-bone at breakfast this morning.
deficit of £902 for the year, and the expenditure
of £530 on Jookal and war celebrations accounted
for more than half of it.
* * • *
Brisbane City Council authorised an ex-
penditure of £4OOO over the Dukoyork celebra-
tions. Now the city auditors find that no less
than £7321 16s. Bd. has been disbursed over afore-
said business, and that there are still “other
moneys to pay.” They add, “We cannot say
that we are absolutely satisfied with the methods
adopted by the committee.” One characteristic
item included in the ducal reception expenses was
£57 for medals—-for members of the Celebration
Committee ! The auditors’ comment runs : “ The
voucher for this is marked by Mr. Baldwin —
‘ Ordered by the committee, and the Town Clerk
has struck out certificate that it is necessary for
the corporation service.’ ” Phenomenal and auda-
cious Town Clerk! Ten to one his name is
shortly Walker!
• • * •
This circular, headed by the British Royal
Arms, has (doubtless by some oversight) reached
The Bulletin :
4 Garraway’s Buildings,
Queen’s Walk,
Melbourne, 7th August, 1901.
Hear Sir,
Your name has been given to me by G. H. JENKINS,
Esq., 0.M.G., Clerk of the Representatives of the Com-
monwealth, as one of the DISTINGUISHED and HON-
ORED INVITED GUESTS of the Government of Victoria
at the Opening of the First Federal Parliament of the
Commonwealth of Australia, and to Meet and Welcome
H.R.H. the DUKE AND DUCHESS OF CORNWALL
AND YORK when visiting Australia.
I am publishing the Official List as a Permanent Direc-
tory of these Specially Invited Guests, together with their
full Addresses. YOUR NAME will be included in the
Work.
The Book will be very artistic and beautifully finished,
and will contain 64 pages, including Photographs of the
Opening Ceremony, Portraits of the Governor-General,
Lord Hopetoun, and the Countess; the First Federal
Ministry, all the Invitation Cards and other interesting
matter, and an artistic Cover, designed and printed by
Special Artists, and blocked in Gold, entitled “ OUR
INVITED GUESTS.”
The object of the book is to supply the Government
with a complete Directory of the Recorded Names of their
Guests, and to have in a neat and permanent form all the
Distinguished Members of the Commonwealth, so that it
can be kept as a Memento and record to hand down to
posterity as Australian History.
All the work will be done by Special Artists ; the whole
forming a very handsome volume, size 12in. x9in., and
printed on specially high-class paper, making a fitting
volume for Library or Drawing-room. It is anticipated
that in 10 years’ time this work will be a very valuable
Record of the History of Australia, and of the Leading
Men of the day.
Our object in addressing you is that you may like to
order a few Copies for your own personal keeping and
sending to your friends at home and abroad ; also to keep
as an Official Record of your presence at the Birth of our
Nation. If so, please fill in the Order Form attached, and
let me have it not later than seven days, so that there will
be no delay in delivery.
“The price is 2s. 6d. per Copy, and 2s. lOd. if posted.
Please send Cash with order, or Postal Note. All
Cheques to be made payable to L. W. CRAW, and Ex-
change added.
It is anticipated this work will be ready for delivery
during September, so it is necessary to order at once to
save disappointment and get delivery of the first issue.
Yours faithfully,
LESLIE W. CRAW.
“Craw,” The Bulletin presumes, is in this con-
nection an abbreviation.
* • • *
The salary of Phillip, Australia’s first
Governor, was £lOOO a year. Joseph Banks used
ins influence to have Bligh’s pay raised to £2OOO.
Banks, writing to Bligh, pointed out, as another
substantial advantage, that his (Bligh’s) two
daughters would have a better chance of marrying
in Sydney than in London—which, considering
everything, could not have been flattering to the
young women.
* * * *
It was not to be expected that bard Fitz-
Gibbon, of Melbourne Metrop. Board of Works,
would permit the death of the Empress Frederick
to pass without making his melancholy dog-howl
heard. He has wired a long lament to King
Edward, expressing the sympathy of “the chair-
man and commissioners ” with His “ Most Excel-
lent Majesty and Most Gracious Sovereign ” upon
his bereavement, and giving voice to the misery
of “ the cities, towns, boroughs, and shires ” re-
represented by said chairman and co mmissioners
whenever they think of the affliction that has
fallen upon the Throne and Person. A few sane
and honest commissioners kicked at this gruesome
yell, and declared that the Board did not repre-
sent said cities, towns, boroughs, and shires for
the purpose of spattering expensive grief all over
the empire every time Royalty has a death in the
family, but the Gibbon got his way as usual. The
Bulletin believes the kookaburras will cease to
laugh in Australia when Fitz Gibbon dies.
* » * *
The Victorian A.N.A. young man is noth-
ing if not modest. When Federal Premier Bar-
ton went up to the Ballarat A.N.A. banquet he
was astonished to find that Govt, and Parliament
had been severely excluded from the toast-list,
leaving visitors the hideous prospect of some hours
of oratory on the subject of A.N.A.-dom. How-
ever, they dragged the bewildered Toby in casu-
ally at the tail-end in reply to the pledge of “ In-
ferior Institutions,” or something.
* * * •
I He an interesting judicial dispute :
, About two years ago a brawl occurred amongst seamen
! at Port Adelaide. As a result a British sailor was knifed
by oiie Pedro, a Russian, and died immediately. At the
trial it appeared that there was an altercation in an hotel
between deceased and another Russian sailor, one Anders-
sen. According to the evidence, Anderssen went to
Pedro, his mate, woke him up at his lodgings, the two
laid in wait for the Britisher, and Pedro stabbed him.
Anderssen and Pedro were both committed for trial, and
the case was heard before Judge Bundey. The two
prisoners were convicted of manslaughter. The Russian
Consul subsequently urged that Anderssen was innocent,
but Bundey, Kingston (then Attorney-General) and
Crown-Solicitor Stuart held that Anderssen was more
blameable than Pedro, and his release was refused. Mean-
time, Judge Bundey went on leave, through ill-health.
Anderssen apparently had influential friends in Russia,
for a prominent Minister of the Czar approached Cham-
berlain, and representations were made to Lord Tenny-
son. Chief Justice Way then reported on the case, and
practically advised that Anderssen should never have been
convicted. Following this advice, the Holder Govt, ad-
vised Gov. Tennyson to release Anderssen, and he went
back to Russia. Kingston expressed his annoyance in
Parliament, and Bundey, who had never been consulted
by Wav, was asked to report on the case. Such report,
laid before S.A. Leg. Council, consists of a strong and
damning criticism of his colleague’s action, and has made
a great sensation in political and legal circles. The
opinion exists that strong influence was brought to bear
to secure Anderssen’s release, and it is believed that the
personal influence of the Czar himself was procured.
Parliament has now called for a report and all corres-
pondence on the matter, and it is believed that some
interesting facts will see daylight.
» * * *
In N.S.W. Assembly a member asked for
a statement of the number of fatal tram-accidents
to date on the George-street, Sydney, electric
tramline, and the amount of compensation claimed
therefor. The Minister replied that a return of
the kind would be so voluminous that the querist
would have to give notice of his intention to ask
that it be prepared! Which is indeed cheerful,
considering that George-street is Sydney’s widest
main thoroughfare, and that electric trams are now
being constructed in some of the city’s narrowest
streets.
* * * *
“ Waddy ” : I begin to wonder whether I
am a Jonah. I have within two months seen four
accidents with Sydney cable-trams by which I
was travelling. Many of the dummy cars have
defective air-brakes, and given a fully-loaded car
on the down-grade to Rushcutter’s Bay, greasy
rails, a defective air-brake, and suddenly a fallen
cab-horse 20yds. in front—the combination might
produce sensational “ copy.”
* * * *
J. Wilson Reid—the J. probably stands
for Jeremiah —writes to Melb. Age re the sad
slump in the “wild cat” trade. “Mining”—
moans Jerry—“is now only another name for
robbery. So diseased is mining that it would be
hard to find a healthy part on it. As mining is
at present conducted, no man’s money is safe.
People now recognise this, educated by bitter ex-
perience and gross public scandals, and are with-
drawing from mining. Before it is too late,
something must be done, as capital is certainly
leaving mining. ’Tis a question of legislation or
unemployed.” Pass the melancholy lute-
Solicitors of any State will be able to prac-
tise in the Federal High Court. But this is not
enough. Solicitors of any State should be aide to
practise in any State Court. At present, N.S.W.
solicitors must. t uid an examination before prac-
tising in Queensland or Victoria, and must reside
six months in Westralia before permission is
granted.
A VERY, VERY FINE GIRL.
“ And how’s your daughter Ailccn, Mrs. Porkil-
ton? I haven't seen her since she was quit,
a tiny tot."
“ O she’s grown into a fine girl. why, Mr.
Murphy, she’s as big as me now.”
Five years ago what was known as the
“ Enmore Mystery ” was the topic of the hour in
Sydney. This was the first of the stone-throwing
episodes, where the house of an unoffending citizen
was subjected to an extraordinary and inexplicable
fusilade of brickbats. After some weeks the
police solved the riddle, and the “ mystery
materialised in the person of a small girl placed
out by the State Children’s Protection Depart-
ment with the unsuspecting householder. During
July and August of this year asimilar bombardment
has occurred on a farm at Campbelltown (N.S.W.),
and all efforts of the police and neighbours have
so far failed to find the cause. Sensation-mongers
hinted at the supernatural, and others searched
round for implacable and lifelong foes of the
family concerned. (The Bulletin remarked, by
the way, that “the girl concerned had not yet been
found.”) The police again were called in, but all
efforts failed. It occurred _to somebody that
these people also had received a young girl
from the State Dept., and the house-mother
decided to send her back. Either the child is
the victim of a coincidence, or the real culprit is
lying low in order to implicate her, but, anyhow,
the stone-throwing stopped on the day the girl
departed. Soon the only persons who will take
the Department’s giiis will be the dwellers
on the Darling, where, if you want to throw a
stone across the river, you must bring one up in
your pocket.
• • * *
Of course we live in a civilised community.
The other day it was stated, before Judge Mans-
field, at Charters Towers(Q), that two lads arrested
at Chillagoe on suspicion were kept on a chain
and fed on bread and water for seventeen days. If
the police had provided better diet, the cost would
have come out of their own pockets.
DID HE STOP?
MARY ANN : “ Now, Joe, just you stop!”
JOE: “ All right, I wasn’t thinkin ’ of goin’ for
quite a while yet.”
The Health Officer at Wellington (M.L.)
j s an autocrat who might fill the Vjill as Czar.
Recently the Monowai came into port at 8 a.m.
The H.O. went aboard to grant pratique. The
passengers were lined-up, but one was below
having a bath. The officer informed the captain
he would wait 4mm for the bathing passenger,
and at the end of that time, the latter not having
appeared, went ashore again and didn t return till
nearly noon. As a result, the mails and pas-
sengeis were and the cargo (chiefly
OUT OF WORK.
Sad the wail of Wilson Reid,
Wrings our soul and makes it bleed—
Something must be done, indeed,
On lines that need defining :
Something must be done to shake
Markets up, and no mistake,
For the blessed broker’s sake,
Who gets his bread by Mining.
Loud of late the Public snorts
When ’tis fooled by false reports
Touching reefs of phantom quartz
Wherein red gold is shining.
Good old victims, grim and glum,
Curse the “ crushing ” blows that come ;
Having dropped a tidy sum,
’Tis “ Tra-la-la ” to Mining.
E’en the barmaid now is shy
When a bloke with crafty eye
Winks, and tells her what to buy.
On spielers’ tales designing
Hebe shuts her powdered ear,
Simply answers with a sneer —
“ Buy United Bluffs ! No fear !
I’m quite full-up of Mining.”
Things were ne’er so bad before :
Weary jobbers by the score
Scowl around their Temple door,
So thirstily repining.
No more corn and wine and oil;
No more jugginses to spoil;
They must starve, or they must toil
At something else than Mining.


A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, IG'5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS COCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Syuney.
FINE PRODUCTS!
Simple, Sure,
and Swift . .
Destroying Catarrh and Influenza Bacteria.
Raffan’s Catarrh Remedy—2/6
When sick enough to feel heavy-headed, lazy and shift-
less, with no appetite : when what you eat feels like lead
in your stomach : not sick enough to take to bed or call
a doctor —TRY IT. Why risk your life for a quarter !
jEtPharmacist, MELBOURNE.
The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Harper’s
Always Pure and Fresh.
Sold in 71b. Bags.
“STAR”
Oatmeal
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
~*(■ LI oUS«S S IIVER
4- AN® A Troubles.
Concerning Vandemonian militarism :
No colony in its early career was more cursed with
militaryrule than Tasmania, and yet, to-day, there is no
more admired fetish in the island than a hank of gold lace
or a man with a long knife and a fiercely-feathered hat.
But the serene and gaudy officer-birds have just had their
perch rudely shaken under them by the declaration that
only certificated men will have their rank recognised
when the Federal Defence Bill gets to work. Never has a
military examination been held in Tasmania. The process
of manufacturing an officer and gentleman has been
divinely simple. A man of means would serve
as a volunteer for a month or two in the ranks
and then get swiftly and sweetly promoted by
his officer cronies through the various stages until
he obtained a commission. Said commission consisted
of a subaltern’s appointment from the local Hinglish
military commandant; per same gentle process captains,
colonels, and majors have been made by the cartload. No
other place south of the Line has more officers to the
acre, except, perhaps, one of the South American Repub-
lics, where the Government foments civil war and revolt
to keep down the military part of the population. But
the threat to rob them of their assumed titles has caused
no end of a flutter amongst the gorgeous brood in Tas-
mania, and they have just been at work examining them-
selves, with a view to qualifying properly for the various
ranks they have been holding on sufferance. Nobody
outside the department was told of the examinations.
♦ * * *
The Maoriland police now veto the sale of
any copy of The Bulletin containing “Tatter-
sail’s” advt., but calmly wink at the sale of the
Australasian, containing the very same an-
nouncement. Such are the privileges of Toryism
—and in a Radical country, too.
* * * •
N.S.W. Labor and Industry Minister
Perry has been asked by trades-unionists to
introduce legislation controlling fees and prac-
tices of the registry offices and labor-agencies. A
deputation which waited on him recently pointed
out that a job at Callan Park Asylum had been
put on the books of one private institution —
wages, £3 per week. Agency demanded £G com-
mission, and eventually secured £5 from one man
for getting him the work. Another of the depu-
tation paid 7s. fid. for a week’s work at Bathurst,
which brought him 10s. ; he was “sacked” at the
end of the week. The Minister promised to find
out how Govt, employment came to be given
through private agencies.
AT THE PRESSMEN'S CLUB.
YOUNG INKPOT: "My editor says he wants a
terse convincing article on the tariff question.
Where can I find some good Freetrade
arguments? ”
OLD INKHORN: “ Dunno ; you might look up the
article on Insanity in the Encyclopaedia.”
If, under N.S.W’s new Marriage Bill, only
denominations possessing two or more ministers
may legally perform, the marriage rite, how will a
new denomination, if such should start, becircum-
stanced ? The flock of the new religion able to
support only one minister must evidently go for
marriage to some minister in whom they don’t
believe. The framers of the Bill most likely
thought that the creeds of the present would
remain the only creeds for ever.
♦ * * *
Great consternation has been caused
among the S,A. police by the issue of a regulation
directing that all mounted men over a certain
weight are, after Nov. 1, to be called from the
country to do foot-duty in town. As the Com-
missioner is himself a podgy little man who looks
like a flour-barrel on a horse, the order has
naturally called down much criticism on his
devoted head.
The indomitable Edward Priestman is
about to forward, or has already forwarded, to
each member of the Federal Legislature a circular
showing what has been done by him to procure
the release of “Cresswell,” the alleged long-lost
Roger Tichborne, from. Parramatta Lunatic
Asylum, and asking for the support of the House
in his “further efforts.” Priestman’s pertinacity
deserves success. Oresswell, the harmless lunatic,
ought to be released unto him, seeing that both
parties probably would be the happier for it. As
to the legal quibble that parson Williams, of Eng-
land (who has undertaken to take delivery of the
patient from Priestman) is not a bona-fide friend
of the Cresswell family, no layman who takes the
trouble to read the pertinacious P.’s pleadings can
understand why such a quibble should be raised.
* * * *
Melbourne’s sensations mostly climax on
Sunday, so when the latest Yarra suicide dived
from the identical spot that Laura Swain jumped
from 13 years ago it naturally happened that the
corpse should not be recovered till the Sunday
afternoon following, when half the population
could indulge their emotions on the cheap. Laura
Swain, having quarrelled with her lover, a sea-
captain, threw herself (the Law said “ was
thrown,” but failed to prove its assertion) from
Victoria-street bridge into the Yarra, 70ft.
below. Then the authorities raised the bridge
hand-rail a foot, in the hope of discouraging love-
lorn damsels —as if a woman who wanted to die
would be stopped by 12 inches of hand-rail. The
latest suicide, 17-year-old Ruth Woolston, was
walking across the bridge with a companion when
she jumped the inefficient safeguard and dived. A
youth ran down the bank, and, as he couldn’t
swim, earnestly adjured the sinking girl to
“ Come out, you fool—come out! ” Possibly she
didn’t hear him ; anyhow, she didn’t come, and
thus the police were provided with two days’
manual exercise, and the public with a little tem-
porary distraction from the Factories Act dispute.
A pathetic sight on the bridge all Sunday, in full
view of the heedless holiday crowd, was the bare-
headed mother of the dead girl awaiting events.
“ Q.Q.” : Privately bought an allotment
at Waverley, Sydney, on Monday. Tuesday
afternoon, received a visit from a city
architect, who offered to submit for
nothing sketches of houses suitable
for the site until I was satis-
fied. Next day, was waited on
by two more architects. Since,
have been visited, in all, by ten
Itt professional gentlemen, all bent
jlltt on the same errand of securing
Jjf' the job to build me a house.
The regulation-charge seems to
be 5 per cent, for plans and super-
vision, yet several have offered
to do it for half that amount, and
others were ready to finance build-
ing operations. Their touting tac-
tics and disparaging references to
brother professionals indicate that a
large proportion of the Sydney
architectural profession is rotten
to the core. Evidently a sort
of Freemasonry exists between
the architect-drummer and
the land-agent.
* * *
In a certain Waikato
(M.L.) town a vigorous
branch of the Salvariny pos-
sesses a specially leather-
lunged “ blood-and-fireite ”
who is a notorious back-
slider, but theHarmy always
welcomes him back to the fold
because his “ testimonies ”
become more lurid and blood-
curdling after each lapse
from red-jerseyed virtue.
One evening when the
Harmy was performing
outside the local pub the
occupants were paralysed by
the sight of Billy rushing in
in full uniform and exclaim-
ing : “ Gawd’s sake, boss, gimme
a pint quick. I’ve been singing Hal-
lelujah for two solid blanky hours ! ”
Many a wedding has had to be abandoned
on account of the “elsewliereness” of the intended
hubby, but the postponement of a funeral through
the absence of the leading “performer” is some-
what unaccustomed. When recently a funeral
party turned up at Redfern (Sydney) mortuary it
was found that the carriage containing the coffin
was missing, and it was not till after some hours
and much wiring that it was found the deceased
had been dispatched to Wollongong.
* • * *
Ballarat citizens, who are born hustlers,
find the name of their beloved town inconveniently
long. The original native name was Ballaarah,
each “ a ” having the broad sound, as in “ father.”
Next, a final “t” was substituted, and it became
Ballaarat, with the accent on the second syllable.
Ballarat followed. Mr. Deakin, its Federal re-
presentative, says “Ball-rat.” The man in the
street says “ Balrut,” with the accent on the first
syllable.
* m * *
Some one actually took the trouble to
cable this out the other day :
The managers of the fund subscribed for the Boer
women and children admit that they (the said women
and children, evidently) are well provided for.
Didn’t the late Mr. Deeming admit that he
was quite a respectable character and never in-
jured a fly ?
A GLOWING TRIBUTE.
ISASCS: “ That ish a lofly diamond, Moshes.
Vere efer did you get that beautiful stone? ”
MOSES: “ There vosh a rich frent of mine unt
he died, and he maked me his executor, unt
he left a huntred pound in his vill for a
stone to be erected to his memory. This ish
the stone, Ikey
Queensland has read a first time a|Bill for
the proper accommodation of shearers. Why is
N.S.W. not moving? Why is every State not
moving ? And why does not some member bring
in a Bill for the proper accommodation of servant-
girls? Or why is there not a comprehensive
measure, embracing the federation, to enforce pro-
per accommodation for all employees bound to
sleep on employers’ premises ?
* * * *
“ W.P.Y.” : Recently heard and saw fol-
lowing on U.S.S. Co.’s wharf, Sydney :
Ist luggage porter: “ Blime, Joe ! I ain’t
touched a tray-bit ter-dav. Wot ’ave
you done?” Joe: “Nixey.” Hansom
arrives with middle-aged lady and port-
manteau. Ist porter : “ ! Joe, a job
at laast! Surely this old cow won’t ’ave
the blanky neck to wanter carry it
’erself! Wot boat, lydy ? Carry yer
bag, lydy? ’Elp a pore Christian to
earn a livin’ fer ’is wife an’ fam’ly.”
Gets the job, carries bag, comes back
and answers Joe thus: “ Th’ -ole cat
on’y gev me a tray-bit, but I chucked the bag
in a place where she’ll ’ave ter bust a lace or two
afore she gets it out—blarst ’er ! ” The same
porter got 6d. from me two days before, and ran
the trolly over my foot. “ Quite a haccident,
sir! ”he said; but lam at liberty to doubt it,
and my bunion still aches.
How edifying and instructive
the chorus of praise that broke out
all over the Victorian press immedi-
ately it was made known that Sir
George Sydenham Clarke had been
appointed Governor of the State !
Very few people had ever even heard
of Sir George Sydenham Clarke before,
but ere noon on the day of publica-
tion what is called public enthusiasm was
created, and a wire expressing the inexpress-
ible joy of the Victorian people was run to Lon
don. If Sir George is only half as bright and
shining as he is printed, Victoria is no place for
him —he should have been appointed to Heaven.
A lady who desired “to be made an honest
woman ” waited on Chief Justice Madden a little
while ago in Victoria’s Divorce Court, and was
peremptorily informed, on high moral grounds,
that she would have to remain the same sort of
outcast she is already. She married the casual
kind of husband who is so frequent hereabouts,
and after a few months he faded away. That
was over three years ago. Up to the time he faded,
and for some time after, there was, so far as the
evidence went, not a speck on her character. But
some time later, this being a cold world for a
deserted woman without means, she drifted into
the home of another man. Now she is about to
become a mother, and the other man wants to
marry her and prevent their child figuring among
the illegitimate births. But though the husband has
disappeared for more than the statutory period
the Chief Justice apparently held, on high moral
grounds, that he was justified in deserting her
because she went wrong after she was deserted,
and that his departure having probably
caused her fall, therefore her fall justified his
departure—just as Madden’s foolishness now
justified Henry ll’s invasion of Madden’s country
over 700 years ago.
• * * •
Down South t’other day they banqueted a
returned cohentingenter who is said to have had
about 100 horses shot under him in battle. The
hero, to enable him to attend the feast given in
his honor, had to be bailed out of the lock-up.
Concerning the N.S. W. escapee, Vaughan :
The case of Tom Vaughan, the prisoner who escaped
? rom custody last week by jumping from a train in his
irons, is another instance of State manufacture of crum-
nals. The “ bad boy ” of a country village seldom gets a
chance, and that was Vaughan’s position when the writer
rg j. j {new him. While he was described on all
sides as a “ Devil’s limb ” his then teacher never had to
cane him and could always rely on him. Motherless, he
drifted about till a couple of petty thefts got him incar-
ceration where, doubtless, he learnt to commit the
greater crime for which he is (or should be by law) now
serving a sentence of five years. We have hospitals where
physical infirmities are attended to, and how would it be
regarded if doctors were provided to “aggravate” the
diseases! And that is exactly what is done with moral
and mental jnfirmit i es in hundreds of cases of which
Vaughan’s is a typical example. A “Nation’s Great-
ness,” if it has any sense at all, ought to be
somewhat dependent on the moral character of its people,
and it is hard to see why defective morals should be
given a State kick towards greater defectiveness. If the
MATTER OF EXPERIENCE.
“ Harry says that girls kissing each other is
sheer extravagance.”
“ Perhaps it is—but it’s excellent’practice.”
same amount of trouble that is now being taken to catch
Vaughan had been made to reclaim him when, as a boy of
15, he made his first slip he would probably now be a de-
cent member of society. He is only 22 years of age. But
it is not only the State that errs in the direction indi-
cated. The sensation-mongering press generally takes a
hand also, and while it is far from the writer’s wish that
the press should invite malefactors into its drawing-room,
it should, at least, not stir up feeling unless deserved.
The Australian Star, referring to the escapee, states
that he has a “ Chinese oast of countenance.” The in-
ference is obvious, but Vaughan’s father is an old and re-
spected white resident of a little N.S.W. town, and his
mother was also a white woman.
* ♦ * *
A couple of Melbourne smarfcies launched
a new industry t’other day. Standing outside a
railway ticket-window while the porter was away
on the platform, they started fishing with rod and
line and a “float” smeared with bird-lime. The
fish in the till bit freely, and they had caught
Is. 9|d. before an interfering bobby spoilt the
sport. Afterwards they caught a month apiece.
SUNSET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Weeping- skies, and I a-drifting
Through the dead, grey mist for ever,
Yearning for the blind veil’s rifting,
Watching for the clouds to sever.
Grey in grey ! and I am pining
For the sun that dull pall screeneth.
Ah, I feel, he will be shining
Ere the noon has passed its zenith.
They are coming, hope has winged ’em,
Herald doves, a green leaf bearing ;
I shall enter in my kingdom!
So—the wreath of clouds is tearing!
. See the blood-red glory streaming !
Welcome, welcome, long expected !
See the rainbow softly gleaming,
Like a smile through tears reflected.
I have waited, pity scorning,
For the great, the warm, the one light;
Now, beyond the rainy morning
Dawns an afternoon of sunlight.
Flimsy hope that man relies on !
Even as my life turned laughter,
So—the sun touched the horizon—
It grew dusk —and night came after 1
Berlin.
V. KOTZE.


The Charm of MARK FOY’S is the Price.
One of the keynotes of Mark Foy’s success is the working
up of the Men’s and Boys’ Outfitting Trade.
To young gentlemen in offices, students, apprentices, and others,
who wish to present a good appearance, we call special attention to
MARK FOY'S SMART SUITS FOR BUSINESS YOUTHS.
Every youth on entering his business career desires to be smartly
dressed, but the stern necessity of rigid economy with small
salaries necessitates care in spending the coin.
MARK FOY’S NAVY SEROE YOUTHS’ SUITS ( Ready-Made)
but not what is known as slop-made. These are manufactured in
our own factory on}y, from
GUARANTEED PURE INDIGO DYED ALL-WOOL WORSTED SERGES
The cut, style, and finish of which are perfect, and the value is
unknown but at Mark Poy’s.
GonzncEZ bsissws
. . . CELEBRATED . . .
PORT WINE.
Known in all parts of the world as
THE VERY BEST.
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT & COMPANY
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
GLOBE TEAS
Twice as good as other Teas!
Half the Price of other Teas !
241 b. Canisters @ 7d, BJd, 10Jd.
THE BEST IN AUSTRALIA <& Is 9d.
ATCHERLEY & DAWSON, 284 George Street, SYDNEY.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, August 20, 1901.
My Dear arini, —
I have looked in all my brain cells to find what
news or ideas I might have stored since my last
letter. In one cell I found the name “ Bassich,”
in another “Dani,” and in a third “daffodils.”
All the rest —the millions of rest —were empty.
Signorina Bassich, the beautiful Dalmatian, in
“La Boheme”! She will appear again in the
same r6le, and, later, as Desdemona, in “Otello,”
and I shall see her again, and yet again, but after
watching her die in the last act of “La Boheme”
I shall never again look upon her as a living sing-
ing woman. She will only seem to be. The
pathos of the death-scene is thrown into high
relief by the humor that precedes it, the badinage,
the mock duel with poker and tongs. And when
poor, consumptive, loving Mimi has sung her
swan-song and, still singing, lias died in her lover’s
arms, all your pity goes out to him. When he
shakes her roughly, unbelieving that she is dead,
there is nothing revolting in the action ; you feel a
little angry with her for dying, for going to the
Peace that will make his Gethsemane. It’s tem-
perament —temperament of the artiste behind
the music and the acting.
There’s an exquisite bit of acting earlier in the
opera where the Signorina and Dani hunt for the
former’s latch-key on the darkened floor. Their
wide-opened eyes are unseeing, and the sight
seems to have passed into the tips of their groping
fingers. But when, in the love-scene that follows,
Dar.i lets fly his high C—he’s so extravagant with
it, too—let’s the audience have it again and again
on demand—l wanted to get up and entreat him,
“O, Mr. Italian, don’t, don’t cheapen Paradise!
O, keep that note nearer earth ! If it tickles the
soles of the archangels’ feet some tenor angel will
stoop and snatch it; then where would you and
we be ? ”
As for daffodils —the streets are full of these
most beautiful of short-reigning flowers. There’s
a verse from an American poet that I’ve never
seen quoted:
Gold tassel upon August’s bugle horn,
O Daffodil! what promise for the season newly-born ?
You see, if I waited for the horticultural person’s
annual daffodil show to ring this verse on you I’d
have to spoil the music with “ September’s.” As
a matter of fact, the original says “ March’s bugle
horn.”
Some of Mrs. J. C. Williamson’s friends signi-
fied their pleasure at her return from foreign
wanderings by entertaining her at an afternoon
tea at the A.B.C. Cafe last weep and presenting
her with a silver-mounted toilet-glass and an
address. Mrs. Williamson wore one of her Lon-
don frocks—a black glace silk braided from the
waist to the foot of the skirt with black cloth, and
a bolero coat with a white collar. This gown has
a look of in-mourning for-royalty. Her hat was of
pale pink, with blue and white quills, and had the
fashionable “bashed” appearance. Little Margery
Williamson was present, accomp ,n o 1 by her
small chum, Ella Goodman. Longstaff’s portrait
of Mr. Williamson’s little daughter will be out
here soon, and on view at the Society of Artists.
It is life-size, and in it the child wears a quaint l
Empire gown and bonnet of pink.
Someone writes to me apropos of the detective
in “Mrs. Dane’s Defence.” The under-bred,
badly-syntaxed ’tec was quite out of place in such
society. He should have been like the detectives
at the great Stafford House fete, of whom it was
written: “She thought she saw a real live duke,
the head of a kingly clan. She looked again, and
learnt it was a Scotland Yard young man.”
Freemasons’ annual ball, in aid of their benevo-
lent institution, was rightly described by the
dailies as “a brilliant pageant ” or “a successful
function.” The galleries were filled with spec-
tators, and something under a thousand persons
were in the hall. Lord Roberts himself doesn’t
carry as many gewgaws as the majority of
Masons who walked under the arch of steel.
Society was represented by Mrs. Teece, Major-
General French, and Mr. Justice Cohen.
Miss Genevieve Fattorini, whose engagement
with Capt. Fitz William Curtis is announced, has
been resident abroad for some time. She was
previously engaged to young Mr. Charles Dailey,
who was killed in the hunting-field, in England.
Mr. and Mrs. W. B. Dailey and Miss Mary
Dailey have taken a place in Norway for the
summer. Miss Fattorini is said to very strongly
resemble her beautiful forbear, Pauline Bona-
parte.
Two interesting marriages : That of that well-
known musician, Annie May, daughter of the late
Captain Summerbelle, of Sydney, to Mr. Stanton
J. Senior. Other, that of Miss Venus Buckley,
to Dr. Saunderson, of Richmond River. Miss
Venus was well-named for a model. The artists
called her Venus de Buckley. We got a little
wearied of George Lambert’s pictures of her in
Society of Artists’ exhibitions ; her pretty little
dark, dishevelled head, .with its delicate ears,
big eyes, and full red mouth, was in different
angles on the four walls. Miss V. B. was on the
stage in walking-parts of late, and until she
met the doctor. It was a love-at-first-sight case.
Nearly every paper I take up is chronicling
such skim-milk as—
Lord Oarington’s little son, the Viscount Wendover,
aged six years, opened a sale of work at High Wycombe.
He was accompanied by his mother and sisters, and was
received with a song of welcome from a choir of young
ladies. The little boy was mounted on a table, from
which he announced “ The At Home is open.”
What a blasti boy the Viscount will be by the time
he is ten if he continues his public appearances,
“ welcomed by songs from young ladies ! ” More
under-proof milk is the iteration about Mrs.
Brown - Potter reciting in a church. She
gave the churchgoers “Vital Spark” and
“ Abide with Me,” and it was capital advt.
for parson and actress and the hymns. There are
passages in the Bible —the Song of Deborah and
Barak, for example—splendidly fitted for recita-
tion, and if the pulpit-fillers were only fair elocu-
tionists and gave their flock an occasional ration
of church recitation there might be fewer empty
benches and more threepenny-bits, and the souls
of the sitters no worse anyway. Mrs. 8.-P. is
very anxious to come to Australia again. Those
who have seen her quite recently speak admir-
ingly of her as looking still young and beautiful.
Yet she has a daughter married.
That fragile-looking little artist, Hall-Thorpe,
who hailed from the Necropolis, and worked on
Sydney papers for some years, has five water-
color-drawings on exhibition in the Dore Gallery,
in London. They have been very highly com-
mended.
What is there in the g:ame of golf that makes
its female votaries (votaries is a good word, not
hackneyed) look such a hard-shell crowd ? Hard
eyes, lined faces, set mouths, locked jaws. They
look as if they had a life-long battle to procure
ships’ biscuits for food, or made a weekly fight
to retain the time-payment sewing-machine. In-
cautiously I ran up against a portrait group of our
late visiting golfers displayed outside Granny’s
office, and it hurt me in the eye.
Did you notice a romantic female adver-
tising in D.T. to arrange a meeting with “the
dark gent who picked up her bangle”? No doubt
he handed it back without displaying any
interest in the owner. Well, she has some cour-
tesy, anyway.
Other day I saw a “dark gent” pick up
a comb that had just dropped from the back
of a woman’s head. He restored it to her,
pulling off his bowler at the same time ; and,
frankly, I thought she’d drive her comb’s teeth
into him, so angry did she look at its restoration.
The N.S.W. Lancers certainly boast a banner
with a strange device. The drum-banners recently
presented by a lady relative of the Lancers’
Colonel, and now flaunting their ugliness in a
Sydney shop window, have the regimental sign-
ridiculous in gold and silver relief. That’s all
right; but what in the name of the Great Red
Kangaroo is an Australian regiment doing with an
elephant rampant for a coat-of-arms ? The two-
tailed beast, by the way, is rearing up between
two waratahs crossed, and is flinging up his front-
tail as if he had taken a sniff at the natural
flower and was disgusted with the smell.
Melbournians are trying to put a name to the
wealthy and charitable Anon.yma who has donated
£2500 to a poor deserving charity. Condition is
that the public shall subscribe an equal amount.
The lady’s agents say she will preserve her
anonymity with great ferocity right throughout.
We shall see. It’s wonderful how your left hand
gives away your right when the charitable paw
clasps muckle gold.
What a lonely thing it must be to reach the
polar heights to which a vice-reine ascends ! A
vice-reineof the Lady Curzon type. She who was
plain Miss Leiter, and is now Governess of India,
tried to get a liner’s deck reserved for her and her
suite’s exclusive use on her recent journey to Eng-
land. She takes her position as seriously as her
country people do the Declaration of Independ-
ence, and not even her sisters at the comparative
privacy of the breakfast-table are allowed to call
her Maria (or whatever her front name is). They
must say “Your Excellency.” One sister did
breach the etiquette, and the vice-reine haughtily
declined to allow her a second helping of lamb’s
fry and bacon.
A Maorilander, whose wife had been complain-
ing of ill-health, sent her to the Hot Lakes for a
month’s treatment. At the end of the month she
sent him a wire: “ Am feeling much better. Can
I stay another fortnight ? ” He was having a
tolerably good time himself, so, quick the answer
went back : “ So am I; stay another month.”
Modern Art Jewellery Co., of Pitt-street, have
a lot of those Rene Lalique designs in oxidised
silver that were brought out at Paris Exhibition.
Buttons for blouses and coats, necks chains with
pendants, perfume charms and brooches. The
workmanship is exquisite. A set of blouse
buttons shows a beautiful classic head ; in the
floating hair is a water-lily and a delicately-chased
background defines sea and sky. Nearly all the
designs are heads with flowers, or a tiny jewel, or
purely floral. Sometimes the background is of
gold. The Lalique designs have not “ caught on ”
in Sydney, probably because they are so unosten-
tatious, but there’s no second opinion about the
quality of their “ form.”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“A remarkable marriage shook a part of Mel-
bourne recently to its artificial tooth-plate. The
lady was a widow, with a certain sweetness, two
children, and a melting memory of her departed
spouse. The man who made sudden claim for her
hand was a somewhat careful capitalist from
the country, come to Melbourne for a luxurious
rest after years of toil and money-saving. The
hitching-up was mooted at a second meeting, and
the day named at the third opportunity of con-
fidences. So the lady ordered an impromptu
trousseau, and wedding-cards on the spot, and pre-
pared for a No. 2. The day came, but the
bridegroom didn’t. Pastor and people waited,
and waited, and waited. Then occurred a con-
ference of a select committee. Finally, the
humiliated bride took up her bouquet and train
and hied-off home in a closed carriage. The
guests dispersed, and the church sadly emptied
itself of the curious. But the bride, like a true
woman of experience, sought her best friend,
and begged him to go out into the byways and
highways to seek him who was lost. In five
hours the diligent emissary discovered the absent-
minded beggar. Then the bride donned her raiment
again, and carried the tardy one off to the altar-
rails, and there anchored him fast by the ring and
the church’s sealing-wax.
“A widower, at the tender age of 75, t’other
day married a smart forewoman out of a Bourke-
street chiffon shop. The widower has plenty of
money, and the bride the air of a Duchess, born
of many years patronage of the dowdy Rich and
upholstered Smart.
“Victoria will be most painfully over-Clarked
when the new potentate comes along to put
Waxellency’s moustache out of curl. Quite dis-
tinct from Agent-General Andrew Clarke,
K.C.M.G., in London; there’s Rupert and
Lady, and much-paragraphed Dowager Janet, not
to mention minor Clarkes of the clan who will
expect to figure somewhere in the vice-regal
vicinity when the overshadowing Sirgovernor
Clarke and Lady are on show. Chroniclers and
chroniclesses of ’igh life had better divide them
into three lots —Clarkes of Cliveden, Clarkes of
Rupertswood, and Clarkes of the Court. And
they mustn’t forget that in point of titular dis-
tinction the wife of the meah knighted official is
the ‘ un-rankest ’ Lady Clarke of the three. That’s
what comes of a country having baronets on its
own.
“Mrs. Senator Sargood, despite her plain dress-
ing and unambitious specs., is a stickler for form
and ceremony. She was the first to enjoin a
Melbourne gathering of guests at her house to
keep silence during the course of a musical pro-
gramme. But she started a new fashion the other
day, by a footnote to a programme, bidding her
guests not to trouble making a return call after
the entertainment, as the sending of a card would
answer the purpose. Quite a royal command.
“A small and insignificant swimming club
postponed its hop the other day ‘ in consequence
of the deplorable death of the Empress Frederick.’
Ye gods!
“ Is it by a wicked device the electric-light is
always going out and off for half-an-hour’s spell
at a certain swagger skating-rink? During the
reign of darkness, one night recently, the kittenish
squeals and titterings that prevailed proceeded
evidently from a mixed pairs’ competition in the
dark. Stern duennas sniffed ominously, and saw
the rinking authorities on the subject of dark in-
tervals ; but no one else complained.
“Inez Bensusan was the brightest frocker at
the ‘Manxman’ matinee last Wednesday. She
came with the stately Madame Majeroni, and
wore a cheek and much cross-patterned frock,
with big bold white scrolls curling up to her hips
and round them. At that matinee, by-the-way,
Lillah M‘Carthy was not taking herself so seri-
ously, and had to turn her pensive head more than
once to conceal a smile in tragic situations. Rose
Christian’s casual hug, for instance, in the third
scene made the slender Lillah laugh outright.
Melb. girls have already fallen head-over-heels in
love with the hollow-cheeked villain, Basil Gill,
of the fancy vest and Kingston-like play of the
eyes.
“A huge, though not extremely smart audi-
ence, sampled Wilson Barrett’s first Melbourne
treatment of the ‘ Sign of the Cross.’ The
showiest toilette in the d.c. had come from ’Ome
with its tall, handsome owner, a returned Aus-
tralienne, who likewise brings along a foreign
fiance. Said imported bodice, alternate stripes of
pale blue ribbon and filmy white stuff, disdained
any connection with shoulder-level, except black
velvet straps, three of which cut into each plump
arm. Tne skirt, all ribbon-bands, broke its
monotony by long narrow appliques of guipure.
The man next me, who, with his wife, had drifted
from the crowded-out family-circle, went into
raptures over the Rarisian gown. Time after
time, ‘What a splendid dress!’ till at last his
pale little partner, whose average clothes allowance
I should set down at £lO per annum, brisked
up and responded, ‘ Cost a splendid price, too ! ’
‘ She’s just the woman to show off that dress.
Plenty of her!’ rhapsodised hubby. ‘lt’s just
the dress to show off a woman—not too much of
it ! ’ retorted wifie.
“ As for the play, Barrett makes Marcus
more energetic than did Julius K., but
not more beautiful, and not quite so young.
Also, Lillah M‘Carthy is less angelic than Ada
Ferrar. Her voice is fresher, and she travels on
the convincing tack that it takes all her time
to steel her heart against her handsome
Pagan’s after-dark wooing. Truer to life, maybe.
A bad break in present production is Berenis
(Edyth Latimer), miles behind dashing Elliot Page
and not even up to the form of dainty Maesmore-
Morris. Present exponent has a pretty little face,
and that’s about all. Pitiably overweighted by
the part and the clothes, she shuffles round, pert
when she should be proud, cattish when one wants
her to be voleauic. In former times, a feature of
‘ The Sign ’ was its three types of womanhood,
saintly Mercia, stately Berenis, piquant Dacia.
With Berenis no taller or more impressive than
naughty Dacia, there’s little difference between
them except that the frisky blonde is a cheerier
chirper than her dark-haired chum.
“Wilson Barrett evidently swears by the hands
as emotion-signals—clenching them with histrionic
rage or grief, twiddling his thumbs in softer
moments. His lady disciples follow suit, and at
times the stage crowd seems to be playing ‘ thumb-
kins.’ If you don’t know that game let me tell
you that every childish clique includes one or two
‘ double-jointed ’ youngsters capable of dislocating
their fingers at will and distorting them weirdly
for the amusement of their fellows. Children, fa.r
more prone to copy ugliness than beauty, invari-
ably try to imitate the contortions of a ‘ double-
jointed ’ mate, though with little success except of
the thumb. Juvenile thumbs are pretty biddable,
as a rule, hence the popularity of ‘ thumbkins ’ as
a clandestine class-exercise.
“Not a bad model for a summer gown that
‘ raspberry-and-cream ’ frock, as Smith calls the
garment passed over by his offended stage-wife to
Dot Frederic. This silky cream delaine, flowered
with pale pink, has lace chemisette and collar,
pale-pink waist-ribbon, and baby skirt-frills. A
dainty toilette, by the way, unless worn by a
recognised ‘ somebody,’ is none the worse for lack
of aggressive novelty. Little Miss Suburbs doesn’t
gain much by sartorially splashing ahead.
“ At Trinity College Dialectic Society meeting,
Prelector Forster, 8.A., a nice lad to look at, read
a boyish little essay on ‘Patriotic Poetry.’ Bar-
risters F. G. Duffy and George Maxwell had been
turned on as after-speakers, in readiness, I sup-
pose, to answer for Irish or Scotch bards respec-
tively. But the artless child in charge of the
subject apparently didn’t know that any nation
except England manufactured patriotic poems, so
‘The harp that once’ and ‘Scots wha hae’’
got no show. Speaker Maxwell, quoting Tolstoi’s
saying that patriotism is selfishness, and bars
civilisation by its maintenance of such barriers
as international jealousy and rivalry, expounded
his text in a way calculated to rile the Russian
Gospeller, had he been present. The Maxwell
prescription for reducing international indi-
vidualism sounded like ‘Let each big nation
gobble as many little ones as possible, and last of
all, let John Bull bring about the Millennium by
swallowing the lot, beginning with the Boer
Republics.’ On the dialectic platform, gay with
academic coats of many colors, Prof. Morris,
palpably proud of his newest finery (annexed
along with his recent LL.D.), fished for a
cheer in its honor by extolling its comfortable
warmth. Pleasant Pa Madden got in a nice
bit of blarney on behalf of the Prelector, but
advised him, at his tender age, to make love
rather than speeches. At this stage His Ex. him-
self drifted into sugary quotations, presumably
with a view to giving a treat to the spinster hordes
present, while son-in-law Vallange bowed his
head on his pale-blue revers and appeared to
regret that Methuselah or any other good old sort
over 39 should stir up their elderly cockles by
references, literary or otherwise, to ‘Love’s young
Dream.’
“ This year’s opera boom has been the despair
of Melbourne singing-teachers, who complain all
round that their most promising pupils have gone
away to be chorus girls. Fresh young voices soon
get edges on them in chorus work, and become fit
for nothing else ; but most of the girls are willing
to endure that after waiting long and vainly to be
‘brought out’ as concert stars. ‘Musical Mel-
bourne ’ is about the last place in the world just
now for ambitious vocalists; this year, there
hasn’t been one first-class concert of local per-
formers, except Philharmonic and Liedertafel
shows, at which opportunities for new singers are
obviously rare, or not at all. Therefore is a girl
with a medium-sized voice and no money or
influence justified in joining the chorus—if she
can’t get work as a domestic servant.
“A loot-show of things prigged in China by
our gallant Snavel Brigades was held here t’other
day for the benefit of the widows and orphans of
two defunct cohentingenters. There were some
pretty pieces of theft on exhibit. A Chinese god,
all gold, was a valuable bit of theology. There
was also a kind of scalp sword, with the blade
studded with small discs of gold, each disc repre-
senting a man killed by the former possessors of
the weapon, which had been in the family for
generations. The show left two abiding im-
pressions : One that the Chow at home is often a
very fine artist, and the other that the Australian
cohentingenter is a very discriminating thief.
“ First night of ‘ Florodora’ (writes my Brisbane
correspondent) was almost a. fiasco. All the prin-
cipals had bad colds, and Kenningham was unable
to sing. Indeed, the poor man was sneezing too
hard to appear at all until the last four nights of
the opera. Grace Palotta wins us all, of course,
with her charming little ways. She celebrated
her birthday (her 26th, I believe) last week, and
was given a luncheon-party in her beloved Gardens.
Miss Palotta delights in our Brisbane Gardens,
gets all her breakfasts there —takes a girl-friend
and a kodak, and enjoys herself like a child,
snapping bits of tropical vegetation and glimpses
of river and shipping, until it is time for her
fencing-lesson at the theatre. The co. presented
her with a set of silver blouse buttons on her
natal day.”
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Messrs. Atcherley and Dawson, of Globe Tea
fame, are looking for a few politicians who will introduce
a law insuring proper inspection of tea imported into
N.S.W. At present there is no Govt, inspection what-
ever ; and, consequently, tea which is rejected by the
authorities in Melbourne and Brisbane, and given 24
hours in which to be cleared from those ports, is trans-
ferred to Sydney, and sold to dealers in cheap teas. They
mix some strong scented stuff with the rubbish, and then
trade it off upon the community. The worst feature of
the business is, that tea which is so deleterious that it is
certain of rejection in Melb. and Brisb. is sent straight to
Sydney, and not first to one of the other capitals.*
The motives of suicides, when girls are the
culprits, baffle the understanding of mere man.
A description of the attire of a Melbourne damsel
who recently deprived herself of the joys of exist-
ence disclosed the fact that her oorsets were not
P.D.’s. And in that sad fact a connoisseur can
discern the motive of her rash act. Existence
holds few joys for a pretty girl whose figure lacks
the perfection of grace imparted by P.D. Cer-
tain it is that no lady has ever suicided whilst
under the benign influence of those famous cor-
sets.*
Premier Barton struck a truth larger than
Chimborazo when he hinted to the Freetrade
crowd that was bursting with rage over some
points in the Postal Bill that the bulk of his
troubles arose through some members not knowing
anything about the laws of their own States.
Almost every time when an excited politician has
arisen to protest against “ this novel and unprece-
dented outrage on the liberties of the people” he
has been raging about something that has been the
law in his own State and most other States fora
lifetime or more. The average member came into
politics long after the Customs Regulations Act
and Postal Act, and all the other machinery laws
of his own State were passed, and in many cases
he knows as much about them as he does of the
composition of the devil’s tail.


THOS. WHiTELAW & CO.
WALL PAPER MERCHANTS.
TELEPHONE 3768.
LONDON,
SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE
Artistic Wall Papers.
Novel Ceilings in
Plaster Effects.
Latest Designs and Colorings.
Absolutely Fireproof.
A Charming Assortment.
The lull London and Continental Collection of the above Goods are now on view at the Firm’s
New Warahouss and Showrooms—39l GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
These Decorations comprise the most delightful Assortment ever shown in Australia. lnvited.
Clients will find our Art Goods are most inexpensive. Patterns forwarded on application.
He Had The Hump.
“ What’s the matter, old man ? ”
“ I don't know. Suppose I’ve got the hump.’ 1
“What about ? ”
“Oh nothing! Everything!”
How many of us suffer just in this way.
Nothing particular the matter with us. No spot
one can lay a finger on and say “ Here is pain.”
No definite trouble that we can mention to account
for the low morbid feeling which oppresses us,
but the world might just as well be painted a livid
blue, for all the pleasure we can get out of it.
Last night we went to bed feeling in splendid
health and spirits, and this morning we get up
and feel as miserable as though we had not a
friend in the world or two sixpences to rub to-
gether. That is the sensation which is colloqui-
ally and graphically described as the “ hump,”
and is entirely due to a deranged condition of the
liver. We have suffered a slight chill, or eaten or
drank either too heartily or injudiciously, and the
liver is in rebellion. We all know someone who
suffers constantly from his liver. He has wliab
may be described as a “ chronic hump,” and is a
good man to avoid. But there is no necessity for
anyone to suffer from liver complaint. Warner’s
Safe Cure will unfailingly cure any disorder of the
liver or kidneys. A course of Warner’s Safe Cure
will lift ten years off the age of anyone whose liver
is out of order, and turn him from a morose, in-
sufferable bore into a welcome and delightful
companion. ; v "
Warner’s Safe Cure, by attacking, the seat of the
disease and restoring the kidneys arid liver, to
health, infallibly cures all disorders arising from a
deranged condition of those vital organs. -■ In-
digestion, rheumatism, gout, neuralgia, bilious-
ness, gravel, anaemia, debility, most blood “dis-
orders and Bright’s disease are some of the many
complaints thus arising.*
Whereas it has been ascertained that cer-
tain unscrupulous persons, aware of the unpre-
cedented success which has resulted from the
Elacing on the market the now celebrated li Can’t
Beat” shilling pipes, branded thus:
are selling certain pipes-to the _ X
public as such, but which are in- B N
finitely inferior, and are not the genuine C B B
pipes, as supplied to the trade and the public at
the various establishments of Mick Simmons.
Notice is hereby given that' as ignorance carfitot
in the future be accepted as any excilse, all persons
infringing our rights as proprietors of the above
brand, which is an abbreviation of our well-known
trademark, “Can’t B Beat,” will be prosecuted
under the Trade Marks Act, and be proceeded
against in equity for an injunction.
FACILE PRINCEPS
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY
BLACK and WHITE.
Lightest Wines in Australia
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. Henry Gullett, it seems, is resuming
the editorship of Sydney Daily Telegraph.
A Federal hangman is the latest official
talked about. Will he also be a junior barrister ?
Names appearing consecutively amongst
the list at a recent Sydney funeral: F. Pidgeon,
F. Crowe, D. Drake, J. Gosling.
The “ K.C.M.G.’’-ship has claimed another
victim in Maoriland. John M’Kenzie is the third
Australasian recipient to die since January last.
Printed that Cecil Rhodes is threatened
with paralysis. “The once firm lips are agape.
The one-time far-seeing and fearless eyes are dull
and haggard. The wrecker of many an Afri-
kander’s hope is himself a wreck.”
Poor old Dick Speight, erstwhile of the
Vic. Railways, and now of.the Westralian Parlia-
ment, was at latest date suffering from “serious
liver trouble.” A dozen years baok the burly
Speight didn’t know whether he had such a thing
as a liver about him.
D.E. Bishop Weiiber, of Brisbane, is the
only man in Australia to beard the absentee in his
den. His Gaiters sets out again for London to
personally cadge subscriptions for his church from
squatters and mine-owners who derive their in-
come from Queensland, but spend it abroad..
The Quarterly Review article on the
personal life of Queen Victoria, which so incensed
King Edward, was attributed by gossips to Lady
Jersey, late of Sydney. The King sent for the
reputed author, but she point-blank denied having
written or known of the article till it appeared.
One of the candidates for Flinders at the
recent N.S.W. general election was so sure of
being elected that he had a band ready to blast
forth “ The Death of Nelson ” the instant the poll
was declared. Nelson, however, squeezed in by
3 votes, and the contemplated brazen blare did
not come off.
Mr. Joseph Oreer retires from the post of
Superintendent of N.S.W. Labor Bureau. A
tough old political hack, who has carried more
curses than any other man in the community since
he quitted the platform for a billet. But “no
one named Joseph was ever an entirely-satisfae-
tory person.”
Dr. “ Billy " Maloney had tabled a motion
in Vic. Assembly to have Chief Justice Madden
created Governor of Victoria when the news of
Clarke’s appointment arrived. Madden has his
little weaknesses, but Victoria has often gone
further and fared worse.
Just when Australia is about stone-broke
through celebrations, Archdeacon Tucker, of Bal-
larat, wants to celebrate the 1000th anniversary
of the death of’ Alfred the Great, who died
27th October, 901. Evidently the church has a
good deal of spare time on its hands when it can
go in for things like this.
It was announced from the ring prior to a
recent Melbourne boxing contest that Acting-
Gov. Madden had sent £2O to the widow of a just-
deceased pugilist. What his Ex. had really given
was a cheque for £2. Of course, “John” had
nothing to do with the announcement, but this D
how reputations are made.
STRAINING
AT A GNAT.
The incumbent of Christ Church,
Oastlemaihe, was called on to-day by
an old-age pensioner over 80 years of
age, who some time ago left the
Benevolent Asylum to receive a pen-
sion—requesting him to marry the
applicant to a female pensioner over 8') years old. The
clergyman refused to undertake the contract, and told
the old man that both he and his aged fiancee ought to
be ashamed of themselves.—AGE.
What the average parson doesn’t mind doing
every time, if there’s money it.
Mr. “ Sam ” Hordern (recently burnt out),
who negotiated for business room at Sydney Town
Hall and the Victoria Markets, is the father of
eight children, and is alleged to have said that he
hopes to leave a million to each. Once Samuel’s
ambitions were smaller : he used to long for a mere
couple of millions and the quiet of a farm.
During the visit of the Duke and Duchess
of York to Tikitere (Maoriland), the Duke asked
the driver of the coach what sort of a place it was
they were about to visit. The driver told him it
Was known as the Inferno, on account of the
weird sights to be seen, and that all the inhabi-
tants were at Rotorua. “ What! ” said the Duke,
“no band, no soldiers, no school-children, no
‘ God Save the King ! ’ Thank God for that.”
Frank Nankivell, the black-white artist,
erstwhile of Melbourne, but mostly of New York
since he became known to the public, is going to
try his luck in London, where hundreds of poten-
tial Nankivells never attempt to earn a living
outside of commerce, but leave the field of pro-
fessional draughtsmanship open to their more
self-reliant brethren.
There are now eleven King’s Counsel in
Victoria, excluding judges, but only five are
practising lawyers. Several most unlikely civil
servants sport the K.C.—possibly because
C.M.G.-ships have run short. Real barristers
show an indisposition to take silk, partly because
of that, and partly because there is not enough
work to keep them warm as it is, without
restricting themselves to never appearing without
a junior.
Premier Seddon isn’t going to attend the
coronation next year unless it is agreed that this
time there will be no sordid row about the ex-
penses, and he is going to “ lay certain proposals
before the House of Reps, for the proper main-
tenance of his dignity when abroad.” His dignity
—the pomp of his paunch, and his embroidered
coat-tail, and his cocked hat, and his £l4O uniform,
and his ridiculous sword. To think that a one-
time Democrat should come to this !
Apparently ex-Premier Holder was respon-
sible for the howling mess made by the Jenkins
Govt, in so hurriedly sending Grainger to dis-
place Cockhurn as S.A. Agent-General. Last
week Treasurer Butler discovered a cable from
Cockburn offering to act at a reduced salary, and
it is now explained that this message never went
before the Jenkins Cabinet, Holder having re-
ceived it in the midst of the hilarious Duke of
York shivoo in Melb., and in the excitement
thought no more of it. It is, indeed, lucky for
Holder that his reputation for piety and teetotal
ism saves him from the jibes of irreverent critics.
Cheeryßob O’Toole, demised Melb. press-
man, was an identity. There wasn’t a man of any
consequence who hadn’t run up against him at
some time or another, and any man that ever
O’Toole met was “old chap” to him for ever after-
wards. On one occasion the festive, yet harmless,
scribe took it into his head to teize a uew-chum
policeman by the coat-collar and run him along
Swanston-st. a dozen yards or so. The constable,
quite unacquainted with the O’Toole, proceeded to
arrest him for insulting behaviour, when he espied
a portly sub-inspector leaning up against a veran-
dah-post and guffawing himself blue. Offended
dignity was pocketed that time.
'Once more, the triumph of Fat ! Early in
N.S.W. chess championship tourney, Jacobson
and Christenson met, and drew—Jacobson’s only
draw ; he was not beaten at all. His other first
four games Christenson won. But then, after
one hard struggle, the long, gaunt, fleshless
youngster went to bits. He fell back to a poor
second, while Jacobson, unruffied, won game after
game. Christenson began to let problems worry
him when he was a telegraph-messenger ; the late
P. B. Walker and Col. Cracknell, both chess
enthusiasts, discovered him in a country office,
made him a mail-carrier to further bend bis back,
and brought him to Sydney. If he could put on
4sf. he might he i Jacobson ; as it is, the latter
can wear them all out.
The recent mention of N.S.W. due’s re-
calls an event of 1857. , It was a dispute
between Alex. Campbell (of Smith, Camp-
bell and Co.) and Robert Campbell (of Campbell
and Co.) over a case of gin. Things eventually
came to such a pass that the former issued a
challenge to his namesake. The latter re-
fused and the next day Alex. Campbell
drove to the Union Club and there posted
a notice that “Robert Campbell, hav-
ing insulted me and denied me the
satisfaction of a gentleman, I hereby
proclaim him to the world as a liar,
a scoundrel, and a vagabond.—(
Signed) Alex. Campbell.” But the
trouble never went further, though
excitement ran high for some
little time.
N.S.W. Auditor-General
Rennie lias survived thirteen
State Governors and numerous
Lieut.-Governors. Up landed
in 1840, and six years after
entered the Audit Depart-
ment, where he now sits,
defying Time, Rremiers,
and politicians generally.
G. H. Reid did his best to
shunt the veteran, but
found the job too tough.
Mr. Rennie has outlived 29
Ministries, and hopes to see
a few more d sappear. His
early years in N.S.W. were
passed in tutoring. He comes
of a scholastic family, his
father (author, by the way, of
that most fascinating contribu-
tion to natural history,lnsect
Architecture”) having been a professor
at King’s College, London. Mr. Rennie
is a native ,of London, and is now well past 80
years of age. He is the father of Dr. Rennie, the
eminent Sydney pathologist.
Mr. Chamberlain at 65 (says Melb. Age)
is amongst the youngest men in the House of
Commons. He could very well pass for 10 years
younger ; in broad daylight and at times he looks
positively youthful.--
Why should not this slim Judas bear
The weight of years ? He smugly grins
While fifty million people share
The grievous burden of his sins.
“ Waiau ” gives good old John M’Kenzie
a send-off■
In the death of John M'Kenzie Maoriland loses one of
the best men who has ever served her as a Minister of the
Grown. He was a big, rugged Highlander with a burr in
his speech that gave away his natjpnality in every word
he uttered. Cottar-bred, he came out to M.L. in 1861,
full of antagonism to the existence of large estates. He
began his career as a land-reformer in the Otago Provin-
cial Council as far back as 1871. Along with old Donald
A PROFESSIONAL DIS-
TINCTION.
1ST. LODGE DOCTOR: “ What sort
of year had you?”
2ND. DITTO: “Pretty fair. Only
six patients died. Oh, yes,
and twenty or thirty I club-
bies ’ peyyed-out, you know. ”
Reid, of Otago, and Robert Stout, now Chief-Justice, he
fought out the battle of the small settler against the run-
holders with all the Celtic fire and vigor which characterised
his later career in the House of Representatives. When
he became Lands .Minister in the Ballance Govt., in 1891,
he knew that the opportunity of his life was at hand. In
the face of a storm of opposition from the squatting
interests he launched his Lands-for-Settlements Bill, and
fought its passage through the House clause by clause.
Bitterly opposed by more than half the press of Maori-
land, he pursued his policy of acquiring large estates and
sub-dividing them into small holdings. Under his ad-
ministration the M.L. Lands Department expanded till
it included an extensive Agricultural Department with
experimental farms ; a Stock Department with Govern-
ment veterinary officers to stamp out disease and to im-
port pedigree stock for improving local breeds ; a
Dairying Department which practically created the M.L.
butler and cheese export trade ; and a Forestry Depart-
ment. Thoughtful men lay the secret of Maoriland’s
prosperity of recent years almost solely to MJvefizie’s
land policy. He resigned his portfolio in June last y ear,
and was afterwards made a Leg. Councillor, but never
took his seat. When George of York was in Otago his
train was pulled up opposite Heathfield, M'Kenzie's home-
stead, and the ex-Minister of Lands drove down to be
Libelled Iv.C.M.G. Like every Scotchman of lowly birth,
the “ bauble ” had an attraction for him. It was given
to him at the close of his life’s work, almost on the spot
where he began life as a shepherd on Jones’s station just
40 years ago.
A niftu with a story got a month, at Melb.
City Court, t’other day. This was Frederick,
alias Josh., Clarke —“ the Last of the Lags.” To-
day (at 80 years old), he looks a respectable
retired tradesman, his clean-shaven phiz, framed
in a neat fringe of white whisker. In ’47, he was
transported, on a 10,year sentence, for burglary
at Leeds, since when he has caught the Judge’s
eye many times, having received a year for
■'.vagrancy, April, ’53; 10 yrs. for horse-stealing,
Nov., ’54 ; 5 yrs., ditto, April, ’6O; six months,
attempted felony, May, ’65 ; 3 yrs., larceny, June,
■’O'); 3yrs. pocket-picking, and 3 yrs. shopbreaking,
May, ’69 ;14 yrs., receiving, Mar.,.’BB ; and 2 yrs.
breaking gaol, Nov., ’89—511 years. Clarke
prides himself on his escape from Geelong Gaol in
’B9, with Christie Farrell, a fellow-prisoner doing
along sentence for shooting Detective Nixon in
Bourke-st. Clarke slowly and toilsomely drilled
holes round his cell-lock and fashioned skeleton-
keys to the outer doors, then he and Farrell
overpowered and gagged the warder on
night-duty, got through the inner doors,
slipped over a scaffold providentially stuck
against the 20ft. outer wall and “got.” Farrell
was caught at Buninyong 19 days later, while
an old ex convict in whom he confided “ blew ”
on Clarke shortly afterwards. He subsequently
made another attempt at escape, but was bowled
out before he got clear of his cell. Released a
few days ago he was given money to buy a bar-
ber’s outfit, but the habits of a lifetime overcame
him, and he omitted to pay the shopkeeper for a
razor and scissors—hence the “ month.” Clarke
says the weak place in the Pentridge walls had
been spotted years ago by the enforced inmates,
and many had watched and waited a chance to
“get ” the way Sparks and O’Connor departed.
♦
At Christchurch (M.L.) a boy of 18 was
recently convicted of successfully operating for
abortion on a girl whom he had got into trouble.
Over the door of a Melbourne hostelry :
MRS. , LATE OF THE HOTEL.
Under New Management.
About the middle of Nov. next the Nord-
deutscher Lloyd Co. will commence its three
weekly service from Sydney, when there will be
“on the job” nine huge steamers, all under five
years old, and aggregating nearly 100,000 .-tom*
register. n f.


MACONQCHIE’S
Fresh Herrings
Kippered Herrings
Herrings in Tomato Sauce
Findon Haddocks
PRESERVED FISH OF ALL KINDS.
MARMALADE
UNIVERSAL PICKLES.
BOTTLED FRUITS
POTTED MEATS
SALMON and SHRIMP PASTE.
WORC€ST€RSNIR€ SAUC€
Maconochie Bros., Ltd.
LONDON.
Australian Representatives—
Swift cP Co., 7 Spring St., Sydney ,
WATSON S WHISKY.
DAVID STORER & SONS' »" Th “*e Colors-BLACK, RED and BLUE
Registered
Trade
Mark.
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker. SHEEP BRANDING Oil
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Hotel
Australia —«
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
£3 10s. per week,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
This Hotel has popularised hotel-living in Australia.
During our enervating summer, the cool and ele-
gant drawing rooms, the charriiingly - arranged
dining room, the readiness and perfection of the
attendance, and the splendid appointments of the
Hotel throughout, prove a boon and blessing to
visitors. The Hotel is so loftily-built and situated
that residents sleep in a distinct atmosphere—a cool
light air, entirely free from the dust and impurity
of the city.
J. SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Oastlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— ln the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
When there was a bank-breaking mania in
Victoria, a few years ago, and bank-managers in
small places spent half their time in blue funk,
suspecting every customer of felonious and homi-
cidal intent, a curious incident h'appened to a
grocer’s assistant at a Ballarat-district mining
township. The young man, who was new to the
job and the locality, Was sent to the bank on
business, but the moment he crossed the doorway
he was made a target for pistol-practice by the
manager, who fired three shots in rapid succession.
The grocer got a bullet through his coat-collar, for
which he drew £lO in compensation, in considera
tion of his saying no more about the matter. He
was weak-eyed, and had drawn the banker’s fire
by wearing a peaked shade, which was mistaken
for a mask by the agitated financier. Moral: Be
careful how you enter country banks in Australia
for the next month or so.
* • * *
The Dirty Man cake goes to one Drislane,
arrested by the police at Castlemaine, Vic., for
being outrageously unwashed in a public place.
The man was taken to the local gaol, and four
unfortunate warders were commissioned to sluice
him off. It was a long and tough -job, but a face
having been broken on him, the hydraulic nozzle
made play, and he was put through in the course
of an hour or so. Drislane was actually panned
CHOW LOGIC.
“I say, John,
can you tell me
the way to Jones’s
pub?”
“ How you know
my name John?”
“ Oh, I yuess-em.”
“ All ti l—you jus’ guess-em way to pub!”
off, and yielded exactly 19s. in small silver coins.
He had been in the habit of banking bis change
inside his shirt, and the cash had stuck in the
strata, according to the police theory officially
recorded. This is the first time the Castlemaine
bobbies have struck pay-dirt.
* ♦ * *
Far Western N.S.W. squatters are so
dead-beat that they can’t even rouse themselves
to fight the A. W.U. The only point of difference
between the P.U. agreement and the “verbal”
Which the A.W.U. will allow its membets out
there to accept relates to wet sheep—as to whether
the boss shall be" sole judge of wetness. Most of
the sheds made a pretence of adhering to the
P.U. terms, but always the absurdity of quarrel-
ling over wet sheep in that drought-cursed land
struck the squatter in the part that used to be fat
once, but isn’t now ; and in nearly every case,
within three days, he had sense enough to open
the shed.
* * * •
Snow fell at Cobar, far West N.S.W.,
early in August. Near Wilcannia, still further
West, sheep-troughs have been frozen over. Over
the S. Aus. border* snow fell at Mannahill, on
Broken Hill line. The respective oldest in-
habitant swears these are records.
* * • *
Rabbits have got as far west now as
Southern Cross, about midway between the Wes-
tralian goldfields and Perth.
Thus Q. Aborigines-Protector Meston,
with fiery indignation :
In Bulletin of 3/10/’Ol an alleged white man, evidently
black enough inside, signing himself “ Monyah,” asserts
that to get blacks for the corrobboree before the Duke I
had to send to Cooper’s Creek, Victoria, and W. Queens-
land, and that when there they were a “ regular low,
loafing gib-it-sixpence lot.” I had 100 men in Brisbane
for the arch and the corrobboree, and they were got at
24 hours’ notice. At a week’s notice I could have put 500
men in the performance. The 70 men oh the arch and in
the corrobboree were as fine a lot of blacks as white men
have seen on the east coast for the last 30 years. The
Duke and members of his suite expressed great surprise
at the splendid physique of the blacks in the weapon dis-
play at Government House, and the Duke assured me
they were the best specimens of colored mem he had ever
seen. They ranged in height from 51t. lOin. to Oft. 4in.,
and not one was under 12st. These were picked men for
special work. It is true that among the 70 on the arch
there were men from the five States, but we have blacks
on our aboriginal reserves from all parts of Australia.-
There were no bar-room, sixpence-begging blacks among
the men on the arch or at Govt. House, and I have no
doubt that the most inferior specimen amongst them
would stand far higher in the scale of manhood than the
alleged white who conceals his identity under the name
of “ Monyah.”
* * * *
“Oooyal”: Stock Boards in these parts
(Home Rule district) are now paying 4d. each for
crowjheads, and £1 for those of dingoes. Now, the
harmless, mountain magpie, though piebald in
body, very much resembles the crow about the
head and beak, and as it is much more easily
approached and shot than the gentleman in black,
hundreds of magpies’ heads are being paid for by
the unsuspecting ri.B. As for dingoes—the heads
of which sometimes carry £2 or £3 each from sta-
tion-holders in addition to the S.B. reward—well,
they are very wary and cunning, and any dog at
all resembling a dingo, is pretty certain to be shot
and have his scalp and “ strip ” presented for the
reward.
Dear Bulletin. —Robert Brothers, despite
“ Jack-a’-Clubs’ ” disclaimer, was correct. In
Australia (I means the Australian’s Aus-
tralia) there is only one menu—' 1 Chops,
steak, sausages, lambs’ (?)
fry and bacon, chop
an’ egg (not eggs),
steak an’ egg, steak
an’ bacon,” and
“fried fish, boiled
fish" on Friday. That
is for breakfast.
Some of us have
heard of “’Am an’
heggs,” but only
ironically, when
the cook says, “ I
s’pose yer want
to be dished up.
Coker an’ ’am an’
heggs, mebbe ! ”
Isn’t it strange
that in this
country, where
there’s fowl-room
on a thousand
hills and swine-
room in the in-
tervening gullies,
“ham and eggs”
is the maximum
idea of regal splendor
as a first or last day’s
meal -Scotty W.
Despite all efforts made per
rabbit-proof fences, poison, and
other means, to check the march
of bunny, he is advancing rapidly to Car-
pentaria. Tho North Gregory holds him in
thousands, and somehow he contrives to exist in
districts where water only lasts three months after
the wet season.
* * * *
“ A.P.R.” tells a bee yarn :
“ Tark about bees’ nestses I ” said Adolphus, alias Bill,
after chasing old Strawberry away from the potato-bag.
“ Wy, when we wuz ring-barkin’ at the Flag, all we’d do
wuz go an’ cut down a bloodwood-tree, an’ look fer the
nest afterwards, they wuz that thick. Sometimes there
wuz two nestses in one tree. ’Casionally, a bee would go
in at ther wrong hole, an’ ther’d be old hell. You’d see
him goin’ fer his nachrals back again, with about 10,(kO
flamin’ bees arter him. Bees is ter’ble savage. Wunst I
got stung on ther neck, an’ it swole so as I had ter cut a
hole in me shirt ter get it over me head, n act ! ’Nuzzer
time me ear swole, so as I couldn’t see round one side me
head. But they’re orful dirty beggars,' bees ; yer alius
sees ’em crawlin’ about dead sheep an’ carrion. D’yer
know wot? I wunst lost an ole crock o’ mine, name
Bally. Six munce after I robbed a nest, an’ found one iv
his ole teeth in ther comb. Then I knew he wuz dead.
Why ? Becorse I’d cracked ther tooth wunst with a crow-
bar, when he jibbed. Look at that flamin’ dawg eatin’
ther soap ! ”
Thud, thud ; yow, yow ; thud ; yow ; thud ; yow 1
Thud and yow continued indefinitely.
“ I’ll teach yer ter eat me soap, yet !
. . . Look here, findin’ bees’ nestses is a reg’lar art. I
wunst had a mate, name Jim, an’ he had ter rub ile inter
his neck ter take out ther kink in it, which he got troo
lookin’ fer nestses, but he never found none, ’ceptin’ one
which took him a whole day ter cut down. When he went
ter rob it, he only found a dead ’possum. Wot he thot
wuz bees wuz only blow-flies. He wuz quite angry fer a
while afterwards. Same time, I could find a nest every
day. Here’s a splendid reseppy fer findin’ nestses: Go
ter a waterhole, where there’s allers bees drinkin’, catch
one iv ’em, an’ tie some thread onter his hind leg. Keep
hold of ther thread, an’ he’ll take yer straight ter his
nest. Yer can allers find yer way back again inside uv
two or three days. Did yer ever see any iv them blank
blanks of bees that live underground ? One day I wus
mendin’ a brush fence, when somethin’ bit me orful in
the calf. Just after I sees a black snake run out. There’s
no get out, I vnis frightened. I got out me knife an’ cut
a great lump uv flesh out, an’ scarred the bite, an’ cross-
scarred it, an’ it pained somethin’ ’orrible. I even thort
of cuttin’me leg orf. Just when I wus startin’ home I
got bit again, an’ then I found it was a ground
bee. Ground bees are no good fer Gawd or man—look at
that cursed goat eatin’ me shirt! ”
Goat suddenly hurries off, hotly pursued by several
bottles, a kerosene-tin, and obscene language. Adolphus
Bill resumed his seat on the inverted bucket.
“ Did yer ever know that bees ’ave got an unemployed
problem, jist like us? They’se lots of ’em never do
THE CONNOISSEURS .
“By crikey, Billie, she ain’t a baddy, is she?”
nothin’, ’cept watch the others wurkin’. An’ the other
blokes feed ’em fer nothin’ —jest like they do in Sydney.
Wot ! are yer orf ? Got a bucket, an’ an axe, an’ a big
spoon ? Eighto ; I’m with yer ! ” ■
* * * *
“ Werrimee ” : “Pelican” (B. 18/5/’i)
says: “The only remedy for scrub-ticks is to
anoint the vermin with kerosene . . . and pull
them out.” A simpler way, which we employed
in the scrubs on the Richmond River (N.S.W.) is
to cut the tick in two at the neck with a small
pair of scissors, leaving the head imbedded in the
skin. The force necessary to pull it out with
thumb and finger forces the virus into the wound,
and poisoning ensues. Nipping them off at the
neck prevents this, and the head soon afterwards
falls out.
* * * *
“Boko” : A friend of mine has a large
tom-cat. He also had a fine aviary with eight or
nine canaries. Having watched feeding opera-
tions, the cat learned the trick of the spring-door,
and was found t’other morning shut inside, calmly
sleeping, after eating the lot.
* . * •
“John Carew ” : Have you heard how
the bunnies came down at Minore ?
Hopping and popping and dancing and prancing ;
Flopping and stopping and shyly advancing ;
Meeting and greeting and turning and twisting ;
Eating and fleeting and frisking and whisking ;
Hurrying and skurrying and worrying and flurrying.
“•Never say die ! leave the logs—let’s go burrowing ! ”
And thus, never ceasing, but always increasing ;
And so, never ending, but always offending,
Through the wires, on all fours, ’mid the human uproar,
>Tis this way the bunnies come down at Minore !
HE GOULD FILL THE ORDER.
“ Want a bite, eh? Well, then, here! Sool ’em,
Bully !”
“Will J.” : The white ant’s ability to
locate damp soil is very noticeable. Know a
mallee man who tried to raise a few fruit-trees,
but when summer came along and he was forced
to water them, they suddenly died. When
examined, the roots were a seething mass of this
curse. Also, after a shower, the countless sticks
and remnants on a piece of country where the
mallee has quite recently been rolled and fired,
are crawling with these pallid pests—whereas,
when dry, they are left severely alone.
“ VVaddy ” : Re various refer-
ences to bush man’s tucker-bill. I write
with a knowledge of North Queensland
conditions: 501 b. bag flour, 11s. 6d. to
12s. 6d.; potatoes, nominally £56 per
ton, but not purchasable; meat of the
variety which had been chased for a
week and kept thirsty for a month, 3d.
cash, 4d. credit; immediately after the
“wet,” vegetables, such as beans, cab-
bage, lettuce and beetroot, are obtain-
able at a price. My tucker-bill per
week averaged 225., and no luxuries,
Heaven knows. We had minced bul-
lock for breakfast, bullock pies for
lunch, and roast bullock for dinner, or
occasionally corned bullock of a pale
grey color and never older than one
day. All the “lumpy jaws” were
killed off and sold to us. No inspec-
tion, no police, no laws, no anything—
except bullock.
« • * *
Some day a new Izaak Walton
"vill write, “Ye Compleate Drunke,”
the same being a guide to all the known
means of getting beer without pay-
ment. A Malvern (Vic.) publican dis-
covered one way recently. “ Two long
beers for me and my mate, an’ don’t
be long, for the horse is restless,” was
the order which he received from a
hasty person carrying a carter’s whip.
The beer was drawn, and the customer,
taking a long pull at one glass, carried
the other outside to an alleged mate in a
cart. Some little time after the land-
lord looked out to see what was hap-
pening to his unpaid-for beer, and he
saw no carter, no horse, no mate —
only an empty glass on the window-sill.
* * * *
Because for so many months the Darling
has been a string of muddy water-holes with a
ditch between the pools there was a rush to relieve
the exhausted river townships when the delayed
winter freshes came. Result, as usual, numerous
founderings through striking fallen trees. In
other cases steamers were stuck up by impassable
snags in the still narrow channel. One wideawake
firm provides its steamers with a supply of explo-
sives, and twice at least they literally blasted a
way up. The result is a suggestion that the
Rivers Department should establish small explo-
sive depots along the stream.
* * * •
“Wallah”: In this district (Narromine)
the young rabbits are now to be found of various
hues (black, blue, yellow, white, &c.), although
the mothers are the common brown bunnies. It
is said that this is a sure sign that the rabbits are
greatly on the increase. Is there any truth in
this ?
♦ * * *
“ Yarrum ” : In many country districts
'fowls and ducks for market are fattened largely
on condemned, cancerous, and otherwise diseased
cattle. The stuff is mostly boiled, but I have
seen it dealt out raw. Sydney people, naturally,
expect nice, clean food from the country ; but they
don’t get it, by a long way. The further from the
city the dirtier things get. In some places there
is little or no inspection. This afternoon writer
rode past farm and saw rotten carcase on gal-
lows, with geese, turkeys, and pigs snapping at it.
Best, or worst, of it is, when these people want
poultry themselves, they “put it up” for weeks,
and corn-feed it. They don’t take risks.
* * * *
“Alpha”: A white hawker on the
N.S.W. South Coast recently called, at a house
and tried to sell a boy’s suit for 17s. 6d.,
but the people would not buy. He
afterwards disposed of the suit
v to an Indian hawker for 215.,
and a day or two after-
wards he saw . a youth
belonging to the house
at which he had
called wearing it.
„ On making en-
quiries the white
hawker found
that the clothes
had been pur-
chased from the
Indian hawker
for 355. ! Some
people con-
stantly howl for a whita Australia and
yet regularly patronise the Indian hawker and
Chinese in preference to their own countrymen.


Everyone should purify their blood by
taking a course of Antiuric—it prevents disease.
We can prove that a few shillings’ worth has cured
rheumatism after hundreds of pounds have been
paid to doctors without obtaining relief. Highest
references to responsible persons. A course of
treatment, sufficient for any ordinary case, sent
post-paid to any part of Australasia on receipt of
55., postal-note or money-order; stamps, 6d. extra.
Address —Antiuric Co., Box 842, Sydney.*
Compositor’:; Revelations.
An experienced and highly respected com-
positor, Mr. W. Filmer, of Abbot-street, W.
Maitland, has, in a legal document, signed before
a Magistrate, made some revelations of peculiar
interest.
“A misfortune, under which I laboured for
nearly thirty years,” said he “has now been
removed, and the matter is important enough to
be made public. When a young man I joined
the printing trade, and was getting along
creditably when my energy received a severe
check by my becoming subject to diarrhoea. It
affected me in a most alarming manner. I fell
away to a mere skeleton, grew weak and listless,
and became so debilitated, that I was seized with
with fainting fits whioh left me in a prostrate
and helpless condition quite unable to attend to
my occupation. I have been subjected to these
attacks for nearly thirty years and they dragged
me down terribly. In ’97 my doctor ordered me
away for a change, and whilst in Newcastle I met
a friend who had suffered like myself for ten
years, but who had been cured by Dr. Williams’
pink pills. I took his advice and a
supply. From the outset the result was &itis-
factory. My head grew clearer, my appeti.te in-
creased, the symptoms of diarrhoea left me, and I
gradually grew stronger. After thirty years’
suffering I can truthfully say that four boxes of
Dr. Williams’ pink pills cured me of the most ob-
stinate chronic diarrhoea possible when patent
medicines and medical treatment failed. In nine
months my weight has increased thirteen pounds
and my health is excellent. Every symptom of
my complaint has abated.”
By strengthening the various organs of the
body, Dr. Williams’ pink pills enable them to
perform their functions. They make rich, red
blood with every dose, they repair the wasted
tissue and strengthen the spine. They cure
. rheumatism, neuralgia, sciatica, consumption*
bronchitis, erysipelas, St. Vitus’ dance, dyspepsia,
anasmia, debility, and most blood and nerve dis-
orders. Sold by retailers and by the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, two and
nine per box, six boxes fifteen and three, post free.
They contain no poison and can be taken with
benefit by the most delicate child or adult.*
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM.
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
“ Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise tp un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose. —A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
]
CAUTION-
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
' ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
USED IN THE RO AL HOUSEHOLDS.
“G ER E BOS” SALT
Besides being the most Dainty, Dry, and Economical
Table Salt, “Cerebos” contains the strengthening and
constitution building properties which are wanting
in White Bread, owing to the removal of the Bran.
It is, therefore, invaluable in the daily food of
growing children, delicate mothers, and all brain
workers.
Wholesale Agents: -HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 334 and 336, George Street, SYDNEY.
Sold by Grocers and Stores.
“ 5.8.” : A man arrived in our town the
other day and started a tobacconist business in a
small way. As he seemed a decent sort of fellow
the boys decided to favor him with their patron-
age ; said patronage having already ruined several
others who had started in the same line. The
boys would sit for hours in the shop, and talk
racing, and spit, and stick up cigars and tobacco,
and give the proprietor advice upon running the
business. One day the boss conceived a brilliant
idea : He would start a cribbage club. The first
night’s play extended well into the early hours of
the next day. and the settlement which took place
got the boss’s books into such a tangle that it would
have taken three certificated accountants to
square them up. Buckley was the first man to
“settle-up.” He had played eight four-handed
games and lost one. “Gimme four cigars,” he
said; “that’ll square us.” The next man to
settle-up had played six games and lost two. He
said: “ But down two cigars to me and we’ll be
square.” Another had played four games without
losing any. He took four cigars and his departure.
In this manner all the members of the club'Settled
up. A stranger who had been playing all night
paid Is. 3d. This was the only cash transaction
of the evening. When the crowd had gone, the
boss took the book and stared hard at the various
debits and credits; then, sighing deeply, he re-
placed the nearly empty cigar-box on the shelf and
went to bed to try and figure out how much he’d
made on the night’s work. There’s no telling how
long the cribbage club might have kept going, but,
anyhow, the boss is in the hospital now suffering
from an injury to the pelvis, the result of a mis-
understanding with Buckley. Buckley dropped
him over the banisters on to a tobacco-box when
he had won two games out of six, and the boss
BETTER OFF.
BLACK: “ Begging , are you? Why, hang it all,
you’re drunker ’n I am !”
couldn't see that if he gave Buckley five cigars
they would be square. Buckley can’t understand
how the boss hurt his pelvis. He says: “’E
didn’t fall on ’is ’ead. ”
* * * •
“ Scotty the Wrinkler ” again to “J.W.C.”
(B. 17/8/1) :
In order to carry out your square-mile experiment you
must either have that area absolutely rabbit-proof from
the exterior (cost, £120) or no other warren within, say,
five miles. The latter is impossible. Again I wish to
know —(1) Cost of pollard ; (2) Cost of poison ; (3) Cost
of labor ; (4, and most important) Time of demonstration ;
(5) Proof of ditto. I have 60 inventions all raging about
my brains, among them devices for freezing, rain-making,
electioneering, monte, two-up, locomotion, and even
rabbit-destruction ; but any one who will exploit my
theories and, in fact, stand to me and advertise me free,
is still lying perdu.
* * * *.
A story of No Luck :
Dear Bulletin.—How does this impress you for a
sample of bad luck. Jack and myself—you know Jack-
started for a stroll as soon as the boat got into Melbourne.
Jack picked up a pocket-book and returned it to a young
fellow who accidentally dropped it unnoticed as he was
passing us—it was bulged out with notes, too. Well, we
thought it was a fair thing to accept his offer of a pound
each when he thanked us with tears rolling down his
cheeks for having saved him from disgrace. He was
taking the money up to the bank for the firm he was in.
He gave us a £lO note and I gave him £8 change. Then
we saw “ Dry. Gin ” written across a window. Involun-
tarily our steps were directed to the door. I changed the
tenner We had some difficulty in persuading the
policeman who took care of us of the innocence of our
motives in changing that (bogus) note. However, he
agreed at last to accompany us to the boat to verify our
story. Now a little item of uncustomed cigars that were
securely stowed away in my tall hat had quite escaped
my memory. Of course, naturally, our wives were the
first persons on the boat we met. You know what
women are. As soon as mine saw me with a policeman
she cried out: “Oh, Jim dear, why did you take those
cigars. I told you you’d get found out.” The fine was
£5 and costs, and the cigars confiscated. Also I had lost
£B’ and the beak said “ grave suspicion ” rested on me.—
F.A. . * ,
• • * *
“ G.J.M.” : How’s this for luck ? I knew
a boy who, like many other bush kiddies, used to
run about barefoot. One day, while careering
wildly along a cattle track, he jumped a log and
alighted with his heel on a black snake’s head-
killing the reptile!
* * * *
From the letter of a wayback cockatoo :
Inclosed in here is a £5-note, number fives all over it,
bo you will no if it’s lost.
“ Pelican”:
The Austra-
lian aboriginal
has a few
ideas concern-
ing astrono-
my, and has
names denot-
ing some of
the celestial
bodies. For
instance, in
parts of N.S.
Wales Mars
bears the same
name as the
Blue Moun-
tain parrot.
“Som etim'e
you see that
fella red,
sometime
blue,” is the
explanation.
Also, the glis-
tening Ple-
iades are de-
noted by a
jaw- rending
name, mean-
ing two moons
and two moons
with three
moons extra.
“ Cobber ” : The casual visitor to Tas-
mania is amused at the legend displayed in
grocers’ shops “ Mutton-birds, 8 for Is.” These
bioeds come, whence no man listeth, to the Bass’s
Straits islands every breeding season, and, after
laying one egg apiece and rearing the young
to a state of helpless fat, depart in a like
direction, leaving the squawking chicks to
shift for themselves. At this stage they
are caught, cleaned, plucked and salted
down m barrels by thousands, and ex-
ported to Tasmania, forming a con-
siderable item in inter-island commerce.
They have a fishy flavor, and are much
liked by persons with strong stomachs
or large experience. The oil is stated
to be superior to cod-liver oil for con-
sumptives. Mutton-bird’s eggs are as
large as goose-eggs, although the bird
is only the size of a wild duck. It
nests in sandy holes, whence the young
are grabbed by the catcher. The
presence of snakes renders this work
risky. When the parent birds leave,
the surviving chicks starve till they
become thin and are able to fly ; then,
after taking in a ballast of stones, they
make sail to regions unknown. They
are stated to leave and arrive on the
same day every season, and marked
birds have been found to return to the
same hole every time. “ A bob’s worth
o’ birds ” is surely the largest amount of
poultry ever heard of for the money.
“E.J.S. Be strange experiences of
men and homes at night. I remember many
years ago riding along the Sixty-mile Track
towards midnight along with a darkie named
Jimmy Dool, of Collarendabri bridge-jumping
fame. Jimmy was telling me about
a dead man (supposed murdered)
being found on Bulli ridges, where
we were riding, and presently he
said, “ Look out, boss—horses shy ;
close up now.” And sure enough
the horses shied violently, and broke
into a canter. Jimmy was so scared
that we rode many miles before I
could get a word out of him. On two
occasions afterwards I rode past same
place at night, and on a different
horse, and the same thing occurred.
By-the-way, I saw this Jimmy, in
’BB, do the bridge jump at Collarenda-
bri into only nine feet of water.
Length of drop, nearly 100 ft. He’d
do it for a drink of rum.
* * *
One of the casual happenings
of Western Queensland. The men
folk were fifty miles away shearing,
and only women were left on the
selection. There was one well, and
it was the only well for an almost
impossible number of miles that
wasn’t dry. One night a fool of a
horse fell down the w T and died
there. The weather w..s hot, and
it bad the natural and ordinary effect
on the horse. The women couldn’t
get its remains out of the well —as
already mentioned their only water
supply. Three days later a swag-
man came along, and descending
with a saw and an axe, removed
the carcase in sections. This is a
true story, arid it illustrates some
more of the joys of going on the
land—or the dust.
* • •
The camel has moved on yet
another step. At latest, four of him
were hitched to the road-roller at
Menzies, Westralia. And, with a
white man alongside, they did first-
rate.
WHEN DOG MEETS DOG—A SEASONABLE ITEM.
Ist. Dog: “Ello! what yer got?" 2ND. DOG: “Saveloy.” 1ST. DOG : "Ugh!
yer cannibal.”
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Leslie W. Craw (Melb.): And to us! After
that our life has indeed been a failure... .Omeo : A meet-
ing was held, and “certain statements” were made about
an unnamed person, and you send a sketch representing
four persons, not named, saying that things had better
be allowed to drop. Thanks O.M.A. : You obviously
have abilities. Why waste them on such subjects ? Why
not mend boots ?.... J. Brown : Story weakened by want
of specific facts—places, dates, names, and other par-
ticulars. .. .Karomah : What you call a drawback is just
where the advantage comes in. With a Ministry elected
by Parliament for a fixed term, on the Swiss plan, Parlia-
ment would “ ipake all sorts of amendments with im-
punity” on its Bills. It would be understood that it
could'do so without thereby expressing any lack of con-
fidence in the Ministry. Under the present system the
House is always saying, “ This is a bad Bill, but if we
don’t pass it the Ministry must resign, and it is the best
Ministry we are likely to get—so we must pass the Bill.”
If when you had a clerk or other employee you must allow
him to do absolutely as he pleased, or else sack him
and get another on the same terms —if you weren’t
allowed to direct him, or admonish him, but must
agree to everything he did or else fire him out-
how would your business get on ? The Ministry, under the
present system, is that clerk, and the House is y0u....
E.L. : In the Argus obituary notice Dill was stated to
have been fhe manager of the paper for a few years in the
>oO’s Dimb : Name and address must always appear on
face of MS., not merely in accompanying letter. By the
way, we don’t want any accompanying letter; good
“ copy ” always speaks for itself.... Mabel : Bush rhyme
too ladylike T.E.S. : Good idea; put it in half the
QUID PRO QUO.
The link that binds Australian politicians to Mr. John Bull.
space.... J.B. (Tas.) : Not sufficiently interesting-. (Name
and address always, please.)... .O.E.F. : It may be all
true, but anyhow it has all the points of an ingenious and
deadly libel... .O.M. : Tanqueray, of Paris, photographer,
is a rogue, but Tub Bulletin has no more space to waste
upon him. Why doesn’t the Post-Office intercept his cir-
culars ? Toko : One good par. Balance lost the ’bus.
Judas : But pray don’t get so excited because
Bulletin’s lady-writer spoke of “ sprays of ripe hips.”
The hip is only the fruit of the wild-briar. It wasn’t an
allusion to any part of a human figure Pukaki : But
wasn’t Chamberlain speaking rather too generally when
he told Wax. Madden that the plea of an act of State
would not avail against a British subject ? The M.L.
Public Health Act, passed in 1900, provides that certain
acts of Govt, are “ acts of State, and are not to be called
in question in any court whatever.” Stout, O.J.’s, re-
marks on first reading this clause are said to have been
highly picturesque.. ..Boomerang : Back it goes 1....
BS -'The dullness and foolishness, rather than the blue-
ness ’’ of “ Man and his Makers” accounted for the play i
failure in London. In its amended form it is said to
have impressed provincial audiences. British provincial*
are easily impressed Smilax :If they must have a
Queen Victoria memorial in Melbourne, why not spend
most of the money on an airy tea-room for one of the pub-
lic reserves —say the Exhibition Gardens keeping back a
certain amount for painting and repairs, and the subsidy,
if necessary, of the refreshment provider?.. ..Stargazer
and Planet-believer : Just so. But don’t you think it is a
waste of crumpled paper and faint ink to try converting
us to a faith in astrology? W.F.H. : You say “ Either
lam a darned fool or your leader-writer is.” Well, you are!
Your letter is the silliest hash of undigested and misunder-
stood book-theories that we have met for a long time.....
Ghost-S. : Its life-truth may carry it into print.. ..Quilp
N. : Shows observation, and promises better things, but
lacks interest Point Blank: Pretty gruesome, but
gruesomeness needs a more artistic hand.. ..Hamer :
Yarn hardly good enough; verses may do Oharon :
“ Podsnappery ” means the most stodgy and fat-headed
kind of British insular self-satisfaction—satirised by
Dickens in “Our Mutual Friend.” Adavem: Boils
down to very ordinary seduction item... .Antennse : How
tastes do differ ! We recognised it as an ingenious per-
jury, but couldn’t raise a laugh over the thing....
Francis V. : Verse no good ; try something in prose
W. McD. (Ad.): Promising : re-write with double rhymes,
and improve that awful scrawl.... Papoose: Returned with
comment M. Wallis: Write more plainly, and number
your sheets....H.B.H. : Echo of a better piece printed...
Judas : Too long-winded. Put your pars, in one-third
the space Knew K. : Put your steam into public
agitation W.J.D. :No name or address. Is it truth
or spite? Ke Seatha: Promising; but you want
practice—years of it T.H.M. : None up .Mac :
We have arrived at the conclusion that Mayor
Gillott is in all respects a solemn failure as a public per-
sonage. Australia has no more competent attorney than
the Mayor, who should stick to law Ren (Melb ; ):
Yes, the Abbotsford Asylum is an undenominational in-
stitution, conducted by good women in the interests of
humanity Meo :It isn’t, a matter for rejoicing that
somebody’s smoky chimney is likely to prove a nuisance
to somebody else, even though the other person is of the
vice-regal persuasion.... Adelaide: The art of self-adver-
tising is not confined to one member of the W. Barrett
co. Some of the girls have got it badly T.D. : But
then the singer who makes no headway in Melbourne, or
anywhere else, is rarely deserving of encouragement. A
first-rate voice is its own reward, and professional vocal-
ists who are always struggling ought to struggle in some
other sphere of industry... .L.B.E. :It is very sweet as
strong operatic voices go, but to say that none more
“ beautiful ” has ever been heard in Australia is a libel on
such sweet tenor singers as Newbury and the veteran
Beaumont. If you were to hear Dani and Newbury sing
“Spirito Gentil” in turn upon the same platform you’d
know the difference between a beautiful and a serviceable
tenor voice Hippai: Only send what you think really
interesting, and be as brief as possible in the telling....
Belay: Don’t remember the verses in question. May
possibly turn up R.V.K. : “Recovering” has hardly
humor enough for the subject A.C.H. : A pretty little
bit, but not enough in it... .Betrayer : All have a certain
amount of force and skill, but they smack of imi-
tation, and the literary blemishes are numer-
ous J.A.B. : Your hand lacks strength and
delicacy W.N.O. : No literary merit Dip.
(B.): Thanks, but substance of it already printed —..
O. (W.A.): No savee... .L.O. (Mt. L.): Right out of
Bulletin track.... A.W. : “Aborigine” is the noun;
“ aboriginal ”is the adjective Yahina : Glad to have
acceptable items, but we don’t issue “ authorisations,”
which lead to too much public waving of big note-books.
“Fluff ” : Boil it all down. You are long-winded....
Judas: Cannery item looks full of legal trouble, so we
pass A. Mae.B. : Bulletin doesn’t like being made the
involuntary bailee of vast masses of “ valuable ” news-
clippings Thurla : Ant item spoilt by obvious lie at
end B.S. : Alas ! that the niggers should be deprived
of their red flannel petticoats in order that the white
children may suck their lollie-sticks..... Jack-a-Clubs:
“ What happened to them?" Basket! Both silly


legislative council jubilee.
in consequenoe of the jubilee of the first Legis-.
lative Counoil body in Victoria being in next*
November—the first Legislative Council of Vic-
toria having met in St. Patrick’s Hall on Novem-
ber 11, 1851—Mr. R. A. Crouoh, M.P., recently.,
wrote-to the State Premier (Mr. Peacock) inquir-'
ing whether it was proposed to celebrate in any
way the iubilee of so interesting an occasion. _The\
Cabinet has considered the matter, and Mr. Pea- j
cock has replied that it is not intended by the
State Government to take any action.
/
We -f e N
Juii Ue N \ i
jlje I
, o«7
vi^H ire -
Sunburt.—At the local court on Friday* before)
Messrs. H. Clarkson and Ml _ "M‘Mahon, J’s.P.,
Michael Byrne, a stone-breaker, was charged with
being the oocnpier of a hut in the town, used
mainly by swagsmen as a camping place, and
allowing a nuisance to exist on the premises.
The owner of the but was oalled. but would give
no information as to the occupants, as he left the
matter io the hands of an agent, who was not
present. The defendant, on being sworn, said he
obtained work from the agent's father, and was
told he could live in the house on the same
arrangements as some other men there, which was
the payment of Is. per week. The amount was
deducted from his wages each week, and, so far
as knew, he was not responsible for the sanitary
arrangements, or considered the principal lodger
in the hut. The Bench admitted the difficulty of
the question of occupancy, and considered the
man merited some consideration, but as someomf
had to suffer, they inflicted a fine of 10a.. or three
days’ imprisonment.
II
|rj justice otj'ftfe fe*ce 1
— e«7_W
ttasfaord 'orrt* l
ct'inye tec*7
a,a yeK '+*'*7 V'cce«7'tj
so^co 7 c <w v e
>7 V w' y :.-w
' 7 m xv i/rJ '*y« n 7 eKc y °*7 /«•"
k'"so«7 suffer
B^Tg^ 0 * 7
e
f '#f B V'*»''Vv^V 1 * a* ° t^ e -sy'“'^> o
vis> e-
. t y»'Y °'
x y^
/F / 7
\m P 7
XJ/r B'*o A /
Hr pv \/
m m
W W ' Nq il /
i /vra,
i liji*
Wee/<£
I CopcetT
w^AofV l^
ts>
age pensioners, f
I las. Stewart aired Tuosda-r-
-| was found by Senior Oonsf°w " a f? P oasi °ner, I
[hut in a helpfcS andS?r^ ble oone 5’ *
I old man was unablo to w I ® on^l^ l0 * 1 * The 1
fesSH=£§#i
jus admission into the hospital! “ a /i
'■fjM \« **o u
Mf*""
Ssp*
. o,<l I p-
-frtet)d reSeque'
CHASED BY A WHALE.
Portarmngton, Tuesday.
Yesterday whilst Patrick Corrigan, a.
fisherman at St. Leonards, was fishing from
his boat near the West Channel pile light,
he noticed in the distance the whale whose
appearance has previously been reported.
The in annual sounded, and after a time Cor-
rigan was surprised to see the monster coming
straight for his boat. He quickly got his
craft out of the way, but was almost, cap-
sized by the swell from the whale as it
passed by Corrigan got on the deck of his
boat and stamped his feet, in the hope of
frightening the great fish, but was surprised
to see it coming towards his lx>at once more.
The fisherman, not earing for the whale’s
company, sailed for St Leonards.
To U S 'if**' Corry sr
, s £1 fijir fol.'tO-jiV'?
Or bor $ bitT~ tyo nybft'Vr.
18 “Wless to blame the Tramway Com.
pany, anr) silly also, because so long as it fol.
e consider the
interests of the shareholders—m fact it has
an obligation to do so. When the tram line
become public property we can do as
please with them and assuredly penny sec.
tions will then be demanded and certain
branch lines will be made at once. The ques
turn would now seem to be, can the period n
public ownership be anticipated by purchase
for 1 further period of thi ''
it is ? f e ? ears the situation u
P «'CE
■—/
MELBOURNIAN A.


<f
< y’ Jb"
ep *>V
<& # &
/> -,& .e-
--€» qV)
<?"
/f/
<V
df
v
Then the machinery of the law is to be set in motion to put a stop to juvenile
smoking—that is, if nothing happens to Dr. Ross’s little Bill.
THE MARRIAGE LAWS.
S'AMENDING BILL INTRODUCED
Y ' REGULATION OK MATRIMONIAL
1 AGENCIES.
I la the Legislative Council Mr. SUTTOR moved
the eecond reading of ihc Marriagea Bill
Clauses
had been framed to meet the objectionable meth-
ods, of celebrating marriages that had ’become so
common ln_3ydney, with a view to putting < stop
to them.
Suggestion for a stained-glass window,
for the proposed new N.S.W. Parliament)
House.
In moving the second reading of the Women's Franchise
Bill, Mr. See said “ that they (women) were not at present
asking for the right, to sit in Parliament. But personally he
could see no reason against it if they wanted to ” v*
In the Upper House Mi F B
Suttor has invented n contrivance
for clipping the wings nf Cupid
unemployed.
Scene : The Domain.
Parsqx : “Since all these goodly laws that we of the clergy have been so
long crying out for have actually come into operation, you and I
really have nothing to do, people have turned so good, here we'
are swelling the ranks of the Unemployed. What shall we do?
1 he D—],: “ Oh, let’s form ourselves into a deputation to O’Sullivan.
I) A GLIMPSE OF THE POLITI
CAL FUTURE. *
Here you see the meinbress for Wynotte moving the second reading of
Hie Rage for Dissent Bill, while a Minister of the Crown (saj Mr.
th ick, for example) minds tier baby for lier.
MAKING SAINTS BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT.


THAT NAME,
AUNDERS,
ON A WATCH
IS A GUARANTEE YOU HAVE A RELIABLE ARTICLE.
'dumij;
V*/
dt«n>
*
A. SATJNDEES.
WATERBURY WATCHES.
New Shortwind, 10s ; Guard, 12b 6d ; Series J, 16s
6d ; Railway, 18s 6d ; New Model Gent.’s, 20s ;
Silver, 85s ; Gold, .£2 15s and .£3.
All the above Watohes are Specially Regulated
and Oiled.
20s.
20s.
S
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ WATCH.
Black or Nickel Silver, Keyless, Reliable Works,
20s i Pure Silver, 35s 5
Solid Gold, £2 10s, £8 10s.
For a Cheap, Reliable Watch these are
Recommended.
Series J,
16s 6d»
I
..
mmzz*
m'-£
m
§ 3
s' ”
USES
m/M&.
m
rS!^
p-
m
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN and MINERS.
ROTHERHAM SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH LEVELS,
Full Cap, Hand Finished, Extra Jewelled Works, Peridot
Timekeeper, with Pure Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight,
£3 10s. Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance, £4 10s,
£5, £5 10s, £6.
A written certificate for 3,4, and 5 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
Solid
Gold,
£7los.
V
# ./•:
ms
MB
'
wMWmM
14ct. Solii
j Gold,
£lO.
A. SAUNDEKS.
PEESENTATION GOLD WATCHES.
SPECIALLY MADE SOLID GOLD KEYLESS
WALTHAMS,
| Works, Extra Jewelled Actions, Chronometer Balance,
£7 lus. 14ct. Solid Gold, £lO ; 18ct. Solid Gold, £l2 10s,
£l5, ‘ 20. Guaranteed for 3,4, 5, and £ Years.
20s,
20s.
A SAUNDERS
“UNRIVALLED” NON-MAGNETIC LEVER.
Strong, Reliable, Perfeot Timekeeper, Screw Cases,
Dust and Water Tight, 20s ; Solid Silver Cases’
35s ; Hunters, £2. A Written Certificate with the
“ Unrivalled.”
The KNOCKABOUT LEVER, 15s
The MARVEL, 8s fid.
m ios,
m ios.
m
A SAUNDERS
LADIES’ WALTHAM SOLID GOLD KEYLESS.
{-Movement, Chronometer Balance, Jewelled, Per-
fect Timekeeper, Extra Strong Cases. EullSize, £6
10s ; Small Size, £5 10s. Pure Solid Silver, Same
Works, £2 10s and £B.
Guarantee 4 Years to keep in Thorough Repair.
Nickel,
255.
A. SAUNDERS.
“LONDON LEVER.”
Extra Finished, f-Lever, Full Chronometer Balance,
Dust and Water Tight Screw Cases, 25s ; Silver,
£2 2s ; Silver Hunting Cases, £2 10s and £3.
A Written Certificate for 2 and 8 Years.
Silver,
£2 2s.
18ct. Gold,
£5 10s.
Send
for
Illustrated
Book,
Post
Free,
18ct. Gold,
±5 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold, Full Jewelled f-Watch, Most
Reliable Timekeeper, £5 10s ; Large Size, £6. In
Solid Silver, £2 ; Large Size, £2 10s.
These Watches are Beautifully Chased, and
Guaranteed for 3 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
WALTHAM RAILWAY KEYLESS LEVERS.
LARGE SIZE , as supplied to all the Railways in Australia, with Screw
Dust-tight Cases. The Works are Strong, with full Chronometer Balance. £2,
£2 10s, £3 ; Solid Silver, £4, 5, £6, £7, 18. Price of these Watches are accord-
ing to the grade of works.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years.
Thousands in wear give untold satisfaction.
Guarantee
Satis-
faction.
/
M®,
M
Bend lor
1901
Price List.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESENTATION SOLID GOLD ROTHERHAM'S. f-PLATE
KEYLESS LEVERS,
Pull Chronometer Balance, 19 Jewels action, Hand Finished, with Dust-tight
Cases, £lO l(is and £l2 10s. 18ct. Solid Gold, 115, £2O.
4,5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee..
Inscription for Presentation Engraved Free.
Nickel,
355.
A. SAUNDERS.
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Special Direct Agents.
Silverloid O.F. Keyless, f Works with Chronometer
Balance, 85s ; Hunters, £2 ; Pure Solid Silver
Hunting Cases, Extra Quality Movements, £2 los,
£3 10s, £4, and £5 ; Gold Patent Cases Wal-
thams, £4 4s, £5 ss.
Solid
Silver,
£2los.
14ct.
Gold,
£8 10s
; . p -
.
mm
i ss
18ct.
Gold,
m.
A. SAUNDEBS.
18ot. Solid Gold Keyless WALTHAM LEVEE,
Full Jewelled Works, Patent Action, New Model,
£lO, £l2 10s. '
You Can’t Get a Better Watch.
14ct. Solid Gold, ' 8 10s.
vjv£
«9
s
11
* ' :
SB
A. SAUNDERS.
SPECIAL MADE “ ROTHERHAM ” KEYLESS
ENGLISH LEVERS.
The Most Reliable and Best Finished Watches made. Guaran-
teed to give the utmost satisfaction. Pure Solid Silver Hunting
Cases, Extra Finished Works, 15. Extra Quality, 5 10s;
Superior Quality, 16, £7 ; Acme, £B.
These Watches are made especially for A. Saunders only.
Guaranteed for 5 and 6 Years.
Silver,
£5.
rjpysr f%/'%
&
A.SAUNDSRS racists CCORCCSS ) 1 =*“
H 5. J./SYDNCIr\.
BR>/
111 imWTrnniv\" v
Silver,
“ FLY-BACK CHEONOMETEES.”
These we have at Every Price and Style. In Solid Nickel or
Black, 30s ; Extra Quality, fc'2, f'2 10s ; Split Seconds, £3 10a.
Pure Solid Silver, £5, £6, t 7, £B, and £lO ; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O,
! 25, and I'3o. A written certificate lor 2, 3. 4,5, and 6 years.
TEY ONE.
ser A. SAUNDERS. WATCHMAKER, 815 GEORGE-STREET
NEARLY OPPOSITE RAILWAY
station.
SYDNEY.


Bananaland’s nomenclature (like its popu 4
lation) is fearsomely foreignised. T’other day at a
Brisbane police-court Jone Strutt was charged
with having stolen a watch, the property of
Kaden Kaugga .Abdul Adjua Kiai Abdvel Halim.
J ust think of it 1
“ Hurstville ” writes :
About time N.S.W. Railway Commissioners did away,
with first-class carriages on suburban trains. During the
busy hours every train leaving Redfern is overcrowded in
the second-class portion, while there may be 20 passen-
gers in the rest of the train. Writer used to have his pet
corn trodden upon with monotonous regularity until he
decided to be hustled by the common crowd no longer ;
he now lolls back in lordly fashion in a first-class carriage.
He has now been lolling for about two months, for appa-
rently outgoing passengers are not troubled by a ticket-
checker.
Novel argument of a Dunedin (M.L.)
lawyer: “If a wife isn’t destitute there’s no
obligation on the part of her husband to support
her. That she is his wife has nothing to do with
it; unless she is destitute, she has no claim what-
ever ; and if she is destitute, sl.e can be awarded
not more than £1 a week, even though her hus-
band were the manager of a bank at £2OOO a
year.”
“Quad”: Sydney Water and Sewerage
Board devoted 30min. to discussing whether £3
should be accepted for the right to pick wattle-
bloom at Potts-hill reservoir. Then another half-
hour was spent over the appointment of a waste-
water inspector at £l2O per an. with uniform
thrown in. There were 32 applicants, all Board’s
employees. The wasted hour cost a suffering
country £2O in fees to members, without salary of
president, secretary, and shorthand reporter.
The Board members draw £5 for each sitting of
one to one-and-a-half hours, and above is a sample
of their weekly work, such as could be transacted
by official heads more expeditiously, more satis-
factorily, and at a minimum of cost. However,
fat fees for political deadbeats must be found, and
this helps to find them.
Fortr
m
MI
H
It
Under Royal
Patronage.
KOKO for the Hair ’s a tonic, cleansing, invigorat-
ing and delightfully cooling preparation, causes the
hair to grow luxuriantly, keeps it soft and pliant,
eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling and
turning grey, promotes growth, contains no dye or
greasy substance, is the most cleanly of all hair
preparations, and is perfectly harmless. The unique
testimonials - received prove it to be undoubtedly
the best dressing for the hair. 1/-, 2/6, and 4/6, of
all Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Australian Depot: Koko-Maricopas Go., Ld.,
14, Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
CAUTION.
See that this registered Trade
Mark is on every bottle.
LIFE HAS
A RELISH
SAUC
When our meals are
seasoned with
'&TM# z.t?
SA UCE*
QUALITY IS HIGHER HERE
And the Prices are as Low as elsewhere for humdrum
styles. That is one of the advantages of buying from us.
No. W 7. Silver-Plated Hair-Pin
Box, 8a 6d.
No. W 9. Silver-Plated Jewel-Case,
Satin-lined, £1 Is.
No. W 24. Embossed and Silver-
Plated Etair-Pin Box, 10s 6d.
No. F5173A. Silver-
Plated Spectacle
Case, 10s 6d.
No. F 839. Silver-Plated Butter Dish,
with Knife, 9s 6d.
es>
No. W2OlB. Eftp-Shape Satin-lined
Jewel-Case, best Silver-Plated, £1 Is.
No. F 4457. Silver-Plated Ink-
Stand, 18s 6d.
No. W 36. Best Silver-Plated
Shaving Mug, £1 2s 6d.
No. F 4587. Leather
Spectacle Case,
Plated Mounts,
7s 6d.
No. F 4707. Carved Ivory Handle Bread Fork, 11s 6d.
No. F 4588. Silver Glove Button-Hook, 2s.
No. E 9070. Combination Egg- Frame and
Cruet, Cut-Glass and Best Silver-Plate,
£1 15s.
No. F 4709. Oarved Pearl
Handle Bread Fork, 13/6.
S 3
. .1
No. v F4S49. Silver-Plated Fern Pot,
Height, 8 Inches, £3.
Write for our Illustrated Catalogue.*
Stewart Dawson & Co
4 12 GEORGE STREET and STRAND, SYDNEY.
MINISTERS’
TESTIMONY.
Brighton Road, Crewton, Derby.
I have tested the Kutnow’s Carlsbad Powder
you kindly sent me a few weeks ago, and find it
a thoroughly efficient and pleasant medicine. It
does not appear to leave any undesirable effects
on the system, and I have much pleasure in
testifying to its merits. I shall recommend it.—
Yours truly',
, A. P. SANDERS (Congl. Minister).
82, Marine Parade, Worthing.
You kindly sent me physician’s sample of your
(Kutnow’s) Powder. ... Taken half-an-hour
before breakfast it is the pleasantest effervescent
draught I know, and very effectual after that
meal.’' My rheumatic gout is much benefited
by .it. (Rev.) J. G. MEDLAND.
The Manse, Narberth, Pembrokeshire.
Many thanks for a sample of your “Carlsbad
Powder.” I have tested it, and think that it is
excellent—the very best I have tried —and shall
have a bottle of it through the chemist.
RHYS HARRIES (Congl. Minister).
7, Manor Road, Leyton.
Thanks for your sample of Carlsbad Powder. I
have tested it, and consider it a mild and efficient
aperient.
(Rev.) HENRY MOULSON (Congl. Minister).
New Brampton, Chesterfield.
Some little time ago you were good enough to
send me a sample of your Carlsbad Powder, and,
being just then troubled with a slight attack of
rheumatie gout, I was glad to have the oppor-
tunity of testing the efficacy of your Powder. I
certainly think that I derived considerable tem-
porary benefit from its use, and found it most
palatable to the taste. ... I shall have great
pleasure in recommending it to my friends, as I
have no doubt it will prove highly efficacious in
many ®f those gouty and rheumatic affections so
common in the present day.
(Rev.) J. E. HOWE.
Cwm, Waunllwyd, Mon.
I have to thank you for sending me a trial
sample of Kutnow’s Improved Effervescent Carls-
bad Powder. The Powder has done me more
good than anything I have yet tried, and shall
continue to use it. Please be kind enough to for-
ward a large bottle to my address, for which you
will find P.O. for 3s.
THOS. THOMAS (Baptist Minister).
Forton Barracks, Gosport.
I beg to state that I received the samples you
sent me in due course, and have been much
pleased with tl.e Carlsbad Powder, and have
ordered a bottle from the local chemist, which I
hope will benefit me, suffering as I do from uric
acid in the blood.
S. A. SHONE, Chaplain, R.N.
to 0/tAe fycyal Sw/rric/q/ .
UT »..***»,*-
IMPROVED EFFERVESCENT CARLSBAD
WDE
c#
SPRING
* a:, -v'
DERANGEMENTS
• OF THE
LIVERSTOMACH.KIDNEYS&INTESTINES*
The Medical Journal (April, 1901)
Says :
AS A SUBSTITUTE for the European medicinal spring treatment for CONSTIPATION, many
eminent medical men and the most prominent medical journals have recommended KUTNOWS
Improved Effervescent Carlsbad POWDER, as the same is a portable economical, reliable, »nd very
agreeable remedy, extensively employed by the profession to whose further attention it fa
It exercises a beneficial effect on the liver, gall-bladder, kidneys, and stomach. The flavour is
refreshing, and it is readily taken by women and children. It has also been successfully prescribed in
diabetes, and for the correction of the lithic and uric acid diathesis, with or without jaundice, constipa-
tion acid dyspepsia and hemorrhoids. “Its advantages, says a medical correspondent, appear to arise
from its possessing the power to eliminate from the body the excess of bile and acids, thereby purifying the
blood and strengthening the general tone by improving the assimilative processes of the debilitated system.
Consequently, it has a salutary effect in cases of hypochondriasis associated with low spirits and general
depression.”
For the above reasons KUTNOW’S Improved Effervescent Carlsbad POWDER has been employed,
under the highest medical authorities, for patients leading sedentary lives, and those “Om
abnormal accumulations of fat. For corpulent women in particular physicians will find it pleasant
remedy when aided by the appropriate diet. The well-to-do classes, with leisure to command, periodically
seek the cleansing and health-restoring medicinal spas of the Continent. Of the millions of sufferers, how-
ever only comparatively very few are favored by such fortunate circumstances as to enable them to
fndulge in the luxury of a trip to the Continent. Therefore, as a boon to suffering humanity Kutnow s
Improved Effervescent Cailsbad Powder won by sheer sterling merit the approval^ of such authorities as
Sir Spencer Wells, M.D., Professor Lawson Tait, M.D., Sir Morrell Mackenzie, M.D., Sir Andrew Clark,
M.D., and the most eminent physicians everywhere.
LIVER
LOGIC.
The Liver is the main spring of the system.
When active it is the great purifying organ.
When sluggish it easily develops a poisonous
tendency, contaminating all the great
organs.
The Liver both secretes and excretes.
It secretes about three pounds of bile daily. •
It excretes impurities and waste materials.
The Liver is the sewage fawn of the body, and
since it is the sieve it must perforce be kept
clean, otherwise it becomes sluggish.
If the Liver is sluggish it cannot expel its refuse,
and as it must go somewhere it is absorbed
back into the blood, causing biliousness and
often jaundice.
The Liver also makes from the blood a kind of
Sugar, which, if healthy, is used up as
nourishment.
If the sugar is excessive or inferior it cannot be
so used; it then escapes into the urine,
causing diabetes.
A Torpid Liver develops uric acid, gout and
rheumatism in predisposed subjects.
The absolute, incontestible remedy for all this,
and the one which never fails, is Nature’s
Great Restorative, Kutnow’s Improved Effer-
vescent Carlsbad Powder.
This Powder is made by an ingenious expedient
from the health-giving medicinal springs of
the Continental Spas.
It is improved by removing all drastic or lowering
properties.
It is gentle and pleasant, but the greatest of all
Stimulators of the Liver.
• KUTNOfV’S POWDER may
be obtained at any chemist or
medicine vendor in capsuled
' bottles, but care must be taken
to see that it is Kutnow’s.
Don’t accept suggested substi-
tutes, they are worthless.
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW and GO., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.
Proprietors in U.S.A. : KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York


There is one place in Sydney where the
business of money-lending is carried on in an
equitable manner and where those in need of
financial accommodation can rely on being
decently treated. The sensible man who wishes
to get rid of his monetary worries at a minimum
of cost and trouble to himself goes to the offices of
the Australian Equitable Investment Co., Ltd.
The co. has a large capital for investment at low
interest, and is always open to advance money on
risks which.-the banks would decline; and acts
generally as a medium between the banks and;
ordinary money-lenders. Men in business can’
obtain assistance for their venture at a figure
which will leave them a fair profit for themselves.
The co. advances money to any extent on deeds of
land, bond.warrants, merchandise, stock in trade,
scrip, interests under wills, furniture and all classes
of security. Press notices which have been pub-
lished from time to time express the favorable
opinion which generally exists regarding the co.
Mr. J. E. O’Brien is the Managing Director, and
the co.’s offices are at 45 Elizabeth-street, between
King and Hunter-streets.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is tiie largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage-
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has.
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a-
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee-
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
We learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attached to every bottle of Condy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
during most of the ailments and accidents
affecting Horses, Bogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry.,
and Birds of all kinds.
Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses. —Scab, Foot Rot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Rinderpest, Hoove, Ford in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle.—Distemper
Mange, Canker, and Eczema in Dogs.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of local substitutes, oH re
inferior. Insist on-having Condy’s Fluid.-
wmm
&O TO HELI,-
« IGOLA Nl> for ..Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
foreign stamp importer,
74 Elizaleth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price*
Us gratis.
HATS. HATS. HATS.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes iitted with this
valuable invention.
Catalogue to B. MOUlltCaStle Jk SOIIS,
Qckkn Stheet, BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY » CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, GJasaware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
83?“ Sales Held at the Auction ttootns.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
For the Hair
L
m
It is the most reliable and the best,
preparation for the hair, you can obtain.,
no years success proves this. It
PRESERVES THE HAIR
restores it when thin or withered, cures
baldness, eradicates scurf, is specially
adapted for Ladies'and Childrens’ Hair,,
and is also sold in a
GOLDEN COLOUR
for fair or grey hair, which does nc.-
stain or darken the hair, or linen..
Sold by Stores or Chemists. Ask for
Rowlands,67, Hatton Garden,London.
high-grade
farm—-
ZJ
Vlassey-Harris Co. Ltd
35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Says Jack Murray, of Warrnambool :
“This country is threatened with.two great dan-
gers—the military caste and the Kanaka half-
caste.”
A curiosity of the N.S.W. electoral system
comes into strong light in the fact that out of the
125 sitting members only 13 polled as many votes
as Robert Jones, the rejected of Mudgee.
The composition of the See Ministry has a
disheartening effect on N.S.W. anti-liquorites.
But Reid, who had five prohibitionists in his
Cabinet, gave them nothing but watery talk.
POLICY.
Does England gather from the farms
And slay the babies of the Boer
Lest they should live to carry arms
Before the ending of the war ?
J. L. Fegan’s motion in favor of woman
suffrage two years ago passed N.S.W. Leg. As-
sembly by 61 to 5. Premier See, in re-introducing
the measure, was, therefore, able to be bumptious
over a sure thing.
Victorian M.P. in a Melb. city bar, on the
question of the reduction of the number of the
members of State Parliament: “Do you think
I’m goin’to vote myself out of Parliament after
all the blahky trouble I had to get in ?”
It was declared in the Assembly the other
night that 95 per cent, of N.S.W. hotels are tied
houses. The dying brewer bequeaths a few dozen
publicans to his son just as the old Arkansas
planter used to bequeath a few dozen niggers.
One of George Reid’s innumerable broken
promises was that he would pass a measure
amalgamating the two N.S.W. Savings Banks,
and convert them into a State Bank of issue.
It went the way of his Local Government Bill,
his Council Reform Bill, his Closer Settlement
Bill, financial reform, and his abolition of the pro-
tective sugar-duties, and his half-promised
absentee tax and graduated land-tax, and every-
thing else. Now the long-lost item turns up again
in Premier See’s programme. What will happen
to it this time ?
MR. WILSON BARRETT.
Senator Keating is an unanswerable young
man when he asks for a Federal Government line
of steamships between Tasmania and the Common-
wealth mainland, and for a Federal Govt, pur-
chase of the inter-State cable. -Ip these matters
it is not even the question of exorbitant or in-
exorbitant changes by the Eastern Ex. Co. and
the Tasmanian steam-shippers, which Barton and
co. have to consider. If messages were cabled
gratis and passengers and freight were carried
free by the private co’s, the political anomaly
would remain. Federation of the postal and rail-
way systems of the continental States must neces-
sarily involve Govt, lines of communication with
Tasmania, otherwise that oasis in the ocean will
be out of Federal touch with the Commonwealth.
1 Judas : When I read the shrieks of
the Argus in re the horrors of Victorian Factory
Act, I think of one thing and picture another. I
think of the gallons of gall required to publish
some papers ; and I fancy I see a spectacled she-
ghost busy fanning a fainted flea.
N.S.W. public records are a valuable
property. Nevertheless, Parliament blindly sane-
tions an anyhow way of editing them. Will some
member draw attention to the fact that the editor
can and does suppress what to him appears right
to suppress ? And then, who is he ?
A N.S.W. Assembly reporter estimates
that if a reduction of, the Assembly membership
to 100 is proposed, there will be 50 votes for it ;
the other 75 members will vote against ituif they
dare. 1 Supposing a reduotion to 80 members is
proposed, there will be 20 or 25 votes for and 100
or more against.
The Jenkins (S.A.) Ministry is morally in
a minority in the Assembly, but doesn’t worry
about it a bit. The Laborites don’t love the
present office-holders, and the Fat party of course
loathes them, but the two can’t trust each other
enough to combine. It is fortunately impossible
to breed from the hippopotamus and the horse.
Senator Walker (N.S. W.), declares himself
strongly in favor of equal pay for equal work,
irrespective of sex. Good! But that is in the
public service. If report be reliable, however,
Mr. Walker helps to direct several companies and
corporations that pay male and female employees
unequally, though their work is admittedly equal.
The “ question-without-notice ” is becom-
ing a public nuisance in N.S.W. Assembly. On
one recent afternoon over 80 such queries were
submitted. One member demanded to know if
the Minister was aware that a pigsty had been
erected on Stable Greek ? Another asked did he
know that the refreshment-room in Centennial
Park closed too early ? And so on.
Adelaide has two daily and six weekly
papers of some standing, and of the whole eight
only one opposes the unspeakable Snow tramway
job. That is the Herald, the Labor weekly.
S’langdon Bonython’s spineless Advertiser—
which secured its position by supporting Kingston
—now opposes nationalisation of the tramways,
which was one of Kingston’s “ planks,” and sup-
ports Snow’s Westinghouse grab.
Vic. Opposition is amusingly tied-up over
the Factories Act. Irvine and Shiels would like
to jump on the Act, but they were in the Govern-
ment which appointed 11 of the existing Wages-
Boards in one wholesale batch, and most of the
trouble centres round these very Boards. There-
fore, recriminatory charges of carelessness could
be made. M‘Arthur, the docile henchman put up
to bait Peacock in the Assembly, was paralysed
when the Laughing Man fell on him with a thun-
dered exposure of the intrigues of the Act’s anta-
gonists.
The petition from the Society of
Friends, presented to the House of
Representatives by Mr. Knox (Vic.)
against obliging members of that reli-
gion to undergo military service,
should be firmly shelved. Law should
take no notice of religious scruples of
that sort. Many men outside any
definite religion have as strong a feel-
ing against the bloodshed of war as
Quakers have, but as law will not re-
spect their feeling, neither should it
when that feeling covers itself with
the aegis of some established system.
England yielded to the Quakers; but
when the Pope begged France to ex-
clude clerical students from conscrip-
tion drill, the French Government
much more logically refused to make
distinctions. Further, by forcing
Quakers to do their share of fighting
they will be forced to use their in-
fluence on behalf of peace. By allow-
ing them to stand out their influence
is liable to sleep.
New South Wales has paid its
first instalment of Old Age Pensions.
This makes the third Australasian
State, and the second State of the
Commonwealth, in which this noble
and humane principle has been estab-
lished. When it .is possible to .pay
Old Age Pensions in two States'
(population over 2,530,000} there is
surely no insuperable difficulty to pre-
vent the Federal Government paying
them in six States (population
3,777,000). More than two-thirds of
the work is done already ! As far as
concerns the raising of the money, the
Federal Government has the same
powers of taxation over the same
people that the States have, and
some extra powers of its own as
well.
Four years ago, S.M. Herald
yalorOusly advocated the reduotion of
N.S.W. Log. Assembly, in the event of Federa-
tion, to GO members. Now, it is so much afraid
of everybody that it confines itself to vague
generalities.
Sydney Daily Telegraph complains that
the Federal Govt, cannot get on with business
because it devotes a night each to every measure
figuring on the Barton manifesto, with an idea of
professing to get on with all the legislation in
the Governor-General’s speech. Simultaneously
it rails at the N.S.W. State Govt, for not proceed-
ing at once with the legislation promised in the
Governor’s speech. Anyone who could please the
D.T. two days running would be far too clever to
trust with the resources of this great country.
OUR MUCH-GOVERNED COUNTRY.
When (away on in the future) everybody else is either
a member of one of the 14 Aus. Legislatures, or the
seven or eight public services, or a municipal councillor,
or a member of the naval or military forces —then the
sole remaining Private Citizen will be prized as a
curiosity and taken care of.
Tucker, M.P., livened up S.A. Assembly
debates by accusing Roberts, M.P. (the Labor-
man who went to S’Africa as a lieutenant) of
cowardice, of drawing his pay as a M.P. whilst
away, returning in December on the pretext of
Parliamentary duties, and drawing pay ever since
in both capacities. At latest Roberts was clear-
ing the way for an expression of opinion about
Tucker, and the whole community was awaiting
details with breathless interest.
The Resumption of Land for Closer
Settlement Bill reappears in N.S.W. Assembly
after an absence of nearly six years. It was one
of George Reid’s innumerable broken promises,
and the servile Labor-party allowed him to drop
it with hardly a "word of protest. Probably it will
pass this time, for the See Government is a
Government that does things, even if it often does
them badly ; but the fact that it should appear as
a new measure in 1901 shows how far N.S.W. has
lagged behind in matters of legislation.
Premier See told the Bendigo Exhibition
people that N.S.W. would contribute nothing
to their Jubilee show. He admitted at the time
that he had not studied the question, but had
accepted the advice of three Under-Secretaries.
Last week, presumably after study, he announced
himself willing to contribute a little. Surely that
is giving away his confidential advisers! By
the way, Bendigo Jubilee Exhibition is being
run mainly by G. V. Allen, erstwhile chief of the
Age staff; and there is no politician breathing out
of whom G. Y. Allen couldn’t wheedle a grant if
he set his mind to the job.
Tasmania’s weary Great Western Railway
Co., which has for years been trying in England
to sell the right to build its frantic wild cat for
more than the value of the finished railway, has
stuck for funds once more, and even the feeble
pretence of digging a bole here and there along
the proposed track has left off. But the manage-
ment cables, for the dozenth time, that the old,
waterlogged cat will assuredly float in England
very shortly. Most of the expenditure on the
line so far seems to have been on cablegrams
assuring the public that the cat will float shortly.
Alas, it is the. dead cat that floats best.
Every new State Constitution—whether
built by Convention or Parliament—must contain
provision for the Initiative ; so that on the request
of a small fixed number of electors a referendum
shall be taken at the earliest opportunity (not
later than the ensuing general election) on a given
proposal—same, if accepted, to be forthwith em-
bodied in a Bill by the existing Govt. Both
Federal Houses have now passed resolutions
affirming the* desirability of Commonwealth
Factory legislation, if the State Parliaments see
fit to grant the power. A majority in most, if not
all, of the States would be only too willing, but
there is no force to compel the State Houses to
move.
The large hob-nailed boot of the Boss is
conspicuous all over the Referendum Bill which
Seddon has just steered through M.L. House of
Reps., but which was at latest making very heavy
weather in the Council. It provides that any
Government measure rejected by the Assembly
may be submitted to a popular vote ; but the pri-*
vate member whose Bill has been lost because
Seddon put his foot and the foot of his majority
on it has no appeal to the people against Seddon’s
decision. And the proposal that 5 per cent, of
the people might demand a Referendum on any
subject, even if it was a subject that Seddon
didn’t want “referended,” was flattened out by
the Boss with great force. Practically, the people
are to have the undeniable right of a referendum
on any subject Seddon submits to them.
Senator Pulsford, of N.S.W.,
desires to limit the Federal Govern-
ment’s power of acquiring land for
public purposes by allowing a State
to appeal to the High Court against
any proposed acquisition, and endow-
ing the High Court with power to
cancel it “if the acquisition does not
seem to be warranted.” This is
evidently intended to prevent the
Federal authority acquiring more
than a very small fragment of land
on which to establish its capital.
The smaller the area the further will
the increased land values (created by
the expenditure of Federal money on
the building of a capital) spread out-
side that area, to be mopped up by
N.S.W. so far as public lands are
concerned, and the N.S.W. private
landlord so far as concerns private
lands. In the interests of Australia
as a whole, the Federal territory
should extend to at least 5000 sq.
miles- but that would leave very
little boodle for the private Corn-
stalk land-grabber.
The British official (Sir David
Barbour) sent to report on the pros-
pects of the Transvaal thinks he sees
his way to govern that colony at a
charge of £4,332,000 yearly. If it
costs this much when all the expense
of its separate military establishment
is abolished it appears that the
alleged “extortionate” Transvaal
Government wasn’t so very remark-
able, after all. The Kruger crowd
ran things most years on a much
cheaper basis than this. Barbour
thinks that under his system the
Johannesburg mine-owners “won’t
be in a worse position ” than they
were under Kruger—which, consider-
ing their alleged awful condition
under Kruger, is indeed very com-
forting. And after all the shrieks
about the unbearable taxation levied
on the necessaries of life, Barbour casually
suggests that the Transvaal Government’s 7| per
cent, duties on articles of food should be abolished.
Seven-and-a-half-per cent. —and in six out of the
seven States of Australasia the duties on articles
of food vary from 10 to 75 per cent !
The Philp (Queensland) Government has
apparently gone mad on military ln
addition to its announcement that it is going to
raise and despatch troops “on its own,” in defiance
of the Federal Constitution, it is sending “ a
strongly-worded protest” because the Federal
Govt, ordered minute-guns to be fired and the
troops to wear black badges over the death of the
ex-Empress Frederick without consulting Philp.
The absurd Philp has now no more right to be
consulted on military matters than has the Mayor
of South Brisbane, but since he went to S’Africa
that very ordinary person appears to have swelled
up to six times his natural size on all matters
relating to guns and ammunition.
Even in England there is already a heavy
slump in what corresponds to the cohentingent
industry. London papers tell of Colonel Lucas, of
the Imperial Yeomanry, appealing to their former
employers to take his men back to their old billets.
Commenting thereon, says London Methodist
Weekly : —“ Our word to workmen on this matter
is to remember the probabilities of final treatment
should they enlist and fight. The military and
political authorities try all their blandishments
upon susceptible, emotional and brave men . . .
and then, when they have been disabled, turn
them adrift, and a grateful country lets them
starve ! There can be no plainer proof that work-
men are only wanted to serve as food for powder.”


Beethoven on the /Eolian
Kreutzer Sonata, Op. 47; Ada-
gio Sostenuto, Adante con
Variazioni, Presto
Moonlight Sonata, Op. 27
Adelaide
Coriolan Overture
Egmont Overture
Leonore Overture No. 3
Namensfeier Overture
Prometheus Overture
Die Weihe des Hauses Over-
ture
Kdnig Stephan Overture
Konig Stephan Triumphal
March
Fidelio, Abscheu'.icher
Fidelio Potpourri
Trauermarsch
Turkish March from Ruins of
Athens
Andante Favori, Op. 35
Hallelujah Chorus from Mount
of Olives
Klavier-Concert No. 3, Op. 37;
Allegro con brio, largo, Alle-
gro Molto
Klavier Concert No. 3, Op. 37;
Allegro con brio, rondo Alle-
gro
Klavier-Concert No. 4, Op 58;
Allegro Moderato, Rondo
Vivace
Nocturne, Op. 42; Allegro,
Minuet, Andante quasi Alle-
gro
Septet, Op. 20 ; Adagio, Allegro
con brio
Serenade, Op. 25 ; Andante
Serenade, Op 4 1 i Scherzando,
Adagio, Allegro Vivace
Sextuor, Op. 81 ; Allegro con
brio Adagio, Allegro
Sonata No. 1 ; Allegro, Ada-
gio
Sonata, Op. 2, No. 2; Largo
Sonata Op. 2, No. 3.; Allegro
Assai, Scherzo and Trio
Sonata, Op. 10, No 1 ; Allegro
Molto, Adagio Molto
Sonata, Op. xo, No. 3 ; Minu-
etto and Trio, Largo
Sonata, Op. 13 (Pathetique);
Grave, Allegro Molto, Alle-
gro, Adagio
Sonata, Op. 14, No. 2, Allegro
Sonata, Op. 22 ; Adagio
Sonata, Op. 26 ; Marcia Fune-
bre, Andante and Var, 1 and
5, Scherzo and Trio
Sonata, Op. 31, No. 3 ; Allegro
Sonata, Op. 49, No. 2 ; Tempo
di Menuetto
Sonata, Op. 81 ; Les Adieux,
l’ADsence, Le Retour
Symphony No. 1 ; Adagio Mol-
to, Allegro, Andante Cana-
bile, 1 Menuetto Adagio, Alle-
gro Vivace
Symphony No. 2 ; Adagio
Molto, Allegro con brio. Lar-
ghetto, Scherzo, Allegro
Molto
IHE STATEMENT that the iEolian will
play any piece of music ever composed
is so broad and sweeping that it many
times fails to impress the reader with
its wonderful significance. As a means
of affording a better idea of the enormous
repertoire of the iEolian we present herewith
partial list of the works of a single composer,
BEETHOVEN, that are included in the iEolian
music catalogue.
These are all arranged from the full orchestral
scores, complete and unabridged. Many of them
are never attempted upon the piano, and are played
only by large orchestras ; yet it is possible for any
one to play them on the iEolian correctly, and with
all the changes of tempo and expression.
Visitors always welcome. If unable to call, send for
catalogue C, giving full description.
:■
. . - ...
Henry M. Birge & Co.,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
323 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
The fEolian is sola at no other Address
in Sydney.
irloacl Wb.at
VITADATIO
ii— Doing.
HYDATIDS
.... AND
HYDATID CYSTS.
A Trouble as Bad as the Plague.
BUT WEBBER’S VITADATIO STILL
GRAPPLES THE DISEASE AND
REMOVES IT.
TAKE THE CASE OF MASTER LANE.
BURNIE, March 28, 1900.
MR. W. WEBBER, Launceston.
Dear Sir, —I am in receipt of your favor of the 22nd
ult. I must apologise for not acknowledging it before,
but have been waiting to further observe the effects of
your Vitadatio on my son. The information you ask for
1 will give willingly. My son, aged lOj years, for five
years previous to the use of your remedy had been suffer-
ing from a complication of diseases affecting the liver and
bowels, and during that time was under the treatment of
several medical men. Six months ago, his condition
being very critical, I determined to give your Vitadatio a
trial, having heard of its efficacy in a number of cases
somewhat similar to that of my son.
Before finishing the first bottle the effect was mar-
vellous, the patient vomiting and passing hydatids and
hydatid cysts. These conditions continued for about
three weeks, during which time the patient was unable
to take a morsel of solid food, and suffered extreme pain
almost continuously. After three weeks the vomiting
ceased and the lad rapidly recovered, gaining in weight
daily. He is now enjoying as good health as he ex-
perienced before the commencement of his illness 5-J, years
ago, and I can detect no symptoms of a return of his
trouble.
Mrs. Lane and myself firmly believe that his present
condition of good health is due to Webber’s Vitadatio,
and to Vitadatio only. You are at liberty to make what-
ever use you wish of this communication.—Yours faith-
fully, VV. H. LANE,
Painter, etc., Burnie.
P.S. —I may state that he has taken in all five bottles of
Vitadatio.—W.H.L.
It appears there was once doubt as to whether Master
Lane’s trouble was in reality a bad case of hydatids, and
a bottle of the disease which passed from the boy was
sent to the Bacteriological Institute at Melbourne, and
the Bacteriologist pronounced the contents of the bottle
to be hydatids and hydatid cysts, which is an additional
confirmation that Webber’s Vitadatio will cure this
dreadful disease, which is so prevalent all over the
Australian colonies.
For further particulars,
&• A. PALMER ,
184: Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
A POLICY FOR THE
Price 6d. ;
Posted, Bd.
commonwcalth
“Dodge” Standard
Blood Split pulleys
All Sizes kept in Stock.
SOLE AGENTS:
N. <aUTHRiP<S€ Ltd.,
71 Clarence St., Sydney.
SEND FOR CATALOG.-m
USB
SPOONER’S
-U
k: :
SPOONERS
v
*
*
IHTENT LEATHER BOOTS
’GLAZED KI05«
311
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream,
For Cleaning; and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Hacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Federated Malay States.
STRAITS SETTLEMENTS.
T\ 7" ANTED for the Survey Department, Negri Sembilan,
vv FOUR FIRST CLASS SURVEYORS (European or
Australian), competent to accurately survey long traverses
and to ascertain true bearing by sun observations.
The Term of Engagement is for 3 years. Salary $2400
per annum and Exchange Compensation (which at present
Rate of Exchange brings the value of the appointments to
about £3OO a year), and a‘ Consolidated Transport and
Field Allowance of $35 a month. Government will pro-
vide a Free Second Class Passage by Mail steamer or First
Class by any other line, and Return Passage on Expiry of
Agreement. Half Salary will be paid during the passage
out. Single men under 30 preferred. It will be necessary
to pass a Medical Examination on appointment.
Apply with certificates to the SUPERINTENDENT
REVENUE SURVEY'S, Serembau, Negri Sembilan.
ON OUR SELECTION
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
Sinking Pump.
GANZ& C°
DYNAMOS, MOTORS.
EVERYTHING ELECTRIC.
Expert Advice Free.
Sole Agents for Australasia, i
The Austral Otis Engineering Co. Ltd.
SOUTH MELBOURNE.
M‘DOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
M‘DOUGALL BROS., 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
A g enta; 3XT.ZS. XL.- Jfc. 3VE. -A.. 00.. Ltd. LOCAL AGENTS EVERYWHERE
REST THE IiUREEN
of your correspondence
on the
New Century
Typewriter instead of on your steno-
grapher, and you will get more work,
cleaner work, better work. It has no
equal for speed, lightness of touch and
durability. Fine new catalogue sent
free.
United Typewriter & Supplies Co.,
llh Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S. W.,Aus.
[florid's Record flrderj
The LARGEST TYPEWRITER ORDER
for the WHOLE WORLD . . .
Has recently been placed with UNITED TYPEWRITER
AND SUPPLIES CO. by the Austro-Hungarian Govern-
ment for
500 New Centurys
The New Century has been extensively ordered by N.S.W.
Government Departments, and is the Machine adopted by
His Excellency the GOVERNOR-GENERAL, and also
the State Governor, Sir Frederick Darley, K.C.M.G.
FOR CATALOGUE^
United Supplies Co.,
(By appointment to His Excellency the Governor-General)
114 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Hills
can always be ridden easier
on a machine fitted with
MULTIFLEX
Dun lqp Tyres
than on a cycle with other tyres fitted,
the difference being that DUNLOPS,
owing to their being lined with our
patent Flexifort Fabric, are
more resilient than any
other tyres made, thus enabling
cyclists to ride with the least possible
amount of vibration, and consequently
with more speed and comfort.
Multiflex
Excel all others for Lightness . . .
Durability, and Ease of Detachment.
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed for Twelve Months.
Send at Once for a copy of our artistic Booklet, “All About
Dunlop Tyres for 1901.” Forty pages, fully illustrated with photos
of motor cars, racing cracks, English and Australian views. Every
cyclist should obtain a copy, as it contains full particulars re the
management of Pneumatic Tyres. Posted gratis upon receipt of
application.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Australasia ltd.,
150 Clarence Street, Sydney;
AND AT ■ . ...
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies. &o.
Upon - all - Classes -
Security.—
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
<5
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3XT.S.-W.
flint deplete DJI. Co., ttd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
<74. CASTLEREAGH ST., *7 A.
SYDNEY ‘^
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
~ '—M’J 115—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; lion. C. J. Rouhrts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 —assuring £2G,055,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
*l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
The Dank of Port!) Queensland
LIM ITKI>.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director - JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... £100,090
Reserve Liability -of Share-
holders ... 250 900 ... £350,000
Queensland Smelting £mpg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough,
OUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
* * Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Den Zealand Insurance £o.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL .. £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
T*> 6 Trustees, CxectitorS,
AND
AgsiKV ConppaQy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business)
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901
£150,000 0 0
£90,000 0 0
£150,000 0 0
£BB5B 7 3
6,388,976 5 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq.., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.’;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BOItROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITKD. J
CAPITAL PAID-UP £385,187
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 245,119
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 55,000
£685,306
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Ass. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCH’JRCH LANE.
ITBO3O
A ccitlent
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lo n don.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors —Sydney : Sir W. M'Mili.an, Hon. A. VV. Meeks.
Adelaide : L. A. Jkssop, Esq. Wellington : H.
Beauchamp, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Berth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Established 1879.
THE '
United Australian fDutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Gapital £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital „.. , 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass-, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance.
YQENTS REQUIRED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
Alfred Webster, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE}
GEELONG
PORTLAND }
WARRNAMBOOLJ
Gabo, Saturday, Aug. 24, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., Aug. 31, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Bunijiyong-, Tues., Sept. 3, 5 p.m.
Albany
FREMANTLE
Buijinyong, Tues., Sept. 3, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROOKHAM ETON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, Aug. 24, 12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tues., Aug. 27, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Aug. 31,12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, Aug. 24, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, Aug. 31,12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. & c .
Lass' o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. I’nssenifers and Carjro
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Forts.
Pnack.. * K*?tMvailal.Je for Six Months.
'jg 1 ® tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
nm . », p o,,l P ar,l es. Full particulars on application.
Offices-M" un! Life Ihiil,lings, corner George and
Wynyard streets. °
Wharves— Foot of King-street.
THE “ALL RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OF THE
CANADIAM-AUSTRALIAN LIME
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, (Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney e v ery
four weeks as under, for
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the I.mi erial Route Home, as well as the mostat-
tracl ive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
coal oi Cape Horn. The. railroad journey between the
1 antic and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 days, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OK CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world—over the
Selkirk and liocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of take Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United Stales.
for Railway Maps, Guide Rooks, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders ’500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500.000
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY To LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and i'nOOO to £15,000 on BRO VD ACRES in Victoria
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Medical.
Is your Hus-
band, Son,
Brother, or
Father a
PRUNKARD
If so, send us your Name and Address, with Id. to cover
postage, and we will send you in a plain envelope our
Booklet giving full particulars how to give F-U 3RASY
secretly in Tea, Coffee, Food, etc. It is odorless and
tasteless, and will cure this dreadful habit quietly and
permanently without the Patient’s knowledge or consent.
GOOD FOR BOTH SEXES.
Write THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
JCL KCl'lllC
Jim/IS and
API-J.IANCICS
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which' is fully
explained in our “ ELEU-
TIUC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a s'eady sooth-
ing current that can be
1 1 It, by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt, that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not. we will
promptly.return tlit- full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICK. —Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric lira and Price List (post free), divine
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible Remedy.
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Gall or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Shipping
TH€ ABERDEEN LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL. CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Ited Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Vulyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
HXT. ID. L.
Three-Weekly mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to HONGKONG,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW'fiRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA and YAP.
G.M.S. NUEN TUNG, 1341 Tons,
Captain Schoenberg,
LEAVING SYDNEY, 27th SEPTEMBER NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing. Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage,- Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Publications.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza, -
BOX 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FOREIGN S T A IP S_
PO STAGE
m
mmm
FOUR PE
IMI
f iIIEAP SETS.— 40 Japan, Is 6d ;
47 Spain, 2s ; 4 Tientsin, 3d ;
16 Heligoland, Is : 8 Egypt, 6d;
30 French, 9d ; 7 Iceland, 9d ; 9
Labuan Pictorial, 2s 6d; 11 Canada,
6d; 9 Canada Duty, 6d ;5 Bolivia, 4d.
Packets 50, Is ; 100, 2s 6d. Stamps
Purchased. New Catalogue of
Stamps, Albums, etc., Gratis.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins-st., Melbourne.
TKKJH
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, By Dr.
ALFRED NEALE. Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
AND THEIR TREATMENT.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers : Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY.
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Ohio; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque on London.
English, French, and German Rare Books.
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GENNERT,
89c Faubourg St., Martin, Paris, France.
J-J. MILLER’S SPORTING PAMPHLET.
Illustrated. Now Heady.
The most reliable reference on all sporting matters.
Contains nominations, weights and full performances
of all horses engaged' in the Caulfield and Melbourne
Cups, and other races. Post free, 1/1. All Booksellers.
JJHaMCe,
Melbourne
Jhe best House for
IHustc.Pianos.Vwtms and
all ttlusical sundries
Collins St..
’<=>
O
A*
These
suffering
from Weak
aud sore eyes,
and L.iyht, should
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
- Nlver Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
ALL CHEMISTS.
_ Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping'at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Warrego' Friday,
August 23, connecting at
Melbourne with S.S. Marloo
leaving Melbourne Tuesdai’,
August 27.
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Rockton, Friday,
August 23.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
nrst Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ciitions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO.; LTD.,
■ Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
V- n. VyOY. LTD.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despateh their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly
iIKSSS AND ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
|™Y, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger Acrom.modation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
ol the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application,
i'or Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS PHILP and CO, Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P AND O. COMPANY’S
ROYAL, MAIL STEAMERS
FOII MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to .077
Ditto Ditto Return, £7llos to £l2l
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific, and
Messageries Mari times Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. - Superintendent in Australia.
Mess aperies Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6POO tons, under Postal Cont ract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
Mel-
Ade-
Com-
Sydney,
Steamer
bourne,
laide,
mander.
Noon.
1 p. in.
1 p. m
POLYNESIEN .. Chevalier Sept. 2 Sept. 5 f
TONKIN Vacquier Sept. 30 Oct. 3 (
AUSTRALIEN .. Verron .. lOet. 28 Oct. 31!
PASSENGERS boobed to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including' table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing Their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room. ,
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R- BRASIER DK'THUY, Principal Agent.
Hiddart, Parker $ (Jo’s [iie
—TO—
MUMKimiNU, fro It A ItT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilhomn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon anc\ Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBUS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
IH*|luiraith, fj] ( Eacharn & go.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
ICALGOOBLIE, 4500 tons,
COOLGABDIE, 3500 tons,
SAIL I'OKTMdHI'LY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation U nsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
M‘ILWRAITH, M'EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.


An Irish candidate for a Vic. Leg. Council
constituency, which includes a big gold-mining
centre, was asked the other night whether he was
in favor of a capitation grant to Catholic schools.
This was his reply :
I don’t know what it means. It is a thing I have never
studied. If there is no wrong done to anybody lam
ready to give it the consideration which it deserves. No
sect or person should be treated wrongly. lam prepared
to answer the question, but don’t understand what it
means. •
To John Norton, Esq. Dear John, —Who
cares to-day how many “porcupines” Solomon
had, or whether George the Second sang his love-
songs in High Dutch or in Flemish patois ? It is
a question even if, a hundred years hence, people
will cafe to know whether you, John, were a fie-
fie character or a virtuous. But it is really a
good 'sign for N.S.W. when, failing Sydney
and other up-to-date local slanders and scandals,
you have to hie back to the days of Anne and
“ the Georges ” for a morsel sufficiently smellsome
to lay at the feet of your customers. —Yours truly,
John Smith.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEI
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/lsd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents; ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
gieen label on each box. (Itegd. copyright).
on. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
CHLORODYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIABRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ot
Sept. 28, 1895, saya:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
Tales of the System.
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
a
' ?i‘S * ~ r” >£Vr *t
fifjf ; >
' '^•s
M "SANITAS" H"
• WW* „
"SANITAS" .“SANITAS
OUR TWO REGISTERED TftADL MARKS .
"SANITAS"
NON POISONOUS.
DOES NOT STAIN.
DISINFECTANT, ANTISEPTIC.
AND DEODORANT combinfd
- . -_js
A PEOPLES HEALTH IS A NATIONS WEALTH-
The s/initas company limited
.E .-BETHNAL.GREEN, LONDON.E. Q.
FLUID
!/■
ALSO
Powder, Soaps,
Sulphur (Fumigating) Candles,
and all kinds of - Disinfectants.
“The list of 'Sanitas' preparations is now so great as to com-
"prise a complete antiseptic and disinfectant armamentarium.
“The composition of most of these is based on ‘Sanitas,’ a
“deservedly popular pleasant, and moreover active compound."
—IiANCKT, August 24th, 1895, p. 501.
“ HOW TO DISINFECT.”
Book sent FREE on application.
OF ALL CHEMISTS, AND
The “SANITAS” Co., Ltd., Bethnal Green, London.
THE MIGA LUBRICANT CO., SOUTH SHIELDS, ENG.
Lubricants and Packings tor all purposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 90% in cost of lubrication, and keeps
bearings perfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice as long as ordinary, and are 25% lighter. They do
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate.
Sole Ap e nt f or Australasia : R. A. HERVEY. Depdt, 171 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S.W
H *UfTHAWAV
*4/" »'/-//
! 'A <’/.
W„' /
totelwJ.W/k'' '/r
//, -2i
*=*B*3/1-r
Croajine JESlaolcing;
is the best dressing made for all bright finished leathers.
It is easily applied with a cloth, and produces a polish that is unequaled for brilliance
and permanence. Men, women, and children who use “ Crozine ” once want “ Crozine ”
always, as it is the most satisfactory waterproof dressing made for all varieties of shoes.
Sold almost everywhere. Made and guaranteed only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Boston, Mass., U. S. L
X>r. Olarkaon’a Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Desp indent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-IN VIGORATOR
r 4i
Will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is trulv Wonderful
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. organs is truly wonderful.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
OWL r c a u t t e DKUa STORE,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY. *
Him
s
1
*>
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System. Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers from Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection. of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies*
" ii i" i ■ iiar*
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
#2
ifcSrS;
IUIMH^SKI
kinmao
IWIINE^
KBIAIRENW
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint,
HERR RASSMUSSEFS CHIEF LABORATORY.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Affections, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Course, 23/6.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases. Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
ASnemia, Wasting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-.. Courses, 23/6.. .
ALFALIME LIVER AND. KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, -Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOXES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to
cut e Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough' Pills —A
Wonderful Remedy for Coiuflis, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
posted, 35., 65., 12s. and 235. 6d.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
cure for all Spinal and Kidney Affections;
425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
CORN CURE, I/-.
OINTMENT, 1
Correspondence held confidential.
*
KMBiftisMBSSENI HERB&LAtf&UHtPUI
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMOSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and hi*
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke-st.
BRISBANE- 309 Queen-st.
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney-st.
W.A-PERTH, 481 Hay-st.
- st.
BOULDER CITY-Piesse-st.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington.
FREMANTLE—Henry-st.
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALF ALINE REMEDIES.


The day of ugly wall papers is surely past. Rude
contrasts in coloring, painful developments of form, have
been superseded in Whitelaw’s collection by sound prin-
ciples of design—everything is instinct with a delightful
feeling of novelty. Whitelaw’s exhibitions, now on view
in the leading capitals of Australia, are eloquently com-
plimentary to their talented Australian principal, Mr. H.
A. Whitelaw, whose Oontinental and Eastern journeyings
gathered these rich productions for the cultured and
artistic clientele, for whose particular use they are
primarily intended. His French collection comprise the
creme delacreme of the trocadero exhibits, direct from
the Exhibition, of great diversity of effect, representing
the distinct and characteristic achievements of the
Gallic genius in decorative art. They manifest a refresh-
ing novelty of conception, combined - with artistic excel-
lence of execution of a very advanced order. The
tapestry papers, in particular, are strikingly realistic.
There are, in addition, a profusion of silk effects—a pri-
vate series in Salamander, Anaglypta, Flocks, Cheviot
Ingrains, hand-printed, stencil goods ; in fact, to describe
in detail the various designs now on view at the show-
rooms, some 2500, would in itself constitute a pamphlet
of no mean proportions. Be it said, however, while these
goods lay just claim to such high artistic merit, the
visitor is more than convinced that they are offered at
purely commercial rates. The firm’s motto is : “ Always
artistic, yet inexpensive.”
“Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled “ Piles and the Way to
Cure Them,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.*
<\9^
GO
REUTER’S
LITTLE
RILLS
FOR THE LIVER.
s^/c-.,^^
<s
So
%
A Living Witness.
“For
the last
six or
seven
years I
suffered
from that awful
complaint arising
from the liver,”
writes Mrs. A. C.
Cufley, Cubitt -
street, Rich-
mond, Victoria,
“ and always had
that weary, run-down
feeling, and my com-
plexion was sallow. I
used to get up in the
morning feeling more
tired than when I went
to bed at night. Besides
this weakness I had
nasty pains in the head,
also a disordered stom-
ach. Them were times
when I had to take to
my bed, and lost all
energy in my household
duties.. I tried many
remedies and doctors’
medicine, but lost all
faith in them, as they
v>
rz*.«
did me no good. Not long ago a friend of mine,
and also my daughter, advised me* to give
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills a trial, which I
did, and have received great benefit from them.
I am now free from pain in every way, and that
weary, run-down feeling has quite gone, and I
feel as well as I did before that terrible complaint
fastened upon me, and will be glad to
answer any questions regarding my case,
should anyone care to know.” Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier and a
positive cure for biliousness, indigestion, con-
stipation, headaches, sallow complexion, liver
and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils,
blotches, and female ailments. Sold by chemists
and storekeepers, Is per bottle, or six bottles
6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the full
name blown thereon.*
The proprietor of Capilla Hair Tonic offers to
treat, gratis, for 12 to 16 weeks, any bald gent who has
upon his scalp even so slight a fluff that a microscope is
required to discover it. And, failing, in the time stated,
to produce—to the satisfaction of a committee of doctors
—hair ljin. long, the P. of O. H. T. aforesaid undertakes
to make Sydney Hospital the richer by £25. Now then,
ye shiny pates!
There was a swell dinner the other night at the
Hotel Australia when Renard and Co., Ltd., gave a wel-
come to their returned director, Mr. George Lorimer.
That gentleman has been doing Great Britain and the
Continent in the interests of his firm, and on the Con-
tinent he found things so good for Australians that when
he hung out his sign in one of the big cities, half the
population and its aunt came to the office next morning
and sat upon the step till his arrival.*
The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency
Co., Limited, report:— Wheat. —A material improvement
in values has taken place, in one or two instances 2s. lOd.
f.o.b. outgoing vessel has been paid for prime quality.
Beyond the probability that shippers find it necessary in
order to complete present commitments in contract time,
to advance their limits, there is no reason to warrant such
hardening. Freights are now easier, but this naturally
does not concern partially-loaded vessels, and can only
apply to new engagements. There is little offering
locally, the sales referred to having been effected almost
entirely at the stacks inland. Present quotations may
thus be given : Prime and f.a.q., 2s. 10d., and 2s. 9d.
f.o.b. respectively ; Chick wheat, 2s. 6d. to 2s. 7d.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere. *
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there 19
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AX
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ El ! is’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
W. W. GREENER’S NEW RIFLE
Made expressly for Cadet Corps.
Attentively New & Exclusive Design.
The new Rifle has been produced
solely to supply the wants of Cadet
Corps for a REALLY RELIABLE
and ACCURATE RIFLE at a low
price, 3a.
Ten Shots In 3 inch Square at 100 yards.
GENUINE ENGLISH MANUFACTURE THROUGHOUT
Every Rifle guaranteed and named
W. GREENER, Birmingham, England.
On Hand—Greener’s Guns from 9 to 30 Guineas; Lee
Enfield and Metford Rifles, Govt, viewed ; Greener’s New
Book, “SIIARPSHOOTING. for Sport or War,” 1/- net,
posted 1/2. Stamps from other States not accepted.
BBT All Rifle Shots should read this Book. fEU
Cliaa. . jcJncltl anrt,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
ml
IS
(*Ui±££i
AND S UPPLIES
66 KI NC S SYDN E V- '
-^1
A HAPPY MAN ABDA
RED BIRD BICYCLE
can be seen any day. The Red Bird is so easily pedalled, lasts so well, is so liberallv
guaranteed, and can be bought on such easy terms that its rider is always happy;
Red Bird Bicycle Department —
Branches in Evbry State. 64 KING STREET, BYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
First w.f.a. race in N.S.W. this season was
WheoM-« S 5,, a p fur ') at Rosehill, Saturday, the
vS nM «- d field ever lined up on the course. Three-
year-oM Sir Leonard (a hot-pot for the Metrop.) was
Thfre nl!f e ’ a u d ca Pitally to the distance.
There Grasspan headed him, and engaged in a tough
when fh‘p th A i Pri l F °n°i l ?M er every inch tiu near the finish,
,“ n UCkyMal bland-owned nag, Sequence, came
K?, ,'fr 10t fr . om a catapult, and just managed to divide the
battling pair on the post, and got second to Grasspan by
head—a space which also separated him from the
Nymagee and Sir Leonard were almost
up with the placed nags. Grasspan pulled up full of
steam. Mat Harris (on Sequence) was just the least bit
? u ., ln timing his last dash, which was among the most
Dniiiant things seen on a racecourse, and reminiscent of
°U he same rider’s finishes on the late Mr. Geo.
Hill s whilom wonder Marvel.
* * • •
x> Ar i to ™ tic showing in Hopetoun Stakes at
Rosehill on Saturday indicates N.S.W. Derby possibilities.
Good as Mr. Raby s colt Grasspan was as a 2-year-old, he
promises to be better this season. He’s not handsome,
but bony and solid, and he moves along and fights it out
aS a j rou^^ re d should. On their relative form,
as exhibited on Saturday, Sir Leonard must improve out
of sight to have a chance with Grasspan at a disadvan-
tage of ilb. as compared with the conditions under which
they met on Saturday. Chassepot’s showing (if correct)
puts him completely out of reckoning. Grasspan was
bred by present trainer, Tom Payten, and his past per-
formances include victories in V.A.T.O. Mona, Nursery
and A. J.O, Easter Stakes, besides being placed in Mari-
byrnong Trial, V.A.T.O. Gwya Nursery, V.R.O. Ascot
Vale Stakes, Elms Handicap, and A.J.O. Champagne
Stakes. Grasspan is in both Derbies, the Caulfield Cup
(7.9), and Melbourne Cup (7.6).
* * * •
At Hunt Club lepping race, at Rosehill, only
Coxcomb (Mr. A. Muste) and Sportsman (Mr. H. E. Smith)
were backed for money latter starting the better
favorite. Both early streaked away from the other eight.
Coxcomb led all the way to a finish by 30 lengths, after
covering the most ground, knocking the fences very hard,
and twice going within an ace of standing on his head.
But there were no croppers. The other starters formed a
long, faint line over a big stretch of country.
* * * *
At Rosehill (Sydney), Saturday, Riverina nag,
Patch, won Granville Stakes, and ran second in Parra-
matta Mile. Patch takes the eye well, and is by Golds-
brough, or Splendor, out of Narina by Grand Flaneur
from Peril (imp.) by Adventure. Prior to the country
mare Mermaid’s easy success at Warwick Farm, t’other
day, she got weight and a licking from Patch. What a
line to go on !
* • * m
Mo.’s sure-tliing method of operating was glar-
mgly evident at Rosehill, Saturday. He opened up on
the first race “ evens the field ” (before booking a single
bet), making Kenley favorite over 17 starters. Heaps of
money went on Caledonia, Alfonso, Australia, Ruskin,
and old “ Whaky,” but, despite this, 6 to 4 Kenley was
the best available at “the death.” With 10 runners in
the Steeple, the raucous-voiced refused to lay better than
6 to 4 Sportsman, and, though 12 lined-up for the Gran-
ville Stakes, Essington remained 2 to 1 from the first bet
to flag-fall; but not one of these Ikey-made red-hot
things got home. Directly a few pounds went on Patron-
age for the big handicap his price fell with the weight
of lead to 6to 4, and he barely struggled in from the
average performer, Centurion, with the hurdler, Linden,
third. Even at these prices, when anything seemed to
have a good chance, some Mo’s—fearing being drawn
into “ laying it—put up their shutters for the time being
and mooned about curling thick lips round fat Havannas
A big agitation for the tote is (Allah be praised !) a possi-
bility of the near future. *
* • •
Statement herein last week re jockey Frank
Kuhn s successes already this season, was too previous.
List of jocks registered by the A.J.O. appeared simul-
taneously with the par., but Kuhn’s name was not among
them.
•‘* • *
Jimmy Wilson, junior mentor for Merriwee
and co., annexed Sydney Cup last year with the Diffidence
filly, and broke up all the sure-thing double-event pickers.
Is he going to repeat the dose this year with Cretonne,
also in with a postage-stamp weight in Sydney Metrop. ?
She is only a handful; so was Cerise-and-Blue.
* • * *
Arcadia’s great-granddam. old Mermaid, won
tho Sydney Cup for Mr. E. Twomey in ’7l.
*■• • •
A Victorian Mo gathered in £2OOO over Arcadia
in Caulfield ’Chase t’other day,, and saved him in his
book, while the owner only had a tenner on. Verily the
turf is milk and honey for the “ hooked-nosed.”
• • • •
Pegasus (7.1), in Caulfield Cup, is being nibbled
at by early punters and others. He is half-brother to
that gay deceiver, Wait-a-Bit, and old Alec Taylor may
repeat the Vengeance coup.
• * • •
Last year’s Caulfield Cup-winner is dead, and
the previous hero (Dewey) has long been exiled from the
land where Tom Payten trained him; therefore it was
' comforting to find Hymettus and Massinissa (who finished
first and second for the O.C. in 1898) going to the post for
a race at Flemington last Saturday. Hymettus collared
the stake, too, whilst the other fellow, beefy and un-
backed, finished at the far end of the field. Hymettus
has been coming on steadily through the winter, and will
play a big part in one or both of the Cups, if he remains
sound and well for the next eight weeks. Weight ought
not to trouble him—or Massinissa, for that matter.
• * * *
The withdrawal of Maorilander Advance from
Melb. Cup and his acceptance for N.Z. Cup point to the
non-appearance of Vanguard’s son at Flemington in the
springtime. There are 29 left in the big M.L. event after
first payments, the most notable withdrawal being Sea-
horse, who goes ’Ome per first direct boat.
• • * *
Editor Bulletin.—The attached list of Cup-
betting, issued by a Brisbane bookmaker, is allowed to pass
free as an inset or supplement to a local rag. Also,
Drake’s poor little Progress refers to “ Tatt.’s” gamble
in a very frank manner in the advt. columns. Yet if Thb
Bulletin were to do this it would never see daylight out-
side Brisbane P.O. The methods of the Queensland P.O.
officials are peculiar. That is to say, they are peculiarlv
Queenslandish. —Via.
• • •■■■■'•
The Albion Park Racing Syndicate of Breakfast
Creek, Brisbane, is up against a hard snag just now.
The co. makes a uniform charge of 2s. 6d. for admission,
and various small punters and “books” refused the
charge and took to an adjoining rise giving a free view ;
whereupon the co. erected a big iron fence to block the’
“ outer outerites.” Not to be outdone, one of the free-
sighters bought a piece of land on the rise and built a
stand capable of holding four or five hundred. The small
bookmakers pay him a little every week, and now anyone
can get a good view of the course and a wager without
extra charge. Apparently the only thing left for the co.
is to build a great Chinese wall round the free stand ; or
it might try a reasonable admission charge.
• * * *
Mr. Piesse (Tas.) is reported by S.M. Herald
as having interjected, in the House of Reps., the other
day : “ Tattersall’s is not a game of chance in Tasmania.”
Did he say this, and, if so, what did he meah ?
• • • •
Majestic—winner of N. S. Wales N.C. Asa
Champion Cup last week—is owned by a popular Orange
(N.S.W.) enthusiast—one of the cloth. Owner had another
(Atalanta) going which he fancied more and whose
success would have suited him and his friends a great
deal better. Majestic whacked the N.C. A. Derby
(recently run) with Goldlink in the same kennels. He
has good breeding, being by Goldsmith, brother to
Tennyson, and half-brother to Lindsay Gordon and Black-
bird, from Flora, by Kildahl (a M.L. dog) from Rebellion-
Westena. That good Victorian performer, Megaphone,
is full-brother to Majestic, who is big, has plenty of pace
and heaps of grit, as, when picked up after the final, the
pads on his feet were worn down and he was palpably
lame.
* * • *
Concluding big meet of N.S.W. National
Coursing Ass. last week wasn’t a financial success.
Attendances were poor, and the judging, unsatisfactory
everywhere right through the season, caused numbers to
forswear coursing in disgust. Hard going, through
absence of rain, broke up the hounds, and the doggy
section of Mo was in luck: well-backed favorites going
under with remarkable persistence. N.S.W. coursing
will go back to where it was rescued from, a few years
since, unless decisions can be rendered more acceptable.
No one bets with confidence now ; the shrewd never bet
at all, no matter how big a “ cert.” they may have, for
the course is just as likely to go one way as t’other.
Writer doesn’t impute dishonesty, or refer to any par-
ticular individual. Several have been tried, but all have
been found wanting.
• • * •
’Ome doggy journal, Our Dogs, struck trouble
by offering a reward, and “no questions asked,” for a
lost hound, whereat some caitiff “on the make ” set the
40-year-old Larceny Act in motion and got £5O. Leave
was, however, given to appeal.
• * * *
The exciting struggle for the first-grade N.S.W.
Rugby football premiership has ended very tamely. Two
bodies control football in the State —the Association,
whose jurisdiction is N.S.W., and the Union, which
governs the metropolis. Between the two, matters were
so bungled that the N.S.W. team for M.L. departed on
tour a week too soon, leaving the local issue undecided.
University and Glebe tied for first place, and, under the
Union rules, are forced to play-off. With a strong con-
tingent of Glebe away the contest would be robbed of all
interest, and would be a soft thing for University. It is
too long to wait for the return of the wanderers from
M.L., and the Union was in a difficulty. As a “ get out ”
it decided to enforce its rules and ordered the tie to be
played off, but left it to the clubs concerned to fix the
day. ’Varsity chivalrously agreed to refuse to find a
suitable date, and so the event will lapse.
* • * *
That N.S.W. footballers only went underby one
point in first match in M.L., against Wellington, and then
through sheer hard luck, caused much whisky-drinking
ln jP? ne V - best of the Cornstalks were unavailable,
and the standard of M.L. play has been rated at least
equal to the finest shown in the States. N.S.W. played
brilliantly, and, during second half, repeatedly invaded
the home territory, and undoubtedly had the best of the
game and the worst of the luck. Cornstalks Maund and
Costello were carried Off the field, latter so badly hurt as
to be laid up. Wired that “the game was frequently
stopped through the visitors being injured ” —and yet foot-
ball flourishes while boxing matches are banned.
**• • *
First test toeball match, M.L. v. N.S.W’., is for
this Saturday. Personnel of M.L. side, as cabled, indi-
cates that the forwards will be uncommonly strong, while
the backs include several men who’d give the best in the
world trouble. Forwards embrace Dodd, Udy, Cunning-
ham, Cross, Purdue, Drake, O’Dowda, and M’Gregor.
Most top I3st., others reach 14. Cunningham and
M Gregor are miners. Udy is an aggressive player of the
most pronounced type, and comes from a noted football
family, one of whom visited Sydney in ’B4, and left a last-
ing impression. Another (sealing 15st.) has the reputa-
tion of being the most powerful punt-kick seen in Aus-
tralian Rugby. Cross, Drake, and Purdue hail from the
South Island, and come capitally endorsed. O’Dowda,
from what is known of him here, looks the weakest of the
lot, and Dodd is just coming along. Of the backs, Jacobs,
Smith, and Wood are fast, tireless, strong, and first-class
dodgers. Smith is the Australasian champion hurdler,
who last season defeatedjthe Irish amateur, Rosingrave.
Humphries, Allen, and Duncan were on this side with (he
last M.L. team, while M'Kenzie is second to none as full-
back. All weighed, prospects don’t look too rosy for the
N.S.W. combination, especially in face of the fact that a
couple of their best were incapacitated last Saturday, but
the opposing force may not be exactly what it seems.
*. * •
At Newcastle (N.S.W.), Saturday night, M.L.
middleweight pug. M'Carthy and comparatively-unknown
Cullen (his first appearance) supplied a torrid thing,
fierce as a tiger fight from “go.” Fouls were frequent,
Cullen being the biggest offender. In the 10th round the
police interfered, as both men were badly used-up.
M’Oarthy’s showing proved a revelation, as his previous
Sydney performance had slumped his stock and given him
the name of a “lady boxer,” with an objection to mixing
things, and a love for long-range fighting. Now he has
shown that he has both relish and skill.
• * mm
“Jab”: lie the Peter Jackson-Faman fight.
The black and the South Melbourne blacksmith fought in
Victoria Hall, Melbourne, and not in a deserted quarry as
stated. Possibly the writer is bumping against the sub-
sequent Lees-Farnan affair ?
• • . - * •
Not generally known that four years ago
(before taking to the pug-game) deceased Otto Oribb was
a prominent footballer in M.L., figuring from full-back to
wing-forward, but doing best in the former position,
where he was more aggressive than most others.
* • * *
Old-time Australian bare-knuckle fighter Fred.
Smith died at Broken Hill, Saturday night last, aged 70.
Fred, in his prime stripped 9.5, and was sft. 6Jin. high.
His first important victory was over Johnny Bourke, for
£2OO a-side. Smith next figured against the “ Derby
Pet ” (Charley Brock)—an impromptu affair, but a slash-
ing mill. Both men were onlookers at the Brasher-Balloon
battle, and, after talk, they agreed to go into the ring
straightway if a purse was subscribed. Smith came out
best, but t’other chap more than pleased his friends.
Subsequently (in ’5B) Smith had a long, tough struggle at
Oastlemaine (Vic.) with Joe Goodyer, whom he beat.
After that he retired, and prospered as a horse-dealer till
Dave White’s challenge (in ’6l) brought him out again.
Their fight at Castlemaine was among the most orderly
and well-conducted ever witnessed. An immense crowd
looked on. Forty-two rounds of gruelling work, lasting
Ihr. 40min., saw second Eccleston throw up the sponge
for Smith, who Could barely see and had both his “ forks ”
badly maimed. That was his last fight. Smith lived
with his son at the Victoria Hotel, Pinnacles, for 18 years,
and died there.
The Mercy of Kitchener.
It is cabled from London (and news from London
on matters relating to the British Government,
where the cablegrammer is right up against the
fount of information, ought to be more accurate
than the average) that the British authorities have
peremptorily turned back a Swiss doctor and six
Swiss nurses who were going out to tend the
sick Boer women and children in the refugee
camps. Also that the authority granted by Lord
Roberts to Red Cross nurses to attend the camps
has been withdrawn on the ground that “all
necessary measures have already been taken.”
All necessary measures!l And it was admitted
recently in the House of Commons that the aver-
age death-rate in the camps was 116 per 1000 per
annum—ten times the average death-rate of
N.S.W. and about as much as the average death-
rate among soldiers in a slaughterous campaign !
But the knowledge that their women and
children (35,000 of them almost half the
woman and child portion of the nation) are
perishing like flies from confinement, fever,
bad food, pestilential stinks and lack of nursing in
these awful death-traps—in one of them it is ad-
mitted that the deaths run to 383 out of every
1000 inhabitants per annum—helps to drive the
fighting men to surrender in order to cut short
the awful misery of the non-combatants. And if
that isn’t the explanation then what is ? The re-
jection of the Swiss nurses can’t by any possibility
be set down to political motives. Switzerland is
too small to be an enemy, and the recent flat
refusal of its President to express the slightest
sympathy with the Boers helps to stamp it as a
distinctly friendly State. And the ejection by
Hangman Kitchener of all Red Cross nurses of
all nationalities from the camps—the cutting-off
wholesale of what little aid was available for
the sufferers—can’t by any possibility be as-
oribed to political motives. It is plainly part
of a fixed policy of coercing the Boer men
by the slow torture of Boer women and
children—and it is worthy of Kitchener. Cham-
beri.ain, on behalf of the British Government,
apparently admits these things openly ; they are
not, like the Boer-atrocity yarns, mere rumors
resting on the alleged statement made by an
alleged Kaffir to some person not specified. It
will be very long before Britain recovers from the
disgrace of owning two such men as Chamberlain
and Kitchener. But, at all events, the world
will hear less of the camp-horrors now. It was
through the nurses and other visitors who gained
access to the camps that the frightful state of
these places became known. Now that this source
of information is cut off there will be comparative
silence.
+
Some fearsome observations by “ V..J.D.” :
I noticed the other day, in an essay by Havelock Ellis,
the following curious and significant phrase : “ The per-
Eetual itch to circle round sexual matters, accompanied
y a timidity which makes it impossible to come right up
to them ; this sort of impotent fumbling in women’s
placket holes.” Does anything better describe the mental
attitude of the presumable reader, certainly purchaser,
of the daily papers ? Battle, murder, and sudden death,
and fire, and earthquake get their due space, but when a
Ooningham case, or even a little squalid Blayney case,
comes into the field, it is pornography first and the rest
nowhere. Respectable eroticism is, of course, at the bottom
of all this. I have no quarrel with the public or the papers.
It is not the fault of the latter that smoking-room stories do
not occupy a conspicuous place in their columns ; it is not
the fault of the former that they don’t know all about
these stories. I do, however, particularly protest against
the smug Puritanism of the leading articles in these same
daily papers. In one page you read, written in a cold,
aloof, regretful way, a white-blooded essay to the effect
that it is rather a shame that anything naughty or inap-
propriate should happen in this age of civilisation—the
moral being, apparently, that Engines do not run away
with other Engines’ wives—and you turn over the page
and find set out in column after column, in full and offen-
sive detail, the story of how something Dreadful happened
when a certain Man met a certain Woman. It sells the
papers. Of course ! But why in the name of all the
devils should we have here in Australia a recrudescence
of what our livelier and more logical Gallic friends call
le cant Brittanique ? Zola is reported to have said when
he left England the other day—“ Farewell, O land of
Inconsistencies that fSted me and imprisoned my pub-
lisher ! ” The reason and the truth were with him.
When Huysmans, in his Croquis Parisians, curiously
described and differentiated the odours of feminine arm-
pits, Paris read, and laughed, and forgot. If Huysmans
could have found in London a publisher for such a quaint
dissertation on perfumes, the publisher would have
had his book seized immediately by the police, and
the author would most likely, have been returned to
his France with ironical compliments from the Sister
Nation. This is. a British attitude which I can
understand. It is clean, direct, and wholesome.
But it can be carried too far. Anything, even Virtue, can
be. carried too far. My entire sympathy is with those
citizens of Athens who ostracised Aristides beoause he
was too good. The spacious times of great Elizabeth
must have been great times to live in. Women used to
have legs in those days. In these days they have
lower limbs only. Worse still, I find now —vide a late
contribution from the lady fashion-writer of S.M. Herald
—they have “ upper chests.” I presume that, when she
evolved this phrase, expressive of wooden virginity, the
lady in question was trying her best to say what she had
to say without bringing a blush to the cheek of the
bifurcated person with a beard. It is only the wild, irre-
sponsible poet who is permitted to speak of bosoms and
breasts, and even he must be careful not to more than
casually refer to rosebud nipples. Navel is a word which,
under any circumstances, he must never use. Solomon
did in his Song of Songs, but then Solomon was a monarch
who could write as he dashed well pleased. Most of these
fine old words are dying, or are in the process of being
frozen, out of the English language. For instance,
no gentleman in those days would dare to
suggest in print that • any lady has a bellv.
The old writers who lived before the era of Mrs. Grundy
used to refer to the feature quite freely. If Mrs. Grundy
would only permit herself to realise the fact that even the
mildest-mannered curate knows that women are not mer-
maids, but simply—barring a difference of dress—two-
legged persons like himself, it would be a wholesome and
happy day for Mrs. Grundy and the rest of the world.
The lady just referred to goes to the theatre with her
daughters and looks at female persons walking about in
tights. They have each two very obvious legs, real
separate legs with which they walk, or dance, or,
at any rate, move to and fro. Does this unhappy
revelation trouble Mrs. G. at all ? By no means. She is
candid enough to admit that the persons upon the stage
are really females—but there she draws the line. They are •
not her kind of females. And when she leaves the theatre
she walks, and knows she walks, with a pair of legs that
are possibly finer than those she has seen upon the stage.
It is her ingrained Conventionalism that is the trouble
with her. The felicitous time will come when Mrs. G.
will take off her spectacles and permit Legs to be called
Legs, and not lower limbs. And there will be open and
unashamed reference made to the rounded breasts we
used to know, and the person who speaks of “upper
chests” .or “extremities,” or “abdominal regions” will
be considered a low-minded fellow who uses vulgar
ouble entendre, and is not fit for decent society.
4 .
Tuesday this week (which at Sydney was
a wild and rainy day) was the 44th anniversary
of the wreck of the Dunbar.


WHAT IS IT
Newest and Daintiest Brooch in Sydney.
WE HAVE JUST OPENED A SELECTION OF THIS PRETTY LITTLE
BROOCH, SET WITH—
Turquoise,
Turquoise and Pearl,
and Emeraldite.
21/-
EACH
The Uodern ]rt Jewellery Co.
187 gitt (St., (Sydney
Next Shadier 1 s Gaf6.
Write for our Illustrated Souvenir Catalogue—Sent Post Free.
DON’T WAIT
ass ey-ttarr is Bt eye l i
Is the beau-ideal of a road or track rider’s mount. It is LIGHT, STRONG, SPEEDY, NEAT, and the
WORKING PARTS are SIMPLE IN CONSTRUCTION AND EASILY ADJUSTED.
WE SELL ON EASY TERMS
West Australian Depots: Hay Btreet, Perth; and Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie.
at Melto., Sydney, Adelaide, Dunedin, Brisbane.
W£EE3IS
supplies
6 6 King St S /DNEi. M
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Fairfax
& Roberts
a
Sydney
&
Londui.
s.
y
A BUYER WROTE^>
from Mount Morgan, via Menzies, W. A.:
“Per last mail I received the Fx & R Watch safe and
sound. I have been quite at a loss without it, for it is
the only watch that I have had that would stand the
dust and hard knocking about that it gets on
the W.A. goldfields.”
The Watch referred to cost 25/6 in steel case.
The cases screw together and are watertight.
The movements are | -plate Levers and keyless.
They have 12 jewels and compensated
balances.
They go with profound accuracy.
They are guaranteed for 15 years and kept in
order without charge (breakages excepted)
for 2 years.
We stock them in Gold , Silver and Steel Cases at proportionate
prices .
Strictly Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTB,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sy
“-nx 13 Hunter Street.
Honest Wear
In Every Pair.
m
Tb«
Callagbai)
Boot
Our Boots can bo
EXCHANGED if not
correct, as we wish
DISTANT customers
to be as pleased as
those In town.
Your money RETURNED If you
are not satisfied with the
Boots.
Fine French Calf Button, full goloshed, calf-kid legs, 22/6; post paid, 23/6
„ „ Lace, „ „ „ 21/-; „ 22/-
All sizes and fittings.
Your orders arefiUed
the same day as received.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 Ceorge St., Sydney
Editor Bulletin.—Your par. (17/8/*l)
about the Casino Memorial Lamp would make it
appear as if we, as makers of the lamp, were at
fault in so constructing it that it will not burn.
As this supposition may do us harm we wish to
point out that the Acetylene Gas Generator is not
of our make, and that, consequently, the fault
does not lie with the lamp.— Brandt Bros.
One day last week Sydney Telegraph
started out with two big headlines of yell:
ANOTHER BRUTAL MURDER.
An Interpreter Shot by Scheepers.
Quite a definite statement, you see, in big, glaring
print, to the effect that Scheepers did positively
shoot that interpreter. Then this followed in
small print (Bulletin supplies the italics):
Another brutal murder is reported to have been
committed by a Boer leader. According to this
statement Commandant Scheepers shot an interpreter
in cold blood at Steytlerville.
So it is only a rumour, after all. It isn’t even
mentioned whose rumour it is. And if the inter-
preter was shot there isn’t even a pretence of
asserting that he wasn’t a criminal who deserved
his fate. The British authorities hanged a whole
batch of men “ in cold blood” the other day, but
that wasn’t headed “Another Brutal Murder”;
it was described as the well-earned punishment
of rebels. Australia hangs people in cold blood
every year—no offender who gets a fair trial is
ever executed in anything else. As to this being
another Boer murder, it would be hard to find any
of the previous Boer murders which didn’t prove
to be mere newspaper inventions. Even the peace
envoys whose murder by the Boers caused a thrill
of horror through the civilised world have since
proved to be alive and well.
Truly, the Commonwealth has had its
baptism of blood ! Veterinary-Lieut. Sherlock
describes how the 300 Victorians were ambushed
at Wilmansrust: —
The awfulness of that 20min. I will never forget. Men
crying out with pain, screaming for water, and calling for
tlie doctor; horses rushing around madly with broken
legs and bullet wounds in every part of their bodies. The
scene was indescribable. The Boers would order every
man they met to put up his hands, and, if there was a
moment’s hesitation, a bullet was the response. They
(the Boers) had us beaten completely from the start, as
our men were sitting about or in bed, and had no time
even to get their rifles, the attack was so sudden and un-
expected. From where I lay I could hear cries for the
doctor, and, as there was no response, I soon concluded
it was all over with poor Dr. Palmer. His death was
instantaneous, and it is no wonder they called for him in
vain. The wounded were lying about in every direction,
and, as our doctor was killed, I was the only one to do
anything for the poor wounded fellows, and a terrible
night’s work it was. From 8 o’clock I was at it until
morning, dressing wounds, setting broken legs and arms,
and doing all that was in my power to alleviate the terrible
suffering some of our poor fellows had to go through. Of
all the terrible sights, I think the worst is a battlefield
after the battle is over, especially such a battlefield as
ours, which was only about 125 yards square, and in that
little square there were lying 18 dead bodies, 44 wounded
men, 116 dead horses, and 10 dead mules. I had to
shoot 23 wounded horses next morning, they being past
aid, having broken legs, bullet-holes through their bodies
in every conceivable direction—Oh! the horrors of war 1
May God preserve me from ever seeing anything like it
again. Next morning the dead were collected, and a
large hole dug to bury them in, and you can have but a
faint idea of what the burial was like. No coffins, or
wreaths, or pomp on the battlefield. They are rolled in
their blankets, and laid side by side in one large pit,
friend and foe lying together in peace at last. One
dead Boer was overlooked by his comrades when they
left the camp, and he was buried beside our men, also one
Kaffir mule-driver shot during the action, making 20 in
one grave.
The Australian “patriot,” or Cow-Shaking poli-
tician, who can strike his breast with Imperial
fervor, and shriek (though he carefully didn’t
volunteer for the war himself) about “the last
man and the last shilling, ” after this sort of thing,
should be promptly shanghaied to the Cape and
hurried to the scene of the hottest fighting.
Cabled that, of the 91,940 whites in
S’African concentration-camps, 1412 died during
July, which is at the rate of 16,944 (say 17,000) per
annum, or, roughly speaking, 200 odd per 1000 !
No wonder Kitchener shoo’s foreign nurses and
doctors from his slaughter-camps.
A sad event occurred the other day at
Randwick (Sydney) in the death of John Nor-
ton’s beloved dog, Barney. John reverentially
laid his faithful tyke to rest in a cedar coffin ;
and he hasn’t been the same man since.
In the case of Lieut.-Col. Ricardo, the
Queensland officer who is seeking heavy damages
from Brisbane Observer for imputations cast on
his courage, it would appear that the last straw
was that paper’s needlessly effusive assurance that
Col. Ricardo’s title of C.B. did not mean “Con-
cealed from Boers.” If the paper falls in over
this matter it will give Australian humour a set-
back that will make the daily press more solemn
than ever.
When the writer of this paragraph comes
across a particularly smart business man-of-the-
world he always looks for the inspiration—the
moving spirit. The secret guide to a city man’s
intellectual quality is the kind of whisky he
favors. “By their drinks ye shall know them,”
and the D.C.L. brand of whisky is practically a
guarantee of brains in the consumer who selects it
from a host of rival liquors.*
George Reid at Melbourne Freetrade
dinner:—
The Freetraders will not allow the tariff to be dis-
figured by bribes or concessions or favors to any single
Australian industry.
And why, O why, when Dry Dog Reid was
Premier of N.S.W., did he give 50 per cent.
Protection to newspapers, £3 a ton Protection to
sugar, and enormously heavy Protection to beer,
wine, tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, biscuits,
preserves, and confectionery ? Also, why did he
subsidise the coal industry and the wool industry
and the agricultural industry by carrying their
products by rail at less than cost ? The country is
still waiting to discover the Freetrader who
doesn’t find his own creed too inhuman to be put
into practice. And what a long wait it is !
At Poverty Point.
“ Spring ”: Most peculiar thing about the Polite Vaude-
ville show at Sydney Palace is the go-as-you-please way
the visitors do things. At the entrance, long-haired
Yanks—presumably connected with the show —stand
smoking amongst a crowd of patrons waiting for the
ordinary doors to open. The uniformed gent who serves
as guide or something, and who at other theatres is too
high and mighty for the ordinary two-bobber, is seen
talking like a plain, ordinary penny mortal. Inside all
seems chaos. There appear to be about half-a-dozen
managers. Prominent artists of the show stand talking
to friends in the audience--nodded in, I suppose. This
sets the audience talking among themselves, and the
chill and coldness characteristic of English audiences is
broken. As time for starting draws closer this unsettled
state of things makes a beginning to time appear very
problematical. But the curtain rises, and behold ! there
is no “ first part,” no wooden centre-man, or imitation
corner coons ; no mildewed tenor, or poddy baritone, or
nervous soprano ; and the dismal contralto is absent.
The show goes with a bang from start to finish. Great-
men -past-and-present Lee is a very quick-change artist.
Shakespeare stands before us and speaks the “ Seven
Ages.” Thinking to settle a disputed question, I rushed
to the wings. “ Tell me, Mr. Shakespeare,” I said, “ was
it you or Mr. F. Bacon who wrote that piece you have
just got off your ” I had just got that far when Bis-
marck stood before me. I thought to interview him, but
he was in an unsociable humor, and seemed as if he was
going to declare war on some adjacent State, so I left
him.
Marchesi’s last letter to Olive Kingston (which, by the
way, was addressed—Miss Olive Kingston, Victoria, Mel-
bourne, Australia) mentioned that she had just been
giving herself a four days’ visit to London, where she
heard Melba as Mimi in “La Bpheme,” and another of
her old pupils, Emma Eames, as Aida. The success of
Melba was “ glorious,” says Marchesi. London loves her
more than ever, whilst remaining almost as ignorant as
ever of her nationality. A good many opera-going cock-
neys nowadays understand that Melba came from some
“ English-speaking country, doncherknow,” but they
mostly think her American or Canadian. Talking of
Marchesi’s letter, she enclosed with it some programmes
of her pupils’ concerts. On one programme, dated March,
the name of Flo. Young (Madame Florence Rivington, if
you please!) appears in the best of company. She sang in
a Mozart quintette, and in a duet from “ Pagliacci ” with
M. Allard, the prize-tenor of Marchesi’s school, who will
take to the opera stage shortly. On a Matinie Musicale
programme the name of Madame Maggie Sterling (Mel-
bourne) is credited with one air.
A Coolgardie man writes : This isn’t the show-town it is
cracked up to be. Nance O’Neil was one of the latest
who happened this way. She did inferior business
(though very good for this place) for two nights, I think
it was; then took down the sign, closed the, door, and
packed her shoe-trunk and her brown paper parcel, for
other parts. Some people think that because a place is a
goldfield there must be gold in it. I didn’t see her
myself. I tried to swap a large iron drain-pipe for a seat,
but was refused with scorn. Man at the door asked what
on earth I supposed Nance wanted a drain-pipe for. Told
him she could holler in it for amusement. Even then no
biz. resulted.
N.S.W. quarantine regulations have been specially
stretched in favor of World’s Entertainer Lee’s dog, a
Russian Dane. Dog is kept at Mr. Lee’s residence,
Double Bay, and only allowed out at night to do its turn
at the Palace with Lee in his impersonations. Dog is in
charge of official, who brings it from Double Bay to
Palace every night, and receives 30s. per week for the
job.
“ Teddy” Lonnen, the laboriously humorous comedian
of the Gaiety co. that George Musgrove imported to Aus-
tralia in ’92, is said to be a hopeless invalid now, whereas
Alice Lethbridge, the alleged . “ dying consumptive ”
dancer of the same co., is still in fair health, as far as
The Bulletin knows. Lonnen was to get a big benefit
at London Gaiety on July 16. He ranked as a first-
class burlesque actor in his time,,but it was mostly the
time when the original travelling Gaiety crowd were away
from London. A Sydney paper is incorrect in stating that
Lonnen “ shared the honors with poor Fred Leslie and
Nellie Farren in many successful burlesques.” He never
starred in the same firmament with those brighter artists.
Miss Elliott Page, remembered here as the handsome
Berenis in J.O.W.’s “ Sign of the Cross” co„ is to marry
this month a Mr. Turnbull, of New Brunswick. But after
a three months’ wedding-tour through Canada and the
States, the stately bride will “ resume her stage career in
London.” Poor Turnbull, of New Brunswick ! A stage
career is not calculated to make his wife hereafter as
handsome an elderly lady as her mother was when they did
Australia together. It is a strange fact in human nature
that whereas most bridegrooms hope for a long married
life, ne’er a one of them appears to be concerned about
the appearance of his wife’s face in the future.
The Brasseys seem to be staunch in their friendship for
Maggie Stirling. She gave a concert at their London
house, the other week, by way of showing what improve-
ment Marchesi has effected in her mellow, matured voice.
Seems that a short and probably fitful course of training
has developed the contralto timbre in the M.S. voice,
whilst giving it some of the finish it formerly lacked.
Maggie’s concert was a very Australian event. ine
audience included most of the people from t other side
who would be likely to find their way to ex-Gov. Brassey s
domicile, and the assisting performers were “ Mr. Percy
Grainger, the Melbourne golden-haired boy-pianist of
yore, and Charlotte Hemming, the best humorous recitress
that Melbourne ever knew. But doesn’t it look as though
a number of Australian artists in London have formed a
Mutual Admiration and Encouragement Society, with the
assistance of certain compatriot pen-women ?
Court habitues are vastly amused at the general topsy-
turveydom of Barrett’s Criminal Court-scene in “ Man and
His Makers.” The Judge sits at the end of a dais whilst
two very young and supernumerary sheriffs annex the
seat under the canopy, and counsel impolitely turn their
backs on ’Sonah most of the time. Learned Q.O. Barrett
angrily interrupts his perky opponent in the middle of a
fierce cross-examination, and immediately proceeds to
harangue the jury in passionate terms, after which the
counsel for the prosecution rises to reply and is forthwith
stopped by the surely very drinky Judge because the jury
has made up its mind in Barrett’s favor. If Purves did
that one thing in a real Court he would be cast out on
his ear, and if Holroyd did the other, somebody would
immediately go out and procure a straight-jacket.
Barrett should really get a few lawyers and other experts
to sub-edit his play—but then there would be no play
left. ; .
Signor Travaligni, who is to play Mephistopholes in
“ Faust,” is one of the best-looking of the Italian Opera
company now in Sydney. He wears a mildly bandit ex-
pression, and has the air of one who wants to fold his
martial cloak around him and scoff generally. Curiously
enough, the Signor has been in most parts of the world
except London; he has passed through the great ordeal
of La Scala, has played for the Peruvians and the Chilians,
but has never faced the Great Smoke. He has managed
this entirely on one language, a good voice, and a striking
personality. His sole objection to the English is that
they will offer him macaroni for all meals, having an
idea evidently that all classes of the Italian race consume
this delicacy continually. Similarly a Frenchman has
been known to offer his Saxon acquaintance “ ze Engleese
plom pudding ” for breakfast.
Snazelle brought “Our Navy” to the wrong part of
the Hempire, Tub Bulletin is thinking, mother
week, when “ Our Navy ” was on view at Halifax,
Nova Scotia, a man put on his hat and rose to
leave the hall as soon as the picture of King
Ned on the screen, and the chestnut strains of
“ God Save ” from the orchestra, announoed that the
audience had nothing more to get for its money.
Seemingly this irreverent person was the only one
who wanted to avoid the crush. He had the misfortune
to be conspicuous, so Anglican Bishop Courtney went for
him, and knocked his hat off, crying “You ought to be
ashamed of yourself.” Whereat, says the news report,
“ the Bishop was cheered by the audience.” Canada is
the land where Snazzy ought to be singing “Drake s
Drum,” and referring to the sheeted portrait of Edward
as “ The King, God bless him ! ” With what fine, fruity
impressiveness would Snaz. have demanded three cheers
for Bishop Courtney for assaulting the hat of the man
who wasn’t taking any anthem !
On opening night of “ The Manxman,” during the pre-
sent Melb. season, the fight between the two Christians in
the second act was so realistic that one of the contesting
mummers accidentally landed the other in the eye, with
the result that latter wore a mouse in the street during the
remainder of the run.


GALKIN CUPEL MACHINES.
aeoa^
The only absolutely satisfactory machine
made.
Made in three designs—Automatic, Table
and Wall.
The automatic machines will make five sizes.
The table and wall m chines from one to
three sizes, depending on dies furnished.
Machines for one size only at propor-
tionately less price.
Write for full particulars to
SOLE AGENTS-
piKESEiicy company gtd.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
Importers of modern appliances for Assayers—Furnaces,
Blowers, Sampling Machines, Ore Crushers, etc., etc.
Calkin's Automata Cupel Machine.
Will make 600 cupels of uniform size
and density in an hour.
ERASMIC- ——
- PERFUME
Is delightfully fragrant and pleasant to use.
A DAINTY, DELICIOUS DELICACY.
. . . ASK YOUR CHEMIST FOR IT . . .
THE NEWEST OF THE NEW.
If you Buy it from us it’s all right .
No. P27B7.—New Twin Heart and Arrow
Brooch, 9c. Gold, 8s 6d.
No. E 8739. —Fine Dia-
mond and 18c. Gold
Ring, £4 10s.
No. F 2254.— 15c. Gold Brooch, Ruby
Centre, £1 10s.
No. F37o4.—New Lucky Bell and Leaf
Brooch, 9c. Gold, 11s 6d.
Magnificent Diamond
and Opal Cluster Ring,
£l7 10s.
No. F3ss3.—New Bell Brooch. 9c. Gold
l'2s 6d.
No. Fs93,—Fine Pearl New Moon and Spray
Brooch, 15c. Gold, £5.
No. F 4546. —Fine Quality Pearl and 15c. Gold Spray
Brooch, £9 10s.
No. F4299.—15c. Gold Bird and Leaf
Brooch, £1 6s.
N0.F4540—15c. Gold
and Pearl Pendant,
£2 10s.
No. E 5629. —New Bar and Bell Brooch,
9c. Gold, 10s 6d.
No. P 2691. —Strong Bar Brooch, New Design,
9c. Gold, 13s 6d.
No. F976.—Fine Pearl Scroll Brooch, 15c. Gold,
£1 15s.
No. F4Bsl.—Fine Pearl nd sc. Gold
No. EB6oo.—Pair of 9c.
Gold Tie Clips, 5s 6d.
Heavy Make, 10s 6d.
Shamrock Brooch, £llss.
Illustrated Catalogue
Free to all.
STEWART DAWSON & CO
412 GEORGE ST. and
STRAND, SYDNEY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
plays
French’s Acting Edition.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Books Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE . . .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
Price Bd.
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL!
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, !)d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
m- For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and
rice, ss. (id. postage, 9d. extra.
±> e
2.
I
c/x
Washington H. Soul & Go.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Coilins-street, MELBOURNE.
FROM 5 HP. TO 100 HP.
S
&
MOTORS
FROM 1 H.P. TO 60 HP.
CAN BE SUPPLIED PROMPTLY
FROM STOCK.
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; 17 Queen-st.,
of Australia
(LIMIT ED),
(I»H.'ke llawarra), near
SYDKTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
fine silver.
■
■ € '-' m
Mpwjl .4
3533
A
MAKERS OF
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
•I'
AND
ILL AW AKRA”
..BHAND OB’..
SOFT LEAD.
F urchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS JEWELLERS' SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD Bttt t
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH .SETTLEMENT GN AGREEMENT of ASSAYS. OS
For all information Hoarding Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Mobse, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S W.


CAPILLA Hair Tonic
(Registered under the Provisions of the Trades Marks Act of 1900).
ASTOUNDING CHALLENGE.
milE Proprietor of Capilla Hair Tonic being desirous of
-L having a public test made to prove the infallibility of bis
now famous Hair Restorer, known as Capilla Hair Tonic, is
prepared to treat any gentleman troubled with absolute Baldness
(it is immaterial of how long standing) Tree of Charge for a
period of 12 or 16 weeks, and guarantees in that time to pro-
duce Hair 1-Jin. long (by the aid of Capilla alone, used accord-
ing to the Direction supplied with every bottle) on the scalp
affected by Baldness. Bailing which, he is prepared to forfeit
to the Sydney Hospital the sum of <£2s sterling.
The conditions to be Ist. That a*committee of six Sydney medical men, or well-
known Sydney gentlemen, be appointed to substantiate the fact of CAPILLA having
done what we claim for it. 2nd. That the gentleman upon whom the test is to be made
has upon the scalp a down or slight fluff. It is immaterial whether it is discernible with
the naked eye or not, so long as a microscopical examination proves it to exist.
We can procure actual living 1 proof* of
Capilla having cured actual Baldness.
If the above challenge be accepted, we particularly request the attendance of Newspaper
Reporters, Medical Gentlemen, or any person interested, to watch the progress
made day by day.
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC will make Ladies’ Hair increase in length and
strength, by about 1 inch to II inch per month.
CAFIIaIiA is not a dye, containing no oils or injurious ingredients.
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC, 2s. 6d. per bottle. Your chemist or storekeeper stocks Capilla.
If not obtainable locally, we will forward one (1) bottle to any address in the Australian btates
for 3s. 21., or the full course of six (0) bottles for 17s. 6d. post free (under cover).
WTTT/ITT A TiJ Sole Proprietor’ and Manafaetrim r,
. iIiIyHAJiUS, 168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
T A TTH INTO, STTBSTITITT-E.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 86 Chroinos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngand old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easv. is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. Tiie
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, Bcfposted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets op Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Whiter, is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Ukciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Bead Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse's Advice to a Mother, 3s Oil posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songi,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) thai
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, I 6 Park Street, SYPNEV.
Y.
0 bo
V'
N.r-
vVhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointmens, send for one of Stephenson’s
. EIjECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
[strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
-1 CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
! THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
jDO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
! LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
[ Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
(They impart vigor and potency to every function,
1 brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy- are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
aitaishments 3 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
THE
FREEMAN
ELECTRO-MEDICAL & SURGICAL INSTITUTE.
The Two Eminent Specialists
who have the Largest Practice
in Australasia.
And the Only Specialists
Received Highly Commendable Press notices
in Leading Australian Journals.
Specialties : Nervous and Chronic Complaints, Blood and Skin Diseases,
Heart, Kidney, Liver, Bladder, Rheumatism, Sciatica, ®c., &c.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of purification and Re f by tHe Govern.
ment Medical Boards of New South Wales, V.ctor.a, e
Britain and America, open to inspection at t e &
by our Physician-in-Chief.
Pis an acknowledged fact the world-wide over that no
single individual or combination of men can be ab-
solute masters of every phase and branch of art, science,
medicine, or other professed avocation of a limitless
sphere of operation and magnitude. At best the greatest
scientists of the day—men like Lord Kelvin and Edison,
\... :
n**
Yours truly . . .
HO W AMD FREEMAN,
Sydney’s Leading Specialist.
Professor of Electricity as applied Medically, Member
Dr. Harmon’s College, Washington Cor., Cal., U.S.A.
Director and Founder of the Institute.
for instance, whose fame is universally known—class
themselves as infants in scientific invention and research,
and modestly tell us that they have but a smattering of
knowledge of the possibilities, extent, and development
We have only to look at the fine buildings that occupy
the corner of Elizabeth and Bathurst streets to gain some
idea" extent and importance of their
work. But to have the privilege of being sho " l t l t ' iro }
the building by the Specialists themselves, and to see and
learn something of the real character of itheir wi<le pirac
tice, is a treat that only comes the way of a fortunate 1
dividual like the writer.
The instrument-room was, as usual, one pf particular
curiosity. Laymen always have a penchant for eyeing
and examining the polished steel articles mth which so
many extraordinary acts are performed upon the human
body. • Tha collection in this room is in every way up-to-
date. Whenever a new instrument comes to the front
and its worth is proved beyond question, it is added to
this rare assortment. Another room full of absorbing in-
terest is that devoted to the galvanic batteries, of which
there are several magnificent kinds. The noted Gaiffe
batteries, the finest French makes, are here in perfection,
irrespective of their high cost. If any article or mechani-
cal and electric contrivance is found necessary in main-
taining the fame of this institution, the price is never
allowed to stand in the way. . ~
The correspondence department is a veritable e\e-
opener. Its sacredness is a bar to a stranger s admission,
but a full view of the work going on is had through the
glass doors. Half-a-dozen typists are seen driving their
machine-writers at electric speed. To the principals only
are known the names of the persons throughout Australia
who' are being treated as skilfully in their homes about
the metropolis and away in the interior as if they were
present in personal consultation at the institution.
The packing-rooms are likewise shut off from curious
and prying glances, and the work of one department is a
mystery to the others. No better system for holding
secret the nature of sufferers’ troubles, for safe-guarding
their interests, and giving due heed to the feelings and
sensitiveness of patients, could be imagined. Packages
are not plastered with advertising labels, they are put up
in such a way that only the names and addresses are in
V What a practice is here revealed and what a consola-
tion must it be to these eminent specialists to know that
they are permanently curing and restoring to health and
happiness thousands of people whose lives were a burden
to them. The young, the middle-aged, and the healthy
are treated with the same amount of success. The pro-
digious nature of the work accomplished by these
specialists necessitates—not the stereotyped morning and
evening two hours’ consultation ticket, but their constant
attention at the institution from early morning till late
into the night. “ I can assure you,” said Dr. Wallace,
“ we don’t put in these long hours because we are fonder
HEALTH
wAy*.
I MC£ i
rm
mW ii
STRENGTH
m
BSf.ifc,, .7““»
EL^
■i
■
.
8 -
I
i
I
■
Cl CAL.
m
IMSTITUTE -IMRi&SIIRGICACIHSTIfnTr^
p HI;
: ' . ’
i ■ M.-?
m s
mmm
Premises : Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts. (Opp. Hyde Park, Sydney
(Ail Trams Stop at the Door).
of electricity, and only a fringe of Imagination of the un-
told stores of strength and wealth wrapt up in this
phenomenal power.
Therefore it requires no argument to convince the
most pronounced of optimists that the field in any one of
the great and honored professions of the day is far too
vast for the thorough comprehension of the most per-
fectly brain-endowed man, or body of naturally-gifted
men. Yet in respect of the most delicate and difficult of
all professions—that of prescribing for the ills and
diseases of mankind—we find doctors, scattered over the
globe, off-handedly and without careful, minute, and
searching examination and diagnosis—without any know-
ledge of the past lives of patients—flippantly dashing off
prescriptions for every class of complaint, as if a cure was
as simple as falling over the proverbial log.
Thanks to the march of civilisation, culture, and edu-
cation, people are getting to know that modern medical
men who are worth consulting confine their practice to a
certain class of cases. Realising the utter hopelessness of
mastering and curing everything under the sun, and find-
ing that “gullibles” are not so plentiful as they used to
be, the wise and progressive men of medicine devote
themselves to one or other class of cases, and work out
the remedies for them to the best of their skill and
ability.
What better and more striking illustration of the suc-
cess of Specialists in Skin Diseases, Heart, Kidney, Liver
Affections, Rheumatics, Sciatica, Nervous Diseases, could
the people of this magnificent continent, Australia, have
than the enormous practice of the famous practitioners of
the Electro-Medical Institute. Their skill, attainments,
position, ahd renowned reputation stamp them as the un-
doubted masters of the classes of diseases and complaints
which have been the study of their professional lives.
When we speak of electricity we think of Edison. Why ?
he dwarfs other men in this branch of science.
lii the same way, when we talk of specialists, we at once
associate the names of the Freeman and Wallace Insti-
tute. So it is in every branch of scientific medicine;
someone or two men stand head and shoulders above
their fellows.
It is the aim, object, and devotion of certain doctors to
be pre-eminent in - some defined class of-disease rather
than to tinker with a host of complaints about which
they can have but a hazy notion, and superficial know-
ledge. To use a hackneyed but expressive phrase, they
are “ Jacks of all trades and masters of none.” Never
since the time of Ricord, the noted French Specialist,
have any men conducted so gigantic and successful a
practice as that conducted by the Freeman-Wallace
Electro Medical and Surgical Institute.
of hard work than any other medical men ; we do It In
the best interests of sufferers. We don’t keep them
waiting longer than we can help, and we suffer many in-
conveniences for our patients’ sakes.”
Noble sentiments, thought the writer, as the timecamfe
for his departure, and the Specialists returning to their
Yours truly . . .
IiICIIAII I) WA LLA CE,
Physician-in-Chief,
M.D., L.11.C.P., L.F.P.S., L.M.,
Late Medical Staff, British Army; late Consulting
Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne.
consulting-room. How many doctors in our midst can
we bracket in this category ? Dinners and drives and
conversaziones are more frequently uppermost in the
mind of top-loftical medicos than the speedy treatment
of sad and suffering patients.


Amusements.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. 0. Williamson
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas.. J. B. Moutria
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
J. O. WILLIAMSON’S ITALIAN OPERA COMPANY
THURSDAY, AUGUST 22, RIGOLETTO.
FRIDAY, AUGUST 23, LA BOHEME.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 24, Great Double Bill
CAVALLERIA RUSTICANA and I PACLIACCI
Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Stalls 4s •
Family Circle, 2s. ; Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s!
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY^
Henry Lee and J. G. Rial
Jas. H. Love
Lessees.
General Manager.
EVERY NIGHT
(Except Sunday).
WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY MATINEES at 2.30 p.m.
THE WORLD’S ENTERTAINERS.
You can get more real enjoyment in two hours and forty
minutes than in any other place in Sydney.
PRICES—Is., 2s. and 3s.
Reserve Your Seats at Elvy’s ; or at the Theatre.
Empire t h eatre, Sydney.
(Late Roval Standard, Castlereagh-street.)
23rd WEEK. (FULLER THAN EVER.) 23rd WEEK.
Fuller’s Empire Minstrel Specialty Co.
MISS HETTIE WARDEN, the English Serio.
THE LESLIE BROS., FUN IN A BAR-ROOM.
MR. CHAS. FANING, the Great and Onlv.
MR. WILL STEVENS, MR. DENIS CARNEY, MR.
TED HERBERTE, MR. FRED BLUETT, MAIE and
ANDREWS, THE CLINTONS, &c., &c., &c.
Prices —25., Is'., and Cd.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Management of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative .. .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
THE BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY.
LAST TWO NTGHTS of
SOWING THE WIND.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 24, THE AMAZONS.
Box Plan at Elvy’s, George-st. Prices as Usual.
|_YCEU M THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. William Anderson.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
THE MARINERS OF ENGLAND;
OR, THE DAYS OF NELSON.
Interpreted by WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC ORGANISATION.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 24, RETURN OF AUS-
TRALIA’S FAVORITE, MAGGIE MOORE.
PRICES —3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNeT.
Under the Direction of Mr. Charles Holloway.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
GREATEST OF ALL GREATEST SUCCESSES,
DEATH OR GLORY BOYS,
As Presented by Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
POPULAR COTERIE OF PLAYERS.
Prices —35., 25., Is. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.55;
ordinary doors, 7.30. Plan at Nicholson’s
Rickards’ tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Enthusiastic Reception of Mr. Rickards’ Latest Im-
portation, MR. EDGAR GRANVILLE, the
Great Society Entertainer.
MARIE LLOYD (the Inimitable).
ALEC. HURLEY (the Coster King).
CELINA BOBE (Xylophone Expert and Violiniste).
MDLLE. LUGRETIA (Burlesque Artist).
ERHEST SWALLOW (the Lightning Banjoist).
The American Bioscope, and all Our Great Double Co.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturdays & Wednesdays.
RICKARDS’ NEW O PERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY
COMPANY.
Re-appearance for a Short Farewell Season of Mr.
AUSTIN RUDD.
The Wonderful ZOBEDIE, the World’s Greatest Hand
Balancer, Ascensionist, and Equilibrist, and
ARNOLDI, the Clever Young Juggler and Equilibrist,
and all Our Great Co.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr J Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Talli r . Treao.. 2lr. E. J. Tait.
FOURTH WEEK of WF j 0 U TAR RETT SEASON.
UNPARALLELED TRIUMPH of
THE SIGN OF THE CROSS,
The Finest Performance of Mr. Wilson Barrett’s Great
Play Ever Witnessed on the Australian Stage.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallerv, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE ? OF THE HOUR I
WHY SMITH LEFT HOME!
EVERY EVENING.
CHARLES ARNOLD’S LONDON COMEDY COMPANY
. . in . .
WHY SMITH LEFT HOME,
Preceded by THE GREY PARROT.
MATINEE, SATURDAY at 2.
Simply an Enormous Success /"S® Manager, L. J. Lohr.
Amusements.
"THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
FOURTH WEEK and CONTINUED POPULARITY,
The Great Picturesque and Unique Drama,
the white heather,
One of Bland Holt’s Most Marvellous Productions.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. Bd., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
Business Announcements.
The FEDERAL
Balmoral
BOOT
104
Our new "Federal'’
Balmoral is the best Boot this season. It is made
of finest Dongola calf, with kid legs, is leather lined,
the sol" 6 are fair stitched and standard screwed.
The " Federal" Balmoral is made purposely for ns,
and yon can’i get it elsewhere. In all the uew fashion-
able shaped toes. Price carriage paid to any address
in the Australian Comm mwealth or Mew Zealand is
half a guinea pair Your money back if not satisfied.
The DON Cash Trading Co.
JOHNSTON JT.. COLLINQWOOB,
MELBOURNE.
rTHE^
DEAF
yjEA BJ
bt using Wilson’s Com-
mon Sense liar Drums.
They restore the hearing, and
relieve singing, roaring, and
buzzing noises in the ears.
Many benefited after trying
other remedies without success.
Testimonials from all the States.
Send a post-card to-day for
illustrated book, FREE.
Address, J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
[DEAF
W!IJ V» M
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
■and Head Noises, no matter of
I how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears, as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. 0
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBB.
$
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, dec.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
■
m*
mmi
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne
Castro’s Last Sacrament
By ALBERT DORRINGTON. 48 6d.
VERY NEWEST and NICE PATTERNS
The New Season’s
. . Dress Materials^
A PENNY POST CARD IS ALL YOU WANT—**
Your Name and Address on the back —and ours on
the front —and we will send you a complete
Set FREE!!!
If ou ftjow, of Qourse . . . . . . 1
That we deliver DRAPERY to your District at
Sydney Prices. WE PAY ALL CARRIAGE OR FREIGHT.
Hordern Brothers
I? Sydney s Xeaders of fashions-
-203, 205, 207, 209, Ml PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
3ft
&
That’s all
it Cost’s you ” v
• • • • S*®
To get a Lovely Set of our
2*o Residents in the Country.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
(3 DOORS FROM
STRAND ARCADE.)
Camden Buildings, 420 George St., Sydney.
A S^.'VIlSrGr ‘ OJT 1 25 IPIEIR, CEUT.^.
WALKER & HALL’S SILVER-PLATED
FORKS AND SPOONS.
tel
OLD ENGLISH OR FIDDLE PATTERN.
“Flag Brand”
Table Forks—
-11- J-doz.
Dessert „ 8/3 „
Table Spoons—
-11- i-doz.
Dessert ~ 8/3 „
Tea „ 3/9
Write for our 80- Paged Illustrated Catalogue—TOST FREE.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
PRICE, 6d.; Posted, Bd.
UIHHT IT COSTS TO BECOPIE H FORESTER
I.
0.
For a man 30 years of age to take out a Policy for £4OO in the Independent
Order of Foresters, the cost would be about 2s. 9d. per week, not a heavy
drain on his income, but a nice little deposit upon which his wife may draw
in the event of his death.
I.O. F.
Head Office for N.S.W.:
F
•' : :
283 George-st., Sydney.
6r. A. FRASER, Manager .
I
i
PHYSICIAN
Registered by tho
Medical Board
of N.3.W.
SURGEON
HAVING had 30 years experience in all parts of the world, and also having lately made an extended trip through Europe and _ America, he
is in a position to treat every case submitted to him according to the methods of the most recent and eminent Specialists of the
whole world. .
Every Case treated on its own Merits.
Sufferers at a distance, unable to describe their cases to their own satisfaction, should write for Dr. Watson’s
“Guide to Diagnosis,”
which will allow them to give exact and full particulars, so as to enable him to report fully as to the disease and its radical and rational
method of treatment. _ _ _ • „ „ , , , . , ~ N
CONSULTATION FREES (Personally, or by Letter).
The publication of crowds of symptoms, testimonials and puffs of one’s skill and attainments savours too much of self-praise ; so the public
should look with a doubtful eye upon all those who “ doth protest too much.”
Dr. Watson does not pretend to say that “ One Pound is sufficient to send,” as stated in certain advertisements, for he considers that the
public are quite satisfied to pay a fair price for fair and legitimate treatment.
Write for small
«Guide to Health,”
and Method for Self-Diagnosis.
(Please mention this paper when writing.)
u
137 Elizabeth-St.
SYDNEY.
m


AFTER TYPHOID.,
WEAK, WEARY AND WORN.
A Complete Resuscitation.
The eaee of 1
MRS. E. S. GLENN.
flwpoMntc for Phe Journal)
In uonsequenoe of hearing a few
ftnent the indisposition of a lady residing at
78 Cleveland-street, Sydney, our repre-
sentative called at that address and ex-
pressed a desire to her husband, who
answered the door, to be trranted the favor
of an interviews with ohSe
subject. “ByaH regftfed Mr
“ Just step inside, and I'm sure mar wife
will be glad- to teg you ail. abonfcife/’ ®he
invitation was acospted, ’MStWt erstwhile
patient related her story in tile following
manner:—■
“ Sope time ago—»uwareeii «Wo aiid throe
J*ars, it raust be—l beoame oonseknas of the
fact that an ißaese of some was
creeping on me, alteoßt ft
Was quite clear to me that I was becommg
unwell, becouseof a most unpleasant senseof
genwal lassitude, a feeteng ofiaek of haterest
and absolute indifference to everything that
previously absorbed my attention, a feeling
unusual languor and depression. I was
always ill at ease, being so restless and dull.
A sensation of drowsiness was .continually
®P on me > btrtyet;nw days and nights were
nearly alwayusstee#eae. What little sleep
x did manage to obthinwas not atali refresh-
mg, as I would awake jntfb as weary as
before. The work' of'tiie day, which hitherto
had bean a pleasure to me, gradually became
an aversion. Everything I tried to do
osfeedify developed itself into a monotony,
out what
altogether exhausted, and the tetlessness
and apathy that had seized hold of trie was
made moremsbeariibte by the incessant nre-
flotice of didl frontal headaches. I became
weaker'and weaker through a total loss of
gPpetite, and ldst flesh rapidly. At times
I had a strange ringing sensation in the
ears, and would feekchilly at regular inter-
state of Prostration was -now so
. b my
newi from ti»e pmbw produced a footing of
dustiness and sickness atthe stomach. At
cftitertiaiesi tty m a stele of utter stupe-
faction, -? not even being able to engage
myself in thought, and would remain for
long periodega«tng. into vacancy. I would
• arouse from this predicament after a
while, but only to realise more clearly the
weak condition f waa in. ”
You had a doctor's attention, surely!”
enjoined the reporter.
“Oh, of course j and my case was pro-
nounced to be one off typhoid fever. Ido
not know whether such a thing is customary
in typhoid fever cases, but Iliad sweßhws
of various sizes all over my body. They
caused me no end of anxiety and pain, and I
was afraid of other complications setting in,
although my medical attendant at length
persuaded me there was no reason to be
urmeoessarily alarmed. To add to the long
list of other ailments, I must not forget to
tell yep that on numerous occasions I was
suddenly made a wareof dtdt,|hea vy pains in
the chest, as thoqgh l indigestion •
but considering cWnot eat! do nub
thmk it could have been that. Well, this
state of affairs went on for- ten weeks, and
during that time I was justiabeut as bad as
y@u can imagine a patient could bo reduced
to. ©The doctor’s mediemes l drank during
my term of sickness would surprise you-
hnt they evidently did not suit toy case.’
Uney made me no stronger, and aid not
remove any of my distressing symptoms.
a • B ot tired of taking physic, aqd
aauaed to act upon the advice of a friend
w “° was continually advocating the ex?
M Elements Tpnic. Tfeis gentleman
aoqumntanco had himself suffered from the
as my e>vn f and "he was so
regadaingtiie amount pf bene%
he had derived fromWOlomgßtfi TMo, and
the way it restored his lost vitality, that he
convinced the there must De sometHTng fn Ite|
preparation which would do me good.!
Without any more delay I procured a bottle,!
and discarded the doctors medicine alto-|
getheru being quite satisfied that the stuff]
he had ordered was not doing me an atom of
good, although his instructions were care-
fully carried out. I had been almost desti-
tute of hope for a thorough recovery from
my long and serious illness, even after the
fever had left me, until the necessary
assistance arrived in the form of Clements
Tonic; and my feelings of gratification can
be more easily imagined than described
when I found the great amount of benefit
which had accrued from the consumption of
the first bottle. ”
“ What effect did ithave upon you ? r * 9
“ The most noticeable result of my first
bottle of Clements Tonic was a marked
decrease in the swellings on my body, which
clung to me in spite of my convalescence;
and the agonising pains in my head, which
had been the cause of so much torture and
anguish to me, soon left me altogether, and
I was then in such a happy frame of mind
that my prospects of regaining strength
soon became quite bright. I could also par-
take of the nourishing food which my
enfeebled condition so much required, and
which for weeks had been returned un-
tasted. And after eating there was at
absence of that dull, heavy feeling on the
stomach which I had previously experienced,
and I knew that my meals were being
properly digested. I continued Clements
Tome, and I seemed to reap advantage from
each dose. My cheeks began to display a
healthy colour, and each day added more
strength and vigor. By the time I had
arrived at the bottom of the second bottle
the swellings hadgone down entirely, and I
was able to go about the house with an
appreciable degree of comfort and energy.
With my daily increasing appetite came an
increase m flesh, and I could now take an
interest in my household arrangements,
having sufficient vitality to do my work
with feelings of mingled interest and
pleasure. When night arrived I could look
forward to have plenty of rest, for I no
longer turned from one side to another in
the vam hope of gaining repose. No ; I could
always feel sure of a good sleep, and would
arise m the morning feeling very much
better for it.”
“ You appear to have made a complete
recovery ?” 1
“Yes; I am thankful to say that
(-dements Tome has restored me to the best
07 , ... t ’ a^^ou gh when I sometimes catch
a chill I get an attack of neuralgia ; but I
always keep to the one remedy, and after
taking two or three doses of Clements Tonic
the neuralgia loaves me.”
“May I make your case known? ”
“ Indeed you can, and I trust it may be the
means of alleviating the suffering of ..her
people.
f
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
Sva^l iZa - 56th .v. , Glenn ’ of 78 Olev eland-street,
Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales,
Bmce . re J y deolare that I have car*
Wily read the annexed document, consisting of five
consecutively numbered from one to five
and that it oontams and'is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic and also
contains my full permission to publish in any wav
my statements—which 1 give voluntarily, and without
ctaralimV a . rKi 1 “ ake this solemn de-
asd ? bv v^ y b ? l l evin £ the same to be true,
rhfflod provT ?°" 8 of an Act made and
H f&tawhJT °/ , th , e re /P of her present
Jnwvuted An Act for the more effectual
fn and Actions Uken and mad
lieu thereof su&strtmte Declarations in
xa? shssxh "•— *
■ ' ©
at Sydney tnis 98th day of Ju
*aoo»nd nine hundred, before me ' q
ft McSENNA
Business Announcements.
(aood Tailoring.
WINTER.
Warm Tweeds and Worsteds .
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
TO STAND ALL WEATHERS.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &C.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
AN EFFICII&NT
5h
FILM CAMERA
THE BROWNIE.
Not a toy. Takes splendid photographs,
by 2f inches. Complete with hand-
book of instructions.
KODAKS from ss. to £7 158.
OF ALL PHOTOGRAPHIC DEALERS, or from
KODAK, Limited,
The Block, £Bl, Collins Street, Melbourne.
fend (or illustrated price list and mention this
paper
Medical.
* NOTICE •
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, o,r
Limbs.
The OhS Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER'S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestke & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
„ SOLD IN TWO SIZES, 9d. <fc Is. 6d.
N-B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestke & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all <
Chemists in the Australian Colonies. ,
POWELL’S BALSAM
%oTwf^"
OF ANISEED
WILL CUBE YOUB COUCH
All the world oyer, it has been the recognised
Cough Remedy for the past 75 years, and is
to-day the Safe and Reliable Cure for
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and all Lung Troubles.
Loosens the Phlegm immediately, and re-
moves the tickling sensation in the Throat,
which deprives so many of rest during the
night. It Strengthens the Voice.
WARNING .—When purchasing
Powell’s Balsam of Aniseed
see the above Trade Mark on each wrapper
and beware of Imitations.
Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers through-
out the world. Prepared only by Thomas
Powell, Ld., Blackfriars, London, S.E.
T)EAR SIR,— I have been cured of Weakness and Dr.
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy and will
be pleased td send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURBT, Pitt street. Sydney.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise, and
Buy the Best, Cheapest and Most
Stylish Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & Co.
252-254 Flinders St., Melbourne
(Opp. Station).
Our Suit to Order at
42/-. i» marvellous
value, perfect fitting
and beautifully finish-
ed.
Trousers. 12/6.
Dress and Clerical Suits*
to order, £s*
Biding Breeches, 25/-
Men’s Suits, Ready for
Wear, 25/-
Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indig i dye, 25/-
Lonsr Chesterfields, 30/-
Tweed Overcoats, 21/-
\ Waterproof Coats, full
capes. 18/6.
Tweed or Serge Trousers,
5/11.
Travelling Bugs, 10/6
13/9.
Black and Blue Vicuna
Coats and Veats, 19/6.
Undressed White Shirts,
2/6,3/6, 4/6, 5/6.
Crimean Shirts, 5/6.
1/6.
Gent’s Splendid Bal-
moral 800t5.6/9,9/6
We like to write letters,
so don’t be afraid to
ask for any informa-
tion. Our book. 7 hi
Philosophy of Dress,
patterns of all kinds
and Belf : measurement
forms post free. Write
for them.
Don’t Forget to Write for Patterns.
BLAIR’S
GOUT Si RHEUMATIC
‘ PILLS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. l£d. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
EVERY MAN WEEDS IT.
QOME interesting information is disclosed in the book
published by the Electro-Botanic Institute, of
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney. It dig.
cusses the private side of life in such a way as to cause
most men to pause and think as to whether they are just
what they ought to be physically. The book is sent free,
in plain, sealed wrapper.— Medical Review.
DON'T POISON'
YOURSELF
WITH DRUGS when our ELECTRIC BELT (with or
without suspensor) will CURE YOU. fST" ELECTRIC
CURRENT GUARANTEED. Pamphlet and Consulta-
tion Free. HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists, 105 Regent-
street, London W., and 44 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
We give a fair trial before payment.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
! pound Inhalenfc, and 1 tin
Nasal Ointment, only
10-
/ Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
CURES COUGH.
* Cured my son of a dreadful Cough.’
Mrs. Johnston, Belleek, Fermanagh.
GIVES REST & SLEEP.
HAYMAN’S
BALSAM
of Horehound
Bafa and Pleasant for Children.
• NOTHING LIKE IT FOR A' COLD.’
Mr. W. Hird, Norwich.
STOPS COLD.
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottle of medi=
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE M EDI CAE PROFESSION.
H.G. ROOT, *B, Endsleigh Gdns., LONDON.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
“ C.C. ” to. The B ulletin :
Went, the other day, to see the old ladies, some of whom
the Govt, has been delighted to honor with a 10s. weekly
pension. They reside in a very flat place so far distant
from Sydney that a comparatively young woman is almost
qualified for residence by the time the slow-going Parra-
matta steamer has landed her On the wharf. Newington
Asylum is right in view of the wharf, and no one could
mistake it, but in case any of the visitors should be imbe-
ciles, an old woman is salaried at 3d. a day to be always
in waiting to show people up. She is a cheerful old dame,
and, through the glow of a separate income, regards
coldly the cantankerousness of other old ladies, and waxes
confidential on their various little peculiarities. We
found most of the residents sitting on their verandahs
looking at nothing and listening to the bull-like roar-
ing of an invisible old lady, who has been bed-
ridden for 15 years and on the roar most of that time.
Probably this sound has come to be regarded as is the
noise of the surf by sea-coast people, except that every
%ow and then, unfortunately, words could be heard ; and
they were the sort of words that, spoken in a Sydney
street, would have got the speaker two months’ hard.
None of the women seemed to be conversing with one
another. No old woman ever does care for the society of
another qld woman ; this is true of all grades of society.
Queen Victoria, in her social aspect a very typical old
woman, craved for the companionship of young people.
Middle-aged ladies often chum up together, but really
ancient dames regard each other with suspicion, and
generally end with having “ words.” To herd old women
together is a psychological cruelty.
Noticed that the Newingtonians did not take kindly to
modern appliances. One aged personage, in the usual
uniform of grey skirt and red shawl, was indignant be-
cause “Guv’ment was too mean to give heracannle”
(candle), and only snorted when it was pointed out that
electric light was much better. Old women don’t w - ant
things that are better; they have no desire for marble
halls and grandeur ; they want their own special bits of
rags in their own little reach-me-down room. They want
to cling sorrowfully to the home where grandpa died;
they want to be allowed to doctor their rheumaticky knee
as mother used, and to anoint their sore eye with the
ointment that will make it worse ; and otherwise to be
free and independent citizens. In support of which re-
marks as to the desire of old women for sameness, we
noticed that each old lady had carefully pencilled off her
own special allotment of verandah-form, and that when-
ever Mrs. Brown’s too ample figure bulged over into Mrs.
O’Sullivan’s territory, Mrs. Brown had “ words ” with
Mrs. O’S., and Mrs. O’S. reflected disrespectfully on Mrs.
Brown’s ancestors.
The Newingtonians have one holiday a month, during
which time some of them go on a wild burst of dissipa-
tion in Sydney, sometimes taking too much, for which
indulgence they are generally sorrowful. It is not con-
sidered likety that many of the residents will leave the
establishment when the pensions fall due, though it is
calculated that there will be a rush at the asylum of
various relatives who have found that grandma is a valu-
able asset and who want to take care of that ten shillings
for her while they make her useful in minding baby or knit-
ting the family socks. But the aged parent will mostly
wink her eye and stay on at the asylum where, eight
shillings or so being deducted for her board, she will
have eighteenpence or two shillings a week to spend on
extras. It is probable that after the first pay-day
numerous old ladies will be in the doctor’s hands through
indulging in things in which old ladies should not in-
dulge, and that altogether there will be a time of great
razzle-dazzle till the old women get used to being bloated
capitalists.


A trouble that has been gathering for
some 21 years has fallen on the head of the Peck-
sniff Ministry. Long ago, before the Deluge,
Victorian law provided for liberally pensioning
every aged public servant out of the revenue. It
was even proposed, in those wild and hairy days,
to pension all ex-Ministers. Suddenly, the Bill
began to dawn on an alarmed country, and about
21 years ago it was enacted that nobody entering
the service thereafter should have any pension
rights. But, clumsily enough, it was specified
that the Act should come in force only after a cer-
tain date some time ahead. The men who entered
the service after the Act were passed, but before
the date fixed for it to come in force— the “ Twi-
lighters’’—claim that they are entitled to pen-
sions, and apparently they are. Eleven Govern-
ments have promised to think over it, but as the
oldest of the Twilighters are just about falling
due for their pensions, the matter can’t be thought
about much longer. Victoria’s Civil-Service Pen-
sion Bill is already about £330,000 a year, and this
means another annual £50,000.
Apropos of the shouts from two or three
Victorian fellmongers that they will close-up on
account of the minimum-wage of 365. a week,
fixed by the Wages Board, there appears to be a
great lack of information about the actual closing
of any establishment. The cry of Fatman that he
is going to throw up the sponge on account of
disastrous labor legislation is common enough,
hut the actual throwing-up is very rare. In 1896,
when the present Vic. Banking Act came into
force, a terrible note of warning was uttered in
the Assembly by G. D. Carter, M.P., to the effect
t.hat, under the new regulations, no capitalist
would dare to take the responsibility of being a
bank-director. The first balance-sheet issued under
the new rules was that of the Bank of Victoria, with
G.'D. Carter’s signature at the foot, and it has
been there ever since. In fact, G. D. has become
so prosperous and cocky under the new order of
things that he now often spells his name out in
full as “ Godfrey Downes Carter.”
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue *
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMIFETITION.
WINES Best B : anda ovlv SPIRITS.
CC
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
. Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
KEMP'S PATENTSHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long: as required. It will NOT injure the wool. It will dissolve out under
the ordinary scouring: process.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FEtTOII, KRimUIIBE * CO, IMOOUiME.
BLACK, TIED, and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases) ■
PRICE IN MELBOURNE
„ SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.)
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.)
„ HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.)
3/0
3/0
3/9
4/3
per Gallon,
n
ii
ii
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
“T’THTTi FA-MOUS RE3VCBDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OIF* COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hear ne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and-troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, whb pronounced
my ease to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had'been tried, but-without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Voefmlnstorßvldw.rnnd. K.E., London.
uugh.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vic.
"Mr. Hearne. —
“Dear Sir, —I am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Gure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
"Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.’
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows: —“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
I do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
' night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Tears’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry' cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Tears’ Case.
CUBED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville
Queensland, writes “After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it ”
Writing again on the 4t.h April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemise, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot- office i No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food hr
Infants
9
m
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD ia sold in Tina by Ohemiata, Be., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS '
AND
THE AGED.


CAUTIOH.
GENUINE PHOSFERINE
Ashton & Parsons, Ld., 17, Farringdon Road, London,
the original and only genuine makers of Phosferine find it
necessary to put the public on their guard against mendacious
imitations of their well-known medicine, that are being offered
for the sake of extra profit.
It is necessary when purchasing Phosferine, to see that it
bears the name of the genuine makers, viz.:
ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD., LONDON.
Phosferine was first prepared by Ashton & Parsons in the
the year 1867 ; its marvellous curative properties were at once
recognised by the public, and by the personal recommendations
of grateful patients it has worked its way into every corner of
the globe, and its praises are sung in all parts of the world.
ROYAL COMMANDS.
Phosferine enjoys the distinguished honour of having been supplied by commands to
MEMBERS OF THE BRITISH ROYAL FAMILY.
H.I.M. the Empress of Russia.
H.M. the King of Greece.
H.M. the Queen of Roumania.
H.I.M. the Dowager Empress of Russia
U.S.H. theHereclitary Princess olLeiningen
H MM M M
M M M M M
:.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of Russia.
R.H. the Crown Princess of Routnania.
I.H. the Grand Duchess Serge of Russia
R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse.
;.H. the Grand Duchess Xenia of Russia
And the principal Royalty and Aristocracy throughout the World.
Indeed such has been its fame and recommendations, that
there is scarcely a Royal residence in which Phosferine is
not well-known and favourably spoken of.
No other Medicine has been awarded this unique distinction
of Royal favour, and it speaks volumes for its wonderful
restorative properties.
PHOSFERINE
The Greatest of all Tonics.
Is the most powerful Nerve and Recuperative Tonic know
It removes Mental Depression, want of Tone and Nerve Power.
It has remarkable Health-giving, Strength-giving, Energising,
and Rejuvenating properties.
No other Medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions,
and in giving back to the prematurely aged New Life and Energy.
It is an unfailing remedy for Neuralgia, Nervous Dys=
pepsia, Anaemia, Brain=fag, Depression, Impoverished
Blood, Rheumatism, Sleeplessness, Indigestion,
Influenza, Nervous Headaches, Debility, and all disorders
consequent upon a reduced state of the nervous system.
Remember.
Imitations of Phosferine are similar only, as regards the name, as the mode
of preparation and the unique ingredients are known only to
Ashton & Parsons, Ltd., 17, Farringdon Road, London.
Price in Great Britain, Bottles, i/ij-, 2/9 and 4/6.
The 2/9 size contains nearly four times the 1/lK size.
TO BE SURE YOU GET THE RIGHT ARTICLE JAKE THIS NOTICE WITH YOU.
The Genuine Phosferine can be obtained from Washington H.
Soul & Co., Pitt Street, Sydney, and all respectable Chemists.
Wholesale Agents :—SAYERS, ALLPORT & CO., SYDNEY.
THE
‘PLUM’
He pi
THE
‘PLUM’
ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow
VX jik e a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
vji like a hell, ana never requires grinding. x>eiug u*
edire that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of yeais
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The ‘‘PLUM’
“R A7fILES ’
RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. 6d.
I IP.HTNENC RAZOR SHARPENER. 6d cake.
ground, rings
exact kind of
, can testify to
Price
c single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a
1 Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Sole Agents
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
“ Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
I'll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.,
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
A,
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
§3i?“ Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEN^
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDN2
He Bull-owned companies and red-tapeism:
Dear Bulletin, —Some 15 months ago I bought some shares
of original issue in Mount Boppy G.M. Co., effected
the ordinary transfer, and sent same to London for re-
issue of scrip. Four months later scrip returned, accom-
panied by letter, regretting that directors could not ac-
cept form of transfer sent; would I have signatures wit-
nessed by a J.P. or clergyman ? After considerable ex-
pense, and a month’s hunting for transferrors, fixed scrip
up, and sent again to London. Then received acknow-
ledgment and notification that transfer could not be made
until duty and transfer fees (nothing of • this in first
letter) were remitted. Remitted amount in due course,
and now receive letter saying that transfer cannot be
completed, as there is no evidence to show that Mrs.
Blank (one of the transferrors) is executrix to the estate
of the late Mr. Blank, or that Mr. Blank is deceased. To
carry this into effect I will have to hunt up one of the
late Blank’s bosom chums to make the necessary statu-
tory declaration ; but the real trouble is the scarcity of
evidence to show that Blank was actually born. So what
am I to do when the next query comes along?— Florida.
• • * •
Ten or 12 years ago somebody struck something
in the desert at White Oliffs, near Wilcannia, and on the
off chance, pegged out a small sheep station, and applied
for a mineral lease of it. And the department, reckoning
itself in clover to get ss. an acre a year for such a raging
waste, promptly granted the leases. The “ something"
turned out to be opal; and then trouble began. The gem
occurs as an erratic alluvial deposit, and the leaseholders,
or some of them, soon got tired of keeping men at wages
to search for it. They, therefore, let the ground out in
small blocks on tribute—and gave the “ blockers ” what
they pleased for the gem, which, generally, wasn’t much.
Also, when tributers got on to a patch, some of the lease-
holders changed their alleged minds, and thought
wages the best system. Some of the men were
badly fleeced; but during the last eight or ten years
their wrongs have been magnified, and the magni-
fied wrongs have been the pretext for getting at
the leaseholders ; and probably the extent of this robbery
has been magnified too. Anyway, nobody at White Cliffs
trusted anybody else ; even tribute mates suspected one
another of ‘‘ doing a bit in,” the “ bit done in” being readily
disposed of to a contingent of well-known buyers of
“cronk stuff.” Things got so bad that, three months ago,
a Royal Commission was appointed to inquire generally
into the condition of the industry ; and Parliament has
now got its report.
Most of the White Cliffs opal country, or what
is thpught the best of it, is held by an English co. ; and
the Commission proposes to buy this co. out at a cost of
just over £Booo—-present value of its stock. That done, it
is recommended that the country shall be dealt with as
an alluvial field, workable under miner’s right or mineral
license. If the co. won’t take the £BOOO (and the
Government can’t compel it to) it is recommended
to let out the country in small blocks at a
weekly rent for terms of not less than three months.
The second main recommendation is that all opal-buyers,
cutters and dealers shall be licensed and be obliged to
keep a record of their transactions—though this pro-
vision will not be so much wanted if the Government
atones for its initial blunder of granting the leases by
buying out the leaseholders. A proposal that the Govern-
ment shall act as agent for the opal-getters in finding a
market for the gem is not thought practicable, no doubt
owing to the fact that few of the gougers can afford to
wait for their stone to be realised abroad, while the ex-
treme variableness of the opal market will not permit of
heavy advances on unsold parcels.
A just-printed White Cliffs story, probably
quite true, illustrates how tricky the gem-occurrence is.
Two gougers, building a fire-place, carted the stone from
the nearest mullock-dump. They broke a too-big piece,
and found in it £l5 worth of opal. The party which had
worked the claim never got an ounce from it !
* • • *
Editor Bulletin.— l am sorry Mr. Easton, of
Charters Towers, should now begin to show his ignorance
of copper-mining. Let any expert, or miner of long
experience, visit the works that Mr. Easton says he
managed for the Great Bompa Co. There are three shafts
down, ranging from 90 to 120 ft., on such a part of the
property as no miner in his senses would attempt to sink
in—on the hardest and most impracticable part of the
ground. Three shafts on the top of a hill —when an adit in
the hill would have shown all the lodes. Who was responsible
for this ? Also Easton’s little party have sunk a shaft of
their own 90ft. on the hanging-wall of the lode, got
nothing but granite, and left the lode to the south. Was
Mr. Easton responsible for this ? No gully-scraper would
admit having done it! Again, Mr. Easton says there are
no lodes outside the Bompa ground. I myself will take
him to a place outside the Bompa where a shaft is being
sunk in a lode 20 to 30ft. wide. Assay returns from one
vein ' 19 per cent, copper, ldwt. gold, 220 z. silver. I
have myself opened six lodes at different places, not two
chains from the Bompa, and, though I am a practical
man and a bad letter-writer, I cannot let such statements
as Easton’s pass unchallenged.—G. F. Vosper, Glasgow
(Q-), Wi.
• • * •
A rumor is printed that “ the Rothschilds ” have
bought the Conrad mine (N.S.W.) for £250,000. Writer is
sorry for the Conrad, which was a good mine, but he is
afraid it is not good enough to stand up against this awful
insinuation. In the early days of Coolgardie one couldn’t
walk down the street late at night without falling over an
alleged Rothschild representative, and 90 miles away from
it, writer was accosted with : “ Is it true that the gentle-
man travelling with you is a representative of Roths-
child ? ” Reply : “ No, it is not true, for that man is Mr.
Rothschild himself."
• • • •
“Clunes”: He inquiry by “Woodstock” re
the Port Phillip leases at Clunes (Vic.), the local Guar-
dian (14/6/’01) explains somewhat. The whole of this
famous field is practically held by speculators. The chief
golden properties, viz., the Port Phillip Co., the Central,
New North Clunes, South Clunes and Lothair, once pro-
ducing tons of gold, are held by two speculators, who are
clutching them tight despite all that can be done to
throw the leases open. This town had a population of
7000 a few years back, but now has only 2300, the rest
having been forced abroad. We have tried Smiler Pea-
cock (our representative) and successive Ministers in vain,
and we look on the state of things existing here as a
national calamity. I worked as a contractor for years
reducing the ore, and when the mines were swamped
through the Port Phillip and New North ceasing to
pump, these famous lodes were going down strong, char-
acteristically payable; but in a belt of hard country.
They no doubt live as good as ever below. They offer,
we consider, a good investment, but the trail of the
shepherd is over them all.
• * * *
The 16th annual meeting of shareholders
in Mt. Morgan G.M. Co. occupied 17min. this year
instead of the ordinary five. Reports for the period
reviewed showed the havoc the water-famine played
on the returns. For the 12 months ending Ist June,
215,461 tons of ore were treated for 173,8330z5. gold. At
the beginning of the year about 270,000 tons was safely
reckoned on, the second section of the large new mundic
works having been completed. The falling-off as against
the previous year was 23,815 tons and 13,5190z5. But the
pinch came within the last six months, when the decrease
was 37,469 tons and 38,5910z5., as compared with the
opening half-year. The average value of all ore rose to
16'13dwts. per ton, equal to 65‘28 shillings per ton—a
gain of Is. lid. per ton on preceding year. No less than
135,104 tons of waste material had to be mined to get at
the treatable ore. Significance of the item is the fact that
260,382 tons (110,998 tons waste) were mined from open
cutting, and but 96,963 tons (24,106 waste) from under-
ground stopes. Qualities of ores divided, 163,561 tons
oxidised from 9Jdwts. to loz. 13dwts. per ton ; 56,680
tons sulphide (all from stopes) average loz. l£dwt.
(approx.). Important discovery of last half was the
tapping of large bodies of rich stone in the S.W. corner
of present workings, altogether outside the famous dyke,
and which are continuous from Linda level (450 ft.) to
No. 54 floor (574 ft.). Experiments in saving copper from
mundic ore have been suspended until water comes
along. It is expected that this departure will mean
£lO,OOO or £12,000 extra profit per annum. Old bottom
works are now being dismantled, and whole treatment
works will be concentrated on the mountain-side. At
present the original top works are closed down, and the
managing director announced that the water-supply was
only sufficient to feed the west and mundic works until
the middle of Sept. Then the whole thing would have
to be closed down, unless rain comes.
The rainfall of Mt. Morgan is a peculiar study
of unfulfilled threats. Year before last (1899) 51in. were
registered, the largest fall, with one exception, since
the ’93 flood. The co.’s new 222-million gallon dam was
complete when the greater portion of this fell and was
filled to overflowing with a 10 years’ supply. It was
allowed to run away (in the purely Australian expectation
of more) so that some minor matters in connection with a
few pieces of submerged machinery could be attended to,
and not a solitary shower has fallen on the catchment
area since ! Big lumps of moisture, sufficient to have
half-filled the dam, have occurred on the wrong side of
the town, and heavy rains have been registered North,
South, East and West, but nary a drop where it was
needed. How easily the threatened calamity of absolute
closure could be averted may be gleaned from the fact
that a passing shower on 11th May put a seven weeks’
supply in the small dams !
The immense amount of waste stone which has been
handled is striking the directors in a soft spot, viz., the
pocket. As a result, metallurgical engineer Richards
and mining surveyor Seale have been dispatched on a 12
months’ tour round mining centres of America, S’Africa
and Europe, for the express purpose of investigating and
securing for use at the mine the most modern transport
system. Foretold by Richards, that in a very short while
the lowest levels of the mountain will be opened out and
worked by open cut.
First 3d. div. in the history of the co. was paid this
month. In ’B6 the opening div. was Bd. ;in ’B7 it was Is. ;
in ’BB from Is. to Is. 6d. ; ’B9 from 2s. to 2s. 6d. ; ’9O from
Is. to Is. 3d.; ’9l from Is. to 6d. ; ’92 to ’9B sixpence all
through ; thence to June of this year 7d. £5,750,000 has
been disbursed in divs. alone, and £3,924,297 Is. 9d. in
general exes and wages. The chlorinated ore totals (since
’B6) 1,509,423 tons, for a yield of 2,330,1050 z. gold (97 tons)
which was converted into £9,516,694. Each share has
been paid £5 15s. dividends.
* * * *
West Africa : Alexander Downe, A.1.M.E.,
J.P., and several other things, formerly of Sydney, gives
a London newspaper called West Africa, and certainly
run in its interests, a great story re his own discoveries as
superintendent of the Ashanti Gold Mines Selection
Syndicate. Of course the natives wear a great
many gold ornaments in the shape of nuggets with
holes punched through them and strung on strings.
On a fetich day hundreds of natives were going
about with their necks, ankles, wrists, etc., decorated
with nuggets. The King of Brissam wore so many
nuggets that when he had ’em all on it took two men to
support his arms. It did not take Downe long to find
some rich reef< One averaged fully 20oz. to the ton in
free gold, and samples of the ore sent to England, which
showed no visible gold, assayed 91 and 58 oz. per ton.
Also, care is taken to say the tests were made by the
assayers to the Bank of England.
Downe says that owing to the cheap labor-con-
ditions and abundance of fuel and water, the W’African
mines ought to be worked more economically than those of
any other part of the world. But why trouble so much about
cheap labor and fuel and water where there is so much
gold ? He is not an authority on wages, or he would not
have said : “In Australia labor is very expensive com-
pared with any other country in the world. Miners’
wages range from £2 ss. to £6 per week.” This is a
glaring mistake. The writer knows of no mine through-
out Australia, unless it is Merton’s Reward in W.A.,
where the miners get £6 per week, but there are hun-
dreds where they are paid £2 ss. or less, and the average
throughout Australia is not £3. The statement is so
“wide" as to cause the reflection as to how much
accuracy there is in Mr. Downe’s other statements.
Whenever anybody sends you a high-flown mining
prospectus, just sit down and read the following, which
should be printed in the hat of everybody who has any
money to lose. It was written by Mark Twain 40 years
ago, but is still as good as new. In fact, The Bulletin
would like to print it every week
“ I have just seen your dispatch from San Francisco
about gold in solution in Oalistoga Springs, and about the
proprietor having extracted 1600 oz. gold of the utmost
fineness from two barrels of water during the past fort-
night, by a process known only to himself. This will
surprise many of your readers, but it does not surprise
me, for I once owned these springs myself. What does
surprise me, however, is the falling off in richness of the
water. In my time, the yield was a dollar a dipperful.
I am not saying this to injure the property, in case a sale
is contemplated. I am saying it in the interests of history.
It may be that the hotel proprietor’s process is an inferior
one. Yes, that may be the fault. Mine was to take my
uncle (I had an extra one at that time on account of his
parents dying and leaving him on my hands) and fill him
up and let him stand 15min. to give the water a chance to
settle. Then I inserted him in an exhaust receiver,
which had the effect of sucking gold out through his
pores. I have taken more than ll,ooodol. out of that old
man in less than a day and a half.
“ I should have held on to those springs, but for the
badness of the roads and the difficulty of getting the gold
to market. I consider that the gold-yielding water is
in many respects remarkable, and yet no more remark-
able than the gold-bearing air of Catgut canon up there
toward the head of the auriferous range. This air, or this
wind, for it is a kind of a trade wind which blows steadily
down through 600 miles of the richest quartz croppings
during an hour and a quarter every day, except Sundays,
is heavily charged with exquisitely fine, impalpable gold.
Nothing precipitates and solidifies this gold so readily as
contact with human flesh heated by passion. The time
that William Abrahams was disappointed in love he used
to sit out-doors when the wind was blowing, and came in
again and begin to sigh, and I would extract over a dollar
and a half out of every sigh. He sighed right along,
and the time that John Harbinson and Aleck Norton
quarrelled about Harbinson’s dog, they stood there
swearing at each other ; and they knew how, and what
they didn’t know about swearing they couldn’t learn from
you and me, not by a good deal ; and at the end of every
three or four minutes they had to stop and declare a divi-
dend. If they didn’t their jaws would clog up so they
couldn’t get big, nine-syllable ones out at all, and when
the wind was done blowing they cleaned up just a little
over 1600dols. apiece. I know these facts to be absolutely
true, because I got them from a man whose mother I
knew personally. Ido not suppose a person could buy
the water privilege of Oalistoga now at any price, but
several good locations along the course of the Catgut
canon gold-bearing trade winds are for sale. They are
going to be stocked for the N.Y. market. They will sell,
too; people will swarm for them as thick as Hancock
veterans in the South.”
* • * *
Under the Maoriland Coal Mines Act of 1891 a
royalty of Jd. per ton on bituminous and Jd. per ton on
anthracite coal is levied to form a Colliers’ Sick and Acci-
dent Fund. When the idea was first mooted there was
the usual lament that mine-owners would be ruined, and
a general shutting-up would be inevitable; but the
scheme has been a huge success all the same. The
Government now proposes to extend the principle by
imposing a royalty on gold to make similar provision for
gold-miners. Quartz-mining is the most unhealthy occu-
pation in Maoriland, the dynamite .fumes and fine dust
from the rock-borers bringing on the dreaded “ miner’s
complaint,” which is really a species of galloping con-
sumption. The best quartz-mines are owned by Cockneys
of the Eckstein-Beit stamp, and their companies have to
be continually haled before the Arbitration Courts to
compel them to pay something approaching decent wages.
Under these circumstances the wail of the incorporated
Abraham, Isaac and Jacob is likely to arouse little sym-
pathy.
* * * *
Anakie sapphire field (seven miles from the
townlet of that name on Central Q. railway), after 10
years, promises to become famous, writes a correspondent.
Some fine gems have been recently found, and several
buyers have visited the field and made large purchases.
The gem-bearing country has an area of something like
10 square miles, and there are about 150 men surface-
scratching, the gems being only from 1 to 3ft. down.
* * • «
Most S. Aus. gold-mining enterprises end like
this “The Lucky Hit mine, Blumberg, the co. being in
liquidation, was sold by order of the court. The ma-
chinery was knocked down for £750 ; it is to be removed
to a mine near Collington, The lease was sold for £l3.
Five or six years ago the then owners,” who, by the way,
included cricketer Walter Giffen, “were offered £lO,OOO
cash, but refused it, asking £20,000.”
* • • »
Q. Geologist Dunstan is just now busy on Peak
Downs mapping out and connecting various leads, and no
doubt wondering, geologically, why the deuce 90 per
cent, of the alluvial finds are on top of ridges, running
down and petering out in the valleys instead of sticking
to the wash and accumulating in nice little “pots” on
the lower levels as all self-respecting gold should do.


Claimant.
Amount
of
Claim.
Amount
of
Award.
Alexander, J. .. „
£ s. d.
209 15 0
£
Clancy, M
491 10 0
Crerar, J.
313 12 6
32
M'Lean, Messrs.
364 11 0
50
Wildman, Messrs.
2500 0 0
50
Vernon, M. A. and E. A.
387 10 0
90
Barnes, W. J
463 0 0
75
a
I SAID DOANS!
V"/ N
V •'
HI
■
lll'l
w
Icjcfcl
i
IB
Ss
—»
‘
\\
4
•Uti
And I got Doan’s. ”
I said Doan’s.”
“ You’re a younger man than lam ; let me give you some advice. When
a man asks you for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, sell them to him without
any talk. He knows what he wants. I know what I want. I have used
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for years, and I know all about them. I don’t
know anything about yours. I want Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I
want to see Jas. Doan’s signature on the wrapper. That signature is a guaran-
tee of the genuineness of the medicine.
“The last time I was here you tried to sell me something else when I
asked for Doan’s pills ; now you are trying it again. I tell you plainly I won’t
have your substitute. I asked for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and
that’s exactly what I mean to have ! ”
DOAN’S
Backache Sidney Fills.
The Kidneys are the most important organs of the body,
because they filter the blood.
When they are sick, the whole body is sick.
Dizziness, pains in the back, neuralgia, rheumatism, tired,
all gone feeling, dropsy, diabetes, bad blood, inflammation of the
bladder, sleeplessness, nervousness, headaches, etc., come from
the impurities of the blood which the kidneys should have taken
out. Good health can only be obtained when these very impor-
tant organs are well. The blood must be fresh, clean and pure
with not a taint of poison in it.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills heal the kidneys and help them
to work naturally and to remove absolutely all disease-breeding
impurities. They cure disease by curing the kidneys.
Thousands of Sydney people know this now. Here is one
of them: —
Mrs. Fred. Russell, 7 St. Andrew’s-st., Balmain, this city, says My husband
had been bad three or four years with kidney trouble. He was such a sufferer that he
could not stand up straight, and all his movements were fraught with great pain.
Unable to sleep at night, he used to try all manner of positions, and would get up next
morning thoroughly done up and unrefreshed. The best position for him to lie in was
face downward, but he would soon have to change that. Sometimes the pains were a
lot worse than others. To stand up straight was worse than hard work. When well
before he got bad, I mean—he used to do heavy work, but he had to give up, his back
having well-nigh crippled him. He went to hospitals one after another; and when
they failed to give him ease from his terrible pain he tried all manner of remedies
advertised excepting one. We spent a lot of money in plasters and liniments and other
things for outward application, but he was still as bad as ever after using them ; aye,
worse. It is now over twelve months since that lucky day when we got Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills at Newman’s Pharmacy, King-st. At that time he was unable to sit
down or lie down, and when he walked he held his back all the time. His pains were
frightful. Well, the first few doses of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills rid him of those
terrible pains, and after a time he became much improved. In all he took six boxes.
Then he left off the medicine, and has taken none since, and that is over six months
ago. A few days ago he said to me, ‘ You never hear me complain of pains now;
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are simply grand.’ ”
For Sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s, 9d. per box
(six boxes, 15s. 3d.) or will be posted on receipt of price by the
Proprietors, Foster-McClellan Co,, 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S.
A Plea.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let iii ilrink deep, O Time ! for I am young;
Pale not the lips before the song is sung.
I pray thee stay thy course a little space
That I may drink the sweetness of thy grace
That Nature gave me for my own delight.
Let not the lips that redden in the draught
Of Life’s sweet wine grow pale ere it is quaffed.
The bones show through the ivory of the skin—
The skull hath all Eternity to grin !
’Twixt Life and Death are but a few short hours
To sip the honey from the gaudy flowers,
And there are many flowers of odorous breath
That I would taste, before the Flower of Death
Blooms in my sight—a weak, sad-colored thing.
While in Life’s garden all the song-birds sing,
Ah ! I would taste of every flower that grows,
And drink the health of everything that blows,
And taste the joys of Love and Life and Sin—
The skull hath all Eternity to grin !
N.S.W.
C.P.Q.C.
A Black Pastoral.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Oh, to be free—free ! ” she cried, writhing upon
the upturned empty case, and casting the Swiss-
milk advertisement away to the rest of the dead
literature. Then she trampled mentally on her
aunt, the sour-faced woman who knitted and
swore at the gins. What had possessed a smart
girl to come from the restless city to these people
who had become like the cattle on their outlandish
station ? She had come for greater freedom, and
had found a penal servitude of fixed and slavish
boredom. “ Better to live like the blacks than
be tied up always in a hell like this shed ! ” she
said to herself. Yes, the blacks were free enough
—and why should she not be ? . . .
* * • *
In the early morning the black-gin Haidi,
otherwise Ada, was found saddling the bay pony.
“ Hi, ginny ! ” cried the stockman, off to the out-
station, “ what for you saddle Booby ? ”
“Silly Missus ride um,” grumbled the gin,
sulkily.
An hour later saw Silly Missus escaped from her
aunt on the plea of a visit to the next station,
mounted on Booby, with the obedient gin behind
her. The gidyea scratched and rattled against
the billy and bag containing odd articles of stolen
food. The cloudless sun rose higher and higher.
Still they paced away over the endless low ridges
and plains amid the protesting screams of galahs.
They were miles from the station, and desperately
silent.. Every now and then the gin’s dark arm
would stretch past her mistress, pointing out the
direction, and the white girl would make a fresh
effort not to go round in a circle.
Sunset found them scrambling down a rough
ridge to a ghostly waterhole. The gin slid off and
sprang from rock to rock. The billy also slipped
off and jumped on a rock, but stayed there with
the bottom out. They descended gloomily to the
waterhole, and camped on the warm sand; sat
down, lay down as they were, wearily, and slept,
regardless of the bellowing cattle coming down to
drink.
• * » *
The white girl awoke with the sun, stiff with
the hardness of her bed of sand. She sat up and
rubbed her eyes, but felt this an insufficient toilet.
She tickled all over. Should she wash in the
waterhole? It was their drinking-water. But,
on the other hand, all sorts of dreadful things
happened to that water. She glanced doubtfully
at Ada squatting near, unconscious of such diffi-
culties. “Oh for a cup of tea!” she mourned,
looking up at the smashed billy. “Ginny, I’m
thirsty 1 ”
The gin unfolded herself and stalked with
stately air to the water-edge, where she scooped a
hole in the sand and brought some water from it
in the billy-lid. It had a foetid, fishy smell. The
white girl dashed it away petulantly, but rushing
down to the new hole washed herself there. Then
they breakfasted on sweet biscuits and salt meat
with a sodden, woolly flavor and queer, pungent
scent.
The white girl sat silent in the shade of the
mulga trying to enjoy things, but she could see
nothing in it. The gin saw everything. By
watching her eyes, and following them, the girl
found the bush full of life. Beside her, lizards
clasped the hot rocks or flashed after one another.
A kangaroo reclined under a distant tree, its frail
bust arising over great haunches with a foolish
expression, half rabbit, half monster. Far off, too
indistinct to notice but for Ginny’s gleaming eyes,
bobbed the childish head of a big emu.
Ada was apt to find and eat things suddenly.
This surreptitious food had a horrid fascination
for the white girl.
“ What’s that ? ” she queried.
The gin’s white teeth flashed as she produced a
large white grub which curled blindly about.
“Kooyungo!” gurgled Ada, as she slipped the
pale horror between her lips. Her mistress shud-
dered, and felt the gulf widen between them. It
gave her something to think about as the slow
hours of their wild free picnic drew on.
Then a fear suddenly seized her: “Where is
Booby ?” she cried—“ Go and look for him.”
The gin rose grumbling and dawdled off over
the ridge. More hours passed. The sun got
hotter and hotter. The ants were unbearable.
The girl flung herself back, and back, into the re-
treating shade of the spindly trees, and lay there
creeping with irritation. There was absolutely
nothing to be done. Things dropped on her,
tickled her, tortured her. The flies were fearful.
But they were nothing to the torment of her un-
comfortable thoughts, which flew about and
found no rest. She felt about as free as an
escaped lunatic on a house-top. She was at the
mercy of the wilderness if that horse was lost—
that selfish, treacherous beast that had probably
hopped back to the station overnight in its
hobbles. She sat up, and found, close behind her,
the gin, sitting silent, fiddling with the dead
leaves. $
“You n«ck?” she cried, with a start; “ where’s
Booby ?”
“ Me no know,” miawed the black.
The white girl scrambled up and threatened the
black one viciously.
“You never looked /” she cried.
“Me look; me no fin’,” replied the other laconi-
cally, as she evaded her on her haunches.
“Then go and look again ! ” shrieked the white
vixen. “Go and look, I say ! ” Nature, which
had abolished the gin’s nose, had filled her lips
with obstinacy. She muttered, and fiddled about
negatively with her aboriginal tricks. The white
firl, losing all patience, sprang at her and gave
er a sounding whack on the ear. It was followed
by two or three more that hit the air—for with
one spring the gin was up and off.
The white girl was alone, and the reaction came
quickly.
« ai° h ’ why ever did 1 touch her ! ” she wailed.
bhe will go and tell the savages. They’ll come
and murder me! Ai! ” And she gave a little
squeak of horror. Then she began to run straight
home—<ir rather she ran in the opposite direction,
which is the same thing in a woman.
The hot day wore on.
She had scampered to a considerable distance
a ? d Was ra P idl y returning to the point from which
she had started. Her thirst was intolerable.
There was a vast silence, broken only by the rasp-
crickets - Tim mirage shimmered on
the horizon. A snake slipped from under her
feet and she sprang spasmodically into the air
and rushed on again. Then she stopped for
breath.
“ Uncle is right!” she gasped, clenching her
hand and addressing an imaginary audience;
“women don’t know what they’re doing till
they’ve done it! ” _
Suddenly the audience appeared—two black-
fellows. They seemed to spring out of the ground.
They were hideous and horrifying. One wore a
fragment of a shirt; the less said about the other
the better he would be described. The girl stood
paralysed with, terror, already murdered, muti-
lated, eaten, in her imagination. Then she
rippled with horror broke out of her in a
scream as the first black, pouncing on her, flung
her on to his greasy back. Piercing, appalling,
her voice arose in the yell of a life-time, but. the
aborigines took no manner of notice. The most in-
human-looking of the pair said something, and the
fiend who carried her replied, and they hurried
her callously away, kicking and scratching.
Shaken to a jelly by the jig of the trotting
black, her wails degenerated into gasps. They
only rose to a scream as one black flung her off
and the other flung her on, turn and turn about.
Jig, jig, jig—her bones ached, her back felt broken;
she was stifled, fainting. She wagged this way,
she swayed that, finally hanging unconscious in
the clutch of the savage, and only kept from top-
pling backwards by a wide strip which they had
torn from her skirt to tie her on with.
• * * *
There was stale tobacco about.
Was this really herself? Home? Had it all
been a nightmare ? She sighed pitifully and
gazed around.
_ “ ’Ave a cup o’ tea ?” growled her uncle past his
pipe, indifferently.
She drank it eagerly. Then she sat up, her
brain still reeling.
“Who saved me?” she asked, clutching her
head.
“Bill, the nigger, and Brunswick,” replied
the old gentleman, carelessly. “ Ada sent them.
Brought you in in a faint. Found you wandering
off your nut. Fought like a wild cat. Left your
mark on ’em.” And he grinned.
She staggered on to her feet, a ludicrous figure
in her torn skirts.
“ When’s the next coach ? ” she gasped, and fled
behind the packing-cases.
“POINT BLANK."
Conn v. Prow, a petty-sessions matter,
was recently argued in a Sydney suburban police
court. An actual case of the Prows and the
Conns.
Do the men who propose starting a red-
hot Orange newspaper in Sydney, devoted, of
course, to clamorous loyalty and knee-bending to
the Throne, recall the fact that their order plotted
to deprive Queen Victoria of the succession to the
crown and put the Duke of Cumberland in her
glace ? One consequence was that the House of
bmmons condemned Orangeism, and removed all
Orangemen from the lists of J’s.P. Now that
the tribe threatens to recrudesce in Australia, the
laughter—with a certain amount of scorn—which
the tomato Jessops call atheism, should be culti-
vated as a branch of primary education in State
schools.
One candidate at the recent N.S. Wales
elections took himself far more seriously than
the electors did. He was such a hopeless failure
and “lost cause” that he was everywhere
received with tumultuous applause. On the eve
of the poll, in a burst of confidence, he told his
audience that if not Premier within three years
he would be “ very close to it.” Next, day found
the town plastered over with “Vote for J. C.
Pannikin, the only Liberal Labor Fair-trader,”
and his colors on every small boy’s hat. During
the day he was the centre of a crowd protesting
undying loyalty to the Pannikin cause; and when
the booth closed, Pannikin adjourned to the
nearest pub., followed by a thirsty crowd anxious
to toast the “ new member.” But when the num-
bers went up it was found that out of 600 votes
polled poor Pannikin had got 9 1
Melbourne, for its sins, is just now being
afflicted by a harmless crank from Nottingham
(Eng.), who endeavors to explain, in a vague, dis-
crepant sort of way, that certain prophecies of
Jeremiah, Joel and other persons who are still at
large, as to universal war, are just about due for
fulfilment. After the general slaughter the Jews
are to come info their own and to return to Canada
or Canaan or Cooma or some such place, and there
build the Queen City of the World—a township
just nine miles square—at the dedication of which
there is to be great excitement and much con-
sumption of food. Also there is to be one univer-
sal religion and one ditto ruler. The latter will
probably be King O’Malley. The Nottingham
person is an inexpensive eccentric, inasmuch as
he neither charges admission nor sends the plate
round, also he is a fine upstanding man with a
magnificent auburn beard. Instead of being plain
Henry Sulley he should have advertised himself
as Jenkissimus Ahenobarbus ; then he might have
waved his hand airily and said, “Do the thing
properly,” and the thing would have been done
forthwith.
A good idea of the “ face ” of the unfor-
tunate, confiding, trusting, simple man who goes
on the land in Victoria may be obtained from the
following awards of the Arbitration Court in con-
nection with the land taken for the construction
of the Lilydale to Warburton railway :
Summary.—Amount claimed in above cases, £4,729
18s. 6d. ; amount offered by trust, £220 16s. 3d.; amount
awarded by court, £297.


Was Very Weak
Lost Flesh Rapidly,
Took Quantities of Medicine, Failed all the Time.
Was Quickly Cured with
Ayer’ s Sarsaparilla
s'.
i
m
m
r -A
“Some time ago I had a very severe attack of influenza which left me
greatly weakened. I lost flesh rapidly and was in a very bad way.
“I took quantities of medicine, but constantly grew worse all the time.
Finally, I tried Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and began to improve from the start
“I took about six bottles and was perfectly cured. I have used this remedy
in my family a great deal and I know it to be a thoroughly reliable health-
giving compound and family medicine.” _ , ,
John Murrell, Railway Station Master, of Sunnybank, Queensland, sends us
this letter together with his photograph, which we reproduce above.
This is a strong letter, One which must remove all doubt. It is additional
proof that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
You ought to profit by it greatly, for if you are weak, have lost flesh, are with-
out appetite, and feel languid and depressed, here is a quick and certain cure.
Perhaps the trouble is with your blood and you are suffering from headache,
boils, eruptions of the skin, scrofula, and rheumatism; or if you are suitering
from weakness of any kind, here is a prompt and most perfect cure.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Removes 111 Effects of Hot Weather.
AYER’S PILLS A Vegetable Laxative for the Whole Family.
m
fl
26
TEARS’ SUCCESS
AS THE
UNIVERSAL REMEDY
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
* Asthma,Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Consumption,
HAS MADE
AH ABSOLUTE NECESSITY IN THE HOME
OB KIT OF EVERY COLONIAL.
It saves many Lives.
There is no difficulty in obtaining it, so
when you ash for Owbridge’s Lung
Tonic, insist upon having it, as
other so-called remedies are
often substituted.
iVe fared, by
W.T.OWBRIDBE, ifI.P.S., Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is lid., 2#.9d„4a.6&, & lls.,
by all Colonial Medicine Vendors.
COPYRIGHT.
ANAEMIC PERSONS,
who have dosed themselves too freely with such
tonics as are largely composed of the common
preparations of Iron, and often contain Arsenic or
other dangerous drugs, are certain to be trouble
with Headache, Constipation, and Torpidity of the
Li\er. They should, at once, correct these ill-
effects by taking ....
EECHAM’S
according to the directions given with each box,
because Beecham’s Pills possess the following
qualities in a high degree .... ;
They Strengthen the Stomach,
They Regulate the Bowels,
They Purify and Enrich the Blood,
and they give .
Tone to the Whole Nervous System.
They contain no drugs of mineral or metdUo
vegetable, mild, beneficent, and sure.
health, if you give them a chance.
Beecham’s Pills are Perfect in Quality, and Plentiful in Quantity ;
they last longest, go furthest, and produce the best resul s.
Beecham’s Pills are Sold Everywhere in boxes, labelled, Is. lid.,
BeC coining 56 pills, and 2S. 9d., containing 168 pills, each label
bearing the words—
ti
S PILLS, St Helens, England. ’
s.
FREEMAN f. SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPKOT AT.TTF.PI:
BATHOS BAKING
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSIALS.
HEAD OFFICE
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
■ -t
The Universal Kemedy for Acidity ot tne Stoiuacn,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicdte Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
A
Sold Throughout the Worm:
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
8
O
IRISH MOSS
_ o -The best remedy-
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
Ask for Bennington's L IT! S ,
and see that you get it. AST HMA^


SYDNEY
Rubber Works
manufacturers of
Sheet Rubber.
Washers,
Valves,
Gas Tubing’,
Rubber Rings,
Rollers,
Buffers,
and Every Description of
Mechanioal Rubber Goods.
WORKS :
AREY STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
City Office :
PEEDRIAU and CO.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR
DYEING
THE LADIES.
W_ c.
40
<Sc GO
BYERS & CLEANERS,
YOKli STltl'Jurr, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by vo>! t from all tUe colonie,promptly
attended to. a
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
GEORGE & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY. ?
Apartments: Bedroom (single), 3s. per Dav or 21«
MnS'Ve?'ss!" Wo “ We »’ 6 *- »« r <*>. » T«™
»“Sve“lSßSu^'“ d “ “ The
NOW READY.
A POLICY
FOR THE
COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d; posted, Bd.
WORTHINGTON PUMPS
All have Wrought Iron Valve Gear.
TRADE MARK.
PUMPS, both Horizontal & Vortical,
. . . KEPT IN STOCK . . .
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives,
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Send for Catalogue.
puunser and rins pattern
GENUINE
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
PERTH
GOOLGARDIE
AND
Representing in Australia
TANGYES LIMITED.
STOCKS CARRIED
IN ALL THE STATES.
NEWMAN’S
ANTISEPTI
.
X/- a
THROAT PASTILLES.
NEWMAN’S
m
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
E P P S’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
N.S.W. Fresh Food & ice Co. Ltd.
,; . .
FiSh and Game, hard frozen and well packed, forwarded to all parts of the State.
People residing in distent loeelities where Good Butter is unobtainable, are recommended to obtain their supply from the above Company, proprietors of the
well-known Golden Star brand, and Sole Agents for the famous « Berry ” brand. Both kinds are Pasteurised, and have excellent keeping qualities
Our Bakehouse Goods, for Balls, Parties, &c., are conceded to be the finest manufactured. Sent well-packed to any town in Is.S.W.
Head Office : HARBOUR ST., SYDNEY. Price Lists and Particulars sent to any Enquirers.
€ 0. LANCE, Manager.
LACY CO.
LIMITED,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
AGENTS FOR PELTON and LEFFEL WATER WHEELS.
5^
IKT 3 STOCKSfPi»?&s-f -pWpMM
Knowles Steam Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors, Nagel Horizontal
and Vertical Engines and Boilers, Pennsylvania Return Tubular Boilers, Buffalo
Blowers and Exhaust Fans, Morris Dredging Pumps, Bullock Diamond Drills, Dodge
Rock Breakers, Roger Rolls, Gates Rock Breakers, Challenge Ore Feeders Hunting-
tonQu art f . Milis, Wood and Iron Working, and Laundry Machinery and Mine and
Mill supplies.
And at San Francisco and London. 60 Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
EC. IP. GKEGORY &> CO.,
.
Clarence Street
435 Bourke Street
srs and General Machinery Merchants,
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES
Blake Steam Pumps
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery
Tanite Emery Wheels
Sturtevant’s Fans and Forges
Pickering Governors
Ludlow Yalves
Schuttes’ Korting Injectors
“ Champion ” Lubricating Oils
Hoyts’ Leather Belting
Genuine “ Atlas ” Metal
Empire Laundry Machinery
Stratton’s Steam Separators
American Tool Go’s Lathes
Goubert’s Feed Water Heaters
