

ALB.
GAELIC
WHISKY.
MB
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
9
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
107 Kent
Minins'
and Contractors’ Plant,
EXPLOSIVES. BUILDERS’ and GENERAL
Street,
—FOR—
Engineers’ and Sawmill
IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS
Sydney,
Machinery,
Mining Requisite?
L S
AVAILABLE.
270
Prize
Medals.
‘vy:
22,500
Steam
Engines
Sold.
sannoixara cwy saoraa ma anas
WINE!
WINE !
WINE !
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1319.
olpest
S3T Send for Price List
Mention this-paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 85
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Ruston, Proctor & Co. L*?
STEAM ENGINES and BOILERS
Kcoexitrio Motion.
Pitt Street,
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
VERTICAL, FIXED AND SEMI-FIXED
AND
Tlira,slxizxg Macb.in.es,
PUMPS.
AND
Saw Benches, &0.,
«Szc.
THORNE’S
“ A 1 WHISKY.
NOW READY. NOW READY.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
A Reprint of articles from The Bulletin.
3E»ri.Cse sIXE»BKTCK=3E»oaI;sd j 3c3L.
Sole Wholesale Agents: EDWARDS, DUNLOP, & CO. LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
★
IP?
lIOBt ART.
Hadley s Orient fiotel.
““■‘r&tt,
OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLITS GEORGE HOTEL., opposite Sfc.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME.
SANDEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
- ' i
241 PITT STREET, SYDKTBY.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker’s Love Bond, or Siennese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks* Klondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
vour character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 Gcorge-street, SYDNEY.
HUTCHINSON Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.
NEW
H. L.
m
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELT! MG
The Leading Eelt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of .X. S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches- —P- Frankel & Co., Bdward-st., Brisbane, Q.;
~ - ' • • " 'hTW.Av; "
H. Summers, Barrack-st., ; H. h. Fysh and
Co., Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter &Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
“Tales of tlie System.”
ifßl CE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
Fair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
1
A MACHINE THAT
: : PAYS ITS WAY.
There is no Concentrator now on the market
more effective and economical than the
WILFLEY ORE CONCENTRATOR.
MINE OWNERS..
DIRECTORS ..
SHAREHOLDERS
TRIBUTERS ..
You all know the valjie of your Tailings and Slimes.
Do you know the capacity of the Wl LFLEY ?
St Ss from 15 to 30 Tons, per Day.
All information we will supply you with if you will send or write to us for
—p—■ ® CATALOG.
G
FREMANTLE ♦ KALGOORLIE
214 HIG H ST T MCDONALD ST
G
dark tobacco.
THERE IS ONLY ONE BEST TOBACCO AND THAT TOBACCO IS
“WEALTH OF NATIONS
99
Henry skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10US. •LOITERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and Banquets and
Private Balls Term°s nable Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswau - Lamp.
EDISWAN
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIEE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
m mm a swan
United' Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot— Central Buildin s Edward-st., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Vol. 22.—N0. 1100.]
[Saturday, March 16, 1901.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


A POLICY
FOR THE
COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d; posted, Bd.
Hudson’s Eumenthoi Jujubes
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
m
!N TINS, Is. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic
for the Oilire of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable 'for! Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH,
/ SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and
THE RED PAGE.
Austerile? Ausfertile?
ARIGHT pessimist is “ Onlys ” the Aus.
terile. A very Austral Schopenhauer, dam-
per-fed, tanned with tea, and very rude,
indeed, to the Great Australian Myth. But
I quarrel with his science. Why should we be
deprived of our ancient marsupial flesh-eaters by
this melancholy person who sighs for lions and
leopards? When the world was younger huge
marsupial carnivora ranged our country, and their
degenerate posterity, driven out by the exotic
dingo, live as the Tasmanian devil and wolf, fierce
and untameable as any cave-lion or wolverene.
uf * a 9 nl / S J’ ca , n our P lat ypus and echidna cold-
Wooded if he choose—maybe they deserve the
epithet for their low body-temperature ; but I for
one stick to our ancient lion as a noble blood-
lover, capable of devouring a dozen effete British
lions stoup and roup to his breakfast. Thirty feet
clear did some of his brethren measure, and each
had canine-teeth a foot long. He would make a
noble centre-piece for our military banners.
And why curse the aborigines as among the
lowest of mankind ? We have civilised them off
so fast that they have become a mere groundwork
for the embroidered fancies of liars and of igno-
ramuses; but there is reason for a shrewd guess that
they came from India way, even as we ourselves
Such of their laws and customs as have been
rescued from oblivion show that, in matters of
sanitation and of the prevention of too close inter-
breeding, they were by no means an utterly bar-
barous people. They had no narrow fertile
valleys or indented borders of mountain-shielded
coast to form mental forcing-houses; and even
the pastorahst stage of development was forbidden
them by the lack of domesticable animals
Hunters they remained by pure force of physio-
graphic circumstance, and environment gave them
never a chance to develop.
And why the particular environment ? We are
so accustomed to proclaiming ourselves Young
Australia that we have grown to look upon this
continent as one recently created for our special
benefit by a beneficent Batron who is always ready
to alter the original plans of his work for the con-
venience of a few. of his specially-created puppets
Everywhere are the signs of incalculable age, and
yet we go on howling ourselves hoarse, with eyes
tight-shut, lest we be brought to realise that the
supposed young virgin is a toothless, wizened bel-
dame whose last lover was dust long before man
emerged from monkeydom on the plains of Tatr-
tary. Sometimes we wonder why Australia has
no mountains, no navigable rivers, why her wes-
tern and central portions are dreary sand deserts •
and we are told by effusive Ignorance that these
features have not yet had time to develop.
We swallow it all and go on singing our
own praises, only stopping to choke some
miserable traitor who dares to open his eyes
and say what he sees. Our mountains are
the mere hills of the originals, planed down bv
aeons of ram-denudation and filling up the vallevs
where the rivers flowed. Even Kosciusko’s 7000-
and-odd- feet, so carefully taught to our children
represents only the pedestal on which stood a pile
that would overtop Everest with Mont Blanc on
top of-it. Since Australia was born the rains and
snows have worked ceaselessly, lowering that vast
pile by a few inches each century through incal-
culable ages where the units were millions, until a
mere stump remains and the superstructure is
spread over thousinds of square miles of sandy
plain or sea bottom. Australia was imprisoned
in her youth, and remains a withered hag with
the ribs of the world sticking through her skinny
sides. 'L he weird fauna and flora, are relics of that
youth, preserved as an old maid preserves the
withered rose and satin shoes of her first dance to
be tossed carelessly aside by a young heir whose
generation has forgotten their'history. A land of
ghosts, a land of awful loneliness borne in silence
through countless geological ages, a land which
we must not look too closely into or we will go
mad and babble out dreadful truths, and our
blind fellows will strangle us. Scarred
and broken, poor aged Australia stumbles
on without hope, of relief or oblivion
until the experiment comes to an end and
this world is rolled up and cast into the fire. She
is forgotten even as the prisoners in the river-cells
of the Bastille when their gaoler got drunk or
careless ; but, unlike those, she cannot die.
And this national Australia of ours! this im-
ported product foisted on a decrepit land which
is too aged and too poor to support itself. Has
she the proper family history for the work to be
done if it is to succeed ? Born in a convict barra-
coon ; nurtured on rum and the blood which
dripped from the lash ; ravished in her adolescence
by hot-eyed gold-seekers hungry to tear the jewels
from her shrunken bosom ; churched of the pro-
geny amid a thunderstorm of cannon-fire and a
tropic ram of Boer blood ;—is this the mother
who will nurture us arid lead our steps from
J I ime only will show ; but the augury is not
good. An intense egotism is the keynote of Aus-
tralian character at present; and it will lead us
into difficulties, perchance into destruction ere
we are purged of it.
Mean while, we close our purblind eyes more
tightly to howl the louder in our own praise. Un-
happy is the Australian who can see, unhappy is
he who dares to reason and to follow the point-
ings of that objectionable person at the well-
bottom whose protests we are trying to drown
with the champagne arid the shouting of a so-
called national awakening. We are the fish-
spawn on the ruins of a sea-buried Atlantis, an
ant-hill m the ruins of Baalbek thanking the Ant-
god for his special creation of such a splendid nest
site.
PUYYAKA.
“ ri IHE .heart’s the thing, Master Shallow
■ not, as “ Onlys ” seems to think, the
geographitfal, but the national heart.
Salong as that beats high and true, so
long the national greatness is assured. National
spirit is not a product of the soil, rich if that is fer-
tile, poor if-that is barren. Where has it strained
higher than amongthe sterile hills'of Scotland, (the
swamps of Holland? Where is the-geographical
heart of Norway or of Switzerland ?—yet what
sturdier patriots ? Of Arabia-or J-udiea ?—yet
what grander peoples than those which produced
the Book of Job ? Book at America. For two
hundred years after its settlement its record in
the world’s history is almost a blank. Suddenly
as Oarlyle sap, “Boston Harbour is black with
unaccustomed tea and America becomes, almost
in a moment,,a leader of the world. Such virtue
lay in the word In depisn’denoJ£.
Yet I perceive on the height,
Eastward, not now very far,
A song too 1-Oud for the lark,
A light too bright for a star.
Pukaki.
0 N KT S *1 b^ kln & U P the wrong tree—
pT 6r aStmg oak< Gordon and Ma
cus Clarke were more than half Euro
new brain to faLl U *if en A 1 2 ent ' requires a bi
4? *“ i 7*
snell U q St ws t} ?? desert for a heart, and tha
Snr^fe^? Self-reliance doe
imper, but is self-contained even st t-nrninp
Srss 73 3 1 tXo^‘TSf
yarded, hand-fed herds of men. The vacanov o
space is upon the Australian face, instead of th
crowded look of the Othersider • bit End it ar
buttui j de ‘ S ' Wh “ h !><» o*SoW„i "e
thinrL^ day e u xp ? ess - He cannot ex pres
to hKain b wfK he 18 7 ° Ung and has no to P
o nis Drain. He has nothing yet but Dercention
sin? ?jr s i S e is
blush to talk of these things, but he cannot
blush, he only petrifies, for he is truly not as apo
plectic as could be wished. 1
thft at fitness le ’rir th^ eShyid , eaS ’ Cannot understand
S °“ lu ngs and heart, not
eight. The Dutch, who were the first to mis
A^t™i and A f tr alia, are now finding out the
Austiahan as they found out his merino.
The Dutch Goose will follow the Dodo which it
destroyed ; but the black Swan will remain.
? f Eu rnpe was in the blood of
Gordon and Clarke. The delicate delights the
unapproachable half-tints, the silences, the shim-
Stereft f to^ eS V tI T- my , Stery ’ (leficient in human
t u°l Australia, depressed them, though
dmvn“' ght Bometimes jus* fe el the delirium of the
th e juicy Maorilander can under-
stand, but the Arab could : fatalist yet not pessi-
mist. Arabia, too, has the desert for a heart, and
the w ? rl< i a religion, an art, a science.
J? 14 degenerate, but only petrified by bigotry.
But the Arabs didnt live on meat and stewed tea,
or the y would have been like the cockatoos whom
Unlys describes, who are the dyspeptic sun-
downers of a mistaken civilisation, not yet adapted
-though struggling to adapt themselves-to a
new environment That upon the fringe of
advance the superfluous cockney may degenerate
to the Myall, is probable. But that a Greek alert-
ness of mind will possess the mass of the nation is
certain.
. Qnlys seems to reproach Australia for re-
maining marsupial. Why doesn’t he let the Ape
and Tiger die? I reproach the rest of the world
carnivorous. Nature gave Australia
the desert for a heart that the latest people should
not go in so much for blood as for brains. To
i 8 n ° fc Payable. Pessimists
should be trodden underfoipt, but we should be
in to^haimes by ® u4kus^as * s properly broken-
Point Blank.
IT appears that Onlys, having excogitated
the word Austerile m a moment of idle-
ness, was delightfully pleased with himself
and proceeded to build about his word a
network peculiarly adjectival, ribbed with wrong
?5u e ” ’ ti)e ' vh . ole aet . up on a lop-sided
backbone. The result is a caricature skeleton.
‘‘Onlys’’ sourly dubs,our native land “unde-
veloped virgin” or “sapless old maid.” Why
does he not say which ? Then he goes on to ask
if she can be a full-breasted mother” to us, her
children ? Old maids and virgins have no milk
and certainly no children. He calls her “thin-
Hanked, barren, immature, ”in one breath. An
w ai l m , a / b ® barren—through age—but that is
not her fault. She has not, m her youth, had the
opportunities of disproving the charge. And an
immature virgin has yet to meet the test.
We are not Australia’s children. We are a
band of ravishers and robbers. We have chased
her own offspring from her breasts and have our-
selves sucked hard at them for all we were worth
WhQn she becomes dry we will abuse and beat her
as the heathen beats his wet-weather Joss.
We are cuckoos, we sit upon stolen nests We
are changelings, come in the night.
Who can call Australia barren, with her deep
inexhaustible rifts of gold ? What other country ex-
cept Africa can feed and fatten the woolly millions
that yearly go to swell the squatter’s pockets to
bursting point? Her resources are unending.
She has a vegetation of her own. Her animals
are to be found nowhere else—they are harmless
and that is saying a great deal. Most of our pests
have been imported—witness the fox, the rabbit
the sparrow, etc. ’
The inventor of “ Austerile,” like the small boy
at the circus, has a leaning to lions and tigers—
t.e., at a safe distance and shut-off from him and
his ha penny bag of pea-nuts. The kangaroo has
earned from him only the adjective “ weird.” He
cannot see in this creature any of its beauty, peace
or grace. He prefers, as said before, the
crouching, cowardly, uneatable tiger. “Onlys”*
knowledge of Australian ornithology evidently
does not extend much beyond a coloured plate o
a jackass or a wire cage with a cockatoo in it He
says nothing of the bell-bird, the magpie,’ the
woodpecker and the rest. He writes “large un
wieidy birds,” and makes an end. That is’just
like “Onlys” and his sort.
. s ?"y s Onlys,” “Australia had breathing
individuality, would we have joined in the savage
hounding-down of . the Boer?” We have in
dmduality, but it is family individuality, and we
are merely brother to dur brother when we join him
m a hard-pushed raid on a rich land three weeks
across the water. It is the highwayman of the
old country sharing his pistol with the red-shirted
bushranger.
Now for our literature. ‘ ‘ Onlys ” has an array
of four representative men, two, at least, of whom
brought their brains and pessimism from over the
sea—Marcus Clarke and Lindsay Gordon The
other two are Boake and Lawson. Gordon shot
himself ; Boake saw the Destroyer through a
loop in his whip-lash; and Clarke’s most intimate
friends are known to whisper confidentially when
speaking of his death. Lawson still lives.
The -first three were bom pessimists, and, no
matter what land they were in, would have
touched the same melancholy “note.” Lawson
has had a hard life, and is not, after all, such a
painter of blank pictures as “ Onlys ” would, have
him. He has laughter when the humour
pleases, and we can readily give pardon for a little
timely pathos. His gloom is not to be wondered
at,—and again it is not Australia that is respon-
sible, but the man. '
Briinton Stephens is .as nearly Australian as any
mie of them, and “Banjo” Paterson certainly 7
What is-their note?-Ao« pessimism, pessimism
and pessimism.. “ Steele .Budd” with fun’
of sa like h ~ ps “
The word “ Austerile ” has no meaning.
Barkow-Noethe.
“Are you a drift Sargasso ¥ ” —Fenton.
LET us endeavour to answer two questions—
Firstly, who are these so-called Aus-
tralians?
; . Well, as to pedigree, they are European,
Asiatic, Oceanic, and the native-born (this last
but a step remote from the preceding). As to
civilisation, they rank everywhere from agesß.C.
to the present A. D. As to colour, white, yellow,
brown, and black—and shades thereof—will
describe. Their mental atmosphere, in the aggre-
gate, is a confusion of old-world conventions,
dogmas and formulae, somewhat the worse for
careless handling, but still assertive. Their chief
characteristic traits may be briefly summarised as
occasional spasmodic fits of great' energy with in-
tervals of much tiredness, postponing the inevit-
able, celebrating, laying the odds, and a fondness
for forcible, exaggerated and picturesque expres-
sion. Is it reasonable to call such a kaleidoscopic,
heterogeneous conglomerate a race? Can we
speak of an Australian as we speak of an English-
man ? Obviously we cannot.
There is no Australian race ; it is not yet born ;
it is still an embryo in the womb of Time slowly
evolving from the crude elements that Destiny has
flung together : a process of careful selection, of
fusion, welding, moulding and polishing lies be-
fore it during the wax and wane of many genera-
tions. Even the American is not yet crystallised.
Patience ! This grey and grim old continent,
with its vast distances and terrifying loneliness,
its long and deadly spells of silence broken too
often only by vague discordant music.—shall we
say it has no heart because we, forsooth, have
never heard it beat ? It is not death, nor decay,
nor wasted vitality that stamps that brow so for-
biddingly. It may be the sickness of hope de-
ferred, of longing unsatisfied.
Australia waits—how many countless years she
has waited ! —waits for the warm and passionate
lover that shall make her fruitful. He comes not,
cannot come, being the Spirit of a race yet unborn.
He will come; therein lies our hope. He shall
come; therein rings the keynote of our resolu-
tion.
The Eucalyptus supplies a symbol. Here is a
race of hardy warriors—-nothing so tough, so
elastic, so durable in all the world. Look at the
fine vigour, the Bohemian daring of those 3inuous
limbs, the careless grace of the foliage, the whole-
some sweetness of the leafy aroma purifying the
air. If Australia can grow such a tree, why not
such a race ? Give her time.
What then to do ? Our second question now
faces us. What have we done ? Have we given
this our country of the best that was in us, our
ripest thought, our fullest energy; have we made
great sacrifices, life itself if need be ? Few there
are have done so, but few are not enough. Have
we called to our aid all that Art, Philosophy and
Science can effect to smooth the roughness of the
way ? Have we not too often, rather, wandered
from the way, shrinking from the task, or oppos-
ing but faint and feeble effort to that which verged
upon the irresistible ? But a little time has been
ours, we plead, for the great work. True, that is
a consolation: let it not be an unction. What
then to do ?
Other places, other manners. Old-world
theories must be abandoned. All the accumu-
lated prejudices, moral, social and political, which
the Past presses on the drooping shoulders of
humanity—a terrible incubus ! —must be gradually
but surely cast off. Let us, in their place, engrain
I into the individual and national character what
Nietzsche rightly calls the four cardinal virtues—
sincerity, courage, generosity and courtesy—
Australia will herself lay upon us a new burden
sweeter and nobler than the old, which will
strengthen the sinews of body and soul, making
the brain alert, resourceful and energetic. Out of
the travail of the race will be born its spirit, that
finer sense of things. She that now holds her face
averse will smile in welcome, the careworn mood ,
will vanish, Australia, the sunny southerner,
youngest of nations, will assume her sovereignty ;
the admiration of the world will rise as incense
about her; the blood of the people will pulsate
with one common throb. Her hour will have
come !
Our past is smeared with many muddy blotches,
the present looks cold and colourless, but the
future is always ours, the ample future, though
we should not waste.it because it is limitless. So '
far we are almost nothing and have done little.
Yet it is something to have learnt that.
Australians, greatness lies before us. Let us
deserve it and it is ours !
ALETES.
Other contributions acknowledged from R.H.C.; F.C.S.;
Shellback ; Raven ; Fortuna ; R.E.C. ; Y.A.C.
Alphabetical Verses—the Letter A .
GOING TO SLEEP.
The light is fading down the sky,
The shadows grow and multiply ;
I hear the thrushes’ evening song ;
But I have borne with toil and wrong
So long, so long!
Dim dreams my drowsy senses drown—
So, darling, kiss my eyelids down !
My life’s brief spring went wasted by,
My summer ended fruitlessly ;
I learned to hunger, strive and wait:
I found you, love—O happy fate !
So late, so late !
Now all my fields are turning brown—
So, darling, kiss nly eyelids down !
O blessed sleep ! O perfect rest!
Thus pillowed on your faithful breast,
Nor life nor death is wholly drear,
O tender heart, since you are here—
So dear, so dear !
Sweet love ! my soul’s sufficient crown !
Now, darling, kiss my eyelids down !
1882-
Elizabeth Akers Allen.
BEER.
Here,
With my beer <
I sit,
While gQlden moments flit:
Alas!
They pass
Unheeded by;
And as they fly,
I,
Being dry,
Sit, idlj’- sipping here
My beer.
O, finer far
Thau fame, or riches, are
The graceful smoke-wreaths of this free oir*H
Why
Should I
Weep, wail, or sigh ?
What if luck has passed me by ?
What if my hopes are dead,—
My pleasures fled ? I
Have I not still
My fill.
Of right good cheer, —
Cigars and beer?
Go, whining youth,
Forsooth !
Go, weep and wail,
Sigh and grow pale,
Weave melancholy rhymes
On the old times,
Whose joys like ahadowy ghosts appears,
But leave to me my beer !
Gold is dross, —
Love is loss,—
So, if I gulp my sorrows down,
Or see them drown
In foamy draughts of old nut-brown,
Then do I wear the crown
Without the cross !
1834-65.
George Arnoid.
THE NIGHT BEFORE LARRY WAS STRETCHED.
The night before Larry was stretch’d,
The boys they all paid him a visit;
A bit in their sacks, too, they fetch’d—
They sweated their duds till they riz it;
For Larry was always the lad,
W hen a friend was condemn’d to the squeezer,
But he’d pawn all the togs that he had,
Just to help the poor boy to a sneezer,
And moisten his gob ’fore he died.
“ 'Pon my conscience, dear Larry,” says I,
“ I’m sorry to see you in trouble,
And your life’s cheerful noggin run dry,
And yourself going off like its bubble*! ”
“ H °uld your tongue in that matter," says he ;
I or the neckcloth I don’t care a button,
And by this time to-morroty you’ll see
Your Larry will be dead as mutton :
All for what? ’Ease his courage was good! ”
The boys they came crowding in fast;
They drew their stools close round about him,
Six glims round his coffin they placed—
He couldn’t be well waked without ’em.
I ax’d if he was fit to die,
Without having duly repented ?
Says Larry, “ That’s all in my eye,
And all by the clargy invented,
To make a fat bit for themselves.’’
Then the cards being called for, they play’d,
Till Larry found one of them cheated ;
Quick he made a hard rap at his head—
The lad being easily heated.
“ So ye chates me bekase I’m in grief !
Oh ! is that, by the Holy, the rason ?
Soon I’ll give you to know, you d—d thief !
That you ’re cracking your jokes out of sasoz,
And scuttle your nob with my fist!"
Then in came the priest with his book,
He spoke him so smooth and so civil;
Larry tipp’d him a Kilmainham look,
And pitched bis- big wig to the devil.
Then raising a little his head
To get a sweet drop of the bottle,
And pitiful sighing, he said,
“ Ob ! the hemp will be soon round my throttle,
And choke my poor windpipe to death ! ”
So mournful these last., words he spoke,
VVe all vented our tears in a shower ;
For my part, I thought my heart broke
To see him cut down like a flower !
On his travels we watch’d him next day,
Oh, the hangman, I thought I could kill him !
Hot one word did our poor hurry gay,
Nor chang’d till he came to King William ;
Och, my dear ! then his colour turned white.
When he came to the nubbling-cheat,
He was tacked up so neat and so pretty ;
The rambler jugg’d off from his feet,
And he died with his.face to the city.
He kick’d, too, but that was all prided
For soon you might see ’twas all over ;
And as soon as the noose was untied,
Then at darkey we waked him in clover,
And sent him to take a ground-sweat.
Anon.


Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Wool and Produce Brokers.
Consolidated Charg«\
for Selling Wool J
2z per cent.
/Includes all Charges excepting
\eartage frem steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salomon, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
BEST PRICES
.... FOR ....
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN
OBTAINED BY CONSIGNING- TO
Goldsbrough, Mort*Co.
.LIMITED.
Circular Quay, Sydney,
Who render PROMPT RETURNS and safeguard your
Proceeds by their TRUST ACCOUNT System.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
C B B
S
A cP
S6^
58 00
QK
580$
5807
?8»0
<9 u& ran feed oof to or boro*
CERTIFICA TE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
. application. Thousands Selling- Daily.
/C B B
' BRIAR
SDOUIUIIS Mill!
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST
Of TRICKS, PUZZLES, Etc.,
Etc., FREE.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
EXTRA SPECIAL CATALOGUE
OF BOOKS FREE.
STAMPS OE POSTAL NOTES OF ANT COLONY TAKEN.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE,
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
NEWMAN’S
For Removing
Superfluous Hair.
SPECIAL
By post — 2s. 6d. a packet.
C. E. NEWMAN, Chemist,
52 King? Street, Sydney.
DEPILATORY.
ERASMIC
PEERLESS
SOAP
Unequalled as a Preserver and
Beautifier of” the Complexion. It diffuses an exquisite
odor, and imparts a stimulating and refreshing influence.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
GAN OBTAIN
BY USING
&
At
&
&
0
V
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- 4. 2/6.
Sole Makers — M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED CHARGES ON
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charges will be
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d v> per lb. ...
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under
WAY BILLS sent on application.
WHEAT.
SALES last season show an increase of 25 per cent, as compared with previous years. Unrivalled
accommodation. Three months’ free storage.
CIRCULAR giving fullest particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired.
CONSIGNORS are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association ot
this Company.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
MitcheH’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
WOOL:
2 per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
WOOL. WOOL. WOOL
Winchcorribe, Carson & Co. Ltd.
Selling Agents only
Reduced Wool
Commission
21 per cent.
on all lots.
Large or Small,
WRITE AND CONSULT THEM ABOUT SALE OE YOUR PRESENT CLIP.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 O’CONNELL STREET. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, -fco the Growers.
BONUS | PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
ofti&btCd, *‘ sd '
“ LAWRUS ” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS A STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
OUttMU)
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
STOGDALE & DUFFUS, Finks Buildings, Corner of Elizabeth & Flinders Sts.,
Melbourne; and 422 George St., Sydney.
X3r. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarh3on’a Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
nentic Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON'S RE-INVIGORATOR
V
will brine happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs Is truly wonderful.
8 THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INYIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
callorwrite- OWL r c a u t t e drug store,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
C to
kl
m
\a
When
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
. and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
- ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
> Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
I strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
® CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
I THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
IDO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
3 LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
j Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
A They impart vigor and potency to every function,
n brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands. (
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0 I
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0 |
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attaehments S3O |
ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0 |
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and|
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, |
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to— |
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney |


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
EOSEHILL 0. March 23.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_ shares in the
above.
Name ;
Address .
DONCASTER H. April 6.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
above.
Name
shares in the
Address
SYDNEY C.
April 8.
50,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
.shares in above.
Name
Address
City Tatters all’s H. April 20.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
Adelaide C. May 1.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
N ame
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circular.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


WOODHEADS^
IMPROVED
PATENT
CRAMP
SIMPLEST, FASTEST & MOST
EFFECTIVE EVER MADE for
FLOORING, CEILING, Ac.
Ho. 5, 355 ; No. 6, 30 s; No.
7 (Celling), 25s eaoh.
If your Ironmonger or Storekeeper does not stock, send
direct to us—
PERRY BROS.
Wholesale
Ironmongers,
Brisbane
Sows Agents for Australasia.
e*
*
>s>
o
o
&
<f£> ,<
£
*£> *<S
*w
V
Why not look
young ? There’s
genuine pleas-
ure in holding
back Father
Time fif-
teen or
twenty
years. You
can do it
easily with
Ayer’s Hair
Y igor, for it
gives all that dark
and rich look to the
hair which belongs to
young life.
Ayer’s
HairVigor
You know the story —how good
Queen Bess, pointing to the beautiful
hair of a peasant girl, said, “There’s a
real royal crown. I would trade my
golden one for it.” That was long ago.
Now you can have a “realroyal crown”
of your own, simply by using Ayer’s
Hair Vigor. It makes the hair grow
thick and long and stops it falling out.
When your hair is rich and heavy,
and when the closest inspection fails to
detect a single gray hair, you will cer-
tainly look a great deal younger, and
you will he much better satisfied with
yourself, too. Isn’t that so ?
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
“ D(VW KXDGE’S
AS USUAL.
ElizftbGtli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And
GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
Publications.
TRicotoey
SKIN DISEASES
A Studv of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers:
Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY*
ladies.
WHITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING VOURSELVES.
Address- —L.D.Im 300 Collin, B*., Melbourne.
SHIRTS.
tTor Station and Out-door work our Silk strips
lUattalasse and Other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post thro ay ho at
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q'land
Australia!) |V|CitCial WoVidcQt Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney.
twauwv.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 108 r
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
SM’ Send for a
Catalogue.
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works :MELBOURNE-ST„ CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
RELISH
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
beware oe substitutions.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
for making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours :—femou, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
0 proprietors :-GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiaco, Perth, W.A.&6S, King St.,Melbourne
Paris Exhibition, 1900-British Awards
The Only
Grand
Prlx
£he
highest purl
ever made!
SOLELY FOR TOILET SOAP
HAS BEEN AWARDED TO
(Established 1789.)
'ti£7o
BRITT REC fPM
BP
Appointment
to
Bcr majesty Clk Queen a"* 8.R.8. tbe Prince ol Wales.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1900 Inclusive.
~-r g.W- Carriage &
Note our New Address : 193 to
Saddlery Manf.
195 Cleveland-street, Redfern,
(close to Eedfern
Company
SYDNEY
Railway dtation).
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description or
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spnng Sulkies, £7 ,
3-SnrinK Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
nmible Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
nnd every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices, bend usi your
address and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalog and Price List. NOTICE -Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we oan. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
OUli SPECIAL No. 8
£8 18/6
OelWered at any Wharf or
.V.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Land I Love I
Land I love ! I will wrest your meaning-
See, I swear I will know you yet.
You shall reveal the soul of your song,
And I will set it, as never set.
March of shadows to muted music,
Heat-mists creeping, I know, I know ;
And I know, dear Rain, that your desolate story
Has a hidden sweet and an inner glory.
Trees of mine ! ah, the nights I listen,
Nights I steal through your black, black shade,
I and the old gums sorrow alone,
The young gums give me their accolade.
Mile on mile through the death-grey silence,
Twilight, midnight, or yellow moon,
And ’tis I who know that your desolate story
Has its hidden sweet and its inner glory.
Dark and dawn through the grey gums sweeping,
Blazing gold of the afternoon,
All have revealed the soul of their song,
But where, O Land, is my promised tune ?
I am silent, I have no music,
Maestoso nor Allegro,—
But you know how fain is my impotent story
To unfold the hymn of your veiled, great glory.
Only this can I sing, and singing,
Land of mine ! you will understand.
You have revealed the heart of my song,
While I went seeking for yours, O Land 1
Your young lips have disclosed my courage,
Deathless courage, my Continent !
For I learnt from you that my life’s own story
Has a deeper depth and a higher glory.
Heat and haze ! you have crept and caught me.
See, ’tis you who will know me yet.
You have revealed the soul of my song ;
’Tis you who have set it, as never set.
March of shadows to muted music,
White gums waiting, we know, we know !
And we know, Dear Land, that our desolate
story
Has its hidden sweet and its inner glory.
N.B.W.
LOUISE MACK.
Drifting.
The moon on the water, the wash of the tide
As it soothingly laps ’gainst our boat while we
glide,—
The dim, hazy shore and the waves’ gentle croon—
They are all making music of exquisite tune ;
And the pure naked stars as they bathe in the
sea
Are whispering love-songs to you and to me.
See ! the mist-softened lamps of the pier fade
from sight
As we two drift away to the dreamland of night;
And we rock in the midst of the silver-gold beam
While our hearts are baptised in the love-stirring
gleam;
And the sea seems a place for the fairies to play
As it stretches, like Fancy, gold-lit, far away.
And your voice in its silvery sweetness, so low,
Makes music with stars and with sea as we go ;
And your eyes are more bright than the bright
lights above,
For they smile with the passionate sweetness of
love,
Oh ! the touch of your hand and the warmth of
your lips
Are as dear as is harbor to storm-stricken ships.
Glad, glad is the night when, with none else
beside,
You and I in the moonlight drift down with the
tide.
v.
M.M.
The Paris-Calais train lately covered the
distance between the two places (185 miles) in
184 min. 30sec., thus lowering the previous record
by more than half-an-hour.
There has been a good deal of Australian
Consul in evidence at Government Houses,
memorial services, and so forth, since the death
of Queen Victoria. All the Queen’s Consuls for
foreign powers were lately re-appointed King’s
Consuls, and many dim mysterious jokes in the
diplomatic line of business were brought to light
with due solemnity. South America is a rich
source of Consular humor. Insolvent republics
change their governments pretty frequently, but
the Australian agents remain constant to their
nominal billets and their uniforms from revolution
to revolution. Some of them represent confederate
peoples—black, , white, and tawny—almost as
numerous as the population of Australia. For in-
stance, Marshall Lyle, the legal champion of
Deeming, is Consul-General for Colombia. From
his office in Melbourne he keeps watch over
the Australian interests of Spaniards, negroes, and
cannibal Indians. If a great trade between
Colombia and this country were to break out sud-
denly, Marshall Lyle would find his official duties
very embarrassing, but up to now he has been
interviewed by only one Colombian, and that was
mainly for drinking purposes. Caicedo, the
wondrous wire-dancer, who came out here under
a £6O per week engagement to Williamson and
Musgrove, was a Colombian. As a stranger
in a strange land the little man sought
out his consul and fell upon his neck with en-
thusiasm. He used to take the official out to
banquets a deux and propose his health, where-
upon Lyle would toast the Republic of the United
States of Colombia in fervent language which
Caicedo didn’t understand. Lyle, looking back
dreamily to that boom-time of his consulate, often
wonders whether he will have the pleasure of en-
countering another Colombian before he dies.


The Australian tyidouis’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
•^' H \vhk!i'i C iesu(« Sp l ecUU I pol?des* ; g^an^'[ig~ U8U&1 f ° rmS ° f AsBuranoe * ls th « ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
IL i°vll f e “ ium > n the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
uU P “ oll °y in the oase of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman*
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES WATSON, 51.L.0.
Accumulated, Funds ... exceed £1,400,000 Annual Income exceeds £230,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
NOW READY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Baing-a reprint of a large number of articles from
J.he Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
Price 6d; Posted Bd.
Diamond song book,
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing.
mr-
A O
‘Examine the Construction’
OF OUR
FAMOUS LEVER WATCHES.
They are exceptional time-keepers, will stand hard riding
and knocking about, and will wear a life-time.
We keep them in order for 3 years (breakages ex-
cepted), and guarantee them for 25 years.
Gents’, Full Size.
Silver, Open .Face .. 40s
Oxidised „ „ .. 26s
Nickel „ „ 25s
Silver Hunters .. 45s
Ladies’, Full Size.
Silver, Open Face .. 40s
Oxidised „ „ .. 35s
Nickel „ „ .. 35s
Silver Hunters .. 50s
/Kindly
/ cut
y out this advt.
/ and forward
when ordering.
90 King St-, Sydney.
it
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
A. BOWMAN’S
... You Oan Have . . .
English Boots at
14/6 per pair.
Tan Boots at
16/6 per pair.
Porpoise Hide at
17/6 per pair
Best Style.
Best Quality.
No
Better
Made.
We do One Line—Gentlemen’s Boots—only.
That one we do Well.
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St.,
also 145 KING ST., opp. Theatre Royal.
‘Allenbiirgs'Foods.
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique in providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS froi
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “ Allenburys”
The “ Allenburys ”
The “Allenburys”
Milk Food no. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of lile.
Malted Food no. 3
For Infants over six months of age.
Complete Poods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that— “No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET OH INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, *B4, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
YANKEE DOODLE
Is well in front in New South Wales, and forging ahead in
the other Australian States.
The Free Voice of the People is the Strongest Proof possible.
Customs figures show the Yearly Increase in the Sales of DIXSON’S TOBACCO
in NEW SOUTH WALES ALONE to be
1898 INCREASE - - 109,397 lias.
1839 INCREASE - - 173,332 IDs
1900 INCREASE - . 228,263 IDs.
Over 100 TONS more Last Year than during 1899.
YANKEE DOODLE (LIGHT and DARK) The Great Mild Smoke
AND IS THE TOBACCO OF THE DAY I
CONQUEROR: Dark, Rich, Good —For Smoking and Chewing.
CHAMPION Gold Leaf, Plug 1 and Cut —Choicest Natural Plavor—CUT, in Hermetically Sealed Patent
Tins. Champion Blended Stock Yankee Doodle.
BONANZA CIGARS-4 for 6d. in packets. Best value of any cigar.
MO NO POLE The ORIGINAL ROTHSCHILD, and above all Imitations.
AND TOBACCO WARE OF Alsli Kiwus
DIXSON A SONS LTD., vPARK STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vo u 22.—N0. 1100.
SATURDAY, MARCH 16, 1901.
Prior 6a.
ROLLICKING AFTER-DINNER SPEECH.
CHAIRMAN (at Undertakers’ Picnic): “Gentlemen, I have much pleasure— I may say
much melancholy pleasure—in proposing the toast, ‘Success to the under-
takers’ trade! ’”
CANDIDATE FOR COMMONWEALTH HONORS : “Now, what you want in public life,
don’t you know, is men of calibre .” (A Voice: “Meaning great
bores.”)
A RATHER SUDDEN HALT.
On account of the appearance of a bubonic rat in the vicinity of Sydney Harbor the N.S.W. Mounted Contingent for S Africa has postponed its departure. To think
that one miserable little rat can hold an army in check ! Here’s a tip for De Wet.
THE POLITICAL GAROTTERS.
THE YORK-STREET PUSH : “Hang on to him, George. I’m collarin’ his stamps.” George : “You bet; he’ll have to give a big hoist to get me off his chest.
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
*• Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street,' Waverley, for- The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12. 6
Quarterly ... ... ... (Job
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
■SI, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can he sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lid. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease o fin some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 8000 words, are sped"' / acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaperclippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and, stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand _ that we
are not responsible, for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be pa ,d
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., CornhiU.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 2U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. 11. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
SATURDAY, MARCH 16, 1901.
Britain’s Dark Days of Protection.
A pew weeks ago a Sydney Freetrade paper
published a number of opinions of various
English authorities on the fiscal question.
Many of the authorities were painfully
obscure, and many of the opinions were vague
and hesitating, but one or two people spoke
out boldly enough. “ England has no wish
to go back to the days of Protection,” said
one, and another declared that the masses in
England were in favour of Freetrade, and
inquired indignantly if the masses might not
be permitted to know what is good for them,
and to understand their own business. In
view of the very much larger masses in other
countries which also know what is good for
them, and are equally well acquainted with
their own . business, the latter query is
not necessarily so convincing as it
looks. And as to the former, there are
very few now who have any definite
recollection of what England was like under
Protection, and the evidence of the people
who don’t want to go back to the dark days
of high tariffs is mostly hearsay and tradi-
tion. Still there are grandfathers and grand-
mothers among them who recollect some-
thing of Protected England in the 30’s and
thereabouts, and remember quite rightly
that it was a dolorous place and one that no
well-constituted human being wants to re-
turn to.
* * * *
Towards the end of the eighteenth century
the century before last—England had
been a systematically-protected State for
over 100 years. It was an amazingly rich
State as ideas went in those days. All the
world was poor then. There was practically
no steam-power ; the steam-engine nowa-
days does, at the same cost, about
100 times as much work as the horse,
and it is no wonder that manufactures went
slowly in that era of mostly animal labour.
And as a consequence the toiler had
to work long hours in order to over-
take the demand, and even ivith all the
work he could do the supply of goods
was not abundant. Also, goods were costly
because it took many men to produce them,,
and wages were low because one man could
produce little. Commerce, too, was small
and slow, because there were neither rail-
ways, steamboats, telegraphs, telephones,
gas, electricity, nor decent roads, and even
canals were scarce. Money was not abun-
dant, for the goldfields of California, Aus-
tralia, Maoriland, South Africa, India and
Alaska were all undiscovered, and the world’s
stock of coin was .very small. Yet England
was an exceedingly rich country. Mul-
hall’s “ Dictionary of Statistics ” gives, on
page 262, some remarkable information
about its wealth and debt at various re-
mote dates. In the latter days of the 18th
century the total wealth of Great Britain
was £177 per head —actually far more
than Europe’s average is to-day, despite
all improvements. These were incredible
riches according to the resources of a period
that was mainly before steam and before
machinery. The things that made England
an unhappy country to live in then —the
scarcity of books, of culture, of political
liberty, of decent artificial light, of good
drainage, good means of communication, of
large and small and middle-sized items of
civilisation—-were matters which had no con-
nection with its fiscal policy whatsoever.
* * * *
And about then the country came to be
blessed with a glorious fool-Minister who
plunged it into 20 years of war in order to
prop up an effete French dynasty. Britain
spent, roughly speaking, eleven hundred
millions on that amazing insanity. The
taxes were trebled. About £600,000,000
were added to the National Debt. Some-
thing like 10,000 British vessels, large and
small, are alleged to have been captured,
sunk, or burnt, for even the mistress of the
sea had a woefully bad time on the waters.
The Bank of England went broke, so far as
cash was concerned, for 20 years, and paid in
paper. Wheat went up to famine prices—not
as some Freetraders allege, by reason of the
corn duties, for the amount actually paid in
duty on imported corn under the old sliding-
scale system was only 6d. per quarter, or
about Is. on every £8 worth—but because
local agriculture suffered from neglect and
bad seasons, and swarms of privateers made
imports precarious. When the war ended
in 1816 the wealth of England (Mulhall’s
“Dictionary of Statistics,” page 262) was
only £l2O per head. The increase of 20
years, and nearly one-third of all the pre-
viously existing wealth had been crowded
into cannons and fired off at an irrelevant
Italian usurper, in a quarrel that was never
Britain’s quarrel from the beginning.
* * * *
Then began the weariest task which
Britain ever undertook—the work of paying
the bill. There was still little commerce, for
want of good roads, railways, steamboats
and telegraphs, and other things that were
either not yet invented or only in the ex-
perimental stage. Manufacturing was still
mostly a laborious, slow, and unprofitable
hand process. There was still little money
with which to carry on commerce, because
the world’s stock of coin had run low with
the gradual failure of the old mines, and
those of California, Australia, Maoriland,
South Africa and Alaska were still undis-
covered. Hours of labor were still long,
because the old factory operative in these
days of primitive appliances could produce
only about the same quantity of goods in 14
hours as the man of to-day, with improved
machinery, can in two or three, and a civi-
lised community had to work some 14 hours
a day to supply its requirements, even
though they were much more limited
than they are now. And yet Protec-
tionist Britain made amazing progress. In
21 years (1816-1837) it reduced its debt by
£112,000,000; in the next 52 years, from 1837
to 1889, the reduction was only £90,000,000.
In 21 years of Protection the debt was
diminished by £l3 for every inhabitant;
during the ensuing 52 years, mostly under
Freetrade, the reduction was also £l3 per
inhabitant, so the rate of progress in the
second period was less than half as fast as
in the first. In 21 years of Protection the
aggregate wealth of the country increased
from £l2O to £l5B per inhabitant, an in-
crease of £3B per inhabitant, or £1 16s. 2d.
per inhabitant per annum. In the next 52
years, mostly under Freetrade, wealth further
increased to £250 per inhabitant, an expan-
sion of £92 per inhabitant, or £1 15s. sd.
per inhabitant annually. With all the
alleged advantages of Freetrade, with all
the wealth created by railroads, steamboats,
and steam machinery, with all the golden
plunder of Australia and Maoriland
flowing into its coffers, the process of
recovery was not so rapid in the Freetrade
period as in the Protectionist one which
preceded it. Yet the former was also the
period when the ruin of the Napoleonic wars
was still at its worst, when commerce was
hardly invented for want of the necessary
appliances, and when manufacture was still
a comparatively primitive process, and man
was yet, to a great extent, his own motive-
power.
* * * *
The real beginnings of Freetrade came in
1846 with what is called the abolition of the
Corn-Laws, when the sliding scale was
abolished and the duty on imported grain
was reduced to a maximum of Is. per quar-
ter. People who look back with a vague
and hazy eye into the remote regions of his-
tory still talk hearsay tales about the awful
price of the principal article of food before
the heavy protective duty was taken off, and
the blessed relief which fell on the com-
munity immediately after. But there was
no excessive price in the latterdaysof the Pro-
tective period, save when British commerce
and agriculture were knocked end ways by war,
and except what was caused by expensively
humping grain to cities by road, and grind-
ing it with costly and primitive appliances.
And there was no relief under Freetrade, or
comparative Freetrade, until steam revolu-
tionised production and put commerce on a
new basis. From 1827 to 1846, under the
old Corn Laws, the highest price of wheat
in England was 71s. per quarter, in 1839.
From 1846 to 1859 under alleged Freetrade,
the highest price was 755. per quarter in
1855. Taking the 19th century up to 1860,
wheat was once (in 1835) as low as 395.
per quarter under Protection ; and it
was also once (in 1851) as low as 395. per
quarter under Freetrade. The price of
wheat went up lamentably in the years of
the great war and the depreciated paper
money, but it dropped as steadily under
Protection as it did afterwards under
Freetrade. The average price was 84s.
4d. per quarter from 1811 to 1820. It was
665. per quarter from 1821 to 1830 ; and
575. per quarter from 1831 to 1840—the last
complete decade under Protection. From
1841 to 1850, partly under the
old Corn Law regime and partly under
the new enlightened Freetrade system, the
average price was 535. 3d. per quarter; and
from 1851 to ’59, wholly under the new,
beautiful, enlightened, cheap-bread system,
the average price went up to 555. and the
people’s principal victual was dearer than
in the dark days just before the bless-
ings of Cobdsn fell upon them. The article
on “ Prices ” on pages 473 and 474 of Mul-
hall’s “Dictionary of Statistics” is in-
teresting reading for those who have a hazy
recollection that the beginning of Freetrade
was the beginning of all good things in
England.
* * * ♦
But just when the new order of things
was in danger of proving a little worse than
the old one—when the burst of prosperity
didn’t come, and prices rose (according to
the average prices given on page 399 of
Mdlhall’s “Industries and Wealth of
Nations ” the first result of Freetrade
was to put up prices and keep them
up for 30 years —till 1874), and wages
didn’t rise—various extraneous things hap-
pened. Between 1850 and 1860 the
steamboat, which was previously only a
clumsy and almost useless toy, began to
revolutionise commerce. The gold dis-
coveries in California suddenly bloated the
world with wealth in the early ’so’s, and the
gold mines of Australia bloated it still more
almost immediately afterwards. There were
only 838 miles of very primitive railway in
Britain in 1840; there were over 10,000
miles in 1860. Steam-power had only begun
in 1840 ; all the steam-engines of the world
were then equal to only 1,650,000 horse-
power ; by 1860 they had multiplied five-
fold, and by 1888 thirty-fold. Food became
cheaper in time because it was carried to the
consumer by rail instead of reaching him, at
a dozen times the charge for carriage, by
waggon over bad roads. Hours of labour
became shorter, because when a man, by the
aid of steam, could do several times as much
work in eight hours as he formerly could by
hand-power in 14 hours, there was no longer
the need to work 14 hours. Wages became
higher because the worker could do so much
more work. Manufactured goods became less
expensive because steam and improved
machinery made it possible to produce
them at vastly less cost, despite shorter
hours and higher wages. Freetrade got a
gorgeous advertisement in England because
it happened to come, or to begin coming,
just when the locomotive, steamboat, and
most of the great mechanical inventions also
arrived. But for that it would probably
have died still-born. Other nations got a
larger share of the profit arising from the
new order of things, but they didn’t happen
to have a new fiscal fetish on hand to ascribe
it to. If it had been cannibalism in-
stead of Freetrade that Britain had just
adopted, cannibalism would probably have
got as big an advertisement as Freetrade did.
» ♦ * *
The average Briton doesn’t want to go
back to Protection because he remembers it
vaguely, or has heard of it vaguely, as some-
thing that existed along with hand-looms,
and slow sailing-ships, and long hours, and
low wages, and tallow candles, and internal
commerce expensively conducted by coach
and waggon. And the American and
German don’t want to go back to
their old policy of low tariffs, because to
them low tariffs were associated with long
hours, and low wages, and dim tallow candles,
and hand-loom labor, and unprofitable horse-
waggon commerce. Even if it is shown
that Britain prospered more in the new days
of Freetrade and steam-power than in the
old days of Protection and hand-labor and
of painful recovery from the most costly war
in all its history, that fact proves nothing on
behalf of Freetrade, unless the Freetrader is
prepared to declare that the steamboat is of
no more importance than the scow, and that
the locomotive is only as fast and as cheap
as the bull-dray, and that the old hand-loom
worked as well as its steam successor. If
all the mechanical improvements of the last
50 years are quite useless, and if Britain s
wealth never increased before it got
Freetrade, then the fact that its wealth
has increased since it got Freetrade
is evidence that Freetrade is good, always
provided the increase has been faster than
that of countries which didn’t get Free-
trade. If Britain, with Freetrade and steam-
power, has kept the lead it had in 1840—if it
has lost nothing in the race against the nations
which have Protection and steam-power—
then Freetrade has a good case. If not, it
has no case in particular. And Britain
hasn’t kept the lead it had in
1840. Its people, presumably, have the
same grit and intelligence as they had
when Protectionist Britain ruled the world,
but Freetrade Britain doesn’t rule the world.
As for the news that Freetrade England,
with locomotives, steam machinery, steam-
ships, telegraphs, and the like, is richer than
Protectionist England in the days of sailing-
ships, horse-waggons, and hand-power, that
is nothing, so far as the fiscal question is con-
cerned. Protectionist England, in the 18th
century, with its hand-looms and its waggon
commerce, was also richer than aboriginal
Freetrade England in the Ist century, with
no looms at all, and its commerce carried
per hand by our remote ancestor stained
with woad. That is equally relevant, or
equally irrelevant.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Dry Dog 1 Reid’s Latest.
Dry Dog Reid, Australia’s great manufacturer of
facts and evidences, broke out in a new place last
Thursday night at Sydney Protestant Hall. This
is the Dry Dog man’s latest impossible horror:
I pity the workers of Victoria when I go through the
factories, and see in them, not the workers of Victoria,
hut their children. (Cheers.) I pity the industries of
Victoria when I see man after man thrown out into the
streets, because they have grown too big for them, and
young children brought in to take their places—(cheers)
and when I know that for every man you find in these
Victorian factories you find half-a-dozen children.
(Cheers.) This evil will attend almost all countries in
spite of the wisest laws, but I can’t understand men
willingly agreeing to buy these social curses. ICheers.)
These will come, to some" extent, in spite of you, but that
men should try and grow them I can’t understand.
(Cheers).
Poor, grieved little man ! Rut again there is this
discrepancy between Reid’s statistics and The
Bulletin’s statistics: This paper gives its
authority, and even the page of its authority, for
its statements so that the public can verify them
down to the last item. And George Reid simply
says that things are so, and his only authority is
himself—the reliable individual who insulted
N.S.W. Parliament with that bowled-out list of
Dibbs’s alleged Civil Service appointments, and
the sham collection of Victorian prices, and
whose name has now become a synonym for
general inaccuracy and for bogus items about
starch, and another term for the thing that isn’t
so. Therefore, George Reid, as is his nature,
carefully abstains from giving the address of any
one Victorian factory where there are six children
for one man, or even two children for one man, for
if he did the proprietor would probably bowl him
out within 24 hours. And The Bulletin
assumes, on good evidence, that he does this
because there is no such factory, and because he is
perfectly aware of the fact, and is merely the
same unscrupulous globular fraud as usual. The
evidence in question is to be found on pages 256,
395 and 400 of N.S.W. Statistician Coghlan’s
latest “ Seven Colonies,” and it reads as follows :
N.S.W. Victoria.
Children actually attending State
schools .. .. .. 149,349 .. 143,844
Ditto, private schools .. .. 47,560 .. 35,232
196,909 .. 179,076
Total number of children under 15 520,705 .. 391,600
Of whom about one-half are below
school age (6 years) .. .. 260,352 .. 195,800
Children between 6 and 15 not at-
tending school .. .. 63,443 .. 16,724
These latter are, with very few exceptions, either
working or loafing at street corners, and qualify-
ing for gaol. Anyhow, out of 16,724 male children
in Victoria who are above six years of age and
who are not at school, George Reid says, with
tears in his eyes, that owing to the oppressive
nature of the Protectionist policy 37,000 odd are
toiling in factories —there are 44,041 males in
Victorian factories and Reid asserts that the pro-
portions are one man to six children. This is in
addition to the thousands of boys employed in
shops and offices and on farms. And he implies
that, owing to the blessings of Freetrade, there is
no such employment of children in factories in
N.S.W. Wherefore, if Victoria has 37,000 boys
employed in factories out of 16,724 available, and
N.S.W. owing to the blessings of Freetrade isn’t
subject to this evil, and as N.S.W. has no
more of other kinds of employment to offer
than Victoria, it seems that out of the
cornstalk State’s 63,443 unaccounted-for boys
fully 130,000 must be loafing at street corners
with no employment whatever. Truly the Dry
Dog man is a wonderful inventor of impossible
figures, and the most foolish purveyor of bosh in
Australian politics. New South Wales, by the
statistics of its own official authority, has a far
smaller proportion of its children regularly
attending places of education than Victoria has.
The proportion of families which hire governesses
and tutors isn’t large in any country, so the dead
certain result is that far more N.S.W. than Vic-
torian children are either working or loafing, or
else that N.S.W. has far more of both loafing and
working children. And it would take a very
great deal better evidence than the bald assertion
of G. Reid to get over Coghlan’s testimony.
♦
A Politically Homeless Sinister.
Westralia is going to have a State election
almost immediately, for the sufficient reason that
it has got into such a tight place that it is im-
possible to get on without one. Westralia’s
Assembly used to last for four years, but the
recent Reform Act changed it into a triennial
body. The Act also widened the franchise, cut
up some overgrown electorates into two or three,
abolished some others, and up - ended things
generally. The idea was that the existing
Parliament would dissolve when its three
years were up, but many members, who
represented mainly sheep and cattle and wire
fences, had no desire to face their new human
constituents, and it was decided by a little strain-
ing of the law that this Assembly should continue
to exist under the old system, and fill in its com-
plete four years. Then trouble began to arise.
Members died or resigned. If the old electorate
still remained, other men were elected —it is now
declared quite illegally—on the old roll, and if the
old electorate had gone to pieces the place was left
vacant. But at last Moran of Coolgardie accepted


a portfolio; his seat thus became vacant, and his
re-election was a matter of urgency. Then it
began to be remembered that there was no longer
any electorate of Coolgardie. It was decided that
Mohan couldn’t be re-elected for one of the three
divisions into which Coolgardie has been cut up, for
they are part of a new order of tilings which won’t
come into force till this Parliament expires. Also,
he couldn’t be elected on the new rolls, for they are
not in force till this Parliament expires ; nor on the
old ones, for they are abolished. The Speaker
formally issued his writ for a new election to the
Returning Officer for Coolgardie, but there being
no longer any such person the document was
vainly offered to under-secretaries, J’s.P., police-
men, dog-catchers and men who worked conden-
sers and looked after water-tanks. Finally, Moran
found that he couldn’t be re-elected for any place,
and he couldn’t keep his new office unless he was
re-elected. Also, if he gave up his new office he
couldn’t even then—his seat having once become
vacant —get back into his old position as private
member for Coolgardie. Further, his portfolio
couldn’t be given to anyone else without putting
the other man into much the s ime difficulty. So
Westralia is going to have a General Election as
soon as possible.
The Old English Corn-Law Delusion.
The S.M. Herald really ought to hire a man who
knows something about British history, and then
it wouldn’t drop into such foolishness as this :
Not that freetraders are afraid of fitrures ; only they
know how deceptive statistics are if all the facts are not
taken into account. For example, we are referred to
England, and we are told that after the centuries of pro-
tection England had so prospered that she was able te
adopt a Freetrade policy. The inference seems to be that
after two centuries of Protection Australia may be in a
similar happy position. The statement and the supposed
analogy are both preposterous. As to the prosperity of
England under Protection we may cite the following sen-
tence from the London Times of January 14, 1801, re-
cently reprinted by the Times, with other extracts, to
show what the paper was a century ago :—“ We have the
satisfaction to state that the Lord Mayor yesterday
ordered the price of bread to be lowered two assizes and
a half, which will reduce the quartern.loaf to Is. Bd. on
Thursday.” A noteworthy evidence of prosperity truly,
that a feeling of satisfaction should be produced by the
reduction of the price of bread, on the authority of the
Lord Mayor, to Is. Bd. a quartern loaf.
And in those days the British duty on imported
wheat was sixpence per quarter so long as the
price didn’t drop below 545. per quarter —a micro-
scopic charge of less than one per cent. When
the price fell below 50s. per quarter a heavy duty
became operative, and when the price was
between 50s. and 545. a moderate duty of
2s. 6d. per quarter was levied. In 1801,
the date above mentioned, the price of wheat in
England was £5 18s. per quarter, so the duty was
about 7s. 6d. on every £IOO worth of wheat—less
than the port dues that are charged in most English
ports to-day. But the British harvest was bad, and
the great Napoleonic wars had cut off foreign
supplies, for this was before Trafalgar, and Bri-
tain’s command of the sea was precarious;
and the country was pouring out money like
water in a huge foreign conflict, and the State
had suspended cash payments—it suspended for
25 years—and Bank of England notes were at a
discount and viewed with grave suspicion, and
the practical Freetrade which reduced the
wheat duty to 7s. 6d. per £IOO worth left
England in the awful state above-described.
The noteworthy point is, however, that the
article—bread—which in those days went up
to the most exorbitant price, was the one in
which there was practical freetrade. Clothes and
boots were very heavily protected, but there were
no boot riots or pant riots as a set-off to the bread
riots of these good old days.
The Future of S'A :’rica.
Wrote Olive Schreiner to arocent meeting of
S’African women :—•
Great and overwhelming have been our losses during
the year. Yet, great as they have been, the loss of Eng-
land has been greater.
England has lost among the officers and men who, far
far from their native land, have fallen in this, to them,
foreign country, many of her noblest and bravest sons.
I myself have lost personally, in one of the English officers
who died in the Free State, one of the oldest and most
valued of my friends ; a man whose humanity, and whose
generosity of feeling towards a brave foe, were worthy of
the best traditions of the England of the past England
has lost heavily in her best; while her worst, the men of
greed, ambition and cunning, who shaped this war, are
with her still, to do her further injury. Great and irre-
parable has been her loss in this matter.
But, in another direction, she has had yet greater loss
than this. She has lost for ever the faith and the
affection of the bulk of people in this colony. Four-
teen months ago, in spite of much that had taken place
in the past, we, the bulk of the people in this colony,
believed in England, and in the power of the more
righteous element in her people ultimately to over-
power and control the baser and more servile. Four-
teen months ago I sat in a little up-country Boer
farm-house ; and when we spoke of the possibility of
war, men and women alike said, “ There can be no
war, our Queen would never allow it. She has always
loved us and been good to us ; she would never allow them
to kill our kindred in the Republics. Rhodes and
Chamberlain and Milner may wish for it; but Lord
Salisbury has said that they do not want the land or the
gold of the Transvaal. England would never do us this
great wrong.” Fourteen months ago, as you all know,
there was hardly a farm-house in the length and breadth
of the Cape Colony where the picture of the Queen was
not to be found hanging on the walls. There were sad
old memories of Slachters Nek, and the first attack on the
independence of the Transvaal Republic, but Gladstone’s
wisdom in restoring it had healed the wound ; and there
was a strong feeling through the length and breadth of
our land that the speculator-monopolists, and not the
Queen and the English people, were responsible for the
Jameson raid. The faith of our people in England’s
ultimate rectitude and desire to act with honor was, in
spite of many mistakes, unshaken. “Rhodes and the
speculators may desire to take their gold and land from
our brothers in the Transvaal,” said an old Boer to me,
“ but our Queen will not let them. I have known her for
more than fifty years.” Fourteen months ago if any man
had stated to me that it was possible for those things to
take place which have taken place in the Colony under
martial law, and in the neighboring Republics, during
the last year, without arousing a passionate and deter-
mined protest from the bulk of the English people, I
would have laughed him to scorn. That the bulk of the
people of England could sit silent and unmoved while
private houses were burnt down and women and young
children turned homeless into the wilds, in order that
through wounding the affections and sympathies of the
men their arms might be paralysed for further warfare —
while quiet private citizens were forced into trains that
their presence there might guard the lives of English
soldiers at the risk of their own—while the honorable
uniform of the British officer was pawned to civilians,
that masquerading in that guise they might avenge
themselves upon their political enemies—had one told me
that these things could be, and the bulk of the English
nation sit by silent and unmoved I would have regarded
him as one who dreams in a fever. That there
might be war, that battle fields might run red,
that fortified places might be bombarded, these
things I had recognised as possible; but that the
mightiest Empire the world has seen would expend
its gold in purchasing informers ; that in England
itself the right to free speech would be so dead that how-
ling mobs of thousands would attack single individuals
merely endeavouring to express their thought with regard
to a public matter, and life itself be endangered ; that in
South Africa the man or woman who exercised that pri-
mary right of the Englishman, the right to free speech,
would do so with the vision of a manacle at his or her
elbow —this I had not dreamed possible.
Now the bond of a~eetion and confidence that bound
England to South Africa has snapped.
But England has lost more than the lives of her own
brave soldiers, more than the confidence and affection of
the Cape Colonists, more than the alliance and friendship
of the heroic Republics.
England has lost her Honour. ..
To-day England stands naked before the nations, the
mantle' of assumed virtue which she had carefully-
wrapped about her torn open. She, who cried aloud to
the nations, “I am not as thou art, my aims are not as
thine ! ” stands to-day exposed. Russia, Austria, I'iance,
Germany, have not sinned as she has sinned. They never
crossed 6000 miles of sea to find a small, brave people
bound to them by the ties of a common religion and
common Aryan descent: and with the cry, ‘ >ve seek no
gold 1 We seek no land !” to set a knee upon their throats
and clutch with greedy fingers at land or gold. To-day,
in her unlovely and unlovable old age, all the nobler ana
more generous instincts of her youth extinguished, she
stands naked and shrivelled before the nations, with her
name branded upon her forehead —a hypocrite among the
Peoples. ...
The hour of England’s repentance and remorse will
come. But it will be that form of remorse, the most
awful which can visit the soul of the individual or the
nation —the remorse which comes too late.
My friends, the life of the individual is short ; but the
life of a nation is long.
The men who have produced this war, and into whose
hands England has fallen in these sad times, will pass
away. Rhodes, Chamberlain, and Milner may attain
the gold, or the power, or the titles, or the glory to
which they have aspired ; then, they will pass away. But
the young South African people, now coming to its birth
in these days of stress and anguish ; and which to-day
lies prostrate with the blood upon its forehead for bap-
tismal water, weighing down its eyelids—the young
South African people will live and grow. It will wax
with the centuries, and to it belongs the future.
While we, the people of South Africa, hold by the old,
simple, brave ideals and manners of life of the first
founders of the South African race, the future of South
Africa is assured. It is for you, the women of South
Africa, to transmit these ideas to your children. Free-
dom first, and wealth, ease, luxury, last, if at all. It has
been said in South Africa that “ Every man has his
price.” But he lied who said t his. It is for you, the
women of South Africa, to show that the heart of South
Africa is unpurchasable by any gold from blood-stained
hands. The heart of the womanhood of a nation is the
treasure-house where its freedom is stored. A fearless,
indomitable, unpurchasable womanhood ; a fearless,
indomitable, unpurchasable race.
Among all the Shoddy candidates who are
prowling over the face of Australia telling the
public how Britain has prospered under its pre-
sent fiscal system there is not one —not a single
one—who advocates the adoption of Britain’s
fiscal system. Said system is :
(1) Pure Revenue Tariffism ; no surreptitious Protec-
tion on wine, beer, tobacoo, sugar, and other things as in
N.S. Wales; every customs duty on goods which can be
locally manufactured counterbalanced by an equivalent
excise.
(2) Duties on about half-a-doa >n articles only.
(3) The shortage in revenue made up by very heavy
direct taxation. The direct taxation (local and national)
in England is fully five times as heavy as in N.S.W.
(4) No borrowing for unproductive works.
(5) The steady paying off of the public debt out of tax-
ation.
If the Commonwealth adopts Britain’s fiscal sys-
tem (which Reid, M'Millan, Braddon and co.
declare has made Britain rich and great), there is
no need for the Commonwealth to tax anything
beyond spirits and narcotics. The British taxa-
tion system would yield abundance of money.
Why do these people mouth so dreadfully about
the advisability of following Britain’s example
when not one of them proposes following Britain’s
example? If they really believe that example is
so good as they say, then they are every one
traitors to Australia for not urging this country to
adopt the beneficial thing, and there is no gum-
tree high enough to hang them on.
“ Calypso ” writes :
Dr. Creed and architect Cyril Blackett, the other day
at Sydney, deputationised Works Minister O’Sullivan re
cremating the unclaimed corpses which are to be removed
from Devonshire-street cemetery. “The Minister in
replying to the request pointed out that cremation of the
dead appeared to be repulsive to the majority of people
with religious feelings.” O’Sullivan is a queer person
with an infinite stock of insular prejudices. He doesn’t
seem to know that about 150,000,000 of the most religious
people on earth habitually cremate their dead, and he
apparently cannot conceive that anyone outside the
small group of sects around him can have any religious
feelings to speak of. Yet we know that the Greeks, from
whom we have derived most of our artistic, literary and
political ideals, practised cremation on principle. It was
early Christian fanaticism that abolished cremation in
Europe as a pagan rite, in the same way as it abolished
Greek art, literature and philosophy, it also practically
abolished cleanliness because the pagan gentlemen
washed themselves. Really, cremation is neither more
nor less than a measure of sanitary policy utterly distinct
from religion.
How the N.S.W. Old Age Pension Board will
work isn’t hard to foresee when it is borne in mind
that the members are, even without this big extra
job, about the hardest-driven officials in the State.
First, as regards Mr. Coghlan, the St..ti t ; his
hands are so full with the work of running the
most elaborate statistical department in Austra-
lasia, and so extra-full with the preliminaries for
the census, that he can have no leisure for creating
a new department. Then there is the Inspector
General of Police. Quite enough for any one man
to manage the police of the State ; yet for years
Mr. Fosbery has been the real head of the Abori-
gines’ Protection Board, the Fisheries Board, and
the Charity Organisation Society, and lately the
unfortunate gentleman has had added to his other
duties the regulation of the Sydney street
traffic. Now a new straw, and a heavy
one, has been added to his already crushing
load. Finally there is the Director of Charities.
The wonder is how these officials find time to do
the work of so many and such incongruous offices.
There is a reasonable suspicion, indeed, that the
head of a department, instead of looking into
matters for himself, “calls for reports” from his
subordinates, and mostly allows them to dictate
the course to be taken. Thus, where the nominal
control is vested in a board, the real power gets
into the hands of the secretary on condition that
he does not give trouble to the members by too
frequently referring to them.
Again the Brisbane Courier: “But how about
the Kanaka? He is fewer in Queensland even
than the Chinaman ; and he does not compete with
the white man. The notorious fact is that he does
work that the white man will not do.” The state-
ment that the Kanaka does not compete with the
white man can only be branded as a brazen lie.
There are sugar mills on the Burnett where the
Kanaka is employed about the mills, undis-
guisedly in open day. There are, knocking round
the Isis district, scores of Kanakas who fence, fell
scrub, split timber, sink wells, milk cows—in
short, do every variety of farm and plantation
work. There are mills (and some supported
partly by the State) in N.Q., where beyond
a few petty bosses, a white man is not to
be seen. There was, in Bundaberg some time
ago, a Kanaka pugilist who gave highly popular
exhibitions of his skill to an admiring and varied
audience, thereby doing the European bruiser out
of a job. Only a fortnight ago a Burdekin Kanaka
levanted and took with him some hundreds of
pounds held in trust for his brother Kanakas,
thereby emulating the deeds of the Caucasian
pillar of the church, and rendering that gentleman
(to some extent) a superfluity. Why Tommy
Tanna, with a little tnr I and opportunity, is
capable of any white accoi plishrnent.
Several Queensland Govt, papers are just now
boiling with wrath towards the State pedagogues.
It seems the Q. teachers have recently been saying
things about the worthy sky-pilots who are
attempting to meddle with Bananaland’s secular
education system. The schoolmasters allege that,
inasmuch as they have already 25 subjects to
teach in less than 25 hours per week, they really
have no time left for a fresh subject. They
further aver (as Premier Philp pointed out) that
most of them were engaged to teach secular sub-
jects, and that some of them cannot possibly teach,
dogma without a violation of their consciences.
What is more, they draw attention to the healthy
feeling existing between all classes of children in
the State school ; the absence of all sectarian
jarring and party feeling ; and they prophesy that
the moment religious instruction is instituted, dis-
tinctions are introduced and divisions created that
will inevitably damage the existing harmony.
Altogether the pedagogues have a strong case,
and should let their voices be heard on the
subject.
4
“ Hermes ” writes a great truth :
As a twister of facts and statistics Sydney Daily Tele-
graph is to be admired by all aspiring liars. But when it
gets down to “ ethics ” it makes itself ridiculous. The
other day it rose unsteadily on its two hind linotypes and
solemly propounded the following deep doctrine: “The
money which any man has earned (which is his own)
(much of it is generally his wife’s), he has the inherent
right to spend where and how he can do so to the best
advantage, subject always to the claims which may be
made upon him or it for the purpose of Government, or,
in other words, for the purposes of needful State re-
venue.” Upon this text the D.T. proceeds to preach that
it is “ highly immoral ” on the part of any majority to tax
per Protective tariff an unwilling minority to protect the
industries of the whole community. These be the King-
street ethics, ye gods ! Defence is part of the “purpose
of government,” and all competition is some degree of
war. Actual hostilities are merely the extreme degree of
competition, and if a State is justified in defending its
people’s wealth and lives against a foreign enemy in time
of war, it is also justified in protecting them in times of
peace. That is what Government is for, among other
things. Invasions are of two kinds —military and com-
mercial. It is the duty of Government to protect the
community, and even supposing Protection made things
dearer, which it doesn’t, the community is quite justified
in taxing the whole community to protect the industries
and wealth of the whole community.
♦ .
It is about time the State Premiers protested
collectively and individually against the proposed
Imperial recruiting in Australia. The country
has been too drunk with militarism for the past
year to see what is its own best interests, and those
who should lead or guide in such matters
have been jumping like so many monkeys-
on-sticks to the pulls of the uncaring self-
seekers at the other end. Already the
gory-jowled Empire has sucked away nearly
12,000 of a five-millions population —a population
vastly inadequate to the country’s needs—and
which three States at least are still endeavoring to
supplement by immigration. And it is mostly the
young men that are taken ; the men who were to
do most towards the appearance of the next gener-
ation, and who should now, in the normal course
of things, be out opening-up, prospecting, tilling
and filling the land. And in return we are to
have our share of the ultimate retribution and
shame. Our sons will return to us disillusioned
wrecks, fit only for mouthing about the deeds
they never did ; and destined, if they breed at all,
to produce only transmitters of their own
enfeebled constitutions. For, so far, Q’land,
Westralia and Vic., have refused the recruiting-
sergeant admittance ; while South Australia with
her vast unpopulated territory, and her boundless
undeveloped resources, opens her arms gladly and
wide: N.S.W., as yet, has said nothing either
way ; but before the advent of those thinly-dis-
guised recruiters, the Duke and Duchess of York,
let us say plainly, “ We have given of blood and
treasure so freely, that we can afford no more.
Let it cease.”
4
Writes “Fed Tape, Junior” :
N.S. Wales appointed its Public Service Commissioners
in 1895 for seven years, so that their term of office will
soon be up. It is said that Chairman Delohery was
appointed for seven years from 1930, so he will not be in
danger of any reconstruction. And it is nearly certain
that there will be some such thing. In the Service itself
the Board is hated and despised. Hated because of the
many injustices it allows to continue, and despised be-
cause its word cannot be implicitly taken nor its
regulations relied on. Nearly 60 per cent, of the
various officers are desirous of a transfer to another de-
partment, preferring the devil they don’t know to the
one they do. Parliament, by a direct and challenged
vote refused to allow the Harbor Trust and Wharf Re-
sumptions Board to be officered by the Board, as big a
set-down as a public institution ever received from any
Legislature. The present State Ministers are notoriously
out - of sympathy with it, as they regard the Commis-
sioners as minions of George H. Reid. So the dissatisfied
Public Service hopes for drastic changes. And this is a line
excuse. The present Board was appointed to administer
nine Ministerial depts. With the advent of Federation
one, the Post-Office, goes bodily away from its jurisdic-
tion. Of the eight remaining, the Chief Secretary’s
department and the Treasury lose largely, while the
Observatory and other services are lopped off other
Departments. Also the Harbour Trust will take away
from the importance of the Public Works Department in
Sydney. If an office under the Commissioners was to be
reduced like this the Board would reduce the staff, quick
and lively. Consequently it is only reasonable to suppose
that the Commissionerships will be cut down to Two.
We in the Service have no further use for Mr. Barling.
He can retire on the pension George Reid so thought-
fully provided for him and his colleagues.
♦ .
N.S.W. Labor Leader M‘Gowen, in his capacity'
as a Federal candidate, demands the abolition of
the Braddon clause and of equal State represen-
tation in the Senate. These are the kind of
alleged reforms that can be achieved without
paying any more taxes—the easy, cheap sort of
things that the easy, cheap sort of men make a
name by. But when did the Labor party raise
its voice, except in the most perfunctory fashion,
for the big, difficult reform that this country wants
more than all the rest put together—for the aboli-
tion of borrowing, for national solvency and self-
reliance, for ceasing to be the slave of the foreign
capitalist and the servant of the British three-ball
usurer? The Labor party’s plea is that in this
matter it is no more than other parties—that it is a
democratic crowd which isn’t more Tory than the
Tories —which is quite true. No one expected the
biggest and most essential of all Democratic ideas
to be advocated by any of the old hack politicians.
But when the alleged Democratic party doesn’t
even lift up its Voice on behalf of the best Demo-
cratic principle of all —the one that is worth all
other Democratic principles put together—this
country is truly in a bad way.
Writes “Darling-Downer ” :
Editor Bulletin,—“ Radical ” on Drake (B. 2/3/’01)
must be a personal friend of the Federal P.M.G. or a
prospector on the Federal doormat. “ Drake did not
somersault with the Q. Govt., they somersaulted over to
Drake”— i.e.. Drake, the anti-kanaka politician, joins
Piiilp’s pro-kanaka crowd. Drake, the Democrat, sup-
ports the N.Q. syndicate stink. Drake, the Liberal with
a backbone, crawls into the Upper House to be despised
by Fatmen there until he outdoes a defunct kanaka-
employer in his oily genuflections before the great
god Boodle. “He wrecked a growing practice (Robb
arbitration case) at the bar, bled his pocket to feed
democratic papers (his somersault at once got four pp. of
Govt, advts. for his little weekly) wrote, spouted, organ-
ised ” —(the Progressive party held a meeting, named
their party, and then R.1.P.). Our fat and jolly Speaker,
“ Morgan, ratted on Drake.” This is the crowning
absurdity. All Queensland will laugh at that. Morgan
has no party but the £lOOO a year and a very accommo-
dating constituency, which is now rubbing its eyes and
asking “ Where we are ? ” The muddle in ’99 : “ Drake
stuck to his guns ” and reached out eagerly, poor fellow,
for the safe £lOOO a year. The Labor men, with
22, “wanted a majority of the portfolios” from
the superior 16. Shockingly bad form! Writer,
who was a firm believer in Drake before the
somersault, will “ repay his debt ” by striking out a rene-
gade’s name from the senatorial ballot and plumping for
Dawson, Stewart and Higgs. Rockhampton Bulletin
calls Drake the luckiest politician in Australia. His deser-
tion, by a fluke, brought him what Queensland Demo-
crats would have given him with honor. He may live for
a time being on the “ ticket ” of the black-labor crowd ;
but he is bound to come down with a great thud. Con-
servatives and Radicals alike distrust him. Poor beggar,
if he had only waited ! One’s anger is modified when 1
think of his long struggle against Boodle. It was pathetic
to see him at last swallowed up when he was so near
recognition and reward.
4
The clerical trade-union for regulating the mar-
riage market in the exclusive interest of the
regular sects is likely to lose the influential official
support of the N.S.W. Registrar-General. That
gentleman, apparently on his own sole authority,
removed the name of one Rev. George Hat from
the roll of persons licensed to celebrate marriages,
for no better reason than that he (Hat) had quar-
relled with the governing body of his own particu-
lar sect, and had set up in the clerical business on
his “own.” The Supreme Court saw enough in
the case to call on the Registrar-General to
“show cause,” and so the case stands till next
term. The real question, so far as the public is
concerned, is whether, in a community which has
710 religion “by law established,” any public
officer is justified in interfering in a purely
dogmatic and disciplinary dispute, among the
members of any sect, further than is required to
necessitate a judicial decision. In Mr. Hay’s
case the Registrar-General seems to have simply
gone out of his way in the interest of the regular
clerics as against the irregular non-unionist, and
such of the public as may wish to employ the
latter. The law knows, or should know, no dif-
ference between the regular and irregular cleric as
long as they keep clear of criminal practices.
What does it matter whether the man who per-
forms a marriage ceremony is union or non-union,
if the ceremony is legally valid ?
4
Writes “ Old Soldier ”: —
Ex-Commander-in-Chief Wolseley and ex-War-Minister
Lansdowne seem to have turned the “ Lords ” into a
laundry to some purpose last week, though neither of
them lias much reason to boast of the result of the wash.
Wolseley began by admitting the inefficiency of the
British army and blaming the “system.” He “advo-
cated the professional control of the army,’’and scored
by pointing out that the only two civilian-controlled
armies are the Chinese and the British. (He forgot the
U.S., though.) Then Lansdowne on his part declared
that Wolseley’s duty was to “ prepare schemes for offen-
sive and defensive operations.” How W. was to find
time for that while pottering with courts-martial, courts
of inquiry, promotions, transfers, exchange, and drill
and discipline, was not explained. If W. had wasted
time on the “schemes” which would have been
promptly pigeon-holed—he might have warned Lans-
downe that “ Ladysmith was not a very suitable military
station . . . and that it would take more than one army-
corps to subjugate the S’African Republics.” But how on
earth was W. to know? The suitableness of a military-
station depends on circumstances. White did very well
at Ladysmith, and it would be very hard to prove that he
would have done better anywhere else. As for Lans-
downe’s other point, how was Wolseley or anyone else to
know that an army corps (30,000 trained and disciplined
soldiers led by allegedly-trained officers) could not knock
the stuffing out of the same number of undisciplined
farmers? If W had dared to hint that, as the event has
proved, i.t would take close on 210,000 men to only half-
do the business, he would have been execrated as a base
slanderer of the empire. Just remember what happened
to Gen. Butler, for warning the authorities that at least
100,000 men would be needed to begin with ! As for the
other things for which Wolseley is said to have been
responsible : “ Control and mobilisation of the army,
utilising the volunteer forces, and for the intelligence de-
partment,” they all involve expenditure, and the C. in C.
can’t spend 6d. on his own authority. He can do neither
good nor harm without the Minister, whose subordinate
he is, and those who fancy Roberts will be better than
Wolseley will be just as far-out as those who thought
Wolseley would be more than Cambridge.
>
It is a peculiar circumstance that all the N.S.W.
Tree trade speakers have suddenly started afresh
to curse the Braddon Clause in the Common-
wealth Constitution with a great fresh curse.
The circumstances of that clause are complicated.
Reid stumped N.S.W. against the original Com-
monwealth Bill because the Braddon Clause was
in it. He got the Bill rejected (though a solid
majority of the people voted for it) by his 80,000-
minimum fake, and then demanded amendments
—the removal of the Braddon Clause among
the rest. The other Premiers met him on the
matter, and it was suddenly discovered that the
Reid party couldn’t devise anything better than
the clause it had so violently denounced, and
N.S.W. saw the astounding vision of its Premier
accepting, as the best possible solution of the finan-
cial problem, the very proviso on account of which
he had stumped N.S.W. imploring the people to
reject the Bill without hesitation. All the com-
bined intelligence of the Importing Party, with
its Reid and its M‘Mi lean and its B. Smith and
its Pumpkin Smith and its Carruthers and
Brunker and all the rest, when it got on the job,
found it couldn’t devise anything better than the
Braddon Clause, so the party definitely accepted
it. Yet in some inscrutable way the Importing
Party now holds up the Braddon Clause as a
disaster and a reason why N.S.W. should vote
against the Barton Ministry. If it is a disaster
the one man in N.S.W. who is responsible for its
continuance in the Constitution is Reid, who was
offered, at his own request, a full and fair oppor-
tunity to replace it by something better, and
didn’t. And if it is a disaster, as Reid’s crowd
says, so much the more reason to vote against
Reid.
4
N.S. Wales Judge Owen found occasion last
week, when summing-up in a trumpery libel case,
to emphasise the remarks of Chief Justice Darley
and others as to the frequency with which the
obsolete N.S.W. libel-law is taken advantage of
by hasty suitors’ lawyers in search of costs. Ac-
cording to S.M. Herald report, his Honor said —
That he repeated what he and other Judges had on
several occasions stated in court, namely, that the num-
ber of petty libel cases brought in the' Supreme Court
was a perfect scandal. Every little bit of Billingsgate
was dragged into the Supreme Court, and the public time
and the time of juries was occupied, to the exclusion of
more .momentous matters, in determining whether cer-
tain wbrds were or were not uttered.
The jury, after a short deliberation, returned a verdict
for the plaintiff with one farthing damages, and the fore-
man said that the jury quite endorsed the remarks made
by his Honor in summing-up. He added that jurymen
believed that these cases were not always brought into
court by the combatants themselves.
His Honor: I am very glad you have expressed that
opinion, because the Judges, to a very large extent, are
powerless. These matters rest almost entirely with the
jury, and while juries give large damages in such cases,
I suppose they will be brought into court. If, however,
juries would put their feet down they would soon put an
end to this kind of action.
The Bulletin commends these remarks to the
attention of the public. Many gross abuses in
Australian social life, and many gross and: public


BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.
375 George street,
59 Queen Street,
SYDNEY;
BRISBANE;
On Your Holidays
USE A
PREMO CAMERA.
Your Outfit is not complete without it,
PE £5 25/- 10 £2O
Illustrated Catalogues
Post Free.
Note Our Addresses :
260 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
65 Bundle Street, ADELAIDE.
H ELI DON SPA WATER
A NATURAL
MINERAL WATEWBMBI
mMm
Sulphide Corporation
LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W,
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, ” r d Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Targe Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
‘3OYAVS a V
CIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia,
offences against good social conduct, go unexposed
simply because the public Press, warned by
experience, knows how easily the most sincere
desire to serve the public interest can be punished
by heavy damages or heavier law-costs. It is no
joke either to win or to lose a libel-case. After
all had been squared-up in connection with the
last libel-action won by The Bulletin, the pro-
prietary of this paper found itself £2400 out of
pocket.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “ Shamus O’Brien.”
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Lyceum “ The Ladder of Life.”
Palace “Tom, Dick and Harry,” and
“ A Highland Legacy.”
Theatre Royal “ Cinderella.”
Her Majesty’s “A Royal Divorce.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Grand Opera.”
Her Majesty’s “Florodora.”
Theatre Royal “ In Sight of St. Paul’s."
Bijou Rickards Variety Co.
AtheniEum Hall J. C. Williamson’s Bio-Tableau.
Masonic Hall O. M. Rodney.
The present revival of “ The Christian” at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, is for one week only,
“ Royal Divorce” following on Saturday. The
present scribe is sorry. “The Christian” is a
profoundly fascinating drama from a certain
point of view—the materialistic point of the vege-
table man who alludes to the Brotherhood of the
Holy Gethsemane as “blokes.” It is the Drama
of Wasted Spiritual Endeavour—the embodi-
ment of pious pessimism. As a warning to
people not to be good it has no equal
on the modern stage. Everybody who is
good in it is miserable and a failure, with the pos-
sible exception of Mrs. Callender, who has a
strong temper despite her benevolence, and
threatens to batter John Storm’s congregation
with her good Scotch gamp. Probably it is this
streak of wickedness in Mrs. Callender which
prevents her being a miserable, telescoped Chris-
tian like the others. John himself is the worst
failure. He abandons a fortune and a good
position to be a preacher and put the world
straight, and he finds that he makes just as much
impression on it as the feet of a cockroach do on
an Alp. He becomes a crazy priest, bellowing at
street corners till he is mercifully put out of his
miserable goodness by ahalf-brickonthehead. The
good girl in the hospital becomes the proprietor of
a highly-improper baby. The prize good girl,
Glory Quayle, leads a wretched life of benevolence
in the same hospital till she flies from it all and
becomes happy and sinful on the stage. And in a
silent sort of way the saddest of all the good
people are the monks of the Holy Gethsemane, in
their monkery in Bishopsgate-street—the long
row of tall, good, black-coated, black-hatted men,
who periodically tramp from their cells to the
chapel and back again, and then back some more,
and say silent prayers, and ring bells, and silently
count each other’s footmarks in the slush and the
grease-marks of each other’s silent heads on the
wall.
• * * •
There isn’t one of the good people, barring
Mrs. Callender, who seems to leave any permanent
benefit behind. John Storm himself is chiefly
instrumental in causing some one, who might
otherwise have been a respectable bricklayer,
drinking his beer peacefully in a public-house, to
go away burdened with the guilt of having slain
a reverend lunatic with a brick. Certainly he was
driven to it through his son having been gaoled
for hollering in a public place about the end of
the world, at the reverend and well-meaning
lunatic’s instigation. The brethren of the Holy
Gethsemane don’t make any disturbance, but only
moulder benevolently in their monk-box, but even
they are an evil influence, inasmuch as they are
silent and purposeless consumers of vegetables
which might otherwise maintain some person who
would do the world active service. Certainly
they serve to hold up 12 black hats which might
otherwise fall to the ground, but when one thinks
of the great men who might have lived if some
very small men hadn’t got there first and con-
sumed their vegetables, he is filled with wrath at
the Brotherhood of the Holy Gethsemane.
• * * *
The present co. is below the standard of
the last set of Christians in three important re-
spects. Tyrone Power doesn’t fill the part of
John Storm as Kingston did. He is a strong,
clever, intelligent actor, but Kingston contrived
to look like a half crazed benefactor who heard
heavenly voices, and had divine visitations, and
knew all about the end of the world. Tyrone
Power, on the other hand, looks severely sane and
intelligent all the time. Also Miss Edith Crane
falls about 2ft. 6in. below Henrietta Watson’s
success as Glory Quayle. And where Hawtrey
made Canon Wealthy a polished, fashionable fraud
with a jewelled hand and a tendency to regard God
as a member of the aristocracy, Arthur Lissant
makes him a screaming piece of mirth. Lissant’s
parson makes the audience laugh twice as much
as Hawtrey’s did, but Hawtrey’s was a splendid
character study, while the present Canon is only
a cheerful low-comedy joke. But the fact that
Miss Eloise Juno, the only lady in Australia who
can play a Scotchwoman as one to the haggis born,
still fills the broad shoes and the angry but bene-
volent gamp of Mrs. Callender compensates for
almost everything. Also Cecil Ward’s Drake,
W. F. Grant’s Father Lamplugh, and George
Majeroni’s Brother Paul (not that Paul has much
to do except be a rather more active moulderer than
the other monks) are all excellent. And the con-
densed cockney who brings round the monks’
vegetables is a gleam of sunshine in a bitterly
cold grey drama. His off-hand way of alluding to
the Holy Gethsemanists, in their black, long-
tailed habiliments, and their visions, and their
midnight prayers, and their dolorous bell-ringings,
as blokes is a gladdening irreverence. This world
is full of holy, dreamful, moss-grown frauds who
are only blokes after all, and who would be much
better for knowing it.
** * *
The “ Ladder of Life ” is in its sixth week
at Sydney Lyceum, and the management adver-
tises that its extraordinary success—and it cer-
tainly is extraordinary—is doubtless owing in a
measure to the “lack of improbability in the
plot.” After that it certainly can’t be set down
to any lack of improbability in the advertise-
ment. The “Ladder” is one of the most pic-
turesque nightmares that ever struck Sydney,
and The Bulletin’s inward conviction is that
most people go to see it a second time to try and
find out what they had been drinking when they
saw it the first time—hence its success. Nobody
could sort out his first impressions of the
“Ladder” without a suspicion that he had been
drinking something. After the second visit most
people will go a third time to try and guess what
the author had been drinking.
** * *
The Queen’s Hall, a small and rather un-
known place of entertainment opposite Sydney
Criterion, is to be occupied for operatic purposes
next Saturday night by some persons who are
also unknown at present, though that is no reason
why they should not be celebrated characters by
next Monday morning. Everybody was unknown
at some time or other, and most of them remained
that way, and most of the others ought to. Still,
this leaves all the more room for George Gard-
ner’s juvenile opera co. (which is to appear in
“Cloches de Corneville” at the time and place
above specified) to rise to well-deserved greatness.
Well-deserved greatness is about the only vacant
billet (except that of general servant) that this
writer knows of at present.
** * *
“ Cinderella,” which brings with it from
its last billet an honorable reputation as the richest
and most gorgeous pantomime that Melbourne
ever saw, is to be staged at Sydney Royal on
Monday. The management states, without fear
of contradiction, that it is going to more than live
up to its Melbourne record, and no city could ask
better than that. The rather limp “ Scarlet
Feather ” will therefore cease trying to hold itself
up in the hat of the somewhat unconvincing
monarch after Saturday night.
#** # v
The “ Convict Martyr ” goes cheerily on
for another week at Sydney Criterion, the fact
that the convict is not exhibited breaking stones
in a quarry, or making a futile attempt to escape
with the funny prisoner, no doubt helping to its
success. In this adaptation from “ Les Miser-
ables ” we see nothing of prison life except the
departure of a laced and knee-breeched Mayor to
his cfell, and his emergence therefrom some years
later with a long white beard and a dismantled
intellect. A play of convict life wherein convict
life is not depicted has always been badly wanted,
and this adaptation is a noble attempt at a great
stage reform.
»* * *
Musgrove's Opera is now ending its season
at Adelaide Royal. The S.A. public within reach
of the city has come very strongly at the new
attraction, and is much pleased with itself for
appreciating “Lohengrin” and “ Tannhauser,”
being probably unaware that these two pieces are
merely Wagner-for-the-young-beginner.
** « *
Hawtrey’s comedy is doing well in its
severalth week at Sydney Palace.
*****
Sydney old-fashioned, remote aiid almost
forgotten Royal Standard theatre has been
re-christened “The Empire” and is to be
opened on Saturday by John Fuller’s minstrel and
variety co. The new management publishes a
programme which looks promising, including a
gentleman who is described as tne “ Sad-Eyed
Shriek.” Sydney is just a trifle short of shrieks
at present, and there should be abundance of
room for this shriek, if he really is a shriek. Mr.
Fuller announces that he has secured a long lease
of the Empire—which may, or may not, be a
happy circumstance, just as things turn out.
Some things are better for being long and others
are not. Having no desire to discourage a com-
plete stranger the writer won’t say which of these
things this one probably is.
** * *
Marie Lloyd, Rickards’ most recent im-
portation, of whom a portrait is printed in this
issue, is thus enthused over by a correspondent :
Marie Lloyd is one of less than half-a-dozen entertain-
ing artists who have gone to Federaland while in their
zenith during the past quarter of a century. Bright
always, succulently plump and shapely to the eye, with a
voice containing various shades of intonation that can
sing “ Good Night ” so as to bring a blush to an English
winter sunset, Marie peregrinates to “ knock the pearls
off ” the Commonwealth’s shirt while she is at her best.
She is the most popular of all the comediennes on the
musical stage easily, and she has the gift of “ wondrous
sympathy” that seduces her auditors to help the
success of her songs. Beady art and a ready
tongue make Marie a dangerous one to bait, and
there is a stage-manager in London who has never re-
covered from sweet Marie’s retort-courteous during a cer-
tain historical argument. Finally, Marie is “ one of the
boys,” has a heart all ears for “ a tale of woe,” which her
pocket backs up, and bar the strange chances of that un-
explained prejudice of some audiences should be an un-
paralleled success down under.
** * *
On Saturday night a sweltering multitude
crowded Melb. Royal as it never was crowded
during the time of the two highly respectable
melodramas with which Bland Holt began his
Commonwealth year. Melbourne prefers the old
Sutton Vane brand of horror, and the revived “In
Sight of St. Paul’s” is seemingly one of its par-
ticular weaknesses. Just here The Bulletin rises
to apologise for having stated that “St. Paul’s” is
full of evil temptations for Walter Baker. As a
matter of fact Walter carries self-sacrifice to an
extreme length in this gaudy narrative. He
charges himself with forgery for the sake of
his best girl’s brother, and he suffers tribulation
in a third-floor back in order that the thin young
bounder aforesaid may continue to lavish the
wages of sin upon an alluring female named the
Panther, who runs a gilded den and gives a birth-
day party to a lot of ladies no better than herself.
Luckily Walter’s aged father discovers the true
state of the forgery case and becomes reconciled
to his offspring by means of a polite idiot. After
the idiot and other virtuous characters have cele-
brated their happiness with a perri winkle tea in
the vicinity of Baker’s humble sofa bedstead the
scene changes to the haunts of giddiness, where
the fragile bounder gets shot by Albert Norman —
Norman being wicked as usual—and the birth-
day party bursts into flames. A decidedly
wooden actor, who was onetime married to the
Panther, wanders into her den and demands res-
titution of conjugal rights, whereupon her faithful
Norman shoots the intruder. And because the
uncalled-for husband is not as dead as the guilty
pair would like him to be, they place him down-
stairs or somewhere among the bottles and leave
him to drink himself madder than ever, with the
result that he sets fire to the premises. Conse-
quently the Panther is burnt alive, in addition to
receiving a fatal bullet from a pistol. The pistol
missed fire on Saturday, but the dissolute adven-
turess managed to perish all the same.
• * * *
“In Sight of St. Paul’s” reflects much
credit on scenic artist Brunton and the property-
man and the management. It has one or more
striking pictures in each of the five acts. Cabs
and omnibusses and costermongers’ barrows en-
liven its course of crime, and the comic relief is
strong in small domestic details of the kind that
delight mixed audiences. Tea and toast are in-
troduced with brilliant success, also the sofa-bed-
stead, and the succulent winkle elicit shrieks of
approbation. In its sinful aspects the drama
loses by comparison with the “ St. Paul’s” of four
years ago. Miss Harrie Ireland, the most natural
of nice girls in broad, light comedy, has no quali-
fications for the Panther, barring a tall, embrace-
able figure, a glorious autumnal-tinted head of
hair, and a yellow-silk dress. Furthermore, the
wooden husband is a lamentable alteration in the
cast, whilst the thin young man seems a poor sub-
stitute for his fleshy predecessor. For the rest,
Walter Baker, Miss Ross, the Bland Holts, Cor-
lesse, and Miss Seymour are well placed, and the
omnibus deserves a special word of praise.
*# * *
Last nights are the rule at other Mel-
bourne theatres. The farewells of ‘ ‘ Florodora ”
will extend to Easter week apparently. Wil-
liamson’s mascotte musical comedy has taken a
fresh impetus from Irene Franklin, who sings
three of the songs which were old before she re-
tired from Rickards’s co., and doesn’t treat them
quite so daintily as at first. Or perhaps the
limelight they shed upon Irene at Her Majesty’s
is a little too strong for the damsel’s buxom in-
genuousness. Anyhow, the difference between
the Irene of now and aforetime is not remarked
by “Florodora” patrons, who, in a general way
of speaking, accept the chicken ditty as a new
item.
** * *
The masherlike Barabbas, of Jerusalem,
was to terminate his early Christian career at
Melbourne Princess’s on Tuesday, and “The
Gates of Bondage,” a drama that might easily be
mistaken for Wilson Barrett’s “ Ben-my-Chree,”
is running to-night (Thursday) and to-morrow if
the advt. has not changed its mind.
** * *
Next Saturday (16th), the Musgrove
Opera Co. returned to the Princess’s for a short
season. New operas and new artists are immi-
nent, but the programme for the first week in-
cludes only revivals of “ Lohengrin ” (3), “ Trova-
tore ” (1), “ Bohemian Girl,” and “ Carmen” —the
popular Spanish story, with the bull-fight behind
the scenes, coming first on the list.
** # *
Con. Rodney, the monologuer, is putting
in his appointed fortnight at the Masonic Hall,
with payable results. The limelight has been
brought to a proper sense of duty, also the tem-
perature of Melbourne is more favorable to an
entertainment which depends largely on the cool-
ness of the man who stands to be criticised
for two solid hours. Rodney is cool and
genial. He talks to the people in front as
though they had come there to show their regard
for himself and the grey-haired young Henderson
at the piano, and he sings to them in the same
strain. One night last week, when his throat
was very husky, he made the audience feel that
they were putting a severe strain on his good
nature and ought to pay extra for the privilege.
* * * #-
The Bio-Tableau at the Athenaeum Hall
has added a view of Hugh Ward’s dance (from
“ Florodora ”) to its films, and the second week of
the return season finds business more than satis-
factory.
George Reid hasn’t mentioned that alleged
Freetrade dog, that was thrown in the water and
learned to swim, for fully three weeks.
Mr. James C. Flynn, M.P. for North
Cork in the Commons, is a sarcastic person.
When the House was discussing the pay of the
Australian contingents in China, said Mr. Flynn:
“ The fact that payment is claimed is in itself evi-
dence of the very high character of colonial
loyalty.” Yes, Mr. Flynn, the Australian may
kill a Chinaman at home for fun, but when he
goes abroad to do it he expects good money, and
plenty of it. That is the usual difference between
the amateur and the professional sport.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Revenue for February 1901:
Increase as
Revenue for compared with
„ T „ ~ February, 1901 February, 19C0
New South Wales .. £1,008,464 .. £166,197
(Rents of resumed area included as revenue.)
New South Wales .. 990,241 .. 147,974
(Rents of resumed area not included as revenue )
Victoria 618,474 .. 18,351
Westralia .. .. 254,514 .. 14,394
Decrease as
compared with
. February, 1900
Tasmania „ .. 74,439 .. 6,191
Queens'and ... .. 267,369 .. 11,231
And for the financial year, so far as it has gone in each
State, and so far as the figures are available, results are as
follows :
Increase as
Revenue compared
to with cor-
Feb. 28, responding
1901. P" rl , od J°
Feb. 28,
1900.
New South Wales (8 months) .. £6,965,053 .. £532;242
(Rents of resumed area included as revenue.)
New South Wales (8 months) .. 6,869,769 .. 436,958
(Rents of resumed area not included as revenue.)
Victoria (8 months) .. .. £5,056,928 .. 292,188
Westralia (8 months) .. .. 2,007,348.. 170,138
S.A. (6 months to 31/12/’00) .. 1,309,945 .. 48,604
Tasmania (2 months) .. .. 152,666 .. 20,019
Queensland (8 months) .. .. 2,825,930 .. 217,618
The most notable feature about these figures is that New
South Wales has had the biggest month’s increase it has
yet shown this financial year—bigger than the record of
last October. Also that Tasmania lias started its financial
year with two decreases, which appears to suggest that its
glittering boom is over, and that a lean period may be
coming on the island.
* * * *
If the increases and decreases are reduced
to the common denominator of so much per head per
annum, taking Ooghlan’s latest population estimates as
the basis of comparison, things pan out thus :
Increase per
inhabitant
per annum.
Westralia £1 9 10
New South Wales .. .. .. 0 9 8
Victoria 077
South Australia .. 0 5 3
Decrease per
inhabitant
per annum.
Tasmania 0 13 2
Queensland 0 13 6
For four of the States (Westralia, N.S.W., South Aus-
tralia, and Queensland) expenditure accounts are avail-
able, and it is a subject for solemn reflection that in every
case, except that of N.S.W., the financial situation is
worse than it was at this time last year. In the case of
N.S.W. it would be worse but for the*bold and noble fake
of Treasury-Bill Lyne in reckoning as revenue the receipts
for resumed property which is not paid for, and regard-
ing which the interest on the purchase money is unpaid
and unprovided for. Taking Lyne at his own figures,
however, this is how things stand
At 28th At 28th Wherefore the
February, February, finances have
1900. 1901. improved to
Deficit. Deficit. the extent of
N.S.W. .. £180,313 .. £162,673 .. £17,640
Wherefore the
finances have
Deficit. Deficit. become worse
to the extent
of
S.A £63,283 .. £96,033 .. £32,750
Surplus. Surplus.
Westralia .. 196,100 .. 9,694 .. 186,406
Surplus. Deficit.
Queensland .. 438,269 .. 19,686 .. 457,955
What things would have been like in N.S.W.
if Treasury-Bill Lyne had not improved his revenue by
the receipts from the resumed area is another story.
But last year in N.S.W. closed with a deficit of £117,901,
which was artfully disguised and turned into a surplus
by putting some heavy items of expenditure into the
floating debt. And this year there is about £70,000 more
interest to pay on the public debt; the Commonwealth
celebration accounts are not all paid yet; the Duke of
York celebration accounts are still to come in ; there is
further war expenditure to provide for; Lyne is pledged
to pay £250,000 more than he did last year in redemption
of the floating debt; and the interest bill (now about
eight months in arrear) on the cost of the resumed area
must be met some day. Also next year the Old Age
Pensions are to be paid. An independent committee of
inquiry into Lyne’s finances will soon be badly wanted.
South Australia finished last financial year with
a deficit of about £13,459, which was turned into a paper
surplus by a shabby little misappropriation of certain
trust funds. And things are already £32,750 worse than
they were last year.
Queensland finished last financial year with a
more or less reliable surplus of not quite £48,000. Things
are already £457,955 worse than they were last year. Wes-
tralia ended last year with a surplus of nearly £260,000. This
year it seems likely, despite a huge increase of revenue (the
biggest in Australia in proportion to population), to just
about make ends meet and no more. The present year is
commonly called one of returning prosperity. If pros-
perity returns much more four Treasurers seem likely to
go broke.


“ ENGLAND'S FAVORITE.”
PLAYER’S
NAVY CUT
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
sas
The Insurance Record of 20th July, 1900,
writes with reference to the Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society, Limited : “ The Society’s transactions
during 189!) are calculated to afford considerable satis-
faction to all connected with the institution and the
management are to be congratulated upon having brought
affairs to so successful an issue during troublous and un-
settled times.*
* * * *
We are pleased to note that the Melbourne and
Metropolitan Board of Works have placed the order for
the new pumping engine for the Spottiswood Station with
a colonial firm, the Austral Otis Engineering Company,
South Melbourne, being the successful tenderers against
competitors from all parts of the world. The engine to
be supplied is a vertical triple expansion, and has a
capacity of 12,000,000 gallons of sewerage per 24 hours.
The whole work is to be completed and the engine
running in 18 months.*
* * » •
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Bock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Since the start of the Broken Hill Proprietary’s
new 5000-ton mill, most of the Barrier mines have been
engaged in remodelling their concentrating plants on up-
to-date lines, and wisely show a preference for machines
which have proved most successful on the difficult fines
and slimes. The machines that can claim this distinction
are the “ Luhrig ” Vanners, as supplied by Messrs. W. &
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne. The South’s new mill will
include a dozen or so, and the Junction Co. has also de-
cided to erect a number of Luhrig Vanners as an impor-
tant adjunct to its large plant. Other mines would do
well to follow this good example.*
* ' * *• *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andall sorts ofiron-work.*
* * * •
The completion of the Chillagoe line brings th®
rails within 90 miles of the Einasleigh, and the building of
a tram (2ft. gauge), to connect with the line, is to be
Started shortly.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting 1 Charges,
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores,
importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per cent,
pure), Bleaching Powder, Mining Requisites,
Candles, eto.
The Union Bank of Australia
Profits. Dividends, &c. Reserves.
Aug., 1894 .. £44,676 6 per cent. = £45,000 £1,014,420
Feb , 1895 .. 37,173 5 37,500 1,014,093
Aug., 1895 .. 36,063 5 37,500 1,012,656
Fell., 1896 .. 37,995 5 „ 37,500 1,013,151
Aug., 1896 .. 58,838 ...” = 37,5001 j m m
_ , I Written off 10,000 f >
Feb., 189/ .. 37,578 5 per cent. = 37,500 1,024,567
Aug., 1897.. 37,436 5 37,500 1,024,503
Feb., 1898 .. 47,696 {^ ritt ” nofi T f®} 1,024,699
Aug., 1898.. 42,579 5 percents 37,500 1,029,778
Feb., 1899.. 42,071 6 „ = 45,000 1,026,849
Aug., 1899.. 48,514 6 45,000 1,030,303
Feb., 1900.. 92,002 J /Written off 3 ®«»} 1 - 019 ' 865
Aug., 1900.. 79,825 1,022,190
The management of the Union Bank announced about
five years ago that it might be necessary to provide
£250,000 to cover depreciation of assets, and that amount
was transferred from reserve to contingency fund for the
purpose of covering these anticipated losses. For some
time thereafter the Union Bank had a reserve-fund of
£750,000, and a contingency reserve of £250,000. The
latter was never used, however, for the purpose origin-
ally intended, and as the losses are gradually written
off out of earnings corresponding sums are restored from
contingency-fund to reserve. The two now stand: Reserve-
fund, £825,000 ; contingency-reserve, £175,000.
The Union Bank certainly shows a very
material improvement, though the last half-year’s profits
are not up to the very high level of February, 1900.
Latest profits are at the rate of £6 6s. Bd. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ total funds—an exceedingly
respectable figure in these times and considerably above
the average. Reserves of cash and liquid securities are
no less than £5,554,998, equal to about 32 per cent, of all
liabilities to the public. Also deposits are 15J millions,
and note circulation is close on £440,000. The Union
Bank’s record dividend was 36 per cent, in 1854, but it
paid 14 per cent, as recently as 1891, and 12 per cent, as
recently as 1893. Apparently there is a fair prospect of
getting back to the latter figure before long.
» * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Mutual Permanent
Building and Land Investment Association is another of
the many luckless building societies of Sydney. In 1895
the management induced the depositors to accept 3 per
cent, interest instead of 5 per cent, as previously, but
even this has not greatly improved things
Depreciation Total Amount of
Loss on and Loss on Deficit Capital
Busin JS3. Property less Re- nominally
Sales. serves. intact.
Jan., 1896 .. £1,189 £2,206 £44,167 £54,314
Profit on
„ 1897 .. BU hT B3 - 2,681 46,707 . 51,836
Loss on
Business.
„ 1898 .. 1,494 5,560 53,761 44,787
„ 1899 .. 1,611 6,353 01,755 36,825
„ 1900 .. 1,282 6,544 69,581 29,022
„ 1901 .. 1,340 2,970 73,891 24,712
The paper margin of surviving capital which stands
between the depositors and absolute insolvency is grow-
ing rather small nowadays. The gross revenue of the
Sydney and Suburban last year was £2483, equal to
£2 os. sd. per cent, per annum on the nominal value of
the assets. The trouble lies in the fact that it owes about
£97,000 to depositors and mortgagees, and the average
interest payable on these liabilities appears to be nearly
£3 10s. per cent. A concern which borrows large sums
at 3£ per cent.., and can only invest them to earn 2 per
cent., is lost or thereabouts. If the Sydney and Suburban
could call upabout£4o,ooo new capital to pay off its more
expensive mortgages, it couldmeetits other outgoings out
of earnings and save its assets until better times arrive,
but it has practically no callable capital left, and it can
only raise the money to pay interest with by the constant
sacrifice of its assets. The 3 per cent, deposits have
sellers at Bs. in the £, which is probably their full value.
In fact, if the present order of things continues, interest
payments alone will in time swallow up the assets, and
leave no principal at all for the depositors.
* * » «
The Sydney Permanent Freehold Land and
Building 00. (Sydney), which can put in a pretty good
claim to rank amongst the most lamentable building
societies in Australia, showed no sign of improvement in
1900. This institution, in 1895, obtained a reduction of
interest on deposits to 2£ per cent., and in 1896 it made
further arrangements by which it altogether ceased to
pay interest. It is still in that condition, and thus gets
the use of £84,913 of deposit money absolutely gratis;
yet even on these specially favorable terms it made a loss
during 1900. This is the situation in recent years :
Loss on pro- Amount of
Profit on pert.v sales and Total capital
business, depreciation deficit. nominally
written off. intact.
1896 £16,395 £86,360
1897 £lB7 £1,522 17,730 85,025
Loss on
business.
1898 32 3,383 21,145 81,610
1899 - 33 2,328 23,506 79,249
1900 340 34,372 58,218 44,539
In 1897 the co. owed £119,381 to outside creditors
(£104,264 to depositors and £15,117 to mortgagees &c.)
It now owes £94,898 (£84,913 to depositors and £9985 to
mortgagees). The reduction of £5132 in the mortgages
means a considerable saving in interest, but the reduction
of £19,351 in the deposits is the repayment of money
which bore no interest whatever. In other words the co.
has £19,351 less funds to earn revenue with, and no
corresponding reduction in the outgoings, and as a natural
consequence the income keeps diminishing badly. Also
the assets appear to be growing worse rapidly. The total
receipts in 1897 were £2936, equal to £1 Bs. Bd. per cent, per
annum on the nominal value of the assets. In 1900 they
were £1192, equal to only 17s. per cent, on the nominal
value of the assets, though said nominal value has
been greatly written down in the interval. Assuming
that the assets yield even the very moderate rate
of 3 per cent, on their real present value they are
worth rather less than £40,000, at which rate the capital
is wholly lost, and the Sydney Permanent Freehold Land
and Building 00. is only good for about 9s. in the £ of its
remaining liabilities to depositors and other animals. It
is an unlucky thing in Australia to put the word Per-
manent in the name of a building society or land co. The
more Permanent it is called the more temporary it is apt
to be.
» * * *
The Sydney Meat Preserving Co. completed its
60th half-year on 31st December, 1900. For the last two
years its doings have been as follows :
Profits. Total Reserves.
December, 1898 .. .. .. £66,474
June, 1899 £2lO .. 66,684
December, 1899 .. .. 1,012 .. 67,696
Loss.
June, 1900 1,452 .. 66,244
December, 1900 .. .. 1,497 .. 64,747
Mort’s Dock and Engineering Co. (Sydney) has
now completed four half-years since the co. was enlarged
and re-constituted. The results are shown underneath.
The fact that the increase in the reserves has no accurate
visible relation to the amount of profit remaining after
payment of the dividend is a matter for which the pre-
sent writer takes no responsibility. The reserve-fund of
Mori’s Dock Co. seems to increase by additions from in-
visible sources as well as in the ordinary way. For in-
stance, it stood at £18,491 in December. 1899, and £3COO
was then added to it, which might reasonably have made
it £21,491. Instead, however, it appeared at June, 1900,
as £21,715. The situation may be summarised thus:
Added to
Profits, less 6 percent n Total
depreciation unspecifled dividend,
source.
Dec., 1898 .. £15,805
June, 1899 .. £8,024 .. .. £5,400 .. 18,429
Dec., 1899 8,894 .. £1,186.. 5,872 .. 22,637
June, 1900 .. 7,503 .. 224 .. 6,000 .. 24,364
Dec., 1900 .. 8,493 .. 1,814 .. 6,000 .. 28,671
The paid-up capital of Mort’s Dock Co. is £200,000, and
the reorganised co. is already building up very solid re-
serves, total shareholders’ funds being now £228,671.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co. (Sydney),
whose profits have been declining for some time past, is
unable to pay any dividend for the half-year just ended.
The following figures cover a period of two years
Profits, less . Total
deprecia- Dividends. Reserves.
June, 1899 .. £6,256 8 per cent. =£6,120 .. £32,726
:: 8S S || .
Dec., 1900 .. 587 Nil 32,392
The co. makes its reserves a little larger on paper by .in-
cluding as an asset the very remarkable paper item Re-
construction Expenses, £810.” The real figures are as
shown above : Undivided profit (less the reconstruction
expenses”), £201; reserve fund, £18,750; and redemp-
tion fund, £13,441. The real meaning of the last item
is rather uncertain, but the writer includes it among the
reserves on spec. —presumably it is a reserve of some
kind. The Fresh Food and Ice 00. appears to have bank
overdrafts amounting to over £22,000. They were a little
over £BOOO at June, 1899, but have been steadily growing.
The asset which has been growing fastest on the other
side is “ sundry debtors ” ; it has risen from £lB,OOO odd
at July, 1899, to over £31,000. This may only mean that
the co. is doing a larger business, or it may mean that it
is doing a less safe business, and finds it harder to collect
its accounts. And as the earnings grow less the provi-
sion for wear and tear of plant also grows less ; for the
year ended July, 1899, the amount allowed for wear and
tear of plant was £6OOO, while for the year to December,
1900, it was only £3500. This may be sufficient, but it
looks doubtful in view of the much larger sums written
off when profits were greater. In one way and another
the affairs of the Fresh Food and Ice 00. appear none too
promising at present.
* * * *
The Jennings Centrifugal Dredging Co., Ade-
long, N.S.W., seems to have thrown up the sponge. The
Jennings Proprietary 00., Melbourne, of which it was
originally an offshoot, has proved a disastrous failure.
Lead seems to be firming a little ; but the
Broken Hill co.’s advisers have given up encouraging the
hope that the price will go back to £l6 and stay there (it
went up to £lB last half-year); they talk now about com-
mercial depression, and forecast £l5 as a likely average
figure for some time. Besides, the closing-down of the
Junction and the J. North, the South and North have
been compelled to “ pass ” their ordinary divs. It is pro-
posed to amalgamate the Junction and Junction North ;
the former is by far the better mine, but the latter has a
much-needed good and deep shaft, in addition to modern
machinery. Both the Junction’s shafts are cork-screwed ;
that, indeed, is one of its worst troubles. Amalgamation
ought to be welcomed. The lead slump has wet-blanketed
the Victoria and South Blocks, situated one at each
end of the main lode, revived during last year’s lead
boom; nevertheless, what has been done at the South
Blocks is mightily encouraging. Sydney shareholders
have met and decided to give the North Central “ one
more trial.” Such faith and confidence are really
touching.
• • * *
B.H. Water Supply sold 17,871,000 gals, water
during February, as against 24,933,000 gals, during
January. And yet the rain didn’t fall until February was
nearly half through. Now March has opened with more
rains! The figures show what a mess the present wet
season is going" to make of the co.’s profits.
• * * *
Cobar Gold Mines (N.S.W.): Crushed last year
with a 100-head stamp-mill over 67,000 tons, and made a
gross profit of £22,412. After allowing for depreciation
of plant and machinery and other expenditure incurred,
a net balance £10,368 is carried forward. Mining costs,
4s. 3d. per ton ; milling, 2s. fid. ; cyanide, 3s. Sd. ; in all,
10s. sd. Average assay of ore over the entire year, Bdwt.
2gr. At time of meeting 43,000 tons of slimes had accu-
mulated ; there are now about 50,000 tons —estimated to
contain from 5 to 6dwt. per ton, but the assay average
over the year is 7dwt. After experiments in London and
elsewhere filter-press treatment was determined on ; the
plant, costing over £6OOO, is in course of erection ; will be
completed in a few weeks. Expected that these slimes will
give a profit of 12s. 6d. per ton, and that the co. will then
enter upon a regular div-paying career. Average width
of lode 40ft., and the ore reserves are practically un-
limited. At the meeting compliments were passed on the
managing director in N.S.W. —Mr. T. Bucklaud—and on
the mining manager, Mr. J. Fox, for the good work they
have done to bring about the success of this mine. The
experience of the Cobar Gold Mines should act as a
warning in the opening up of N.S.W. low grade mines.
Before it was taken over by the English Co. a local one,
known as the Fort Bourke, crushed from the property
over 30,000 tons for an average of 6dwts. Extraction
only averaged 50 per cent.—a fact established by
subsequent cyanidation of the tailings. The full
width of the lode was not taken, wherever
possible the best parts were gutted out ; some-
what impoverishing the main body left around them.
Only reasonable to assume that the lower levels, which
have not been worked in this manner, will keep up the
average of last year’s returns. If so, and filter-press
treatment of the slimes is a success, the mine will un-
doubtedly be a steady div.-payer for many years. The
English Co. started with a working capital of £35,000 ;
exhausted it in the erection of a 100-head stamp mill
and the excavation of the largest reservoir in Cobar,
then came reconstruction, and another £35,000 was called
up for the erection of cyanide and other plant and for
mine development. Amalgamation without cyanide
proved a failure, and milling with cyanide proved incom-
plete because of the quantity of slimes, representing about
40 per cent, of the ore—hence the enormous accumula-
tion. This asset may safely be said to be worth £30,000,
and the filter-pressing plant to deal with it will be big
enough to take the slimes from the battery, and to gra-
dually absorb the accumulated heaps. So, after one re-
• construction, and many tribulations, the Cobar Gold
Mines looks like having become an enduring property.
• * * •
Occidental G.M. Co., Cobar, which started with
a very small capital and got most of its now decent equip-
ment out of the ground as it went along, has 50 stampers
in position, and is greatly enlarging its dam-capacity ; at
present, like several other local mines, milling and cyanid-
ing are suspended for want of water. When the battery
again starts it will be fitted with self-feeding gear and
will have the aid of rock-breakers. For the half-year
14,519 tons stone were crushed for 17120 z. gold ; per
cyanide there came 1500 oz. gold. £2lOO were paid in divs.
The prospects of the mine look very healthy indeed.
* * * *
Eleanora (N.S.W.): The main north shaft has
collapsed, and to save the poppet-legs a wire-rope was
placed on top and a charge of dynamite under them—
they came away in a chaotic mass, were smashed to
smithereens, and round the shaft there is a barbed-wire
enclosure with notices warning the public not to trespass.
And this is the mine which was going to do great things
when a change of management took place two or three
years ago. Heavy rain has set in, and the local opinion
is that the mine will cave ; in some places there is not
a stick of timber for hundreds of feet, and the few work-
able places are being gouged by tributers.
• * * »
The water-question is now a very serious matter
at Oobar. The townspeople are in sore straits for a
supply, and large numbers of sheep are being removed
from the district to save their lives. The Great Oobar
Copper Mine has arranged for water with the Oobar Gold
Mines, in whose tank there is about 9ft., which will last
both mines for a month. The Great Oobar must be pay-
ing through the nose for this concession, as manager
Buckland, of the C.G.M., is not likely to risk gratis the
imminent catastrophe of having his 100-head battery
hung-up for want of water.
* * * *
Nearly all the Oobar mines are either shut down
or on the verge of closing for want of water.
Long Tunnel Extended has fallen heavily in the
market, owing to the Long Tunnel’s suspension of work
having led to a big increase of water in the L.T.E.
* * * «
“Pelican”: The Mt. Morgan Co. has never
been “hungry” to employes. Witness, cost of treat-
ment in 1890, over £3 a ton; in 1900, about 12s.
6d., and no reduction in wages. 00. spent its money
in costly experiments and employment of brains to bring
about desired result. Has there been a strike at M.M. ?
Is it not a well-known fact that the M.M. Co., any day it
chose, could lower the wages of men working in open-cut
without being considered a sweater of worst degree ? Re
water supply. This question for the last five years has
been an all-absorbing one with the directorate,
and every endeavour has been made to solve it.
To obtain a supply of water from same source as Rock-
hampton town is supplied—a stagnant lagoon, by no
means inexhaustible —consent of R.T.C. would first have
to be obtained ; and secondly, not only 24 miles of piping
provided, but a huge power-house would also be neces-
sary to force water over the watershed between Dee and
Fitzroy. In ordinary seasons, enough water comes down
Dee at freshes to fill the 220,000,0000ga1. dam many, many
times over ; to this must be added the inflow from Dairy
Creek, which joins the Dee immediately above central
dam.
* * • *
“W.M.8.” from Ebagoolah (N.Q.): On a
former visit to this gold-field in Sept, last I said the
reefs would turn out well and give some handsome
crushings. During the last month, the Caledonia P.C.
crushed 38 tons for 2690z5. ; an average of 7oz. 3dwt. per
ton. This has always been looked upon as a good thing,
and a Melbourne syndicate is after it. Shaft down 70ft.
and reef solid. The All Nations P.C. crushed 121 tons for
600ozs ; May Queen, 31 tons for lOlozs. ; Trafalgar, 50 tons
for 3700z5., and Golden Treasure, 8j tons for 150ozs.
These results make me certain that the future of the field
is assured, though a serious drawback is the distance of
the battery and consequent high cost of cartage and
crushing. Not much is being done in alluvial—about
200ozs. a month. One nice slug I saw weighed 2Jlbs.
Water still scarce, but competition has cheapened pro-
visions to reasonable rates. No use going to Ebagoolah
without 6 months rations.
* * * *
Einasleigh Copper, Ltd, writes a good miner to
Thk Bulletin, promises to be one of the mines of
N.Q. Lately struck the lode at 120 ft. deep, the crosscut
proving it 31ft. thick, averaging over 8 per cent, for the
whole width. As the drive extended south, values in-
creased, that part of the lode carrying the crosscut
averaging 12£ per cent. Is situated at junction of
Einasleigh and Oopperfield rivers, which are dry nine
months of the year except for large pools along the beds
at intervals from a quarter to three miles. Immediately
opposite the mine there is a broken range of hills from
300 to 700 ft. high. On the western bank flat country ex-
tends for miles. The plain is a decomposed rock called
basalt but very high in silica. This basalt has flowed
across the river, completely filling up the old channel,
burying the country over a large area, and has hidden all
traces of the lode outcrop, save in one spot, where there
was at one time a huge knob of ore which was broken off
and washed down by the floods for a quarter-of-a-inile.
Blocks up to a ton in weight are now lying on, or buried
in the river sands, so there was but a small spot 100 ft.
long where the lode outcrop was kt all visible. A shaft
was started to allow for the lode dipping west, but it has
now been found to dip in the opposite direction. A fault
has cut the lode almost fair in two, so that in one place it
hangs together by but a few threads of ore, but no doubt
it will make again as the fault is small. The country
rock on the western side of the lode is worth from 2
to 3 per cent, worth of copper impregnated much the same
as at Cobar walls of the lode are, and, as at Cobar, there
is no distinct parting between ore and country. There is
not much doubt that the ore will average from 12 to 14
per cent, copper, with probably 2 to 3dwt. of gold and 1 to
4oz. of silver. The mine has disabilities. It must pay at
least 25 per cent, more wages than further south, and
probably get at least 25 per cent, less work done for it—
practically an increase in wages of 50 per cent. Stores
cost from 50 to 200 per cent more than N.S.W. mines
have to pay, and the Einasleigh has to pay £l2 per ton to
get them there ! Then there is a wet season of three
months when haulage is impossible. A 5-gal. drum of gas-
tar, for instance, costs 12s. on the mine, it is only worth
Is. 3d. in Sydney ! Gal. iron costs'£36 per ton, bar iron
£26 to £29, fire-bricks from £45 to ' 60 per thousand,
according to the make 1 The necessaries of life are from
150 to 200 per cent, more than Sydney prices ; back car-
riage £8 per ton from Townsville—via Chillagoe, £5 to
the line, and Chillagoe railway rates, wharfage, &c.,
would bring it up to £7, according to the goods. At pre-
sent rates of carriage, mining and other costs, even 15
per cent, ore could not be sent away for treatment with-
out loss. Einasleigh’s only salvation is railway com-
munication, for it is a very sanguine man who will expect
the lode to average 15 per cent, copper. The Einasleigh
is 110 miles from Chillagoe—a survey may bring it down
to 100. A 2ft.-gauge line would cost from £lOOO to £llOO
per mile, not including bridges. If this money can be
raised the mine is a very valuable one; it is worthless
without.
* * * *
Report of two enormously rich strikes of gold—
amounting to thousands of oz. —in that mine of chequered
fortunes, Bayley’s United, Coolgardie—one in No. 1 level
and the other at 480 ft., the latter being the lowest depth
at which such valuable stuff has been met.
* * * *
Kalgurli: Last month’s production 1328 tons,
16700 z. ; average loz. sdwt. ; extraction 92 per cent. As
this mine has been crushing a year without a div. it is
possible that the average production represents about the
cost thereof.
* » * *
Lake View Consols : Sulphide plant, 2600 tons,
36400 z. ; Diehl plant, 6095 tons, 55000 z. ; 180 tons of con-
centrates for 29100 z. Total production, 8695 tons for
12,0500 z. Stated that the Diehl plant was running 35
days. The public may be reminded of the fact that it
was several times announced to have started in Dec. ; it
was supposed to be running in Jan. ; nobody suspected
that it was not running without a break in Feb. ; and yet,
in the second week of March, it is declared that 35 days
represents the total run. Which is it ? Something wrong
with the plant- or the newspapers ? Anyhow, there is a
cleaning-up at last, which is something to be thankful
for, and from the two plants there is the production of a
little over 12,0000 z. we have heard so much talk about.
For months past, the public have been told that the
production of this mine as soon as the Diehl process
got to work would be from 1200 to 1800 oz. a month.
The margin was wide—but that was regarded as quite a
natural circumstance with this particular mine.
At a L.Y. shareholders’ meeting in London six
weeks ago the chairman said “ there was no reason why
they should not have an output of 12,0000 z. per month.”
A shareholder meekly asked ‘ ‘ Fop how long ? ” The reply
was, “ For a considerable time ” —and it seemed to carry
conviction. Chairman also admitted that miners
working in the mine were in league with people work-
ing out of it, that telegraph-operators were not so
reliable as they ought to be, and unless wires were sent
in the most difficult cypher their contents were made
known ; that gold was being stolen—and they had other
troubles to contend with. The cyanide decision of the
Privy Council had been in their favor, and there was no
foundation for the statement that the London and Globe
owes them any money—the mine had nothing to do with
the London and Globe. How much more satisfactory it
would have been if the chairman could have given the
truthful assurance that the London and Globe had
nothing to do with the mine !
One shareholder tried to censure the directors
for taking their commission of £10,274 as provided
by the articles of association in addition to their
fees. That seemed to him dishonest—but it didn’t
seem so to the meeting, as his motion disapprov-
ing of its payment and calling on the directors to
resign was promptly negatived. M‘Kin non, the mining
manager, said when he took charge, now nearly a year ago,
lie thoroughly sampled the mine, and his report was
simply a plain, unvarnished statement of the facts. The
ore-reserves were given as 65,000 tons and subsequently
increased to 71,000 tons. He admitted the quantity was
very disappointing after the figures of the previous year,
but it was entirely due to the cessation of development
work. The mine should have been developed to 1000 ft.
instead of 500 ft. by now. In his opinion they had again
got into a payable zone. Was it ever officially declared
that the mine had got into an unpayable zone? He told
the shareholders that the future of the mine depended on
the results of development-work. He thought it would
live in depth and confirmed the chairman’s statement
with regard to 12,0000 z. per month production.
And in the face of all this, and after a drop of
nearly two millions, this mine has still a market value of
a little over two millions! ! It has not paid a div. for 12
months, and it only paid one of 10s. in the early part of
last year. Its average gold production for the year has
been between 7000 and 8000ozs., from which it must be
inferred that the whole of the proceeds have gone in min-
ing and other expenses, and in the absence of the divi-
dend the modest, unassuming directors have collared
over £lO,OOO in addition to their fees, and an attempt to
censure them is lost by an “overwhelming majority,”
and the directors go on their way rejoicing ! ! Truly
John Bull is a milch-cow with a calf-like disposition.
* * * *
Waihi (M.L.) : Shares dropped last week in
London £3, on account of trouble in connection with the
management and the miners. They have been standing
at over £lo—which represents over three millions —for a
considerable time. This great mine paid 10s. in divs. last
year, and Bs. a year for the four preceding years.
* * * *
Hobart cable in S. M. Herald : “A party of
M.sP. and leading local promoters took a trip to see the
works of the Great Western Railway on Friday. Mr.
Palmer, managing director, read parts of Mr. Reginald
Murray’s report on the mineral prospects en route, which
states that the Barnbluff find on one of the company’s
blocks alone has a formation of 8,000,000 tons of copper-
ore-hearing rock. As an estimate he thinks this will go
25 per cent, of copper, and would prove payable under
economical treatment. He concludes that the poten-
tialities as regards mineral wealth on the route traversed
cannot be yet estimated.” Just imagine a paper spread-
ing a yarn to the effect that a man like Reginald Murray
thinks that 8,000,000 tons of %5 per cent, copper-ore will
pay if economically handled ! But, despite this mighty
bloomer, it looks as if the G.W. Shindykitters had struck
what they believe to be an immensely valuable tract of
mineral country in the land grant given them by a legis-
lature many of the members of which, if they don’t de-
serve to be in gaol, ought to be in the Asylum for Con-
genital Idiots.
* * * *
Ross Flat claim is allegedly the richest gold
spot on the west coast of Maorilavh but for 20 years it
has been in a flooded state, and all attempts to get'rid of
the water have failed, the cost running into many thou-
sands. Now expected that newer machinery and better
appliances will do the work ; total expenditure being put
down at £50,000. Pretty stiff ; but the claim will likely
return between 400 and 500 oz. a week. The money has
been practically secured, and Govt, has promised a sub-
sidy of £15,000.


Complete
Outfits.
AN ORIENT BOOT
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT-tf-
-63/-
TO MEASURE
A\
ALL GLASSES OF GARMENTS
. . IN THE . .
‘Orient To measure" Clothing
.. AT ..
PRICES-^
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
PAVIP JON€S & COMPANY,
6gorgg & Barrack Sts., Sydocy
V
Harrington & Go.
LTD.
Photographic Merchants.
Every Description of_
CAMERAS
Hand, Stand,
Pocket,
KODAK, and Others.
and Every Conceivable Photo. Requisite
and Novelty for Professional or
Amateur Photographers.
VISIT OUR SHOWROOM.
address QQ king ST., SYDNEY
COMPLETE PHOTO. OUTFITS
from ONE CUINEA Upwards.
Brisbane Branch—
-93 Queen-street.
Melbourne Agents —
Craven &Co., 179 Collins-st.
Branches or Agencies in every colony.
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjoyment of
HOME CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
Parkes’s vain and forgotten Dead House
idea comes up again. The O’Sullivan and Treasury-
Bill Lyne are dreaming about fooling away some
good borrowed money in putting up a building in
Sydney Centennial Park, or somewhere, in honor of
the men who fell in S’Africa. What the building
will be used for in a general way, besides being a
receptacle for dust and rats, is an open question,
yet it will be necessary to find something to put
in it besides a damp, earthy smell —it can’t be
merely four walls and a door and an echo. Still
it is cheering to the live and starving Cornstalk
soldiers who wore out their boots and their hearts
calling a,t the Treasury for their lawful money and
not getting it, to hear that their dead brethren
are to get a building. And if Treasury-Bill Lyne
will put in that structure, where everybody can
see it, a receipt for all the war-expenses, showing
that the whole thing was honorably paid out of
revenue, and not faked into the loan expenditure,
the new Dead House won’t be quite so empty after
all.
* • * *
Writes a correspondent of S.M. Herald,
re the proposed N.S.W. State House “ If the
Government wishes to do something practical,
let it find employment for the soldiers who
have returned from South Africa; and, if
a further suggestion is needed, let it build
a wing of the proposed Consumptives’ Hospital.”
To which The Bulletin says Amen ! And there
are not lacking many other reasonable alterna-
tives. Why worry about the dead who fought for
five shillings a day and to get cheap labour for
Rhodes and co., while the N.S.W. dead-beat poor,
hundreds of them worn-out pioneers of Australian
civilisation, are styed like pigs in inflam-
mable asylums which may any day or night
roast the majority of a thousand men ? And
just look at Liverpool (N.S.W.) so-called Benevo-
lent Asylum, in which hundreds of consumptives
are kept closely within walls so that their spittle
may not be wafted to the people of the adjoining
town—this practical imprisonment within walls
being in utter defiance of what is known to all
intelligent people concerning the requirements of
sufferers from phthisis.
• • * *
jtte the alleged “Alteration” of the cor-
ridor ears by Vic. Railway Department for the
use of the Yorks. The Commissioner was
authorised to build 50 corridor-cars. Forty-eight
have been completed at a cost of about £2000
each. Two “Royals” are now being built ( not
altered) on a special design at an estimated cost
of £5000 each. Over 100 men are now working
day and night to get them finished in time. So
much for the ingenious, economical-sounding
yarn promulgated to humbug the credulous public.
HARD LUCK.
KIND LADY: “ Well, Luv, wot yer crying for?"
LUV: “ Please , lady, our Sunday-school picnic’s
on Queen’s Birthday, en now there ain’t no
Queen ter ’are birthdays.”
A ridiculous impression prevails among
some people that the death of the Queen has
altered the title of everything that bore her name.
In Melbourne, for instance, several prominent
orators (and one of the daily papers) have begun
to refer to the Queen’s Hall in the local Parlia-
ment House (so called from the presence of a big
statue of the late sovereign) as “ the King’s Hall.”
Others have started styling the Queen’s bridge
the King’s bridge,” and one is in hourly expec-
tation of hearing some politician refer to the
Kanaka question in “Kingsland.”
* * * *
When one reads the columns of abject
crawl in Melb. Age each morning re the prepara-
tions for the Duke’s reception, it is well to re-
member what the same said 30 years ago on the
arrival of the Duke of Edinburgh. The Argus in
describing the illumination of the Public Library
said “ Cressets of flame adorned the portals of the
edifice.” The Age report of the same decoration
was : “On the gate-posts were stuck two burning
pots of fat.” By the way, as Australia is gravely
threatened in several directions with another big
outbreak of Plague, very little indeed may be
seen by the general public of the immediate heir
to the throne of England, even should he come to
Australia.
* * * *
A correspondent of Brisbane Courier
pleads earnestly for a revision and amendment of
S. Queensland nomenclature “before-the Duke of
York comes.” Particularly deprecated are the
names “ Boggo Road ” and “ Woolloongabba.”
* * * »
Already in Melbourne, in view of the
coming York gambols, the Presbyterians have
raised the perennial precedence question. They
want the representatives of the different sects to
walk all in a row, or, if that cannot be managed,
that the numerically strongest sect shall have its
man in front. It may cool the ardor of these
alleged followers of Him whose Kingdom is not of
this world to learn that, if it came to numbers of
actual adherents, the Salvarmy would possibly be
on top !
* * * *
All things have an ending—even the
notorious Mercadool land case. Cable tells that
the Privy Council has given judgment in favor of
JST.S. W. Govt. (Minister for Lands), overruling
N.S.W. Full Court. The facts of the case are so
involved that even those implicated in the alleged
swindle will not venture to unravel the skein.
Only one thing is certain—that the P.C. decision
means loss irreparable to the then owners of the
Mercadool station. It is pleasing, however, to
remember that lawyers glutted themselves to the
full over the Mercadool case, the costs for the 10
years over which the case has lasted amounting to
a big fortune.
* * • *
The result of the Privy Council appeal in
the Mercadool case is a victory for the Land
Board and the Law Appeal Court, and a set-back
for the Supreme Court. And the sting is the
worse because some of the Judges, notably the C. J.,
simply snorted over the incapacity of the lower
officials. Mr. Freeman, the Land Board chair-
man, who dealt with the case in the first instance,
was so shockingly worried by it that a break-down,
followed by a compulsory sea-trip to Europe, fol-
lowed ; and even then he couldn’t feel comfort-
able again in the Mercadool district, so secured a
temporary exchange to Bourke.
* * * «
The mills of God grind slowly, but they
generally “ arrive there. ” Quite a number of Vic-
torian women who say they have reached
the pension age, and who most probably
have done so, have to wait several years
yet because their only documentary evi-
dence lies in their marriage certificates,
and away back in the ’GO’s and ’7o’s they
understated their ages, and so put them-
selves out of court. Now, they say with
tears that they were really 30, though they
put themselves down as 25, but the law
refuses to go behind the written testimony.
* * * *
A proposal is on foot, to widen part
of Elizabeth-street, Sydney, by the usual
expedient of stealing a bit of the park. It
isn’t to be a very large bit, but, all the
same, the people’s pleasure-ground is slowly
and steadily vanishing. All round it little
fragments are being gnawed off now and
then—always with the very best inten-
tions. The greater part of Elizabeth-street,
by the way, and the worst part, doesn’t
abut on the park, and it will presumably be
left as it is.
* * * *
The new N.S.W. medical law which
prohibits doctors from trading under two
or more names should inspire a similar law
for money-lenders. One Sydney money-
lender trades under five different titles, and
very few are satisfied with one title. Eng-
land has got ahead in this respect. The
Act passed there last Parliament has torn
the disguises from a host of vampires. Such
a title as “The Bank of Pimlico” was found
to be run by two compositors, and a score or so of
women and men harpies were at the bottom of
three or four or more each of high-sounding
financial institutions.
THE PRICE.
“Absurd is your advice, love!”
SHE SAID: “ On woman’s dress.
I don’t know much myself, love —
But you must know far less!”
He smiled a kind of sickly smile,
And faintly murmured — “PRICE!”
Alone.
“ Men laugh and riot till the feast is
o’er; then comes the reckoning and they laugh no
more.” N.S.W. Govt, has not yet paid the
musicians who played at that big StP piet.
* * *
Brisbane Courier item :
FILTERS IN SCHOOLS.
Several quotations lor the supply of filters for use in
State schools have been made to the Department of
Public Instruction, and the matter has been referred to
the Works Department for report. In view of the stale
of the public finances, however, it is not likely that any-
thing will be done this financial year.
When so much money is wanted for African
farm-burning, there is none left to supply the
school-children, even in plague-time, with drink-
ing water likely not to be dangerous to life.
* * * *
The latest five-bob-a-day contingent from
N.S.W. for S’Afriea sets out under, as usual,
officers drawn from the class which, during the
big labor-strike, arrayed themselves in Bedford-
cord breeches and blue jumpers as amateur
mounted constables—to undertake, if necessary,
the not uncongenial task of riding down the re-
calcitrant bush-workers. And now a lot of these
very bush-workers go across sea to burn farm-
houses in order that Rhodes, Beit, Rothschild and
Co. may be able to squeeze white men’s (to say
nothing of niggers’) wages. As to the political
part of the war, the bush-worker is allowing him-
self to be led by his Pastoralists’-Union officer on
an expedition conceived wholly and solely in
order that squatter Bull might chuck the little
Boer cocky out of the selection into which he had
put so many years’ hard graft.
* * * »
Rumor among the legal brotherhood has
it that a well-known solicitor, who has been called
upon to “show cause,” attributes all his trouble to
an “ after-dinner ” conversation between him and
another member of the profession in which he (the
attorney in trouble) let the cat out of the bag.
“Gent, one,” in his affidavit (read before the Full
Court), refers to part of the allegations against
him as the outcome of a friendly chat at a social
evening, and not intended.for the general public.
* * * *
The secretary of an up-country R.C.
church committee advertised a ball in aid of a
Presbytery fund. That blasphemous humorist, the
comp., made it read “ Presbyterian ” fund.
A prominent
citizen of an up-
country M.L.
town, after going
on a prolonged
spree, got the
dismals and tried
to poison himself
with laudanum.
He was disco-
vered in only
moderately good
time, and the
whole population
turned out to
help bring him
round. There was
no doctor pre-
sent, but the
unanimous opin-
ion was that it
was essential to
prevent him go-
ing to sleep. Ac-
cordingly he was
taken to the rail-
way-station and
gangs of men ran
him up and down
the platform.
When he reached
one end of it the
station hose was
played on him.
At the other end
his head was put
under the tap.
Everyone who
could find a pin
inves t ig ated
some part of the
patient’s body
with its business
end. At inter-
vals his face was
hashed with the
bristly side of a
hair-brush, “just
to in vigorate
him.” Late at
night, after much
drowsy swearing
on his part, he
was discharged
cured.
The billeting of the Imperial soldiers on
the worthy burghers of Dunedin (M.L.) was pro-
ductive of some queer results. One Tommy (a
Life Guardsman) was secured by one of Dunedin’s
“unco’ guid,” and spent a most exciting Saturday
evening—tea, prayers, and bed at 8.30. Up in the
morning, more prayers, breakfast, and church.
Dinner, an afternoon at home with the family ;
then tea, church, again prayers, and bed. When
what was left'of the warrior got-away on Monday
it became drunk three times ! Another swaddie (a
Seaforth Highlander) arrived at his temporary
home very late and very slightly sober, and pro-
ceeded to knock things about a bit. The owner
of the things remonstrated, and received a bang
on the jaw that completely “outed” him. The
wife sailed-in to the rescue, and got a box on the
ear that put her out of action, and eventually it
became necessary to send for a picket to eject the
invader. After severe damage to the picket, the
“man in possession ” was removed from the ruins.
One of the Line-men (Cockney to the marrow), in
answer to a question from the writer as to how he
had fared, waxed enthusiastic. “All right !” he
said ; “ why, the bloke took me ’ome and put me
on a spring-mattrass—swrmy-mattrass, mind ver
—and, in the mornin’, they woke me up wiv tea.
Tea at Bin the mornin’ ! Gawd !! 1 ” and his feel-
ings got beyond expression. This same Tommy
paid a large tribute to MaoriJand’s prosperity.
“ Wot gets me dahn, ” said he, “ there don’t seem
to be no paupers—everybody ” (only he didn’t say
“ body ”) “ yer meet ’as got suv’rins.” During the
conversation, a Highlander, who had been in the
Magersfontein disaster, was giving a highly-
colored account of the affair, so we stopped our
chat to listen. Parts of the narrative were so
strong that I asked my warrior if the“ Scottie”
had really been in the scrap. “ Oh, yuz,” he
answered; “’e was there all right. Cawn’t yer
see ’is fice ain't lorst the frightened look yet ? ”
A draftsman, sued at Prahran (Vic.), re-
cently, for failing to support his illegitimate
child, objected to the girl (with whom he had
lived for two years) on the curious ground that
she made mistakes in her grammar, and left her
on that account. He wrote to her : “ You say
‘ I couldn’t have stayed half so long if I hadn’t
of had him.’ Tou should have said, ‘lf I had
not have had him.” The Bench declined to allow
defendant to score on this ground, and ordered
him to pay 20s. a week.
A certain parson having been sarcastic
about the fairy tale of Jonah and the whale at a
Melb. Wesleyan Conference meeting, has been
moved by the resulting scandal to announce his
firm belief in the truth of the story, declaring that
the Lord, if he choose, could lodge Jonah for three
days in the belly of a whale. After all, it was not
so astonishing for the whale to swallow Jonah, as
it is to find an educated man in the 20th century
capable of swallowing both Jonah and the whale.


TO CURE SORE EYES,
Apply Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment, and
avoid intense suffering'. Never be without it.
Over 50 years in use. Refuse all substitutes. Pots,
2s. Sold everywhere.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
VETERINARY BOOK FREE
On every Bottle of Condy’s Fluid.
This Book contains instructions by
eminent Veterinary Surgeons for the
treatment and cure of diseases of
> Horses, Sheep, Cattle, Dogs, &c.
Condy’s Fluid is non-poisonous, and is
the safest and best Veterinary Remedy.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Insist on having “ CONDY’S FLUID.’
Beware of Australian Substitutes.
-The name.Coady ai Mitchell, of London, England
should be at foot of Label. *
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only —largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, IG'5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
IT’S
EASILY
SEEN
THAT
a Boot that combines in its
manufacture . . .
TEST THE
CALLAGHAN
BOOT.
The Very Bent Material,
The Very Best Workmanship,
The Very Best Finishing,
is cheaper, even at a higher first cost
than a boot made without regard to
any of these qualities.
Ladies’ French patent leather Button Boots, whole goloshed, glace kid legs, fashionable
lasts—23/6. Add 9d. postage.
Gent.’s stylish Button Boots in French Calf, 22/6 ; black vici kid, 25/-; patent calf, 25/-.
tips—on pointed toe
Add 1/- postage.
Titanic Parson Edgar, of Melb. Wesley
Church, broke off short in his sermon recently to
mop himself and announce that, as the day was so
very hot, worshippers might take off anything in
reason. Some elderly males promptly shed their
coats, but the bulk of the congregation was
shocked and hurt deep down, and the ladies
especially sniffed haughtily. The idea was a
failure, a severe black coat being absolutely neces-
sary to a reverential demeanor in church. Writer
recalls a quarrel amongst the elders in the little
wooden “corner of the Lord’s vineyard” at
Waddy. Brother Spendwho hi 1 arrived late
in hissecond-best, confronted half-a-dozen babbling
opponents, red with righteous wrath, but quite
impotent as an orator. “ Ah, ah, thoo be mighty
eliquint, you ! ” he cried ; “ but thoo knows thoo
wouldna dare to face me if I had my frock coat
on ! ”
* * * *
The exceptionally clear complexion and
wholesome appearance of Chief-Justice Madden
would seem to indicate a serious cause for liis re-
cent ill-health, and if The Bulletin were medical
adviser to his estimable Waxellenoy he would be
shipped to Europe or Maoriland without delay.
Men of the Madden kind don’t make small ail-
ments for themselves, like the ordinary whisky-
drinking, heavy-feeding sinner who takes life as it
comes. When the dapper, active Chief-Justice
gets suddenly indisposed, and remains indisposed
for some days, it is time for him to have a long
rest from judicial duties and viee-regal vanities ;
therefore this journal shakes a warning forefinger
at the C.J., and imolores him to flee from the
York to come. If H.E. insists on waiting to be
introduced to the Heir Apparent arid all that sort
of thing—very well, then, The Bulletin will not
be responsible for the consequences.
* * * *
The law went to vast trouble to small pur-
pose in the case of that Castlemaine (Yic.) girl
who registered a birth which, so far as can be dis-
covered, never took place. Judge Holroyd, in
sending her to gaol for three months (in addition
to the three she has already spent there since
committal) remarked that “ if she had enabled the
police to find the child things would have been
much better.” Doubtless, but as the girl appears
merely to have registered a fictitious infant from
a disinterested desire to maintain the birth-rate,
or just to keep herself up-to.date, as it were, his
Honor’s observation seems a bit superfluous.
* * * *
An aged Richmond (Melb.) citizen, whose
wife keeps a shop in that suburb, wandered down
to St. Kilda lately, and being a stranger in those
pirts, and also afflicted with a severe impediment
in his speech and a trifling ditto in his intellect,
was promptly run-in as a vagrant and sentenced
to 14 days—almost before liis wife had missed
him. It was not till four days later that she dis-
covered his whereabouts, and then 48 hours
elapsed before she was allowed to see him. After
enlisting the aid of M.L. A. Bennett and besieg-
ing the Solicitor-General vigorously, the latter
promised the woman her husband’s immediate
release ; but the Law wasn’t going to be bustled,
and tied the matter up with red tape so carefully
that the old chap ultimately served the full term.
The Law’s gradual way of letting the inoffensive
old gentleman out of gaol contrasts charmingly
with its tremendous hurry in getting him in.
AFTER THE
SLUMP.
HER: “ You
told me there was a
lot of money in that
speculation
HIM: “So there was,
dea r—but a lot of it was mine.”
A curious yarn was told to the Melb.
police by a man who wandered into the Detective
Office about 3 a.m. lately. He was an importer’s
traveller, and was going home with a bag contain-
ing £175 worth of jewellery, when he became sud-
denly tired, sat down on the footpath, in Exhibi-
tion-street (of all places), and went to sleep.
When he awoke he was astonished to find the bag
gone. The ’tecs told him that the only surprising
feature about the affair was that his hat and boots
hadn’t gone too !
A curious collection of casual persons
asked for divorce last week in Sydney, and told
His Honor the simple tale of how they happened
to get married with no very fixed purpose, so to
speak. A rather sere and yellow German said he
wandered into the holy estate of matrimony after-
a week’s acquaintance. “My wife stayed with
me 19 days,” he said, “except seven days when
she was out every day.” She got £l5 from him m
19 days, and on the eighteenth day, which was
also her seventh day of being out, she smelt
strongly of drink. Then the habit of being out grew
upon her so much that she wasn’t- in for four years,
except once when she sued for maintenance, and
even then she was out. Another man told how,
3Js years ago, he married a girl of 15. They
lived together for a month, and then she also
acquired the habit of being out. They only met
once after that—in a doorway—on which occasion
she burst into tears and said, “ Wait till I go and
put my clothes on.” What she had on at the
time was not described in detail, but while she
was putting something more on, her hus-
band also got into the habit of going away, and
they never met again. Presumably, the Wife
(then aged 16|) came down with ’em all on, and
looked up and down the darkening street, and
found that the habit of being out had spread in
the family. A sea-captain explained that he had
been married 11 years. His trouble was not
drink, or the lodger, or the casual habit of being
out. Six years ago, lie said, his wife began
to back the wrong horse, and thereafter she
spent all her time at race-meetings. More than
50 times he took her wedding-ring out of pawn
where it had gone to raise money with which to
bet on the dead bird that proved to be alive, and
the straight griffin which was curly. At last she
ran so far after some horse or other that she never
found her way back, and is now pursuing the
straight griffin in parts unknown. A fourth man
had a shorter and simpler tale to tell. He was
simply a eontingenter whose wife went off with
the lodger while he was away burning down the
Boer woman’s house. A whole lot of contin-
genters found, when they returned, that their
wives had gone away with the lodger, and when
they have finished collecting their back pay from
a very tough Goverument a good many of them
propose to do something about the matter.
» * * *
An advfc. recently appeared in the Sydney
dailies for a church officer (otherwise a beadle) for
a suburban chapel. There were many applicants.
One stated that he could play the organ if re-
quired, another offered to teach in Sunday-school,
and a third recommended his “ taking manner
with the ladies.”
* * * *
It has been found that the latest stock of
furniture supplied to a certain Australian Govt.
House is Chinese-made. “ A White Australia.”
* m * *
Brisbane (according to a certain very
eminent Anglican ecclesiastic) simply yearns for
an Anglican cathedral, and Must Have A Cathe-
dral. If it isn’t needed for the glory of God, it’s
needed for (what’s more important) the glory of
the Ecclesiastic. In the meantime —did somebody
say he once saw a lank bush missionary, on a
starved horse, carrying into the heathen Bush as
much Gospel as he could give for £75 a year?
* * * *
Dear Bulle-
tin.—Re tipping.
Glad two of your
correspondents
have backed up
my protest against
the introduction
of the “tip” as
an Australian in-
stitution in con-
nection with ho-
tel - service, rail-
ways and restaur-
ants. London County
Council recently had
the Cafe Monico up
for a renewal of license.
It transpired that wai-
ters at this cafe had to
pay the proprietary 3s.
3d. per day for the
privilege of waiting,
Is. fid. to 2s. a week
to a “breakage
fund,” and to hand
over £2 cash every
morning as security.
Should tipping be
encouraged, that is
what it will eventu-
ally come to here.
Let the tipper pay
more attention than
the tippee—for the
former will be the greater sufferer
in the long run.—Dio.
It used to he said that “ the
man who is his own lawyer has a
fool for his client.” Judging by
recent Sydney exposures, the
man is a fool nowadays who
trusts any other lawyer but him-
self.
A Melbourne J.P. who the other day
fined a ruffian £10 —in default three months’ im-
prisonment—for having bitten his wife’s face, and
walloped a lot of her into a jelly with a chair—
inflicted exactly the same penalty on a lad of 15
who had used “ langwidge ” and broken a window.
And yet these awful gratis-beaks were insulted
because Turner wouldn’t trust them with the
administration of the Old Age Pension Act!
At Gatton (Q.) College of Agriculture all
the arrangements for the student-boarders are
attended to by men. The Govt, probably thinks
that women on the premises might lead to another
Gatton tragedy and some more strange stories of
police tactics.
The haughty dam.es who run Melb.
Women’s Hospital—when recently requested by
the committee of the Victoria Hospital for
Women to reconsider their intention to name a
new ward the “ Victoria*” as it would clash with
the name of the other institution —loftily informed
the “upstart crowd” that they reserved the right
to give a ward any name they liked. So there
now!
♦ * * *
There are no Nos. 13 used on the White
Star liners—a fact said to be due to the loss of
on© of the eo/s vessels on the 13th of the month on
her 13th trip. Some of the larger cabins contain 24
hunks, but owing to the omission of the 13 the
numbers run up to 25.
Science has declared that the small toe of
the human foot is bound to disappear in time, its
tendency to curl up and grow
inert being indicative of its
speedy absorption into the rest
of the anatomy. Writer was
informed by a Sydney boot-
maker as solemn fact, however,
that when the long, narrow
shoes came in lately, at least
one fashionble lady anticipated
the progress of evolution by
amputating the small toe so
that she might compress the
foot into the narrowest pos-
sible dimensions. Now that
broad shoes are in once more,
that dame is in a quandary as
to how to fill up the vacant
spaces in her shoe-leather.
* * *
Business-trips inland are
now arranged for on behalf of
Cairns Jap. ladies. An ad-
vance-agent goes through from
Cairns to Normanton via
Georgetown and Croydon, not
forgetting pastoral holdings en
route. Orders taken and dates
arranged for. Then the caval-
cade of equestriennes proceeds
along the allotted route , duly
fulfilling engagements ; when the
trip is over the horses are sold,
and the troupe, with side-
saddles, etc., is shipped back
from Norm an ton to Cairns,
picking up stray crumbs
en route. Sound commercial
principles !
ROUGE ET NOIR.
With ruddy lips and cheeks aglow
The widow flaunts her garb of woe.
Upon the black her money tosses,
Determined to recoup her losses.
S.S.
Mr. Mafchieson, the retiring Chief Com-
missioner of Yic. Railways, is surely one of the
luckiest of men. The circumstances under which
he took the billet made it fairly easy for him to
keep his natural enemies, the politicians, at bay.
Tiie failure of predecessor Speight provided him
with an excellent foundation for success as an
administrator. The name he had made in Queens-
land gained vast importance in Victoria, and when
he took it for a business-pleasure trip to England
and America, the astute Commissioner was seem-
ingly working a line for further self-advancement.
The result of that recent six months’ absence on
full salary is Mathieson’s appointment to the
chief command of a big English railway—the Mid-
land. He will say good-bye to Victoria early in
May, leaving a subordinate officer to look after
the traffic during the visit of the Dook o’ York—if
the Duke of York does pay Australia a visit—and
ride upon the royal engine of the royal train when
H.R.H. journeys to and from Ballarat or else-
where. Mathieson will not even stay to run the
risk of being duly hanged by a hysterical Govern-
ment in the event of anything going wrong with
the Dook whilst the Railway Dept, has charge of
him.
* • * *
Be the manner in which the evidence in
the case of Mrs. Smith, the woman under arrest
in connection with the death of Patrick Conway
on board s.s. Talune, from M.L. to Sydney, was
anticipated by Sydney D.T. : Isn’t it about time
that a law was enacted specifically prohibiting
such newspaper doings ? The woman’s case was
monstrously prejudiced before even the inquest
opened—in the minds of thousands she was already
convicted. If the State chaperoned innocence as
ardently as it pursues crime, its accredited officials
would, without the spur of application, put self-
appointed newspaper juries in their due place.
• * * *
The second trial of the Sydney libel-action,
Limon v. the Evening News (the paper having
been misled into printing an announcement of
plaintiff’s supposed marriage, he being already
a married man) resulted in a verdict of £130
damages. Seeing, however, that plaintiff has had
to pay his own costs in the former trial, it is ques-
tionable whether he gets any change out of the
deal.
* * * *
Memo, for travelling Australians. At
San Francisco lately the authorities refused to
allow a man from British Columbia to land, on the
ground that he was suffering from a contagious
disease —consumption to wit.
* * * *
A small child in Balmain recently swal-
lowed a penny. She was hurriedly taken to the
local cottage hospital in a state of collapse from
fright. No trace of the coin could be found, and
after a week had passed the hospital people grew
anxious, though the girl seemed all right. A
penny was too dangerous to leave alone, so she
was sent over to Sydney Hospital to undergo a
Rontgen-ray examination. The X ray easily
located the missing coin in her throat, where it
had stuck in some extraordinary fashion. An
operation soon recovered the “brown,” and the
child seems little the worse for her experience.
NO BUST NESS
DONE.
BOY: “Say,
mister, won’t
you please buy a
ticket? ”
BROWN : “ Ticket for what?”
BOY: “For our Sunday-school entertainment
BROWN: “ What’s the entertainment for?”
B OY: “To pay off the expenses of an entertain-
ment we had last week.”
The chief mechanical engineer of N.S.W.
railways gave some interesting evidence at the
Sydenham accident inquiry. He said there were
in N.S.W. 18 engines of the type of the one
attached to the wrecked train. They were
“badly proportioned.” In the wrecked engine
“the centre of gravity was not good, and even if
it was moved forward the engine would never be
easy on the road.” He regarded it as safe at 30
miles an hour, but “if I saw the time-table sug-
gested a'.speed of more than 40 miles an hour, I
would object to it with that class of engine.”
Tliere had been eight cases when engines of this
type went off the line, but No. 363, which made
the Sydenham disaster, seems to have been
specially bad, or especially disastrous, having
four out of the eight accidents to its own
separate credit. Engineer Thow pointed out
that the 17 engines of this type had done
among them about five million miles, which was
at the rate of 643,000 miles for each accident, and
he urged that, with such a record, they could
hardly be called dangerous. This is reasonable
enough as regards the class of engine, but No. 363
seems to have been a specially disastrous locomo-
tive, with faults, or ill-luck, which didn’t belong
to its type generally, and the fact that 13 engines
of the same type kept on the rails, and four more
only went off once each, doesn’t alter the fact that
its own record was not at all good. When a
man’s black horse falls on him four times it is
poor satisfaction that 13 other horses of the
same color haven’t fallen on 13 other men. No. 363
appears to be a pretty aged source of trouble, its
first accident being as far back as 1887. It would
be interesting to know if any special attention
was given to this unfortunate steam-implement,
and if the driver knew —what the engineer says
he knew —that it wasn’t regarded as safe to make
over 40 miles an hour with vehicles of its class?
* * * *
Recently stated in a Melbourne court-case
that Wednesday’s milk was sometimes not sup-
plied to customers until the following Sunday !
Also that it was the custom- of the trade to put
“ coloring ” into the milk in summer. The witness
couldn’t say what it consisted of ; he “ got it from
a man in Fitzroy.” A sample of this coloring-
fluid, resembling blood, was produced in court.


All Drapers Everywhere.
lightest Wines in Australi
GMBE Teas
have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson, 284 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Mt Dbak Mth.- S?dMs '' M "° h 12 ' 1901 '
The old “Rhyme of the Duchess May,” by
Mrs. Browning, might be brought up to date in
accordance with May’s cable to Australia about
wnat she intends wearing for us :
Society has retraced its beautiful feet from the
mountains and is crowding back to town, shop-
pmg, shopping, with the frenzied desporation of
females who are preparing to meet their Queen-to-
be. I wish somebody would tell the Duchess that
Sydney isn t buying nothing else but black—but
that it s laying in nut-brown race-frocks, and
giddy-coloured toques, choking off its conscience
with one black gown, to be worn only when the
x orks are looking.
Society of Artists asked Women to their Smoke
JNight on Tuesday for the first time. And the first
shall be the last probably —may be, I ought to say,
as L speak without authority, merely as a scribe.
The rooms looked friendly and inviting, just the
haunt for a talker. Nice big chairs meandered
about in a careless unpremeditated nearness and
aloofness. Walls hung with pictures, electric
fans, and two distinct supper rooms, one with and
one without music, and unusual heaps of men.
And do you know, in spite of all this, one brainy
lady was observed making towards the lift about
eight-ten. “I’m going home,” said she, “I can’t
stand this. A lady artist endeavoured to dis-
cover the cause of her excitement, and at last
extracted a reason the strangest, funniest
queerest, topsy turvied reason anyone ever gave
for going away from a smoke-night. “ I’m going
home because they’re smoking ! ” “ But the card
says a Smoke Night.” “ But they’ve no right to
smoke ‘ But you must have known there would
be smoking.’ “But I didn’t expect it—anyway,
iMi jP tbink they would smoke till after supper
till after* we had gone.” She wasn’t angry exactly,
but she was grieved, very grieved, and she wanted
badly to go right home.
The lady-artist, however, talked down the lady-
writer y es > }t’s true, though I confess it sounds
unlike anything but fiction of the cheapest kind—
and persuaded her that her ways were error and
that men usually smoke on a Smoke Night,’ and
that this was no deep-laid plot to outrage feminine
susceptibilities, but only a commonplace desire to
see the air turn to a blue-grey haze. To cut a
long story short, a compromise was hit upon The
injured party decided to stay, but went back to
the dressing-room first, and put on her hat. She
then came equably back to the rooms and mingled
with the crowd, effectually protected against the
whiffs of nicotine and apparent lack of chivalry
and burst of masculine selfishness by a large
black hat on her previously bare head. Strange—
and true—are the ways of women, at Smoke
Concerts.
How to dress for Smoke brought out various
explanations and apologies. Miss Thea Proctor
looked tall and calm and artistic in a black even-
mg gown, with her long arms bare. Miss Haidee
de Bissa was demi-toiletted. Mrs. Pleming, the
clever little amateur actress, was in black, with
her dark hair tied up with cherry ribbons. George
JLambert’s charming mother was there to contra-
dict that touch of hardness in her son’s portrait of
her, hanging on the wall.
A certain white-edged politician stirred up youth-
ful recollections of Daniel in the lion’s den. You
should have seen him leaning up against a pallid
intensity of a picture, all sand and stunted trees,
and casting a long-lashed eye around in search of
someone who could listen. Ever since a certain
dinner Art has had a deep affinity for politics.
Miss Alice Muskett and Mrs. Pauli wore muslin
walking-dresses. A plump musical man looked
gloomy in black because he had been likened to a
large snowdrop when he last wore his favorite
white suit, and because he was managing the
musical programme. Said programme included,
by the way, a song from a brother of Henri
Brownlow, a large, fair man ridiculously like
Wallace, except in the voice and way of singing
and oh, my brethren, what a fall was there !
I hear that a very popular operatic singer leaves
her co. and returns to England shortly because
her manager has objected to raising her terms to
the extent she demanded.
At a little tea given by Madame Darto last
week at the Australia, Nellie Stewart’s small
daughter Nancy was much in evidence. Nancy
is as unlike her pretty mamma as possible—a red-
haired, thin-faced child with freckles, but gifted
with a delicate, sweet voice and charming expres-
sion. Along with Monsieur Darto she sang and
danced in a childish way, “ When we are married
what will we do,” acting like a born little artiste.
She gabbles her French as easily as English, and
convulsed the genial Joe Tapley—going bald,
alas ! with an account of how she tried to make
him laugh from her box the night before when her
mother wasn’t looking.
Mr. Hawtrey’s managerial venture has turned
out a prominent success, and the number of pretty
Sydney girls walking the Palace boards nightly in
u J e £? all t frocks and hats give point to a new
theory that local talent need not always be ’Ome-
branded before its returns in the box office amount
to something profitable.
Out of the Hawtrey 00. there is one actress
from London—Miss Ruby Ray—to ten from
Sydney. The acting of these ladies is not a bit
brilliant, you understand, but they wear their
dresses very nicely (these gowns, by the way, are
an inspiration of a well-known Sydney pen woman,
who exercised her aesthetic artistic soul in
choosing hats and frocks to meet Hawtrey’s excel-
lent taste) especially Misses Winnie Austen, Roxy
Barton, and Madge Hope, and are just as success-
ful as the average English peroxide, with a made-
up street skin, who talks of deah London, which
never heard of her except in the provinces. Also,
the local actress’s friends come in crowds to the —
but hold ! Perhaps that is a different story from
the one I’m making out, and in enumerating the
advantages of putting our own girls before the
footlights it might be better not to include their
sisters and their cousins and their aunts.
Certainly Hawtrey’s plays have leaned heavily
on the men who act them, rather than on the
women who dress them. Herbert Ross caught on
from the first night. By the way, I don’t know
whether “catching on” has anything to do with
it, but the little grey-eyed Londoner is an ardent
fisherman, and may be seen returning to town on
Monday morning in a dishevelled suit, a big
white Panama hat, and the light of an angler in
his histrionic eye, accompanied by the fair, smil-
ing Mrs. Ross, in a neat black dress and black
toque, as spruce as if she and hubby had been
looking into shops instead of the blue “upsplit-
ting ” sea.
Speaking of fishermen, Trilby Crane and her
husband, Tyrone Power, are housekeeping on the
quiet at Watson’s Bay. Their ’Murkan tastes
urge them to cast aside all conventionalities, and
the burly Tyrone haunts the beaches of the east
shore without any shoes and in the ordinary get-
up of a fisherman. To the weary theatrical this
sort of thing is an immense relief, and on Satur-
day afternoon at Rose Bay the petite Madame
Darto may be seen paddling along the beach while
her smiling husband saunters on the grass with
her miniature foot-gear in his hands.
Tyrone Power, by the way, stepped into an ad-
venture the other day. In his usual bare footed
way, he went into a hotel at Watson’s to
wash the salt from his larynx. A private indi-
vidual, also removing salt at the bar, cast his eye
over the fisherman, and, in the usual drinky
friendliness, ordered a wash for him. “ Here’s a
drink, fisherman,” said he. The actor drank it
on m fine dramatic spirit, respectfully answered
the gent’s questions, and told how the fish were
biting. Once an actor, always an actor. Even
when he returned the shout and called for a bottle
of gold-top, and the stranger gasped, and looked
volumes of interrogation points, Tyrone went on
dramatising, and kept his fishy secret to the end
of the seaside act.
“ The Christian,” at Her Majesty’s, shows the
large, slow Edith Crane wisely not attempting to
follow the small, lithe Hetty Watson’s methods
too closely, and the “famous apostrophe,” as a
daily paper calls it, is whispered rather than
shrieked. Whether Miss Crane’s Glory is as near
Hall Caine’s Glory as was Henrietta Watson’s the
fair Edith scores more heavily as far as looks go.
She looks the most charming creature in extremely
abbreviated skirts which show so much tan
leg that I wonder whether it was Hetty’s
old dress she was wearing or whether it
was just realism to go with her remark that John
would find everything the same after all these
years—Glory in the frock that used to fit her then
among other things.
By the bye, Miss Watson (Mrs. Radcliffe) has
lately written to her friends in Sydney to an-
nounce the advent of a baby—little Hetty—but
rumours of her returning shortly to Australian
footlights continue to circulate.
Poor “ Woody ”—or otherwise Mr. F. R. Wood-
house, the well-known, fair-haired tenor—has been
having a bad time lately. The breaking of a
blood-vessel m his lung, followed by a severe ill-
ness, may prevent him singing in public again,
and his doctors order a long sea-voyage. As
everyone who knows anything knows “Woody”
of the fluty voice, the Profesh. Musicians have done
well to call a meeting to consider how to best re-
cognise his services for Art and Charity. The
meeting is timed for Thursday, at 4.30, Vestibule
of Town Hall, P.B.P.— otherwise, Please be
present; and bring any friends who would like to
help with you. Mayor Graham, Rivers Allpress
and R. Kohlblanch are running the show so far.
Poor young “Sep.” Harte’s death last week was
a sorrowful affair. The bright, boyish organist
was bathing with his friend, Sydney Hoben, when
he struck his head diving in too-shallow water, and
fatally injured his spine, dying from paralysis,
after great suffering, four days later. He was just
20 years of age, and showed fine promise. At 18
he was made organist at St. Francis Church, and
two years later he took Auguste Wiegand’s post
as organist of St. Patrick’s. Sydney Hoben has
now been appointed his successor at the latter
church.
At Colonel and Mrs. Paul’s “at home” on
Saturday night the Artists’ rooms were gay with
red coats and military uniforms. The fair-haired
Mrs. Paul received, in a charming gown of palest
mauve silk, with a big shower bouquet of yellow
roses. Somehow, one meets the same people over
and over again at all these art parties, and it was
quite an excitement to see among others a well-
known danseuse and her hubby, the lady
exquisitely froeked in filmiest white voile
over white glace silk, swathed round her
lithe form in serpentine fashion with rows of
heavy white silken fringe. With this the
renchy little figure wore a pink, Paris hat, and
an opera mantle of subtlest rose-pink brocaded
panne, lined with a low-tinted green. Another
wrap this lady always arouses envy with, is a long
theatre jacket of leaf-green panne lined with dull
blue satin, the- long sleeves puffed out at the
wrists with little blue-satin puffs.
Another visitor at the S.A. show lately was one
who visited to much point, purchasing two pic-
tures without going home to think it over. This
was our new Admiral, who seems a different breed
from the usual naval dignitary, with his eye full
of water and precedence;
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Toorak gasped last Wednesday (6th) at the
sumptuousness of the knot-tying that made as
one a wealthy pair—Miss Gertie England and the
stalwart Mr. Jack Wallace (of Wallace will fame).
The local Church of England was the chosen
tabernacle. The young bride, who made her
debut two years ago, is tall, very fair, very dark-
eyed, and seemingly very indifferent' to a big
share of good looks. It was the bride’s gorgeous
gown that made tired Toorak bustle into an active
fire of admiration. A satin foundation heaped up
with chiffon found eminence as distinct as a
steeple or a tower, in mountings of priceless
Venetian lace. ‘ Regal ! ’ gasped Toorak, and
went forth from the ceremony to bray the news
abroad over Melbourne.
“ Eour bridesmaids waited on the stunning
beauty—in white silk muslin garnished with egg-
yolk yellow, the neck and sleeves of the top-storey
transparent. Picture hats repeated the nice
blend, and streaming posies added to the golden
look of things. Signor Rebottaro sang the two
wedding hymns —the groom having arranged this
innovation as a surprise for the bride. His gift
to her, by the way, was a superb diamond tiara.
Mrs. England’s house, on St. Kilda-road, flew a
hundred flags, and held high festival generally
after the wedding.
“The fortune that young John Wallace shares
reminds me that two capital old Irishmen —the
late Managhan, of property fame, and the late
Pat O’Brien, of Kinkora repute —have left a host
of grandchildren in very affluent circumstances.
Both men built up colossal fortunes carefully in
the days of young Victoria, and their grand-
children are reaping the harvest now. The ele-
gant widow of the ‘ Kmkora King ’ is in London,
having as good a time as her sense of decorum
will permit. Rumor always had it that Mrs.
O’Brien and the late Sir Anthony Brownless were
on the point of marriage. This persistent lie
greatly interfered with the platonics of the pair—
but the lady has survived it.
“Word has just come that another of the
■ wealthy Wallaces —the stalwart Romeo of the
family—was married in London last week, on the
same day as his brother.
“Col. Tom Price took on a paternal air last
Tuesday, and trotted chubby daughter Loma all
over the bird-cage. Said Lorna compromised
with the god of Fashion by striking out in grey.
Mrs. Walter Coldham, just out of bona-fide
mourning, showed forth in an attractive lavender.
Another bright splash of color was supplied by
Miss Irene Miller in a heliotrope scrolled blouse
and a black skirt.
“ The crowd at Flemington on Saturday was a
hot and interesting one, and illustrative of several
social resurrections. Mrs. Everard Browne, lost
to sight for nearly two years, bloomed forth at
this meeting, large, matronly and handsomely-
groomed. In fact, her purple turn-out, with its
hyphens of black and white lace, was the most
remarkable on the terrace. Miss Muriel Wil-
liams, broad of hip and double-chinned in the
fashion of' all leading beauties, showed up after
her globe-trotting, in white silk and a pert gold
and black striped toque, a bold black bow
perching in front. Lady Clarke, the brightest
of all the bees on the terrace, shimmered in
white silk with a butter-lace zouave and bands on
the skirt. A rustic, inopportune, mushroom hat
of black-and-white straw flaunted two aggressive
bows atop. All the fashion of Saturday’s meeting
seemed to be concentrated in the millinery. The
old familiar picture-hats were there in force, so
were the tilted toques (as worn by the Madden
girls in conjunction with black frocks, white bibs
and tuckers), mushroom hats, simple coarse straws,
and the new double-rimmed fly-aways, uniquely
covered like verandah-ledges in tulle and spread-
ing black foliage. The latter kind were worn by
two remarkable fashion-plates—Mrs. Claude Mac-
donald and Mrs. Phillip Russell.
“ A South Yarra honeymoon couple appeared
at all the races last week in brand-new grey out-
fits, and black arm-bands. So did they allay their
ecstacy.
“Commissioner Mathieson, with his chest as
tight in its coat as a gooseberry in its skin, and his
beard a-bristle, had a final strut and cigar on the
Terrace last Saturday, and smilingly allowed con-
gratulations on his big English billet.
“ All Sassiety has taken Grace Palotta to its
heart. The Maddens, the Clarkes, the Millers,
surrounded her in turn on Saturday, and ab-
sorbed her playful Holyrood tricks delightedly.
The scion of the Madden family played the de-
voted aide-de-camp, when other attendants yielded
a place at her elbow. Miss Palotta’s manner is alive
with stage-charms; hereyesroll, twinkle, flash, turn
up, hide behind a dark fringe of lashes, and play
perfect Tarantelles on her companions, while her
hands keep time with her talk. Two more viva-
cious women than Lady Clarke and Grace Palotta
could not be found in all the tiers of Sassiety.
“An interesting group at one time of the after-
noon was made up of S’Rupert and Lady Clarke,
Mrs. Lawson and Grace Palotta. It soon broke
up, the long-absent one darting away to speak to
three of her fellow-passengers. The other two
frisky frockers (who are sworn friends) came to-
gether. Grace wore a commonplace black and
white foulard, and a hat strewn with wistaria,
very much ‘ Florodora.’ Mrs. Lawson brought
back to knowledge her white flouncey ‘ Cup ’
toilette, with which went a black toque.
“ ‘ Florodora ’ still goes strong. Its only weak-
ness is that everyone’s trying to be funny, and no
one’s content with looking pretty and sweet.
Grace Palotta’s Lady Holyrood grows quite a
loud, gagging female who knocks off men’s hats,
&c. Surely the Palotta doesn’t mean to part
with her trump-cards—stage refinement and grace.
As for Carrie Moore, bristling with energy and
go, her Dolores is not the girl to crack the hearts
of all the men subjugated by her in the book. A
Manilan belle would be passionate and fitful, per-
haps, but Carrie makes her comic certainly—
otherwise a strident, hard-faced vixen who doesn’t
attempt to look attractive, and habitually hen-
pecks * followers.’ Formerly the charming little
Moore lacked pepper. Now she veers to the
other extreme. A pretty girl in a comic-operatic
temper should look as spiteful as an angry kitten
—not as scowlingly melodramatic as Porthos in
the ‘ Three Musketeers.’
“Irene Franklin is a welcome relief these
Florodorean times. Her arms are so round and
white, and though her figure looks mature enough
to be the mother of its advertised age, still there’s
something quiet and girlish in ‘the Dainty’s’
demeanour, and her voice, nasal though it be, is
pleasingly soft and gentle. The Palotta ankle-
peep methods seem over-pronounced in compari-
son with Irene’s, and where on earth did Lady
Holy rood get that loud, harsh laugh ?
“That wicked man, Marshall-Hall, is making
use of his free leg now that Prof. Peterson, the
new, convention-fearing music-maker of Ormond,
has landed in Melb. The other evening the
author of Hymns and Hers, Ancient and Modern,
delivered a rash, fervid lecture on ‘ Joy ’ to a push
of absorbed disciples of both sexes, and preached
a lengthy sermon on the wisdom of chasing
pleasure as she flies, and grabbing her with both
hands. The * very best ’ have recognised this ser-
mon as desperately heathenish, and there is evi-
dence in respectable circles of the profound regret
of the Mrs. Grundies in skirts, trousers, and
Bishops’ breeches that there remain no more
effective bricks to aim at the head of the solemn
scoffer. Meanwhile Hall’s conservatorium is
going well, and will probably rake in every musi-
cal student with a ha’porth of artistic sense, leav-
ing to the clergy-ridden institution of Ormond all
those who desire to play a little and sing a little as
part of the equipment of the domestic drawing-
room.
“Franklin Peterson, the new Professor of
Music for Melb. University, made a favorable
first impression by announcing himself as a
believer in many sorts of classical works, includ-
ing ‘ The Mikado.’ Questioned as to his Con-
servatorium plans, with direct reference tothe Mar-
shall-Hall party, Mr. Peterson said that, if Mel-
bourne was only half as musical as it considered
itself, there was absolute need for more than one
Conservatorium in the city. Berlin supports a
dozen Conservatoriums ; why shouldn’t a city of
400,000 people supply pupils enough for two ?
“A Melb. weekly affirms that sculptor Mac-
kennal has been offered for his Circe by the trus-
tees of the National Gallery ‘four figures or over.’
Well, over four figures would be five—£lo,ooo at
least; though that is not what is meant. But
Mackennal has not been offered anything for the
statue. The trustees have no money, and would
have to get a special grant from the Government
if they wanted to buy it.
“ Just deceased —the wife of John Thofhas
Smith. This was the remarkable woman who
consented to keep her marriage a secret for nearly
20 years owing to a bit of prejudice (wholly with-
out foundation) on the part of J.T.S.’s mother.
On the death of that wealthy old lady, the
marriage was made known and the notice cropped
out in the papers. (The lady was a Miss Stubbs,
daughter of the old-time Melb. auctioneer.) The
pair then took up their abode at ‘Ascot,’ on
Flemington-road, and added to the rich furnish-
ings some choice bronzes and bric-a-brac. At a
sale there a few years ago all Society assembled to
secure some of the treasures. The couple lived
very quietly at ‘ Ascot,’ and afterwards at St.
Hilda.
“Interest in the Coningham case has caught
England by the ears. Two Englishmen, who
travelled out by a German boat recently, had
written to a prominent Sydney solicitor asking
for reserved seats at the second' trial. They con-
fessed to fellow-passengers, on the way out, that
they were actuated by two ambitions in coming to
Australia—to hear the Coningham case and see
the Federal Parliament launched.
“It has come at last ! The servant-girl problem
is solved. Argus “ Wanted ” advts.
UJ.ENTLEWOMAN, domesticated, desires re-engage-
ment, entire charge children, good musician :
£36 Ruth, P. 0., Armadale.
AJ.ENTLEMAN wishes position as Help, in small
family. K., East Melbourne P.O.
“Everybody still talks and scribbles re the
servant question. A local washerwoman com-
plains that her nine-year-old daughter, inflated by
consciousness of a sought-after future, has been
neither to have nor to hold ‘ since all the girls
went to Sydney for the Federation and boom
wages and can’t afford to come back again.’ In
answer to motherly reproof the thankless child
chirps 1 I’ll take a situation and go on a merry-go-
round every night, see if 1 don’t.’ Sure enough
she has found an employer glad even of her
skimpish help. ‘Missis’ in this case is a
‘plugger’ who works like a Chow behind the
scenes but faces the footlights as a lady of leisure.
This Spartan cooks and ‘dishes up,’ and then sits
in full war-paint entertaining the guests while the
hired atom, waiting at table, trots in and out with
only her face and boots showing from behind big,
smoking dishes and highly-decorative covers.
“It’s quite archaic to hear the old fashioned
mistress of another very small suburban villa say
to her supercilious help, ‘ Look out, Maud, and
see if your master is coming.’ Poor ‘Master’!
He looks such a meek little old hack, and his
alleged vassal the most skittish of high-steppers.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
The courtly and kind-hearted ex-N.S.W.
District Court Judge David Grant Forbes, who,
a few years ago, retired on his pension of £750 a
year, died suddenly, at Sydney, last week, aged
82. He was a man of most charming manners ;to
the very last he retained the spirit of a
boy, and was a universal favorite with young
and old. Though called to the Bar in early
life, he spent several years after his return
to N.S.W. farming and squatting. His loyalty
was pronounced—as if to compensate for the
rather heterodox sentiments of his father, the first
N.S.W. Chief Justice. The Chief Justice was a
native of the West Indies, and carried with him
through life a strong admiration for American
Republicanism. His tomb in Belmore Cemetery
was opened the other day for the necessary trans-
fer of the remains.
N.S. Wales collects, under alleged Free-
trade, 19s. 10d. Customs duties per head of popu-
lation ; Victoria’s frightful annual burden amounts
to £ll2s. 9d. If Victoria applied as much loan-
money to revenue purposes as N.S.W. does,
however, its Customs burden could be re-
duced to £1 4s. lOd. per inhabitant annually.
As a further offset to this crushing ad-
ditional impost of 12s. lid., the Victorian, accord-
ing to Coghlan, enjoys slightly higher wages and
cheaper living, and the advantage of absolutely
free education for his children. On this item
alone, the Vic. breadwinner with two children
saves £1 Is. per year, allowing for holidays. Send
along the Juggernaut of Protection !
Ladies, ladies everywheah
See that you’re in black,
Let your chapeaux and your trains
And your mouchoirs and your brains,
And your little satin sack,
All be bound in black.
Ladies, ladies everywheah,
I shall be in black.
En princesse, brocaded gauze,
Long train finished for applause,
With designs of leaves and flowers,
Yes, but all in black.
Over this I mean to weah
Such a stunning cloak 1
Black Chantilly, rarest rare,
Draping such a velvet snare,
Long and elegant and black,
Smart but sad and very black.
Then there will be other gowns
All supremely black,
Elegant as elegant,
Worth, or Felix, or Lissant,—
Trimmed and moulded—oh, but black,
Lovely, killing, mournful black.


GitiZ6l)S’[>fe)Nurance Company limited.
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
Existing Folicyholclers exceed 216,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Absolute Security.
Moore and Castlereagh Streets,
Sydney.
Annual Bonuses
JOHN FARRELL,
Resident Secretary.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM,
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
“ Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAPTION-
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
' ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Ernest Favenc, who has long been ill, has
gone for a trip to the South Seas.
A. B. Murray, head of the many-branched
family of S.A. sheep-breeders, is still alive, though
little heard of now, aged 87.
The two surviving ex-Judges of N.S.W.
District Court ruled the Bench—Dowling for 38
years and Wilkinson for 33.
If we have the Plague in earnest, we shan’t
have the Duke of York. Now which is it
better for us to have —the Duke or the other
Plague ?
The first man elected to the first Federal
Parliament of Australia was John Forrest, re-
turned unopposed for the Swan division of Wes-
tralia last week.
N.S.W. Premier Bill Lyne should be
known as Treasury Bill. Having floated three
millions’ worth of them in about a year he has
well-earned the name.
The long arm, again ! The re-hearing of
the Coningham divorce case was fixed for March
11th, which date is the anniversary of the marriage
sought to be dissolved.
South Australia and N.S.W. have each
had five Chief Justices. S.A. : Jeffcott. Fielding,
Cooper, Hanson and Way. N.S.W. : Forbes,
Dowling, Stephen, Martin and Darley.
Judges on N.S.W. pension-list : W. J.
Foster, ex-Judge of the Supreme Court, £lB2O
per annum ; ex-Judges Dowling and Wilkinson,
of the District Court, £750 per annum each.
W. J. Ferguson, selected as Protectionist
candidate for Bathurst (Macquarie), began his
acquaintance with that town as a prisoner—-it
was to the gaol there that he was committed for
his share in the Broken Hill miners’ strike of ’92.
The man who had A. W. Ware tossed out
of the Adelaide Mayoralty because he described
himself as “ gentleman ” instead of “ brewer,”
nominated against Ware at the second election.
And that time he himself forgot to fill in the date !
What looks like a very cheeky attempt to
creep in under pa’s great-coat is being made by a
quite unknown S. Australian youngster. While
the well-known and able R. Chaffey Baker runs
for the Senate, this unknown, H. Chaffey Baker,
runs for the House of Representatives.
Sister Joseph, one of the Band of Mercy
Nuns who nursed the British wounded in the Cri-
mean War, died last week in the Convent in Bris-
bane. Florence Nightingale, Sister Joseph, and
a couple of other surviving nurses were sent tokens
from the late Queen Victoria a few years ago.
W. T. Ferguson, M.L.A, who is running
as Bartonite candidate for Macquarie, has an
epitaph for G. H. Reid’s political tombstone :
Hated by some.
Admired by others.
Mistrusted by all.
At the last moment, S’langdon Bonython,
of the S.A. Advertiser, decided to run for the
Representatives instead of for the Senate. He
didn’t think the electors would stand four knights
for one House ; and Downer, Baker, and Symon
were almost certainties foy the Senate, while there
wasn’t a single man with a handle announced for
the other Chamber.
THE MUSIC-MAN.
ETHEL: “ I fink he plays it vewy good for only
one leg, don’t you, muvver?”
John Norton (ivho says he hopes to head
the Senate poll in N.S.W. and believes that R.
E. O’Connor is the only man with a show of
beating him) still sticks to alliteration. In his
very parochial manifesto he asserts that Mr.
Barton’s pronouncement is “ a piebald patchwork
of platitude and prevarication”—it is “ the mani-
festo of a mob of mercenary Melbourne manufac-
turing monopolists.”
Writes “ Spare-me-Days ” :
Re Bulletin’s recent par. as to James DW;atno s *■»>•
time with Saul Samuel to Europe. “eid haa a
narrow squeak of securing the job. G.H.R.,
time held the position of correspondence clerk in
Treasury, had made it “ all right with Saul Sam ’
when lie applied for his leave of absence Geoffrey Eagar
would not allow him to go. G.H.R. pleaded. > ‘ t( J
but Geoffrey was adamant, and Georgie ‘since
stick to his office-stool. He has had many since
then, but Georgie once told writer that he nevei hit any
of them so acutely as that.
At a recent N.S.W. Govt, examination
for a clerkship in the Bonds and Contracts
Office, one question ran, “What was tne
nature of the Shelley case?” One of the
candidates answered: _ The Shelley case
was the notorious affair in which Barton
raked in such big fees and the plaintiff got
nothing.” Needless to say, he didn tgt 1
post. .
The recently-deceased Mrs. Anna Maria
Henty (Vic.), relict of the late Edward Henty
accompanied her husband to Tasmania in 31 and
to Portland (Vic.) in ’34, when he became the
founder of the future province, preceding Hat-
man, who landed on the banks of the Yarra a jou
18 months later.
Robert Reid, the Melbourne importer .who
wants to get into the Senate, sadly informed a
Maryborough meeting that lie was the last T ree-
trade candidate left in Victoria. Reid s claim
seems to rest mainly on the fact that it he is
returned he will be available as a curiosity a sor
of Last Man, so to speak.
According to a M.L. paper, Judge Martin
has written to a friend complaining of the way m
which Maorilanders generally have treated him
since his elopement, but adding that “he has
made his bed and must lie on it.” The paper
adds, rather cruelly, that he didn’t make his bed,
but annexed somebody else’s.
When J. G. Ward, as acting-Premier of
M.L., was about to proclaim that the King had
come, he donned a Windsor uniform to do it in,
but put on white knee-pants instead of the regula-
tion mourning black ones. The effect produced
was something like that of a fat woman going to a
funeral in a low-necked dress.
The political star of Charles Hardie Buza-
cott has apparently set for ever. Buzacott
aspired to Federal honors, but out of 40 Conven-
tion League delegates recently assembled in
Rockhampton he failed to secure a single sup-
porter. Rampant Jingoism isn’t always the safe
card some people suppose it.
Portraits of Prof. Franklin Peterson,
Marshall-Hall’s successor in the Ormond chair of
music, flutter about in Melbourne papers, and be-
tray the new Prof. as an eminently “nice” man
with a somewhat lackadaisical expression, calcu-
lated to strongly impress bishops and gentle old
ladies who work in wool.
A pathetic sight, writes a Bulletin
correspondent, is good old Tommy Dalveen ad-
dressing a meeting in favor of his candidature for
the Federal Parliament for the Canoblas.
Apparently he hasn’t the remotest idea as to what
the functions of the Federal Parliament are likely
to be. The fact of his having (together with his
partners) paid away large sums in wages to miners
is in his opinion the all-sufficient and only qualifica-
tion necessary to ensure election. Of course they
pull his leg everywhere he goes, many free drinks
being the result.
An old friend, Capt. Slocum, in his book
about his voyage round the globe alone in the
cutter Spray, mentions that he
was introduced to Kruger by
a gentleman who said “Here
is the captain who has sailed
alone round the world.”
Kruger: “You mean in the
world. The world is flat.”
An American version (to
get real English news you
must go to America) : —
The Duchess of York is not at
all pleased about the trip, for she
is a very bad sailor, and the sea is
no respecter of persons. I don’t
think H.ii.H. will impress the
good people of Australia favor-
ably. She was a very pretty
child; she grew into a rather
nice-looking girl ; but she has
developed into a plain and very
disagreeable-looking matron. I
don’t suppose she is happy, but
when she married the Duke of
York she was perfectly aware of
certain little domestic affairs of
his, and has no right now to put
on such a scowl when she faces
her husband’s future subjects.
She gives herself tremendous airs
—the airs of a parvenu, which
she really is, for, though her
mother was a granddaughter of
George III., her father was illegiti-
mate. She has no idea of the
dignity that belongs to persons
to the manner born. Her mother,
who was the quintessence of bon-
homie, never allowed you to forget
that she was a descendant of the
Georges, but she' did it with such
a grace that you thought it was
you who recognised the fact. On
the other hand, the Duchess of
York appears always to be im-
pressing you with the idea that,
God willing, she will be some day
Queen Consort of England. Now
the Australians are intensely loyal,
but they have got Socialism down
to the finest point, and I imagine
the sight of the Duchess of York
will be'a shock to their loyalty.
The Bulletin’s London correspondent :
Charley Pinhey, late N.S.W. Registrar-General, now
residing in London, received a pleasant surprise-packet
recently in the shape of a letter from N.S.W. Govt,
stating that a pension had now been assigned him. When
the Reid-Coghlan Govt, passed an Act suspending the
pension clauses of the Superannuation Act for 12 months,
Charles A. T. Pinhey was thrown out with a gratuity of
some thousand pounds. The Lyne Govt., recognising the
iniquity of the Act, decided to restore the pension rights
of the unfortunates who had receiyed gratuities in place
of the pensions due to them, and O.H.T.P. now unex-
pectedly receives a pension of some £4OO a year, together
with a substantial lump sum for arrears due after de-
ducting the amount paid him as gratuity.
TOO MUCH.
“'He asked.me how many men had said that to
me before. ”
“ Gracious, did he take you for a calcudating-
girl?”
“ H.M. the King has decided to delegate
to H.R.H. tli© Duke of Cornwall the prerogative
of conferring knighthoods during his Australian
tour.”— Cable. Let us hope George will not get
seriously injured in the rush.
’Twill give a loyal, keen delight
To jingoes all where George may stray
To know his Royal Nibs comes quite
Prepared to pay his Royal way.
, ustice Stephen told his brother Judges
the other day that he was in favor of continuing
Circuit Courts, although they did make great
holes in Judges’ time. His reason was that Cir-
cuit Courts gave judges agreeable excursions into
the country. Apropos, Judges are paid extra for
every day they are on duty outside the metropolis.
Melba’s father, David Mitchell, has dis-
pelled for the present the old, old rumour of her
“ approaching visit to Australia.” The old man
has made known something that daughter Nellie
actually did say in a recent letter—“l wish I
could manage to go to Australia. Perhaps I shall
some, day; 1 hope so.” So the old, old rumour
will get a 12 months’ rest, anyhow.
Recently-deceased Thos. Loader (Melb.
merchant) was a member of the Heales Ministry
in ’6l, when he had for a colleague J. H. Brooke,
of Occupation Licenses renown, and was on
friendly terms with Wilson Gray, the celebrated
advanced democrat of the day. There was no
payment of members in those times, so Loader
quickly retired into commerce, Brooke trekked to
Japan (where he established a newspaper, and is
still flourishing), and Gray accepted a judgeship in
M.L., where he died some years ago. In'later
days Loader was chairman of the perished City of
Melbourne Bank, bossed by Colin Longmuir—the
Man That’s Dead.
Clement Wragge, cried up to the skies some
years ago as the meteorologist par excellence, has
fallen upon evil days. Queenslanders growl at his
indefinite forecasts and say that anybody knows
that when the weather is sultry at Townsville and
the glass stands at lOOdeg. in the shade, there’ll
probably be rain. Also that any jackass could
prophesy casual storms between Cooktown and
Bowen in February, and fine, dry weather at Bar-
caldine in August. Fact is, Wragge is a victim
of the drought. What Queenslanders want is a
man who will prophesy three feet of rain over the
Bakblox from Croydon to Cunnamulla, and see
that his prophecy is verified.
“Demos”: Looking over all the London
newspapers I find a surprisingly cold-blooded
dissection of the Queen. This comes of pigeon-
holing, keeping the cagmag years and years. A
warm-blooded young journalist had to tickle up
yellow paper left by the great Noah Arkbottom,
variously embroidered by Methuselahs and Smiths.
“For God’s sake,” he says, “let me pitch aside
this mummified rubbish, and wire in.” “ N-n-no,”
says the trembling Editor,. “ If you won’t do it
properly, somebody else will.” So in goes the
patchwork quilt, a douche to the rushing enthu-
siasm of the public. Contrast this with the live
notice in the Argus, where I take it for granted
that Willoughby allowed Fitchett to take the bit
in his teeth and bolt.
George Jenkins, now scheming to get the
clerkship of the Federal Senate, would have been
Black-Wednesdayed by Graham Berry but for the
intervention of Charles Gavan Duffy. Jenkins
was then assistant clerk of Yic. Leg. Assembly.
“I went to the Government and remonstrated,”
relates Duffy in his “Autobiography.” Subse-
quently, in the House, he called attention to the
proposed sacrifice of Jenkins, and Berry
relented. It has been related in recent
years that the last words of the great
William Pitt were not the famous and
fabulous “ Ob, my country !” but “l am sorry I
have not anything for Jenkins.” Jenkins was
Pitt’s butler and told the story himself. Let
Prime Minister Barton beware that his last words
be not: “I am sorry I did nothing for Jen-
kins ! ” Apparently people who neglect Jenkins
die.
Statement by Colonel Newall, a returned
M.L. contingenter, on the alleged “murder” of
Lieut. White, ofN.S.W. (brother-in-law of Colonel
Kenneth Mackay):—
A retiring convoy was seen and chased by the Aus-
tralians. ' Unfortunately Lieut. White and an orderly
alone were able to maintain the pace, and on overtaking
the convoy, rode up and ordered the Boers to put up
their arms. There are such things as intrepidity and
braveness, also as foolhardiness and stupidity. This
action belonged to the latter kind. Two men could not
possibly take ten, and the Boer cornet did not think it
good enough to put up his hands, so he wiped the two
Australians out. I have since seen in the Graphic a
picture of the Australians, round the graves of Lieut.
White and the orderly, vowing vengeance on the ground
that they were shot while showing the flag of truce.
That was untrue. The two men rode up and got shot.
Everything that was stated about the Boers must not be
believed.
Mr. Arthur Lloyd Windsor, just-retired
editor of the Age, will visit his old friend, Gavan
Duffy, in the south of Europe. Windsor ran
the Age for all it was worth in support of
Duffy’s Ministry—now nearly 30 years ago.
“The only politician who ever atteinp-
ted to infuse sweetness and light into
the dull, confined, parochial, com-
monplace spirit of colonial states-
manship,” was how Windsor wrote
to and of Duffy. In return, Duffy
writes of Windsor’s hook of essays
now rarely procurable - that
it exhibited “ the luminous style,
the wide knowledge and govern-
ing sense which distinguished
Macaulay.” Admirable back-
scratchers !
Sydney D.T. recently reprinted certain
unsigned verses about the Queen's death, which
are credited, it is said, to Kipling. But, as R.K.
has humor of a, sort, he surely couldn’t hav»
finished up with —
Oh Mother Queen ! God’s honored guest
Who greatly welcomes those who bring
Thy great credentials ; Thine His rest!
Amen. God save the King !
Hard to say whether blasphemy or blather pre-
dominates in the notion of God scrutinising the
“ credentials ” of each new arrival, and allotting"
the celestial accommodation accordingly.
Extraordinary Verdict.
It is supposed that as a rule verdicts given are
just and reliable, but we sometimes hear of one
that is proved to be entirely erroneous by subse-
quent events. This was the ease with the verdict
on Mr. S. E. Richards, Mining Engineer of
“ Ontario,” Nicholson Street, Burwood, N.S. W.,
who, in a letter dated Bth March, 1000, says:—
“On the Ist Sept. 1898, I became overheated,
then suddenly exposed to a piercing cold wind. I
caught a chill, the result being that I was deprived
of robust health, and for about seven months my
life was despaired of. During this time I had been
through the hands of eight medical men in private
and public hospitals. The majority of them held
out no hope, some of them declaring that I had
kidney, liver, heart, and lung troubles. In the
Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, my medical
attendant said I had Bright’s Disease of the
kidneys, that he could do nothing for me, and that
I had better be taken home, as I could not recover.
Rather a dark prospect this considering that, in
addition to the troubles enumerated above, I had
dropsy to a fearful extent. I had been
tapped in the lower part of the abdomen five
times, several gallons of water being drawn off,
but all to no good purpose. In a few days after
being tapped, I swelled up in my legs, abdomen,
and stomach, larger than before. The dropsy
began to make its appearance in my hands and
face. My body swelled to that degree that I
sickened to look at myself, and many times wished
I could die. Friends who visited me sympathised
and bid me, as they believed, a last farewell. But
an angel of mercy came in the shape of Warner’s
Safe Cure. A lady friend strongly recommended
me to give up hospitals, doctors and medicines,
and take only Warner’s Safe Cure. On the 3rd
April, 1899, i began to take Warner’s Safe Cure.
As soon as I began to take this medicine my
appetite began to return. At the end of four
weeks, when I had drank four bottles of Safe
Cure, the water began to come away. I reduced
in circumference around the abdomen from
inches to 41-| inches, and my legs reduced in
proportion, t felt like a new man. My spirits
returned. I began to get regular sleep, still
reducing in size until not a vestige of lung, kidney,
liver, or dropsy trouble could be seen or felt. I
am now in the best of health, and am firmly con-
vinced that Warner's Safe Cure has, in God’s hand,
been the means of restoring my lost health and
strength. I would gladly write, talk, or sing the
praises of Warner’s Safe Cure, but will conclude
by stating that I shall be only too happy to
answer any questions, either by letter or otherwise.
I feel I owe a duty to the world at large in
making known the almost miraculous cure
effected in my case by Warner’s Safe Cure. I
also feel a deep debt of gratitude to the discoverer
of Warner’s Safe Cure, and trust this humble,
unsolicited testimonial may be made public for
the benefit of suffering humanity. I am well-
known all over the Australian Colonies, and my
old mining contemporaries will rejoice to learn of
my restoration to health.”*


THE . .
FEDERAL
SPIRIT ■ •
WOLFES
"SCHrtAPPS,
WATSON’S WHISKY.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Aboriginalities.
“Trotter” sends a North Queensland
picture:
Halifax (N.Q.) is the true home of the alien. Except a
tew soul-weary, nigger-driving Scandinavian sugar-
ooekies, the population is composed of Italians, Syrians,
Hindoos, Ohows, Japs, Malays and Kanakas, and the
rising generation is a piebald medley. As I write two
Dagos are fighting in the billiard-room, two Syrians are
disputing in the bar, a lot of Ghows are yabbering in the
front, while a Jap. has charge of the back. Coming along
saw 20 Japs repairing the tram-line on one of the plan-
tations, and saw a Malay driving the motor. The Kanaka
drives about this district in his dog-cart accompanied by
dusky love ; and the Ohow is the boss store-keeper
An English ex-army officer runs a pub., assisted by the
brother of a well-known diplomatic official in Peking.
There s a Ohow quarter, a Jap quarter, and a Dago and
. yrian quarter, redolent of maocaroni hovels, tomato stew
opium, and the omnipresent banana. In the last-named
quarter a Malay runs a bagnio, with two white women, to
one of whom he is married. The other day a small
coastal steamer carried in the fore-cabin (12x10) S Japs, 2
'u r7 S ’ a a Syrian and a white man bound for
i.,A aaa' G le Queensland Govt, spends something like
LlO 000 a year for rations for 40,000 men to tramp this
continent from one end to the other and the work is
given to the alien). A large, grey beetle dwells here also
—the rum of the cane—and costs the cocky 6d. a quart to
extirpate. When at Halifax in the early part of January,
the temperature averaged 100 in the shade for the week
—sometimes it stood at 116. To pass a summer here is to
develop a chronic N.Q. thirst.
* * * •
Writes a W.A. man to The Bulletin re
the recent shooting of J. J. Durack, of Denham
station:—
•n' W ? C J r - three years ago J. J. Durack handed a loaded
rifle to Ins black boy, and (it was claimed) instigated the
atter to shoot a native camped not far from the' station,
located on the Denham River, which flows from the west
mto the Old river, about 80 miles south of Wyndham.
The murderer was really only a mere boy, probably
scarcely 15 yeais, and belonged to the Mt. Dockrel tribe,
near Hole s Creek, the old E. Kimberley goldfield more
than 100 miles further south. At the trial in Perth he
was condemned to four years’ imprisonment on Rottnest
Island, and the indictment against Durack was quashed.
Mr. Connor, a partner of the deceased, has been returned
for the vast E. Kimberley electorate on 60 odd votes •
Doherty, another partner, sits for North Fremantle ; and
Pennefather. the Attorney-General, is of their party. It
is questionable whether .deceased enjoyed the highest re-
putation, even among the not over-sensitive population
in E.K., but he belonged to a powerful coterie, who rule
the roost in the district. From a blackfellow’s standpoint
Durack got his deserts, and if he had been wise he would
lave kept away from the place after the shooting of the
larkey. He must have been sufficiently acquainted with
MISS MARIE LLOYD, Rickards’ Latest Star.
Photo, by Hana, London.
M^iutl' ,^thatbl^'re ” IWW<rald '“ ch
* * * *
A Northern .lap tells a fearsome tale of
how he dived into the Barwoii to mend his fish-
had secured the heathen, having bitten into the
sides of his head. The Jap, in a flurry, drove his
fist into the voracious monster’s mouth and was
at once set free, Sounds apocryphal but the
little brown man is in the local hospital, and has
the teeth marks (close to the eyes) to show.
* * * *
In a Northern court last month Chinese
Li Lap charged Malay Abdullah with assault and
battery. Li Lap presented a piteous spectacle,
his face being covered in every getatable section
with sticking-plaster. The case was dismissed,
and next day Li Lap removed his sticking-plaster
and presented an unscarred phiz to the Mon-
grelian heavens.
. * * *
“ Suffolk ” : “Silurian ’’ (8., 2/3/'o> „
footprints in carboniferous sandstone
behStKpbed of thediXict co/ftfwhh
a Tertiary deposit. One impression is of the foot of some
huge creature with three toes, the imprint being two
inches deep by 12 across. Another imprint has four toe-
marks, and is Bin. across. There are also bird-tracks like
those of an emu, Jin. deep and 7Jin. long. These speci-
mens are now in Moree (N.S.W.) School of Arts library,
along with the human foot-track already referred to.
Other tracks on these rocks are of smaller animals with
thumbs—either bears or opossums. The writer surmises
that these rocks were a refuge to men and beasts whilst
terrible convulsions of nature were in progress —the sur-
face of the rocks having been subjected to the action of
fire for a period—and that the living creatures thus tak-
ing refuge were probably consumed.
* * * m
Reported that a camel-train Westward-
bound turned back some miles the other side of
Nocundra (N.S.W.) and delivered its loading
at that shilling-a-nip township. Where things
are so bad that a camel can’t travel they speak
for themselves.
* * * m
How the kanaka improves in years and in
wisdom! The latest development re Tommy
Tanna concerns his unwillingness and absolute
refusal to pay his debts, at the same time that he
puts a handsome sum in the savings’-bank. Isn’t
it time he got a vote for Thrift ?
* * * *
The Bulletin has often asseverated that
the Kanaka makes progress. A few weeks ago a
Polynesian on the Lower Burdekin, who held
several hundreds of pounds in trust for the other
“ boys” (until they should return to the Islands),
collared the loot and departed. If Billy Mallicolo
had only been a church member and a pillar of
the sanctuary the thing would have been complete
and beautiful.
* * • *
Tommy Tanna takes his own peculiar view
of the various functions of civilisation. If a
policeman arrests him when rowdy or drunken —
well and good. Tanna bears the officer no grudge
—it was only the man’s duty. But if a civilian
assists the police (when called upon) in checking a
Kanaka riot, then the Polynesian regards the
citizen so meddling with undying hatred, and
works off his spleen at the very first chance. .
* * * •
Governor Broome once visited the mission
station at New Norcia, W.A., and whilst
rambling through the grounds he came across one
of the blacks belonging to the station, and spoke a
few kindly words m broken English. Much to
the Governor’s astonishment, the black answered
him in Latin—a language with which H.Ex. had
only a “bowing” acquaintance. The Gov. never
fully recovered from the shock. Some enterprising
W.A. scribe should tell us more about New
Norcia.
* * * *
“ Peter K.” : H. J. Mac. (B.
3/11/’00) is wrong in saying that the
Australian aborigines hold to no
hard and fast rules of ceremony in
connection with the burial of their
dead. The Kolor or Mt. Rouse tribe,
the Kuurn-kopan-noot tribe and the
Peak Whurrong, or Hopkins River
tribe, have always adhered to the
following ceremonies in connection
with burials : Children are rolled in
bark and placed in a hollow tree till
dry, when they are removed and
burnt. An ordinary member of a
tribe, if he dies under ordinary cir-
cumstances, is rolled in an opossum-
rug, placed between two sheets
of bark, and buried together with
all his spears and ornaments. If,
however, the weather is too warm to
permit of the full burial ceremony,
the corpse is burnt. A chief is
always burnt and some of his bones
are carried about by his widow for a
certain time.
“ Brew.” : Re puppy-suckling
women. Humboldt saw a South
American Indian woman suckling a
small pig—a practice common enough
also among the Maoris when an
infant died. The Esquimaux rear
puppies in this way, and the wives
of dog-loving Lancashire lads are
credited witli doing the same should
“ t’awd beteh ” peg-out inopportune-
ly. While upon mammarv subjects,
it may be mentioned that multi-
plicity of breasts (polymazia) is fairly
common in hurnans. In ’B6 a Ger-
man woman was found by a leading
Berlin surgeon to possess ten well-
developed mainline, and present
writer has seen a Bcugainvil’e Island
woman with four. Such super-
numerary organs occur sometimes
in curious places—as in the armpit,
shoulder, thigh, and even the face.
The peculiarity seems to depend
mainly on heredity, but primarily
it is a simple enough instance of
atavism (reversion to an earlier type
of the race).
A noted character up North in the 7U’s
was a long, lean and very ugly Englishman, who
received £3OO a year from his relatives on condi-
tion that he never set foot in the old country—a
s ?" kt r i *r*» frr** «* big
r ®tiuned m ohaige of the family butler. Despite
his ill looks he was intensely vain, and imagined
no woman could resist his fasoinations Once
when staying at the plantation of a man who had
l„„ . „ . , , , . ~ „ .
. 0 . Wl^ ) llln > Kanaka maids
caught him, mid nodings on, dodging round their
quarters, wound him up in a couple of clothes
M ne ?’ LS au< long-pig ’ fashion, deposited him on
the laundry table and then brought their mistress
amt two or three lady guests to view the find,
r or mcmths he lived on an island, calling himself
a l°*'d, anti going about stark naked in the
summon Here lie had four devoted gins, whom
, us , !jo floor with a nulla-nulla when dis-
pleased. He was, m fact, greatly beloved by all
"'Sg" to
thing is that all his brothers and sisters were
gf &'lT Public' 6 X ,i?^ ta ¥
ess .than five public schools in England had
, B lve him up as a hopeless case, and before
he was 16 he had “run away” from home or
school 11 times.
OUR PAGE FOR THE YOUNG.
Conducted by a single young lady of 45, who will seek to incul-
cate a moral lesson each week.
“I'm not ’lowed to speak to ’im — ’s father’s puttin’ up for the
Senate!”
“Yril”: To “Yale” (8., 26/l/’01). I
have spent hundreds of nights sleeping out in the
open, and have watched animals clean through
stilly nights, but cannot say I ever noticed the
phenomenon referred to by Stevenson. In the
fall of the year, however, about an hour before
dawn, symptoms of unrest often appear in human
beings, and sometimes in animals. This, I think,
is due to the chill of approaching dawn affecting
animal life when it is at its lowest point; that is
furthest away from the vivifying influence of the
sun. Of course the dawn chill is apparent all
through the year, but it is most pronounced in the
fall.
“Peepar”: He hares getting
inside enclosures which they could
not jump out of (“RWS,” 8.,
27/10/’O). I have often experienced
the same thing ; but, after mature
consideration, concluded to avoid new
whisky !
“ P.” : Re “ Mac.’s ” inquiry
(8., 13/10/'0). I once had a flying-
squirrel which was, to all appear-
ances, a hermaphrodite, and was
otherwise deformed, the hinder limbs
being missing below the joint where
the ■‘wing” or web joins the leg.
When walking it used to draw the
hind-quarters after it.
* * • •
“Flabby Paul”: “H.S.” is
right (8., 13/10/’G) about a 4ft. bin.
goanna being a monster—of the black
variety; but I have seen a yellow
goanna all but 7fb. long—sft. to 6ft.
being not uncommon.
* * * *
“Fortuna ” : Re “ W.J.’s” par
(8., 20/10/’0) as to jibs and their
cure. Long experience leads me to
recommend an emphatic use of the
flat of a shovel. Have never known
it fail.
* * * *
Fleas are unknown out back on
the W.A. goldfields, but those at
Esperanee Bay have frequently been
mistaken for eagles.
• * * *
“Daw”: Can any zoological
reader tell me why some birds hop,
while others walk or run? I used to
think length of leg had to do witli
the matter, but I have noticed that
while the “Twelve Apostles” pad
the hoof, bower-birds, quite as tall,
hop as if in a sack-race, and the tiny
bush-doves, with legs like wax vestas,
run like lamplighters.
“ Yril ” : Strategic mis-
takes are not confined to
humans. Last summer Peak
Downs (C.Q.) district was
specially favored by rains,
and grass being abundant,
the inevitable plague of grass-
hoppers supervened. Mil-
lions strong the army moved
northwards on its devastat-
ing tour until it struck the
drought - affected country.
For two days it pressed on-
ward, but on the fourth day a
retrograde movement set in,
and continued all through
the fifth day. Riding north-
erly a few days after, I
found corpses in millions.
Another Retreat from Mos-
cow !
• * * *
“J.S.D.”: A certain
walla by-hunter in Singleton
(N.S.W.) district averages
£5 per week during winter.
He has located along the
mouutain tracks a series of
running wire-loops, hanging
close to the ground, which
catch the marsupials as they
bound up the mountains to-
wards morning from the
water-holes. In the morning
the snarer goes his rounds, skins the captives, and
re-sets the traps for the next night.
* * * *
The M.L. Govt, is taking the Maori
census. After two days’ work one of the
enumerators on the west coast of the North Island
had only got three names. The tribe he was
visiting unanimously refused to give names,
stating that the Govt, only wants the information
so as to know how many Maoris it would have to
fight. There is likely to be still more trouble
further up the coast, in the Te Whiti country.
* * * *
“Wandering J.” : Re malarial fever and
mosquitoes: I have seen both whites and abori-
ginals dying from fever where there were no mos-
quitoes. At the Comet River, C.Q. railway, 20
years ago, after a heavy shower of rain at night,
the ground in the morning would be covered by a
film of greenish jelly, £-inch thick, which disap-
peared as the sun rose. This was the cause of the
fever—the germs are vegetable, not animal. Also
there are plenty of mosquitoes at Klondyke, and
other cold parts, but no malarial fever. The
annoyance of mosquitoes, however, makes a per-
son worried and weak, and, consequently, more
subject to any infection that may be about.
[The recent experiments of Ross, Manson, Celli and
others have definitely proved the causative agent of
human malaria to be a species of mosquito (anopheles).
Without the anopheles there is no malaria. No race of
men possesses any hereditary immunity from malaria, and
blacks are as readily affected by it as Europeans, although
both by evolutional habits may adapt themselves to
escape infection. The Australian black has not had time
to evolve any such means, for the introduction of the
anopheles and its coincident disease has occurred subse-
quent to the colonisation of Australia by Europeans.
The stated non-existence of mosquitoes in the locality
named by “ VV J.” must be due to a perhaps excusable
lack of observation, if the disease were true malaria. The
anopheles does not hum, and is not nearly as annoying as
the ordinary eulex, hence its presence maybe easily over-
looked. The mosquitoes oft Greenland and Klondyke
belong to the culex class, and do not convey malaria to
man, although they are capable of doing so to birds.
The actual “germ” of malaria is distinctly animal, as
may be proved by a visit to any up-to-date laboratory,
and the cycle of development in acute cases of disease
has been demonstrated many times within the last
couple of years.—Ed. B.J
* * * *
A two-year-old cross-bred (Roinney-
raerino) wether, at Guyral (N.S.W.), yielded 241 b.
wool. Weight of sheep, 1751 b.
HE HAD STRUCK TROUBLE.
SIGNOR STONNIBROKA (who hats unsuccessfully tapped the
boss for a job): “Ah, de poor fella me-a I Monkea
in de hospital, organa in de pawn-shope, you no
givea mea de job. What I do? De poor fella me-al”
COULDN'T SCORE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ I was fishin’ in the Fitzroy,” said Magee, “ the other
week;
Billy Jonsin, he was with me, it was just by Splitter’s
Creek,
An’ me dog he was a-swimmin’ when he gives a kind of
squeak,
Disappears so bloomin’ sudden that we hadn’t time to
speak ;
An’ I looks at Bill in wonder,
Bill he says to me, ‘ By thunder,
In the name of seven devils, what has took that ’ere dog
under ? ’
“ An’ there was a cuddy drinkin’ just along the bank a
bit ;
Strike me han’some, ask Bill Jonsin, but I nearly had a fit,
When I sees a bloomin’ reptile, an’ you’ll hardly credit it,
Come an’ snatch that cuddy under just as easy as you
spit;
I ain’t no prevaricator,
For I likes the clean pertater,
It was thirty foot or more an’ was a whoppin’ alligator.”
Here he paused and told the pubby that he thought he’d
irrigate.
“ Score another drink to me,” he says, “an’ that ull
make it eight.”
But he met a stern refusal from the whisky-potsntate,
Who implied that alligators couldn’t score upon his slate ;
“ You’re a blanky fabricator,”
Said the boose-manipulator ;
“ When you want another drink from me you bring that
alligator.”


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
Fox* the Skin.
Removes Freckles, Tan,Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling a»nd soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLANDS
ESSENCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland’s articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
The fruit crop is very good this year, and
the prudent housekeeper is busy looking after the
year’s supply of preserves and filling up shortages
in Jam Jars. There is but little satisfaction in
using a common, badly-fitting, badly-made jar,
which, moreover, is liable to break when the fruit
is poured in. Some new patterns have been intro-
duced this year by M‘Lean Bros, and Rigg, Ltd.,
Melb. and Sydney. Notably the Gilchrist —this is
a large-mouthed jar, with porcelain immerser ;
and the Canton jar, a clear, white glass, with easy-
fitting spring top showing the contents to the best
advantage.*
Lord George Bentinck, in England, paid
£1 every day for a necktie.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
Franz Josef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . . .
Order
SCHWEPPE’S
DRY GINGER ALE
La Nature gives, as well-authenticated,
the following extraordinary instance of the dis-
semination of snake-poison:—
A Brazilian mulatto, having been bitten on a finger by
a venomous snake (Lachesis rhombeata), promptly
chopped the digit off. After three days (during which
he experienced no ill-effects) he went back to bury the
severed finger, but found only the bare bones of it, and a
multitude of large black ants, locally called “ sard-sard,”
still busy on them. The ants attacked him, bit him on
the neck and arms, and made him retreat. The same
night he developed all the characteristic symptoms of
snake-poisoning - , and, despite medical aid, sqon died.
* * * '*
It was during the Franco-Prussian war.
A drover had ridden ahead to the township, and
on returning to camp in the evening he was be-
sieged for war news by his men—especially his
German cook. “The war is practically over,” he
said, “ and Germany is demanding a big indem-
nity. Terms are being arranged by that German
chap—Bisgig or Fisgig, or whatever his dashed
name is.” “ You vas not mean Yon Bismarck ? ”
asked the cook in horror. “ Ah, Bismarck, that’s
the name,” said the drover. “ Bismarck—Bisgig,
Fisgig,” said the cook, furiously ; then, suddenly,
“To hell mit you and your tarn sheep! 1 nod
shtob von meenit lonker mit you ! ” And he loft.
* • * *
“Pelican”: To “H.S.” fB., 26/l/’Ol.
Port Curtis (Q.) niggers also “plant” their
niggers on an elevated bier, but do not live there-
under. By the way, what about blood-poisoning
if the gins—cut and bleeding, as “H.S.” avers—
got any corpse-juice into open wounds ! P.C.
aboriginals also go in for ground and tree burial.
In the latter case they climb up a hollow tree to a
fair height, cut a hole into hollow, jam in cadaver
feet-foremost, and let it slide. This is considered
rather a swagger style— certainly dingo-proof and
supposed to be devil-proof.
* ■* * *
Overheard at a W.A. goldfield money-
order office : —M.O. Clerk (evidently from The
Rocks): “ What are yer waitin’ for, mum ? ”
Lady: “My ten shillings change.” Clerk: “I
give it ter yer.” Lady: “ I think not.” Clerk:
“Look in yer basket.” Lady (finds :
“ I beg your pardon.” Clerk (excitedly): “ How
dare yer insult a gentleman by tryin’ ter buzz ’im
fer half a ned ? ” Verbatim.
• * * *
“ N,Q.” : Can anyone tell me of a remedy
for ticks on dogs ? One of mine is so swarmed
with the pests that I cannot place a pin-point on
any part of his skin without “spearing ” a couple
of them.
* * * *
“ J. W.C.’’ to The Bulletin on the rabbit
trouble: —
W. Rodier (B.
/16/2/’01) states
that the in-
crease of rab-
bits is owing to
those misguided
persons who use
traps and phos-
phorised pol-
lard. Now, first
—as to Mr. Ro-
dier’s plan of
killing all does
and no bucks,
let me tell him
that in 78 when
the wave of rab-
bits was coming
into N. 8. W.
from 8. A. the
pioneers were
all does, which
should prove
that the des-
truction of the
females only
would be of
little use on say,
10,000 sq.-miles
of country, al-
though it would
do on 5 or 6
square-mile s.
The proper use
of phosphorised
pollard, in fact,
is the only prac-
tical method of
coping with the
pest. This is a
matter to which
I have given
.vears of study
and trial, and
say without fear
of contradiction
that anyone
knowing the
rabbit and its
habits,can, with
one bag of pol-
lard, absolutely
exterminate
every rabbit per
square - mile of
country treated
without cart.
No matter how
many there are,
the one bag of
pollard is
enough. lam
prepared at any
time to prove
this by actual
demonstration.
[At this rate,
a combination
of “J. W.C.’s”
method with
R o d i e r ’ s
should at all
events de-
prive bunny
of its last
chance.]
“ Pelican ” : Biking up
Clermont (C.Q.) way I noticed
seven emus on the track. Curio-
sity held them till I was about
ten yards away, then they started
off "ahead as pacemakers, just
keeping their distance. I didn’t
try to shake them up till we got
on a fine piece of road with a
slight down grade. Then I went
for them, got right up and set
mv bell going. Result, a mad
scatter in all directions.
* * . •
“ Alpar ” : “ Fairholna ”
(B. 27/10/’00) says “the wader-
iguana, when taking refuge in a
hollow trunk, has got to go
down head first.” That’s right
enough ; but he doesn’t climb
down. He simply lets himself
fall. I have heard that “dull
thud ” too often not to know - .
* * *
“ W.T.” : Those stone
circles and semi-circles(‘W.S.D.
B. 20/10/’00) are not the work of
hands. They are simply mar-
gins of baked clay where a stumj)
has been burned out. If ‘ W .S.D.
will dig at such a spot, he
will probably find charcoal and
bits of charred wood.
m * *
“ Dave ” : Once saw a fair-
sized snake coiled on the tele-
graph-wire near Cunningham’s
Gap. ’Twas half-way between
posts, and the birds were at him
hard. If he didn’t jump, or
climb a post, or wasn’t dropped
on the wire by a bird, then
can’t say how he got there.
Can’t say either if he ever got
down.
“ Snell ” on toil used as sport :
When out biking recently on a red-hot Sab bath was
attracted by a crowd gathered in a quarry, a "“ | 0 ? 1 t
tigating, found two sweating men belting away h&ra a
drills, while two more streaming enthusiasts sat. turn
ing.” Was told that the men were not working, oul
seeing which could knock-in a 3ft. the shortest
time—“ just for a lark.” Couldn’t see the humor myselt
in consequence of the glass being up amongst the cen
turies, but have found the same disposition to maKe
pleasure of maniacal graft amongst Australian woi
many departments. Shingle-splitters will split against
time to put in a spare holiday ; post-hole sinkers wi p_
themselves against each other to sink post-holes for c I
drinks ; and I have seen many pick-pointing contests on
A SHORT MEMORY.
“ BRISBANE, Saturday.— Fourteen returned Queensland soldiers, all invalided, reached
Brisbane by mail train on Friday night. There was much comment on the fact that no official
of any sort was at the station to meet them. All were strangers to Brisbane except two, and
the men only possessed between them a few shillings. They were compelled to seek shelter
for the night in boarding-houses.” —Daily paper.
CRIPPLE: “ Well, I'm back from the war, you see.” SMUG: “ Wot war?"
mining fields on broiling Sundays. Argues a fine energy,
but rather a narrow application of human possibilities in
the way of relaxation.
ACROSS THE TRACK.
" St. Patrick's Day in the morning."
The tree is there to stay,
And it’s ten long weary, rocky miles
Around the other way.
Chis.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Yo notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Coonabarrabran : Writer is nearly bald himself
after a 23 years hand-to-hand straggle with his hair. The
only things that seem to arrest the fleeting remnants of
his thatch are having it singed regularly and the use
of tricopherous. But even these maybe a delusion
W.J. : Moist, small poem like a fly in a milk-jug
Ghost: Laid....C. Quoyle: Don’t ask us—ask the re-
spectable S.M. Herald, which is the palmists’, fortune-
tellers’ and clairvoyants’ stamping-ground.. . .A.K.O. :
What can you expect of an allegedly-patriotic association
bossed by a man named Nobbs?... .Chronic S. (otherwise
“ Mariquita ”): You are but a clumsy disguiser of hand-
writing. As regards “ Santa Olaus,” what was meant was
that, though the “Santa” was originally a blunder, the
name, as it stands, is now so naturalised as an English
designation that to alter the spelling would savour of
that affectation of cheap superiority which is so
characteristic of your own letters... .0.W.G.: Please don’t
mail such well-worn chestnuts. Next time let your con-
tribution be “The Blessed Damozel” or the Ten Command-
ments, so that you may have a chance of taking - us in....
E.A.B. (Ben.;: “Lay to your book” is a good motto.
Also, never spoil a good thing. Likewise, invariably boil
your milk. That a man succeeds in one newspaper doesn’t
necessarily mean that he can succeed in another news-
paper. ... iT.H.F. :If this country would only worry one-
tenth as much about paying its debt as it does about the
Referendum and the Initiative it would be a better coun-
try in the end A.O.H. : Sketch quite unimportant
enough to be from life G. Mas. : If the newsvendor
sold you a Bulletin with the heading of the front page
cut out, the inference is that he swindled the proprietary
of this paper, the heading in question being sent in as a
counting-house voucher on which unsold copies are
allowed f0r..... M.W.K. : No Australian paper has ever
had a greater respect than The Bulletin for the Supreme
Court. This paper has, by speaking out, done a million
times more to maintain the dignity of the Supreme Court
than have the obsequious prints which crawled and koo-
tooed to Judges who dragged their high offices in the
gutter. The Bulletin has nothing to recall in this
regard ; it never attacked any .Judge who was worthy of
respect.... .C.W. : That the site of .the Federal Capital
should be nationalised and let on lease was,
we remember, advocated by Arthur Rae at a
public meeting in IVagga as far back as 1891
Gingaldra: We repeat that Mr. W. B. Melville’s
candidature has no Bulletin endorsement, and
he has no authority for dating any of his elec-
tioneering literature as from The Bulletin office
Dubbo : Chestnutty, also incredible... .G.M.H. : No
time to decipher such a “ fist.”.... V.G.P. : Neither of
much quality.. . Ped :No special force or skill. Just like
a thousand other such yarns.... Mollie : On the alleged
facts you are clearly entitled to a divorce, and should get
one. It would cost you less than £5 if you sued in forma
pauperis. Advertising that you intended to get married
after his nine years’ absolute desertion would not
enable you to make another legal marriage logolite :
Thanks, but you don’t send us anything very new about
Tibooburra..Ne’er-do-weel : Phis, story rather slow
C.A.O. : Twenty-three sides fcp. for a pocket-handker-
chief paper like this ! What are you giving us ! A.M.:
Yes, Melba did sing before the Queen—at Windsor Castle,
with the De Reszke brothers, in a trio from “ Rigoletto.”
Vulcan : Funny enough ; but, of course, as it was the
act of fishing in the reservoir that was objectionable, the
court was right in giving to the word “fishing” its ex-
tended meaning H.R. (Q.) : Skeleton too bare and
bony. Put some flesh on it Labyrinth : Some natural
descriptive power, but grievous lack of skill and experi-
ence. . . ,R.R. : No more friction-fire-producing... .Quilp
N. : The practical-joking idiot is perennial. Nevertheless
there should be special penalties provided for such
murderous foolery as you particularise. “ Song-ship,”
mere random rhyming Slim Jim: Pretty good, but
unusable in present form Barcoo : Fact that it has
already been printed is fatal Blue Gum: Good enough
idea, if better handled and further developed. You shut-
down just When the thingisbeginningto have possibilities.
.. .. F. W. : That appeal throws stale.... Bilby : Sorry the
antiquity doesn’t compensate for lack of interest
: Possibly.... H.M.: Not a bad yarn ; not quite in-
terest enough. Verse a little wooden ; you want another
101 b steam-pressure... Alone : Possibly “Eves.”....
0.8. (Wav.) : None good enough Prospect : Will try
and use “ Conscripts.”....Riverina: May pass muster
New’towii . Model Guvnor General” too labored
E.G. : Will print Three Bills.” Crumbs: Many
thanks... .Steel Bar : Certainly it would be possible. ..
A Visitor : Hobart wants to be described bv someone of
much greater curse-power than you . .Sanitary Engineer :
Much too voluminous Rex : Not much point in either
0 f them... .G. (Longreach) : Hardly publishable
T.H.M. : Sorry not usable Scraps : No, thank you
F.S. (Melb.) : Not up....F.8. : Not force enough....
: p°°£ d ’ SCnd address Y • •
Mars B. : Won t suit E.R. : Perhaps one, if you alter.
Returned.. A J.L.B. : You mean well, but ....W.P. :
Don’t care for M.M. : Unusable Vulcan :No
Waitu : We aren’t taking any more A. B. Worthington
H, stor - v ; Ike theme is played out. Let the fools amuse
themselves! J. : V hat court? Which magistrate?
What was the name of the alleged barrister’s son ? If the
affair was a scandal why do you make so much mystery
about it?....C.8.: Barn- Sullivan’s real name was
Barn Sullivan... ,H. : Anyhow, without a Pen-
sion System, Victoria could have had no efficient Civil
Service in the goldfields rush....E. Trem. : Apparently
only one available.. .. Percy H. (Ad.) : Most of them very
flimsy.... W.K. (Tas.) : Many thanks.... J. A. M’Kenzie
U a r.) • we know none of them. They did not
appear m Bulletin so far as we remember A. P. Har :
Not a bad little sketch, but it would only he interpreted
as a comment on a pending divorce-case... .W.E.G. :
Pl ease I,oil it all.down to ten or a dozen directly-written
!l!A s i [’“T we wdl P rint -• • • Pover : V ery awkward and
ill-finished ; syntax shakv and spelling defective..,.
HP . But what , an offensive expression is “Relict”!
Relic, leavings, rag-bag.... Riverina : Will print...
Robt. B. : G00d.... C.M.P. : “ Aboriginality ” items are
often long held over if not dependent on date.. . .Loe :
“In the meantime.” Why not “meanwhile”? Much
shorter.... W.P. J. : Can’t say, but the mortality in
typhoid cases at the Alfred Hospital, Sydney, was 12T
per cent, for last year.... Lai : Too cheaply melodramatic.
••■■6x 8: Pointless doggerel... .Curia : Too tame and
lame W.H.I. (W.A.): Has a flavour of personal experi-
ence about it, but lacks force and consecutiveness....
R.A.K. : “Visiting,” rather good character sketch, but
hardly in our line. Other somewhat flat and feeble....
Alone: Verses no good.. . .G.A.H. : Nothing in the
handling to compensate for the fact lhat the theme is
°ue of the commonest in fiction... .Truth : It’s no news
that snakes can swim well, and their climbing abilities
have now been sufficiently testified to in these columns,
L.A. : “Double Aspect," some skill and considerable
insight, hut quite' out of Bulletin's line Allan :
“ Evolution not quite distinguished enough.. . A.D.B. :
“ Disillusioned ” declined.... R.O. : Join a cannibal club,
and get eaten at once.... Dawson : Eat R.O. above....
Squib: “ What is Life?” would unsettle too many
readers. Don’t be so darned original.... F.W. : Re-
turned.... H.E.B. : Then we’ll acknowledge it now, and
refuse it... .Tim B. : If you have an aged mother, pause !
(If you have no aged mother, say you’ll pause, and we’ll
supply one)... .Narranghi : And Echo says, “ But why ? ”
H.V.N. : None quite good enough Rial ha : Too
school-teachy... .Sandy : Considering.... VV.F. :“ Reason
and Liberty ” gives no reason why you should be let loose..
S. Cecil C. : Right....Quex : So far it has been profitable
and well-managed ; it is now extending its operations....
Canoblas : W. B. Melville isn’t running for your electorate
“ at the instigation of,” or even with the approval of The
Bulletin. The Bulletin has no hand in Mr. Melville’s
candidature ; it regards him as likely to do nothing be-
yond imperilling the chances of Wise, who is undoubtedly
the proper man to vote for. . .Dodo : All lack interest.
E.S.W. : One invocation to Maud blasted... .A. G. A. :
“ Macpherson ” a hit 510 w.... Barr : But is the moth
foolish ? Some moths would sooner die in a hot pang of
life than reach an old moth-age of monotonous days
J.M.A.: Don’t much care for. C.V. : Won’t do
Ignotus : Praise sent to author H.B. : “Gossip” un-
usable.
**■
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
Inartistic Novice : It will make a picture... .Jim : One
may possibly serve... .Cape : Do you guarantee origi-
nality? Washington S. : Very sorry indeed, hut we
can’t make your interesting photos, printable. Are try-
ing “Meat-hungry.”. . ,E. Spots (L., Tas.): Do you
guarantee originality of all?


Federal elections.
THE PARLIAMENTARY ROLLS.
A correspondent wishes to know what
P , 8 , . use< * fo*" the forthcoming
VoX °>
X>o4
|f]W l 'e«jrtti'7ce Jolfijyie
ifK)? s«-r) -.—-
*lt be V 1< ” , 2)
HPs u,,tle
-K b*/®.
ou-r
Se^'>' tf l / "J
ioiffc Wvmo'« , .»
In so many
Voi'ds, Mr, Harper’s explanation is
tfmt If tl»e Barton Government
tbelr supporters free to vote against
woman suffrage, be will do wlmt Is
right in the matter; but if they make
an oppeul to their supporters, be will
do what is jrrong.
,r
ijj”
m
6cxK you f
Oneo^tjJiisl). '. — h
St y I’w) 2\»>
I am very Catholic,’* replied Professor
Pe'erson ivitn smile. “I can enjoy both
classical and pbpular music-, and will do
ray best to educate..the public taßte in
both. Because a song is liked by. the
publj? is not an indication that at. is bad
hn usle, as some seem to think. *
Then you think there is still hope for
'the man who likes “The Mikado’ ?
“J think ‘The Mikado” one of the most
delicate and exquisite examples of a cer-
tain type of classical music that has ever
been composed. Sullivan has left us a
wonderful series of beautiful operas, and
his death was nothing less than a‘very
great loss to music/' r
Itftcr V«i»7
ycW K^f'J
I DECORATING THe'caTHEDRAL.
I The Metropolitan Gas Company, in ad-
Idition to illuminating its own offices, has
■ obtained permission to erect half-a-dozen*
I lamp-posts in the Cathedral grounds, justj
I inside-the iron lence. The posts have been'
I placed in position, and it is proposed to
I mount oh th«-Mi bunches of brilliant incan-
Ldnn-lii Apart, however; (rom
upo “ a °“ e
|"l£e O»sW ■ J c or ‘*>s l*bcc Vr
be 'fcjv '' l^T
\ sjjirnb^'
'■«r-
W' The annuaJ conference of the Wesleyan
¥ Churches of Victoria and Tasmania wan
' continued to-day at Wesley Church*
under the presidency of the Rev. A. IV
Edgar
\ BALAAM’S ASS AND JONAH’S
V WHALE. j
Dr. Watkln said a section of the press
had Inadvertently misrepresented him.
A good Methodist had written to Father
Watsford asking what had come over
Dr. Watkln. since '• he had de-
clared Balaam's ass and Jonah'B
to be fables. This question-.
Ing Wesleyan had been misinformed.
He (Dr / -Watkin) did hot declare that,
these stories were fables. (Hear, hear.):
He had not lost faith in the miraculous.'
(Hear, hear.) He believed that to serve
a moral purpose God could make even;
an ass speak, or make a prophet who is a'
fugitive from duty comfortable in the in- i
side of a whaie. (Laughter and applaute./ /\\
]>i cthsu. of j
JJ W? XT <. wWle .—-. J „ , J
Jsnead-leKS+' 6elieVe«s /efr ,sobM d®sKe^
MELBOURNIANA.


The features need no. be
“PARKES’ DEAD HOUSE—AGAIN.”
—See Bulletin of Sept. 3rd. 1887.
Fourteen years ago The Bulletin aWe plans
and specifications for propose _ Lyne-O’Sullivan
“It 3 costs. her, .to
alterations in his original design.
First, for the statue of Parkes substitute that of O’Suilivan (on
the principle that a live donkey is better than a dead lien). He
might be shown in an attitude of inconsolable grief, shedding
“ practicable” tears for the nation’s more or less distinguished dead.
The water-power for the lachrymose- stream to be supplied by a
huge windmill fixed to. the statue’s hat-(wind is cheap and plentiful
in Australia, and somehow the association of ideas seems strikingly
s* appropriate), and the Botany swamp could be utilised as a source of
i supply.
The ?tatue to be mounted on a pedestal formed liSce a safe. The latter
(otherwise empty) might contain the pumping apparatus.
P.S —lf these plans should be adopted, “ Hop.” will make no charge.
Still he cannot forget that the Duke of York,, who is to lay the corner-
stone has his portmanteau filled with knighthoods and things 'which
his pa has told him to distribute where they will do the most good.
Few great statesmen die, ancT none resign, so it might
U be as well to appoint a Govt, official to provide corpses
on second thoughts, our artist would he willing to accept tins billet
instead of the knighthood.
ONCE AGAIN THE DEAD HOUSE.


The Straits Times on the S’African war :
Until now blood has been running only in tiny rivulets.
In the interests of peace it will in future have to run in
streams. There will be no peace in S’Africa until the
Boers have been exterminated, and no sound is heard on
both sides of the Vaal but the lamentations of women
weeping for their fallen husbands, sons, fathers, and
sweethearts. Complete suppression without mercy, a
curt refusal of each request for negotiation, relentless
attacks and persecution should be henceforward Eng-
land’s policy. When the Boers fall back into Zululand
we should allow the Zulus to enter the Transvaal terri-
tory, where our own troops cannot be employed, and
u'hen the Boer women have to suffer from this, let them
remember that it was they who forced the men to fight.
When we have first brought the Boers to submission, the
British army in the two Republics must exterminate the
Boer vermin, and soak the soil with their blood that the
grass may grow the quicker.
Again the fearsome Melbourne “honor-
arium ! ” A suburban butcher, who had for some
time diddled an employe by paying him 30s. a
week while his competitors were paying the legal
minimum wage of 45s. was cordially sympathised
■with by the local Mayor, himself an employer, who
remarked: “We will be legislated out of this
country soon,” and regretfully fined him one shil-
ling without costs. Which is only another argu-
ment for the abolition of the honorary-magistrate
scandal. How enthusiastically would this magis-
terial apologist for sweating have jumped on the
employe had he stolen fifteen shillings’ worth of
his employer’s meat for several consecutive weeks !
It would doubtless have been months “without
the option.”
ELECTRIC
MINING
MACHINERY
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
KRUPP BALL MILLS
NOVES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; and 15 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
.DODGE,
WOOD
SPLIT
PULLIES
Guaranteed to transmit from 25
to 60 per cent, more power than
any iron pulley made with same
tension of belt.
70 per cent. Lighter than cast
iron.
40 » ii wrought
iron or steel.
No Key Seat to cut.
No Set Screw to twist off.
No Shaft to take down.
Perfect Balance.
Perfect Shaft Fastening.
Write for Prices and Particulars to Sole Agents
for Australasia—
PJIRKEam Co.[td.
60 Ciarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT
Issue of £1,000,000 Debentures
Being- part of a sum of £2,374,213 authorised to he raised by the QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT
LOAN ACT, 64 Viet. No 24, 1900.
To be in addition to, and to rank pari passu with QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT LOANS already existing.
Repayable at Par, Ist January, 1951.
but may be redeemed on or after Ist JANUARY, 1926, upon twelve months’ notice being given.
Interest being at the Rate of JE3J per Centum per Annum,
payable from Ist January, 1901.
THE TREASURER of the STATE of QUEENSLAND invites tenders for £1,000,000 QUEENSLAND GOVERN-
MENT DEBENTURES bearing interest at the rate of £3J per cent, per annum, repayable at par on the Ist
JANUARY, 1951, but which may be paid off at par on or after the Ist JANUARY, 1926, upon twelve months' notice
being given by notice in the Government Gazette and in the principal newspapers circulating in Australia.
These Debentures will be in addition to, and will rank pari passu with the Queensland Government Loans already
existing.
The Loan is secured upon the Consolidated Revenue of Queensland and is part of a loan of £2,374,213 required
for: —
Railways_ .. £1,624,393
Electric Telegraphs
Defence of the Colony
Buildings
Marine Department
Water Supply
Loans to local bodies
Sugar Works Guarantee Acts
13,211
88,249
324,352
59,000
25,323
189,685
50,000
£2,374,213
A full six
Dividends
The Debentures will be issued free of Stamp Duty, and will be made out payable to the holder.
The Dividends on the Debentures will be payable half-yearly, on the Ist JANUARY and Ist JULY,
months’ interest calculated upon the nominal amount of Debentures will be payable on the Ist JULY, 1901.
will be paid, free of exchange, by the Banking Agents of the Government at Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne
Adelaide.
Tenders may be for the whole or any part of the Debentures in multiples of £lOO. No tender must be for less
than £lOO. Each tender must state what amount of money will be given for every £lOO of Debentures. All Tenders
must be at prices which are multiples of sixpence.
Tenders must be addressed to the Treasurer and delivered at the Treasury, Brisbane, before 2 o’clock on TUES
DAY, the 19th MARCH.
The Treasurer retains the right of accepting or rejecting any Tender.
A deposit of £5 per cent, on the amount of Debentures tendered for must be paid at the time of the delivery of the
Tender, but the deposit must not be enclosed in the Tender. Where no allotment is made the deposit will be returned
and in case of partial allotment the balance of the deposit will be applied towards the first instalment.
The dates at which the further payments on account of the Loan will be required are as follows
On Thursday, 28th March, 1901, j so te ." der .®f , for ea s; h hundred Pounds of Debentures a»,
J { when added to Deposit, will leave Eighty Pounds (Sterling) to be mid •
On Thursday, 25th April, 1901, £3O per cent. ;
On Monday," 27th May, 1901, £3O per cent. ;
On Thursday, 27th June, 1901, £2O per cent. ;
but the instalments may be paid in full on or after the 28th March, 1901, under discount at the rate of £2 per eent.
per annum. In the case of default in the payment of any instalment at its proper date, the deposit and instalments
previously paid will be liable to forfeiture.
No further issue of this Loan will be made within the Commonwealth until after twelve months from this date.
Brokerage of ££ per cent, on the face value of the Debentures will be allowed upon accepted Tenders to members
of recognised Stock Exchanges of Australia.
The only Loans authorised and floated in Queensland by Local Authorities are those issued by the Municipalities
of North and South Brisbane amounting in all to £490,000. All other Loans to Local Authorities, including those for
the construction of Waterworks and for Harbour Improvements, are made by the Government and are included in
the general debt of Queensland. There is no floating debt represented by Treasury Bills.
Applications must be made upon the printed forms which may be obtained at the Treasury, Brisbane; the
Queensland National Bank, Limited, Sydney ; the National Bank of Australasia, Limited, Melbourne" and Adelaide.
THE TREASURY,
Brisbane, 21st February, 1901.
The Royal Agricultural Society of D.S.UI.
FIRST
Commonwealth Show
3rd to 10th APRIL, 1901.
;£3QQO £3ooo
ENTRIES in the various sections close as follows
THURSDAY, 28th FEBRUARY
SATURDAY, 9th MARCH...
TUESDAY, 12th
SATURDAY, 16th „
MONDAY, 18th
WINE.
HORSES, PONIES, CATTLE, PICS.
POULTRY, PICEONS, CACE BIRDS, DOGS.
FARM PRODUCE, BUTTER, &o. ; FOODS, &c.;
HONEY.
MACHINERY, COMMON AND LIBERAL ARTS,
COACHBUILDING, &c. ; FERMENTED DRINKS.
EXCURSION TRAINS to Show from all parts
of Australia.
BPECIAL RATES for Exhibits by Rail or Steamer.
PRIZE SCHEDULES and FORMS OF ENTRY may be obtained on application to—
F. WEBSTER,
Tatters all’s Buildings, Secretary.
Hunter Street, Sydney,
Now
Ready.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d; Posted Sea..
Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED),
DAPTO (Liaise Illawarra), near SYD3XTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
fine silver.
■ :
MAKERS OF
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILLAWABBA”
..BKAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S. W. ; or Martin Peace SYDNEY.


YOUE Wedding Presents canbeSupplied by A- SAUNDERS, 22*. Jeweller & Silversmith.
A. BAVNDMB.
BISCUIT. —Floral China, real
Silver-plated Mounts, 20s.
Similar designs, 15s, 265, 30s. Very
pretty ana acceptable present.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ FRIEND.—Pure Solid Silver
Mounts, 18s 6d.
Very useful and acceptable presents.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALAD BOWL and SERVERS, with Silver-
plated Mounts and Handles, 30s.
Similar, 20s and 255.
Pretty Floral China,-255, 30s, £2 and £2 10s.
- -?
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SETS.—Pure Solid Silver, Chased
Mounts, 16s ; larger sizes, 20s, 255, and 30s.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS. —Pure Silver Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, nicely Chased with pretty Red
Glass 12s 6d ; with Fluted Edges, 16s 6d ;
Double Jam, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE.—Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, 16s 6d ; Chased as
above, 20s, 255, and 30s. Post free.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER.—Pure Silver Electro-plated on
White Metal, nicely chased, 8s 6d. Round, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALTS. —Silver-plated Stand, Colored Glass,
with Spoons, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s pair.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER.— Beautifully Chased and Orna-
mented pure Silver, Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, 15s 6d. Large size, 20s.
Four o’clock TEA SET with Covers, pure Silver Electro-plated
* Metal, first-class English Make, £2 10s.
Similar Styles, £2, £2 15s, £3, £3los, £4.
on White
Ladies kindly call and see our Beautifully-stocked Showrooms.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAKE DISHES.—The very best finished puis
Silver Electro-plate, in various patterns.
20s, 22s 6d, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
A o'e’dc®EA SPOONS and TONGS in Silk-Lined Case
Emossed, 12s 6d. Extra Quality, 15s, 20s, 255.
ittSilsr-plate we guarantee to give every satisfaction
JriPttnrfiolid-Silver, 6 Spoons only 255, with Tongs
80s, 85s, £2, £2 10*.
A. SAUNDERB.
EGG OEUETS, pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, beautifully
Chased, 30s, 355, £2, and £2 10s.
Cheaper Style, 20s and 255.
Handsome and Useful Prf.sf,nt.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOLDING BISCUITS.—Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, £3, £3 10s, £4.
Can be used lor Cake or Sandwiches.
Old Plate
Made
Equal
To New.
pwpw»
wUuuttinnK!****
—"3
911
..
1
iinwipi
SwiiUSSSS"
ißtuuramw#-
mm
“Just What I Want!" SPOONS AND FORKB. A. SAUNDERS oan fill that want with a First-Class, Reliable Artlole.
EXTRA STRONG. Guaranteed to gflve you every satisfaction.
A 1 QUALITY is the very Highest Standard. Pure Silver Electro-plated on Hard White Metal. DINNER Spoons or Forks, 17s 6d halt-
dozen ; DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 12s 6d half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, 7s 6d half-dozen. .
B QUALITY is a Second Quality. Pure Silver Electro-plated on Hard White Metal. DINNER Spoons or Forks, 12s 6d half-dozen ,
DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 10s half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, 5s half-dozen. _.. .... titmmur
SOLID WHITE NICKEL SILVER, Wear White throughout. A Splendid Knockabout Spoon to save the Better Article. DUNJNmi
Spoons or Forks, 4s half-dozen ; DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 3s half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, Is 6d half-dozen.
Packed and Sent post free to all parts of the World. Kindly send your Orders to A. SAUNDERS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Small Size BUTTER.—AII Metal, Pure
Silver-plated, beautifully chased, 20s.
Extra ornamented, 255.
Call and See our
Displayed Showrooms!
WHISKY FLASK.
Silver-plated Bot-
tom and Patent
Top, 10s 6d, 12s
6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
A Warming Friend.
SERVIETTE RINGS, Pure
Silver-plated, 3s 6d. Simi-
lar Patterns, 2s 6d and 3s.
Wish Bone Design, 4s 6d,
5s 6d, and 6s 6d. Solid
Silver, similar to Pattern,
7s 6d, 10s, and 12s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, Makes Two Dishes, Pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, 355. A Useful and Acceptable
Present. SHALL WE SEND YOU ONE ?
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIVES.—Two Silver-plated, with Pearl
Handles, in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d. Other styles, 7s 6d,
10s 6d, and 12s 6d, in cases. JAM SPOONS.—Same
price ; without case, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d 6d, 5s 6d and
6s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
ORUET (Breakfast). —Pure
Silver Electro-plated on White
Metal, 10s 6d ; with 4 Bottles,
15s 6d and 17s 6d.
Makes a very nice present.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST BACK.— Pure Silver Electro-plated
on Hard White Metal, 12s 6d. Other styles,
similar, 8s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
4-bottle Lunch or Dinner CRUET, pure
Silver Electro-plated on hard White
Metal, 21s. Similar Styles, 255, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK BlSCUlT.—Silver-
plated Rime and Lids, with
Enamelled Lining, IBs 6d ;
with Ornamented Fluted
Rims, 20s; Plain, with Shield
only, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA POTS. —Pure Silver Electro-plated, on White
Metal, as pattern, 25s and 30s.
Different Pattern, 355, £2, £2 10s.
&
sSS
fit
. A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUETS.—First-class Pure Silver on
Hard White Metal, as pattern, with Shield,
£2 10s ; extra quality, £3, £3 10s, and £4.
Other patterns without Shields, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS.—Floral China, Pretty Design, with pure
Silver Electro-plated Stand, 15s 6d ; double, 265.
Latest Designs.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND,
can be used as a Teapot.—Pure Silver-
plated on White Metal, Beautifully
Chased and Ornamented, 355.
Embossed and Extra Chased, £2, £2
10s. Other Styles, £3 and £3 10s.
Handsome and Useful Article.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller & Sllversmltli,
A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PRESENTS.
815 Jeorge Street,
Nearly
Opposite
Railway
Station!
Sydney
OLD FLATS i%/r a EQUAL TO 3STBW. Bend Tour Addren.
Given,


The PUREST WmSKFY
in the World ...
GEO. ROE CO.
JOHN MEAGHER & GO.
A wjf ralasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Before booking your Steamship
passage, Write for Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing List with map’
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Goi!ins-st., Melbourne;
4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
G-O TO HBLL-
KjOLA NI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nag€Q,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
ij ATS.
•S-LVH
HATS
Patent
trade.
Mountcastle & Quaicfs
Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
All the newest shapes htted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
for a pearly skin and brilliant
Complexion. Chemists sell it.
NOTHING ELSE LIKE IT.
Used by the Elite of English
Society. S. Harvey, Limtd.,
London Bridge S.E.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
i i uvnituve and Fine Art A nctioneersy
Auction Booms, 324 George Street, Sydney
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, oonducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
£3?"' Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sala.
valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
HIGH-GRADE
FARIVI—
rf-
Massey-Harris Co, Ltd,
35 BROADWAY,
Georgo-s treet West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Australia can’t have Freetrade, and she
can’t have Protection, but she must have ME.”—
Gr. H. Reid.
Red-tape hasn’t yet made up its mind
whether N.S.W. is “state” or “colonv.” The
Govt. Gazette of the “State ” is issued ; but the
proclamations within refer to “state” and
“ colony ” indifferently.
“P.W.C.”: As a name for the Federal
capital [ would suggest “ Ellimatta,” a melodious
native name, meaning “our home,” or “our
residence.” And how would “ Waratah ” do as a
substitute for “New South Wales”?
Intelligent remark by Sydney Morning
Herald
It (Protection) is a policy which has, in almost every
case, been adopted by a fluke.
What a lot of flukes there must be in this world !
the clock moves on. Q. Works Minister
Leahy announces that some of the new railways
will be built under the direction of Govt, engineers
by day labor. Shade of John Robb ! What is
Banaualand coming to ? And this under the
Phi lp Government !
G H. Reid says he believes in removing
not only black but all colored labor from
Australia. Promises, promises, promises ! But
what did G. H. Reid every really do ? He was
Premier and had a chance to shut but the Hindoo
influx. Barton hadn’t.
As Col. Lassetter is the avowed champion
of the N.S.W. head-quarters military staff—a
crowd whose business it is to establish the nearest
approach possible to a military tyranny in Aus-
tralia—be will have the support of all intelligent
democrats in his Senatorial candidature.
Once again (at Newcastle this time) the
Labor Federal candidate is, not the brainy, cul-
tured democrat, hut the diligent departmental
log-roller—the man who has never said “801 ” to
the local party bosses, no matter what they did,
or neglected to barrack for a new culvert.
The M'Eacharn is truly iu a tight place.
As a big importer and shipper he lovesFreetrade,
vet he promises to support Barton’s Protectionist
policy. Also he believes in a “ White Australia,”
yet he asserts that “the employment of Kanaka
labor is essential for the sugar industry.”
ri N.S. Wales is still waiting to hear Sydney
Teleghaph say something about the immorality
of giving 50 per cent, protection to the N.S.W.
peany Freetrade paper by charging Jd. postage
on Queensland and Victorian and S.A. papers
while carrying the local one at the suffering tax-
payer’s expense.
“ The fallacy of protection is illustrated,”
says Mr. Milieu, “by the fact that after3s years’
assistance the Victorian manufactures still require
bolstering up.” Also the fallacy of eating and
drinking is shown by the fact that a healthy man
wants his breakfast this morning, although he
had breakfast yesterday morning.
Freetectionist Joe .Cook’s policy (as he
gave it to the electors of Parramatta electorate
recently):—
A Voice : “ Give us your policy.”
Mr. Cook : “ My policy is anti-Barton.”
Holy Joe Cook also said that Barton had no
policy. So Cook’s only policy is the policy of
being against the man that hasn’t any policy.
From Sydney D.T.
“ If it is to make the people rich, why,” asks Mr. Reid,
“do the Protectionists clamor for only moderate. Protec-
tion.”
If it was to make the people rich, why, asks The
Bulletin, did Reid and Co. give the people only
moderate Freetrade ? Why didn’t they wet their
Dry Dog !
Two pars, that kick one another on the
same page of J. Haynes’ organ :
Mr. John Haynes, M.L.A., yielding - to the advice of
many friends that his services are invaluable to his elec-
torate in the .State Parliament, has retired from his candi-
dature for Robertson in the Federal Parliament.
Mr. Haynes has retired from the Federal contest, being-
disinclined to incur the heavy expense and the risk of loss
to his journalistic business.
Sydney Telegraph :
It is reported that the banks in Queensland threaten
to stop all advances to sugar-growers if black labor is dis-
pensed with.
In which case there will be so much the more
room for a State Land Bank, like those already
at work in Maoriland, S.A. and Victoria. Even
the nigger has a silver lining.
At Kingston’s opening meeting in Ade-
laide Town Hall, although-three of his old col-
leagues, Cordon, Jenkins and O’Loughlin, were
present, Premier Holder was conspicuously
absent. There was much laughter when King-
ston demanded to know if there was a genuine
Freetrader in the audience, and a weak voice
replied “ Where’s Freddy Holder?”
The present sensation of Q. politics is the
flitting of Philp to S’Africa “for a much-needed
holiday.” There is, of course, something beneath
the distracted dry dog owner.
The Bulletin attache no importance to the rurnor that Georye Reid was bitten by his own
Dry Doy, and is sufferin' from hydrophobia.
IN TOPHET.-FRIGHTENED HE WOULD
BE O VAR WORKED.
INTERRUPTS: “I sail, Record as, you seem busy.
Why, you. haven’t rested for the last sixty
shades! What’s up?”
RECORDUS (keeper of the Liars’ Records): “ Oh,
there’s an election on tip above.”
INTERIURUPTUS: “ Well, look, old chap, your wife
wants you to return before the divorce-cases
come atony, because, you know.”
the surface, but so far the secret is well kept.
Rutledge takes the reins, and Foxton, who is
senior, still keeps his smile outwardly when the'
candid friends-.ask why. Rutledge could have had
Drake’s job if he wanted it. P’raps he saw a bit
ahead.
Ex-speaker Cowley, now a Queensland
Federal candidate:
I have advocated the employment of kanakas in
Queensland for over 20 years, and 1 am not going back on
it now.
Some men are so peculiarly constituted that they
would be proud of having been in gaol 20 years, or
of having been dead for 35 years and six months.
Democratic H. B. Higgins, the most respectable
and conscientious anti-Bill who appeared in the
Australian field, is regarded as having a decent
show for northern Melbourne at the Fed.
elections. One of his opponents is “Jack ” Gar-
diner, once member for Football in Vic. Assem-
bly ; another is Isaac Selby, ex-freethought lec-
turer, and founder of a new faith ; third is Robert
Barr —not known.
Cabled that Kitchener is coming to peace-
terms with Botha—Steyn and De Wet standing
out, irreconcileable. Peace is what the fat
burghers of the towns have prayed for; but to
fight on “ for ever and for ever and for ever ” —to
the last gun, the last meal, the last man— that ,
whether discreet or indiscreet, expedient or inex-
pedient, strikes the heroic note which touches
humanity longest.
The ‘“official” Labor instruction in N.S.-
Wales seems to be to vote for Smith and M‘Don-
nell, the two Labor nominees, and throw away
the other four votes on the most hopeless candi-
dates offering—for choice, the Socialists. And if,
through neglecting to give Liberals a lift, six
Tories top "the poll, how will the Labor “ad-
visers ” feel about it then ? And how will the
fool-voters who took that advice ?
Sydney D.T. printed a wire stating that a
speech made at Parkes by “ Mr. Thomas Brown,
M. the unknown person who is being run for
the Canoblas against Wise by the Sydney Shoddy
party with its tongue in its cheek—“ created a
profound impression.” Now, the only circum-
stances under which Mr. T. Brown could ever
make a profound impression would be by falling
very heavily into very deep, thick mud.
That thankless post, the leadership of
N. Opposition, is going begging. Joseph Cook
was first thought of, but, as he thinks he has a reason-
able prospect of winning a seat in the Federal
Parliament, he passed the billet on to Carruthers,
who also refused. Ex-Evening News editor j’.
A. Hogue, M.L.A. for Glebe, is now considering
the offer, and may, on the political demise of
Lyne’s State colleagues, become N.S.W. Premier.
About two-thirds or three-fourths of the
Federal candidates are reaching out for the votes
of both parties. They say they are Freetraders
by conviction, but are going to vote for a heavy
tariff in order to produce revenue. When the
numbers are up it seems as if the Federal House
of Representatives would consist of about 30 men
who will vote for Protection because they believe
in it, and 45 who will vote for Protection because
they don’t believe in it
Proportionately to its numbers N.S.W.
Labor Party runs the largest number of State
legislators for the Federal Parliament. The
Freetraders have nominated W. M. Hughes, J.
Thomas, and Brown as their candidates. M ‘Goweii
(Redfern), Watkins (Newcastle), J. C. Watson
(Bland), and Ferguson (Macquarie), are selected
Bartonites, and promise to give his Government
a show. Besides these W. J. Spence and S. Law
are running as Labor candidates, while others are
still doubtful starters.
Perth (W. A.)
already begins to
regret, wlien it is
too late,. that it com-
mitted the awful
folly of giving away
its city tramway
rights to an English
syndicate. That cor-
poration is already
making about 20 per
cent, on its expendi-
ture, and the mud-
dled and impecuni-
ous corporation com-
mences to know
what an income it
has fooled away. •
A few years hence
it will probably be-
gin to realise that it
has lost another
splendid income by
jobbing away the
electric-lighting pri-
vileges. Also, it is.
commencing to dawn
on the corporation
that the water-sup--
ply privileges were
w or t h ■ keeping.
Perth corporation,
like most Australian
municipal bodies, has only one eye, a dim and
filmy optic set in the back of its head. Wherefore
the Council never realises anything in time, and
is hardly even quite aware yet that Queen Anne
is .lead. It has a vague idea, however, that that
estimable lady begins to show signs of breaking-up.
Premier Lyne’s backdown about putting a
political pal in the N.S.W. commercial agency ’
billet in London was a painful exhibition of
trapeze contortions. The Board of Exports
plumply let him know that it would resign in a
body if a man whose qualifications were merelv
political were appointed. Other persons and
bodies spoke as resolutely, and at last the political
appointment was cried off. It was a clear case of
making Lyne climb down.
Now that the 125 N.S.W. State electorates
have been readjusted according to population, it
may be assumed that Treasury-Bill Lyne has
indefinitely postponed all idea of reducing the
Assembly. When the subject crops upthere will
be the inevitable wail: “ We have just gone to
the expense and trouble of re-adjusting the elec-
toral boundaries and getting new rolls prepared.
If we cut down the Assembly to 70 or 80 members
all this money and labour will be wasted.”
“ S’mawlcum ” M‘Eacharn’s chance of
scoring against democratic little Dr. Maloney
in the struggle for the Melbourne seat looks
rather poor for divers reasons. His weak and
timid efforts to win grace with the democrats-
will drive the commercial men who have the op-
tion of voting for their business or for their
suburban residences into choosing the latter, and
Melbourne Federal electorate absorbs large
samples of the surrounding radical suburbs, giving
the labor vote command of the situation. The
third candidate is unknown, so far as the
majority of the electors are concerned.
So far, Southern Melbourne is the most
rushed of the Vic. Federal constituencies. Seven
candidates are after this seat, and not a strong
man amongst them. David Gaunson, in his old
form, would walk in, but David arched his. politi-
cal back when S. Melb. discarded him, years ago,
and since then his opinions have become dull, flat,
and respectable. A local parson, Rev. J. B.
Ronald, is opposing David. Godfrey, M.L.C.,
and “ Aileckzander Sootherland, M.A.,” the
literary professor, are other candidates. F. C.
Gray,_ex-pietist who, as M.L.A., raised a hurri-
cane in a tea-cup over the subsidiary suburban
wives of hon. members, also cordially invites S.
Melb. to put him on to £400 a year.
Millen, of N.S.W. Upper House, told the
people of Newcastle last Saturday that N.S.W.,
through following the enlightened policy of Free-
trade, had for 35 years escaped the heavy Customs
taxation to which Victorians were subject. It is
a pity the Foreign Importers’ party can’t decide
which yarn it will select. It claims that N.S.W.
has had Freetrade for 35 years, and at the same
time it claims that George Reid is entitled to the
eternal gratitude of the people because he estab-
lished Freetrade five years ago. Now, either
Reid didn’t establish Freetrade in 1806, in which
case all the boasting about him is a lie, or else
N.S.W. hadn’t Freetrade till 1896, in which case
the statement that the progress it made before
that date was due to Freetrade is a lie. Which
lie does the party propose to stick to ?
About S.A.’s Federal candidates :
In all 28 candidates have nominated for S.A. Federal
seats, 17 for House of Reps, and 11 for Senate. Of the
former 7 are Protectionists, 5 “Revenue Taritfists,” 2
Freetraders without reservation, one a single-taxer, and
two others unknown. As Holder has declared for a 15
per cent, tariff, and announces that “ Protection is
inevitable,” he is included in the Protectionists. For the
Senate, there are two unreserved Freetraders, six Pro-
tectionists, and three Revenue-Tariffists. Of the 28 can-
didates, not one comes from the country, two alleged
farmers being Caldwell and Copley, M.’sP., city men.
For the seven seats in the popular House, Kingston,.
Holder, Glynn, Solomon and Price are considered certain-
ties, and for the six in the Senate Raker, Downer,
Playford and Symon will probably be far above any
others. After the nine candidates named above electors
have mainly mediocrities to select from. Only one mer-
chant has nominated, although nearly all the big Adelaide
commercial men have been tipped at different times.
Editor Sowden, of S.A. Register, although much boomed,
didn’t face the music when the time came, and Bony-
thon, of the self-ADVERTisER, had to be whipped up to
the post. Symon is considered to have made a great mis-
take in nominating for the Senate, but he refused to
listen to his friends, urging that the Senate would least
interfere with his immense legal practice if elected.


JUST LISTEN ONE MOMENT!
iH 0
paling <| (Jo
htd.
ARE SOLE AGENTS
FOR
PIANOS m
Belling
Paling
Victor
TJebel
Lipp
Feurich
Gors and Kallmann
Eclce
'-*»■ Brinsmead
and
—-—Steinway
EST€y
ORGANS
ft ~~~
MAKE ! HOME ! HAPPY !
It is an undisputed fact that Music appeals to the
higher instincts; and it should be the aim of all to
cultivate such refinement in their homes as will of
necessity make the family circle bright and happy.
PALING & CO. during half a century
have studied your interests and can supply every
home from the humble cottage to the mansion with what
each requires.
They have Pianos, Organs, and
Musical Instruments of every description
at low prices as well as at high prices, and not
only so, but their time payment system enables the
humblest home to have a choice of Instrument, the use
of which will make home happy and bright.
All are cordially invited to inspect our stock, and
whether you buy or not we shall be pleased to show you
through our Exhibition at any time you may
call.
Paling & Co.
338 GEORGE ST.
Time
Payment
can be applied to any Piano.
A small deposit, and the
balance extended from . . .
One to
Three Years
Larger Deposits can be
MADE AND SMALLER
Instalments.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT . .
for PROMPT CASH.
Second-Hand Pianos
Stocked at
Reasonable Prices.^
W. H. PALIH6 # CO., Ltd.
338 George St., Sydpgy
BRISBANE.
NEWCASTLE.
The indecent haste with which N.S.W. State
Cabinet has resolved to carry out the late Pakkes’
precious State-House scheme—the memorial stone
of which is to be laid by the “ Jook ” —apparently
as an excuse for another drunk —ought to finally
seal the doom of Long Lyne and co. As for the
notable idea of decorating the building, to begin
with, with memorial tablets in honor of those who
fell in the Boer war, how does the Cabinet know
that before its fancy dead-house is half-finished
the very names of S’Africa and the Empire will
not be abhorred by the people ? The chances are,
anyhow, that the thing will never get beyond the
foundation-stone stage. There is in Sydney
Domain another foundation-stone, laid years ago,
for a new Parliament House; yet the State Legis-
lature still meets in a disreputable old rookery
which keeps on getting patched up and tinkered
with at great public expense. The dead and gone
contingenters will probably have to remain un-
commemorated —when Lynk’s lot have had their
York drunk—till the Day of Judgment.
*
Lately cabled that
Boer women detained in the British camps on reduced
rations are those whose husbands are on commando.
If this means —as it apparently does—-that certain
Boer women-prisoners have been placed upon re-
duced rations because their husbands are still in
arms, The Bulletin doesn’t know whether to
laugh at the unconscious humor of the British
Lion or to snort at the contemptible meanness of
that much-lauded beast.
Business Announcements.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
mHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
(Hood Tailoripg.
SUMMER.
Light Weight Tweeds
AND
Worsteds.
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
LIGHT AND TROPICAL WEIGHTS
TO STAND THE SUN.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &c.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
WHILE DOCTORS ARE
DIFFERING
VITADATIO
IS CURING.
THAT’S THE DIFFERENCE.
Another Victory Over
Hydatids.
Forsyth-street, Sand-hill,
Wagga Wagga, March 3, 1900.
I feel it my duty to testify to the wonderful cure of
Hydatids that has been affected in my own case by the
use of WEBBER’S VITADATIO. I have suffered for the
PAST SIX (6) YEARS from HYDATIDS on the LUNG,
and r ' ing that time I had several SEVERE HEMORR-
HAL U 3. My life at times was despaired of, and twice the
Sacrament was administered to me by our minister (Rev.
G. A. Oarver). Life in itself was simply a burden. I was
attended to by doctors in Wagga and Sydney, who were
very kind and did all in their power to alleviate my
sufferings. After using the VITADATIO the HYDATID
and CYSTS were EXPELLED from my body, and I am
thankful to say I have been restored to HEALTH and
STRENGTH SOLELY by the USE of WEBBER’S VITA-
DATIO. I am willing that you should use this in any
way you choose, hoping it may be the means of leading
other poor sufferers to try WEBBER’S RENOWNED
VITADATIO. —Yours respectfully,
Witness: W. J. FIST. (Mrs.) H. A. RUDD.
The facts of Mrs. Rudd’s illness are to my knowledge
exactly as she states, although I know nothing of the
nature of the disease or its symptoms, but she certainly is
now well and strong. (Signed) GEO. A. CARVER,
Incumbent, St. John’s, Wagga.
We, the undersigned, know that Mrs. Rudd suffered as
stated above, and we supplied Webber’s Vitadatio to her.
(Signed) T. DOBNEY &CO., Storekeepers.
For further particulars ,
s. A . PALMER ,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
$
With Patent RUBBER FEEI
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, &c.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
SHOULD YOU REQUIRE
A PAIR OF THE BEST TYKES AT A REASON-
ABLE FIGURE COMPATIBLE WITH HIGH-
CLASS WORK AND MATERIAL
Duniqp Tyres
WILL GIVE YOU EVERY SATISFACTION.
That whilst
DONIgPIYRES
cost more in the first instance.
they are the cheapest in the long run, as they outlast all other Tyres.
IF YOU PREFER
A CHEAPER TYRE, we can recommend one-
As the Best Second-Grade Tyres on the Market.
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre Co. of Jus. [td
and r 150 Clarence Street, Sydney;
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security -
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
M.
BILLS
discounted*
nxr.s.’W.
(flont deplete DJI. (MM-
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74.
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manages.
City Mutual Life
~(Lv^v£)
4- Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
-THE-
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,368,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital ... £4.800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital M 3,216,885 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman ; J. C. Syme,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Entitling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornlev, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : il. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nieol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street. Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London. Office: 1 litshopsgate Street Within
corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers . The London City and Mill laud Bank Ltd.
NYW couth wales;
SYRNISY - 373 GliiOllGlii STitUIST.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Baymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
||eii Zealand Insurance Co.
FIRE and MARINE.
£1,000,000
420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT, _. _ ,
Manager. 81 Pitt St., Sydney.
CAPITAL
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES
Established 1879.
THE
United Australian mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital .. 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
•DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-*-* Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
The Bank of Berth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Oo. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700.000
Capital Paid-up £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 TOO ... £350,000
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE'!
GEELONG
PORTLAND }
WARRNAMBOOL J
Tyrian,Saturday, March 16,12N00n.
Buninyong, Tues., March 19, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Bunin.vong', Tues., March 19, 5 p.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
j-Buniny
ong;, Tues., March 19, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, March 16,12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tues.,March 19, 5 p.m.
Tyrian,Saturday, March 23,12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACIv AY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, March 16,12 Noon.
Tyrian,Saturday, March 23,12N00n.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked throuirh.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
fbe TrOst€€s, €xec<itor&,
AND
AgSOCV Conjpaoy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £8312 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1900 A'6,326,343 0 0
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. :
O. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-st.reet, Melbourne.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. ■ .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500’000
Total Capital
£2,500,000
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent:, in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
2,000,000 0 0
1,250,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,250,000 0 0
Directors :
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.C.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors:
F. W. Utiier, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office- Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
Tae Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of' London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks,
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
Watcli Hepairs by Post
SP
WATCHES Thoroughly Cleaned, 2s. 6d. ; best English
Mainspring, 2s. 6d. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
355. Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send for' catalogue.
0. S. MAIR,
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
684 George-st. (Brickfield Ilill),
SYDNEY.
Shipping
TH€ AB€RP€€H LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows :
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Bed Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
TO GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE,
via AMERICA.
A. AND A. LINE.
TO ENGLAND IN 30 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE,
BY THREE MAGNIFICENT NEW TWIN-SCREW
STEAMSHIPS,
EACH OF 6000 TONS AND 8000 HORSE-POWER.
BUILT EXPRESSLY FOR THE SERVICE BY THE
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF
SAN FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line leave Sydney and Auckland for
Tutuila (Samoa), Honolulu, and San Francisco every
three weeks, as under
Passengers booked to all the principal parts of
EUROPE, UNITED STATES and CANADA
AT LOWEST FARES.
Passengers are booked through to San Francisco, Liver-
pool, London and chief cities of the Continent of Europe,
with special advantages, and have choice of the unrivalled
Atlantic Steamship Lines of the American, Cunard, In-
man, White Star, and other Companies, according to fare.
Full particulars, Illustrated Guide Maps, etc., gratis on
application to
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.,
Equitable Building, George-street, nextG.P.O.
nxr. id. Xj.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000 ; Over 3J million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and via Ports.
♦TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
Leaving Melbourne Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW
BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA, MACASSAR & BATAVIA.
STETTIN 1 2736 |J. Niedermeyer \ Mar. 15 | Singapore
And regularly thereafter every six weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN &CO., 7and 9Bridge-st., Sydney.
Medical.
MASON’S EXTRACT
OF HERBS.
NO OTHER EXTRACT MAKES
BEER
LIKE IT.
The Best of all
Beverages and
the Cheapest.
NON-
INTOXICATING,
DELICIOUS,
WHOLESOME.
ft
Ageuis .
GOLLIN & CO., Sydney and Melbourne.
NEWBALL & MASON,"JITm"*"’
DRUNKENNESS
Positively CURED by Administering
It can be given in
drink or food with-
EUCRASY.
out the subject’s knowledge. Perfectly Harmless, and
will effect a Speedy Cure. Write TO-DAY for Free Book.
Address THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Sore Eyes ! Blight!
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails. Restores Eyelashes.
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
T)EAR SIR,-~I have been cured of Weakness and De-
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. WILBER
KELLOGG, Melb. Chambers, Pitt-street, Sydney.
- Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(MM IT HI >).
«f«ii PR a ES3 WENGER SERVICE to and from
”5?/ I f stra l ,an > South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
for MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FSPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Ttockton, Friday,
March 15.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
March 23.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
Townsville
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Adelaide, Friday,
March 15.
Safnnn*p' <d Ch^. a P est Route to Goldfields.
first Porr P w ge tlC^r t ?u ai ' e interchangeable after the
nrst Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
Sor er F 0 o r th A e d A ,- lJ ;, S - N - 5°- and W - hM and
eons. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter
th , e . a -U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
6 HHIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
A. U. S. INI. Coy Ltd
Royal mail coastal service.
T'HH POPDJxA.It PASSENGER LINE.
MElßorim' 1- Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
TOVViwv^T I }’J°r VVnSVI 6 ’ Cairns > a,l(1 Port Douglas.
SMUXUL PORTS - Weekly.
SVhmpv AND R? CK HAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports.
NLY and BLRKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
.SVnrSf’
SIDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly. y
SYDNEY, and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Passenger A cc.otnniodution, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
aMd Cai, ns with the steamers
f,,^ dl elaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
Fnr ASaf conditions to be ascertained on application.
Ihl Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
CII DTTp»TcJ e Wlth the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
stm- Svdn PHlL n f" d 9° • Ltd., Agents, in Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows •
FOR MA R SEIL LE S AND LONDON,
touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
•Syd ney',
N ion
Oil/ AALM.miL.
„ , The Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return t'7l 10sto £l2l
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial pores
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
Exchange Conifer, Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
uvwftcu to JJi/mudV , XllUltl, ullllld,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
B. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
Huddart, Parker g go’s [sne
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Bates
“E. AND A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatchei
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
IH < |luiraith,H) < gacharn & go.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
4500 TONS,
COOLGAEDIE, 3500 TONS,
SAIL FORTNIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
MPILWRAITH, M'EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle.
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & Co! Ltd.


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
GENUINE REMEDIES
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc.
ALF ALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Alfaline
Blood Pills
wiH cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALF ALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAY FREE.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful patrons,
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cur
regarding the scope
of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Sent Post Free
... and .y .
in Plain Cover.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
• ■ ■ WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
~Aljaline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH’’ which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSIXIUSSeiI)
whether you send to his R ranches or to his Head
APVKC FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSIXIUSSeiI.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
3s., 6s., 12s., and 23s. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills-a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 3s., 6s., 12s., and 23s. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders— A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms' both in Cnildren and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Electric Belts —Containing powerful and effectua
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 42s. and 63s. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 21s., posted.
RASSMUSSEN,HeS47 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Herr Hans peter
BBISB A N E : 309 Queen-street (near Creelc-street),
MEL BOUEN E : 150 Bourke-street (opp. Eastern Markets).
ADELAIDE :~~154 Bundle-street (near York Hotel).
~nTz., IVELLIN GTON : 91 Lambton Quay-
BERTH : 481 Hay-street.
~KALGOORLIE ; Hannan-street (next Lindell’s).
BOULDER CITY : Fiesse-street.
FREMANTLE \ Henry-street.
It was recently rumored (falsely) that
Halifax, the High Church English peer, had
’verted. A sample of the letters he received :
My Lord,—l was heartily glad to see the announcement
of your joining the Church of Borne. Like Judas, you
have gone to your own place. Dante says that in hell
Judas is shunned by all. When you enter hell, Judas
will no longer be shunned by all. You and he will be fit
companions- -two of the choicest tools the devil ever had.
One Godfrey, a Vic. criminal with a repu-
tation, is a student of human nature, and turns
his discoveries to account. When liberated from
Geelong gaol t’other day, Godfrey made for Mel-
bourne, and drifted into a “ ’appy ’ome ” at Wind-
sor. To the lady who met him on the mat he
said : “I just seen your boss up Chapel-st. with a
pretty girl. They was goin’ in to be photy-
graphed.” The lady immediately fell into a con-
dition of great excitement, and, dashing on a hat,
fled in the direction of Chapel-st. When she
returned from a vain search, she found that various
articles of jewellery and some money had escaped
from her bedroom during her absence. Now Mr.
Godfrey is asked to explain how the missing
jewellery came into his possession, which seems
an easy one for Mr. Godfrey.
“ H.8.T.” : Australian shippers of live-
stock upon Eastern contracts will do well to be
cautious when catering for the Kaiser’s “loot
grabbers ”in China. The s.s. Den of Airlie left
Sydney (?) loaded with sheep and bullocks to be
delivered at Taku before the port was closed by
ice. This she failed to do, and on arrival the
German military authorities declined to take
delivery of the animals, either at Taku or Chefoo.
After hawking the cargo in various parts of Chow-
land, it was finally auctioned off at Shanghai to
an attendance of three Chow buyers, who got
prime Australian cattle at 22 taels per head and
sheep at 4 taels (local exchange rate is about 2s.
lid. per tael). In the ordinary course of events
the freight alone on cattle runs to close on £5 and
on sheep 10s. This is what comes of the delusion
that anything with two sticks and a smoke-stack
is good enough to ship stock on. A little more
speed in this case would have made all the differ-
ence between dire loss and a handsome profit.
HAVE vou
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the imjires-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the Bkin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURD YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILD. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&e, Price, in Great Britain, 1/lSd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, l'arringdon-strcet, London, England.
Agents -. ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look foi tlic registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green la' el on each box. (Regd. copyright).
!>
fringes,
(f kturaJ Curly, from B fa
PLAITS and TAJiS.
<flMn. long, f Ja . oil real bate.
CUTTISaS & OOMBUMI
ioafliwl up, V* per o*. f C
;W« or* tiro eheapeMo MW
Walla lor aH Bair Work.
Send Color of Hair. •
WtHWigz«Hi
Ito VVitUAtj Stohet.' ~
comer of Paluer-streott
•SYDNEY
Cabto Tram a-ill stop at Boor.
Seed stamps for full Price EteV V
‘ attention Riven to Country Crdtflk
Dr. Boxwell’s
FAMOUS
SO~
SILENT PILLS.
AT ON-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEO-
XN TIVE. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere Price,
5/6 per box. Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert— Dr.
Boxwell having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Puls,
all leading Wholesale Druggists in Australia or Pill
Manufacturing Co., 539 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
tt COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM.”
Vtnel
DEAF
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
MONS.
COURAUO’S
FRENCH DERMATIC PILLS
A SILENT but Sure Remedy for bringing to the face of
Woman that happy flush which means that health
and happiness are established once again. Universally
used hy the ladies of France. Guaranteed to produce the
result in an incredibly short time. Mrs. Thompson,
Cardigan-street, Carlton, says : “ I was for three months
taking all sorts of remedies—wrinkled, anguish-stricken,
and careworn ; but now bright and happy-looking for,
thanks to Mons. Gouraud’s Pills, I am myself again.”
Price per box, posted anywhere, 5/6. Write to PILL
MANUFACTURING CO., Elizabeth-st., North Melbourne.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOOTH
POWDER
IS THE BEST DENTAL
PRESERVATIVE.
Has the Largest Sale of any Dentifrice.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Medical.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
f-HLOROPYHE
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
tlie Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ ] f 1 were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodvne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial
s
/
■. 2 &
m
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
MELTS and
AMELIA NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing:,“we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Priee List (post free), giving;
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
RAMEY’S MEDIGATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment , Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin •§ /
Nasal Ointment, only * Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Dr. LANGSTON'S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and infallible Remedy,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECR ETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C-S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBEBTS, M-D.
m
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
INVENTOR OP Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c.
use Dr . ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. i£d. and 2s. 9d. each of all Drug
Stores.
Sole Makers: BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd.
BRIDPOBT, England.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
''THESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posted, ss. 6d. per
box. Write to A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street North,
Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-street, Prahran,
Melb. says: “ Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
diate relief, although I had during two months previous
tried all sorts of remedies without success.”
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne,
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address. —L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.


Mr. James Morgan having retired in his
favor, Mr. J. D. Fitzgerald, barrister, will make a
very strong run for the Robertson (N.S.W.) seat
in the House of Reps. Mr. Fitzgerald is a good
speaker and debater, a travelled and well-informed
man, and an ardent Australian.
The silliest Freetrade hoax up to date,
from Sydney Truth :
But probably the most infamous and audacious item in
Barton’s vicious Victorian policy is that seriously imputed
to him and his colleagues—an intention to impose an
Excise Duty on Goal at the pit’s mouth.
That would naturally raise the price of coal, and
the Victorian manufacturer—Victoria being the
greatest manufacturing State in the Common-
wealth —would pay a bigger share of the increase
than the manufacturer of any other State. So the
probability of this as an item of Victorian policy
sticks out like a Christmas snowball at Broken
Hill.
Piles and their Cure. —The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp of Sydney, entitled, “ Piles, and
the Way to Cure Them,” without operation, sent
free, on application to the Depht, 259 George-
street, Sydney, or Frank Buckhurst, chemist,
Melbourne.*
THE DUKE OF
YORK Will he be popular?
Is a question everyone is asking-.
Bicytle?o T r H aflusf S NGLISH VISITOR sinCe its arrival in has been, and is now, the most popular
The Govts, of two States have tested and purchased M ASSEYS, and experienced riders will have no other
you can ___ SYDNEY DEPOT: 385 GEORRF STREET
93 DESPERATE RIDERS^*
competed in the Burwood (Sydney) Road Race. All the same
RED BIRD BICYCLE
EIDERS SCOOPED THE FIRST AND SECOND PRIZES. ' Does it not strike you that upon the RED
BIRD the ordinary pedaller can hold his own and win in good company.
branches in every state. CrOOliP BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney.
The
Original
JOHN
Agents:
J. Barre Johnston & Co.,
Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
, 1 e was interesting from start
to finish, though not quite satisfactory to backers of
Clean Sweep. Boy Richardson rode the Melb. Cup win-
ner as though he had instructions to wait upon La Cara-
bine. VVhat time Paul Pry was leading the field by 40 or
50 lengths Clean Sweep and the mare ran close to-
gether, with Advance bringing up the rear. When Paul
Pry began to collapse it was Advance who went out to
overtake him, and at that critical point young Clean
Sweep dropped back behind La Carabine. Turning into
the straight Advance took the lead, La Carabine,
under the whip, was chasing the Maorilander, and
Clean Sweep seemed to drop further behind. Advance
for the moment had the race won to all appearances.
The flustered jockey (Jenkins) gave one the impression that
he had involuntarily eased his nag. Meanwhile Clean
Sweep was certainly going faster than La Carabine, and
when the mare had finally won the race by two lengths
the young Melb. Cup winner was only three-quarters of a
length behind Advance. The colt, carrying 161 b. less
than an3' of the others, was never so near the front as
when his stable companion passed the post. In a sloW-
run Champion the light-weight winner of a fast-run
Melb. Cup was the only one of the party that never held
the lead—he came back to the birdcage the least dis-
tressed of the four. Ijad the jockey been instructed to
send the colt along at a sound pace from the start, trust-
ing to its light weight and its proved staying power, Clean
Sweep would probably have won the Champion.
* * * »
La Carabine’s Champion Stakes’ win stamps her
as absolutely the best w.f.a. nag in Australasia. Since
’65 only two other mares (Romula and Quiver) got to the
front in this event. They were 3 and 4yr. olds respec-
tively ; La Carabine is 6. Of the four starters three came
from one stable —Scobie’s. Time was, compared with
figures previously put up, rather slow, as it exceeded the
fastest (when Quiver and Wallace dead-heated in ’96) by
13sec., though the winner finished 9sec. inside the limit,*
which saved a reduction in prize-money. Field has only
been larger once in the past six years.
* * *
Dreamland’s winning of the Australian Cup
recompensed the trainer in a measure for the disappoint-
ments he suffered with the son of Trenton and Nightmare
long ago, when his luck was as notoriously bad as it now
is conspicuously otherwise. For some years Dreamland
was Jim Scobie’s pet weakness. A more experienced
trainer would have seen the absolute necessity for giving
the colt time to pull round after the attack of strangles
which spoilt its Derby and Cup chances, but Scooie
didn’t begin to be wise in the Spring of ’94. Dreamland
was the crack horse of his stable ; it had won Maribyrnong
Plate as a 2-year-old, and had been specially saved for
classic honors. To scratch it for all engagements would
have meant a cruel sacrifice of sanguine hopes, as Scobie
persuaded himself and the owners (Bailey and Orr) that
the colt was making a complete recovery from
its illness, and would be all right again by
Nov. Result, Dreamland .ran nowhere in the Derby and
Cup of ’94. Next year, he had 10 races—“ nowhere ”in
nine of them (including another Melb. Cup), and second
in the other. Following year, he scored three noivheres
(including a fourth failure in Melb. Cup). In ’99, Dream-
land scored a win—the second win in nearly' seven years
of racing—after a dead-heat with La Carabine, then re-
garded as a common, jaded mare. But the veteran also
achieved some more nowheres (including a fifth Melb.
Cup defeat). By this time Messrs. Bailey and Orr were
weary of Dreamland. They sold the ‘handsome old
identity to S’Rupert Clarke, and the new owner puc him
to the stud for a year or two, and the new life suited
Deamland so well that he was put back into train mg, and
the training enabled him to win last week’s Australian
Cup for his singularly lucky owner.
* * * *
After Gosport had beaten Dreamland at Caul-
field, handicapper Dakin predicted (to the owner) that he
would win the Bond Cup and Australian Cup. The mis-
hap which caused Gosport to be scratched for both events
was not thought to be serio.us at the time, but his per-
formance in the Autumn Handicap last Thursday, when
he couldn’t raise a gallop, suggested that he was suffering
from something more than the effects of ten days’ con-
finement in his stable. If the Portsea horse conies on
again he should be worth considering for any long-
distance handicap at a reasonable weight.
* • » *
Dreamland’s win of Australian Cup recalls his
last previous victory years ago, in Maribyrnong Plate, so
nicely accomplished that he looked like being the best of
his time. He was foaled 10 years since. Season after
season saw him shape so badly that he got into last
week’s big race with the feather of 6.12 up. Only twice
before has the Cup been won by nags carrying lighter
burdens—Nathalie (6.8) in ’64, and Pollio (6.7) in ’B2.
Sybil humped a similar weight (to the oz.) home in ’77.
Aged prads won seven Australian Cups up to and in-
clusive of ’BO, but since only Lochiel (’B9) and Dreamland
have passed the post first.
* * * »
Mo’s yelp that some remark made by Rupert
Clarke the evening before encouraged the impression that
Dreamland was a doubtful starter in the Australian Cup,
thus causing the odds to be stretched a bit, is distinctly
good coming from such a source. How beautifully he
gives himself away, too, to those who took the lengthened
odds !
• • * *
Bookmakers and punters alike begin to wish
that when three or four candidates from Scobie’s stable
go for the same race their respective owners would not so
invariably fancy one or more of the other chances in
preference to their own chance. This alleged conflict of
opinion is not always in keeping with appearances. For
instance, Rupert Clarke has stated that he didn’t much
fancy the old stallion for the Aust. Cup. He thought The
Bride would win.. All the same a stranger watching the
business of saddling-up Dreamland, Malster and The
Bride for said Cup, might easily have come to the con-
clusion that the old un was the stable elect. And there
were previous circumstances to account for Tiie Bum,e-
tin’s belief in the horse that started a better favorite than
The Bride and beat her.
* * * *
The Wakeful and Dreamland double has been
spoken of as a strange coincidence, but the coincid-
ence ” is explained by the close blood relationship of the
two horses. They were suitably named after their
respective dams, Insomnia and Nightmare.
Said now that Wakeful (winner of Newmarket), *
prior to money going on, ran the big sprint distance
(with ordinary shoes) in 1.16 J, and a mile in 1.44, thus
wiping out everything previously done at St. Albans by:
Aurum, Bobadil and co., in their time.
“ Gun ” : Been stated, in places, that Wakeful
was the hottest favorite ever known to win a Newmarket.
Not so. Bungebah went out at 2to 1. Biggest outsiders
among successful nags were Churchill (33 to 1), and
Laundress and Forest (100 to 2 each).
* * * *
The Loch Plate, last Saturday, provided an in-
teresting study in Ikey’s odds, and a good race, as it
happened, between the two “cracks” from Seobie’s
stable. Betting at the outset was 7t04 on La Carabine,
and 7to 4 against Clean Sweep. Ten minutes later prices
began to fluctuate, and presently it was “even money”
between the two. Then, for three or four minutes the
books took odds about the colt and laid odds against the
mare. Finally the market resumed its original form, and
La Carabine went to the post at 7 to 4 on, whilst Clean
Sweep was quoted in some places at 2to 1 against. The
race confirmed a general belief that La Carabine might
have been beaten by Clean Sweep for the Champion if the
youngster had followed close on the heels of old Paul
Pry. He is a quick beginner and he stays quite as well
as La Carabine, who is rather slow to get going. In the
Loch Plate the Melb. Cup winner went away at a good,
but not a cut-throat, pace and put himself a couple of
lengths ahead of the mare. He didn’t come back to her.
She had to recover the two lost lengths, and the effort
tired her. At the distance La Carabine had her head in
front, but the colt was not quite spun out. With both
jockeys whipping their hardest Clean Sweep won by
half a head. The Loch Plate has a reputation for great
finishes. It was over the lf-mile course that Auraria and
Wallace (Melb. Cup and Derby winners) ran their famous
dead-heat, when the thousands in the Grand-stand stood
up as one individual and unloosed their feelings in a
mighty roar.
» * » *
San Fran at. 6.12 in Sydney Cup looks attrac-
tive after his third in Australian Cup, provided he doesn’t
incur a penalty in between.
* * * *
The doubt as to the real capabilities of Maori-
land horses Advance and Boreas in competition with Aus-
tralia’s best remains to be settled at Randwick next
month. The heavy appearance of the pair suggested that
they were not quite fit, yet they showed no particular
signs of distress after their gallops. The riding, of Jen-
kins was condemned, nevertheless the failure of Advance
in the All-Aged Stakeslooked due to want of courage in the
horse rather than lack of grit in the jockey. All things
considered, it seems probable that the Maorilanders were
rated too highly by the Australian handicapper, and
equally likely that they were not in condition to do full
credit to themselves or the much-criticised little man who
was expected to make them win.
• * » •
As a small consolation for the defeat of their
crack, Advance, at V.R.C. Autumn meet, the Ist, 2nd and
3rd prizes in Tattersall’s big 100,000 sweep at ss. on New-
market Handicap all went to Maorilanders.
'* * * *
IST. S. W. had a poor say in the" division of recent
V.R.C. meeting spoil. Only £1463 of £14,354 went to the
Mother State. Scobie’s lot secured £5112 wherein five
different owners shared.
* ♦ * *
Most successful sire at the V.R.C. Autumn
meet was Bill of Portland, represented by Finland, United
States, Malster and Cretonne. Jockey R. Lewis was up
on most winners—United States, Malster, La Carabine (2)
Hautvilliers, The Bride and So Long.
* * * *
Mr. H. C. White’s ’Ome purchase, St. Serf—
Stethoscope 5-year-old nag Skopos arrived t’other day,
and will be - raced in Australia when fit. Mr. White
speaks of him as very gross, and says he’ll want a heap of
work before’ he’s well. Skopos ran third to Diamond
Jubilee in one of the £lO,OOO events “down under,” and
subsequently got away with Liverpool Cup.
* . • * *
Safety’s capture of Bourke Handicap (7fur.)
last.week was a painful contrast to the mare’s running in
Hawksburn Handicap at Caulfield ten days previously.
In the Caulfield race (6fur.) Safety carried 7.7, started at
20 to 1, and finished seventh. At Flemington the same
Safety, carrying 7.2, was backed down to 6 to 4, and the
“ good thing ” came off. Interesting to know why the
despised and much-beaten outsider of Feb. 23rd was con-
sidered a dead bird for Bourke Handicap aforesaid on
March sth.
* * » *
Mo whined himself sick after the last race at
Moorefield (Sydney) Saturday. Teazer (late Crystal) a
whispered red-hot thing, was heavily backed down to a
very short price and went out first favorite. Zero,
absolutely unsupported, appeared to some to win by a
short head, but Judge Olliffe saw it differently. Teazer’s
number went. up. Mo. squirmed and squeaked as he only
can when things are not to his liking, and wouldn’t have
disgorged a cent had it been possible to get out of it.
Result made a huge difference ; had Zero scored it meant
a “ skinner” all round but as it was punters made a big
dip into most of the satchels. Bongara, Zero and Teazer
passed the post almost in a line. Anyone of the trio
might have been declared winner without bringing
censure upon the responsible official, except from Ikey,
who would have been suited best by Zero, hence his wail.
* * * *
A remarkable bit of bad luck for a jockey hap-
pened at recent Hawkesdale (Vic.) races. In the Hurdle
Race, Addition got rid of his rider at a jump, and then
set sail after the field. Getting on terms with History,
ridden by Lyons, Addition ran close alongside, and the
jock’s log got through the dangling reins unnoticed by
him. At the next hurdle Addition pulled back and
brought History’s rider nearly off. Fortunately the jerk
broke the bridle, and Lyons made a splendid recovery,
but his chance in the race was spoilt.
Heavyweight mill at Golden Gate A. C.
(Sydney) last week between big 1 Armidale maintenance
m in M’Ooll and Australian Artillery Bandsman Thompson
bristled with hot situations. The pair punched, ’rastled,
and roughed like men possessed, threw themselves at each
other, and mauled and floundered as if there was no such
thing as science in the game. Two strong navvies would
at least have shaped as well. M‘Coll proved the stronger
and better-conditioned of the pair. Thompson went
down floored somehow or other) half-a-dozen times, but
still kept coming until a lead-laden jolt on the jaw finally
stretched him out Many of M‘Coll’s thumps had the
force of mule-kicks. When Australian premier Doherty
trained in Sydney last year he boasted that no man had
ever been able to lay him out. M‘Ooll tackled the task,
and, getting a fair opening, landed a right hook that sent
Doherty star-gazing for more than the allotted lOsecs.
Return bruising bout between negro “Ike”
Stewart and half-caste Maori Ruenalf at Golden Gate A.C.
(Sydney) Saturday night brought a big house. Ruenalf
shaped like a winner till he knocked up his right on Ike’s
iron head. The thing then degenerated into an old-
womanish scramble with Ruenalf doing-all he could to
keep as far away as possible. Though the blacker of the
two often had his opponent in dire trouble he didn’t seem
to know it, and ultimately the agony ended in a draw.
* * * * ...
Clem “ Cribb ” (bruiser Otto’s elder brother) is
in Sydney, and may fight shortly. He looks more like,
the boxer than Otto, being tall, long-reached and lanky-
limbed, but brother Arthur’s drawback (though not quite
so pronounced) is there—Clem’s nose will always be at
least an inch nearer the enemy than it is expedient it
should be, or than Otto’s ever was.. The .new-comer’s
previous fighting experiences have been with bare
knuckles—be knows little or nothing about glove-work.
There are six in the family. Writer, so far, has only seen
three, and is satisfied that there’s not more than one Otto
among them.
* * * *
News from U.S. is that Martin (“Buff”)
Costello wants to tackle fighting again ; he has been out
of it (running a pub at Montreal) for years. Will be re-
membered that Costello had “ The Lounge,” Bourke-
street, Melh., up to perhaps 10 years ago. “ Buff ” came
to Australia with “young Mitchell” and both fought here
many times. Former was reckoned the trickiest at the
game we had ever seen. Costello, during his stay in this
section, met all our best men—Peter Jackson, Mick
Dooley, George Seale, Billy M’Carthy, &c., and fought a
stiff battle with Paddy Slavin “ in the Open ” near Albury
(N.S.W.) He was a good-natured, popular fellow who
got rid of money »s fast as it came to him. Two big Vic.
sports (both since dead) stood to the Yankee pug well—-
one, particularly, supplied him with large sums on several
occasions.
* * * *
Tom M‘Kibbin is still the sensation of Adelaide
club cricket. The ex-Bathurst man followed up his 8 for
81 against E. Adelaide by making 68 not out against the
bowling of Travers and co. By the way, Ernest Jones is
now working hard as a lumper hand for Adelaide s.s. 00.
at Port Adelaide.
* * * »
“ Watchem ” writes: “ Second round of Mel-
bourne club cricket, just concluded, puts East high on
top, and the only interest in the competition will be
whether Melbourne or Hawksburn is second. Stuckey,
M'Allister, Howlett, Godby, Horan, M'Miehael, Laver,
Officer and Carter are an excellent batting combination,
but East owes its success in a great measure to its
bowlers, Collins and Laver, who have been irresistible
this year. Saunders, the crack bowler in inter-State
matches, makes no show in club cricket, his average
being very poor. On t’other hand, Alf. Carter (North),
who failed lamentably in big cricket, has a marvellous
club average, his 15 wickets against Richmond being the
season’s record. His brother Jack, now playing again
for North, who always bowls well in Saturday cricket,
never made a show in inter-State, although often tried.
The Vic. certainties for next Australian XI. are Arm-
strong, Trumble, and Graham-(Melb.), Saunders (Carlton),
and Stuckey (East).”
* * * *
Seventh round of Sydney senior grade cricket
ended Saturday. Bats had'a good time. Vic. Trumper
(213 not out), for Paddington, topped the doings. Oppos-
ing 11 had only made 227, hence Trumper nearly accoun-
ted for the whole side himself. Sydney squelched
Central Cumberland by close on 100, and Redfern broke
its long spell of non-success this season through triumph-
ing over Leichhardt-Balmain. North Sydney Closed its
innings at 6 for 351, and, getting Burwood out .for 154,
won by 197. Apropos Trumper’s big total, it was his first
century in club cricket so far this season—previous being
94. A year ago he notched 260 not out for Paddington
against Waverley.
• » • *
Crack svvimmer Fred Lane has cut his. “per-
manent ” retirement short. Six weeks up country made
him a new man, and ’tis announced now that he’ll be in
the thick of it again ere long.
* • * •
Q. people thought they had in young Frank
Gailey (son of a Brisbane solicitor) a rod in pickle for boy
“ Dick ” Cavill, who visited the Northern State solus to
swim for the local sprint supremacy on Wednesday last
week. On what Dick previously did in public the
Bananalander’s prospects looked at least fair, but the all-
distances Australasian top-notcher rose to the occasion in
great style, and put up quite the best time (1 2 1-5) ever
achieved by him over the 100yds. journey. Gailey and
Hogan (both ex-champions) were second and third
respectively—the former 4yds. away. Australasian best
(1.1 3-5) stands opposite “ Mud” Bishop’sijname, and was
created on a straightway course at Cockatoo Island
(Sydney) in ’9B. Present scribe doesn’t take much stock
in this record, as it was accomplished with a gale of wind
behind, and is away ahead of anything done by the same
man before or since. Further evidence of “Dick’s”
exceptional form jtist now comes in the fact that Satur-
day last saw him, at Brisbane, equal Fred Lane’s world’s
fastest for 120yd5.—1.16 3-5.
* * * •
N.S.W. coursing season opened Saturday at
Belmore (Sydney). Belmore Park Club ran off three
stakes. Weather was far too hot and ground much too
hard. Dogs suffered severely, one or two seriously.
Enthusiast Jack Rowan supplied all the winners—the
biggest (Pupil) only having been put in to fill up through
a disappointment. Arrangements for preventing ringing-
in, doping, &c., were up to date, and a stipendiary
steward was in evidence for the first time, noting dis-
tinctive marks, &c. Most hounds were a heap off in con-
dition. Pratt’s slipping was a revelation to many, and
easily the best seen in Sydney for years.
v * * *
R.S.Y.S. Gascoigne Cup was sailed for on
Saturday by Isea and three 30-footers, Aoma, Heather
and Petrel. A fresh nor’-easter and a good sea “out-
u cll ” ® u PP lied a fair test. Masterful handling by
Stan ’ Stevens brought Aoma home the second year in
succession. As conditions demand that Oup shall be won
three times straight off, Aoma’s prospects look rosy.
* • • *
Latest re sculler Towns r efforts to make Canuck
Gaudaur line-up for world-supremacy is that Jake still
maintains unbreakable silence, and that the world’s
championship will probably revert to the man from this
section. Towns doesn’t want matters that way if it can
be helped, and offers to go anywhere and meet Gaudaur
or whomsoever Gaudaur names for £5OO a-side.
* * * . *
Yankee mail tells that Shoalhaven (N.S.W.)
sculler, Jim Wray, was in Boston (U.S.) last month with
poor prospects, as expected position as coach at Harvard
arsity wasn’t available. Had Jim whipped Towns
things might have been different.
• * * •
Vic. Chess Championship was this year won by
R. L. Hodgson, a city accountant, and (after Esling, and
possibly young Watson) the State’s strongest player. He
thus becomes first holder of S’malkum M‘Eacharn’s £25
Challenge Cup, said Cup having to be won twice running
or thrice in 10 years to be annexed outright. Only six
competed, Hodgsdn winning easily. The Melb. Chess
Club, which managed the tourney, also ran what it called
a Junior Championship, for players under second-class,
the most noticeable feature about which was the charm-
ing unanimity with which most of the competitors with-
drew directly they had sustained a couple of defeats.
These young chessists are as proud and careful of their
alleged reputations as a young mother of her first baby—
and with just as much reason.
•■• * •
At Burwood C.C. 10-miles Road Race, held
on Saturday last, Red Bird riders finished first and
second over the line. There were 93 starters—largest
number ever started in a N.S.W. road event.
Tt is not aVisnliitolw eavfain r n tr n T ,
It IS not absolutely certain, IHE BuLLE-
I IN nears, that trie O oulliyan may not be induced
to stand against G. H. Reid for the House of Re-
presentatives. The O’Sullivan js the only man
who, it is believed, could give Reid a tough run
for East Sydney.
“Kiwi,” from Maoriland, re the Federal
Commission, now sitting (and which is on its way
to Australia) • ■'
. . . „
ootts."
in the larger centres, where the bulk of the testimony,
being chiefly that of manufacturers and trades-unionists
who oppose Federation, has been distinctly unfavorable.
Generally speaking, the farmers favor Unity, and most of
the witnesses who desire its consummation have been
farmers. Curiously enough, the Commissioners passed
through Oamaru and Timaru without taking evidence,
though public opinion is more pronounced at these
Them hal P Wn anywhere else in M.L.
inconsequence. Of course, my conjecture mav tewrong
—I hope it is—but I have a strong suspicion that the
Commissioners are generally hostile; in fact, those of
them who are M’s.P. declared themselves disunionists
long before the Commission was set up. Politicians take
sides here on the question quite irrespective of party
lines, but the most pronounced disunionist at heart is the
Premier. The idea that Maoriland is governed by the
People is all humbug. Seddon has been our autocrat for
years, and he is so now to an extent undreamt of before.
If by any means he could be “ squared,” say by the pro-
raise of a big office (perhaps King) under (that is to say,
over) the Commonwealth, I have no doubt that the nuptial
knot could be tied in a very short time.
At Poverty Point.
•' “ Histrio” to The Bulletin, from London A turn
round some London theatres. Drury Lane, “ The Price
of Peace ” —all mounting, with acting equal to a back-
block show, always excepting old-man Neville. “ Herod,”
superbly mounted and dressed, but Tree very disap-
pointing. He is essentially a picture-making actor; make-
up, looks, attitudes, very . artistic and telling ; but his
elocution terribly monotonous, lecture-ish, and unim-
passioned. Rignold would have struck fire where Tree
was wooden. Curtains were coldly taken and calls were
outrageously faked. The Lewis Waller “ Three Muske-
teers ” was a well-rehearsed show, not nearly as well
mounted as Williamson’s, and Lily Hanbury is no better
than Henrietta Watson. Forbes Robertson, at
Peekham, in Bernard Shaw’s “Devil’s Disciple”
was a treat. F. B. very reminiscent of Scot
Inglis, but Scot had the finer face and voice,
though the Englishman’s magnificent voice can be sub-
dued to light, humorous touches unknown to Scot. The
play—cleverly Shaw-esque—went well, and one line, “ I
never expect a soldier to think,” brought cheers from the
alleged military-loving Britishers. Also saw F.B. in
“ Hamlet”—an ideal performance in many respects. ■ He
retains Fortinbras, dies in the King’s chair, and is carried
off on the soldiers’ shields. He has since married his
clever little leading lady, Gertrude Elliot, sister to the
massive Maxine. Charles Hawtrey, in “ The Message
from Mars,” is the perfection of the unconscious—unlike
anybody in Australia. Seems to think his part more than
say it. Titheradge scores as the impressive Messenger
hoisted skyward. Saw Mrs. Pat Campbell in “ Mr. and
Mrs. Daventry”—a very ordinary drama on the fleshly-
husband-and-spirituelle-wife motive. Her personality is
tender and clingsome, awakening pity and the desire to
protect her, as does her voice—low, sweet and searching.
Her emotion is genuine, but in “ Magda” she must have
been Nance O’Neil’s antithesis. “Mrs. Dane’s Defence ”
at Wyndham’s has a fine act where the woman-liar is
bowled out by the lawyer. Wyndham is the finest actor
I have seen—he brought tears with a look, and his stage
management is sharp-cut—every move an idea. Noticed
at the farcical comedy, “ In the Soup,” that the British
public stands “broad” lines and business that Australia
would not tolerate in second-rate variety shows.
Adelina Patti has sold her palace at Craig-y-nos to
Baronet Newnes. Alas! Tit-Bits Castle !
The Marquis of Headfort marries Miss Boote, of the
London Gaiety Company ;
What of it'? Scores who press their suit,
And ask a hand, receive a Boot!
Walter Raynham has four pretty young daughters ap-
pearing together in a song-and-dance turn at the London
halls, under the title of “ The Four Trees.”
Haddon Chambers’s new play, “ The Awakening,” deals
mainly with the emotions of a hero who allowed his
moral nature to lie dormant whilst he was having a lively
time. Sounds as if suggested by “ A Message from Mark.”
“ Melb.” : Went to a popular Saturday-night entertain-
ment much patronised by pious people who object to
the wicked theatre. Here were items on the programme
as oerulean as at London Pav. First, the inevitable bed-
post. A young lady sang about a married couple having
twins, and so there was no room in the bed. Second,
another young lady sang about “ The Shadow on the
Blind,” wherefore he had to marry the girl. Third, one
of these young ladies sang “ Wliat’s the use of a pair of
trousers without a man inside?” Fourth, a gentleman
sang about a lady sitting on a tack and thinking it was a
bee.
“Melb.” : Vic. Board of Health iscommendablyexigent
as to the exits of new buildings. Old ones go as they
please. Attending the Pleasant Sunday Afternoon at
Wesley Church, I am horrified to notice how long it takes
a crowd to get out. Apparently half-an-hour. What
about fire ? The Lonsdale-st. porch of St. Francis’s R.C.
church ought to be absolutely broken down and removed.
It’s a death-trap ! Do we want a Santiago ? These are
only samples of the old places. Inasmuch as the Bijou
will be unoccupied soon, let me emphasise its extreme
danger ; it is all upstairs.
J.A.C. :, A correspondent (16/2/’l) takes exception to
your statement that Arthur Sullivan was of Jewish
origin. I did not know the late composer personally, but
I knew his brother Fred, the original judge in “ Trial by
Jury,” (“and a good judge, too,”) and he was of most
pronounced Jewish type. In the early ’7o’s he and
D’Oyley Carte ran a musical and dramatic agency over
Carte’s, senior, musical-instrument shop, at Charing
Cross, London.
Dear Bulletin, —Desiring to witness the crowds that
the London papers said were reading the bulletins of the
Queen’s condition, I went to Buckingham Palace the
evening before her death. With some difficulty I found
the little slip of paper signed “ Arthur Balfour,” in front
of which was the “ loyal crowd ” —consisting of two dirty
East-Enders and an old lady selling matches. The old
lady asked me for a penny, and the East-Enders went off
singing a pantomime chorus. Thoroughly disillusioned,
I spent the evening searching for “ loyalty.” I went back
to the Strand, and turned into the Alhambra. The papers
had spoken of the illness “casting a gloom over audi-
ences,” &c., but I never saw these magnificently put on
ballets played with more vim—to a packed and delighted
house. Next day- the day of the death —I saw opposite
the Mansion House bulletin about a tenth of the crowd
that would be around an Argus cricket announcement;
and a peep into the Exchange revealed only much furious
pencilling and whispering among the excited bell-toppers.
I found some loyalty among the Strand drapers, who dis-
played whole windows full of evening-shirts with black
ribbons across. Some, I was informed, were quite sold
out of black ties and gloves the previous afternoon, two
days before need arose. Also the stationers showed piles
of mourning notepaper. On the evening of the death I
visited a suburban music halt, and two “ turns ” had been
done when the music fizzled out, and the stage manager
came on and announced the news, and the consequent
“ having to close.” A drunk in the stalls uttered a very
audible “Hooray,” and no one jumped on him. The
audience filed out, and at the bar a portly evening-dress
wearer remarked, “ Well, we had a drunk on Mafeking
night, let’s have one now.” Meantime, outside, round
the stage door, the minor artists were wondering how
many nights’ salary they were going to lose.— Stroller.


Is
SO?
so?
l*iy !;
S?
SO?
SO?
SO?
A
®
~'Vd.
SO?
-f"*r
Hi
Zxi>
SO?
so?
?f)S
'///
gg
so?
so?
£//
m
m
T,
so?
r
0?
0?
Hi
?s
#
A
THE
Prize Fight
FOR THE CHAMPIONSHIP.
ERBY
TOBACCO
Gives the Knockout
Blow to all others.
TRY A
PLUQ.
Derby
i Wins
i Respect
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY CO.
187 PITT-ST.
Telephone 3490.
We Receive
Novelties in Silver-Plated Ware
frnm the Best Factories in England and Amerioa.
Silver-Plated Breakfast
Cruet, 10/6
Others, 12/6 to 17/6
Silver-Plated Bread Porks, with Pearl or Silver-Plated
Handle, price 3/-
Notice.— Open all day Wednesdays till 6 p.m.
On Saturdays from 6 p.m. to 9.80 p.m.
Orpate Silver-Plated Trays—
Heart Pin'Tray,3/-pair. A beau-
tiful selection of other shapes, at
2/3, 2/6, 3/6 to 7/6 each.
Write for ILLUSTRATED SOUVENIR CATALOGUES. Sent Post Free.
TilO LADIES’
“ Fx & R ”
Watch at £6 6s.
Is a J-plata Lever.
Ia jewelled in 10 holes.
Has ruby roller jewel.
Has solid heavy 18ct. gold case.
Has Brequtt hair spring.
Has compensated and adjusted balance.
It is guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order for
two years (breakages excepted) without charge.
It wffl stand hard riding and knocking about.
It is made in every style of case.
It goes with profound accuracy.
FAIRFAX * ROBERTS
Lady’s J-plate movement,
14ot. Oold Oase
<£s 5 0
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
VICE-REGAL JEWELLF9S,
Illingworth, leader of Westralia’s Opposi-
tion, announces a shadowy democratic policy, and
proposes to fight Premier Throssell thereon. He
advocates one man one vote, and an equitable dis-
tribution of seats, but the rest is mostly fog and
generalities. Illingworth holds that “ our loans
must be put on a sound financial basis ”; also,
that “our revenue and expenditure must have
most careful attention.” He says that agricul-
tural development “demands close attention,”
and that Old-Age Pensions and about a dozen
other questions also “require attention.” The
man whose policy is mainly a long list of things
that require attention is an unsatisfactory person.
The two great troubles of this world are the things
which haven’t been attended to and the things
that were attended to the wrong way.
In one of its wilder moments Sydney
Telegraph, of 6th March, published a list setting
forth that in certain articles (clothes, boots, hats,
cement, butter, candles, cheese, hops, bacon, con-
densed milk, nails, vinegar, blankets, soap, and
starch) which come free into N.S.W., but are
taxed in Victoria, N.S.W. manufactures are so
backward that the State has to import £2,201,000
worth annually. And, on the other hand, Vic-
toria is so much further advanced in manufactures
that it only needs to import £312,000. The im-
porters’ paper complained that these manufac-
tures, which found so much employment for the
people, are really a curse because they make so
much less imports for the Federal Government to
tax and get revenue from. The trouble is that if
the Federal Government taxes these imports for
revenue purposes the imports will largely cease, as
they have done in Victoria, And if it lets them
go free, so as to - keep up the blessed im-
ports and keep down the sinful local manufac-
tures, then it can’t get revenue. Therefore, a
certain amount of confusion supervenes. The
theory seems to be this : —
If you tax imports, imports diminish as shown by the
horrible example of Victoria.
If you don’t tax them they increase, as shown by the
blessed example of N.S.W.
Therefore by not taxing imports there are lots of im-
ports for the Federal Government to tax for revenue pur-
poses.
By this process it appears that it is advisable, not
to eat your cake so that you may have it in order
that you may eat it so that you won’t have it.
Some of the Victorian Judges have lucid
intervals. Judge Williams recently .had before
him a man who couldn’t find the bail required for
his re-appearance, and who seemed likely to spend
his remand in gaol. Prisoner then suggested to
the Judge that he should be permitted out on
condition that he reported himself daily at a cer-
tain hour at the Detective Office ; and his Honor
actually accepted the proposal, and let the man
out on these terms.
Dear Bulletin. —The “Man from Eng-
land ” (8., 23/2/1) may be right, or wrong, in his
allegations against the Gordon Highlanders ; but
the fact remains that the corps has, up” to date,
gained five V.C’s. in the Boer war —the record for
the campaign.— A Mon frae Scotlan’.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23. of this issue *
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Proprietor • ■ GEO. W. ELLIS.
TfiE union iiim of nusTßßtm upiited.
BALANCE-SHEET, 31st AUGUST, 1900-
LIABILITIES.
Capital .. .. .. £4,500,000
Less reserve liability.. .. 3,000,000
Paid-up
Reserve fund (invested as per contra) .
Contingent account
Circulation .. .. ,
Deposits (including inscribed stock de
posits) ■■ •
Bills payable and other liabilities (includ
ing reserves held against doubtful
debts)
Balance of undivided profits
£1,500,000 0
800,000 0
200,000 0
439,205 0
15,226,186 4
1,808,664 14
99,689 13
0
0
0
0
1
4
8
£20,073,746 12 1
ASSETS.
Specie on hand and cash balances , .£3,591,044 14 2
Bullion on hand and in transitu .. .. 85,731 5 7
Money at call and short notice in London 530,000 0 0
Investments—
Consols, and other stocks
of, or guaranteed by,
the Imperial Govern-
ment £120,481 18 9
Indian Government ster-
ling stocks and Indian
railway guaranteed
stocks 314,958 19 10
British municipal and
colonial and foreign
Government stocks
and debentures .. 202,781 2 6
£638,222 1 1
Reserve Fund —
Consols, £500,000 ; local
loans (Imperial Govern-
ment stock), £150,000 ;
national war loan,
£150,000 .. .. 800,000 0 0
1,438,222 1 1
Bills receivable, loans, and other securi-
ties at London office .. .. .. 1,508,725 2 3
Bills discounted, bills receivable, loans,
and other securities at the branches .. 12,188,647 11 0
Bank premises and property in the
colonies 602,470 8 10
London leasehold premises £142,304 19 4
Reserve against same,
£13,170 os. Bd. ; six
months’ interest there-
on at 3J per cent.,
£230 9s. 6d 13,400 10 2
128,904 9 2
£20,073,745 12 1
STATEMENT OF PROFITS.
Balance of undivided profits at 28th February, 1900 •• •• •• 1 n «
Less amount applied in reduction of contingent account in terms of last report .. ... ... .. 50,000 0 0
- £72,364 10 9
Out of which a dividend was declared of .. ~ «• ~ 52,500 0 0
Leaving a balance of .. ~ .. .. .. .. .. •• •• •• •• £19,864 10 9
Profits of .the past half-year, after making provision in respect of bad and doubtful debts £195,221 4 9
Less— » .
Remuneration to the local directors, and salaries and allowances to
' the colonial staff ... £70,402 18 2
General expenses in the colonies, including rent, taxes, sta-
tionery, &c. .. .. .. .. .. • • •■ * • • • - 28,348 6 9
Remuneration to the board of directors and auditors, salaries of
London office staff, rent, taxes,stationary,-and general expenses 14,515 7 7 .
Income tax .. .. 1 2,129 9 4
115,396 1 10
79,825 2 11
Balance of undivided profits at this date
.. £99,689 13 8
W. E. CARBERY, Manager.
T. O. O. SAUNDERS, Accountant.
London, 17th January, 1901.
ARTHUR FLOWER
0. E. BRIGHT
0. A. GALTON
■Directors.
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE AND REPORT.
In accordance with the provisions of “ The Companies Act 1900,” we certify that all our requirements as auditors
have been complied with
We report that we have verified the cash, investments, bills of exchange, and other assets in London, and have
had access to the accounts sent to London from the various branches in the colonies, and, having examined the same,
and the books and accounts of the London office, we are of opinion that the above balance-sheet is a full and fair
balance-sheet, properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the company’s affairs, as
shown by the books of the company.
WHINNEY, SMITH, and YVHINNEY,
Chartered Accountants.
Auditors.
CHARLES REAP & CO., _
Strand Ucade). Camden Buildings, 420 George St, Sydney.
A Savinf/ of 25 per cent.
WALKER and HALL’S
“Flag Brand”
ELEOTRO-PLATE.
Write for #O-Payed
111 ustrate d Catalogue
—POST Fit MB.
Electro-Silver Entree Dish,
Price 38/6.
(Removable Handle
making 2 Dishes.)
“ Bushman ” Watch
A Perfect Timekeeper.
Gun Metal Case, 16/6.
With 18c. Gold Filled Chain,
complete, 24/-.
WILL RUN FOR 20 YEARS
FOR 16/6.
“ Melb.”: Demise, Scott, the chief second-
hand book-selling expert ; almost the only one,
for Cole took, up the line late in life. There is
only room for one Scott in Melb. nowadays.
Formerly Dwight and Bennett were the rivals.
Dwight left a lot of money to Melb. University.
Bennett could Stay as long as he liked in London
buying books for his clever wife to sell. Their
twin sons are familiar Melbourne citizens.
The name of vanished lawyer Grey
cropped up again at Melb. Law Courts last week
in an appeal case involving one of Grey’s little
alleged deficiencies —a trifle of £lO,OOO or so.
In this case Attorney-General Isaacs appeared for
a defendant who had not had the misfortune to be
a partner or a co-trustee with Grey aforesaid.
But the question as to why the Vic. Crown jLaw
department didn’t issue a warrant for Grey’s
arrest is still unanswered.
The other night a contingent 300 strong
from the notorious Freeman-street, “ Crutchy ”
and “ Rats ” pushes of Fitzroy and Carlton
(Melb.) marched over to Brunswick to attack the
local commandoes. On the way they tore off
pickets and palings wherever handy, and broke
every street-lamp along the line of march. On a
vacant block of land in the centre of Brunswick
the battle raged fiercely, while the citizens raced
all over the place for the police. These eventually
arrived and captured two small boys, who were
next day duly fined 20s.
E. D. Millen, N.S.W. Freetrade candi-
date for the Senate:
The adoption of Freetrade in N.S.W. had not been fol-
lowed by that 'avalanche of disaster which they were
told would accompany it. . . . As freetraders who
had an active, live faith in their creed, they believed that
a Freetrade policy would prove of as much benefit to
Victoria as it had to N.S.W.
What a fine political three-card shark and confi-
dence-man the average Freetrade orator is,
to be sure! The person who can describe
as Freetrade Reid’s mongrel policy of heavy
Protection on beer, wine, sugar, tobacco, cigars,
cigarettes, biscuits, confectionery, newspapers,
&c., combined with the creating of artificial
prosperity by the heaviest borrowing in Aus-
tralasia, is indeed a daisy. Isn’t there one man
among all the unspeakable gang of political
impostors who call themselves the N.S.W. Free-
trade party who has the courage to propose Free-
trade or real Revenue-Tariffism ?
Telegram last week from Maoriland, the
State with a strongly democratic Government and
almost the heaviest Protectionist tariff, in Austra-
lasia : .
The Postmaster-General (Mr. J. G. Ward), speaking last
night, said that last vear remissions of taxation had been
made to the extent of £325,000, yet the revenue for the
11 months of the present year amounted to £5,112,200, as
against £4,859,700 last year, an increase of £252,000, with
another month to go. He ventured to prophesy that at
the end of the present financial year the surplus would
amount to £400,000. The finances of the colony bad
never stood better. There was a plethora of money in
New Zealand to-day, such as never before existed in its
history. The income-tax to February this year should
show an increase, compared with 1892 and 1893, of
£105,000, and by the end of March it was calculated that
the increase would amount to £159,000.
To quote the words of a lecturer who dropped in
at The Bulletin office the other day, after jour-
neying through Maoriland : “You can’t see any
poverty over there. The people look as if they
had more money than they want.” Ruined by
Protection, no doubt.
One thing now seems certain about that
big divorce-case : that when all is over somebody
or other will be in gaol for either forgery or
perjury.
From an M.L. contingenter’s letter :
It is fascinating work this man-hunting, especially as
we have orders to take no prisoners, but to shoot first and
challenge afterwards. Nor are we to take notice of the
white flag, as the Boers have abused the use of it so often.
According to a returned M.L. trooper :
There were times when the class of warfare waged was
somewhat barbarous. Prisoners were not desired, and
consequently the men were ordered not to hamper them-
selves with' them unless a departure from that course
would involve cold-blooded slaughter. .
Either this (and many other returned swaddies)
are arrant liars, or
From a M.L. contingenter’s letter :
One day a cablegram from Seddon to Kitchener was
read on parade. It was a favourable reply to a request
that we should remain and have numbers made up, but
it was very unfavourably received, and 001. Cradock and
Major Jowsey replied to that effect. Most of the men
hate this country, and would prefer M.L. at a pound a
week to £4 a week here ; in fact, there is no encourage-
ment to remain. When vacancies among_ the officers
occur they are made up by men from M.L., instead of by
promotions of capable men who haved served through the
war.
History will yet contrast, in fitting colours, the
heroic patriotism of Seddon, sitting in his arm-
chair, and sending words of cheer to
Kitchener from far-off Maoriland, and the un-
worthy response made by those whom he had sent
forth to do battle for the Empire.
N.S.W. ex-District Court Judge M'Far-
land (he was 30 years ago on the W.A. Bench)
died on Monday afternoon at Sydney, aged 77.
N.S. Wales has thus lost two veteran pen-
sioned minor judges within a week.
The Federal Govt, has leased, as offices,
the premises in Macquarie-street, Sydney, erst-
while occupied by the old Reform Club—the
famous institution which “ drank itself out of
debt.” The Bulletin sincerely hopes that Mr.
Barton and his colleagues will take whatever
steps may be necessary to lay the ghost of old
Jack Robertson, which still sits in its accustomed
place, in a big chair just inside the front window
of the ground floor.
The brilliantly-stupid E. D Millen, of
N.S.W. House of Permanent Fossils, at New-
castle :
The fact that after 35 years of Protection the manufac-
turers of Victoria still demanded to be protected was to
his mind the strongest argument of the fallacy of Protec-
tion.
What a mind E. D. Millen must have ! Victoria
has tried about 25 years of Protection, and is so
satisfied that that policy gives better wages and
cheaper living that it wants to continue it. That
proves Protection is BAD. Britain has had Free-
trade for about 50 years, and Millen says it is so
satisfied with it that it wants to continue it.
That proves Freetrade is GOOD. The fact that
Victoria, after giving Protection a serious trial,
finds it a success and wants to keep it clearly
shows, to Milieu’s mind, that Protection is ruinous.
But if Victoria, after giving Protection a serious
trial, found it a failure and wanted to abandon it,
that would also prove, according to Millen’s mind,
that it was ruinous. Millen ought to sell a mind
like that. It is a dreadful thing for any man to
have about him.


Dear Bulletin,-.Re straight shooting.
The reeent aileged messages from Mars” recall
G. H. Wells’" “ War of tie Worlds,” wherein,
M.,?n a ,, me T 1 d f S f t u nc ® of 1 , 40 millions of miles, the
Martians shoot the six cylinders so straight that
£ll°l a n d °?, a %-speck on the globe
(England), but all within a mile-radius of each
other! Bearing which in mind, “Hop” had
better drop his gags about the said “message,”
else he may have a cylinder popping through his
studio sky-light some fine morning. —Vulcan.
Cable: “Several of the German quick-
? un ? recen tly supplied to the British troops
at Aldershot have proved defective.” “Razors
made to sell! ”
King Edward YII, as Prince of Wales,
was worried by his next door neighbour, a
democratic Mrs. Cresswell, at Sandringham. He
couldn t buy her out, and she was continually at
rum with summonses in petty sessions. What
was the knot in this affair nobody could find.
COMMISSIONERS OF SAVINGS BANKS.
Debentures for £lOO,OOO at 3 Per Jent.,
To Mature 30th April, 1910.
To ]jb issue< t tinder the authority of the Acts of Parliament of Victoria, Nos. 11/81 and 1722.
for Tenders.
any porMono/theabove^nnnnMin^/ 1 ! £? ram ' ssion l^ I,s ’ Head Office, 29 Market-street, Melbourne, for the whole or
“Tendeftor Debentures 8 ” S6aled ’ addressedto “ The Commissioners of Savings Banks, Melbourne,” and endorsed
Apphca^tfmusr s \\re n bA e hlTr U T« £? de ”° minati 1 0,ls ol f 1 (», or £5OO, as may be desired by successful Tenderers, and
Applicants mpst state in their number and value of the Defeeutures they desire to receive.
4 «r * n 0„ * V, , , vctiue ut ine tney aesire to receive,
payment be7n* due on 31st ?IL b f paya^le - half-yearly on 31st October and 30th April, the first such
Pa ‘ V^ n Any*?!ender W ' « * fc Bank in Vißtoria -
alloUed proportion°iL^v e to h ni > e ™! um will have preference, and to Tenderers of even rates, debentures will be
of ash lfn” otherTlr..^e'u’ aS n t early - as , may be Practicable. Tenders at a price including a fraction
slumng other t un Mxpence, will not be preferentially accepted by reason of such fraction.
but ah De P arto ent shall not be allowed to com P ete with other Teilders >
Banks amounti““ to m M^nf n nf d ih y f a dtepo f ifc in .? ash > °f b >' a Bank Draft payable to the Commissioners of Savings
or pro,ata the& l whß' *a* V jH Ue <>* the Debentures applied fr, and if the Tender be accepted in full,
fM?Bm Miv and 29 th dU ‘ ej ' e f t BJth April, 1901, must be paid in two equal instalments on or be-
at 3 per cent Per annum win m il res P ecUv ely, or the whole may be paid at any earlier date than specified. Interest
to 30th April b allowed on accepted Tenderers’ lodgments of 10 percent, and over from date of receipt
event^Tanvinstalnmnt^r^ccru^^ 1 be forfeited . to and bs ™' f the absolute property of the Commissioners, in the
accrued interest remaining unpaid after the dates above specified.
bentures atthe m?e of"fSir' 8 ° f reCOg T B f l Stock Exchanges will be allowed a commission on face value of De-
oentures, at the rate of ten shillings per cent, for accepted Tenders.
19 W 1 be pay ? ble a t the Head Office of the Commissioners in Melbourne.
Hl . ® P a .V ,n ent ot these Debentures, and of all interest thereon, is a charge on all the securities held bv and
of &Sr iBB,oner8 ’ Ul,der MviBion 3 of Part t of the Act No. 14°81, and is also hy tht
applidatkrn'mfthe llead U Offinp B of>wri n^lay be . inspec t ed > and Conditions and Form of Tender can be obtained upon
application at trie llead Office ot the Commissioners or any of their Savings Banks.
invest'any the Vuul’ SeCt ‘° n 5 of , Acfc 1 7 ?2, any corporate body, Charitable or Friendly Society, may
evecutom or ivfct eyS " nder their control in the purchase of these Debentures ; and any
tures with orZTof «r 1 haV f ln ?^ e p ° we l or duty of investing any moneys may purchase these Deben-
some particidar mode of investmirn if fh de “ t 0 by i he Acfc or instrument under which they act, or unless
a due^iyestment^ of toy siXS or preSCnbed) > aild every such “vestment and purchase shall be deemed
JUth. February, 1901. By order of the Board, GEO. E. EMERY, Inspector-General of Savings Banks.
Federal House of j|epresentatives
To the Electors of
The Melbourne Electorate.
GENTLEMEN—
I have the honor to solicit your vote and interest, and,
should you elect me as your representative, I shall give my active support to the
following measures :
(1) The Tariff Policy of the Barton Ministry.
(2) White Australia, reserving to Queensland Sugar Planters the right to
employ, as long as necessary, colored labor, on condition that such labor is returned
to lts na five shores at stated times, and under no circumstances is allowed to settle
in the Commonwealth.
(3) Federal Defences. Adequate maintenance of the fortifications and
defence forces of the Commonwealth. Increase of citizen soldiers and rifle clubs.
Any increased expenditure necessary for these purposes to be met out of revenue
and not by means of loans.
(4) Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration on lines that are fair alike to
employers and employed.
(5) Old Ago Pensions subject to conditions mentioned in my public
addresses. J r
(6) Uniform Factory Acts for the Commonwealth.
(7) Nationalization of the State Railways by the Commonwealth on
condition that the status of employes is not lowered.
(8) Federal Territory not to be alienated. The size to be considerably
increased beyond the 100 square miles provided in the Commonwealth Bill, and the
site to be within easy access of a seaboard.
(9) Federal Public Works. All unproductive Public Works in connection
with the Federal Capital, the Post Office, Customs, and Defence Department to be
paid out of Revenue and not from Loans which will be a burthen on future
generations.
I am, Gentlemen,
YOUR OBEDIENT SERVANT,
M. D. McEacharn.
Central Committee Rooms : Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
Ist March, 1901.
Visitors to the old country:
BAILEYS
GLOUCESTER ROAD,
SOUTH KE/SSIffGTOf*,
Under FJqyal Ritrona^e.
HOTEL
LoM)ofl.s.w:
THE NEW LOUNGE.
One of the FINEST examples
of modern OAK CARVING extant
Self-contained Suites .
Public Rooms opening on to
PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON.
Publications.
THE LAST
TWO NUMBERS
I L LAN’S
USTRAUAN
MUSIC
BOOKS.
Both GEMS. Both a
MARVELOUS SELLING'S WORTH.
No. 51.—Easy Pieces for Little Fingers
(Fourth Series).
(Popular Airs Easily Arranged Without Octaves.)
Serenata Braga
Woodland Whispers, Waltz
T Stanley
John Anderson, My Jo
Old Scotch
Dublin Bay Barker
The Auld House Nairne
Massa’s in de Cold, Cold
Ground Foster
Ellie Khee Winner
Mush, Mush Irish
Till Baby Sleeps (Lullaby)
A. Chanter
Hark ! The Jingle Bells
_ Pier point
My Boy Tammy. Old Scotch
Charlie is My Darling
. Jacobite Song
Spring Song Mendelssohn
[ In Happy Moments Wallace
Home to Our Mountains
Verde
Home, Love Richardson
Wilcommen Gavotte Kluss
Largo Handel
Cockles and Mussels
Yorkston
Cricket on the Hearth
Stewart
Come into the Garden,
Maud Ba/fe
Shepherd’s Evening Song
Blake
The Braes of Tulimet
Scotch
Duncan Davidson Scotch
Wearin’ o’ the Green Irish
No. 52.—Ten Pianoforte Sofos.
(Moderately Difficult.)
Warblings at Eve
Brinley Richards
Woodland Whisper, Waltz
Stanley
Nearer, My God, to Thee
Ryder
Queen of the Night Blake
Return of the Brave Luddi
Osborne Quadrilles Glover
Happy Hearts Kinkel
Dewdrops Wyman
Moonbeams on the Lake
Mack
Wiegenlied Schumann
Price H-, or Posted lj2.
Obtainable at all Musicsellers throughout Aus-
tralia or Direct from the Publishers,
ALLUN & CO. Propy. Ltd
276 AND 278 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE
A PHONETIC COMPANION
to PERIER’S FRENCH METHOD.
The Guide is indispensable to Teachers, Students, and
all who wish to know how French must be pronounced
Mr. Perier’s French Phonetic Notation, based on English
Alphabetical Sounds, can be mastered within an hour.
All booksellers, price Is. 3d.
Copies may be obtained, post free, by sending postage
stamps.
A. C. GAERTNER, Sole Agent,
32 Norwich-chambers, Hunter-street, Sydney.
THE WORD
• •
FOX
is a guarantee of soundness of
Material and Quality of Dye of all
Worsted
Coalings,
StrgesnTveeis
on which it is stamped.
fox’s pure Dndigo.
As the result of many years of ex-
perience, FOX’S PURE INDIGO
DYE is recognised as the best
in the Market.
All Fox’s standard cloths are
stamped every two yards on the
back ....
FOX'S PURE INDIGO,
and without this stamp are not
genuine.
fox Brothers & Co., £tD.,
Wellington, Somerset, €ng.
Makars of Worsted Coatings, Vicunas,
Serges, Tweeds, Tennis and Costume
Cloths. Contractors to the English
Admiralty, War Office, India Office, Crown
Colonies, and Metropolitan Police.
THEIR MILLS are capable of an
annual production of 2,000,000 yards of
material, and find emyloyment for 1,200
hands. Reliable records show that the
business at Wellington was founded
early in the eighteenth century, and the
present Company have in their posses-
sion a balance sheet dated 1733.
O
These celebrated Serges can be obtained
from the leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Australian Colonies.
—o
Australian Agents for the Wholesale
Trade only :—
STOGDALE & DUFFUS,
Finks Buildings, Corner of Eliza.-|
both & Flinders Sts., Melbourne, I
.. AND ..
422 George St., Bydney. I
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx
AUTUMN TWEEDS.
We would remind our Tailoring- Patrons that
it will be necessary to give EARLY ATTENTION
to their
EASTCR SUITS.
There is no necessity to leave the ordering of it
until the last moment, as our
AUTUMN TWEEDS are now opened out.
COME IN EARLY, and order your Easter
Suit, PLEASE.
If you live out of Sydney we will send you a
complete set of Samples', Tape, and Measure
Forms, FREE.
(£lO,OOO worth of New, Tasty, Fashionable
Suitings to pick from.)
STYLE is the most important element in
Clothing, next to
FIT ; you get the fullest percentage of both
when you order your
CLOTHING TO ORDER from us.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL TAILORS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
(Autumn Novelties are now Displayed,
in Every Department.)
CURES
BALDNESS
Prevents Hair Falling Out,
Removes Dandruff, Stops Itching,
and Restores Luxuriant Growth
to Shining Scalps, Eyebrows, and
Eyelashes.
A TRIAL PACKAGE FREE.
People who need more hair or are anxious to
save what they have, or from sickness, dandruff,
or other causes have lost their hair, should at once
send their name and address to the Altenheim
Medical Dispensary (Dept. 124), Butterfield
Building, Cincinnatti, Ohio, U.S.A., enclosing a
Id. stamp to coyer postage, and they will forward,
prepaid, by mail, a sufficient free trial package of
their remedy to fully prove its remarkable action
in quickly removing all trace of dandruff and scalp
diseases and forcing a new growth of hair.
Miss EMMA EMOND, Quebec, Can.
» The portraits of Miss Emma Emond show what
a striking difference is made in a person when the
bald head is covered with hair. Miss Emond was
totally bald, the hair follicles not only upon her
head but upon her eyebrows being completely
contracted, not the sign of a hair being found.
She sent for a free trial of the Eoso Remedies, and
was rewarded by a growth of hair which for thick-
ness, quality and luxuriance was as remarkable as
the result was gratifying. Miss Emond lives in St.
Sauveur, Quebec, Canada, 24, Chateauguay St.
Mrs. E. M. Haltnesser, 30 E, Hyde Park Mansions,
Marylebone, London, N.W., Eng. : “ Poso Remedies are
wonderful.”
Miss Fannie Gibson, Well Bank, Taplow, Nr. Maiden-
head, Bucks, Eng. : “ Foso Remedies removed the
dandruff and made hair nice and glossy.”
Mr. G. Collyer, 103, Grundy St., Poplar, E. London,
Eng. : “ Have had no itching scalp since using the Foso
Remedies.
Mr. G. A. Rose, 40 Old Dover Road, Blackheath, S.E. :
“ Foso Remedies acting like magic; three weeks had a
growth of new hair. It is now quite dark where before
I had only a shiny scalp.”
Mr. Herbert Emms, 153 Unthanks Road, Norwich,
Eng.: “ Foso Remedies are excellent. Can keep my
scalp in fine, healthy condition.”
Mr. Geo. Ellis, Etruria, Stoke-on-Trent, Staffs, Eng.:
“ Have been delighted with the results from using Foso
Remedies.”
Mr. Fred. A. Robinson, Clerk-in-Oharge, Victoria
Market, Kingston, Jamaica, W.I. : “Had a severe itching
scalp, which has been cured by the Foso Remedies.”
Mr. M. Caistner, 28 St. George’s Place, Canterbury,
Kent, Eng.: “ Hair greatly improved; believe your
Remedies all right.”
Mr. John Warren, care M. J. Reavy, 88 Regent Road,
Salford, Manchester, Eng. : “ Foso Remedies very good.
Enclosed price for further treatment.”
The Remedy has cured Thousands, and
no one need fear that it is harmful.
The remedy also cures itching and dandruff, sure signs
of approaching baldness, and keeps the scalp healthy and
vigorous. It also restores grey hair to natural color, and
produces thick and lustrous eyebrows and eyelashes.
By sending your name and address to the Altenheim
Medical Dispensary (Dept. 124), Butterfield Building,
Oincinnatti, Ohio, U.S.A., enclosing a Id. stamp to cover
postage, they will send you, post paid, a free trial of their
remarkable remedy.
Remember a letter to us from Australia requires
2-gD. postage. Write your name and address very
plainly , or, better still, enclose a self-addressed-
envelope, so there can be no mistake in delivery.
“ The Joiliest Book Printed in Australia."
ON OUR SELECTION.
By ARTHUR DAVIS. 6s.
Poet Free from “Bulletin” Office,


E
u
JU.-.4} 1
77 7
'• ’ 4\
fnsores a
4iaJo(ay
oin i cn edam THE KINDLY FRUITS OF THE EARTH.
«o a,r “a
G2S*ft •>.!. remedy, bem, ,**» mere »« lee,
than an extraction from _
FLOWERS. FRUIT. HERBS AND SEAWEED.
Although the discovers of " an’oalmus ” do’not profess to have found thereby the secre of , ; erpetual
life, they have certainly provided the means of perfect health. An elixir of health has oeen
established. WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY TEN YEARS AGO
would have been scoffed at as the suggestion of a lunatic, or perhaps regarded in the light of being a
CHAM PiON FIRST-CLASS UP-TO-DATE LIE.
To-dav we are astounded at the simplicity of its system of working Sanoalmus is equally simple,
taken from the natural produce of earth and sea, that we in out hitherto blind ignorance
HAVE BEEN TRAMPLING UNDER OUR FEET.
If you suffer with your Nerves. Liver, or Kidneys, ’’Sanoalmus” will put such troubles right For
Anemia Blushing, Weakness and Debility, it is a certain cure, in fact it puts such tone into the
system that anyone may LooK WQRI _ D !N THE FACE"
and fear no man. Its influence on the blood is extraordinary. Two or three bottles of “ Sanoalmus ”
will do more in a case of impure blood than two years’ treatment by ordinary methods.
CONSUMPTIVES REJOICE
unices ill a very advanced stage “Sanoalmus” will cure you—under any circumstances it will
considerably prolong life. Taking “ Sanoalmus” at regular intervals not alone cures but protects
from such everyday ills as Indigestion, Flatulence, Bad Breath, Headache, Bar-ache. Coughs, Colds.
Sore Throat, Neuralgia, Giddiness, Influenza, &c. In Rheumatism and Sciatica it is most bem fici 1,
and will accomplish wonderful results. It conquers Backache when all other treatment has failed
For Constipation its action is simply perfect, and renders a healthy and legular working to the
functions of the bowels. Last but not least “Sanodmus” must be welcomed as a divine blessing
for the reason that if persevered with regularly for a brief period it will entirely destroy
THAT HORRID BLOOD POISONING MICROBE,
the recognised curse of humanity. Here you wi 1 assuredly realise the fir-reaching effects of
this “ Simple Discovery,” and also the forethought which recognising an evil furnishes the
antidote. “ Sanoalmus’’(as before stated) renders the blood perfect; consequently it ensures a
lovely complexion, does away entirely with all pimples, blushing, blotches, or red, rough skin ; a
peach-like bloom attends the use of “ Sanoalmus.”
THE UNTUTORED SAVAGE WOUNDED BY POISONOUS STJAKE
or spear, turns instinctively to certain herbs that not only relieve the pain but save l.is life.
“ Sanoalmus” contains all the properties of these herbs. It is nature’s own remedy.
MOTHERS TAKE HEED.
When baby is teething, a half teaspoonful of “ Sanoalmus ”in milk will soothe, strengthen, and
comfort your little darling. Remember, it is absolutely harmless to the smallest mite. If it so please
you, it is within your power to bask in the heavenly sunshine of perfect health, no longer need you
LANGUISH IN THE GLOOM OF SICKNESS AND DESPONDENCY
To be obtained from all chemists, price 3/6 per bottle, or direct from the proprietors,
Wells, Strong & Coy.. 10 Barrack Street, opposite Savings Bank of New South Wales, Sydney.
THE
‘PLUM’
PfO
THE
‘PLUM’
ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
VJT a ) 3e ii ) an( j never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
PRICE!
/ Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 218.
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents: CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
I’ll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
gapillarine
Posted (under cover)
■ to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
ORNAM6NTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers &. Wknmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AJTKEJVNC
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s CipbrocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatioQ.
Medical
Will Develop or Reduce
any part of the Body.
A PERFECT COMPLEXION
BEAUTIFIER and
Remover of Wrinkles.
Dr. JOHN WILSON GIBBS'
THE ONLY
Electric
Massage
Roller
(Patented
United States,
Europe,
Canada.
“ Its work is
not confined to
the face alone,
but will do good
to any part of the
body to which it is
applied, developing or
reducinq as desired. It
is a very pretty addition
to the toilet table.”
—Chicago Tribune.
“ This delicate Electric Beauti-
fier removes all facial blemishes.
It is the only positive remover of
wrinkles and crow’s feet. It never
fails to perform all that is expected.”
—Chicago Times Herald
“The Electric Roller is certainty.productive of good
results. I believe it the beat of any appliances. It is safe
and effective.”— Harriet Hubbard Ayer, New York World.
For Massage and Curative Purposes
An Electric Roller is all the term implies. The invention
of a physician and electrician known throughout America
and Europe. A perfect complexion beautifier. Will re-
move wrinkles, “ crow’s feet ” (premature or from age),
and all facial blemishes. Whenever electricity is to be
used for massaging or curative purposes, it has no equal.
No charging. Always ready for use on all parts of the
body, for all diseases. For Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neural-
gia, Nervous and Circulatory Diseases, a specific.
Price—Gold, 21/-; Silver, 16/- PAMPHLETS FREE.
Sole Agent tor Australasia—
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins-street,
Melbourne.
THOMSON’S
NEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING *
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throug-liout.
These World-Renowned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long waist.
*ll
m
v
Thom
ons
THE MOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST
N.B. —Old Model Corsets always in stocle.
“LA. KTOBLESSE”
A New and Elegant Series of Corsets. Ask to see them.
TO BE HAD OF ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & Co-, Ld-, London-
a POLICY FOR THE""^'
Price (id. ;
Posted, Bd.
COMMONW€ALTN.
TZHZ-E
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This is the only Medical
institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all contracts.
Electro-Medical ai>d
SOrgica! lo&titOtc
IN AN AGE
which is so remarkable for its progress in all departments of Art, Philosophy, Manufacture and
Science it is surprising to find the practice of Medicine so deplorably in the rear, while thousands
of practitioners in the healing art prefer to remain in the conventional groove of their predecessors. The Freeman
and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise superior to the false code of ethics which
tyrannically bind the medical profession, and announce to the public that upon all special complaints they still coi.
tinue to be consulted by the afflicted at their old address, Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
I
m
~>r.
KM
EXPERTS FREEMAN AND WALLACE.
The Specialists who conduct the largest practise in Australasia.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
No one should hesitate to consult us, as consultations either by letter or lro
person are given FREE OF CHARGE, and Strictest Privacy is always assured..
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
Everv Farmer Miner, Mariner, Station-hand, Book-keeper, and other Toilers should send for a copy of this
J Useful Memorandum Book. POST FREE ON APPLICATION-ALL COLONIES.
400-PAGE MEDICAL WORK (Illustrated, containing 80 Engravings, Many Useful Prescriptions,.
Hints on Sick Room, Accidents and Emergency) Price 6d. (POST FREE) ON APPLICATION.
Heart Kidney, Liver Affections. Gravel, Bladder and Spinal Affections.
Nerve’ and Brain Complications. Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
Rupture and Piles Cured without Operation. Blood and Skin Diseases.
m
mm
.. • •
■ ‘ • - ' ‘ * , s .. .. .
: r , cA U STRENGTH ELECT
... Mfc-V .. -«-
i 2 .. Li r t
LE
-■ ■
ms,
- -
■' r ; - ua ...s' - v
if I 11 llf 11 I ymmg-
su ,UCAl INSTITUTE. VlCgg
OSE
-■' s' I ,:' • .
m
m
-t
*«•». .‘I
WHY WE ADVERTISE!
Because Advertising Is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people
to acquaint each other with their avocations and wants. If a man has a
Speciality, and has devoted years of his life and expended large sums of money in studying that Speciality and in
purchasing the necessary appliances, etc., for treating certain diseases, it would be absurd for him not to announce
the fact, and disseminate tne knowledge universally. We have no apology to offer for informing the world through
this advertisement and otherwise of the means of relief we can afford to sufferers who need our help. Therefore,
however opposed to your own preconceived ideas and to those of your medical advisers, our method of treatment may
he the fact still remains that it is successful, and this is verified by the thousands of testimonials received from
grateful patients. We make no secret of our mode of practice. We only claim to have utilised in a common-sense
way the result of scientific research and long experience. If you listen to the counsel of your sceptical friends and
jealous physician you may omit consulting us, but remember if you allow the disease to ryji riot in your system, you
are guilty of culpable negiect, and are alone responsible for your future pitiful condition.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government
Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, south Australia,
Great Britain and America Open to Inspection.
Late Consulting Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital,
Late Medical Staff, British Army.
Melbourne;
home treatment
-If you live out of town and cannot visit us, this need not deprive you
of the benefits of our wonderful treatment, because in the new system
of combining medicine and electricity a complete Electro-Medical home treatment is provided for. Scarcely a day
passes that the news does not reach us of some wonderful home cure of a person living so far away that a personal
visit could not be made. Write a plain statement of your condition, explaining your feelings and symptoms as clearly
as possible, and from it we will be able to accurately diagnose your case. It only costs you the trouble of writing,
and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia’s Leading Specialists.
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS
When there are so many quacks and impudent pretenders in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to them-
selves the monstrosity of giving counsel and advice in matters of which they are profoundly ignorant, and who
have nothing to recommend them but their audacity, sufferers cannot be too careful whom they consult.
Although liberty of choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessary. In consulting THE FREEMAN AND'
WALLACE ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shall
receive the advice of those Btted by superior skill and education, the result of special study. Our reputation and.
unparalleled success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of the World—
CONTENTS FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
betb * BatbGrst Sts, Syd osy
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs. F. & W.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
N.B.—QUEENSLANDERS are hereby informed that a person advertising as Dr. Wallace,
in Brisbane is in no way connected with the Institute.


Amusements.
H E «*i MAJE3 t Y’B THEATRE, BYDNEY.
Rl , u ®, ole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 7.45. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
„ . GRAND REVIVAL ON
NtehfJ NEXT MARCII 16, for a Limited Number
of Nights, of the Great Napoleonic Drama, entitled,
A ROYAL DIVORCE.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, George-street. Prices as usual.
THEATRE
■ Lessee
ROYAL, SYDNEY.
tt j —J- O. Williamson.
under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrove.
THREE NIGHTS MORE. THREE NIGHTS MORE.
A REMARKABLE SUCCESS.
TH€ SCARL€T FCATHCR,
a Comic Opera, by Lecocq, with additional num-
bers by other composers.
MISS NELLIE STEWART, MR. JOSEPH TAPLEY
BETTER THAN EVER.
THE DARTOS CREATED A SENSATION.
of .^LiMISSION— Dress Circle and Reserved
Stalls ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Family Circle (7.15 to 7.45), 2s. :
Family Circle after 7.45, ONE SHILLING.
i at , tl , le Theatre (Dress Circle Entrance),
10 to 5. Seats Booked Six Days in Advance.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY
Lessee and Manager Alfred Dampibr.
ALFRED DAM PIER,
and the Ladies and Gentlemen associated with him.
EVERY EVENING.
SHAMUS OBRIEKT,
First Time in Eight Years.
pALACE THEAT RE, SYDNEY.
Lessee „ „ .. .. Mr. W. F. Hawtrbt.
HAWTREY COMEDY COMPANY
in the
ENORMOUSLY SUCCESSFUL FARCE,
TOM, DICK, and HARRY.
“ The Funniest Play Ever Seen in Sydney."
Preceded at 7.45 by
“A HIGHLAND LEGACY.”
MATINEE, WEDNESDAY NEXT, at 2.30 p.m.
Box Plan at Paling’s, 338 George-street.
Business Manager, Mr. E. F. BRADLEY.
T H E A T R E,
LYCEUM
, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
SIXTH WEEK. CROWDED NIGHTLY !
TO-NIGHT, at 7.50,
THE LADDER OF LIFE.
The Greatest Acrobatic Sensation of the Age,
THE HUMAN LADDER.
DRAMATIC PRICES—3s, 2s and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
EMPIRE T H E A T R E, SYDNEY.
“ (Late Royal Standard, Castlereagh-street.)
JOHN FULLER'S EMPIRE COMPANY.
Opening Night Next SATURDAY, MARCH 16.
Mr. Fuller having renovated and brought up-to-date
the above Theatre, will introduce his Minstrel and Variety
Entertainment, assisted by the Best AUSTRALIAN,
English and American talent.
PRICES—2s., Is. and 6d. Plan at Theatre.
BEN. FULLER, Business Manager.
Q COMPLIMENTARY CONCERT
TO
MISS V€RA €YTON,
GEUTEUASY- hall,
Wednesday, March 20.
PRICES —35., 2s. and Is.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance in Sydney of those Famous Artists,
THE LEONARDS and SISTERS PIKIL
Continued Brilliant Success of MADAM CELINA BOBE,
Mr. GEO. D’ALBERT,
JOHNSON RIANO and BENTLEY.
Frank Leon, Lizzie Kirk, Jalvan, Billy M’Clain, Chas.
W. Walker, Millie Herbert, Madame Cordelia, Della
Ross, Florrie and Stella Ranger, Clarence Sisters, &c.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturday & Wednesday.
DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Positively the Last Week in Melbourne of Mr. HARRY
RICKARDS’ BRILLIANT PANTOMIME,
Written by that great London Author, Victoi Stevens,
PUSS I3ST BOOTS.
A Gigantic and Unparalleled Cast of Characters.
New Scenery, New Costumes, New Music, New Artists.
In fact, everything new and up-to-date. Plan at Paling’s.
Matinees Saturday and Wednesday.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
® Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING.
Enthusiastic Reception of the Remarkable Melodramatic
Story,
IN SIGHT OF ST. PAULS.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 2s, Is. and 6d. Box Plan
at Allan’s. CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Mr. George Musgrove’s GRAND ENGLISH OPERA CO.
will commence a Short Farewell Season,
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 16.
Programme for First Six Nights : —Saturday, March 16,
CARMEN ; Monday, March 18, LOHENGRIN ; Tuesday,
March 19, BOHEMIAN GIRL ; Wednesday, March 20,
LOHENGRIN ; Thursday, March 21, IL TROVATORE ■
Friday, March 22, LOHENGRIN.
PRICES OF ADMISSION—Dress Circle, 7s. 6d. ; Re-
served Stalls, 6s. The Box Plan at Allan’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
FOURTH MONTH FOURTH MONTH
of
FLORODOR A.
All Records Eclipsed.
Another Attraction for “ Florodora.” Engagement of
Dainty Irene Franklin in her Popular Numbers.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 5s ; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
TH EN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. 11. Ashton. Treas., Mr. G. Matheson.
Every Afternoon, at 3. Every Evening, at 8.
Return for Limited Season of the
MARVELOUS 810-TABLEAU
•of the SOUTH AFRICAN WAR, and
Other Interesting Subjects.
PRICES —35., 2s. and Is. Pox Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
M ASOKTIC HC AL L,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, at 8.
Enthusiastic Reception and Brilliant Success achieved by
R- c. M. ropney,
, „ The Prince of Laugh-makers,
APPLAUDED TO THE ECHO BY A LARGE AND
DELIGHTED AUDIENCE.
Accompanist Mr. T. W. HENDERSON.
PRICES—Front Seats, 3s. ; Balcony. 2s. : Back
Seats, Is. Plan at Allan’s.
SNAZELLE, With ~iSBJ" AND
“OUR NAVY”
Australian Tour.
Ballarat, Nine Nights, Ending March 14. Theatre Roj f al,*
Adelaide, Three Weeks from March 15.
CHARLES MACMAHON, Manager for Mr. SNAZELLE.
CAPTAIN EDWARDS, R.N., Manager for WEST & SON.
MiSS Ada Lawr^ijCS,
The Greatest Tragedienne, Comedienne and Emotional
Actress Australia has yet produced.
Supported by
MR. WILSON FORBES’ DRAMATIC CO.
“Leah,” “Camille,” “Romeo and Juliet,”
“ East Lynne.”
South Australian Tour, March. Broken Hill, Easter
Monday, April Bth.
“ The Best Australian Boole of Short Stories."
Castro’s Last Sacrament
By ALBERT DORRINGTON. 4s 6d.
Public Notices.
“ WOODITB.”
TT having come to the knowledge of the Woodite Oom-
pany of Mitcham, Surrey, England, that some persons
and manufacturers have been making spurious rings,
Sheeting, packings and Woodite gauge glass rings, and
selling the same as “ Woodite,"
NOTICE is hereby given that any infringement or
piracy of the trade mark “ Woodite ” will be proceeded
against, and persons are warned not to purchase or Ideal
with the same. All Woodite rings and moulded goods
have the name “ Woodite ” cast on them ; none others
are genuine.
A reward for information will be paid on conviction of
any person or persons pirating or infringing the trade
mark “ Woodite.”
WOODITE COMPANY,
January 21st, 1901. Mitcham, Surrey, England.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 27th February, 1901.
DEVONSHIRE STREET CEMETERY.
I\JOTICE is hereby given that the Department of Public
Works is CREATING a NEW CEMETERY at near
LA PEROUSE in a beautiful position for the RECEPTION
of the UNCLAIMED BODIES, and other property now
lying within the DEVONSHIRE STREET CEMETERY.
In this new cemetery the remains will be reverentially
re-interred, and all existing monuments, tombstones,
headstones, footstones, and iron railings re-erected over
the respective graves by skilled workmen.
Owing to the greater portion of the stone work and
iron railing now in the Devonshire Street Cemetery being
unsuitable for admission into any of the other Metropoli-
tan Cemeteries (except the Presbyterian Division of the
Necropolis), persons who have already made application
for translation to other cemeteries may, if satisfied to
leave the work in the hands of the Department, withdraw
their applications with the assurance that their interests
will be safeguarded in every way compatible with rever-
ence, decency, and skill.
The new cemetery will eventually be connected by
tram, and is now connected by good roads. It will also
be beautified and kept up in an orderly manner.
ROBT. HICKSON,
9 c 21 Under Secretary for Public Works, and
Commissioner for Roads.
T°
Federal Elections.
THE ELECTORS OF THE STATE
OP
New South Wales.
Gentlemen, —
I beg to state that I am a candidate for election to
the Senate of the Commonwealth. Many electors have
represented to me that the experience gained in my 34
years’ connection with the railways of New South Wales
in different positions, latterly as Traffic Manager, would
be of value in dealing with the Inter-State Commission
and with the Federation of the Railways of Australia,
which must be the question of the near future. Care
must be taken whilst guarding the financial interests
of the parent State, that its commercial interests,
especially with reference to our chief port, Sydney, are
also safe-guarded. If elected, I would give the present
Government an opportunity of bringing forward its
measures. It is plain that whatever Government is in
power must bring in a tariff sufficient to raise at least
eight millions of money. I am a Protectionist. There
are industries in our midst which require fostering. Most
prominent amongst them is the iron industry. We have
in New South Wales the very best of iron oresin unlimited
quantities, coal, lime, and every article necessary for
making the best of iron and steel. Surely this is an in-
dustry (and it is only one of many) worth placing on its
feet. Should I gain the confidence of the Electors I can
promise faithfully and conscientiously to discharge the
duties required of me.
Yours faithfully,
W. VERO READ.
North Sydney, 6th March, 1901.
JJJLECTORS OE QUEENSLAND.
I beg to announce myself as a Candidate for the Senate
in the Commonwealth Parliament. Owing to the limited
time available, it is impossible to explain my views in all
the chief centres of population. During my twenty years’
service in the Queensland Parliament I have ever striven
to foster the interests of my Electorate and of Queens-
land, and that my efforts have been appreciated seems to
be shown by the fact of my continuous return.
If I am elected, while I shall consider it my duty to
watch the interests of the State, as I realise that under its
provisions “State rights” will demand constant and in-
telligent supervision, I shall nevertheless not forget that
the interests of all Australia are in the keeping of the
Commonwealth Parliament.
1. If elected I will advocate and support the creation
of a system that will secure to the Commonwealth an
adequate land and sea defence by means of citizen sol-
diers and sailors.
2. The adoption of a revenue tariff that will produce
sufficient for the requirements of the Commonwealth and
of the States without destroying existing industries.
3. I am in favour of the exclusion of Asiatic and African
races, and am opposed to the employment of alien labour
but in regard to the sugar industry I believe in leaving
the settlement of the Kanaka problem to the people of
this State. It is pre-eminently a State matter, and the
people of Queensland may be trusted to do what is right.
4. I believe in an old age pension scheme, and, in fact,
in all measures of a liberal and progressive character.
If elected, I am prepared to give the present Ministry a
fair triai; but lam pledged to no party. I shall look
more at the policy than at the politician.
JOHN HAMILTON.
Missing Friends.
ESTATE OF EDWARD CATTLIN, DECEASED] ~
| ENEHAN.- Sydney Ralph Cattlin Lenehan, a son
™ of Amelia Lenehan, last heard of at Cannonbar, in
Queensland, about ten years ago, is requested to com-
municate with the undersigned, and he will hear of some-
thing to his advantage. Any person knowing the present
whereabouts of the said Sydney Ralph Cattlin Lenehan,
or who can give any information regarding him, is desired
to communicate with the undersigned.
T. W. GARRETT,
Curator of Intestate Estates,
Queen’s Square, Sydney.
Federal
E D EE A L
Elections.
EL EOT lONS.
The Senate.
To The Electors of Queensland.
Fellow Electors, —Having represented the electors of an
important State constituency in the Assembly since 1896,
I feel that I am not unknown to the public, and therefore
offer myself as a candidate for a seat in the Senate of the
Commo: wealth.
The future prosperity of the people of this vast Com-
monwealth will be largely dependent upon the intelli-
gence, the wisdom, and the patriotism shown by its re-
presentatives in Parliament.
It will also be the duty of our representatives to guard
carefully the control and administration of the internal
affairs of the Commonwealth.
Amongst the first duties to be undertaken will be the
determination of the future fiscal policy of Australia, the
immediate settlement of which should not be delayed. It
therefore behoves electors to assure themselves of the
fiscal faith of every candidate seeking election.
Although a Protectionist, I consider that a modified
tariff could be arranged which, besides bringing in a
revenue, would prevent the free influx of cheap labor pro-
ductions, while at the same time assisting the agricultural
and manufacturing interests.
The large Customs revenue that will be necessarily
raised, and the undesirability of having to resort to any
form of direct taxation, renders the exercise of economy
in the administration of the Commonwealth finances of
paramount importance.
I favour the exclusion of all "coloured races, but that
sugar be produced under present conditions pending the
appointment of a Royal Commission, who shall investi-
gate and report as to the advisability or otherwise of em-
ploying Polynesians in the canefields. It is not the
Kanakas (who are decreasing in number), but the other
coloured races, that are a menace to Australia. The
white citizen workers of Australia should demand their
prompt and absolute prohibition.
I consider that a scheme should be initiated without
delay for the consolidation and conversion of the debts
of the States, and so attain the ideal of one people with
one interest and one debt.
Considering that our frozen beef, mutton, &c., suffers
great deterioration on the Thames, I will advocate better
methods of handling, storing, and distributing our pro-
ducts in Europe, and that a central depot for Australia
be established in London.
I will assist in formulating a policy for developing the
interior of our vast continent by railway communication.
I consider the defence of Australia requires our deep
consideration, and, therefore, consider it is necessary
that a Council of Advice should be established between
the home Government and her dependencies for the
better distribution, arrangement, or equipment of forces,
and who would advise in any matter connected directly
or indirectly with defence.
I favor the establishment of old-age pensions. Pending
legislation, the operation of the system in different parts
of the world should be carefully watched, as many valu-
able lessons will be afforded for the guidance of the Com-
monwealth Parliament when dealing, as eventually it
must, with the subject.
I am a believer in conciliation and arbitration, and also
adult suffrage. As it will not be possible, in the limited
time available before the date fixed for the elections, for
me to visit more than a few centres of population, I must
rely upon my past record in public life commending my
candidature to the electors of my State.
Should you honor me with your support, it will be my
aim to assist all Liberal, Democratic, and Progressive
measures for the promotion of the interests of Australia
and its people, irrespective of class, creed, or conditions.
Yours obediently,
JOHN BARTHOLOMEW.
O THE ELE 0 T O R~S
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Gentlemen, —I beg to offer myself as a Candidate for a
seat in the SENATE of the COMMONWEALTH PAR-
LIAMENT.
lam a native of NEW SOUTH WALES, and keenly
alive to the interests of the STATE, and would resist to
the utmost any attempt to deprive us of our just rights.
<■ DEFENCE.
Recent events have proved that it is quite impossible
for any Minister for Defence, with his many political
duties and responsibilities, to be thoroughly conversant
with the administration of the Military Forces, conse-
quently many mistakes have been made and sinecure
offices created ; these I wish to see remedied and abolished
at the earliest possible moment, and no time is more op-
portune than the present, when the forces of the different
States are being blended together in one Commonwealth
Army. I regret to say that there are already indications
of a movement, in at least one of the other States, to
supersede not only the General and Permanent Staff, but
the whole of the New South Wales Forces. Any endeavors
in this direction require to be firmly opposed. lam of
opinion that much extravagance has been displayed in
the past, and greater efficiency could be gained at less
expenditure. lam a strong advocate of the principle of
a Partially-Paid Force, which was inaugurated by General
Richardson, an officer who has done so much for New
South Wales, and whose system has become a model for
the rest of Australia. I have had many years’ experience
in the Defence Forces, having commanded the Mounted
Rifles for a period of 9 years, and served in the Imperial
Army for 13 years. I am, therefore, in a position to
recognise the weak spots in our system.
TARIFF.
I am opposed to the imposition a TARIFF which would
ENRICH bounty-fed manufacturers of the STATE of
VICTORIA, preferring duties which would be mainly
REVENUE BEARING, having due regard to the interests
of the FARMERS and PRODUCERS. I am strongly in
favor of Reciprocal Trade between Great Britain and her
Colonies, and am prepared to vote for the granting of
Preferential Duties to British Manufactures, in return for
favored treatment of AUSTRALIAN WOOL and PRO-
DUCE.
I regret it will be impossible for me to personally visit
you to further explain my views, as I am under orders to
leave for South Africa.
If elected to the honorable position as one of the Rep-
resentatives of NEW SOUTH WALES in the SENATE,
my services on my return to Australia at the conclusion
of the War will be at your complete disposal.
I have the honor to be,
Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
H. B. LASSETTER.
Sydney, March 7th, 1901.
Hair
Tonic.
3 HAYTORS, TIVOLI THEATRE
kno YT °h 'T tes> 29 / 1 /’ 01: “After’using
Famnff Ha r ”>nT adv . er . tlsed Remedies for Weak and
CAPI L i4t’ d , re< ' e1 v 1 "& no benefit, I tried your
fullv YnnV/t m i' Vh A Ch m,v ha ’ r bas benefited wonder-
Te S ti,lon; fu J' y ’ A t RTH ?. r Haytor, Tivoli Theatre.”
tors and £h froni Reading City Business Men, Solid-
t rs and Members of Parliament, &c., with each bottle.
Ihe only Guaranteed Hair Restorer, 2/6 bottle, post 3/G
W. RICHARDS, Proprietor, 168 Pitt-street, Sydney
Federal
FEDERAL SENATE ELECTION.
TO THE ELECTORS OF NEW SOUTH
\ T^Tpa
Fellow Citizens, —
As the Candidates seieuieu uy tne Political Labor
League to carry the banner of Labor in the coming con-
test for the Federal Senate, we propose to lay briefly
before you our views upon the leading Federal questions
of the day.
THE FISCAL QUESTION.
While regarding the Fiscal Question as of minorimport-
ance, yet as papers and politicians have combined to force
it to the front we would at once state our position in
regard to it.
To raise Revenue through the Customs, as both Barton
and Reid propose, means imposing upon New South
Wales a burden of a million and a half more taxation than
she now pays, and all this that the other States may keep
up their present expenditures without having recourse to
direct taxation. Seeing that the States retain their lands
and railways, we refuse to admit that they have any
right thus to overweight N.S.W. through the Federal
Treasury. The Federal Government has quite enough to
do to set its own financial house in order. If Barton were
an honest Protectionist and Reid an honest Freetrader,
instead of being the revenue-tariffists their policies pro-
claim both to be, they would advocate a certain measure
of direct taxation, to mitigate the burden a high revenue
tariff is upon the great masses of the community.
As the Tariff Question is, however, a minor one to us
compared to Industrial Peace, to a White Australia, to
the Abolition of Minority Rule in the Senate, which
stands in the way of the fusion of the peoples in the
several States into one Australian nation, we would vote
with perfect impartiality for any leader, no matter what
his fiscal policy, who would give us the largest measure of
these reforms.
WHITE AUSTRALIA.
Not fisealism, but a White Australia, is the all-important
question. Coming from the stock we do, with the quality
and variety of soil and climate and extent of territory we
possess, we have the opportunity of making our country
one of the first among the nations of the earth. One of
the first essentials is to keep it white. The Asiatic and
Kanaka must be excluded, and at once ; and not only
these, but all other inferior races. In many parts of the
continent the Chinese, the Japanese, and the Hindoos are
an even greater menace than the Kanaka. They lower
our standard of living, they lower our moral tone, and
they cannot be assimilated with our race. No considera-
tion of trade or of treaty should be allowed to stand in
the way of their exclusion. We are satisfied the British
Government will realise this to be our national duty, but
in any event we should do so.
CONSTITUTIONAL REFORM.
Each citizen of the Commonwealth, wherever situated,
has an equal interest with any other upon all matters
that the Commonwealth has jurisdiction upon. But, as
the Constitution stands, should he live in Tasmania, he
has ten times the representation in the Senate—through
which all laws must pass—that he would have if he
lived in New South Wales. This at once destroys majority
rule —the sheet anchor of Democracy—and perpetuates
that narrow provincialism it should be our aim to abolish.
Mr. Barton now tells us the Constitution is in danger.
Before the Constitution was adopted he was one of the
loudest in proclaiming his readiness to trust the people.
Surely if the people could be trusted to decide the ques-
tion of adopting it, they can be trusted to decide if any
amendment is necessary. We are prepared to leave such
a question to the people every time.
COMPULSORY ARBITRATION.
Industrial Peace is essential to the progress and de-
velopment of the nation. No reasonable measure of this
can be secured except by legislation. We therefore stand
for Compulsory Arbitration.
NAVIGATION AND SHIPPING LAWS.
Navigation and Shipping Laws will receive our earnest
attention, and we will exert ourselves to secure encourage-
ment to Australian shipping by the enactment of laws
preventing unfair competition from foreign subsidised
and manned vessels.
NATIONAL BANK.
We strongly favor the establishment of a National
Bank, with the sole right of note issue. This would
minimise the danger of banking crises and reconstruc-
tions, as well the power of private institutions to thwart
progressive legislation to benefit private interests. The
profits arising from the note issue alone would be very
considerable.
COINAGE.
We claim for the Commonwealth the right of Coinage
of all the metals in our currency. The profits on silver
alone amount to a very large sum, and should belong to
the Commonwealth.
ADULT SUFFRAGE.
We are firm believers in Adult Suffrage. It can never
be truly claimed that our laws are “ broad based upon
the people’s will ” while women are debarred from having
an equal voice with men in the creation of laws.
MILITARISM.
We are strongly opposed to the establishment of a
Standing Army. The history of the older countries of the
world proves such a system to be a danger to the liberties
of the people, and a crushing burden upon their indus-
trial progress.
In the wide expanse of ocean that separates us from
the rest of the world, with the spirit and valor of Austra-
lian sons, we can with a Citizen Soldiery and with a rea-
sonable expenditure upon the naval defences rest secure
against foreign aggression.
TRANSFERRED SERVICES.
There is danger that some of the Representatives from
some of the States, where the members of the Civil Ser-
vice are more poorly paid than with us, may endeavour to
drag wages down rather than level them up. Such an
effort would meet with ■ our strongest opposition, con-
vinced as we are that in all but the top grades at least
our own rates should go up rather than down.
We favor the creation of Appeal Boards for the different
Services, with the right of the men to direct representa-
tion thereon.
We claim, too, for the Civil Servant the right to the
fullest measure of political liberty enjoyed by any other
citizen of the Commonwealth.
FEDERAL CAPITAL.
The site for the Federal Capital should be decided at
the earliest possible moment. The land must remain
the property of the Government for all time. Periodic
re-appraisements should be made, so that the constantly
increasing values put upon the land by the growth of this
City and the development of the nation should be credited
to those who create it.
In conclusion, we would again emphasize our conviction
that not by wrangling over the dry bones of Fisealism,
but by making and keeping this a White Man’s Country ;
by bringing about Industrial Peace ; by educating our
people industrially and commercially to a higher plane ;
by giving greater encouragement to the inventors
amongst us, can sound and satisfactory progress be made.
To those who share such views, and who think that a
leavening of the Federal Parliament with some members
of the Labor Bodies, which in the several different States
have brought about more progressive legislation in ten
years than had been effected in the previous forty, we
confidently appeal for a vote on the day of the Federal
Elections for
Yours faithfully,
SAMUEL SMITH,
DONALD MAGDONELL.
NO
RECOMMENDATION
IS
NEEDED
LEA & PERRINS’ SAUCE
RECOMMENDS ITSELF.
Agents-VTRGOE, SON, & CHAPMAN, and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.


R. U. O.K. & A 1?
IF NOT! WHY NOT?
Read the Records of Recovery.
The Case of Mr. S. W. FINNIE,
(For the Sydney Star.)
Mr. Sidney William Finnie made an
appointment for our reporter to call at
No. 32 Bay-street, Ultimo, one evening, so
that he would have plenty of time at his
disposal to furnish a complete account of his
wonderful recovery from a complaint which
had caused himself and relatives a great
amount of anxiety. Mr. Finnie is now a
splendid specimen of manhood, being over
thirteen stone in weight, and with a com-
plexion which testifies to the robust health
he enjoys.
“ You do not look a likely subject to
speak with authority about sickness,” said
the reporter.
“No; but if you had seen me a little
while ago, you would have had a different
opinion,” was the reply. “My direful
illness was brought on in a very simple
manner—through treading on a piece of
glass. That little accident was the pre-
cursor of subsequent complications, from
which my sufferings can barely be expressed.
My foot received a terrible gash, which
necessitated a number of stitches. I lost a
large quantity of blood from the wound, and
had to go about on crutches for six weeks.
When I could dispense with my crutches 1
found myself in a dreadfully weak and
nervous condition. I remember getting an
awful shock one day when passing a house,
with a hearse and mourniDg coaches outside.
It was a place where a friend of mine used
to live, and, on making enquiries, I found
that the poor fellow had died of the plague.
My nerves were incapable of withstanding
such a dreadful shock, and I went home
feeling as cold as ice, and trembling from
head to foot. On arriving at my own place
1 was the colour of a ghost, and I quickly
fainted away. When I recovered conscious-
ness, the pulsation at my wrist was light
and fluttering, and my mind was depressed
and disquieted. My thoughts were in a
state of confusion, and I was totally be-
wildered. I had to obtain relief from my
laborious duties and take to bed, as I was
thoroughly broken down. My face became
pallid, and wore a strange expression, with
the pupils of my eyes dilated and yellow
circles underneath. Sometimes my breath-
ing was very feeble, and my skin was cold
and clammy. When laying down I could
hear my heart beating against my ribs, and
I would then sit up to get a little ease. As
soon as I resumed my former position the
palpitation used to come on again. Short
Btretches of sleep came occasionally, and
then I had terrifying dreams, from which
I awoke with a start in a condition of great
nervous excitement, and while still only
partially awake I had impressions of dimly-
seen objects or imperfectly-heard noises,
which became fresh sources of horrible
images and ideas. It took me some time to
regain my normal balance after these experi-
ences, and 1 was often afraid of my own
shadow. Then my digestion went all wrong.
No matter how light my meals were, the
food obstinately remained heavily on my
Btomach, causing exasperating pains, which
were only relieved when the victuals were
vomited. Before being sick I used to belch
sour gases from the stomach, the taste, of
which was never out of my mouth. Pains
in the back of my neck and under my
shoulders caused me a lot of misery, and my
headaches were a source of great torment.
Fits of dizziness were frequent, and when
sitting on a chair I felt as though it was
going round and round with me. Even-
tually I could not sleep at night, and the
vomiting became more frequent, leaving my
head in a whirl. All my strength and
energy had left me, and I was reduced over
two stone in weight.”
“What did your doctor think of your con*
dition?”
“Apparently he did not know what. to
think, for his treatment was not benefiting
me in any way I was afraid it was the
plague I had, and a number of other folks
were of the same opinion. In fact, when I
at length went to consult another doctor,
the neighbours were grouped together dis-
cussing my sickness, and on my return they
were still there, eagerly waiting to hear the
verdict. To our mutual gratification they
were informed that it was not the dreaded
plague.”
“ Did the second doctor manage to restore
your health ?”
“No ; he was just as unsuccessful as the
first, although he gave ine a great quantity
of physic. I became heartily sick of his
advice and medicine, because there was no
of an improvement. I had lost heart,
and did not expect to pull through my illness.
I was in this state of despondency when I
was brought face to face with Clements
Tonic. A friend sent me half a dozen
bottles, and guaranteed me a cure if I took
them I shall never be able to wipe out my
obligation to that man, for a few bottles of
Clements Tonic completely put me right. A
couple of bottles cured my nervousness and
brought me peaceful sleep. My aches and
pains all went away, and I could soon eat
heartily. In about three weeks I was as well
as you see me now, so it is not necessary to
say any more. I have every reason to be a
strong advocate of Clements Tonic, and you
are welcome to publish my opinion and
statements far and wide.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Sydney William Finnie, 32 Bay-street, Ultimo,
Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have care-
fully read the annexed document, consisting of
three folios and consecutively numbered from
one to three, and that it contains and is a
true and faithtul account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full per-
mission to publish in any way my statements —which
I give voluntarily, without receiving any payment;
and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of an Act made and passed in the ninth
year of the reign of her present Majesty, intituled
“ An Act for the n*,-e effectual abolition of Oaths
and Affirmations taaen and made in the various
Departments of the Government of New South
Wales, and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof,
and for the suppression of voluntary and Extra-
judicial Oaths and Affidavits."
cam
Declared at Glebe, this third day of September,
one thousand nine hundred, before me,
THOS. I NO. DUNN, J.P.
HIGHEST AWARD-GOLD MEDAL—PARIS EXHIBITION, 1900,
FOOD
For INFANTS
and INVALIDS
MELLIN’S FOOD yields a complete diet for the youngest
infants, in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD retains its properties for any length of
time and is adapted foruse in all climates.
MELLimS FOOD when dissolved in milk, makes a simple
nutritious diet for growing children.
Samples etc., may be obtained of GORLIN & Co., 172, Clarence Street, Sydney, 562 4, Bourke
Street, Melbourne, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, and Wellington.
Mellin’s Food Company lor Australia and New Zealand I,td., 56, Cannon Street, London.
MELUN'S EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS,
and BFQJiCHITIS.
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & CO., 172 Clarenoe Street, Sydney.
COMMONWEALTH^
Being a series of articles reprinted from The Bulletin
with an appendix dealing with the Fiscal Question.
Price 6d.; posted, Bd.
Business Announcements.
THE
BEST FOOT
FOREMOST
Is an old saying frequently heard at
home, but how many people have a
“best foot” which they care to put
forward ? Character is often revealed
by the shape or condition of a shoe.
Now you can always distinguish the
“HERZ” shoe, because its wearer is
never ashamed of it. One has a feeling
of being “well-dressed'’ if the “HERZ”
shoe is part of our outfit. The reason is
not far to seek :
PERFECT SHAPE,
which is never lost in wear.
BEST LEATHER.
The Finest Quality that can be
procured.
ABSOLUTE EASE
and comfort in all weathers,
wvwvv
Ask for and get
The “ HERZ ” Shoes.
HUNTER’S SELL THEM.
Medical,
notism
<9
Reader, why not be able to nee the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can ham
to H pnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feat?
that are possible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about It. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the" Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever publ shed. For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply.
Remember this costs you noth-
in A postal card will bring it.
Order to-day and learn to Hyp-1
no f i*e. It 8 a chance of a’
life-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy «
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizks, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Tkuman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
A Vapor Bath Cabinet
Is a Necessity in Every Home.
BUY a
QUAKER
Batb Cabinet
(Best American Imported),
and enjoy the luxury of a
TURKISH, VAPOR, or MEDI-
CATED VAPOR BATH at
home, instead of at public
institutions, and save money.
Cures Rheumatism,
Sleeplessness, Obesity,
Kidney and Skin Diseases.
Price only 25/—, including Heater, and Prescriptions
for Medicated Baths.
Head and Face Steaming Attachment, 3/6 extra.
Cabinet folds flat to 1-inch thickness, when notin use.
Call and Inspect. Pamphlets Free.
J. CHALMERS,
Premier Buildings, 229-231 Collins St., Melbourne.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingtlie constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
I cases of anaemia and
1 general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
I debilitated children.
LANCET, “A beautiful and interesting
preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-"/* ha* all
the good effectt of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth."
SOI II BY CHEMISTS AI.L THE YVOBI.D OVER.
WHOLESALE ; Paris, 130, Rue Lalayette-
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footstep* of the wise and buy the Be-t,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia.
STUART&OO.
MOFRIETiHT LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
While Shirts to measure.
Our Suit to order at 425. is
marvellous value; made from
all-wool Tweed*. Vicunas, or fast
color Series ; it is perfect fitting:
and beautifully finish* d.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class c f material. £3 3». To
measure, capital Trousers, >ery
good patterns, 12s. 6d.
Dress Suits, to measure.
Clerical Suits, to measure. £5,
R ding Breaches, 25a.
Riding Habits. Ac.
We supply ready made. Men’s
capital Tweed Suits 21s. & 255.
1 Fam< us Ballarat Ser,e Suits,
Indi.ro dye,2ss.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Serget ette buits, 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss, lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests. 19* lid.
Men's Grass Cloth Summer
Suits. 19s lid. W ite Drill
Sacs and Trousers. 10 s. lid.
Khaki Suits, ekrunk, 12s lid.
Black ami Grey Alapaca Sjics,
lis. 9d. White and Brown Prill
Trousers. 3 s - 9d., 4s 9d.. ss. lid.
Travelling Trunks, Ba.s and
Rugs in great variety.
Men’s White Shiits, colored
front and cuffs. 2». 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. lid.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket, 3s. Od.
Soit Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d., all
colors.
Hard Hats, 4*. 6.d. Caps. Is,
Merino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d.
Neckties, all shapes and colors.
Is.
Gents’splendid Balmoral Boots,
We like to write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for any
information. Our book, " The Philosophy of Liress.” an l
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement forms posted free
Write for them.
AWARDED « GRAND PRIX,” 1900.
See the Marvellous results obtained with the
No. 1 Panoram
KODAK
Which takes Wide Panoramic Pictures, 7in.
x 2jin., and is Loaded and Un-
loaded in Daylight; also the
No. 3 Folding Pocket
KODAK
Taking Pictures 3Jin. x 4Jin., fitted with
.Rapid Rectilinear Lens, Brilliant View
Finder, made of aluminium.
Send for Illustrated Leaflets, and
mention this Paper.
To be obtained of all Dealers throughout
Australasia, or of—
Ltd.
THE BLOOK,
284 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, PnoiiT & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
USE
SPOONERS
1 SPOONER’S
ifcTtNT IXAIHEK BOOT'S
‘cimssso&Mf
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing (or
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION*
Liquid Blacking.
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers,eto


A salutation speech from the 19th Century
to the 20th Century, taken down in shorthand by
Mark Twain :
I bring- you the stately matron, named Christendom,
returning bedraggled, besmirched and dishonored from
pirate raids in Kiao Chow, Manchuria, South Africa and
the Philippines ; with her soul full of meanness, her
pocket full of boodle, and her mouth full of pious hypocri-
cies. Give her soap and a towel, but hide the looking-
glass.
For pure, perfect casualness go to the Aus-
tralian divorce-courts. A few cases in one recent
day, at Melbourne. One petitioner told the
Court that she was married in ’B9, and that,
having no means, the pair lived with her mother
for 18 months. Then respondent left casually,
and stayed away three years, when he returned
and took up the matrimonial contract for a few
days, then drifted away once more. Six weeks
later, she met him in the street, when he kindly
inquired if she was. working, and, being assured
she was, wandered off again—this time, to get a
drink. Petitioner said she was tired of waiting
for him to finish this very long beer, so she
got her divorce. Another couple had married on
nothing a-year, and gone to live with ma-in-law.
Then hubby went to Sydney for a while, returned,
went away again, returned for a few days, wan-
dered off once more, had been met in the street in
’92, and was known to have gone to Germany in
’96. He varied the eternal monotony of the busi-
ness by swearing at his wife in German, Swedish
and English. Another petitioner told the Judge
that, having been away mining for over a year, he
found on his return an unlawful and unwelcome
increase in his family, with reference to which his
wife merely remarked that “she supposed she had
been drugged, or something.” Then he placed
his two children with his sister, and went away
again. Now, he wanted a decree. He got it.
Another deserted husband said he had only been
married four weeks when his wife went to Mel-
bourne to see her sister, and declined to return.
When asked why, in the circumstances, she
had married him at all, she ex pi lined that she
didn’t love him any longer, and that, if she did go
back with him, “ she would be hung for him.”
lililiii
iSSS
-;v
Photo from Life.
Original may be seen at 113, Regent Street, London, W.
Royal Patronage
KOKO FOR THE HAIR
111 is a tonic, cleansing, invigorating preparation, causes tne hair to grow
luxuriantly, keeps it soft and pliant, imparts to it the lustre and Ireshness !
of youth, eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling, is the most j
11 cleanly of all hair preparations, and is perfectly harmless.
OLD PEOPLE LIKE IT
||| for its wonderful power to invigorate decayed hair, and induce an entire
111 new growth when that is possible.
MIDDLE-AGED PEOPLE LIKE IT,
YOUNG LADIES LIKE IT
as a dressing, because it gives the hair a beautiful glossy lustre, ensures a
luxuriant growth, and enables them to dress it and keep it in any style
that may be desired.
CHILDREN LIKE IT,
111 because it keeps the hair and scalp cool and clean, allays irritation, and
1 1' keeps the hair in whatever position desired
THEY ALL LIKE IT,
because it is as pure as crystal, perfectly colourless, contains no poisonous
substance, no sugar of lead, sulphur, nitrate of silver, or grease, and does
not soil or colour the scalp, face, or the most delicate fabric in clothing,
produces a wonderfully pleasant and cooling effect on the head, and no
other dressing is needed to give the hair the most beautiful appearance
possible. Try it once, and you will use no other. It contains no
colouring matter or dye.
KOKO is sold in 1/-, 2/6 and 4/6 bottles everywhere.
Australian Depot, Koko Maricopas Co. Ltd., 14, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
C A UTION— See that this Registered Trade Mark is on every bottle
r
T
(fega) (gjf/ 1 ) (§s3) ©jj® (ffifiSp v_j/ '®§®» v®s£)) (gffiiD (S!s§) (®sw (6istjj) «i§j§/
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
~ THE FAMOUS REMIEIDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pam or
Soreness in the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l an> writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak arid troubled with night sweats,
pain in tny chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated bya doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at. once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven month's old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured t>y One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
• “ Katunga, Via
“Mr. Hearne. —
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very had coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER."
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir,—
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will.be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once; At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that, previously for 12 months —always went in the
omnibus —as walking - caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTTMER.”
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do —send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night's rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir. —My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
nnd asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of reoovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED,
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes “After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced tojtry Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4t.h April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED
ONLY
AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEAR ME, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot- Qfg ce . No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD FOR
INFANTS
9
FOOD is not only highly nutritious
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER'S FOOD ia sold in Tina byChnmiata, Ac., everywhere.
‘“Bengers Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
AND
THE AGED.


ILE
A PENNY SAVED
IS A PENNY GAINED
And the same applies to the many Pounds that the
NATIONAL^
CASH REGISTERS
Would Save eor You.
Built Like a Watch
and accurately adjusted, in every
detail is the ...
NATIONAL
CASH
REGISTER
which carries with it a 2 Years’
Guarantee, showing we have
faith in the workmanship of our
machines.
National CasEj Register C°
335 Pitt Street, Sydney.
W. A. LIN GUA 31, General Manager.
The Forgiveness of Sancho
Mendoza.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Sancho, stealing from the wharf, was like a tiger
on the footpath : children scattered ; the dogs ran
with side-glances and barked at him from a dis
tance. Sancho had the sleuth-like movements t a t
betokened the jungle-bred Cuban, and a nose t a
gave more than a hint of the Jew; yet his feet a
the tripping movement that goes with men w to
tread the planks of a ship. A lamp-lit pavemen
was no place for him ; his personality cried for a
cane-swamp, or a river-girt plantation packe
with singing negroes.
The riding-light of his sohooner flared dully m
the misty river-bend below; all along the pier
were close-drawn figures of men and women
trafficking in handshakes and other ebullitions
that are the stock-in-trade of the sirens who greet
men from the sea.
Sancho hated the wharf-siren. The monotony
of the sea had bred in him a few fixed ideals, a
love of his wife and hearth ; and it was this love
that kept him from the shallows of the wine-cup
that lead to the murderous deeps where the sirens
are.
His love of his own was the tiger’s love, play-
ful, kittenish, yet behind it a white-toothed
menace that is the first and last prerogative of the
carnivora.
The news of the schooner’s arrival had not
reached his wife Juanita ; her absence was proof
of that. Juanita was a Spanish creole of the com-
monplace New Orleans type; but it had been a
condescension in her to marry Sancho, the Cuban ;
and so Sancho always felt it. He looked up to
his handsome, coarse, passionate wife; and
eagerly did her bidding. And when their little
daughter had come, his man's worship of the
woman had gained something of the devotee’s
worship of his divinity. Sancho’s love was his
religion. , , ,
And Juanita loved him too; though she hec-
tored him and scolded him. Sancho accepted her
rule as meekly as her love; and was grateful for
both.
* * * *
Diving into a narrow street, Sancho slouched
past the garden-fronted cottages where children
played and women crooned in the dark of the
verandahs. He began to wonder if little Estella
had forgotten him at all during the month of his
absence; trading round all the little Cuban coast
villages. It occurred to him that a seafaring life
was not conducive to domestic happiness. The
lonely sea oppressed him at times and filled him
with cravings for his wife’s presence, for the
dimpled caresses of his little daughter. And he
had only the grey seas hammering like Vulcans at
the schooner’s ribs to comfort him. Juanita and
Estella were always so far from him ; but
he thought he knew how they felt in his
absence, how they were filled with a great glad-
ness when he capie home. Some day he would
give up sailoring and open a shop—second-hand
clothes, jewellery . . . good pickings, he mused.
His wife Juanita could sit in the doorway and
keep an eye on the goods hung outside.
Juanita was very pretty. Ah, that was some-
thing to bring a sailor-man home. She had
Spanish eyes. Dios ! her feet were as small as a
child’s.
A thick Cubano took sudden refuge between his
teeth, and its immediate incense cheered him like
a plantation melody. In his pocket was a pearl-
necklace he had bought in Santiago for the
little Estella. His fingers closed over it as he
thought of the pleasure it would give her. Some
of the street pickpockets might ease him of it.
Caramba! they would have to break his hand
first.
* * * *
He turned into a lane where children were beat-
ing each other and howling. The lane was blocked
at the end by a high wall ; his cottage stood
directly beneath. There was a garden in front
with sea-shells and mignonette along ’its borders.
His hand gripped the door-knocker, but a sud-
den thought stayed him ; he seized the door-knob
instead and pushed it open.
The unwelcome darkness of the interior chilled
him. Juanita’s bedroom was at the rear of this
little building. A thin slice of light came through
the door not quite closed. She had evidently lit
a candle. Santa Maria ! how amazed she would
be. He fancied he could hear little Estella’s quick
gasp of surprise. How sweet was his home-
coming ! He flung off his thick coat, and the
roar of the ocean seemed to die from his ears.
“ Juanita, Juanita ! ” he called in Spanish; “I
have come home! I, Sancho. I have come
home ! ” He moved forward and stood.
A terrible oath answered him. Then he heard
Juanita’s sob and the thump of feet on the floor.
The door shut.
Sancho Mendoza leaned against the door while
a cold sweat took him between the shoulders.
“Who is in the room, Juanita?” he whispered
childishly. “ I have been away. Ido not under-
stand.”
A silence followed —the kind of silence that
sometimes gets a hanging-judge by the throat.
“Juanita?” The Cuban spat with dry lips ; a
hurricane of blood tramped through his stooping
body. His wife’s answer came in the slow
whimper of a desperate woman. “ Ay, Dios mio!
Ay, en nombre de todos los santos I ” And
—there was a man with her. She was lost.
There was no pity for her. The devil had
tempted. “Ay, en nombre ”
* * * *
The Cuban heard the rest, and a sound like the
swirl of the Gulf Stream roared in his ears.
Again he felt the loneliness of the ocean and a
silence in which some men measure eternity.
Tick, tick, tick! He heard his own watch as
though it were speaking to the pistol that lay
almost against it.
Juanita wailed like a sick child. Sancho threw
away his cigar, and braced himself. “I have
been away. You do not care. Very well; Ido
not reproach you. Tell the man to come out.”
The voice of the unseen guest answered him.
“ I reckon you’ve bailed me up, senor. By gosh !
you came by wire. What are you going to do ?
Slow down for a scrap, or make it drinks?”
Sancho wiped his face with his blue silk hand-
kerchief. “I tell you Ido not reproach. My
wife does not care ; I do not care.”
“And you’re going to let me quit, senor?”
*‘ By God ! yes ! ” Sancho scraped the door with
his fingers like an impatient cat and spoke in
broken English. ‘ l l will let you go now, mistaire.
But this is my house ; this is my wife. My price
five dollair. Ze price of my house en my wife.
Quick, ze money; or, by Orise, I shoot—l keel
you !”
There was a clink of cash inside the room.
Sancho stooped and picked up a five-dollar gold
piece that was pushed under the door.
* , * *
the morning light the little front room looked
Vatican, hung over picture of St Anthony mt
Padua. There were other signs of J ua^ lta s r ®“
JoM temperament. With trembling h»nd» ?he
inured coffee into Sancho s cup, not cla F*“e
to meet his half-shut eyes. He had seen the little
Estella earlier in the morning with her small
brown hands about her mothers neck, hor one
moment the sight had held him between love and
hatred. He seemed to stand apart from them.
The mother might sinagainst tlieumveKe, and
Estella would still cling and love and cry with
her. They laughed together, understood their
own little gestures, their unrevealed thoughts.
He himself must always stand apart from therm a
beinsr only half understood ; a man who brougnt
them money at certain periods. ' They never knew
how he worked, tramping his schooner across the
seas and round through the choking heat; some-
times at the mercy of a crew of mutinous dogs
shipped from the crimping-dens of Havana or
the fever-swamps of Panama. . . . All m the
day’s work —all for them!
He shook himself suddenly. Juanita was
sitting opposite to him ; there were tears on her
cheek ; the coffee-cup in her hand clashed unneces-
sarily against the saucer. “You are going to
forgive me, Sancho ? I was so lonely. No one
ever came near me ... all day, all night. My
blood is quick, my heart is moved by kind words.
He came. I did not care for him much. I was
lonely. You have been lonely, Sancho, out on the
water. Can you wonder ? ” _
“I say Ido not reproach; that is enough.
“ But you are terrible, Sancho ! And you have
suffered from the loneliness ... in your. ships
full of men. If a woman had come to you in the
night and touched you with her lips . . . Ah, by
your eyes I know you will kill me. You will
never forgive. ”
“I tell you Ido not reproach. I shall never
mention it—never.”
He mumbled over his food, coughed like a tiger
in his haste. “ I love you, Juanita, for ever and
ever. I will never again go away. I will give up
the schooner and open a shop. I will love you for
ever and ever.”
The door opened softly, a dark-skinned child of
five crept in and stole behind Juanita.
*“ Come to me, my little love, my little Estella !
Sancho moved caressingly to where she stood
behind her mother, and fastened the pearl-necklace
about her throat.
Juanita turned slowly’, and saw, hanging from
the clustered pearls—a five-dollar gold-piece.
w s.w.
ALBA DORION.
Of the 13 lepers in N.S.W. lazaret at the
end of last year only one was Chinese. Since
1883, 33 Chinese were admitted, as against 35 of
all other nationalities. Of the total 32 died.
“ Yarra” discourses to The Bulletin on
Bertram Mackennal’s “ Circe ”
There has been no overrating of Maekennal as far as
his Circe is concerned. The statue is indeed a work of
genius. In the big hall of Melb. National Gallery it is
badly placed, surrounded as it is by a score of other
statues and pictures, but nevertheless the moment the
spectator stands before the lithe, tense figure, omni-
potent in its glorious nakedness, he falls even as the com-
panions of Ulysses under the spell of the enchantress. It
is a psychological statue—a thing of beauty, and some-
thing more ; and though Circe is naked rather than
nude, there is not the faintest suspicion of coarseness or
sensuality about her. She is delicacy itself, and com-
mands worship instead of exciting passion. It is not till
afterwards that one remembers how essentially modern
she is. She is a woman of to-day—a society girl taken
out of her clothes and placed on a pedestal. Her profile
is one of absolute loveliness imbued with just the
faint Hebraic touch that adds tenfold to womanly
fascinations. But in her full face one finds the
true inwardness of the character ; the cold, pitiless,
cynical expression of confident mastery and contempt.
The figure is all muscle—not bulging and protuberant,
but delicate and shapely—and makes other statues near
by look like the Gippsland Fat Family. Relying upon his
art for his effects, Maekennal has discarded all the con-
ventions of the part, and the only accessories are the tiny
snakes wound about her hair.
The pedestal, which the London Academy carefully
draped before it permitted the British matron to view
the statue, depicts a number of youths and maidens
sprawling along the floor in various cuddlesome attitudes.
One gentleman is endeavoring to drag a lady away from
one of his companions who has already secured a tight
hold, and in the corner a girl is weeping—presumably
over her lost virtue.
Mackennal’s other work all bears the imprint of the
master-hand, but is not so ambitious. Melba’s bust is a
striking portrait and a fine piece of sculpture. The tiny
statuette of “ Salome ” is impregnated with the spirit of
brazen and flippant coquetry that might be expected of
that young lady. “ Truth ”is a well-conceived but care-
lessly-modelled statuette, and “ Fame,” the least admir-
able of the collection, is merely a conventional rendering
of the idea found on a dozen advts. every week.
From the sublimity of “Circe” the spectator passes
into a corridor to meet the ridiculousness of Herkomer’s
picture of the late Queen, for which the Victorian Govt,
paid nearly £lOOO. It is draped with crape around the
edges. In the interests of Art heavy drapery should be
hung over the entire canvas! And it should never be
taken off.
Writes a histrionic correspondent from
London to The Bulletin :
Christmas-time—as dull dramatically as panto—ab-
sorbs everything; but the Spring tures will soon be
starting. Several actors, quite unknown “ down under,”
are starring the provinces here as “ Australians.” A
curious impression prevails here that very large salaries
are the rule in Australia —due, probably, to what is
known of the amounts paid to imported English actors
by Australian managers. One pleasant difference here is
the courtesy extended to professionals. Managers act as
if you did them a favour in asking for either orders or
engagement none of the you —be —d d 1 style
of the Australian managers. I have frequently
been refused orders by Australian managers with-
out a word of apology to my stamped envelope,
but here my first application (to Hawtrey) brought a tele-
gram saying that two seats were at my disposal. Tree
refused 'me ; but with such polite explanations that I
cherish no animosity.
Tree has London by the back-hair, and is doing enor-
mous business. The papers are full of puff of his forth-
coming Twelfth Night. He makes speeches at theatrical
dinners, and poses as “ representative ” when the drama
is attacked.
All the West-End theatres close till after the
Queen’s funeral—though the suburban pantomimes
open after two nights’ shut-down. These “suburban”
productions are a revelation to an Australian. The
theatres are good enough for any metropolis, and before
Christmas most of last season’s successes were tiring
them.
I saw “ Bobs’ ” return in Hyde Park. He looked well
and ruddy, but with the sad, keen look familiar from his
photos. A cheer brought his head round my way—in a
wonderfully alert, erect fashion. He raised his cocked-
hat, for an instant was silhouetted against the grey of a
creeping fog, and then passed, leaving a suggestion of a
man with “ hair-trigger ” faculties—but indescribably
pathetic and human. Wales and the Princess were in
front, and Wolseley came later —without a cheer, which
must have been galling.
An example of British bathos re the Queen’s death.
The Daily News, in remarking how universal was the
sorrow, said that it heard a man ask for a 3rd-class rail-
way-ticket “ with tears in his voice ” !
The newly-arrived-Australian’s feeling that here he is
treading historic ground, soon wears off, but it came back
to me with a rush yesterday on reading over a public-
house door “ Established 1580.”
“The Welcome Nugget.”
THE BIGGEST LUMP OF GOLD FOUND
IN AUSTRALIA.
There are few Australians who have not heard
of “The Welcome Nugget,” and there are few
museums existing in the colonies without a model
of that precious find. So heavy was this piece of
gold, that it lay for one week in a shop in Bendigo
at the disposal of any lady who could carry it
away. So precious was it that the original owner
and finder, investing well the money he received
for its purchase, died a semi-millionaire. And so
great was its value from an historic point of view
that few books on mineralogy in any part of the
world are published without reference to the cele-
brated “Welcome Nugget.” The advent of the
nugget brought wealth, but there is not a
single record which goes to prove that
its arrival brought health. How different is it
with Bile Beans for Biliousness ; wherever they
are found they bring health with them. They are
more precious than all the “ Welcome Nuggets.”
And well do Australians know it. Indeed, there
are hundreds of miners in Australia to day who
have been cured by Bile Beans for Biliousness
from complaints owing their origin to the inhala-
tion of foul air, from indigestion, constipation,
piles, and those other complaints peculiar to a
miner’s life. These miners acknowledge that
when their health failed Bile Beans for Bilious-
ness was more precious to them than would be the
finding of the biggest nugget under the bowels of
the earth.
How to Make a Million.
Monet is a, pretty hard commodity to get some-
times, but again it appears to simply flow into the
coffers. Some people say this latter state is a
chance one. Others, again, maintain that wealth
comes only by hard, steadfast work. So be it.
The first essential to hard work is good health.
Bile Beans, the world’s greatest discovery, make
this possible, and also make the possibilities of
amassing wealth greater.
Bile Beans owe their existence to the discovery
by a medical man of a certain vegetable substance,
which, when compounded with other ingredients,
has the effect on the digestive organs of Nature’s
own bile, created by the liver. Finding this to be
the most natural cathartic obtainable, the public
readily accepted it in preference to all others. Act-
ing on the bowels in a gentle manner, Bile Beans
do not weaken nor distress the patient. They have
been aptly termed “ A medicine for the people at a
popular price,” and when it is considered that 30
million doses are consumed in Australia alone
annually the term is well justified. Bile Beans
for Biliousness are an undoubted specific for
Biliousness, Sick and Nervous Headache, Indi-
gestion, Constipation, Piles, Female Weakness,
Pale Face Girls, Irregularities, Bad Breath,
Pimples, Blotches, Dizziness, all Liver and Kid-
ney Troubles, Dyspepsia, Heart Palpitation, Pain
in 'Back and Side. When purchasing see that
you get Bile Beans for Biliousness, and don t be
put off with something which your dealer says is
“ just as good ” ; the “just as good ” kind bears
him more profit, and that is why he prefers to sell
them. He will endeavour to obtain wealth at the
expense of your health, but as health is wealth you
get health by using Bile Beans, and wealth can
then more easily follow. And even if it does not
follow, if you have health you would not exchange
that health for all the riches in the world.


r Pleasant to the palate, pleasant in action.
and delightfully exhilarating and refreshing-
in its effects—these are the qualities which
have earned wide - spread popularity for
CALIFORNIA SYRUP * FIGS
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
Everything about California Syrup of Figs is pleasant—taste,
appearance, action, and results. It does not gripe, irritate or in-
commode in any way, but just simply and effectually assists the
organs to perform their functions with healthful and natural
regularity, and its use may be discontinued as soon as the system
is properly relieved and cleansed.
&
i
fil
s
W
0E
J|V»
?
TMI* CXOtVUHT fttMIOT MIBUfTf
IN TMf
MOST AOOCPTAOLB FORM
TMf MtOIOIN AWWT WAXATiVC RRiNOiPWCSjBf
AW ANTS KNOWN TO AOT MOST BCNCtIQIAy
111 TO OLCAWBC THC ST ST CM
kV| TO HMtMINTI* OVCNOOMC
HABITUAL CONSTIPATION
AND THC ManviwwS otPCttOinr on rT, TO
OI|MW OOVOS ANO MCAOAOMCS AMO M|«
VCNT MVIRft TO AOT OCNTWV VIT
.PROMPT!.V •«» TmC
KIDNEYS. LIVER AND BOWELS.
MANUTAQTUWtO BT
PRICE It. IKd.
The habitual use of pills and
purgatives weakens the organs and
does permanent harm, because it
tends to produce chronic consti-
pation ; the occasional use of
California Syrup of Figs strengthens
the organs and
PERMANENTLY
OVERCOMES CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION.
Health and strength are incom-
patible with liver inaction, because
the blood cannot be kept free from
impurities. California Syrup of
Figs frees the system entirely from
impurities, and also acts as a tonic
and vitalising principle on liver
and kidneys, stomach and bowels.
Medical men, for these reasons,
recommend California Syrup of
Figs. It is indeed the most posi-
tively reliable, and at the same time
the most agreeable, remedy for
CONSTIPATION, SLUGGISH
LIVER, BILIOUSNESS,
INDIGESTION, FLATULENCY,
DEPRESSION,
and all kindred complaints, speed-
ily restoring health, appetite,
energy and good spirits.
THE GOOD IT DOES IS PERMANENT.
There are imitations and substitutes in plenty, but they all omit
the essential quality—viz., the curative. It is therefore abso-
lutely necessary to insist on being served with the genuine and
original—that is, with California Syrup of Figs. In the process
u ™^ nu^ac^ r . m §'> are used, as they are pleasant to the taste,
but the medicinal properties of the remedy are obtained from an
excellent combination of plants, known to be medicinally laxative
and to act most beneficially.
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIQS,
and look for the NAME and TRADE MARK of the
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP COMPANY.
Of all Chemists and Stores, is. and is. gd. per bottle.
Depot, 32 SNOW HILL, LONDON, E.C.
MOIR'S
ANCHOVY PASTE.
In Tins about 2 ozs.
Manufacturers 3
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
The Love-Star.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was one star
That never shone to-night.
I searched in vain through all the firmament
To find afar
Its wan but welcome light,
That I might dream its rays for me were sent.
It was so much
Above me, yet so small,
It trembled ’mid the greater glories there.
Red Mars was such
A fierce, red -flaring ball,
And suns and stars eclipsed it every where.
It shrank in fright
Away. And I was glad
To fancy that it knew I watched it shine
The whole long night
With pale gleam, through the sad
\Y ide seas of space—O, little love-star mine !
For now some cloud
Has come between, to hide
My star from me ; and it may never know :
Of that great crowd
It shone so pale beside,
Not one could find a heart to love it so.
W.A.
PROSPECT GOOD.
The Quick and the Dead.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Evek since the beginning of railways in N.S.W.
the passenger who alighted at Redfern Station has
been reminded of what might have happened, by a
sudden and fullviewof adensely-crowded cemetery
just across the street. To the outgoing traveller
it was constantly recalled that in the midst of
railway traffic the possibilities of loose rails, de-
fective and wrongly-turned points and human falli-
bility, are infinite, and that a railway journey is an
exciting gamble with deatli in a dozen shapes.
It was a dreary, desolate old place; covered
with a tangled mass of undergrowth, and the
graves were hideously neglected. Some queer
specimens of humanity seem to have haunted the
place ; and others, veritable ghouls, dwelt among
the tombs. One of the first discoveries made by
the men set to clear away the rubbish was the un-
buried body of a man fully dressed—even to boots
and hat, who had not been dead many years. He
was probably a mysterious disappearer who had
climbed in there to sleep off the effects of liquor,
and had died before recovering sobriety. They
sell some shockingly bad liquor in Sydney.
Another weird find was that of two old rag-
pickers who had been dwelling under a huge, flat
tombstone, supported on pillars at the corners, for
years. Their residence was surrounded by an
musually thick and tangled mass of shrubs
through which they had tunnelled, and which kept
off both wind and rain. They had scraped away
the soft, sandy soil beneath the stone
till their bed must have been within a
few inches of the remains beneath. They
lived in a certain degree of comfort too, with
plenty of food, a fair supply of illustrated
lapers and whole stacks of sensational literature.
they had made deep though narrow drains around
Iheir allotment to carry off any water, and were
better served than the shop-keepers of King-st.
during a recent flood. They shed tears when
Iheir retreat was invaded, and declared that it
was a blow which would drive them to the horrors
of Newington and Liverpool poor-asylums. What
vort of places must Newington and Liverpool
\sylums be when a man and woman prefer to live
ader a tombstone, in a grave, in preference to
(foing there ! The indictment of Warren Hastings
is tame beside this arraignment of N.S.W. Govt.
Charitable Institutions.
The workman sat on the fallen tombstone and
munched his dinner: “ Yes, we’ve seen some rum
sights at this job. The first I was 0:1 was the shiftin’
of ’s bodies out to his new place at (say)
Waverley. He had a vault—leastways, his old
man, what was buried in it, had. He was a nice
sort of a cove, and he came down to take a hand
in the job, and just afore we got to the gate, he
says, ‘Well, chaps, it mightn’t be very nice work,
you know, and yous had better have something
with me ter keep yer peckers up—l don’t care
about starting on it meself without some stimu-
lant.’ Poor bloke! he needed all his stimulant.
So we goes in and the cart was there to take the
coffins away. They didn’t bring no new coffins ’cos
the whole family was planted in leaden coffins,
which lasts for ever—if the thieves don’t get at
’em—which the blankers did in this yer case.
We lifted up the slab at the end of the vault, and
I goes down inside, and the poor bloke what the
people belonged to follows me, and then the other
chap wot was with me. It was kinder dark down
there, and so I struck a light and has a look round
—s’elp me, I’d like to crucify the brutes wot did
it! There wasn’t a coffin in the whole place ;
every one of ’em gone—stole, and sold ter the Chows
fer old lead ; and the bones was scattered about,
and in one corner piled up in an obscene position,
while on the other side lay a skeleton which
hadn’t broken up—most likely the poor bloke’s
father’s, with the arm bent and holding an empty
whisky-flask atween his teeth. The murderin’
cows had drunk the bloomin’ coffins and left him
only the empty flask. Strike me ! but it was low-
down.”
* * * *
He was one of the most reverent workmen
(they all seem to have undergone a regular course
of training in respect), and I waited till he picked
up his basket and started for home. . . . He put
down the deep-sinker, wiped his mouth with the
back Of his hand, and considered for a moment:
“No, I haven’t seen anything what you might
call startlin’ yet. It’s the grief of the relatives
that is worst—’specially the Irish. They seem to
take-on more than the English and the Scotch.
The Australians—my oath, they’re very pure;
they look on it as a day oat, and don’t care a
tinker’s hang. That woman that came down out
of the gate with us was Irish, and we opened up
her little plot to-day; and she_ just sat on the
stone and told us all about it—friendly like. She
came here just 60 years ago with her husband. He
died about six months after she was spliced, and she
bought the plot and put him there, and made a place
ready for herself beside him, for she didn’t expect to
last very long after he’d gone. They all feel that
way at first, you know. But, just like all the
rest of ’em, she went up country and met another
man wot pleased her all right, and they got fixed
up, and she had three children by him. They all
died when they was poor little kiddies, and she
had ’em buried down here} alongside her first
husband, wot didn’t leave her no kiddies. Then
her second husband died and she buried him in
the same old plot, alongside her first husband
and the children. She thought her heart would
break—they all think that, you know ! But it
didn’t, though she felt mighty lonely. She had
seen all her children and her two husbands die,
and she oame to Sydney and took a situation here
so as to be handy to keep the grave nice and tidy.
One day a young fellow wot was paying atten-
tions to her called round and took her for a drive.
Her luck was fair out, and they got smashed up
in Oxford-street; the young cove got killed and
she had her arm took off. He’d no friends here,
so she had him buried in her plot, and her arm
was buried there beside him. Then, hang me, if
she didn’t get married again and go off up-coUntry
and make a big pile of cash and have a big family
of children.
“ She came down from Queensland to have this
attended to. We took ’em up to-day. It must
have bin tryin’ for her, you know, sitting there on
the gravestone watching the bones took up one
by one. Of course she could tell which was the
kiddies’ and which was the men’s; but which par-
ticular man each was she couldn’t even guess, for
the coffins had all gone and they was all mixed up
together. But she swore I hadn’t found her arm.
She said she was certain because it was wrapped
in a sheet of lead, and I dug down about a foot
more and then scraped all round, and by-and-by
found it right behind me. The lead had bust, and
the bone was all hollow, just like a decayed root.
’'She picked it up, looked at it, laid it among the
other bones and began to cry. Poor old soul! She
blubbered and said : ‘ They was fine min, the lot
of thim ; and the children —the pretty dears—and
to think that’s all that’s left of thim ! ’ And she
took-on so it broke me up, and I had to go and get
me pipe, or I’d have cried too; I would ! ”
* * * *
In some graves and vaults coffins have been
taken up that showed absolutely no signs of ever
having contained a corpse. Many explanations
have been given—some suggested by the memory
of the discovery of a bag of human bones
under a tree close to the fence. Body-
snatchers who sold them to the University;
grave-plunderers who drove a lucrative trade in
human skeletons; women who wished their
friends to think them dead after having taken to
a life of vice ; men of the convict period who,
having waxed affluent, wished to go back to Eng-
land and flourish a respectable past; men who,
having left wives and children in other colonies
and countries and got tangled up here, wished to
sever old ties and pass through the grave to a sure
and certain resurrection in the arms of the new
woman.
Tombstones and those to whom they refer seem
to have drifted strangely apart—or else many
people have spent money and tears over the bones
of those who were never related to them. A
woman who had buried a baby there about 40
years ago stood in the midst of the impassive
tombstones with her hands clasped watching the
man digging, waiting feverishly till something
should be discovered. Spadeful after spadeful
was thrown out, and at last the iron grated against
wood. The workman stooped down and brought
out a skull of enormous size. He laid it aside and
was about to resume his search when the poor old
mother pounced down upon the relic and exclaimed
excitedly : “That’s my little pet’s skull—l know
it is—l know it is 1 ” And wrapping it up care-
fully in her shawl she went off moaning and rock-
ing it in her arms, heedless of the remaining
bones and utterly oblivious of the fact that it was
the head-piece of a man of large proportions.
Up near the top of the hill the skyline was
broken by a group round an excavation' in which
two men were working. At one end of the line
was the mother and at the other end a nice-look-
ing, neatly dressed young Australian. Between
these two stood a group of children of various
ages, the youngest a mere toddling mite who said
“muvver ! ” Young Australia is indeed irrever-
ence personified. The youthful members of the
family were all making jocular remarks to the
men digging below. Suddenly, a scraping sound
was heard, and the child who said “ muvver ”
asked, was it “grandad’s box.” It was all
that was left of it, and the reverent work-
man—the workmen are the most reverent
crowd of men this scribe has ever met—
discarded his spade and worked with a piece of
bent hoop-iron as a scraper. A rounded outline
appeared, and the contour of a skull was exposed.
The man who had unearthed it took it up and
wiped it softly on his sleeve —where, no doubt, he
had wiped many others just as tenderly, at Bs. per
day—and held it out to the son. But that young
gentleman held the point of his stick down—
“ Stick it on there ; I don’t care about handling
the old cove’s head, thanks ! ” The man hesitated,
with a side-look at the woman at the other end of
the line, and the filial grandson poked his ferule
into the spinal hole and lifted the grisly thing
into view of his mother. He held it up and looked
at it attentively for a moment, and the little child
left his “ muvver’s ” skirt and toddled round to
try and get it in his hands. The eldest son shook
his head flippantly—“ Alas, poor Yorick, I didn’t
know you ; but, by Jove, I can see the family like-
ness can’t you, mother ? ” Then he held it over
to her, and she took it in her hands and flung his
stick at him with an angry curse for “ making a
show of my father’s bones like that.” The
little child toddled back to his muvver, and hung
on to her till she passed the thing down to him,
and while they watched the rest of the bones being
taken up he amused himself by poking the sand
and rubbish out of the eye-holes.
• » * *
It was in the Roman Catholic portion, and the
ancient and bent matron sat holding her daugh-
ter’s hand, weeping, and watching the man scrap-
ing away the sand. The daughter kept her
feelings under control until a leg-bone was taken
out and placed by her knee. Then she, too, wept.
It was a grave containing several members of the
family, and, as they raked through the sand, a
little mother-of-pearl button, clean and bright,
glittered in the sunlight. The workman picked it
up and held it to the mother, who grasped it
eagerly and told how it was from Em’s shroud.
They wept over it a little and placed it away in
the purse. The top part of the skull had been
brought up and the lower jaw came up separ-
ately. A man who had seen the treasuring of the
little button bent down, loosened a tooth from the
upper jaw, and handed it to the daughter and
mother. They shuddered and shrank away. The
man laid the tooth down with a disappointed
expression. He had meant it kindly enough !
A tall old man, thin-lipped and bony-faced,
with lank, black locks against which the years had
beat in vain. Knotted hands and gaunt red
wrists; his coat dingy and glazed, his trousers
baggy at the knees and worn half-mast. He
shook like a reed, and standing on the edge of the
half-opened grave repeated half-alood, over and
over again, scraps of Holy Writ. “ Son of Man,
can these bones live ? , . Yet in my flesh shall
I see God—yes! that’s it —in my flesh, in my
flesh! ” And he shivered and muttered on, ripped
with fear at what he was about to see. and yet
unable to leave the spot. It was his wife’s
grave they were opening, and the digger looked
up irresolute, and hesitated as though he feared
to distress the emotion-racked man any more.
Someone offered whisky, but the shivering
mortal refused it and looked round the wilder-
ness of grey, grim stones in helpless misery.
The digger threw his spade aside, felt with
his hands and then with an upward look laid
a brown, dirt-enoumbered rorearm-hone at
the old man’s feet. He shuddered, and with his
hands clasped between his knees looked at it
steadfastly for a moment. The-shivering'passed.
diLeront d lato fche gra . v <* ««i motmned the
‘r g ?f r ? * , Sh ® was my wife, you know, and I
don 6 shrink from her poor bones now I” He
groped blindly in the soil and took the remains
out fragment by fragment till he came to the little
round skub. He held it in his hand and sobbed
and stroked it softly as though it was the head of
the living woman. . .
“ Love is stronger than Death 1 u
HERMES.


Bad Blood; Boils and Sores.
A Great Blood-Purifier and Tonic.
Almost Unbearable Heat of Summer Soon Puts
One in the Grave.
A Valuable Fever Antidote.
Sarsaparilla
. --While in West Australia one of us had what is known as ‘Barcoo Sick-
ness, ’ due to bad food and water, together with the almost unbearable summer
heat of that colony. This disease soon puts a man in his grave unless he treats
it promptly. I came out of it in fine shape because I relied entirely on Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla for a cure.
“ Both of us have used this great remedy for boils and sores on our arms and
hands, as a blood-purifier and general tonic, and as a perfect antidote to fever
while in camp or at home. We both believe there is no remedy equal to this
grand old medicine we know so well.”
Dowling Bros., of 103 Hindley St., Adelaide, So. Australia, send us this letter
and the above photographs with permission to use. After such an experience
they can certainly call Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Be sure you get the right kind of Sarsaparilla— “Ayer’s.” Don’t let any-
body induce you to try some other kind. You will regret it if you do.
If you are not in good, vigorous health, if your nerves are not so strong as
yo« wish, if you are feeling run down and depressed, buy Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
today and begin the certain cure.
AYER’S S arsapariJla
Builds up the Whole System.
AYER’S PILLS act on the liver; they cure biliousness.
A POLICY FOR TH€
commonwealth!
Beipg a series of articles reprinted
froip “Tb« BOllctip,” With ai)
appepdix dealipg witb tbe Fiscal
QCiCStioi).
PRICE 6d.; posted, Bd.
PLAIN HOMC TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 86 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subje'cts concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information em-
braced in its oovers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK
posted for only 7s. 6d. •
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is «d nost
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d. 1 '
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards illus
Is ; post Is 3d. ’
Beauty's Secrets. Post free Is.
How to .Become a Ventriloquist; post free Is The
Art of Wrestling, .post Is.
Isove and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties, Love* Dress, etc. Is 6d post
Every .Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One's Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor Is
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals ’ 3s <3d
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Boor of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
Howto-Dance, new work, Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing,' by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true historv’i
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, is 6d post
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (ns-west), ls6d' post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1 Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d .posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest somrs
Is Sd’post free. “ ’
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE. MR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (ok! and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
bv him are still before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in partiou-
laa-. Hundreds ®f -r i of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised m his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE,
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WOR“H A
G-lIINKA A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. Fora
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ;< bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosufeuf) of Hkalth the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s JPills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world# Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, ls l|d, and 12s 9d each-
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY tJOIVCFETITIOIXr.
WINES Bed Br ”' d ‘ ih,hl °’ SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
S. FREEMAN <> SONS L—Br-
unners, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHOS BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN'S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNTAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
u
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free)
m
\ K
The Universal Remedy for Acidity oi tne Stomacn,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; *he
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDf
MAGNESIA
:v.,.v
m
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR BINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
1
o
<9
ov*
the wonderful
MEdfGi&E.
BONNiN-GTOf^S
IRISKMOSS
ecoooE
*URES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis,
ITS
TO


Asbestos Boiler Covering
SAVES 25 PER CENT. IN FUEL.
PACKED WET, Ready for Use, in 3cwt. Casks, 75., 95., 10s. cwt,
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lcwt., 145., 165., 18s. cwt.
ESTIMATES given for Covering Boilers and Steam Pipes.
Our Asbestos Boiler Covering
SAVES 25 PER CENT. IN FUEL.
PERDRIAU & CO.,
Telephones: 418, 467.^^
268-270 George St,
Sydney.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Broolanan’s Building. Adelaide.
I-
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND.
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
& FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
BBOT
<SHE
J. & J. MAXFIELD. t>roprs.. SHEFFIELD
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
mark.
<
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“THE BI.OCK, w
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
60
FOB
THE LADIES.
W- o- & 00.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOlUi STUKtOT, SYDNI3Y
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post, 'rum all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL
GEORGE & MARKET STREETS.
Board and Residence, Bs. per Day.
UNCHEON
12 o’clock till 2.30.
DINNI
5.30 till 7.30.
ONE SHILLING UPWARDS.
Perfect Cuisine and First-class Attendance.
Special FISH LUNCH LON and DINNER on FRIDAYS,
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO. LTD,
—
Fish Sind Gams, hard frozen and well packed, foi’warded to all parts of the State.
People residing in distant localities where Good B Litter is unobtainable, are recommended to obtain their supply from the above Company, proprietors of the
well-known - Golden Star” brand, and Sole Agents for the famous “Berry” brand. Both kinds are Pasteurised, and have excellent keeping qualities.
Our Bakehouse Goods, for Balls, Parties, &c., are conceded to be the finest manufactured. Sent well-packed to any town in KS.W.
j Price Lists and Particulars sent to any Enquirers. Hi PATESON, Manager.
MINING SCREENS.
Double Crimped Wire Cloth.
A Large Stock of all Sizes . . . .
Write for Samples and Particulars •
MINING ENGINEERS
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
AGENTS for Knowles Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors,
Gates Rockbreakers, Nagle Engines and Boilers, Buffalo
Blowers and Exhaust Fans, etc-, etc.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
* i ?Swf
M wm
74 Clarence St., SYDNEY; 435 Sourke St., MELBOURNE,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS.
BLAKE’S STEAM PUMPS (Single and Duplex)
FAY’S WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
STEAM ENGINES- (Horizontal and Vertical)
ENGINEERS’ TURNING LATHES.
DRILLING MACHINES. PLANERS.
STEEL PULLEYS SHAFTING, PLUMMER-BLOCKS
EMPIRE LAUNDRY CO’S LAUNDRY MACHINERY
STURTEVANT’S PANS and PORTABLE FORGES.
