

McEWAN’S ALE.
ILIO WHISKY.
IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
10*7 Keiit
Mining
and
EXPLOSIVES
Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, TWini™.* Reauisites
GENERAL new IM> second-hand plants always “viable a
•tCsty
BUSTON’S Compound Dredge Engine.
Watch Repairs by Post
®p
WATCHES Thoroughly Cleaned, 2s. 6d. ; best English
Mainspring, 2s. 6d. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
QK » m Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
Sss. Double-cased, £2 lbs. J
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send for catalogue.
D. S. MAIB,
684 George-st.
- & Optician
leld llill),
SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 85 Htt gtreBt , SYDNEY
HaVG i«- ar D Ve> th n f °! , ° Wi " 8 ' : Ruston, Proctor & Co.’s Compound Dredge Engines and Boilers, Centrifugal
„ .’ r’ lr ® opes, ucxet Lip Steel, Tyre Steel, Mild Steel, Manganese Steel for Pins and Bushes, &c.
ei:s, Grab Hooks, Links, Grab Hook Points, Tumblers, &c., made to order. OSBORN’S STEEL“CASTINGS.
ENGINES & BOILERS, &c.. FOR GOLD DREDGING
THORNFS
That’s All!
NOW READY. NOW READY.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
A Reprint of articles from The Bulletin.
Qca..
Sole Wholesale Agents = EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
‘Ir&P
%
i
ifli
— —
<C,
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WTMI’O M'S GEORGE HOTE L, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
RYE EXTRA.
_ . RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME.
SANDEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
241 E»ITX STREET, SYEKTEY.
AMUSEMENT for OLE and, TOUNG. w
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprisrog: Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Pish (gives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed). *
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on reoeipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
XH. L. HUTCHINSON Manager.
(Mention this-paper when writing.
PIONEER
LEATHER
ELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SOM, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches:—P. Frankel & Co., Edward-st., Brisbane Q •
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ;H. K. Fysh and’
00., Colhns-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Oashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
«
Tales of tlie System.”
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
jpAIR GIRLS AND GRAY HORSES.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
» ABBOTT FILTER
°™ Absolutely Pure Water.
ABBOTT FILTER COY., 33 William-street, Melbourne.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Agents, 71 Clarenee-street, Sydney; Fremantle, and Kalgoorlie. \
S. FREEMAN # SONS V-^
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
hkad_officej WTHTAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
JOSHUA’S
BOOMERANG BRANDY.
The London Times: “A Sound, Honest Brandy.”
The LancEt: “Of a Fragrance, Purity and Quality Second to None.”
The British Medical Journal : “A Pure Product, well worth the attention of the Profession.”
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10IS. •^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS by
far the largest and most complete in ’the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him..
Public and
Catered for
on, Most
Banquets and
Private Bails
Reasonable
Terms.
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n)brocatioi)
fnr flnt.cr ftnro inn T? i»1
or . Sprains, Bruises, Kheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints ir MAN and
BE Ah I. As unscrupulous persons
offering injurious counterfeits.
SEE THAT YOU GET
are
Row’s CnjbrocatioQ.
The Ways of Many Waters
Collects the dashing- ballads and verses of sailor-men’s
and wharf-men s life which E. J. Brady has contributed
to The Bulletin and the Sunday Times, Sydney It is
the first attempt on the part of an Australian verse-
writer to chant the life on the sea and the margins of
the sea ; though there is one horse-poem—the storv of
How Jack Bowlin Steered ‘ Jones.’ ” The volume is
bound m buckram, with gilt top, in a size that will <rn
into a pocket without squeezing; and the price is -Is
post-free. r '
The Bulletin
VoJ. 22.— N0. 1097. j
[Saturday, February 23, 1901.
Bettered at the Genera! Past Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.:


NOW BEADY.
New Issue of
Pair girls »! Gray Horses,
WITH OTHER VERSES.
Tty -Will aac. Ogilvle.
*■ Completing 8000 copies.
TTiOR this new issue a fresh and more attractive form
hss been devised. The book is bound in blue cloth,
decorated, with blue edges, and contains the latest
y, PORTRAIT OF THE AUTHOR
from a photo, by Kerry taken just before Hr. Ogilvie’s
departure for Scotland.
More than ever the book of “ Fair Girls and Gray
Horses” deserves its familiar description as
The Most Charming Book of Verses
Ever Published in Australia.
Price, Five Shillings Post Free, which may be sent
direct to The Bulletin Office, 214 George-street, Sydney,
in P. 0.0., postal note, or stamps of any Australasian
province.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
Ldwards, Dunlop, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. , THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
4ft
a
The
voice.
or organ '
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of 1
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous drur/ . .
„v an phfmiSTS in Tins, 1s 6cl; from the Proprietor, 6. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland—post
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
THE BED PAGE.
“Modern Pen Drawings.”
THE “special winter number of The Studio ”
issued under this title does not replace or
supersede Pennell’s “ Pen Drawing and
Pen Draughtsmen.” It is less critical;
and the criticism that there is rarely appears as
good as Pennell’s. Its object, writes the editor,
Charles Holme, is “to give typical and varied
examples of contemporary pen-and-ink drawings”;
and though some well-known names are missed,
the volume is very interesting, and brings Pennell
up to date by force of recent examples. At the
moderate price (55.) it is within the reach of every
pen-artist and amateur.
Probably most critics will agree with the
writer for the American section, Ernest Knaufft,
that though the art of pen-drawing has been well
continued, has changed its modes and processes,
the last teri years show little, if any, improvement
on the best work before that period. The ex-
amples on this page reproduced (naturally losing
much of their effect) have been chosen for their
interest rather than for their skill; but the skill
shown in these and in other drawings of The
FENCERS, by F. H. Townsend.
Studio’s volume is not such as to silence
the man who praises the past. It is to re-
gret that so little is known of Australian
work in London that this country goes unrepre-
sented.
“Modern Pen Drawings ” contains British,
American, French, German, Belgian, Danish,
Dutch, Finnish, and Swiss examples. Italy and
Russia, Norway and Sweden, go (with Austria
and Australia) unrepresented. The British sec-
tion has an intelligible but not an artistic pre-
dominance. A survey of examples brings the
opinion that the British fail comparatively, not in
technical skill, perhaps not in sentiment, but in
imaginative power. A touch of heaviness, wooden-
STUDY, by Albert Sterner.
ness, seems to influence the British art : it
does not dance like the French, or fire
like the German and Belgian. The American
keynote seems to be unsurpassed dexterity : the
Americans seem to lie between British and
French, the British between Americans and
Dutch. The best German work (perhaps through
Jewish admixture) does not seem to hold the
heaviness commonly attributed to the German
temperament: it is at once art and inspiration.
The Danish and Finnish work approximates to
the German. The half-dozen Swiss examples
disclose no evident characteristic.
Here is the essence of the expert opinions col-
lected in the book. Of British drawings J. M.
Bulloch writes that—
We are only on the threshold of the new school, with
its bewildering ingenuity and its beautiful technique, for
the army is being recruited from the ranks of creators
who, twenty years ago, would have found their dreams
attainable only, in the many shades of the canvas or the
water-colour. In short, the discovery of the young school
is this : that, in the manipulation of simple blacks and
simpler whites, you can get the colour of the world itself,
and get it at first hand. ... We have the curious para-
dox that art has become more possible through mechan-
ism ; that freedom has emerged from the unalterable
conditions of scientific laws as they -apply to the material
of mechanical reproduction. . . . However you hare to
account for it, the fact remains that we are in the pres-
ence of a series of artists whose work in pen and ink
has been unprecedented in this country.
But Bulloch does not compel conviction.
He perpetuates the fable that
Mr. May was compelled to adopt his method
of elimination of the superfluous when work-
ing in Australia under defective conditions
of printing ; and instead of escaping from a method* he
has developed it into an art by itself, brilliantly par-
simonious.
Arid he does not accurately express the fact when
he-writes that
S. H. Sime is indebted to Beardsley, hut he has an out-
look all his own, saner, and therefore sadder, in all its
essentials.
Sime’s sanity is ’mere commonplace; to call him
“ sad ” is to thoroughly misunderstand the striking
results he achieves by deliberately superposing
Beardsley’s methods on his own and as far as pos-
sible engrafting Beardsley’s outlook on his own.
Ernest Knaufft, on “American Pen Draw-
ings
The modern school of illustrating dates from 1876 . . .
by 188 Q Abbey had become the leading illustrator in
America . . . and when, in the middle of the eighties,
process-engraving came into vogue, and Life, which had
been started in 1883, brought before the public the draw-
ings of O. D. Gibson, the climax Of modern illustration
was reached.
Foremost among American illustrators is Edwin A.
Abbey. . . . Next to Abbey must be named Charles Dana
Gibson. . . . William T. Smedley would rank with Mr.
Gibson if his work were always executed with pen and
ink, but of recent years he has used wash entirely. . . .
The mantle of Edwin Abbey has fallen upon the shoulders
of Albert E. Sterner, who is almost the sole representative
of sentiment in illustration. His technique is not so ex-
pert as that of Abbey. He is, in fact, an uneven draughts-
man ; his figures are sometimes out of drawing. But at
his best he far transcends the average illustrator, and we
find the genuine ring of art, the fine poetic feeling,
dominating his productions. ... In recent years there
has been little development in American illustrating—the
tendency is mainly toward using wash in place of pen-
and-ink. Technically, almost all the illustrations of to-
day are good, but there is little that is dis-
tinctive or that promises to become
classical.
Under/ “French Pen-Draw-
ings,” Gabriel Mourey laments
that nowadays so many books
are illustrated which are not
worth illustrating ; so that “ the
art of the book,” in the best
sense, does not receive deserved
attention.
One who knows, and has good reason
to know, book-collectors well, said to
me, the other day, quite seriously, “ Print
with nail-heads on candle-paper the re-
cipes in the * Cuisinifere Bourgeoise ’ ; limit
the edition to ten copies—not- one more—and offer
this masterpiece of typography and literature to the
true amateurs of rare books. You will sell them
more easily for three hundred, if not five hun-
dred, francs apiece than for twenty francs, for the
bibliophile who makes a career of his hobby cares for
nothing that does not cost money! ” . . .1 feel con-
vinced that the only means whereby the general standard
of art publishing in France can be raised' lies in the
abandonment of the old formulae of anecdotal illustra-
tion, and in the resolute substitution of decorative
designs such as are to be seen in England, in America,
and in Germany.
Which denotes a preference very different from
Ernest Knaufft’s taste for poetic sentiment.
“German Pen-Drawings”—Dr. Hans W.
Singer—
The number of artists who devote themselves exclu-
sively to pen work still remains small. This is probably
the case everywhere. To-day, even more than formerly,
the artist who works with his pen is an illustrator, either
of books or of periodicals, and he adjusts his technique
to the peculiarities of the photo-mechanical process by
which his drawings are reproduced. . . . Foremost
among the artists who create pen-drawings pure and
simple is Max Klinger. ... I think it would be difficult
for anybody to-day to predict exactly where Klinger will
be ranked in a hundred years’ time. But I also think
that whatever fluctuations the estimate of his painting,
his sculpture, and his etching may undergo, nothing but
praise will be found at all times for his remarkable pen-
drawings. . . . Greiner’s skill in the handling of his peri
is quite astonishing, but his imaginative powers are at
times unequal to the task he imposes upon himself. . . .
The greatest of all our illustrators, Menzel ■ . •
The “ Wodki,” here reproduced, is by Gebhard,
One of the most gifted artists in Finland, whose verve
as a draughtsman knows no bounds. He literally plays
with his pen as with his brush, and produces the
strongest effects with astonishing- facility. Moreover, he
is perhaps the only Finnish artist possessing the real
humour and the lively imagination of the good carica-
turist.
Only the glasses spoil “Wodki” as a splendid
illustration of the fine old English verses, “Jolly
Good Ale and Old.”
W. E. Henley (quanto mufatus !)
has collected his rhyming twaddle
about the Anglo-Boer war, and
has produced in “For England’s
Sake” a booklet fully worthy of
the subject. The work
has one merit —brevity.
There are nine new
pieces and three from
former books—two
dozen pages in all,
As “Prologue”
Henley gives a
■fi Vl/-4 1 AV
fine lyric, ex-
pressive of
the longing
for a life of
action and
of the
loathing of
stagnation.
He wrote
it ten years
ago, and ap.
parently it i s
now inserted to
prove that Henley
is really tli e true poet
who is -more or less
worthily praised in the
twelve pages of press cut-
tings which pad out the pam-
phlet to a passable shilling’s
worth.
Among the. anti-Boer pieces it is
hard to find even single lines with a trace of
poetic merit in them. A Lawson-like descriptive
verse in “Our Chief of Men ” is remarkable for
its comparative value, but the second half of the
couplet drops to level of the commonplace
By the dismal fords, the thankless hills, the desolate,
half-dead flats
He has shepherded them like silly sheep, and cornered
them like rats.
That is the best that Henley can offer. There is
no poetry in the miserable African game of grab.
Henley and Swinburne afford indirect evidence of
the moral triumph of the Boer cause. And the
former has done all he can to show how- deep has
been his fall. Remember his fascinating little
song to the tune of “Over the hills and far
away”—
Where forlorn sunsets flare and fade
On desolate sea and lonely sand,
Out of the silence and the shade
What is the voice- of strange command
Calling you still, as friend calls friend
With love that cannot brook delay,
To rise and follow the ways that wend
Over the hills and far away ?
Now Henley gives another piece with the same
refrain ; and begins
Sons of Shannon, Tamar, Trent,
Men of the Lothianx, men of Kent,
Essex, Wessex, shore and shire,
Mates of the net, the mine, the fire,
Lads of desk and wheel and loom,
Noble and trader, squire and groom,
Come where the bugles 1 of England play
Over the hills and far away !
This is endurable newspaper work ; but Henley
has not been content with such unattractive medi-
ocrity. He tries to rival Kipling in the slangy
music-hall .style,. and one must confess that Kip-
ling—whose most popular verse is notable mainly
for vulgarity sweetened with a dash of heroism—
never wrote anything worse than the invitation
to swashbuckling “ John ”to “ Storm along. It
is painful doggerel, as poor in technic as it is false
in its concluding statement. One falters over
such lines as these : • . ' y
“ You had only to cart ’em some thousands
of miles ; .
So you fell to your work with the calm-
est of smiles,”
merely to reach the ridi-
FANTASIA, by Varan d’Ache.
“ Storm along, John ! Storm along, John !
Not in the best of the years that are gone
Has the star which is yours thus .tremendously shone!
Storm along, storm along, storm along John !”
Which suggests a collaboration of ancient Pistol
and the bellman.
But “ The Man in the Street ” (written in 1892)
is the slime of the pit. Here the very soul of
jingoism is bared in all its folly and arrogance,
its narrowness and its thirst for blood. How is
this for complacent blackguardism ?
Hands in your pockets, eyes on the pavement, where in
the world is the fun of it all ?
But a row—but a rush—but a face for your fist. Then a
crash through the dark—and a fall;
And they carry you—where ? Does it matter a straw ?
You can look at them out of your pride ;
For you’ve had ybur will of a new front door,
And your foot on the mat inside.
And for violent idiocy bow’s this ?
And if, please God, it’s the Rag of Rags, that sends us
roaring into the fight,
O, we'll go in a glory, dead certain sure that we’re utterly
bound to be right!
Frank, at any rate. And this, one gathers, is
the creed of the declining Henley : that brutality
is the first of virtues ; that England is infallible;
that God is a British jingo and will always help to
cast out the foreign scum ; and that to die selfishly
fighting for the mere love of strife is better than
to pass calmly in an honourable peace.
The title-page of “ For England’s Sake” bears
a quotation from Shakespeare. The self-respect-
ing reader may add it to another: —
I dare do all that become a man ;
Who dares do more is none.
B.
IN PRAISE OF WODKI by A. Gethard.


à
W. J9O. Baker’s
NEW
DESIGN
BUSH KNIFC
Grip Handle, Brass Rivetted, BJin blade,
complete with Sheath, 3/S Post Free.
Many other Designs Sheath Knives, -from 1/- each.
Please write for FREE DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE.
W. JNO. BAKER, Cutler, 3 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
BEST PRICES
.... FOR ....
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN
OBTAINED BY CONSIGNING TO
Goldsbrough, Mort*Co.
Circular Quay, Sydney,
Who vender PROMPT RETURNS and safeguard your
Proceeds by their TRUST ACCOUNT System.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
ife
LAWRENCE'S PATENT TOBACCO CUTTER.
PRICE £6.
Lawrence’s No. 2: Improved Automatic and Self-Feeding. Price £3 15s.
Note.— These machines are giving universal satisfaction, and amspecially recommended to tobacconists
in the country, so as to enable them to supply their customers with Fresh-Cut and Moist Tobacco.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST
Of TRICKS, PUZZLES, Etc.,
Etc., FREE.
a
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
EXTRA SPECIAL CATALOGUE
OE BOOKS FREE.
STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTES OF ANT COLONY TAKEN.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE,
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
NEWMAN’S
SPECIAL
DEPILATORY.
For Removing
Superfluous Hair.
By post— 2s. 6d. a packet.
C. E. NEWMAN, Chemist,
52 King Street, Sydney.
ERASMIC —
~= PERFUME
Is delightfully fragrant and pleasant to use.
A DAINTY, DELICIOUS DELICACY.
. . . ASK YOUR CHEMIST FOR IT . . .
mv node hivh aooo
\mj Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., 6s. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
gg- For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, od. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
BSS" For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively.
Price, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
Price 6s.
Post Free,
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
“By Steele Rudd.”
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED CHARGES ON
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charges will be
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb.
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under
WAY BILLS sent on application.
WHEAT.
SALES last season show an increase of 25 per cent, as compared with previous years. Unrivalled
accommodation. Three months’ free storage.
CIRCULAR giving fullest particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired.
CONSIGNORS are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association ot
this Company.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell's Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
WOOL:
| per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
WOOL WOOL WOOL
Winchcombe, Carson & Co. Ltd .
Selling Agents 7 y
deduced Wool
Commission
21 per cent.
on all lots.
Large or SraalL
WRITE AND CONSULT THEM ABOUT SALE OF YOUR PRESENT CLIP.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.,
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 O’CONNELL STREET. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge ; 3 Per Cent, to the G-rowera.
BONUS f PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge \d. per lb. to the Buyers.
“ LAWRUS ” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS A STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only :
41
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
STOGDALE & DUFFUS, Finks Buildings, Corner of Elizabeth & Flinders Sts.,
Melbourne; and 422 George St., Sydney.
â
Dr. Cla,rlc»on’s Electric Bolt;
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
Vlg °To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
nentic Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
na?ts the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful,
win oring ff THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
p r i ce _ELEOTRIO BELT, 10s, ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CALL OR WRITE— OWL
OUT
RATE
DRUG STORE
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
•Jtjl
f J
■A
h Hlh'il
JipilfflF
i
"a 5
When
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
i
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
. ELECTRIC Ala APPLIANCES, invented by
■ Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
* LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully andperfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
. Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
‘ Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,
■ brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 3 8 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney


TATTERSALLS
Address: Care GEO.
ADAMS, HEotoart.
AUSTRALIAN C. (Special).
100,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me_
above.
Name
Address
£ : i
Mar. 5.
shares in the
Rosehill C. March 23.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
Doncaster H. April 6.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
3
3
Address
Sydney C. April 8.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me .... shares in above.
N ame
Address
April 20.
City Tattersall’s H.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the ab'ove.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circular.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
nA"Nrr> SAW MILLS CIRCULAR SAW MILLS,
and Guaranteed. ______
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24- Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils as used °n «J e Radways °f
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Olarence-st., S 3 - v '
& c?>
* yV
y
*>> v
a
The warning cough is the
faithful sentinel. It tells of
the approach of consump-
tion, which has killed more
people than war and pesti-
lence combined. It tells of
painful chests, sore lungs,
weak throats, bronchitis,
and pneumonia. Do not
suffer another day. It’s use-
less, for there’s a prompt and
safe cure. A cure for fresh colds
and old colds, easy coughs and hard
coughs
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
It often, cures a fresh cold in a single
night, and it masters chronic coughs
and bronchitis in a short time. Con-
sumption is certainly prevented, and
cured, too, if taken in time.
If anybody tells you that consump-
tion cannot be cured, they are certainly
mistaken, for we have thousands of
these cases reported to us, absolutely
cured, and no mistake about it.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral Plaster placed
directly over the tender, aching lung
is a great aid to the Cherry Pectoral.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mas*., U S. A.
“ DOW RIDGE'S”
AS USUAL.
Elizataeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
Anp (rFX)RGE STREET. BRISBANE.
Publications.
TRICOGOfiS
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers: Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
SHIRTS.
For Stution and Out-door work our SILK STRIPS
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
aie highly recommended.
33/ per UalJ-dozeu, free by post throughout
Australia,.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane Q'land.
ACistraliai? MQtOal ProVidcpt Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
KMVIU&jV.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s-
H. Hillier,
130 Susaex-st.,
SYDNEY.,
S3T Send for a
Catalogue.
MM
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
YORKSHIRE
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
RELISH
millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
beware ok substitutions.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure aud wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours i-hemou, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Sublaco, Perth, W.A.&6S, King St„Melbourne
Paris exhibition, 1900-British Awards
The Only
Grand
Prix
I he
highest
ever made!
SOLELY FOR TOILET SOAP
HAS BEEN AWARDED TO
9kM
(Established 1789.)
kW
v/icr
S«
REG
BP
Appointment
to
u
fitr majesty Cbe Queen ami 8.R.8. Cite prince ot Wales.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1900 inGlusiv©«
3ST.S.W. Carriage
Note our New Address:
&
193 to
Saddlery Manf. Coiaa.x»a.xiy
195 Cieveland-street, Redfern, SYDNBX
(close to Redfern Railway Station}.
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a,
SULKY. BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description oi
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spnng Sulkies, £7,
3-Spring Sulkies, t 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest m Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Backboard Buggies from £9
108. Ladies' Phaetons (single and double), Dog < Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any Arms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
OUK SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
ã
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
The Slain.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I followed in an awful dream,
With no desire, or hope, or plan,
The winding of a silent stream
That through a shadowy woodland ran.
No voice of leaves above I heard,
No voice of gladness or distress,
There was no song from any bird
To stir that dreadful silentness.
And as that gloomy path I trod,
I found within a place remote
The body of a fair dead God
With marks of fingers on his throat.
Who slew that Being all divine,
And from iiis eyes the life-light stole ?
Ah me, the finger-marks were mine,
And mine the murder of my soul!
N.s.w.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Our Parting.
Was it but yesterday that you were here
Beside me, where, by stretching out my hand
To touch you, I could, panting, draw you near;
And kiss you till I fill’d my heart’s demand ?
Kiss’d you —dear God ! Our sacred souls were
met
In converse that no words have ever told.
And ne’er till death can you and I forget
The heart-beats that a silent kiss can hold.
Bathed in the smiles of noon I saw you stand,
With passion’d eyes and cheeks aflame with love,
Till lo ! a crimson glory lit the land
With radiance to the vaulted skies above.
Till with a fear I snatched you to my heart,
And held you where my lips could touch your hair
Could feel you mine—no mystic thing apart
From me—no dream-love of the magic air.
Could it be yesterday ? A thousand years
Would hardly span the gulf that lies between
Our last stol’n meeting and to-day. Vain tears
Are they that fall when Fate doth intervene.
Deep from my fainting heart a cry is wrung
As dim descried I see my lonely life —
A broken harp with every string unstrung,
A thing of discords and unlovely strife.
S.A.
ALAN.
The Visions.
In sweet hours of idleness,
By the wave or ’neath a tree,
Come two lovely lady-dreams,
And they pay their court to me.
“I am Love ! ” “ And lam Fame ! ”
“Love and Fame! ” they smile and sing,
“ If you ’ll be our servitor
Men will greet you as their king.
“ Sing of Love and roses red,
Sing of Love and have no fear,
Speak my praise in golden words
So the world may pause and hear.”
And the other says, “ With blood —
Blood and far-off battle-flame,
Make a wonder in men’s eyes,
And that wonder —call it Fame.”
So in hours of idleness,
By the wave or ’neath a tree,
Come two lovely lady-dreams,
And they win my soul from me.
But, at midnight, when the wind
Weaves a woeful melody,
Come far other shapes, and they—
Yea, they fright the soul in me.
Pallid faces in the night,
Eyes that cry a voiceless woe,
Bid me rise and go with them,
And I needs must rise and go.
Come I to the saddest scenes,
Fire and famine, sin and soil,
And the heart of man that sobs
In the serpent-grasp of toil.
Whisper they : “He holds the key,
Power has he to ope the gate ;
Bid him sing of death-in-life
And the nightmare of our fate.
What to us are Fame and Love,
Scent of roses, clash of swords?
We, whose ears are choked with groans,
Spurn the silk of chosen words.
Write of wounded hands and hearts,
Soiled and sunken womanhood, _
Wealth that walks with head in air
Knee-deep in a slush of blood.
Write of faces burnt and seared
By the savage furnace-glare,
Write of men who move in gloom,
Yearn for love and light and air.
Write of robbed Humanity
Ruggedly, with savage pen, f
Give the God-in-man his chance,
Freer scope and wider ken.”
So they pass and leave me filled
With a fierce desire to fight
’Gainst the callous hosts of Wrong
In the vanguard of the Right.
But I scarce can wet my pen,
Scarce a note of scorn can raise
When they come, my lady-dreams,
And I needs must write their praise.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


The Australian Widows’ Fund Qife Assurance Society [td.
THwh^chTssuelspeoffiI'poSJ'^ranlting-B'll 1 'poSJ'^ranlting- 8 ' 11 **” f ° nnS ° f ABSUrance . is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
Si. thr ° Ugh illneW *° ™ D * Moo ' i -
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman*
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
ceumulated Funds ... exceed £1,350,000 Anmial Income exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 GrEORG-E STREET, SYDNEY.
__gOWUS_YEAR, 1901. GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
A. BOWMAN’S
• • • You Can Have . . .
We do One Line—Gentlemen’s Boots—only.
That one we do Well.
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St.,
also 145 KING ST., opp. Theatre Royal.
NOW READY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being a reprint of a large number of articles from
The Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
Price 6d; Posted Bd.
English Boots at
14/6 per pair.
Tan Boots at
16/6 per pair.
Porpoise Hide at
17/6 per pair.
Best Style.
Best Quality.
No
Better
Made.
Diamond song book,
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers* of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
I wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing.
1
New Lucky BROOOH.
Solid Gold, Gem Set, 11s 6d., Post Free,
Latest Forget-Me-Not Gold BROOCH, 14s.
90 KING ST.,
SYDNEY.
NOTE.
Kindly cut
out this ad-
vertisement
and for-
ward when
ordering.
ä
Latest Gem Set Gold BROOCH, 14s 6d.
•'>
Solid Gold, set with Pearls and Red or Blue
Stones, 15s, POST FREE.
PLEASE SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SLIPS OF LATEST NOVELTIES.
cc
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney. -
STieK T©
(2AM E©
CIGARETTES
A SILVER WATCH
FOB NOTHING.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR. 1500.
TATE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF OUR
vv FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the Correct Reading of the follow-
ing puzzle:—
A FR**ND *N N**D *8 A
FR**ND *HD**D.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct you
purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to wear
with the watch.
SEND NO MONEY ; simply forward your answer, and
enclose stamped and addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you if you have won the watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of intro-
ducing and advertising our goods.
Mr. F. Hughes, Lidsdale, N.S.W., writes : “ I received
the watch quite safely, and am very well pleased with it.
I thank you very much.”
Address— THE MANAGER,
ENGLISH WATCH & JEWELLERY COY.,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
vj
m
.0. F
m
L.B.C
&
PffDER
Registered under the "Companies
Act, 1890,” as a Company, having
secured Assets in Victoria.
It has also deposits, as required by
law, in Great Britain, U.S. A., Canada,
and wherever operating in other parts
of Australasia.
Benefits Paid, over £1,650,000.
Monthly Income, over £40,000.
Accumulated Funds, over £907,995.
Head Office, TORONTO.
ORONHYATEKHA, M.D., J.P.,
Supreme Chief Ranger.
ORDER » FORESTERS
Incorporated by Special Act of Parliament (Canada), 53 Vic. and 59 Vic.
A Great International and Fraternal Life Assurance Society.
The 1.0. P. gives Life Assurance at a Lower Cost than any other Society in the World.
The Premiums pay not only for Life Assurance, hut also for Disability and Old Age Pension.
All Premium paying in the 1.0. P. ceases at Age 70, also on Total Permanent Disability.
EXAMPLES:
£lOO Policy.
JAge... 18 20 ’ 25 30 35 40 45
\ Monthly Ppemium Is. 7d. Is. Bd. 2s. 2s. sd. 2s. lid. 3s. 6d. 4s. 4d.
50
6s. Id.
Policies for £lOO, £2OO, £4OO, £6OO, £BOO, or £lOOO issued to Men and Women,
18 to 54 years of age, at Equal Rates.
Office for South Australia :
J. H. GILMOUR, D.S.C.R.,
Victoria. Buildings,
29 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Chief Office, Australasia :
ROBT. McNAIR, P.H.C.R.,
73, 74 and 75 Temple Court,
Collins St., Melbourne.
Office for STew South Wales :
W. G. STOTT, D.S.C.R.,
283 George St.,
Sydney.
Prospectus, with full Table of Rates, <kc., on Application.
Smart business men can learn of a good Commission for introduction of Members upon making application to above address.
ft
ft
å
-
«. Man from Manly
Matas the follewing; experience t
Our Home
was built nearly four years ago upon a rock, out of
which water is oozing at all times of the year, and
while the foundations below the P Si B Damp Course are always wet, the
walls above are always dry. As the foundation over which the Damp-
course was laid is 1J" wider than the wall, that portion which projected
was covered with cement. In one place this cement has been accidentally
removed, thus exposing tire Dampcourse, which shows no signs of
deterioration whatever.
The Fowl Houses
as well as * portion of oar home
proper, was rooted with P A B
Rubereld Reefing, nearly four year* since, and appears perfectly good
now, in fact, during the recent heavy rains and gales, when 68 miles an
hour were recorded by Mr. Russell, and during which our Tile Roof was
quite inadequate to keep out the storm, our P & B Ruberoid Roof was
perfectly watertight. This roof cost less, and is cooler than the
iron roof over the scullery.
We Always Keep
a roll of P & B Ruberoid about the place
for general use, it is such a handy mate-
rial to handle, my wife can handle it as well as she can a piece of carpet.
The Ruberoid gets a bit dark after a while, so we have painted it with
P& B Red Ideal Paint, to match the tiles in colour. We are now using
it as a Ceiling under the iron roof of the scullery, which make* the room
much cooler.
P&B ruberoid costs much less than galvanised iron, and is cooler.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 22.—N0. 1097.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1901.
Prior Go.
“OUR FELLOW SUBJECTS OF THE GLORIOUS EMPIRE.”
"Ab the Indiana ere oar fellow-snbjects it is impossible for us so deprive them of their privileges as British citizens by excluding them from W. titled Jingo polittalan.
RAM CHUTNEY (loq.): “ Sorry me can ’ t stop, but my brudder, cousin, uncle—they all come bimeby—twenty million!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" Australia for the A ustralians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TER US TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 _ 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tun Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
roeekfor a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. P.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Perse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1901.
The Freetectionist M'Millan and the
Protrade Bruce Smith.
These two bygone Freetectionist Treasurers
of N.S.W., W. M‘Millan and Bruce
Smith, have now both declared themselves
in the Federal Foreign-trade interest, and
their advent lends some extra excitement to
the conflict. They have both stated violently
that they are not only Freetraders now, but
that they have always been such, and a
deeply-embittered B. Smith added that any
one who said he had ever been a Protection-
ist was an Ananias of the deepest dye.
And to this The Bulletin replies that both
M‘Millan and B. Smith, when Treasurers
in N.S.W., were one of two things. They
were either persons who believed in Protec-
tion but denied their faith, like the unstable
and treacherous Peter that the bird crowed
at in Judsea, for reasons best known to
themselves. Or they were really Free-
traders, and really believed Protection to be
injurious to the country, but deliberately
and meanly and treacherously set. to work
to injure the country—also for reasons best
known to themselves. And it advances as
evidence the Protectionist tariff levied by
Treasurers M‘Millan and Bruce Smith,
and leaves the public to judge :—
M'Millan and Bruce Smith Protective Tariff in
Force in N.S.W. up to 1891.
Protection to
Import duties. Excise duties, local Pro-
duct.
Beer (draught) -/6 per gallon -/3 per gallon -/3 per gal.
„ (bottled).. -/9 „ -/3 ,7 -/6 „
Apples(dried).. -/2 per lb. Nil -/2 per lb.
Bacon .. ..-/2 „ Nil -/2 „
Biscuits ..-/l ,, Nil -/l „
Buckets (iron) 3/- per cwt. Nil 3/- per cwt.
Butter .. .. -/I per lb. Nil -/I per lb.
Candied Fruits -/2 ,, Nil -/2 ,,
Candles .. -/I „ Nil -/I „
Cement .. 2/-per barrel Nil 2/-per barrel
Cheese .. .. -/2 per lb. Nil -/2 per lb.
Cigars .. ..6/- „ 2/6 per lb. 3 6 „
Cigarettes .. 6/- „ 2/6 „ 3/6 „
Confectionery -/2 ,, Nil -/2 „
Temperance
Drinks .. -/9 doz. pts. Nil -/9 doz. pts.
Cornflour .. -/I per lb. Nil -/I per lb.
Doors .. .. 2/- each Nil 2/- each
Preserved Fruits-/1 per lb. Nil -/I per lb.
Dried Fruits ,.-/2 ,, Nil -/2 „
Galvanised) on/ . „
iron goods j- 20/ ~ *° f Nil J 20/ ~ 60 /~
(aU kinds) / perton \ P erton
Hams and
Tongues .. -/2 per lb. Nil -/2 per lb.
Jams and Jellies -/I „ Nil -/I „
Bed and white
lead .. .. 60/- per ton Nil 60/ per ton
Molasses and
treacle .. 66/8 ,, Nil 66/8 per ton
Oils (all kinds)-/6 per gallon Nil -/6 per gal.
Paint .. .. 60/- per ton Nil 60/- per ton
Posts and rails 1/6 per 100ft. Nil 1/6 per 100ft
Dish .. .. -/I per lb. Nil -/I per lb.
Raisins.. .. -/2 per lb. Nil -/2 „
Raspberry pulp -/I per lb. Nil -/I ,,
Salt .. .. 20/- per ton Nil 20/- per ton
Window sashes 2/- each Nil 2/- each
Railway sleepersl/6 per 100ft. Nil 1/6 per 100ft
Methylated
spirits .. 4/- per gallon Nil 4/- per gal.
Sugar (raw) .. £5 per ton Nil £5 per ton
„ (refined) .. £613/4 per tonNil £6 13/4 ton
Timber (all
kinds .. Various rates Nil
Penny news-
papers .. -/i postage No postage -/$ each
Tobacco .. 3/- per lb. 1/3 per lb. 1/9 per lb.
Snuff .. ..3/- „ Nil 3/- „
Varnish .. 2— per gallon Nil 2/-per gal.
Wine .. ..5/- „ Nil 5/- „
&c., &c., &c.
* * * *
The Bulletin assumes in all kindness
that M‘Millan and B. Smith were weak-
kneed brethren who thought they believed
in Freetrade, but found it too brutal, dis-
astrous and unclean a policy to put into
practice when they were in office and had
the opportunity. So they paltered with
their consciences by practising a very large
measure of Protection (just as Reid and
Carruthers and Joe Cook did on a smaller
scale after them), and denied that they did
it, and tried to persuade themselves that
they didn’t do it, and grew purple with in-
dignation when their own Protectionist
tariff was disinterred from the recesses
of Coghlan’s “ Statistical Register ” for 1890
and shown to them. Probably M ‘Millan is
the best Freetrader of the crowd. He and his
kind constitute the greatest, richest, and
most disastrous vested interest in N.S.W.—
the great importing interest which lives by
buying a shilling's worth of goods in Eng-
land and charging Is. 9d. or so for it in
N.S.W. If local industries grow up on a
large scale to supply the people with work
and good wages, and to furnish them with
some better employment than stirring up
with a hopeless plough the top-dust of the
barren inlands, and dragging the dead cow T ’s
bones out. of the family supply of drinking-
mud, and otherwise “going on the land,’’then
the importing class to which M‘Millan
belongs is killed dead. That class has
to swear that it believes Freetrade is for the
best interest of the country whether it be-
lieves it or not. It has to believe it. It can
no more afford to think otherwise (even
though it does think otherwise) than a king
can afford to regard republicanism as the
best policy, or a Pope can afford to declare
his leanings towards Protestantism, or an
Archbishop of Canterbury with £15,000 a
year can afford to openly turn agnostic. The
M‘Millan class can no more have an honest,
unbiassed opinion about the fiscal question
than a hangman with no private means can
about capital punishment. And when
M‘Millan, the agent of a purely British
firm, advises Australians as to the best
policy whereby to make Australian industries
grow great and rich and prosperous (so that
they will ruin the M ‘Millan importing busi-
ness) he is just in the position of a Roer
general giving unbiassed advice to a British
general how to conduct the war. And all
the gang of parasites who owe their political
importance to the votes and money and sup-
port of the great foreign importing firms—
the traitorous Australians who live by selling
their country to the foreign enemy camped
in our midst—are in much the same situation.
* • * *
In short, the importing aristocracy of
N.S.W. is in the unfortunate position that
it has to believe (whether it believes or not)
that it is to the country’s interest to
crush out all manufacturing industries
that interfere with its import business.
If it can’t believe, it has to say it does.
It has to find or invent statistics to prove
that it isn’t the curse it really is. When
M‘Millan was Treasurer of N.S.W. he
protected many local industries, presumably
because he knew that Protection was good
for them and would make them grow. The
Bulletin doesn’t think so badly of him as
to suppose he practised Protection knowing
it would injure the country, and merely to
save paying an income-tax. But he didn’t
protect the local softgoods manufacture, and
it didn't grow to any extent worth mention-
ing, and the vested interest of the great
M‘Millan importing firm therefore re-
mained unimpaired. And M‘Millan is
still a Freetrader, which is natural, for his
importing business still lives on the policy
which crushes and ruins local industry. But
The Bulletin does him the credit to’believe
that he isn’t so bad as he seems to think he
is, and that if he attained office to-morrow he
would again prove himself more humane than
his savage and disgusting creed. The fact
which utterly damns Freetrade is that not one
of its advocates has ever believed in it suffi-
ciently, or been sufficiently unpatriotic and
brutal and unfeeling, to really and wholly
practise it when he got into power. All the
cries of the irresponsible M‘Millan and B.
Smith when they are out of office, about the
advantages of Freetrade, count for nothing
against the fact that the responsible M‘Mil-
lan and B. Smith in office were pretty good
Protectionists all the time. They are in the
position of the Calvinist preacher who thinks
he believes generally in the damnation of
unbaptised infants, but who isn’t callous
enough to damn any specific infant. New
South Wales has never yet had Freetrade.
Apparently it never will have it while it
trusts to M‘Millan and B. Smith and Reid
and Carruthers and Joe Cook. And
when it gets the real article and finds out
for the first time what it has been demand-
ing, it will probably pursue those persons
with guns.
* * » •
Apart from the frantic declaration of
M ‘Millan and B. Smith that they were good
Freetraders—who practised Protection—
there is very little satisfaction in the recent
utterances of either of them. M ‘Millan
declared wildly that living was 20 to 40 per
cent, dearer in Victoria than in N.S.W.,
and that Protection was the cause. As a
gentleman who lives by importing he is
bound to think like that even if he doesn’t
think it, w’hich is a difference that is more
different than appeal’s on the surface. Yet
N.S.W. Statistician Coghlan declares that
the inhabitant of Freetrade N.S.W. is worse
fed than the average inhabitant of the Pro-
tectionist States, that he lives no better,
AND THAT THE COST OF LIVING IS
MORE IN ALLEGEDLY FREETRADE
N.S.W. THAN IN THE SIX PROTEC-
TIONIST STATES OF AUSTRALASIA.
On page 412 of. the “ Seven Colonies ” for
1899-1900 Coghlan declares that the N.S.W.
inhabitant gets 10381 b. of food per annum,
while the average inhabitant of the six Pro-
tectionist States gets so much more
that he raises the average for the whole
of Australasia to 10791 b. per inhabi-
tant per annum. In other words the
denizen of the allegedly Freetrade State,
which is crushed by the dead weight of the
great importing monopoly of M ‘Millan and
his class, gets 10381bs. of victuals per annum,
while the people of the six Protectionist
States average about 10901bs. eachperannum.
Further, Coghlan sets forth on page 417 of
the same work that N.S.W. gets 217 gallons
of alcohol annually for every 100 people,
while in the six Protectionist States the
supply is so much larger as to raise the
average for all the seven States to 241 gallons
per 100 people. Also he states on pages 419
and 420 of the same book that the standard
of living is about equally high in all seven
States, but that everything is so much dearer
in Freetrade N.S.W. that it costs
£‘39 14s. lid. per inhabitant per annum there
to live up to that standard, while the
six Protectionist States apparently feed,
clothe, and amuse their people equally
well (we have Coghlan’s assurance
that they do it equally well) for about
£36 per inhabitant yearly. A.t all
events they do it so much more cheaply
than it is done in N.S.W. that they reduce
the average cost of living for the whole of
Australasia to £36 19s. sd. annually per
head.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Statistician is not an impor-
ter, or a Parliamentary candidate sup-
ported by the importing interest, but a
State official with no axe to grind. As no
Freetrade Government has ever accused him
of issuing unreliable calculations, he is en-
titled to some small credit. And he sets
forth distinctly, on pages 419 and 420 of his
“Seven Colonies,” that food, liquor, cloth-
ing, rent, and practically everything that a
human being can want to use, costs more in
Freetrade N.S.W. than in the six Protec-
tionist States of Australasia, while at the
same time he declares that the people of
these Protectionist States enjoy as good liv-
ing as do the inhabitants of N.S.W. He
sets forth that the Freetrade State is the
dear State—not the cheap one. And
The Bulletin puts this independent
authority against' the assurance of
M'Millan: —who lives by Freetrade and
can’t possibly be an unbiassed witness when
defending the policy on which his affluence
mainly depends—that things are otherwise.
It further sets against M'Millan’s assurance
that clothing is from 20 to 40 per cent,
dearer in Victoria than in N.S.W. the fact
that N.S.W. imports more drapery, blankets,
wearing apparel, &c., from Victoria than
from any other country on earth—Great
Britain only excepted ; and also buys from
Victoria great quantities of hats, boots,
gloves, furniture, &c. It can’t surely be
on account of the excessive price that it
makes all these purchases.
* * * *
The visible reason why the Protectionist
States should be cheaper places to live in
than N.S.W. is that they have in a much
greater measure thrown off the yoke of that
remorseless shark and commercial parasite,
the importer. The importer is an individual
who charges exorbitant profits when there is
no local competition. When local com-
petition becomes serious in any branch
he necessarily cuts down profits in
that branch to the uttermost till he
has killed the new Australian industry
and turned those dependent on it out
to starve. Then he puts prices up again.
While his prices are low in one branch of
his business in order to kill off some local
industry, he lives on the profits of other
departments of his comprehensive trade.
This is pure business. The importer has to
be an enemy of local industry in order to
live. And he has to believe, in order to live,
that the Freetrade system which makes his
disastrous existence possible is a blessing
to the community. * In this hard world
people have to believe strange things in
order to live.
• • * •
Furthermore, M‘Millan and B. Smith
declared that Victoria’s “burdensome sys-
tem of Protection ” was maintained in order
to find employment and sustenance for only
100,000 persons. But, as already shown,
Protection has evidently supplied' Victoria
with cheaper food and clothing than N.S.W.
enjoys, and a comparison of the wages paid
in the two States (as set forth on pages 967-
1013 of Coghlan’s N.S.W. “Statistical
Register,” and on pages 602-606 of the
official “ Victorian Year Book ”) establishes
that the Victorian, on the whole, gets the
better wages. Therefore it might seem to
any rational being, who isn’t an importer or
other interested party, that if Protection, in
addition to these blessings, finds sustenance
for one person, let alone 100,000, it is amply
justified. Also both M‘Millan and B.
Smith got off the old gag about the Protected
State, after 30 years of Protection, being no
more prepared to do without Protection than
it was 30 years ago, though why any State
should want to do without a policy that gives
it cheaper living, better wages, and the means
of supporting, as M‘Millan admits, 100,000
extra people, passes human comprehension.
M‘Millan himself has had food for 50 years,
and is no more prepared to do without food
than he was 50 years ago, and he has been
importing for at least 20 years, yet is ne
more prepared to do without importing
than he was 20 years ago. And further,
both M'Millan and B. Smith pointed out
that N.S. W. exported more than its
neighbour (because it used less of its
produce in its own manufactures), and im-
ported more (because it manufactured less
for itself), and they asked the public to ad-
mire this great system of hauling things up
a plank on to a foreign owned ship, and
hauling other things down a plank off a
foreign-owned ship, and being a great public
lumper on a wharf, as the summit of human
greatness, and the beginning, middle and end
of human happiness. And on top of all,
they pointed out that Victoria, with 87,000
square miles of land, didn’t hold quite so
many, though very nearly as many, people
as N.S.W., with 310,000 square milts.
* * * *
* And, finally, M'Mili.an, the great im-
porter, urged the people of N.S.W. to stand
by the policy which keeps down local indus-
tries, and thereby brings lots of business to
the M‘Millan importing class, and retains
■the M‘Millan vested interest in a
profitable state. Also, M'Millan, the Free-
trader, said he was in favor of raising
£8,000,000 by customs duties, but these
duties were to be carefully arranged so that,
they would only take money from the people,
and increase prices, but wouldn’t find work
or wages for anybody, or raise up any indus-
try, or in any way interfere with the import-
ing business or the great importing vested
interest. Also, he said he favored an excise
duty on locally-grown sugar (the importer
whose head-quarters and profits are in
Britain naturally believes in taxing Aus-
tralian rather than British goods), and post-
age on newspapers, both of which he had
a good chance to impose in the years
when he was Treasurer of N.S. Wales
if his practical faith in Freetrade
had only been strong enough. And B
Smith, the representative of the legal fra-
ternity—the most strongly-protected class
on earth—agreed in a general way with
M'Millan. And between the Freetec-
tionist gentleman and the Protrade gentle-
man, both of whom protected N.S.W. in-
dustries with such vigour when they held
office in a Ministry which shuddered at the
idea of doing such a thing, it appears that
the country may yet be saved.
Chaos and the Kanaka.
TJp in the happy Piebald Land Brisbane Courier
is demanding in a bitter and desolating shriek
that the Fiscal Issue, and everything else save
only the Nigger Issue, shall be dropped at the
approaching Federal elections, and that the Pie-
bald State shall go solid “On the one question of
saving its blessed Kanaka. But while it declares
that Queensland, alone among all the Common-
wealth States, shall fight the election on the sole
question of preserving and encouraging its nigger,
it also claims (in its leading article of 4tli Feb.)
that Queensland is the one State of the Common-
wealth which has systematically discouraged its
nigger. In fact, the Courier’s Kanaka attitude,
and many other people’s Kanaka attitudes, are
getting to be so mixed that it is difficult now to
say where anybody is. In its leading article of
15th Jan. the Courier declared that the Queens-
land sugar industry could get on without black
labor, and pointed out that there is now more than
double the area under cane that there was in
1891, while the Kanakas, instead of correspond-
ingly increasing, has actually diminished. The
inference is that more than half the Queensland
sugar-crop is now raised without nigger labor.
The Courier maintained that all the crop could be
raised by white labor, if only the change was
made gradually. Then Premier Barton pro-
mised to make it gradually. He said that the
Asiatic would be shut down on immediately, but,
while the Kanaka would not be allowed to in-
crease (he isn’t increasing in any case), his extinc-
tion would be done by degrees, and with all due
regard to the Queensland planters’ necessities.
Whereupon the Courier cursed Barton by all its
gods, and its Joss and its Confucius, for promis-
ing to do exactly what it had demanded he should
do. It now declares that Queensland is already
restricting colored labor more than any other
State, and it yells for Barton’s scalp because
he is going to ruin Queensland by doing what
the Courier says it is already doing on its
own account. All these things are a good deal
tangled up.
* * * *
And the Courier, after declaring that the
Queensland sugar industry doesn’t require Kanaka
labor, rakes up the old yarn that the attempt to
do without the islander in the late 80’s was a
failure and only proved the indispensability of
Tommy Tanna :
We may point out that the moving spirit in this legisla-
tion was the same Queensland statesman who, after an
abortive effort to abolish Kanaka labor, was compelled to
restore it in 1892.
It is at least time that this useful old lie was called
upon to drop down dead in some convenient place.
For Griffith was not compelled by any public
necessity, or by anything at all save his desire to
angle for the Fat Man vote, to restore Kanaka
laborinlß92. It was somewhere about 1885 thatthe
planter’s supply of Kanakas was put under severe
restriction, with an intimation that it would
presently cease altogether. The ■ planters, who
really thought their Polynesian ivas essential, took
alarm, and the cane area in Queensland began to
decrease. But the decrease lasted a very short
time, and then, with its Island Labor supply
growing less every day, the sugar industry started
to expand again rapidly. Between the period
when the democratic Griffith restricted the
Kanaka supply and started to abolish the nigger
by instalments, till the year when the new Tory
Griffith restored the Kanaka traffic, the area
under cane in Queensland was as follows
1885 .. .. .. 59,186 acres
1886 54,010 „
1887 51,815 „
1888 47,340 „
1889 49,741 „
1890 50,922 „
1891 50,948 ~
1892 .. .. .. 55,520 „
The industry had been growing steadily for four
years when Griffith restored the Kanaka trade.
It had got over the shock of losing its Tommy
Tanna. It had to a great extent solved the prob-
lem of raising sugar without that murderous Poly-


nesian. The kanaka was restored, not to prevent
the industry being killed, but to prevent it pass-
ing out of the hands of the big slave-driver and
into those of the small farmer. The success of
Griffith’s white labour scheme is Barton’s full
justification ; and that was practically what the
Courier itself said on January 15, until it slewed
round suddenly and started saying the other thing
on January 26.
* * * *
But there are other and even more elaborate
complications about the Federated Kanaka.
Away back in 1899, when Sydney Tele-
graph was a howling, cursing, raging Parochialist
organ, it published articles declaring that Federa-
tion was merely an elaborate device for flooding
Australia with black labour. For instance, this
demoniac yell is from the Telegraph of June 15,
1899:
All that is required to complete the scheme is that
N.S.W., on the 20th June, shall sign the bond, and
thereby pledge her lands and revenues for the future sup-
port of the most gigantic monopoly in the whole civilised
world, which monopoly would have as its natural corol-
lary the wholesale introduction of cheap colored labour.
Once the deed is signed, the greatest boom on record will
be in full swing on the London Stock Exchange, and
influential Australians (residents of Adelaide and Mel-
bourne for choice) will have magnificent opportunities of
becoming directors of great corporations, whose head
offices will be in London.
As George Reid turned Federalist soon after this
it seems, by the Telegraph’s showing, that he
and Barton equally joined in the Black Labour
conspiracy. Yet when Premier Barton an-
nounced that he and his Ministry would abso-
lutely and wholly shut out Asiatic coloured
labour, and that they would also abolish Poly-
nesian coloured labour by degrees, he went about
as straight as a man could go for a White Aus-
tralia. Reid himself acknowledged this, and
merely complained that he didn’t get sufficient
credit for being the inventor of the resonant term,
‘ ‘ White Australia ” —a term, by the bye, which
he didn’t invent.
* * * #
And about this same time (30th January)
Retd’s own special organ, the Sydney Telegraph,
published a furious article by one F. Wegg
Horne, declaring that nigger labour was neces-
sary in the North, and denouncing Barton’s
proposed abolition of it as a Protectionist device
of the most foolish and objectionable kind. _ There
was no doubt whatever expressed in this out-
pouring that the Federal Protectionist Govern-
ment was wholly opposed to coloured labour, and
again and again the Protectionists were objur-
gated as the party that intended to obliterate the
valued and indispensable Kanaka. And though
the Freetrade party, of which Reid and the
Daily Telegraph are such prominent upholders,
was not put forward as the pro-nigger party,
the writer, by fastening the. alleged guilt
of the anti-Black Labour policy on the
Protectionists, made the implication reasonably
clear. Yet after the Freetrade leader, Reid, had
complained of Barton for allegedly stealing his
anti-nigger policy (thereby distinctly implying
that Barton had an anti-nigger policy, stolen or
otherwise), and after Reid’s organ, the Sydney
Telegraph, had published its bitter shriek of
30th January denouncing Barton and his Pro-
tectionist party for its anti-nigger policy, the same
Reid organ, in a leading article of 14th February,
furiously declared that Barton was in favor of
Black Labor, and denounced him for that. Some
extracts:
It is something to the credit of the Government that
they recognise this and accept pro-Kanakaism as a logical
part of their vested interests conserving policy. ....
Practically-speaking, pro-Kanakaism for an indefinite
period of 3'ears is the same thing as pro-Kanakaism for as
long as the protectionist policy of the Ministry holds
good.
* * * *
So the situation may be summed up as follows :
(1) The Freetrade Brisbane Courier curses Barton and
his Protectionist Government for being wholly against
Black Labor, and urges the people to support Reid,
whom it puts forward as a man who will probably support
Black Labor.
(2) The Freetrade Sydney Telegraph (Reid’s special
organ) publishes the article of F. Wegg Horne, on 30th
January, denouncing Barton and his Protectionist Party
for wanting to abolish Black Labor.
(3) The Freetrade Sydney Telegraph, on 14th February,
publishes a leading article in which it denounces Barton
and his Protectionist Party on the alleged ground that
they want to preserve Black Labor.
(4) The Telegraph doesn’t say which side Reid is on,
nor does it denounce him for being on either side.
(5) Reid doesn’t say which side he is on himself. He
declares that Barton borrowed his “White Australia”
cry, which, without committing him, helps him to pose
as an anti-Black Labour man. At the same time, he
doesn’t repudiate the Courier’s recommendation of him
to the electors as the man who will stand by Black
Labour. In State politics he is known as a man who was
supposed to be hostile to nigger labour, yet allowed the
Hindoo influx into Northern N.S.W. to go on absolutely
unchecked.
(6) Meanwhile the Courier says, on 15th January, that
Queensland can do without the nigger, and on 26th
January that it can’t do without him.
(7) And, on top of all, while the Freetrade Telegraph
denounces Barton, as a sort of side issue, for favoring the
Protectionist idea of taxing imported sugar, William
M'Millan, the second or third boss of the Freetrade
party, advocates taxing local sugar, and neither he nor
that other leading Freetrader, B. Smith, seem to commit
themselves either to a Black or a White Australia.
Amid all this confusion, where does the Kanaka
question really stand ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Protected Freetrade Paper.
The Sydney Telegraph had a tremendous attack
of pious fervour, the other day, when it broke out
into a scream about “The Immorality of Protec-
tion,” and got this deafening top-note off its
chest: —
In our issue of yesterday we published an excellent
letter from a correspondent under the above heading.
His contention was that principle should be regarded
more than apparent expediency in the framing of laws
for public government; that the opinion of a majority
can never make right that which is morally wrong. “The
money which any man has earned (which is his own),” he
wrote, “ he has the inherent right to spend where and
how he can do so to the best advantage, subject always
to the claims which may be made upon him or it for the
purpose of government, or, in other words, for the pur-
pose of needful State revenue.” This is a true statement
of the ethical relation of the Government to the indi-
vidual. There is no moral justification possible for such
an act of legislation as empowers a section of the com-
munity to take for its own benefit, by means of Protective
taxation, any portion of a man’s earnings. Such an act
is unjust and absolutely opposed to the Federal spirit—
the spirit of fraternity and equal dealing—about which
we heard so much while Federation was yet “in the air.”
Yet, “ though the money that a man earns is his
own,” about £50,000 a-year is taken from the men
of N.S.W. in order that the Daily Telegraph and
such-like hypocritical prints may be carried gratis
through the post. And a section of the community
(the section that reads the Telegraph) takes for
its own benefit the earnings of other people
in order that they may get the Telegraph without
paying for the carriage of it. And the Telegraph
is aided and bolstered up by this protective taxa-
tion ; so long as a penny Brisbane, Adelaide or
Melbourne paper, even if it is posted in
NSW., is charged postage in N.S.W.
while the local penny paper goes free, the
latter is protected to the extent of 50 per cent, and
its circulation and profits are thereby much
increased. And the daily Freetrade paper loves
Protection (for itself) with such a great love that
„o NSW. Ministry has dared abolish this Pro-
tection, lest the enraged and unprotected * ree-
trade press should blacken its character till it was
<< written out of office.” These latter are the very
words which one Sydney Freetrade newspaper
man used to a Minister who was suspected ot an
intention to cease protecting the Freetrade press.
The Freetrade papers denounce with exceeding
great fury every kind of Protection except
the one they enjoy themselves, and about
it their silence is something incredible,
wherefore these Protected Freetrade papers
stink in the nostrils of every decent and intelli-
gent citizen. The Protected Freetrade Tele-
graph clutching with both hands at its 50 per
cent, bonus and groaning bitterly in its soul about
the “ Immorality of Protection ” for other people,
is a spectacle for the gods. And the Protected
Freetrade S.M. Herald and Evening News and
Launceston Examiner and Perth Morning
Herald apd many others all share the same
hypocrisy.
Too Thynne!
Thus A. J. Thynne in Brisbane Courier :
It seems a weak and unreasoning thing to do to strangle
an industry which employs more than two-thirds of
liberally-paid white labour and less than one-third of
fairly-paid coloured labour.
The two-thirds is probably obtained by reckoning
all the Japs and Chinese employed in Northern
mills as “white labour.” Further, Thynne has
the cold-blooded audacity to assert
As Queensland has led the van in the exclusion of un-
desirable coloured labour she may also have to take a
part in preserving intact the cardinal principles of a
democratic Federal Constitution.
The idea of Queensland, the mongrel province
par excellence, taking the lead in excluding the
alien is particularly good. Probably Thynne
imagines that the other States banded together
and forced Queensland to swallow the piebald
hash against her will. Probably Thynne
also imagines that the Queensland blackbird
fleet is employed in preventing the Polynesian
rushing in to the Queensland plantations.
In fact there is no saying what such a
man may imagine. The concluding stroke re
Bananaland’s coming forward to intact
the cardinal principles of a democratic Federal
Constitution is really superb, coming as it does
from a member of a Government that has done
everything in its power to choke democratic pro-
gress for years past. It may be safely asserted
that if the Q. Govt, nominees are returned to the
Federal Parliament they will infallibly be a
stumbling-block and a hindrance in the way of
Australian advancement.
——
The Railway Disaster.
Australia is thinking of the most recent N.S.W.
railway disaster, which has killed seven persons,
and permanently or temporarily injured many
more. On 15th inst., a train from Sydney to
Hurstville —a suburban station nine miles distant
—ran off the line between Sydenham and Tempo,
after completing between three and four miles of
its journey. The engine and first carriage were
wrecked. The other carriages fortunately remained
on the line, stopped by the automatic action of
the brake when the couplings broke.
The Bulletin does not pretend to know for
certain how the disaster happened; but, under
similar conditions, with the. assistance of Bad
Luck, it will undertake to cause a similar disaster
at any time.
The conditions are, first, the line; second, the
train ; and third, the time and place.
The Hurstville line is the Cinderella of Syd-
ney suburban lines. It is “a working-men’s
line ”; working-men are the residents along it;
there are very few “first-class” travellers. So,
in comparison with the aristocratic line to Strath-
field, the pet of Sydney railway suburbs, it is
worse built and worse maintained. It is not so
well laid —the rails are merely “dogged ” down to
the sleepers, instead of being properly braced by
“chairs”; it is not so well ballasted; and it is
not so well looked after. From an expert’s point
of view it is an inferior line, just as the Strath-
field line is a superior line. It is not fit to run
heavy trains over, at frequent intervals, at high
speed. This is the First Cause of the disaster.
Second cause—the train. A 39-ton engine of
the suburban “tank” type is not fit to draw a train
of eight carriages, to contain 100 passengers each,
at a high speed over an inferior line. The Hurst-
ville line is a working-men’s line ; and the return-
ing workers crowd the trains as the day closes.
The 5.55 train is alleged to have originally
consisted of six carriages, reducing the
risk. The traffic authorities are cramped at
Redfern (perhaps the primary cause of the
disaster is the inadequacy of Redfern station);
and could not get more trains out at the
busiest time of the day. So what did they do?
They added carriages —first a seventh; then an
eighth—the last straw that broke the little engine’s
back. A train, fully loaded, too heavy for the
engine to manage—that was the Second Cause of
the disaster.
The Third Cause —the circumstances. How
did the disaster happen, when similar circum-
stances have been met thousands of times without
disaster ? Probably in this way. The train started
a little late ; owing to the inadequacy of Redfern
station trains frequently start two or three minutes
late between 5 and 6 p.m. Speed was probably
accelerated in order to make up time. The Bel-
more junction points were crossed at a high
speed, and the train oscillated. Then—the
brakes were applied to this 39-ton engine with
its huge load. The engine stopped first, and
the momentum of the load lifted it, still oscillat-
ing, from the rails. That, mathematically, had
to happen—with decreased speed at the head
of a long and heavy train before the brakes could
reduce the momentum of the tail. Then—there
may have been a loose rail; probably there was ;
probably some of the Railway Dept’s. cheap
makeshift bolts had been loosened. Once the
light engine was shifted from the rails, with the
heavy train tumbling it on, the least irregularity
of pressure would cause a deviation of direction
sufficient to throw the engine off. Once off—
anything.
So, in all probability, very simply, very shame-
fully, the disaster happened.
«
The Victorian Old Age Fension Muddle.
Almost the last utterance of George Turner in
his capacity as a purely Victorian statesman was
that it would be necessary to reduce the amount
of the Victorian Old Age Pensions and grant
fewer of them. The bill under present conditions
will run to £300,000 a year, and George Turner’s
Government reckoned on only half that sum.
Having regard to the experience of Maoriland,
and allowing for the very much larger population
of Victoria, and for certain extra benefits not
included in the Maoriland scheme, The Bulletin
confidently reckoned the Victorian bill at
£400,000 a year, and how Turner made his
incredible mistake passes comprehension. Any-
how, Turner is out of Victorian politics now, and
Premier Peacock has to face the difficulty.
Assuming that the State can’t spare £300,000 a
year out of its present revenue and with its pre-
sent expenditure, he has the option of various ways
out of the financial pit. He may pay the
pensions out of loan money as N.S.W.. is going to
do; the N.S.W. Old Age Pensions will probably
cost £400,000 a year, but as the State uses £BOO,OOO
a year of loan money for ordinary expenditure
purposes the good old loan pays for them twice
over. At the same time Victoria has kept com-
paratively clear of this infamous public swindle in
the past, and it would be a pity if it sank
at this late hour to George Reid’s degraded
financial level. Another way is simply to levy
enough extra taxation to meet the country’s
obligations and redeem the country’s promises.
This would doubtless mean a fight with the House
of 48 Rich Landlords, but if Premier Peacock
won’t fight in such a good cause then he is about
the poorest wet-rag that ever passed for a
democratic statesman. Or if the country finds
it necessary to break faith with some of its
pensioners, it might break faith with the richest
ones instead of the poorest, and cut down the
huge allowances to Andrew Clarke and others
who can stand the shock. Victoria has two pen-
sion lists. One, of £300,000 a year, is for the
benefit of about 15,000 worn-out old pioneer
citizens of such unimpeachably good character
that they surmounted all the rules and regulations
for the prevention of pensions embodied in
Turner’s Act. The other pension list, of about
£320,000 a year, is for the benefit of a few hun-
dred ex-politicians and ex-public servants. The
first lot are very poor people, who have enjoyed
their very humble pensions for two months; some
of the second lot are very rich people, who have
enjoyed very large pensions for 32 years. If Vic-
toria must needs go back on one crowd, in
order to avoid further taxing its gang of land-
lords, it is a cowardly, wicked, crawlsome thing to
select the very poor and feeble and aged for the
victims. But, as a matter of fact, the Victorian
revenue has increased so very largely this
year that there would be abundance of money
and more than abundance to pay the Old Age
Pensions—only the cash is wanted to pay for
contingents, and to liquidate the bill for butcher-
ing Boer fathers who never did Australia any
wrong, and burning Boer farms, and turning-out
Boer mothers and infants to perish on the veldt.
In the early days of the war, when the blatant
Fat Man of Melbourne was babbling at gluttonous
banquets about the sacrifices he was prepared to
make for the Empire, The Bulletin prophesied
that he would take all possible care, as usual,_ to
pass the sacrifice along, and he is evidently doing
it. The rich man refuses to tax himself one extra
copper for war purposes, despite the enthusiasm
with which he stood up and gave several dozen
cheers for himself in admiration of his own disin-
terested patriotism and his readiness to pour
out his goods and chattels like water in the
good cause of Jingo. The Sargoods and Em-
blings and Cornelius Job Hams and other
rich members of the House of Bloated Landlords
didn’t fight personally, and didn’t pay personally
for their own personal Jingoism. And now the
newly-granted Old Age Pensions are to be in a
great measure withdrawn, so as to save money
to cover the bill for their “loyal’’fury. Already
instructions have been issued to the magistracy
to further overhaul the characters of the pen-
sioners, and to try and find excuses for withdraw-
ing many of the pensions already granted ; also,
when Parliament meets, it is proposed to make
an all-round reduction in the amount of the
allowances. Still, if the proposal does eventuate,
Parliament has an alternative. It can call the
Peacock Ministry a miserable gang of hypocrites
and backsliders, who truckle to the rich, and
break faith with the poor, and therewith fire it
into oblivion.
Our Black Brother.
It is truly an advantageous thing to be a nigger in
Westralia. For instance, here is how they hang
the guileless aboriginal in that pleasant land of
slavery. The nigger accused of murder is brought
in by the police, probably having had to tramp
hundreds of miles on foot. The police also bring
in the witnesses against the nigger. Nobody
brings in the witnesses for the nigger, so there
never are any. The police are paid so much per
day for the keep of the witnesses against the
prisoner, and as they make a good profit out of
payment they have a direct cash interest —a pretty
large one, too—in getting up cases. The gang of
aboriginal witnesses against the prisoner are kept
in the custody of the police till they are wanted,
therefore the police have every opportunity to
coach them, or to terrorise them, into giving the
evidence wanted. As the policeman’s promotion
largely depends on his success in “sheeting
home crime and bringing the perpetrators to
justice,” and as it is bad for him if it turns
out that he has been drawing Government money
for the keep of a lot of useless nigger witnesses, he
probably does usually coach them. Even if the
witnesses don’t give the right kind of evidence,
however, it doesn’t matter so much as one might
suppose, for the interpreter is almost always a
black “police boy,” and he has every reason to
interpret the evidence to suit the police case. The
court and the jury and the Crown Prosecutor are,
as a rule, utterly ignorant of the native dialects,
and the whole show rests on that “ police’ boy.
The accused has no lawyer—no interpreter of his
own —no case—nothing at all. It isn’t even
certain whether the charge is explained to him or
whether he is the right nigger; all .depends on the
“police boy.” There are even cases when the
interpreter’s defective English has to be trans-
lated by the arresting constable before it is intelli-
gible to the bench. So the accused is duly scragged
after trial by a jury, which is the palladium of
British liberty, and all is well.
4.
Robert Reid, Vic. M.L.C., Freetrader, and can-
didate for the Federal Senate, at Melb. Mayor’s
banquet, t’other day, carefully laid himself oht to
catch the unwary voter. “So far as was neces-
sary,” said he, “the Upper House was quite will-
ing to be reformed. In former years it had been
looked upon by many constitutional lawyers as
the noblest specimen throughout the world of
what an Upper House should be.” (Great laugh-
ter.) Which reminds that Softgoods Sargood
and sundry other Fatmen, obstructives and Free-
traders, are meandering round the country open-
ing bazaars and additions to hospitals and so
forth (including always the customary donation),
and are also candidates for Senatorial seats.
This is as good a time as any (and so is every
other time) to remind the Victorian public that
the only proper treatment for those of its 48 Rich
Landlords wno are applying for Federal seats is a
good large brick. As the House of 48 Rich Land-
js constituted, only about 2000 Victorians are
fu *j® l° Slt * to govern the country in
that dishonorable body. And every Landlord
who defends that Upper House as at present con-
stituted thereby declares that about 240,000 adult
male Victorians are too low and ignorant and
mentally degraded to be fit to enter the Upper
House. Every Reid and Sargood and Ham of
the crowd has said that, not in words, but in acts
which speak louder than words. And if the
people give their votes to even one of these
bloated and insulting persons, they are a com-
munity that is only fit to be represented by Sak-
good and Reid and Ham. It would be difficult
to say anything more opprobrious than that nf o nv
community.
—— ♦
Another instance of the Vic. Crown Law De-
Pint’s tender regard for its own witnesses is
anorded by tbe_ treatment of two temporary excise
officers—alias informers—at Ballarat. As long
ago as last Sept. 20th the two were witnesses in an
t> a/Ptv sly-grog-selling case at Scarsdale, and
H.M. Dickson, in dismissing the case, madestrong
comments on the manifest perjury committed by
someone. The Crown was from the first very shy
of proceeding against its own minions, but being
strongly urged thereto by the local press, it finally
brought them before a beak. They were duly
committed, but the Crown apparently determined
the matter should stop there, for last week Judge
Holroyd, at the Crown’s request, postponed the
matter for the third time, without any stated or
manifest reason, the pair being released merely on
their own recognisances. It looks very much as
if the Crown authorities aforesaid are anxious
for the men to take leg-bail. Contrast this
kindly, considerate treatment with that meted out
to the defendant in the next case. She was
charged with the same offence—perjury over a
sly-grog-selling matter—but her little difficulty
was quite recent. And the Crown, instead of post-
poning her trial until she had time to get away to
parts unknown, arrested her in great haste, got
her promptly committed, demanded heavy bail
pending trial and put her in the dock at the very
first opportunity. But her alleged perjury was
committed in her own defence ; she wasn’t a
Crown witness.
Not only the worker, but the employer, now
begins to find that in assisting that gigantic trad-
ing organisation masquerading as a charity—the
Salvarmy—he is merely providing a rod for his
own back. In Melbourne the “ Army ” now runs
a big printing establishment and engraving busi-
ness at cutting rates. With fine business acumen
but characteristic lack of straightforwardness, it
touts for orders and carries on the concerns, not
as the Salvarmy Printing and Engraving Co., but
under other names in nowise suggesting “ Army”
ownership, and most of the customers are quite
unaware of the real state of the case. In the
printing business the “ Army ” has two linotype
machines and a complete up-to-date plant, and, if
it is true —as stated—that every workman is paid
full union rates, that is certainly a violent depar-
ture from the “ Army’s” usual custom. But the
point here is not whether it sweats its employes,
or whether it is able to “ cut ” rates by reason of
its superior machinery and huge capital, but
whether an organisation that poses as philan-
thropic, and exists by cadging, and for whose
benefit Factories Acts and other protective legis-
lation are set aside, should be allowed to compete,
under an alias, against the very firms from whom
it solicits subscriptions, and the very people who
subsidise it.
♦
At last the Lyne Cabinet appears to have made
the three appointments to the Sydney Harbor
Trust. After four months’ delay the names
announced are the three expected from the
first. It is known that there have been “ ructions ”
in the Cabinet over these appointments, as well
as over those to the Wharves Resumption Board.
Exception is taken in the city to the nomination
of J. F. Waller to the trust. Mr. Waller,
who seems to be in everything going, has been
valuator to the Savings Bank and land valuator
in N.S.W. Public Works Department ; he
has been connected with the railways, and
was quite recently appointed to the tem-
porary Commissionership of the Wharves-
JEtesumption business. It is generally supposed that
it was his appointment which has caused all the
trouble. Another version is that Premier Lyne,
halting between the dangers of defeat in the
Murray Federal electorate and the troublous times
before his State Ministry, was not averse to taking
on a steady job at £2OOO a year as Chairman of the
trust. But the Cabinet would not stand that, and
compromised by giving Waller a permanent ap-
pointment. Whether this and other stories are
true or not the Lyne crowd has only itself to
thank for their circulation. The whole concern
has been dragged through the mud, to the infinite
discredit of the State Ministry,
“ Suffolk” to The Bulletin :
Dear Bulletin, —In acquitting Queen Victoria of “ all
pretensions to the semi-divinity” wherewith idiots encircled
her, you surely err on the side of mercy. For was H.M.
ever reported as abating one jot of the absurd Royal
ceremonies inherited from the days of regal semi divinity ?
That she enforced silence at her table, and sometimes
compelled her ladies to stand, may be false, but has often
been printed. And now, at her own request, it
would appear, she has been finally borne to
the grave on a gun-carriage ! What a satire up-
on her alleged mighty and beneficent influence for Peace !
Yet even this virtual tremendous insult to the Gospel has
not moved a single minister thereof to a word of protest.
And what of 12 months mourning ? How long did her
Court wear black for Darwin, or Huxley, or Carlyle, or
for any of the great men of her reign whose reflected
glories have turned her natural night to day* But white
hairs and sex and 40 years of widowhood disturb the just-
ness of our estimate ; and in any case all contemporary
criticism is largely “ out.” The dead Queen’s true charac-
ter will be appreciable about 1950. The verdict will then
endorse our appreciation of her domestic virtues, but
will be a total reversal of our views of her intellectual
value and national importance.
The N.S.W. political Labor people are still at
sixes and sevens over the extent to which a Labor
member (of anything) ought to be bound by “ the
corkis.” Lately the members in Parliament have
gone as the majority has decided on all matters
included in the “ platform,” on all others having
personal option. Which is a defensible plan : the
argument is that a Labor candidate is elected, if
lie is elected, first on the “ platform ” and then on
whatever ideas of his own he may submit; and
therefore he owes it to his constituents to vote on
everything outside the “ platform ” as his judg-
ment dictates. But the other idea (somebody is
daring enough to call it “advanced”) is that
every member ought to vote with the majority
whenever the majority chooses to crack the whip.
He might have told his constituents before they
were his constituents, as he had a perfect right
to do, that he believed in one thing, and it might
be that belief of his which won him enough votes to
give him the seat; yet if the. majority believes in
just the opposite thing, the idea is that he ought
to vote the latter way—and hang his constituents !
In practice, too, worse things happen. This is
the plan adopted by the Broken Hill Laboritesv


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States-
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STANDING
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S. W. D’ARCY-IRVINE, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney; or to
G, G. McOOLL and B. H. PASCOE, Managers for Victoria, S. Australi a and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
C. CARLIBI.E TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
Wa
Sulphide Corporation
” LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Gold. Silver, Lead,
and
or
Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought—
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Large Parcels or
Regtilar Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A E. SAVAGE, CIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Manaobr Agents for Australia.
with the result that one masterful man, having
secured the election of two or three faithful fol-
lowers, can first control the caucus of seven, and
then the full council of a dozen. That has hap-
pened over and over again—and they still swear
by “majority rule”! Even with the present
arrangement little enough liberty is allowed ; but
with the other system of manacles and leg-irons,
only narrowly lost at the late P.L.L. conference,
a man of any force of character would only retain
his membership so long as he saw a chance of
being the driver.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “ Brought to Justice.”
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Lyceum “ The Ladder of Life.”
Palace “Tom, Dick and Harry," and
“ A Highland Legacy.”
Her Majesty's “DjinDjin.”
Theatre Royal “ The Scarlet Feather.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Barabbas.”
Her Majesty’s “ Florodora.”
Theatre Royal “ The Great Ruby."
Bijou “ Puss in Boots.”
Athenasum Hall Snazelle and “ Our Navy.”
Town Hall “ Newbury-Spada Concert (Satur-
Evening).
“ It is Never Too Late to Mend,” was re-
vived at the theatre of many revivals, Sydney
Criterion, the other night. This play belongs to
the rapidly increasing drama where the hero or
sub-hero alternates between the pale green light
of a prison cell and the bright red glow of a stage
Australia. On the boards Australia is always
represented as if recovering from a bush fire, and
if a crimson glare filters out beneath the curtain
before it rises, the audience knows that the land
which was lately told to “ Arise ” by several
hundred poets is about to be produced, “It is
Never,” etc., is supposed to be a blighting indict-
ment of the Englisn convict system, but as the
convicts go in and out of their cells at will, and
the cells seem to open right into the air, there is
very little in the indictment at present. Also,
when the parson thinks there is something in it
and writes to the authorities on the matter, these
personages answer within half-an-hour, having
evidently sifted facts, judged the case and
condemned the Governor all in this brief
space of time. The average Government
in real life would take longer to decide as
to the expenditure of 3d. When Charles
Reade’s drama is not blighting the management
of English prisons it is mostly a disorderly pro-
ceeding on an early Australian goldfield.
Alfred Dampier is up to his usual good
form as the convict who really is guilty of the
crime imputed to him ; and Miss Lily enacts the
simple village maid who is described as an Angel
oi Light, chiefly because she weeps over the
abbreviated hair of the convicts and tells them it
will grow again. The girl who thinks a convict’s
chief worry is the state of his coiffure is too inno-
cent even for the stage.
** » *
Further consideration of “Djin Djin ” at
Her Majesty’s (Sydney) only confirms the good
opinion already expressed about that show —all of
it barring the Commonwealth Procession and the
Swearing-In. After all, the cinematographists
who present faked battles that took place in
circuses, and gory encounters in hired paddocks
between Britons at 2s. 6d. and Boers at 3s. (6d.
extra for whiskers) are wise in their generation.
The thing that might have happened often looks
good enough in a picture, but the thing that hap-
pened seldom does. It generally straggles too
slowly over too much space. Sydney’s Common-
wealth Day shivoo spread for about ten hours
over 12 miles of streets, a huge park, and many
public-houses, and it is only possible to show a
scrap of it here and there. To all intents and pur-
poses one might as well show one of Frederick the
Great’s boots as a sample of the Seven Years’
War. There are a few troops going along a few
little bits of road, and the Swearing-In consists
mostly of a man going into a building, and then a
man coming out of a building. These things are
not history ; they are only remnants. The fine
transformation-scene is a good enough place for
the casual spectator to end his evening’s “ Djin
Djin” at. It represents the “Birth of Australia,”
and Australia is a female with white arms and
cataracts of golden hair, born picturesquely amid
a dazzle of flowers and sunshine. Then you see
the real Birth of Australia, and it is mostly a
back view of a thin man going through a door to
sign a document. This sort of thing is anti-
climax. Also, it helps to blot out the recollection
of the great picture of the eruption of Fuji San.
Nobody wants dull, cold realism on top of the
blaze of Fuji San.
*# * *
The “ Scarlet Feather” is understood to
have commenced its career at Sydney Royal
last night, but as this issue had already gone to
press before the curtain rose, if it did rise, details
must be held over till next week. The Bulletin
intends to say something especially nice about
Nellie Stewart in the ensuing issue, even if a
moderate straining of the truth is necessary in the
process. It is alleged that the truth is mighty
and will prevail, and this scribe would rather
strain a strong healthy thing like that in a good
cause than put needless pressure on some weak
substance that might be quite unable to stand it.
*# * #
The great bush-fire of kilts that rushes
uphill at Sydney Lyceum and takes a place that
isn’t worth having is now in its third week, and
William Anderson’s soldiers will make a public
exhibition of their legs at the above address till
further notice. As a view of mountain scenery,
withcragsand peaks and precipices, the “Ladderof
Life ” is a matter that deserves to be held in grate-
ful remembrance, and if it is almost every possible
kind of a large glaring ass in a literary sense that
isn’t the scene-painter’s fault. Times are bad, and
when he got a commission to paint a series of
views to accompany four private lunatio asylums
with straw in their hair, it would have been folly
to refuse. So the artist did his best, which was
very good, and the author did his worst, which
was very bad ; and the combined result put on a
short red petticoat and rushed uphill with a gun
shouting at the top of its voice in Scotch, except
the part of it that blackened its face and put on a
longer skirt, and rushed downhill with a gun
shouting in Central Asia, or thereabouts. The
cause of it all doesn’t appear, but the men who
ran uphill yelling overcame the man who ran
yelling downhill, and much bare road-metal was
thereby added to the Empire of Edward the VII.
m * * *
“Constance Clyde” gives “The Message”
a send-off:—
Went to “The Message from Mars,” the other night,
and was struck by the fact that Horace Parker, in his
unregenerate days, was an ideal husband from the Aus-
tralian point of view, and more of him as he was is
urgently required. What more does the average Aus-
tralienne desire than a husband who will sit at home and
read scientific magazines, when his intentions are to read
these magazines, and not go out on his own after his wife
or his flanc6 has departed? Other plays, mainly from
America, have circled round the gigantic Row the hero
got into by going out at night, and now he is getting
into exactly the same trouble by refusing to go. The
average woman would much prefer her husband in the
state of harmless egotism portrayed by Horace Parker
in Act I. than as he is later on, when he is liable to bring
home housefuls of stray outcasts at odd hours of the
morning, to the detriment of the furniture and
the family peace of mind, not to mention the
disappearance of drawing-room ornaments. This
view of the matter is aided by the fact that
the altruistic gentleman from Mars has a bilious com-
plexion, and looks as if the joys of otherdom were not all
they are cracked up to be. The women who took their
husbands to the Palace and dug their elbows into them
when man’s selfishness was dwelt upon, brought them to
the wrong moral. What we want in man is to see him
more selfish ; not less so. If every man would meanly
and egotistically look after his own morals and his own
tendency to selfishness, this world would be worth a hun-
dred small red planets up aloft. But everyone is so
unselfishly trying to cure the other fellow of his selfish-
ness that, through pure altruism, this world can be fairly
described by the bad word that the kind brown gentle-
man wouldn’t mention.
To which The Bulletin’s regular dramatic
authority says ditto, and adds, in an irrelevant
sort of way, that a new comedy, “ Tom, Dick and
Harry,” is to be produced at the Sydney Palace
on Saturday. “A Highland Legacy,” already
favorably reported upon, will accompany it.
* * * *
George Rignold, with Miss Lilian Wheeler,
and the rest of his company, is going to play a six-
weeks’ season at the Theatre Royal, Perth, about
Easter, and then make for the goldfields’ towns.
This will be Rignold’s first visit to the West, and
the West ought to be glad to see him. In Sydney
and Melbourne long years of familiarity with the
big man has dimmed his lustre, and yet, if Sydney
and Melbourne were now seeing him for the first
time, they would probably decide that he was a
star of no ordinary magnitude. He is to be heard
at his best in a comparatively small theatre, where
his casual remarks to the limelight-man carry all
over the house. Rignold’s rehearsed parts are
generally good, but nis impassioned and unre-
hearsed addresses to the limelight-man, when the
glare is turned on the wrong individual, are
always filled with a rich humor that is irresistible.
ifc * * *
The foreign campaign planned by the wily
Geach for Donald Macdonald has a touch of in-
spiration in it. They leave Melbourne on 12th
March, and make a pause at Colombo (where the
Boer prisoners go to) in order to test the possibility
of an Eastern tour anon. Then on to London
arriving towards the end of April, and beginning
at St. James’ Hall on about the night after the
opening of the Australian Federal Parliament.
On the night when there will be more “ Australia ”
talk in London than ever was talked before, the
“ Famous Australian ” will make his first appear-
ance. Mac. proposes to give two War lectures
ere reaching out for the dollars with his new
anecdotal, descriptive discourse on Australia, the
Land the Bushman comes from.
m m m *
When J. C. Williamson left the other
week for America, London, and elsewhere, he
had some idea of engaging one or two big people
and three or four supporters for a Shakespearian
season, the bulk of the co. to be raised in Aus-
tralia. A round of “ legitimate ” plays should be
a success, if well acted and staged in all particu-
lars ; but the scheme, as stated, doesn’t look veiy
promising. A tadpole co.—big head and insig-
nificant tail —shows all its weakness when taking
on the works of the Divine William. Nor is even
one expensive star a necessary attraction. George
Miln, of yore, proved that an unknown leading
man, with moderately capable people around
him, can command attention up to a certain
point. There are —or there were until quite
recently—some well-seasoned Shakespeare com-
panies earning their yearly bread by their
general efficiency, not to say excellence, as British
provincial tourists. Every actor and actress in
such companies can take parts with ease and con-
fidence. For the manager who will import a well-
organised crowd of specialists in poetic drama a
large Australian public is always ready to provide
a boom.
* * * *
“Puss in BooU,” which broke out at
Melb. Bijou on Saturday night, has the recom-
mendation of being an utterly different thing from
Musgrove’s gorgeous Xmas spectacle, late of the
Princess’s. The Rickards show got several words
of approval from this thoughtful publication when
it first took the floor in Sydney, and a few weeks
of hard work have improved the performance.
Given the Haytors, Harry Shine, long
Bob Bell, and other capable comedians in
any sort of pantomime, the result was found
to be fairly satisfactory. “ Puss in Boots ”
has ideas of its own. The earnest, intelligent
Devil (Harry Diver) who crops up at intervals
is the “Faust” devil adapted to new surround-
ings. When the glaring fiend stalks into a har-
vest festival, or something, with a view to annex-
ing a nice girl, the local King and his loyal villagers
throw little bits of comic song at the intruder,
until he wishes he was back. at . the place where
damned souls expiate their sins in an everlasting
stewpan. The earnest Devil is a humorous item,
also the Cat has a moment of comic pathos, and
the ordinarily frivolous accessories don t
stop too long at any one point.
Some of the songs by Billie Barlow,
Jennie Opie (who has succeeded that mas-
sive fairy, Miss Winston-Weir) and Edie Hay tor
are about the dullest matters in the show, and
these should be either cut out or cut shorter. Miss
Noni Rickards is a princess with at . least one
pretty song, which she warbles sweetly in a small,
clear voice. The De Wynne Bros., remarkably
clever acrobats, are new to Melbourne, likewise
the young man who rides a bike, but if the latter
artist were to catch the influenza and retire from
the bill he would not be missed. The cleverest of
trick-cyclists is a wearisome person nowadays.
** * *
Miss Bertha Bird who, for some time
past, has been going to take Europe by storm,
fave a farewell concert at the Masonic Hall, Mel-
ourne, one night last week. It was a rather sadden-
ing affair. Apart from the wan star of the pro-
gramme, the chief artist was Mrs. Frank Stephen,
who had really no pretensions to stand up and
warble before an audience which paid for admission
and didn’t come prepared to suffer on behalf of a
hospital or a Bible society. A strawberry-blonde
fentleman, in a white waistcoat, revealed an
r.T.B. tenor voice of the foggo-robusto
class, a growing lad played upon a fiddle,
and there were two or three other “turns”
including an amateur reciter, who earned a joyful
encore because he had something humorous to
speak and could say it in a plain, straightforward,
unassuming manner. Miss Bird’s snare of the
brief concert consisted mainly of top-note utter-
ances. She gave them the “Carnivalof Venice”
with, alas ! variations, and a footnote to the effect
that she was achieving Ain altissimo. She per-
formed the well-known trills of Lucia; likewise
the air from “Magic Flute” that is now-a-days
never sung in the original key—except by Miss
Bird. Also she made sounds purporting to
be an imitation of the violin part in a
string-quarteting of Mascagni’s Intermezzo. Two
large ladies and one fragile young man went
through a gruesome pretence of a humming accom-
paniment, whilst the prima-donna ejaculated her
foolish suggestions of violin effects. Altogether
they were too funny, standing in a row.
Miss Bird, if the truth must be told, has
little melody, feeling or colour in her
soprano to recommend it to the ear of the great
paying public. Had she a ten-mile range of notes
her voice would be no more attractive than at
present.
** # *
“The Great Ruby,” price £50,000, is
snavelled every night at about the same minute
from Brown’ssnopin Melb. Royal, where Detective-
Sergeant Bland Holt always arrives two minutes
after the gang have flown. Bland is recovering
his youthful vigor of late, but he continues to
wear a large, inhuman nose and a lofty brow, prob-
ably in the hope of taking the gang by surprise.
His nose, however, proves to be valueless as a means
of deception. It is likewise very unsuitable
for blowing purposes. The Gang are aware of his
identity the instant he strolls into their midst.
The recognition is mutual. Bland looks at the
men he has unexpectedly hunted down, and he
says, in the meditative tone of a bookmaker talk-
ing to himself, “4 to 1! ” Whereupon Albert
Norman comes along and haunts him with an
awful grin, and the detective-sergeant confesses
that the Gang have got him at their mercy.
But although Bland Holt is a disgrace to
the force, like most other detectives, he
seems a hero to Miss Harrie Ireland. Beau-
teous Harrie is a romantic damsel who keeps
the books at a fashionable pub.—the only artless
hotel-girl on record —and she gives herself to the
Gang-hunter for the sake of his air of mystery,
without raising the slightest protest against his
nose. Miss Frances Ross and Walter Baker and
the balloon are doing good work as before. Mrs.
Bland Holt has improved somewhat, but Brown
seems unable to assume the character of a jewel-
ler. The average jeweller is a cross between a
chemist and an ironmonger, whereas Brown is
Brown, and considerably Charley at that.
** * *
“Florodora,” at Her Majesty’s, is rejoicing
in new additions of Grace Palotta’s frocks, and a
change of turns by the Prapses, otherwise Lauri
and Carrie Moore. Their most riotous turn, which
involves the startling apparition of a third Praps,
is still proceeding, but the harmonium catastrophe
and the trumpet that divulged a yellow sausage
have been replaced by selections from grand
opera.
** * *
The Princess’s has made a sudden an-
nouncement of its intention to resume business on
Saturday (23rd) instead of waiting for the opera
co.’s return. “Barabbas” is to be produced by
the Woods-Williamson forces, and the manage-
ment threatens the story of Barabbas (who was a
robber the last time The Bulletin heard of him)
will be even more splendid than “ Sign of the
Cross.” If it is as beautifully blue as the sermon
aforesaid the Woods-Williamson drama ought to
get along all right.
** # *
The deep-sea voice of Snazelle is pitching
yarns and trolling ballads twice a day, as usual,
a t the Athenaeum Hall. “Our Navy’ has been
on the sheet for several weeks, and Melbourne
speaks favorably of that interesting ’graph. Also
the picturesque appearance of the lecturer when
he does the Block in white ducks and nautical
headgear, is a matter for admiring speculation.
Nobody seems to know for certain whether the
late Francis Drake has made an admiral or a
commodore of Snazelle, but in either case he looks
the right man for the billet.
## * *
Phil Newbury is back in Melbourne, and
the first of a series of Newbury-Spada concerts
will draw the inevitable crowd to the Town Hall
on Saturday.
At Poverty Point.
" Here it is again ! From Cassell’s, on Melba :
“ There are colonials who ignore their own colony. But
Madame Melba, wise woman, is proud of hers. It is her
wish, as soon as circumstances permit, to pay a visit to
the country, and to sing, first of all, at Melbourne, from
which town, by the way, she took her name of Melba.
The very finest artists available she will engage to accom-
pany her on her tour. ‘ Australia must have only the
best,’ she declares.” This concert-party, it is understood,
has booked its passage for Ist April, 1987.
“Bessie Wentworth, England’s ‘coon’ star” (writes
The Bulletin’s London correspondent) “ died a few days
after Geo. Beauchamp, whom you recently heard. You
knew G. 8., so there is nothing that need be said, but
B.W. was a fine, big, curly-headed tomboy worthy of the
best hearts of her profession. She practically introduced
the 1 coon ’ song—for which Heaven forgive her—to Eng-
lish popularity, and was a serious, hard-working young
woman. She was to have principal-* boyed ’in panto,
this Xmas, but pneumonia ordered it otherwise. By
heart and by physique she was a genuine generous
woman. Alma Obrey took B.’s place on Boxing night at
the ‘ Broadway’ New Cross.”
A Sydney paper declares that “Harry Roberts is mak-
ing great progress in America, and is now fulfilling a
first-class engagement.” These vague allegations suggest
that the young man will soon return to Australia.
Roberts is a bright actor who ought to make headway
anywhere, but if he has done anything important in
America, why not furnish some details ?
Miss Emmie Owen, the jolly, tuneful little woman
whom Musgrove imported for “The Scarlet Feather”
and “ Cinderella,” has been acting under difficulties all
the time. Two serious outbreaks of hemorrhage have
failed to frighten her seemingly ; Emmie grows more fes-
tive as her natty figure diminishes, but she can’t dance
away from the fact that she ought to consider herself
unable to appear for the next two months.
There’s one song in “ Cinderella’’—the ballroom song—
which “ gives away ” the cruel truth re Nellie Stewart’s
voice. If she could sit in front of the house for once and
hear herself sing it Nellie would either abandon the song
altogether or have the music altered. All the ravages of
time are recorded in Nellie’s treatment of that monoton-
ous ditty.
“ Haresfoot ” : A new idea bursts upon me. George
Darrell is Gov. Madden’s model.
American actress Nance O’Neil is said to be a sister to
Frank Lawton, the clever ’Murkan whistler who was here
with the Chinatown crowd. But the yarn doesn’t look
over-probable. Lawton was mostly skin and bone.
Chas. Arnold takes “ Jones ” to Perth at the end of
May. He plays four weeks there and four weeks on the
goldfields.
“ S.”: What a doleful thing is the Commonwealth proces-
sion as a cinemat. exhibition ! Two or three disjointed slabs
out of Sydney’s wonderful drunk and walk-round and
breakdown have been squirted on canvas in Melbourne,
with nothing to relieve the glare of spasmodic swaddies
but the vague fluttering of Gov.-Gen. Hopetoun across a
casual empty space, wearing the bright smile of a man
who is going out to his own hanging. If these are the
official records that are to be handed down to posterity,
I am quite sure they will make posterity sorry for us.
Somebody suggests that the story of Queen Victoria
would make a good subject for a drama. Well, the story
of any monarch is good for spectacular treatment, but
something more than spectacle is needed. The success
of the late Queen’s reign lay in the fact that she was
never a heroine, or an important figure in any situations
of particular dramatic interest. And she is too modern
a subject to be effectively treated by the romancer. The
public will not accept a historical play which doesn’t pre-
sent a surface appearance of truth.
Amidst all the hubbub of the Queen’s death one half-
inch cable sufficed to tell that the immortal Verdi had
passed away.
Veteran R. S. Smythe on spry young manager, Geach :
“ Ah, it is a good thing to be so young and to know so
much.”
Snazelle’s red-covered book of reminiscences, yarns and
reprints is a very readable thing. The title, “Snazelle-
parilla,” smacks of the penny comic paper, but the easy,
rambling style of the self-advertiser disarms criticism.
It starts by telling how a stranger tapped Snazzy on the
shoulder and invited him to go halves in a big bottle of
fizz—“‘Ha! ha! Devilish funny! Haw!’ He was of
the heavy order of swell and he laughed that way. He
had listened while I related a curious experience to two
or three friends .... ‘No offence, old chappie,’he went
on. ‘Of course you don’t know we, but I must stand you
a drink, if you will allow me, for you are the first Johnnie
I have met in the Strand in 30 years who has told a new
story.’” Snazelle’s remarks on Johannesburg (page
165) are a warning to would-be contingenters—
“We here struck our first illness on our tour, all
the five of our party being down with fever.
I managed to get up after four days in bed
and, to cheer myself, walked to the cemetery to see the
graves of six actor friends who had died in the town. I
met many of our good Australian mechanic friends who
had sailed with us to Africa, each one of them longing to
get back. I invited them into our entertainment on the
first night when it was possible to give it, and showed
them some of the perpetual green forest scenery of their
native land, taking care to remind them that they had
often grumbled at its monotony, and how much better it
was than the monotony of the barren veldt—a country in
which you travel for hundreds of miles without seeing a
single tree. Before I had done with them I saw some of
these Australians wiping away the furtive tear.”
The shell of Melb. Opera House is finished. Architect
Pitt closely follows the Princess’s for his interior
arrangements.
Arthur Sullivan was chaffed out of signing his initials
A.S.S., his middle name being Seymour.
Musgrove really means to put up “ The Belle of New
York,” but is going to import people who will do it as he
believes it should be done. The people who made his pile
in London ?


The Austral Otis Eng. Co., South Melbourne,
have been successful with their tender for the two new
pump ends for the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of
Works, SpottiswOod Pumping Station. These pump ends
have been designed by the Board Engineer, and are a
departure from the existing ones and weigh about 65
tons each.*
• • * *
The Insurance News of Ist August, 1900,
writes : “ We have faith that the Colonial Mutual, with
its many advantages of position and organisation, and its
manifest decision to cultivate only safe and high class
business, will secure its full share of business.”*
* * * *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* dr * ¥
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfleld Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Since the start of the Broken Hill Proprietary’s
new 5000-ton mill, most of the Barrier mines have been
engaged in re; odelling their concentrating plants on up-
to-date lines, and wisely show a preference for machines
which have proved most successful on the difficult fines
and slimes. The machines that can claim this distinction
are the “Luhrig” Vanners, as supplied by Messrs. W. &
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne. The South’s new mill will
include a dozen or so, and the Junction Co. has also de-
cided to erect a number of Luhrig Vanners as an impor-
tant adjunct to its large plant. Other mines would do
well to follow this good example.*
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* ¥ ¥ *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, Burning, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work. *
» * » «
“Zip”: Replying to “Gamma” re Mt. Mor-
gan G.M. Co.’s water-supply. He is quite right regarding
the co.’s effort to secure water, but then what about the
management (which has sailed close to the wind re-
peatedly in re water-storage) ? It does not look any
further on than a couple of seasons ago, while being con-
stantly threatened with famine. The co. expended some
£20,000 on the erection of a 222-million-gallon dam
about 16 months ago, besides £lB,OOO on the series of
smaller dams which were built in early days. Add to this
£5300 frittered away in the trial surveys for the pro-
pounded schemes at Piebald Creek (nine miles away) and
Crocodile (13 miles away), and top the lot with the £l4OO
it was forced to expend in Dec. in emptying all the
creeks and waterholes within three miles, and you
have the respectable total of £44,700, which sum
would, it is admitted by the co., have paid for a pipe-
line connection with the river-supply at Rockhampton,
only 24 miles away. The present dam system is merely
a series of steps, and the great dam must be filled before
the second receives any, and there are seven dams.
Three and a half inches rain have fallen during the pre-
sent “wet season” so far, and the only supply derived
from this was caught and is conserved by the centre dam,
which drains a small watershed of its own. Only a
few months’ supply can be reckoned on at the outside if
no more rain falls, then—another close down. This is
the middle of Feb., too. And, re “Gamriia’s” remarks
about 873 out of 1600 being discharged, it might be
pointed out that the class who were discharged were the
workers, who would feel the pinch a great deal more than
the crowd of overseers and bosses who are retained. It
might be suggested also that the “ strenuous efforts ”
made to keep things going were put forth quite as much
on behalf of the absentee shareholders as the workers of
the Mount. The stoppage of the regular monthly divi-
dend of 7d. might lead to investigation.
“ ENGLAND’S FAVORITE.”
PLAYER’S
NAVY CUT
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
à
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shaving’s, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ;68 Currie-at. , Adel.; 2? Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne,
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers Of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per cent,
pure), Bleaching Powder, Mining Requisites,
Candles, etc.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank
(Melbourne), shows a return for the half-year ended 31st
December, 1900, which is rather better than might be
reasonably expected. Its progress in recent times has
been as follows :
Loss. Total deficit.
December, 1894 „ £5,632 .. £6,921
June, 1895.. .. 7,481 .. 14,402
December, 1895 „ 2,531 ... 16,933
Profit.
June, 1896.. .. 144 .. 16,789
(Deficit provided for out of forfeited capital.)
Total reserves.
December, 1896 .. 978 .. £978
June, 1897.. ... 912 ... 1,890
December, 1897 .. 1,051 .. 2,941
June, 1898.. ... 1,207 „ 4,148
December. 1898 ... 1,400 „ 5,548
June, 1899.. ... 1,257 ... 6,805
December, 1899 ... 1,575 .. 8,380
June, 1900.. ... 1,521 .. 9,901
December, 1900 .. 1,640 .. 11,541
Profits are equal to 7s. 2d. per cent, per annum on the
capital (£902,479) and reserves, and the profits are the best
which the Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank has
realised for a long time. The improvement isn’t large,
but it is accomplished under especially difficult circum-
stances. According to the terms of the reconstruction,
70 per cent, of the deposits were renewed till 1910 at 31
per cent., the other 30 per cent, bearing no interest and
being repayable by three instalments on Ist January,
1896, 1899, and 1901. The result was that till the end of
1895 the bank got the use of its reconstructed deposits at
an all-round rate of £2 9s. per cent. From Ist January,
1896, to Ist January, 1899, they cost all round £2 14s. 6d.
per cent. Since then they cost £3 Is. 3d. per cent., and
hereafter they will cost £3 10s. per cent, and remain at
that. But during the past half-year the bank has been
keeping the money ready to pay the third instalment,
and through loss of interest on the amount it has prac-
tically been paying £3 10s. per cent. The fact that the
profits have steadily increased, notwithstanding the in-
crease in the rate of interest payable on deposits, looks
as if the A.D. and M. Bank was strong enough to pull
through, despite the exceedingly humble profits.
The board stated in 1895 that out of £1,560,000
(paper value) of assets £730,000 (paper value) were yield-
ing no return whatever. Presumably a lot of this is
vacant land, and presumably, also, a great deal of it is
still vacant and returning no interest. The management
now talks of making an effort to realise a lot of these pro-
perties. Probably this means that £700,000 or so (alleged
value) of assets that yield nothing may materialise into
perhaps £200,000 or £300,000 of actual cash, which will
yield decent interest. If so, there will necessarily be a
heavy writing-down of capital, but at the same time there
should be a great increase of earnings, and dividends on
a reduced capital should again become possible. It ought
also to be possible to make good a part of the loss by re-
purchasing the old deposits at a discount. The A.D. and
M. Bank has £914,020 of shareholders’ funds, while the
whole liability to depositors is now only about £433,000.
With such a very wide margin for depreciation a good
deal of the capital should survive the wreck, however bad
it may be.
* * * *
Balmain New Ferry Co. (Sydney):
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
Dec., 1898 ..£1,371 10 per cent. = £648 £2,201
June, 1899 .. 1,355 10 „ = 648 2,908
Dec., 1899 .. 1,687 10 „ = 648 3,947
June, 1900 .. 773 10 „ = 648 4,072
Dec., 1900 .. 975 10 „ = 648 4,399
The reserves consist of dividend reserve, £3OO ; insurance
reserve, £4OO ; and undivided profit, £3699. Why the co.
does not create a strong general reserve fund, instead of
keeping this large sum lying loose at credit of profit and
loss, it is hard to understand. It would make the
accounts look better at all events. Also, it seems to keep
its two little reserve funds separately, the £3OO in N.S.W.
Government stock and the £4OO in the Post Office Savings
Bank, which latter, considering the very low rate of in-
terest allowed, appears a most unprofitable locality. All
the same, the Balmain New Ferry' Co. is a solid, profitable,
and well-managed concern, and its balance-sheets are
perfectly clear and coherent now-a-days. In earlier times
some of them were about as intelligible as an insur-
rection of Chinese gridirons.
• * * •
The Equitable Life Assurance Society of the
U.S. had an increase during 1900 of £9,500,000 in the
amount of life insurance in force. The policies in force
at 31st Dec., 1900, represented the stupendous total of
£230,000,000. Also, at same date, the assets were over
£62,500,000 (an increase of £4,125,000 during 1900); and
the surplus of assets over liabilities was £13,125,000 (an
increase of over £400,000 during 1900).
* * * •
The Perpetual Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co., of Tasmania (Hobart), shows up as follows by com-
parison with some previous returns :
Dividend and Dividend Total
fronts. Tax. Reserves.
Dec., 1894 .. £925 6 per cent. =£3oo £3092
June, 1895 .. 500 „ = 300 3292
Dec., 1895 .. 436 „ = 315 3413
June, 1896 .. 521 „ = 315 3619
Dec., 1896 .. 462 „ = 315 3766
June, 1897 .. 349 „ = 315 3800
Dec. , 1897 .. 465 „ = 315 3950
June, 1898 .. 421 „ = 315 4056
Dec., 1898 .. 421 „ = 315 4162
June, 1899 .. 365 „ = 315 4212
Dec., 1899 .. 346 „ = 315 4243
June, 1900 .. 380 „ = 315 4308
Dec., 1900 .. 358 „ = 315 4351
The general tendency seems to be towards a decrease of
profits, in spite of the enlarged reserves, which should
materially increase the interest earnings. Whether
the decline is owing to a decrease in the earnings of the
business or a drop in the interest returns from invest-
ments it is impossible to say, for the balance-sheet most
improperly lumps them both together. Also there is
great and uncalled-for obscurity about the assets. The
largest of these is “ sundry debtors, £9624,” and the third
largest is “ investments, £3059 ” —what kind of invest-
ments there is notl’.g whatever to show. These two
obscurities account ft • £12,683 out of £20,617 of assets,
the rest being dep' t with the Tasmanian Treasurer,
office property and ..ash. The Perpetual Trustees
Executors and Agency Co. of Tasmania might make its
balance-sheet a good deal more lucid without injuring
anybody.
* * * *
The New York Life Insurance Co. effected
£47,800,000 of new life assurance during 1900, and, after
allowing for deaths and lapses, the amount of life assur-
ance in force increased by £28,800,000. The policies in
force on 31st Dec., 1900, amounted to no less than
£247,000,000.
* * * »
The half-yearly meeting of the Commercial
Bank of Australia again produced no infuriated rush of
information about the Special Assets Trust—that part of
the bank where over £3,300,000 of assets and liabilities are
put away without any information whatever being afforded
as to how they are getting on. So The Bulletin again
asks these few questions :
(1) What are the receipts and expenditure of the Trust?
(2) Does the revenue from the Trust’s properties cover
working expenses and interests on the Trust’s deposits ?
(3) If it doesn’t, does the £60,000 transferred yearly
from the earnings of the bank cover the deficit, or more
than cover it ?
(4) If it isn’t sufficient to cover the deficit (supposing
there to be a deficit), is the balance covered by that por-
tion of the earnings of the Commercial Bank which re-
whole concern (Bank . g pled e §
to°pa| on%Xence d shares, or is that dividend being
pa /M y o?ii d t°he b Ass a e S ts e 'Trust paying its way, and is the
£6O 000 a year transferred from the bank being simply
£7 500 000 of assets yielded a certain profit as against
their corresponding liabilities, and no information is
given as to Whether the other £3,385,000 of assets or
alleged assets yielded a profit or made a loss as compaied
with the liabilities set against them i . , . .
And (7) do the directors of the Commercial Bank of
Australia regard this way of doing business as desirable,
considering the possibilities it opens up / For instance .
Last half-year the A.J.S. Bank made £2547 profit after
setting the losses on its bad assets against the profits on
its good ones. Supposing it put £4,000,000 of its worst
assets and a corresponding amount of its deposß liabilities
into an Assets Trust, and said nothing at all about how
the Trust met, or didn’t meet, the interest on these de-
posits, doesn’t it seem just possible that the A.J.S. Bank
could show on the other assets a half-yearly profit of
£30,000 or so, and yet be no better than it is now l That
seems to be how the Assets Trust system might pan out
in the A.J.S. case. And the shareholders of the Commer-
cial Bank of Australia have every right to know how the
system is panning-out in their case.
* • • *
M'Cracken’s City Brewery, Limited (Melbourne)
has had a much better year than the last one, but it was
a bad year all the same. Since it was floated into a huge
disastrous co. M'Cracken’s has always had a deficit,
though it was disguised at one time by putting in the
balance-sheet a paper asset called “ Debentures and Pre-
liminary Expenses.” The real record has been as
follows : _ , ,
Total
Profits. Dividends. Deficit.
1890 .. £42,964 8 per cent. = £40,000 £26,458
1891 .. 43,751 8 „ = 40,000 22,707
1892 .. 30,345 5£ „ = 27,500 19,862
Losses.
1893 .. 4,636 Nil 24,498
1894 .. 8,322 Nil 32,820
1895 .. 21,263 Nil 54,083
1896 .. 36,149 Written off
Properties 159,768 250,000
(£250,000 deficit written off capital.)
Total
Profit. Reserves.
1897 £1,002 £1,002
Total
Losses. Deficit.
1898 .. £9,158 , £8,156
1899 .. 23,904 3 9 -,060
1900 .. 9,679 41,739
The new deficit is mounting up almost as gaily as the old
one did, for though the writing-off of £250,000 capital
squared the accounts on paper, it neither diminished the
outgoings nor increased the income, and it improved the
prospects not one whit. M'Cracken’s Brewery owes
£500,000 on debentures at 4J per cent,, and two years’
vigorous negotiation has failed to secure any reduction in
interest. It also owes £51,698 bank overdraft and £112,891
on mortgages, and the interest on these huge liabilities
weighs it down. Paid-up capital was originally £500,000
—written down in 1896 to £250,000. Then the £500,000
unpaid capital was called up, but only £139,385 has
materialised. A further £38,070 is cancelled, and faint
hopes are entertained of the remaining£322,s4s. If enough
capital could be got in to pay off bank overdraft, mort-
gages and some of the debentures, the saving in interest
would enable profits to be made, and out of them the in-
stitution might in time write off all losses, and become a
good dividend-paying affair again; but there appears
little hope of that. Or there might be some hope if the
debenture-holders would accept 3 per cent., or if some
philanthropist would lend enough money at 3 or 3£ per
cent, to pay off debentures, mortgages and overdrafts.
Failing these things, nothing but a considerable increase
in drunkenness appears likely to save M'Cracken’s City
Brewery. It is a painful case of a splendid business
ruined by trading on little capital and a great deal of
money borrowed at high interest.
» * * *
Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Co.
finished its 12th year on 31st December, 1900. In pre-
vious references to this co. The Bulletin has drawn
attention, in an unfriendly spirit, to a paper or goodwill
item of £15,000, described' as “ Parliamentary Rights and
Concessions,” which the co. appears to make no attempt
whatever to write off. When this item is set against the
apparent reserves, as not being a visible or concrete
asset, the Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Co.’s
reserves are nil ; in fact, it has, and always had, a con-
siderable deficit. The last six years’ results are as under :
Deficit
(Goodwill not
Profits. Dividends, &c. reckoned as
an asset).
1894 .. £13,535
1895 .. £6,537 6| per cent. = £5,063 12,061
1896 .. 7,209 81 „ = 6,562 11,414
1897 .. 10,016 {s ritfce ” o fl A IS} 10,148
isos 11531 /10 percent. = 7,5001 7 367
1898 .. 11,531 /Written off .. 1,250/
im .. iwi4
1960 .. 16,498 {KTS: 'JS V9S
By retaining among its assets the goodwill item of
£15,000 the Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Co.
is able to show reserves to the nominal amount of
£13,807, but even of this sum £7750 is set aside to
replace the plant when it wears out, and £2OOO for depre-
ciation of leaseholds. Assuming that these sums are all
needed to cover deterioration up to date, then the only
real reserve which the co. even professes to have is the
£4057 undivided profit, and if the paper item of goodwill
is left out of the assets the deficit in real assets as com-
pared with liabilities to shareholders and others is
£10,943. Under these circumstances the 10 per cent, divi-
dend looks a good deal less justifiable than it might be.
I * * •
The Deniliquin and Moama Railway Co. shows
a profit of £4603 for the half-year to 31st Dec., 1900, and
a dividend at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum absorbs
£2OOO. The other £2603, added to previous balance of
£20,744, leaves £23,347 undivided profit to be carried
forward. In addition, there is a reserve described as
“ Reserve and Renewal account ” of £15,917, making total
reserves 39,264, which is reasonably solid in proportion to
the paid-up capital of only £lOO,OOO. A curious circum-
stance is that the “ Reserve and Renewal account ” ap-
pears to have increased during the half-year by £1583
without the least visible indication in the balance-sheet
as to where the £1583 came from. Said reserve is rather
a bewildering thing under these circumstances.
* • * *
A N.S.W. Parliamentary return, showing 20
years’ imports or exports of wheat for the whole Com-
monwealth reveals the curious fact that the biggest
wheat export year was as far back as 1884. Since 1880
there have been four years (1886, 1889,1896, and 1897)
when the Commonwealth didn’t grow enough wheat for
its own consumption, the biggest shortage being in 1896.
The other 15 years it had a surplus for export ranging
from 17,130,843 bushels in 1884, the best exporting year,
down to 1,341,596 bushels in 1898, the worst exporting
year. Only in seven years of the 20 has the export ex-
ceeded ten million bushels
1880 ... ... 11,594,381 bushels exported.
1884 ... 17,130,843 „ „
1885 «. „ . 11,583,644 „ „
1888 «. - 10,643,673 „ „
1891 «. „ 10,646,298 „ „
1894 «. .. 11,916,782 „ „
1899 .. .. 11,581,198 „ „
The Commonwealth has been of much less importance as
a wheat-exporting country in the last ten years than in
the previous ten. From 1880 to 1889 it had a surplus of
70,989,378 bushels. From 1890 to 1899 the surplus was
only 66,064,426 bushels.
* * • *
Mr. J. T. Walker, of the B. N.S.W., publishes
in United Australia a suggestion, which looks original
and is certainly valuable, for the prevention of banking
crises. His idea may be summarised thus : The banks of
the Commonwealth have about £17,500,000 of paid-up
capital and £15,000,000 uncalled capital. If by bad
management or unforseeable disaster the paid-up capital
is to any great extent lost, the unpaid capital of
£15,000,000 is relied upon to fill the gap, and secure the
banks’ creditors from loss. But the only time when the un-
paid capital is really wanted on a large scale is when
there is a general collapse and panic, and at such a time
even wealthy shareholders can’t pay. Their cash is
locked up in suspended banks, their securities and pro-
perties are unsaleable; and the time when un-
called capital is very much required indeed is the time
when, by the very nature of things, it can’t be collected.
Mr. Walker’s proposition is that the uncalled capital
should be paid in good times, by setting aside a small
percentage of the profits every year to accumulate at com-
pound interest in the hands of trustees (presumably the
State would be the trustee). When it had all accumu-
lated the situation would be this: The shareholders in a
bank with a reserve liability of £1,000,000, instead of
being responsible for £1,000,000, would not be responsible
for anything. The bank, instead of calling on its share-
holders in a time of disaster for £1,000,000, and getting
perhaps £500,000, and that by slow instalments, could
call on its trustees and get the whole sum. And if
it never needed to call for the said £1,000,000 it would
have £30,000 to £40,000 a year extra revenue, for as soon
as the million had fully accumulated the annual income
from it would be paid over to the bank. The idea, in
short, is to provide for the future in good times instead of
in bad ones, and it seems about as practical a way of pre-
venting bank crises as could be devised,
• • * *
Dividends paid by Westralian gold mining
companies :
1890 .. ... ..£1,250 1896 .. .. £218,216
1891 .. ... .. 5,326 1897 .. .. 507,732
1892 1,875 1898 .. .. 556,124
1893 .. ... .. 34,350 1899 .. .. 2,057,421
1894 110,642 1900 (about) 1,401,078
1895 • 82,183
The year 1900 is more than twice as good as 1898, but all
the same the falling off from the huge boom figures of
1599 is very heavy. It was a year of wild fluctuations.
In May, 1900, just before the great downfall, dividends
were £304,375, while in Sept, they were only £13,332.
• * * »
The smelting works of that big N.S.W. steel
rails concern are to be located on Parramatta river—
much to the delight of a certain bank, which is over-
joyed at the sale in London of the site. Also, there is a
provision, which has escaped the public eye, in the Har-
bour Resumptions Act enabling the Harbour Trust Com-
missioners to find a deep-water frontage for the rails co.,
which provision will no doubt be brought into play in-
stantly, if not sooner. With these facts, and a little other
information, a variety of things become more or less
plain and clear. Apropos, the denizens of Ryde,
Hunter’s Hill, and thereabouts are already beVailing the
sad fate of the beautiful gardens and orchards in that
now delightful residential area, so soon to be “ knocked
endways’’ by the grime of a sordid smelting works.
Broken Hill has got over its water-famine
scare ; on the day after the B.H. Water Co.’s half-yearly
meeting 2in. fell in a few hours. There really was
danger of a water-famine, tho’ not quite so big a danger
as was represented. One of the local municipal Labor
party’s chief planks is a public-owned water supply, and
the worse of the scare was the result of electioneering
talk. All the same, the water got so near the bottom
that it was unfit to drink, and it would probably not
have lasted the mines for their purposes more than 10
weeks, and it isn’t safe to get so close to the end in
Oentralia, where often eight or 10 months pass without
a decent shower. The worst thing actually disclosed
during the scare was the silting-up of the reservoir.
Thus tho’ the gauge showed about 12ft., no greater depth
of water than sft. 9in. could be found, and that
was over only a very small area. Close up to the weir
as little as 3ft. 9in. was indicated. This means that
there has been 7ft. or Bft. of silting in places, and all this
inside eight or nine years. The reservoir consists of a
dam thrown across the sandy bed of a creek (flowing only
after the very occasional heavy rains of those parts)
just below its confluence with two or three small creeks.
The water is dammed back into these creek-beds, and
after filling them spreads out over the comparatively flat
country on either side. The silting-up of the creek beds
is thus a very serious matter, because it forces the water
out on to the shallows, exposing a great surface to eva-
poration ; and out there the evaporation averages be-
tween Bin. and Ift. per month. As a source of supply,
then, the reservoir is losing value ; while the enormously-
increased demand for water at B. Hill for ore-dressing,
and the complete dependence of the industry and the
place on that ore-dressing nowadays, make it necessary
to have not a poorer but a better supply than has hitherto
been available.
• * * *
One proposal, now before N.S.W. Public Works
Committee, is to spend £200,000 on new works at Umber-
umberka Creek ; but as the State gets the present co’s
works (which have cost over £200,000) in 17 years with-
out paying for them, the proposal needs thinking over.
It would be all right if the Umberumberka were a big
scheme ; but it isn’t —isn’t so big as the present co’s.
Another proposal is to spend about £25,000 in damming
another creek (the Yanco) and digging a channel and
tunnel to the present reservoir. This would save a second
pumping station (Broken Hill is higher than any possible
source of supply), a second line of mains, and a second
retaining embankment—a saving' of, say, £150,000. The
question is—On what terms will the co. do this work ?
The drawback to a second comparatively small
reservoir, apart from cost, is that two reservoirs
mean two surfaces exposed to evaporation ; and the co.’s
experience is that about eight times more water goes
through evaporation than through the pipes. The
Directors, according to a hint dropped from the chair
at the half-yearly meeting, would be willing to extend
the watershed. Presumably it would then want its term
(originally 28 years) extended ; and then (if the people
will put up with exclusive private ownership at all) there
would have to be a substantial reduction in price and an
undertaking to keep the water pure and the reservoir
clear of silt.
• * * . * . .
Australia is finding good customers in the East
for frozen concentrated milk. A little while ago small
quantities were shipped as experiments, and were so suc-
cessful that at present orders cannot be met. One vessel
recently left Melbourne with about 10,000 one-gallon tins,
equal to about 35,000 gallons of ordinary milk.
* * * *
The Herberton people have a tin-dredging boom
on. Large areas on the Russell, Wild and Dry Rivers
have been taken up, and Herberton, which has been mori-
bund for some time, expects a revival. One syndicate on
Dry River has three miles ot country and, it would am
?o 3ft P T'v ng ‘f U f tlook of rom 27 sunk from 4&
eoual to 6Uh^nJr°i^ oZ ir 4 “^ oz ' * rom six dishes,
nftrHPM?<si b ; P f 20 dlSheB ‘ There ’ 8 ab °ut 15ft. of sand
particulariy free from snags and boulders. This sneak*
well. Queensland dredging is in its experimental statre
Dredges are „ course ofconstructiomtanthoS •
at Cama, m Gladstone district; at Burdekin Falls near
Ravenswood ; at Clermont, and on the Annan, near Cook-
i tOWD > but tbe y are mostly primitive concerns.
* * * •
Q. mining notes. Gympie had a memorable
B,n f \le d * v -.P aid for the month. Lady
F £.l! ( ? h - To wers) paid its first div. after nine years
Railni^,nH el r ghlng , 3 , bs ; 3ozB ' found at Ebagoolah.
oh a f H d fi an ‘ g0l J? refcurns > 17690z5.; mining ex-
tn-nt ? h s A art . ed he s e j Good rains in Georgetown dis-
Drove h e , r f S ft art - e i tL —-Strong co. formed at Brisbane
westTn m h R A A hraC^ e COaUe , am °P ened «P a t Anakie,
a Rockhampton. Some Towers figures : Brill
liant and St. George, 1203 tons, 8580z5.-much below
3d T : .r V, ’A : Ally’s Blocks, 530 tons for6l3ozs.,
tendpd iw 0 B t nd H °P e - 470 tons, 4760z5. ; Brilliant Ex-
not wiih agaln) ’A 74 tons ' 2970zs - Gympie returns
not worth worrying about-unless you’re a shareholder.
. * * *
Crushing returns at the Pioneer battery, Eba-
goolah, Hamilton (N.Q.) goldfield, for January :-AU
Nations p.c., 121 - tons, 600 oz.; Bristol p.e., 5| tons,
lboz. ; Hamilton King p.c., 14 tons, 19oz. ; Mav Queen
P'®'' tons, lOloz. 3dwt. ; Caledonia p.c., 381 tons,
690 z. 13 dwt. Total, 211 tons, 1005 oz. 16dwt.—an average
or 4oz. 15d\vfc. per ton. Alluvial bought and in private
hands, for month, 2300 z. Very little rain at present, but
much required. Population, just now, about 250.
* * * *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grim wade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
(Continued on page 25.)


Complete
Outfits.
ǻ
AN ORIENT BOOT.
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT^
ALL GLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE ..
‘Orient To measure” Clothing
... AT ..
PRICES^
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
pnvip JONCS & COMPANY,
6*orgg & Barrack Sts., Sydney
CEREBOS SALT
Used instead of common salt, on the tables of
Her Majesty The Queen, T.R.H. The Princess of
Wales and The Duchess of York; all
“Society” Houses, and most high-class Hotels
in England.
DAINTY, DRY, ECONOMICAL.
Sold by Grocers
and Stores.
Wholesale
Agents
HARRISO I & ATTWOOD,
334 and 336, George Street, SYDNEY
Forgot all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjoyment of
HOME CIGARETTES
Society
An unusually big smash has been added to
the list of N.S.W. railway wrecks. On Friday
evening at 5.55 p.m. a through train left Sydney
for Hurstville with about 500 passengers on board.
A Bulletin man was in the last car with his wife,
and just after passing Sydenham the lady re-
marked that they seemed to be travelling at a
higher speed than usual. Then there was a sudden
jolting—a rocking to and fro, a grinding sound of
brakes hard on, and a suppressed general shriek
as the passengers were thrown to one end of the
car—then a dead stop. Scrambling to their feet
the startled and shaken passengers looked out of
the window. Down below them was an engine
that seemed to be a mass of flame shrouded in
clouds of steam—and a heap of wreckage that had
a grotesque resemblance to a railway carriage.
The people began streaming from everywhere,
and, with the exception of the first-class pas-
sengers, who mostly appeared to be a slow lot,
and' afraid to soil "their clothes, did their best
to succour the wounded and extricate the dead.
With a few notable exceptions the first-class gen-
tlemen confined their efforts to passing wet hand-
kerchiefs and similar light assistance. It was the
second-class passengers and the people of the
neighborhood who gave first help. There
was a most discreditable delay in the arrival
of proper surgical aid, which did not
come till nearly three-quarters of an hour.
At a station like Redfern a hospital
train with a staff thoroughly expert in “First
Aid ” should be available in three minutes, and
the seene of the disaster could have been reached
in 12 minutes. Out at the wreck people ran to and
fro hysterically, and got axes and saws, and began
to cut through beams to get at the people pinned
down beneath. In one case half-a-dozen people
were sawing and chopping as gently as possible at
a framework to get to the injured when someone
si o jted, “ There’s enough here to lift three times
the weight—up with it! ” A hundred hands re-
sponded as soon as a leader wms found, and the
frame was lifted right over. One man, a fireman,
showed heroic promptitude by stepping on to the
engine and drawing the fire, thereby preventing a
disastrous explosion.
* * * *
The whole scene bristled with harrowing
incidents. A girl standing stupefied saw a
stretcher going by ; the hand hung down at the
side, and she recognised the sleeve. “It’s my
brother—let me speak to him—let me see his
face ! ” she cried, springing forward. She won-
dered why men held her back with brutal force,
a id dragged her away, and shouted to the driver
o the cart into which the covered object had been
lifted, to drive away for God’s sake. They knew
it was her brother, and that the form beneath the
s .ok was headless.
Interviewed by the daily Press, the N.S.W.
Railway Commissioners declare the great Syden-
ham disaster to be inexplicable. Possibly some-
vagary of the continuous brake was responsible
for the thing. According to the Railway Secre-
tary, there were eight ears on the train, each
weighing 19 tons—a total carriage-weight of 152
tons with about 400 passengers, who at lOst. each
would give another 25 tons, or a total of 177 tons —
be.imd an engine weighing 39 tons 3 cwt. with
coal and water. In the old days, when brakes
were applied on the engine and the guard’s-van
only, railway-people had always to consider the
relative weights of engine and load. An engine
might be strong enough to draw a load, but not
strong enough to stop it. But the invention of
the continuous-brake did away with that. With
the continuous-brake the man on the engine
applied the same brake-power to every vehicle
on the train simultaneously—if the brake
worked properly. The train in question was
travelling at a speed which appears to have
struck regular travellers on the line as unusual
and excessive, and was nearing its first stop-
ping place. When the continuous brake was
applied it may have failed to act on the
carriages simultaneously with the engine, and the
result would be that the engine’s speed was
checked while that of the 177 tons behind was not,
in which ease the load behind simply knocked the
engine off the line. The end of the engine next
to the carriages would be kicked up, and when it
fell the flanges failed to fall between the rails.
The fact that the brakes acted for all they were
worth immediately afterwards does not affect the
case. The failure to do so for a fraction of a
second was enough to start the catastrophe.
* V *
Victoria’s fifth S’African contingent of
1000, who left last Friday, were evidently out
after glory and coin. Most of them knew nothing
of soldiering and not too much of shooting, and
they took very unkindly to drill and camp life.
Also they were so keen on the farewell and pre-
sentation business, as to raise the ire of Col. Otter,
who told them they were “ like a lot of Sunday-
school children, appealing in shoals to go some-
where or other to social evenings in their honor.
It is not soldiering at all. It’s mere nonsense.”
And a day or two before they sailed, and after
they had signed, they found the pay cheque wasn’t
likely to be nearly as large as they reckoned. The
Imperial Govt, only paysfromdate of embarkation,
while the Victorian ditto allowed them to believe
their wages would start from date of engagement ;
so, unless that overburdened State foots the bill,
they will be working off a dead horse for the next
three or four weeks.
THE NAKED TRUTH.
TEACHER (describing cold-
ness): “Now, if I had
no clothes on, how should
I feel?”
BOY : “ Please, ma’am,
ashamed of yourself.”
DISQUALIFIED.
“My husband is just about the meanest man in
Sydney.”
“ Very pr bably—mine went to Melbourne last
night ! ”
As for the “Dolly Vardens,” as the 250 Aus-
tralian Scots for Tullibardine’s regiment were
neatly nicknamed, they were a really choice
assortment of the casual, irresponsible Australian
swashbuckler. They were nominally under con-
trol of Col. Creagh, who was more or less respon-
sible to Col. Otter and to a certain extent under
the orders of the Orient’s skipper, but they signed
no agreement or contract; they just went over as
ordinary civilians on the chance that the
Marquis of Dolly Varden, or the M‘Ginty, or
somebody, wanted them, and would pay them
decently and put them in the way of getting
plenty of glory and loot.
* » » *
And there was a very abbreviated farewell-
march for Victoria’s latest lot of S’African farm-
burners. They merely stepped into the city and
out again, then on to Port Melbourne. The
authorities had fixed up barricades (with those
white post-and-rail affairs that bard Fitzgibbon
uses to prevent the casual drunk falling down his
sewer-holes;, but they weren’t needed. Those
who are usually about town in the morning lazily
stepped across to take stock of the contingent,
but there was no huge crowd ; also, there were
few cheers, no groaning verandahs, and few flags
visible, and the only motto that writer saw was an
ungrammatical insult, outside a Bourke-street
pul).: “Cod leads Australia’s sons to victory”
(sic). Also, the girls didn’t rush to embrace their
departing “ boys,” though certain gentlemen with
warrants (vide police-court reports) were very
anxious to discover some dozen or so and take
them up to old Dr. Dloyd, at N. Melb., there to
give security for the payment of 7s. 6d. a-week a-
piece.
* * * *
In Maoriland the Imperial troopers were
dragged round with a vengeance. The swaddies
only had about eight days to spend in the place,
and they were hauled from the Bluff to Auckland
in that time. Besides putting in a day at each of
the four big towns, they had to spend an hour ortwo
at every little accessible township and be stared at.
At Christchurch, when it was said that the men
would probably be wearing kharki, several of the
committee stated that nothing would be sub-
scribed for their entertainment unless it was
guaranteed that they would be seen in full dress.
Evidently the public wanted uniforms, not men.
The Government’s idea was to billet the men
among the public. At Wellington, when they
advertised for billeting offers for 900 men they got
84 replies, each coupled with the proviso that the
offer did not apply to privates. Yah !
*»' * *
A baker giving evidence before Vic.
Technical Education Commission said : “It takes
more brains to make a good baker than a good
member of Parliament.” The baker class has had
a bitter grudge against M’s.P. since the latter
first began to pass Adulteration Acts.
Gundagai, N.S.W. has
just seen the end of a curi-
ous story. Somefew months
ago a family was discovered
in Wollongong quite desti-
tute. It consisted of a
father, delicate mother and
five children, one an in-
fant. The father informed
the local police that they
had all come from Coota-
mundra on foot. This
story was not taken serious-
ly, but arrangements were
made to send the children
to a Sydney charity. Be
fore their tickets of admis-
sion arrived the whole lot
had disappeared. Later
on, advices were received
from near Bathurst that
these people, having walked
from Hurstville, were found
in a distressed condition.
• The father was “ looking for
work,” so he said, but his children
were starving. But again they dis-
appeared ere assistance could reach
them, and made. off West. They
were traced through Molong,
Orange, Forbes, Parkes, Eugowra,
Canowindra, &c., right down to
Crookwell near Goulburn. Here
tlie father, whose story was that
the family had trudged practi-
cally the whole distance from
Wollongong, obtained em-
ployment and announced
his intention of settling
down. But they were
soon off again, and
walked to Gundagai,
where thepolice arrested
them as vagrants. The
children have been hand-
ed over to the State Re-
lief Department, and the
wants of the mother at-
tended to. Nothing previ-
ous to their original de-
covery at Cootamundra can
be obtained from the father,
who must have, during the
last 12 months, journeyed with-
out money, begging his way, with a sick
wife and five small children, nearly 1000 miles.
»** ' «
One curious by-product of the S’African
troubles has been the drawing of a supposed dis-
tinction between typhoid and enteric fevers.
They are, of course, absolutely identical, but the
public loves its mystery, and must have the more
dreadful sounding “ enteric ” as an appendage to
the pomp of war, scorning the humble typhoid
which is always with us. “Enteric” sounds
better and has a more lethal ring about it, but it
is only the latest popular label for the selfsame
disease which in early Australian days carried
off many a gold-seeker under the name of
“gastric fever,” “colonial fever,” “Bendigo
fever,” “scrub fever,” and a dozen similar aliases.
Typhoid happens to have been the best accepted
of its names up to the present, and no disease is
popularly credited with the possession of more
than one. The distinction made, even by edu-
cated people, between a “ fractured ” and a
“broken” bone is an illustration of the same
peculiarity, a “break” being looked upon as
more serious than a “fracture,” although they are
synonyms. Incidentally, the returned invalids
will probably be responsible for a rise in the
typhoid—or enteric—returns, since the bacilli
continue to be discharged from the intestinal
tract in active form for a considerable period
after convalescence is well established. Since
typhoid is a “place” disease it is more than
probable that a goodly number of new foci
will be established throughout Australia
wherever returned invalids recovering from
enteric—or typhoid—are sent home to recuperate,
and this will form another toll claimed for the
glory of England. With plague at the Cape,
typhoid fever arriving in regular consignments for
distribution, and the curse of militarism stopping
the progress of her agricultural and pastoral inte-
rests, Australia can well afford to look upon her-
self as having “done something for the Empire.”
* * * *
The dust-storm that struck Melbourne the
other Thursday was one of the thickest in the
history of Yarropolis, and the wind that pushed
it along was responsible for some queer happen-
ings. One woman was quite lost in the dust in
Port Melbourne and blown about half-a-mile off
her course at a great bat, but not nearly as fast as
her perambulator containing a baby and a load of
vegetables. When the dust passed and the mother
discovered herself, perambulator and baby were
nowhere in sight, and a distracted female, heaped
up with dust, went wailing through the suburb,
crying in anguish for her last-born. The peram-
bulator had been rushed along City Road in a bee
line, and overturned in a far-off gutter. Similarly
the storm bolted with a frantic Dago in his ice-
cream barrow at Albert Park. The most horrify-
ing comment the papers were able to make was:
“ What if the Duke had been here ? ” That would
indeed have been a catastrophe ; but let us give
Providence credit for knowing better.
• * * *
Is there any reason why a tar-mixture
should not (as in Melbourne) be spread over the
Sydney street blocks to prevent horses slipping,
and to deaden the sound of traffic ?


VETERINARY BOOK FREE
On every Bottle of Condy’s Fluid.
This Book contains instructions by
eminent Veterinary Surgeons for the
treatment and cure of diseases of
Horses, Sheep, Cattle, Dogs, &c.
Condy’s Fluid is non-poisonous, and is
the safest and best Veterinary Remedy.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Insist on haying FLUID.
Beware of Australian Substitutes.
The name Condy & Mitchell, of London, England,
should be at foot of Label.
J.D.I.Z. Gin.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only —largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16 '5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.J LUOAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
The fruit crop is very good this year, and
the prudent housekeeper is busy looking after the
year’s supply of preserves and filling up shortages
in Jam Jars. There is but little satisfaction in
using a common, badly-fitting, badly-made jar,
•which, moreover, is liable to break when the fruit
is poured in. Some new patterns have been intro-
duced this year by M‘Lean Bros, and Rigg, Ltd.,
Melb. and Sydney. Notably the Gilchrist— this is
a large-mouthed jar, with porcelain immerser;
and the Canton jar, a clear, white glass, with easy-
fitting spring top showing the contents to the best
advantage.*
æ
SOME BOOTS WEAR WELL,
SOME BOOTS DON’T.
CALLAGHAN
BOOTS
DO.
Ladies’ Chrome Manned Black Vici Kid Button or Lace Boots, 14/9, 15/6,19/6, 2 of-.
Add 9d. postage.
Men’s Tan Balmoral Boots in Russia Calf carried in pointed, medium and wide
toes —Lace —19/6, 22/6, 25/-, 28/6. _ .
Add Is. postage. 395 George St., Sydney.
isL.
aM,
U)
This interesting circular was issued last
month to all Maoriland railway employes :
Circular, GOl/10. To Staff.—On the day of the funeral
of Queen no railway business of any kind whatever is to
be transacted in any part of the colony between the
hours of 11.30 a.m. and 12 noon, and every member of
the Railway Staff, whether permanent or casual, is to
cease work for the half-hour specified, and to stand
reverently by during that period. No train is to be
started between the times mentioned, and every train
running on any portion of the railway lines of the colony
must be brought to a standstill at 11.30 a.m. and remain
motionless until 12 noon, at which hour running and
ordinary business of the Department is to be resumed.
Trains which have been stopped being, of course, cor-
respondingly later throughout their journeys. Please see
that these instructions are strictly complied with.
But why wasn’t it carried to its logical conclusion?
Why didn’t all trams, omnibuses, bullock-drays,
carts, wheelbarrows, and foot-passengers also stop
short at 11.30 and stand exactly where they were
till 12? 'Why didn’t the whole province stop
short, the policeman paralysed at his corner, and
the drinker looking at his beer, and the eater
looking at his victuals, and the live person sud-
denly becoming dead, so that there might be
silence in all Maoriland for 30min. just as there
once was in heaven ? A thing like that should be
done well or not at all.
* * * *
In a M.L. township, some of the inhabi-
tants were engaged in a tennis tournament when
the news of the Queen’s death arrived, and his
Washup the Mayor came out and ordered them to
desist on the instant. They refused, whereupon
he ordered the hose to be turned on them and
routed the damp and disloyal citizens from the
field.
* * * •
Bulletin italics :
The West Australian Government has accepted the gift
of a marble statue of the late Queen from Mr. Stone ham,
a resident of London, who is largely interested in W.A.
min ng, and is the promoter of an electric tramway com-
pany for Perth.
0 Loyalty, what advertisements are committed in
thy name !
* * * »
Victorian P.M.G-. Outtrim was called
upon t’other day to determine whether a letter-
carrier, charged with being unfit for duty, was
really drunk within the meaning of the Postal
Act. The infallible writing test was applied, and
the man sat down and wrote in copper-plate style
a dictated passage. After he had been honorably
acquitted and had lurched off triumphant, one of
the P.M.G.’s colleagues declared with a grin,
“You couldn’t have given him an easier test.
That man can never write properly until he has
had a few whiskies.”
* * * «
The superiority of the news-service of the
American papers, which English and Australian-
English people affect to despise, is well proved by
a recent event. As far back as Dec. 28’Frisco
Chronicle had an article on its front page an-
nouncing the serious illness of the Queen
guardedly hinting that the worst might be ex-
pected, and ascribing sufficient importance to the
fact to accompany it with a large block. Yet no
London paper touched upon the matter until
almost a month later, a few days prior to the
actual death of the monarch. As a well-known
Australian pressman said about the great London
dailies : “ They want an affidavit about an item
before they’ll chance publishing it.”
m * • *
At the swearing-in of N.S.W. Judges on
commencement of term, there was some curiosity
as to whether the Jewish member of the Bench
(Mr. Justice Cohen) would divest himself of the
full-bottomed wig and don the hat in orthodox
Hebrew fashion. But it turned out that his
Honor had sworn himself in a week before.
* * * *
Maoriland’s lawyers, who are needy and
numerous, have greedy eyes fixed on S’Africa.
Where the carcase is there will the eagles gather.
However, as the M.L.-made bird of carrion is not
recognised in Africa, King Seddon has been
petitioned by the Devil’s brigade to obtain status
for it by the time martial law is superseded by
civil law in the happy hunting-ground.
Among the three or
our thousand inmates of
the N.S.W. Benevolent
Asylums little else is
thought of except the
local Old Age Pen-
sion scheme, which 13
to date from J uly 1
next. But to the
great number of aged
men who have entered
the institutions for
lack of means to pro-
vide themselves with
proper care outside,
the future even on
10s. a week is not too
alluring; so many of
them are going to
pair-off, they say,
with the old women
in Newington, who
are in much the same
position. Married
couples will be en-
titled to 15s. a week,
and on this they can
live much m'ore com-
fortably than on 10s.
singly. A matrimonial
agency, to introduce
to each other these
Darbies and Joans,
has a good field before
it up Newington
way.
Now that they have erected a “ Mafeking
tablet” in Blayney (N.S.W.) Town Hall, it is
appropriate to point out that the “ siege ” was a
farce, since “we could have got away at any
time,” said Barnum Powell; that the “hard-
ships” were a humbug since Rev. James Green,
Bushmen’s Contingent chaplain, reported the gar-
rison fat and jolly, with 1000 sheep to spare ; that
the tablet’s inscription of “small British garri-
son,” contrasted with “several thousand Boers,”
is a lie, since the Boers hardly outnumbered the
garrison for the greater part of the siege ; and
that the “ heroism ” is a myth, since the garrison,
after seven months’ idleness, marched out practi-
cally as strong as it marched in, without any losses
to speak of. All this in the teeth of Roberts, who
has to delude the public like the rest.
■# • * *
To be seen in a centrally-situated Adelaide
monumental yard a tombstone with the following
writ thereon :
In memory
of
Henry George,
for 24 years
coachman to
The Right Hon.
Sir Samuel Jarmes Way, Bart.,
Lieutenant-Governor
and Chief Justice of
South Australia.
Died November 15th, 1900,
aged 64 years.
“Good and faithful servant.”
It would be interesting to know whose composition
this hideous snobbery is, and who paid for the
stone.
* * * *
Writes Subscriber :
Re your recent Jaypee par let me say that in the small
town where I reside, not 100 miles from Sydney there are
over 40 “ Jaypees,” among them being butchers, grocers,
hay and corn and potato men, police-court attorneys, a
money-lender’s agent, and “ sich like.” Is it not time
there was a revision of the list ?
* * * *
The wife of the Governor of an Australasian
State has “ taken-up ” a person whom “ Society ”
has more or less tabooed. The lady in question is
the much-married wife of a functionary whose
position it was impossible to gainsay, but there
was much ado when she appeared at Guv’ment
House. However, nothing was said till it was
found that Lady took Mrs. out driving,
and made a chum of her. Some of the front-
rankers then received the latter at their houses
out of. compliment to her vice-regal patroness, but
one blue-blooded dame wrote informing Lady
that the ladies of the city objected to her protegee
and giving a picturesque account of the latter’s
alleged career. Result—prompt removal of the
writer’s name from Govt. House list, followed by
a still greater display of friendship for the
maligned woman, concerning whose character
Her Ex. is no doubt perfectly satisfied.
* * * •
An Adelaide detective has long enjoyed
an enviable reputation for his eloquent reports,
not to mention frequent eulogistic paragraphs in
the press. The cat came out of the bag last
week when the detective was sued by an ex-law-
clerk for £23 19s. for “services rendered.”
Plaintiff claimed that all the able reports were of
his composing. Eloquent extract from his claim :
1898. October. Re gang of burglars. Attending you
several times with reference to preparing a report regard-
ing the shadowing and final arrest of certain men at
Petersburg, £2 2s. Re Holt—July. Attending you on
different occasions and receiving instructions for all
particulars and report to the Attorney-General, re Holt,
for assault and robbery ; drafting same at length and
afterwards reading it over to you, when you desired
certain alterations and additions, which were made, £1 Is.
Re Spielers—Various attendances on you, obtaining
details for a report on certain spielers who had been
arrested for various offen ces, drawing report, tabulating
convictions, and going through same with you, and
making alterations, £1 is.
Although the detective alleged that all this was
“a dream” to him, Russell, S.M. thought
differently, and awarded plaintiff £lB 14s.
» • * *
The query arises in Vic. Education De-
partment which implement is best for castigating
wayward small boys—strap or cane? “What’s
best administered is best.”
As the late Queen’s eldest daughter, the
Empress Frederick, is dying—she is afflicted not
only with kidney disease, which has now caused
dropsy, but also with cancer—there is yet another
source of gloom to interfere with the Duke of
York celebrations in Australia.
♦ * * *
The Lyne Government’s agreement with
the innumerable boarding-housekeepers of Sydney
for the housing of that Federal guest who never
came was so much per day for “board and lodg-
ing” in the usual way. Now there is a belated
tendency to economy, and consequently there are
unseemly rows with anxious, bony females in the
palatial halls of the Treasury as to whether pay-
ment should be for the board ordered or said to
be ordered, or only for the board actually eaten.
The Commonwealth celebrations are already a
thing of the far gone-by, but still the worn and
yellowed hash-lady streams up and down the
Treasury stairs, with her greasy bill or memoran-
dum in one hand and her mortified umbrella in
the other, and wants to know. And Lyne is so
busy being two things at once, and not much good
at either of them, that he hardly has time to know
himself as yet.
• • * *
“Insulting behaviour” is a useful and
comprehensive charge. Whatever it doesn’t cover
can be usually included in the other expansive
charge, “conduct calculated to lead to a breach of
the peace.” A Victorian aboriginal lately lodged a
boomerang on a roof while giving performances
with the implement, and in recovering it he fell
through a skylight into a bakery, where his sable
form bounced considerably on tAe pastry. He
was charged with “ insulting behaviour” for drop-
ping on the tarts, but the case was dismissed.
For once even good old “ insulting behaviour ”
missed fire.
* • * *
One of Victoria’s new Old Age Pensioners
got so excited at the prospect of leaving that
Abode of Lost Hopes—the Benevolent Asylum—
that he forgot all about his heart-disease and
rushed back to pack up his few belongings, thus
over-exerting himself so seriously that he died at
the gates.
Apropos of something which happened in
Sydney recently. The Bulletin expects shortly
to see-the following advt. in the daily papers :
A fascinating widow, having great social influence,
undertakes to get refund and pay vouchers through
Govt, departments in the shortest time on record.
Guarantees to get vouchers issued and payments made by
the Treasury within 2i hours.
* * • •
It was at a Sydney seaside resort, and the
two men who ran the musical merry-go-round
held an earnest consultation as
to whether they should cease
going round merrily to show
their respect for the late Sove-
reign Lady. Being too tender-
hearted to deprive all the wait-
ing children of amusement,
they decided to drape appro-
priately and continue running.
A messenger was despatched to
obtain the necessary funereal
trappings, and the show went
on, and the pennies tinkled in,
and the sky and the sea were
blue, and everything was charm-
ing. When the draping arrived
the machine stopped for about 35
minutes while it went into mourn-
ing, and the youngsters, attracted
by the black hangings, made
business very brisk. Things
were booming, when a party of
heavy-eyed individuals ap-
proached and glared with dull,
fishy eyes at the proprietor. The
proprietor saw trouble, and en-
deavored to pacify the angry
visitors with two bottles of beer.
The gentlemen drank the beer,
and the man with the merry-go-
round felt easier, and his partner
opined it was “all right.” But
just then a spirit of cussedness
seemed to enter the minds of
those evil men, and they broke
into language, and talked about
their shocked feelings, and called
the proprietors Boers. Also, they
raked the fire out, knocked off the
safety valve, and carefully car-
ried off the till and poured the
contents down the bar-sink of the
nearest pub. When King Ed-
ward dies that merry-go-round
man is going to stop business immediately word
comes that the sovereign’s condition is serious.
* • * *
Melbourne raised a most remarkable sui-
cide a few days ago. The chief actor, a widow of
40, seems to have taken poison in the street while
out walking with her little daughter aged seven.
Then she rushed with a rope in her hand into the
house of a casual acquaintance, told the child to
sit down for a while, and stepped out into the
back premises and hanged himself. The small
girl (aged seven) went to look for her after a
while, and finding her dangling by the neck care-
fully took all her money out of her pocket for fear
of accidents. Then the thrifty infant gave the
alarm, and was sent for the police. Meanwhile
the owner of the house went to look at the body,
but apparently didn’t cut it down, that being left
for the constable to do. Everybody connected
with the affair appears to have been cool and col-
lected—the lady who hanged herself in another
lady’s house; the other lady who apparently
didn’t suspect anything unusual even when a
comparative stranger rushed through her premises
with a rope in her hand; and especially the small
girl of seven who cleaned-out her suspended
parent first of all and mentioned lier unusual atti-
tude afterwards.
* * * *
The outside doctors have at last found
that they cannot get on without the Adelaide
Hospital practice, and so they have surrendered
at discretion. In future deaths under chloroform
and other little “accidents,” which have hitherto
always been made as public as possible by the dis-
affected parties, may occur at the institution
without being quite so loudly mentioned. Also, the
University students will be let loose on the
patients and the nurses who have for years had
none but qualified doctors to deal with, as the
University took the side, of the “striking” me-
dicoes. It is not difficult to see who is getting
the'best of the peace now patched up.
• < * * #
An ingenuous Caledonian hight Jamie
Macgregor was recently observed by a Melbourne
policeman moving stealthily among the wild
thistles on a vacant Latrobe-street block towards
a pair o’ troosers that flaunted defiantly from a
neighbouring clothes line. Jamie having stalked
his prize, put them on, and when arrested he ex-
plained that whilst he slept among the thistles
aforesaid, someone stole his own pants and left
him in his coat and shirt; so be had to steal
“ a pair o’ breeks or be pit in gaol for indecency
ye-ken ? ” But, as be was wearing his own under-
neath the others, he got 3 months.
Sydney chess-players are notorious for
squabbling over trifles. Chess champion J. Ij.
Jacobsen lately left the Sydney Chess Club amid
mutual recriminations, and now he has come in
violent conflict with the School of Arts Club, per-
haps the best-known and oldest club in Australia.
Aided by the timely intervention of what is known
as the “democracy of chess,” the champion
triumphed over his detractors at.a recent special
meeting of the members of the club. At the con-
clusion of this meeting the president, vice-presi-
dents and several prominent members of com-
mittee resigned their membership, and the old
club now seems split in two.
* » * *
The Vic. country press was much incensed
at the refusal of the A.N. A. -Metropolitan Com-
mittee to admit representatives of provincial
papers to the arena at Foundation I)av sports oi
to the banquet, at which Barton spoke. Invita-
tions were limited to the three Melb. dailies.
. * • *
For weeks past every N.S.W. Govt.
Department which could in the remotest fashion
be construed into having anything to do with the
Old Age Pensions Act has been inundated with
applications for them, some people kindly supply-
ing lists of eligible cases. The whole of the popu-
NATURALLY.
HE: “ Which of Maggie’s admirers came off
best, after all? ”
SHE: “ The best off!”
lation not eligible seems bent on getting a billet
either under the Pensions Board, the Wharves
Resumption Board or the Harbor Trust. The
various personages who have, or are supposed to
have, any influence are driven to the verge of dis-
traction by the army of office-seekers.
THE
WOMAN
SPEAKS
So you think because I’m a woman
1 was made but for pleasure and tears, j.
You, who smile and sneer at tbe sex I claim //
With the savoir faire of your forty years /t
Ah, yes, I’m a woman, and human, too, vv,
I can laugh and weep, and—pity me— love. I
That's the part of me made for the play of maniS
Man ! No thanks, I can manage my glove '/I
We shall meet to-night at the dance perhaps
You’ll see me flirting behind my fan, )/
With arms agleam and shoulders bared, £
To the critical vision of men, oh man
And you’ll come to me claiming a waltz
I’ll grant your wish with a grateful smile ;
And your arm will clasp me a moment or two.
And we shall be lovers, a little while.
But ob the thoughts that my smiles suppress
(For I am strong, quite strong, oh man 1),
The measuring, searching, judging thoughts
That I hide as only a woman can 1
l I’m only a woman, whose passionate heart
Is made for laughter, and tears, and love,
\ And that is for men ; but soul and brain
I keep for myself and the gods above.
AMBROSE PRATT


“He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOVB success is a Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY’S.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun of the thing l
te to MARK FOY, SYDNEY.
•sms prices and attention as If you bought amongst the dally crowds at the counters.
Lightest Wines inAustrau
GM6 TEBS have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson, 284 Greorge-st., Sydney.
A WOMANS LETTER.
„ Sydney, February 19. 1901.
Mt Dkab Myee.—
Another dull week. Sydney continues to emu-
late The Man Who was Away and the only excite-
ment that goes on is located at Bowral or
Katoomba. The Carrington has been breaking
out into dances and card-parties lately by way of
a quiet time for Society women after the Federal
racket. I hear that at a euchre party there last
week Society frocked itself as if no Queen had ever
died, one smart matron flaunting pink silk, and
several airing white without any black whatever.
Mrs Harvey Lovely, who won the prize, was
gowned in black, and Mrs. Brenton’s white voile
was kept mournful with a jaunty black velvet
bolero.
By the way, such an exodus of society women
is in preparation that everyone wonders what will
become of pur next “season,” to say nothing of
the lugubrious festivities when the Yorks arrive.
Among those who are leaving are Mrs. Willie
Mitchell, Mrs. Ted Simpson, and Miss Clara
Manning, Sydney’s smart trio.
Last week it was whispered that several fair
travellers had arranged to make a prolonged stay
at Capetown, where all the men are now, but the
bubonic outbreak lias changed their plans, and
they will now make for London, which is always
better manned than Sydney, anyway.
Tell it not in Gath, but between ourselves the
general feeling in Sydney last week, when the
Yorks decided to go to Melbourne first, was one
of intense relief. It was all very well for Sydney
to achieve that “ Pre-eminent in Woe ” on paper,
but to put it into practice, and receive Royalties
with a combination of effusion and mourning, and
damped smiles and craped bouquets, was neither
an easy nor tempting thing to look for-
ward to, and we handed their Highnesses over to
Melbourne with “feelings of joy not unmixed
with gladness,” as the—the—Woman of N.S.W.
once put it in another historic address to a Some-
body. The King’s request that all festivities be
of a restrained nature turns Sydney’s thoughts
back mournfully to its Champagne Commonwealth
week, and the old hope of having that all over
again is being sorrowfully abandoned.
Art students hostessed an “ At Horne” at the
Society of Artists’ rooms last week, when the
men were all boys, and the difficulty of getting
up a party in February was demonstrated to the
satisfaction of lots of pretty young girls in aesthetic
hair. By the way, the Government, has refused,
definitely, to subsidise either Art Society again
unless the rivals amalgamate. The matter is
agitating Art circles fearfully, and everyone is
holding his breath. That amalgamation is needed,
and is the only way of keeping Art on a commer-
cial level with, say, chironomy, is the opinion of
the man in the street; but artists hold out little
hope of either Society “yielding,” as they put it.
Hawtrey’s co. practically ran the Rand wick
races last Saturday. Hawtrey himself was out
there in a striped blue-and-white suit and sailor
hat, escorting Miss Ruby Ray, who is one of the
gracefully-thm kind that look better in a lot of
clothes than in the decollete she wears in the
“Message from Mars.” Miss Ray, who is only
19, by the way, wore a long tan coat over a black
skirt, and was sailor-hatted, with her hair dressed
down on her neck. She looked very pretty and
chic in that style of dress. Herbert Ross was
with Mrs. Herbert Ross, a bright-faced woman in
flounced black voile with a lace yoke. Mrs. Her-
bert doesn t act herself. She merely travels round
with her husband. Society has taken up the
Rosses, and the lady is as popular as Mr. Ross him-
self. The Messenger from Mars—Mr. Stephenson
—was also out on the punt. He is the image of the
manager of the famour Press Bazaar, Mr. Druce,
and the resemblance increases as he speaks. Dainty
Irene Franklin hugged the fence all the afternoon,
merely turning a back-view of herself in a short
tt>lue-grey frock with her red curly hair tied with
a white ribbon. The prettiest thing about Irene
is her feet, always exquisitely shod, which accounts
for her short frocks, that are ever so much younger
than her figure.
Black was the lawn frocking, as it always
is now. People who got black frocks a fortnight
ago must wear them, but I note that a decided
leaning towards touching-up the black with colour
has already set in. The Land Minister’s wife
had a turquoise vest on her Cimmerian gown.
Mrs. Lassetter wore a well-cut black cloth coat and
skirt, with a jaunty little black toque and white
wing. Miss Irene Marks wore a black tucked
silk blouse with silver buttons down the front, a
voile skirt, and big black hat. Mrs. Harry
Levien was the best-dressed woman present in a
much-tucked black voile with a train, and a
black-feathered crinoline hat. Mrs. Alfred Marks
wore a black frock, and a sailor-hat on her golden
hair.
By the way, one horse was named Rabato, and
a woman, told me a lovely story of how she went
to a clairvoyant the day before the races, and
asked, among other questions, “ Can you tell me
anything about Rabato?” “Oh, yes,” said clair-
voyant ob igingly, looking into space. “ Rabato !
Rabato ! I see him with a noble brow and long
white hands. He is dark, and he loves you, and
I think he is a sculptor. Is that right ? ” “ No,”
said the woman. So the clairvoyant returned to
her trance again, and presently discovered that
Rabato was a musician. “ I was a little confused
at first,” she confessed ; “but I saw all along he
was doing something with his fingers.”
That reminds me that if anybody wants to learn
that sort of thing, I have just received a prospec-
tus from a Teacher of Occultism, who has classes
to instruct in Chiromancy, Mesmerism, Astrology
and five things ending in “ ology,” Chironomy,
and four things ending in “onomy,” and Divina-
tion by Cards and Teacups for 10s. 6d. a quarter.
Also Crystal Gazing, which I’d like to learn my-
self if it has anything to do with a Stony Stare.
This teacher of occultism is raising a flutter in
the dove-cotes where they give you a dark
husband for a shilling. They don’t like their
secrets given away to the public, for occultism is
one of the best-paying professions going. All you
need is a palm in the window, two chairs and a
gabble. Then the money rolls in.
Not in the same breath, but after a long, long
pause I went to the Metaphysicians’ At Home last
Tuesday in Vickery’s Buildings. The Mets. gave
the soiree to Miss Catherine St. Hill, a well-known
laly Met. The guest of the evening was so
beautifully frocked in an aesthetic high-necked
black silk gown that I surmised Metaphysics is
not the impoverishing profession it might have
been in the dark ages of Sydney when people lived
by bread alone instead of faith. The evening was
pleasantly filled with music and recitation.
By the. way, Miss St. Hill was once the success-
ful palmist, Alexia St. Hill. She used to work
for the Illustrated Sydney News, and had an
immense private connection as well. At the
zenith of her success, coining money as she was,
and considered a cut above the ordinary palmist,
she gave it all up for metaphysics, and has devoted
herself to faith-healing ever since. Under her
yellow-shaded lamps, on Tuesday, I saw Mr. and
Mrs. Robert M'Millan, Mrs. Kingsmill Shaw,
Miss Edith Lamb, Mr. and Mrs. Nall, Mrs.
Curnow, Mrs. Le Gay Brereton, and heard
Mercy Murray do the Teazle Quarrel with grace
and brains.
Last week there were paragraphs in all the
papers announcing the serious illness of John
Tebbutt, the astronomer. Mr. Tebbutt was a
Windsor boy, and lives at Windsor still, in a
lonely old house called The Observatory, a melan-
choly poetical home surrounded with pine-trees,
on a peninsula between the Hawkesbury and a
creek. In this house for many years there went
on a long succession of sad occurrences that
reminds one of the ill-fated Bronte sisters.
There were eight daughters at The Observatory
at one time, all charming, gentle girls, looked
on as heiresses in the district. One by one—
with the exception of two —as these girls grew to
womanhood they faded and passed away, despite
all that could be done. Mrs. Tebbutt was a
familiar figure in Windsor, driving with her gen-
tle daughters, hut now she is rarely seen. And
her husband, the astronomer, leads the life of a
recluse up there among his telescopes. He was
offered N.S.W. Govt.-Astronomership in 1862,
but refused it. He is now 70, and is well-known
in European scientific circles for his observations
of the Donati comet and other wandering bodies.
As lively as anything else that happened last
week was a church meeting to welcome a new rec-
tor. A few extracts from the addresses—the rec-
tor, of course, present : “Our new rector is a
good-lookin’man.” “The Rev. Mr. Blank is a
young man. Ha! that touches the ladies’hearts.”
I see the ladies have heard that our new Rector
is young, for see how they all have their new
dresses on !” “I ’ear that Mr. Curate, who is
leavin’ us, was spoken of by our young men as a
jolly little fellow, but I’m not goin’ to tell you
what I ’eard the ladies sye about ’im.” And so on.
There was a titled citizen in the chair who could not
keep up with this flow of church witticism. He was
only an ex-mayor,_ and the aldermanic stock jest
about water-carts is a long way removed from the
church-meeting one of “the ladies” and “the
young ladies.” S’Matthew has never been given
that way, and looked painfully conscious of his
inability to skip round and be funny on the giddy
lines of the church. The Rector being welcomed
was the Rev. Mr. Charlton, who has taken over the
charge of St. Barnabas.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The Queen is dead ! Although full mourning
is supposed to be worn till March 16, and half
until April 17th, already one sees little black
beyond a few ties on the men, and hat-bands on
the women’s ‘gems.’ And the fund for Mel-
bourne’s memorial statue drags dreadfully, the
Age raking in about £4 a day, and the Mayor little
more.
“A leading Melb. family which is fretting
bravely for the good Queen has turned out its
coachman in dark livery done up with crape arm-
bands, and has attended even to the mournful
detail of sooty rosettes on the whips—while the
distinguished head of the family wears the aspect
of a professional pall-bearer. Grief could go no
further!
“ A Melbourne weekly concludes a leaden para-
graph re the Blanks and Dashes of Sydney with
the remark that “Mrs. Blank Dash has six
children, who, when children, promised to be as
lovely as their mother.”
“ The same small-talk organ states that genial
Canon Tucker, of Christ Church, forgot to amend
his prayer for the Royal Family on the Sunday
• er j 0 Q ueen ’ s death. ‘He unwittingly re-
tained the name of her late Majesty. He saw his
mistake at once and corrected it, but not before a
painful thrill had made itself felt throughout the
congregation.’ A photograph of that ‘painful
thrill would probably have revealed something
very like a smile. A fashionable Anglican church
crowd doesn c take the Litany in a serious spirit
The prayer for the Royal Family is regarded as a
humorous item, and Canon Tucker’s perfunctory
mention of the old monarch instead of the new
not likely to make many of his flock
shudder.
“It i s g°°d to read a paper that is ‘in the
know. Last week that remarkable paper, Melb.
Paunch which has a way of being a back num-
ber before it is printed—informed its readers that
Lord Rosebery’s eldest daughter is of marriage-
able age.’ Seeing that the lady married the Earl
of Crewe two years ago, one wouldn’t wonder if
the statement turned out to be entirely correct.
“Fifty of the Naicest ‘employers’ turned up
inßuxton’sGallery(Melb.)onThursday, at the bid-
ding of a smart young woman who purposed setting
up a new-fashioned registry office, ‘ to consider the
servant question.’ But, unfortunately, the daily
papers are taken by registry-office keepersand Bid-
dies, who, both scenting a rat, rolled up in force.
The oratory of Herald Reav, of the Anti-
Sweating League, and of a pretty suffragist, also
on the servant side, carried the day, and the pro-
moters’ experience was that of Balaam with his
ass: the provoking meeting, called to protect em-
ployers, would only bray blessings on the default-
ing maids.
“Bland Holt’s attraction, ‘The Great Ruby,’ is
both exciting and convincing. Such a comfort
not to see the plot hampered by an impossible
funny man, who ‘talks back’ to desperadoes and
trips up ruffians, but fails to check the course of
villainy or serve any other useful purpose by his
irrelevancies. Frances Ross, as a bad, beautiful
Russian countess, sets off her impressive points
aud paces by various striking gowns, notably an
evening toilette of blended orange and lemon
color with black lace and a note of opal-green.
Vice suits the decorative Frances, who is ever so
much more interesting as a sinner than in her
usual stage groove of pale, pure, proud saint,
‘icily regular, splendidly null,’a smile frozen on
her lips, aud her eyes glued to the great heart of
the gallery. Baker’s imposing Indian prince
army man and champion cricketer is not so much a
lithe passionate Oriental youth, infatuated with an
adventuress older than himself, as a sable, serious
Personage, inseparable from fat, white gloves and
broad spotless cuffs. Somehow he suggests Mrs.
Stowe’s hero ready for camp-meetin’ in broadcloth
and boiled shirt, and in the end, when he’s carried
in moribund on a stretcher, one’s heart sinks as if
the dying darkie represented, not ‘ Kassim ’ but
that much older friend ‘Uncle Tom’ freshly wal-
loped by Legree.
“Re the wicked Countess’s knack of egging-on
her admirers, white and colored, to steal gems,
writers seem all alike in depicting women as ready
to go to any lengths for the sake of sparklers.
Now, here’s a true-as-death story. An insignificant
Australian patriarch saved up and took his wife
and dumpy domestic daughter for a year’s jaunt,
the treat of a lifetime. On the way they got to
know a rich educated Eastern. I can’t swear he was
a ‘ prince,’ but his income seemed princely. None
of the Australian trio angled for his notice or tried
to coax diamonds or emeralds out of him, but
somehow he fell in love with the daughter, wanted
to marry her, and offered her heaps of presents of
the sort that woman gets credit for valuing beyond
everything—rin>fs, &c. Neither pa, ma, nor
daughter took any stock in ‘colored persons,’ so
they unanimously repelled all overtures, came
home at the end of their holiday, and have lived
a dull life in Australia ever since, though for some
time the traveller acquaintance kept on writing
to the old man and forwarding to the daughter
gewgaws which were always returned.
“Miss Lillah M‘Carthy, the handsome other
lady of the Wilson Barrett co., remembered her
Melb. friends this Xmas, and cards have been
coming along right up to Feb., with Lillah’s New ■
Year greeting. Occasional press-clippings also
hail from the fair one, to give old friends the
opportunity of applauding her latest successes.
“The other night, a strange thing happened at
the Pantomime. A prominent blossom of the
ballet, who sheds, as a rule, smiles on all the
stall Johnnies, smiled and smiled at one
particular mirthless individual till half the d.c.
and the one occupant of the box had fixed the for-
tunate with a curious eye. Between the acts,
men wondered who the lucky stranger could be.
It was only her hubby, after all !
‘After all,. that poor 71-year-old amateur
cyclist started in that big recent wheel-race, other
competitors being of the Martin and Beauchamp
calibre ! When the infatuated Ancient saw him-
self ‘lapped’ he withdrew, owing, as he explained
later, to ‘want of breath.’ For ages, practical
jokers have been egging-on this misguided
patriarch, inducing him to drink bullocks’ blood
daily at the abbatoirs, ‘ pack ’ in oiled blankets
and otherwise torment himself for the amusement
of scoffers.
“No matter how old a woman may be, she is
always open to conviction that Age has not
withered her charms. And most old men need
little flattery to convince them that in bodily
prowess they’re a match for the youngsters
Remember in. ‘ What Happened to Jones,’ how
ready the flabby old bookworm Prof, is to listen
to the wheedling ‘drummer,’ who, for his own
ends, hails the senile scholar as ‘a wonder,’
because of his rapid crawl when surprised by the
police at a glove-fight.
“ Mayoress Gillott has apparently a twin-sister
whose resemblance to Mrs. Sam. is bewildering
even to her friends. This lady, who was not
much in evidence with her sister till the
Mayoral reign began, comes in for a lot of civic
gush. People are always making mistakes—and
apologising to the real Mayoress for saluting and
flattering her double. Both seem to take the
matter of mixing ’em as a joke and hold it no
offence. But what mistakes will arrive in the
May jumble! It would be better for the twin,
instead of explaining, to accept the honors and
live up to the misunderstanding.
“Mrs. W. Williams (nee M'Caugham) fought
tooth-and-nail for her husband during the recent
St. Kilda electioneering campaign, quite in the
fashion of the Conservative dames in England,
and watched the polling on the eventful day with
breathless interest. It is generally conceded that
young Williams won the seat mainly through the
popularity aud influence of his chic bride. A good
beginning for the pair.
“ Kharki-worship turned the good-looking
officers of the Orient green with envy last
Thursday. Formerly the boys in blue broke the
record at mashing, but that was in times of peace
and quarter-deck philandering. On Thursday a
stream of black-bordered belles made their way
down to the liner at Port Melbourne with secret
souvenirs for the departing boys. ‘ Keep this for
Lieut. Blank till (sob) you get into the bay.’ Or
the request ran : ‘Do you mind looking after this
little parcel for Lieut. Dash till you leave to-
morrow?’ till in the end the purser had about 60
parcels piled roof-high in his den, and every cor-
responding crib in the place was packed with pre-
cious presents for the dear pets. ‘Not a glance,
not a tear, not a word for us, ’ groaned the nice
nautical boys; ‘ nothing does a girl now but the
wretched kharki or kilts.’ And then they went
off and prayed for big seas, to have revenge.
“The most presentable of the officers that left
with the last batch for Africa is a magnificent
youth who used to give Collins-street promenaders
an occasional glimpse of his fine figure and fancy
cravats. He had an aggravating habit of throw-
ing out his chest and pointing his nose upwards,
but all the same he was what the gushers call ‘a
lovely-looking fellow,’ and he had a flock of them
tumbling over each other to say good-bye on the
pier last Friday. He insisted —in his wisdom-
on saying good-bye, not au revoir, alleging that
either a bullet or a billet would anchor him in the
Transvaal.
“The eldest son of Rev. Dr. Strong (who has
denounced the Boer war from the pulpit as wicked
and unjustifiable) has gone with the last Vic.
contingent as veterinary lieutenant. That comes
of not listening to his pa’s sermons.
“The son of a distinguished official wore tan
boots at a fashionable dance the other night.
This is the young man who tells the Melb. girls
he is going to be Sir Blanky Secundus. Only
fancy! If the father had but half his son’s
assurance !
“ The cupola on top of the dome of Melb.
Exhibition building has been brilliantly gilded.
Whether this is because somebody committed
suicide there lately, or because the Yorks are
coming, is not sufficiently explained. Probably
the latter affair has something to do with it.
“Queen Alexandra’s private secretary, Major-
General Stanley Clarke, is at present in Melbourne
with his wife. It is ostensibly a purely holiday
trip that he is in—just a tour, don’t you know.
Nevertheless, the letters sent to England by
Stanley Clarke should be very interesting reading.
He is a handsome, distinguished-looking man,
with a regular official smile on him—the smile
that never was on sea or land, except on a private
secretary’s face.
“Premier Peacock only laughed once at the
huge meeting Barton addressed in Melbourne.
The explosion took place over a story told by
Drake illustrating how he came to be included in
the Federal Ministry. ‘ Two people were being
married,’ related Drake —‘a man and a woman.’
Then Peacock, having recently ‘been there,’ let
go so tremendously that Drake was visibly
startled. The story told how when the parson
asked the man ‘Wilt thou have this woman for
thy wedded wife?’ the man said ‘Yes, but I’d
rather have her sister.’ So, said Drake, Barton
took him for Minister but would rather have had
Dickson. Apropos, a certain politician’s father-
in-law said lately :—‘ If I had a vote in my son-
in-law’s district, I don’t know that I’d give it to
him. Of my two daughters he didn’t choose the
best, and that shows that he is not as sound in
judgment as he’s cracked up to be.’
“The principle reason for sculptor Bertram
Mackennal’s coming to Australia just now is to
superintend the erection in Brighton cemetery
(Vic.) —where poet Gordon is buried—of a splen-
did mausoleum to the memory of the late Mrs.
Springthorpe. Dr. Springthorpe has spent about
£7OOO on the monument, for which he sent the
commission to Mackennal about two years ago.
Lately, however, the clever physician has resolved
to solace his loneliness by a new wife. Apart
from this monument and that of Gordon, the
finest piece of sculpture in the Brighton burial-
ground is that over the grave of Surgeon O’Hara’s
first wife. It rather encourages a second lady to
say ‘ I will ’ when a husband is so lavish with his
chiselled marble over his first mate.
. “ The loss of one’s store teeth and trifles of that
kind in the baths is a mere bagatelle compared
with disappearance of the wedding-ring and
keeper which a relative of a celebrated
Australian contralto parted with while
having a dip at Mornington t’other day.
When the distraught matron discovered her loss
she gave the alarm to the man in charge, and
hundreds of willing hands went through the sands
under the water for the priceless badges. But all
the search came to nothing, so the tearful wife
went home to wire her husband (who was in town)
of the loss. Alas ! men don’t always replace lost
wedding-rings quite so enthusiastically as they
purchased the original token of surrender.
“The joys of mixed bathing at a fashionable
resort reached a climax, a week or two ago, when
a fancy-dress carnival was held in the water, by
moonlight. Over 20 well - known Melbourne
revellers took part in this unique wet, and all the
local residents assembled on the beach, with
breathless eagerness, to watch the proceedings.
The Naiads, with scarcely an exception, seemed
to have run short of garments, and what little they
wore was too brief and skimped to be associated
with any bona-fide fancy costume on record. The
men were clothed with more liberality as regards
‘ covering ’; one sported a retrenched Highland
uniform, and another a cycling-racer’s dress,
which fitted quite fancifully enough.
“ The girl who set her heart on outshining all
the water-nymphs of the Bay is one of the leaders
of the anti-Suffrage movement. Her gown and
bathing-cloak (the latter dropped before immer-
sion) are a picture of daintiness, and a pink bonnet
revealing a few patent-preserving crimped tresses
adds to the piquancy of the f ire. Ribbons
flutter, flounces vacillate, and be.'„s jingle as she
trips along the passage to the bath-steps, and as
she finally poises, bird-like, on the board
preparatory to taking a dive, all the womankind
roundabout stop short and admire reluctantly and
spitefully. The woman who dresses for woman
gets only a hard grunt of approval anyhow. Now
if the men
( Continued on page 25.)
The cabled decision that the Yorks are to
land first at Melbourne has caused exceeding
great joy in the haunts of the Naicest. The
Toorakiennes will be first to meet their Duke face
to face, and be first to discover that an indefinable
something in the figure of the dear Duchess pro-
claims her a member of the P. D. sisterhood. For
that matter, if the keen-eyed angels look very hard
at the Duke, they will probably notice that his
waist owes a little to the P.D. corset.


T N THESE VARIABLE AUSTRALIAN CLIMATES KEEP COOL !
AND ALWAYS MAINTAIN. YOUR PRESENCE OF MIND.
PRESENCE OF MIND •in sudden emergencies depends
on the placid condition of the faculties. A Weak
Throat, a Faulty Chest, a Wasting Lung, an Exhausted
Nerve, an Ache'in the Bones or Kidneys, a Headache,
Earache, Toothache—are fatal obstacles. ‘ They deprive
you of your Strength, give you the “ Shakes,” and
make you “ go to pieces.”
Raffan’s Bronchial Catarrh Remedy
rejuvenates the whole system, and makes you feel
yourself a “New Person.” 2/-, per post 2/6.
ft has to be Tried to be Believed.
R. RAFFAN, Pharmacist, 3 Garraway’s Rooms, Queen’s
Walk, MELBOURNE. Agents wanted Everywhere.
Largest and Best Company in the World.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
The Reports of the State Insurance Departments show that the Mutual Life of New \ ork
had, on December 31, 1899,
Larger Total Assets
A Greater Gain in Assets during the Year
A Larger Total Income AND
Larger Amount paid to Policyholders
than any other Company.
ASSETS, at end of 1899, £61,980,398.
Policies include Insurance, Investment, and Trusteeship, as required. Write for particulars, giving
name, address and date of birth, to “ The Manager,”at any of the undermentioned Branch Offices.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
Branch Offices :
SYDNEY— Company’s Building, Martin Place.
MELBOURNE —289 Collins Street.
BRISBANE—B 77-879 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE —73 King William Street.
PERTH —St. George’s Terrace.
HOBART —38 Macquarie Street.
One of the dangers of Sydney during the holi-
day season will be the burglar and sneak-thief. The
Federation festivities will attract all the rascaldom of
Australasia, and plate and purses will be constantly
menaced. Those who are leaving Sydney, and visitors
to Sydney, therefore should deposit their plate, cash
and valuables in the Sydney Safe Deposit for security
Access can be had to them at any time during business
hours. The vaults are situated behind Paling’s, off
George-street, and are always open for inspection. They
are in themselves a sight worth seeing.*
ROWLANDS
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
FOR THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
bresth. Ask for Rowland’s ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
What the oldest Melb. inhabitant cannot
remember—When Wax. Madden wasn’t bald ;
seems to have been born so.
The late Henry Ricketson, of Barratta,
used to boast that he had fought 84 Supreme
Court actions, 63 of which he won.
G. H. Reid will be 56 years old on Mon-
day next (25th Feb.). The Bulletin wishes him
many happy returns, and hopes that his Dog will
remain Dry.
One recently-arrived Maoriland infant
(whose father is contingenteering in S. Africa) has
been saddled with the names of “Zealandia
Afrikander.”
Earl Beauchamp, who is still nominally
Governor of N.S.W., despite Lyne’s sentence of
banishment, completed his 29th year on Wednes-
day, Feb. 20.
The story goes that wife-poisoner George
Dean was “forgiven” and released from prison
some time ago, and granted a sum of money to
leave the country.
Piet de Wet, safe in the British camp,
urges Christian de Wet to accept the British
terms of peace. Ever does timorous Peter seem
destined to deny and betray.
•Kingston was the first Federal Cabinet
Minister to visit Queensland, for Dickson did not
live to return with his new honors, and Drake was
not appointed till Kingston’s tour was complete.
A certain Q. politician took a parcel of
stale sandwiches from his pocket on a railway
platform t’other day and tendered the provender
to a perspiring porter who had been wrestling
with his luggage. Refused with scorn.
Queen Victoria’s last thought was for a
pet Pomeranian dog. The hand that had held a
sceptre for sixty-three years, and had been kissed
by h undreds of sycophants, was finally stretched
out to receive what she anyhow thought was the
genuine caress of a dog.
The London correspondent of a Sydney
daily remarks • that John Forrest “was un-
doubtedly lucky to get the G.C.M.G., especially
as Mr. Kingston has been overlooked.” It would
f reatly surprise a vast number of people if, despite
is “Right Hon.,” Kingston was found to be
ambitious of a G.C.M.G.
A Melbourne paper declares that Cardinal
Moran is a probable Senatorial candidate in
N.S.W., which is probably all moonshine : once
bitten twice shy. In Melbourne, Presbyterian
parson Ronald has announced himself as a starter,
and Pastor Bevan is also spoken of as a hopeless
candidate in the Shoddy interest.
Died lately at Rangiora (M.L.), Angus
Macdonald, shepherd, allegedly aged 105. He man-
aged a run for Cracroft Wilson in days agone,
assisted in mustering until he was 90, and did odd
jobs until 99. The old man never needed a doctor
until he was 96, was a confirmed smoker, and
shaved himself until the day of his death.
Once when Lord Hopetoun was Governor
of Victoria someone told him of a certain poli-
tician who, instead of saying “ Aides-de-Kong,”
said “Aides-de-Camp,” pronouncing the word
like camp, in the ordinary English way. “Aides
“ONE PEOPLE, ONE DESTINY.”
decamp,” said Hopetoun, “ well so they do when
they can get anyone to decamp with them.”
That good Radical, Judge A. I. Clark, of
Tasmania, will to-morrow (Sunday) enter on his
54th year. He is a native of Hobart. His Honor
is one of the very few Australian lawyers who
have been sent, to England to appear before the
Privy Council although, as a compromise (over
the Main Line Railway dispute) was arrived at
during his voyage, he did not face the Court.
Ex-Governor Brassey has promised to
build a public reading-room and institute at Cats-
field, Sussex (Eng.), “ as a thanks-offering for his
safe return from Australia.” He fell off so many
things, and so frequently, that the wonder is he
ever did return. Victoria has
thanks-offering for having got rid of the pompou
old gentleman.
And so they sent arch-plotter
Chamberlain to comfort the poor;■ Ehter
old Queen when news came of the awful slaugh
among the regiments that she loved No wonder
the° n eye-glassed screwmaker’s mission failed
They might just as well have sent one of the
Judas Iscariot family to comfort Christ s mother
on the morning after the Crucifixion.
A little knot of Single-taxers tried to make
things hot for Barton at the Adelaide meeting,
but they suffered each time, and at last became
quiet. Once Barton hesitated over a word when
referring to Reid, and the small coterie laughed
loudly. “ I stick at a good many things, good-
humoredly remarked the Premier 5
some people who stick at nothing. The audience
caught the point.
The Duke of Cumberland, Queen Vic-
toria’s uncle, was Grand Master of the English
Orange Lodges. He used to sit there m state,
honored as monarch, during the last year oi
William IV.’s life. William disliked Victoria, or
rather her mother, but he hated Cumberland and
did all he could to thwart him. Cumberland s
“pull” with the Orangemen was through their
belief that Victoria was a Catholic.
Dear Bulletin, —You speak of Donald
Macdonald “reconciling his Presbyterian con-
science ” at Coolgardie by lecturing after church-
hours on Sundays. Now, Mac. happens to belong
to a far northern Highland R.C. family. Also,
as a matter of fact his Scotchness is chiefly m his
name. His father was a Canadian, and his mother
an Irishwoman, and Mac. himself was born at
Keilor, Vic., so what does that leave ?— Dudley
W.
Mr. Lachlan Beaton, just announced as a
commissioner to the Harbor Trust, is well known as
former manager of the business of Messrs. Wm.
Howard Smith and Sons, Ltd., the inter-state
steamship owners. He is the only commissioner
who has been brought into direct contact with the
shipping interest, and his appointment seems an
unusually sensible one. Mr. Beaton married a
daughter of the late W. B. Dailey, Q.C.
Melb. Herald, commemorating the anni-
versary of the Rensburg disaster where fell Major
Eddy and five other Victorians, says, “the day
should be memorable in her history, as that day
the great test of quality was first applied to
Victorian citizen soldiers.” Wrong ! It was at
Eureka the fighting qualities of Victorians were
first tested. The paper that maligns the dead
diggers of Ballarat by saying, even by implica-
tion, that they didn’t show fighting qualities is
only another proof that no good man knows what
strange animals will walk over his grave.
“Jack” Quick, the new Knight, might
fill a chapter in a new edition of Smiles’s “Self
Help.” He was battery-boy at one of the Bendigo
mines when he taught himself shorthand ; he
studied his Latin grammar while driving a horse
in a whim; and later on, when reporting for a
Bendigo paper, he was often found studying law-
books in the camp reserve after working in the
office till daybreak. In short, Quick is the in-
tellectual first cousin of the renowned grocer or
soap-boiler who starts life with twopence in his
pocket. If all mankind were Quicks how could
industry and perseverance earn a fair reward ?
“ Mr. Clement Scott,”
writes London correspondent
of Sydney D.T., “letsa very
pretty and but little known
cat jump out of the Royal
bag in the current issue of
the Free Lance. When re-
ferring to the death of the
famous Oxford don, Sir John
Conroy, Bedford Pro-
fessor at Balliol, he
remarks that either
politeness or ignor-
ance must have in-
duced the papers to
omit all reference to
the morganatic mar-
riage between Sir John’s
sire and the late Duchess of
Kent, mother of the Queen.
It was the Duchess’s prefer-
ence for this handsome Irish
officer of artillery that led to
an estrangement between
mother and daughter before
the latter ascended the
throne. Their relations
were singularly illustrated
by what happened when
the Archbishop and Lord
Chancellor came knocking
at Kensington Palace in
the small hours to render
homage. The Duchess
entered her cham-
ber, and awoke her with the
words, ‘My dear Victoria, you
are Queen of England ! ’ *Am
I? ’ replied the girl monarch.
‘ Then your Grace may retire ! ’ ”
W. Downie, for many years past
proprietor and editor of the old Bal-
larat Evening Post, has recently
taken up his residence in Sydney, lie
arrived in Port Phillip in the early forties,
and was present at Geelong in July ’5l at a great
aboriginal corroboree held in celebration of the
separation of Port Phillip from N.S. Wales.
WHEN A HUSBAND IS REALLY OLD.
HIM : “ There is not much difference between a
man of forty-jive and a woman of four-and-
twenty.”
HER : “No, but it is a big difference when a
woman is only forty and her husband is get-
ting on for seventy .”
John Forrest has retired from the Wes-
tralian Premiership, and George Throssell, an
affluent and very deaf flour-miller with an ear-
trumpet, takes his place. Throssell is a bitter
anti-Federalist, and a solid gentleman of great
age. He is alleged to be the best man in the old
Forrest Ministry, which may mean a good deal or
very little. To be a better man than Lefroy, for
instance, sounds like being as dead as Queen
Anne, but not quite so dead as Hengist and
Horsa.
Premier Holder’s luckless first opinion
that there was no real necessity for a lot of grown
men to dress themselves up in red skirts and false
hair and cat-skins, and formally tell the Adelaide
public what it knew already, that Edward VII
had become King, roused S’langdon Bonython’s
paper to language that would have been barely
justifiable had Holder slain his aged mother with
a gin-bottle. When a man gets a title he generally
feels called on to get excited over circus-flummery
of this sort. Heaven only knows why it should
be so, but it is.
That clever orator. John Langdon Parsons,
the Tory nominee who beat Labor - candidate
Robinson for S.A. Leg. Council, has been in S.A.
politics off-and-on for nearly 25 years. He
originally came from Maoriland as a Baptist
parson, then became an Adelaide merchant, and
subsequently reigned in Palmerston as Govt.
Resident. Although an out-and-out Tory, he is
related to that soi-disant Liberal organ, the
Advertiser, and Liberals sniggered when S’lang-
don Bonython’s sheet half-crowed over his vic-
tory.
Paragraph puffing of H. H. Champion as
a suitable editor for the Age must look ridiculous
to all thinking journalists. The clever Champion
has none of the wisdom essential to successful
editing of a big daily, or a small weekly, for that
matter. A deal of literary ability, and a lot of
enthusiasm for fads—but no tact, foresight, or
capacity for viewing things which ought to be
regarded only from the standpoint of solid fact.
With all the gospel of Liberalism on the tip of his
tongue, and with his adroit pen, and a cool, cheeky
faith in Champion, he has failed to persuade the
mob that they want him. The force of common
sense is lacking in H.H.
One Phillips, manager in Maoriland for
the Imperial Insurance Co., has been gaoled
for getting at the co.’s money by a rather
unusual process. He insured a non-existent pro-
perty for £4OO in the name of a non-existent
man ; then burned it down in his imagination, and
collected the money on the alleged other man’s
behalf. It was an incapable fraud in one respect,
for the Insurance and Banking Record pub-
lishes every month a list of the past month’s fires,
and the absence from the list of the building
which only blazed up in Mr. Phillips’s head was
calculated to attract attention. Further, when
the chief manager comes round on his tour of in-
spection, he often drifts about to look at the
burnt premises that the co. has had to pay for,
from tne same morbid instinct which makes a
certain kind of young man go on wet nights to
his best girl’s tomb —until he gets another best
girl.
N.S.W. Bar is on the
eve of changes which should
be consoling to the juniors.
Chief Justice Harley, rumor
says, will shortly retiro and
betake himself to Europe.
Mr. Justice M. H. Ste-
phen’s term is up next year,
and he will then also he
entitled to retire on pen-
sion. "Two of the big men
of N.S.W. Bar will go into
the vacancies. Wise .is
tipped for the C.J.’s posi-
tion, and Pilcher, K.C., for
the other (if he wants it).
The Federal Judiciary
ought to take away at least '
one of the N.S.W. Judges—
probably Owen, as the best
of the batch. • The K.C. is
becoming extinct in N.S.W.
Donovan is on his way
Homewards. R. E. O’Con-
nor, Wise, Barton and Reid,
K.C’s., also Bruce Smith,
all go to Melbourne for
Federal honors. So pro-
bably, after all, will Jack
.Want, K.C. This leaves
the coast clear for the
leading juniors—Sly, C.
B. Stephen and Pring,
who have long eluded
silk; and the next rank
men, such as Ralston, Gar-
land, Shand, Campbell, Fer-
guson, Kelynack, Watt,
Scholes, Flannery, &c., will
drop into the pleading
practice loosened by the
elderly juniors aforesaid
going into silk.
N.S.W. Works Minister O’Sullivan has
put his office correspondence into heavy-
mourning—all his papers are issued with deep
black margins. The statement that he has pro-
hibited the use of red ink is, however, a libel.
Chief Secretary See has restrained himself to the
issuing of black-edged official note-paper, the
ordinary Departmental foolscap being unchanged.
The other N.S.W. Ministers have not yet made
any alterations in their correspondence.
“M.A.P.” has told at least one story of
the late Queen that looked true. On the retire-
ment of any servant who had been in her service
during her husband’s time she presented the old
identity with a piece of silver plate, and with the
gift was a black-edged card inscribed “ With best
wishes from the Queen and Prince Consort.” It
is "quite certain that H.M. didn't die “a good
Catholic ” as declared by some imaginative RC.
priests. But probably she died a good spiritualist.
Every mourning widow likes to remain on speak-
ing terms with the lost one.
“Billy” Williams, the elect of St. Kilda
in succession to George Turner, is the festive bar-
rister who once sang a “ comic ” song —two songs,
in fact—at Melb. Princess’s. The occasion was a
theatrical benefit matinee. The bill concluded
with a club scene—Purves, Q.C., took the chairl
and Williams figured along with sundry pros as a
singing member of the club. He warbled ‘ 1 My
Birthday ” in the style of the average Billy, and
was easily induced to respond to an encore. At
that time, January ’99, nobody thought of the
young man as a coming legislator, though a little
reflection might have shown them that the bar-
rister who could stand up and roar “My Birth-
day ” under such circumstances was quite likely to
get into the Parliament where Alick Peacock rose
to distinction on a “ bloomin’ larf.”
“ The sensation of the week,” writes The
Bulletin’s London correspondent by last mail,
“has been Pall Mall Gazette Astor’s £5OOO
contribution to the Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Families
Fund, the pet ewe lamb of the Princess of Wales,
and thereby hangs a tale. For those who don’t
know : Capt. Sir Berkeley Milne, United Service
Club, a Royal Yacht guest, and one of His and
Her Royal Highnesses’ patrones, was enamored of
Miss Pauline Astor. Papa Astor wanted a
coronet, so Sir B. got cold shoulder. Big dinner,
Astor’s house—late Duke of Westminster’s. Sir
8., no invite. Miss P.A. : ‘Do come, I'll send
you one.’ Forgets to send, or anyhow doesn’t
send ; the Cap. nevertheless arrives and encounters
the irate multi-millionaire who courteously
reminds him that he was not invited. The Cap.,
chivalrously silent, bowed out. Then this ex-
American-Englishman hies himself to the Pall
Mall Gazette, which he owns, and insists on
par. being inserted : ‘ Cap. Sir B. M., of the U.
Service Club, attended dinner last night at Mr.
Astor’s house without invitation.’ Editor Douglas
Straight nearly wept, but in it had to go—and out
of Society fell William Waldorf Astor in one act.
Now he would buy his way back, but Albert Ed-
ward is staunch to his friends and never forgives.
W.W.A. had better get back to the U.S.. and be
de-naturalized quick. Positive Ass, comparative
Astor.”


MACONOCHIE’S
FRESH HERRINGS
KIPPERED HERRINGS
HERRINGS IN TOMATO SAUCE
FINDON HADDOCKS
PRESERVED FISH OF ALL KINDS.
MARMALADE
UNIVERSAL PICKLES
BOTTLED FRUITS
POTTED MEATS
SALMON and SHRIMP PASTE.
Worcestershire Sauce
MACONOCHIE BROS.,Lm LONDON
Australian Representatives—
SWIFT A, CO., 7 SPRING ST., SYDNEY
WATSON’S WHISKY.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
«r £3 10s. per week,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
The Hotel Australia is the
ideal rendezvous for Squatters
and their families who need
rest and change at the close
of our enervating summer.
J. SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Gastlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
“Z." : It knows how to be hot here (Mt.
Drysdale, N.S.W.) at times. During last week’s
hot weather, an ordinary beer-glass, centaining
cool water, placed on the counter of a local pub.,
was heard to crack; and on inspection a ring of
glass, about half-an-inch wide, was found snapped
clean off the top, level with surface of the liquid.
The thermometer registered somewhere over 110
deg. at the time. Local scientists pronounce it a
case of unequal expansion of the two sections of
the glass, while beer-soakers are firm upon the
theory that the break-up was caused by the shock
of unusual contents. Please decide.
* * * *
Queensland papers recently teem with
such items as “ Death in the bush. Verdict, heat
apoplexy.” “ Found dead 10 miles from Jundah
a swagman. Supposed to have died of thirst.”
“Another case of exhaustion. Too long absti-
nence from food and water,” etc., etc. No won-
der they rush off to S’Africa. Why, the Trans-
vaal business (with “ five'bob a day and found )
is a mere picnic to them !
* * * *
Re drought phenomena. Mobs of turtles
have been noticed of late in Moreton district (Q.)
leaving the creeks and making their way to the
Bremer. In some of the N.W. towns the horse
appears to be usurping the functions of the goat,
sundry old stagers tackling the straw and other
debris of back yards. The spectacle of sheep
chewing wool is by no means uncommon.
* * * *
A selector (one Birret), in the Beech
Forest (Vic.), while cutting firewood noticed a
tree falling towards him. In his eagerness to
escape he got his right foot caught in a prong of a
short stump. He made a desperate lurch to get
away, but his foot remained firmly fixed, and he
fell. The falling tree cleared him by several feet,
but when picked up he was found to be terribly
injured. Through the unfortunate man’s foot
being caught in the crevice it was almost torn off
by the weight of his body ; several ribs were
broken, and his lungs were injured. As he was
too ill to be carried 26 miles to the nearest town,
a surgeon went out and amputated the foot.
* * * *
The tragedy of Paddy Madden, of N.
Queensland. Madden went out, a few days ago,
with a black boy, to look for horses. The search
was for a while unsuccessful, and the boy was sent
back. Nearly a week after, poor Paddy’s body
was found under a tree by a search-party. A
tourniquet was round the thigh ; the leg had been
lacerated to cause a flow of blood. Evidently a
snake-bite. A remarkable feature of the case was
that Madden, when under the influence of the
poison, had commenced to walk round and round
a tree, and had kept on until a regular circular
track had been formed. Is there any record of a
similar happening 1
THEY BOTH LIVED ON IT.
MAGISTRATE : “Sorry to see you again.
What brings you here?”
PRISONER: “Dhrink, yer Anner. Same thing
that brings you here.”
MAGIDTRATE : “ You insulting vagabond ! I’ll —”
PRISONER: “ Hold on, yer Anner. I didn’t mean
it was the dhrink that was in you that brought
jou here. I meant that it’s the dhrink that’s
in me that brings you here.”
When Missionary Baker was killed by a
hill tribe in ’6B, the body was eaten in accordance
with custom. Some of the cannibals told a white
settler a couple of years later that they thought
the unfortunate gentleman’s top-boots were part
of his legs; also that they had to cook the legs
five different ways before they could masticate the
outer skin or leather.
* * * *
Forestier, the Illustrated London
News artist, illustrating a story by Walter
Besant which forms the summer number of that
paper, has a group of men in the N.S.W. back
blocks, boiling tea in an iron cauldron, shaped like
a gold-fish jar. Forestier’s colleague on the
1.L.N., S. Begg—an old Bulletin man, by the
way, who once had a share in this paper—would
have used a billy.
Williams, the eminent missionary, was
eaten by the Erromarigans. His bones were
recovered and buried in Samoa. Bishop
Patteson’s body was not interfered with. It
was found carefully sewn in sacking and
placed in a canoe. A frond had been
stuck • in his vest, knotted four times.
This showed that his death was in
revenge for four natives being carried
off by a “ thief-vessel.”
♦ * *
“Dave’’: There are some eccen-
tric travellers about the bush. Talk-
ing to one, one day—“Oh,” he said,
“it pays when y’r on the march.
F’rinstance—back there a mile or two,
last Sunday evenin’, I sees a German
couple cornin’ along sweetheartin’ an’
huggin’ a bottle o’ wine. Down goes
swag at their feet ’n’ I squares up to
it. Off they cut.” He smacked his
lips. “’N’ th’ taste of that wine’s in me
mouth yet.”
J * • * *
In the early Clarence River (N.S.W.)days
a bridal party of four took boat to the nearest
town—30 miles away. En route the prin-
cipals disagreed so severely that ere they
reached their destination the bridegroom
had withdrawn in favor of the “best man,”
and not long afterwards married the intend-
ing bridesmaid. Perfect amity subsequently
existed between the two families, who were
established within coo-ee of each other.
“ Canip ” : I know a German up
in West Moreton(Q.) who carefully closes
his pit-wallaby-traps every Saturday night lest
the marsupials might desecrate the Sabbath by
falling in on that day.
“ Dan ” : What “ Burragorang ” says
26/l/’l) about the Germans of South Q. working
their women is true enough, but I can’t see that
it calls for special mention when in that same
quarter British wives and Australian girls —com-
pelled by circumstances, of course —are any day
to be found ploughing, wood-cutting, breaking-in,
and slogging and slaving, bare-foot, in dirty
muck holes called milking-yards ! Also, settlers
there don’t complain of Germans working their
women. Is it likely ?
* * * *
The grandfather of a prominent Austra-
lian solicitor was, years ago, literally “ potted ” by
the blacks on the West Coast of S.A., where lie
and his sons had a sheep-run. The sons were
away once for a few days, and on their return
could find no trace of their father, until after a
long search they discovered his body in a huge
boiling-down vat. A couple of gins gave infor-
mation, and when the sons reported the matter
they got permission to punish the blacks. They
rounded some 60 of them to tine cliffs on the sea-
shore (there 60ft. to 100 ft. high), shot some, and
drove others over the edge, to be dashed to death
on the rocks below.
m * » •
“Alpha”: At “Chinatown” (Craigie,
N.S.W.) I recently witnessed the exhumation of
the bodies of several long-
defunct Chows for export
to the Flowery Land. The
bones came out of the
coffins quite clean, but
very dark in color. They
were laid in rows, and
afterwards washed, classi-
fied, and carefully wrapped
in clean white calico, on
which was printed some-
thing supposed to be a
letter of introduction to the
custodian of such things in
China. Asked why all this
was done, one John re-
plied, “Oh, him can’t
lie long this countly ; him
no happy. ’Longa China
him welly good sleep;
him too muchee happy
’longa fliends.” This is
all I could get out of
the best - informed local
Chow.
“P.L.”: Re “ Burragoraug’s ” remarks
on the German colonists of S. Queensland :
The charge that Hans Schneider works his women is
.perfectly true. Writer has seen German girls hoeing
corn, felling timber, and riding (cross-legged on a bare-
backed steed) after cattle in several districts of Southern
Queensland. But the statement that he makes his chil-
dren speak German only when shopping is decidedly in-
correct. At home the use of the Teutonic tongue is de-
cidedly (and often forcibly) encouraged ; but when the
youngsters are abroad in the town they invariably speak
English, and the parents are rather proud of their chil-
dren’s bi-lingual facility. The fact that merchants in
Ipswich and Toowoomba employ German-speaking em-
ployes is explained by the necessity of having men fami-
liar with the tongue of the Fatherland, for the purpose of so-
liciting orders in the country-—inasmuch as great numbers
of the S.Q. Teutonic farmers hardly ever come near a
town. . . As to “ Burragorang’s ” statement that the
Frauenfelders and Schneiders don’t consume their own
wine but “ sell it to the Smiths and Murphys,” the asser-
tion is a piece of pure romance. The Germans of Too-
woomba district (Middle Ridge in particular) are great
wine-drinkers, as are many of those settled in the Rose-
wood. But the wine they drink is not the same sort of
stuff they sell to the bibulous Smiths and the genial
Murphys. The Celt and the Anglo-Saxon won’t buy
Schneider’s wine unless it be first heavily fortified and
Hans is not a teetotal organisation. “ Politically,” we
are told, “ the German is all-powerful in S.Q.” Pure non-
sense ! There are not more than half-a-dozen electorates
in S.Q. where the German vote is really of any weight,
and these are chiefly in the neighbourhood of Ipswich
and Toowoomba.
* * ♦ *
When the new-chum jackaroo strolled one
baking afternoon into the bar of the “ Help-me-
through-the-world ” Hotel at the five-mile gate
and languidly asked for a “ Shandy-gaff—a long-
’un,” landlord Murphy never betrayed, even by
the flicker of an eyelash, that he knew as much
about a “ shandy-gaff ” as he did about a “ Morn-
ing Glory,” or a “Manhattan Cocktail.” He just
A MARVELLOUS CURE.
PROUD MITHER: “Yes, mister, look at that baby
o’ mine, an’ all due to your wonderful medi-
cine. She was a wee, thin, sickly mite two
months ago, but I fed her on nothin’ but
goat’s milk, an’ look at her now!”
REPORTER: “And how many boxes of our pills
did she take?”
PROUD MOTHER : “ Well, she didn’t exactly take
any pills, but our goat ate all your hills an’
posters off the hoardin’s.”
rummaged about a bit beneath the counter, re-
peating meditatively the while “Shandy-gaff—
shandy-gaff.” Then he stepped to the back door
and yelled—“ Bridget, what the divil hev ye done
wid the shandy-gaff bottle ? ”
* * * *
Thus Protector Meston re the decadence
of the aboriginal: “20 aboriginals have died at
one camp in six months. In threo years one-fifth
THE MILITARY INFANT.
LIRUTENANT (aged 19, who has been told off to
get the ayes of a hand of recruits, to No. 2
in the row): “And you, my — ah — man, how
old are you? ”
“MY MAN” (a retired tram-guard): “Eight,
my boy, and how old are YOU ?”
of the Maranoa aboriginals died of syphilis, opium
and starvation. . . . Opium to the value of thou-
sands of pounds is sold annually in the district.
. . . Mean whites are employing hundreds of
blacks, robbing them of wages and paying them
in opium. Many live with the blacks,” &c., &c.
More missionaries for China !
* * ¥ *
A study in etymology. “ No, Peter Swan
is not my real name. I come from Sweden, and my
name is Sven Petersen. But beoples can’t say
‘ Sven ’ ; dey say ‘ Swan ’ and call me ‘ Swan
Peterson.’ Den dey turn him round and say
‘ Peter Swan.’ So afterwards I call myself Peter
Swan; I write my name Peter Swan when I
marry; and now —no matter, is it ? lam Peter
Swan.” And, by the way, his name amongst his
mates is “Peter the Goose.”
“ Alick” discourses on (let us hope a very
exceptional) bush-dance: —
Went to a bush-dance t’other night. Mob arrived in
carts, buggies, or on horseback —racing, hooting, blowing
horns and challenging each other to mortal combat.
Danced in large barn. Cask of beer in out-house at-
tracted most of the “ gents ” and a few women-folk after
each dance. Buggies with edibles in them had savage
cattle-dogs chained to the wheels for the benefit of would-
be purloiners. String of damsels pass through the door-
way ; yokel youths on either side put out their feet to
trip them. Music —concertina and alleged violin. Con-
certina-man seated on chaff-bag in corner, clay pipe in
mouth, pants pulled-up to knees, exposing unwashed
legs. Nondancers perched on rafters overhead,
spitting impartially down. Loud voice of irate
female—“ Good Gord !—y’ clumsy hound, y’uv tore me
blinded skirt t’ rags ! ” M.C. could only dance the waltz
and took no interest in any other dance. Persistently
called upon the “ gints ” to “ Shooze yer pardners fer a
worlse,” till at last a disgusted citizen —prompted by the
red-haired girl upon his knee—loudly requested M.C. to
“ ’Av a bit of ‘ common,’ blarst yer ! ” M.C. promptly
stoushed protestor, who welted him on the jaw in turn.
Then they went at it, while the women screeched and the
men appiauded, until, after much ruby had flowed, a
trooper came along and parted the warriors. The floor
was splashed with water and swept; but one clot of
gore, having escaped notice, overthrew a huge, half-
drunken barbarian who was stalking down the room with a
plate of “ samages” for his grinning “ clinah.” Had to
be assisted from the room with a dislocated shoulder.
Then the concertina blared, the violin screeched, and the
revel was resumed.
* * * *
“ Dyamba ” re Sunday-work at Victorian
butter-factories :
There is a growing agitation in Victoria for the aboli-
tion of Sunday-work at butter-factories. At present nine-
tenths of the factories work seven days a week, and, put-
ting aside the question of wages, it has been found that
this constant grind wears down the employes more than
would much harder work for six days a week. The cry
of the dairyman is that Sunday work is absolutely neces-
sary, but the fact that some of the biggest factories in the
State do without it is a conclusive reply to this. The
Koroit factory, near Warrnambool, has had no Sunday
work since its inception, and is one of the most prosper-
ous factories in the district. It takes the Saturday even-
ing’s milk in the same night, and then shuts up all Sun-
day. All that is necessary is for the farmer to attend to
his Sunday morning’s milk carefully, and even this only
for the two hot months of the year. At present in the
neighborhood of a factory there is the same roar and tear
of factory carts on a Sunday as on a week day. By the
way, what has become of that famous Act of Charles 11.,
under which a teamster was, some time ago, heavily fined
for Sunday travelling ?
* • * »
“Y.” : He “P.H.C.’s” snake-yam
(8., 19/1/’01). In Borneo once I saw a tea cup
perambulating my bedroom floor. Investigation
showed that a snake had swallowed an egg and
then crawled through the handle of a tea-cup,
after which the reptile had more eggs —with con-
sequent inability to either advance or retreat.
The whole show was duly preserved in spirits,
and, for all I know, may still be in Sandakan
Museum.


“APENTA,” ' . t „ r , 4
The Best Natural Aperient Water.
“ As a cooling medicine for children it has no superior,
and it is readilv taken by them.”— Practitioner.
Sole Exporters : The Apollinans Company, Limited,
London, W.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest best, restores the natural color. Eoek-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
FAIRFAX and ROBERTS
FOK
W»TCH€S.
They have the largest retail output in Australia.
They buy in immense quantities.
They pay cash against delivery in London.
They sell for Cash.
They sell at London Prices.
They stock an immense variety. . „ 'j_
They are Sole Agents for “P. and A. Guyes’ world-known London-made
' ENGLISH LEVERS.
Plain Figure
Cash Prices.
Showrooms :
23 HUNTER STREET,
vj^SYDNEY.
'I
• "
A Printer’s Misfortune.
The particulars of a serious misfortune which
overtook Mr. W. Filmer, a printer residing at
Abbott-street, West Maitland (N.S.W.), have
been gathered by a reporter.
' Mr Filmer’s long and honorable connection
with the Maitland MekcUKY has caused him to be
well known and respected throughout Maitland,
where great sympathy has been expressed tor him.
It appears that some time ago he fell away to a
mere skeleton, the result of diarrhoea, which
became chronic. He was very often seized wi
fainting fits, due to weakness, which the diarrhoea
caused, his food gave him little strength, and
despite the best of treatment he did not recover.
A friend who had been cured by Dr. Williams
pink pills, recommended them. One box benefited
Mr. Filmer greatly, three more boxes cured him.
He has increased thirteen pounds in weight in
nine months, and he feels better, brighter and
stronger than he has for thirty years.
Mr. Filmer will be pleased to verify these
statements, which were made before Mr.,J.
Thompson, J.P., should anyone write to him.
By enriching the blood and retoning the nerves,
Dr. Williams’ pink pills cure anaemia, debility,
dyspepsia, insomnia, headaches, effects of in-
fluenza and fevers, chest complaints, skin diseases,
ladies’ ailments, etc. Sold by chemists and store-
keepers, and by the Dr. William’s Medicine Co.,
Queen’s Place, Sydney, two and nine per box six
boxes fifteen and three, post free By enriching
the blood Dr. Williams’ pink pills for pale people
produce a beautiful complexion.*
TO CURE SORE EYES,
Apply Mokrts’s Imperial Eye Ointment, and
avoid intense suffering. Never be without it.
Over 50 years in use. Refuse all substitutes, rots,
2s. Sold everywhere.
Franz Josef Lager Beer
. . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . . .
Order
SCHWEPPE’S
DRY GINGER ALE
“Alpar ” : Once from a
window watched an iguana
stalking a chicken. The
reptile approached the
chick from the cover
of a geranium bush.
Something startled
the poultry, and
the “ ’go.” backed
under tne bush, but
in a couple of min-
utes came stealing
out again. When
within about 4ft.
of the prey he
opened his jaws
and went forward
with a rush. The
chicken fluttered
and fell in. I
just got out in
time to see the
tail of the captor'
disappearing in
the spout of a big
eucalyptus.
Dear Bulletin. —
Re “P.L.L.’s” cow-
skeletons in trees (B.
19/1/’01). Near Sigi-
lind River, in British
Borneo, in ’9O, I saw
perched in the fork of a tree,
a mile from the nearest navig-
able water, an 80ft. steam-
launch, which had been de-
posited there —40ft. from
nigh water mark —during
the flood of a previous
year.— Yang Antut.
“ Dave ” : Was at a
picnic Outback once, and
acted as judge of the
foot-racing. A lot of lean-
flanked girls without
boots and with white
handkerchiefs on their
heads toed the mark.
“Off!”—and Rudd’s Sal
shot into the lead and won by
20 yards. “You , Bill! said
h. liairv timber-eretter to Sal’s bloke
—“ you’ve b’n traimn er. tt elp me,
said Bill, “ I never put a blanky towel on er.'
* * * *
“ Alpar ” : Re luck of drunks. One
morning, on coming out of our humpy in the
cutting, I spotted a drunk asleep near the brink,
50ft. up. I called my mate and we were just
starting up to remove him when he gave a lurch
and rolled down to the door. We ran to raise
him when he looked up and asked : “ Say, mate,
did yer see anything of my dorg ? ” After he had
some tea he danced a hornpipe for us and shuffled
off to his camp three miles away—but next night
he died of bladder-injury.
* * * *
•‘‘0.0.”: Your snake-climbing competi-
tion recalls an incident illustrative of Young
Australia’s keen sense of humor. A ringbarker
at work upon a sapling paused to enquire why his
eight-year-old son shrieked with laughter every
time he drove his axe into the tree. “It’s that
black snake up in the fork,” replied the youngster
grinning. “Every time you shake the tree lie
reaches down and makes a lick at your ear.”
“ Well, you’ve got a shocking fine idea of a joke,
retorted the indignant parent, and shortening the
snake by a head he used the remainder as a strap
upon that portion of his heir’s anatomy where it
would do most good.
ETIQUETTE.
TRAMP (to cookie leaning over selection fence and
just about to strike a match to light his
pipe): “After you with the match, mate.”
COOKIE: “I should think so — my blanky match,
too! ”
A new-chum on the Wosbralian goldfields
was told that the condensed water was bad for
strangers, so he slaked his thirst with eight or 10
pints of “shypoo,” which, after Melbourne beer,
tasted like a mixture of cowheel, hops, and soap-
suds. Being still thirsty when he got to his
room he drank half a glass of water with much
misgiving. In the morning he awoke with a taste
in his mouth as if he had dined on horse-blanket
fried in axle-grease, and as he rushed to
the pub. for a pint he said to himself with the
solemn conviction of a man who has made a great
discovery, “ By cripes, no more blanky water for
me ! ”
COLONIAL EXPERIENCE.
NEWLY-APPOINTED JACKAROO:
“w here are the — ah —station
swine? ”
STATION-HAND: “Pigs, do yer mean! There
isn't any”
N.A. JACKAROO: “Then what does the—ah—
managah call ‘ hoggets?’”
A gruesome bush episode. Recently at
Edendale (M.L.) three rabbiters were poisoned by
strychnine. While they were writhing in agony
the shadow of a casual friend fell across the door
of the hut, and the casual friend looked in. ±lis
first idea was that the three contorted wretches
were rehearsing for an amateur nigger -minstrel
entertainment, and he shrieked with laughter and
said it was a very good show. Barely do the
horrible and the humorous meet like this.
“ Widgeon ” : “ Wat Tell’s ” horse (B.
20/10/’00) wasn’t in it with one I sa,w on a
Queensland station—which used regularly to
“scoff” any soap the cook happened to leave
outside. It was a long time before he was
caught in the act and suspicion thus removed
from a black-boy who was supposed to take the
soap to annoy the cook.
•»» * *
A record in the way of farm slavery comes
from Taranaki (M.L.). Last season a Plains
resident and wife milked 79 cows twice daily
besides getting through ordinary farm work.
They didn’t spend a cent in
wages during twelve months.
An old loafer entered a
bar and asked the girl for
draught whisky, but when the
bottle was put down he sniffed
at it disapprovingly and de-
manded brandy. This, how-
ever, he also rejected, saying
that they kept a very poor class
of spirits, and would she give
him a long beer. This he got,
drank it, and was marching out
when the girl hailed him :
“Hey, you haven’t paid me
for that beer?” “No,” was
the reply, “but I gave you
the whisky back for it.” ‘ 1
know, but the whisky belonged
tome.” “Well, didn’t 1 give
you the brandy for it ? ” But
you never paid for the brandy. ’
“ I know I didn’t, ’cos I didn’t
drink any.” And while the
girl was trying to drag the
knots off this problem, he
calmly “ gat.”
* * *
The aged and improbable, “ What hap-
pened to the crow?” chestnut, re the discovery of
Sold in Westralia, is again going the round of the
English press. Agent -General Wittenoom is now
given as authority.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
A r o notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted , whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
0.R.8.: He kissed her casually and then he
went away, and she was a sad, disappointed girl beside a
r i ver —told in eleven large pages of MS Jay Sinclair :
Disrespectfully declined.... ILJ.R. : You throw no new
lights on the drought-stricken selector. He has been
written up so often that it needs a literary genius to cast
a glamour over the dry waterhole and the dead cattle
now o.P. : Push dialect so pushy as to be incompre-
hensible. .N.H. : Fully agree that Monaro is the best site
for a Federal capital among those mentionedin Mr. Oliver’s
report, but your yarn is very lengthy, and the site of the
Federal city isn’t the burning question of the moment.
Besides, Northern N.S.W. lias to be inspected yet....
Mariquita: The “Santa Claus” blunder was originally
American, and we take the phrase as we find it.
Merodo : Yes, it is no doubt in sympathy
with the well-to-do Melb. people who desert their
parents that Australian missionaries to China insist
particularly on the iniquity of Ancestor-worship.....
HP. : That’s nothing. Chopin’s Marche 1 unbbre is often
played at the theatres as a minuet accompaniment.....
Heber Z. : Unsuitable, though we admire it. Send it to
Town Topics, N.Y Henry B. (Wyalong) :We quite re-
cognise the claims of the good old Scottish Republican who
wrote “ Freedom and Independence for the Golden Lands
of Australia,” but we didn’t publish your verses on Dr.
Lang for fear they would arouse him from his grave....
Macao : If you inquire at any public reading-room or
hotel, you will find that The Bulletin is the best read
and most frequently-stolen paper, anyhow... . Mittj .
Fun’s there, but you don’t get it out. Must cook your
victuals... .Wonga : Same to you. Clothes ! not cloth..
O G.M. : You’re harmless—now, anyway.... Undecipher-
able (with photo.) : Can’t stand the milliner s soWier with
feathers in his hat. War’s a sad necessity ; not a game
for gaudy girl-hunters or murderers-for- sport. ihe
man who will make widows and orphans for sport
should be hanged above his own desolated hearth-
stone. Your Lancers look better than to be
long to that class; but feathers outside a head
always cast suspicion on the brains ’
R H (Brisb.) : Now what sort of essay on Australian
Commerce” or “ The Pastoral Industry—Past, Present,
and Probable,” does » the Royal Geographical Society of
Australia Q ” expect for its “ Thomson gold medal
value unstated, but you may And £5 at. fch ®, o "an d be*ade
pawn estimate. Neither of those sul >Jects can be ade
quately treated under cost of, say, £5O-worth of a'Compe-
tent man’s time ; and the incompetent man isn t worth
encouraging. . R.A.K. : Too slow ; though wed like a
bright dialogue once in a while- mixed Dumas and
Wilde (Don’t all you people bury us under ami clia
logue ’ now—the minimum is one warrantable epigram to
three lines.) . .E.E.R. : “The great white Queen is
dead!’’-and Great White Rats! we said,, we said
\f ti • Poem like a green sunset on a yellow plai .. • • •
H.C. : Our present opinion is that y?u scissored it with
intent to deceive. “We were seven, and by o
the fragments you are /0 H.T. . i M‘Tntosh *
creeps dies sighs—blow your breeze?.... H. M. Ditosn .
Too crude and transparent. Also, V cahnly
didn’t “ nrove his innocence, there was, looking caimi.l
at the inatter, nothing to prove his guilt except the
woman’s statement, and this paper is rather t red of
women’s statements. They are even than mens
. .E.A.9. : First part all right ; the end might be
taken as smacking of malice. To Ins mnnue
credit that Premier has risen from small beginnings.
17 S gret° that the com-
proprietary in publishing this print is not to have it read
on the cheap" and we are always ready to reward any
7ngo who brings about The Bulletin’s exclusion from a
reading-room by mailing a copy free to his address for s^
t.’SS SET StJELTSf. SEf
Wflr A.R. : There were in N.b.W. iieg.
Assembly quite 38 men who privately said they were
opposed to the despatch of Australian troops to S Africa ,
but almost every man Jack rattedb through pure> wan. o
e-rit Even your noble friend, G. H. Reid, didn t believe
fn the thing'- but he also soon got on the other side of
the fence Had he had the pluck to follow up what (as
per a certain famous minute) was no doubt his opinion he
could have led at least a powerful minority, gthe
Labor party and its indiarubber alleged chief M Gowan. ■.
Wecro • No more haunted-house just now. One of tl
men who last told haunted-house stories in this;pap*er has
far *
troops went from one Australian metropolis
to A week at sea will fix them up all right m
that regard .H.S. : But she said she “ only meant to
frighten him.” The Australian lover of the future will
hale to take lessons insearchingfrom an.^ertgaoL
,o th.t.tob, .Me to . pto*. h'jjg
Governor i» very friendlVto. totofc i J«S
perhaps he is iii the clock business. Also the Yankees ao
spealtoEnglish, of a kind but they think in Amencan
Macunder • Will consider Les. O. . Not quiue up
Uan’t use “blind” in that connection... .WUlewa. Not
weß enough handled... .Kelpie : Your eight best lines-
(“ He was blood from hip to shoulder from the spu’.
v Banjo.) . ~ „ ,
Wp have heard of mountain races and of fliers on the flat,
Df the flash of li-htning pacers, and of other rot like that,
But h jeems to us outsiders—and it makes us tired and
That°their game and plucky riders always love a stream
But °we °sometimes think those riders, and the stories
Are notqufte tons outsiders what they crack them up to
For a 6 nag that must be butchered ere he’ll try to open
Is a sorry sort of moocher for a wd to rave about.
1 ®ih - Barker san- like , ifted artist who wasn’t
doinfhtseffTuU jife. The malady that.Mil*l him
explained his lack of vivacity, poor fellow . . .E.N. .
Thanks but the good one’s old and the new one s bad....
H.R.L.Nob so bad; but not good enough..... •
Iydnty^eetoSe“iaUonon o the ground that he had
* no - ah loTVery ®tM
p q owerW navvies ;and if he did, why regard him as a
hero? Or why seem to despise the navvies for assuming
that they could conquer the average non-toiler in a
rough-and-tumble? In nine cases out of ten they can,
and no credit to them ; also no discredit to them
Anthropoid : You’re doubtless right about the vines, but
you’re otherwise too wild and weird for print Judas I. :
Sorry none usable, though “Cruisers” has some good
thoughts and strong phrases.... D. Mac.: Some are
chestnuts and others have the humour that makes us
weep .E.R. (W.A.): Very juvenile and crude....
P. J.M. : “ Should be inserted before drought breaks up.”
Alas !we fear there’s no hurry on that score... Bob F. :
No time for such a wretched scribble H.R.W. : Fairly
well written but in an entirely conventional and undis-
tinguished style... .E.M.S. : Thanks... .Cymro : The pre-
sent proprietors took over the works from the original co.,
which failed originally as a private proprietary. The con-
cern was once a great success, and it is again prospering...
Ami • Elton’s engagement with Williamson was nearing
its end before Lauri was engaged. They appeared to-
gether in “ The Merry Monarch ” previous to La Cigale.
lI.G. : These allusions to the personal beauty of
cvciist Jack Parsons -grow monotonous. If the other
fellows you mention are not lovelier than Parsons it is
clear that the women who attend bike meetings are easily
fascinated.... J.B.S. : Bulletin doesn’t appoint corres-
pondents ” of the sort you are evidently thinking of. ...
If P • But nobody supposes that the military Sunday
service at Melb. Exhibition Building was other than a
Jingo job. There were genuine services at the Protestant
Cathedral as well as at St. Patrick s. Indeed, the after-
noon service at St. Patrick’s looked rather like a sectarian
opposition show, and the military haw-haws snubbed it
accordingly .. W.H.D. : “ Confidence Trick good, crisp
little yarn' . .R.M. : Verses may do. Other too lengthy.
Student : If the Argus prints your letter this paper
will be very much surprised.... Blue Gum : A weary,
wandering, aimless, will-o’ the wisp yarn Macander
Dreams are off at present.. HO. : That loyal Irish-
man ”is very small potatoes indeed.... Philprhc . Not
nenrlv strong enough Francis: Verylittlein Bajie.
Donald (V.): Please write about 3 times as large Ben
Sun : “ Dan M.” no good. Other two will consider.. ••. -
Yarrum • “ Gettin’ Even ” hasn’t quality enough.... Wat
Ellis : Loose and ineffective.... A. Clive : Has traces of
skill, and gathers power towards end, but is very *
nlaces ....Squib: May patch-up and use Alone.
“ Lager” too unequal... .J.O.G. : None up to mar ....
Newtown : Better worry a daU y = ‘“'V- WUl’treat
you to buy 8., not read free..... Chas. E. . Will treat ...
Mabel H. : Verse too stiff and choppy.... S.W.L. . Quaint,
hut unsuitable The Wanderer : Continue.... . A.D.B. .
“Egoist” unusable Narranghi: Theology stale....
Rilbv Possibly T.J.H. : Dare say you’re proud of it?
Moama : The gentleman has four relatives of his own
name in the Govt, service ; also, his partner holds a Go t
billet AB. : Too doggerelisb. J-R- "i
andold-fashioned... .G./f Returned.. R.T.: No lydy
R.as. : Not worth damning... ..A.P.R. . May
of vour Uncle John Henry be defiled ! ...H.E.S. .
ffota bitfl! The answers to two separate questions were
inadvertently made to appear to apply to the same com-
H er “ fair show^ 6 g ßurhT U Pa« not up - sketch, il
sufferably pr h o°sv:..''. .R.T*. : Shorter sketch flat and
duh • otherfmimh better, but too long for its interest....
Mike M‘Gee: Thanks; but nothing very fresh in it ---
S O R • Rather ponderous Toby : That s all on the
road to'a sectarian fight.... Maurice L. : Rather trivial...
Labyrinth: Note has got divorced from story. Please
gfve name of latter.. ..L.P.S. : Sentiment too cheap and
obvious M. 2. : Would need too much alteiation
YJ.M i 'Poor stuff.... Ettie S. : The pun ancient
Rhvmer : Sound sense, but bad verse... .W.P.. verse,
rather insignificant. Prose-sketch, too laboriously
humorous. . H.St.A.M. : Philosophy much the better
of the verse-sets, but would hardly suit B. tale lacks
force and finish Labyrinth : Good character-study, but
too awkwardly handled and too long for Bulletin
Wallaroo: Very sorry to hear it. Never thought
his mental extravagance would take that direction.
Coke, the Norfolk millionaire, was
bachelor at 70, and lieired by a nephew. Yoke
found a match for him, but the young lady
wouldn’t bite. Coke expostulated with her Me
said, “ I would take you.” Consequence, another
Cardinal Manning had enemies amid the
Westminster priesthood. One said : Ihe worst
misfortune ever we had was when Manning swi .
died.” The Cardinal questioned him _ Did you
say you were sorry because my wife died . the
Priest: “ W eren’t you ? ”
Recently said the eminent Irish as
tronomer Ball: — . .
The sun was getting smaller every day. It was shrink-
ing daily at the rate of nine inches, and this shrinking
had been going on from time immemonal. In twenty
years the sun would shrink a mile. At the beginning ot
the centurv it was five miles wider than it was to-day,
and at the beginning of the Christian era it was 100 miles
wider Perhaps some of his young hearers mg it >e
alarmed at tins shrinking process, but he could assure
them that the sun was big en °ug h to hear a k.t of shrink-
ing The diameter of the sun was 860,000 miles , w,uuu
years hence it would have lost 2000 miles-but it would
not be a bad sun even then.


. The Mayor was received with speeft)
•favour when he rose to propose "His Ma-
jesty the King.” He said he was sure King
Edward VII. would wield the sceptre id,
such a way that his people would have the>
greatest confidence in him
f yr u y tyok
A TARIFF CATECHISM.
*Q. What rathe last argument urged why the
farmers of'Victoria should support a High Tariff,
levied upon their tools of trade, their clothing,
and all they buy at the store ?
A. It is an assertion that under Federal oondi«
cions the duty on wheat may become operative
again.
Q. —Has that doty been pperative in Victoria
before ?
A.—Once, in 20 years.
Q. When was that ?
A.—When, in consequence of a deplorable
failure of the crops, most of the farmers had little
or no wheat to sell.
Q.—ls that event likely to occur again either in
Victoria or in the Federation ?
A.—As far as human foresight can perceive oer»
tainly oot. Abous.
* ?"‘
(4eo(?i'^Wi llouzj? ty;-WJ7O
’.-"Please Sir, ss,s^
fe>■'foeTrMeJ
RIVER pests.
OMW * !R anJ
Constant c" mp '"" de sta ,ic in the Salt-
men bathing In , d on have been maile
water River at. E- --«»«- -•----- a bye-law pro-
\o the poHce. Kt present .hie- in the river
hibitlnß persons Ir’ un less dressed
■between R a.m. and P_ e bu t the oh-
dress -
\ *ttves. however, Intends
The locai C ® U " C ?' , W SG as to make «
_ ,mending the bye-law so
reach all offenders.
A
J£ p ’>
O, ■%„ tV
V»<N
c X / „'° f >> V 9.
/ •
•*6, i
S-'___.
*»> writcry e
%
*rae Ministry Is -exceedingly well
pleased with the result of the St. Kilda
election- yesterday, winch. resulted in
the return of Mr Wllliains, the Minis-
terial candidate. The action of Mr
•T,eon in asking bis friends to vote for
Mr Williams, after • that gentleman
had been selected by Mr Peacock, who
arbitrated between the two candidates, r
was also . commended to-day by Minis-
ters.
esteem?
* i? (*o»7^i
6f V>«< W ,V C
v/ilKw^.
;-. tO 00
i-4
■ *>s
e.i
£•*
hi'
iii
f&i
‘j'is
*•
S £>§
is
I -fc-a.»•«
r m§ m MM.
W** "«r'z
Vrm^
HP> rv/
]pfo ryiSe **~\
-ft) ccV® ,\
v ftt'iously
E? c£r i'es-+'K^i'7
i\wfu I go, Ffow r
Pr'emie*' f?^cocK.'- X«o .
* 50 IJj 17c yeVer:
Ouk
des f>erc<fe £‘**'‘3®/® VV ‘^Y
"to |> t'eVer,“f“.yl'-o
■froii? i»7 "7'5 Wee - K 3
c 0
MELBOURNIANA.


“ The Admiralty has
agreed to accept Aus-
tralian wine for use at the christening of*warships.”— Cabls.
Mr. Want has decided not to become a
candidate for the Senate, his private busi-
'ness being too pressing.”
Right, this time, Jack ! A bird in the
' hand is worth two in the bush.
They will also find it useful to scrub down the decks with.
II I 11 MELBOURNE HAPPY AGAIN.
Melbourne, Thursday.—This morning the Premier received
ihe following cable from the Agent-General : —“ I have the
i authority of the Secretary of State for the Colonies for the state-
ment that Melbourne will be the first Australian port of call of
His Royal Highness.”
Voice from the Jungles of the Yarra : “ Brek-kek-kek-koax .koak koax koak !
That is to say ‘ Hooray ! ’ I’m to have the first round of toadying after all,
and when I have a go at him, guess he won’t
want any more ! ”
“ A gas explosion occurred at the Victorian Agent-General’s office
on Monday. Though the office was wreoked, ‘ business was not
interrupted.’ ”
It is surmised that N.S.W. Agent-Gen. Copeland looked in for o
chat, and the conversation turned on the good feeling at present
existing between Melbourne and Sydney.
ACROBAT lyne - in t his celebrated daring DOUBLE-TRAPEZE Act.
f ‘ He was not going to be frightened out of his position by a hostile Sydney press.” —Speech at a place with a name like Tumbleunder.
THINGS IN GENERAL.


A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
EDWARDS
0
ǽ
%
THE GREAT
HAIR PRODUCER & RESTORER
The Very Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
JL luxury and a necessity to eyery modern toilet.
•«
Restores the Hair ■
Promotes the Growth
Arrests the Fall
Strengthens the Roots
Preserves the Hair $
_ ' " _ SV
Removes Dandruff ?
Allays all Irritation
*HARLENE'
Preserves,
Strengthens and
Invigorates
Children's Hair.
Wfr/a
Pull description and directions for use In 20 languages supplied with every bottle.
•tjm, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Settle of Drugrgtote &0., all over the World.
EDWARDB* “ MARLENE ’* Co., 86 & 98, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.O.
ELECTRIC
MININC
MACHINERY
OP EVERY DESCRIPTION.
KRUPP CALL MILLS
OVES BROS
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; and 15 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
Now
Ready.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
PRICE 6D, POSTED Bd.
a
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
ABOUT
SUITS
MAPS TO ORDER.
You see a well-dressed man and you invokin'
tarily remark, “There is a lucky, prosperous
fellow.” Good Clothes are the hall-mark of
Prosperity. They help you in life in every way.
SUITS TO ORDER
for 45s.
Picture to yourself a Perfect Suit—one that in
every way meets your idea of what is correct,
and you see
HORDERN’S IN PITT-STREET
45s. SUIT TO ORDER.
If you want a neat, nice, fashionable and in-
expensive Suit, call in and see these or write for
SAMPLES,
SELF-MEASURE FORMS
and TAPE MEASURE.
Posted Free to any Town in N. S. Wales.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL TAILORS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx
Good Tailoring
SUMMER.
Light Weight Tweeds
AND
Worsteds.
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
LIGHT AND TROPICAL WEIGHTS
TO STAND THE SUN.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &c.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
NO PIANO
PLAYER
Should be without
These two numbers of
Bilan’s
Australian
fl)usic
Books.
m
They Are Both Gems.
No. 44.—Favorite Pianoforte Pieces.
Intermezzo Engen d’ Alma
Cavatina Raff
The Belle of Chicago,
March, Sousa
Honey Moon, Schottische,
C. Kinkel
Boccherini’s Minuetto
Ketten
Handel
Chaconne
Hungarian March Schubert
The Rippling Stream
Heavenward, March Ctileste
Soldatenmarsch Schumann
Spring Song Schumann
Valse(posth uni e) Fr. Chopin
The Occidental, March
Sousa
Siciliano Schumann
No. 45.—Favorite Pieces.
Maritana, Fantasia Wallace
The Gladiator, March Sousa
Right Forward,
Musidora, Polka-Mazurka
Talexy
“ Sound Off,” March Sousa
Prince Albert’s March
Glover
Semper Fidelis, March
So am
The Loyal Legion, March
Sousa
The Mountain Belie Schot-
tische
March Eli Sir Michael Costa
Price 1/-, or Posted 1/2.
Obtainable at all Musicsellers throughout Australia,
or direct from the publishers,
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd
276 AND 278 COLLINS ST. P
v^-MELBOURNE.
(LIMITED)
DAPTO (L«alse Illawarra), near SirDKTS’Y'
MAKERS OP
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
.
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
ILLAWARRA"
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLIX*
ftiroiiuen of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST TRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinbkbg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W. j or Martin PIace, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Age, in a recent leader on the
literary tendencies of our time, O Lord, gives
what looks very like a proof of mental incom-
petence that would appear indecent in the
columns of the Neddwaddy Bugle. Lamenting
the weakness of the literary output the writer
wails: “Tennyson, so far as we can see, left no
successor ; and Carlyle, Hallam and Froude have
been followed by nobody on whom the historian’s
mantle can rest. Dickens and Thackeray are not
replaced bv the Hardys, the Wards, the
Merediths and the. Corellis.” The critic who
lumps Hardy and Meredith with Mrs. Ward and
Marie Corelli lias narrowly missed plumbing the
abyss by the exclusion of Hall Caine.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE,
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals,- Sapphires; Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find- it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
The latest attack on the British Army
system in S’Africa comes from no less person than
General Colvile. General Buller has condemned
the lack of intelligence and independent action on
the part of the junior officers and the rank and
file, but Colvile hits out with both hands and
all his feet at the sacred Headquarters-staff itself.
In May last, Colvile was instructed to reach
Heilbron via Lindley with 4000 Highlanders and
1000 Scouts on the 29th of the month. Particular
stress was laid on the necessity to be at his desti-
nation by the 29th, and the General immediately
came to the conclusion that his brigade was to
take part in a general advance to the Yaal river
on or about that date. The Imperial Yeomanry,
or rather a portion of them, were to join him en
route, but after starting he received word
that they were so late that they would be
unable to overtake him, and would join
him later on via Kroonstad.- The roads were
bad, the country thick with Boers, and Colvile’s
troops, worn out with constant fighting, arrived a
day late at Lindley, to find that town, much to
their surprise, strongly held by the Boers. They
had been lookiug forward to pleasant welcome, but
instead had to fight a pitched battle before they
could enter. Next morning they went on, and
when within one day’s march of Heilbron, the
force was overtaken by an orderly with a message
from the Colonel in command of 500 of the Yeo-
manry, that he was blocked outside Lindley,
and had been compelled to retreat three
miles on the Kroonstad-road, had only
one day’s provisions, and that he needed
assistance to get away without heavy loss. Col-
vile replied that he had imperative instructions
to be at Heilbron on 29th, and had only one day’s
provisions left himself, and that not only would
it make him late at Heilbron to come to the Yeo-
manry’s rescue, but make it possible for the Boers
to starve the 5000 men into surrender. Also, he
said that as the Yeomanry had retired three miles
they could no doubt make good their escape with
less loss and danger than if his brigade re-
turned to their assistance. The Yeomanry
were captured, and although Colvile reached
Heilbron on the date instructed, and drove
the Boers out of the town, and generally
did good work, a loud demand went up for his
blood for having abandoned the Yeomanry. The
General was sent home and requested to resign
his position in the army, but has refused to do so.
He says that the whole trouble is that the Yeo-
manry — De Wet’s Own were all “society”
soldiers, many of them millionaires, and, had they
been a portion of a common line-regiment, he
would probably have been court-martialled had he
gone to their assistance in defiance of his orders.
He did not believe in social distinctions on
the battle-field, and considered that the safety of
4000 Highlanders and 1000 Scouts was much more
important than that of 500 amateur soldiers. When
Colvile got to Heilbron, he saw some more of
the Headquarters-staff’s fine work. He had been
officially informed that he would find Heilbron in
occupation of Gen. Hamilton, and full of supplies.
Instead of which he found no supplies and only
120 sick and wounded troops living on the charity
of the inhabitants; but he received information
that a convoy of 60 waggons, guarded by 90 men,
would be dispatched shortly. He replied promptly
that the country was infested with Boers, that
90 men were not sufficient guard, and that a force
of cavalry with guns was absolutely necessary.
His advice was unheeded, and 4000 Boers
had a good time on the contents of those
60 waggons, while Colvile’s troops went short.
He wired for instructions, and received from
the Military Secretary orders that he should
remain where he was. Some days later he re
ceived another message from the Military Secre-
tary that he was to take no notice of the former
wire, but act on one sent by the Cliief-of-Staff
same day. The Chief-of-Staff’s wire never came
to hand till six months later, when it was handed
to him with a lot of undelivered telegrams, and
the brigade just fooled about Heilbron and ate its
head off, and was finally taken to Pretoria after
all the fighting was over. Now they want to sack
Colvile because of all these things. Colvile says,
“ Sack the man who was responsible for the
bungle, and not the victim of it.” And it looks as
though Colvile was right.


London
Lever
A. otuinuera o
strong, Reliable LEVERS-” THE CHAL-
LENGE." 15a. The UNRIVALLED LEVER,
in Black or Nickel, 20s-perfect timekeeper.
The LONDON LEVER, new f-plate model,
25s • in Solid Silver, £2 2a; in Double-case,
£2 10a, £3. ROTHERHAM LEVERS, £3lOB,
£4 £5 £6, £7, £B. Gold Watches, £4 4s,
£6’sa, £6 6a, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Mind, we guarantee you the utmost satisfac-
tion, “ otherwise we will exchange watch for
you.” Send for illustrated book of particulars,
post free.
A. Saunders.
Registered Gold 2-Bird, 2-Heart Amethyst
Brooch, 20s ; Pearl Set Bird, 22s 6d ;
15c. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders.
Brooch Crescent, Pearls and Turquoise,
Pure Silver-gilt, 5s 6d ; Heart Shape, 6s 6d.
The Latest Style.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Brooch, Diamond and Baby
Horae-shoe, 355. A Pretty Brooo'.i.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Brooch, 2 Bar Scrolls, 3 Pure
Diamonds, 2 Rubies or Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 14 Pearls, 7 Opals, 355. A Very
Choice Present. Bracelet to Match, £2 15s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Twist Bar, Bow and Heart
Drop, 5s 6d. Special Value.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 15c. Gold, 2 Bar and Scrolls,
Pearl Set, £2 ss. Very Strong and Pretty.
a. Saunders. »
Hand made Wedding Rings and Keepers, 9c.
Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15c. Gold
16s ; extra heavy, 25s ; 18c. Gold, 20s ; extra
heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for card.
A. Saundere.
Registered «a GoW Secret .
2 Rubies or Sappbires an d gimuar
8 Diamonds £3 e and^ and26a
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Pearl Set Bird’s Chain and
Ked or Blue Stone, 17s 6d. Very vaiuvj
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Scroll, Diamond, 2
Blue Stones, 20s. Very Pretty.
Bed or
A. Saunders.
New Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget”
Brooch and Amethysts, 9c. Gold, 17s 6d ; 15c.
Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 4 Opal Hearts, Pearl Set Scrolls,
365. The Latest and Prettiest Style.
A. Saunders.
New Style Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird,
Amethyst Heart, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
15c. Gold and Pure Diamond, 2 Bar
Brooch, £2. Neat and Strong.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch (Registered), “ Good
Wishes,” Chain and Heart, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 255. A Very Pretty Brooch.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Brooch, 2 Diamonds, Ruby
Sapphire and Ivy Leaves, 255.
A. Saunders.
Silver Gilt New Turquoise Initial
Brooch ; any Initial, 2s 6d.
Solid Gold Chain (Single or Double),
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15c.
Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, Jft, £B,
£lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send lor Price Illustrated Book.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 15c. Gold, 2 Be
Blue Stone, 2 Diamonds,
Very Cheap and Neat
ir, Red or
21s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Bar, Raised Ivy Leaves, 7s 6d.
Very Neat.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Diamond-cut Amethyst
Hearts and True Love Knot, 20s.
Very Pretty.
A. Saunters.
Gold Brooch, 2 Hearts, Diamond and Ruby,
2 Bar and Scroll, with True Love
Knot, 17s 6d.
A. Saunders.
*« Nellie Stewart ’’ Bamboo Gold Bracelet, 20s.
Size thicker, 255. Latest style.
A. Saunders.
A. Saunders.
Name Bracelets, Gold Bands, Any Name, 25s ;
15c. Gold, £3; Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 3Us to £4.
m
err
aw
Ladies’ Curb Gold Chain
Snap Padlock, 255, 30s,
355, £2 ss, £3; Isc„
£2 10s, £3, £4, £4 10s,
£5, £6, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety
Chain.
A. Saunders.
16c. Gold Baden-Powell Sword Pin, Turquoise and Pearls, £2.
Call and See Our Jewellery Exhibition.—A Splendid Display
our moo Comolete Illustrated Book, Post Free Anywhere.
Solid Gold Fine Opal Links, £2.
15c., £2 10s. Monogram, 2/6 ex.
SftSKffi
A. Saunders.
Opal Bracelet, i Hoop, 11 Pretty Opal., £3. Very Styhsh.
A. Saunders.
Gold Charm Envelope, with
Twopenny Stamp, 12s 6d.
Silver, 6a 6d. Name Free.
Gold
ft. Sa :nders.
ii'ooch, Diamond-cut Amethyst, 2 Bar ; Large
Size, Extra Strong, 255, 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch Amethyst, Diamond-cut, 2 Bar, Extra
■Strong, 22s 6d ; 16c. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders.
Latest Designs: Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Diamond and
Red Stone, Scroll and Bell, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Shields and Hatchet, Chain and
Heart, Ruby and Pearl, 15s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 355.
Gold Brooch,!
Stone,
A. Saunders.
! Bar, Pearl Set Scroll, Red
20s. Very Pretty and Strong
A. Saunders.
New Style Gold Bird, Ruby
and Turquoise and Leaf,
5s 6d. Very Neat.
Silver Initial Hat Pins.
Parisian Diamonds, 4s 6d ;
Turquoise, 3s. Any Initial.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s,
' £2, £2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, fi, >
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £1 •
All Guaranteed. Send for Price List.
A. Saunders.
Gold Bar, Raised Flowers, 5s 6d.
Ladies’ Long Gold Muff Chain, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5, £6.
Price According to Pattern and
Thickness.
Front Studs, 9c. Gold, 3s 6d each ; 15c.
Gold, each 5s and 7s 6d.
Front Studs, Diamond, Rubies
phires, 10s tid : and 12s 6d each ;
Diamonds, 20s, 255, 30s to £5 each,
and Size of Diamonds.
• Saph-
Larger
Price
á
Gold Grosses,
Chased or Plain,
12s (id; Larger,
A. Saunders.
Gents’ or Ladies’ Pin, Pearls and Turquoise, Rubies or Sapphi
Floral Design, 21s.
A. Saunders.
Band Bracelet, 9c. Gold, Diamond and Rubies or Sapphires, £2 5s
15c Gold, £3 10s, with 3 Diamonds, £4, £4 10s and £5.
Very Neat and Effective.
Gent’s or Ladies’ 15c. Gold Tie Pin, Pearls and Turquoise Centre
SLar, ‘2os. All the Ragre.
Baden-Powell Gold Sword »nd _ Pearl Set Spray Brooch
Diamond, 25s ; without Dia<nond, 22s 6d , 15c. Gold, h s.
Charm, Old
English Coin, Gold
Mounted, 10s.
A. Saunders.
Qold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d.
Our Own Begiate-ed
Design.
The Lucky “ Erin-
go-Bragh ” Charm,
Solid Gold, 10s.
Ohara, Gold,
Amethyst and
Pearls, 16s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 265.
Latest Design.
Real Lyddite
Shell, Gold
Mounted, 8s 6cL
Only a Few Left
Charm, New
Gold Bell, 7s 6d.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires,
Rubies, or Opals,
4 Diamonds, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4los, £6.
Latest Style.
Turquoise and Pearl,
Solid Gold Ring, 21s.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 5 Opals,
18c. Buttercup Single-
stone Diamond Bing,
£3, £4, £5,
Opal Band Rings,
9c. Solid Gold, 17s 0d ;
15c. Gold, 30s ; 18c.
Gold, £2.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 3 Pure Dia-
monds, 2 Opal Hearts,
£4 10s. Latest Style.
A. Saunters.
18c. Gold, Pure
Double-cut Diamond,
£6. Larger, £6 6s,
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Price according to size
of Diamond.
18c. Solid Gold, Pure
Diamond and 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, £2,
£2 10s, £3 ; 3 Dia-
monds, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £5.
18c. Solid Gold
Diamond Band, £2,
£2 10s, £3; 15c.
Gold, 30s.
9c. Gold Name Band igc. Solid God Mar-
Rings, 10s, 12s 6U, quese Diamond and
15s; 15c. Gold, 20s. Ruby Ring, £3 10s ;
255; 18c. Gold, 255, Larger Diamonds, £7
30s, 355, 40s. 10s, £lO, £l5, £2O.
A. Saunders.
(Registered) Gold Links
20s ; 15c. Gold, 32s 6cL
Silver and Gold, 10s ;
All Silver, ss.
Solid Gold Monogram Links,
9c. Gold, 20s and 25s ; 15c.
Gold, 355, £2 and £2 10s ;
Solid Silver, 5s and 6s 6d ;
Monograms, 2s 6d extra.
A. Saunders.
Large Size Gold Shield
Links and Dumbell, 21s
15c. Gold, 35s and £2.
Gold Heart and Dumbell
Links, 12s 6d ; 15c., 25s ;
Silver, 3s 6d.
Special Value.
15c. Solid Gold, 2
Diamonds, Ruby or
Sapphire, 20s.
Solid Gold Pearls and
Babies, 10s ; 15c.
Gold, 15s.
Latest Style.
Gold Ring Turquoise
and Pearls, 16s.
A.
LEADING art jewbllbk,
815 & 817 George Street
/nearly opposite \
\ Rail way Station/?
SYDNEY.


Chairman Hickson, of the new Sydney
Harbour 'trust, is one of the best-known N.S.W.
civil servants, being the Under-Secretary for
Public Works and Commissioner for Roads. He
is also chairman of the Public Service Tender
Board, and at one time was a favorite tip for a
seat on the Public Service Board But few officers
of the State enjoy a salary of £2,000 a year, and
fewer still reach to such a position through the
Civil Service. Promotion for Mr. Portus, general
secretary to the Commonwealth shivoo, and
already a high official in the Works Department,
is predicted as a consequence of Mr. Hickson’s
step up.
Verb. sap. Christchurch (M.L.) Press
London correspondent discourses on Jingo grati-
tude and Jingo patriotism :
London, which was able to give its Volunteers a cham-
pagne supper, and generally roared itself hoarse over
them, now raises it hands in deprecating impotence when
asked to find them work wherewith to earn an honest
living. The gilt is off the gingerbread, and the City’s
regiment is left, in many cases, to tramp the streets on
that most heart-sickening of all quests—the quest for
work. Since the end of October the sight of the C.l.V.’s
tramping the streets has been common. They have in
many cases been able to find nothing else to do. So great
did the distress become amongst them that the Daily
Express lately opened an employment bureau, for the
purpose of bringing the City Imperial Vagrants in touch
with employers. Some of the many C.l.V.’s who have
applied seem to have been at the very end of their re-
sources—thankful for the gift of half-a-crown to get a
meal.
HIGH-GRADE
FARM—-’
tsg
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd.
35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Sydney.
The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
m
Before booking- your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing List with map’
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Coilins-st., Melbourne; 4 Hunter-st., Sydney,
c T\/"wvv\ro
GrO TO HELL-
-4 I GOLAN!) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
HATS. hats.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes litted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
for a pearly skin and brilliant
Complexion. Chemists sell it.
NOTHING ELSE LIKE IT.
Used by the Elite of English
Society. S. Harvey, Limtd.,
London Bridge S.E.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
Important Announcement to our
Constituents.
City and Country
WALTER BRAPL€y » CO.,
J 1 urniture and Fine A.vt jfi-\ietxoneevs 9
Auction Rooms, 321 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
83?"' Sales Held at the Auction, lioonis.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
POLITICAL
POINTS
It is commonly reported that the Com-
monwealth celebration bills presented at Sydney
Treasury had, two weeks ago, reached £150,000,
and they were still dropping in gaily.
President Zeal on reform of Yic. House of
Landlords declares that he “will take care there
*s no reductio ad absurdum That reduction was
made by the Council itself years ago.
Solomon, Opposition leader, is, at time of
writing, the only S.A. politician who has spoken
as a Federal candidate. All the others seem to
be lying low, particularly men like Symon, Baker
and Holder, who are pronounced Freetraders.
Parsons’ election to S.A. Leg. Council
means that the Tories will again have a majority
of one in that Chamber. It was only Kingston’s
vote last session which secured Early-closing— a
boon for which the workers had striven for five
yerrs.
Doctor Ahearne. of Townsville, Q.. is a
candidate for the Fectc.H Senate. The Bulletin
appreciates his capacity ; and enjoins every elector
to vote him down because he is a root-and-branch
black-labor advocate, and therefore an enemy of
white Australia.
S.A. Labor Party has curtailed its list of
Federal candidates, and now only intends to run
M Gregor and Kirkpatrick for the Senate and
Price and Batchelor (Minister of Education) for
. ' ® L°wmr House. All four politicians are now
in S.A. Legislature.
It has been definitely ascertained that the
Colonial authorities in Downing-street, London
wall not consent to local Governors. Her late
Majesty imposed a personal veto on the proposal
it is said. It was her last remaining prerogative
appointing Colonial Governors.
Brisbane Worker recently remarked re
Philp s utterance that an extension of the fran-
chise would soon have to be introduced : ‘ ‘ Federa-
tion is stirring things up a bit.” According to the
Worker s utterances some short time ago, Federa-
tion was to be abundant parent of every political
evil. Well —times change!
Kingston is doing his best to work up
enough strong Protectionist candidates for the S.A.
federal seats to render it at least certain that
Freetraders like Holder, Glynn, Baker and Solo-
mon (he, too, pretends to be a Reidite) shall
not have matters all their own way. The first
three are pretty sure to be returned ; but so they
would be if they professed Protectionist views.
EXPLAINED.
ANANIAS (joining the staff of a Sydney morning
paper): “Hullo, Noah! Fancy meeting
you! ”
NOAH: “ Yes — I do the ‘ Humor’ column.”
It is now quite plain that £100,000,000
(one hundred millions sterling) will not nearly
cover the cost to Britain of the Transvaal war.
“The price of subjugating my country will
stagger humanity,” said Kruger. The price to
date includes not only all those scores of millions,
but tens of thousands of the best lives under the
Union Jack, also possibly the life of the venerable
Queen.
It is reckoned that the N.S.W. railways
and tramways, for the second half of 1900, yielded
£Bl,OOO more revenue than for the second half of
1899. At that rate they are probably returning a
real profit at last, and this is a most convenient
time to enact that all railway profits, instead of
being swallowed up in the general revenue, shall
be used to pay off the railway debt. Will the
Cornstalk Government kindly lend an ear ?
An interesting Federal Parliament contest
will be that for Korangamite electorate (Vic.) be-
tween Jack Murray, the truly democratic member
for Warrnambool, and the Camperdown squatter,
of polo fame, J. C. Manifold. J.C.M., by the way,
has seceded from the local National Ass, whereat
there is much wailing in the squatter ranks. He
has developed Protectionist views, and follows
Barton with one exception—female suffrage.
S.M. Herald for the first time for many
years gives notices of John Norton’s meetings—
m his Senatorial campaign. This because Nor-
ton is a bitter anti-Bartonite. One argument of
Norton’s is that Barton means to raise an eight-
million customs tariff, of which N.S.W. .must
gay a large share. How Barton can run the
ommonwealth any other way and whom he
(Norton) would select to run it, John does not
explain.
Amazing admission from the Brisbane
Coubier :—■
We place the sugar industry in front and say that as
soon as it can stand alone ivith the help of white labor the
Kanaka must go.
But the Coubier and Co. won’t give the sugar in-
dustry a chance to “ stand alone with the help of
white labor.” They devote all their energies to
keeping white labor clean away from the industry,
and then exclaim : “Sugar with white labor —an
impossibility ? ”
When Gr. H. Reid visited Adelaide to talk
Freetrade, Premier Holder, who, though he pro-
fesses fervent Freetrade, was then looking for
office in the Barton Cabinet, carefully absented
himself from the meeting, although he was in the
city the night before. Holder, however, shed the
light of his countenance on Barton last week and
appeared thoughtful over the Protectionist en-
thusiasm manifested by the audience. Perhaps
conversion may come to him again. Holder is a
most susceptible man.
The Federal elections are now only a few
weeks off, and both parties seem wholly unpre-
pared. In N.S.W. the situation is apparently a
nght Sydney v. Country. The Foreign-trade
party has swooped down on the metropolitan area
and all its big guns are fighting for the Sydney
vote. Reid, M'Millan, Bruce Smith, Joe Cook,
Carruthers, Millen, Jawbone Neild, E. M. Clark,
and Dugald Thomson are all nominated for city
and suburban seats, leaving the country prac-
tically alone. Not one man of note has been put
forward by the Govt, side for one of these nine
seats. Barton seems to be relying on the country
districts ; but, if only for the look of the thing,
should make a bold show in at least two or three
of the city constituencies.
N.S.W. Freetrade Association has en-
dorsed the candidature of Labor member Thomas
Brown, as against B. R. Wise, for Canoblas.
Wise could not have expected to be consulted as to
who should be selected to oppose him, but
he is wrathful at the action of the Eree-
trade Association in chosing Brown, of
whom nobody, or hardly anybody, ever
heard before. This Brown is one of the
weakest of the “Solidarities” in N.S.W.
Assembly, and the Freetraders run him,
not because they want him elected, but
because they detest Wise. Brown, in the
event of his success, will be pledged to
vote with the labor caucus, and as he is
not the stamp of man to sway the caucus,
his election won’t do much good to the
Ereetrade party. But to defeat Wise !
Dear Bulletin. —Touching that
list of candidates for the Senate from
N.S.W. The long-promised additions
of the names of men in whom the State
could have a little confidence is very
slow in coming, and if these are not
soon announced the squalid, multy crowd,
already with a long start, will take much
catching. In the event of a scarcity of
candidates of respectable political weight,
how would it be for the big rival associa-
tions to each nominate three candidates
in a bunch of six and run them against
the field ? Dick O’Connor and E. D.
Millen for instance. Otherwise some push-
ing, well-advertised nonentity such as Eden
George, or some gilded Incapable like In-
dependent Terry, from Ryde, may sneak
past the electors. Heaven forbid that
N.S.W. should be misrepresented, in wbat
should really be the Ur per House, by a set
of riff-raff. —A.M.
The new appointments (Cribb and Leahy)
to Q. Cabinet make it more Tory than ever.
Both are ardent friends of the syndicator, coddlers
of every variety of alien, squattophiles, and bitter
foes to every form of Democratic progress.
Leahy is a dour, determined, caustic puller of
wires ; Cribb—halting of speech, muddled of in-
tellect, and Ipswichian to the backbone. The
present Queensland Cabinet cannot be called a
A CROOKED POLITICIAN WANTS TO
HEAR OF SOMETHING STRAIGHT.
“Who ever heard,” asked G. H. Reid, “of a
straight up-and-down Protectionist now?”
Cabinet of little men ; it is simply a conglomera-
tion of political shrimps.
Melbourne’s ex-Mayor M‘Eacharn has
now recognised from a platform that he has “a
losing battle to fight,” against Radical Dr.
Maloney for the Melbourne seat in the Federal
House of Representatives. Apart from compara-
tive personal unpopularity the knight is in, a tight
place as to policy. If he runs as a Bartonite the
Freetraders will put up a candidate and split his
vote, and if he runs as a Reidite the Age will
“stoush” him. So poor Smalkum sits on a
barbed-wire fence in his kilts.
Westralia has spent more money than it
likes to think about in making a harbour at Fre-
mantle, and is pledged to spend a further hair-
raising sum before the work is finished. And now
the Forrest Govt, purposes to deepen the Swan
River so that vessels can come right up to Perth,
whereby a good deal of the money spent on Fre-
mantle will be rendered wholly superfluous. Even
riotous Westralia feels something with cold feet
walking up and down its spine as it contemplates
the probable cost of this new inspiration.
Free newspaper postage is foreshadowed
as the policy of the Barton Cabinet. The Sydney
papers that benefit most by free postage at pre-
sent are the Sydney dailies, three of which are
fighting against Barton and his Ministers on the
fiscal issue, so it may be long ere so good a chance
of insisting on postage-upon-newspapers again
occurs. By advocating it Barton cannot make the
Sydney press more bitterly antagonistic to him,
and he would secure the enthusiastic support of
the whole of the country press through the Com-
monwealth.
A London paper tells indignantly how
Gov. Lamington, during his Carpentarian pere-
grinations, visited Burketown and found 25
Chinese in the local gaol on a charge of evading
poll-tax. If the London journal only knew it.
the Q. Govt., under the circumstances, is more to
be pitied than the Celestials. The latter get free
board and lodging for some weeks, and are then
either slowly transported whence they came (if
this be possible) or silently kicked out into the
stilly night when the authorities are sick of sup-
porting them. Whoever loses by the deal, John
doesn’t.
N.S.W. Defence Minister See is in a diffi-
culty over the pay of the returned contingenters.
These doughty warriors signed-on under the
belief that they were to receive 4s. fid. a day, plus
Is. 2d. Imperial pay. The local Defence office
maintains that the local pay was only to make up
the difference between Is. 2d. and 4s. 6d. But
the returned heroes, finding the 17th, or whatever
it is, contingent going out at ss. a day, don’t see
the force of receiving only 4s. fid. when they were
taking part in the more anxious part of the war—
and they are kicking hard.
The “ lion in the path ” of the Sydney
Wharves Resumption Board appointments is said
to be Varney Parkes, who was certain of being
offered the chairmanship when he resigned his
seat for Canterbury in N.S.W. Assembly, six
months ago. The Labor-party chose to infer that
he resigned in expectation of getting the appoint-
ment, and so it has been fighting him ever since.
Lyne now wants to appoint George M'Credie,
late boss bubonic rat-catcher, to the chairmanship.
Mr. M'Credie, who has a large practice as a con-
sulting-engineer, will not take a plain commis-
sionership. Mr. Parkes also aspires to the chair-
manship—and there you are.
Re Arthur Lawley, the new Governor of
Westralia, ah official opinion goes the rounds in
N.S.W. that lieutenant-governors of that State
will, for some years to come, be men of army rank
who distinguished themselves in the Boer war.
Knight Lyne can say something of a suggestion
in that line made to him. Lyne and others have
made the Imperial authorities believe that Aus-
tralia will fall on the neck of anybody who has
killed a job lot of Boers, and consequently as
occasion arises the valorous blood-letters will be
drafted to one or another official position in Aus-
tralia. This was the. bad practice of the authori-
ties in the early Botany Bay days. If S’African
butchers be sent to Australia as Governors, the
authorities will simply court danger.
Apropos of the demand that Australia
should give special tariff concessions to British
goods because Britain is the only country
which lets its goods in free, it may be
noted that wool represents nearly two-thirds of
the Commonwealth’s foreign exports, and France,
Germany, Italy and Belgium admit our wool just
as free of duty as Britain does. They do the same
with hides and bones, and France, Italy and
Belgium also admit tallow free. Further, in the
matter of Australian wine and brandy, some of
these States levy less duty than Britain does !
France, Italy, Germany and Belgium treat
Australia almost as well in practice—though not,
>erhaps, in theory—as Britain does, and there is
o special balance of gratitude due to anybody in
the matter.
Reid, the great promiser, at Corowa . “If
I were Prime Minister of the Commonwealth I
think I would be prepared within a day, or at any
rate within 24 hours, to give some expression of
opinion on a matter of such importance to the
people. This anent Barton’s alleged delay in
propounding a Federal scheme of Defence. Reid
was ever thus. He was always prepared to give
an expression of opinion on any subject under the
sun or in the ether beyond it, even as to how to
reduce his own front. He gave N.S.W. stacks of
opinions as to how to abolish the unemployed in
one month, as to how to create a system of local
government, how to provide for old-age pensions,
and how to run the finances on a strictly cash
basis. But he never got beyond the expression
of opinion in any of these things. What is wanted
is a man with less ability to give expressions of
opinion, but who can show a considerabl deal
more expressions of practice.
Progress, the stationary Brisbane paper
owned by Federal P.M.G. Drake, struggles hard
to whitewash its owner for leaving his party and
selling himself for a portfolio to Philp’s Tory
Ministry :
I s . apparently under the impression that
the Philp Administration is in no way different from
some of those that preceded it. Now the Ministerial
programme last session contained the following measures
—Early Closing Bill, One Man One' Vote, &c. . . . Was
it inconsistent for a democratic politician to join a
Government with such an advanced radical programme ?
If the Queensland Labor Party placed measures before
men they would give a whole-hearted support to Mr.
Philp.
The Bulletin at all events doesn’t share the
Worker’s gross mistake. The Philp Government
isn’t like some of its predecessors. There is a
blessed gift of hypocrisy and snuffle about it
which makes it very different. Only a very
different kind of Government would have
struck the idea of putting One-Man-One-Vote at
the front of a fine-looking democratic programme,
and then devoting almost the whole session to
shoving through a purely Tory scheme of disas-
trous syndicate railways which will further enrich
monopolists and rob the Commonwealth. There
is something rich and rare in the gall of Drake’s
paper, which claims that the Labour party should
have voted, contrary to all its principles, in sup-
port of Philp’s great railway swindlecat pro-
gramme, because the Philp Government had
promised One-Man-One-Vote and had broken its
promise.
The defeat of Labor-man Robinson by
Parsons, the Tory nominee, for Central District
of b.A. Leg. Council was due mainly to the un-
popularity of Early Closing with suburban shop-
keepers ; but had Kingston been available to
vitalise the campaign Robinson might have been
elected. Apropos, the Laborites are much dis-
gusted at the apathy of Holder and Co., none of
whom uttered a word in support of the democratic
candidate, and, as a result, the Leg. Council re-
ceives a member pledged to vote against almost
every item of the Liberal programme.


IN LESS THAN SIX YEARS
VITADATIO
HAS COVERED SEVERAL CONTINENTS.
BRICHT’S DISEASE CONQUERED.
54 Lander-street,
March 27, 1900.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Sir,—l deem it my duty to acknowledge the benefit
derived by me from your wonderful Herbal Remedy,
Vitadatio. For the past four years I have been a sufferer
from Bright’s Disease, and was under two doctors for nine
months, who failed to do me any good, and until six
months ago I was certainly useless and helpless, and
could not walk half a mile without resting, the pains in
my back being so severe.
I was advised to try VITADATIO, which I did, and
after taking five large bottles I am in reality a new man,
all pains and aches having disappeared. lam now able
to follow my usual work with pleasure, and do indeed feel
grateful to God for such a medium, and am pleased to
recommend it to others.
I am yours sincerely,
(Signed) WILLIAM A. FELTON.
For further particulars,
s. A. PALMER ,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
Missing Friends.
■UIcKIM, deceased. Information required of where-
“** abouts of John McKim, brother of William
McKim deceased, late of Talbot, Victoria, carter.
E. S. HERRING, Solicitor,
Talbot, Victoria.
Publications.
PHONETIC COMPANION
to PERIER’S FRENCH METHOD.
The Guide is indispensable to Teachers, Students, and
all who wish to know how French must be pronounced.
Mr. Perier’s French Phonetic Notation, based on English
Alphabetical Sounds, can be mastered within an hour.
All booksellers, price Is. 3d.
Copies may be obtained, post free, by sending postage
stamps.
A. 0. GAERTNER, Sole Agent,
32 Norwich-chambers, Hunter-street, Sydney.
á
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales —
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
.
MILES AHEAP OF ALL OTHERS
. . Are America’s Representative Typewriters . .
a
The yost
... flensmore
.. |)eui Centurt;
Why Search Elsewhere ?
WE Alone can Offer Tou
a Choice.
WE WILL IV USE YOU WHICH IS BEST FOE YOUR WORK.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue— Free.
UNITED TYPEWRITER & SUPPLIES CO. (LARGEST DEALERS IN AUSTRALIA!
114 Pitt-st., SYDNEY ; 362 Collins-st., MELBOURNE ; Barrack-st., PERTH.
Webster & 00., Brisbane ; Reeves & Co., Adelaide ; Hedley Button, Launceston and Hobart.
â
A PENNY SAVED
IS A PENNY GAINED
And the same applies to the many Pounds that the
NATIONAL^
CASH REGISTERS
Would Save for You.
$0
Built Like a Watch
and accurately adjusted in every
detail is the . . ,
NATIONAL
CASH
REGISTER
which carries with it a 2 Years’
Guarantee, showing we have
faith in the workmanship of our
machines.
National CaSb Register C°
335 Pitt Street, Sydney.
W. A . LINGUA 31, General Manager.
*m>T\
or
19 00
All
about
Is absolutely the most
Artistic and best gotten up
Brochure yet issued in Aus-
' tralasia. Contains 10 Pages of
matter interesting to all Cyclists;
also a Pretty Artistic Supplement
well worth framing*.
Copies can now be obtained gratis from any
respectable Cycle Agent, or from any of
s the Dunlop Depots.
SEND OB CALL FOB
COPY AT ONCE.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus. Ltd.,
AND AT
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane,
150 Clarence Street, Bydaey j
and Christchurch, N.Z.
Every democrat should have a copy of The
Bulletin pamphlet, “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” now receiving vicious notices from the
Calico press. On sale at Bulletin Office, 6d.; by
post to any Australasian address, Bd. in stamps of
any State.
The new Oceanic S.S. Co.’s steamer
Sonoma has put up a record by doing the Auck-
land-’Frisco trip in 16d. 3h. 58m. actual steaming
time.
Let the galled jade wince ! Melbourne
bank-managers and clerks wail loudly in the local
Age about the shameful sweating practised on
them by directors and general managers. Where-
fore it is well to recollect how, when the Vic.
Clerks’ Union (now over 500 strong) was started
last year, these same haughty bank johnnies rolled
up to the initiatory meetings at the instigation of
Murray Smith and sundry other pseudo-friendly
directors, and scoffed at the idea of a plebeian
“union,” and consequent affiliation with the
Trades Hall crowd. And now the latter—who
could help the bank-chollies to some purpose—
would be quite justified in letting them work out
their own salvation.
Visitors have fought particularly shy of
prohibited Clutha (M.L.) district since the
imposition of the embargo on the “ accursed
drink, ” and the Otago Professor who holiday’d
there lately is likely to make it his last visit. Of
course drink (of a sort) can be procured anywhere
in Clutha, but the Pro. thoughtfully brought up a
whole case of old Scotch, and when at midnight
the house was raided as a suspected sly-grog shop
the imported swanky gave the landlord away.
He kept his hidden, and the sight of a spectacled
Professor, in his night-gear, arguing fruitlessly
with a smiling bobby at tne front door was remem-
bersome. Said bobby arrested the plunder, but next
morning the Professor got it back as the result of
a wire to the police-inspector.
Gow’s picture of “The Jacobite Rebel-
lion” in N.S.W. National Gallery was bought on
the recommendation of the present King of Eng-
land. Parkes’ account of how the purchase was
made is worth recalling just now. The old man
was at the Royal Academy dinner in 1882. He
mentioned to the Prince of Wales (as he was then)
that he thought of buying the picture for Sydney.
“ The Prince,” Parkes relates, “took a chair, and
sitting down before it, carefully examined the
picture for some minutes, and rising he pro-
nounced his opinion in favor of the purchase. I
telegraphed the opinion of the Prince of Wales
to Sydney, and in reply I was requested to buy
the picture.” One is afraid to recall the story for
fear some absurd Jingo should demand that it be
painted on the frame.
The champion mean man hails from Mel-
bourne. On Xmas Day he fell in with an ac-
quaintance named Wickham. The latter, after
some drinks together, rather than see the other
man go dinnerless, took him towards Bourke-st.
with the object of buying him a meal. When
Wickham extracted a sov. from his pocket in mis-
take for a shilling his friend’s cupidity was imme-
diately excited. He violently struck Wickham,
snatched the coin and ran off. When convicted
five weeks later, he got an extra two months for
contempt of court in remarking to the prosecutor
“ I won’t forget you for this, my lad; I’ll kill you
stone dead.”
A few bitter observations from the Far
North :
Rockhampton (Q.) Municipal Council is rapidly gaining
a reputation. One of its members signs his correspon-
dence “ X—his mark.” There is some talk of running a
Chinaman hawker at next election in order to have
municipal affairs properly attended to. It is about time
something was done. The other day, after lengthy dis-
cussion, a n\o,tion to supply an additional water-cart to
lay the everlasting dust in the streets was negatived.
Reason—no funds. A few days later a motion was carried
with acclamation granting the Mayor—a jolly, good, come-
an’-have-a-drink sort of fellow—an addition of £lOO to his
already handsome remuneration. Rockhampton water-
supply is derived from dirty lagoons. At present you can
scent a glass of this water at 3yds. distance. The color
is sea-green, and the “ water ” is impregnated with the
essence of the droppings of the wild fowl that crowd the
surface of the lagoons. In fact, the water is in such bad
condition that all the fish in one of the lagoons died about
a week ago and, rising to the surface, floated about in
myriads. Twenty-seven cart-loads were removed by the
authorities. And ten thousand or more people have to
use this water daily.
“ Veteran ” to The Bulletin
« Banjo ” Paterson, writing in S. M. Herald (12/2/’l),
quotes an “ Australian cavalry officer to the effect that
“ the only place for cavalry weapons is at the bottom ol
the nearest well,” and refers to “no less an authority
than Conan Doyle" (who made the fat doctor an
authority ?) as saying that swords and lances should be
put in museums. Then “ Banjo ” goes on to show that
the cavalry horses were overloaded, overworked, and
underfed. “ The saddle and gear weighed no
less than 7st.” Well, an English cavalry saddle,
without the gear, weighs 361 b. Add to that
1201 b. for a day’s forage, and 12st. or so
for the man, and the cavalry puzzle vanishes. With 20st.
on a horse's back, ride him 20 or 30 miles a day, part of
the time at a gallop, picket him in the open at night—all
this with half-feed—and then put the blame of inefficiency
upon “cavalry-weapons” forsooth! “Banjo” also
wr it;es:—“ While generals are summarily ‘Stellenbosched
for losing men, it was not likely that our leader (French)
would risk his whole career by sending cavalry on to meet
possibly a destructive rifle-fire. He had his reputation
to consider, and if he had attacked the fleeing
Boers, and had not got the guns, but had lost
half the men, he would have been sent home in
disgrace.” “ Banjo ” doesn't know it but . these
remarks embody the severest possible condemnation of
French. War is full of risks, and the difference between a
good and a bad leader is that the former can, and the latter
cannot, calculate them. If Kellermann had been another
French, he would never, with half-a-dozen French squad-
rons, have charged into the midst of the victorious
Austrian army at Marengo, and changed the history of
Europe!


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - a3TT~ Classes - of
Security.-
LOWIIT INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
a
à
BILLS
DISCOUNT*!)-
3xr.s,-w.
U|ont deplete D.>||. Co., [td-
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
,c TablLsheD 1870.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
'-THBri
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • * 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruck Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600 —assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .'. .. £4,800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23A/’OOI £3,196,353 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M‘Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 ffisliopar/ate Street Within
corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
ncw south wales:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
file Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Oo. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ....£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... 250 100 ... £350,000
|)eui Zealand Insurance Qo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT, _... _, _ .
manager. 81 Pitt St., Sydney.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Established 1879.
United Australian fljutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices:
70 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital .. £500,000
Subscribed Capital .. 251,260
Paid-up Capital .. 40,873
Fife, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager. |
E. B. McKknny, Secretary.
Shipping.
THTHOWaRD smith line.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
ror_ IttLBO urn*
GMLONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL J
Tyrian, Friday, Fab. 31, t p.im.
Ftragrina, Sat., Marak t, llXaaa.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIX
PORT AUGUSTA
■ C»*:r.»r feriy.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, Feb. 23, 12 Noon.
-Bunvah, Tuesday, Feb. 26, 6 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, March 2,12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, Feb. 23, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, March 2,12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tl>« Trustees, CxccCitorS,
AND
AgSOCV Conjpaoy Lin>it€d,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY ... £160,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £8312
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1900 ... £6,326,343
0 0
0 0
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
0. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.O.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building’s, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. £2,500,000
The savings bank in
HAS MONEY TO LEND
VICTORIA
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
T3UYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and.
- L> Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Medical
Will De jeSop or Reduce
any part of the Body.
A PERFECT COMPLEXION
BEAUTIFIER and
Remover of Wrinkles.
Dr. JOHN WILSON GIBBS’
THE ONLY
Electric
Massage
Roller
(Patented
United States.
Europe,
Canada.
wM
j
'“lts work is
mdbeonfined to
the face alone,
but will do good
'to any part of the
body to which iit is
applied, developing ,or
reducing as desired. .It
is a very pretty addition i
to the toilet table.”
—Chicago Tribune. '
“ This delicate Electric Beauti-
fier removes all facial blemishes.
It is the only positive remover of
wrinkles and crow’s feet. It never
'ails to perform all that is expected.”
Chicago Times Herald
’"‘The Electric Roller is certainly productive of good
results. I believe it the best of any appliances. It is safe
and effective.”—Harriet Hubbard Ayer, New York World.
For Massage and Curative Purposes
An Electric Roller is all the term implies. The invention
of a physician and electrician known throughout America
and Europe. A perfect complexion beautifier. Will re-
move wrinkles, “crow’s feet” (premature or from age),
and all facial blemishes. Whenever electricity is to be
used for massaging or curative purposes, it has no equal.
No charging. Always ready for use on all parts of the
body, for all diseases. For Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neural-
gia, Nervous and Circulatory Diseases, a specific.
Price—Gold, 21/- ; Silver, 16/- PAMPHLETS FREE.
Sole Agent tor Australasia—
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins-street,
Melbourne.
G> v
Those
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
ALL CHEMISTS.
HOW TO
SAFELY
CURE THE
LIQUOR
HABIT.
A PAMPHLET with thousands
of Testimonials from Clergymen,
Physicians, Merchants, and all
classes des-
criptive of -
Eucrasy
will be
sent
gratis and post free. This is the
only remedy which can be used
SECRETLY at home with cer-
tainty of success. Address—The
HjmSYpg., 62 HIIMTFRST., SYDNEY
it
The East of Six ”:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By
Ernest Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp.; 6d.
post free.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne Adtlaidt and Albany.
The fin* new Twin-eerew Steamer* of this line will leave
Sydney as under, vis.
RUNIC, 12,180 tans, to Sail Early, MARCH.
And will ba followed at suitable intervals by the
MEDIO, AFRIO, SUEVIO and PERSIC.
The attention of tha travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining-
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell-st., Sydney, and Watt-st., Newcastle.
TO GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE,
via AMERICA.
A. AND A. LINE.
TO ENGLAND IN 30 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE,
BY THREE MAGNIFICENT NEW TWIN-SCREW
STEAMSHIPS,
EACH OF 6000 TONS AND 8000 HORSE-POWER.
BUILT EXPRESSLY FOR THE SERVICE BY THE
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF
SAN FRANCISCO.
Thesteamersof this line leave Sydney and Auckland for
Tutuila (Samoa), Honolulu, and San Francisco every
three weeks, as under: —
Passengers booked to all the principal parts of
EUROPE, UNITED STATES and CANADA
AT LOWEST FARES.
Passengers are booked through to San Francisco, Liver-
pool, London and chief cities of the Continent of Europe,
with special advantages, and have choice of the unrivalled
Atlantic Steamship Lines of the American, Cunard, In-
man, White Star, and other Companies, according to fare.
Full particulars, Illustrated Guide Maps, etc., gratis on
application to
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OFN.Z., Ltd.,
Equitable Building, George-street, next G.P.O.
3XT. D. L.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of - a Total Tonnage of
506,754.; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000 ; Over 3} million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
Leaving Melbourne Tuesday after Sydney.
TO QUEENSLAND, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
YAP, SHANGHAI, and HIOGO or YOKOHAMA.
And regularly thereafter every six weeks.
Umrawpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, «*r apply to the Agents,
WEBER. LOHMANN & CO., 7and 9 Bridge-st., Sydney.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Oorpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks,
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
'■KT. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farqrhar ; Wellington, N.Z., O. M. Montefiore.
VI. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Medical.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
9
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole A gents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, &e.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 CEORCE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
MASON’S EXTRACT
OF HERBS.
NO OTHER EXTRACT MAKES
BEER
LIKE IT.
The Best of all
Beverages and
the Cheapest.
NON-
INTOXICATING,
DELICIOUS,
WHOLESOME.
ft
;v:
Agents :
GOLLIN & CO., Sydney and Melbourne.
NEWBALL &
MASON,
NOTTINGHAM,
ENGLAND.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP Cl
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
p ORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
B.S. Albany, Friday,
February 22, at i p.m.
(Cargo Only.)
B.S. Wollavrra, Saturday,
February 23, 10 a.m.
(Without Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Rock ton, Friday,
February 22, at 5 p.m.
" ud <:he : <ip es t Route to Goldfields.
fiJofT> n P^ BS fB' e tickets are interchangeable after the
rst Fort between Melbourne and Cairns with the
l e r erS ,° f fch , e /V Co. and W. Howard Smith and
s ' fi° r A<^ e * a,r l e and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. onlv. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
A. U. S. INI. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
LOCAL POUTS Weekly.
IvnSw AN " ROCKHAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passent/er Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
nrst port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
0 Adelaide S.S. Company and VV. 11. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application,
ror Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO, Ltd., Agents, 111 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P AND "6? COMPANY!
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows •
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Steamer.
Commander.
lyd ney,
Noon
♦OCEANA .. 6603 C. Gadd .. . |Ma-. 6
♦BRITANNIA 6525 F. H. Seymour .. Mar. 20
♦AUSTRALIA 6901 I. Reeves .. " April 3
♦VICTORIA ... 6527 E. Crewe ... _ April 17
ROME ... 5545 E. Street ... ...liMay 4
♦Calling at Hobart. •
The Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return T7l 10s to 0121
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon)between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
tralia, Exchange Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
iiuwuil uivkj UUOIVCU to UOIII Octv J TllUldi, V_> 111 11 Cky
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
Huddart, parker & Co’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, aimd JAPAN.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
H) < |luiraith,|D < Gacharn&go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotalions, apply
M'llwraith, M’Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-sfereet.


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK
NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
GENUINE REMEDIES
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc.
ALP ALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., potted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s fid.
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. fid. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. fid.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAY_FREE.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful patrons,
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope
of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Sent Post Free
... and . . ..
in Plain Cover.
f
iSl
mg
,
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
■ • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
Alfaline Remedies.
jMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALEALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr R,aSSHIUSSen>
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVICE FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to HftHS RtiSSimiSSCIl.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
3*., Os., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent, free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for l oughs, Cold*, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but moat effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most, perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectua
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidnev Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Hans Peter Hassmussen
pr-
Head
Office
pr-
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BItISBA NE : 309 Queen-street (near Creek-street),
MELBOURNE: 150 Bourke-street (opp. Eastern
ADELAIDE: 154 Bundle-street (near York Hotel).
vTni VELLTNGTON : 91 Lambton Quay.
PERTH: £Bl Hay-street.
KALGOORLIE : Hannan-street (next Lindell’s),
BOULDER CITY : Piesse-street.
PREMANTLE : Henry-street.
Newfoundland has risen in revolt against
the “introduction of capital for the development
of the resources of the colony ” and such-like
ruinous foolishness. That bleak and fishy island
stood out of the Canadian Federation and kept
aloof from the Protectionist system which has
made Canada prosperous, and when it went prac-
tically broke in ’95 its rulers decided that what
was wanted was “the introduction of capital to
develop the resources of the country.” So they
arranged to sell or give away the railway rights,
telegraphs, docks, mail service, the chief coal de-
posits and 1,625,000 acres of land to one huge
millionaire, who was to put the country on its
legs again by the plentiful introduction of foreign
capital. And after five years of these blessings a
new Parliament has been elected in which 32 out
of 36 members are pledged to get rid of this awful
foreign capitalist at any price. _ The trouble is
that he will probably want a million or two as
compensation, and Newfoundland is, if possible,
more “broke” since foreign capital came in than
it was before.
“Kiwi” on the noble old pioneer :
“Go up one” for the “Blatant Pioneer” article in B.
5/li/l. Of the many illusions under which Maoriland
labours one of the worst is that the present generation is
horribly ungrateful to its noble self-sacrificing pioneer.
The bald truth is that the pioneer is generally a purse-
proud egotist, who brags a good deal about what he has
done for the country, though he never dilates on what the
country has done for him. The pioneer had splendid
chances to enrich himself, and it is that portion of him
which made the most of those chances that is loudest m
indecent self-advertisement. The other part who didn’t
do so is generally overlooked. Let any one read the his-
tory of our early land transactions which led up to the
Maori war and our railroad swindles, and he will have
no difficulty in locating the people who now form our
vulgar landocracy and snobocracy, and who would have
us believe that they made Maoriland. Apropos of all
this there is a good story. A thrifty Irishman forged
his way to the exalted position of Mayor of one of our
cities, and one day he invited his old towney Doolan,
the policeman, to dine with him. “ Now, Doolan,” said
his Worship, “you’d be long in Oireland before ye’d
dine wid the Mayor.” “ Thrue for ye,” retorted Doolan,
“ an’ ye’d be long there ye’self before ye’d be Mayor.”
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies alt
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees arc swollen, the joints being
ulcerated j the same with the ankles, round which the skin
maybe discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for °
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Leo's
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores
&c. Price, 111 Great Britain, 1/lid. per box. Preoared hv
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England
Agents *, ELLIOT.T BROS., Sydney. Purchasers sliould
look for tne registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
á
fringes,
Ndtural Curly, from 8/0 eaetb
PLAITS Mtd TAILS,
Sfiin. long, fi/fl. oil real beds,
CUTTINas & OQMBINCB
woritod up, i/6 per oz.
we ore tl><3 che&ptttio MP
trolla for all Uatr Work.
Soon Color of Hatr.^
W.HSwigzell,
( |lO WItAUU STttBBT,
earner of Pnimer-otreet,
SYDNEY.
Coble Tram will stop at Door.
ã
Send stamps tor full Price List*.
Pnxppt to Cooiitry Otdft®'
Medical.
Dr. Eoxwell’s »»?£SILENT PILLS.
XT ON-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEC-
iN TIVE. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish hy affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert— Dr.
Boxwell having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
all leading Wholesale Druggists in Australia or Pill
Manufacturing Co., 539 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
« COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM”
ItHEI
Mkf
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other reined}'. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
a
Is a restorative and physical regenerator of
magic power. A broken-down or weakened
system rejuvenated. Vytol acts on the
nerves, brain and blood, quickly and perman-
ently restoring to the sufferer the lost vim,
energy, strength and vigor of youth. Price posted 7/6.
A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street, North.Melbourne.
Pamphlet, Testimonials, &c., sent Free.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC DISINFECTANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been awarded 100 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases- -especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. C. CALVERT & CO., Manchester.
Medical.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
fHLOROPyNE
Oantion. —G enuine Chlorodyne.
livery bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRH(EA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
1 neler to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
1/
m
/
U
c
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECT BIG
BELTS and
A TELIA N CES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
à
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com*
pound Inlialent, and 1 tin
Nasal Ointment, only
to/-
Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Dr. LANGSTON'S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible remedy.
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C-S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS. M.D.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
INVENTOR OF Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c.
cse Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. i£d. and 2s. 9d. each of all Drug
Stores.
Sole Makers: BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd.
BRIDPORT, England.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
rpHESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
J- out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posted, ss. 6d. per
box. Write to A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street North,
Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-street, Prahran,
Melb. says: “ Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
diate relief, although I had during two months previous
tried all sorts of remedies without success.”
him
DEAF
W 3
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter or
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.., Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address —L.D.1.1 300 Collins St., Melbourne.


T fiß F-BDER.a.L T~iTn-w w
BEAUCHAMP (Tas.), WALNE (Q.), TUCKER (N.S.VV..), MATHIAS (S.A.), L. BARKER (Vic.), all ride
ris
TO LIVE THEY MUST RACE ON THE FINEST MOUNT PROCURABLE
to suit the tourist and the racing man.
- ■ BYPM'EY DEPOT; 385 GEORGE STREET.
THE MASSEY is THE BICYCLE
Don’t Hesitate.
There is just one thing to use if your stomach,
liver or kidneys are “ out of order, ”’and that “ one
thing ” is Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. The
supposition is that you want a prompt cure and a
lasting cure. That is why Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are recommended as the one thing for
your condition. They cure promptly, perfectly
and permanently. One of the thousands cured
gives strong proof.
HE SUFFERED FOR YEARS.
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
CURE.
Mr. John Kerr, 161 Church-street, Camper-
down, writes “ I wish to inform you that for a
number of years, I was a great sufferer, caused by
biliousness, frequently being laid up a week,
sometimes a fortnight, at a time, constantly
taking medicines and seemingly deriving no
benefit. A friend advised me to give Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills a trial. Did so, and after taking
them for a time found myself getting better, and
now for the last two years I have only lost one
day. I still keep them by me, and occasionally
take a dose, which keeps me right.” Strong proof
he speaks after being cured two years. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills positively cure bilious-
ness, indigestion, constipation, dyspepsia, head-
aches, liver and kidney complaints, piles, pimples,
and blotches. Sold by chemists and storekeepers,
price, Is. per bottle, or six bottles 6s. 6d.
Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd. (Australasian Dep6t), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Packed in amber bottles, and the full name blown
thereon.*
■
-3*
f >.'■!
IT IS NOT REASONABLE TO SUPPOSE V
That Bill Martin would win on any hut a
RED BIRD BICYCLE
In the A.N.A. You ask Why?
Best Bicycle he could get. If j
BRANCHES IN EVERY STATE.
11, Bill wanted to win the 1901 A.N.A. and the RED BIRD was the
buy any other than a RED BIRD you’ll kick yourself afterwards.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King 1 Street, Sydney.
The
Original
JOHN JAMESON WHISHT
Agents:
J. Barre Johnston & Co.,
Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The February meeting of the V.A.T.O.
promises to have an interesting third chapter on the 23rd
and already the course of events at Caulfield has ensured
something of a boom for the V.R.C. Autumn fixture,
which starts a week later. Last Saturday’s form opened
up a question as to whether the hitherto underrated
Clean Sweep is not the actually best colt of his vear when
the colors are up. In a small field for St. George’s Stakes
ine Melbourne Cup winner was allowed to start at 10 to 1,
a clear proof that trainer Scobie thought him incapable of
beating Paul Pry over nine furlongs, at a difference of
0n nj ° B ' ® Rupert Clarke’s old horse carried the stable
confidence and went out a hot favorite (6 to 4 against)
but when it came to racing down the straight Clean
Sweep came from the ruck and with one long rush landed
himself a length ahead of poor old Pry. A brilliant
performance.
Evidently Clean Sweep doesn’t show them his
true form in private. The colt’s wins have been more or
less of surprises on three occasions. After the Melbourne
Cup it was supposed by Scobie and Co. that Derby winner
Malster, the runner-up, could have easily beaten Clean
Sweep on level terms, though the lighter-weighted one
seemed to win with pounds in hand. To-day the Ballarat
stable must be feeling very doubtful about Malster’s
supenority. The “ crack ” was backed down to 3to 1 for
eld Futurity Stakes, wherein nothing had a chance
W!th the 6.13 Aurous. Malster (9.8) lost no reputation by
finishing behind the half-sister to Aurum and Auraria,
yet the fact of Finland (9.1) splitting the pair looks bad
tor the Derby winner’s chance of winning Newmarket
Handicap, anyhow. He is probably not a great colt —
merely a good one. Stouter built than Clean Sweep, the
handsome Malster ought to be a better weight-carrier,
but with not more than, say, 8.5 on their respective backs
this scribe would take the Cup winner to beat the Derby
hero over any distance from 6 furlongs to 3 miles. So
there now !
Caulfield Futurity Stakes and St. George’s
Stakes are allowed to rank as w.f.a. events, whereby the
winner escapes a penalty. As a matter of fact) the
penalty conditions are so numerous and unreasonable
that such races amount to handicaps with some of the
candidates “chucked in.” Take five of the 3 year-old
starters—Aurous, Finland, Malster, Fides, and Debenture
—in the so-called weight-for-age Futurity Stakes. Their
respective weights were 643, 94, 9.8, 8.9, and 8 stone. In
the other weight-for-oye struggle young Clean Sweep had
to give 41bs. to a 5-year-old mare—Mane Corelli.
Lancaster, who appeared to have solid backing
down to 5 to 2, ran nowhere behind Clean Sweep and
Paul Pry in the 9 fur. race at Caulfield last Saturday. On
this form the vaunted 4-.vear-old doesn’t look likely to do
great things at the V.R.C. meeting. Present scribe has
no fancy for Lancaster in the Australian Cup. The horse
that, for no sufficient reason, gets selected by the
“ books ” as a nominal favourite for future events is never
worth considering. Thus far Lancaster has not beaten a.
good field of triers over a li mile course.
• * * •
Subsequent happenings make it look as if
whilom manager(C. L. M’Donald) of St. Albans knew some-
thing when at the dispersal of that stud he secured Wake-
ful and Aurous. Within a few days Wakeful won Oak-
leigh Plate, and Aurous (Sat. last) the valuable Futurity
Stakes. Prize-money won by each has more than paid
their cost, and atop of it all there’s the pile raked in
through bets. Wakeful has incurred a penalty, but not
so t’other. She has 6.12 in Newmarket, 643 in Don-
caster, and 6.9 in Sydney Cup. Her performance in
Futurity States, though accomplished easily, is nothing
to rave about. She only humped 641 to Malster’s (third)
9.8. Last-named nag is of the same year as the winning
filly. Aurous (Wallace—Aura) hadn’t previously won a.
• » * •
A par last week spoke of the speedy Wakeful
as a “Sunrise mare,” whereas shj is a daughter of
Trenton and Insomnia. The Wakeful (by Sunrise)
recorded in recent “ Racing Chronicles ” would probably
want a long start from Leslie M’Donald’s filly on a six-
furlongs race.
By the way, intending backers of the New-
market favorite had better be wakeful likewise. Doesn’t
follow that because the “ good thing” got home in the
Oakleigh Plate it will be asked to win Newmarket.
Handicap at a short price. The stable, up to time of
writing, has little or no money on Wakeful for the big
sprint race, so unless the good thing is regarded as almost
a cert,’ M’Donald will possibly prefer to keep it for a
less risky spec, and a better market.
* * * .
Three of the four Futurity Stakes run have gon&
to St. Albans nags. Resolute won first, Bobadil second
and Aurous latest. Other winner—Palmer—was prepared
at Queenscliff.
* * » *
Fulminate’s win of S.T.C. Challenge Stakes,
last week suggests the query, What weight will stop her ?'
Though eighteen faced the barrier, there was only
one in it from first to last. It was much the best
performance in the big list of Challenge Stake winners
for Fulminate (with 9.6) humped a far bigger burden than)
any winners before her, and equalled Kirry’s Australian
record (1.13) put up in same event two years ago. Fact
that there was a gale of wind blowing detracts somewhat
from the merit of the feat as far as speed goes, still there
was much to admire in it. She had 2st. (less 21b.) more
than Kirry in the saddle. Field was the smallest (with
two exceptions) during past twelve years. Fulminate
first saw light at Kirkham, N.S.W.
• * * *
Rand wick-trainer Kelso made a big impression
on the final day (Saturday) of S.T.C. meeting. Moravian
(Hurdles) Bira (Corinthian H’cp), Dandy (Anniversary
H op), and Miss Melos (Highweight H’cp) had their num-
bers hoisted first. Moravian’s success was no good to
backers as stewards disqualified him for interference with
Noble, who got the money. Though Miss Melos won
easily, betting didn t indicate that anyone fancied her
much. Rarely does Kelso make such a slip, but the best
of them do it sometimes, which is why Mo thrives.
» * • *
An incident at S.T.C. meeting (Randwick) on
Saturday makes it appear that P.M.G. Crick can’t get
through with his self-imposed mission of clipping the'
C'-n'r?' 8 it 00 soon—for ’tis common property o that
b. 1.0. and A.J.O. are, to an extent, identical. At finish
of Anniversary Handicap many competent judges and
most pressmen well-placed to see felt certain that corn-
par itive outsider Bombshell had won, but Dandy’s;
number went up. Owner, smarting under his heavy
loss, (for success meant a big cut of the sweep the
prize money, and much in long shot bets) protested
Ascertaining later that the laws of racing placed the-
judge’s ruling beyond question, owner wished to with-
draw, but the stewards weren’t on and fined him £5 for
entering a “frivolous protest.” Rubbing it in with a.
vengeance !
* * * •
Rush on top-notch M.L. nag Advance for New-
market Handicap continues. He’ll need to be everything
he is said to be to have a chance of winning, as, under exist-
ing conditions, he can hardly be seen at his best. By the
time Advance reaches Melbourne he will have been seven
days out of training, and the big sprint is only two weeks;
off. It seems far too much to expect, but still the money
comes and in big parcels.
• • * ,
Said that the race-track will know crack-sprin-
ter Ranfurly no more. S’Rupert proposes sendinghim to*
the stud forthwith.
i n / e H tmenta at (S-A.) Summer
Were 68253 15s - M against 16948 ss.
lor same day last year.
• * * *
„ Westralian pony Natty is a veritable gold mine
down under. She started 18 times, had 13 wins, four
l e l°T’ and ra " only °' !Ce unplaced. At Randleigh she
won three races in one day, including a hurdle race ; at
0,, Sh ? snnexed5 nnexed on « over hurdles and the Eden
Park Plate. At a meeting in North won a five-
furlong race, and in Cheshire appropriated a mile event.
AC Perth, Scotland, she scored one- race the first day and
Uvo the second. All these were for 14.2 ponies, and
Natty is only 14.1. '
* * • •
At Gerald ton, N.Q., the local medico started
his horses in five races and won jthem all. Also, he ran
two seconds and one third. The poultice programme..
* » * *
At Hokitika (M.L.) races a man drew Derry in
a three-horse sweep, and backed the other two, Apre-
mete and Nayborn, on the tote. Apremete won, but was
disqualified, and the race was awarded to Derry. As the
sweep-money went to horse first past the post, however,
the man didn’t get anything at all. It’s certainly a
curious situation to have 'every horse in the race going
for you and yet not win a single shilling.
•-* » •
M.L. champion sprinter Blazes lately carried
9.12 over 6fur. in 1.15 at Wellington, and next day put up
nearly a stone more (10.11) and galloped his field off their
legs in 1.17. Record: 45 starts, 26 wins: 10 times un-
placed.
**. * *
In a two-horse race at Gore (M.L.) winner paid
adiv of £5 Bs. Now, where would you find a bookie
who d lay that price ? At same meeting the winner of a
trot returned £55 13s. on machine.
* • • *
Reported that famous brood mare Idalia, foaled
over 20 years since, died at Hawkes Bay (M.L.) t’other
day. She was the dam of Sir Modred, Idalium, Cheviot,
July, Liverpool, Fair Nell, Enid, Ravenswing, Eros, Sir
Lancelot, Ideal and many more.
♦*. * *
A jockey named Bonner was killed in M.L.
recently during a race. The day before, he had purchased
a song called “ Break the News to Mother,” and sent it
home, where it arrived next day just about the time the
race was run.
♦ * * *
According to a Maoriland paper, a certain
Sydney “ jock,” on asking the owner for his riding fee was
coolly referred to those who had given him his ruLing in-
structions for the race in question.
* • m m
Apropos the Sloan slump. Seems from late
Yankee mail news that Sloan can ride on some race-tracks
there. Though stewards of the California J.C. shutdown
upon him he got licenses from other clubs, such is the
way they have of doing things in the U.S. Interviewed
in America Sloan said that his case would come before
the English turf people again ; he’d be there, and when
’twas definitely deterniined one way or t’other the public
might expect something interesting from him.
* * * *
The base insinuations of the T. and C. Journal
that “doping” coursing dogs in N.S.W. is a common
thing has caused Sydney Rrfer.ee and Melb. Sportsman
coursing scribes to hold up their hands in holy
vr°?i r< A r al }d w ax indignant. Former is president of
N.O.A. or N.S.W. The doggy man is laughing in his
sleeve at them. Writer knows of his own knowledge that
twas done scores of times almost under the noses of the
mother-state Coursing Ass., which has a heap to learn
about the game before it can get even nearly up to
date. Says the Sportsman authority: “I witnessed
about 2500 courses, and the only time I saw the hypo-
dermic syringe in use was for the purpose of injecting
cocaine when a dog was wounded. Twice only during
the season did I witness cases of apparent stopping dogs.”
Of course the “ dopers ” advertise that they’re going to
dope, and do it right in the centre of the enclosure *
• • * *
Captain’s Flat (N.S.W.) miner Dan O’Connell,
Armidale (N.S.W.) M'Coll (both heavyweights,
though their poundage was announced 11.4 each) disap-
pointed a big house at Gaiety A.C. Monday night. O’Con-
nell’s appearance indicated great lack of preparation, and
his actions were somewhat dreamy. Work of both sides
was badly directed and ineffective’from the outset. After
round two Dan did little but flounder and tumble, while
the crowd hooted and groaned lustily. Ultimately
referee Weeks called the farce off and declared M’Coil
winner. ’Tis to be hoped O’Connell will forswear the
game now, as Sydney public won’t stand him again.
M‘Coll is a big raw ’un who’ll probably take a lot of
thumping and give some too in his career, but he can
never be a champion ; he’s too stiff and slow.
* * * .
Whilom glutton-for-punish ment Dan. O’Connell
quitted palpably on Monday night, as all of his kind
invariably do after a time. Joe Goddard did it, ditto
Sharkey, and numbers of dimmer lights. Plucky and
as insensible to blows as men can be, they get all the heart
pummelled and punched out of them, till by-and-bye
they ask : “Is the game worth the candle ?” and, feeling
convinced that a big dose of stoush is invariably their
lot, shape up determined to take as little of it as possible
for the money. The same thing is often seen in the
fighting bull-dog who has been worsted a few times.
* * * *
Sydney waterman-pug. Johns, who has been a
winner right through his career, goes to ’Murka in the
Sonoma, on Tuesday, accompanied by Cribb’s mascotte-
trainer Stoneham, whom the M.L. bruiser sent for. Yankee
fight-promoters have cabled for Tim Hegarty to meet the
latest U.S. wonder, “terrible” Teddy M’Govern, but
Hegarty is in Perth (W.A.) now, en route ’Oine, and meets
-Jack Cullen for the Australian lightweight supremacy on
Wednesday.
* • » *
Match between M.L. pug Cribb and Yankee
bruiser Thurston at ’Frisco (Jan. 18) is referred to as the
toughest ever seen in that State. “ For fierce onslaughts,
terrific batterings, unquestioned and physically heroic
gameness, Thurston has no equal in the business,” says
the local writer. In the 16th round the fight looked'a
sure thing for Cribb, but Thurston crossed on the point,
-and went within an ace of outing the Australian. Cribb,
though badly dazed, weathered the term through taking
an awful pounding, and at the close of the 20th round
was fighting stronger than the Yankee. The referee’s
verdict was a draw. From start to finish the battle was
a fistic whirlwind, a veritable pugilistic cyclone. The
opposing forces lashed and clashed again in a
manner that shook both from neck to heel,
while loud heartfelt “ Oohs 1” came from the dense mass
of man in the building. How long they would have con-
tinued is conjectural, but the stipulated limit had been
reached. The knock-down in 16th round was all that
deprived Cribb of the decision. He was on the floor five
times in that particular 3min. and gave an object-lesson
to the crowd of how a fighter in dire extremities may
save himself by ducking and clinching. There wasn’t
much science in the struggle, but it fairly bristled with
exciting situations. For four days subsequently medical
men were not sure that Thurston would get over the
effects. Cribb spent the rest of that night and next day
in the Hammam (Turkish) baths.
• * * *
Otto Cribb’s first act on reaching ’Frisco was to
seek out his elder brother, who was keeping a saloon in an
•obscure corner, and set him up in a good house in a
fashionable street.
* * * *
Delightfully refreshing to read that at Syracuse
'(N.Y.), on Dec. 3, Fitzsimmons banqueted the judge
and jury who, six years before, acquitted the freckle-
faced freak of a charge of manslaughter laid in connec-
tion with the death of Fitz’s then sparring partner—Con
Riordan—while the two were engaged in a bout. Fitz.
feasted the same crowd immediately after the verdict and
promised to repeat the compliment when next in Syra-
cuse, hence the late treat.
* * • •
Among M.L. old-age pensioners, ’tis said, is
Bob Fitzsimmons’ mother ; she is 83 years of age and hale
and hearty as can be. Son Jack, who runs a smithy at
Timaru, took her to a dance on Xmas eve, when she had
as jolly a time as most others there. Fitzsimmons p'ere
died about 12 months ago.
* * * *
Word from Yankeedom is that Australian
grizzly Joe Goddard recently started as a fight-promoter,
and experienced a hot time the first night. House wasn’t
a paying one, and Joe refused to put the full progamme
on, whereupon hundreds kicked hard and rushed the
ticket-box. Goddard locked himself in while a squad of
police kept the kickers in check. Joe wouldn’t disgorge
though the crowd stood round and howled all night.
* » * *
Big struggle ’tween Dick Cavill and Bob Craig
at S. Melb., 9/2/’l, for 220yds. Australasian Champion-
ship, which former only won by a couple of feet, made it
look as if same pair would supply a hot tussle in the
Mother-State Premiership over same distance last week ;
but ’twas not so, as, after 150yds., Craig kept dropping
behind, until at least 10yds. separated them when Oavill
touched the finish. Time (1.41 1-5) is 3sec. slower than
Fred Lane’s Australasian best, and 7 l-ssec. outside
world’s record opposite Lane and Englishman Derbyshire’s
names, accomplished on the occasion of their dead-heat
“ down under ” last year. Difference in Craig’s swimming
is explainable. He is older and stronger than Cavill, so
the very rough S. Melb. water suited him better than the
smooth, fresh article at Redfern which Cavill fairly
revelled in.
* * * *
At Balmain Swimming Gala on Saturday
Bob Craig (second only to Dick Cavill in recent
Australasian championships) won the 100yds. District
Supremacy by a foot from M‘Gregor after the hottest pos-
sible struggle. Time, lm. 4sec. M'Gregor is a compara-
tively new man, whose latest swim was his first im-
portant engagement. He will make the very best move
briskly.
* * * •
Australasian champion schoolboy swimmer,
Claude Corbett, gave a fine exhibition of stamina in the
100yds. Inter-Ciub Handicap at Redfern (Sydney) baths
t other night. He put up 1.6 3-5, 1.6, and i. 5 3-5 respec-
tively in the preliminary, semi-final, and final heats.
Fact that water was fresh much enhances the perform-
ance.
•'* * •
Looks as if water-polo may boom again in
Sydney. The hitherto invincible Balmain team, whose con-
tinued success year after year choked all interest in it,
went under to Mort’s Dock reps, last Saturday. Now
that the weak spot has been found, other affiliated clubs
will probably take to the game, and perhaps make it
interesting. In the days of old Wentworths, the standard
of polo-play was high in Sydney.
* * * *
Determination of Hunter River (N.S.W.)
Tressider to retire is regrettable. His grievance is that
handieappers don’t treat him right. Tressider’s admirers
have long looked forward to matching their man against
Towns, and had the latter returned in Jan. last, as once
understood, a £2OO a-side bet could easily have been
raised. Such a match might have helped to boom scul-
ling again, but there’s no chance now, as Tressider really
means to give the game rest, he’s so disgusted.
• * •
Sydney Grade Cricket Competitions were con-
tinued after 4 weeks spell. Rain of previous night played
up with the wickets, and made it a bowlers’ day, but no
one did anything startling. Highest score in first grade
was Pite’s (Sydney) 46. Humphreys’ (Paddington) 73 in
third grade topped the day’s doings. Sydney compiled
most runs (106), but Waverley, with five down for 103,
looks like putting this in the shade. Averages of
bowlers : Ball and Gray (4 for 18 and 4 for 17 respectively)
stood out. M. A. Noble had 7 for 35, Howard 6 for 27,
aboriginal Marsh 5 for 25, and M‘Death 5 for 33.
• * * *
Suggested in Adelaide that local inter-state
selectors don’t give the youngsters long enough trial-
one or two failures and out they go. It is called to mind
that Giffen came to the front and kept there after a
succession of failures ; and it is remarked that in those
days selectors were not guided so much by figures as by
form.
* • * «.
George Giffen must bite bis nails when he thinks
of what he missed, long ago, by declining to stop in Eng-
land and be enlisted among the pros. There is big* money
in the game for the best professionals, if they choose to
take care of themselves. The programme of county
matches for the 1901 season includes a benefit for Giffen’s
veteran contemporary, William Gunn, to take place at
Lord’s on Whit Monday, also a bank-holiday ben. for J.
T. Brown, who is still on the sunny side of 3 j, and similar
plums for Lockwood, little Board, and Lillev. Such bene-
fits always mean a net profit of from £lOOO to £3OOO.
* * » *
Where are the rising Australian wicketkeepers ?
There is a splendid chance for juniors just now. Kelly,
Ross, and Jarvis are all unequal to a trip to England, and
all of them are veterans. The best of them (Jarvis) is 41,
and uncertain. Altogether, this season’s record seems
to show that Australian cricket is suffering from a re-
action.
* * • a
“ Yar ” : It should now be easy to pick the very
best Australian XI. Take the nine men (omitting Poi-
devin) on top in batting averages in inter-State matches,
add Trumble and Kelly, and you have it. Seems that
Saunders—who is no bat—should be among ’em, but I
don’t know whom to leave out.
* * * •
Advent of J. Horan in Tas.-Vic. match recently
recalls his father “Tommy,” a one-time top-notch Vic.
bat, and now “ Felix ” of the Australasian. “ Tommy’s ”
last stand against N.S.W. was close on 10 years since.
He is the only player who has made three centuries in
these contests and his total (1295) exceeds that hit up by
any other Victorian in opposition to N.S.W. Bruce
stopped at 1286, but might yet be heard from again.
* * * .
The sparse attendance at Sydney Cycle meet
on Saturday should make those pulling the strings give
the sport a rest. Despite persistent press booming (often
extending over columns of space), the game doesn’t catch
on as of old. The public is cloyed. “ Dull and threaten-
ing weather and Randwick Races materially affected
the attendance,” says Sydney D.T. Writer' saw little
wrong meteorologically, and wouldn’t mind wagering
that S.T.C. meeting didn’t make a differenc of more than
a couple of hundred at the very outside. Too much
wheelman—that’s the only explanation.
* * * *
First distance (3m.) of Inter-Nation event—
Green and Megson (Great Britain) v. Bilmartin and Ivor
Layvson (U.S.) was the best item of Sydney cycling 1 at
Saturday’s carnival. Race was hot from pistol-fire
Lawson won by inches, with Martin and Megson together
second. Time (6m. 4. 4-55.) indicates high pressure.
* * * *
Suggested by. Melb. police that all cyclists be
compelled to register and carry a number on their
machines as a corrective to their persistent habit of
giving false names when stopped for reckless riding.
This habit has become so general that any offender
giving the name of Jones, Smith, Taylor, or such is now
promptly “ shot in.”
* * * »
Sydney Bowling Club premiership tourney was,
on Saturday, fined down to two—Victoria Park and
Waverley. Each has survived every match played, but
conditions demand that one must beat t’other twice ere
absolutely winning. Waverley and City Clubs were-not
drawn together this year. In each of the previous ,t.wo
seasons City won right out with Waverley runners-up.
Victoria Park has never before been so close to getting
the pennant, and, as it has shown the best form of all
right through, its prospects look bright.
* * * *
N.W. Province Bowling Association (Kyneton,
Vic.) claims the oldest Australian bowler in the person of
Mr. John Watson who played with the Maypole Club
(Scotland) 70 years ago. He is 95 now and until three
years ago was one of the Kyneton club team. St.
Leonards’ Club (Sydney) owns a member —“ Daddy "
Musgrave—(still in the game) who’d run the Victorian
ancient pretty close.
* • » •
A Warragul (Vic.) resident named Kemp
Penney has so fine a sense of touch that be can tell a
horse’s age by merely feeling its closed mouth. Several
traps have been laid for him by horsey men, but so far he
has invariably been successful. At a recent bazaar he
performed the equally difficult task of telling every variety
of poultry blindfolded.
* » * *
Doctors are catching-on to the motor-cycle in
N.S.W. ; Elliott, of Austral Cycle Agency, having made
several sales lately. The doctors were the first to utilise
the motor-cycle in England. Then business men
engineered Royalty into taking a on a motor, and
setting the fashion.
* * * *
A coming billiardist in England is W. CoOk,
presumably a son of the one-time champion, William
Cook, who toured around with John Roberts, vears ago.
» * * *
F. S. Beauchamp won the Australian Cup at
the A.N.A. on a Massey-Harris bicycle.*
In 1896 and 1897 Bilmartin won over £5OOO on a
Red Bird. After a lapse of four years, at the first try he
won £175 in the A.N.A. Gold Stakes.*
♦ * * *
The Dunlop Tyre Co. has issued a very taking
booklet “ All About Dunlop Tyres,” Cyclists should
write for a copy at once.*
And now the bubonic plague is at Cape-
town. Poor South Africa !
Brunker is not keen on opposing Barton
for Hunter, and Quinn has withdrawn from the
East Sydney contest, so it looks as if the Federal
Premier and the Federal Opposition leader will
both be elected unopposed.
Siniler Hales was running the Bluff Hotel
at Coolgardie up to- the time of his departure for
S’Africa. By the way, he had his first bit of bad
luck when he arranged to start war lecturing at
St. James’s Hall, London, on what turned out to
be the night of the Queen’s death.
At Barton’s meeting in Adelaide the
“ arrival ” of Kingston seemed almost to have
been stage-managed. The mailboat from the
West only anchored at Largs Bay at 8 p.m., and
Kingston—per special launch and train —ascended
the platform just as Barton was concluding. A
packed audience cheered again when Kingston
explained that, “like my advent to South Aus-
tralia, I came as soon as I could.”
Mr. T. B. Curran (son of that popular
Sydney identity Mr. Tom Curran), who succeeded
to Parnell’s seat in the Commons, in which
assembly he sat for some years as the youngest
member, has been admitted to N.S.W. Bar, on
the motion of Mr. Barton, K.C, Mr. Curran is a
member of the English Bar.
Colin M'Kay Smith, infhrance-man and
journalist, died at Sydney last Sunday, aged 68
years. He was a.fine old Tory, who wrote good
English of the TiMES-leader order, and had much
to say on paper against the Commonwealth Bill;
also, he strongly upheld the capitalistic cause in
all labour and political disputes. But withal he
was an honorable and compassionate gentleman
with whom the world had dealt none too kindly,
and his death will be sincerely regretted by all to
whom he was known.
At Newcastle (N.S.W.) police-court on
9th Feb. 19 wheelers and drivers were charged
with laying Stockton Pit idle without giving 14
days notice as per contract. The wheelers had
no grievance, but struck wit u the drivers because
they considered the latter underpaid. They were
undefended, and pleaded guilty, and were each
fined £2 with 4s. 10s. court costs, and ss. wit-
nesses’ expenses or 7 days. One asked for time to
pay, and was granted 14 days; same terms were
offered to the others, but they declined and de-
cided to “take it out. ” A strong agitation ensued,
and the Minister for Mines wired on Tuesday the
12th to the miners’ general secretary that defend-
ants would be released at once. Work was re-
sumed on the following day. Which affair affords
strong plea for the Court of Arbitration.


TRY A . .
fob's
8F
UJ
O'—
Worth
A POPULAR FAVOURITE.
DERBY TOBACCO
(3 »"
WINS RESPECT.
The Modern Art Jewellery Co.,
187 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone 3490.
Rene Lalique Designs
in
Gold Tie Clips, 6/6 pair.
Gold Turquoise Tie Clips
13/6 pair.
Send for
Illustrated
Souvenir
Catalogue.
4
The Newest Importation
From the Paris Exhibition.
Open all day
Wednesday till
6 p.m. ; and on
Saturday from
6 to 9.30 p.m.
Gold Ren6 Lalique Brooches and Pendants, from 30/-
Silver Ren<§ Lalique Brooches, 5/- to 12/6
Silver Ren4 Lalique Links, 6/-
Silver Ren6 Lalique Charms (size of 3d.), 1/6 to 2/6
Gold Turquoise Earrings
with patent screw, from
10/6
Gold, Sapphire, Opal or
Ruby Earrings, with
patent screws, 12/6
ä
RE6R6TS
What Necessity for them ?
Our Mr. A. A. Roberts (British Optical Associa-
tion) has done nothing but test sight for many years
past and will test yours with pleasure.
FAIRFAX ROBCRTS,
Opticians to the Walker Hospital,
London Prices
for Glasses.
Sight-Testing Rooms Upstairs,
23 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. ___ ___ _____
Proprietor » • GEO. W« ELLIS.
~ Missing Friends.
AJ.T. —Sfend your address to
* MOTHER
at once; have sold everything.
A. A.
Mt. Garnet, Queensland • Smelters shut down ;
some difficulty in treating the ore. The official yarn ‘ ‘ owing
to the extreme variation in the composition of the ore in
the bins and consequent irregularity in smelting.
When the metallurgist has sufficient ore bedded smelting
will be resumed.” Shares fell, but not to such an extent
as to indicate all-round failure, and the market
as a rule is a great truth-teller. A Herberton, and
therefore probably a biassed, correspondent writes that the
best thing in copper in Q. is undoubtedly Mt. Garnet,
that the cost of charcoal is the trouble, that there is
enough ore in sight to keep the smelters going for two
years, and that the first 50 tons of ore produced matte con-
taining 40 per cent, copper and 120 oz. silver per ton. But
no getting away from the fact that some serious mistakes
have been made at the smelting start. Not a word said
about zinc, and in silver and copper-mining silence is sel-
dom golden, but often
Cobar Chesney, N.S.W.: Shareholders’ meet-
ing in Melbourne last week. Shares increased from £1 to
225. 6d., givinga calling-power on 180,000 shares of £22,500.
Already the co. has a debenture debt of upwards of
£20,000. Favourable report read from Green way, man-
ager of Block 14. Says mine can be brought to a pro-
ducing stage with about £lO,OOO, but to put
it in a position to do its own smelting will
need another £20,000. Copper values of a big lode from
3 to 5 per cent, average, probably in the immediate
vicinity of 4 per cent.; some serious mistakes made m
the design, construction, erection, and working of the
concentrating mill which will cost thousands to remedy.
Ball-mills will take the place of second rolls, the second
iigs will be done away with, and when complete the plant
will treat 200 tons of ore a day, and the concentrates and
picked ore will be sent elsewhere. Mine development
« * *
Mt Lyell: More explanations of recent de-
velopments and the condition of the workings, and several
other unsatisfactory features in connection with this
great mine which cannot be explained away by newspaper
“ vabber ” It is a poor lookout when columns of corres-
pondents’ gush are wired to different newspapers. The
fact remains that the co., having worked an undue propor-
tion of the footwall part of the lode, which contains
the best copper, have now to face the other
part and the average must continue to fall. Chances
are that it will come down to less than 2 per cent. More
than that, the lower developments of the mine are not
encouraging, giving good ground for the suspicion that
the Mt. Lyell ore-body is a huge basin, that it will not go
much below No. 7 level, and ’tis said there are in
that, as well as in the level above, undoubted
evidences of the two walls of the lode coming to-
gether. It must not be forgotten that there re-
mains an enormous quantity of low-grade ore above
this level, that while it is low in value it is a magnificent
smelting-base, and the mines for miles around it, almost
without exception, can’t do without it. Estimated that
the co. made about £70,000 last year by smelting ores
from other mines, and the profits in this direction are
likely to be considerably increased, although it is likely
that, as time goes on, the parent co., to make the
same amount of money, will have to treat a
much larger quantity of custom ore—in other
words, smelting charges will have to be materially
reduced as soon as it is generally krtcwn that the co. can-
not afford to be any. longer independent. Hitherto all
the mines have been dependent on the Mt. Lyell. It will
be quite a different story when Mt. Lyell is largely de-
pendent on the other mines, and that time will arrive
the moment it is established beyond doubt that the
Lyell cannot be worked alone at a profit. From all
appearances that time is not very far off.
N.S.W. Dredges: Araluen Proprietary, 30oz.
Good enough to pay probably, but doubtful if there is
much profit in it. Araluen Valley, 330 z. ; ditto this.
Shoalhaven River, 14oz. If the others don’t show any
profit, this must show a loss. Turon River No. 1,16 oz.
No. 2 could not work for want of water, and both seem
somewhat languishing for want of gold. Turons were
once up to £3 a share, when the Sabbath tipster advised
his readers to wade in, jand he has never wearied,
and is still at it, now that buyers are willing
to give 11s., and sellers to take £l. This margin is
representative of others, though not quite so wide. Mac-
quarie No. 1, which so far has maintained the best aver-
age of all the N.S.W. dredges, has some trouble with its
tailings, and delay is on account of the attempt to remedy
this Macquarie No. 2 was built on a rock which came
through the bottom of the pontoon, and it will take time
and money to put it right. The Associated Dredges
will be the biggest in N.S.W., if not in Aus-
tralia, costing £12,000 each, and when they get going in
a month or two they will probably deal with an enormous
quantity of stuff every week ; as they are situated on
that part o the Macquarie not far from the estuary of the
Turon they should make a name for themselves. There
are few spots on the Turon suitable for dredging ; the fall
in most places is so great in that river, and the banks so
precipitous, and the bottom so rough that the bulk of its
drift must have been carried into the Macquarie.
* * * ♦
South German shares were sold at 70s. last
week. They stood at double that figure up to the time
The Bulletin dropped that little bombshell in the
market.
* *• * *
The irrepressible Foster, late Vic. Mines Mini-
ster, is just now barracking for an alleged iron-mine in
his electorate, and the Vic. Government is being asked to
lend the necessary rails to make a 21-mile line from Gipps-
land Lakes Entrance to the “ iron deposits.” The mana-
ger of these deposits appears to be a gentleman of the
same name as the manager of the Mount Deddick silver-
lead-gold-copper mine when Foster the Minister was agi-
tating for a Deddick railway.
* * • *
Jones’ patent gold-saving table, now in use on
the Grey River, New River, and Leviathan dredges
(M.L.), is, The Bulletin hears, proving invaluable on the
West Coast in the saving of fine gold from the black sand,
a matter which has baffled mining people for years.
Jones’ patent can, no doubt, be much improved upon in
time, in which event the hundreds of miles of black sand
in sight can be most advantageously worked ; in fact,
these “ tables ” will, apparently, do for beach deposits
what cyanide and chlorination have done for low-grade
ores.
• » * *
'Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buohu Bitters.
To bis‘. obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
1 oz. = 1 lb.
In other words —“An ounce of Prevention is
worth a pound of Cure. ” The wisest axiom ever
uttered.
Some people do not expect good health, and
wait until prostrated before beginning to think of
cure.
A little medicine used in time is better than
much used after Nature’s rallying point is passed.
The timely use of Warner’s Safe Cure, when
symptoms of liver trouble or kidney weakness
appear, will save you time, money, and suffering.
Mr. L. C. Snowdon, Surgeon-Dentist, writing
from Post Office Hotel, Maryborough, Queens-
land, on 3rd Nov., 1900, says : “ I may state that
I was a sufferer from chronic kidney disease,
which made my life perfectly unbearable. I con-
sulted the best available doctors both in England
and in Australia, but with one result—absolute
failure to obtain relief. I tried different proprie-
tary medicines, but with no beneficial result.
During this time you can well understand the
pain and misery I endured, to say nothing of the
expense. I was staying with a professional
friend, and related my trouble. He suggested
Warner’s Safe Cure, but I ridiculed the idea, tell-
ing him I was heartily sick of both doctors and
medicine. The symptoms gradually became
worse, the pain more intense, and, in a fit of
desperation, I despatched my assistant for a
bottle of this remedy, although expecting no
better results from it than from other medicines 1
had used Thank God for that bottle ! It was
but the forerunner of my complete cure. I used
half-a-dozen bottles, and my cure was perfect and.
marvellous.”
Maxwell, the pious Jingo barrister with
the hatchet face, is standing for the Senate in
Victoria. When a born parson is educated for a
lawyer and turns politician, he invariably suffers
from too much snuffle and shuffle. Maxwell
might have been in Parliament long ago if he
could have professed the same set of principles tor
a month at a stretch. He has been rejected bv so
many constituencies that a vote of sympathy
might inflict him on the Commonwealth.
An English paper :
The unconventional manners of the Australian Bush-
men at the front are amusingly illustrated by the follow-
ing extracts from a trooper’s letter, written from Zeerust.
“ The Bushmen are going home, and we shall be sorry to
lose them, for we have always got on A 1 together, they
had sports at Zeerust last Saturday. Methuen was there,
and the funniest sight was a tall Australian, about Oft.
4in., telling Methuen in a dramatic way how they had
been done out of a tug-of-war by ‘some idiot telling
them to cease pulling when they only wanted to pull their
opponents about another six inches to win ! Methuen
was laughing heartily, and his staff were in hysterics
nearly. The Bushman didn’t care a hang, but spun his
yarn the same as he would to a Tommy. They are a
splendid body of men, and don’t care a rap for anybody
or anything.
M. Masson’s book on “ Napoleon and the
Fair Sex,” is a plain statement of facts reprinted
from Le Figaro. Napoleon and Josephme loved
each other, though their first acquaintance
was based upon the delusion of each one
that the other had money. At Milan, in
the first Italian campaign, the singer Grassnn
tried in vain to captivate Napoleon. He
was strictly faithful to Josephine. In Egypt he
formed a liaison with Madame Foures. She had
put on a Chasseur uniform and accompanied her
husband, a lieutenant, from Marseilles. Napoleon
sent him to France with despatches. The English
captured him and sent him back, having got the
wink from French officers. Josephme s son,
Eugene, was in Napoleon’s suite, and of course
knew all about it. When Napoleon was at
Milan the second time, after Marengo, Grassini
became his mistress. It was concealed from
Josephine. Grassini had a particular friend,
Madame Marchesi, another vocalist. Napoleon
issued a command for Grassini, Marchesi, and
Mrs. Billington, the English singer, to accom-
pany him from Milan to Paris. This was only a
blind to smuggle Grassini over. This woman,
however, fell out of favor through trying to inter-
fere in politics. She became the mistress of Wel-
lington, in Paris, in 1815. De Quincey records
the delight with which he used to hear her sing in
London at the Opera.
The Melbourne milk-carters are making a
stand against the sweating to which they have
been hitherto subjected with impunity because
they do not come under the action of the Shops
and Factories Act. It is asserted that, for a
seven-day week of work beginning at 3 to 4 o clock
in the morning, these helots get only from 30s.
down to as low as 15s. The Milkmen s Union
has published for public information a “white
list ” of dairymen who, in addition to paying
reasonably well, treat their carters fairly in the
matter of board and lodging.
After all the Jingo press yells about “ the
Boers without uniform not being entitled to
belligerent privileges,” it is interesting to note
Wellington’s views on the subject. During the
Peninsular War, Massena’s communications were
harassed by an un-uniformed Portuguese militia,
the members of which he threatened to shoot on
capture. Wellington wrote to him as follows :
The men whom you call “ peasants without uniform,”
“ assassins,” and “ highway robbers,” are a local militia,
which I have already informed you, are military corps,
commanded by officers and acting under military law.
You hold, it seems, that only those are entitled to
belligerent rights who are clothed in uniform; but you
should remember that you yourself have added to the
glory of the French army while in command of soldiers
who had no uniforms. — Wellington’s Despatches, vol. VI.,
p. 464.
“ Plainly, and probably falsely, whispered that
a certain titled Bohemian intends placing his
country-seat under the hammer. He is a free
agent, has no son to will the baronial halls to, and,
being tired of the place, purposes turning it into
shekels—so say some people.
“The Marshall-Hall broil no longer fizzles
noisily, but a sputter awaits the new man, Peter-
son, unless he’s extra careful. The latter’s brother
profs, seem prepared to cold-shoulder their coming
colleague, inferring that, as ‘ a man of honor,’ he
should have declined his appointment when in-
formed (by the Professorial staff) that Marshall-
Hall’s name had been withheld from the Selection
Committee.
“ Cynics diagnose this doctrine as esprit de
corps , in defence of that sacred institution, a Pro-
fessor’s tenure. The Dons’ motto seems to be,
‘ Not all the water in the rough, rude sea can
wash the balm from an anointed Professor,’
while opponents sum up the position of the
’Varsity staff in the words —‘ Scratch a Prof., and
all his mates will squeal.’
“ The few pious papas who upheld Marshall-
Hall for canny reasons connected with their
daughters’ musical progress now proffer quaint
explanations of their championship. Said a plump
proser, in a railway compartment, t’other day, ‘ I
loathe the man’s opinions, but I’m told on good
authority that when he’s wielded the baton for an
evening, there’s a pool of perspiration on the floor
all round where he’s been standing. Marvellous
energy! Marvellous!’ Speaker’s confidante, a
gushing matron, testified that at one time, guided
by hearsay, she herself regarded the hymner as
‘an unclean beast.’ ‘But,’ she went on, ‘l’ve
completely altered my opinion since the nurse
(such a sweet girl) who attended him when he was
so ill assured me that he has the most pure, lovely,
delicate mind conceivable ! ’
“The popular beauty of Melbourne and favor-
ite poseuse of the studios has contracted an
engagement with a naval officer, as milky-skinned
and handsome as she is olive and brilliant.
“ It is recorded of a gay young moth who flut-
ters foolishly round the stage candle, that he asked
a brilliant little foreign dancer why she brought
her husband out with her from Europe, as she
would have had a much rosier time without him.
‘Another time,’she lisped sweetly, with an acre
of promise in her dark eyes, ‘ when I learn
enough English.’ That was years ago, and ever
since the benedict has been pondering over the
reply.
“Palmists are rising to affluence in Melbourne.
One oracle has retired on her gilded laurels, and
others may be expected to follow suit. The most
swagger seer of all has rooms in the heart of town
where he gives audience to a host of the ourious
and gullible all day long. You have to wait hours
for your turn. But then he is the most up-to-date
of Prophets. He sits enthroned in a dark (of
course, dark) apartment in gorgeous apparel —full
Court-dress, with his long locks hanging aestheti-
cally over a lace ruffle in Charles 11. style. He
has the hands of a woman —long, white, _ slender
with filbert nails, and sparkling rings. His touch,
hysterical girls declare, is Magnetic. He is
gentle-voiced and persuasive. His charges to lift
the veil of the Past, or Past and Present, are half-
a-crown and five shillings. The Future goes into
a higher figure, and the whole entire complete
‘To-be,’ down to the virtues and vices of
the yet - unborn, costs the curious about a
guinea. And there are many ready to
prize the pearls of this Omniscient Charlatan m
ruffles, for such an exorbitant consideration.
Yet, if he tells you all that he professes to be able
to do, a thousand pounds would not requite so ex-
cellent a Daniel. The funny part of the business
is the diplomacy he shows in telling the half-crown
client just so much, and leaving off at a sensa-
tional point. Beyond that lies the five-shilling
province—and only the production of a twin coin
to the first will induce the Prophet to proceed
into that apartment. And the five-shilling client
has the same experience. The Seer stops at a
thrilling stage, and only an additional coin will
induce him to encroach on more uncharted ground.
And so on. Yet crowds rush him, and
every little suburban Sallie sells the bottles and
saves up her earnings to interview the wily wizard,
while sovereign Toorak openly stops its car-
riage at his sacred eyrie.
11 A good story is told in camera of a beauty
who a little while back started fast and furious
riding-parties. They promised to be the rage—
and the pretty Diana was to be canonised for her
clever project till one day an accident befell her—
and the new dissipation came to a sudden and
unexpected full-stop. Like the captain of a ship
in trouble, she was the last to leave after seeing
everyone else off. A Benedict (one of the
chaperones) remained behind as her escort. Then
the beauty gave the signal, and they were off too.
But her pony was fresh and played-up a bit. She
determined to take it out of the little wretch and
drove in the spurs. Then the pony fairly bolted.
Beauty lost her whip. A mere trifle. But next her
hat sped away in the wind—and horror ! a coil of
lovely chestnut hair rolled down into the dancing
dust; and that's why there have been no more of
these swagger summer riding-parties.
“ A Melb. girl—daughter of a politician—prizes
an autograph album in which tbe names of all the
notable Parliamentarians in Australia are in-
scribed with poetical and characteristic senti-
ments. The most extraordinary signature is that
of Sir Philip Fysh, which is written in one con-
tinuous string of pothooks, and has to be trans-
lated for everyone. Which recalls a letter once
received by Jennings-Carmichael from, it is be-
lieved, a well-known cleric who dabbled in verse
himself, and who writes a shocking hand. The
charming Jennings had an idea that the 4-pp. of
picturesque flourishes and strokes stood for some-
thing flattering, and carted the lengthy compli-
ment round to one and another of her friends,
none of whom could decipher a syllable beyond
the formal address. John Downer’s signature in
said book is weak, effeminate, scrawly, but he
atones by a very charming and witty impromptu
verse—in French. The K.C., in spite of platter
features, and all that, has a captivating way with
women.
“The latest idea in hideousness is Royal
mourning note-paper —purple in colour, with
black edges. It may be tolerated by the colour-
blind, who, however, before using, should make
sure that those to whom they write on it are
colour-blind alscK
“ The conceit of some Britishers would fluster a
snail. When the soldiers of the King were here,
a local rough was fined for assaulting one of them.
Our bad boy, whose ‘ tart ’ had ‘ chucked ’ him all
day for red-coat society, skulked into a pub., and,
in a surly way, demanded and paid for a‘beer.’
A by-standing Tommy, who had probably
quenched his thirst gratis and felt polite and high-
toned in consequence, struck in— ‘ That ain’t the
wy to arsk. Arslt civilly, my man,’ tapping the
beastly colonial with his little cane as he spoke.
Not to mention two lovely black eyes, the mentor
got enough of the Australian adjective to last him
for the rest of his life.
“Scribe hears of another rift within the lute,
whereon Old England twangs, tunes for Young
Australia to dance to. A Victorienne, whose
English fiance was deriding Australian brag and
self-satisfaction, interposed snappishly,, ‘ Yes ; I
admit we are proud of our country.’ ‘ You have
no country—it’s Ours /’ grunted John Bull, junior.
“ The Woman’s Column in the evening paper
has been encouraging housewives to supply
schedules of expenditure. Newspaper domestic
experts frequently accuse household fairies, who
reveal the cost of their kitchen magic, of ‘ spend-
ing too much on meat.’ The reason, I guess, why
unassisted females cultivate. carnivorous tastes
among their flock, is that life is too short to cater
for vegetarians. A man can’t or won’t live on
plain boiled cabbages and turnips. He can and
will submit complacently if for one dish of meat
you substitute several dainty delicious plats. (It
takes heaps of elaborate purges, omelettes, salads,
macaroni-cheese and such to placate a male per-
son like one simple joint or grill.) Said vegetable
placation lasts no longer than the meat, though it
costs the cook hours of vegetable-chopping, rub-
bing through sieves, cheese-grating, egg-whisking
and so on.
“At presentMelb. she-society parts its lips and
gazes unseeingly over the heads of nobodies in
imitation of the daughters of an eminent person-
age. The prettiest of these comely spinsters, her-
self an accomplished poseuse, need not complain
if plagiarists do appropriate her mannerisms, for
most of her own dainty glances and attitudes im-
press the observer as borrowed, owing their at-
home air to much practice in front of the looking-
glass. Testimony to said belle’s skill as a coun-
tenance-change artiste is supplied by a page of her
photos in a (Jollins-street window portraying the
charming sitter along with her brother, smiling,
laughing, dimpling, twinkling, dreaming, brood-
ing, pining—in fact, rehearsing the gamut of her
facial repertoire.


What Mrs Bowles Found Out.
A hard thump on one’s head may make it ache,
but most headaches come without the aid of
thumps or bumps. They are caused by poisons in
the blood acting on the nerves.
The same is true of pains and lameness in the
muscles of the back and sid ;s—including rheu-
matism and lumbago.
Mrs. Mary Bowles will tell US' about hers, and
how she got over them at last ; and a thankful
woman she is for it.
“About ten years ago,” she says in her letter,
“my back and sides used to ache so bad that I
was often perfectly helpless and prostrate. Some-
times for weeks continuously I could not raise my
hand to any kind of work.
For the last thirty-five years I have worked at
dairying and farming in this district. I am now
turned 76 years old and am well known through-
out the district.
“ When I first felt the pains in my back and
chest I went to the chemist, who gave me a plaster
to put on. This relieved me slightly for a day or
two ; then the pains were as bad as ever. I found
out that it was my liver and kidneys that caused
the trouble, and was prescribed for by three
doctors and a chemist ; but no good came of all
they did.
“ The pairs I suffered were terrible ; I could
hardly bear them. By this time I was so bad I
didn’t know what to do or where to turn for help
Wh,t would have become of me if it had not been
for Mother Seigel’s Syrup I dare not think.
“ But, as a kind Providence ordained it, I saw
an advertisment of a case like mine being cured
by that medicine, and I got a bottle from a
chemist in Muswellbrook. That single bottle
relieved me very much, and by continuing to use
the Syrup of the good Mother Seigel I got well.
“1 now attend to my work as I did before the
complaint came upon me—thanks to this remedy
that was brought from England to Australia,
where it does such a lot of good.
I keep it all the time in the house, and always
mean to. And when anybody is ill among my
acquaintances or friends, I tell them totakeMother
•IP?, 1 ' 8 ®-' ru P’ for anything will cure them that
will. —Mrs. Mary Bowles, Kayuga, near Muswell-
brook, N.S.W., Sept. 21st, 1899.
The character of Mrs. Bowles, and the truth of
of the above statement made by her, is vouched
for by Mr. 0. J. Spratt, Auctioneer for the Far-
mers’ Association, Muswellbrook—who says she
has resided in the district 35 years, and he has
known her personally for eight years.*
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
* l " c:> DEFY comfetitiokt.
WINES
27ie Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
manufacturers of mineral WATERS, CORDIALS &o.
I 9 *
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
UNDER DISTINGUISHED
á
ROYAL PATRONAGE.
A
V, -
' " ■ ■ - 'I.V: ■ .'•VA
m
ill
ml
tm
■WM
*
.
m
Ijfja
\\\
From H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHENLOHE.
(The German Ambassador’s Daughter.)
“' KOKO ’ for the Hair is the BEST Dressing X
know. It keeps the head cool, promotes growth,
and is in EVERY way excellent.'
PKTNCESS HOHENLOHE.
I Recommended and Used byH.M. The
Queen (of Greece). Princess Victoria
I (of Schaumburg Lippe), Princess
Hohenlohe. Princess Marie
(of Greece), Princess Henry Reuss,
Rear-Admiral Tinhlar. &c.. &c.
liOlvO FOR THE HAIR
cleanly or all hair preparations, and is perfectly harmless ’ P events nair Irom lallin £- is the most
OLD PEOPLE IT
l!|i because it keeps dandriff away, and makes the hair grow thick and strong
YOUNG LADIES LIKE IT
gIOSSy lustre ’ and enables them to dress it in what-
CHILDREN MKE IX.
I|| posrMo S ndesrred Sthehair and SCalp C ° ol and o,ean - a,,ays ,rritati ° n - a keeps the hair in whatever
they all LIKE IX
l b e e ad U K lfinhni S n^i. r » e f» a ?,f Cr T stal P erfectl y ‘colourless, contains no poisonous substances, dye. sugar of
it Kw- « i U fKi nltrate i >f 81 ver or & rease > does not soil or colour the scalp, face, or the most delicate
is nitdpd C ln UCe f^ a won ? e^ ful » P^ asa nfc and cooling effect on the head, and no other dressing
is needed to give the hair the most eleganh appearance possible. Try it once, and you will use no other
I
Is., 2s. 6d., and 4s. 6d., of aUf Chemists, Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
Australian Depot: Koko-Maricopas Co., Ld., 14,Castlereagh St.,Sydney,N.S.W.
» CAPTION.—See that this Registered Trade Mark is on every bottle.
â
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottleof medi=
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. ROOT,aB, Endsleigh Gdns., LONDON.
Reaslseriivian Hollow Ground
row Rtt«n
a
a
'Pis?*,
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADEe.
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO.. LONDON. V,
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
TH:E FA.MOITS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA ’’
aS to «. “XL, H Ugh ’ ? iffl r lty 0f Br “ thin *' Hoarseness, Pain or
forcing m allying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither alio ws a CouuW aS n effeCtS a . Com P lete Cure - It is most com-
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine No house should be without^ 0 t nor ns " m P tlo . n to develop. Consumption has
and a Complete Cure is certain. ° nouse snouia be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
BEIWA.RE OF COUGHS ?
EMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR
BRANCH DEPOT
_ __ A Ai'VAJT XLJLIIi L UiX,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
r IT/. C Xl* a. m r* , M ol
. .... _ N °- 5 > First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel 3562
Sma Size, 2s 6d; Large. 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Adless w/Z not obtaiJble LoccUty.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected,—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food
Infants
9
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, A e., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by,
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
. British Medical Journal.
Invalids
and
the aged
E-
The younger of the beautiful Cornwallis
West girls is engaged to the 21-year-old Duke of
Vestminster. Her elder sister married Prince
Henry of Pless (whoever he may be), and the
handsome brother lately fell captive to Lord Ran-
dolph Churchill’s widow. In a matrimonial way
of speaking, Mrs. Cornwallis West has scored an
enormous success with her children, and if she
ever meets the faded Jersey Lily these times she
can afford to smile graciously. They were rival
professional beauties for a while. Each of them
had her photos, in the London shop-windows, and
Mrs. Langtry’s photos, outstayed the other
woman’s. But now the beauty of the Langtry is
merely a tradition, whereas the loveliness of Mrs.
West has living representatives in the Princess
and the Duchess-elect. What a fool is the pretty
woman of sassiety who doesn’t give herself a
chance to mellow into a distinguished mother-in-
law !
Related recently of the new King that
once, when, as Prince of Wales, he was presiding
at an agricultural dinner, a homely old farmer,
when asked by a waiter what wine he would take,
said, ‘A’d rayther hae a moog o’ale.” At this
several snobs laughed, but the Prince, who had
heard what passed, at once said, “Very good
idea, too! Waiter, bring me some ale, also.”
Ihen the laughter froze up suddenly.
A human ostrich :
d-;h° a f k° nd ° n hospital was lately brought a 10-vear-old
h' r '’ for wh °se extraordinary gastric irritability the
ata . loss to account until one day the patient
i 2 f, n " wir .® nalL She admitted having swallowed
several similar nails So, though her condition was pre-
carious, it was decided to open her stomach. Four sur-
assisted at the operation, and were simply paralysed
nwf cnhection of ironmongery they gradually extracted.
There were small and 12 large nails, 93 brass and iron
rivets, from Jin. to lm. long, three collar-studs, one
sate tv pin, and several sewing-needles. Next dav the
patient vomited three more nails and two rivets, and
Aliev. f u* rthe r naiis > ei B ht rivets, and two pen-nibs!
All these things had been swallowed within eight months,
nnw recovered, and the collection of articles is
now in the K.O.S. Museum.
A man from England says terrible things
about the alleged Highlander of to-day :
One interesting feature of the Boer war is the denosi-
tion of the Highlander from his place of pride in the
British army. The man in kilts has passed. The slump
began at Majuba Hill in 81 and ended at Magersfontein
Iho if pre “ ent war - Nearly every time they baVe met,
the Boer has succeeded in damaging the Hielan’man in
someway or another. Even after Elandslaagte, where
the Gordon Highlanders got in and used the bayonet with
deadly effect, it was told with bated breath how, when
the Boers made their last stand, the Highlanders threw
themselves flat on the ground and not till the charge was
blown the third time would they get up again And
then it was a man of the Imperial Light Horse, an irregu-
lar corps who led the way—and died. It was the sudden
panic and bolt of a company of Highlanders who
held al i outlying kopje from which the Boer storming
P art J 8 ? men could hay e been picked off, that led to
the at Majuba Hill in ’Bl. Then the whole force
rushed down the hill. Had they rushed in with the
bayonet (according to Gen. Butler) Majuba would have
been another story. At Magersfontein a whole Highland
Brigade bolted lgnominiously because about ten per cent
tell. Had they rushed in with the bayonet; as the
Guards did earlier in the same march, Magers-
fontein wa B won and the road to Kimberlev
open. But they rushed in the wrong direction.
The reputation of the Highlander has for a long time
rested on a false foundation. When he first blazed in the
British military firmament he was a sturdy individual
fresh from the soil. His charges were irresistible, his fire
fast and accurate (deer-stalking had made him proficient)
and the tighter the place the better he seemed to like it.
In a very little time he made a terrific reputation. Aristo'-
cracy took him up and he became a fashionable institu-
tion. He got away from the soil, and was regarded as a far
and away too valuable fighting-machine to be used up
in small affairs. He gravitated always to the reserve
and the despised line regiments were put in front
to sweat and bleed, and die till the enemy’s strength was
worn out, and then- the skirl of the pipes was heard,
there was a sound of rushing feet, and the wavering ex-
hausted enemy disappeared in a swirl of kilts. Next
morning or so the world learned over its breakfast that
the Highlanders had stormed the heights with their
characteristic dash and gallantry. The fact that a
despised line regiment had, in 99 cases out of every 100
perished in breaking the back of the job, was hardlv
worth cabling, and so the world never heard of it
unless it read the official despatches—and that was too
much to expect any public to do, even if it got hold of
them, which was only about once in a century. The
Highlander is not to blame for his decadence. He is a
good man who has been spoiled. In many cases he has
been spoiled right out of existence, and the alleged
Highlander is not really a Highlander at all, a purely
mdmduahstic Government having allowed the Highlands
of Scotland to be depopulated to make deer forests for
Yankee millionaires and British merchant princes who
never fought anything more terrible than turtle soup.


I
ii&i
*77 V
Jr)3Ures 4
*tia(ak>y
OW>g
y'tK^STJ~~~TTi gS Tgff ■ - ■■
_.,«. cn from the kindly fruits of the earth.
,?i“ L ,!'vi°o„ F “r,™a to tto" *£s “n"£. “oS™
EiS.”“', ££•''thftStoEoi'wtoro. "Sanoalmus ” i. thto r.m.dy, Mng nothin, more not leas
than an extraction from __ —>• oi? a ia/ cbt
r . Au/ppc FRUIT- herbs and SEAWEED.
, , .. r L.U VV t KOj r int _ , fco have found thereby the secret of perpetual
lXXVhave S cS?y 0 to! means O P f perfect health. An elixir of health has been
established. w|RELEgs TEL EGRAPHY TEN YEARS AGO
would have been scoffed oat as toe suggestion of a lunatic, or perhaps regarded m the light of being a
OH AM o ’is equally simple,
„ wilPpVt" chtiL. ,l,ht. For
ISr Blutoingf Weakness ’and Debility, it is a certain cure, in fact it puts such tone into toe
system that anyone may WORLD IN THE FACE”
and fear no man. Its influence on the blood is extraordinary. Two or three bottles of “ Sanoahnus ”
will do more to a case of impu re blood than two years’ treatment by ordinary methods.
CONSUMPTIVES REJOICE
unless in a very advanced stage “ Sanoalmus”. will cure you-under any circumstances it will
considerably prolong life. Taking “Sanoalmus'’ at regular intervals not alone cures but protects
from such everyday ills as Indigestion, Flatulence, Bad Breath, Headache Ear-ache, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throat, Neuralgia, Giddiness, Infldensa, &c. In Rheumatism and Sciatica it is most beneflcia ,
and will accomplish woiiderful results It conquers Backache when all other treatment has failed
For Constipation its action is simply perfect, and renders a healthy and regular working to the
functions of the bowels. List but not least “Sanoalmus” must be welcomed as a divine blessing
for the reason that if persevered with regularly for a brief period it will entirely destroy
THAT HORRID BLOOD POISONING MICROBE,
the recognised curse of humanitv. Here you wi l assuredly realise the far-reaching effects of
thi« ‘‘Sinnile Discovery,” and also the forethought which recognising an evil furnishes the
antidote “ Sanoalmus” (as before stated) renders the blood perfect; consequently it ensures a
lovely complexion, does away entirely with all pimples, blushing, bloiches, or red, rough skin; a
peach-like bloom attends the use of “ Sanoalmus.”
THE UNTUTORED SAVAGE WOUNDED BY POISONOUS SNAKE
or spear turns instinctively to certain herbs that not only relieve the pain but save his life.
“ Sanoalmus ” contains all the properties of these herbs. It is nature’s own remedy. _
MOTHERS TAKE HEED.
When baby is teething, a half teaspoonful of “ Sanoalmus ”in milk will soothe, strengthen, and
comfort- vour little darling. Remember, it is absolutely harmless to the smallest mite. If it so please
you it is within your power to bask in the heavenly sunshine of perfect health, no longer need you
LANGUISH IN THE GLOOM OF SICKNESS AND DESPONDENCY
To be obtained from all chemists, price 3/6 per bottle, or direct from the proprietors,
Wells. Strong & Coy.. 10 Barrack Street, opposite Savings Bank of New South Wales, Sydney.
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK ouchtto contain A BOTTLE of
ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’
*
For Preventing' & Curing 1 by Natural Means
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
TESTIMONIAL. “ I have been a nurse for ten years, and have nursed cases
of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles, gangrene, cancer, and almost every
mentionable disease. During this time I have not been ill for a single day, and
this I attribute to the use of Eno’s • Fruit Salt,’ which has kept my blood m ft
pure state. I recommend it to all my patients during convalescence. Its
va'ue as a means of health cannot be overestimated.”— A Professional
Nurse ( Qualified ).
THE EFFECT OF ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’ ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. IT IS, IN FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION.—See WitlloUt **' yOU liave *
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patenfc
THE
‘PLUM’
å
THE
/~i ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
VX like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact land of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
„ f Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
Price | gj n gj e Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free .to any part of the World.
jjgf Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents: CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
I’ll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(Japillarine
Posted (under cover)
■ to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Prloa, 106. 6d.
SOLE ASENTS.
a
The Result
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair,
jrggr" Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN^C
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
NO BREAKFAST TABLE
IS COMPLETE
WITHOUT A BOTTLE OP
LEA & PERRINS’ SAUCE
THE ORISINAL WORCESTERSHIRE.
Agents— VlßGOE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN & CO., Sydney.
“On Our Selection.” By “ Steele Rudd.”
THE
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This is the only Medical
Institute in Australia with
a bona fide oapital that
stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all contracts.
Elgctro-ftMical apd
SOrgical Bo^titOtQ—
IN AN AGE which is so remarkable for its progress in all departments of Art, Philosophy, Manufacture an**
1 - Science it is surprising to find the practice of Medicine so deplorably in the rear, while thousand
of practitioners in the healing art prefer to remain in the conventional groove of their predecessors. The i reeman
and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise superior to the false code of ethics which
tvrannicallv bind the medical profession, and announce to the public that upon all special complaints they still con-
tinue to be consulted by the afflicted at their old address, Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
EXPERTS FREEMAN AND WALLACE.
The Specialists who conduct the largest practise in Australasia.
_______ .i/wiai- No one should hesitate to consult us, as consultations either by letter or In
SPECIAL NOTICE, person are given FREE OF CHARGE, and Strictest Privacy is always assured.
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
*-» - th “
:
Heart Kidney. Liver Affections. Gravel, Bladder and Spinal Affections.
Nerve' and Brain Complications. Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
Rupture and Piles Cured without Operation. Blood and Skin Diseases,
HEALTH
Wi
m
&
. - ; , '■- : . ..
gg^JfjjKMKimSSSS
E LECTR°
W°'
■ mmm
fS§flf lI.jiSMl
u sura fifcni- KWAI ,
V, rv ~ ' 5
mb
hi l
i AND
i:,#
f3 m - * r
8. ****
INSTITUTE ■ VIGOR
■»• . f r-j
»t*s« E
«1
3* '■
WHY WE ADVERTISE!
Because Advertising is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people
to acquaint each other with their avocations and wants. If a man has a
Speciality and has devoted years of his life and expended large sums of money in studying that- Speciality and in
purchasing the necessary appliances, etc., for treating certain diseases, it would be absurd for him not to announce
the fact, and disseminate tne knowledge universally. We have no apology to offer for.mtorimng the world through
this advertisement and otherwise of the means of relief we can afford to sufferers who need our help. Theiefou,
however opposed to your own preconceived ideas and to those of your medical advisers, our method of treatment may
the factstill remains that it is successful, and this is verified by the thousands of testimonials received from
grateful patients. We make no secret of our mode of practice. We only claim to have utilised in a common-sense
.i. ~*t coipntific research and Ion 0" experience. If you listen to the counsel of your sceptical fi lends and
iealous 6 ph ysician S coiisulting”us* but remembe? if you allow the disease to run not in your system, you
are guilty of culpable neglect, and are alone responsible for your future pititul condition..
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government
Medical Boards of New South. "Wales, Victoria, outh Australia,
Great Britain and America Open to Inspection.
Late Consulting Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne;
Late Medical Staff, British Army.
home treatment.
-If von live out of town and cannot visit us, this need not deprive you
of the benefits of our wonderful treatment, because in the new system
of combining medicine and electricity a complete Electro-Medical home treatment is provided for. Scarcely a day
msses that the news does not reach us of some wonderful home cure of a person living so fai away that a personal
visit could not be made. Write a plain statement of your condition, explaining your feelings and symptoms as clearly
Is posable, and from it we will be^able to accurately diagnose your case. It only costs you the trouble of writing,
and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia s Leading Specialists.
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS
When there are so many quacks and impudent pretenders in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to thenv
sllves the monstrosity of giving counsel and advice in matters of which they are profoundly ignorant, and who
ht but their audacity, sufferers cannot be too careful whom they consult
Although libertv of choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessary. In consulting THE FREEMAN AND
WALLACE ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shall
receive the advice of those fitted by superior skill and education, the result of special study. Our reputation an
unparalleled success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of the World -
CONTENTS FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
Sydoey
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs. F. & W.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
N.B.—QUEENSLANDERS are hereby informed that a. aS Dr ‘ Wa,,ac °
in Brisbane is in no way connected with the Institute.


Overheard opposite Melbourne Parliament
i j >US l 0 ~n n§ Proclamation ceremony. Old
lady to fnend : “Oh yes; E.R. is right-it uster
be Regyner; now it’s E.R.—
Hedward Regyner.”
An ancient claimant at Bendigo Old Age
Pension Court astonished the magistrate with the
declaration : ‘ ‘ Behold in me the nephew
of William of Orange ! ” The P.M. gave orders
for a crown—to be paid weekly.
Writes a member of Queensland’s third
contingent: “ The result of our trip was 170
Boers captured, 14,000 cattle taken, and some 500
Boer farm-houses and farms utterly destroyed.”
Just think of the wholesale misery implied in that
“ 500 farms utterly destroyed ! ”
Brisbane Telegraph’s authoritative an-
nouncement of Foxton’s appointment to the
Federal Cabinet misled no end of Q. country
newspapers. Among others, the Capricornian,
an able, respectable journal, published an article
on Foxton, his merits, demerits, and fitness for
the position. Foxton must have got rather weary
of the congratulations.
“S.S.” : Be a par.— Bulletin, Feb. 16—
about a row at Cardiff Infirmary, raised by a good
Protestant whose leg had been interred with a
Catholic corpse, do you forget that this is exactly
the motif of an old Bulletin story, “ Morgan’s
Leg ” ? If the Cardiff yarn is not a steal, the
coincidence is peculiar.
Prof. Judd, of the British Geographical
Society, proceeds to Fiji to find out whether that
sultry land is really an island or not—a point
most people thought was settled. Judd really
wants to ascertain whether Fiji is of continental
origin or a product of ocean upheaval. Dick
Seddon believes it to be an appanage and offshoot
of his kingdom.
Was the usually-very-rational Wallington
giving the newspaper reporters a “ bit of kid ”
when he professed to think that,the Yorks
couldn’t come to Australia, and the honor of
opening the Federal Parliament would “inevit-
ably devolve ”on Hopetoun ? Or did the Queen’s
death so shock his faculties that he couldn’t think
straight? Which was what appeared to be the
matter with the dailies who surmised a visit from
the Queen’s son, Connaught, in lieu of her grand-
son.
Clement Scott, in his new paper, calls
attention to the treatment meted out to colonial
young men who receive commissionsin thelmperial
service. One young Canadian, it is stated, was
absolutely boycotted by his “brother” officers,
and was compelled to dine apart from the mess. I
The colonial officer, it appears, is at best just
tolerated, and no redress can be got from the War
Office, despite repeated complaints. By the way,
even the English-born officer who complains to
the authorities about his social regimental treat-
ment is generally ignored—and “ damned for the
service ” as well.
The Bulletin receives this story with an
assurance that it is perfectly true :
The flavour of the old Sydney Municipal Council lives
after it. About eight months ago ten sanitary inspectors
were advertised for, applications and testimonials to be
sent to the Town Clerk’s office. In reply the applicants
received a printed letter to the effect that the Council
had been graciously pleased to allow each applicant an
opportunity to qualify for the position. A preparatory
course of lectures was to be delivered at Sydney Technical
College between July and Nov., 1900, which it would be
necessary to attend, and for which each applicant
would have to pay 10s. 6d. At the end of the
course an examination would be held and the ten
men who were most successful would be chosen.
Meanwhile, the Council required its inspectors, and ten
mysterious strangers were appointed pro tern. These
fortunate gentlemen attended the lectures at the Tech-
nical College, in company with about 300 other applicants
who had not had any such luck. In addition to the Col-
lege lectures the acting-inspectors received privately, and
free of charge to themselves, additional lectures from a
high medical authority on the legal side of sanitary
science, as to what Acts of Parliament an inspector
required to know before he proceeded, in the execu-
tion of his duty, to mop up unclean premises. The
students at the Technical College received no such
training, and weren’t informed that it was neces-
sary. They learned all about the construction
of houses, prevention of smoke, systems of ven-
tilation and refuse - destructors, but as to what
legal authority to proceed under the lecturer main-
tained the dignified reserve of an oyster. Then came the
examination. Every branch of the exam, bar one, the
fifth, contained the words “ under what authority would
you proceed?” or “ how would you proceed and under
what authority would you act in the following cases ? ”
The 10 acting-inspectors were filled with this information,
while the other 300 had never had the subject mentioned
to them. When the numbers were up it was found that
“ a strange thing had happened.” The 10 gentlemen who
had received the private lectures—free of charge—were
the only ones who had passed the legal part of
the examination, and they were permanently appointed
to the positions they had filled for the previous six
months pro tem. Some of them failed, it is said, on the
scientific part of the examination, but their success in
stating the section of the Act under which to proceed,
carried them through. If there is anything in appearances
it simply amounts to this, that the Council picked out 10
of its proteges to fill 10 positions, and then for appear-
ance’s sake caused 300 outsiders to lose each 10s. 6d. andalot
of valuable time in competing for positions that they had
not the slightest chance of getting, because they were set
to study one set of subjects and then examined on quite a
different set—where they failed, as a matter of course.
337 Kent-street, Sydney,
Bth February, 1901.
rpo THE EDITOR
OF THE
SYDNEY MORNING HERALD.
Sir, —In your leading article of to-dav, you ask,
“After five years’ Freetrade in this State, have
our industries disappeared, are our manufacturers
ruined, and establishments deserted; are our
people without work and bread ? On the con-
trary, our manufacturing interests are sounder
than ever.”
Our extensive works are almost closed, and
most of the people dispersed to the other colonies;
our plant, amongst the most costly in N.S. Wales,
has been lying idle for over two years. The Syd-
ney merchants are well aware of this.
Until the jam, confectionery, and other indus-
tries had their present Protection granted to them
by Mr. Reid, they were in a similar fix, and we
are aware of their present difficulties at the pre-
sent moment.
How is it you claim success under Freetrade
when you are partly living on Projectionist duties,
to say nothing about making up the shortage of
revenue by using borrowed unproductive money,
and the proceeds of our national estate, which is
sold every year, and “called revenue?”
The A.K.O. Candle Works have been closed
for several years : also Kerosene Companies, and
other industries. The Herald makes a false
statement, and refuses to publish a correction.
A. VV. GILLIES.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue *
The Royal Agricultural Society of R. 5.111.
FIRST ;
Commonwealth Show
3rd to 10th APRIL, 1901.
£3OOO £3OOO
ENTRIES in the various sections close as follows:
THURSDAY, 28th FEBRUARY ...
SATURDAY, 9th MARCH...
TUESDAY, 12th „ ... _
SATURDAY, 16th „ ... ...
MONDAY, 18th „ _ _
WINE.
HORSES, PONIES, CATTLE, PIGS.
POULTRY, PIGEONS, CAGE BIRDS, DOGS.
FARM PRODUCE, BUTTER, &o.; FOODS, &c.:
HONEY.
MACHINERY, COMMON AND LIBERAL ARTS,
COACHBUILDING, &c. ; FERMENTED DRINKS.
EXCURSION TRAINS to Show from all parts
of Australia.
BPECIAL RATES Tor Exhibits by Rail or Steamer.
PRIZE SCHEDULES and FORMS OF ENTRY may be obtained on application to—
F. WEBSTER,
Tattersall’s Buildings, Secretaby.
Hunter Street, Sydney,
Read what Mr. W. MARTIN, the American Cyclist,
. . says about . .
FISHER and Co.’S
MIGHTY “ALOK’
REGISTERED TRADE MARK FOR THEIR
FAMOUS KOLA NUT TONIC.
/a
\
Melbourne, September 24, 1897.
To Messrs. FISHER <fc CO.
Gentlemen, —1 have much pleasure in testifying
to the excellent properties of your Mighty “ Alok.”
I attribute my phenomenal success in Australia as
a cyclist to the use of it. The staying powers it
possesses have been well illustrated in some of the
races I have won, and 1 will still continue to drink
it.
Yours, etc.,
W. MARTIN,
American Cyclist.
The Talk of the Town. The Drink of the Season.
Unintoxicating, Yet Containing More Sustaining Power
than Alcohol or Spirits.
At Every Hotel, Refreshment Room, in Australia, with Iced Gingerbeer, Lemonade, or Sodawater
6d per Glass. All Chemists, 2s 6d and 4s 6d per bottle.
Beware of Imitations. Insist on being served with Mighty “ ALOX.”
Manufacturing Pharmacy, 337 George-st.. Sydney
Nearly Opposite General Yost Office. *
Melbourne Laboratory, 407 Collins-st.
A POLICY FOR THE {Price 6d, Posted Bd.
COM MON WEALTH^
x ... > - •
Being a series of articles reprinted from The Bulletin,
with an appendix dealing with the Fiscal Question.
Price 6d.; posted , Bd.
Amusements.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, BYDNEY.
■ ■ Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bug. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutris.
Every Evening, at 7.45. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
SECOND WEEK SECOND WEEK
and IMMENSE SUCCESS
of the Greatest of all Spectacular Pieces,
DJIN DJIN.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, George-street. Prices as usual.
THE AT RE ROYA L, 8 Y D N E Y.
* Lessee .. .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
First Production in Sydnev of
TH€ SCARLCT FCATHCR,
a Comic Opera, by Lecocq, with additional num-
bers by other composers, in which
MISS NELLIE STEWART
will appear, in conjunction with MUSGROVE’S ROYAL
COMIC OPERA COMPANY, which includes the Sydney
Favorite Tenor, Mr. JOSEPH TAPLEY, and Several
London Artists. Also the DARTOS, whose performances
have recently created a sensation at Melbourne.
PRICES OF ADMISSION—Ss., 35., 2s. and Is.
The Box Plan for the First Performance will be opened
at 10 a.m. on Friday Next, February 15, at the Theatre
(Dress Circle Entrance).
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager Alfred Dampier.
ALFRED DAMPIER,
MISS LILY DAMPIER,
and the Ladies and Gentlemen associated with him.
EVERY EVENING.
f)ALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
HAWTREY COMEDY COMPANY.
LAST 2 NIGHTS LAST 2 NIGHTS
of the
SUCCESSFUL COMEDY,
A MESSAGE FROM MARS,
Preceded at 8 o’clock by “ INTO THE NIGHT."
BOX PLAN AT PALING and CO.’S,
338 GEORGE-STREET.
On SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 23, will be produced the
Successful Farcical Comedy, entitled,
Tom, XDicte, anc3L Harry,
Box Plan Now Open at Paling’s.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* * Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Enthusiastic Reception of Our Brilliant New Stars,
JOHNSTONE, RIANO & BENTLEY,
MR. CEOR&E D’ALBERT,
London’s Idol, LOTTIE COLLINS.
Frank Leon, Lizzie Kirk, Jalvan, Billy M’Olain, Chas.
W. Walker, Millie Herbert, Madame Cordelia, Della
Ross, Florrie and Stella Ranger, Clarence Sisters, &c.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturday & Wednesday.
T H E AT R E, BYDNE Y.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
THIRD WEEK—GORDONS STILL TO THE FRONT.
TO-NIGHT, at 7.50,
THE LADDER OF LIFE.
The Greatest Acrobatic Sensation of the Age,
THE HUMAN LADDER.
DRAMATIC PRICES —3s, 2s and Is. Box Plan at Elvy's.
DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE!
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
One of the Most Brilliant Successes ever known in
Melbourne, Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’ BRILLIANT
PANTOMIME,
Written by that great London Author, Victor Stevens,
3PYJSS IN BOOTS.
A Gigantic and Unparalleled Cast of Characters.
New Scenery, New Costumes, New Music, New Artists.
In fact, everything new and up-to-date. Plan at Paling’s.
Matinees Saturday and Wednesday.
"|*HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE
* Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
FOURTH WEEK of Bland Holt’s Superior Drury Lane
Melo-dramatic Production,
THE GREAT RUBY,
A Picturesque and Stirring Dramatic Story of Modern Life.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 2s, Is. and 6d. Box Plan
at Allan’s. CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
M HALL, MELBOURNE.
FIFTH WEEK. FIFTH WEEK.
SNAZELLE
in the Most Deliuhtful Entertainment Extant,
OUR NAVY,
And Commonwealth Pictures, Every Evening.
Manager for Messrs. West and Sons, CAPTAIN F.
EDWARDS, R.N.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* * Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
ELEVENTH WEEK of the New Musical Comedy,
FLORODORA.
All Records Eclipsed.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, FEB. 23, AND EVERY EVENING,
The Eminently Successful
WOODS-WILLIAMSON COMPANY
in one of the Most Remarkable Plays of the Age,
BARABBAS.
Founded on Marie Correlli’s World-famed Book.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
4?
't'
o
sr
Lr
OLD
RMS
I*
uJ
SUNBU
AFINg
c/?
fed
''■F
-A
CP
HA
STD
&C
fy.
£Af£Y.
.


Like a Decrepit and Infirm
Old Woman.”
A WONDERFUL RESUSCITATION
The Case of Mrs. M. H. EDMONDS,
(BY A LOCAL REPORTER.)
“Will you kindly oblige by giving me
some particulars regarding an extraordi*
nary statement which was lately made in
my presence ? ” The above question was
put by our reporter to Mrs. Margaret
Helen Edmonds, of 11 North-street,
Wellington.
“ Well, said Mrs. Edmonds, “ there are
so many sensational rumours going about
now-a-days that do not concern me at all,
but if you will tell me upon what subject
you are seeking information I will gladly
accede to your request if it lies in my
power.”
“ I desire to know the nature of the com-
plaint from which I hear you recently
suffered.”
“ Oh, yes ; but you will tire of standing
if I tell you in detail, so please take a seat.
My terrible sufferings started with an
attack of acute rheumatism, which first
showed itself by terrific pains in the knee
joints. Before this distinct and awful
agony appeared I felt sensations of chilliness
running through my body for a couple of
days, and I knew that something was going
Wrong. I also perspired very freely, my
skin being very hot. On the second night
after the commencement of these symptoms
I was attacked with frightfully severe pains
in my back. My muscles became so stiff
and ached so much that I was afraid to
stir, as whenever I moved I experienced the
greatest agony imaginable. Indeed, the
slightest movement increased the severity
of the tortures so greatly that I was
obliged to lie in a perfectly helpless con-
dition for hours. I was frightened to death
at the way my pulse was beating. The
blood was fairly bounding through my
veins, and I had attained a very high tem-
perature. It was only with great diffi-
culty and at the expense of much suffering
that I sometimes managed to hobble ab ut
the house like a decrepit and infirm old
woman. My hip joints were also affected
by the torture tlmt was daily drawing the
life out of me. 1 hit feverish and thirsty,
an imy tongue was quite wh'te. The
rheumatism in time spread all over my
body. There was not a limb or a muscle
which escaped the clutches of my dreadful
disease. I got so helpless that L could not
stand on my feet, and when I tried to do
so my legs gave way beneath me. My
'imbs were just as useless as though I weie
paralysed.”
“ Of course, you were under a doctor ?”
“ Certainly I was ; but his treatment was
without avail. Every day and every week
I sank lower. My doctor at last recom-
mended my removal to the hospital, but I
strongly objectedj as I have always looked
upon those institutions with detestation and
horror. Howe er a week or so later my
medical adviser told me that my system
was completely broken down, and that if I
did not them to take me to the
hospital i was sure to die. He gave me to
understand that I was near death’s door, and
that my only chance of pulling through was
to follow his advice. I became greatly
alarmed, as I really felt more dead than
alive, and I consented to go the hospital,
where I remained for a month. I cannot
speak too highly of the kindness and at-
tention shown to me whilst in the institu-
tion. Nobody could be better treated in re-
gard to the painstaking efforts of the
doctors; but still they did not succeed in
improving my pitiful condition. I became
impatient, and left the hospital against the
doctor’s will.”
“ It is a wonder you were able to leave
after so much suffering.”
“ You’re right. It took me all my time.
I was so weak that I frequently fainted
away without doing anything calculated to
produce exhaustion. I was unable to do
anything, yet I was always languid and
fatigued. My nerves were in a shocking
state. A knock at the door, or, in fact,
any unexpected sound, set me trembling
like a leaf, and when darkness came on I
was in a state of nervous terror till daylight
appeared. When I closed my eyes in the
hope, of falling asleep I had ugly images
forming themselves before my imaginative
vision. Fearful thoughts of coming troubles
continually haunted me, and as I could
never get to sleep to escape my mental
tortures I was almost driven crazy.”
“ What kind of diet were you taking ?”
“ Only the very lightest of invalid’s foods,
and very little of that. You can scarotly
credit the awfnl pains I felt in my stomach
after taking food, and behind my shoulders
a feeling was ever present, resembling the
stabbing of a knife. My chest felt as if it
was loaded with lead, and the oppressive
sensation was always accompanied with
great difficulty in breathing. Windy
spasms came cm very often, and besides
causing no end of violent pains in my
stomach my heart was set palpitating to
such an extent that I thought the rapid
healing would only cease when my heart
stopped for ever. My weight was reduced
to about one-half what it used to be before
my illness. Headaches were everlastingly
tormenting me, making me despondent and
miserable to such a degree that I yearned
for death to release me from my every-day
afflictions. Every morning, on arising from
bed, I was attacked with fits of retching
and vomiting. The disease had obtained
such a hold upon me that I despaired of
ever getting better, and I sank to the most
direful depths of misery. When the
doctors failed to cure me I tried many
advertised remedies, but they made me
worse, if possible, than before taking
them.”
“ But you ultimately regained your
health ? ”
“Of course I did, thank God ! But lam
sure I would never have got well had it not
been for Clements Tonic. A friend of mine
called to see me one day, little thinking to
find me so near my grave. After telling her
all about my long months of suffering she
told me she knew of a medicine which
would certainly cure me. I listened with
a feeling of indifference, as I thought there
was not a medicine in the world which I had
not given a trial. I did not even trouble to
inquire what the medicine was called, so
my friend, apparently disappointed at my
evident callousness, volunteered the infor-
mation that the physic she h»d so mu h
confidence in was called Clements Tonic.”
“ Yes, and did you give Clements Tonic a.
trial ? ”
“ I am overjoyed at having done so,
though it took a deal of persuasion, as I
had given up all hope. I sent for one
bottle of Clements Tonic to start with, and
I derived so much benefit from it that I
purchased more. My appetite returned
after several doses, and I was soon able to
eat solid food with a relish. The pains in
my stomach, back, and head quickly
vanished, and my food was no longer
vomited, but digested instead, and did me
good. My nerves were toned and stimu-
lated by Clements Tonic, which also brought
peaceful sleep. The rheumatic troubles
were daily decreased and finally removed
by Clements Tonic, my lost vigour and
strength meanwhile being restored. In
several weeks I was strong, active, and
happy, for which I am under a life-long
obligation to Clements Tonic, and my health
has been splendid since. I would not be
without Clements Tonic in my house for
the world.”
“ May I have your statements printed ? ” [
“Decidedly; publish these facts in anyj
way you deem fit.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Maroarkt Helen Edmonds, of 11 North-street,
Wellington, in the colony of New Zealand,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that
I have carefully read the annextd document,
consisting of three folios and consecutively
numbered from one to three, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of my illntss and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full
permission to publish in any way my statements —
which I give volun'arily, without receiving any pay-
ment; and I make this solemn declaration conscien-
tiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue
of the provisions of an Act of the General Assembly
of New Zealand, intituled “The Justices Peace
Act, 1882."
. '■'* -' /
Declared at Wellington this 15th day of Novem-
ber, one thousand nine hundred before me,
F. MoFARLAND. J P.
Business Announcements.
£5
Wa
à
Medical.
Hypnotism
Reader, why not he able to use the
most mysterious end powerful force of
nature ? By my method you can learn
to H pnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
that are possible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever publ shed. For a shori
time I will send this magni
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply.
Remember this costs you noth
in?. A postal card will bring it.
Order to-day and learn to Hyp'
notize. It is a chance,of i
life-time. Address—
>a
1
i
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy•
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstrk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, Loudon, and sold by all 1
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
á
RCiptore
COr^d^
TXT HEN we say “RUPTURE CURED"
'' we mean it, for it is a fact that
thousands of cures have been accomplished by Dr.
Pierce’s World-renowned ELECTRIC TRUSS during
the past twenty-five years. There is nothing else like it
on earth ! It does the work! Have received so many
letters and testimonials that we hardly know what to do
with them all. If ruptured investigate at once. Our
prices are reasonable, but not cheap. We make no dis-
counts. “Dr. Pierce’s” is THE Truss, and you cannot
be happy till you get it.
You can get our “ BOOKLET No. 1 ” for nothing by
calling, or it will be sent to you on receipt of a stamp.
It tells all about this TRUSS. Address :
Magnetic Elastic Truss Co.,
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO., U.S.A.jor
160 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W H. SOUL & CO., Agents.
A Vapor Bath Cabinet
â
Is a Necessity in Every Home.
BUY a
Batb Cabinet
(Best American Imported),
and enjoy the luxury of a
TURKISH, VAPOR, or MEDI-
CATED VAPOR BATH at
home, instead of at public
institutions, and save money.
Cures Rheumatism,
Sleeplessness, Obesity,
Kidney and Skin Diseases.
Price only 25/», including Heater, and Prescriptions
for Medicated Baths.
Head and Face Steaming Attachment, 3/6 extra.
Cabinet folds flat to 1 inch thickness, when not in use.
Call and Inspect. Pamphlets Free.
J. CHALMERS,
Premier Buildings, 229-231 Collins St., Melbourne.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footstep* of the wise and buy the Be=t,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CNOTHING in Australia.
LINCOLN, STUART&( 0,
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
illllll
-
Our Suit to order at 425. is
marvellous value; made from
wool '1 weeds. Vicunas, or fast
col"r Serges ; it is perfect fitting 1
and beautifully finish- d
A splendid Suit to order from
any class v f material 3« To
measure, capital Trousers, *ery
good patterns 12s. lid.
> Dress Suits to measure.
Clerical Suits, to measure. £s*
Hiding Rre ches. 255.
Hiding 11 hits Ac.
We supply re »dy made. Men’s
.capital l uee l Suits 2ls. <fe 2.15.
I Kara us Ballarat Ser.e Suits,
Indigo dye. 2 s.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergei ette MUts. 30s.
hxceileut Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss, lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests 19s lid.
Men’s Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19s lid. W ite Drill
Sacs and Trousers. 10s. lid.
Khaki Suits, shrunk. 1 ,'s Od.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sees,
tis. 9d, White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9d.. 4s 9d.. ss. lid.
Travelling Trui ks, Ba.s and
Bugs in variety
Men’s White Mints, colored
front and cuffs 2s 9‘t.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs. ss. lid.
Wnite Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket. 3a. tfd.
So t Alpine Hats, Is. 6d.. all
colors.
Hard Hats. 4=-. |»d. Caps. Is,
v erino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d,
Neckties, all shapes and colors.
Is.
White Shirts to measure. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
£s. 9d., 9s. tjd.
We like to write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for any
Information. Our book, ’’ The Philosophy of Dress.” and
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement forms posted free.
Write for them.
AWARDED “ GRAND PRIX,” 1900.
See the Marvellous results obtained with the
No. 1 Panoram
KODAK
Which takes Wide Panoramic Pictures, 7in.
x 2Jin., and is Loaded and Un-
loaded in Daylight; also the
No. 3 Folding Pocket
KODAK
Taking Pictures 3£in. x 4jin., fitted with
.Rapid Rectilinear Lens, Brilliant View
Finder, made of aluminium.
Send for Illustrated Leaflets, and
mention this Paper.
To be obtained of all Dealers throughout-
Australasia, or of—
Ltd.
THE BLOOK,
284 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
M*OUT v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended'
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient ;
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and 1
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Puout & Co., 229,,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all.
chemists and stores throughout the;
Austrian Colonies.
USE
SPOONERS
SPOONERS
jXK 5*6,
r i®f %
*
ATBNT LEATHER BOOTS
'GLAZED AIQS M.
Q,O~ i»t*. *■#* #“** *
M
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,.
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (it*
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers o!
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers r
Loot Shops, Saddlers,eta
From a Maoriland trooper’s letter : —
Every corps in S’Africa that I have seen reckon that
they are the smartest and best fighters. So they are, it
one could believe what the generals say. After every
fight the corps are formed up, and the general pulls their
leg for about a quarter of an hour.
British militarism at Pretoria finds the
local Kaffir hurtful to its feelings in a quite unex-
pected way. Officers die freely of enteric there
as elsewhere in the Boer country. They eat too
much meat and rich stuff, drink intoxicants, and
in fact court the cursed disease from which the
seasoned Dutchman religiously guards himself.
Consequently the swell military funeral with band
accompaniment is an every-week occurrence at
headquarters. The Kaffir, who has a good ear for
music, quickly “caught on” to the pretty celes-
tial part of Chopin’s “ Marche Funebre,” and the
result is painfully ludicrous. If a mayor, mourn-
ing the loss of a dear comrade, walks down the
main street of Pretoria he is bound to meet a dam
nigger whistling the favorite bit of Chopin. The
authorities thought to put a stop to this black
horror by substituting Beethoven for Chopin, but
the tuneful Kaffir caught on again, and when last
heard of he was whistling both funeral-marches
with all the joy in life.
Barton has gained a staunch supporter in
an unexpected locale. S.M. Herald’s pup-
reporter warns dog-owners against following the
advice of Dry-dog Reid to throw puppies into
water to teach them to swim, as that would scare
them from water for ever. A man lately gave £1
for a pup, and on his return home one evening he
found his youngest offspring had been experiment-
ing with Toby in the bath and had drowned it.
Three verses of an alleged poem on
Kitchener, solemnly published by Canterbury
(M.L.) Times
Towns of squalid misery,
Acres of barren soil,
By him have been transformed,
Into places for honest toil.
And if in the fulfilling
Of the call that sent him there,
He merited not the approval,
Of correspondents fair,
Should we, then, judge him harshly,
And his reputation kill,
To please the pique or fancy,
Of Winston L. Churchill.


THE. LEADING HOUSE.
ft
i
ã
IX PREMIER
AJjMMJiMIfUJM
IN3D 'y 3d OS 01 S 6 HOA 3AVS JM
N3W3IQQIIAI ON
ä
LONDON SYDNEY MELBOURNE PERTH AUCKLAND WELLINGTON
No. 82618.
Sterling Silver Pepper
Pot, 11s 6d.
No. 307—Solid Silver-Top Blotting
Pads, 13s 6d, 18s 6d and £1 ss.
No. F2727—Sterling: Silver Hall-marked
Oake Basket, £8
No. F 1022.
Silver-plated Bedroom Candlestick, £l.
No. FI 68.
Sterling Silver Trinket Box,
169 6d.
No. 84741.
Sterling Silver Sugar
Dredger, £2 15s.
No. 129 A.—Pine Quality Opal and 15ct. Gold Bar
Brooch, £2 10s.
Smaller size, in Oct. Gold, £1 6s.
No. E 7302. —90.
Gold Heart set with
Pearls and
Turquoises, I6s 6d.
FASHIONABLE BAMBOO BANGLES.
9c. Gold, £1 ss, £1 16s, £2.
15c. Gold, £2 10s, £3 10s, £4.
No. 198 A.
SET LINKS.
9c. Gold, 15s 6d ;
15c Gold, £1 10s;
Silver, 4s.
No. E 7061. —New Design, 9c. Gold Amethyst
Heart Brooch, 12s 6d.
No E 3184.
Polished Oak Biscuit Box, Silver-
plated Mounts, 14s 6d.
No. E 6412.
Solid Silver Clasp, 10s 6d.
(Drawn Half Size.)
No. E 3938. —Silver-plated Fern
Pot, 3Jin. high, 9s 6d.
No. F 2534.
Thistle Candlestick, Best Silver-
plate, 17s 6d each.
No. E 9248.
Cut Glass Puff Box, with Solid Silver
Top, 13s 6d.
In all Silver, with Glass Lining,
£l l7s 6d and £2 ss.
if'jHEin/**
No. E 8733.
Solid Silver Menu Holder, 9s 6cL
No. 153 A .—Daisy Brooch, 8 Fine Diamonds,
3 Opals, £4 17 s 6d.
No. E 6728.— Best Silver-plated Hot Water Kettle,
with Spirit Lamp, £7.
No. 015. —15c. Gold and Finest Opal Heart
Brooch, £2 15s.
stewabt oawsohj,^
LONDON
KM
Ko 326.—Pair Fine Silver-plated Pie Servers, in Case,
£1 10s.
No. E7058.—15c. Gold and Pearl set Heart and Spray
Band Bracelet, £3 15s.
No. 157 A.—Elegant Scroll Brooch, 14 Fine Dia-
monds, 2 Whole Pearls, 3 Rubies, £6 15s.
No. 145A.—9c. Gold Amythyst and Pearl Bracelet, £2 7s 6d.
No. E8396.—9c. Gold Curb and
Heart Brooch, 4s 6d.
No. E9l37.—Silver-mounted Combs, 5s 6d.
No. 12SA.
15c. Gold Diamond and Ruby Butterfly
Brooch, £3 7s 6d.
No. E 6534
Solid Silver-Mounted
Manicure Scissors,
7s 6d.
No. 388. —Silver-plated Jam Spoon, 6 inches long, 3s.
No. 345 A.
Finest Silver-plated English
Out Glass Butter Gish with
Knife, £1 2s 6d.
No. 359.
Silver-plated Breakfast On et,
complete with Spoons,
13s 6d.
No. £7072.
f> Bell Solid Silver
Baby’s Rattle, with
ivory Handle,
12s 6d.
Others 4s to 21s.
No. 163. —5 Fine
White Diamonds,
£5 ss.
No. 136. —9c. Gold Bracelet, Pearls and Sapphires, £2 ss.
No, 178.—Wedding
Bing, 18c. Gold,
No. 333. —Solid Silver Christening- Spoon, in Case,
15s (id ; Silver-plated, 6s 6d.
No. 267 A.— Solid Silver Embroidery Set, in Case, 17s 6d
No. E 3777.
Combination Lamp and Fern Pot,
£2 12s (id.
No. 122 A Gold Broooh, Fine Set Amethyst,
£2 7s 6d.
S S
No. 295.—Silver-plated Serviette Rings, 2 in Case,
8s 6d ; 4 in Case, Ids (id ; 6 in Case, £1 ss.
Write for Free Catalogue.
Ail Goods Delivered Carriage Paid.
412 GEORGE ST. & STRAND, SYDNEY.


MAKES THE LIVER HEALTHY AND CLEA
EXACT/SIZE
OFTHEBOXILE
g
§55
m
I=3
! • i •
m
jm
Hit
KUTNOW’S
improved Effervescent Carlsbad
POWDER.
I
w
Hirschensprung or Deer Leap
W
ifjf
LP
it*
r London?
41. FARRINGDON ROAD, E.C.
REGISTERED TRADE MARK. .
EXACTSIZE
OFTHEBOTaTLE
Kutnow’s Powder Dispels Despondency, Languor,
Depression, Insomnia, Headache, and Biliousness by Recti-
fying the Disorder of the Liver which causes these ailments.
If yon are despondent, your liver is disordered and you should therefore take
Kutnow’s Improved Effervescent Carlsbad Powder.
If you are languid and depressed, you should take Kutnow’s Powder, as languor
and depression are seldom experienced when the liver is active.
If you have become a victim to insomnia, you should take Kutnow’s Powder, as
inability to sleep is usually caused by liver disorder.
If you suffer from headache, you may secure relief by taking Kutnow’s Powder,
as headache is frequently produced by liver disorder.
If you are bilious, take Kutnow’s Powder, as biliousness is a symptom of liver
disorder.
Kutnow’s Powder thoroughly cleanses the liver and restores it to a healthy
state of activity.
It does this because it is composed of the purifying and medicinal properties of
the famous health springs of Europe. It has all the curative virtues of these springs,
without their drastic, nauseous, and weakening properties.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
KUTNOW’S POWDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles from all Reliable Chemists and Medicine
Vendors , See that the Registered Trade Mark, (t Hirschenspruhg 99 (or Deer Leap), and the autograph
facsimile signature, “S. KUTNOW & CO., Id., 99 are on the label and carton. Only these ensure genuineness.
Insist on “KUTJYOW’S,” and firmly refuse any substitutes ; they may be worthless, probably injurious.
PROPRIETORS IN U.S.A
S. KUTNOW & GO., Ld., 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C. KUTNOW BROS., Ld., 853 Broadway, New York City.
Our New Selection.
IV.—DAD’S TROUBLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Those days of toil and moil —that weary, up-hill
struggle of Shingle Hut —were only thought of
now in moments of merriment. Queer old days
wild old ways that all of us loved to remember
none of us wished to forget.
Farming was not the drag—the wretched, mur-
derous drudgery it used to be. We were improv-
ing every day—rapidly climbing to the lap of
comfort. The wheat turned out a success again,
and the profit made us all rejoice. Still we kept our
heads. The frequent want of a shilling had taught
us the’worth of one. We were not extravagant.
Mother in her thankfulness attributed our success
to the mercy and goodness of God. Dad reckoned
’twas all due to his own head.
“Well, yairs,” he would sometimes admit, upon
pressure, “th’ boys does a good deal, an’ the
women’s done a bit one way er another, too, but
all with th’ hands ; an’ where’d be th’ good o’ it if
there wer’ no head ? . . . Their hands, but my
head ! ”
On that point Dad was emphatic. From his
decision there was no appeal. . Dad was the
Judge, the Full Court, and the Privy Council, too,
at our selection.
Things were worked methodicallv —almost re-
duced to a science. To Dave was allotted a three-
furrow plough and a set of horses which none but
himself used; Joe had a double-furrow and
separate horses; Little Bill rose at cockcrow and
brought all horses fi'om the grass-paddock and
drove them back last thing at night—drove them
gently in obedience to Dad’s orders until he got
out of sight, when he rushed and raced them for
their lives, and flogged them through the. rails.
The horses did their best to get through without
maiming themselves, but the odds were always on
Little Bill.
Dad poked and pottered about—didn’tdomuch —
did very little in a most impressive way. He fed
the horses, and patched bags, and made a leg-rope
occasionally, and sooled the dog on the fowls if
ever they approached the cultivation ; and coo-eed
and shook his fist menacingly at Dave and Joe
when they sat on the ploughs," yarning; and fol-
lowed in the tracks of the men who pulled and
gathered the corn, and found cobs they missed,
and swore. He rarely remained longer than a
minute in one place; he was everywhere, warn-
ing and worrying everyone. He praised the
farm and explained things to anyone who called,
and in a lofty manner disregarded the solicitations
of travellers —he put them all off with an eloquent
wave of the hand. Travellers were not fond of
Dad.
• * * *
A bright, sunny day, after a heavy frost. Dave
and Joe following the ploughs—up and down, and
round and round. Joe came to a standstill and
stared across the field.
“What th’ deuce is he after now?” he said,
following the running form of Dad with his eyes.
Dave stopped his team and stared also.
Dad crossed the cultivation, entered the grass-
paddock and ran along a wide gully through some
thick timber. Three of the Regan boys—ranging
from 14 to 20, were there doing something with a
stout springy sapling; they had at bent, bow-
flshion to the ground, and kept in position by a
lever? A wire noose was fastened to the sapling.
It was an ingenious arrangement they had con-
ceived to catch dingoes in, and they were stand-
ing contemplating, its construction Dad came
with a rush, and tried to fall on one of them. But
the Regans were all runners. They decamped
“ If I don’t make yer eyes black, when I catches
yer, then damn me! ” Dad shouted after them.
They ran harder. . , ,
Dad turned to the bent sapling;—looked at it—
wondered what it meant. He kicked up leaves
and dirt in search of enlightenment. He kicked
his foot into the noose and tripped. The sapling-
left the lever and flew up, taking Dad with it.
Dad was enlightened. The sapling wasn t strong
enough to swing all of him m the air—it elevated
his heels till only his head and chest and arms
were in touch with the ground. He swung like
a slaughtered bullock partly hoisted to the
gallows. He swore lamentably—he roared and
wriggled, and kicked with the limb that was free,
and clutched at the grass. He bared a patch of
ground about his head and went through a series
of swimming movements with his hands. Yet he
swung. .
A pocket-knife and a two-shillmg piece fell out
of his trousers-pocket. He clutched them and
held them fast in his hand. Then he ceased
struggling and began to use his head.
Dave and Joe were still staring in the direction
of the gully and wondering. But they were
nearly a mile off.
* * * *
Regan’s dog, which had gone hunting through
the paddock on its own account while the Regan
boys were setting the snare, returned panting to
the place. It was a dog with a lot of the bull
breed in it—an ugly, surly, sulky dog with a thick
drooping under-lip. It had a bad name in the
district. Dad knew of its reputation. It trotted
up. Dad was hanging motionless, thinking.
He heard the noise. Feelings of hope and
thankfulness entered his soul. He strained, and
leaning on his hands turned his eyes up to welcome
his deliverer. He saw the dog and recognised it,
and groaned. The dog saw him and stood, staring.
It was surprised—astonished. It growled coarsely,
gruffly. A cold, creepy feeling passed all through
Dad. He glared at the brute with eyes of terror.
Then, spurred by desperation, he kicked
vigorously and howled out for help. The dog
sprang back, inclined to fly, but seeing that Dad
remained stationary it faced him and barked.
And such a bark !
Dad blackened in the face—his eyes threatened
to burst. He tried to throw the two-shilling
piece hard at the dog. It rolled short. He
opened the pocket-knife with his teeth. The dog
came closer. It trotted round Dad—drew still
nearer, barking, barking. Dad flinched, and
grasped the knife tighter. There was a pause-
on the dog’s part. Dad collected his thoughts.
He became resourceful. He softened his voice
and said affectionately:
“Poor old chap ! . . . poor old fellow! . . . .
poor — old — hoy ! ”
But Regan’s dog knew a thing or two ; besides
it had become conscious of Dad’s helplessness.
Meanwhile Dave and Joe, weary of wondering,
went on ploughing. But the Regan boys, attracted
by the barking of their dog, cautiously re-entered
the paddock and approached the gully. When in
sight of the snare they took in the situation and
ran up, shouting to the dog to desist. The sound
of their voices only emboldened the brute. It
misunderstood. Their shrieks it took for words
of encouragement, and, laying bare its teeth, it
rushed in and barked close against Dad’s ribs.
Dad shuddered and writhed. His flesh twitched.
He missed the dog’s nose with the pocket-knife.
In return the dog snatched a mouthful of his
pants and some of his thigh, and would have had
more only the Regan boys came up and beat it
off with sticks.
They released Dad in a hurry and ran away
again; there was nothing mean or mercenary
about them.
STEELE RUDD.
Not a Bad Sort—A Hobblede-
hoy’s Story.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAD only known Kellow half-an-hour when, as
we were lying on the grass, he asked me for a fill
as he saw me lighting my own pipe. I handed
him a new cake ; he cut the corner off it and gave
it (the corner) back to me, and after filling his
pipe, put the rest in his pocket. He was affable
enough in conversation, and I gathered that he
had a profound contempt for all chumps and
mugs. He asked me if I had anything particular
in view for next day. Told him I hadn’t. “Then
what say to a day’s fishing ? ” I acquiesced, and
he was grateful enough to tell me I could get the
lines and hooks, whilst he would provide the
sinkers. He got these at the blacksmith’s shop,
and I don’t know that the man of iron was any
the richer after it. As I could see no alternative,
I accordingly bought two lines and the necessary
hooks.
We met in the morning at the appointed time
and place, and proceeded to the rocks. On the
way, we had to pass a pub. Would he have a
drink? Well, he should smile ! I shouted, and
we went on. Twenty yards past the pub. he
stopped, and intimated that a bottle of schnapps
would no way interfere with the biting of the fish.
I also thought it wouldn’t. “I’ll hold the bag,
then,” said he, taking it from me ; and again had
I to bow to the inevitable, and go and get the
tanglefoot. I carried the bag, half-full of iron
sinkers, while he walked about four yards ahead
with the bottle.
Arrived at the rocks, he told me to take off my
boots and see about getting bait, and to lend him
my knife to cut off some cunji he could see on a
rock. As he was not over expert at cutting cunji,
he soon broke the knife. Then he looked up at
me in great disgust. I had kept that knife for
over five years, and valued it dearly. I explained
that the storekeeper guaranteed it to be of the
best. “ Yes,” said he ; “he knew when he was
dealing with a chump.” (Kellow himself evidently
did). One good blade still remained. “ Well, it’s
no use now,” he said as he put it in his pocket.
I never saw it again, except in Kellow’s hands.
On the first throw, my amiable friend’s line, cork
and all, went flying out to sea. Then he blas-
phemed and denounced me for not holding the
cork. He sat down and I fished. Presently I
got a good bite, and stood up to prepare. “ A
bite?” said my mate. I nodded. “Let’s feel,”
he said as he took the line and moved to another
part of the rock, and gave me to understand
that the day’s fishing, as far as I was
concerned, had terminated. I had to sit
down and feel interested in the horizon.
Presently, Rellow hauled in a nice schnapper.
I reckoned that it should be mine—and said so.
Rellow calmly ignored me, and threw out again.
Determined on retribution, I put myself outside
the schnapps and both our lunches on the sly.
Then I felt better, and, after a bit, the spirits
began to have due effect on me, so that, when
Rellow ordered me to climb down the.rock and
get a big crab' he had seen, I overbalanced,
and in I went. When I came to the sur-
face, the. “drawback” had me out about 10
ifards. I went down twice and then lost
Consciousness. When I came-to, Rellow —the
hateful Rellow, on whom I had resolved to
have revenge—was pulling me up on a low shelf
of rock, himself dripping wet and a bit scared.
“Wait till I get you the schnapps,” he said, and
ran for it. But, alas! Then he looked in the
lunch-basket. Alack !
Rellow said nothing, but his silence was elo-
quent. He heaved into the water all his line,
then the bait and bottle; the 61b. fish followed,
and then my bag, which had cost me ss. 6d. at
the saddler’s. Then he put on his boots, roared
“ Come on home! ” and led the way. Only once
he turned round and said, “Just don’t you ask me
to go fishing with you again ! ”
I still buy drinks for Rellow and give him cakes
of tobacco (of which I get a corner back), and ask
him to dinner on Sundays. He’s not a bad sort,
after all.
B. BLUEY.
About a hundred papers in different parts
of this population-hungry country have risen to
cordially approve of Chief-Justice Stout’s pro-
posal that Boers be invited to immigrate in large
numbers to Australia. Perth Morning Herald
goes so far as to say
It would be difficult to find a more desirable class of
immigrant than the Boer farmer. His industry is pro-
verbial, and he would prove in every way as estimable a
settler as, for instance, the German farmers in S.A.
Truly the allegedly dirty, lazy, shiftless, cowardly
Boer, who—so the frantic Jingoes of a few months
ago assured us—had all the bad qualities under
the sun, is beginning to look-up. He is now a
man whose industry is proverbial, and the best
possible man we could get to show the Australian
the way he should go. Yet there are still some
who stick to the old beliefs. For instance, “Ser-
geant-major H. T. Bead, N.S.W. Lancers,” writes
to “Mr. B. F. Evans,” of Sydney Sunday Times,
and B. F. publishes it in the kitchen-wenches
organ :
I have found out their (the Boers’) peculiarities to my
sorrow. I will sum them up in these few words— they
are a lying, thieving, vindictive, treacherous lot of
hounds; they are even treacherous to one another,
“ these poor, ignorant, God-fearing people,” as our pro-
Boer sympathisers would say. These are expressions
used by people who never lived with them. Their
religion ! God forbid that I should ever use religion for
so base an obiect, as the Boers only use it to cloak their
iniquities. I'cannot write too severely on this subject,
as I have studied their actions minutely. lam willing to
admit that there are a few good men among them, but
they are few and far between, and as to the women, they
are worse than the men. There is no such a thing as love
or sympathy in their composition. They even urge their
husbands to disregard their oaths and take up arms and
go on commando. I am thoroughly disgusted with the
race, for I did think there was some spark of honor and
gratitude in these people ; but I find they are devoid of
sentiment, conscientiousness, or truth.
“ A look from her would ripen fruit.” —
Balzac.


People Who Work !
J
r.
Take out of the world the
people who work and there
wouldn’t be enough left to
make a respectable commun-
ity.
The working people are the
bone and sinew of the human
race
Hard work makes bad
hacks, give the kidneys too
much to do and backache is the first note of
warning, followed by urinary trouble if not
relieved.
A Sydney Man.
Mr. James Hudson, 10 Lennox-street, Newtown, this city, says: “I work in the Bondi sewer.
There is a constant drip, drip there ; and when working it mostly happens that one is wet through.
Some parts are better than others ; but while working in the shafts one is continually damp, and this
affected my health. My trouble came with a bad cold in my kidneys, which caused terrible pains in
the back. I did my work, but it was most fearful torture for me to do so, as you can well understand.
I was exceedingly bad with these pains, when I saw Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills advertised, and it
struck me by the name of the remedy that it should be good for my complaint. I procured a box at
Newman’s Pharmacy, in King-street, and they cured me in a fairly quick time. I could not take
them constantly, being afraid to use them while working in the wet sewers ; but I managed to take
two doses a week. The nature of my work causes me to have slight returns of the pain ; but I take a
dose of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, which never fails to cure me. lam never without them in the
house.”
The household duties which
devolve on most women tax the
Kidneys. Stooping positions,
straining the back, and the cares
of the home will in time affect
the most healthy of womankind.
Every woman will find quick
relief and permanent cure in
the use of
4/
floan’s gackache Kidney pills.
They act on the Kidneys only, and never
fail to relieve the aching back and cure every
form of urinary disorders.
A Sydney Woman.
Mrs. Wright, 6 Red Lion Street, Balmain, this city, says:—“About twelve months ago I used
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, which I procured at Newman’s Pharmacy, to see whether they would
cure a cold which had settled in my kidneys. The pain in my back was very bad indeed, so bad that
it caused me very much inconvenience as well as pam. You see it was in such a place that it affected
the whole of my system. Less than one box of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me. In fact, a
few doses rid me of all pain, but I took a dose now and again to make sure that that terrible pain
would never return. They are first-class pills, and I hope that anybody who is having such an experi-
ence as I had will lose no time in getting this extremely valuable remedy.”
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS are for sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at
2s. 9d. per box, or six boxes for 15s. 3d.; or same will be forwarded on receipt of price by the pro-
prietors, Foster McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Eczema.
Ever have any irritation of the skin ? There are
many forms of it, any of them bad enough to tax
your patience. Hemorrhoid, a plague of the
night; no rest for the sufferer from this complaint.
Eczema, too; hives don’t sound dangerous, but
they cause much misery to those unfortunate
enough to be troubled with them. Doan’s Oint-
ment is “a wonder” for any such trouble. No
troublesome irritation of the skin can resist its
healing, soothing influence. We know it, and lots
of Sydney people know it now.
A nurse, residing at 428 Jones-street, Ultimo,
states: “I have been a sufferer from itchiness of
the skin for some time. I did not know the cause
of it, but it irritated me very much indeed. I
have cured many skin complaints for other people,
but I could not get anything that was good for my
own ailment until I used Doan’s Ointment, which
I procured.pne day when visiting Newman’s Phar-
macy in King-street. I think I must have used
almost everything for such troubles, but Doan’s
Ointment is best of all. It cured the itchiness
which I suffered from entirely and almost imme-
diately.”
The lady gave us these facts twelve months ago,
and now she speaks further upon the subject: “ A
year ago I gave you a testimonial regarding the
medicinal properties of Doan’s Ointment. I have
used this Ointment for various purposes since, and
noticed its splendid curative powers, and must
acknowledge that it is the finest remedy for skin
diseases I have ever come across. It seems to cure
permanently in every case, and its quick effects
are simply marvellous.”
Doan’s Ointment is splendid in all Diseases of
the Skin, Eczema, Piles, Hives, Insect Bites, Sores,
Chilblains, &c. It is perfectly safe and very effec-
tive.
Doan’s Ointment has been tested in so many
ways, in hospital work, in private practice, and
has proved so successful that a special arrange-
ment has been made by which all readers of The
Bulletin who have not already tried it may
obtain a sample pot, free by mail, by sending us
their names and addresses and a penny stamp to
pay postage. We know that this Ointment will
cure these affections, that it will cure them abso-
lutely, and we want you to know it. It is per-
fectly unnecessary for anyone to suffer from Piles
or Eczema for one moment. Doan’s Ointment
will cure them absolutely, but do not take our
word for it; _ send a penny stamp for a sample box.
The large size box is sold at 2s. 9d. per box (six
boxes 15s. 3d.). If you cannot obtain it locally
from your chemist or storekeeper, same will be
posted on receipt of price by the proprietors,
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
When writing for sample please mention Thj
Bulletin,
Man and Wife.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Love me ! ” she whispered, and I saw a fear
Crouch shuddering ’neath the portals of her eyes:
“ Love me for ever ! Call me always Dear ! ”
I kissed her lightly, and a burning tear
Scorched my false lips and shamed my feeble lies.
Ido not love her. Hush l <S he must not hear t
I caught her fiercely, pressed her face to mine.
“Love you, my dearest? Ay, till Death us part.”
(It sounded like an old-time echoed line,
Yet through the tears I saw those brave eyes
shine.)
With lies I soothed the storm-tossed woman-heart.
I cannot love / Not hers the fault / Nor mine /
So steals my lying soul through year to year ;
I loved her once—hut now—she must not hear.
V.
MATCHBOX.
An Hour in the Dead Country.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the home of one of the “wool-kings ” that
they have made books about. That is the wool-
king himself over there —browned, with close-
cropped grey beard, bared arms, slouch hat, and
leather-girdled waist. And this, who brings in
the chops, and is sorry there are no potatoes, is
the wool-king’s wife —the wool-queen. She also
cooked the chops.
“No, M‘Lean,” Martin, the wool-king is
saying—“no,” running his eye over a dozen
sheep, “I don’t think it’s worth while killing
them. We’ll have to see if we can’t pick out
something a bit better from another paddock.” It
is one of the “ great ” sheep-runs of the out-back;
yet they have to go from one paddock to another
to get a sheep fit to kill!
We join Martin and fill our pipes. Then we
look at the sky. First to the north. “The
January rains are late,” he says, and turns to the
south. No consolation either way. Last month
they talked of “the December rains.” Neither
useful December nor January rains have come
oftener than once in seven years; but they all
talk fondly of them, as children do of Christmas
—it is hope that they live upon.
We smoke in silence for ten minutes. Then Mar-
tin takes his pipe from his mouth, and has no idea
what a pitiful picture he makes as he looks at the
sky again. “ Well, you know,” he says with con-
viction, “it’s better in one way for keeping hot
like this —there's more chance of getting the fag-
end of the monsoon rains. •”
The prospect makes him almost cheerful; and
he talks of the awful past and present almost as if
they were buried. “ Our last rains came just a bit
more than 12 months ago—we got 2inches then.
Not much, but it gave us a lambing, the first we’d
had for five years. None this year, not a lamb.
Our best ? Well, it went up to 24,000 in my time.
“Yes—no, it isn’t a whirlwind ; a horseman, I
make-out.” After ten minutes of silence —
“Burton, one of Dalgety’s men. Came up in
August. Saw the shearing through, and then ran
out of water; he’s been sitting alongside ever
since, waiting for enough rain to wash the clip
with.”
Burton can’t stand it any more, and is making
down to Broken Hill to wait. It isn’t only the
being idle ; it’s the awfulness of being surrounded
by nothing but the dead and dying.
“Oh, they’ve taken the ladies away”—the part-
owner’s wife and the governess. “They’ve gone
out to the Blue Lake ; there’s a pretty fair ‘ soak ’
there; last for a couple of months, anyway. Yes,
they’re right back on the wells, too, now; not a
drop left in the tanks, and the stock are doing
very badly on the well-water. Well, they could
perhaps muster 16,000 if they got rain at once.”
That holding carried 110,000, and fattened them,
not so long ago.
“So I hear good old Jobson’s gone down,”
Martin says. “ Well, he made a good fight of it.
Close on 25 years, and hard graft all the time.
Still, he’s been weakening on it a good while.
The Govt, inspector was up before the last ap-
praisement. ‘ Your holding isn’t sufficiently im-
proved, Mr, Jobson,’ he says; ‘it would carry
more sheep if you had two 20,000-yard tanks.’
‘Yes, if sheep’d live on water,’ says Jobson.”
“ Paid ’em all off ? ” Burton asked—he had got
round to the station-hands and the question of ex-
penses.
“All but Ryan; he’s out at the Black Well.
Young Tom is working the Eaglehawk engine.
M‘Lean ?—he’s just waiting for the camels to
come with feed; he can’t get across without it,
and we’re just about out.”
It was time to be moving-on. I noticed the
“cheque” Martin paid me was an order on a
mortgage-co. “ Yes,” he said, “ it’s come to that
at last—orders now. And that’s what ‘killed’
poor old Jobson, between you and me.”
I left him looking again into the cloudless north
for the February rains.
P.X.
“ H.B.T.”about matters New Hebridean:
Such trade as exists at present from the N. Hebrides is
a monopoly in the hands of Burns, Philp and Co., who,
haveahold over the majority of white traders in the group.
The highness of freights for island-produce to Sydney
practically compels traders to sell their stocks on the
spot at such prices as it suits the buyers to offer. It’s “ Take
it or leave it.” Administration there is practically none.
A British man-of-war is on cruise amongst the islands
generally from May to Nov., during which period the
mission stations are visited, and any murders of whites
undergo a so-called investigation, which nearly always
results in the offending village being burnt. By the
way, the decisions in favor of the French, re-
cently given by the joint commission—which out
of six members included three officers of the
Ringarooma—have destroyed the belief of the natives
that the British would not see their land unjustly taken
from them. The animus between British and French
residents is increased by the unequal restrictions under
which they trade. The Britisher or Australian, being
forbidden to sell arms, ammunition, or liquor to the
natives, has, in order to compete with the unrestricted
Frenchman, to do so sub rosa —else why do the manifests
of island-traders from Sydney contain such large lines of
“split peas” and such an excessive number of “broom-
handle ” cases ? If this strategicallv-important group
is not soon to pass over to the French flag, this question
of dual control must be pushed home, and a permanent
settlement satisfactory to Australia arrived at. Delay
will only encourage France to further aggressions, besides
further weakening the belief of the native in the ability
of the British to ensure that his land will not be unjustly
alienated. Vila Harbor, Havannah Harbor, and Undine
Bay would make admirable naval stations, and doubtless
this is what the Frenchman has in mind, as a counter-
move to the establishment of an Anglo-Saxon nation in
the S. Pacific.
“Useless.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Desolation Gully lay amongst the hills. Be-
hind it was a ragged face of rock, noted for its
wallabies and prickly-pear. On either side the
rough, uneven hills were burdened with thorny
scrub, here and there dotted with grass-trees. In
front lay a small broken flat, mainly taken up by
a hopeless, straggling creek.
Sometimes in the early spring mornings, as the
sun came gently up over the eastern range, and
the mists broke back, softly and tenderly, from
scrub and rock, Desolation Gully was beautiful.
The four houses resting in the valley glowed green
and gold, the. parrots whirred and screamed
amongst the golden wattles, shaking down showers
of bloom, the dew lay light and graceful upon the
herbage, leaving dull lines of broken green where
the cows had trodden on their way to the yards.
But the dwellers in Desolation Gully knew
little of beauty; they were struggling with the
sordidness of poverty, and had no taste nor incli-
nation towards artistic feeling. While the scene
around them lay like a dream of the gods, the chil-
dren built their castles of cowdung. One amongst
them, a boy of ten, was different from the rest.
While the others played together he would wander
away alone, watching the play of the parrots and
dreaming over the soft-eyed wallabies as they sat
quietly on the rocks and wonderingly looked at
him with large, strange eyes. “Mooney,” the
other children called him. “Useless,” said his
mother. “Wait and see,” said the father;
“ some day if he is needed you will find the grit
that is in him.”
One day, when they had been out together split-
ting rails, he had learnt of what stuff the boy was
made. “ Tush ! ” said the mother when he men-
tioned it, “that does not bring grist to the mill.”
The father sighed and went back to his rail-split-
ting, leading the old horse that was to jink the
timber out of the hills. As they passed through
the scrub the thorns kept tearing at the old bag
collar. The wheat husks with which it was
stuffed began to trickle out. “ Hang it,” said the
man, “ I’ll have to go and get a bit of string to fix
the thing.” The dreamer stepped from behind
the bushes. “ I’U go,” he said, carelessly.
When he got back the men had gone on. Fol-
lowing the tracks, the boy came to where the man
had been at work. He called; no reply. A
wallaby sat out on a point of rock and looked at
him wonderingly. He called again softly, almost
fearfully. Must have gone to sleep, he thought,
and went on tracking the horse. After he had
gone a few yards he looked up, saw the horse, and
went over to him. A little way off his father lay,
apparently asleep, but looking again the boy saw
that a red-gum had caught him in its fall. In
dodging he had tripped on a stone, and now a
limb of the tree lay full across him. With a
slight gasp the boy set to work to try and drag it
off. He stood for a moment and thought. Taking
the water-bag, he went to a spring close by and
brought back some water. He went up to the
man, and made as if to pour some on his face.
“No,” he said, “may as well be dead till I get
the tree off.” He took up the axe, but it was too
heavy for him to use. Dropping it, he
brought the horse over. “It all depends on you,
Sleepy,” he said; “you’ll have to stick to yer
hold.” He hooked the horse on to the limb,
stroked his weary old head, and said, gently:
“Git, Sleepy!” The horse pulled, the branch
eased up off the man. “Hang to it!” said
the boy, and ran back behind the horse.
His father was a heavy man, he could
move him very little at a time. The
limb began to settle back. “Git, Sleepy ! ” called
the boy from his work. The old horse settled to
it again. Gradually the boy worked his father
clear. “Back, Sleepy !” he called. With a sigh
of relief, the poor old horse eased off. Taking up
the water-bag, the boy looked at the man.
“ Better come round now,” he said, “and tell me
what to do.” He dashed the water over the man’s
face and head.
The man eame-to. He looked up heavily.
“Eh! What is it, Tommy!” he asked,
dreamily. The boy poured some more water.
The man’s eyes opened again. He began to take
in the situation. “Will Igo and fetch ’em from
the house ? ” asked the boy. “ No,” answered the
man, “ you’ll do.” The boy sat and waited. He
was tired after his work. “ Get a sheet of bark
off that log,” said the man, nodding to the butt of
the freshly-fallen tree. The boy set-to, wondering
what it was for. The man’s eyes closed again.
The boy worked on. When he had got the bark
off he came and looked at the man. He
seemed to, be asleep. The boy thought a
little. Cutting two sticks, he fastened them on
to the bark. Hooking Sleepy on, he drew
the rough sled down below his father and prepared
to put him on. When he moved him the man
awoke. “ What’s up ? ” he asked sleepily, and was
off again. The boy placed him on the bark.
“ Steady, Sleepy ! ” he said, and they started
down-hill. Every now and then they stopped
while the boy moved a stone out of the way. Then
they went on again.
When they reached the edge of the scrub next
the house the boy unhooked Sleepy and went on.
“Mother,” he said, when he reached the house,
“ father’s got a bit of a knock. I’m bringing him
home.”
The woman moaned and sat down on a chair.
“I told 'im ’e’d be gettin’ ’urt, goin’ up there by
’isself,” she growled. “’E took no notice of me;
’e alius was pig-’eaded.” The boy went back to
his work.
When he got to the house the woman came and
looked at the man on the sled. “Fool!” she
said savagely, “’e’sdead, I alius Anew you was
useless !”
WILL M. FLRMING.
It has been formally resolved by Mel-
bourne’s City Council that Bard Fitzgibbon, of
the Metropolitan Board of Shirks, is making the
city ridiculous by his fulsome addresses and his
silly cablegrams to England whenever some royal
person is suffering from a severe corn. Also, the
Council formally requests the Government to try
if it can make the absurd Fitzgibbon attend to
business and leave off hysterics.
A very enthusiastic bigamist of many
aliases was brought to light in London the other
week. His system was to advertise for a wife
with £3O capital, and marry the confiding house-
maids, cooks, laundresses, &c., as they came along.
From January 6th to October 18th of last year he
is known to have acquired four little bits of capi-
tal with females attached, the shortest recorded
interval between honeymoons being four days.
But probably a dozen or two other pining spin-
sters and widows were duped and have said noth-
ing about it to the police. England, with its
many densely-populated towns and its London,
where any man can get lost whilst growing a
beard or a pair of new whiskers, is the paradise of
bigamists.


«l Cained Flesh Rapidly.”
If You Are Run Down, Losing s t | eng t h, Are Creat i y
Debilitated, and Suffer from the H °V“ TtTj
There is one Medicine That Will Quickly Cure You.
yer 9 s Sarssp&i’il^
ii
2g5
w
f
Mr. A. Smith, of Chief Street, Brompton, So. Australia, very kindly sends us
the following letter with his photograph, both of which are g here.
“I have used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla for loss of appetite.pdigestion, and to give
tone and vigor to my system when training for bicycle racmg. y
bottles ; but it was enough to improve lhy appetite and thoroughly restore y
strength and health. I also gained flesh rapidly to my normal wel S • , ,
“As a blood-purifier and general tonic for those who are affected by tne
long, hot summers of Australia there is no medicine like it.. _
It is because of such testimonials that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is callea
“The World’s Greatest Family IVSedicane.”
We could show you hundreds of such letters as this. They all say that Ayer s
Sarsaparilla helps every one who tries it. It always does good and sometimes
makes such wonderful cures that they seem like miracles. ~ .
If you are feeling ipoorly just now, get a bottle of this grand old medicine.
The very next day you will feel better.
AY ER ’ S Sarsaparilla
Gives Yigor to the Nerves. ' ’
AYER’S PILLS act gently; they cure constipation.
A POLICY FOR TH€
COMMONWEALTH,
-
Being a seri€S of articles reprinted
froiq “Tbe Bulletin,” witb an
append!* dealing witb tf>e Fiscal
QCieStioO-
- '
PRICE 6d.; posted, Bd.
å
PLAIN HOMC TALK.
embracing
MEDICAL COMMON SENSK
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 86 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, bub about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in'
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information em-
braced in its covers. ....
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
SPEECHES and Toasts ready-made for all or-cations and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
1!)r. Carver's Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; poet free la. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette—Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fa«b, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
W riter, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.— SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that)
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, is Park street, SYPNEy.
ā
Q- ?
I®
m
m
fc//
1
Ti%\\
Vv%
WG
V ’ x s''
J)
“STEELE RUDD’S” BOOK-
“ON OUR SELECTION.
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
MAORILAKD : ai)d Other Verses.
Bv ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
The Best Book of Verses Maoriland has produced. Price, Five Shillings (post free).
“THE BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., LTD., 214 GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Wholesale Agents: Edwards, Dunlop, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
©
The Universal Remedy for Acidity or the Stomacn,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Grout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel: the
safest and most gentle
Daedicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Presrnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
m
Sold Throughout the Worm.
FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
IRISH MOSS
tor
-The besr remedy-
influenza,
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA
Ask for Banning ton’s
and. seetkatyou get it.


Asbestos Boiler Covering
SAVES 25 PER CENT. IN FUEL.
pfnSS . Ready for Use > in 3cwt - Casks, 75., 95., 10s. cwfc.
K-iiiJ) DEY, m Bags, each lewt., 145., 165., 18s, cwt.
ESTI3IA TEB given for Covering Boilers and Steam Pipes.
Our Asbestos Boiler Covering
— —SAVES 25 PER CENT. IN FUEL.
PERDRIAU & CO., sea ' 2 iySTy se st
Telephones: 418, ,467._^
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRIC AL ENGINEERS,
manufacturers
AMD . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE WORTHINGTON
... IS THE ORIGIN Al
DUPLEX PUMP.
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND.
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
\ 3 'r - —;
*■' r
T* Jp-/r >
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.
HAVE STOCKS OF MATERIAL & FURNISHINGS
F °" MINING and ENGINEERING.
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES IN AUSTRALIA OF
TANGYES LIMITED.
PUMPS. ENGINES. BOILERS.
DEPOTS IN SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, COOLGARDIE.
CfH YEARS dyeing
w W FOB THE t.Ani^,
w. c. &c CO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STRKiCI’, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by pout hum all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
GEORGE & MARKET STREETS.
Board and Residence, Bs. per Day.
luncheon!
12 o’clock till 2.30. J
■mm--
INNER, TEA
5.30 till .7.30.
ONE SHILLING UPWARDS.
Perfect Cuisine and First-cinss Attendance.
Special FISH LUNCHEON and DINNER on FRIDAYS.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER
IDENTS.
and COMMONWEALTH FESTIVITIES.
YOU CAN OBTAIN FROM THE
N.S.W. Fresh Food & Ice Co. Ltd,
Poultry Fish 'andT l ’ t Christmas Cakes and Puddings, Pastry, &c.
y ’ r,sn ancs Game forwarded m a frozen condition to all parts of the Colony.
Butter— “ Golden Star ” and “ Berry ” Brands, of Splendid Keeping Quality-sent by Parcels Post, packed in tins,
it j n „. ICEj ICE Pure Crystal Ice— packed in Special Transport Boxes, and consigned (freight paid) to any Railway Station in N.S.W.
harbour st„ Sydney. Send for our Price Lists pLsor, Lager.
.i •;K •v-i.i i
s/S? *Ersif © $
3 Tsv’ r^-W?' : &:• P\‘ H £
i.Mg a#;, v :.i
s%f&: ; -i i ; E f
e? i ; i” 'rjs\i\
||)&;b.-n ra s? m>
s' li ii'n fp M,b
?;: Tyi. v'-jp'fffl.Ai sain
MINING SCREENS.
Double Crimped Wire Cloth.
A Large Stock of all Sizes ....
Write for Samples and Particulars.
ă
PARKE & LACY
ą
(l—i MINING ENGINEERS
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OP
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
AGENTS for Knowles Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors
Gates Rockbreakers, Nagle Engines and Boilers Buffalo
Blowers and Exhaust Fans, etc, etc. ’
■1. ? u.r -.4 a o a u u « a
»; U >■. e st v p: »• r. 14..8 c n
.
v r a o »'.■«£* fii:
• •- £$jfe£r V '.U 4 B.» R
•>'x .; ••*i ft*,• v’f-ia a a
<;-» 14,* s/xt £ u l
■*. si -■ a’*:*
iVi \ Vbu»;b u
» V »
: v . •
74 Clarence St., SYDNEY; 435 Bottrke St., MELBOURNE,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS.
BLAKE’S STEAM PUMPS (Single and Duplex)
FAY’S WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
STEAM ENGINES (Horizontal and Vertical)
ENGINEERS’ TURNING LATHES.
DRILLING MACHINES. PLANERS.
STEEL PULLEYS SHAFTING, PLUMM FR-BLOCKS
EMPIRE LAUNDRY CO’S LAUNDRY MACHINERY
STURTEVANT’S FANS and PORTABLE FORGES.
& co.
•-
K
