

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. LAMB’S
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
R. G. WATKIMTS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS' and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Prize
Medals.
22.500
sdfs
SEND FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS
WINE !
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Xnverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLPEST
AUSTRALIA.
43T Send for Samples and Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET. SYDNEY.
■
AGENTS
85 Pitt Street,
€X
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE —PORTABLE,
VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
__
NGINES and BOILERS
PUMPS.
Macblues,
AND
Saw Bencließ,
&o
THORNE’S
*■“ A 1 WHISHT
tooth: & co.
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
A.S©nts, Sydney.
df
A'
m'
, • ■' : '-V .
HCOBA.3RT.
—— ““
Hadley’s Orient fioteS.
««•»*
*"4 C/s %
JJJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORa
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trains. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME
SAN DEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
241 PITT SXRE3ET, SYD3VTEY.
Telegraph—“ HERVEY, SYDNEY."
Mining & Contractors’
Machinery and
Explosives .
3*
V*
Builders’ Jt
Engineers’
Sundries, Belting,
Oils, Packings, &c.
“ Campbell” Gas & Oil Engines,
171 Clarence St,., Sydney.
sd
PIONEER
LEATHER
B E LTIN G
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
BranchesP. Frankel & Co., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.;
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
Co., Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
66
Tales of the System
/RICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
F
AIR GIRLS
2nd Edition.
AND GRAY HORSES.
Price 4/6.
WHISKY.
Agents : J. BARRE JOHNSTON & CO., Loftus Street, Sydney.
OTAR D-D U PU Y
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
GAPILLA
HAIR TONIC.
The Guaranteed Remedy for
Weak, Thin, and Falling' Hair.
Testimonials from International Cricketers and
Footballers, Leading Sydney Solicitors, Business
Men, and from Parliament House with each bottle.
2/6 per bottle, post 3/2 ; Intercolonial, 3/8 ; 4 bottles (posted under cover) which will effect a cure in the
most obstinate case, posted free for 10/-. Intercolonial, 11/-.
W. RICHARDS, Proprietor, 168 PITT STREET, SYDHEY, H.S.W.
NEVER I
NEVER!!
NEVER!!!
is a Common Watch.
It may be CHEAP, but it is also
Did you make a bigger mistake than in thinkiug that
fs
ACCURATE, RELIABLE, AND GOOD VALUE.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne)
TeUphone No. 10&B. CATERER.
Mr. Skirtner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Mn.nn^-mi
Catered for
on Most
Banquets and
yirFiEiifHiE
Reasonable
Terms.
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
EDisw&N\ mwm
ii
ECONOMY IN -
' ~ current
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDM i SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
J’nsland Depot—Central Buildin s Edward-st., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Vol 22.—N0. 1118 j
[Saturday, July 20, 1901.
Postered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NOW READY.
A POLICY
.•/ % '
FOR THE
COMMON WEALT
Price, 6d; posted, Bd.
H
ns
Eumenthol Jujubes
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS,
(REGISTERED).
SSS:
■
IN TINS, Is. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 ' and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE.
Verses by Robert Buchanan.
DE BERNY.
louI ou knew him slightly. We, who knew him
well, v
,w something in his soul you could not see:
strength wherein his very vices throve,
power that darken’d much the outer man,
range, yet angelically innocent,
is views were none of ours; his morals —well,
ot English morals at the best; and yet
e loved him, and we miss him —the old haunts
iem dull without that foolish full-grown child ;
le world goes on without him: —London throngs
ith sport and festival; and something less
ran poor De Berry haunts us everywhere—
le buying and the selling, and the strife
t little natures.
What a man was that—■
ist picture him as you perceived him, Noel,
landing beyond his circle. Spare and tall,
lack-bearded and black-eyed ; a sallow face,
r ith lines of idle humour round the lips ;
nose and eyebrow proudly curved ; an eye
lear as a child’s. But thirty summers old !
et wearied out, save only when he waifa’d
is graces in the sunshine. What an air
fas his, when, cigarette in mouth, and bunds
hrust in the pocket of his pantaloons,
le took his daily walk down Regent-street,
bared at the pretty girls, saluted friends,
nd,. pleased as any lady, stopp’d to study
he fashions in the windows of the shops !
'id he not walk af if he walk’d on thrones,
Tith smiles of vacant patronage for all ?
.nd who could guess he had not breakfasted,
[ad little chance of dining, since his purse
leld just the wherewithal to buy a loaf—
Ihange from the shilling spent in purchasing
'he sweet post-prandial cigar !
He lived—
Lh 1 Heaven knew how —for ’twas a mystery !
Vhile the sun shone, he_ saunter’d in the sun ;
lut late at night sat scribbling, by the light
3f .a wax-candle. Wax ? De Berny’s way ;
for, mark, this wanderer let his body suffer,
lunger’d and pinch’d, rather than bate a jot
)f certain very useless luxuries:
imolced nought but real Havannah, ’tis averr’d,
Lid sat at night within his dingy lodging,
Vrapt, king-like, in a costly dressing-gown
lis mother gave him ; slippers on his feet
lis cat, Miguonne, the silken-hair’d Chinese,
Seated upon his shoulder, purring low ;
Lid something royal in his look, despite
His threadbare, pantaloons!
A clever man—
A nature sparkling o’er with jeux d’esprit /
Well read in certain light philosophies
Down from Voltaire ; and, in his easy way,
A sceptic—one whose heart belied his brain.
Oft, leaning back and puffing his cigar,
Pushing his wan, white fingers through his hair—
His cat Mignonne, the velvet-paw’d Chinese,
Rubbing her soft, white cheek against his beard,
And purring her approval—he would sit,
Smiling his sad, good-humour’d, weary smile,
And lightly launch his random, reckless shafts
At English thrift, the literary cant,
The flat, unearnest living of the world,
And (last and lightest) at the tender sex,
Their little virtue and their mighty vows.
This was the man whose face went pale with pain,
When that shrill shriek from Poland fill’d his
ear;
This was the man who pinch’d himself to send
A mite to Garibaldi and the Cause ;
Who cried, or nearly cried, o’er Lamartine,
And loved the passionate passages of Sand ;
Who would have kiss’d the ground beneath the
feet
Of any shape called “ Woman,” plain or fair ;
Gave largess royal to children in the streets;
Treated an unclean beggar seeking alms
To a clean shirt, and sent him off amazed ;
And when he heard sweet voice of- instrument,
Breath’d passionate breath, like one that drinks
with pain
An atmosphere too heavenly rare and sweet.
Pleasure? All me ! what pleasure garner’d he,
Who fasted oftener than ate; who pawn’d
His coat to serve a neighbour, and was cold;
Whose only little joy was promenading
On sunny summer days in Regent-street ?
Hirf talk ? Why, how he talk’d, as I have said J
[ncubus could not prove his neighbours worse,
3r himself blacker, or the cold world colder;
His jests so oft too broad for decent ears,
His impiousness so insolently strong,
His languid grace so callous unto all >
Save the sad sunshine that it flutter’d in.
Yet, Noel, I oould swear that Spirits—those
Who see beneath the eyes, and hear the breathing
The Soul makes as it stirs within the breast-
lent not unlovingly, not angrily,
Lbove that weary, foolish, full-grown Child !
Veary—of what? Weary, I think, for want
)f something whose existence he denied;
fot sick of life, since he had never felt
'he full of living—wearied out, because
'he world look’d falsehood, and his turn was
truth.
fell, late one morning in the summer time,
I hey found him lying in his easy-chair,
frapt royally in the costly dressing-gown
lis mother gave him, slippers on his feet,
nd something royal in his look—cold, dead 1
smell of laudanum sicken’d all the air
round him ; on the table at-his side
copy of De Musset’s Elle et Lui;
nd close at hand a crumpled five-pound note,
a which was written in his round, clear hand
Pour Garibaldi. Vive la Liberte l*’
WHEN WE ARE ALL ASLEEP.
hen He returns, and finds the World so drear—
All sleeping,—young and old, unfair and fair,
ill He stoop down and whisper in each ear,
11 Awaken ! ” or for pity’s sake forbear, —
laying, “ How shall I meet their frozen stare
wonder, and their eyes so full of fear ?
How shall I comfort them in their despair,
they cry out, ‘ Too late ! let us sleep here ’ ? ”
rebance He will not wake us up, but when
He sees us look so happy in our rest,
ill murmur, “ Poor dead women and dead men !
Dire was their doom, and weary was their quest,
herefore awake them unto life again?
Let them sleep on uutroubled —it is best.”
Tarpaulin Jacket & Co.
I N c , r ?. 1 “The WalermHi’s Tree” and “The
Sailor laid low” (29/6/1), E. Wilson Dobbs
The chorus to the former is verv
hymn Slmilar t 0 & Verse ° f Bisho P Huber’s Xmas
Cold on His Cradle the dewdrops are shining';
Low lies His head with the beasts of the stall :
Angels adore Him in slumber reclining
Maker and Monarch and Saviour of all.
What is the date of ‘The Walerman’s Tree’?
[Here received 18 99.—b.] With regard to oth6r
feSSS* a ] or l J- Whyte-Melville (who died in
Tarpaulin Jacket’ (set to music
by Charles (loote, and figuring in ‘The Scottish
Student’s Song Book ’)—
A tall stalwart Lancer lay dying,
And as on his death-bed he lay,
rnu fr ‘ ends who around him were sighing,
these last dying words he did say :
Chorus.
Wrap me up in my tarpaulin jacket,
And say a poor buffer lies low,
And six stalwart Lancers shall carry me •
With steps solemn, mournful, and slow.
Had I the wings of a little dove,
Far, far away would I fly,
Straight to the arms of my true love
And there would 1 lay me and die.
Then get you two little white tombstones,
Put them one at my head and my toe,
And get you a penknife and scratch there,
‘ Here lies a poor buffer below.”
And get you six brandies and sodas,
And set them all out in a row,
And get you six jolly good fellows,
To drink to this buffer below.
And then in the calm of the twilight,
When the soft winds are whispering low,
And the darkening shadows are falling,
Sometimes think of the buffer below.
the burlesque drama, “Little Jack Shep-
pard, by H. P. Stephens and W. Yardley (music
by four others), first produced at the Gaiety
1 heatre, Boxing night, 1885, a song, “ Botany
Bay, occurs. In verse 4 the lines sire very raucn
like verse 2of “ The Tarpaulin Jacket viz.—
Oh, had I the wings of a turtle dove 1
I’d soar on my pinions so high ;
Slap bang to the arms of my Polly love,
And in her sweet presence I’d die.
The prototype of the “Botany Bay” song,
under title of “ Farewell to Judges and Juries,” is
at pages 364-5 of John Ashton’s “ Modern Street
Ballads ’ (London, 1888). The rhythm is similar,
and many of the lines are well nigh word for word
alike the seventh and last verse running—
How often I wish that the eagle,
Would lend me her wings, I would fly ;
Then I’d fly to the arms of my Polly,
And on her soft bosom I’d lie.
There is also a song called “Botany Bay” in
Ashton’s book, but the air and words are different
from the above. These songs are traced back to
early part of last century.
Similar answers from C.B. ; R.R. ; Boko;
Russon; J.W.O. An Australian variant comes
from “ Peter Piper
So on, doubtless, ad. inf. But what was Whyte-
Melville’s original ?
W. R. Campbell writes —
As to “ The Walerman’s Tree." You suggest It is a
new version of an old-time piece, or, at the least, that the
inspiration has been derived from some such source.
You are wrong. ' I wrote it, as an original piece, at
Easter, 1897: The word “ wold,” which is not in Aus-
tralian use, may have caused you to doubt originality.
The second or third State-school reader, in use till a few
years ago, was the means of fixing the word closely on
my mind, and only when too late was the incongruity
noticed. I deny any “historic source,” Australian or
foreign, but admit the influence, in the last three verses,
of “ Wrap me up in my stockwhip and blanket,” though I
only know one verse of that.
——* ♦
Y. J.D. : I have a crow to pluck with Ogilvie.
In his poem called “The Reiver’s Heart” (June
22) he makes several statements which give fine
colour to the verse, but,. so far as my reading'goes,
are quite unauthorised by fact, e.g. —
To lift the Southern lasses.
I lift the soft-eyed maiden
Across the champing steed.
And hear the lone maid weeping
Beneath my bride-arm.
Twice —for our maids rough-kissed.
Nor South for white-armed plunder
The wild moss-troopers ride.
These five distinct references to Violent Abduc-
tion, in the space of six eight-line verses, make it
clear that Ogilvie believes that the lifting of
women was a chief motive of Border forays. The
stalwart dalesmen on the English side of the
Marches were just about the last people in the
world to allow Sabine rapes of this kind to take
place without bloody reckonings. And of such
bloody reckonings on this account there is. I main-
tain, no trace in Border history. The old ballad-
writer who—on the English side—could tell of a
great slaughter that occurred at Chevy Chase
because the Percy of Northumberland went hunt-
ing the deer in the Douglas country—and, on the
Seotcli side, could tell how, because of the capture
of a stark moss-trooper like Kinmont Willie, Buc-
cleucli, the Scottish Warden, swore to
Set Carlisle Castle in a lowe,
And slokketi it with English blood,
would have made a cycle of ballads rivalling those
made about Helen of Troy if women (and not
cattle and cattle-thieves and game) had been the
booty. Therefore, I say Ogilvie was entirely
wrong when he should have been entirely right—
as it is the duty of every man to know the history
and traditions of his own country.
A fine, stalwart stockman lay dying,
His saddle supporting his head,
While his maces all around him were crying,
He rose on his elbow and said :
Chorus.
Wrap me up with my stockwhip and bluey,
And bury me deep down below,
Where the dingoes and crows cannot find me,
In the shade where the coolibahs grow.
Then cut you two stringy-bark saplings,
Place one at my head and my toe ;
Carve on them crossed stockwhip and bridle
To show there’s a stockman below.
And bring out the battered old billy,
Put the pannikins all in a row ;
And drink to the health of the stockman
Who soon will be lying below.
But hark ! ’bis the howl of the dingo,
Watchful and weird —I must go ;
For he tolls the death-knell of the stockmaß
Who soon will be lying below.
And another from C.T. —
A stalwart young digger lay dying,
His bluey supporting his head,
His two mates beside him were crying
As he rose on his pillow and said :
Chorus : s
“ Wrap me up in my old tent and blanket
And bury me deep down below,
Where the dingoes and crows won’t molest me,
In the shade where the coolibahs grow."
There is tea in the battered old billy;
Place the pannikins out in a row,
And we’ll drink to our next merry meeting
In the place where all good fellows go.
Hark to the wail of the dingo I
Watchful and.weird —I must go,
For it sounds the death-knell of the digger
From the gloom of the scrub down below.
And oft in the shades of the twilight,
.When the soft winds are whispering low,
And the twinkling shadows are falling,
Sometimes think of the digger below !
Buchanan and Besant .
“ URPRLSED,” writes a little buzzing cor-
respondent, “that you have not noticed
K_y the deaths of Walter Besant and .Robert
Buchanan, recently cabled on the same
day.” Well, a pleasure of writing, as of life,
consists in always being and doing the unexpected,
in refraining from the expected. Observance of
times and seasons—for meals, or love, or labour—
is unworthy of a man free. The cult of anniver-
saries belongs to savage minds: the civilised affirm
for good things “every place a temple, all seasons
summer.” We see the brutes waking at dawn
and sleeping at dusk all the year round—how
mechanical ! We see King Billy of Bandaroo,
our proud autochthonous monarch, with his life
regulated by suns and moons and periodical ritual
—typical, and how slavish ! We see primi-
tive agricultural communities perpetuating,
the antique observance of Mayday—typical,
and how monotonous ! Why, the whole
virtue of human evolution is that it brings
us power to make Spring in the brain
all the year round, whatever the skies say. Civi-
lisation has endeavoured to end the servitude of
bodies, but has hardly begun to emancipate
minds. We need another Wilberforce to preach
a new crusade on behalf of the religious savage,
pioils one day in seven ; the official savage, with
his regulated holidays; the woman savage, with
her fetish of birthdays and wedding-days, and her
annual repetition of a death-advertisement.
« * * *
These things are all traditions of ancient
slavery—chain-galls and ‘whip-marks. Often the
stick has been' removed, but silly human sheep
still jump at the plaoe where the first sheep
jumped. To be joyous or grievous by the calen-
dar, willy-nilly, what a degrading surrender of
liberty! A man should be self-poised, judging
and deciding his life at every moment, or
(if that seem better) yielding absolutely to
the moment’s influence. Mr. Shandy’s Saturday
formula satisfied the tidy mind of Mrs. Shandy,
no doubt; but he should have been thoroughly
ashamed of himself. Yet how many Mr. Shaudys
move like maohines between hedges of “prin-
ciples,” along a road of “duties,” taking their
pleasure like medicine, by the clock, and “ saving
their souls ” when they reach the Sabbath mile-
post—as if the “kingdom of God ” were a seven-
days bicycle-race. We want new maxims for better
minds. A timefor nothing, and nothing in its time ;
a place for nothing, and nothing in its place.- Are
you hungry ?—eat ! Are you thirsty ’—drink !
Gay ?—rejoice ! Sad ?—grieve ! Refuse Phyllis
if your mood is not Corydon’s; never die before you
are ready. If nothing else had shown the power-
ful individuality of Parnell, it would have been
shown in this,: that he never made appointments
and never,answered letters. In other words, he re-
fused to bind himself for to-morrow, and he refused
to submit his own moods to alien disturbance.
There are few things more hateful than the neces-
sity of keeping in a cold mood last week’s pledge
made in a hot one—so the wise man never pledges
himself. There is nothing more hateful than the
demand that you shall write letters when you
don’t want to —so the strong man never writes
them.
* - * * *
In this matter, as in many others,; woman is
man’s foe. She is essentially a periodic creature,
with the phases of the moon, the ebb and flow of
the tides—a Tuesday-and-'Friday formula, a
machine for the eternal repetition of plum-pudding
at Christmas. Her brain is so impressionable that
one act begins a habit—and every habit is a
fetter : it is partly for this reason that woman is a
hereditary slave. A great part of woman’s life is
spent in endeavouring to tether more-iudividual-
ised man by her habits; and, for the sake of
peace, he often permits the tie. 4 lt is dinner-
time” —and you must eat; “It is bed-time”
—and you must go to sleep; “It is church-
time ” —and you follow her sadly. Trailed in
her triumphal march, you are none the less a vic-
tim that your car is garlanded, your chains gilded.
Sometimes a man revolts—the Sex declares him
“ heartless, unfeeling.” Sometimes he disappears
from the procession of habits—it is in my nund that
the authenticated “missing men’’—silently lost
from their places at the workshop, by the fireside,
are men who have suddenly realised the blank
monotony of their lives, their ignoble servitude, and
have craved and craved free air until the closest
bonds snapped—until they shook oh at once all the
shackles of‘home and “ business,” and went forth
to submerge their identity in a new life of free-
dom. It is the better, way of suicide.
* # * *
You who read this— You /—whoever you may
be, wherever you are, pause for a moment and
consider yourself sub specie acterni : see yourself
in the perspective of the universe. What life do
you lead ? How many of your acts are done to
please yourself ? how many because the fetish of
Habit compels you?—because you have deliberately
or unconsciously bound yourself with silken
threads that have grown to ropes, to chains, to a
vast burden which you carry forward day after
day until you die. What tame pack-horses most
of us are, plodding under loads of yhabit! And
life for most of us, is like a pack-hofse road, worn
in regular hollows where our predecessors have
stepped, and where vre step blindly. Or the
whim-horse would be a better metaphor, foe the
path of the pack-horse varies: the whim-horse
joes in an endless circle. Next whim-horse you
see—the older and blinder the better —trudging
round the track with his head down, just call him
by your own name, and ten to one he’ll answer!
For most men in a brazen prison live,
Where, in the sun's hot eye,
With heads bent down, they languidly
Their lives to some unmeaning task-work give.
Dreaming of naught beyond their prison-wall.
And as, day after day,
Fresh fruits of-barren labour fall
From their tired hands . . .
Gloom settles down more slowly o'er their breast
. . . They cannot stem.
The waves of mournful thought by which they are
prest.
Death in their prison reaches them,
Unfreed, having seen nothing, still unblest *
» * * *
Of course, there'are compensations. We yield
so much liberty to gain so much satisfaction of
instincts ; but there is always danger that the loss
is greater than the gain. What unprofitable bur-
dens You are carrying, for example ; to what life-
wasteful habits You are slave ! Of course, too,
some concession must be made to habit and con-
vention for the sake of peace and quietness—when
in Rome, it usually pays to do as the Romans do. I
remember a second-rate and half-intoxicated
actor delaying me on a midnight kerbstone to
recount, almost with tears, how for the third time
he had forgotten his wife’s birthday ; though she
always remembered his. “This time I wrote it
in a diary a month beforehand ; I thought of it
two days before, and turned a ring on my finger;
I even wrote to So-and-So to ring me up on the
telephone, and tell me about it. But I didn’t
look at my diary ; the ring slipped round while I
was warning; So-and-So went out of town. Her
birthday was on Monday ; and I had a little pre-
sent all ready—and just came across it to-day—
Thursday !—when I went to the drawer. I’d
have given anything to have remembered. She
doesn’t value it half sb much now.”
* • • •
Well, that was an emotion creditable to the
second-rate, half-intoxicated actor; and, while
our wives retain their savage reverence for times
and seasons, it is possibly better to humour them
at some cost of intelligent individuality, and trust
gradual race - progress to educate them to the
knowledge that proofs of affection have at all
times the same essential value. But Be3ant and
Buchanan need not be considered like our wives.
Their critical place in literature has been fixed at
any time during the last ten years, or nearly:
their death has not altered it. It is pleasant to
flout the Time-and-Seaaon fetish demanding
worship on their behalf, and to approach
by one iota the ideal of Journalism. For the
ideal of Journalism naturally follows the ideal of
Life in abolishing the expected-whieh-happens.
Before you open any newspaper of to-day, you
know almost precisely what to expect—and you
.very rarely receive the pleasure of disappointment.
There is the leading-article, saying on the accus-
tomed page the accustomed thing in the accus-
tomed way. There are the paragraphs ; there
the reports ; there the illustrations—everything
just as you have been used-to. It is very stupid ;
but readers will have it so. Most of them are
creatures of habit, glorying in their chains, in-
capable of the mental effort required to break
them. If the place of the dull article
were taken by a story or a poem, their
habit-heavens would fall, —and they would
cease to buy the paper? Would they? Well,
no one knows till the experiment is made,
and no one lias been bold enough to make the ex-
periment. Perchance—who knows ?—the journal-
istic Habit is a hollow sham, only waiting to be
pierced. Perchance, unknown to themselves,
readers, weary of monotony, are only waiting to
trirowoff their chains and welcome the unexpected-
which-never-happens.
* * . * t *
There is this to be said for the buzzing corres-
pondent : that Death is the one Time-post which
perforce must be perpetuated, because it perpe-
tuates itself. “ Why permit it ? ” you say. Really,
there is no reason, if somebody can show us a better
way of evading the perpetuity of Life. The choice
between Life and Death is a choice of bad habits,
and the answer to vour demurrer is simply, “ Why
perpetuate Life?” And while argument is pro-
ceeding Death continues to be the unescapable
season—the “ Hitherto hath the Lord helped us”
mark, at which you turn round to put a full-stop
to life-achievement and to consider its worth.
And, striking a mean of pro and con, answer to
the buzzing correspondent has been delayed for a
month—to show that, if we do bring tribute to
the Time-and-Season fetish, we bring it of our
own free will, in our own time and season, have
duly asserted our civilised prerogative of staying
away. As to Besant and Buchanan, we have
B.
*That’s all I remember. Gave away Matthew Arnold
recently. Just sent to “leading 1 Sydney bookseller" tor
another copy. “None in stock.” Back for Golden
Treasury “ Selections.” “ None in stock.” Similar ex-
perience with Rossetti four years ago. But pass the
stigma from bookseller to public—“ he gives them what
they want.”


New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED CHARGES ON
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over 6d. per lb.
the charges will be ... ... ... ... '
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ... 1M
On \\ ools realising 4d. per lb. and under ... ... ni
"WAY BILES sent on application.
WOOL:
| per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
_. _ WHEAT.
iccommogin! ** “ °° mp,tted *""*« **■*■"*
CONSIONOB g 4 Vmg W 8 particulars as to charges, eta, forwarded when desired,
diis Company N ° RS absollltel y protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Buncle & Sons’ Chaffcutters.
Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALLS SHEEP DIP.
e
fse
CBS
%
\
80 0
sBo*
SMB 1
58*00
5807
(std&raot'eed oof io breal( or feorrj.
\ CERTIFICATE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
application. Thousands Selling 1 Daily.
'CBB
BRIAR
SUNNIS m
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
PRIZE MEDAL DRESSING
HAUTHAWAY’S
PEERLESS CLOSS
takes first prize medals at Boston, Vienna, London, Phila-
delphia, Melbourne, and all other leading cities, for pro-
ducing the finest possible polish, and absolute freedom
from all substances injurious to the leather.
It is the favorite dressing of the world for
LADIES’ and CHILDREN'S
I shoes, as it is easily applied, retains its brilliancy, and will
i not rub off and soil garments. Try it once and you will
i use it always. Sold nearly everywhere. Made only by
-*C. L. HAUTIUWAY £> 8«N8, BOB K “ ABB -
9 Do
4
111
\^
i «
vVhen
writing
please
mention
Tms
Bullktui.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’i
- ELECTRICAL. APPLIANCES, invented b 1
: Sydney s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon
jstrator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
j GIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
! PS?JJ££. DBSPAIR * DO NOT SUFFER
.LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life car
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia.
: Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
J 0 g
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 1 6 6
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
aiiashments 3 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to—
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
HAVE THE
BEST.
1
■jaujj ~-uiUv
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operate i, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are two-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Steel Pickets
securely interwoven at any desired distance apart, forming a perfect Web Pence which will hold
securely all kinds of Stock.
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St. f Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
a
&
:
* j -■
r-5
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
KMBRACINO
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 86 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, bub about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One's Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets op Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
W riter, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books —most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
SKINS
Send Your Consignments of ...
KANGAROO,
WALLABY,
RABBIT,
OPOSSUM SKINS
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
They obtain the Highest Possible Prices.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 O’CONNELL STREET. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Fer Cent, to the Growers,
BONUS f PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge \d. per lb. to the Buyers.
“ LAWRUS ” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS & STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD 18 STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
«
OCdMtd
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
STOGDALE & DUFFUS, Finks Buildings, Corner of Elizabeth & Flinders Sts..
Melbourne; and 422 George St., Sydney.
WHITE’S
PATENT.
Cosset Attachment
WHITE’S
PATENT.
&rrsl
m
The “TITAN” (Regd.'
Indispensable with the present tight-
fitting skirt.
Produces straight front without in-
x . .creasing size of waist or impeding
action in walking, as it does not
require stocking ■ suspenders to
keep it in position.
Guaranteed not to ride up or wrinkle.
Idealises the symmetry of the figure and
gives indescribable elegance to the simplest
gown.
Reduces High Figures and Large Hips.
Restores the Figure after Confinement.
Affords great support with perfect ease and gives
permanent satisfaction to the wearer.
Can be attached without sewing to any corset. Underskirts
can also be attached without sewing to the lower edge, thus
further reducing size. Worn by Royalty.
Recommended bjr the Medical Profession. Thousands of un-
ttithmii solicited Testimonials. To be obtained of all the best Drapers .... .
Without Attachment. and Ladies’ Outfitters throughout Australasia. With Attachment,
N.B.—When ordering, the size round largest part of hips should be given. Every Attachment is stamped “ TITAN.**
In Blaek, White, and Bora. Price 6/6.
Patentee and
Sole Manufacturer,
Mrs. A. WHITE, 1,2 & 3, Langley Court, Long Acre, London, W.C.
(0* The Trade suffixed through all the principal Wholesale Houses in Australia and Hew Zealand*
f


TATTERSAL
Address s Car© GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
N ame
Address
Spring H. (Special) Aug. 10.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL,
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name -
Address
Adelaide G.N.H. Aug. 10.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above,
N am®,
Address
Metropolitan S. Sept. 9.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address.
Metropolitan S. Sept. 9.
(SPECIAL)
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
Demonstration H. Oct. 1.
50,000 Subscribers at 5*
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Kamo
Address
£ s s
Caulfield C., 100,000 at 5; Melbourne C., 100,000 each at 5 and 20.
Melbourne lOO,OOO at 5.
For full particulars read our Printed Circular.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


/ANGIERSA
(Petroleum
\ EHULSIOH i
HYPOPHQSWUTBS^^
FOR
BRONCHITIS
AND
STUBBORN COUGHS.
ANGIER’S Petroleum Emulsion not
only quickly relieves the most ob-
stinate cough, and soothes and heals
the throat and lungs, but at the same time
it promotes appetite, aids digestion, and
greatly improves the general health. It is
equally good for the cough of chronic
bronchitis with profuse expectoration; the
dry, harsh, throat cough; the irritating
cough of influenza; and for whooping
cough and croupy coughs of children. To
those who are subject to bronchial attacks
it is an especial boon. The cough and
breathing are made easier, the irritation in
throat and bronchial tubes is soothed, the
character of the expectoration is altered,
and a general improvement eU'ected in all
the symptoms. We have had hundreds of
reports from all. parts of the English-
speaking World attesting its remarkable
power to relieve and cure troublesome
cou o hs.
A FREE SAMPLE
On receipt of 4d. for postage.
Mention SYDNEY BULLETIN.
DO NOT accept inferior imitations made with ordinary
Petroleum.
BE SURE TO GET ANGIER’S.
Oh all Chemists & Drug Stores.
The ANGIER CHEMICAL Co., Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
The morning of life is the time of
abundance, profusion, strength, vigor,
growth. When the sun begins to sink,
when the midday of life is past, then
the hair begins to fade and the silvery
gray tells of approaching age.
Sunrise or sunset ? Which shall
your mirror say ? If the former, then
it is rich and dark hair, long and heavy
hair; if the latter, it is short and fall-
ing hair, thin and gray hair.
The choice is yours, —for
Ayer's Hair Viger
always restores color to gray hair,
stops falling of the hair, and makes
the hair grow long and heavy.
This is something you have been
looking for, isn’t it ? And it is some-
thing you can have confidence in, for
it is no experiment; people have been
using it for half a century. We do not
claim it will do everything, but we do
claim it is the best hair preparation
ever made.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co.. Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
i
jojtoVMag]
J>l ?aIo) Jwjmo}
Saf/poA\ ftnyjyr
*wiio
pw^9‘
lo^Vd.
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Ad rbsb— L.D.1., 800 Collina Bt., Melbourne
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post thro ay ho i it
Atistralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
£. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane, Q'land
Australia!} ProyidcQt Society.
MONET TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Hoad Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
sd
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 109-
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY,
it W Send for a
Catalogue.
f
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HII»IiIER. 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MICLBOURNK-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
HIGHEST AWARD-GOLD MEDAL—PARIS EXHIBITION, 1300.
<s*B3
For INFANTS
and INVALIDS?
MELLIN’S FOOD yields a complete diet for the youngest
infants, in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD retains its properties for any length of
time and is adapted for use in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD when dissolved in milk, makes a simple
nutritious diet for growing children.
Samples etc., may be obtained of GOLLIN & Co., 172, Clarence Street, Sydney, 562 4, Bourke
Street, Melbourne, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, and Wellington.
Mellin’s Food Company for Australia and New Zealand Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, London.
MELUN'S EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS,
and BRONCHITIS.
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & CO., 172 Clarence Btreet, Bydney.
C. BRANDAUER & Co/S}
Circular-Pointed Pena. '
Seven Prize Medals Awarded.
Neither scratch nor spurt, the
points being rounded by a new
process.
Attention is also
drawn to their
new
“GRADUATED
SERIES Of PENS.”
Each pattern being made in four degree*
C.B RAND AUER &C°2
IRCULAR
POINTED
PEN
of flexibility and Points.
Ask your Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either series.
Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND.
Visitors to the old country
SOUTH
KENSINGTON
HOTEL
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
se
CONSIDERABLY ENLARGED. NOTED
FOR ITS COMFORT & CONVENIENCE.
QUEEN’S GATE TERRACE.
LONDON. S.W.
ONE OF THE
MOST FASHIONABLE
HOTELS IN LONDON.
THE HIGHEST CLASS TOBACCO.
In Three Strengths s MILD, MEDIUM, FULL.
HAS NO EQUAL IN
QUALITY AND
AROMA.
11
Modern Scientific
Authorities declare
"ARDATH ”
The Healthiest Tobacco /
Fame of nearest Agent post free on application to
M. RUTTY & Co., Sydney.
Sole Proprietors :i La Casa de la Habana & “ Ahdath ” Factory
Manufacturers of Pure Tobacco, 62, Leadenhail street, London, England.
,S.W. Carriage
Note our New Address:
& Saddlery Manf. Company
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
When in town, pay ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description oi
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Prioe List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 16s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE. Do not be
misled by any firms who say they wdl deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requirements.
OUK SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
✓
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.B.W. Kail nays, Station
£lO 10 /-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sundown in the Bnsh.
The sun sinks, and the bush grows grey and pale,
Like a grim giant in his mortal swoon ;
The jackass strokes the twilight with the flail
Of his harsh humor —gibing at the moon—
Yon film-eyed corse, whose cerements avail
Scarce to conceal her from that bird-buffoon
Whose ribald laughter shakes the silence dim,
Stirring the shroud that hideth her from him.
The gum-trees spread wan hands, fingering the
dusk
As if to feel the darkness that is near;
Like hoary misers groping at the husk
And warding off the gold in panic-fear ;
And thou, dread beldame Bush, whose tattered
busk
And tangled elf-locks shroud thy bosom sere,
Mock’st me, thy foster starveling, with the wail
Of bloodless lips, and eyes than death more pale.
Oh, ghostly land, that weigheth on the soul,
Like the long ages darkened by Eve’s sin !
Oh, ghostly phantom, that doth man cajole,
With gold, to thy dark wilderness, to win
Life’s bitter lies : thy vampire lips control
His heart and brain, making his bosom thin ;
Sapping the soul’s bright courage with caress
Of gilded, barren-breasted cold traitress !
Though man brings to thee all that he can give—
Courage and steadfastness—his talents here
Must faint or languish, stricken by the bane
Thy pores distil. His spirit, shining clear,
Seareheth thy dark dominions all in vain,
And sinketh to the socket, as in fear !
Thrice blest are they who shrink not from thy
spell :
Who grieves not here would never grieve in hell !
N.s.w.
T.H.M.
The Old Yahrung.
Where wombats roll in the twilight dim,
Swans sleep afloat, and black-ducks swim,
And teal disport the green reeds among ;
Where the mopokes cry in the scrub below,
And the curlews scream by the glow-worm’s glow—
Are the lone green shores of the old Yahrung.
They paced that sward in the moonlit night,
They heard the whirr of wild wings in flight,
And refrains of songs that were long years sung ;
The little squirrels that gambolled round
They heeded not, for their hearts had found
Their Heaven on Earth by the old Yahrung.
He galloped away in the moonlit night
To his cattle camped in a far-off bight,
Where the clatter of hoofs in the wild woods rung ;
But he thought of her as the nights went past,
Till the trip was o’er and he came at last
Back to the shores of the old Yahrung.
“ Where’s Alice ? Ay, my fair bride to be,
My blue-eyed beauty—say, where is she ? ”
And the mother sighed, for her heart was stung.
“ Not of this world is thy sweetheart; know
At dawn of day, where the lilies grow,
She was drowned last June in the old Yahrung.
“That snow-white swan that is swimming there
Like a mist-wraith came thro’ the morning air,
And cried aloud with its wings out-flung :
’Tis my dear lost child, I have heard them say
(A strange, weird tale !), yet it swims for aye
O’er the one sad spot on the old Yahrung.”
Then a drover, mad, trudged those banks in quest
Of a fair sweet girl as the sun went west,
And the swan cried loud as Love’s song was
sung:
“ I’m Alice ! thine Alice ! ” it seemed to say.
He paused and he wooed, and he bore one day
A bride from the shores of the old Yahrung.
Such is the tale that the drovers tell,
Encamped by the spot that they know so well,
Harking to days when the world was young,
While the dingoes howl by the brumbies’ trail;
The curlews scream, and the night-winds wail
By the lone, weird shores of the old Yahrung.
N.s.w.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
Rain in the Forest.
Rain in the forest!
And down the trees the water crawls;
There is a weeping everywhere,
And far, far off, a lone bird calls.
Here in the forest,
While tall trees stoop and wild winds blow,
I catch, at times, the interchange
Of many whispers, vague and low.
Rain in the forest!
And all the ways are desolate,
And that small bird that calls at times
Seems calling for a vanished mate.
Tree-tops are tossing,
And rain-drops fall from every leaf :
Is there a rage beyond man’s rage,
And, out beyond his grief, a grief ?
Who shall make answer ?
Who reveal the soul that seems
So intimate, so far, so sad,
So made of tears and sobs and dreams ?
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


GALKIN CUPEL MACHINES.
Ca.k n’a Automatic Cupel Machine.
Will make 600 cupels of uniform size
and density in an hour.
The only absolutely satisfactory machine
made.
Made in three designs—Automatic, Table
and Wall.
The automatic machines will make live sizes.
The table and wall machines from one to
three sizes, depending on dies furnished.
Machines for one size only at propor-
tionately less price.
Write for full particular to 4
SOLE AGENTS-
PARKE & cncy company ltd.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
Importers of modern appliances for Assayers—Furnaces,
Blowers, Sampling' Machines, Ore Crushers, etc., etc.
sf
n
SS3
fig
pigi
fewMAfcVi
SHU
• :
%
MONOGRAM free,
85/-
Our Gold-Filled Famous
85 - Lever Watches
Wear Equal to 18-ct. Gold.
Guaranteed to be made of Two Plate* of *OUO
GOLD, with Plate of Composition between, and will
Wear
20 YEARS.
ART
Jewellers
&g
y
90 King ST
Sydney.
They are Famous for Time-
keeping, and will stand hard
riding and knocking about.
We keep them in order for 3
years (breakages excepted).
Please Send for our Illustrated Catalogue.
|-P" , AII Goods Post Free.
it
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
You Can Have
English Boots
.. AT ..
London Prices.
Best Style.
Best Quality.
No
Better
Made.
We do One Line—Gentlemen’s Boots- only.
That one we do Well.
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St., and
145 KING ST., op. Theatre Royal, SYDNEY
Also 294 Collins St., Melbourne.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
RRANDY
A
Federal
Spirit
that
will
Build
up
a
Splendid
Constitution.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
df
se
A
YANKEE DOODLE
9s well in front in New South Wales, and forging ahead in
the other Australian States.
The Free Voice of the People is the Strongest Proof possible.
Customs figures show the Yearly Increase in the Sales of DIXSON’S TOBACCO
in NEW SOUTH WALES ALONE to be
1898 INCREASE . - 109,397 lbs.
1899 INCREASE - - 173,332 lt>ss
1900 INCREASE - - 228,263 lbs.
Over 100 TONS more Last f Year than during 1899.
YANKEE DOODLE (LIGHT and DARK) The Great Mild Smoke
AND IS THE TOBACCO OF THE DAY I
CONQUEROR: Dark, Rich, Good —For Smoking and Chewing.
CHAMPION Gold Leaf, Plug and Cut — Choicest Natural "Flavor —CUT, in Hermetically Sealed Patent
Tins. Champion Blended Stock Yankee Doodle.
BONANZA CIGARS-4 for 6d. in packets. Best value of any cigar.
MONO POLE— The ORIGINAL ROTHSCHILD, and above all Imitations.
—■ PIPES AND TOBACCO WARE OF ALL KINDS
DIXSON & SONS LTD., * PARK STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered fit the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vox.. 22.—N0. 1118.
SATURDAY. JULY 20, 1901.
Priob G >.
THE AUSTRALASIAN SUPREME COURT OF THE FUTURE.
The 27th clause of the Federal Government’s Post and Telegraph Bill gives the P.M.G. or his deputy authority—not only to refuse to transmit, but to destroy —any posted
newspaper containing “ seditious. ht[?]phemous, indecent or obscene matter."
NOW WHAT IS SEDITIOUS MATTER, OR BLASPHEMOUS MATTER, OR INDECENT MATTER, OR OBSCENE MATTER? EVERYTHING THAT YOU LIKE TO
CALL so; but nothing until it is held to be so by judge and jury.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australia)ts. ,>
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
IVestralia and Dlaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with Us. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of\\d. postage, the subscription
to Tub Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum,, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —] id. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Xiie Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with pottage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and (Cl Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence’’ column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Pinch and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — lt. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetoion ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
SATURDAY, JULY 20, 1901. •
Poreign-trade and Sweating.
A Parliamentary Commission which has
been drifting round Australia inquiring into
the working of factory laws, minimum-wage
laws, anti-sweating laws, early-closing laws,
and other legislation of an allegedly shock-
ing character, lately held some sittings in
Sydney. And in that hot-bed of Foreign-
trade, where the importing monopolist
makes huge fortunes and runs the
country, and where the blessed policy
that is said to make the community Jolly
and Fat has a better show than in any
other part of the world, save Britain,
the Commission collected some really re-
markable evidence. Sydney has just finished
with a huge strike of ironworkers who
wanted their wages raised to the standard of
Protectionist Victoria. It has heard recently
of grumblings in its police-force, which
'also wants its pay and privileges raised
to the standard of Protectionist Victoria.
These may be small things, but they
all tend to reflect more or less on the
great Jolly and Fat superstition. And
now the merchants and manufacturers
of Sydney have cast further discredit on the
legend by such evidence as this—taken from
the Sydney daily paper reports of last
Thursday and Friday :
Alfred Hra sen (of R. I). Brascij & Co., clothing manu-
facturers), said that the price for making trousers for
warehouses was IOJd. per pair. The lowest price he paid
was 6d. per pair. The men had to work very hard from
12 to 14 hours per day in order to make from 10s. to
12s. 6d. per week. Prices given 12 months ago for making
a line of 500 pairs were 16jd. per dozen ; 16£d. for trim-
ming, 6s. per dozen for stamping, 15d. per dozen for
pressing, and 9d. per dozen for cutting. . . .
Apprentices started in the clothing trade at 2s. 6d, 45.,
and ss. per week for the first six months, and received a
2s. 6d. rise then if they were worth it. Finishers were
paid from 7s. 6d. up to 15s. and 20s. per week. Two
hands making vests could earn 275. 6d. per week on the
prices paid outside factories. The outside prices were a
good deal lower than the prices they paid in the factories.
Their price for trousers was 10Jd. for making, but outside
they were made for about Bd., and working at the latter
rate about 12 to 14 hours daily about 10s. to 12s. 6d. per
week could be made. Sac coats were made from Is. 9d.
to Bs. each, and up to 6s. for Chesterfields. He thought
that workers were better off in Victoria on account of the
law regulating the wages there. About 30 per cent, of
the women engaged in the clothing factories, he con-
sidered, were young girls from 15 to 19 years of age.
Outside labor was principally done by married women.
Think of these things in the Freetrade land
of Jolly and Fat! Twelve to 14 hours hard
work per day in order to make from 10s. to
12s. 6d. per week ! ! Pants made at Bd.
per pair !! ! Finishers can really earn up
to £1 per week ! ! 1 !
* * * *
And here is some more evidence, mostly
on the subject of wages as paid in Sydney :
Mr. J. T. Robertson, clothing manufacturer, 77 York-
street, stated that he manufactured for Messrs.
M‘Arthur’s warehouse. He was in favor of factory
legislation that would place manufacturers on an even
basis and avoid sweating. He had to send to Mel-
bourne last year, when busy, for hands, and paid one £2,
two 325. 6d, and two 30s. per week. These wages loere
higher than he paid here. His highest rate to girls in
Sydney was 275. 6d. per week. Witness gave particulars
regarding the cost of making vests, prices paid being
from 6s. to Bs. per dozen ; trousers, ss. 6d. per dozen
with plain seams and 6s. per dozen for raised seams ;
whilst for better-class goods Bs. to 9s. per dozen was paid.
He considered they could compete with Melbourne, as
wages were lower here. In Melbourne he believed the cost
of living was cheaper.
Mr. T. B. Clegg, clerk in charge Department of Labor
and Industry : We have in our reports repeatedly called
attention to the low prices paid for certain work, and
have figures which go to support Mr. Brasch’s state-
ments. Continuing, witness said in cross-examination,
that 10s. per week and perhaps a little more would be a
fair representative wage earned by out-door women in
the trousers line.
Mr. Charles P. Neilson, factory manager for Messrs.
Morgan, Smith and Whybrow, boot manufacturers,
Sydney, said that he paid boj's commencing, at the rate
of 6s. per week. He appreciated the factories legislation
m this State, because they enjoyed more freedom com-
pared with Victoria. He would favor a uniform Shops
and Factories Act for the Commonwealth. The class of
labor here was, in his opinion, not so high as in Victoria.
He encouraged no sweating, but heard that it existed in
one or two places. The retail price of boots in Sydney
was about the same as in Melbourne. The Victorian Act
applied in this State, he ventured to say, would be simply
ruinous under freetrade. Its effect in Victoria had not
been to make boots any dearer to the consumer.
Thomas Willson, describing himself as a draper’s assis-
tant, said that for 21 years he had served in a shop from
8 a.m. to 9 and 9.80 p.m., to the great detriment of his
health. He believed the warmest supporters of the Early
Closing Act at the present time were those who at first
condemned it. The current wages for drapers’ assistants
were very low Some large firms were giving only £1 and
255. per week. They were also bringing in a lot of boy
labor, starting the youngsters at as low as 2s. 6d. per
week.
* * * *
These witnesses show up the conditions
of labor under the great Freetrade policy
in a truly mournful aspect. And they do
more than that. It is directly stated that
“Workers are better off in Victoria on
account of the law regulating wages there.
Also that Sydney can compete with Mel-
bourne because wages are lower in Sydney,
and in further support of this statement the
man who sent to Melbourne for workers had
to pay them at a higher rate than the
Sydney standard. It is further declared
that the Protected State has developed a
better class of operatives ; and that in addi-
tion to getting higher wages in the Pro-
tected State the cost of living is cheaper.
Therefore it seems that Protection benefits
the worker at both ends ; it costs him less
to live, and he has more money to live
upon. These statements do not rest, by
any means, on the unsupported testimony
of interested manufacturers. N.S. Wales
Statistician Coghlan, in his chapter on
the “ Cost of Living ” (“ Seven Colo-
nies of Australasia ” for 1899-1900, pages
419 and 420) says that the standard of
living is much the same in all the States, but
that the cost is so widely different that it
runs in N.S.W. to £39 14s. lid. per inhabi-
tant per annum, while if the six cheaper
Protectionist States are lumped in with
N.S.W., the average for all seven States is
reduced to £36 19s. 5d per inhabitant per
annum. And if his latest list of the highest
and lowest wages paid in all trades (“ Statis-
tical Register of N.S.W.” for 1899, pages
967 to 1013) is compared with the correspond-
ing Victorian official return (“ Victorian
Year Book,” part 111., pages 602 to 606) ic
is found that in 106 cases the rate paid is
higher in Victoria, and in only 68 cases is it
higher in N.S.W. And out of 87 trades
there are 71 where the lowest wage paid in
Victoria is higher than the lowest wage
paid in N.S. W. Since these figures
were issued the Victorian minimum wage-
law has been much further extended, to the
still greater advantage of the Victorian
worker. These are corroborative evidences
which can’t be ignored or explained away.
The interested manufacturer might strain the
truth on one side, just as the interested im-
porter and the papers which represent him
lie on the other side ; but when the disin-
terested State Statistician is on the manu-
facturer’s side his case becomes overwhelm-
ing.
• * * »
The invariable rep' • of .he Foreign-trader
is, that even if Pr.,cection makes wages
higher or the selling price of goods lower, it
is against reason and logic to suppose that it
can do both things. A Sydney bootmaker
appeared before the Commission to explain
how it did both things, and the Sydney
Telegraph of last Friday reported his words
as follows :
Mr. J. P. Wright, boot manufacturer, said his firm
exported to Tasmania, West Australia, and Maoriland,
but did not do trade with Victoria, because the duties
were prohibitive. Even after the duties were removed
he did not think there would be much export to Victoria,
because the Victorians were already able to successfully
compete with the local factories in the Riverina. During
the past year Victoria’s export of boots to this State
amounted to between £70,000 and £BO,OOO. Local men
were, however, hopeful of being able to do a fair business
with Queensland when the duties were removed. His
firm employed about 220 hands, and paid clickers from
20s. to £2, machinists (females) from 12s. to 15s.
A Commissioner: You say that you cannot compete
with Victoria. How is it that, paying a lower Tate of
wages than the Act makes imperative in Victoria, you are
unable to make your goods cheaper ?
Mr. Wright : Because the Victorian factories are larger,
and work more continuously. Furthermore, the Victorian
manufacturer has the whole trade to himself. We in New
South Wales have nothing to ourselves. The importations
of American boots alone last month came to £30,000.
Then there is the prejudice of local merchants and shop-
keepers for imported as against local goods. Still another
reason is that a more highly-finished class of goods is
made in Victoria than is the custom in New South Wales.
Our workmen are not trained to make the better class of
goods because the demand for them is satisfied by im-
portations. Also, the best class of raw material is not
produced in New South Wales. If we want especially
good leather we have to send elsewhere for it.
A Commissioner : Suppose you had a duty on boots
coming into New South Wales equal to that on boots
coming into Victoria, would that remove your objection
to the legal minimum wage ?—No, but I would be in favor
of a uniform minimum rate of payment on the piecework
principle. They pay all on piecework in the trade in
America, and in the factory which is the largest exporter
to Australia an average of £4 per week is earned by the
hands.
A Commissioner : Then how is it that that firm, paying-
such wages and insurance and freight, can land goods
here cheaper than you can sell them at ? Is it not a re-
flection upon Australian intelligence and enterprise?
Mr. Wright : No. They can make a so much better
article than we can, because they are able to “ specialise,”
and they can specialise because they have got such a large
home market. Whole townships are engaged in the
making of a single line. In Brockton, where there are
about 120 factories, not a single lady’s boot is made—all
men’s. On the other hand, you find towns where ladies’
boots alone are made. And so on right through.
* • • »
Think of that ! The Protected country
pays an average wage of £4 per week, and
yet can send its goods to the Foreign-trade
country, which pays from 12s. to £2 per
week, and beat it badly in its own market,
for the United States is now by far the
largest exporter of boots to New South
Wales. And the whole explanation lies in
economy of labor. The Protected manufac-
turer has his own local market secured to
him. With that big and reliable demand he
can put up larger factories, get better
machinery, and go in for economical sub-
division of labor. With a more reliable
trade and more reliable employment a
better-trained class of workmen grow up,
who can not only make more wages for
themselves but also make better profits for
their employers. And meanwhile Foreign-
trade New South Wales has never been able
to capture its own market so far as the
better class of boots is concerned. It makes
large quantities of cheap bluchers and the
like, for on the very cheap and common
blucher the freight and other charges
attached to importation are themselves a
considerable measure of Protection. And
the common variety of boot, being practi-
cally the only local product, it is made in a
common sort of way by a common and very
cheap variety of artisan. The better class of
artisan doesn’t grow in N.S.W. for want of
a better class of work to employ him at.
The amount saved by low wages is lost by
working in a crude and Common sort of way
with the inferior raw material which the
Foreign-trade system produces, and no one
is sufficiently sure of the local market to
start work in a larger and better way. So
N.S.W. pays low wages and spends over
£400,000 a year in buying boots from Vic-
toria, South Australia, Germany, but most
of all from the United States ; while Victoria
and the United States pay high wages, and
not only supply their own wants but export
boots as well.
• * • *
But perhaps the most notable item in the
evidence which the Commission collected in
Sydney was the frank acknowledgment of
boot-manufacturer Neilson that under
N.S. W.’s Foreign-trade policy the Victorian
minimum wage law was impossible. Foreign-
trade and sweating must go together. They
are inseparable. The minimum wage law
had not raised the price of boots, nor
destroyed the boot industry in Victoria.
With a reliable local market, a large business,
workmen, and good machinery,
it was possible for the Victorian employer
to pay the high wage fixed by law, and sell
boots as cheaply as in low-wage N.S.W.,
and still prosper. But to pay that high
wage in a country where inferior workmen
make an inferior class of goods with inferior
unprotected raw material, and where the
manufacturer has no reliable local market
secured to him, is said to be impossible.
Doubtless it is. Certainly no Foreign-trade
State has ever attempted to establish a
minimum-wage law, nor is it likely to. And
when all Australia has a Protective Federal
tariff, but no inter-State Protection, a new
situation will arise. It will then be possible
to have a legal minimum wage all over Aus-
tralia, but it must be all over Australia or
nowhere. If Protected Victoria pays a high
wage fixed by law, while the other equally-
Protected States pay about half that wage,
Victorian industries are doomed. The manu-
facturer, who is a sordid being with no
romance about him, will simply drift to the
cheaper wage States and make larger profits
there on sweating principles. Either an
equal Federal minimum wage law must be
applied to the whole Commonwealth, or Vic-
toria must repeal its Act in self-defence and
fight the other States on their own sweating
principles till better times arrive. Unless
the democratic party is willing to see the
abandonment of the only serious attempt
yet made to abolish sweating in Aus-
tralia it must make a great effort
to have this question handed over bv
the State Legislatures to the Federal Par-
liament, so that it can be dealt with
on an all-Australian basis. Of course if,
by any incredible chance, the Reid and
M‘ Mil t.AN and Puls for n Revenue Tariff
party comes uppermost in the Federal
Parliament, then the Minimum Wage Law
of Victoria must be repealed in red-hot
haste, and any idea of extending it to the
other States must needs be abandoned. Its
abolition would mean keeping industries
alive on a badly-paid basis till saner coun-
sels prevailed and it was possible to again do
something to mitigate the sweating evil.
Its retention, while the Revenue Tariff folly
prevailed, would mean presently having no
industries worth mentioning to keep alive
on any basis at all.
The Labor Party Anomaly.
The Labor Party has been a power in New South
Wales politics for the past ten years, and
almost the whole of that time the Government has
lived solely by its permission. It has controlled
the State as no Parliamentary party of its size lias
ever done before, and much good has resulted.
Also much harm has resulted, though the good
has outweighed the harm. The position of
the Labor Party in Parliament is an anomaly.
It has power without responsibility. It never
attempts to form a Ministry of its own, though it
is quite possible that it could draw to itself suffi-
cient of the floating elements of the Assembly to
make it the dominant section if it liked to bid for
power. Never having had.charge of the Treasury,
it declines to be responsible in any way for the
incredible muddle of the State’s finances, and the
discreditable shifts and devices that are adopted
to make the State look solvent. It has helped
to unmake three Ministries, but it didn’t take the
responsibility of helping, in any direct sense, to
make the Ministries that succeeded them. Dibbs,
Reid and Line each formed his Cabinet out of
his own personal following— Reid certainly tried
to put some direct responsibility oil the Labor
Party by including Cook in his Ministry, but the
party promptly dropped Cook out of its ranks,
and disclaimed him, and thus preserved its neutral
attitude.
* * * #
Then the Labor Party, without taking any re-
sponsibility for the Ministerial existence of Dibbs,
or Reid, or Lyne, or See, gave each its support
on certain conditions. So it was able to say, if
Dibbs, or Reid, or Lyne, or See was convicted of
so conducting the finances that N.S. W. was drift-
ing down the broad road to Insolvency: “We
didn’t make this man Premier, and therefore we
n °t responsible for his political dishonesty.”
The Labor Party kept Reid in office through
the worst days of his worst political dodges and
swindles, yet it was always in a position to point
out that it didn’t put the famous ledger-cooker
into office (it only found him there); that he
wasn’t its leader, and that the sin of his political
arrival didn’t lie at its door. It was able to say
the same thing of Lyne and See. Yet all the dis-
graceful faking of the public accounts, all the
frauds, swindles, and dirty financial dodges of the
past 10 years are, indirectly but none the less
certainly, the Labor Party’s doing. Every one of
the Governments which did these unclean things
was kept in office by the Labor Party. In one
sense it is worse than the old Freetrade Party, and
worse than the old Protectionist Party. The
Freetrade Party is responsible for Reid’s fakes,
and the other crowd is responsible for Lyne’s
fakes ; but the Labor Party goes one better: it is
responsible for the fakes of both men. They both
had to do what the Labor Party bade them in
order to retain their positions. If the Labor Party
had made honest finance one of the conditions of
its support N.S. W, would have had honest finance.
But it didn’t. In its own negative way it
apparently cared as little for honest finance as the
worst of them. But it is specially memorable as
the only crowd which connived at all the public’
swindles of the last ten years—bar the little item
of a few pounds paid to Jawbone Neild. No
other crowd has quite such a vast record of conni-
vance as that, though it is quite probable the
others would have connived just as much in the
same circumstances.
* * * *
The Labor Party’s attitude of irresponsibility is
curious. It was solely through its support that
George R,eid, when there was already a stupen-
dous deficit, which was growing every year, was
able to take off £700,000 a year customs duty and
put on only £400,000 a year direct taxation in its
place, thereby making the deficit £300,000 a year
worse than it had been before. The Labor Party
got great credit as the body which really estab-
lished a system of direct taxation in N.S.W., but
somehow, on the ground that it wasn’t part of the
direct Reid following, and for the further reason
that it didn’t profess to have any complete finan-
cial policy of its own, it didn’t share the obloquy
of the financial wreckage which ensued. The finan-
cial wreckage killed the Reid party in the end,
while the Labor men rather gained strength than
otherwise. The same men are responsible for the
fact that the Old Age Pensions Bill was passed,
aiid are equally responsible for the fact that the
Bill didn’t provide a copper to pay the pensions
with, yet somehow the credit falls mostly on the
Labor Party and the obloquy drops on the Lyne-
See Government. The Labor Party was largely
responsible for the Sydney land resumptions—an
eminently wise idea which should have been
carried further than it was. It also heard Lyne
expound that sinful and politically-fraudulent
financial statement wherein he proposed to fake
the accounts by treating the rents of the resumed
area as revenue, while making no provision for the
payment of interest on the purchase-money—a
necessary outlay which would absorb all these
rents. It heard the swindle denounced and
fully exposed ; and then it voted for Lyne
and for the swindle. Yet, during the re-
cent State elections a Labor member assured
the public that if the Labor Party discovered
that this disgraceful proceeding had been done by
the Lyne-See Government, that party would do
its duty with Roman fortitude, and throw the
Government out. The Labor Party had done the
disgraceful proceeding itself. It heard the matter
fully exposed, and then it deliberately voted for
the Estimates, and for the Lyne Government,
and for the disgraceful proceeding. Yet it keeps
up the farce of being a Harold Skimpole in
politics—a gushing child of Nature which can’t be
held responsible in matters of finance—and one of
its members assured the country that if it found,
to its own great surprise, that it had done this
thing, it would indignantly eject the other man.
* * * *
The Labor Party can’t keep any man in office
without being responsible for what he does while
in office. It is the only party which had power
to make both Reid and Lyne go straight, and to its
disgrace it didn’t use that power. It badly needs
to make honesty one of the planks of its inany-
planked platform. The policy of support in return
for concessions is good enough—if honesty, and sol-
vency, and decent Government, and the"payment
of the country s liabilities are among the conces-
sions ; but unfortunately they are not. Since the
Labor Party has been a power in N.S. W. politics
the finances of the State have been better than
they were before—and they have also been worse.
They have been better because the State has not
run into debt after the frenzied fashion of the 80’s.
In the 10 years between 1881 and 1891, when there
was no Labor Party, N.S.W. borrowed and spent
the incredible sum of £36,000,000, or £3,600,000 a
year. In the nine years from 1891 to 1900 it only
added about £13,000,000 to its visible debts, and,
even allowing for hidden deficits, the increase
was probably not much over £2,000,000 a year—
though this was partly because Britain would no


longer lend money as in former times. And the
finances have also been much worse, for, whereas
the large borrowings of former days were mostly for
productive works, the comparatively small borrow-
ings novv are greatly used for ordinary expenditure,
and political fraud, and cooking of the accounts.
Out of £2,000,000 borrowed in one year now a
much larger sum is shamefully and corruptly mis-
applied than out of £4,000,000 borrowed in one
year the decade before last. The Labor Party
didn’t invent this new swindle, but it is respon-
sible none the less. When Reid’s great Cash
Basis sin might otherwise have justly cost him his
billet the Labor Party kept him in office, and
didn’t even bring serious pressure to bear on him
to make him go straight. When Lyne did his
mean and discreditable dodge by misapplying the
rents of the resumed area, that might have justly
lost him his billet, only the Labor Party kept
him also in office. Almost any discreditable and
bankrupt dodge is possible to the politician who
has the support of the Labor Party. It doesn’t
originate swindles, nor does it openly defend
them. It simply goes on the theory that it can’t
be expected (the Lord only knows why) to take
any interest in finance —except in such small,
crude, childish matters as a few pounds paid with-
out authority to Jawbone Neied.
• * * *
And, despite all this, The Bulletin wants to
see the N.S.W. Labor Party in office. Then it
will either have to give the State clean finance
or invent its own swindles and be responsible for
them. As it hasn’t invented any swindles of its
own up to now, this paper has hopes that it will
prove by far the most desirable party of the three
to hold the Ministerial billets. Under the present
system of power without responsibility it has done
an immense amount of good in many ways, but
the financial way isn’t one of them. In that way
it has probably done more harm than good.
The Attack on Freedom of the Press.
Every democrat in the Commonwealth . House of
Representatives should resist to the utmost
the passage of the clauses in the Govt.
Post and Telegraphs Bill attacking the free-
dom of the press. Than the liberty of the
press we have no more precious possession.
At this day the growth and development of the
popular intelligence, and its attitude towards
national questions, are chiefly dependent upon
the news gathered and transmitted by the press,
and upon the free expression of opinion ; and the
day when the Commonwealth Govt, succeeds in
gaining a tyrant’s power of censorship and sup-
pression will be a bad day for Australia.
* * * *
The 41st clause of the Bill gives the P.M.G. or
his deputy, authority—not only to refuse to trans-
mit, but to destroy —any postal article containing
“ profane, blasphemous, indecent, obscene, offensive,
or libellous matter.” What is the qualification
of a Postmaster-General to usurp the function
of a judge and jury, and to decide what is blas-
phemous, libellous, or obscene ? He has none
whatever. What is “ libellous ” matter ? What
is “ blasphemous ” matter ? Everything that you
like to call so ; nothing until it is proved before a
judge and jury. To permit any Govt, official to
abolish the forms of justice at his whim or preju-
dice is a monstrous outrage on liberty.
* • * *
And “offensive!” Why, every line, every word
almost, that can be printed is “offensive” to
somebody! Every comment upon a politician may
be easily “ offensive ” to the politician. And the
Commonwealth Govt, of politicians asks for
power not to detain, but to destroy, “offensive”
matter—to destroy the evidence impeaching its
extra-judicial judgments, the evidence of its poli-
tical usurpation of a jury’s functions !
* * * *
It is not to the point to argue that the Post*
master-General “ would not do this ; ” the Govt.
“ would never dream of doing that.” The Govt,
has no right to ask for the power of doing this or
that. Censorship of public morals is not its busi-
ness ; a politician or a Cabinet of politicians is not
fitted to be censor. Decision as to what is libellous
or profane is not its business : it is the business of
the constituted courts of justice, whose functions
the Govt, is not fitted to perform, is essentially
unfitted to perform.
* * * *
The only power the Govt, is entitled to ask for,
the only power Parliament should ever dream of
granting, is a rower to “refuse to transmit any
postal m itter which is plainly and scandalously
hbcl'ous or obscene .” And the Act should contain
a specific provision giving the right of immediate
redress, with damages, before a Judge and jury,
in the event of injustice being done.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Inter-State Commission Grievance.
The fact that the Federal Bill constituting an
Inter-State Commission gives that body power to
interfere with the rates charged by private car-
riers—ship-owners and such—has aroused a blast
of grievous indignation among the shipping com-
panies. There is a general threat to close up, to
close down, to sell the ships, to take capital out of
the country, and to raise Cain generally. Even
if the Bill passes in its present form, however, it
is practically certain that the companies will cool
off wonderfully. The chief purpose of the Inter-
State Commission is to prevent the charging of
rates (principally on State railways) which will
put one State at a disadvantage as compared with
another. There is nothing gained by prohibiting
Victoria from charging a customs duty on N.S.W.
beef, if Victoria can get level by charging the
extra duty in the shape of special freights on
N.S.W. beef sent over its railwa3 T s, or special tolls
on N.S.W. cattle passing over its roads. But
if the powers of the Inter-State Commission
don’t extend to private railroads, then the
Broken Hill line, for instance, if its mostly-
Victorian owners were interested in Vic-
torian manufactures, might get a monopoly
of the Broken Hill trade for their State by
charging prohibitive rates over their bit of line
for N.S.W. and S.A. goods, while carrying Vic.
goods at a low tariff. A very similar thing might
happen with road or sea carriage. If the Aus-
tralian shipping companies amalgamated (and
t sing dike that do happen) and such a corporation
as the Colonial Sugar Co. was a huge shareholder
in the concern, it might easily get much higher
rates levied on the sugar of any possible rival
combination, and to a great extent crush it out of
the market. Sea freights are so much cheaper
than land freights that this could be done without
bringing the railways into serious competition, so
far as the trade between the large coastal cities is
concerned. Again, a State might become a
ship-owner itself, and carry the goods of
its own people at specially low rates,
which would again be a form of Inter-State
Protection. There are dozens of ways in which
■both land an I sea carriers might discriminate, or
their own profit, between different people and
different States. Britain has, at times, seen the
astounding spectacle of its own ships carrying
continental goods to British colonies at cheaper
rates than British goods. The co.’s' put up the
freights in Britain by a combination among them-
selves, but carried goods from foreign ports at the
old low charge in order to compete with foreign
companies that were outside the ring. The
arrangement may have been good enough for the
companies, but it was very bad for British manu-
facturers. The theory that the Inter-State Com-
mission will use its powers for mere mischievous
and purposeless meddling is based on the idea
that the Commission will naturally be a dangerous
lunatic at a high salary, and the Parliament
another dangerous lunatic at a moderate salary.
In the same way the power which any Govern-
ment possesses of calling the whole population to
arms at a crisis might be objected to on the ground
that the Government, being naturally a complete
idiot, would be calling the whole male population
out three times a week to the destruction of all
industry. Also the proposal to give Sydney Cor-
poration power to condemn buildings might be
objected to for fear it would at once order the
pulling down of the Equitable Building and the
G.P.O. Some little latitude must be allowed
on the assumption that the Government will have
lucid intervals.
♦
Federal Defence.
The Federal Defence Bill is a document which
seems to have been drawn up with great care, and
with a large amount of intelligence. Australia,
unfortunately, must have an army, for the suffi-
cient reason that this is a cold world, and full of
wickedness. It needs, in proportion to popula-
tion, almost the biggest army on eartb, for it has
a huge country to defend, and not many people to
defend it. And as it can’t afford to have all its
male population standing about in uniform and
holding up a gun, the best device is to rely mainly
on a citizen army. There is to be a small per-
manent force, and a larger volunteer force behind
that; and in the rear of both practically the whole
male community between the ages of 18 and 00 is
liable to be called out. The latter departure isn’t
so radical as it looks, for, law or no law, every
Government has power, as an Act of State, to call
out every male citizen on an emergency. It has
the same power to call on women to enlist if the
emergency is large enough. So in this
respect the Act merely defines on paper
a power already existing. 'Rifle clubs are to be
encouraged and assisted, so as to make sure that
some at least of the reserves will know one end of
a gun from the other. The retirement of officers
is provided for—a major-general goes out at 62,
but if a man reaches the age of 45, and has got no
further than the grade of Second-lieutenant, he
goes out remorselessly at 45, and men of higher
rank are ejected at varying ages. In military
matters, despite the isolated examples of old men
who have done great deeds, the general rule is
that the ancient must go. And it would be a
wise idea to add a proviso that the dispro-
portionately-obese man, as weU as the one above
a certain age, should be retired ; the fat
man should go as well as the greybeard. No
provision is made as yet for compulsory and un -
versal military training, though that most essen-
tial matter will probably be attended to when the
Commonwealth has more money and more
time. The Permanent Forces are to be
liable for foreign service, though the rest
of the army is for defensive purposes onlv.
The proviso allowing for service outside Australia
was probably unavoidable —if an army isn’t
allowed to follow a defeated invader and hit him
again before he has time to recover, then half its
usefulness is lost. Also, if it was impossible to
send Australian military aid to repel an attack
on, say, Fiji or Maoriland, it might lead to worse
calamities later on. All the same the outside ser-
vice idea is a misfortune —however unavoidable
the misfortune may be. It makes the way easier
for an unlimited amount of expensive and
idiotic contingenting which may lead to any
amount of trouble hereafter. All the same, if
this country is bent, at any time, on being another
great fool in addition to the fool it has been
already, it is tolerably certain that no law could
be devised that would prevent it. And if it isn’t
bent on being a fool the foreign service proviso in
the Federal Defence Bill won’t make it one. No
country can tie itself so securely to a post of its
own construction that it can’t get away and do
something ridiculous if it has a widespread incli-
nation that way, and no laws that a man can pass
prohibiting himself from being a lunatic will pre-
vent him being one if he is one.
+
A State Grog Monopoly.
Russia —slow, backward, semi-barbarie Russia,
which moves occasionally even faster than civilised
Anglo-Saxondom—tried a notable experiment in
1895. It established a State, liquor monopoly in
four of the eastern provinces ; and next year it
extended the experiment to other parts of the
Empire. As fast as the machinery can be got
into working order the system is being carried all
over Russia, and the results up to date are de-
scribed by the Minister of Finance as follows :
Now that four years have passed since the monopoly
was put in force in the eastern provinces, and two and a
half years since it came into operation in the vast regions
of the south and south-west, it is permissible to express a
judgment on its moral and economic effects, and to pre-
sent some data for estimating its financial results. . . .
The better quality of the brandy, the considerable reduc-
tion in the number of places of sale, the establishment of
uniform prices strictly proportionate to the quantity sold,
the impossibility of obtaining alcoholic liquors except for
ready money—all these advantages, and others which are
brought about by the rectification and sale of spirits
under the care of the State, have already practically
demonstrated their happy influence. Drunkenness has
perceptibly diminished, debauchery with its inevitable
consequences has given place to a' more regular use of
alcohol, offences and crimes provoked by drunkenness
have become rarer. Nor has the usefulness of the reform
been limited to the preservation of health and good
morals ; it exercises a salutary effect upon the material
resources of the people. The economic progress is con-
firmed both by the increase of the fiscal receipts and by
the inflow of deposits to the savings banks, a double
phenomenon which is to be observed in the four eastern
provinces since the new regulations as to spirituous
liquors have been in force there. . . . Certain details of
the reform have as yet been simply indicated ; others
must be remoulded and completed; the whole needs
attentive management. Nevertheless this vast enter-
prise rests henceforward on a rational basis.”
It should pay some up-to-date Australian legislator
to send to Russia for a copy of the regulations
under which that great empire contrives to be its
own public-house, and try if the system would not
fit Australia. The Australian is intensely con-
servative in many things. British traditions sit
in a large square lump on his chest, and it is diffi-
cult to get him out of the Anglo-Saxon rut except
when he gets out of it in the wrong direction.
Still there is always hope. What a chance there
is for N.S.W. to make the beginnings of a State
Grog Monopoly in the Resumed Area of Sydney,
where some 30 public-houses are now State pro-
perty.
G-old-Dredging in Maoriland.
An embittered Bulletin correspondent writes
from Dunedin (Maoriland): —
The dredging boom which recently smote Otago has
probably absorbed more canny Scotch and other savings
than any previous speculation. Beginning in a small
way, with private syndicates and small companies,
dredges paid handsomely. They had the pick of loca-
tions on the golden Molyneux, and, with small-capacity
machines and an absence of hook-nosed directors and
other extraneous official fry, dividends were paid with
clockwork regularity. Then the famous Hartley and
Riley 00. got to work, a rich lead was struck, and the
yellow metal fished up at the rate of hundreds of ozs. per
week. This fertilised the fever-germs, and in less than a
tick the boom was in full swing. Now was the oppor-
tunity ripe for all the brokers, confidence - men and
experts in the country to get to work, and they didn’t
neglect their opportunities. Prospectuses rained down
on the just and the unjust. Everyone, from the humble
office-boy to the Presbyterian shepherd, took a hand.
Meanwhile, the nimble pegger-out was not slothful.
Almost every mile of almost every river, stream or
rivulet in Otago was staked and applied for, and as this
supply became duly bagged, they went back further and
secured beaches, plateaux and mountains —anything, in
fact. As progress-payments on the dredges were made
and companies (limited liability) pushed for calls with re-
morseless precision, the contributing-stock-sodden public
began to stagger. Shares dropped gradually from premium
to par and even discount. Then the brokers and stock-job
artificers, after a vain attempt to keep the thing going
amongst themselves with the aid of a brand-new stock
exchange and other boodling paraphernalia, had to con-
fess the boom had burst. To increase the gathering
gloom certain new dredges began operations. Had they
been of the Molyneux fleet something might have hap-
pened to restore confidence. But they were chiefly of
the outsiders, dwelling up God-forsaken creeks filled with
boulders, or in narrow patches where the ladders failed
to reach the golden bottom. These after struggling con-
vulsively a few weeks had to liquidate. Also, about this
time some of the side effects of being in a hurry became
visible. Dredge-designers—bustled for plans by super-
heated directors—didn’t care a rap. They had one good
solid design and “ made ’em look just the same ” regard-
less of the nature of the claim or of the size of the
shareholders. And the foundries did likewise. Their
heterogeneous army of mechanics turned out work which,
when erected, tried to jolt itself to pieces for very shame’s
sake.
Now, as far as the dredging industry goes, it must not
be supposed that it is all one prodigious fake. It is per-
fectly legitimate and under proper conditions will, in
many cases, pay handsomely. There are to-day many
claims on the Molyneux and a few other places which will
prove top-notchers in spite of all the boodling, heavy
capitalisation, &o.—when the river goes down. But most
of the £1,500,000 put up as capital is hopelessly lost.
Australia, England, America, and even Germany have
captured some of it for machinery—which will eventually
be used for scrap-iron. The balance has been consumed
locally, and the produce thereof will make just as good
scrap-iron as the imported article. If a claim proves a
failure, and the adjoining one needs a dredge, and can
move it without re-construction, that machine is worth
half its original cost. But taking a dredge to pieces and
re-erecting it on a distant claim is a costly failure. The
liquidators now hover on the horizon like so many vul-
tures, and once let them get their claws in and it’s a
mighty poor feed for the rank-and-file. These are the
gentry who will really benefit by a general collapse. The
system is simple and effective. A co. starts with £BOOO
capital. Dredge absorbs, per original contract, £7OOO.
Within a year or two co. gets to work £lOOO or much more
in debt. How does it happen to hap? Foundries tell tear-
ful tale that contract won’t pay; engineer suggests
subsequent improvements in dredge which abrogate con-
tract, and up goes the price. Then for 18 months or more
seven directors and a secretary gnaw the funds with file-
sharpened incisors.- Is it any wonder the co. starts in
debt ? Then to raise more capital a thousand or two
preference shares are issued, and the ordinary shares are
flattened right out for good under cumulative preferen-
tial dividends—if there are any—and the preferential
claim of the fresh shares in case of liquidation. Then the
gentlemen with the “ gommission aspect” bobs up,
collars the whole outfit for a song, and for the rest of his
natural life dredges on his own account. And before
they have finished liquidating every Moses in Otago will
own a dredge, and the original shareholders will own
little or nothing save a summons for unpaid calls.
♦
[Our Colored Fellow-Subject.
Last year the Queensland Parliament passed four
Bills authorising the construction of privately-
owned railways, and each Bill contained this
clause: —
No aboriginal native of Asia, Africa, or the Pacific
Islands shall be employed by the company, or any of its
contractors or sub-contractors, in or about' the construc-
tion, maintenance, or management of the railway, or in
or about the mineral lands referred to in this Act, under
a penalty of one pound for each such person for every
day during which such person is employed. The onus of
proof that this section is being complied with shall rest
the person or persons charged with employing the
sane.
It also passed a Bill providing for State advances
to sugar-mills, and it contained this clause :
From and after the passing of this Act no aboriginal
native of Asia, Africa, or the Pacific Islands shall be em-
ployed by any company to which any advance has been
or may hereafter be made, under the provisions of the
Sugar Works Guarantee Acts of 1593 to 1900, in or about
any sugar mill or permanent tramway owned or worked
by the company ; and the company and every managing
director, manager, superintendent, or person in charge of
such mill or permanent tramway shall be liable to a
penalty, to be recovered in a summary way before any
two justices, of one pound in respect of each such native
for every day during which such native is employed con-
trary to the provisions of this section.
“Our coloured fellow-subject” from India and
and China, and our friend the Jap. were shut out
in each case under exactly the same penalty. Yet
Governor Lamington cheerfully gave his assent
to the four syndicate-railway measures, while
declaring, almost on the same day, that he couldn’t
give his assent to the sugar - works measure
(containing the same prohibition) without
authority from England! And the British
Government vetoed the sugar-works measure
because it imposed disabilities on our colored
fellow-subject from India, and because it was cal-
culated to aggravate our Jap. ally, while making
not the least attempt to vetof the four syndicate-
railway measures, which did exactly the same
thing. Why ? Well, presumably because the
Philp Government persuaded Lamington to do
so, and pulled various strings to persuade the
British Government to do so. The Philp crowd
doesn’t want to see a beginning made at the ejec-
tion of its cheap nigger from its sugar industry.
But it would rather not see foreign railway-build-
ing corporations employing its cheap nigger on
their railway works, and thereby taking them
away from its sugar industry. Anyhow, the fact
that the clause made no difference as regards the
Railway Bills shows that J oseph Chamberlain’s
explanation as to its inadmissability, for high
State reasons, in the Sugar-works Bill was a lie, or
else Joseph was badly misled. Anyhow, strenu-
ous efforts are going to be made to draw his atten-
tion to the fact that, by law, the British Govern-
ment has still a year in which to put its veto on
the Syndicate Railway Bills, and it is its duty,
by its own showing, to put it there—hard.
■ ♦
The supreme foolishness of building Sydney’s new
big railway station alongside the old one, a mile or
so away from the business centre of the city, was
boldly advertised by the Anthony Hordern fire.
It was as unmistakable an advt. as when that
alleged supernatural hand wrote its message on
the walls of Belshazzar’s lunatic asylum. Here
i 3 the situation condensed:
Sydney is about the most weirdly-constructed new city-
on this earth. There is one narrow street which carries
practically all the traffic that goes out to the grea
southern and south-western suburbs, and one othe'
narrow street which carries almost all the traffic to th e
eastern suburbs. You can get into Sydney from the land
side by crawling through two key-holes. George-street
West is one of them and Oxford-street the other. For
want of straightening and levelling the other exits are
almost impracticable for traffic.
In order to needlessly double and treble and quadruple
the traffic through these two keyholes there is no railway
at all to the big eastern and SiE. suburbs—Bondi, Pad-
dington, Waverley, &c. And the railway to the southern
and south-western suburbs stops short outside the city
proper and pours its traffic into the bottle-neck at George-
street. And this insane system is to be perpetuated by
placing the new railway-station outside the city, just
alongside the old one. It was difficult to decide where
to put the new station inside the city. Half-a-dozen
different sites were proposed. No Government had
courage enough to select its site and stand or fall by its
selection. It was easier to shirk the trouble for the time
by leaving things practically as they were.
Yet the trouble is only postponed after all, for when
the new station is built the question is to be considered
of bringing a branch line into Sydney, as if it were the
wayside township of Goshen Flat, and the fight over the
proper location of that idiotic branch and its stations will
be just as bad as the fight over the proper location of a
main line and a main station. But by perpetuating the
present absurd system the Government gets a little
breathing time.
Sydney found out the complete absurdity of its
railway system when the Hordern fire practically
blocked one of its two street exits, and the city
itself had no railway exit whatever. And the
See-O’Sullivan plan still leaves it with two
street exits and no railway exit.
♦
The best news that N.S.W. has heard for a long’
time is that the See Government proposes intro-
ducing a Minimum Wage Bill during the coming
session. The pitiable revelations made publicly
by Sydney employers to the Victorian Commission
which visited that city, the other day, as to the
starvation wages paid in many Sydney trades as
compared with Melbourne rates, show that a
Minimum Wage Act can’t come too soon. The
Law of Demand and Supply must take a rest.
The said alleged law is an unwritten Freetrade
statute to the effect that the amount spent by an
employer in wages to each employee, and in pro-
viding comfortable or habitable quarters for his
workers, and (if he pays, say, 20s. per week) the
number of hours, whether eight or eighteen per
day, that he may exact for the 205., are matters
which must be settled by competition only,
and with which it is ruinous and absurd
and “ Socialistic ” for the State to interfere.
Of course the employer must pay his adult em-
ployee a wage on which he can exist in some sort
of fashion, and when the Early-Closing Law com-
pelled him to greatly reduce the amount of work
which he exacted for the money, it interfered
quite as badly as if it had started at the other end
and compelled him to increase the amount of
money he gave for the work. As the Law of
Demand and Supply stood one shock, it can pro-
bably stand the other also. As a blessed side
issue, the See Government’s Minimum Wage Law
will make Freetrade impossible. Freetrade can
only exist by sweating the worker as badly as he
is sweated by foreign competitors. No Freetrade
country has ever dared to establish a Minimum
Wage.
4
Most likely the political rumor, cabled from
London, that it is proposed to reduce the Irish
members by 30 and give that much representation
in the Commons to “ the Colonies ” is merely a
bone thrown to the dogs to divert their growls
from the S’African policy. Anyway, even if
Ireland is over-represented that anomaly is not
more grotesque than the disproportion of some
English and Scotch electorates. For instance :
Sutherland .. 2,589 York (Ilallam) .. 15,610
Bury St. Edmunds 2,581 ~ (Doncaster) 16,276
Buteshire.. .. 3,412 West Ham .. 19,631
Grantham .. 3,046 South Shields .. 16,033
St. Andrews .. 2,951 Middlesex (Harrow) 20,067
Taunton .. .. 3,276 Lancs. (Bootle) .. 17,439
Whitehaven .. 2,824 ~ (Clitheroe) 18,584
Winchester .. 2,681 Croydon .. .. 18,567
Wick Group .. 2,746 Glamorgan .. 17,979
In view of that (and the list might be carried on
much further), it isn’t at all likely that the Govt,
will just now meddle with a redistribution scheme
directed against Ireland alone. And what a
cordial invitation Irish experience is to Australia
to have a handful of representatives in the
Commons ! In ’4l the population of the distress-
ful country was 8,175,124. According to the
last census it was 4,456,546.
♦
The amateur theologians in the Commonwealth
Senate seem to think that adjudication on what
is blasphemous, obscene or libellous is as easy as
flicking a fly off the nose. That admittedly
eminent and Conservative jurist, Sir James
Stephen, of the English Bench, laid it down,
page 105 of “ Digest of the Criminal Law,” that a
man may, with perfect decency and complete good
faith, maintain doctrines as to marriage, the rela-
tion of the sexes, etc., which would be regarded as
“highly immoral by most people,” and yet com-
mit no crime. The Drake Postal Bill will take
the word of some policeman or Customs official
that a book or newspaper of the description
alluded to does commit a crime, and unless
author and publisher are able and willing to fight
a tedious, expensive, uphill battle in pursuit of a
level-headed Judge like Stephen, with but small
chance of finding one, they will have to let their
property go to the post-office fire. Let the Com-
monwealth Parliament apply a test case to
discover where its Bill presses. For instance,
those reputable London publishers, the Mac-
millans, have issued an edition of Bentham’s
“Principles of Morals and Legislation,” in which
many grave topics are discussed, among them
what are known as the “Self-regarding vices.”
Will any policeman, any Customs official, any
clerk or small lawyer let that book through under
the present Bill ?
“Northerner ” gets very near the solution of the
colored-labor problem in Q. sugar industry. The
Bulletin knows it, but is not allowed to tell until
the discoverer has exhausted the possibilities of
the Federal Cabinet:
Dear Bulletin.— The Q. Kanaka labor advocates still
talk about the inability and unwillingness of white men
to tackle sugar-growing field work even at fair wages,
and yet they won’t back their opinions by asking the
Federal Parliament to legislate so that it will be possible
to pay white-labor rates to field hands. This can be done
in two ways; either by the adoption of State sugar-
refining for the benefit of those central or private mill-
owners who would pay an extra price for cane grown
entirely by white labor ; or else by the direct payment
by the State, of a bonus per ton on all cane grown by white
labor. The money for the latter scheme could be raised
by a land-tax on the lands of those who employed or
encouraged alien labor for sugar production. This would
give a direct monetary inducement to use white labor,
and if after, say, two years’ trial the supply of white men
was “insufficient,” “unreliable,” or “unsuitable,” the
pro-aliens would then have just grounds for their opinions
and the public would be with them in any measures
likely to safeguard sugar-planters’ interests, even to the
extent of a restricted alien immigration scheme.
There are scores of white cane-farmers in Q. who would
prefer to use white labor, but who are compelled to em-
ploy the cheap nigger owing to the low prices ruling for
cane. Of course a cane-farmer expressing these views
would be persecuted by his less enlightened neighbors,
and by the mill-owners or other sugar magnates. The
Queenslander is booming black labor by publishing long
accounts of interviews with representative men in the
sugar districts, and this is the way the reported scoops
in his information : He goes to a sugar estate after due


BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY, LIMITED,
f
Hat* JUST LANDED the Celebrated
Ho. 15 Popy Prcipo
This is a Camera we can thoroughly recommend,
and can safely say that no Amateur should be
without one.
Send for Oatalogue. £4.
375 <**orgs St., Sydney,
1 »d at Melbourne, Adelaide, and Brisbane.
THE
Sulphide Corporation
W LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can he Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, *y r d Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PRD.YiPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Larne Parcels or
ltetfular Supplies under Contract.'
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creak-
A E. SAVAGE,
Manager.
CIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia
notice to the manager, who entertains him, shows him
round the estate, and introduces him to some of the
white (?) tenant farmers or the employees. The latter are
questioned (generally in the presence of the manager or
other safe pro-alien)'as to the effects of abolishing black
labor. Of course the reply is in favor of retaining the
nigger, or else the reporter goes to men who have changed
their opinions, and have found out that white men are
“ unreliable ” (at colored-labor rates). These opinions are
then paraded as the unanimous verdict of the sugar
industry.
Years" ago, at a Ministerial banquet, a Q. politician -
now dead—said that when Queensland had a numerous
and “ carefully-instructed ” class of cane fanners they
would be a greater political bulwark against the assaults
on black labor than the large-estate system of his day.
These were prophetic words, and present-day managers
of the sugar industry have evidently had the spirit of
that prophecy in view, because they have systematically
weeded out all those farmers holding “white Australia”
views. So, was it any wonder that the Queenslander
man was able to get so much “ evidence” (?) in favor of a
“ piebald Australia.”
Nevertheless, there are many fanners of the “white”
variety who are obliged to keep quiet, and if legislation
helps them by increasing the price of their cane, they
will be the salvation of the sugar industry on a white
labor basis.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal . “ The Second in Command.”
Lyceum “ Serving the King.”
Criterion “ Dangerous Women.”
Palace Bertram : Court Magician.
Her Majesty’s “ The Casino Girl."
Empire Fuller Co.
Tivoli Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Italian Opera.
Princess’s “ Girofle-Girofla.”
Theatre Royal “A Million of Money.”
Bijou Dampier Dramatic Co.
New Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Sydney Lyceum blossomed out last Satur-
day in a new drama called “Serving the King,”
in which the characters are employed mainly in
serving writs on one another, or serving each
other out, and merely talk of serving the King.
Also they talk about serving Edward when
it wasn’t Edward, but Victoria; so that
misleading title falls to the ground a second time.
Otherwise it is the story of a Colonel’s daughter
and her secret marriage to a soldier known as
Harold Ainsworth. Harold has a very nice
mother, but he isn’t spoken to by his father
because latter has got it into his head that Harold
is really the son of a certain small and boyish -
looking burglar. There is no obvious reason
for the old man having this idea ; it just occurred
to him one day as a very possible contingency,
and not having any other ideas at the moment he
let it stay and roost in his brain, and cackle there.
Anyway, the burglar turns up in an unusually
large vestry just before the hero and heroine
appear for their marriage, and, having murdered
the clergyman, disposes of him somewhere about
the wings. Various people stroll into the vestry
after this and remark to each other that they
“heard cries,” or that “something must have hap-
pened; ” but they forget about it between times tul
the villain comes out of the wardrobe, where he
has hidden himself, and denounces the hero for
murdering the clergyman. Whereupon the bur-
glar, who has put in time by marrying Harold and
his best girl, makes his appearance in the deceased
pastor’s surplice. All are so pleased to find that
the sky-pilot wasn’t murdered that they never
think of looking about to find out who was.
The hero goes off for his honeymoon, to be ar-
rested six weeks later, when the absent-minded
congregation has begun to notice that someone is
missing.
• * • *
The hero is not so much concerned about
his probable execution as about the fact that he
isn’t as legally married to the heroine as would be
advisable. Other people also observe cheerfully
that her life must now be considered blasted, and
later on her father-in-law obligingly looks up a new
man to make an honest woman of her, never seem-
ing to think that the original man would do just
as well. Meanwhile, the hero is found guilty and
sentenced to a lunatic asylum, where the maniacs
claw monotonously at the bars and gibber with-
out any variety in their gibber. He escapes on
the day of his incarceration and goes home to find
his wife with a rather sudden baby. She is
scorned by the whole village because the person
that married her turned out to be a burglar and
not a clergyman, and it is understood that the
small boy boo-hoos through her window at odd
hours and calls her “Miss Villiers.” Later,
things are cleared up by the burglar’s con-
fession that he murdered the clergyman ;
he also lifts the ton weight of shame off
the heroine by the announcement that he was
once a clergyman before he burgled. Mean-
while it has occurred to the hero’s father in a
casual way that the hero is his own son, and so
some more shame is lifted off. It isn’t clear
whether or not the hero’s rehabilitated mother
dies in the second last act, when she takes fare-
well of her son among the maniacs. Anyway, she
doesn’t reappear in the last act. Her husband
merely exonerates her in a calm way by remarking
that he now recognises Harold as his own son.
* • * •
A good deal of really bright humor is caused by
Miss Dora Mostyn and by Bert Bailey, who dis-
guises himself as a Highlander with an insufficiency
of provocation and an overabundance of kilt.
Miss Eugenie Duggan dresses rather badly till
her shame comes upon her, when she gets more
style; but all through she lets her voice suddenly
mount an octave higher for the last two words of
every sentence. There is also a good Jew sketch
by Stirling Whyte.
** * *
The great point about Espinasse’s one-act
playlet, “Ivy Leaf,” which preceded “In the
Soup” of late at Sydney Palace, is the strong
endeavor that it makes to be pathetic. And if
Hawtrey, who takes the part of the man on whom
the halo of tearfulness mainly rests, were not
mainly a comedian, and a very good one too, a
wave of pathos might pass over the footlights,
despite the fact that there isn’t really any in the
piece—though there are various other things quite
as good. The hero of this curtain-raiser is a Dr.
Garnet, stout and aged 55, who is in love with his
ward, aged 20. There never is any pathos about
a stout man in love, and when he is baldish into
the bargain, the sympathetic tear is still more apt
to drop in a dry state. Hawtrey does not seem
able to assume the right shade of sadness, and
when his face droops as the nice girl tells him of
her other mash, it is the droop of a man who sees
his new umbrella fall through a grating or his last
whisky drunk by somebody else—not that of a
lover with a crushed heart. The heart of the
medical man, however, cannot be deemed broken
to any extent —even if Hawtrey were able
to assume the proper broken aspect—because
when another nice girl breathes love-vows on the
back of his neck he receives them in a friendly
spit it. It is understood that when she takes
courage and proposes still more definitely, he will
probably yield to his fate. The real pathetic
point in the drama is possibly supposed to lie in
the fact that the doctor will not declare himself
the son of the adopted daughter’s father, as he
will therefore be legally entitled to the coin. If
the middle-aged medical man were played by a
really sorrowful actor, the play would be ex-
cellent in one way; and if he were made wholly
humorous, and not only humorous in mere spots,
it would be excellent in another way. As it is,
it is excellent in a third way, which isn’t either of
the other two ways that it might be excellent in.
* *■ * *
Brough’s “Second in Command” is doing
respectable but not very exciting business at
Sydney Royal. It isn’t a happy play. It is
artistically constructed, and to those who love art
for art’s sake—who can appreciate the workman-
ship apart from the cheerlessness of the materials
—it appeals strongly. It is a good story, and the
plot is a dreadful complication brought about by
perfectly possible circumstances. The heroine,
who is engaged to the man she doesn’t love, and
also to the man she loves, does it with the best
intentions, and quite innocently. They both
abandon her from the very best motives, and her
brother, who brings about the trouble, has the best
motives also. The story is a clever essay on the
utter foolishness of having any but the worst
motives. But its cleverness is possibly not a very
popular kind of cleverness.
# * * -Me
At Sydney Tivoli the Latonas, musical
tramp and slavey respectively, were to have con-
cluded a highly successful season on Wednesday
night, but the donkey, and the selections on the
one-stringed instrument, and the “ Holy City ”
played on the trombone were so popular that the
harmonious dead-beats may be found in the same
old place for some time yet. The Dartos have
really taken hold of the community—the old push
that used to congregate at Chowder, in the day's
before it became Clifton Gardens, now revolves its
donah in the Dartos style, and there is no getting
away from that evidence. There is also a dog-
show just now at the House of the Dispiriting
Curtain.
** * *
The new features of John Fuller’s Empire
are largely feminine and pleasant to gaze upon.
“The Dashing Elmores” have shapely limbs, which
they twinkle to great advantage. Other recentfirst-
appearancers are Miss Julie Cleveland, in a blue
dress, with a clear soprano ; and Miss Edith
Burke, with several dresses and an imitation of
Marie Lloyd. John Leon sings “On the Road
to Mandalay’’—Kipling’s jingle of old pagodas,
the chunk of paddles, flying fishes, and a hurried
sunrise. It isn’t a literary' audience at the Em-
Eire, but it seems to like its Leon when he
.ipples. For the rest, Carney bounds around,
and Yalda does lightning sketches, and several
other people do fast or slow things of varying
importance.
** * *
A “Casino Girl ” boom is steadily setting
in at Her Majesty’s, Sydney. Miss Carrie
Moore’s knee is alluded to nightly at that house
amid great applause, and her Toy duet with the
young doctor who sought for the fair owner of the
knee aforesaid over most of the world is much
appreciated. Mrs. Edouin Bryer also deserves
mention as an operatic Mrs. Malaprop, while
Lauri keeps on informing the public generally
that there are only a hundred girls in the world
for him. There are quite a number of men in
Australia who can truthfully say that they are
quite as exclusive.
** * *
“The Power and the Glory,” with its
large, bright scenery, goes off the Sydney Crite-
rion stage this week, and “ Dangerous Women ”
is billed to go on. No evidence is yet available as
to whether the hazardous ladies referred to are
the wives that wait up for their own husbands at
night with the poker, or the wives who wait up
for other people’s husbands with a low-cut dress,
and a necklace, and the smile that leadeth to in-
solvency. However, this matter will be cleared
up on Saturday.
** * *
Bertram, the Court Magician, opens at
the Palace on Saturday under the management of
Robert Brough. The Bulletin has already said
very kind things, mingled with words of fatherly
reproof, about Bertram during his Melbourne
season, and it hopes that he has taken the latter
to heart. He certainly took the former to heart,
for he reprinted them in his advt.
** » *
The climax of “ Cavalleria Rusticana ” at
Melb. Majesty’sis unaccountably weak, considering
that the story has been twice played in Australia
—as an opera and afterwards as a drama—and the
original stage business is familiar to all old theatre-
goers. The present Italian production seems to
“cut ” the climax in order to give theprima-donna
the centre of the stage. Chorus people rush on
and state that Turiddu has been killea behind the
scenes, whereupon Santuzza falls flat, and the
situation falls flat also. The effect of the one
fainting figure is not to be compared with the
original picture. Turiddu, of yore, used to
stagger into view of the audience, and die on one
side of the stage, with Santuzza, the girl he had
treated so shabbily, weeping on his chest. Mean-
while the teamster, the slayer of Turiddu, had
rushed on, followed by gendarmes who arrested
him for the gory deed. And the giddy wife—this
was the educational touch of nature in the picture
—showed herself much more concerned about the
arrest of her husband than interested in the fate
of her illicit sweetheart. It was on the husband
that she depended for support. Besides, he had
beaten the other fellow in fair He was the
hero of the moment, and an uninjured hero-
husband is better than a dying or dead “mash”
anyday. The climax of “Cavalleria” at the
Princess was a powerful tableau. At Her
Majesty’s it is a bit of ineffective “fat” for the
leading lady.
## # *
Puccini’s somewhat comic opera, “La
Boheme,” is so very new and original that the
first Saturday night applause at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.) gave no idea of its immediate commercial
prospects in Australia. Present scribe found
“ La Boheme” an enchanting entertainment from
the latter end of the first act right up to the
impressive climax. The music seems to be a light
network of sweet, elusive strains, harmonising
with a sketchy libretto. One hears the harp
talking prettily amid the gentle murmur of the
orchestration, whilst the melodies come and
go —as Marshall Hall might say. It is
a frivolous, dreamy, pantomimic sentimental
tragic opera bright, silly, sad, and beauti-
ful. But to admire the work effusively one
must accept the French story as Puccini puts it
to Italian music, without complaining that the
gaiety of light-wine-drinking countries has very
little humor in the English sense cf the word.
“La Boheme” is often “comic,” but never cold-
bloodedly humorous and satirical. Call it rather
the same sort of thing in opera as “ Robert
Macaire ”is in dumb pantomime. Macaire con-
cluded with the weird acrobatic decease of Paul
Martinetti. The end of “La Boheme ”is the
passing lienee of the heroine, a painful, Camille-
like death, attended by lovely musical effects.
» • • *
The most conspicuous faults of the first
performance ought to be remedied without delay.
The opera has four short acts, and the waits were
wearisomely long on Saturday. To give theatre-
goers hereabouts sucli gaps of silence and periods
of plush-curtain is to court failure. The wigs of
the four male bohemians are also an absurd error.
The management may be earnestly advised to
persuade the poet, painter, musician, and philoso-
pher to adapt their bohemian disguises to the
taste of a mixed public, which hasn’t read the
French story whereon Puccini’s opera is founded,
and doesn’t understand that these organ-grinder
types of genius are supposed to be living 70 years
ago, when hungry genius possibly did put its
greasy locks into curl-papers at night.
• * * *
“La Boheme” characters in any other
wigs and clothes would sing as sweetly, and their
merriment would appear less puerile to foreign
eyes. The four comrades work, frivol, and starve
in an attic in the Quartier Latin, at Paris. The
poet (he’s the tenor, naturally) forms an easy
attachment to a consumptive Mimi, and intro-
duces her to his mates outside a cafe, where they
all dine together at a table in the street —a chilly
Parisian place for dining on a Xmas Eve, any-
how. Another girl comes along and resumes
giddy relations with the musician (baritone), and
this second act introduces a crowded spectacle
and a big burst of chorus, the only considerable
chorus in the opera.
* • * *
The impecunious geniuses quarrel with
their girls in the 3rd act. Act 4, in the garret
again, ranges from forced hilarity to simple
pathos. Bright girl Musette brings sickly Mimi
to expire on the penniless poet’s little bed. This
is the best-acted section of the opera. The men’s
sadness is more convincing than their attempts to
be funny. Musette’s solicitude is artistically ex-
pressed, and the philosopher who is about to pawn
his overcoat to buy something for the dying girl
sings a droll adieu to the garment ere he consigns
it to the vwnte depiete “spout.”
* * * *
Signora Bassich, a dark, demure-looking
lady, with melancholy eyes, made her first ap-
pearance on Saturday as Mimi aforesaid, and
gave a fine death scene. A clever actress, and a
charming singer. Her soprano is very light, but
strong enough in most places for the dainty music
of the part. Signorina Vaccari, the other new
lady (the Nedda of “ Pagliacci ”), shone as Mus-
ette. Dani, Bozzoli, Lombardi (the Pharoah of
“ A'ida”), and Tondini sang their attic characters
pleasingly, and, when they have altered their
heads of hair, they should give general satisfaction.
The staging was good. And again this scribe
feels tempted to remark that “La Boheme” is a
delightful opera, if considered in a sympathetic
spirit. Next Saturday (20th) brings “Un Ballo
in Maschera,” which will be the last production
of the present season.
«* * *
At the "Bijou (Sat., July 13th.) the Dam-
piers visited “ East Lynne ” upon a smallish
audience. Alleged new version of Mrs. Henry
Wood’s chestnut was endured with dry eyes, for
though “ East Lynne,” thanks to its modern comic
atrocities, is a sadder show than of yore, the
anguish it awakens is rather too deep for tears.
Handsome, portly Lily Dampier depicts that
sullen aristocrat, Lady Isabel, as an unintentional
infanticide. No consumptive child could survive
the course of wild endearments perpetuated by
Madame Vine, so the invalid dies of mother’s love.
Blanche Clements’ pugilistic burlesque of the re-
spectable Miss Carlyle is not convincing, but her
complaints against her aristocratic sister-in-law’s
bad housekeeping are borne out by the smudged
state of the best mirror and the harsh clang of the
bicycle-bell, used to summon flunkeys to her lady-
ship’s drawing-room. Alfred Rolfe infuses a dash
of bank-clerkly skittishness into Archibald Car-
lyle’s appearance, not quite what one expects in
the heavy husband. Edmund Holloway, Ford
and Buller help to fill the bill, and Little Willie is
as human as can be expected, considering he’s
hampered by consumption, long curls, a step-
mother, a family skeleton and an eerie French
governess in blue goggles. On Friday night Dam-
pier sets up “Macbeth,” with himself for the
bare-legged usurper, and Miss Lily as the woman
who walks in darkness.
«* * *
“ A Million of Money ” appears to be
showing a handsome profit at Melbourne Royal.
Bland Holt’s revival is a large, gaudy spectacle,
with five-and-twenty restless gee-gees employed
on the and a cheerful prevalence of
coin among the characters. The only two people
complaining of poverty are a racecourse gipsy in a
picturesque frock, and a degraded husband who
never wants for the price of a drink. This unde-
sirable connection rids the drama, of his presence
by dropping dead in the third act, leaving
his defiant widow to marry a youthful
capitalist, after she has blighted «Walter
Baker’s life for the time being. Nobody goes
looking for work in “ A Million of Money.”
Baker is restored to wealth at the finish through
a mining transaction, which turned up trumps
whilst he was wrecked at sea; and Miss Ross
weeps comfortably under the shelter of her father’s
vicarage during Walter’s absence. Several ladies
of easy virtue continue in easy circumstances, as
far as is known; also the designing Majah is a
villain of substance when he lifts his shiny hat for
the last time. Even the future of Brown, as Dick
Bounder, gives no serious cause for anxiety. Brown
on one occasion loses £3OO to Bland Holt by lay-
ing odds to that amount against White Stockings,
but he meets the difficulty by asking Bland
to settle-up, whereupon the defrauded backer
refers to Brown as a mystery. Later on, Brown
gets engaged to Mrs. Holt, until the lady changes
her mind, and drives him back to evil courses.
Talking of courses, the race for the Derby now
begins in Little Bourke-st., as of yore. The
eccentric starting-gate, stage-managed by two
clowns on stilts, is but a haunting memory of an
innovation that was tried on the audience and
found wanting.
** * *
At the Princess’s, where Premier Barton
and sixteen other people had thed.c. to themselves
last Saturday night, a “funny society-drama,”
entitled “Jim Belmont,” was announced for
Tuesday of this week. To speak quite candidly,
the little world of Melbourne doesn’t much care
whether “Jim Belmont” or “Nurse” is taking
place at the Princess’s for the next night or two.
** * *
The Vic. Operatic Society will have the
use of Musgrove’s theatre for two months, prior
to the arrival of Arnold and Co. On Saturday,
the V.O.S. produces “ Girofle-Girofla,” which
opera was satisfactorily staged by the same man-
agement at the Bijou, a while ago. Miss Ida
Osborne, Minnie Waugh, and other well-known
singers are preparing for the fray, the professional
orchestra will number 24, with Hanstein in the
conductor’s chair, and GO voices can be depended
upon to strengthen the reputation of this great
chorus singing continent.
** * *
Marie Lloyd and the unhappy sacred bear,
also Hurley, Rosie Aquinaldo, Madame Lucretia
(the lady whose dancing offers a good deal of
atonement for her tiresome songs) and numerous
other people are keeping business together at
Rickards’ Opera House. On Saturday next the
periodical Bain will occur again, together with a
new “midget comique ” of the boy persuasion.
The supply of small children for Rickards’s show
is unlimited, and as they already amount to a
thriving industry the application of Peacock’s
Factories Act seems to be called for.
The Wild Cat Column.
In a few weeks the Commonwealth will be able to
size-up its surpluses or deficits for the past .vear, but mean-
while it is interesting- to look hack on the previous 10years,
and see how Australia and Tasmania met their engage-
ments. In the case of Tasmania, which closes its accounts
on 31st December, the term “ 1899-1900” (Ist July, 1899,
to 30th June, 1900) really applies to the complete year
1899
Revenue Ordinary
• Expenditure Visible Visible
\ of the six Deficit. Surplus.
States. s tateB .
1890-91.. £24,970,643 £26,047,595 £1,070,952
IS9I-92.. 25,167,749 26,413,462 1,245.713
1892- 24,359,885 25,962,108 1,602,223
1893- 23,538,681 24,965,479 1,426,798
1894- 23,795,144 23,788,722 £6,422
1595-96.. 24,381,152 24,994,499 613,347
1896- 25,690,061 25,978,303 288,242
1897- 26,204,138 26,452,709 248,571
1898- 27,244,082 26,751,962 492,120
1899- 28,685,314 28,094,513 590,801
£254,042,849 £259,449,352 £6,495.846 £1,089,343
1,089,343
10 years Deficit .. .. £5,406,503
Even this doesn’t express one-half the badness of
the situation, for during the same period £12,606,432
has been borrowed for wholly non - productive
works and casual repairs, which should be paid
out of revenue, and which were charged to
loans in order to make the accounts look better. The
total 10 years deficit is really £18,012,935, and there has
been a deficit every year. Also there is going to be
another deficit this year to a dead certainty.
Compare these with the figures for Maori land :
Surplus
Revenue Ordinary Applied
nevenue. Expenditure. to Public
Works.
1890- .. £4,496,028 .. £4,369,566 .. £126,462
1891- .. 4,428,530 .. 4,417,843 .. 10.657
1892- .. 4,669,551 .. 4,324,990 .. 344,561
1893- .. 4,692,463 .. 4,455,116 .. 237,347
1894- .. 4,447,899 .. 4,266,712 .. 181,187
1895- .. 4,556,015 .. 4,370,481 .. 185,534
1896- .. 4,798,708 .. 4,509,981 .. 288,727
1897- .. 5,079,230 .. 4,602,372 .. 476,858-
1898- .. 5,258,228 .. 4,858,511 .. 399,717
1899- 5,699,618 .. 5,140,128 .. 559,490-
£48,120,270 £45,315,700 £2,810,570
Maoriland, during the same period, borrowed £4,935,300-
for works other than the usually - productive under-
takings of railways, trains, telegraphs, water, and*
sewerage; but much of this was for the repurchase of
land, or to provide capital for its State Land Bank, or
to raise funds in aid of the Bank of New Zealand. And on
the other hand it paid for a lot of its productive works-
(railways, &c.) out of its surpluses. Altogether there is a
great difference in the two styles of financing. Yet
the only secret is that, over a dozen years ago, Maoriland
decided to levy enough taxation to pay its way and leave
something over for public works, while Australia kept on-
shirking its troubles till now they have reachedi
stupendous proportions.


£=S 52?
2.“ S. s p «
§ *= § * 5
. „. a,, sr
e s
•••••«
J
te
to
pi
8
1
to*-jopo pj
VflKflOC cc'to
w Cv Cv (VI U U
j.vC£ J-.&Z c*
V-* tn Oi*<u
3» Cl CC cc «1 c«
— * v» CC in V» to
Amount of Non-pro-
ductive Expenditure-
charged to Loans up
to 1890.
1
I
&
CC C* *• o co *—
Vstsssfe
*• pc tC **icr »—
£ Vi 0» gK'
wSmwJo?
Amount of Non-pro-
ductive Expenditure
chanted to Loans up
to 1900.
£
I 5
—
S
W
cC
W ►-* JC tO p-
ifc “ 1-5 Zfj »—
PSSSSgg
ssfeafeg
to O' o -• c&
D
AIR COMPRESSORS
ROCK DRILLS
“Ivanhoe” Mining Steel
Explosives
Lubricating Oils
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
71 Clarence St., Sydney.
“ EN 6 LAMP’S FAVORITE.”
PLAYER’S
NAVY CUT
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
m
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* * * »
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castle reagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* » * *
The Australasian Insurance and Banking
Record of 19th October, 1900, writes regarding the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited : “ The
Society can justifiably point to the adequacy of its re-
serves, which are of a magnitude and a character to
command the fullest confidence.”*
* * * »
The Austral Otis Engineering Company have
now delivered one of the water-ends in connection with
their contract with the Melbourne and Metropolitan
Board of Works. The second water-end will be delivered
within a week or two. These water-ends are a very
massive piece of work and reflect credit on the makers.
They are made of a special mixture of iron, which was
subjected to severe tests before being put into the work
and gave highly satisfactory results. Each water-end
weighs about 70 tons.*
* * • *
John W. H. Piper, C.E., M.A.1.M.E.,
M.Am.I.M.E., &c., Australian representative of Cutten
Bros., Dunedin, mining and dredging engineers, is leaving
for London about the end of August to establish a Home
Office for the firm, the increase of foreign business
necessitating this action. Mr. Piper will be pleased to
undertake any commissions that may be entrusted to him.
Equitable Buildings, Georg e-street, Sydney.*
• • • •
Ward off influenza b3' taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
About the best Brand for Sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich & Co.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* • * •
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
All Barrier Mines remodelling their mills on up-
to-date lines include a number of Luhrig vanners. The
South and Junction companies each have about a dozen,
no slime treatment plant being now considered complete
without these excellent machines. In Queensland tin
concentration is the latest accomplishment, the Irvine-
bank Mill having introduced Luhrig Yanners with success-
ful results, the example having been followed by the well-
known Ooolgarra Tin Mining Co., who are installing a
number of Luhrig Yanners in connection with their new
Tin Dressing Mill. Messrs. W. &J. Lempriere, Melbourne,
are the general agents for the Luhrig Appliances.*
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * «
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints,‘flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andall sorts of iron-work.*
* * * #
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buciiu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists
* * « *
Northern Terrors: Another reconstruction
scheme to provide another £22,750. A new chairman,
John Macdonald, a new manager, and some more new
machinery, no doubt. Amongst other useless plant sent
to this mine was a complete cyanide equipment. It was
not erected, as there were no tailings to treat. A large
winding plant was sent out before there was a main shaft
for its use, and places are covered with machinery where
there is no mine.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 X
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles. Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Ny. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; SI Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, arid
Auckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
U 3 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per oent
pure), Bleaohlng Powder, Mining Requisites,
Candles, eto.
“WILD CAT” BRIAR PIPES Wild
8
D.
ea«
IN A DOZEN DIFFERENT SHAPES.
Posted, lOd. j 6s. per Dozen —posted, 6s. Bd.; 725. per Gross— tSß" Carriage Free to any
Railway Station in New South Wales.
aEC * WOOLF &> 00., 378 George-etreet (noatt SYDUraY.
8
D.
ea.
Cat
sd
❖
, Ap a rt from accumulated deficits, this is how
the six States of the Commonwealth have been trying to
Keep up a fictitious appearance of prosperity by using
loan funds to cover non-productive expenditure which
snouirt have been charged to revenue (Coghlan’s “ Seven
Uolomes ' or 1892, page 281, and same work for 1899-
1999, page 823) r
In the last twenty complete financial years there
have been six years of deficit in Maoriland ; nine years in
Victoria, S.A., Westralia, and Tasmania ; ten in Queens-
land ; and thirteen in N.S. Wales. There are some beau-
tiful features about the finances of this great and
prosperous Commonwealth—especially when it is con-
sidered that the revenue has been very greatly assisted
by the proceeds of land sales, that the expenditure has
been relieved by paying an enormous amount of ordinary
charges out of loans ; that there has been very little per-
manent military expenditure, and that the greatest part
of the S’African war expenditure is not included in the
twenty-year period.
* * * •
The Maoriland Government has introduced a
Bill for the establishment of a State Fire Insurance De-
partment, which may be extended to do marine business
also. The capital is to be £250,000 raised by the issue of 3J
per cent, debentures, with power to increase if necessary.
Profits are to be devoted to the repayment of the capital,
so that the State may ultimately have its Insurance De-
partment free of debt and not burdened with any interest
liabilities ; to the establishment of a reserve fund ; and to
the payment of bonuses to customers. It is expected
that a system of compulsory insurance will follow,
premiums being collected in the form of rates. The
Bulletin hereby bets a small sum that the Maoriland
State Fire Insurance Office, if it really starts, will be a big
success.
• • • •
Victoria’s State Land Bank is doing such a
large business that the £lOO,OOO raised last February is
exhausted, and another £lOO,OOO loan at 3 per cent, is
being issued. It is fixed for ten years, and the minimum
is £96. If it sells at a shade over the minimum, this will
be exactly the same as borrowing at 3£ per cent, right
out, and it is an open question if it wouldn’t be better to
do it that way. Certainly it would have been better to
have fixed the loan for 20 or 30 years instead of 10. The
money would have been obtained at a cheaper rate, and
as the State Land Bank has come to stay, it will want it
for a great deal longer than that.
» * • •
On 31st December, 1900, Westralia’s public debt
was £12,227,763, or £67 17s. 7d. per inhabitant. The
Leake Government is now putting through a Loan Bill for
£3,500,000 in order to finish the great mass of works left
on its hands by the Bigjohn Government. When it gets
that money—if it does get it—Westralia will put an end
to the competition of Queensland and South Australia for
the billet of the most indebted State on earth; it will
stand alone and unrivalled. It is proposed to raise the
moiey in London, but seeing that British consols are
bel jw £92 (lower than they have been for 26 years) it is
difficult to see what chance Westralia has got. The one
bright spot is that the year’s revenue is £3,078,033 —the
biggest on record, and £202,637 more than previous year.
But last year, with the smaller revenue, showed a surplus
o £1.'9,721. This time a deficit seems certain. Con-
tingents and dukes are costly.
* • 9 *
Sydney Telegraph, on Hordern’s fire : “When
the loss is distributed among companies having many
millions of capital, receiving millions of premiums
annually, its effect is greatly mitigated. A State insur-
ance department such as some are enamoured of, and
such as is proposed in Maoriland, would have been badly
hit and thrown the loss on the whole of the State.”
The Telegraph actually seems to forget that a State Fire
Insurance Department would pay its losses out of its pre-
miums just as the private companies do. If it did all the
fire-insurance business of the State, it would get all the
premiums of the State, and it could stand all the losses.
A whole occasional loss such as Hordern’s wouldn’t hit a
concern of that size any harder than most of the local
private co.’s are hit by their loss of a thousand or so.
* * * •
A very big banking sensation, having reference
to the recent sale of a N.S.W. brewery, is on the tapis.
• • • •
The Bank of North Queensland has had a
reasonably good half-year to 30th June, 1901. Starting
from the date when the B.N.Q. had its great cleaning-
up, at which period the bank started fair, with £lOO,OOO
paid-up capital, things have gone as follows :
Recovered Less 2J per
from Debts Total cent. Divi- Total
Profits, previously Earn- dend and Re-
written- ings. Duty, serves,
off.
June, 1898.. £587 £587 £587
Dec., 1898.. 1479 1479 2,066
June, 1899.. 1675 £BBl 2556 4,622
Dec., 1899.. 2700 2700 £1313 0,009
June, 1900.. 2557 901 3458 1313 8,154
Dec., 1900.. 2368 1539 3907 1312 10,749
June, 1901.. 2424 2424 1313 11,800
The three half-years specified above were the only ones
in which mention was made of any sums recovered from
the bad debts previously written-off out of capital and
reserves. Assuming that there were no such recoveries
during the other half-years, the actual profits are rather
better than they were at December, 1900, and not quite
so good as at December, 1899, or June, 1900. They repre-
sent £4 7s. 6tl. per cent, per annum on the shareholders’
funds as at the beginning of the half-year (capital,
£lOO,OOO ; reserves, £10,749) which is well up to the aver-
age nowadays. And the past year has been a lamentably
bad one in Queensland. Under the circumstances, the
B.N.Q. has done rather well.
The business has remained practically stationary
as compared with the figures at 31st December, 1900,
though it is larger in most respects than it was at June,
1900. Cash and State securities are £120,492, equal to
over 36 per cent, on all liabilities to the public, which is
an unusually solid reserve. The Bank of North Queens-
land holds £10,500 of Government stock, while its re-
serve fund stands at £11,250, so apparently it has no
fixed rule about keeping its reserve fund all separately
invested in State securities. It would be much better if
it had such a rule. The reserve which is represented by
Government securities—not necessarily Queensland
securities—is the most findable kind in the day of emer-
gency. In 1898 quite a lot of banks had only thousands
of dry unsaleable acres to show for their reserves, and
these weren’t by any means a portable second line of
defence.
• • • *
The once-large St. James’s Building Society
(Melbourne) is getting near the end of its liquidation, and
there isn’t much left of it nowadays. The depositors re-
ceived 3s. in the £ during the last 12 months, making,
with previous payments, 15s. in the £ altogether, and the
amount due them on 31st March was (with interest)
£12,446. Apparently they may be paid in full, though
that is quite uncertain. In the process of selling oft
the properties in a weak market to meet the depositors’
claims most of the paid-up capital (£215,515) has dis-
appeared. This is the record of the last two half-years ;
bustness Toss
Dusiness. sales _ loss. Deficit.
.. .. £165,464
Sept., 1900 .. £3OB .. £9,617 .. £9,925 .. 175,389
March, 1901 .. 281 .. 7,709 .. 7,990 .. 183,379
Nominally, therefore, £32,136 remains intact of the capital
of £215,515, and the society has £45,542 of assets to cover
£13,406 of liabilities to depositors and outside creditors.
But the paper-value of the assets fades so lamentably in
the process of realisation (those sold during last year
alone realised £17,326 less than the values set against
them) that the shareholders may find nothing left for
them after all. Building societies named after saints ap-
pear to be unluckj'. There are only two of them in Aus-
tralia, and neither St. James nor St. Joseph has been pay-
ing dividends of late.
* * • *
The Sydney Exchange Co. (paid-up capital,
£30,000): —
Total
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
June, 1897.. £987 7 per cent. =£loso £15,120
Dec., 1897.. 1592 7 ~ = 1050 15,662
June, 1898.. 1125 7 „ = 1050 15,737
Dec., 1898.. HU {Written off «$} 15 ’ 598
June, 1899.. 1068 7 per cent. = 1050 15,616
Dec., 1899.. 1389 7 „ = 1050 15,955
June, 1900.. 849 7 „ = 1050 15,754
Dec., 1900.. 915 7 „ = 1050 15,619
June, 1901. 498 7 „ = 1050 15,067
This is the first balance-sheet issued since the old plain
Exchange put a ridiculous ham-frill around its name and
became the “ Royal Exchange of Sydney.” No immedi-
ately beneficial result appears to have accrued.
* » * *
“ B. J.T.” : In reply to your query as to position
of Queensland Deposit Bank. That institution suspended
in 1892, and agreed to repay deposits by instalments with
4J per cent, interest. Up to middle of 1897 it repaid
£104,381 out of £178,369 due, leaving £73,988 still owing.
In 1897, it further re-arranged things. At that time there
was an accumulated deficit of £19,595, which was written
off out of capital. The paper value of the co.’s land was
also written down by £31,000, and advances were written
down by £5195. Altogether, £58,790, or much more than
half the capital, disappeared. The depositors agreed to
accept 3 per cent, interest instead of 4.} per cent., and
to take the balance due them by instalments spread over
20 years (up to 1917). When the co. wrote off its losses in
1897 it left itself, apparently, with a reserve (Interest
Suspense Account) of £3794. Later proceedings have
been somewhat as follows :
Profits on Property
Loss on Sales, repurchase of Net
Business. Deposits, and old Bad Reserves.
Debts recovered.
Sept., 1897.. _ ..£3794
„ 1898.. £2402 £3297 .. 4689
„ 1899.. 748 „ 1522 .. 5463
Profit.
„ 1900.. 193 .. 2452 .. 8108
The earnings for 1900 were only £3 more than for 1899,
but the saving in expenses and the reduction of the in-
terest bill through repayment of deposits made a material
improvement. The amount (how much not separately
stated) made by repurchase of depreciated deposits is, o'f
course, not earnings in the ordinary sense of the term,
and the profit on sales of properties at more than their
written-down value, and the bad debts recovered, are
merely part of the old lost capital coming back. Appar-
ently, however, the Queensland Deposit Bank is now able
to earn enough to pay the humble 3 per cent, interest on
deposits, and over and above that the earnings
are equal to 9s. 2d. per cent, per annum on
the shareholders’ funds as at the beginning of
the year. It is so very little as to suggest that the
assets want a good deal more writing down to bring them
to actual present values, but probably the profits made
on the repurchase of deposits and the other earnings will
gradually fill the gap. When once a co. can do something
more than pay its way its worst troubles are over.
* • • *
Lake George, N.S.W.: Re-construction scheme
approved by the Court. Proposed new co., 189,000 shares
issued at 17s. 6d. Old co.’s debts about £2OOO. Policy of
new co., to turn to account the large body of gold-bearing
gossan, and to carry out the recommendations of W. 1L
Gray. Nothing said about working the copper deposits
which undoubtedly would pay if the mine had railway
connection.
* * * *
Great Central Freehold (N.S.W.) : Stated that
£90,000 is to be spent in developing and equipping this
mine, which embraces a large area of copper-bearing
country in Mt. Hope district. Proposed now to erect a
concentrating plant capable of treating 1500 to 2000 tons
of ore weekly, also to erect a blast-furnace, £50,000 being
set aside for equipment. If all that has been said by the
directors about the size and copper value of the numerous
ore deposits in the co.’s ground is correct, it will be a big-
property, but the need of railway communication will
always be seriously felt. It has to face 85 miles of road
carriage to Condobolin, and it is easy to understand that
a copper mine that would be a div.-payer with the rail-
way might always want calls to keep it going without.
The crowd is developing property at a bad time from a
market point of view, for although it is in a different
State the shadow of Chillagoe will be cast over it until it
asserts its own value by the size of its copper consign-
ments and the number of its divs.
* * » *
Chillagoe Railway and Mines: At last the
public has had some official admissions of the unsatisfac-
tory features in connection with this great undertaking,
in respect to which the writer has made many allusions
and given many warnings. Stated that, while Stewart’s
report on the quantities and value of ore actually in sight
at Mungana is practically confirmed, such appears to be
far from being so in the case of the properties remaining
in possession of the Chillagoe Co. A careful system of
measurement and sampling indicates a serious dis-
crepancy between the figures supplied by the previous
management and those now presented to the board,
and steps have been taken to clear this matter up
beyond all doubt. An independent examination is
to take place, and Stewart is coming from China
to set forth his side of the matter. Admitted, too,
that too much money has been expended in sinking away
from the lodes, and upon a number of small lodes that
might as well have been left to some future time. Too
little lias been spent in sinking upon the ore, to prove its
continuity. No concentration of effort has taken place on
the most important outcrops of ore-bodies, which present
the same appearance as they did years ago, so that they
remain practically unproven, and it has been decided to
spend £lOOO a month in this direction. It all comes
back to the fact that the Chillagoe mines never were
what they were cracked up to be, and that, had it not
been for the strength and names of the Broken Hill and
Mt. Lyell combination which took the properties in hand,
they never would have reached such a market value, and
the public would not have to suffer the present hideous
disappointment. Ten years ago the same group was
examined on behalf of another crowd who knew their
business, but had no names to conjure with. Mines are
not made by men’s names. Chillagoe shares have been
over £2 ; to-day they are 125., and sooner or later, when
shareholders realise the present financial position, they
will probably fall to half their present price. Recon-
struction or another debenture-issue is inevitable. For
the last three .years Tub Bulletin has stood alone in its
warnings in reference to Chillagoe.
• * * *
Mt. Garnet Freehold : “No 1 furnace has been
blown in and is running satisfactorily.” Shareholders
have been largely blown out: shares now under 305., not
nearly half the highest figure reached and less than half
the price they were ere smelting started.
* « • *
Lake View Consols : June production, 14,1040 z.
from 9166 tons—about 500 oz. above last month’s return,
and the biggest for more than a year. Shares £B, and
have been down to £7l7s. 6d., the lowest they have reached
for many months, and a lower figure than when the mine
was producing less than half its present monthly yield—
an anomaly accounted for by the collapse of the London
and Globe, the capital of which, if it now has any, can no
longer be used in “ boosting ” this or any other stock.
* * • »
Brownhill scraped together 51630 z. last month.
Doubtful whether it will be able to get another return of
this magnitude. The tailings, from which 700 to 800 oz.
a month have been got, are finished. Most of the sul-
phide ore is coming from near the boundary of the
Northern Associated. An application was lately made
to work the ore on the boundary’ from the Northern
Associated levels, so that as much ore as possible should
be taken out without danger of encroachment. It was
refused. Remarkable that now this mine has almost ex-
hausted all the ore reserves it accumulated during the
nine months taken for the completion of the Diehl plant,
has completely exhausted the tens of thousands of tons
of tailings accumulated from the old plant, has “ gouged ”
out all its known rich shutes, and is now scraping for ore
against its neighbor’s boundary, shares are higher in Lon-
don than they were when this work began. There is hut
one explanation, that they have been so largely oversold,
and shareholders have been so hoodwinked, thatlittlegam-
blers in them will be squeezed out at a loss, while big
“ bears ” who can weather the storm will probably have the
pleasure of covering at less than half present price, and
even then the shares will be more than double their real
value.
• • • •
Great Boulder: June production, 12,2960z5.
from 7614 tons—an average of loz. 12dwts. 6grs. per ton,
a little higher than usual. Value of gold unstated,
although it has been going down for a long time, and is
now not more than £3 4s. 6d. per oz. taking it all round.
Hence probably the rumor that the gold-ores of the field
are gradually changing into silver—a nonsensical state-
ment to make, for, as the Boulder manager has declared,
the silver content in the deepest sulphide level is no
higher than it was in the oxidised ores near the surface.
The lode at the 700 ft. in the Golden Horseshoe is less
than 20ft. from the G. Boulder boundary, but it might as
well be ten times the distance. The Great Boulder has
prospected for that lode so much with a diamond-drill at
that and deeper levels as to prove that it will
never have the pleasure of giving the wanderer
a welcome home again. The Boulder has been singularly
unfortunate in losing shutes of rich ore, due to the way it
was pegged out, despite little W. G. Brookman’s 'big
assurance that he had spent a great deal of time and
brain to allot each lease so that it would have the lode
properly within its boundaries. W.G.B. was largely
applauded for the statement, and when it takes a long
time to prove a mine a duffer, or a man a fool, it does not
much matter. The Ivanhoe lodes, too, every one of them
get poor just a few feet from the Boulder boundary at
the north end of the Ivanhoe lease. There is a probability
of the Boulder getting some of the Ivanhoe middle lode
below the 400 ft. level, as the shute is dipping northwards
and is already 60ft. in the Boulder ground. The lode on
the Boulder western boundary, opposite the main shaft
and now known as the main lode of the Horseshoe, and
from which the great bulk of its gold is got, went into
the Horseshoe and became much wider and richer than it
ever was in the Boulder ground. The Boulder also lost a
rich shute at the south end of its ground. It pitched
into the Main Reef mine, and it is from this rich shute
that that mine has produced its gold and paid its diva.
* * * «
Great Bing-all: Go3Goz. for June. Crushed
3673 tons for 47110 z ; 28 tons of concentrates for 3230 z •
and IOOOoz. from 20S0 tons of tailings. Shares, £9 10s ’
and likely to go higher. This seems the best mine in
W.A., from an investor’s point of view, according to all
the accounts writer has received. It is simply an old-
fashioned quartz-reef, averaging 17ft. thick and about
Boz. value in the lower levels, and needs nothing but an
up-to-date stamp mill and an ordinary cyanide plant to
work it. Not so interesting, from a metallurgist’s point
of view, as the Kalgoorlie mines, but much more satisfac-
tory from the view of a shareholder. For long after the
mine was taken overand its value had been established in
the lower levels shares were standing at from £2 to £3.
The failure of the Day Dawn, as it was once called, and of
other mines on the field, scared people away, and it was
not until value had been proved by numerous crushings
and permanency established by opening up lower levels
that shares began to move. They were not long going to
£6, where they remained for months. They then in a
few weeks jumped to over £9, where they are likely to
stay till another lift has been opened up. Meanwhile a
bigger plant is going up, and should next lift prove as
good as the last these shares are bound to see a big rise.
But writer had better stop, or he will be regarded as a
tipster with shares to unload.
• * * •
Golden Horseshoe : 8339 tons for 15,4850 z. Still
the boss producer of the field. Probably to get even with
the time when it will be impossible to obtain this amount
of gold from the present equipment, large additions
to plant are proposed, for which purpose the surface
rights of an adjoining lease have been bought.
* * * -w. •
Ivanhoe, 84130 z. The highest return for some
months past, and in keeping with the anomalies of W.A.
mines, the market lately reached the lowest point.
Associated Northern, 63920 z. from some 600
tons of rich sulphide ore sent to Fremantle. This mine
must have made almost enough profit from consignments
of ore sent away to pay for a treatment-plant, and if that
is not intended, to pay divs.
Ralgurlie, 17350 z. A lower return than last
month which was lower than the proceeding month, and
as it is less than the average for over a year and not a
single div. has been paid, there is no other possible con-
clusion than that it takes all its gold to pay its way.
* * » *
Main Reef : 2.391 oz. for June, the highest yield
for some months past, but the shares have had a big fall.
This mine does not look well in the bottom level, and
unless improvement takes place pretty soon there will be
another drop in shares.
* • * *
Associated : 12530 z., the lowest return for a
long time. Only one furnace ran during June, and there
was no clean-up from the re-modelled sulphide plant.
South Kalgurli: 6340 z. for last month. Ex-
planation—Broken time, owing to alterations in the treat-
ment plant, but the mine has been crushing so long with-
out a div. as to be regarded as only a paying concern.
* * * »
Sons of Gwalia : Tonnage 10,415, yield 58570 z.
—a little over half an oz. from crushing and cyaniding. A
big, permanent low-grade W.A. mine, looking well in the
deepest level. Economies wanted in management in
London.
• * H »
East Murchison United : East month’s return
3,1820z5. from 4,200 tons crushed, with tailings and con-
centrates treated. An amalgamation of some over-capi-
talised W.A. mines.
» * * *
Long Reef, W.A. : 1600 tons 8360z5. Another
successful resurrection.


Complete
Outfits.
fsd
AN ORIENT
BOOT^
SUIT^
TO MEASURE
ALL CLASSES OF GARMENTS
. . IN THE . .
Orient To measure” Clothing
.. AT ..
PRICES
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
PAVID JONCS & COMPANY,
Cscorg* & Barrack Sts., Sydney
that give perfect rest In the Eyes, as well a/l
Good Vision, are the kind we fit. When we
fut rush yon with. Glasses there is no room for
complaint. No Charge for Test ing . .
WOOD, “The Optician,
. Equitable Buildings,
95 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne ;
and 299 George Street, Sydney,
OPPOSITE HUNTER STREET
Eyesight tested through Post. Send for particulai
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjc> .neat of
HOME CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
“Vestal”: Re “She Cat’s” remarks in
Bulletin about Melb. Women’s Hospital trouble,
it strikes present writer that a return to the
system of address in vogue up to 100 years ago
would be the best way out of the difficulty,
because it was then the custom to call all adult
women Mistress (Mrs.), whether matrimonially-
yoked or not. Thus Mrs. Smith’s daughters,
when they got out of the schoolroom, would be
Mrs. Deborah Smith and Mrs. Jane Smith, and
when Mrs. Smith (senior) died, the eldest daughter
would have as much right to style herself “Mrs.
Smith ”as her brother’s wife. Curious to note
how the terms Miss and Mrs. have changed values.
About the times referred-to, the former appella-
tion was the dubious one, a nobleman’s mistress
being referred to as Lord So-and-So’s Miss, while
the rigidly-unmarried girl was entitled to be a
Mistress. The Melb. Hospital Committee asserts
that it cannot honestly label a woman married
when she isn’t; so it seems that, after all, it is
not woman who is hard on woman,” but merely
“English as she is spoke” nowadays.
• » * *
“Samaritan” : Cocks is a quaint little
Sydneyite, a true religionist, who for many years
has given all his spare time and all his worldly
substance to establishing and maintaining his
home for cripples On its behalf he holds
forth at Sydney street corners and in the Domain
on all possible occasions. One of the old man’s
charges is a granddaughter of the Duke of Kent
by his first though unofficial wife, and she has re-
cently been in Sydney hospital for an operation.
The lady is in very poor circumstances, and Cocks,
with other friends, wrote on her behalf to the
Duchess of York, sending portraits of the Duke
of Kent and his unofficial wife, and other family
heirlooms, as evidence of the true, though mor-
ganatic relationship. The Duchess replied,
through Secretary Wallington, to Cocks’ letter,
expressing sorrow for the “sad condi-
tion of Mrs. but “the Duchess is
not quite able to see how the Royal family
can be held responsible.” (Writer quotes from
memory, and has omitted Cocks’ quaint and
sarcastic interpolations; the old man read the
ENCOURAGING.
“ Awfully stodgy at the Todpers last Toosday. I
left before ten o’clock .”
“Yes, so I believe; but I was told it brightened
up a lot after you’d gone.”
letter to an appreciative crowd in Bathurst-street
the other night.) The Duchess also wrote to
the bedridden lady (an unacknowledged cousin) in
similar terms, commending her ability and
industry (rugged old Cocks had sent a box of his
charge’s fancy-work to Govt. House to prove that
she was not altogether a useless member of
society, though she had royal blood in her veins)
and saying she was “ very grieved at Mrs. ’s
sad circumstances.” Cocks is furious that the
Duchess should be simply grieved and nothing
more, and asks whether she thinks Toby Barton
wanted that £4OO snuff-box as badly as her sick
relative wants a fi’-pun’ note. Cocks’ highest
religion and purpose in life is to assist the afflicted
—acts of State or Royal prerogatives are as
nought to the ancient Samaritan, “But for a
sinful decree,” yells the old man, “ that poor bed-
ridden lady would have occupied the throne of
England. To think of it ! ” Toe thought nearly
takes the old chap’s breath away—nearly, but not
quite. He can still find a word of scorn to hurl at
“ that royal bigamist, the Duke of Kent.” The
Bulletin sincerely hopes that the unworldly old
man will say nothing likely to get him into
Darlinghurst for high treason or “foul libel” or
whatever his offence may be named.
• * * *
Adelaide maintained its churchy reputa-
tion by calling in the Jook to bless (or some-
thing) a new fragment of the local Cathedral. But
the princeling wasn’t a more interesting feature of
that gathering than old Canon Pulford, now of
South Yarra, Vic., who came out with the
muscular Bishop Short to found the diocese 54
years ago. Only the Canon is left of that first
batch.
• • * »
Memories of Mafeking! How they did have
to whip up the flagging interest of “the popu-
lace ” in the Jook what time he reached Adelaide !
Poor little Greaser Way, C.J., issued the most
fervent appeal to the public to come along and
shout; and for a whole week beforehand both
daily papers cracked the whip through five or six
awful columns. If the poor harmless young man
were to come back next year, he’d be almost as
neglected as a returned cohentingenter.
• * • *
“Pukaki”: Stated that when the Juke
was laying the Town Hall foundation-stone at
Wellington (M.L.), the Mayor handed him the
point of the silver trowel instead of the handle.
Also, that at the big reception at Christchurch,
several of those introduced were so overcome that
they forgot to grasp the royal hand extended to
them. The Jukeess said nothing on the first two
occasions, but the third time she turned to the
Juke and said, “ Snubbed again, George ! ”
* * * *
From the lady-correspondent of Canter-
bury (M.L.) Times’ account of the Royalties in
Wellington :
At the bazaar: “Duchess looked inexpressibly bored.
Her manner was a silent protest against being dragged
round an uninteresting bazaar against her will
Their Royal Highnesses then had tea in the cafe. The
Duchess sat in a chair specially prepared for her, but the
Duke, unfortunately, preferred to stand, so the chair he
was to have sat in depreciated in value to such an extent
that, metaphorically, the bottom dropped out.”
« « • *
Ararat (Vic.) Borough Council decided to
give a welcome home to returned soldiers, but
were divided as to whether they should have
drink or ladies present —it being admitted that
both were impossible. Drink, of course, carried
the day.
* * * *
Even the poor pretence of patriotism is
dropped now ! An ex-Vic. Bushman complains
loudly in Melb. Aoe of his rejection for one of
those 1400 railway billets now offering, and goes
on—
When I arrived home I remained three months on the
invalid list and was then discharged, to get a living as
best I could. Being a working man, I had to return to a
hard bush life, with scant pay ; but I worked on, buoyed
up with the hope of Govt, employment at the first oppor-
tunity. Although physically and mentally fit for the ,
position I was rejected—and now I am a member of the
unemployed.
Well, he got a trip to S’Africa, on better wages
than he could make at home, was invalided on
full pay till quite recovered, and then was actually
left to get a living as best he could—just as almost
everybody else has to do. Does the returned
eohentiugenter expect to be an able-bodied pauper
all the rest of his days ? It really seems so. The
cohentingent business is bringing its own antidote.
The claims of the returned tools of Wemher, Beit
and co. to a practical monopoly of Govt, billets
WHERE SHE
GOT IT.
THE OLD MAN:
“This is very
good butler and
cream we are
having now.”
The Old Wo-
MAN: "Yes,
my dear, I am
getting it from
one of those
new creama-
toriums.”
will make them cordially detested by the rest of
the population.
* * * *
The fire at Anthony Hordern’s mammoth
shops, last week, provided the biggest sensation
in Sydney for years ; and, sad to say, five lives
were lost. The fire was discovered between 8 and
9 a.m., and vast clouds of smoke rolled upward
from the Haymarket end of the city and drifted
heavily south and east. Then the news went
flying far and fast. Every street was filled with
a crowd rushing to see the burning of Hordern’s.
Cabs began to pour along, and later, the ladies
of the plutocracy drove up in their carriages and
leaned back and watched with opera-glasses.
There was smoke, smoke, smoke everywhere,
and showers of sparks and embers. Coats were
having holes burned in them. A chiffon-trimmed
hat burst suddenly into fire, and the distracted
woman tore it off. Someone gave her a handker-
chief, which she wrapped round her head —then
the crowd swallowed her up. On it rushed through
mud and slush, past smellful houses where Chinese
clustered and jabbered, till it surged round a
corner and caught a glimpse of the grey towering
building whose top was lost in rolling clouds of
smoke, through which red tongues of flame flashed
spasmodically. The embers were falling like rain.
The crowd had stopped—no one knew why ; but
it felt instinctively that there must be no pushing.
When someone started to shove, a dozen voices
threatened grimly to roll a tram-car over him.
Then there was a backward movement, and sud-
denly a score of voices howled that the big gaso-
meter, close by, had caught fire and would blow
up. Next moment the crowd was streaming back
up Campbell-street, carrying before it the" other
crowd that was rushing down to see the sight.
Seen from Belmore Park, the spectacle was
nothing compared to an ordinary bush fire. The
chimney and tower streamed with smoke, and the
whole huge block of masonry was a crater, but
there was wonderfully little flame to be seen. The
vast windowless wall on which the name ap-
peared was turning black, and cracks were begin-
ning to make their appearance. Explosions and
crashes shook the air as the great flooded floors
went thundering down, and sent up fresh bursts
of flame and clouds of sparks and burning frag-
ments, that floated away to Oxford-street and
Woolloomooloo. Gipps-street .was filled with
the smoke of the steam fire-engines ; but now and
again it fissured into vistas through which waved
the puny streams of water. It looked like trying
to quench a haystack with an ear-syringe. Fur-
ther down, towards George-street, could be seen
dim shadows with bright brass helmets, mounting
ladders and pointing tiny streams of water through
windows. Only the bright helmets were real—all
the rest were shadows, outlines, intangible forms
that trembled a moment between the walls of roll-
ing smoke and then disappeared in it.
The man had a catch in his voice, and his eyes
were misty: “They say there are five deaths,
but his was terrible to see : You see that parapet
there, cracked with the heat! Well, that’s where
he was when I saw him first. The smoke was
rising from the roof in little streams like the steam
rises from a tiny hot spring, but all those windows
below there were filled with fire. He waved his
hands, and, bending down, shouted something to
those below. They sent up a cheer, and shouted
to him that he was seen, and some people went
forward with a tarpaulin. He stood up and
seemed to wait silently. Then smoke blew
all round him, and I couldn’t see him
for some time, but there seemed to
be someone else beside him. The fire
poured out of those windows in one great sheet,
and the boom of a falling floor echoed above
everything. The flame swept upward and curled
right over the parapet where he stood crouching
behind the ornamentation, just barely visible.
Then smoke rolled round him and it was all
blotted out. People sobbed, and some fainted.
The smoke rolled past and the man reappeared.
A cry of joy went up and men rushed forward
with a tarpaulin, but the firemen shouted to him
to hold fast till the ladders came. They came at
a gallop and swung through the crowd like a flash,
and in another minute, amid deafening cheers,
ladders were run up against the wall, with a fire-
man climbing nimbly upwards. And then—the
ladders were too short. The flame sank down;
had the ladders been long enough there was a
clear moment in which the poor fellow could have
got past. He bent forward, with his hands clasped,
and looked down the sheer 100 feet of empty
space that lay between him and life. Even tnen
a line, could it have been got to him, might have
saved him, though the parapet must have been
almost hot enough to have
scorched a rope through. A
fireman was shouting something
to him about holding on a
little longer, when another
floor fell, and once more
a sheet of flame surged
out of tlie windows
and hid him and the
parapet in a red veil. Then a louder crash
than ever was heard ; clouds of smoke and
torrents of flame sprang skyward, for the roof had
fallen in, and the man stood on the naked wall on
one side of which was the fire while on the other
was empty space. The flame soared up above
him and his clothes caught fire. He flung his
blazing coat from him, and another red tongue
licked round him. He reeled a moment and cast
his burning hat away, and then in his torment he
stood straight up and sprang outward—turned
over, and then flashed down —on to the roadway.
He fell all huddled up, like a bundle of clothes,
and ”
The man’s name was Henry Clegg ; he was a
packing-hand who had apparently delayed too
long, trying to fight the flames. Four other men
were killed ; two who had seemingly been near
Clegg, and two who were caught by the fire while
busy in the basement keeping up the supply of
water for the hose. “ Christs of the Age of
Trade! ”
The total loss is estimated at £500,000 ; insur-
ance, £360,000.
Hordern’s fire directs attention to what seems
to be the only trustworthy provision for escape
from a burning building—iron staircases on the
outside. On every building, at the side where
there are fewest windows, there should be con-
structed from the roof to the ground an iron stair-
case with a landing and a door at each floor.
That door should be fastened by bolts only, and a
municipal inspector could examine the bolts
regularly to see that they are well-oiled and work-
ing easily. Had the Palace Emporium had such
a means of escape (an example of which can be
seen on Messrs. Holdsworth and Macpherson’s
building in George-st, Sydney) at least three
lives would have been saved, and other
people would have escaped injuries received
through descending by ropes. Fire Supt.
Webb has stated, in connection with the Hay-
market tragedy, that the Brigade has no
reasonable chance to save life in buildings more
than 90ft. high, and that people who construct such
edifices, and the companies which insure them,
must take the responsibility for loss of life.
Therefore, on these buildings it is especially
necessary that the landlords should be compelled
to construct such staircases as is suggested. The
staircase need not necessarily come to the ground,
but it should" come within a few feet of it, to a
point where the ordinary fire appliances can re-
move people expeditiously and without difficulty.
Sydney Sunday Times came out with an
amazing picture of the unfortunate Clegg. The
horrible thing represents the poor doomed man in
one of the most beautiful of A. Hordern and Son’s
up-to-date suits—39s. Gd., 2 A per edit, off for the
winter sale —standing behind the parapet with
one hand resting gracefully on it and the other at
his temple saluting the crowd in approved
military style.


J.D.1.2. til.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16'5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D. K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
HEALTH
AND
STRENGTH
Restored in a Dose.
RAFFAN’S
CATARRH
REMEDY. -
55 ELGIN ST., CARLTON, OR 3 GARROWAY’S,
QUEEN’S WALK, MELBOURNE.
Queenslander writes: “ Your Remedy has worked a
complete change on me. I never, before, realised so
much benefit from the use of medicine.”
66
1
TheWhiskyof The Wise
The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.
A ustralasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
k
9
NS
.lf»* LI° OSNES f IV L ' VER
anp Troubles.
few cities of the size and importance of
(to.- .the conflagration at Anthony Hor-
„n,?i bl B_ a ® it was, have had similar effect upon
°f place. Situated as Hordern’s is,
tire completely blocked all traffic in Pitt-
s reet as well as in George-street, the effect of
v ich was to cut off Redfern railway station and
e western suburbs from the heart of the city.
Erratically-built Sydney has only these
wo streets by which to reach Redfern,
ana consequently all tram and vehicular traffic
was effectually blocked and business in town well
mgh paralysed for some hours. Furthermore,
despite the large outlay on telephone tunnels, no
provision has been made for the carrying of the
network of telegraph lines to Redfern. As a con-
sequence the daily papers on Friday morning were
placed in the ridiculous position of apologising for
the meagreness of their news from the Victorian
capital because telegraph' communication was
broken just outside their own doors, so to speak.
The sensational little scullery maid of
Auckland Grand Hotel broke up badly in the
end, as might have been expected. She stuck for
two weeks to her story about the three strange
men who had a habit of glaring in at the win-
dow, and who then took to breaking-in casually
at night, and telling her in deep hoarse whispers
that they were going to burn the premises and all
tbe people therein, and who poured combustibles
over the house, and compelled her to carry
messages to the boss-incendiary while they were
lighting the match ; and about the six men who,
after the fire, followed her in the streets with a
simultaneous goose-step, and threatened to dis-
courage her with an axe if she informed on them.
The police always had doubts about this yarn, for
Auckland isn’t a very large city, and if Jessie
was pursued up and down the streets by
six miscreants the matter would have been
noticeable. Jessie states quite affably now
that there was nothing at all in the story, and she
has specified the sixpenny novelette that she
copied it out of. She still says that she met three
people in the houao that night, but they were
former employees, and it is inferred that they had
dropped in harmlessly to see the housemaids that
they used to be mashed upon. The police, how-
ever, “ believe that the girl is still keeping some-
thing back, ” so it would probably be best to search
her box at once, and see if she has another novel-
ette concealed about her. Probably she will ex-
plain later on that her first lie was quite true, but
she was followed by 14 masked men with battering-
rams, and terrified into retracting. If Jessie had
started the usual tale of “assault,” some man
would probably be doing seven years by now.
That is an easy kind of lie, in which there are no
witnesses, or apparatus, or complications ; the girl
merely says the man was there, and the man
says he wasn’t, and the fool jury, despite the
stupendous mass of woman perjury that is con-
stantly in evidence, believes the girl. Jessie
Minns unfortunately tried her hand at an
elaborate lie with six men in it, and conspiracies,
and bottles of combustibles, and midnight irrup-
tions, and she got left. But she was quite as
truthful as the average woman who brings accusa-
tions against men.
Most sensational narratives of the J essie Minns
type are stolen out of books. If an elaborate
index of current literature was kept at some
central place—say Sydney or Melbourne—in which
the plot of every new novel, novelette or news-
paper serial was classified, it would greatly
simplify the work of the police. It would only be
necessary to index the striking crimes, names and
mysteries in each work. For instance, when
Jessie’s tale was wired to Australia, the central
bureau would have looked up its index for
“Incendiarism inspired by Motivesof Vengeance,”
and by referring to the books in which that
episode appeared it would have been able to wire
back “Jessie’s story taken bodily from ‘Flash
Fred, the Miner,’ ”or some such work. Failing
that, the box and premises of a surprising witness
like Jessie should always be searched and her
dog-eared literature overhauled. In nine cases
out of ten the book will be found on the premises.
The typical Jessie is a creature of neglected
stockings and short-lived emotions, and her tale is
generally extracted from yesterday’s ghost book—
not the ghost-book of last week or last year.
Further light on the methods of the casual
Australian girl who brings criminal charges
against men was forthcoming at Cobden (Vic.)
police-court on June 28, when a respectable farmer
was charged, on informations sworn by two of
his daughters (aged 13 and 19), with having crimi-
nally assaulted them on specified dates. The
wife, who said she had had 11 children in all,
expressed implicit confidence in her husband, who
had been “both mother and father” to the
children when she had been away nursing. The
younger girl (Emily), she regretted, was untruth-
ful, while Anna had a violent temper, and she
added, naively, “ I have no reason to believe
Anna is immoral, but I know she goes to dances.”
When Miss Emily was cross-examined she ad-
mitted that the charge was trumped up, her sister
Anna, after a quarrel with her father, having
induced her to make up the whole story, to the
truth of which both had sworn before the police.
Charges promptly dismissed, but, of course, the
inventive young damsels go unpunished for their
revolting perjury.
In a many-column report of the Hordern
fire published in S.M. Helald, neither the
“Devouring Element ” nor the “Fire Fiend ” is
mentioned. The old race of reporters must surely
be dying out.
“Zoo ” to The Bulletin : —
When in London I used to look askance at the street-
sweepers army—grimy, sodden-ragged, semi-human am-
phibia who dredged from dawn to dark with yard-brooms
through quagmires of slush. But during the last couple
ol weeks I have been impressed with the need of such in
oydney, the streets of which at present take the cake for
abject slushiness. New York rejoices in a machine like a
tumbril, with an open paddle-wheel at one end. This
perambulates the city five times a day in wet weather,
and carries off the mud bodily. The contrivance may
possibly reach Australia by the time it has been super-
seded in its native land by something better.
* * * •
A quaint daily press item was the recent
cable about the Turkish Imperial harem catching
fire while the Sultan was in the next room.”
One room—that is the poor newspaper man’s idea
of a harem. Perhaps when newspaper salaries
expand, the scribe’s idea of a harem will do ditto.
* * * *
The collapse of the Australian Economic
Association was not the calamity Mr. Richard
leece the other night deplored. It began, had its
middle, and ended, as a mutual-admiration body,
with the late Dr. Garran on the mantelpiece.
1 here was neither blood in its veins, nor nerves in
its body. It died principally because it should
never have been born.
* * * •
The Victorian honorary magistracy repre-
sents nothing but cupidity and stupidity, and
continues to howl about the Factories Act. The
other day a Williamstown butcher was called
up for paying 6s. a week to a young man who,
under the Act, was entitled to 30s. “How long
has the man been in the trade?” asked one J.P.
t x> W0 years >” defendant. At which the
J.P. seemed half-smothered with righteous indig-
nation and pious disgust. “ It’s a villainous Act! ”
he. cried, horrified at the idea of an employer
being compelled to pay a grown man who had
been two years at the trade 30s. when he could
get him for 6s. If Premier Peacock had half-a-
i chara ? ter he would ring off a few of these
globular magistrates who show their unblushing
partiality by vicious abuse of the laws they are
called upon to administer. Generally when the
J .P. squeals it is because he finds the law com-
pelling him to tread on his own corns.
* * * *
“ Vril ” ; Talking to the manager of a
Brisbane hotel, famed for its good liquor and
great bar trade, he said : “ Why should we
adulterate ? The best hotel liquor landed
in Brisbane stands us in 4d. a full nip
over the bar, and we have worked
Anf f . 1 j 1
out that m the private bar,
by handing over the
bottle and letting cus-
tomers help them-
selves, they don’t
average 3d.
worch. We can
absolutely rely on
100 per cent, profit
at our rate of 6d.
a nip.”
THE AUSTRALIAN IDIOM.
AUNT PRUNE: "And, of course, my
Reginald has been a nice, good boy.”
REGINALD (nonchalantly): “Oh, I ain’t been doin’ too stinkin'!"
Writes “ Ignis ” :
Dear Bulletin, —Would you allow me, through your
columns, to remind the N.S.W. public of the existence of
the local Cremation Society—offices, Otis Chambers, 82
Iving-st., Sydney. Annual subscription—one shilling.
Briefly put—the advantages of cremation are that it pre-
vents possibility of pollution of water or air, obviates the
necessity for large and costly cemeteries, removes the
chance of being buried alive, is less expensive than earth-
burial, and interferes with no religious rite. As regards
the possible destruction of the traces of poisoning, the
society advocates legislation to make incumbent a search-
ing inquiry in every case of death, “ with a view of deter-
mining- the necessity, or otherwise, for a coroner’s inquest
before interment or cremation."
• » * •
Thus a North Coast (N.S.W.) J.P. during
the hearing of an affiliation case, the other day :
“Does the defendant deny the posterity of the
child ? ” And at a Northern River magisterial
inquiry this verdict was returned : “We find that
deceased died from natural causes intolerated by
drink.”
Astonishing the agility with which the
Law gets round a difficult corner when there’s
money beyond ! Morris Sleeman, of Melbourne,
lately handed his son Tobias £l5O to bank for him.
lobias banked it, but in his own name, and then
proceeded to prodigalise. So Morris took steps
to recover his good coin. He couldn’t draw it out
and start fresh because Tobias refused to sign the
necessary cheque, and he couldn’t sue Tobias, be-
cause Tobias was a minor and the Law didn’t
consider him capable of being sued, or signing
cheques or having an account at all. In fact, the
jLaw reckoned that, as a commercial man, Tobias
didn t exist. But it thoughtfully provided a way
out (with costs). Application, it said, must be
made to a Judge to appoint a guardian for Tobias,
and then Morris Sleeman might sue the guardian.
And, of course, he has to pay said guardian, and
the guardian s lawyer, and his own lawyer.
Time was when we could place S.M.
Herald on the front-room table, alongside the
Sunday at Home and woolwork text samplers.
Now it publishes “Kim”—the current Kipling
story—and Herald readers find its pages defiled
by such remarks as: “ Thou art of a noseless
generation for a thousand years”; “thy mother
was wedded under a basket ” ; also, “ get thee to
thy reputationless aunt.” O fie, Mister James !
* * * *
A lady typist in a certain N.S.W. Minis
terial office was t’other day instructed, by minute,
to inform a road-maintenance-man, who had
applied for pick-and-shovel work, that there was
no vacancy. She wrote:
“I have the honor to
• inform you that the
Minister has no vacancy
for a gentleman of your
attainments.”
According to a witness who gave evidence
last week before the travelling Victorian Board,
the flock that the Sydney man’s nice soft bed is
stuffed with mostly comes from the Moore Park
tip. The dirty rags are gathered there by dirty
men and women, and, without any process of
washing or disinfection, are rushed into one end
of a machine, and come out as flock at the other
end. * ‘ Haven’t you any Board of Health here ? ”
gasped the Commission, turning pale as it thought
of the bed it had slept on the previous night.
“Yes,” was the reply, “but dynamite wouldn’t
shift them.” Wherein the witness did the Board
a wrong. If the See Government will pass the
necessary Act of Indemnity, and O’Sullivan will
put a sum on the Estimates to supply the
dynamite and the fuse, and somebody will hold
the Board steady, The Bulletin will guarantee
that no flock will come from Moore Park tip in
future.
* * * *
Half of the matriculants at Melbourne
University this year (78 out of 150) were women.
NOT THE SAME THING.
JIGG : “Do you think Ed say so if I wasn't
positively certain? ”
JAGG: “ Well, I think you are certainly positive."
About two escaped criminals :
By the escape of prisoners Sparks and O’Connor from
Pentridge prison, the possibility is opened of some fine ad-
venturous bushranging. O’Connor is an ordinarv footpad
of the suburban-garrotter type, but Sparks is a man of
very different mould from the average criminal. He is a
sturdy, good-looking, well-educated fellow of 27, and has
the brains to conceive and the daring to carry out
schemes for the redistribution of wealth, which would
simply “lose” nine-tenths of the choicest ruffians in
Pentridge. Both he and his comrade, Negus, with whom
he was convicted, are men of force of character unusual in
their class, and the way they carried out their robbery is
an object-lesson in daring crime. Unlike so many of
their class, they did not regard the job as finished with the
mere stealing of the swag. Masked and mounted, they
bailed up a Rutherglen mine manager and compelled him
to hand over £l2OO, intended for the payment of wages.
Then they galloped off across a paddock into the bush.
The intervening wire fences to the number of a dozen
had all been cut before hand, so that the robbers had a
straight run to the spot where they crossed the Murray
into N.S.W. Abandoning their horses at the river, they
crossed in a punt and mounted two more horses tethered
in readiness in the scrub, took short cuts through numer-
ous fences by more wire-cutting and, 20 miles from
the border, picked up another relay. Turning round
they crossed back into Vic. at Cobharn, and tooklrain to
Melbourne, where they were subsequently arrested
“from information received.” When they re-entered
Victoria, this pair carried no money, and, as it was not
recovered, it is plain that they must have planted it
during their ride. Unless “ information received ” has
unearthed it meanwhile, Sparks will probably have
secured that £l2OO by now. If it is gone, the man who
got it had better keep out of Sparks’s way, and so had
other people who carry money and dislike bullets.
The escape of Sparkes and o‘Connor recalls the dis-
appearance of recicLiviste Pierre Douar from same prison.
He was a splendid mechanic and is supposed to have
made a very fine steel file, or saw, and cut through the
bars of his cell window, hiding the traces of his night’s
work by patching the bars with black putty. Outside, he
worked his way through the barriers with a skeleton key,
followed the tracks taken by the present escapees, and
clambered over the low wall facing the Merri Creek.
While hiding in Fitzroy Gardens, clothed in a suit he had
stolen from a house in Coburg, he met a criminal whom
he knew, and they arranged that they should take a room
together at the Melbourne Coffee Palace, and with
skeleton-keys “go through ” the rooms in the early
morning. The accomplice went to Bourke-street and
took the room, but as he came out detective Macmanamy
arrested him for stealing two watches from Kenny’s
baths, and to save himself, he offered to give up Douar.
The offer was accepted, and as soon as Douar was safe iii
the room the other man went down and gave
Ward and Macmanamy the number of the room and
cleared. The detectives went up, knocked at the door
and when it was opened, rushed in, knocked down and
handcuffed the occupant. The accomplice, however
was next day arrested for theft, taken to the city
lock-up and lodged in a cell, when he found his
only companion was Douar 1 The recidivist# sprang upon
his treacherous mate like a panther, and but for the
timely arrival of the watchhouse-keepers would very soon
have finished the man. A week after, Douar strangled
himself in his cell with his trousers-strap. The treacher-
ous mate led a dog’s life in Pentridge, and had to be re-
moved to a country gaol.
* * * *
Why does not some energetic member
of N.S.W. Parliament move for the production
of that long-suppressed report on Norfolk
Island, on the condition of the islanders under
Col. Spalding, adding to his motion a desire for
full information as to their condition at present
under Magistrate King? N.S.W. Parliament is
responsible for the welfare of these people, but
successive Governments practically suppress all
essential information.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin,— What a pity the money
squandered over the York razzle-dazzle wasn’t
used td start a fund for building a fever hospital
for Sydney ! Here is a chance for the O’Sullivan.
At present, the children of his pet hobby—the
working-man—have to be bundled-off 10 miles to
Little Bay as soon as scarlet fever develops in the
household ; and the working-man aforesaid grum-
bles at fate and things medical, instead of insisting
upon a demoralised Government erecting needful
health-institutions in place of emblazoning itself
with flags and fireworks—at the working-man’s
expense. —M. B.
• * * *
Amongst the applicants for old-age pen-
sions at Scone (N.S.W.) were an old woman' and
her daughter. The mother was 94, and the
daughter, who was of statutory age, was a native
of the district.
OMARESQUE.
Omar of old Iran,
Well unto thee ’twas known,
Even poetic Man
Lives not on Love alone.
Thou wouldst in desert bide,
Deeming the desert fair,
If thou hadst by thy side
The Loaf—the Jug—and Her.
Though the Beloved She
Gome not—l shall not pine,
If Allah leave with me
The Loaf, the Jug of Wine.
V.J.D.


:.5<
"V;-
The Charm of MARK FOY’S is the Price.
One of the keynotes of Mark Foy’s success is the working:
up of the Men’s and Boys’ Outfitting Trade'*"
To young gentlemen in offices, students, apprentices, and others,
icho wish to present a good appearance, we call special attention to
MARK FOY’S SMART SUITS lor BUSINESS YOUTHS.
Every youth on entering his business career desires to be smartly
dressed, but the stern necessity of rigid economy with small
salaries necessitates care in spending the coin. . . .
MARK FOY’S NAVY SERGE YOUTHS’ SUITS (Ready-Made)
but not what is known as slop-made. These are manufactured in
our own factory only, from . . .
GUARANTEED PURE INDIGO DYED ALL-WOOL WORSTED SERGES.
and are sold at 25/-, 29/6, 35/- The cut, style, and finish are
perfect, and the value is unknown but at Mark Foy’s.
CCTUggjj
41
&
CORo
c?
—r^r-ctTx.:
&
Sf
1 V\t-
All Drapers Everywhere.
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAB
GLOBE TEAB
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
Have
have
have
have
have
have
have
have
have
have
NO
EQUAL.
EQUAL.
EQUAL.
UAL.
UAL.
UAL.
EQUAL.
UAL.
UAL.
EQUAL
The Best Tea in Australii
1/9 PER LB.
CHOICE- FAMILY TEA
241 b CANNISTERS @ 124d.=fl ss.'od
121 b CANNISTERS @ 13d, pi 13s Od
01b CADDIES <§l3£d.=, 6s. 9d!
SINGLE POUND, Is, 2d,
ATCHERLEY A DAWSON, t** msuchamts, m george street, Sydney,
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
Sydney, J uly 15, 1001.
My Dear Arint.—
It has been a fiery week. That disastrous blaze
on Brickfield-hill has really painted the town red.
And everyone you meet was there, and saw it after
his own fashion. A wet, grey sky, spanned from
east to west by a low-lying rainbow, was the back-
ground of the awful picture as I saw it, an hour
or so after it had been on exhibition. A towering
brick square, its windows filled with flame, and
from its roof great pines of fire growing sky ward.
I thought of Heine’s conceit about the huge pine
(or was it a cedar?) that he would dip into the
crater of Etna, and with that red pen write his
girl’s name across the sky. Strange frescoes
wrought by the gaoled fire appeared on the walls.
Violet prisms, yellow-ochre stars, and long, jagged
white tracings. They grew and changed colors
and forms, and all the time there were men burn-
ing behind those frescoes. And all the time the
hose looked like scent-squirts sending up their
streams into the fire that jumped out of the win-
dows, as if to welcome what could do it no harm.
But it was that “bow of promise” in the sky
that gave the satire to the picture. The promise
that there shall not again be too much water.
And all the time there were men burning.
Madam Janson, en route to M.L. that after-
noon, was at the fire and spake certain things re
the inefficiency of our fire-appliances compared
with those of N. York. Madam saw a ballet-girl
burnt to death on the stage once at Stockholm,
and the awful memory of it chases her yet. It
was in “Robert the Devil” opera—the Nuns’
Dance—you remember, they are nuns outside,
ballet-girls beneath. The girl’s drapery took
fire, all her fellow-dancers tied from her, and
before rugs or rescue could be found the girl was
dying.
But even the Brickfield-hill tragedy had its
humours. An old woman of about 60, with a face
that a “Rocks” pugilist would have disdained,
clothed in muddy rags and a remnant of hat,
wished to pass a barricade and a handsome police-
man. She entreated and expostulated in vain;
then in disgust: “Ah, if I had me feathers on,
and me flowers, and a long-tailed gown to howld
out o’ the sthreet, and a touch o’ paint and a bit
o’ white, ye’d let me pass quick enough.”
Miss Minnie Hordern, who, with some of her
kin, watched the fire in the morning, in the after-
noon went bravely through her part in the Pope-
Einuey wedding. But she showed traces of the
shock she must have felt. Miss Bertie Fiunev,
youngest daugater of warehouseman Finney, of
Brisbane, married Mr. Norman Pope, a son of
the partner of Farmer and Co., and Miss Minnie
Hordern was bridesmaid. The bride has been
noted as Brisbane’s most elegant dresser. Her
presents were on view in the dressing-room of the
Australia hotel, where the wedding breakfast was
also held.
Twenty-three-year-old genius Gerardy is filling
the Town Hall with entousiastic crowds and the
music of his ’cello. The world’s leading ’cellist is
a good-looking lad, who really has not the big
mouth that his portraits give him. Whilst he
plays he snakes his front locks over his forehead,
like Madame Darto. He comes here ahead of a
cyclone of European praise, which proclaims
“ there is none like him—no, not one,” so Sydney
will scarcely say, in effect, “ our own ’cellists ha\ e
much longer tails.” When Gerardy was 11 years
old he appeared in trios with Paderewski and
Ysaye. He has a trunk full of diplomas, and, as
Russia, Germany and France have decorated him,
he must have a good show of medals and orders.
Yet he is so modest, he wears none of them. The
instrument he plays is a btradivarius, and cost
£2OOO. In private he is very melancholy, and
pines constantly for his best girl, who is
beautiful and lives in America. But then Gerardy
is oidy twenty-two.
Miss Olive Kingston, the soprano who sings at
the Gerardy Concerts, is a Marchesi pupil, bhe is
a tall, slender, oval-faced olive-complexioned girl
(it’s not often a girl grows up to fit her name so
acculately) with great ruffles of dark hair round
her head and ears and throat. Her first public
appearance was at Melb. Town Hall—she is a
M-jib. girl—with Gerardy, where she got as good
a reception as she had here on the great ’cellist’s
opening night. The pink silk gown coveied with
silver embroidery which Miss Kingston sometimes
wears on the platform is a Paris frock. It is a
glittering gown but accentuates the sombre
coloring of her face and of the great web of hair in
which she wears no ornament. She ought to carry
the effect of glitter right up to her top knot, then
the audience wouldn’t be worried by a too obvious
bright bo ly and nebulous head.
And now it has struck people that the Barton
box was not manufactured for its recipient. That
is proved by the three feathers on the lid. The
Duke had no right to the badge, and the man who
once had the right now sports an Imperial Crown.
Hence it appears that the Box and other feathered
gifts are some of Albert Edward’s old stock, given
to his son to be worked off on the Australian tour.
Still the old principle—anything’s good enough
for the Colonies !
Prince Alfred Hospital is going to raise funds
by means of a Bruce auction. You give some
article which you don’t recly need —be it a grand
piano, or a tin of kippered herrings, a cottage, or
a bundle of unpublished poems. When a great
number of people have given something they
don't yearn to keep, a big auction thereof will be
Held in Sept, for the charity. All the people
who give something they don’t need will presum-
ably be at the auction to buy the thing some-
one else doe n’t need. The instinct to get some-
thing in return for your cash lies deep as original
sin in the human heart.
Mr Abraham Cohen, late of Tamworth, the
father-in-law of baronet Samuel, has just died
in London ; and it is presumed that the baronetcy,
which was poor, will now be fairly endowed. The
veteran N.S.W. Agent-General, father of the
present baronet, was twice m irried, first to Miss
Levien of Geelong, an aunt of Mrs. Felix Levien
and of Mrs. Forbes Angus, and later to Miss
Isaacs of Auckland. His first wife left several
children. Louis, the son who would have got the
title had he lived, was married to a sister of the
Miss Fowler who is engaged to Dr. Ralph
Worrail, of Sydney. Old Saul Samuel’s widow
lives in London with her one offspring, Randolph.
Whatever the veteran had he left to them.
The present baronet was a stock-broker here when
he married Miss Rae Cohen, of Tamworth. They
were on their way from Australia to visit her
father when he died.
Mr. “ Willie ” Beattie, the best of the singing
clerks in “Florodora,” leaves for London this
week. He takes with him (along with a host of
good wishes) a three-act drama of the time of
Marie Antoinette. “Madame Millefleurs” it is
named. Local good judges who have read it §>ro-
phesy its acceptance in London.
Miss Iva Muriel King, who was married, a few
weeks ago, to Mr. R. A. Mackenzie, of Glades-
ville, has, for an Australian, a long, long pedigree.
Governor King, w T ho ruled in the days of the
System, was her direct forbear. She is a grand-
daughter of the Hon. Philip King, M.L.C. Miss
Annie Dulhuuty, of Bathurst, lately married to
Mr. George Sutherland, of Gowan Station, has
also a snap of “descent,” being a great-grand-
daughter of Col. Gibbs, who was Collector of
Customs in the time of Gov. Gipps.
Mrs. Spencer Brunton and Mrs. Boeson have
called a meeting of friends of Mrs. Fred. Aronson
for this (Thursday) afternoon, at 3 o’clock, at the
Hotel Australia, to make arrangements for giving
her a “ farewell ” and address. Mrs. Aronson,
who, with her husband and two children, is leaving
Sydney to settle in Melbourne, was for some years
editress of the Woman’s Department of Sydney
Mail.
Centennial Tennis Club will hold its annual
dance at Leigh House on Thursday, 25th July.
Dancing from Bto 1, and tickets ss. Hon. Secs,
are Messrs. J. A. Preshaw and C. A. Moore.
Palace Theatre is taken for to-night, Thursday,
by the University Dramatic Club, which produces
“She Stoops to Conquer,” and for to-morrow
(Friday) night by Sydney Comedy Club, which
plays “School.”
From Brisbane I hear that at the Yacht Club
ball southern girls were well to the fore. No one
has had a letter from Lady Lainington yet, and
lucky will be she who first finds favor ; or will the
discreet ex-Governoress write to all and post on
the same day ?
A friend who trapsed around Duking at Rotorua
writes me that the Duchess was attended by
Sophia, the well-known old Maori guide, but the
other guide, young, good-looking Maggie Papa-
kura, annexed the Duke, who brightened up im-
mensely as she ogled and flirted with him. “Her
hair was beautifully dressed with huia feathers, a
fine mat was around her tall, straight figure,
leaving her shoulders bare. She carried a green-
stone mere in her hand, but the tout en-
semble was spoilt by Maggie sporting a
pair of fashionable high-leg buttoned kid
boots. Honors were divided between Maggie and
Sophia. Maggie had the Duke, the boots and
youth on her side; Sophia, old and wizened, but
interesting as the heroine of the dreadful eruption
of Tarawera years ago, had been surreptitiously
taught the’real Court curtsey before the Duchess
arrived that day, by a lady who was staying at
the Geyser Hotel (of which institution Sophia is
one of the features), and Sophia made the curtsey
to the Duchess, and looked tomahawks at Maggie,
who knew it not, and felt that, despite the kid
boots, she had ‘gone one better’ than her young
rival.
“ We all stood round while the Wairoa Geyser,
the big gun of the place, was soaped, to make it
play. Two bars of soap were Hung down its boil-
ing throat. It objected to the emetic, and in two
minutes a magnificent column of boiling water
and steam sprang a hundred feet into the air,
making us all—Dukes and Duchesses, Ministers,
journalists, and private secretaries—scurry to a
safe distance. Pohutu, the other big geyser, had
been playing splendidly before the Royal Party
arrived, but, in spite of a dose of soap, it refused
to perform, and sulked all the time we were
there.”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Lord Hopetoun has broken down, as it was
expected that he would. The responsibility of
looking after poor little George, and the fears
concerning the terrible things that might happen,
have smashed his nervous system—only tem-
porarily, let us hope. Nobody is allowed to
see him at Government House except Premier
Barton. A passing glimpse of the poor
man in the garden at Government House shows
him frail, drooping, hollow-cheeked, dull-eyed
he has just shaken off a Royal nightmare. But
the Countess —her troubles about worries ! She
should have been the man of the family; in-
deed, she is. Her Sexellency, the Governess-
General, ought to be the dashing lady’s title.
“ The vice regal l op without ti e Ruby, just now
(so Col. Campbell told inquirers) laid up with
influenza, and the lesser lustre of sister Leslie,
who is away North at present, was wanting in
interest. The hostess of Rupertsvvood was missed,
too, from the gathering; the rest of the Clarkes
were there in force, especially the Dowager who
danced like a juvenile. Her white satin gown
was a marvel of the sartorial art; it had grand
layings-on of black lace cobwebs, and walls of lilac
on each shoulder, diamonds everywhere. A Lon-
don lady was the most conspicuous object at that
official hop. Site is quite six feet tall, with thin
features, and small piercing eyes; she wore a
superb gown of moonlight spangled stuff, and pro-
menaded the room with majestic strides, her train
flowing out yards behind her, a tall lorgnette
raised to those singular eyes of hers. One has
seen the strut in the fashionable show-rooms of
Worth or some other big dress-architect. Another
Londoner, Mrs. Nigel Balfour, a guest of
S’Rupert’s wife, was as dainty as a bit of Dresden
in shell-pink silk with black lace fixings. Miss
Duret, of the beautiful scarlet mouth and hour-
glass figure, showed her native taste in choosing
shrimp-pink satin severely made. Mrs. Percy
Chirnside flourished the diamonds of the night.
Across her black satin bodice, she wore a thick
constellation of big diamond stars —a window-full
of the best of her stock.
“ The wife of a military officer wore a tricky
creation in black and white, and had a colossal
mounting of millinery shavings on her prema-
turely grey head.
“ Out of a bunch of debuting girls, Miss Nora
Power (daughter of the sporting Herbert) had
strong claims to prettiness. As had also Miss
Elaine Molesworth (daughter of the sporting
Judge), and a daughter of Alfred Deakin—who
ventured into the world about which her parents
have cared so little. Col. Campbell pioneered a
‘coming-out’ set, and gave a military partner
to each member of the Lily-of-the- Valley series.
“At Flemington on Wednesday, despite the
wet, gloom and cold, Sassiety turned out in
droves. A new pen had appeared, like a thief
in the night, beside the old one, and blue-and-
sulphur decorations specified its object. There
the Gov.-General’s party and a fraction of the
Duke’s suite sat in state, and in the other one—the
old, shabby, over-shadowed one—the local vice-
regalities quietly and in a very humble spirit took
their gruel. ‘ For a little while,’ as the Scripture
saith, ‘you shall see me, and again, in a little
while, you shall not see me,’ and thus it is with
the small Excellency.
“ The Countess of Hopetoun, positively bright
in manner, and amiable in chat, sat with the
magnificent Viscount Crichton (of the Family
Herald figure, flaxen moustache, and single-eye-
pane), the Duke of Roxburghe, and others less
considerable, or accompanied them in thin high-
heeled shoes through all the slush of the betting
Bedlam to the bird-cage. An Eton costume of
serviceable grey and mountings of stitched white
bands, and a toque of tartan in violet tones, with
a thick border of the flower of all modesty, was
the brightest rig-out Melbourne has yet seen the
Countess clothed in. Both Mrs. Derek Keppel and
Mrs. Philson wore black; and Mrs. Corbet, the
only other woman of the party, was large, lacy,
rollicking in black and festive blue.
“The magnificent Viscount was putting in a
good time, getting home on favorites, and punch-
ing the Pnysician-extraordinary of the party in
the ribs. Sometimes the lengthy Adonis skipped
down the Terrace, sometimes hooked the heavy
Duke of Roxburghe’s arm and stepped out like a
show Guardsman, and whatever way he went
proved a fellow of fooling and youthful larks.
This dispelled some of the romantic fire the
Viscount’s dignified and imposing presence at the
State ceremonies had lighted in undraped bosoms.
The Viscount, off the Royal chain, takes the air
of freedom like an overgrown terrier.
“On Wednesday ‘Gor Save’ was the signal
for the Gov. General’s contingent to set off. They
took their time, too, in leaving. After them, the
Maddens moved away, hundreds assembling at the
end of the Terrace to see the style of things as
they are done now. Pilot Croker saw the three
carriages of the big party put off first, and then
returned to do the honors for the smaller craft.
Corinthian Croker’s lawyer wit never deserts
him.
“Poor ‘Pagliacci,’ all passion and pathos, fell
upon miserable weather in Melbourne, and in con-
sequence, suffered further chill from public
neglect. It would take a woman all her time to
drag fireside smoke-oh man to Italian Opera these
nights, and just now the average she, conscious
of chapped lips and ehilblained ears, condemns
frivolity, basks in the bonny, blithe blink o’ ‘her
ain fireside,’ and poses self-righteously as aeon-
firmed home-comfort.
“T’other night when Lady Hopetoun, Mrs.
Derek Keppel, a Duke and a Viscount, sampled
‘Pagliacci’ they began the evening in the right-
hand box. Half-a-minute in that cave of winds
and the Governor-Generaless was gently massaging
her nose-tip, while her lady-friend hugged herself
in her wraps. Lord What’s-his-name turned up
his collar, and the other title-wearer chased
an usher to say that satiated with sport
(after their day at Flemington) they were
in no mood for a draught-tournament.
Then a rescue-party piloted the shakers to the
opposite box—a bad spot for seeing, and seemingly
none, too snug, for the Duke (Roxburghe) con-
tinued to bail-up attendants with complaints
against intrusive breezes.
“Lady Hopetoun, in flung-open black pelisse
and trailing skirt, was impressive walking round
the d.c., but black, absorbing as it does much of
the wearer’s color, makes the dark Countess look
worn and sombre.
“Coiffure novelties get little support from
Britain’s best, who differ in this respect from
Australia’s Naicest. Lady Hopetoun’s black hair,
arranged exactly as it was eight years ago, coils
simply at the back, just where the head starts
down-hill. Her fringe is quiet-going, her side-
tresses only slightly waved and scarcely puffed-
out at all.
“ The funny-man of Lady Hopetoun’s opera-
party laughed at lots of things, amongst others at
Marcomini for looking so fat as Lola, the Caval-
leria coquette. Not that Lola’s plumpness is out
of the picture. The former belle of the village is
now a young matron, a teamster’s wife with little
to do, apparently, but flirt and fatten; besides,
Lola is meant to be very winsome and fascinating,
so according to Bulletin creed, she’s sure to be
stoutish.
“ Lady Hopetoun still clings to her old custom
of anxiously fluttering the leaves of her pro-
gramme in search of clues to the conundrum of
Italian opera. The other night one of her guests
came to the rescue, but as he started to read
through his single eye-glass from the very be-
ginning of the book, the titled slow-coach was
always miles behind current stage-situations.
“Hard luck that 4 Pagliacci ’ and ‘Cavalleria*
were handicapped by the fog-fiend, for the short,
sharp sentiment and music, alternately fierce and
frivolous, of these modem Italians, just about hits
Australian taste, given favorable conditions.
Said strenuous operas, less stilted and stagey than
compatriot predecessors, are not so figurative and
metaphysical as German musical allegory. Re
Wagner, was there ever such a tea-and-bun
‘atmosphere’ for moral tragedy as that Tann-
hauser hall of song ?
“Harrie Ireland, bad angel of Bland Holt’s
current production, gets into a close-clinging all-
black evening gown, which shows up her tall,
slight figure as own cousin to a whipping-post.
Quite a relief when the wearer veils her narrow-
ness with a long cloak of white brocade, flounced
with black lace. Later, this stage syren looks
plumper and, consequently, more dangerous in
fluffy amber. Yellow goes well with the Ireland’s
ruddy hair, the blend suggesting autumn-tinted
foliage. f
“The robbery of tenor Larizza’s diamond rings
and tilings from his bedroom seems to be num-
bered with the felonies that fade away into silence
after making one appearance in print. Signor
Larizza, whose titular prefix, Cornmendatore,
sounds more nautical than musical, lodges in
Drummond-street, Carlton, and has a valet person
to prepare liis meats and maccaronis for him. The
other Italian Opera people are mostly quartered
at Drummond-street boarding-houses, where they
enjoy the use of the kitchen for their own private
cookery purposes. Buxom Signora Benedetto is
blessed with a husband —a pleasant, little fair
man. Signorina Marcomini is said to be a genuine
spinster, and a much younger spinster than she
looks on the stage. Neither Larizza nor the other
tenor Dani can speak two sentences of English,
but the Cornmendatore, at any rate, has been
heard to say ‘ I lofe you ! ’ to a pretty girl over
a garden gate. With that limited knowledge of
the language a foreign tenor can get along nicely.
“If a recent letter published in the Argus
states all the facts of the case it is evident that
Archbishop Carr has not undertaken to start a
real Foundling Hospital for Victoria. The letter
aforesaid, written by the hon. sec. of a Melbourne
‘home’ for convalescent spinster mothers, com-
plains that the Foundling Hospital will be closed
to the ‘sinner’ whose unlawful infant is a second
offence (or upwards) against the law of Mrs.
Grundy. But it is hard to believe that the R. C.
Archbishop thinks of shutting the new hospital’s
gates against the unmarried parent of a number 2,
3or 4 baby. Even the Women’s Hospital gives
bed and board to the ‘hardened minx,’ though the
Dianas of the committee say, in a snortful tone,
that the unwed mother of a frequent family is
‘ coming it pretty strong.’
“Queen Victoria Hospital, the one that is run
by women for women, managed to get £1450 out
of the York grovel. Subscript ons for the
‘ Duchess’s Welcome,’ or whatever they called it,
amounted to £1550, and the exes, didn’t absorb
more than 7 per cent, of the gross—a trium >h of
economy considering that an illuminated address
was a first charge on receipts. The address of
welcome cost £5O, but, as a set-off against this
gorgeous foolishness, the committee limited the
other exes, to £G(>, including a payment of £24 to
their lady secretary. The determination to waste
no money on anybody but the Duchess was truly
feminine in its earnestness.
“An attractive feature ahead is the Melb. Dis-
trict Nursing Society Ball, to happen in Prahran
Town Hall, Wednesday, Aug. 7. A fashionable
committee, which includes Mrs. Simon Fraser and
Colonel Campbell, is working hard to make the
function a success. Their Excellencies, Major
and Minor, with their respective followings, are
booked to attend.
“The Melbourne University medical students
made ‘a night of it’ last Wednesday. They
attended the performance of the comedy ‘ Nurse,’
and afterwards painted the town red. They made
so mucli noise in the theatre that the rest of the
audience could hear nothing, and Miss Maynard,
from the stage, had to appeal ineffectually for
order. Numbers of them were semi-drunk, and
many of them thought it manly to pretend to be.
Writer saw four fights in the streets, and one at
the railway station.
“ Saturday’s show at the Albert-street galleries
was quite a sociable and chatty afternoon for
artists and their appreciative friends. Painters
and sitters prowled around arm-in-arm, studying
the result of their mutual labor with grinning
satisfaction. Sassiety was either at Flemington,
or nursing its influenza in Toorak mansions.
There could be no sales, however, for it would
have been a gross slander on most of the visitors to
credit them with a stray sixpence to buy anything.
There wasn’t a costly rag in the room, though
Mrs. Tom Roberts looked happy and successful in a
cherry-red pongee, and Mrs. McCubbin brewed tea
in a cheerful velvet art gown, also red.
Yours affectionately,
AKENHI.
The latest device for swindling the gentle
consumer is a German-invented contrivance by
which churned milk can be pressed into butter, so
as to increase the weight by about 25 per cent.,
without altering the appearance of the article.
Sundry London providers have been smartly fined
for selling butter thus “faked.”


Citizens Cifejssuranee Company [imited.
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
POLICIES IN’ FORCE EXCEED 216,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Absolute Security.
Moore and Castlcreagk Streets,
Sydney.
Annual Bonuses
Resident Secketary,
W, J. BLOOMFIELD, Is.A , L.L.B.
m EXCELLENCY THE EARL OF HOPETOUN
lias A PPOIXTKD Mr. JT. A.. WILKINSOW
OF TUB
COOLALTA WINES
(Okkiceh— 374 Gkorgk Struct, Sydney)
H3S WINE MERCHANT.
H R H the DUKE of CORNWALL and YORK, per his A.D.C. Lord Crichton writes from New Zealand to
say “the Coolalta Wines supplied to H.M.S. Ophir were very much appreciated.” _
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Federal Treasurer Turner is a member of
more Friendly and other such societies than any
other of his Commonwealth associates.
Legislative duplicates. In N.S.W. Leg.
Assembly there are two Campbells, two Clarks,
two Fitzpatricks, two Griffiths, two Halls, two
Hurleys, two O’Connors, three Smiths, and two
Storeys.
During the Royal visit to Maoriland,
Digger Dick’s cocked hat was mostly received in
gloomy silence along the railway-lines. But one
lumper loudly protested : “ Take it off ! Don’t
you belong to us ? ”
Touching eloquence of a Sydney suburban
mayor when returning thanks at a local trades-
man’s club shivoo :— -I’ I have lived in this suburb
for 23 years, and every night, as I return from my
business in town, I feel, as I cross its boundaries,
that I am coming ’Qme /”
Mayor Graham continues to be astonished
at the refusal of the electors to return him to
Parliament. Dr. Graham would probably have
been elected—Graham, knight, was rejected.
The Democracy has its instincts.
Both Sydney morning papers last week
committed the same act of almost blasphemy. In
reporting the evidence of Mr. Frederic Lassetter
before Vic. Factories and Shops Commission they
spelt the old gentleman’s name with a “k.”
Apropos the reminiscences upon which
Dean Cowper, of Sydney, now in his 92nd year,
is said to be engaged : YVhat has become, or is to
become, of the partially-written reminiscences of
the late N.S.YY 7 ". C.iief-Justice Alfred Stephen?
A veritable link with the past “ went
over ” the other day when Edgar Cox died, aged
80 years. He was the seventh son of paymaster
Cox of the 102ud Regt., founder of the Cox
families of the Hawkesbury, Mulgoa and Mudgee,
Jean Gerardy, the ’cellist, now tickling
his £2OOO Strad in Australia, was once kissed by
the late Queen Victoria. The Belgian was, of
course, a small boy then, and he now only points
out to very nice girls indeed the exact spot where
the royal lips rested.
The twenty-third anniversary of the death
of John Dunmore Lang, political, religious and
social tribune, is at hand. He died in Aug., 1878.
He was one of the fathers of Federation, but
wanted Federation to go hand-in-hand with Sepa-
ration from England.
Q. Senator “ Bill ” Higgs was editor of
Brisbane Worker ere he got into the State Par-
liament, and thence to the Senate. His successor,
dapper Francis Kenna (ex-telegraph official, and
well-known as a Bulletin b:«G), now edits the
Q. Labor journal, and will also probably “have a
dash ” shortly.
IN TOPHET.—A SAD MEETING.
NEWCOMERUS : “Good gracious! My long-lost Maria!”
T’other evening G. H. Reid went down to
Moonee Ponds (Vic.) to preach a speech on *‘The
Political Situation” for no discoverable reason,
George told the audience that he had once lived
at Moonee Ponds, but he left it 43 years ago—
whereupon an old inhabitant promptly proposed a
vote of thanks to the speaker.
apropos the haste with which the Sydney
DT people pulled down their election-notice
platform after the State elections had gone so
emphatically against them. Minister Crick (loq.):
Quite right ! Why leave the scaffold standing
after the execution Its the 4th of July anyhow,
and cocktails aie as n • _
William Small, of Ryde, xs.o.W., is one
of the oldest natives of the State. He is 94 years
of age, and has lived in the same locality all his
life, and for 60 years in thq house he now oecu-
pies. His 10 children but one are settled at Ryde.
On one occasion he went outside Sydney Heads,
but that has been the limit of his travels.
It has come at last !—a roval joke. At
the bie Dunedin show the Commissioners asked
York to name a huge cheese “ the Duke.” He
hesitated, and finally said, “ Better call it ‘Sed-
don ’ —it’s more up to his weight.” But Seddon
said, “No”—he wasn’t high and mitey enough to
godfather a seasoned cheese. Ha-ha-ha !
Chief Justice S. J. Way, Bart., caused or
allowed to be floated across Rundle-st., Adelaide,
a banner bearing on each side this modest and
characteristic inscription : “Chief Justice Way,
on behalf of his fellow-citizens and himself, bids
their Royal Highnesses a Loyal and Hearty
Welcome.” But why “his fellow-citizens ?
Also, why mention them before “Himself” ?
Mark the army of very young men who are
trooping into N.S.W. Parliament: D. R. Hall,
27 ; Daniel Levy, 28 ; A. E. Chapman, 29 ; W. D.
MTntyre, 32; Gilbert, 33; Collins, ditto ; Daley,
29; Storey, 32; Morton, 34. The Labontes
haven’t got a barrister in their ranks yet; but,
besides Holman and Hughes (now M.H.R.), Hall
and Daley are reading for the bar, and Hall is
nearly there.
The announcement that Gov.-Gen. Hope-
toun is engaged in a three weeks’ effort to get
back the health which he lost on his last voyage
to Australia, recalls the story concerning the
birth of his fragile but plucky lordship. Hope-
toun, it is said, came into the world by one of the
most successful Caesarean operations that surgical
history records. In an ordinary way of speaking
he was never born at all.
The “ my learned friend ” gag, as prac-
tised by the lawyers of the Eederal Parliament,
has reached the “sickenin’” stage. Now, re the
supposed “ learned ness ” of the lawyer. A few
years ago some 50 or 60 candidates went up for a
police-magistrateship exam, in -Sydney. These
were nearly all lawyers, with a few C’s. P.S. and
two school-teachers. Out of the 12 who passed
only two were lawyers —the two dominies being
placed 4th and sth.
A certain democrat plays up the old game
in Melbourne He tells all and sundry that he
has no dress-suit, but he gets “there’’all the same.
He even managed to shake the Duke’s hand, tell-
ing while doing so that he had not a dress-suit.
He also introduced his daughters to the Duke,
and likely repeated that he had not a dress suit.
When the philosopher in rags reproached Plato
for his decent attire, Plato replied, “I see your
vanity through the holes in your coat.”
N.S.W. ex-Speaker Abbott condoles with
Mayor Graham, of Sydney, on the latter’s defeat
for Belmore division in the State Parliament, and
remarks: “It is quite in keeping with political
gratitude in New South Wales.” Now, it is im-
possible for any mail to be simultaneously Mayor
of Sydney, M.P., University lecturer, and medical
practitioner, and yet discharge all those functions
satisfactorily. Dr. Graham, shorn of his M.L.A.-
ship, is left with far more than enough to do.
E.C.” : from London to The Bulletin :
Went to Donald Macdonald’s war-lecture. Poor attend-
ance, mainly of Australians and Anglo-Australians.
There is a sort of press boj'cott on Mac. here, because of
a lecture poster showing him before and after the siege of
Ladysmith. This seems to have annoyed the war
journalists, and the fact that a cheap eating-house dis-
plays an ad. on the same lines figures in several of the
press notices he received. The success of the uncon-
ventional “ Smiler ” Hales has not contributed to the
popularity of Australian journalists in the D.0.M.0.
“ Firenza ” : When Bill
the Smelter (late W. H. Os-
mand, Vie. M.L.C.), was in
Florence some years ago with a
party of Australian shipmates,
he had a bad quarter of an
hour. The Italians use the
leaves of some wild plant as
garnishing for oysters in the
shell. The party was late for
dinner at the hotel one even-
ing, and the oysters were gone.
Bill said the leaves referred to
were put on the table as salad,
that he knew all about Italian
salads, and that he intended to
hive some. His friends had
doubts. Bill questioned one of
the waiters, who didn’t know
in the least what the question
was, but bowed out of natural
politeness. Bill helped himself
freely, and had made great
progress, when another waiter
rushed up and snatched his
plate way, .saying the contents
were poison. The consequences
were disastrous ; they need not
be particularised. There was a
waiter who had suddenly dis-
appeared from the room, and
there was a man with a very
pale face remaining in it who
was thirsting for that waiter’s
blood.
One Hamilton, of Tiratu
(M.L.), claims that 30 years ago
lie bought from the Maoris all
the land from Takapu to Mana-
watu Gorge—about 500,000 acres
—for 2s. per acre ;he produces
the deeds and insists that
the •'deal was bona-fide. His
anxiety to gain possession of his estate is quick-
ened by the fact that the land is all now closely
settled and of great value. It includes several
flourishing townships, in which land is selling'at
£3O per foot. Hamilton’s claim recalls a greater
one made long ago by an American whaler named
Webster, who declared that he bought all Maori-
land from its “ original possessors.” Webster’s
pretensions were, however, never taken seriously,
though he several times attempted to enforce
them.
That brainy and industrious lawyer, Louis
Horwitz, of Hamilton (Vic.), is a sticker. He
stood for Portland electorate in Vic. Legislative
Assembly at general election last year and was
beaten by Ewan Cameron (one of the 17 “traitors”).
Next wooed the Wannon seat at elections for
House of Reps. Samuel Winter Cooke was
elected by over 1000 majority; Horwitz and
Cussen dead-heated for second place. Now he has
just returned from unsuccessfully contesting S. W.
Cooke’s vacated seat in Leg. Council. The
electors of Western Vic. have spent a lot ot time
lately in crossing “ Louis Horwitz” off ballot-
papers.
Chief Justice Way and Senator Symon, of
the shiny bald head, are by no means “ cousins ”
now. The coolness is not paraded, but it is
there all the time. Symon originally had a
small practice in the south-east, but Way,
recognising his ability, brought him up to
Adelaide and took him into partnership.
They worked up a splendid business, and
then Symon started on a trip to Eng-
land. He had no sooner got aboard
the steamer than Way snavelled the post
of Chief Justice. As it is contrary to the
etiquette of the profession for a lawyer
to sell his practice when elevated to the
bench, it looked as if the fine business
of Way and Symon would go to the dogs.
Way, however, wired to Symon at
Ceylon to return at once to Adelaide.
He did, and it is claimed by Way’s
friends that therefore Symon owes all
he has to the “ little Chief.” Symon
thinks otherwise, though exactly how
Symon thinks isn’t really known. Any-
how, a rare and beautiful feud exists
between the pair.
Related of Cardinal Vaughan, of
Salford, that when his nephew defended
his (the nephew’s) attendance all night at
a wedding-party by saying that “ our Lord
attended one,” the Cardinal replied that
“it wasn’t the best thing our Lord did !”
The Bulletin’s London correspondent:—
Some pars from antipods abroad. A tripping “booky’
is knocking the mildew off Englishers he meets by his
contemptuous comparisons of things here and “ out in
Australia.” A Bond-st. clothes-chopper so shrivelled up
under Barney Allen’s compliments when returning three
rough-hewn suits “made to measure” that his collar
fell round his ankles and hobbled him. Donald
M‘Donald wouldn’t give a Cape Leeuwin shell-fish
for four Londons and two Windsor Castles. On the
other hand, Louise Mack is absorbed with London’s mys-
terious fascination and struck a payable lead with a pro-
minent magazine a few days after sighting the white
cliffs.
Australians and quasi-Australians in Lon-
don : Last mail reports Phil May recovering from
pleurisy; Patchett Martin seriously ill with
dropsy. For the other side: Florence Schmidt,
concerting at a good salary, has great hopes of
Covent Garden and Grand Opera; Louise Mack
is beginning work with the best prospects; Syd-
ney painter Joe Wolinski, whose “After Life’s
Fitful Fever ” was purchased for N.S. W. Gallery,
has found a patron for his music as well as for his
art, and is in high feather.
YV. G. Brookman, of Perth, W.A. (who
had promised to provide refreshments for the
invitees to the local Royal reception), has written
to the citizens’ committee: —
Having resigned my position as Mayor, I do not intend
subscribing to any funds in connection with the citizens’
reception to the Duke and Duchess.
Brookman was absolutely harried out of a position
for which he was not too well fitted, anyhow.
But he has his revenge : “No more hallelujah, no
more rum.”
It was said before Glebe (N.S.VV.) Court,
when Harry M‘Connell proceeded against R. E.
Wilkins for challenging him to a duel, that such a
prosecution was the first in 98 years. Not correct.
In 1844 Henry M‘Dermott, a Sydney alderman,
challenged Robert Lowe (the late Lord Sher-
brooke) to a duel in Sydney, whereon Lowe had
the alderman promptly bound over. In the Bur-
wood case, tried at Glebe court, it was stated that
Wilkins, with his second, actually went to the
proposed meeting-place, but his opponent did not
turn up.
Thomas Farnell, who,died the other day
at Ryde (N.S.W.), wasbrotherof the late N.S.W.
Premier, James Squire Farnell. The Farnells,
going back a generation farther, have seen the
beginning and end of many families and Govern-
ments in N.S.W. When J. S. Farnell first
became Minister of the Crown he was surrounded
by a Cabinet of robust men. All these are dead
except one—R. P. Abbott. All who were Minis-
ters when he entered Parliament are dead. The
Cabinet over which he presided as Premier, how-
ever, holds several of its faces still to the sun—
Supreme Court Justice Cohen, ex-Justice Foster,
J. F. Burns and W. H. Suttor. Of these Cohen
and Burns are still workers, but out of political
harness.
About murdered missionary Chalmers :
The Chalmers massacre has, of- course, been published
in various ways all over the civilised world, and probably
is just about the best advt. that missionaryism has got
for years. “ The blood of the martyrs is the seed of the
church” —the subscriptions flow in when it flows out.
Various personal considerations connected with “ Ta-
in.ite’s” exit are being much preached upon just now.
Just before last Xmas Mrs. Chalmers took ill and died.
Out of her own private monej' she bought a new whale-
boat and presented it to her husband. Granted that it
was her last bequest. Granted that the veteran mission-
ary himself onlj r used that boat once —on the occasion
when his head was cut off by cannibals. Granted that
his young coadjutor died with him. Granted that his
pet dog was shot by a Govt, officer in mistake for a dingo
at the Mission head-quarters. What does it all come to?
The man’s time had come ; that’s all. Old man Chalmers
was a Man as well as a missionary. There was no cant
about him. He would take his whisky with you and tell
a spicy yarn as well ; but if ever he was called upon to
do a service for a human being (colored or white, it was
all the same to him) he was there, and then the Christian
showed beyond the man.
It.C. military chaplain Timoney’s story of
the young Boer, cut almost to pieces by British
bayonets after he had been fatally shot, recalls a
similar yarn told by Melb. Herald correspondent
Reay, on his return from S'Africa. Reay stated
that, after the shooting of Age reporter Lambie,
he went out under flag of truce to the Boer camp.
He was met by the enemy’s scouts, blindfolded,
and led by tortuous paths into the presence of
General de la Rey, who was standing over the
body of a dead man, who had been hacked out of
recognition by the British. “Is this the way you
English make war ? ” asked the Boer commandant.
Reay at once hastened to explain that it was im-
HE KNEW.
PLAYWRIGHT: “ How do you like my new play?”
ACTOR: “ Too many acts.”
PLAYWRIGHT: “ Why, there’s only one!”
ACTOR: “ Yes, I know that.”
possible to answer for the humanity of every oik
of 100,000 men. De la Rey was silent awhile,
and, filled with stories of Boer treachery, Reay
began to think his own shooting was contemplated
as a reprisal. The delay, however, was merely
due to the search for the belongings of the dead
pressman, and, having been given these, Reay was
escorted back to his lines without molestation.
Deceased Melb. lawyer M‘Kean had once
the best law-library in Victoria, though he was
not an erudite lawyer himself. He attended all ■
local law-literary-sales, and generally secured the
choicest books in t'.ie catalogue. The late attorney
M‘Gregor, of the firm of McGregor, Ramsay, and
Brahe, was also a collector, and after his death
M‘Kean bought the bulk of his valuable library.
A dead-beat strolled into Melbourne Insol-
vency Court one day and, addressing a reporter
as “ Dear chappie ! ” requested the loan of a pen.
He was so insinuating in manner that he was soon
supplied with writing materials. “ What’s .the
Judge’s Christian name, old mail?” he asked.
They told him, and he wrote this little note :
“Dear Hickman, can you lend me five shil-
lings?”—folded it daintily and forwarded it
to his Honor by the court messenger. When
Hickman Molesworth J,, read the letter, he
looked puzzled to begin with, then gradu-
ally grew red and angry and fixed his eye
threateningly on the reporters. The messen-
ger, summoned to his Honor’s side for a whispered
confab, designated the real writer, at whom his
Honor gazed ponderingly for some time as if to
make certain his correspondent wasn’t a rich
relation in disguise or sich. When he had con-
vinced himself that there was nothing of the angel
unawares in the stranger’s appearance, the Judge
smiled genially, but slowly shook his head. Poor
Dead-Beat got up, bowed politely and left the
court.
“ Been There ” writes about C. Hudson,
lately selected as general-manager of the Tas-
manian railways:—
Tasmania’s new railway-boss was for many years in
M.L. railway service as auditor, (list, manager, and finally
assistant general-manager. His promotion was rapid,
partly through influence, partly through ability. He has
had Seddon’s right ear for many fruit seasons—in fact, he
has had it so much that it began to be doubtful which of
them the ear belonged to. Hudson is rather under
medium height, wears red, closely-trimmed heard and
moustache, and has perched on a somewhat tilted nose a
pair of gold-rimmed specs. His appearance is aggressive,
and his manner likewise. The present M.L. Railway
Classification Act is largely his work. It is a most un-
satisfactory measure (for the officers particularly) as
Hudson managed to insert so many “ hedging ” regula-
tions that the management can justify any appointment
it wishes to make, in face of the printed list (D 3) showing
division, sub-class, grade, status, salary, order of pro-
motion, &e., of each officer and wages man, which has to
be placed before Parliament with the railway estimates.
The management (through Hudson’s efforts) had reserved
to itself the right to ignore or vary the order of pro-
motion to practically any extent. Maoriland railway staff
has already adjourned bodily to the nearest pub to drink
fervently to the prayer that his vine and fig tree may take
permanent root in Tasmania. Hudson is » smart man all
the same.
N.S.W. general elections were responsible
for this masterly exposition of policy—from the
inevitable alderman: —
To the Electors. —Doubtless some of you will be won-
dering what has become of me—Old Gilliver. If so, the
fact is, after addressing a few meetings, I find myself in
my old friend Dr. Traill’s hands for repairs. Trouble—a
real beauty of a cold. He says it’s imperative I keep in-
doors at nighttime. The alternative, a ride to Rookwood.
That being so, I have no alternative other than address
you through the medium of the press. First, I would ask
you to support me as a solid man of the world, who is not
seeking Parliament as a means of livelihood. 1 claim to
be the only candidate in sympathy and touch with the
electors. Some candidates talk a lot of tarra-diddle to
you during election time. Do they know you when they
get there ?
I must appeal to you to accept or reject me on your
knowledge of me during the past, in my capacity as one
of the largest employers of labor in the State.
I again wish to say I am a Liberal, and if elected it will
afford me the greatest pleasure in assisting to oust the
party now in power, for usurping behind the backs of the
people the powers of a Czar, and scattering broadcast the
contents of a more than well filled Treasury chest.
See ad. to follow. Meanwhile, jours truly,
Wm. Gilliver, Mayor of Rankstown.
And yet letters addressed to Gilliver, M.L. A., at
Parliament House won’t find him ! He still
sneezes as a private citizen at the old address.


for
Colds
SCHNAPPS.
Hot with
Lemon
at
Bedtime.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld
jager.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.—ln the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
A distinctly aboriginal incident helped to
brighten the visit of the Yorks to Rotorua (M.L.).
An old chief stood in front of his tribe elaborately
got up—bare.to the waist, hair dressed in warlike
style with liuia feathers, a kind of flax kilt about
his waist with a drapery of red cloth under it, and
a battle-axe held upright in his hand. Facing the
royalties and the assembled white public he
looked eminently respectable in his draping,
but when he turned his back to the stand a yell
of laughter shook the welkin. The dusky one,
as regards the rear portion of. his anatomy, was
in “ the altogether.” The seat of the mighty (he
weighed about 17st.) was dressed only in a tattoed
inscription. It was a beautiful inscription, and
the great man wasn’t going to hide his family
crest because of any foolish Pakeha prejudice in
favor of clothes all round. The weighty old
warrior was so calmly unconscious of anything
wrong that it was impossible to be really shocked,
so, after a preliminary blush, the great audience
studied the memoranda on the back part of its
fellow-subject with some interest.
* » * *
The Maoris who gathered at Rotorua “ to
see the Duke ” included some hundreds of chiefs
and all these travelled first-class on the railways.
One well-dressed Maori said to the station-master
at Greymouth, “ I go to Rotorua to see te Tuke.”
The s.m. said that was all right; Parata (the
Maori M.H.R.) had left a ticket for him.
“First-class?” asked the Maori. “No, second,”
was the reply. “Oh, too long to sit on te hard
seat,” said the old fellow, “all te rangitira go
first-class. I no go ! ” and he left the station
bursting with indignation.
MAKING IT SOUND LARGE.
BUSH PUBLICAN (to tourist): “ Wot’ll y’ave—
Ram, lamb, sheep, or mutton?”
The Mt. Egmont (M.L.) Mountain House
is some 3000 ft. above saa-level. It is, of course,
abandoned in winter, but the piano, dragged up
there with immense labor, is left behind. During
the first two seasons it was found that the intense
cold of winter snapped the strings. Now, when
the house is closed at the end of summer, the
piano is wrapped in blankets and soldered into its
original zinc case. This keeps the strings from
breaking, though, of course, by next season the
weapon badly wants tuning.
• ♦ • *
Love-making in the bush. Scene, the
dining-room of the “ Travellers’ Rest.” Dave and
Cis discovered, the former sitting at one end and
the latter at the other end of the long table.
Room in partial darkness—one solitary smoky
kerosene-lamp in the middle of the table.
Audience peering in from the billiard-room, bar,
kite l en, passage and other places. Dave (peering
round the lamp): “ D’yer luv me, Cis ? ” Cis
(bashfully): “Yaaaiiis!” Dave: “’Ave yer got
a’art, Cis?” Cis: “Yaaaiiis!” Dave: “Give it
to me then, Cis.” Cis : “ Oh, 1 couldn’t ! ”
Dave : “ But yer got mine, Cis, an’ yer wouldn’t
’ave yer Dave walk up the street without a ’art?
would yer now ? Stryte ? ” Cis (defiantly) :
“ Storp gittin’ at me. If yer luvs me woy don’t
yer mug me ? ” Simultaneous bursts of laughter
from the billiard-room, bar, kitchen, passage and
other places. Lamp put out suddenly. Total
darkness.
♦ * * ♦
“Alpar”: Recently went out ’possum-
shcofing. Shot one, and my two dogs worried it
be) ond recognition. I sat on a log with my gun
(at full-cock) beside me, across the log. After the
banquet the dogs started to fight, and the smaller
one, getting the worst of it, jumped up beside me
for protection, got his foot fast in the trigger-
guard, and discharged the gun, the charge shatter-
ing the other dog’s head. Believe it is the only
case on record of dog shooting dog. Not a “fairy”
either.
• * * •
“ P.X.” : Yes, the Afghan is getting on.
Every camel-train used to have attached a couple
of riding-camels, used by the boss in looking out
for water and feed, and so on. But lately several
of the trains have been equipped with a bicycle
or two; and the riding-beast is turned out to
grass. Of course a bicycle has for a long while
been a serviceable part of many an out-back
teamster’s gear.
*♦* ■ •
“ Malle ” : A recent electioneering ex-
perience. Reached a wayside pub. where I was
advertised to speak at 6 p.m., having to be 10
miles away at 8.30. There were only two men
and the landlord waiting for me, but I decided
that by spouting I might make three missionaries
who would sing my praises through the locality.
The landlord “had to look after the bar, but
would pop in now and again.” One half of the
remaining audience moved the other moiety into
the Chair, and the chairman introduced me with
great solemnity in a 20-minutes speech. I then
spoke for half-an-hour, was accorded a unanimous
vote of confidence, and we adjourned for drinks.
As I was about to drive away, I was warmly
thanked for my effort, “and,” said one, “we’d
both vote for you, mister, only neither of us has
got a right.” I didn’t say anything !
* * * *
“Abdul” : River Darling is now lower
than at any time since the eighties. You can
not only walk across dry-shod, but can walk
dry shod down tlie bed for 200 and 300yds. at a
stretch, both above and below Louth. For long
stretches it is as dry, if not as dusty, as the
Bourke-Wilcannia road —no longer a river, but
just a chain of waterholes. A slight rise reached
Bourke recently, but the weir blocked it there.
» * * *
Frequent sudden deaths of cows in the
mining district round Maldon (Vic.), attributed
to cyanide poisoning, led one man to prospect the
stomach of his late lamented heifer. He found
47 pieces of stone (some 3in. xfiu.), 11 pieces glass,
9 pieces tin (someiin. xljic.), and 13 pieces broken
crockery. Had the animal lived a little longer, it
would presently have laid a tin of condensed milk
every morning.
« • • •
“Perdu”; “J.W.C.” (B. 16/3/1) lias a
rat. I saw this Lachlan country, in ’94, so thick
with rabbits that cne bag of pol-
lard, divided into doses and care-
fully administered, would not
go round the bunnies on any
one sq. mile of country for
many miles. Extermination
of rabbits by pollard can be
approached only (as in times
of drought) when feed is very
scarce. Often pollard is con-
tinuously laid without appre-
ciable result; and 1 do not
think actual extermination,
by pollard alone, is possible
on any large area. If
“J.W.C.” likes, he can have
a fine job in this country
extermining rabbits, at per
sq. mile —no extermination, no
pay. “Scotty” (B. 1/ti/l)
knows what he’s talking about
—t’other cove don’t.
The aboriginals of the
Lower Murray and its tribu-
taries possessed once a race of
professors of languages—men
possessing a remarkable'know-
ledge of the many different
dialects spoken by the numer-
ous tribes in the locality.
They were messengers or
itiuerant human newspapers
from tribe to tribe, each one
delivering his news to one, in an-
other tribe, of the same status or
calling as lnmself. T. ese news-
carriers travelled great distances and
bore certain marks or insignia that pro-
tected them from molestation. The local
linguist would, on receiving the news, relate it to
the assembled tribe, while the traveller was feasted
on whatever the camp afforded.
“ Wer.” : In a late Queenslander there
is a photo, of two leeches, taken from the udder
of a cow, and Stock Inspector C. D. Whitty gives
a precise account of the matter, presumably under
the impression that he has discovered something
new. As a matter of fact, leeches are .commonly
thus found on cows depastured on marshy lands on
the Richmond, N.S.W. On Spring Hill estate,
near Casino, where the cows mostly feed up to their
backs in water in the old racecourse swamp, I
have squirted dead and live leeches out of cows’
teats by the dozen. A little blood mostly comes
with them, not directly from the cow, but forced
from the leech in the tight squeeze getting out.
“6xB” : On the Lachlan (N.S.W.)
Father Drought doesn’t seem to have played up so
severely as we’ve been led to believe. Warroo
station on that river has just finished marking
19,000 or more lambs; an average of 86 per cent.
This is seldom surpassed even in the very best of
seasons. But up Cobar way things are very
different. Booroomugga, which used to shear
fully 60,000 sheep, will, this season, have hardly
3000 to put through. By the way, the A.W.
Union intends demanding the reinstatement of
its own Union agreement this year, so a strike
is pretty sure to ensue. Considering the deplor-
able state of the far-West where the battle will
begin,- the shearers should have a walk-over.
* * « •
Lastyeara storekeeper in Cloncurry (North
Queensland) ordered goods on a four-months’ bill,
which he paid six months before getting the goods.
The team was stuck-up on the road, and all the
horses died.
“ Wat T.” : The indigenous black bee is
becoming scarce in the bush. Moth-grubs destroy
hundreds of
and others
ised by the
drones from
Nearly every
seen has a
yellow strain
colonies yearly,
are hybrid-
I t a 1 i a n
apiaries,
swarm now
touch of the
in it.
CONCLUSIVE EVIDENCE.
MRS. O'RAFFERTY: "Now, look ’ere, Nicko, tell
me stright, are yer intentions serious with
Sal?”
NICKO: "'Struth , yes! What else would I chuck
up me job fer? ”
“Trotter”: Trekked recently through
the pastoral country between Cloncurrv and
Hughenddn (Q.), and found that although there is
now plenty grass and herbage everywhere, there
is no stock to eat it—in fact it will be years before
this country sees prosperity again. The stations
have mostly now no “hands” but a few blacks,
and there will this year be hardly any shearing.
Nelia Ponds station, which had 29,000 sheep, has
now only 900. Hamilton Downs, 93,000, now
15,000 ; Maxwelton, 110,000, now 40,000, and so
on. One pastoralist came up from the South
three years ago and started with 50,000 sheep;
now he can only muster 5000.
• * * •
“ Hagr.un ” : Re horse-sense and vindic-
tiveness. Knew a horse at a tan-yard whose
business was to trot around a ring and keep a
bark-crushing machine moving. Bowler had been
at the game for years, and when knock-off time
was nearing, the old moke used to be on tlie alert
for the word to stop. Sometimes he would pull-
up if anybody approached and only said a word to
the boy driver. Then the boy would curse and
rattle stones on the poor brute’s ribs. “Yer
cow!” he used to say—“l’ll give yer stop \”
One day the boy’s shirt-sleeve caught in the cogs,
and his arm was being drawn into the machine.
He called frantically for Bowler to “whoa,” but
the old fellow turned a deaf ear and bowled on.
It was the pelting arm that was amputated.
Again : At a N.S.W. coastal town an old pub-
lican owned a horse named Jacob. On Sundays,
sailors used to hire “ Jake ” out at a bob an hour,
but I never heard of one keeping him out for five
minutes. The smallest boy in town had only to
shout, “ Up, Jacob ! ” and the neddy would at
once cast himself upwards in the atmosphere and
leave his man in the street, or anywhere. Then
he would return to the stable and be hired again.
* * *
There are still some wild patches left in
Australian life. A few weeks ago a trouble oc-
curred at Coen township (N.Q.), that strikingly
revealed our barbaric fringe. A Coen aboriginal
coveted a gin of the Archer tribe, and put out of
the way two Archer bucks who obstructed him.
On his attempting to stealthily carry off the gin
next day he was detected by some of the Archer
tribe, who pursued him and brought him down,
transfixed with four spears, in the middle of Coen
township. Then civilisation, in the shape of the
local police, arose, secured four of the offending
Archers, and fettered them (hand to leg) to a con-
venient tree. Next morning, the Archers had
levanted and .a black tracker who had evidently
released them, had disappeared also. Then the
chase began again; several more Archers were
secured by the “foorce,” and the Coen public is
awaiting developments.
* * ♦ *
Writer knows of a sheep-dog, stone-blind,
which nevertheless can work sheep admirably.
He is often sent out to bring the cows home, and
never misses a cow. He may be seen on the
Scottsdale-Ringarooma road (Tas.), a short dist-
ance from the old Camp Hotel, at the foot of the
Billy Cock. —C.H.R.
Australia’s oldest drover, and still on the
track, is veteran Charles Bell, of Orange, N.9.W-
At 82, he arrived the other day at Hay with 234 J
sheep. t
A steep yarn of Drought:—
Dear Bulletin.— How far can
travelling cattle sniff water ?
Once when travelling
with a mob of Queens-
land scrubbers we had
been out three days
when we found the
tanks en route dried-
up, so my mate sug-
gested another track
where he knew of
“certain” hotels.
Wheeled off into the
scrub, taking a m' re
westerly direction,
and had m u c h
trouble that night
in keeping t h e
thirsty animals to-
gether. Next
morning struck
the new track,
crawled onward
until midday,
but still no water.
The bullocks
were now des-
. a. _ 1
perate, an 1
charged, bellowed,
moaned and struck
at one another furiously.
Thirst, dust, flies and
heat had maddened
them, and shortly after,
wards in one seething,
uncontrollable mass they
suddenly wheeled and went
at a terrific scramble in a
south-easterly line. Three
miles ahead, and a sight
beyond description ! A tank
about 40yds. square filled right
up with dying and dead cattle.
The weakest were trampled to
the bottom and smotheied or
drowned in the slime ; others,
torn and smashed, gouged at
each other in a hideous manner.
We rescued a few, but these also
hied almost imme-
diately. Out ot a
mob of 500 we didn’t
save one ! Parsed
the same tank on our
r< turn a few weeks
later, and at a mile’s
distance (could get
no closer) we distin-
guished a hillock,
30ft. high, of swol-
len carcases, the
whole being covered
with a black shroud
—crows ! —H.G.
“ Trotter ” : Queensland’s Continuous Go-
vernment proroses putting filters in public.schools.
I’ve got no filter. Had been l? 4 hours without
water in drought-stricken West, Queensland when
I struck a water-hole in which a man was washing
his socks. On expostulating with him, he re-
plied : “ Well, that’s nothing; when I came here
a cove was washing hisself in it.” Was camped
on a water hole where one Adams, a fossieker,
resided in a streak-of-bark humpy. We missed
him one day, and on going to the hut discovered
this note on the greasy slab-bench: “You'll find
my body in the bottom of the dam.” We did, too.
Have tal e 1 sheep out of a bog and drunk ti e
water ; and have been 48 hours looking for a bog
with even something worse than sheep in it, with
the full intention of drinking out of same when
found. Water has a fascination for intending
suicides here just by reason of its scarcity. I
sometimes suspect that every water-hole here has
somebody in it.
THEY ALWAYS DO.
MUG: “ How did you get on over that last race? ”
TUG: “ Oh, lost, as usual."
“T.G.F.”: “ Yarrum ” gives Temora
the “bun” for being the best-pubbed town
in Rabbit Land. Dubbo, I always under-
stood, was the best pub-supporting town in this
hemisphere. The licensed drink shops, to within
a mile of the town boundary, number 36. There
is little or no Sunday trade, but the “ two-up ”
schools have weekly classes in the scrub near the
gravel pits. At least this was the case when I was
there.
* * * *
“ Yarrum ” : Re social matters. Speaking
at a show to dairy man’s daughter, I remarked that
Miss was rather good style. “Not too bad,”
said the daughter ; “ but she thinks too much of
herself. Why, they only milk SO cows. We milk
421” Thus is society graded in the cow and
butter country.
MILLER’S POINT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Her pose wls as a statue carved in stone
Of some Greek goddess, stately in its ease ;
Her figure, luring in each curve and tone,
So faultless that it ccrnld not fail to please ;
Rich waving tresses of the sunniest brown
Enshrined her face-I longed her voice to hear.
Ha ! now she speaks, “ I’m gahn dahn the tahn
Ter look fer Liza ’nd the bleedin’ beer.”
THE WRECK.


DAVID STORED, & SOMS’ ln Three BtlOT - BLMK , REPand BLUE
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker.
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Bunyadi Janos
For LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, Ac.
The VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS” says:-
“ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity
Average Dose. — A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
CAUTION.
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
Sailors are proverbial growlers over
“ tucker,” but they can’t beat shearers. Cook
after cook had to “chuck” the job at Bogga-
baroo Station from fear of being battered by men
on the board who, to hear them talk, would have
been a match for Tom Sabers at his best. The
last “chef” had just got his cheque and cast the
dust behind him—thanking his stars that lie had
got away “whole” —when a weary-looking man
came along, threw down his swag, and asked for
work. The overseer took a bird’s-eye view of him
and suggested “ rouseabout,” but the stranger
Scorned the idea, and said he was a cook. He did
not look like one. His nose, probably originally
aquiline, had been badly flattened out and turned
to one side, and his face bore traces of many cuts,
which, he explained, had been caused by a tree
falling on him when a child. He signed on as
Wm. Peace, was duly installed as cook, and all
went well for a couple of days. Then a heavy
thunderstorm made the sheep too wet to shear,
a id some of the shearers rode over to the Pine
Ridge Hotel, with the result that next day, their
palates being out of order, a deputation, headed
by the bully of the shed, took a junk of “plum
duff” over to the cook and wanted to know what
t le blanky so-on sort of stuff he called that. The
cook calmly inspected the delicate morsel, saw
that there was an “intermission of five minutes
(as the theatre bills say) between the raisins, and
knew at once that the rest had been extracted in
order to raise a “ btirnoy.” He quietly suggested
to the deputation to “get,” and there was in-
stantly a wild rush at Wm. Peace, who stepped on
one side and landed the leader of the deputation
a staggering straight left on the nose, followed
promptly by a right swing to the jaw that ended
the first act then and there. Wm. Peace, in the
language of the barber’s-shop, then cheerfully re-
marked “Next, please !” But there wasn’t any
next, and there were no more complaints of the
“ menu ” during the rest of the shearing. When
the shed was “cut out” the owner handed the
cook his cheque and treated him to a couple of
glasses of whisky—which induced Mr. Peace to
confess that the marks on his face were really due
to contact with the “dukes” of numerous
antagonists of much greater fistic capabilities than
a shearing-shed was likely to produce.
* * * *
Windsor (N.S.W.) Benevolent Asyluin
boasts the champion derelict of the district. His
age ranges at anything from 80 to 100. Ever
since his incarceration he has' been in the habit
of climbing out of the institution o’ nights for the
purpose of keeping up a custom of, say, 60 years
standing— i.e., three fingers of rum, gratis. A
few months ago, while on the way home one
night, he varied matters by essaying a short cut
through a neighboring garden. Consequence was
he fell down a disused cellar and broke his leg.
The limb was amputated, and the old gentleman
survives on crutches. A few weeks ago he was
caught trying to climb out of the institution on
the same old lay. Since then the authorities
provide him with the wherewithal to observe the
aforesaid custom.
. * * •
“ Trotter ” : Out-from Normanton, in the
Gulf country, I visited recently five stations in
succession. In every case the manager was a
bachelor, and on some stations of from 300 to 500
sq. miles lie’s the only white man on the place.
Niggers do all the station work, while the dusky
damsels do the housework, &c. The cook at
the first place was a Malay ; at the second
a Chow ; at the third a Jap ; and at the
other two, Chows. Rouseabouts in this
country average 4s. or 5s. a week all the
year round, and two-thirds of their time
it hey are looking for work. Wages are
next to nothing, considering the con-
ditions under which the men live.
Manager gets £150 a year ; bookkeeper
(also boundary-rider), £75; overseer,
£75; stockman, £60. And you pay
20 per cent, more than “inside” for
the common necessaries of life—
potatoes, 35s. a cwt., 6s. for a pump
kin, Is. a loaf, 10s. a shirt, and Is.
a nip. On some stations, as soon
as the sun goes down they draw a
mosquito curtain all round the
table, placing heavy weights on it
to keep it down. In a few minutes
this is black with grasshoppers,
flying bugs, moths, beetles, sand
flies, ants and mosquitoes. God
help 1 he man who travels this coun-
try without a net! My visit was
in winter (May)—what must the
summer be like? At the break
of day the flies make an appear-
ance, and you knock them off
you in handfuls. Horses and
cattle suffer frightfully from sore
eyes ; so do the majority of people,
especially children. The white
ant literally devours everything
bar iron. A pair of boots which I
incautiously .left by the rooP of a
tree for a day and a night, I dis
covered in the form of an ant-heap and
nothing left but the nails, eyes and part of
the heels.
“Esnii”: Was watching a man working
sheep with his two dogs—one an old hand, the
other a pup just beginning his education. Pup
worked wild and man got off his horse to belt
him. At the puy/s first yelp the old dog made a
rush at the man and bit him savagely in the calf of
the leg. Then took a severe hiding himself with-
out a murmur. Man told me it is not at all
infrequent for an old dog to interfere if you are
giving a pup a hiding.
9 * 9 *
Alex. Gordon (Aboriginal Protector ap-
pointed last year by Q. Govt, for Boulia district)
complains bitterly of the evils of the Combo sys-
tem among the blacks. The Combo system
implies the maintaining of black women on a
station by a white man. The half-caste children
born are usually knocked on the head by the
mother. When a gin has given birth to a child
she is usually sent back to the camp and a fresh
one installed in her stead. No one on the stations
sees much harm in these practices. The native
women are the legitimate perquisite of the white
man.
Two samples of piebaldism in
North Queensland. A sugar-planter
has a half-caste illegitimate son,
whose mother is an aboriginal gin.
This young man recently married
his half-caste cousin, whose mother
is a Kanaka woman who is now
“kept” indiscriminately by Chows
and other aliens. Another case is :
An aboriginal-European half-caste
girl had a child to her white uncle,
and lives with her white relations as
one of the family, which, by the way,
is rather “well-off.” Now, what
sort of citizens will the progeny of
these specimens of humanity be? If
this breed is not stopped, the half-
castes will be a menace to civilisation
in that they have the franchise as
well as the right to cut ivages-rates.
* * *
“ L.” : In reply to Bright (8.,
18/5/1). The cause of the dying-
away of boree and myall is not
change of climate brought about by
ringbarking.. The boree and myall
are, comparatively, short-lived trees ;
and sheep are very fond of the
young plants. Consequently, on
sheep statioi s, young trees, to take
the place of those that have run
their course, are not allowed to
grow. In many horse-paddocks in
boree country this fact is fully exem-
plified ; there hundreds of young
trees may be seen growing up as fresh
as daisies. This class of vegetation
is quite easily grown in suitable
soil.
“R R.”: “Ita,” in Bulletin (4/5/’01),
seeks information on the one-sided growth of trees
round a clearing. The explanation is simple.
Light is life to all vegetation. Plant a potato in
a cellar, and five feet away a tiny hole to
admit light, and that potato-stalk will assuredly
find its way to that hole, and, if large enough,
through it. Grow a plant near a wall. All the
foliage will lean away from it and face the direc-
tion in which there is most light. Turn the plant
round, and, given a little time, the foliage will
reverse itself. It is the same with trees. When
a clearing is made on one side of a tree it imme-
diately begins to put on foliage in that direction,
and in time leans that way.
* * * *
For long a certain road in Tungainah
(Vic.) district has been “haunted but the other
night a burly cyclist, with no nerves worth men-
tioning, came scorching past that way, and the
ghost was there and then well and truly “laid.”
As the bikist rounded a turn he saw, 20 yards
ahead, in the centre of the road, a spectral being,
robed in white, with extended, shadowy-looking
arms. “The ghost!” said the wheeler; “Well,
we’ll see what he’s made of, anyhow,” and he rode
straight for the disembodied spirit. Crash !
bike-rider and ghost were all of a heap, and a
NOT TOO DRUNK.
MINER (trying to get his mate home): “Come
on, you’re drunk enough. Come on!”
HIS MATE: “ Hold on. I’ll—hie —toss up this
— hie— stone, and if it—hie—stops up I’ll —
hie — come. If it — hie — don’t we’l1 — hi c—have
another — hie—beer.”
infuriated cyclist, thinking of his buckled wheel,
was pounding savagely at a miserable youth, who
had been waiting for an hour to give the other
chap no end of a fright. It was a woebegone ghost,
with one ear half off and several teeth down its
throat, that at last crayded away to curse-itself
and the bullet-headed sceptics who spoil every-
thing.
* * » «
“ F.C.” : Re the Bellinger (N.S.W.) black-
smith shoeing a bullock (8., 29/6/’01); when a
youngster, in Canada, I remember seeing bullocks
frequently slung-up in the local smithy and shod ;
but as to the shape of the shoe, or how it fitted
the cloven (and spreading) hoof, I remember not.
Yictoria has lost 2563 Chows during the
last ten years arid now owns only 6814. Strange
to say her aboriginals have increased by 59 during
the same decade. Vic. possesses 624 black
brothers.
From Pretoria :
“The women continue to maintain an irreconcilable
attitude. In spite of prohibition they continue to wear
the Transvaal colours. One was had up before Lord
Roberts for so doing ; she drew a revolver, pointed it at
him, and asked if she required a permit for that also. The
noble Lord was much discomposed, and called for help.
On the occasion of a distribution of the Victoria Cross we
were told that Afrikander ladies would pin the medals on
the heroes’ breasts ; but when it came to the point we
did not see any ladies at the ceremony.”
The N.S.W. Freetrade press anl poli-
t'cians are angry with Melb. Age and others for
s lying that the failure of the Sydney Foreign-trade
party at the recent polls was a defeat of the cause
of Freetrade. The N.S.W. “Liberals” unani-
mously declare that the recent contest had noth-
ing at'all to do with the fiscal issue. Yet at the
beginning, Lee, Garland, and the Telegraph
not only prevented any coalition of ti e
“ Liberals ’’ with the “ Protectionists,” but
drew an appalling picture of the dangers
ahead of the holy cause of Freetrade if N.S.W.
did not return a majority of that faith at this
election. The “Liberals” went so far as to
appeal for a Freetrade majority in the probable
event of a vacancy in the State’s representation
in the Federal Senate, when the local Legislature
elects the new Senator. Truly enough the electors
did decline to make the contest a struggle on the
fiscal issue. But, if the Liberals had won ?
What price the good old Banner of Freetrade
then !
T’other day, The Bulletin g >t this mis-
sive from Eraeusres (no less) A. Phipson, 151
Strand, London, Eng. :
It is always surprising to me that a paper so radical
and anti-humbug as yours should exhibit a predilection for
French words which not one person in a hundred can pro-
nounce with even approximate correctness. Whether you
expect your readers to sound them as if they were English,
to invent some quasi-foreign pronunciation for, or to skip
altogether, such words as nijneron, employ 6, absinthe,
repertoire, I don’t know, but, at any rate, it seems a pity
that you should put them to the trouble of any of these
alternatives when the good English words vintner, em-
ployee, absinth, repertory are at hand. Then why write
kharki for khaki any more than Chicargo for Chicago ?
I am glad to notice that you write mama instead of the
affected and indecent mamma. I trust you will use your
influence to have the expressive and appropriate name
“ Brightland ” adopted instead of the meaningless and
prolix N.S.W.
In reply, The Bulletin has an idea of writing
something like this :
214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
21st June, 1901.
Mr. Mick Phipson,
151 Strand, Fogtown, Eng.
Sir. —ln replying to your post-card of May 17, we have
addressed you as Mr. Mick Phipson. “ Mick ” is shorter
and more expressive than “ Evacustes.” Why do you
exhibit such a predilection for the foreign “ Evacustes,”
which not one person in a hundred can spell with even
approximate correctness ? The “A.” is a useless excres-
cence.
We use vigneron or vine-grower instead of vintner,
because these mean one thing and vintner another. A
“ vintner” is a wine-seller. Look at your dictionary.
Besides, why do you yearn after the foreign (Latin)
vintner ?
In spelling “ kharki ” we follow Kipling, who is pre-
sumed to know something about it.
We agree that employee and repertory are preferable to
employe and repertoire, though employee is only a
mongrel corruption of the French word ; if the French
spelt “ absinthe ” absinth we would also. At present it’s
their drink and their word, which we have borrowed,
but not yet incorporated, into English. We have just
the same reason for not writing “absinth ” that you have
for not writing “ troubl.”
We trust you will use your influence to have the expres-
sive name “ Fogtown ” adopted instead of the meaning-
less London.
“ The Devil’s hunting ground is the
border-land between Sense and Spirit.”— Patmore.
“ Chinese War Loot. Before disposing of
loot it is advisable to have it valued by an expert.
Mr. Larkin, 104 New Bond-street, values and
buys Oriental art specialities.” Advt. in Morning
Post, London. No sentiment about this; but
plain devil and no dissembling. By the way, the
loot smuggled from China now begins to make
very public appearances indeed in Sydney.
Died in the Balkans : William Clarke, a
London journalist, who has done much towards
shaping Radical thought during the last 20 years.
He was one of that brilliant band, the Fabian
essayists, and is the first of them to die. Of the
others, Mrs. Besant is with the Socialists no
longer, and Sydney Olivier is a big Colonial Office
official in Jamaica. The others—Bernard Shaw,
Sydney Webb, Hubert Bland, and Graham Wallas
—still beat the Fabian drum. Clarke changed his
views re Socialism in later years, and became a re-
viewer on the Spectator. The articles on Ameri-
FAMILY LIFE.
ELDEST (log.): “ Johnny, you go and find her
clothes for her. I’m SICK of shepherding yous
kids. Where’s maw ?”
JOHNNY: “ Gone sailing with Mr. Mosscrop.”
ELDEST: “An’ where's dad?”
JOHNNY: “ ’E’s sittin' over there watching the
bathers. ”
ELDEST: “ Well, yous kids ain’t wanted, so yous
just go home.”
can politics and on economic subjects were nearly
always his. A firm-jawed, cold-eyed, reddish-
bearded man, he was a fine scholar and a good
friend. “ Send me all the cuttings you can about
Australian economic and social affairs,” he said to
the writer, some years ago: “ I want to master
Australia.” A few years ago, he was coming out
to study Australia on the spot, as he had partially
studied America—but illness prevented.
CONSIDER THE LILIES.—(FROM A CLUB BALCONY.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I looked out on an idle crew
Of women gotvned in ev’ry hue,
And muttered, leaning on the sill,
“ The Lilies paint the moral still!”
And then it seemed a ghost I spied,
And Solomon stood at my side /
He pointed where in sportive zeal
A girl flashed by upon her wheel.
And thus he answered with a grin,
“Oh, yes, these toil not, BUT they ‘spin/’”
BERNARD ESPISASSE.


xN
/<y *• v
/X /
y^v s
«o v nF
° <?
x *>V V
/s’■?/' f
/ <S> <r
/ o£ &
A xV*
X Xjy
C^X
'"X
THE POINT OF VIEW.
Ist >Small Boy (teeing big fire in dittcm ce) : “Hello I
looks to be in the direction of our school-housed
Hope it is that.”
2nd Small Roy : “ No such luck 1 ”
L.B.M. : “Look here, Mr. O’Sulli-
van ; let’s be consistent, and
give ’em all the minimum wage
—7s. a day.”
“ A pier at Chicago,
on which some boys were
fishing, was struck by
lightning, and 11 boys
i were killed.”
A lightning-rod should always lje a part
of a fish-liar’s gear.
“The King will confer South African medals on the City
Corporation of London and the City Companies, in recogni-
tion of the raising of the City Imperial Volunteers."
. has at last invented a fir-
ing machine that will actually fly. What
with submarine boats and. flying machines
the evoluted Frenchman of the future
Will be something between fish and fowl
The streets of Sydney are
horribly muddy. Why -not
crossing-sweepers 1 ’Twould
make good billets for poli-
ticians who neglect their
opportunities. If, for ex-
ample, Barton postpones appointing himself Chief-Justice while the politi-
cal sun shines, he may come to something of this sort one day.
CARTOONLETS.


7otle
P t \
rj | c due,.
A CLERICAL PROTEST.
A deputation, representing the local Minis-
terial Association and Christian Citizens’ Asso-
ciation, waited on the Prahran Council at its
1 meeting last evening urging that body to take
■action in putting down Sunday-trading in fruit,/
confectionery, ice-cream, &c. A number of{
fruit-sellers also petitioned the council to a
similar effeot.
The Rev. J. Nicholson (Wesleyan) said
several instances of Sabbath-breaking had
| come under his personal knowledge. The
other Sunday evening he saw a coffee-shop
'open m Chapel-street in which there was a deal 1
!of hilarity and a little disorder going on. It
was desirable that the Sunday law should be
strictly enforced for the benefit of the young
people, who were tempted to spend the pence
given them to take to church for mis-
sion&ry purposes in the lolly-shops." This|
r//7/bv le - peculation oh the part of children/
//*//**
i
j //» *fje */
. -<?/>
A? & £ ;“/
***&*///
j? 1?
Cl
oV -w-^
dcs^-’^'^ 0 ’ 7 %
liKc "
life
l7 red
V.cJ^
litel ”/»<] I°^
The daily press had only the other day
circulated a slander against a poor and vir-
tuous class. He would applaud the Pre-
mier if he took action against the papers
that published that libel against a class.
Mr. MALONEY : He has not the pluck.
Mr. PRENDERGAST ; That is at the
other end of the social scale.
Mr. MURRAY said that this class was
as defenceless as the King.
/ZD/ ' / \K\(uaPj
/S+J
/ Jol«2>: —
lSee^%
iW t**<*M"'
SbvtCs^
\ y o «d°ofs*y
S<>rV«-i <
\-KaH**"
\J7 S'J&yey
W/' DEFENCE BILL.
■ r JOHN FORREST, in moving thel
second reading of the Defence Bill, said I
A that it was the second occasion upon I
wi which he had addressed the House. He I
some diffidence in doing so, especially I
/ 'on account of the alarm which his first!
jfcjicech had caused some hon. members ait-1
jlting opposite, and mote particularly to|
jEdward Braddon (T.). Ho would like to I
lissure members that, in his own opinion at 1
any rate, he was not a dangerous person—|
(laughter) -and that at the present time hel
had no designs whatever upon the constitu-J
lion. (Hear, hear.) His only desire was toi
perpetuate the constitution in the hearts of I
the people of Australia, and to make it a I
blessing. (Hear, hear.) His inclination I
throughout his long political career had I
always been in the direction of the paths of I
■peace. * ,1
two notortotiß tflidinals, Sparks and
OrConnor, who have escaped from Pent-
rldge, are still at large* and no clue what-
ever to present whereabouts ba6 been
gained. Meanwhile. scores of amateur de-
tectives axe inundating their professional
brethren with more or less Ingenious
theories of their own. One keen-witted rival
of Sherlocke HoJmes points out how readily
the clean shaven, pale faces of the criminals'
wonld lend themselves to a clerical disguise,
and suggests that the features of all pa6s-
Jng clergymen sboald be narrowly scanned.
Bulled '& r ' f t iL
V folice mu iy
eW SW* S^(>,cioa s loo^WS
(X clench rjtfrn • ft*'' l *~
, occurred dS as tfVT dlfe
Crisis * We
* Co„c
MELBOURNIANA.


A. SAUNDERS’
SOLID SILVER SHOWROOM DISPLAY.
THE LARGEST AND MOST COMPREHENSIVE STOCK IN AUSTRALIA
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s COMPANION CALENDER and LETTEE
HO LB EE, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
Most Useful Present.
Cbeapt r Styles, 7s 6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDEK3.
SOLID SILVER Gent.’s SHAVER SOAP STICK,
BRUSH, PUFF BOX, in Silk-lined Case, £2 108.
A Nice Present.
A. SAUNDERS’
Latest Style in Ladies' PURE SILVER-CHASED Watteau
Design, HAIR BIiUSH, 85s; Cheaper Styles, 15s 6d,18s 6d, 20s,
255. Send for 1901 Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted MANICURE SET, 20s, in Silk-lined Case.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 255, 80s, £2,
$ B
’
SBP
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver-mounted SHO LIFT, BOOT and
GLOVE FASTENER, and GLOVE STRETCHER,
in Nice Leather Case, 22s 6d
Hi ■
m
mm mi.
A. SAUNDERS.
SMELLING SALTS BOTTLE, Pure Solid Silver, Plain or Chased
Tops, ss, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 2Cs,
Other styles, 2s 6d and 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies' Silver-mounted WALLET
CARD CASE, 20s.
Similar style, 15s,
Solid Silmr Swan PIN-
CUSHION, 7b 6d.
PURSES, Pure Silver-mounted as above,
15s and 20s ;
similar lines, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ EMEND, Pure Silver-mounted,
in Silk-iined Case, 18.< 6d.
Smaller, 15s 6d.
A* SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE RINGS, Pure Bolid Silver,
Diamond Cut, 8s 6d, 10s, and 12s 6d.
In three 'widths.
A. SAUNDERS.
MIKROR, Pure Bilver,
Watteau Design,
£3.
Other styles, 80s, £2, £2 10a.
GUM POT:
Pure Silvei -mounted,
6s 6d.
SPECTACLE
CHATELAINE
CASE,
Solid Silver,
30b, £2.
Silver-plated,
|l2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver 4 o'clock TEA SPOONS, in Case, 15s, 20s;
with TONGS, 20s, 255, 80s. £2 j
Silver Electro-plated, with TONGS, l‘2s 6d, 15s, 20s,
All in Silk-lined Cases. Post Free.
>s*
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER, Pure Solid Silver, as above, 20s;
with Solid Silver KNIFE and Silk Case, 30s, Complete.
A. SAUNDERS,
Ladies' Pure Silver Complete TOILET REQUISITES, in Silk-lined case.
2 HAIR BRUSHES, MIRROR, HAT and CLOTH BRUSH, MANICURE SE
GLOVE STRETCHER, SHOE LIFT and BUTTON HOOK.
18 Articles in all, £l2 10s.
urn
gig
m
iiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiniiniiiuiiiiuuumu
. AUNDERj.
Ladles’Pure Solid Silver-mounted T 'I .LET SET: HAIRPIN HOLDIR.
BOTTLE, PUFF BOX. an ' POMADE POT, £2. Very Use.ul.
CENT
■SB
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver RATTLE, Pearl Ring and End, 12s 6d and 10a 6d; other styles, 4s 6d, 6s, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Child’s SPOON, Solid Silver, Chased, 7s 6d. The Latest and Newest Designs,
COMBS. —Pure Solid Silver-mounted,
Real TORTOISESHELL, 20s; Imitation Shell,
10s 6d; Similar, 5s 6d and 7s 6d.
[fgßjSSgg
CLOTH or HAT BRUSH, Pure Silver,
12a 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
Price to Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ or G. nt.'s TRA VELLING ROLLS,
as above, 12s 6d. other St les, similar,
10-i, 15s, 20s, 255, :ios, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDEfiS.
Pure Silver-mounted SHAVING
CUP, 7s 6d.
In Silver plate, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted Gent.’a
HAIR BRUSH, 15 < each.
A. SAUtsDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted
MIRROR, 15s; H<art {shape,
12s 6d. Splendid Value,
Pure Silver-
mounted
HAIR PIN
HOLDER, ss.
fs
Pure Solid Silvei
Badger Hair
SHAVING
BRUSH, I2s 6d.
Other styles,
15s and 20s.
A Nice Present.
Pure Silver
BOOK MARK,
2s 6d.
A. S YUNDERS,
CIGARETTE', or CIGAR CASES,
Various Colours, Silver-mounted,
10s 6d, 12s 6a, 15s, 20s, 255.
atogsssKg
A. S tUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted KNIFE RESTS,
in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNOVRS.
Pure Silver Cub net PHOTO. FRAME,
12s Gd
Othei stvles, lCs, 15s, 20', 255, 30i;
small, 1 ■ Gd. 2s 6d, 3s 6tl, ss.
A. SAUN'D 'PS.
CHILB’S CUTS, Puie Solid Silver, in Sila ase,
30s, 355, £2, £2 10s ;
Silver Electro-plated, 10s, 12s 6d 15 , ’0 .
Nice Tresi n .
A. SAUNDERS
PUFF BOX, Solid Silver Covers, Cut Glass,
10s. 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6 , 20s.
A Most Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
Two Pure Silver-mounted BRUSHES and COMB,
in Silk Case, £3. Other stylrs, £2, £2 10s.
A. BAUNDEkS.
SALTS, Pure Silver-mounted, 16s 6d t
White Cut Glass, in Bilk-lined Case.
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWELLER ana SILVERSMITH.
A BEAUIIFUL D.SPLAY OP PRESENTS.
Mind. 815 GEORGE-STREET,
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


A copy of “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” The Bulletin’s particularly suc-
cessful pamphlet, will be posted from this office to
any Australian address on receipt of Bd. in stamps
(of any State).
The Health of Women
is all-important. The daughter of to-day becomes
the wife of to-morrow. How essential, then, that
good health be hers. Good health, which alone
brings happiness and vigorous posterity. The
mechanism of >voman is finer than that of man.
She is naturally higher strung, and when the dual
functions of her life are taken into consideration,
it is little wonder that the delicate machinery
breaks down under the burden laid upon it.
The majority of women need an aid which
should strengthen them for the stress and strain
they daily meet. Such an aid is found in
Warner’s Safe Cure, a simple vegetable prepara-
tion, which has secured the highest endorsement
among, women in all walks of life in all parts of
the civilised world.
113 Edward-street,
East Brunswick, Vic.,
April 30th, 1901.
Dear Sirs, —
I have pleasure in giving evidence as to the
efficacy of Warner’s Safe Cure.
For many years I suffered from kidney and
liver complaint. Frequently I was quite pros-
trated and unable to do my household work, my
whole system being affected, especially my head.
The doctor who treated me did me no good. I
was advised to try Warner’s Safe Cure and
Warner’s Safe Pills. After taking a few bottles
of the medicines I felt quite a different woman,
•and am now in the enjoyment of as good health as
ever I had in my life.
Yours truly,
(Mrs.) E. NELSON.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.
“Camrock,” El wood-street,
North Brighton, Vic.,
29th April, 1901.
Sirs, —
I have found Warner’s Safe Cure to be a most
wonderful medicine for giving health and strength
when suffering from that languid and tired feel-
ing, which most women are subject to, and which
makes one unfit to attend to household duties or
to any other business. In my case Warner’s Safe
Cure had an immediate and lasting beneficial
effect.
I strongly recommend Warner’s Safe Cure to
any ladies who may suffer in like manner, feeling
sure that they too will derive great benefit from
taking a course of this medicine.
Yours truly,
(Mrs.) E. BADE.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.*
The Bulletin’s latest publication—
“ Dreams in Flower,” a book of verses by Louise
Mack —contains all the best poetical work of this
writer for the last ten years. Price half-a-crown,
ost-free from this office.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Ho notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
Ho liability is undertaken in any case to contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
H.N. : Why make such a row about N.S.W.
Electoral Dept. “ failing to send me a renewal of my
elector’s right whereby I have been deprived of my vote
at two elections ? ” You don’t need a new elector’s right
for every election Quiz: The whole British part of
the island has exports of about six million dollars —
steadily increasing. A railway is being constructed.
There are healthy mountain regions but they are very
inaccessible. A rich agricultural and mining country,
still largely jungle and containing about 500,000 nigs. A
hardened and clever nigger-driver with capital might
make a lot of money there ; not much show for any other
kind of man—except, perhaps, a hardened missionary
B. Barber: As far as we can find out, the present terms
are good enough to cause all the decent,land available io
be taken up.... Bind!: Handkerchief yarn went round
the American papers for many years—or one very like it
did.. .. Artus : Metre jagged and idea somewhat worn
about the button-h01e5.... Bee : Maori philosophy unpub-
lishable. The gushful child of nature is often that way...
Boko : We don’t publish conundrums. Please let us into
the secret Olivia: Suppose you learn punctuation
and the use of paragraphs?... .Y.it.R. : A stiff percent-
age of the population, unfortunately, has to be surgically
operated on every year, so better not print yarns only
calculated to make people funk the ordeal when it comes
to the pinch K.M.A. : Anti-Boer diatribe received.
But we are not the Boers’ keeper. We only admire them
as men who hold aloft the torch of Liberty even
after it has burnt so low that it sears the fingers. (2) :
Then how is it that so many Boers have of late been
returned by the British officials as killed in actions in
which the British ha\ e been victorious, and so few com-
paratively set down as wounded ? Wounded should, in
proportion to killed, be as at least five to one ! What is
the inference?... .0 A. A. : Scores of public reading-rooms
all over Australasia were like yours—they discontinued
subscribing to The Bulletin because of ‘-’that attitude,”
and they all made no end of a flourish over the matter.
But now they are all gradually sneaking back —their
members can’t do without the paper. The Bulletin
merely sniggers—it doesn’t want their subscriptions. It
knows perfectly well that The Bulletin habit is as
powerful and enduring as the drink haiiit or the morphia
habit.... West Melb. :As a set-off against the congratula-
tions sent to Peacock by town, city, and shire councils
and other knots of vestrymen and pauneny Bumbles on
the expulsion of Findley, it may be remarked that the
chief use of town and country councillors is to represent
plainly what the people do not think. Peacock, the
half-pint Radical with the bad back, doubtless finds good
comfort in this support. .Con Denser (Melb.): Will print..
Pukaki : Good Heavens 1 Did you really take the remark
about the Minister’s “brutality ” seriously? E.S.B. :
Do you really send us “A Woman’s Answer” as an
original contribution ? and do you want to be paid for it ?
Next time, please send along Hamlet’s soliloquy, the
Ancient Mariner, The Ten Commandments and The
Raven.” Somebody has already tried to get paid for the
Lord’s Prayer C.L.A. :No space here for long, dreary
musical dissertations. Crisp matter—that’s what we
want Thos. N. (Brisbane): Stocks in bond (that is,
duty unpaid) when the new tariff comes into force will
pay duty at the new-tariff rate John B. : Not quite
bad enough to print Onyx: If we still lived in a slab
hut we might stop a creek with it; as things are, poem is
wasted Telsihc: Might do if it had a climax, but it
ends on a literary plain with a few dried-up vowels and
consonants in the distance Old Sofa: Nearly every
possible kind of badness on one half-sheet of paper..
M.G. : The Bulletin proprietary is by no means anxious
to see this paper in any public reading-room. The Bulle-
tin is published, as often previously here remarked, not
in order that it may be read gratuitously, but for the
base purpose of providing the people who run it with 18
square meals each per day, if they feel that way inclined.
Subscriber (Gun.) : Yes, quite honest. We subscribe
ourselves, and have long done so Auckland : The poor
old Mayor broke down when addressing the Duke. Never
mind, we may all break down if we live to be 80, without
the assistance of any Duke,... J.J.T.: Don’t remember
it; and, if it was no better than the one sent now, we
doubtless forgot it with great energy Deeby : It would
be a serious thing to aver that the Imperial army horse-
buyers were thus “ Taken down ” by palm-greased
commission-agents on whom they relied for help
J.L.W. : “ Royal Height ” would not mean the same
thing. Height means degree of altitude ; highness, the
quality of being high. This, merely as a question of
language. Otherwise the whole business is miserable
flunkeyism G.J.M. : But William the Conqueror isn’t
“ reckoned as the first English monarch ” by any sane
person. And you don’t specify the kind of school you
refer to Scutum : Hardly interest enough Bar won
M. : Don’t use such small paper, and leave a lot more
space between the lines H.B. : That travelling philan-
thropist should, for his own sake, have kept accounts,
and the action of the police was quite justified by the fact
that he was collecting for a “ mission ” which didn’t exist.
Also, no man has a right to collect moneys for a specific
object, and then pay himself a salary—fixed by himself—
out of the receipts. The whole business has a very bad
smell L.R.L. : And now you send us Bracken’s “Not
Understood ”as original verse ! Next time, try us with
“ The Blessed Damozel ” or the “ Athanasian Creed ” as a
little thing of your 0wn.... W.E. :As a first attempt it’s
promising. But please send the next dozen elsewhere....
N. :No room in Bulletin for dull serials Minah :
Kipling’s manner, without his matter Rex : Returned
accordingly C.H. (Q.): May possibly use “Bridget” ;
other crude and commonplace... .Leo O. : Will consider.
....Andy: But chopped-up prose isn’t “verse,” any
more than a chopped-up man’s a woman J.A.N. :
Whole point could go in 20 lines L.B. : No, we do not,
save in very special cases, pay for clippings, as such—
only for matter to which they may be incidental....
J. 8.5.: Too difficult to decipher W.S. : “Hero” is
too rambling and inconsecutive Harold P. : Rather
dull and feeble... .T. 8.0.: “Lee” refers to the breech-
action ; “ Metford ” denoted a new style of rifling—since
abandoned in favor of an older style known as “ En-
field.” Argument: Can’t say. Why not inquire of the
relatives? Mac: Pars too laborious, and we haven’t
time to plane-down such a mass of copy... .M.W.O. :
Thanks, but we don’t want any London paragraphs,
unless they bear more or less directly on matters of Aus-
tralian interest— X. Y.Z.: Hardly worth referring to now.
... .Wat T. : Rather cheap and feeble... .Bilby : Hardly
enough in it as told Jimpan : Your glutton isn’t con-
vincing.... Burwood : Rather smart, but too late in the
day M'Grattin : You don’t seem to get the requisite
deftness of touch... .Lander : Neither up to mark....
J.A.B. : Rather picturesque, but lacks Bulletin interest
M.E.A. : The brother-supposed-to-be-lover is a very
stale fictional device... .R.A.K. : “ Holiday,” not up;
“Watch,” better —may use Matchbox: Verse in-
different: prose sketch, will consider E.S.S. : You
also should stick to prose. You don’t versify worth a
cent. ! Scutum : Lamentable twaddle... .Do-Dah :
Nothing in it Heimsdal: “ Say how bad it is.” Well,
we’ve seen a lot worse... .Anti-crawl: Thanks, but we’ve
had all that from several quarters already ..HD.T. :
Two of your “ new Hebrew stories ” have appeared in
Bulletin, and the other is well-stricken in years
Atriplex: Thanks, but the Alternation-of-Generation is
rather too technically biological a subject for Bulletin....
Biffie : Are those facts or frills ? Kathleen : You must
grow a bit Matchbox : “ Ego ” isn’t much Wreck :
Not up Alexander: Sorry unsuitable L.A.E. : It’s
a poor newspaper that would give up the name of the
writer of a libel after the paper had published the libel as
its own Frank W. (M.L.): Yes —too “steep.”
Percival J. : The style of your question shows that you
could do nothing to suit us. Vide notice over leading
article Tom Pepper: Thanks May M. :M. Tan-
querey is evidently using you as a decoy-duck D.B.
(Glebe): Will inquire for you Aristophanes: Not
much.... A.H. (Brisb.) : Can’t use. . .B.F. : But Amelia
Barr didn’t write it in 1791 Jekyll : Sorry unuseable....
M.M.: Cold tea and washy A.M.: Feeble C.A.S. :
Labored rhythmical prose is tedious... .Prospector : Write
E. W.Cole,Geo.-st., Sydney. .Surveyor: Already noted
MissF. : Too tame and tedious B. : Off ! Amo :
You have to earn your “free copy.”... .Moles worth :
Platonic precedent poohed 1... .Eveline : Long and
dreary S.W. : Won’t do R.O. : Echoes and para-
phrases .... Pacches : Mixed Herbert and Bulletin verse.
B.S. : Returned Leo : Ditto J.B. : Read with
pleasure ; part for use....T.W. : Acceptable ; but be
brief. Pars., not articles, wanted... . W.W.S. : Not up.
....J.M.T. : Execrable doggerel.. . .A.E. : Unsuitable....
W.A.R. : Address Jericho... Waiwai : Yes, why ? why?
TO. : All right E.K. : “ Liberty weeps, she is in
mourn.” The deuce she is ! ... M.F.G. : “Conversa-
tion” is best ; but all want a little more force... .J.A. :
Not a line !.... D.H.S. : Too old S.D.G. : Several
hollow groans silenced... .Ticket : Wants an illustration
to carry it ; and the theme is mossy.... J.G.D. : You get
good points and whack, whack, thump the life out of
them.... A.D.B. : Declined Boko: Not worth de-
clining. X.X.C. : Too nnsavory Jekyll (M.L.):
Sorry, but we don’t like it a bit. ...Yarrevah : Nothing but
blank disappointment about “ Minimum Wage ” and not
much of that.... .X-Cut : Little novelty in it.. . .H.R.B. :
Thanks ; cannot use.. . .Mousquetaire : Will about d 0....
Aristarchus: Right Bushwhacker: Can’t undertake
to acknowledge paragraphs—it would take too much
time and space. Either they go in or they don’t
Scribe: Not worth while Fley : Your poem suggests
that a fortune awaits the man who will make Plain
Australian Pills, manufactured in the country from
ingredients grown in the country, sold only by Australians
to Australians. One People, One Pill. A Pill for a
Continent, and a Continent for a Pill.
THE FUNNIEST STORY IN THE WORLD
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HEARD it only the
other day,
Told hy a clergyman,
The funniest story in
all the world
Since ever the world
began.
We were sitting snug in a
railway train,
Smoking and talking
free—
There was Jim the Doctor,
and Parson Bill,
And the Barrister and
Me.
The Barrister told us a
funny yarn
That made us laugh
our fill;
But the funniest story in all the world
Was told by Parson Bill.
Laugh! we laughed till the window-pane
Shook like an aspen tree,
And even the mirthless railway train
Rocked on its rails with glee.
They say ’tis sad to see strong men weep,
But, since I was a boy,
I have never seen three men shed such tears
Of undiluted joy.
Jim, the Doctor was paralysed,
I was curled in a fit,
And Joe the Barrister laughed until
I thought his sides would split.
Parson Bill, with his deep grave eyes,
Gazed sternly all the while—
The funniest story in all the world
He told without a smile.
I never thought to laugh so much
Upon this earthly ball;
The people who have not heard that yarn,
They have not lived at all.
Wives with their household troubles crazed,
And widows plunged in woe,
Would hilt their petticoats and dance
If they that yarn could know.
Can I tell it ? Of course I cam
But, alas ! this may not be—
’-Twas told to us by a clergyman
In strictest secrecy.
CREEVE ROE.
The Murdered Poor in N.S.W. Asylums.
When that Good Man, J. N. Brunker, was
N.S.W. Chief Secretary, the Public Service Board
proposed a very important and salutary reform ill
the administration of the department which cares
for N.S.W. aged poor. According to the Board’s
report for 1599, it found a majority of inmates
of Liverpool and Parramatta Asylums were suf-
fering from cancer and lung-trouble, or were too
infirm to leave their wards. It proposed that
the control of these and other State institutions of
a like character should be put in the hands of a
medical man, and that the Asylums should no
longer be regarded as poor-houses, but as hos-
pitals for the aged. The Board also proposed
that each asylum should be under the control of a
doctor, and have a staff of trained nurses attached
to it, and that vacancies in the staff should there-
after be filled by wardsmen acquainted with hos-
pital work, and not by political deadbeats as was
then the case.
* « * *
The humane intentions of the Board would have
commended themselves to anyone, and ought to
have been especially grateful to the Good Man
whose piety was so great that he grew frantic at
the sale of a bag of bananas on the Sabbath. It
was also a reform easy of accomplishment, as there
was at that time a vacancy at the head of the
Charities Dept., and gross abuses had been found
in the previous administration. But apparently
it was somebody’s interest to block reform, and
the Board’s recommendations slumbered peace-
fully in the pigeon-holes of the Chief-Secretary’s
office. The person chosen by the Board for the
task of reforming the administration of the
Asylums, and transforming the institutions into
hospitals, was probably either Dr. Williamson,
of Gladesville, or Dr. Paton, Chief Medical Officer
for Sydney, both good men and capable of carry-
ing out the reform proposed. It would seem,
however, that the particular doctor chosen, who-
ever he was, had failed to bow low enough before
the potentate iq whose keeping Good Man
Brunker had placed his conscience ; and the poor
old victims of cancer, the consumptives, the
maimed and the blind, were condemned, as
before, to the brutality or inefficiency of ignorant
male warders, and were deprived of proper atten-
tion.
** 4 * *
The Lyne Government came in with great pro-
mise of social good to be accomplished and bene-
fits to be showered down on the toilers. And the
Public Service Board further delivered itself of
the following in May of last year :
For the most part, these old people (in the asylums)
are in infirm health, and probably 1300 out of about 3900
are really hospital patients ; while many others, though
actually not sick m the ordinary acceptation of the
term, are yet too infirm to quit their dormitories. . . .
At present only eight out of some 20 attendants have had
hospital training, while quite a large proportion of the
unskilled attendants joined when too old to adapt them-
selves to the requirements of the service,
The Board might have added that much of the
work at the Asylums is done, not by the paid
warders, but by the inmates themselves, and is
therefore even less efficient than that of unskilled
warders. Then the Lyne Govt, took the job in
hand. Its chief and only care certainly was to
see to the well-being of its old friends, whose
shining virtues had so long adorned the com-
munity. First came poor old Waller, for whom
a gilded haven was found at the Harbour Trust.
Then came all the deserving poor of the Daily
Telegraph. Unfortunately, having provided for
these and a few others equally unfortunate, the
Lyne Govt, felt too exhausted to continue further,
and, while Father Oarey and his chickens were being
satisfied, the poor wretches at Parramatta, at
Newington, and at Liverpool, were allowed to die
off in lingering agony, unalleviated by the skilled
attention and medical comfort which civilized
people give even to prisoners of war. But, oh
bow different, if the old men had votes!
* * * *
While the recommendations in regard to the
old people were still in the minds of the Ministers
the awkward matter of the Little Bay Hospital
inquiry began to attract notice. This hospital is
essentially a place for the treatment of the sick
poor. Scandalous abuses were unearthed, and the
Public Service Board, unable to allow the Hospital
to remain under the Health Department, sug-
gested, this time to Premier See, that it
should be placed under the same manage-
ment as the charitable institutions, and that a
medical head should be appointed to control these
institutions. The Board, in fact, revived their
earlier recommendations with additions. It is a
matter of public notoriety that patients are kept
on at Little Bay after they are convalescent,
because, being paupers, they cannot be discharged
lest they should have to sleep in the parks. Red
tape forbids that they should be sent direct to an
asylum, and when the unfortuates are at length
cast out of the hospital, they are left to drift
about until they relapse or get an order for asy-
lum admission. Meanwhile their presence at
Little Bay prevents other patients being accom-
modated, and thus double mischief is wrought.
In view of the unspeakable scandals at Little Bay
a new administration was necesssary, and the
Charities Department was probably the right
place under which to put the hospital, but such a
change more than ever necessitated the medical
control of the charities. But whoever it was that
was able to stifle Good Man Brunker’s Conscience
was able to do as much for Premier See’s, and the
proposal was vetoed by the Government.
• • • »
Failing to carry its point, the Public Service
Board weakly gave way, and completely reversed
their frequently-urged recommendations. It
took back its nomination of a medical man, and
appointed an official named Hanson, reputed to be
an excellent auditor, but with no effective qualifi-
cation to administer the charitable hospitals of
the State. The folly of the Board’s action will
appear the more glaring when it is remembered
that under the Old Age Pensions Act many of the
able-bodied inmates will be removed from the
asylums, leaving behind mainly those who cannot
shift for themselves.
* * • *
While the farce is being played, the harvest of
death is being reaped. At Liverpool Asylum one-
fourth of the inmates die every year, and at Rook-
wood and Parramatta one-sixth. The heart that
bled for Willman’s sad fate cannot be expected
to bleed for the five or six hundred ancients who
are yearly counted out. at Liverpool and Parra-
matta, where their survivors are crushed together
like trucked sheep. So the plea of the poor and
the outcast is unheard, and their bodies are daily
. made a sacrifice to feed the pompous pride of cal-
lous officialdom.
Northern People and Liquor.
“ Waddy” makes a free speech to The Bulletin
on Northern liquor and things :
Queensland laws are of the elastic sort. We complain
further south of two laws : one for the rich and one for
the poor. Further north in Q. they complain of two laws
also, one for the north and one for the south. Take
the Chinese question. It has been told me by the
officers of three steamers going north that at Cooktown
every time a Chinese steamer comes in a cargo of Chinks
is landed. The Universal Great Australian Tired Feeling
gets very bad the further north you get, and presumably
the customs officers are painfully afflicted with it. Each
steamer coming south carries a number of non-English-
speaking Ch.namen, and if you question an officer of the
steamer he will give you Cooktown as their shipping port.
A shrug of the shoulders is his answer to most of your
other questions.
At one shipping port of N.Q. I have known a case to
slip from a ship’s sling and burst open in front of a cus-
toms officer, showing the contents to be boards branded
with some well-known whisky name all ready to go toge-
ther. Branded corks, capsules, labels and bottles are
imported—all made in Germany. What class of whisky
is put into these bottles and labelled with these
imported labels is known only to the Lord and the
whisky merchant. If these merchants stopped there per-
haps it would not matter so much —for the coastal con-
sumers of this bad whisky are usually satisfied when
they are as drunk as 40 cats —but they go further, and
sell to the out-back proprietors of N.Q. drinking-hel s
some of those branded corks, capsules, and labels. And
the out-back drinker isn’t satisfied unless he is as drunk
as 85 cats, and pretty large cats at that, so the whisky
that goes with the bogus cork speedily kills him. Out-
back whisky is usually manufactured on the premises,
from some recipe supplied for a consideration by the
agent. Anyone can get a license in North Queensland,
as far as the police are concerned, and for any kind
of premises—they will license a sheet of bark up
there. One P.M. of the North informed me that he
granted licenses to smellful houses because his direct
instructions from head-quarters in Brisbane were that,
unless some private objection was offered, all licenses
applied for were to be granted in the interests of State
revenue. So in small villages of 60 adult inhabitants you
may see four “ hotels,” consisting of a bar, a dining-room,
a couple of bedrooms (probably all with earthen floors), and
a murderous-looking landlord in charge. I don’t know
where they grow some of those landlords.
It has also occurred to me that “ the interests of State
revenue ” may account for some of the liquor dens of
Sydney suburbs, to say nothing of the out-back abomina-
tions of N.S.W.
The licensing law’ of N.Q. (they have the same law for
all Q., but in the north it is administered differently) is
admitted by the authorities to be rotten, but the Three
Years’Licensing Commission summed up most of its re-
commendations by saying, in’effect, “ The people are used
to things as they are.”
One of my N.Q. publican friends one day inherited
some whisky from a retiring publican, together with a lot
of branded corks, capsules, etc. My friend was new at
the trade and in the whisky he had struck something
curious—he said it had a “ funny feel,” and asked me to
look at it. A modicum of yellowish-brown' liquor was
poured into a tumbler. “ Feel it,” said Mr. Pub. I felt
it. “Quite cold, ain’t it?” said he. “Quite cold U’ I
said, Mr. Pub poured some water in. “ Feel it now,” he
said. I felt it. The temperature had risen from about
70 to 120 or so. I didn’t examine it closely, nor did I
taste it. I was afraid it might rush out of the glass and
attack me. I can’t think it was sulphuric acid that
caused the heat. I know rectified spirit gets warm on
adding water, but the stuff was too hot. Two nips of it
knocked over one fellow in 25 minutes.
The Customs question, so far as the tainted North is
concerned, is one which can only be cured in one way.
Remove every official north of the tropic of Capricorn
who has been there more than two years, but don’t leave
the new men there for more than two years. The whole
of N.Q. is rotten through and through, the climate has
got the officials and population in its enervating grasp,
and laziness and corruption are supreme in the land.
The business people of N.Q. are so used to dealing with
Japs, Chinkies, and South Sea islanders that, for the life
of them, they cannot be prompt or business-like in their
dealings with a white man from South. Those of the
North don’t notice it.
Intercourse between such a mixed population brings
about some curious results. Here we see the white man
rapidly degenerating through kow'-towing to the inferior
races. A wealthy Chinaman in the North is a power in
the land, and a wealthy white man is so scarce that—
welf, N.Q. gets down and wallows when it sees him. The
hybrid population that is growing up offers some interest-
ing studies of the. effect of racial intermixture. Will the
ultimate end of this mixture produce a new race like the
lazy, treacherous Guatemalans or Cubans? In and around
Cairns you see every possible combination of half-caste—
the most evil that of a Chinaman and a black gin.
When their son marries the daughter of a Syrian and his
Kanaka girl, I don’t know what will happen next.


A FREE BOOK.
We learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attached to every bottle of Condy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
curing most of the ailments and accidents
affecting Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry,
and Birds of all kinds.
Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses.—Scab, Foot Rot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Rinderpest, Hoove, Foul in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle.—Distemper
Mange, Canker, and Eczema in Dogs.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of local substitutes, all are
inferior. Insist on having Condv’s Fluid.
BfifflHS
&0 TO HELT -
' IGORA N I > for Pretty Stumps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
7i Elizafceth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price*
lis gratis.
hats. hats. hats.
Mountcastle & Quaitfs
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Catalogue to B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Querx Street, BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WRLT€R ORRPLO' » CO.,
J'urniture and f ine Art A uctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
for auction a. for private sale
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction /looms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
{n Affectionate Remembrance
of the
(great Jiberal
<2Tstrcis*o (Ehickcna,
£OBo sljmttel> their political life (fvoin S.VI ’» ). *fi ft * britf aub
beopemte struggle agninet the toill of the Jteop'e.
On July 3rb, 1901.
“though loot to eight, to mentors bear” (i»t am? price).
$-,tbor omnia blttcit.
A taught in the Transvaal schools ! Thus the
defence against tyranny in the Transvaal is for
the British to become tyrants in Cape Colony 1
British liberty, the British peace, are invoked in
order to destroy Dutch liberty, the Dutch peace !
The monster public deputation in favor of
Co-Operative coupons (introduced by Mr. Duncan
G-illies, M.L. A.) established an Australian record ;
over 500 people attended. The speakers were
limited by Mr. Peacock to live, but they rep-
resented an enormous number of the public. Mr.
Nelson (representing 2000 workers in the railway
service) said : “This coupon system has taught us
thrift and brought pleasure to a great many
homes.” Mr. Davis (President Brickmakers’
Association) said that “ The public realised that
it is the only system by which they can get dis-
count on all small purchases.”*
d
For we Hair
g-ur* iff*** «. j
®J
It is the most reliable and the best
preparation for the hair, you can obtain,
no years success proves this. It
PRESERVES THE HAIR
restores it when thin or withered, cures
baldness, eradicates scurf, is specially
adapted for Ladies’ and Childrens’Hair,
and is also sold in a
GOLDEN COLOUR
lor fair or grey hair, which does not
stain or darken the hair, or linen.
Sold by Stores or Chemists. Ask for
Rowlands,67, Hatton Garden,London,
HIGH-GRADE
FARM—
•r^-V
SKfci
irnr
Vte •«£
IViassey-Harris Co. Ltd
35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Of the original N.S.W. Labor party of ’9l
only two have held on to their seats and remained
Laborites throughout—M‘Gowen and Cann.
Edden, though now a Laborite, was independent
for a time ; and Andy Kelly had a spell at the bar.
A N.S.W. State forecast that does not sin
against probabilities is that the Arbitration Bill
will again be thrown out by the Council, whereon
Govt, will go to the country on that Bill, a Re-
duction of Members Bill, and Reform of the
Council.
Men in the street praise S.M. Herald
because in the recent State elections it was not so
big a fool as Sydney Daily Telegraph. But the
difference between being a fool and abstaining
from being a fool is very often a mere matter of
heat of blood.
The Kanakas in Mongrelia, according to
the latest official count (end of June), numbered
9330. Bundaberg owns 2274, Mackay 1775, and
the Herbert River 1183. Altogether 209 are
debited to Brisbane, where, of course, they’re
sugar-growing.
This is something to their credit, and
perhans here and there to the credit of their
organisations—Not one Labor member who sat
in last N.S.W. Parliament and ran again was
defeated. That is true of no other party —not
even of poor Terry’s Independent party of one.
Apropos of the great railway strike in
Westralia, it is interesting to note that W.A. has
an Arbitration Act to meet such difficulties. It
was one of the measures passed by Bigjohn to
placate the progressive party, and few people
noticed until now that it was quite useless for the
single reason that the Board which was to arbi-
trate had never been appointed. Eternally
keeping your eye on Bigjohn is the price of
. iberty.
TOO DANGEROUS.
FREDDY: “But, I say, Chawley, what’s come of that fancy [?]ais
coat you had on yesterday?”
CHAWLEY : “ Oh! had to leave it off. Fwightened the hosses.”
In the fund raised in India recently for
the purpose of erecting a memorial hall to the late
Queen Victoria in Calcutta, the seven largest
donations (from greasy Indian princes) total
£216,529. How can one possibly reconcile this
with the numerous requests last year for subscrip-
tions to assist in relieving the Indian famine ?
The Queensland deficit of £550,000 is
making the local Civil Service tremble. Already
officials are putting out feelers and trying the tone
of the Ministerial mind. And the Ministers
themselves don’t know what to do, for the general
election comes next year, and an onslaught on the
Service just now would mean calamity in 1902.
Labor-leader Browne (Q.)says that Leahy,
the present Q. Works Minister, represents
about 200 men, half-a-million sheep and 7,000,000
rabbits. Browne might have added that Leahy’s
Govt, also represent a dozen years of shameful
misgovern ment, a score of strangled reforms, the
biggest debt (per capita) on earth, and half-a-
million deficit.
WHICH DEVIL ?
“ You know us, gentlemen ; you know what we have
done.” —Premier See at the Empire Hotel.
It seems to us, as politics go,
In spite of what proverbs tell—
Better the devil you do not know
Than the devil you know too well.
The mere fact that one newspaper brutally
attacks a certain politician personally every week
is no reason why the Commonwealth Parliament
should establish a tyranny by Act of Parliament
in the Postal Bill. If that politician and his
friends have a grievance let them take action for
libel; if they don’t choose to do so, then they
must be held to have no grievance.
Senator Glassey’s proposal that mail sub-
sidies should be paid only to white-labour steam-
ship lines moved Senator Dobson to explain that
Lascars were employed, not for the sake of cheap-
ness, but only because of the drunkenness, disor-
derliuess and unreliability of the British sailor.
Now, if a Labor member had uttered such a blast-
ing libel on the vaunted British sailor !
Federal Postmaster-General Drake’s Bris-
bane organ, Progress, affects a bad policy in
eternally rejoicing at Labor calamities in Queens-
land, and eternally patting the rotten Continuous
Govt, on the back! From a recent issue “ Mr.
Philp has a golden opportunity of rallying the
Democracy of this country to his standard and
becoming the Seddon or Ballanee of Queensland.”
Fancy Philp as a Ballanee !
Rumored that the Westralian members
propose to vote solidly against the taking over by
the Federal Govt, of the Northern Territory, lest
the expense attached to it, and the further cost
of completing the overland line to Port Darwin
which must needs follow, should interfere with
the prospects of their own transcontinental rail-
way. If they do so, a lot of members will get
level by voting against the Westralian transcon-
tinental line, and the Gropers may cut their own
throats. The Commonwealth is rich enough, if
its affairs are well administered, to take over the
Territory and to build both railways; they are all
essential works, and all works of great ultimate
profit. But the taking over of the Territory is
ten times more urgent than the W.A. railway,
and if one work must stand over for a while, there
is no doubt at all as to whph should stand.
Dear BULLETIN. —
The headquarters of the
pearling industry of Tor-
res Straits and its sur-
rounding 5000 sq. miles
of sea are at Thursday
Island. The wages paid
to the colored employees
of this industry alone
average £50,000 a year,
and that money is distri-
buted amongst some 2200
men—Japanese, Manilas
Kanakas and Australian
aborigines. Now, to des-
troy this industry would
mean the ruin of many,
and a reduction of about
£30,000 per an. in the
Federal Customs tariff
from Thursday Island
alone. Take away the
colored labor, the divers,
the tenders, and the
nigger crews, and there
is no white labor to re-
place them. The whole
industry must cease for
a time. But the various
States have industrial
schools and reforma-
tories scattered every-
where, and in most of
these institutions at
least one trade is taught.
Why not include diving
amongst these trades ?
So, within a few years,
white divers would be
forthcoming to super-
sede the Japs and Manila
men, who now have a
practical monopoly of
the business.— W.
In view of the Tory
strengthening of S. Aus.
Leg. Council, King-
ston’s democratic idea of
having a convention to
frame a revised State
Constitution will most
likely be dropped.
Holder, during his
Premiership, dropped heaps of things ; and
Jenkins will probably be found to have the
same disease, only more so. And if, having noth-
ing much else to do, Parliament should drop Jen-
kins, the chances are that the Premiership will
go to Duncan, a fine Proputty representative in
the Council. It is an awful thing to contemplate
S.A. coming to this, but it looks quite possible.
G. H. Reid, the Australian democrat :
“ Australians are not going to pay taxes voted by
650 gentlemen on the other side of the world.”
But practically Australians have been always
doing it, and in his days of power Mr. Reid helped
the game gleefully along. What is tiie system of
ONE FOR WAGNER.
“Now, there’s one thirty I admire about Wagner's
music.”
“ What’s that? ” “ Nobody whistles it.”
imported Governors and Governors-General ?
What is the system of Deputy Mint-Masters ?
Britain appoints, Australia pays.
Score this to the credit of Adelaide’s Tory
Register, anyhow: that, though Findley owed
his expulsion mainly to the Argus, which belongs
to the same “ school ” as the Register, the latter
was honest enough to denounce the methods by
which the expulsion was accomplished. By the
way, in view of the S’lapgdon Bonython Adver-
tiser's strange contortions, the Register has the
.second chance of its lifetime—such a chance as
David Syme seized when the Argus began to
wobble.
Premier Leake declares that when he
offered voluntary arbitration to the W.A. railway
strikers (the compulsory Arbitration Act being
laid up for repairs for reasons connected with late
Premier Bigjohn) they accepted cheerfully with
the proviso that neither party shovM be bound by
the decision of the Board. The negotiation then
snapped off, carrot-fashion. It would be inter-
esting to know if there is any other side to that
story. If there is no other side, then the W.A.
railway strikers are a remarkable crowd.
The proposal that N.S.W. Government,
which now owns 29 public-houses in the resumed
area of Bydney, should try the experiment of
running the drink traffic there as a State Mono-
poly, has caused multitudes of good dry men to
rise up and protest against the State deriving
revenue from the “accursed thing.” The trouble
is that N.B.W. already derives £1,000,000 a year
revenue from the accursed thing, and it would
need nearly 2s. in the £ income-tax and 3d. in the
£ land-tax to make up the loss if it swore off.
“B.”: Thenuml >erof candidates who offered
themselves at N.B.W general elections, just over,
proves that the deposit system should never have
been abolished. Numbers came forward just for
a business advt., and nobody’s cheese or bacon
advt. should be pasted on the Constitution in this
fashion. If a lot of electors petition someone to
allow himself to be nominated, and the candidate
cannot pay the deposit, the electors will pay it
for him if their invitation is not a hoax. At
Braidwood three candidates got six votes among
them.
Owing to the cable between Vic. and Tas-
mania being private property, the little sister of
the Commonwealth is denied equal press rates
with the other States. Inter-State press messages
are now carried, when dealing with proceedings in
the Federal Houses, at Victorian rates ; i.e., a
paper at the Gulf of Carpentaria or Perth will pay
no more per 100 words than a paper at Bendigo.
But Tasmania is out of the running because of her
privately-owned cable. An object lesson in the
national curse of privately-owned means of com
munication.
Consider Britain’s wonderful luck in the
past ! It was a stroke of luck that made France
and Spain, instead of joining to drive the English
out of Canada and the West Indies, waste their
strength on the siege of Gibraltar, defended by an
English cavalry General—Elliot—-who, by another
queer chance, was also the best defensive engineer
in Europe. It was another stroke of luck that
ended the Crimean War before the Indian Mutiny
broke out, and another that prevented the late
Chinese shindy breeding a European war while
S’Africa was a blaze.
What an edifying and suggestive spectacle
is that of the Victorian Chief-Justice (in his capa-
city of Acting-Governor) colloguing with the Vic.
Premier on a political subject (the Findley case),
which may yet come, and might easily have come
ere now, before the Supreme Court presided over
by the Chief Justice-Lieut.-Governor aforesaid!
When are these two utterly incompatible offices
to be finally divorced in order that such shameful
scandals may be avoided? What does Chief-
Justice Waxcellency Madden think of himself on
calmly reviewing the Findley situation ?
Th© recent
issue of a new
Victorian duty-
stamp which
can’t be used for
postal purposes,
and a postage-
stamp w h i c h
can’t be used for
receipting bills, also the
calling in of the previous
penny stamps which were
available for both pur-
poses, are matters for
question in Vic. Assem-
bly. What in the name
of Federation was the depart-
mental excuse for ordering new stamp-
dies for a dying provincial-system ? The Federal
P.O.'will in due course issue a first and—it is to
be hoped—final set of all-Australian stamps.
With these in view, the recent introduction of
new stamps for a new rule looks to have been
done for the benefit of somebody else than the
general public.
The Federal Property Acquisition Bill
provides that the Commonwealth shall have power
to compulsorily resume land in the Federal Terri-
tory ; that the compensation to be paid shall be
based on the value of the land as at the 1st Jan.
preceding the resumption, and shall not include
any added value or prospective value created by
the expenditure of Federal money in creating a
capital, AND THAT THE COMMONWEALTH SHALL BE
SOLE GROUND LANDLORD OF THE FEDERAL TERRI-
TORY FOR ever. To all of which The Bulletin
says a deafening Amen.
Sydney Morning Herai.d cordially ap-
proves, in a recent leading article, of the proposal
that the British Govt, should cancel the agree-
ment under which the Netherlands Railway Co.
(largely owned in Holland and Germany) exists
and has its Transvaal line. It supports t l is act
on the ground of public policy. The same prece-
dent may come in useful some day with a view to
cancelling the concessions of the S.A. Co., the
Australian Agricultural Co., the V.D.L. Co., the
Hampton Plains (W.A.) Co., the Melbourne,
Perth, Brisbane, and Adelaide Tramway Co.’s,
the Northern Territory Land Co., &c. And then
even the Herald will say things.
Sydney D. T.’s Cape correspondent, for-
wards a column of Jingo pleading for (1) dis-
franchisement of the British electors of Dutch
descent in Cape Colony ; and (2) abolition of the
Dutch language in schools where a vast majority
of the children are of Dutch descent. And the
war, says the Rhodesian press, was made because
Transvaal Britishers—aliens in the community—
were disfranchised; and because English was


PALING’S
Cheapest
and Best
House for
PIANOS
We Stock
The Leading Maker
of the World .
7 Trite for Particulars.
ORGANS
By The Estey Co.
Renowned for
Tone and Durability
PALI
ABB
HEAP
QUABTEBS
FOB
EVEBYTHING
KNOWN
IN
MUSIC
CALL
Jt OR
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUES
iiTii Wi
MUSIC
The Most AT REDUCED PRICES
Up-to-date Stock
In Australasia
Entmst us with your Orders.
Qand Instruments
By
Boosey
Besson and
Couesnon
The three Best Mahers.
Musical lostrCin>€ijtS
Of €vcry Pcscriptioo
Violins
Banjos
Cornets
Concertinas
&c.
Guitars
Mandolins
Autoharps
Accordeons
& c.
W. H. PALINfi *C° L™ 338
6EOR6E STREET,
Sydney
Brisbane
a at° Newcastle
READ WHAT . . .
VITADATIO
... IS DOING.
A Victory from Junee.
30 YEARS A SUFFERER.
VITADATIO CURED HIM.
Mr. S. A. PARMER, Sydney,
Dear Sir, —It is now close on 30 year* since I had the
first attack of a cold, which has troubled me continuously’
At first the cough was only slight, and, as most people
thoughtlessly do, I did not take any particular care of
mvself, thinking the cough would soon leave me. 1 was
then about list, in weight; but 1 began to get much
worse, and, in spite of medical attendance, I soon found
the cold had such a severe hold on me that nothing
apparently did me any good. For years I tried many of
the advertised remedies, but they all failed to cure me.
The cough increased, and before 1 could lay down in bed
at night I would be seized with a fit of coughing, which
frequently lasted for an hour, during which time I would
expectorate a great quantity of phlegm. 1 lost flesh
rapidly, and my clothes were simply hanging on me like
hags. ’ However, a short time ago, I commenced taking
“ Webber’s Vitadatio,” and, after taking the second
bottle, I began to improve, and now, after taking six
large bottles of Vitadatio, I feel splendid, and have re-
gained my loss in weight. I am 14st. again. I cannot
express my gratitude for the recovery of my long-lost
health. 1 intend taking a few more bottles, so as to make
the cure thorough and complete, and I am sending you
this testimonial in the hope that other sufferers may be
induced to give your wonderful medicine a trial.—Your*
gratefully, (Signed) W. B. LYONS.
Junee, late of Albury,
February 20th, 1900.
For further particulars.
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
3
ORE
OS
An Important Query!
When purchasing a cycle be sure and ask
IF
vs
are fitted. If not, reject the machine, for no cycle will give
satisfactory results on our roads unless these RELIABLE and
durable tyres are fitted.
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed for 12 Months.
Cyclists Please Note!
s»
•OteS
Many riders are disposed to ride
their “ D unlops ” too slack —a
practice that leads to Side Slip,
Punctures and Cut Tyres. The
illustrations herewith depict the
wrong and right way of riding
tyres. Fig. 1 shows the tyre
almost devoid of air ; Fig. 2 re-
presents the tyre as it is, alas !
too often ridden—insufficiently
inflated; whilst Fig. 3 shows
how the tyre should appear
bearing its full load and pro-
perly inflated. If cylists will
pay a little more . attention to
this important matter, they will find that their, tyres will give
far better results, besides wearing nearly as long again.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus. Ltd.,
150 Clarence Street, SYDNEY;
Melbourne. Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
AHD AX
In ace of the recent wholesale alienation
of C. own lands in certain Q. districts, this Bris-
bane Courier extract is worth reading :
Nothing will so quickly re-act on Brisbane as the
cutting-up of large estates on the Downs ; and, since
Parliament has endorsed the principle of cutting-up tat
lands within easy access of centres of population and
making them suitable for settlement, the Govt, will pro-
bably look in this direction for relief.
More Seaforth-estate jobs in prospect T
Indications are that King Ned is to be
called King of “Greater Britain,” or “Sovereign
Lord ” of various specified places, and that there
is to be in bis title nothing about “ Protector of
the Australian Commonwealth.”
However the various independent miscel-
laneous and unattached members of the new
N.S.W. Leg. Assembly may sort themselves out,
it is pretty certain that the self-styled “ Liberal ”
party will not succeed in obtaining a term of
power without a long course of political log-rolling
and intrigue. How the stronger men of the party
must curse their stupidity in allowing Sydney
Telegraph and G. H. Reid to bluff them into
declining the portfolios offered by See, O’Sullivan
and co. a month or two back ! But it looked such
a rosy prospect, such a sure thing ! Spurn the
offer with scorn, storm the country with the
Freetrade cry, sweep the polls and establish a
Ministry under “us” —the Freetrade and Liberal
Association. Ha, ha !
The scale of tilings American ! The last
two years have seen blizzards and cyclones which
destroyed hundreds of lives. Last year’s huge
N.Y. dock-fire did the same. And now Carnegie
sells out for £30,000,000 ; and same cable tells that
a dam has burst, wrecking 11 villages, leaving
14,000 people homeless, and causing the death of
between 500 and 1000. Again, we have the
striking of a pier by lightning, causing the death
of 11 youngsters who were fishing therefrom ; and
in one day we learn that because somebody said
“ Strike !” 40,000 men “go out”; and that So-
and-so has casually given a trifle of a million or so
to something or other. In New York at present
the heat is causing scores of deaths daily ; 200
police are on the sick-list; the hospitals are
crowded with patients; vehicular traffic is sus-
pended, and firemen line the streets hosing such
poor beasts as are out. “ Millionaires walk the
streets in their shirt-sleeves, and workmen go
about in gymnastic costume.” Truly wonderful
are the happenings in the “chosen spot of God’s
green earth.”
Senator Glassey’s motion that the Com-
monwealth should only pay mail subsidies to
3teamship lines employing white labor exclusively,
aroused much silly vituperation about “presum-
ing to dictate to companies located 10,000 miles
away as to whom they should employ,” and
“ wanting to punish people because of their
color,” and so on. The Democratic party doesn’t
object to anybody’s color, and it is quite willing
to see black men employed— if they are employed
at white men's wages. It only objects because the
black man is employed at low wages, and is used
as a means to lever down the white man’s pay.
And nobody proposed to dictate to the P. and O.
Co. as to its employees—it may have even nigger
captains and nigger directors if it likes. It was
only proposed that the Commonwealth should
have the same liberty to decide whom it should
employ, and that it should not employ Lascars in
its ocean mail service. Glassey’s proposal was
lost by 17 to 9, most of the Freetraders voting
solidly for the oheap nigger.
Labouchere’s Truth and a large party in
London contend that Milner is ineligible for a
British peerage as he was born a German subject,
and there is a statute of William and Mary divest-
ing the King of the power to create a naturalised
subject a peer. Milner, having been given his
peerage, will be known as the Lager peer.
Dear Bulletin. —It is hard for common
persons like myself to realise the enormous lengths
to which royal condescension can go when it tries
hard, but . the recent cable message that the King
would give his assent to the Civil List personally
in recognition of the promptitude with which
Parliament parted-up came in the nature of an
eye-opener. Suppose I was employed in your
office, and you paid my salary earlier than usual,
and I marked my approval of your promptitude
by personally signifying my acceptance of the
“beans,” would my condescension break you
up ? —J.H.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes -
Security.—
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
&
BILLS
discounted.
3XT.S.-W.
(flont deplete go., [tl
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174 CASTLEREAGH ST., *74
1 SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
■ — r ri I T5—-
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. >l. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,263. •
Policies issued 82,0(H)— assuring £26,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses- equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia.
(LIMITED).
Bf-gisterf.d Capital .. .. £4.x00,«0« 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. £3,216,885 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman ; J. C. Syme,
Esu., J.P.; HOll. W. 11. Elll bling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street. Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London OJjice: 1 Jiishopsf/nte Street Within
corner of Leadenliall Street, E C.)
Bankers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 27 a GIOOItGH STItIOUT.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Hnymarket, Gosfe.-d wit . aire ;cy at Wrong}, New-
castle ; with Branches througnout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers —£3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
The Bank of |]orth Queensland
UMITKIi.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Oo. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... .. £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... 250 000 ... £350,000
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building’s, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount'd Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital „ ..£2,500,000
fjeiu Zealand Insurance (Jo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT, ,
Manager. 81 Pitt St>, SytltlCy*
Jb€ Trustees, €*€<;<itorS,
AND
AgSOCV Coippaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £l5O 000
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000
RESERVE LIABILITY £l5O 000
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £8312
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1900 (6,326,343 0
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registei
trustee.
0 0
0
ed
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BOItUOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir >V. M'Millax, lion. A. IV. Mf.KKS,
Adelaide : L. A. JKsaor, Esq.,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide, W.
N. M'Farlank ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., U. M. Montbfiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West <& South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, July 20, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., July 27, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., August 6, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., August 6, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDARERG
Leura, Saturday, July 20,12 Noon.
Burwah, Tuesday, July 23, 5 p.m.
GLADSTONE i
MAOKAY l
TOWNSVILLE J
Leura, Saturday, July 20,12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday July 27, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Pares and Freights to all Ports.
Iteturn Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S . Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
THE “ALL RED” MAIL BOUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OP THE
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Svdney every
four weeks as under, for
© . v.i wiuil UilC
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tracttve It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 days, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world—over the
,I kirk ana Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along 1 the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Queensland Smelting Canin.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites
etc For tariff, ap ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Omce, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
ISftn/e of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
2,000,000 0 0
1,250,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
0 0
Total 5,250,000
Directors :
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
William Alfred C'ottee, Esq.
Richard Bixnik, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.O.
Hon. Hurry Norm and MacLaurin, M.L.C.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors:
F. W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and Nev
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects' foi
its customers dividends of public companies, and interesi
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes tlie agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circulai
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all oustomarv
banking business. J
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East. '
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
usiness Announcements.
SOLAR INE
Absolutely the Best
METAL POLISH.
SOLE AGENTS:
N. <JUTNRID6€ Ltd.,
71 Clarence St., Sydney.
d
Eatd.
1770.
and/EOLAS
Unsurpassed for
TONE and . .
WORKMANSHIP.
Manufactured and Guaranteed bu
WHEATSTONE & Co.
(Original
Inventors &
Patentee-),
20, Conduit Street, LONDON, W., England.
Of all Dealers ; or send direct for Price Lists
Shipping
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and 00., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL. CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
___ AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
nxrTSTx^
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Fleet Comprising
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1900, 4,707,000 ; Over 4 million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
; REGULAR SERVICE to SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
S.S STETTIN, 2478 Tons,
Captain Niedermeyer,
LEAVING SYDNEY, 21st AUGUST NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents, • lf J
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
ASK YOUR JEWELLER TO SHOW YOU
, The Patent Unbreakable
ONE-PIECE’ STUDS
Masterpieces of mechanical skill,
Made in Gold, Silver, and Gold-Cased.
Once
Worn
Always
Worn.
Beauty of
Contour
& Finish.
c
Avoid
imitations
None
genuine
unless
stamped
‘ Patent.’
Zf damaged from ANf cause, a new
one given in exchange.
Wholesale only:
SAUNDERS & SHEPHERD, LTD.,
279, GEORGE St., SYDNEY, & London, Eng
♦
o
*IP
OLD
RMS
6W
SUNBU,
fing
PC D
HA
<5?
"V
&.C
O/yr
<b
n
Y
ft
%p
r, etors
USE
SPOONERS
SPOONERS
Pmv •»»*
IWTBNT LEATHER BOOTS
GLAZED JUDS fcf
• a - C|>-: \ • ' -fcV % •■**. *.►.• •• . .
«*•*
.uW****'•*»>..>• •4»*•»«•.*.ti>•
ikinr^
r-sasamJ!
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning- and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing-:,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Medical.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.
i
With Patent RUBBER FEE i'
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, <Sec.
DENYER BROS. Surgical Instrument Maker
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
_ Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(MMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
west Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOli MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. liockton, Friday,
July 19.
S.S. Marloo. Saturday,
July 27.
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Ointra, Friday,
July 19.
Cheapest Itonte to Goldfields.
first Pm- f P w age tl °^? t ?,. are interchangeable after the
BteLmnfJt J v e n urne and Cairns with the
ta Co. and W. Howard Smith and
chanireahln and w . A. all tickets are inter-
•ditlons tn L the A.U.S.N. 00. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
—. Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
A. U. STTT'Cov. Ltd.
royal mail coastal service.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
mm C 7PN h p eirM^ Steamships as under.
MLLBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly.
Rnwo- yd ™ ej ’> Brisbane, • Rockhampton, Mackay,
’J 0 ,"™ 1 ' 1 " 6 ' Cairns - and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weeklv
SYDNrv AND BOCKHAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—-Every 3 Week., viaßrU
and Normanton ' C ° oktown » Thur * day
svhyev’ NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly
®™NEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly. y '
and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Passeni/ei Aceornniodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
firftnorti^vB g w^ ets are interchangeable after the
of tl e AdBD m a A J e L bourne and Cail ' ns with the steamers
subiect m ee S ‘ C ? m Pany and W. H. Smith and Sons,
For J Adelaideditions to be ascertained on application.
nh r ,, 1 1 l,de . and vv - Australia all tickets are inter-
° h s?^ e 'r.'.b the Adelaide S.S. Co. only,
street Svdi and CO , Ltd., Agents, In Bridge-
Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P. AND O. COMPANY.
be^esJLtched'asfonows 8 ! 1 -! 158 ° f the above Compm.y will
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touehing afc the usual Intermediate Ports.
Wlth Permission to call at Brindisi.
Steamer.
Commander.
ISydney,
Noon
BRITANNIA 6525'F. H. Seymour
AUSTRALIA.. 6901 1. Reeves
VICTORIA ..'6525 E. Crewe
ROME 5545 E. Street ..’
HIMALAYA ... 6308 W. I. Broun, R.N.R.
•• (July
.. Aug.
• Aug.
.. jSept.
... Sept.
i,. Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £77
T, . D m-°. . „ Ditto Return £7l 10sto £l2l
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial pores
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
tnnes. Steiniie r S having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE. FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and TOUT
i ASS LINGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,’
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Lpon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them ever3 r assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris aiid Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (Eirst Saloon) betvv een Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R-BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
Huddart, parker g go’s Qine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
at e s.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, ano JAPAN
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darw in.
Steamer.
iTus
AIRLIE
AUSTRALIAN
GUTHRIE
Leave Sydney.
Commander.
-j j
1250(1 St. John George August 10
3000 P. T. Helms August 31
. 2500. W. G. M'Arthur .. September 28
The above steamers wer- specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience
including Electric Light and Kilhourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction whh the Canadian-Pacific Railway ami Steam-
ship Company.
Foi further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.’
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
fflllaraitb, ffl'Eachara ft g«T
PROP. LID.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALGOOELIE, 4500 tons,
3500 TONS,
SAIL JbOItTNIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
MMLWRAITH, MEACHARN arid CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle
Sydney Agents BURNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
Press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies 3 7 0 u have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/Hd. per b x. Prepared by
AI BERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents ; ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney* Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
r:een label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
sc
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel*
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com*
ound Inhalent, and 1 tin
Nasal Ointment, only
10-
Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
DON'T POISON
YOURSELF
WITH DRUGS when our ELECTRIC BELT (with or
without suspensor) will CURE YOU. |3P“ ELECTRIC)
CURRENT GUARANTEED. Pamphlet and Consulta-
tion Free. HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists, 105 Regent-
street, London W., and 44 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
We give a fair trial before payment.
PHOTOS
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Chic; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque on London.
< _ J
English, French, and German Rare Books.
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GEIMNERT,
89c Faubourg St., Martin, Paris, France.
CALWERT’S
CARBOLIC
POWDER
IS THE BEST DENTAL
PRESERVATIVE.
Has the Largest Sale of any Dentifrice.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F, C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
I^=
tr
IN
£
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers from Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia, iEnemia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALiNE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
§
hmunj)
IlHilNfJs
HI«WW
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERE RASSMUSSEN’S CHIEF LABORATORY,
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Afl> ctions, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Course, 28/6.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURFI for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases, Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the We akest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
iEnemia, Wasting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cute Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOXES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guarantied to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills - A
Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
posted, 35., 65., 12s. and 235. 6d.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
cure for all Spinal and Kidney Affections ;
425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Correspondence held confidential.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3 - and 6/-
CORN CURE, 1 /-.
OINTMENT, 1/-.
m
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, NS.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and his
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke-st.
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen-st.
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney-st.
W.A.—PERTH, 481 Hay-st.
KALGOORLIE —Hannan - st.
BOULDER CITY-Piesse-st.
N. Z.—-91 Lambton Quay, Wellington. FREMANTLE—Henry-st.
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALKALINE REMEDIES.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE'S
rHLORODVHE
Caution. —Genuine Ohlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ill were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chi.okodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
se
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
A TELIA NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address':
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
“ COMMON SENSE EAll DRUM.”
ItHEI
beaf
(-COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible remedy.
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng 1 .,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
G. L. ROBERTS. IVI.D.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
4
t
Always
useful.
Keep
them
iiandy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
INVENTOR OF Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c.
use Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. i£d. and 2s. gd. each of all Drug
Stores.
Sole Makers. BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd.
BRIPPORT, England.
ns r
DEAF
QH3P
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
[how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address. —L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
a
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 257-
Head arid Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address
J. CHALMERS, Agent,'
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
Pity the sorrows of the trader on the
western (N.S.W.) rivers and the country those
occasional rivers serve ! While other N.S.W.
merchants have been filling their warehouses in
order to dodge the coming duties, these waybaok
unfortunates, the rivers being unnavigable, see
the weeks slide and their ordered goods still on
the other side of the border.
“ S.S.”: The Bulletin, in recently point-
ing out that brains are, under modern conditions,
a third factor in the production of wealth, and
one that must be considered equally with labor
and capital, should have dropped a line or two to
cripple the fond illusion of Fatman that this is
some further justification of his appropriation of
the lion’s share of the product The Argus long
ago raised joyous acclaim over this theory in the
comfortable belief that it reduced to absurdity the
demands of labor for not only a share of the
necessaries, but a proportion of the luxuries.
Really brains in production are as much the bond-
servant of Capital as Labor is, presuming you
mean not merely the cunning to acquire and
manipulate certain properties; but the genius to
devise and invent machinery, and the power to
conceive and execute great schemes to facilitate
production. Capital employs Brains as it employs
Labor, but identifies itself with the third factor in
argument.
One of the worst and clumsiest follies of
Victoria’s House of 48 Deranged Landlords has
come home to roost. Some time ago Vic. Assembly
passed an Act providing for the official examina-
tion and branding of all meat sold in Melbourne
and suburbs, with power for any outside district
to come under the Act if so inclined. 11
was simply a law for the suppression of diseased
meat, but the Upper House, which largely repre-
sents the country districts, couldn’t see why the
country grower shouldn’t sell his diseased meat.
So it thought it was doing a clever thing when
it insisted on striking out the clause providing
that the Act might be extended to other places
besides Melbourne. Result is that no meat
slaughtered outside Melbourne can be officially
inspected and branded as good. Without that
brand it can’t go to Melbourne, and that big
market is cut off. The country freezing and
chilling works and slaughter-houses are closing
up, and the country dead-meat trade is about as
dead as its own meat. It is a beautiful commen-
tary on the alleged brains of the House of 48 Rich
Dodderers that it couldn’t see what it was doing
in a little matter like this. .


As
a Corrective
and Safeguard
of HEALTH.
THE BEST REMEDY TO-DAY IN THE MARKET IS
REUTER’S LITTLE PILLS
FOR THE LIVER.
A HOUSEHOLD NECESSITY.
“ Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled “ Piles and the Way to
Cure Them,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.*
In Maoriland an Irishman wrote in the
Religion column of the census-paper
His Majesty tiie King swears that I’m an idolator, and
I don’t like to give him the lie. Perhaps he knows best.
“ Oiling-Up.
i
£
u
Just a little oil on the
engine at the right time
may mean the difference
between life and death to
the passengers and crew.
That oil is to the friction
of the delicate parts of the
engine what Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are to
the delicate organs of the
body, they ease their
labor, prevent the loss of
power, the waste of
energy, caused by fric-
tion. Many a man who
is all run down, whose
limbs ached when he
walked, whose back ached
when he lay down, who
breathed with difficulty,
and coughed constantly,
has been perfectly cured
by the use of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. They
purify the blood and
strengthen the stomach.
Mr. J. Kennedy, 389
Victorian Parade, East
Melbourne, has a few
words to say about Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. He writes:—
Owing to irregular hours of work and irrjgular
meals, to which I was subjected, I have suffered
from the past two years from sluggish liver. On
rising in the morning I would feel more tired and
stiff than when I went to bed at night. I was
advised to take Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills,
but was loth to do so, as I had no faith in those
sort of things. But at last I decided to give them
a trial, and after taking a few doses, was so
astonished to find the good effect produced that I
continued taking them ; and now I am pleased to
say that I feel as well as ever I did. You have
my full permission to use this statement, as it
may be the means of others obtaining benefit
from these wonderful Pills.” Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier and a
positive cure for biliousness, indigestion, con-
stipation, headaches, sallow complexion,, liver
and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils,
blotches, and female ailments. Sold by chemists
and storekeepers, Is lid per bottle, or six bottles
6s Gd. Sole proprietors, The W.H. Comstock
Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the full
name blown thereon.*
a
the person who is not a millionaire, there m
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . .
“ EFis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Pos#
Otfice.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
W. W. GREENER’S NEW RIFLE
fs
Made expressly for Cadet Corps.
An entirely New & Exclusive Design.
The new Rifle has been produced
solely to supply the wants of Cadet
Corps for a REALLY RELIABLE
and ACCURATE RIFLE at a low
price, £3 3s. “a®
Ten Shots in 3 inch Square at 100 yards.
GENUINE ENGLISH MANUFACTURE THROUGHOUT.
Every Rifle guaranteed and named
W. W. GREENER, Birmingham, England.
On Hand—Greener’s Guns from 9 to 30 Guineas ; Lee
Enfield and Metford Rifles, Govt, viewed ; Greener’s New
Book, “ SIIARt’SHOOTING for Sport or War,” 1/. net,
posted 1/2. Stamps from other States not accepted!
SSST All Rifle Shots should read this Book. Ti£ft
Cha.s -TP2ia.ote: 1l a,inc3l.
317 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
CANADA’S FLYER!
THE RED BIRD
THIS SEASON’S SPECIAL FEATURES. REDUCED WEIGHT. UNIQUE HUBS. IMPROVED
CRANK BRACKET. PEDAL ADJUSTMENT. CALL AND INSPECT.
branches in eveuy STATE. GO OLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King- Street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Grand National Steeple this year, as last,
proved a fluting companion event to the Hurdle Race,
Freedom, at Oat. 111 b.—the same weight that Shoddy car-
ried over tha smaller sticks—beat a good one in Bethnal
(list. 191 b.) in much the same way as Shoddy had beaten
Pirate King. The third place in each event fell to a fairly
weighted horse from the Miller stable. The time for
the Steeple was 7seq. better than Rosebud’s previous re-
cord, whereas the Hurdle Race time was merely equal to
previous record, viz., the smin. 52Jsec., scored by Aqua-
rius last year.
So the V.R.O. handicapper has to mark, learn
and inwardly digest the fact that the Grand Nat.
“ double ” last year was secured by a pair of 9-stoners, in
record times, and this year it fell to a pair 9st. 11-ers,
also in record times. The average jumping gelding,
nowadays, is much faster than the field of a dozen years
ago, but the system of handicapping is not j'et adapted
to modern conditions. The heavyweighted and middle-
weighted good performers feel the burden more than they
felt it when the pace was slower. They deserve a better
chance of winning these rich stakes. The interests of the
owners of nags that show good “form” in minor events
are the interests of sport, and the interests of sport are
what punters expect to see protected bv the boss Aus-
tralian Racing Club. On a rough calculation, the “ lOst.
or under” division provides not more than one-third of
the field for aG. N. Hurdle or Steeple. I l '- ought to be
2 to 1 against a lightweight winning.
Freedom is a good, game chestnut. His legs
showed signs of damage sustained during the long jour-
ney, but he was gay and festive when he came to be
rubbed down after the race. Bellamy (who trained for
the Millers before he started on his own) had got Freedom
very fit, and was sanguine of pulling off the prize if
Laceby didn’t stand up. Laceby duly fell. The son of
K.ng Tom was meeting Freedom on 41bs. better terms
thin when he beat him in a canter over 19 furlongs a few
davs previously, but this time his weak fore-leir failed
at the first jump. His jockey, in brand-new jacket and
cap, escaped unhurt. The hor3e was led off the course
with his broken limb swinging, and a bullet from the
vet. terminated his earthly pilgrimage. Backers of
Laceby knew all about the bad leg, and were practically
gambling on the chance of its remaining good for one
more race.
The Tasmanian horse, Bay Eagle, who looked a
commoner beside most of them, ran in close company
with Freedom for 2£ miles : but Pirate, the hope of Bal-
larat, was a great disappointment. He seem 3 to have
lost some of his pace whilst beingcured of his impetuosity.
Perhaps Irish Stew was the only unfortunate (bar
Laceby) that might have won had he stood up. The
Stew had a large following of men who “knew some-
thing,” and he rushed into the lead after going two miles.
Then he put his backers in a stew by falling at the next
fence.
» * * *
Freedom, winner of V.R.C.G.N. ’Chase, carried
a good deal of coin, though good odds were going against
him at flag-fall. His owner is chairman of Bendigo J.C.,
and is a sport right through. Writer looks to see this
lepper supporting much bigger imposts than 9.11, and
finishing in front with them. Second nag put up a great
go, all things weighed. Conceding close upon 3st. to the
winner, he ran under anything but favorable conditions.
A long early morning bolt on Mordialloc road, and conse-
quent injury to his legs, rendered the substitution of
swimming for galloping necessary.
* * * •
“ Gun ” : Of 11 G.N. Hurdles since ’9l the
favorite has only won twice, first when Apsiey scored in
’94, and again four years subsequently, when Pat (5 to 1
against), with J. E. Brewer up, squelched 19 others. This
fact notwithstanding, punters rushed 9 to 2 a il 4 to 1
about Carbinier. Haven’t seen it mentioned anywhere
that the jumping of all 22 starters was very high-class.
• * • •
Running of V.R.C. Grand National (Saturday)
calls to mind that several top-notch leppers humping heavy
loads have got away with that event. Redleap (13.3) had
the weightiest, then follow Sussex (13.1), Dungan (12 9)
Ruby and Floater (12.7). Domino (12.10) finished second
to Mysore. Denmark (12.11), Lady Ashton (12.5), Mernder
(12.2), Saxon (12.0), Busaco (12.10) and Dondi (12.2) were
thirds in their years.
* * • «
Indications are that, all being well, Sagacity
will (if he doesn’t go to India in the interval) start very
nearly first favorite foi- oming Caulfield Cup. Last week
he closed on Braybrook Handicap (Urn.) easily
(carrying 9.10) in 2.35 h With a 31b. penalty, already'
incurred. Sagacity will only hump 8.10 for the first of the
two big Cups. _Up to lately he has been labelled a pro-
nounced unreliable. Previous to annexing Braybrook
Handicap, all that stood to his credit were A.J.C. Spring
Maiden Stakes and V.A.T.C. St. Kilda Cup.
* * * »
The brilliant form shown by Sagacity at recent
V.R.O. meeting was ascribed to the fact that
they have found out how to ride ’im.” A waiting race
terminating in an irresistible sprint is Sagacity’s “ dart ”
it seems, and judging from what the horse did at Flern-
mgton, there can be no better way of handling him—
when the opposition is weak. But when it comes to a
Caulfield Cup race the policy of a long wait and a short
sprint is more difficult to work. Sometimes the lj-mile
course is covered in 2min. 36sec., the pace being so warm
that the animals which “ wait ” simply get left
until it is too late to catch the tiring leaders
with a final sprint. Take the case of La
Carabine. The mare used to be a slow beginner, i.e., she
ran a waiting race on her own. When the field was big,
and they were all travelling full speed from the start, La
Carabine couldn’t get into a position to win the Caulfield
Cup (1899) with the nice weight of 7.5 on her back. The
mare put in a brilliant run at the finish, but the effort
came too late. To make sure of winning a Caulfield Cup
a horse must be among the first six at the turn for home,
and to make sure of getting among the half-dozen the
chances are that a jockey will need to bustle his mount
from the start.
* • * *
Melb. Cup this year happens on Nov. s—Gun-
powder Plot day. Backers of coincidences can find only
one horse in the race whose name seems to fit the occa-
sion—Jimmy Wilson’s Nitre, a very favorably handicapped
5-year-old.
* • • *
“ The starting-gate was used for the first time
for Volodyovski’s Derby,” writes a Bulletin correspon-
dent from England, “ and the start was delayed half-an-
hour owing to sheer funk on the part of some of the
English riders. There is a good chance here for Austra-
lian trainers and for a couple of smart jocks used to the
gate. A good Australian trainer could show some of
them here many a wrinkle in training and placing horses.
Hickey, who has done so well with Australian Star and
The Grafter, has now got as many horses as he can attend
to, and the Days have a long string. There are no other
Australian trainers here.
“The English sporting press,” continues the
writer, “ laughed at Sutton Sievier for the extravagant
prices he gave for yearlings at the Duke of Westminster’s
sale last year. The laugh is now on the plunger’s side.
Sceptre, for which he paid £lO,OOO, got him his money
back first time of asking, and is, at current prices, worth
half as much again. For another purchase, that has not
started yet, he could get £BOOO, or £2500 more than he
gave. As a matter of fact, Sievier and his trainer (Mor-
ton) are among the shrewdest judges of thoroughbred
stock in England, and have not made a bad purchase yet,
or a bad sale either.”
* • ¥ *
The objectionable feature of Clause 54 of the
Federal Post and Telegraph Bill may be defined in one
word—snuffle. It is a snufflesome clause. If it is passed
and enforced it will wipe out almost the only perfectly
clean and honest gamble Australia possesses and leave
the fraudulent ones unharmed. It will suppress “ Tatter-
sail ” because his honest gamble is mostly carried on
through the post, while the swarm of illegal tote-shops,
betting-shops and bookmakingestablishments will survive,
because they can do enough business with their victims
personally to keep them going. In fact, the suppression
of “ Tattersall ” will probably do them a benefit; a good
deal of the money that now goes into his honest gamble
will go into their dishonest ones instead. Of course, the
answer of the Federal Ministry is that the objection-
able people are beyond its jurisdiction. They
can’t be reached _by postal regulation, but
only by the criminal code and the police,
and the Federal Legislature controls neither of these.
On the other hand, it controls the post office, and it can
reach Tattersall. So it proposes to suppress Tattersall’s
gamble, as the one within its reach, and is devoutly sorry
it can’t suppress the others also.
* * * *
This is logical, yet illogical. As it can’t sup-
press the harmful, dishonest gambles it is exceedingly
unwise to suppress the comparatively harmless and honest
one which competes with them, and by its competition
prevents them growing to huge dimensions. If Tattersall
is bad (which isn’t the present question), it is still unadul-
terated foolishness to abolish him and thereby promote
the growth of something much worse, which theQommon-
wealth can’t abolish. If a teetotaller has jurisdiction
over good lager beer and not over bad rum, and he
abolishes lager and thereby drives people to rum, he
isn’t a good teetotaller,
* * * *
Of course, the Commonwealth Govt, pleads that
five out of six State Legislatures don’t tolerate
Tattersall’s gamble within their borders (or are
supposed not to do so) —therefore it is, only
carrying out the will of the majority. Thus does
the State legislator’s hypocrisy come home to him. The
States that expelled Tattersall felt confident that some
other State would take him in. The legislator who voted
for his expulsion (and who, in most cases, took occasional
tickets in Tattersall’s himself) could say to his gambling
constituents, “ I’ve done you no harm ; you have only to
send your money to Hobart instead of Brisbane or
Sydney,” and they were satisfied. Also, he could say to
his pious constituents, “ I’ve done all that is possible in
the Good Cause. Of course, we can’t legally interfere
with Tattersall’s letters addressed to another State, but,
so far as our jurisdiction extends, the bad man has been
suppressed.” So he pleased both parties. Now a power has
arisen which can shut Tattersall right off, and it is no
longer possible to please both parties.
THE LATE PETER JACKSON.
Photo. by Brand, Park-st., Sydney.
Pugilist Peter Jackson died on Saturday night
last at Roma (Q.), a victim of consumption. Fifteen
months ago he returned to Svdnev on the verge of death
from pneumonia, contracted at Skagway while on the
road to the Klondyke with Paddy Slavin. ’Murkan
doctors held out little hope of Peter’s recovery except
through extra-skilful treatment and nursing. He added
tissue, and after six months was as heavy as ever and
expressed himself sound as a hell—bar an agonising
attack of sciatica. When travelling with Fitzgeralds’
circus he caught cold in Gippsland, and had to lie up in
Geelong hospital for weeks. Thence on it was all down-
grade with him. Three months in Queensland (two of
which were spent at Roma) failed to arrest the trouble.
Weight fell off alarmingly, and attending doctor (Le
Strange) held out no hope of ultimate recovery, though
thinking it possible that life might be prolonged a while.
Jackson’s career was. remarkable. His triumphs
over Patsy Cardiff, George Godfrey, Joe M'Auliffe, Paddy
Slavin and other good. men, and the manner in which
they were scored, demonstrated unquestionably that the
world hadn’t previously seen his superior. Though not
generally known, Jackson, prior to meeting Jeffries, was
champion of the world, for “ Jonnel ” Sullivan (when
America’s top-notcher) after agreeing to meet the big
black at the California A.C. for a 20,000d01. purse,
wriggled out of his engagement on the advice of friends’
who had seen Jackson at it, thus losing his title by
default. Jackson already owned the Australian and
British supremacies. Peter’s battle with Slavin in London
is always referred to as among the fiercest and most
scientific ever fought by big men. He did little or
nothing afterwards, and a few years “ high time ” in the
English capital told the inevitable tale. Peter returned
to America a wreck to all intents and purposes, land
supplied an easy stepping-stone for Jim Jeffries towards
qualifying to meet Fitzsimmons, Corbett, Sharkey and co
Chagrined and broken-hearted at his vanquishme'nt Peter
gave way to dissipation for months. Resultant enfeebled
system and consequent greater susceptibility to disease
were the primary causes of the famous black’s demise
while yet under 40.
* • • *
Vagaries of Sydney referees of bruising matches
are intolerable. Saturday night last, at Golden Gate
A.C., Harden, a big rough-’un, fouled negro Ike Stewart
frequently and badly when he found his prospects “ blue.”
Ultimately Harden was disqualified, and Stewart got the
cash. “What about bets?” asked someone. “Well,”
replied the responsible official, “ I don’t want vous to lose
ver money on a foul, so I’ll declare all wagers off.” But
what about those who had won their money fairlv and
squarely ?
* * m *
Herb. M‘Kell-“ Snowy ” Sturgeon fight didn’t
transpire Monday night last. Influenza gripped Sturgeon
and laid him up. Announced as possible that they’ll get
together Wednesday next week, but how they’re going to
doit if Snowy’s illness is as severe as stated Heaven
only knows.
* * * *
Second meeting of Mick Dunn and Otto Cribb
occurs at Sydney Gaiety A.C. Monday night, Cribb’s first
scrap since his return from ’Frisco. Bruising students
are agog to see how he’ll “ cut.” Most favor Dunn’s pro-
spects, believing that the licking by Thurston has knocked
the aggressiveness which brought victory Cribb’s way
right out of him. Dunn remembers many errors of
method and judgment, and thinks the adoption of differ-
ent tactics will surely pull him through. Anyhow he’s
extremely confident, and that’s a telling factor in a
fighter’s kit. It’s safe to foretell a record attendance at
this match.
Australian “feather” bruiser Hegarty was to
have met Yankee bruiser Tim Callahan for a big purse on
June 28 in America, and, provided the verdict came his
way, a match with the ’Murkan terror, Terry McGovern,
for the world’s supremacy was to have followed.
Arrangements were made for receiving the news here if
Tim succeeded, but as no information has come, it looks
as if things went the wrong way.
* • * •
Larry Foley, having retired from one branch of
the “ knocking-down ” profession, is now regarded as at
the head of another, and is at present in charge of the
day-labor destruction of the buildings on the block
resumed for the new Sydney remote Railway Station at
Belmore Park. These include the old Benevolent Asylum,
the Convent of the Good Samaritan, the Female Refuge,
the Police Barracks, the Tramway sheds and the old resi-
dence of late Inspector-General M'Lerie. This is Larry’s
biggest undertaking so far, and he points with pride to
stacks of First Fleet bricks without a “ frog ” in one of
them.
• * * *
Newcastle (N.S.W.) ’rastler Jim McDermott,
lately wrecked in Melbourne by Oriental Buttan Singh,
came another cropper (Saturday) in the coal city, when
Maorilander Tweedie downed him. Jim should stick to
coal hewing—he’s built more for that. Writer never had
too exalted an opinion of him since, after challenging
Austrian Hajek with much flourish, he backed down.
There was also that affair with Teuton Lorenz.
* » » ♦
Largest coursing stake provided in Australia for
years was Mooriee Valley Cup t’other daj r . Nominations
were accepted last Sept., when 157 subscribed but 24 less
responded. Three agreed to retire, and two more were
balloted out, leaving an even 128. Best hounds in the
Commonwealth, and three from M.L. lined up. N.S.W.
and Vic. premier hounds—Braddon’s Blot and Aqua
Fortis respectively—opened favorites at eights. Gold-
smith-Red Rose dog, Aqua Fortis and General Booth—
Sally bitch, Amy Girl, met in the decider and the former
won well. Amy Girl is a November puppy and hails from
Berrigan (N.S.W.). Previously she had only shaped pub-
licly once—in Benalla (Vic.) Oaks which fell to her.
Moonee Valley Purse, at same meeting, was appropriated
by Verse (Black Star —Poetess) from Gippsiand, a full
sister to Planet and Lucky Star who were among the last
four in the Cup. All three are owned by Clarendon Bros.
* * * •
First Q-N.S.W. Rugby match this year drew a
huge crowd, officially given as 16,000, but apparently 4000
more—the great deadhead army finding no place in
managerial reckoning. Receipts, £650 ; weather splen-
did. Cornstalk team proved more than equal to
the occasion, despite general adverse criticism.
Bananalanders claimed theirs was the strongest
lot ever sent to N.S.W., and yet the home side had
them fairly soft, winning by 17 to 10. Throughout initial
half Q. men had a stiff southerly with them and notched
10 to 5. Subsequently N.S.W. attacked persistently and
evidenced great powers of combination, though working
together for the first time. Visitors only menaced
opposition territory once, when victory was absolutely
hopeless. Sydney dailies now concede.that N.S.W. team
“ fully justifies the confidence of its selectors.”
>•* * *
At inter-State football match Q. team kept
things humming throughout the first half, and inside 16
min., they scored 7 per medium of two fine place kicks at
goal by Spragg, who shaped in great fettle. Once Colton
went fairly through the defending force and secured a
good try. Wickham (N.S.W.) kicked a sensational
penalty goal and, later, added a try. N.S.W. rural
youth Finlay and bruiser Conlon literally ran over oppos-
ing halves—Gralton and Evans. Wickham (previously
whispered too old for the game) never showed to better
advantage.
* * * *
Saturday’s N.S.W. v. Q. toeball struggle was
the 45th of the series. N.S.W. has won 27 and Q. 15 so
far, while three have been drawn—the first at Sydney, in
’9O, when neither side notched ; the second at Brisbane,
a year later, 9 points each ; and the third, in ’9B, also at
Brisbane, 3 all. Northern men meet a Sydney Metrop.
15, Wednesday, this week, and play the return match
present Saturday.
* • * •
Dealing with the personnel of last Saturday’s
N.S.W. rep. Rugby team a Sydney weekly writer said,
“ Jack Conlon is an athlete, and one of Australia’s best
men with the gloves.” Australian fist-fighting would be
in a very bad way if the crack “ half ” was even among
its third-raters.
• • • •
Cabled no-balling of Englishman Mold by
umpire Phillips is not surprising : he did the same last
year and raised a sensation. Proposal that square-leg
umpire should have equal right with bowler’s umpire in
calling “no ball ” originated with Phillips. Mold is
among the ’Ome trundlers who have been served with a
year’s caution.
* * * v
Cabled that Surrey cricketer, Abel, in the
match Gents v. Players, notched 247. Last year he made
a new record for centuries in one English season, putting
up 12. Abel also occupied third place in the averages,
with 56-34 to Ranji.’s 87-57 and O. B. Fry’s 61-18, but in
aggregates, with 2592, he ran second to Ranjitsinhji with
3965. This 247 is Abel’s highest since his big effort of 357
(not out) for Surrey v. Somerset at the Oval in May, 1899,
which was, until O. Hill’s 365 against N.S.W at Adelaide
last year, the second highest individual score on record
in first-class cricket.
• * * *
Atop of Jessop, Lilley, and Hayward, previously
announced, it is cabled that Fry, Foster, and Tyldesley
will come with M’Laren’s team for Australia. Fry is an
all-rounder, excelling at long-jumping and footbail, and,
according to old man W.G., “ one of the best amateur bats
playing in first-class cricket.” He shapes free and hits
hard and clean. Foster is only 23, but last year he wiped
out the previous ’Varsity batting record with 171, and,
later, hit up 102 (not out), and 136 for Gentlemen against
Players. His last season’s average for nine matches was
77-50. Cricket authority “ Wisden ” says—“ Foster has
almost every good quality as a bat, strong defence, self-
restraint, a free, attractive style, and magnificent hitting
powers all round the wicket. Scarcely anyone, Ranjit-
sinhji excepted, hits with less apparent effort.” Tyldesley
has been operating for Lancashire since ’95. He scores
freely, puts heaps of power into his work, and fields ex-
cellently.
* * * *
Australasian golf premiership, at Botany last
week, fell to the Victorian crack, Mr. H. A. Howden,
who started golfing at North Berwick, Scotland, when
an urohin of five. First winner of the distinction was
M.L. rep. (Mr. Gillies) who scored at Bondi in ’99, and, on
his opening day’s play this time, seemed to have a good
thing. He put up a new amateur “ best ” (82) for the
links. Illness stopped Mr. L. A. Whyte, last year’s win-
ner, from defending his position. “ Victorians Brooks
and Riddell wrested the doubles’ championship of the
continent from 17 N.S.W. players, 7 Victorians, 2 ’Ome
men, and 1 each from Q., Tas. and M.L.
* * * *
Roberts, playiflg at Melb. Athenaeum Hall
last Friday, showed a reminiscence of his real old
champion self. It was the last night of an exhibition
match with Smith, and Premier Barton and Go. had come
along on the understanding that the old man would
shine. And the “old man” shone. Taking up an un-
finished break of 110 he added 126 to it. After some
consistently good play, he ran out with an unfinished
break of 325. This was the Roberts of yore, able to
“ come off ” whenever he wanted to.
And now sticklers for the quite c’rect
thing say that the Duke isn’t the Duke of Corn-
wall and York, after all. He’s only Lord of the
Duchy of C., and Duke of Y.
John Norton’s State Rights crusade started
well at the big Sydney Protestant Hall meeting,
the other night. That is if size of audience can
be taken as a criterion. No doubt eternal watch-
fulness is needed to prevent the big Common-
wealth animal from kicking its own limbs into
splinters: even a well-intentioned beast may
tread on itself from sheer clumsiness. But Nor-
ton mistakes the off hind-leg of the gee-gee
for the whole quadruped, and his audience,
though entertained by John’s oratorical abuse of
Barton, was anything but enthusiastic over
his screeching denunciations of that Horrible
Ogre, the Federal Parliament. After having
attended a dozen debates in both Houses of the
Federal Parliament, present writer has no hesita-
tion in declaring that, if it comes to trusting any
legislative body at all, his faith is firm in the
ability of the Commonwealth Legislature to pull
Australia through, despite John Norton’s absence
therefrom. It is obviously true, as predicted by
Bulletin years ago. that while no mere State
might produce a brainy Parliament from among
its limited population, four million people would
produce a legislature at least four times more
brainy than any one State’s choice. So, despite
Norton’s yells about N.S.W. apathy and Want’s
exhortations to that State to “ Awake ! Awake!”
etc., these two ill-assorted Johns are likely to con-
stitute the whole procession of protest. N.S.W.
will probably continue apathetic, and won’t awake
or arise to any extent worth mentioning,


the
AUSTRALIAN
OPAL
IS RENOWNED FOR ITS BRILLIANCY
AND VARIETY OF BEAUTIFUL COLORS.
WE STOCK A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF THESE GEMS, MOUNTED IN ALL
THE LATEST STYLES OF JEWELLERY AND ALSO UNSET, WHICH CAN
BE MADE UP TO SUIT THE DESIGNS OF CUSTOMERS.
18-Carat Half - Hoop
OPAliand DIAMOND
Engagement KINO,
Price
Hjodern Irt Jewellery (Jo.
187 cgitt (St., (Sydney
Next Shadier's Cafe.
Silver Fitted Bags.
MAPPIN AND WEBB
The Great London Bag People and Silversmiths, have held the
Knglish Bag Buyers for a quarter of a century.
THE EXCELLENCE OF THEIR BAGS
THE LOWNESS OF PRICE OFTHEIRBAGS
THE RMITISH STRENGTH OF THEIR BAGS
A UNIQUENESS— A SOMETHING UNEXPLAINABLE
IN THEIR BAGS
Have given them a great name in all the corners of tho
They now have a representative STOCK in Sydney, which
they are telling at London prices.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES-
Leather TraoeUint; Bans, Silver Fitted,
from £5/5 -
PLAIN FIGURES.
LOR LON CASH PUIOJSS.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, Vice-Reyal Jewellers,
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNtY
mm
m
Callagbai)
Boot
NoijcSt Wear
lO pair.
Have
you
ordered
SL
pair
yet?
'Fine French Calf Button, full goloshed, calf-kid legs, 22/6 ; post paid, 23/6
„ „ Lace, „ 21/-; „ 22/-
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 Gkokge St., Sydney
At Poverty Point.
“Westral” writes from Perth (W.A.): Nance O’Neil
swooped down on us here with a blaze, a bang, and a
turmoil of feathers, flesh and stormy silks that fairly
startled Perth. It was a new brand of acting. It seemed
to me I could hear, with the inward ear of the mind, ob-
servations jerked in, between sentences, calling our
urgent and immediate attention to her dress, her shoul-
ders, diamonds. All the time she seemed to be saying,
“ What do you think of my clothes ? ” Somebody or other
(couldn’t notice who, Nance took the whole circus to her-
self) would say :—“Magda, do you still adhere to your
resolve?” Then bang! swish, swish ! and Nance would
charge up the stage and show her rear elevation. Next,
posing up against a sideboard : “ Nothing can make me
change,” and then the unspoken but quite visible remark :
“ What about that for a pair of shoulders, eh?” “This
is final, then ?” Why, certainly— doesn’t this frock hang
all right in front?” “ And you will leave this house ”
Nance prances over to a table—“At once (leans over
table) — Say, how s that for a bust ? ” “ The happiness of
those dear to you'? ” (Back now presented.) “My dear
parson— isn’t this train a perfect peach ? —when
I came here (stretches out arm) — what about
this for a set of diamonds ? Twenty thousand
dollars if they cost a cent —to see my old home I was
actuated by a sense of affection— look at the embroidery
round the bottom ! —for my old father, and I fail to see
why I should sacrifice my art— You can't beat this lace
by much ! ” —and so on, right through the piece. It was
only when she had a row with the old man that she
warmed up to it and looked anything like a hot, violent
woman that has been out battling with the world. All
the rest was Art, not Nature. Self-consciousness floated
up all the time in her jerky way of saying : “ You say—
that you—have given up- your life —for me.” “ Magda’s”
a horrible play, anyhow. The flaring, flaunting returned
prodigal, ripping about in the quiet, homely scene, is an
oppressive picture. Nance’s tearing round in a willy-
willy all the time in “ Queen Elizabeth ” made Perth sit
back and gasp. They are swallowing her with a lot of
straining here, like the gnat and the Pharisee in the New
Testament. But we are a small community, and
when the gnat’s bigger than the Pharisee it is bad for the
latter.
Miss Elsie Hall, the young Australian pianiste, was
“ commanded ” last Sunday to play at Govt. House,
Adelaide, before the Dookanduteh and Lord and Lady
Tennyson. This is the first time in the history of
Australia that a woman has sat in a Professorial chair ;
Miss Elsie Hall is acting as locum tenens for six months at
Adelaide University in the absence of Professor Riemanns.
The Boucicault-Irene Vanbrugh wedding has been fixed
for “ the end of July,” and the happy pair-to-be are
under professional engagement to Charles Frohmann.
Just “ passed-out,” old native-born Australian actor,
J. J. Walsh. “ Jack ” was one of the most straightfor-
ward and honest men in the profession. Neither a foul
word nor any strong drink ever passed his lips. His first
engagement was with Gordon Griffiths, at the Victoria
Theatre, Sydney, where he afterwards appeared with G.
V. Brooke. He was the original Harvey Duff and the
original Peter Crawley in the Australian productions of
“ The Shaughraun ” and “ Never Too Late to Mend.”
Seems that the choristers at Her Majesty’s (Melb.) were
compelled to sing their “ Cavalleria ” music in English,
owing to the management having omitted to get the
necessary chorus parts from Italy. Chorus language is of
very little consequence in an opera, anyhow. It was not
until the stage crowd came out of church and began to
trill “a merry lay” to the “ happy Easter Day” that a
few people in the audience pricked up their ears, with the
result that they presently caught the lady-villagers sing-
ing “ Mistress Lola, this is no place for you ” Nobody
could mistake that for an Italian remark.
Even in “ Florodora," where the chorus gets more
“ fat ” than in the average English show of the kind, the
stage management is not half as keen as you find it in the
musical comedies from America. “ A Trip to Chinatown”
was the first striking illustration of the Yankee method
of making the background people work all the time for
the good of the business. And touching the latest
American comedy a London paper remarks —“ Every
nameless member of the co. contributes to the animation
of the scene. If the nodding of heads in time, and the
waving of red silk scarves, and the kicking of the chorus
have no definite meaning, these movements impart a
friskiness to the action. Better the volcanic energy of
the American girl than the inertia of the lovely ladies, in
beautiful dresses, who decorate the stage at so many of
our theatres.” Amen to that.
Of the musical critics who now denounce the tremolo
in the voices of Italian operatic artists, none had the
courage—if they had the inclination—to discern it in
Ella Russell. Writer saw Ella once only, in “ Faust.”
Throughout the opera her voice shook like a cinemato-
graph, and kept him off any other appearances of the
much-belauded pritna-donna.
Unsuccessful actor Earl of Yarmouth has left the stage
to take service with Kooseveldt and Schuyler, a well-
known N.Y. firm, as an agent for the sale of champagne.
Carlo Dani, Williamson’s second tenor, is the beau ideal
of an operatic tenor ; he has a good appearance, an easy
and refined manner, and a voice that flows like honeyed
milk. The sort of voice that men and women idolise.
“ With us, it is always a tenor,” says Magda.
“ J.A.C.” Melb.” (22/6/1). Writing of “old-time"
opera in Australia has omitted from his list of “ best-
known conductors of the past,” the names of, possibly,
the three best of the bunch, viz., Alberto Zelman, Paolo
Giorza, and John Hill—the latter one of lima di Murska’s
husbands.
The Taylor-Carrington Co. has returned to Sydney
after a five years’tour of the East from India to Japan,
and invites applications in another column from persons
willing to join a Dramatic, and also a Musical, Ballet and
Vaudeville Co., and qualified to adorn the same.
George Conquest, son of old George and Mrs. Conquest,
died in London the other day, aged 64. Australia knew
him by name as a manufacturer and dealer in melodrama
•of the “ Surrey ” brand, and many a 4-act horror has been
produced in this country by arrangement with George
Conquest, Esq. His father (real name, Benjamin Oliver)
was a cobbler, with large business capacity and a turn for
the stage. Instead of sticking to his last the cobbler
broke out as a low comedian at the Garrick Theatre,
Whitechapel, and in due course married a clever panto,
columbine, who helped him to save money. The thrifty
ex-cobbler became lessee and manager of the Garrick.
He lived on the premises, and it was there that young
George first saw the light, and lived until—as a boy of 9
—he was rescued with difficulty from the burning estab
lishment. In ’5l Conquest the elder began to make his
fortune at the Eagle, a playhouse with tavern attached
in the City Road. The name lives in a Cockney nursery
rhyme which embodied a temperance moral —
Up and down the City Road,
In and out the Eagle,
That’s the way the money goes—
Pop goes the weazel !
But the solemn significance of the ancient doggerel has
long been lost. Conquest re-christened his theatre the
Grecian, and, 30 years later, his son, the late George, who
inherited the property at the old man’s death, sold it to
the Salvation Harmy, and bought the Surrey Theatre
with part of the proceeds. During those 30 years the
Grecian grew famous for its annual pantomimes, wherein
“ young” George Conquest (he afterwards trained up his
son, the younger George, to the business) developed won-
derfully the “vampire-trap” system of flying leaps and
dives. Every panto, at the Grecian had a flying demon
or two in it. Conquest was the “ star ” demon. He had
his mishaps; broke his nose beyond repair, broke his
collar-bone and his arm, and his ribs sometimes—bub
never broke his neck. And all this time he w'as making
plays, with and without assistance, for the use of the
company when the panto, season was “off.” The old
man had sent him to get a musical education. George
fils got hold of French play MSS., and made new melo-
dramas from them. Also, he got hold of Pettitt and Paul
Merritt (now long dead), and other writers in later years,
and collaborated with them. He must have had a hand
in the concoction of fully 50 melodramas, mostly
rubbish, but invariably actable. A remarkable
worker, with a great practical knowledge of all things
theatrical. From a multitude of ballet-girl novices,
George Conquest could pick the born artist with unerring
eye. His mother was the best ballet mistress of her day,
and George, in his youth, had seen hundreds of girls
licked into shape. One of those girls, by the way, may
be said to have created the “ royal ballerinas ” for J. O.
Williamson. Anyway, the W. and M. Firm’s dancers
were not a special feature of comic-opera productions
prior to the engagement of Marie Reddall (Mrs. Teddy
Royce) as instructress. She taught the famous original
“ Old Guard ” dancers, among them Miss Minnie Everett,
the lady superior of Williamson’s royal ballerinas nowa-
days.
Spruson, late M.P. for Syclnev-Gipps
division, hammered the last nail into his political
coffin when he said something to the effect that
the didn’t care a rap about the labor-vote — he
didn’t require it, and would walk into Parliament
over the dead body of labor. That ill-advised
snort brought the dead labor-body of Gipps elec-
torate back to life again, and it walked over
Spruson.
N.S.W. Opposition-leader Lee being ap-
pealed to by a deputation of returned contingen-
ters, is quite certain, on their statements, that they
are entitled to receive the Australian rate of pay
and the Imperial rate of pay as well—two pays, in
fact. And after all his complaints about the ex-
travagance of the See Government, he intends, in
bis just and generous indignation, to raise Cain in
the Assembly because the soldiers haven’t been
paid twice over.
A melancholy case is that of an old lady,
of 82 years, mother of a well-known Sydney tem-
perance-agitator, who died not long ago. She
was born in Germany, and arrived in N.S.W.
when but two years of age. She married a
German, who became naturalised, but did not
herself go through that form, and, as her hus-
band’s naturalisation does not affect her status as
a “ foreigner,” her application for an old-age pen-
sion has, under the statute, to be refused.
The introduction of lascars on Orient
steamers is a disgrace to Australian democracy.
For upwards of 20 years the Orient Co. has em-
ployed white crews, in competition with the
cheaper black crews of the P. and O. Co. ; and
Australia has not had the courage and
persistence to enforce a contract clause
compelling the P. and O. line to employ
white labor on mail - subsidised steamers.
Meanwhile, most of the wealthy Australian snobs
have travelled by the P. and O. line; and the
Orient Co., after doing more than its share in the
contest, has been compelled to follow suit with
black crews. The Commonwealth Senate threw
out the proposal to put an anti-blaclc labor
clause in mail contracts. It is not too late for
the House of Representatives.
The coroner’s jury has decided that the
fatal fire at the Auckland Grand Hotel was caused
by Jessie Minns and some other persons un-
known. This is what comes of having a vivid
imagination. If Jessie had simply stated in the
witness-box that she said her prayers as usual,
and went to bed in a nice white night-dress with
a snowy frill, and slept soundly, dreaming occasion-
ally about her mother, or her sainted aunt in heaven,
or her baby sister, until aroused by the call of
fire, and then she seized her cherished bible and
escaped—she would have attracted no attention.
But her tremendous fish-lies fixed public attention
on her, and this is the result. The person who
knows when to be obscure and pious and ignorant
and asleep gets out of many difficulties. If little
Jessie did set the hotel on fire she evidently did it
in order to get her name in the papers, and she
got there right enough.
Phil May’s health, it is plain from recent
London letters, is in a very serious state.
Vic. Premier Peacock has refused Cham-
berlain’s demand that the Governor’s allowance
shall be increased by £1000, in defiance of Parlia-
ment. Peacock is possibly trying to atone for
the Findley expulsion—which will stand black
and memorable next time he meets the electors.
Returned contingenter Kenneth Mackay
warns Australians against Rhodes’ baits. “Rho-
desia wouldn’t stand stocking by squatters ; and
anyway it is impossible because full of stock
diseases. Pioneering there spells ruin. Further,
it is ruled by the autocratic chartered co.”_ A
similar warning was given by a returned miner
recently; so Australians who are fools enough to
be gulled by the promise of free land will deserve
to lose their capital.
What kind of management is it which sets
fire brigade men to do laborers’ work clearing out
the ruins of Hordern’s building? The Sydney
firemen aren’t numerous enough to do their own
work, which is putting out fires. Why not let
the job of digging out the ruins fall on the
Government Astronomer or the Auditor-General,
who have about as much to do with it as the
firemen ?
After their experience at Hordern’s, it
would be interesting to know how the Fire
Brigade people would propose to effect a rescue
from the tops of the large hotels of Sydney, or
from buildings like the huge piles erected by the
Life Assurance co.’s. The inability of the Fire
Brigade authorities to cope with an emergency,
following on the heels of the revelations about the
unpreparedness of the Navigation Department in
the hour of need of the passenger s.s. Manly, has
come as a shock to the public. Of course the
Brigade officials are little, if at all, to blame, for
time and again has the Supt. appealed for ad-
ditional men and plant, and additional room to
work in. Yet plenty money can be found for
“decorating” N.S.W. Lands Office with useless
alleged statuary.
“V.J.D.” : I knew well Charles Junor,
who was drowned the other night when stepping
ashore from North Sydney ferry. Met him first
in Melbourne where he came to see me when I
was ill. That was years ago. Afterwards we did
some work together. He was brimming over
with boyish spirits, and had, withal, a certain
rapid bird-like way of pouncing upon
ideas, and getting at the root of things.
He was also well read, and could write
well on many subjects, and was a good journalist
and a good fellow all round. I have noticed it as
a curious fact that, amongst my friends who have
died, the most genial and warm-hearted died
suddenly, and not in their beds. I think that, on
the whole, it is the better way. But it is not so
well for those they leave behind. Charles Junor
left behind him a wife and three young children.
Edwin J. Brady, author of “ The Ways of
Many Waters,” is now proprietor and editor of
that smart little Grafton (N. S. W.) paper, The Grip.
Every poet should make up his mind to save the
moneys he would otherwise la-vish on cigars, and
champagne, and fried fish and other luxuries, and
invest the same in a journal of his own. He would
then be able to print what he darned well pleased
and snap his fingers at cold-eyed editors. But, set-
ting aside this view of the matter, Mr. Brady is
not only a poet of no mean order, but also a clever,
capable, and industrious journalist, and an honor-
able man, and should make a success of The Grip.
The Bulletin wishes him all sorts of luck.
The 2lsb annual report of Sydney Chil-
dren’s Hospital shows that eminently deserving
institution to be in a fairly prosperous financial
condition ; though, of course, with _ Sydney s
rapidly increasing population, there is always
much room for further public assistance.
There were during the year 58!) little patients
under treatment, of whom the large proportion of
39(5 were discharged, cured ; and no fewer than
581 operations were performed, 221 of which were
upon in-patients.
Cabled that Santos Dumont, in a navigable
balloon driven by electricity, has risen from St.
Cloud outside Paris, made a tour of the Bois de
Boulogne, gone six times round Longchamps race-
course, circled the Eiffel Tower at a height of
340ft., and safely descended. Last week it was
cabled that a French submarine boat made
a successful voyage to Corsica. France’s birth-
rate, like Britain’s and Australia s, is falling;
but France still nourishes some of the best brains
in Europe.
N.S.W. Lands Minister Crick to a New-
castle audience: —
During his administration of the Post Office he had
several times received reports of embezzlements by officers
of the department, with requests for authority to prose-
cute. He always asked what salary the person was
receiving, and if be found that it was a poor one, he
said : “ No, sack him, and let him get a billet where he
will be paid a decent wage.” It was, in his opinion, much
less an offence for a man, whose wife and children were in
want, to take a few bob than many other offences that
were looked lightly upon by silver-tailed society. (Loud
applause.) He ought, perhaps, to be in gaol himself.
(Laughter.) Once, while he and a friend were travelling
in the back blocks, they were feeling very hungry. They
saw a sheep belonging to some squatter, and they vei'\
soon had mutton-chops for dinner. (Laughter.) He did
not see that he had committed any offence. He didn t
see why he should starve when there was a good sheep
there. ‘ (Applause.)
Later on, Crick became a lawyer, and happened
upon even fatter sheep.
The aDpeal for a re-consideration of the
case of Mrs. Cecile Anderson, now serving a 20-year
sentence for the alleged murder of Fraser, evoked
from Vic. Solicitor-General Wynne the cold-
blooded, cruel, stereotyped answer that lie would
be quite prepared to consider any new facts that
were laid before him. Wynne knows perfectly
well that the only point at issue is that the verdict
was an outrage when viewed in the light of the
old facts. The further outrage is, that a person
who is sued in the civil courts, and has a £500
verdict given against •him, can get three or four
re-hearings on the old facts (witness the case of
Huddart, Parker and Co. and the woman whose
husband was drowned in the Alert), and the per-
son whose life is involved can’t get one.
W. Hamilton, member for Gregory (Q.),
asserts that South Australia scoops in most of the
trade of extreme Western Queensland. During
drought-time it cost £33 to land a ton of flour
in Boulia by the Townsville-Winton route. The
same could be landed via Hergott from Adelaide
for £28. Queensland sugar can actually be
shipped round to Adelaide and sent into Boulia at
a less cost than it can be brought by rail and road
from Townsville. And yet the S.A. railage is
very much longer than the Q. railage, and the
length of road little different. Queensland shows
little business tact in this matter.
Patents for, Inventions —Arthur Griffith,
International Patent Agent and Consulting
Engineer, University Chambers, Phillip-street,
Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights,
obtained throughout the world.


Queensland, remarks a Bulletin corres-
pondent, badly needs a minimum-wage clause in
its Government contracts. At railway construction
tne contractors’ little game (to avoid a howl if
they offered 4s. or ss. a day) is to let out work in
P!£? e 'l° ts > prices that make it extremely
difficult to earn more than 30s. per week Q.
Govt, evidently considers this a fair move; for,
on the start of the Kilkivan-to-Nanango railway
line, building by day labor, it had the effrontery
to offer men sd. per cubic yard for side-ditching.
Of course, it was compelled to raise the price:
od. a yard, with pick and shovel, in fairly stiff
country, represents the most scandalous slave-
driving.
“Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories,” by Albert Dorrington (“Alba Dorion ”)
is the best book of short stories yet produced in
Australia. The S. Daily Telegraph recognises
the author’s “absolute genius.” TheS.M. Herald
says the volume “ contains dramatic pictures
which the best of our artists in words might well
envy.” A handsome cloth-bound volume, 350 pp.,
post-free from Bulletin office for 4s. 6d.
Senator Smith, of Westralia, on the
Federal capital site :
The best thing to do was to drop the report into the
wastepaper-basket, and become their own commissioners.
They could then decide on a dozen or so sites, and leave
the Federal Parliament to select the best one. There
should be at any rate an area of 100) sq. miles, for if the 10-
nnle radius were adhered to they would have land-
grabbers and speculators buying up all the land outside
that radius, and forming suburbs in which people would
live rather than within the Commonwealth area. If they
had the large area suggested, they would be able to test
some of the great social problems now agitating the
world. It was of great imp irtance that they should have
a sufficient area to meet the great development which
must naturally take place in years to come.
Minister O'Connor, in his reply, said that the
question of 1000 square miles, or more, or les3, was
largely one of expense. In this matter two good
things are already noticeable. The gang which
wanted the Federal Government to rule, not own,
the Federal Territory, so that the boomers and
land-banks might grab all the promising allot-
ments in the new city even before the Govern-
ment got there, has been killed so dead that it is
hardly heard of now. And the ridiculous proposal
to limit the Federal Territory to 100 square miles
—64.000 acres, or little less than one-third the area
of Melbourne—so that even the capital itself
would presently have to spread into the adjacent
State outside Federal control, has almost dropped
out of sight, though a few interested parties try
now and then to keep it alive.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and a’l dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely „kin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Benjamin Judkins, an Adelaide astrologer,
threw this bombshell into the holy city right on
the eve of York’s visit:
“To authors, journalists, preachers, statesmen, and
leaders of thought.—Are you building the ark of safety ?
If not, take solemn warning. It may not be known 'to
many that we are coming into the most startling astrolo-
gical changes the world has ever known. We may even
lose the sun, moon, and stars. All sections of society
will be profoundly affected by the mighty changes, which
will shake the world of letters, and men whose hearts are
not on the side of justice will surely melt. Times and
seasons change, and people with them. One thousand
nine hundred and one ends the age that Christ, the Bible
past-masters in the science of history, and star-gazers
have foretold. Next November a grand conjunction of
Jupiter and Saturn, which only occurs once in 2C years
will be seen in the western skv, about sunset; which is
ominous indeed, politically. But in December all the
great planets of the solar system will be in a direct line
with our earth and the sun in the sign Gapricornus for
the first time since the great flood in Noah’s day.
Raphael, the great English astrologer, says, in his
almanac, we are closing a cycle of 5000 years, hard as
iron, and black as hell. The ‘ Flaming Sword ’ of Chicago,
U.S.A., says we are entering the aquarial sign of the new
age, which will be one of light. Science will shine forth.
Sunlight is essential to organic life. Human beings, like
planets, fade after long confinement in darkness.”
It is certainly hard luck for S.A. that she has a
Premier named Jenkins and an astrologer named
Judkins.
Missing Friends.
A N advertisement appeared in the issue of
the 22nd June, 1901, apparently under the
instructions of Mr. H. Weaver, solicitor, of
Armidale. Mr. Weaver writes us that he gave
no instructions for the advt., and as same is
calculated to cause him annoyance, we hasten to
notify Ids disclaimer of any connection with
same.
|F MARGARET KANE (perhaps married) at one
time of Drum County, Monaghan, Ireland, child of
the late JAMES KANE (schoolmaster) and MARGARET
KANE (neb GORDON), at one time of Lisnaskea, Ireland,
or her representatives or descendants, communicate with
the undersigned they will hear of something to their
advantage. Anyone knowing their whereabouts kindlv
rite
J. A. SIMOW, Solicitor,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses
Will Osilvie has given what Victor Daley calls “ the
most charming book of verses yet issued in Aus-
tralia.” The second edition is considerably enlarged
and improved, and the publishers have been informed
by a happy lover that “it makes the beautified
present.” The price is 4s. 6d. post free.
The Ways of Many Waters I
Collects the dashing ballads and verses of sailor-men's j
and wharf-men’s life which E. J. Brady has c mtributed I
to Tub Bulletin and the Sunday Times, Sydney. It is j
the first attempt on the part of an Australian verse-,
writer to chant the life on the sea and the margins of
the sea ; though there is one horse-poem—the story of
“ How Jack Bowlin Steered ‘ Jones.’ ” The volume is
bound in buckram, with gilt top, in a size that will o-j
into a pocket without squeezing; and the price is 55.,
post-free.
d
JHlaftlfCt,
TTI eI bourne
3n« best House for
music. Pianos. Violins and
all HVusfcal sundries
Collins St,.
Wore Them Out Herself.
There was a time when Mrs. Hayes considered
herself to be what she calls “a gone woman."'
She actually divided her clothes and other
personal effects among her children. Thank
goodness—but here is her story, told in her
own way ; by all odds the best way.
“ Three years ago,” she says, “I had dreadful
pains across the left side of my stomach and under
the shoulder-blades. My left side swelled up
fearfully. I was laid up weeks at a time, work
being out of the question. While these fits were
on I could neither walk, sit, nor stand with
comfort.
I was really ashamed to let the neighbours
see me crawling about; so I spent most of my
time lying down or leaning against something to
ease the dreadful pains.
“I had been a hard-working woman all my life
but now I lost my strength and dreaded to eat
anything, knowing the woeful suffering I was
sure to experience afterwards; as if eating were
somehow a crime against the laws of nature.
And at night I rolled and tossed about instead of
sleeping.
“ The doctor said it was indigestion, and no
doubt he was right, but he was not able to relieve
“I consi lered myself a ‘gone woman’ and told
my husband I was sure I could not last much
longer. Indeed, I was so fully persuaded of this,
that 1 actually divided my clothes and personal
effects among my children.
Thank goodness and Mother Seigel’s Syrup
I nave since worn out most of them myself.
“After a lot of coaxing and argument (for I
was tired of trying things, and hope had about
died away m my heart) I consented to take
oeigel s Syrup, although the doctor had advised
me not to touch it.
i “ T n °t quite sure of the effect of the first
bottle, but my husband insisted on my goino - on
with it. So I did go on with it, and after l°had
got through half the second bottle there was no
doubt of the result. I was much better : I felt it
and others could see it.
c. " I^'^ as hardl y short of a miracle, the wav
Seigel s Syrup brought me round. From a poor
weak, and wretched woman, unable to work or
scarcely to raise my hand to do the smallest
piece of work, it gave me back health and strength
restored me to ray husband and family, enabled
me to go on with my work once more, and, in
short, made me as well as ever I was in my life
“ I am now upwards of 60, and have reared a
large family. I have lived in the district about
of years, and am well known here.
“My husband and sons, as well as our grand-
children, work m connection with the coal mines
for which the district is noted. I have told all
the neighbours what Seigel’s Syrup did for me
and am perfectly willing that my case should be
published if you think it may be useful ( Mrs )
Julia Hayes, Mount Keira, Paradise, near
Wollongong, N.S.W. October 14th, 1899.
Mr. John Hickey, blacksmith, at the same
place, writes that he has known IVlrs. Haves all
his life, and (in common with many others) knows
her statement to be true. lie adds that she is
respected by everyone.*
Business Announcements.
Tails. Plaits.
sd
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS and PLAITS,
20in. loner, 5/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6; 24in.,
10/6 ; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plai's and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address”:— W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLIAM-ST., Corner of Palmer-st.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
try orders. Wigs made on shortest notice.
Sore Byes! Blight!
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails . Restores Eyelashes .
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
Watch Itepairs by Post
o o
WATCHES Thoroughly Ulteaned, 2s. Gel. ; host English
Mainspring, 2s. 6d. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. fid.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
:15s. Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send for catalogue.
D. S. MAIR,
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
CSt George-st. (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value a Packet of Eight Different Articles
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing overlOOCoin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character), That Hideous
Dancing Skeleton (turns himself inside out), Mafekin■>•
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Spider and ithe Fly
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X7lB George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON. Manager.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
]ii Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
‘ l '° E>-fcii; v sr COJMCFJBTITXOKr.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Latest Novelty in Corsets ...
THOMSON^
‘GRACIOSA’
Unbreakable Waist. Natural Hinge.
[Patented and
Registered.]
Extract from Madame Schild’s
Fashion Journals for March.
“A New Corset.—This novelty is a very clever arrangement of
the nature of a hinge at the waist, so that the wearer does not break
the stee.s when stooping. This new Corset is called ‘The Graciosa'
is extremely comfortable to wear even from the first, it fits the body
»#>riS?. lB s^ as a S'ove- It is boned with RUSTLESS
SILVIDE, and the bones cannot push through.”
Made in Colors, White, French Grev, and Rlnrir onhr «««
Makers: W. S. THOMSON ACo , Fore St London P n »
Makers ol the Cele>> ,1- l Kow Model • Giove-Fitting;& ‘ La
Ot all dealers throughout the World. SSe Co t 3,
cx
tub
kinds) in Tins about 2 ozs. & 4 ozs.
Manufacturers 1
«IoHN MOIR & SON MMITEIk
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
Business Announcements.
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Bargains in Clothing.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX The widest variety of correctly-made Suits for XX
XX Men and Boys are afforded to you by XX
HORDERN’S, IN PITT STREET.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX Every detail of Fashion has been carefully
vy studied in the build, the linings are the best, the XX
yy buttons tightly sewn on, the buttonholes artisti- XX
oally finished; in fact, “ PERFECTION ” is fX
stamped on every garment bearing our XX
FAMOUS ff
FEDERAL BRAND. fx
If you want Real Style, Unquestionable Value, XX
XX and Absolute Satisfaction, come in and see what XX
XX we are now offering in XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
MEN’S AND BOYS’ CLOTHING.
No Disappointing Sale Prices, but Solid Value
at
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL OUTFITTERS,
XX 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST
XX If you cannot come in, please order by letter. XX
XX xx
xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
SYDNEY, ff
THE
SofltE? Afri^ap..
t
« ~
.Hfdal.
7,
2
X
$
Specially Designed and Manufactured for Presen-
tation to returned Australian Soldiers,
it W APPROPRIATE and ARTrSTIC. 1S&
Manufactured in 15c. Gold at Three Prices, viz.,
£3 3s- £4 4s- £5 ss.
Prices include cost of Inscription and a suitable Case.
H. NeTwM AN,
MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
175 & 177 Elizabeth-st., Ma'bo jrae.
VISiTORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
|-hour by train. Billiards, etc.
Publications.
THE BALLET GIRL
vs
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,
913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FOREIGN ST A 4*l p g
n
GBECeXHI
cm
gi^iiaam
urnwmi
CHEAP SETS.- 40 Japan, Is 6d •
47 Spain, ‘2s ; 4 Tientsin, 3d •’
10 Heligoland, Is; 8 Egypt, 6d |
30 lieneh, 9d ; ? Iceland, 9d • 9
Labuan Pictorial, 2s 6d; 11 Canada,
6d; 9 Canada Duty, 6d ;sBolivia 4d
Packets 60, Is ; 100, 2s 6d. Stamps
Purchased. New Catalogue of
Stamps, Albums, etc., Gratis.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
TRicocooy
A Sfc udy of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, By Dr.
AIjP RED NEALE. Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers : Tamer and
»derson , SYON EY.
IAMOND SONG BOOK.
POO SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC, r
e, w e s reatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
COMIC SENTr 1 r " clu ' lin S WAR . p ATIlI OT 1C
COMIC, bEN 11 MEN IAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be iiad else
, f 7l ler ! ! - Complete list of the songs fora stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d posted
2s lOd from ANGLO AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO Wat
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps 2d
exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
•nd other EaBt Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing
FAUST.
Q.RAND SELECTION from Gounod’s popular Opera
Pianoforte b '' Warwick Williams!
Also,
MA C p C nw b r rate ‘ll VALTZ an<] stirrin £ SOLDIERS’ CHORUS
MARCH from the same Opera.
Of all Music .Sellers.
W. PAXTON & CO., London & Melbourne. '
Catalogues Free.


ia.» iut>i*odLuce X X
BOOK
POSTED FREE
WITH PLEASURE
THE BEST
Electric Belts
f| IN THE WORLD.
ULVERMACHER’S.
Many are advertised, but none
can equ.il these. They have been in use
nearly 50 years, and are prescribed and
recommended by the leading medical men
throughout the world, including the phy-
sicians of H. .YT. The Queen, H.R. 11. The
Prince of W ales, the Emperor of Austria,
etc,, etc.
As a TONIC for the whole system
nothing can compare with them, and for
RHEUMATISM, PARALYSIS, . . . .
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO, NERVOUS
DISEASES, and many other ailments,
they form the Best Cure in the World.
An interesting Pamphlet— “ Galvanism : what it has done and can do ’’—can
De had for the asking, and gives full information about the tieatment. Sydney Agents,
OSBORN & JERDAN (late Frost- <£ Shipham.),
Manufacturing Electricians & Opticians 438 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
THE
PZo
THE
GENTLEMEN. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding, practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
/Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful o ise, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part oe the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEIM, 680 George-st., Sydney.
I’ll Try It:
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillaritie
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
0 3?N&M€NTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Pi-ice Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
IEST" Evert Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEN^
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
6BO-682 CEORQE STREET, SYDNEY
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free . . .
French’s Acting Edition.
dv
Bare Books
French Novels
Books
for
the
Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Hooks Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE
BOOK and MAGIC ARCAOE . . .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
THE
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
elveteen.
sw wvs*
NOTE WELL!—Each Yard of Genuine “ LOUIS ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L-O’IH-S and in no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
f FREEMAN
ELECTRO-MEDICAL & SURCICAL INSTITUTE.
The Two Eminent Specialists
who have the Largest Practice
in Australasia.
And the Only Specialists in Australia who have
Received Highly Commendable Rress Notices
in Leading Australian Journals.
Specialties : Nervous and Chronic Complaints, Blood and Skin Diseases,
Heart; Kidney, Liver, Bladder; Rheumatism, Sciatica; &c., (fee.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by the Govern-
ment Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Greax
Britain and America, open to inspection at the Consulting Rooms
by our Physician-in-Chief.
TT is an acknowledged fact the world-wide over that no
single individual or combination of men can he ab-
solute masters of every phase and branch of art, science,
medicine, or other professed avocation of a limitless
sphere of operation and magnitude. At best the greatest
scientists of the day—men like Lord Kelvin and Edison.
: : : :
Yours truly . . .
HOWATiT) FREEMAN,
Sydney’s Leading Specialist. j
Professor of Electricity as applied Medically, Member
Dr. Harmon’s College, Washington Cor., Cal., U.S.A.
Director and Founder of the Institute.
for instance, whose fame is universally known—class
themselves as infants in scientific invention and research,
and modestly tell us that they have but a smattering of
knowledge of the possibilities, extent, and development
We have only to look at the fine buildings that occupy
the corner of Elizabeth and Bathurst streets to gain some
idea of the extent and importance of their professional
work. But to have the privilege of being shown througn
the building by the Specialists themselves, and to see ana
learn something of the real character of their vvide prac-
tice, is a treat that only comes the way of a fortunate in-
dividual like the writer.
The instrument-room was, as usual, one of particular
curiosity. Laymen always have a penchant for eyeing
and examining the polished steel articles witn which so
many extraordinary acts are performed upon the human
body. The collection in this room is in every way up-to-
date. Whenever a new instrument conies to the front,
and its worth is proved beyond question, it is added to
this rare assortment. Another room full of absorbing in-
terest is that devoted to the galvanic batteries, of which
there are several magnificent kinds. The noted Game
batteries, the finest french makes, are here in perfection,
irrespective of their high cost. If any article or mechani-
cal and electric contrivance is found necessary in main-
taining the fame of this institution, the price is never
allowed to stand in the way.
The correspondence department is a veritable ex e-
opener. Its sacredness is a bar to a stranger’s admission,
but a full view of the work going on is had through the
glass doors. Half a-dozen typists are seen driving their
machine-writers at electric speed. To the principals only
are known the names of the persons throughout Aus r iba
who are being treated as skilfully in their homes about
the metropolis and away in the interior as if they were
present in personal consultation at the institution.
The packing-rooms are likewise shut off from curious
and prying glances, and the work of one department is a
mystery to the others. No better system for holding
secret the nature of sufferers’ troubles, for safe-guarding
their interests, and giving due heed to the feelings and
sensitiveness of patients, could be imagined. Packages
are not plastered with advertising labels, they are put up
in such a way that only the names and addresses are in
view.
What a practice is here revealed and what a consola-
tion must it be to these eminent specialists to know that
they are permanently curing and restoring to lv alth and
happiness thousands of people whose lives were a burden
to them. The young, the middle-aged, and the healthy
are treated with the same amount of success. The pro-
digious nature of the work accomplished by these
specialists necessitates —not the stereotyped morning and
evening two hours’ consultation ticket, but their constant
attention at the institution from early morning till late
into the night. “I can assure you,” said Dr. Wallace,
“ we don’t put in these long hours because we are fonder
/
■
Premises = Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts. (Opp. Hyde Park, Sydney
(All Trams Stop at the Door).
of electricity, and only a fringe of imagination of the un-
told stores of strength and wealth wrapt up in this
phenomenal power.
Therefore it requires no argument to convince the
most pronounced of optimists that the field in any one of
the great and honored professions of the day is far too
vast for the thorough comprehension of the most per-
fectly brain-endowed man, or body of naturally-gifted
men. Yet in respect of the most delicate and difficult of
all professions—that of prescribing for the ills and
•diseases of mankind—we find doctors, scattered over the
globe, off-handedly and without careful, minute, and
searching examination and diagnosis—without any know-
ledge of the past lives of patients—flippantly dashing off
prescriptions for every class of complaint, as if a cure was
as simple as falling over the proverbial log.
Thanks to the march of civilisation, culture, and edu-
cation, people are getting to know that modern medical
men who are worth consulting confine their practice to a
certain class of cases. Realising the utter hopelessness of
mastering and curing everything under the sun, and find-
ing that “gullibles” are not so plentiful as the}' used to
be, the wise and progressive men of medicine devote
themselves to one or other class of cases, and work out
the remedies for them to the best of their skill and
ability.
What better and more striking illustration of the suc-
cess of Specialists in Skin Diseases, Heart, Kidney, Liver
Affections, Rheumatics, Sciatica, Nervous Diseases, could
the people of this magnificent continent, Australia, have
than the enormous practice of the famous practitioners of
the Electro-Medical Institute. Their skill, attainments,
| position, and renowned reputation stamp them as the un-
| doubted masters of the classes of diseases and complaints
I which have been the study of their professional lives.
I When we speak of electricity we think of Edison. Why ?
Because he dwarfs other men in this branch of science.
In the same way, when we talk of specialists, we at once
j associate the names of the Freeman and Wallace Insti-
i tute. So it is in every branch of scientific medicine;
i some one or two men stand head and shoulders above
their fellows.
It is the aim, object, and devotion of certain doctors to
be pre-eminent in some defined class of disease rather
than to tinker with a host of complaints about which
they can have but a hazy notion, and Superficial know-
ledge. To use a hackneyed but expressive phrase, they
are “ Jacks of all trades and masters of none.” Never
since the time of Ricord, the noted French Specialist,
have any men conducted so gigantic and successful a
practice as that conducted by the Freeman-Wallace
Electro Medical and Surgical Institute.
of hard work than any other medical men ; we do it in
the best interests of sufferers. We don’t keep them
waiting longer than we can help, and we suffer many in-
conveniences for our patients’ sakes.”
Noble sentiments, thought the writer, as the time came
for his departure, and the Specialists returning to their
Yours truly . . .
JilC HARD WALLACE,
Physician-in-Chief,
M.D., L.R.C.r. , L.F.P.S., L.M.,
Late Medical Staf. , British Army ; late Consultin')
Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne.
consulting-room. How many doctors in our midst can
we bracket in this category ? Dinners and drives and
conversaziones are more frequently uppermost in the
mind of top-loftical medicos than the speedy treatment
of sad and suffering patients.
Victoria’s five new Legislative Councillors
are of the usual variety—just as stupid and soggy
an ,. well-to-do as all previous batches, and just as
satisfied that a powerful Leg. Council is essen-
tial to the stability of the country and to the
maintenance of confidence and the promotion of
morality. A week or so earlier six new M’s.L.A.
were sent into the Assembly all in favor of a
popularly-elected Convention to frame a new
otate Constitution. The five M’s.L.C. are all
fiercely and fatly opposed to the Convention.
And the Argus observes, with the complacence
of a very large round man who has just eaten
deeply, that “ the country having spoken the Con-
vention idea ought now to go by the board.” The
M’s.L.A. who favor the Convention were elected
by the people, every elector being qualified to be a
member, so that the people could put up men of
their own way of thinking. The M’s.L.C. who
oppose the Convention were elected by about half
of the people, with the restriction that they were
only allowed to choose rich property-owners, aged
30 years or upwards. And they chose M’s.L.C.
who were opposed to the Convention idea, because
all the men they could find who were in favor of
it were barred out by the property qualification.
“Perce Abbott” holds forth to The
Bulletin :—
In listening to the monstrosities called gram, or grapbo-
phones, one is struck by the diabolical accent and intona-
tion of the cowboys or lumbermen who talk or sing into
them, r n 1 one wonders how such men get employment at
an occupation requiring a iittle education and elegance of
speech. First, when the “ apparatus ” is ready, a ruffian
howls through his nose in the voice of a door-man at a
dime museum—“Saung ! ‘ Mawlley awn ther Trawlley.’
Sung by Mr. Jawhn B. Woolfe fur the Amur’k’n Phunna-
graf Cnmanee uv Noo Yarls’n Shikoggo, acc imaneed awn
ther peeana by Purfesser Giesenberg.” This speech comes
out in little jerks as if the doorman’s talking “ fit
up ” were operated by tbe explosion of small plugs
dynamite. One unspeakable “ record ” haunts me like
the ghost of a tortured hyena. In it four strident
dingoes lacerate what is called an “ Edison quortette.’
It begins with a short chorus through the nose, and
then a person, whom I judge to be Jacob M'Closky,
drawls out through the same valuable organ : “ Neow,
boys’n gor's, hev suthin’ to d.enk on me. _ Whot’ll ye
hev ? ” Then a demon of the Hartz mountains screams :
“ I’ll tek a liT whesky.” An “Irishman ” says : “ Gimme
a gra' hi ■: gleass a beer an’ mixhed ale wid a drap a Mony-
gahaley in it.” This is supposed to be funny, for
the rest laugh. Then a woman’s voice, the most
fearsome Punch -and-Jud.v of all, yells: “Oh, ray!
gimme one a them, too.” Now Jacob comes in
again : “ l sea.v, Meabel, ain’t ye gonna gimme
that kess ye prawraised neow ? ” There is a smack and a
screech from “ Mabel,” who squeals : “ Goo’ ni’, Chorley !
Oh, I hev hed soch a lovely time,” and the nightmare
ends with “ Jingle Bells,” which sounds as if sung by a
chorus of lost souls in a lunatic asylum in hell. Patti
knew something when she refused to allow her match-
less voice to be reproduced in the awful thing. I once
knew a profane hut modest tenor—that is, he was modest
for a tenor, inasmuch as he never said he was better than
Sims Reeves, hut only admitted he was quite as good.
He was persuaded to sing “ Pretty Jane ” into a phono-
graph, and waited anxiously to hear his own sweet
tones. jThe operator brushed the record, fitted it
on, fastened up the fog-horn, turned a screw
and then let it loose. At first, there was a sizzling sound,
as of frying tough steak in a red-hot pan. It was so rea-
listic, you could almost smell the burning fat. The tenor
said, trembling, “That’s not me, is it?” “No, sh—
wait,” whispered the operator. Then came sounds as of
a man being badly hanged, trying to sing his dying con-
fession through a sausage-machine: “ Oh-z-Jane. Oh!
p.fzz. pret ssss-n;ver-zzzzz, shy yok yok yok, in the even-
ing whe:z:-bloom is-gloog gloog, bz-wlisss zif zzz
Just here, the tenor kicked the foghorn into the air and
swore for a minute or so. His remarks would have made
a better record than his song, and would have sold to
bulloekies at a pound each. At last he said, with tears in
his voice : “ Do I sing like that? If I thought I did, I’d
cut my blanky throat.”


The well-known firm of Osborne and
Jordan are now settled down in new premises—31)3
( reorge-street (directly opposite former address),
and their stock includes everything worth holding
connected with opticians’, photographers ’ and
electricians’ businesses.*
The Bulletin has received from the
M r - John Parker, a pamphlet entitled
A Few Facts and Anecdotes regarding Blind
People and Blindness.” As Mr. Parker himself
is sightless, he knows from bitter experience what
he is writing about. The little production is full
of interesting information of how these much-
afflicted people read, write, take notes and find
their ways about cities. The price is one shilling,
a c ?P ies can now be obtained at Dymock’s Book
Arcade, Sydney. The work is more than worth
the money. At present, Mr. Parker is trying to
organise a Blind Concert Co. to tour the Common-
wealth,
While the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall
and York were in Sydney prescriptions were
dispensed for Her Royal Highness at H. A.
Rose s Pharmacy, George-street. *
One of the biggest surprises of N.S.W.
w elections was the big majority gained by
Willis for The Barwon. He was opposed
by W. H. Wright, an old resident of the electo-
rate—a dull and dreary platform orator, but a
personal favorite, pledged to the Labor-party and
supported by N.S. W. Farmers’ and Settlers’As-
sociation. Willis’s supporters trembled, and
every nerve was strained on his behalf. Squatters
canvassed and coerced their employees, swagrnen
(who had their rights) were supplied with free
provisions ; pamphlets, newspapers, and letters
from leading politicians were profusely circu-
lated, and even then, at the eleventh hour, a close
contest was expected. When the voting at Wal-
gett (chief polling centre) was declared, Wright
wnr major,t 7 When all returns were in,
Willis was 3115 ahead. The result staggered both
parties.
t ea^an J Loan and Mercantile Agency Co-.,
a.j r ®P or^s wheat: —Our latest cable from London,
dated the 10th instant, reads as follows :—“Market is tle-
E Se \r New Zealand wheat, average, is worth 28s. per
TXmu . „ Zealand longberry ditto is worth 295. per
4961 b. Allowing for the fact that New Zealand grain is
always quoted below Australian, it is apparent that
pyen the current rate of freight to England, the ruling
values locally obtainable have been for some time past re-
latively above those obtaining at Mark-lane. This is, of
course, very discouraging to shippers, but it must be
some satisfaction to those growers who elected to accept
ruling rates when advised to do so, rather than continue
to hold in hopes of realising higher figures later on. Quo-
tations to-day (July 12) locally are : For prime grain, 2s.
7id. to 2s. Bd. ; medium, 2s. 7d. ; chickwheat, from 2s. 4d-
to 2s. 6d. per bushel. *
J. J. MILLER’S SPORTING PAMPHLET.
Illustrated. Now Heady.
The most reliable reference on all sporting matters.
Contains nominations, weights and full performance*
of all homes engaged in the Caulfield and Melbourne
Cups, and other races. Post free, 1.1. All Booksellers
Ndw Zealand Insurance Co.
SHAREHOLDERS in the above Company are
hereby notified that a dividend of 2s. per
share for the half-year ended 31st May, 1901, k
now payable at the Company’s office, 81 Pitfc-
street, Sydney.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
NORTHERN PROVINCE
ELECTION.
W. L. BAILLIEU
SOLICITS
THE SUPPORT AND INFLUENCE
OF
ELECTORS.!
A SILVER WATCH
FOR NOTHING.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE: ONE of OUR.
FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s (Ladv’s
and Gentlemen’s) to EVERY MAN, WOMAN or CHILd>
who sends the CORRECT READING of the following-
puzzle :
I N*Y*R L*S* Y**R T*MP*R: I
The only condition is that if 3'our answer is correct yoi
purchase one of our Solid Silver Chains to wear with thf
Watch.
SEND NO MONEY ; simply forward your answer, and
enclose stamp and addressed envelope, so that we maj
inform you if you have won the Watch. We are makim
this offer solely with the object of introducing anc
advertising our Goods.
Address— THE MANAGER,
The LONDON WATCH & JEWELLERY CO.
13 CENTRAL ARCADE, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“Federal Cartoons”:
From Bullktin, Punch, Telegraph'
Star. By H. W. Cotton ; 6d., posted*
Bd. N.S.W. Bookstall Co.
Established 56 Years .
One of the Largest Stocks of Ironmongery In
Australia.
Roofing Felt, 75ft. by 32in., Bs. roll; 500 tons
Bolts and Nuts up to 36in. long ; black, galvanised
and steam Pipe, £in. to Bin. diameter ; first-class
Hand-pumps, 6s. each; Snaring Wire, 3d. lb. ;
Wire Netting 7ft., 201 b. 28s. roll, Bft. 40s. ; Octa-
gon Steel, lin. £2O ton ; Mixed Paints, 3d. lb. ;
Paint Brushes, from 6s. doz, ; American Tacks,
tinned,^ Bs. box ; Blue, 6s. box; Cooking Ranges,
36in. 355. ; Mantel Grates, 10s. ; Varnish, in 4gal.
tins, 20s. tin; Copal Varnish 7s. 6d., oak 6s. ;
French Polish, 4s. 6d. ; Stains, (id. bottle ; a few
coils Steel Wire Rope ; Steel Truck Wheels, to
36in. diameter; Marine Paint and Priming, 20s.
cwt. ; blue, black, grey Paint, 16s. cwt.; Glass
Paper, 7s. 6d. ream; Copper Boilers, 25ga1., Is.
lb. ; Galvanised 3-strand Wire, equal to 4,6, and
8 gauge, 9s. cwt.; Axle Grease, in small tins, 2d.
lb. taking lcwt. ; Wooden Split Pulley Wheels,
20in. diameter 3in. and ss. each; Bullock,
leading, drag, back Chains, 2d. lb.
Ons op tecs Largest Stocks op Ironmongery
in Australia.
Imporrters of Builders’, Contractors’, Engineers’,
Plumbers’, Blacksmiths’, Cabinet Makers’, and
General Ironmongery, and Painters’ Material.
John Macintosh & Sons,
Wholesale & Retail Ironmongers.
307, 321, 275, 230 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Amusements.
USTRALIAN NATIVES’ ASSOCIATION
First ANNUAL BALL will be held at
1.0.0. F. TEMPLE, Sydney, on FRIDAY, 9th
August. Dancing 8 till 2. First-Class Band.
Tickets, ss. A. M'Guire &H. Evans, Hon. Sees.
RETURNED TO AUSTRALIA.
Charlie Taylor
AND
Ella Carrington,
who, supported by their Dramatic and Lyric Co., have
been successfully touring India, Burma, China and Japan
for nearly 5 years.
MR. TAYLOR and MISS CARRINGTON,
who are now entering upon their 17th year of theatrical
management, invite applications for engagement re the
following:—
Dramatic Company to Tour Australia.
To Leave Sydney Early in August, 1901.
Musical, Ballet and Vaudeville Company.
To Leave Australia, August, 1902, for 12 Months’ Tour
of the East.
Apply by Letter Only—
CHARLIE TAYLOR,
15 Pyrmont Street, Pyrmont, Sydney.
Not*. —Charlie Taylor holds the sole right of producing
in Australasia the following plays :
DRAMAS.
“Is She Guiltless,” “ Shadows of Life,” “ Mizpah,”
“ Disowned,” “ Gombeen’s Gold,” “ Right Man,” “ Ould
Ireland,” “ Irish Gossoon,” “ Unjustly Sentenced,” “ Our
Deitcher Vriend,” and “ Never Despair,” excepting a
few cities for which—by arrangement with Charlie Taylor
—the right of production is held by Bland Holt, Esq.
COMEDIES.
“ How wicked of Brown!” “Paying Guests,” “Mock
Doctor,” “ The Theosophite,” and “ The Jay pee.”
MUSICAL EXTRAVAGANAZAS.
“ Australia’s Tommy Atkins,” “ Frolicsome Faust,”
“ Jolly Jack Sheppard,” and “Rovin’ Rob Roy.”
PR IN C ESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Commencing SATURDAY, JULY 20, and Following
Nights, Grand Production of Lecocq’s Delightful
Comic Opera,
GIROFLE- GIRO FLA.
Under the Direction of the Victorian Operatic Society.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
WM. OGILVIE, Business Manager.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING,
A Success that Sparkles Like Gold.
A MILLION OF MONEY.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
PRINCESS’S TH EATRE, M ELBOURNE. ‘
■ Lessee, G. Musgrove. Underdirection of Jennie Maynand
GREAT SUCCESS of “ NURSE ”in Melbourne. Satur-
day Next, 13th, sees the advent of “ JIM BELMONT.” a
Society Drama by Mr. Berringer. Very, Very Funny, ancl
yet pathetically beautiful also. Usual Prices. Matinee,
Wednesday. Doors 7. Overture 8. Carriages 10.45.
Wolseley ImprovedL Shears.
alteration ikt price.
..Pastoralists and Shearers are hereby notified that on and after Ist July, 1901, the price of the
NE W WOLSELEY IMPROVED ALL-STEEL MACHINE SHEARS will be £3.
Ihe Wolseley Company have reluctantly been compelled to make this alteration owing to the*
P'mrvoTTmr manufacture incurred in bringing the machine to its present HIGH STATE OF
PLKr LCIION, a result which has only been obtained after a very large expenditure in up-to-date
machinery and tools.
The present Wolseley Machine is undoubtedly the BESIT SHEARING MACHINE ever offered
to the public, and although the price has been raised to £3, tihe cost of maintenance, owing to superior
material and workmanship, has been reduced to a minimum, and we are confident they will prove to
TA tEStES'E. Fr A r^^ FI , EAPER - but will . also LAST LONGER, RUN COOLER, and SHEAR
1 AljijliiiO than any other machine ever placed on the market.
DANG-AH., Cr£DY£ & CO., Sole Agents for Australia.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
BUSHMAN WATCH
m
I OUR
I TIMEKEEPER ■■
16/6°c«T l |
Wiii run for-20YEARy
Camden Buildings,
420 George St., Sydney
Three Doors from,
Strand Arcade.
A Saving of
25 per cent.
JI. WELLER. Y,
SOLID SILVER GOODS,
SILVER-PLATED WARE.
Write for 80-Paged Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
Amusements.
Empire theatre, Sydney.
(Late Royal Standard, Castlereagh-street.)
18th WEEK. (Still Mork Novelties.) 18th WEEK.
JOHN FULLER’S EMPIRE CO.
CHAS. FANNINC, “ Australia’s Comedian.”
DENNIS OARNEY, the “Yorkshire Comedian.”
JOHN S.- LEON and CLEVELAND—JULIE, VALDA,
JOHNNY WEST, LESLIE HOLMES, THE DASHING
ELMORES. Re-appearance of Mr. FRED. BLUETT.
Prices—2s., Is., and 6d. Open at 7.15.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Our New Artists Received with Enthusiasm.
THE DARTOS, Marvellous Parisian Dancers.
DAN LAMONT and his Performing- Dogs.
ADELE LIBRA, Wire-Walker and Globe-Runner.
JOHN COLEMAN, the Acknowledged Comedian.
CELINA BOBE, the Great Xylophone Expert & Violiniste.
Arnoldi, Albert Whelan, Fanny Powers, The American
Bioscope, and all Our Great Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturday and Wednesday.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee Mr. Harry Rickards.
EVERY EVENING,
ALFRED DAMPIER,
Supported by a Most Brilliant Coterie of Dramatic Artists,
IN A GREAT DRAMATIC SEASON.
SHAKESPEARE FRIDAY.
FRIDAY, JULY 19-3YI ACBET H.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY
COMPANY.
MARIE LLOYD,
ALEC. HURLEY, ALEC. HURLEY.
Little Eric, Madame Lucretia, Rosie Aquinaldo,
Adelina Sarina, and all Our Great Co.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. E. J. Tait.
LAST NIGHTS of WILLIAMSON’S ITALIAN OPERA CO.
THURSDAY, JULY 18, for the Last Time,
“ I PACLIACCI ” and “ CAVALLERIA RUSTICANA.”
SATURDAY, JULY 20, “UN BALLO IN MASCHERA,”
On a Seale of Great Completeness.
Musical Director SIGNOR HAZON.
Stage Director Mr. HENRY BRACY.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Management of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative .. .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
THE BROUGH COMEDY COMPAHY.
SECOND WEEK of
THE SECOND IN COMMAND,
A Comedy in Four Acts, by Robert Marshall.
MATINEE EVERY THURSDAY at 2 p.m.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. William Anderson.
ANOTHER ENORMOUS ATTRACTION.
SERVING THE KING,
OR, THE KING’S OWN LANCERS.
Interpreted by WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, headed by
Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. Charles Holloway.
3rd WEEK and LAST TWO NIGHTS of Mr. CHARLES
HOLLAWAY and his POPULAR COTERIE OF
PLAYERS in the GREAT SENSATIONAL SUCCESS,
THE POWER AND THE GLORY,
Written by Chas. Darrell, author of ‘ When London Sleeps.’
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 20, DANGEROUS WOMEN.
Prices —35., 25.. Is. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.55;
ordinary doors, 7.30. Plan at Nicholson’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
THE WILLIAMSON OPERA COMPANY.
SECOND WEEK and UNDOUBTED SUCCESS of
THE CASINO GIRL.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, George-st. Prices as usual.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
SATURDAY, JULY 20,
First Appearance in Sydney of Mr.
CHARLES BERTRAIVI,
The ROYAL and IMPERIAL COURT MAGICIAN.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY,
Commencing at 2.30 p.m.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
The Executors $ Agency Company
Established 1878. LIMITED.
Directors ;
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman.
ROBT. MURRAY SMITH, Esq., C.M.G., Vice-Chairman.
JOHN GRICE, Esq. 0. M. OFFICER, Esq. Hon. J. M. TRATT, M.L.O.
JAS. BORROWMAN, Manager. FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
Capital:
Subscribed, £150,000. Further Reserve Liability, £150,000. Paid-up, £90,000.
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits, £ll,lOB 7s. 3d.
AMOUNT at CREDIT of ESTATES, TRUSTS, and CLIENTS at 30th JUNE, 1901, £6,388,966 ss. 3d.
Notice is hereby given, that the FORTY-SEVENTH ORDINARY HALF-YEARLY MEETING of the shareholders
of the above Company will be held in the Board-Room at the Company’s offices, No. 418 COLLINS-SIREET, on
THURSDAY, 25th inst., at 11 o’clock.
BUSINESS :
1. To receive the Directors’ Report and Balance-sheet for the half-year ended 30th June 1911.
2. To elect a Director in the place of Mr. John Grice, who retires in accordance with the articles of
association, but is eligible for re-election and offers himself accordingly.
8- To consider any other business that may be brought before the meeting of which due notice
shall have been given.
REPORT.
The amount remaining at credit of profit and loss account and available for distribution is £6103 7s. 3d., whic
the Directors recommend should be appropriated as follows :
To dividend on £90,000 for half-year ended 30th June, 1901 at the rate of 5 per cent.
per annum „ .. £2.250 0 0
To balance to be carried forward 8.558 7 3
£6.108 7 3
By order of the Board. JAS. BORROWMAN, Manager.
412 Collins-street, Melbourne, 11th July, 1901.
The Trustees, Executors, and Agency Company, Limited.
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
HALF-YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE , 1001.
CR.
1901—J une 30. £ 8. and.
To Salaries, directors' and auditors’ fees, in-
cluding agencies 4,067 12 0
~ Stationery, postage and office expenses 857 6 1
~ Printing and advertising 352 2 3
~ Furniture and fittings 100 4 6
„ Law costs .. 54 14 0
To Difference in amount paid and received
on lease 37 Queen-street .. .. .. 275 0 0
„ Difference in amount paid in connection
with mortgage on premises and re-
ceived on investment of £21,400 .. 154 6 0
„ Balance carried down 6,108 7 3
£11.909 11 1
1900— December 31. £ 9. d.
By Balance 5,562 18 4
Less dividend at the rate of 5 per cent.
per annum .. ... .. .. 2,250 0 0
£3,312 13 4
1901—June 30.
By interest on mortgages, stock, etc. .. 667 16 8
~ commissions and miscellaneous receipts,
after pi oviding for contingencies .. 8,025 6 6
company’s premises—
Less rates, lift, and
repairs .. .. 213 110
£11,969 11 1
1901—June 30—By Balance .. „ .. £6,108 7 3
BALANCE-SHEET, 30th JUNE, 1901.
Dr.
Capital—
Subscribed £150,000 0 0
Less uncalled .. .. 60,000 0 0
60,000 shares; paid up to £llos. per share.. £90,000 0 0
Reserve fund (used* in the company’s busi-
ness) 5,000 0 0
Money owing on open account, &c 116 15 0
Debt due on mortgage of freehold property 20,000 0 0
Profit and loss account.. ... „ 6,103 7 3
£121,225 2 3
Cr.
Investments—
Inscribed stock, at par, held by the
Treasurer of Victoria £10,003 0 0
Inscribed stock, at par 8,400 0 0
Money lent on mortgage, at face value .. 6,854 2 4
Money lent against interests of benefi-
ciaries, at face value 8,318 0 6
Investments Set Aside to Meet Mortgage on
Freehold Property—
Money lent on mortgage, at
face value £4,600 0 6
Australian Deposit and
Mortgage Bank—Deposits,
at face value .. .. 14,000 0 0
2800 £5 preference shares,
at £1 per share .. .. 2,800 0 0
21,400 0 0
£49,972 2 9
Freehold property, at cost.. 69,348 210
Less written off .. .. 4,348 210
65,000 0 0
Furniture and fittings, at
cost 954 4 10
Less written off .. .. 454 4 10
5OO 0 0
Debts due to the company other those
abovementioned, amounts paid in ad-
vance, &c 1,372 2 2
Cash to credit in Bank of Australasia .. 4,380 17 4
£121,225 2 3
TRUST, EXECUTOR, and AGENCY BUSINESS.
(Jin' ' vigent and other Liabilities other-
w i»e than in respect of the Aboveinen-
tioned Items—
Amount at credit of estates, trusts,
and clients, represented by invest-
ments and cash at bankers, as per
contra .. .. •• •• .. £6,388,976 6 3
£6,388,976 6 8
Contingent Assets—
Advances on mortgage of real estate.. £1,793,609 19 2
Debentures and stock - 871,880 7 7
Landed property 2,595,599 16 11
Other securities ~ 1,079,824 6 1
Cash at bankers at credit of trust cur-
rent accounts 48,061 15 6
£6,388,976 6 B


A North Shore Restaurateur
Overcomes her Liver Trouble.
The Case of Mrs. F. FROGLEY.
(by our own reporter.)
The Post Office Dining and Refreshment
Rooms in North Sydney are situated at 87
Mount-street. This well-appointed restau-
rant was lately visited by a reporter, who
had an interview with Mrs. Fannie Frogley,
the wife of the proprietor.
“ I hear you were very ill some time ago ? ”
queried the scribe.
“ Yes. It is now a number of years since
my sickness began. I had a terrible ex-
ferience, and I feared my time was at hand.
was not married then, and I lived at
Braidwood. For years I was a sufferer
with indigestion, and as I grew older
so my ailments became more numerous
and obstinate. One doctor said my heart
was very weak, whilst another doctor said
I had heart disease. I really thought so
myself, and was in a state of constant fear
that something dreadful would suddenly
happen.”
“ Your liver may have been in a bad
state ? ”
“ I was sure of that, because the doctors
told me such was the case long before my
heart was said to be diseased. A peculiar
tasting gas was always arising from my
stomach, and my mouth was never without
the same forbidding flavour. Flatulence was
caused through my food fermenting, turning
sour, and feeling like a heavy load on my
stomach, instead of digesting. I felt the
wind roaming about my inside, and causing
the most acute pains, which were aggravated
by pain in the side and chest. Then I was
terrified through my heart palpitating
fiercely. Quite suddenly the attacks came
on, and each time I distinctly heard my
heart beating against my ribs for awhile,
then the violence abated gradually, and
again increased, till I was almostfrightened
to death with a dread that it would stop
beating altogether. My liver was un-
doubtedly diseased, otherwise my complaints
would not have been so many.”
“ Had you any more sources of trouble ? ”
“ I had. My appetite was not worth
calling one. It was fickle and poor for a
long time, then left me altogether. I was
not sorry, in a way, because everything I
used to eat did not agree with me, and my
sufferings were only intensified. I often
vomited what I ate as soon as down,
and fits of retching lasted some time, pro-
ducing drowsy, sickly headaches, which
made me awfully miserable. Pricking pains
assailed me under the shoulder and lower
ribs, my eyes were dim and weak, and I
became as white as death. I was so thin
that the people said the wind would one
day blow me away, and my system was so
completely robbed of strength that I could
scarcely walk. The least effort made me
feel faint and dizzy, and my exhausted con-
stitution was a martyr to colds. I could not
go out into the open-air without catching a
chill, which showed that I was in a dread-
fully weak state. My nervous system felt
the severe strain of my sickness, and as I .
was always trembling and shaking, no
wonder I was so terror-stricken. My mind
was tormented with horrible thoughts,
which kept me awafce night after night.
Another very strange thing happened. I
became quite deaf. The shriek of a steam
whistle could not penetrate my ears. Some
of the leading specialists were consulted,
and they all said the drums of my ears were
gone, and the sense of hearing would never
be recovered.”
“• That would have been a dreadful
affliction.” . ,
“So I thought. The very idea of it dis-
tressed me greatly, and I fell into a low
state of despondency. I lost all interest in
life, and became resigned to my fate. Con-
tinually ailing and suffering intense agony
made me almost wish for death to release
me, although in reality I feared it when my
heart troubles came on.”
“ Did the doctors give you any relief ? ”
“ Not a bit, although I took no end of
medicine from them. It was evident that I
was only throwing money away, bo I com-
menced doctoring myself. I tried almost
every medicine advertised ; but not one of
them brought the relief for which I was
vainly searching.”
“But you look the picture of health
now ! ”
“ And I feel as healthy as I look. Yes, I
am twice the weight of what I was when I
gave up buying useless physics. For seven
years I have not been troubled with the
slightest sickness—not even a headache. I
can distinguish sound as quickly as any-
body, and believe my former deafness was
caused through constantly catching colds
through my shocking state of weakness.”
“ How was such a remarkable recovery
effected?”
“In a very simple way. One day I was
sitting in my usual forlorn and disheartened
condition, when a knock came to the door.
A pamphlet was handed in, and I read
therein about the effects of Clements Tonic.
There was a case like mine, and the person
had been cured by Clements Tonic, a few
bottlea of which I bought straight away.
In two or three days I felt much better.
My stomach pains had then ceased, and my
appetite w r as good. Flatulence troubled
no more when my second bottle was finished,
and my heart beat with a healthy regularity.
The pains in my back were gone, ae were
also the aches in my head and limbs.
Clements Tonic made me stronger every
day, and it brought l ack all my vigor and
cheerfulness. How could I help feeling
happy when I knew I had found a medicine
which was surely supplying the qualities my
wrecked system required ? ( lements Tonic
cured me of every symptom, and even when
I was quite well I occasionally took a dose
of Clements Tonic to clinch the cure.
Clements Tonic has no equal, and I strongly
advise all sufferers to take it. I have
proved it.”
“I shall publish all you have said with
your permission ! ”
“ You may, as freely and as often as you
please.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Fannik Froqlby, of 87 Mount Street, North
Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting: of throe folios,
and consecutively numbered from one to three, and
thatit contains and is a true and faithful account of nay
illness and oure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
my full permission to publish in any way my state-
ments—which I give voluntarily, without receiving
any payment; and I make this solemn declaration con-
scientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue of the provisions of an Act made and passed
in the ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty,
intituled “An Act for the more effectual abolition
of Oaths and Affirmations taken aud made in the
various Departments of the Government of New South
Wales, and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof,
and for the suppression of voluntary and extra-judicial
Oaths and Affidavits."
Declared at North Sydney, this Bth day of October,
one thousand nine hundred, before me,
WILLIAM MASSEY, J.P.
Or. C2l»/e*lUz3o*i. , s9 Electric 33e>l-fc
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments, ft is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clar3i:3o3a.’a Ro-Invisorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-IN VIGORATOR
will L-ing happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is trulv wonderful
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. b is truly wonderful.
Price-ELECTRIO BELT, LOs. ; RE-INVIGORATOK, 7s. Cd. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
V
OAL'„ OR WRITE
OWL
CUT
RATE
DHUG STORE
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
—— ■ . ■ ... ■—»-*»»
(£ood Tailoring.
WINTER.
Warm Tweeds and Worsteds .
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
TO STAND ALL WEATHERS.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &C.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
AWARDED “CRAMP PBIX,” 1900.
See the Marvellous results obtained with the
No. 1 Panoram
KODAK
Which takes Wide Panoramic Pictures, 7in.
x 2£in., and is Loaded and Un-
loaded in Daylight; also the
No. 3 Folding Pocket
KODAK
Taking Pictures 3iin. x 4£in., fitted with
Rapid Rectilinear Lens, Brilliant View
Finder, made of aluminium.
Send for Illustrated Leaflets, and
mention this Paper.
To be obtained of all Dealers throughout
Australasia, or of—
/swKODAK Ltd.
THE BLOCK,
284 COM INS ST.. MELBOURNE.
Medloal.
NOTICE «
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy •
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizics, 9d. <fc Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstrk <fe Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
POWELL’S BALSAM
Or-
OF ANISEED
WILL CURE YOUR GOUGH
All the world over, it has been the recognised
Cough Remedy for the past 75 years, and is
to-day the Safe and Reliable Cure for
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and all Lung Troubles.
Loosens the Phlegm immediately, and re-
moves the tickling sensation in the Throat,
which deprives so many of rest during the
night. It Strengthens the Voice.
WARNING. —When purchasing
Powell’s Balsam of Aniseed
see the above Trade Mark on each wrapper
and beware of Imitations.
Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers through-
out the world. Prepared only by Thomas
Powell, Ld., Blackfriars, London, S.E.
Dreams in Flower:
By Louise Mack. No. IV of The Bulle-
tin Booklets (enlarged). Enveloped,
2s. 6d. post free.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise, and
Buy the Best, Cheapest and Mest
Stylish Clothing In Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & Co.
PRO T.
LTD.
252-254 Flinders St., Melbourne
(Opp. Station).
#r
B PI /
Our Suit to Order at
4 2/- i« marvelous
value, perfect fitting
and beautifully flnish-
ed.
Trousers. 12/6.
Dress and Clerical Suit*,
to order, £5«
Riding Breeches, 25/-
Men’s Suits. Ready for
Wear, 25/-
Ballarat Serge Buits,
Indigo dye, 25/-
Lon<r Chesterfields, 30/-
Tweed Overcoats, 21/-
i Waterproof Coats, full
capes. 18/6.
Tweed orSerge Trouser*,
5/11.
Travelling Bugs, 10/li
13/9.
Black and Blue Vicuna
Coats and V eats ,19/6.
Undressed Wliite Shirts,
2/6.3/0, 4/6. 5/6
Crimean Shirts, 5/6.
7/6.
Gent s Sp'endid Bal*
moral Boots 6/9,9/6
We like to write letters,
bo don’t be afraid to
ask for any informa-
tion. Our book. Iho
Philosophy of Dress.
patterns of all kinds
and self-measurement
forms post free. Wi ite
for them.
Don’t Forget to Write for Pattern*.
Removes Headache
Cures Dyspepsia
Strengthens the Nerves
%
THE MOST WONDERFUL TONIC
FOB LADIES, CHILDEEN AND
DELICATE GENTLEMEN.
FISHER and CO.’S
PHOSPHEiME
AN INVALUABLE AND UNEQUALLED TONIC
FOR THE NERVES, BRAIN, AND HEART.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Is. per Bottle—Post Free.
PHARMACY:
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly Opposite G.P.0.)
ADVICE FREE ON ALL COMPLAINTS.
All Drugs, Pilules and Tinctures Fresh and Potent.
V
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
EVERY MAN NEEDS IT.
OOME interesting information is disclosed in the book
published by the Electro-Botanic Institute, of
jVictoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney. It dis-
cusses the private side of life in such a way as to cause
most men to pause and think as to whether they are just
what they ought to be physically. The book is sent free,
in plain, sealed wrapper. —Medical Review.
Di
RUNKENNESS
Positively CURED by Administering
It can be given in
drink or food with-
EUCRASY
out the subject’s knowledge
will effect a Speedy Cure. IF,
Perfectly Harmless, and
'rite TO-DAY for Free Bon
Address THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunlcr-street, Sydney,
T)EAR SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness and De-
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no char, e
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-atreet, Sydney.
Little Chief Justice Way has a stick to
which h® attributes much of the luek that has
come his way. It was bequeathed to him by
N.S. W. Chief Justice Stephen, who got it from
'/alley. As soon as he became the stick’s owner,
s C.J. was raised to the Privy Council. The
first intimation that he received of the appoint-
ment Was a message from Advertiser Bonython,
which ran : “ Hearty congratulations, That won-
derful stick ! You must leave it to me by your
will.”
“ Medico ” writes
The new Finsen cure for lupui seems to have rather
more in it than the majority of “cures” with which the
daily papers dazzle us. Lupus represents the action of
the tubercle bacillus on the skin, and consists usually of
a spreading ulceration affecting the face. It is for this
reason responsible for some particularly evident and hor-
rible deformities, and no previous treatment has been
able to_ stop its gradual spread with any certainty.
The ultimate result is usually the erosion of a large
artery, or possibly a lingering ending, from pain and
worry. Most of the cases popularly known as “ cancer of
the face,” arises from lupus, although a similar condition
may be produced by a form of true cancer affecting the
skin, and known as a rodent ulcer. The Finsen treatment
depends upon the action of the chemical rays in electric
light to which the affected part is exposed. Like most
other “ cures,” the Finsen process must stand the test of
time and experience before it be adopted by the medical
profession generally.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue *
Fred. M‘Cubbin’s studio at Melbourne
National Gallery is a place for painful reflection
just now. Mac. is at work upon a vast portrait
of M'Oaughey, M.L.O., of N.S.W., who appears
on the canvas garbed in “ the Court dress which
he wore when presented to Royalty in London ” —
vide daily newspaper paragraph. The employes
of M‘Caughey commissioned the artist to exe-
cute this souvenir of the proudest moment in
M ‘Caughey’s life. Another and a very artistically-
completed picture in M'Cubbin’s studio is the
portrait of Charles Atkins, Esq., an active and
not unintelligent citizen in the lubricating-oil
line. Atkins (in oils) is not depicted as booking
an order, or writing one of his characteristic jin-
goistic letters of “ public-spirited ” suggestion to
the Argus. No ! To quote again the beautiful
language of the press par. : “The subject is re-
presented in evening dress . . . and there is some
clever texture painting in the rendering of the
coat.” A nice-complexioned pusher of machine-
oils is quite entitled to fancy himself in evening
dress, and get his portrait painted accordingly,
but why should such matters as Atkins and his
coat, and M‘Caughey and his court dress be
advertised to the glory of Australian Art ?


Thus said Canon Scott-Holland, preaching re
cently in London :
Home! “the very word is a mockery” to multitudes
under “ the conditions in which they live.” They know
nothing of home ; and if they knew it in its meaning as
an ideal .... it could only sound to them as the
jeer of a scoffing devil. What is home to the 800,000
people who are living in London more than two in one
room for every purpose of life —sleeping, eating, resting,
washing, dressing ; for all familiar intercourse and quiet
withdrawal from the loud world—one room ! Think of
it: one room for two or three persons, the only thing in
life they have — 900,000 people to-night in London have
that for their home. One room for three or four to live
and sleep in— 290,000 people have that to-night. One
room for four or five people to live in wholly, and 114,000
people will be like that to-night in London. One
room for six or 12 people to live in—the
only thing they have, and 27,000 people in
London to-night will have that—one room. In
St. George’s in the East a man with five daughters and
three sons, most of them grown up, have all to make
their home in one room. And as in London so in Bir-
mingham, 68,000 people live more than two in one room ;
in Leeds, 60,000 more; in Liverpool, 52,000; in Man-
chester, 41,000; and Sheffield, 30,000—one room. One
room that has not only to be kitchen, drawing-room,
dining-room, bedroom, laundry, and workshop often, but
also a sick-room for the hot, fever-tossed patient, for the
man dying there, or the woman with racking cough—one
room to live in, one room only to die in ; one room in
which the dead must be laid out while all the family eat
and sleep round the corpse. No place for the children in
the one room ; they are driven out into the street, which
ij their only playground, left to discover what life may
mean by themselves in gutter games, in hordes around
the corner of city court and alley.
The long arm of coincidence smites the
ballot-box. The Q. jury-year commences June 1
and ends May 31 of the following year. The
names of jurors drawn between those dates are put
into a box and retained until the end of the cur-
rent jury-year. At the expiration of the year the
names are put into the ballot-box and a full list
drawn anew. At the last drawing (Rockhamp-
ton), a number of men whose names appeared on
all four panels of the last Supreme and District
Court list of special and common jurors were all
actually drawn again.
It is part of the British Oonstitooshun
that an Englishman’s house is his castle, and that
he has the right to wallop his wife whenever he
thinks she needs it, wherefore a North Melbourne
citizen was muoh surprised when the police lately
invaded his private apartments and locked him up
for “ merely chastising his wife in a proper
manner ” —to wit, with nis fist. He was still more
surprised when the beaks fell on his constitutional
rights and fined him £2. As the lady promptly
paid the fine, she presumably thought the discip-
line did her a lot of good.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
A youth of about 14 gave himself up to
the Sydney police t’other day. Said his name
was Joseph Jones, but beyond that fact he could
remember nothing.. Address ? Didn’t know.
Parents living ? Didn’t know. How long in
Sydney ? No idea. Where did he sleep last
night ? Couldn’t say. A commiserating magis-
trate committed the lost waif to the care of the
Benevolent Society. The institution doctor made
his usual examination, and, finding the boy’s eye-
sight affected, ordered an operation. He was
being escorted to a city hospital for treatment,
when a little boy passing him yelled “ There’s
Harry ! ” Harry it was right enough, and he
was speedily grabbed by his mother, who had
been anxiously looking for him for days. The
youngster, tired of the humdrum of home, had
determined to get lost. It was a poor reward for
his vigorous foreign policy that the road to the
hospital led past his own door.
At a recent Vic. bye-election, a successful
candidate was supported by the Scripture League,
the W.C.T.U. and the Licensed Victuallers’
Association. An alliance as incongruous as that
of the clergy and the bookmakers who are moving
Heaven and earth to down Tattersall.
An unusual maintenance action was re-
cently heard at Wellington (M.L.). The parties
were divorced, and the wife got judgment for
arrears of maintenance up to time of divorce. An
application by defendant for cancellation of the
order was refused, the decree of divorce not yet
having been made absolute. The question of the
liability of the man for maintenance in the interim
was allowed to stand over, a test-c ■ j on the sub-
ject being as yet undecided.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Loek-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Apropos law-reform. Judge Emden, of
the Eng. County Court Bench, a front-ranker so
far as commercial law goes, writes in Nineteenth
Century an article of the sort that doesn’t often
come from a lawyer. He suggests first the simpli-
fication of the law. Apparently he would like to
return to the ancient exclusion of lawyers from
Parliament, but doesn’t seem to think that pos-
sible. For practical purposes, he thinks most im-
provement is to be hoped for from paying lawyers
according, not to the length to which they drag
out the proceedings, but to the importance of the
matter in dispute—on the same basis as architects,
agents, &c., are paid. To simplify procedure and
for like purposes he would have a Minister for
Justice (but wasn’t Mr. Heydon N.S.W. Minister
for Justice?) and a permanent advisory board,
composed of men “entirely free from professional
influences,” which, he remarks, the Judges, as a
rule, are not.
•
m
sd
F4»BTH#
iHAiB
Under Royal
Patronage.
KOKO for the Hair Is a tonic, cleansing, invigorat-
ing and delightfully cooling preparation, causes the
hair to grow luxuriantly, keeps it soft and pliant,
eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling and
turning grey, promotes growth, contains no dye or
greasy substance, is the most cleanly of all hair
preparations, and is perfectly harmless. The unioue
testimonials received prove it to be undoubtedly
the best dressing for the hair. 1/-, 2/6, and 4/6, of
all Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Australian Depot: Koko-Maricopas Co., Ld.,
14, Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
v df
CAUTION.
See that this registered Trade
Mark is on every bottle.
s fssdf
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest,' experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
folding in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ■’ have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE or* COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CAR 111 ED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“Mr. Hearne. —
“Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr ro
colds and bronchial asthma. I do not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself v. hat an immense success
it was. - Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“ Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidh successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly.prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
“I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
e
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only pave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; hut I am sending-for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good.it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
©
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me. —(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
©
“ 1 have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine. —JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone. —J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
©
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. . The cure was
absolutely miraculous. —F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
»
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly-.—C. 11. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
@
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” ©
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
9
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” 9
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my- present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN C.’
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
9
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well. —H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
9
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
9
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
9
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects. —CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“ Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
tvho during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
‘.‘Believe us always to be,
“Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists."
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRE SES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Ilearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struok with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND ' SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
PR ""»—" <OT Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD fob
INFANTS
9
BENDER'S FOOD Is not only highly nutritious,
but Is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by. Chemists, Be., every whan.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by (fi!
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
AND
THE AGED.


VIONVId
“ It is astonishing to see
this little device at work
executing the masterpieces
of pianoforte literature
with a dexterity, clearness,
and velocity which no
pla, er, however great, can
approach. Every one who
wishes to hear absolutely
faultless, free from any
kind of nervousness, piano-
playing should buy a Pi-
anola. It is perfection.*’—
I. J. Paderewski.
Has arrested the attention of the
musical world. Its claims have been
investigated and verified by the great
pianists themselves.
This verification of its claims makes them interesting and
worthy of attention.
JHE PIANOLA is an instrument by means of which any one
can play the Piano.
This is accomplished by simply rolling the Pianola in
front of any piano, allowing the felt-covered fingers to rest
upon the keys of the piano, then inserting a roll of perforated paper
into the sockets, and operating the pedals. Playing-directions appear
upon the roll as the music unwinds.
Thus the Pianola provides a substitute for the human fingers and
a correct technique for any piece.
The artistic effects and vivifying personality are given to the ren-
dition by the player, who controls the expression. It is entirely subject
to his will. He may vary the touch from the most delicate pianissimo
to the “ lion’s touch of Rubinstein.”
This human element is the distinctive feature of the Pianola, and
removes it from the ranks of purely mechanical musical instruments. It
taxes the credulity c f all who have not heard it, but is substantiated by
the fact that the Pianola _
is the only Piano-Play< r
endorsed by musicians
of note.
Heorg E Blrge & Co.,
Sole Agents for AustrcJa:i.~..
323 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Send for Catalogue
Illustrations and
culars.
0
'ontaining
'-all parti-
The Pianola is sold at no other
address in Sydney.
i
]
fmm
m
Paris €xDibition, 1900. —British Awards
The Only
Grand
Prix
She
highest yTward
ever made!
FOR TOILET SOAP
HAS BEEN AWARDED TO
(Established 1789.)
'-T-T.acc.r &&
Bp
Appointment
to
HK
Difnp\
»er majesty Cbe Queen and b.r.b. cbe Prince of Wales.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1900 inclusive.
A Pair of Hard Bargains.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CHAtfOKT for changey— white —dog—for—
brass monkey ! ”
The little Parsee boy stole along the deck of the
“ Gleam,” and peeped into the apprentices’ house.
It was Sunday morning, and the only occupant
was indulging in a “sailor’s pleasure” —which
means that he was turning-out the contents of his
sea-chest and re-packin'g it; for Billy, like all his
tribe, when he wanted anything from his chest,
stirred it up until the desired article came to the
top, and devoted part of the Sabbath to putting
the week’s chaos in order.
The beady black eyes of the little Parsee mer-
chant glittered covetously as he noted the beloved
“ Ingeeleesh flannelly eshirts ” ; but he knew
Billy, and was wary.
‘ ‘ Where your bruzzer ? ” he inquired.
“Hullo, Johnny !” cried the boy, looking up
from his work of folding and smoothing-out his
best brass-bound suit. “You want to do a
changey-for-changey ? What you got ? ”
“I got eseent, escarf, escap—eberything got.
Monkey no got, ” replied the youthful merchant,
setting down his tray. “ But where your looking-
glass bruzzer ? ”
“ He’s gone to church,” replied Billy, grinning,
“but I’ll do a changey with you.”
“ No, no; you no speaky true ! ” replied the
Parsee, with the gravity of a patriarch. “Sup-
pose your bruzzer go makey pray, then you go
makey pray, too —but I see you here! You no
go, your bruzzer no go. You two boys—but only
one face have. One time I come, you speaky me
‘ rooti munter.’ All right, I bring plenty rooti.
You show it me new flannelly eshirts, I speaky
you, ‘All right, I changey.’ Then you speaky,
‘ Look, esee if Captain Sahib come; cause he
bobbery plenty make if boy changey his eshirt.’
All right; I look esee, and then you speaky me,
‘ Quick, he coming jeldy jou ! ’ and you put flan-
nelly eshirt inside my basket and I go away
quiok. But wait; I find what welly bad boy
Escotchman tief you are. The eshirt you hide
quick in my basket look on top-side allee same
good new eshirt you show me for changey-changey.
But wait! It is wicked ;it is rolled up tight with
estring. I untie it, and behold ! it is a welly old
eshirt.”
The little merchant tried to express by a hideous
grimace of disgust the sort of old shirt that had
been substituted for the new one, and Billy
laughed, for, in his mind’s eye, he saw the little
Parsee gazing indignantly at that old tarring-down
garment of his brother’s, with its variegated
patches.
The twins prided themselves upon their origi-
nality in repairing their wardrobes, and would
scorn to put a grey patch on a white shirt if they
could steal a piece of blue or red bunting for the
job.
“You make big mistake, Johnnie,” replied
Billy, effacing the grin with a grieved expression.
“My brother gave you that old shirt, not me. I
wouldn’t do a thing like that.”
“ Oh, yes! P’raps you Bill-ee, p’raps you
Charl-ee —who know ? ” and the little Parsee ap-
pealed to the Universe with outspread hands.
“I’m Billy.”
“Oh, yes! Sometimes you Bill-ee, sometimes
you Charl-ee. You take my esoap, my eseent, and
you speaky me Bill-ee. You say, ‘ All right, Igo
get rupee from Captain Sahib.’ Bimeby I speaky
‘ You give it one rupee.’ Then you laugh, and
you speaky me Charl-ee. Oh, yes ! you Charl-ee
then, not Bill-ee. Oh, no, never I find Billee;
but it is finish ! Ino more changey-for-changey
with one Bill-ee; other fellow come, make two
Bill-ees. Then plenty changey-for-changey I can
do.”
A hand stole round the door-post and lifted the
little Parsee’s hat off, exposing his clean-scraped
head ; but he kept his eyes fixed upon his stock.
“ Ah ! Charl-ee come back—finish makey pray,”
he said without looking round.
Charlie entered, and rubbed his hand vigorously
over the little bald pate.
“ You haven’t shaved your napper this morn-
ing, Johnny. Stand still while I strike a match
on it.”
“No, no,” cried the little merchant with a
vicious gleam in his eyes; “you makey jokey, I
makey business. If I none can do—then—
Salaam ! ” And the little fellow bowed gracefully
and prepared to pack up his display of gaudy
rubbish. But the twins protested that they were
anxious to do business—they always were.
Charlie, whose hands were hovering about the
tray under the owner’s watchful eyes, suddenly
swooped upon a gaudy penholder of Brummagem
birth and examined it with extravagant expres-
sions of admiration.
“How much you want for this, Johnny?” he
inquired eagerly.
The Parsee boy smiled the smile of an indulgent
parent whose infant son asks him to reach down
the moon.
“That pen for Captain Sahib,” he answered;
“not for poor boy. Money you no got to buy
him. You buy little commoney pen ashore,” he
added in a soothing tone.
Charlie shot at his brother a swift glance, which
was answered by a wink.
“Is it gold?” asked Billy in an awe-stricken
voice, taking his turn at admiring the pen, which
he recognised as an old friend of the “ any on this
card for a penny ” variety.
“Yes, all solid gold,” replied the merchant,
taking it quickly from him and replacing it re-
verently in the tray. “ But, come, I show you
little thing so cheap for boys,” he added, sitting
down cross-legged to business. But the twins
gazed at the gorgeous penholder, and refused to
be put off with anything less valuable.
Billy took his best pilot-cloth jacket, which he
had just carefully brushed and folded.
“ Here, Johnny, I changey this for the pen.”
The little Parsee was delighted, and would have
closed the deal right there, but out of the corner
of his eye he saw Charlie make a hasty dive at his
chest, and he quickly dissembled his satisfaction.
“Hold hard, Johnny,” cried Charlie excitedly.
“I spoke you first for that pen. You make
changey with me. See ! I give you this ! ” He
produced a whole suit and laid it before the grati-
fied merchant. But the Parsee youth had got his
professional “’Tis naught, saith the buyer” ex-
pression well under control now, and, glancing
coldly at the offering, he turned to Billy with—
“ And what more you gib, Bill-ee ? ”
Billy promptly placed two Crimean shirts and a
blue necktie on top of the pilot-jacket.
But Johnny waved them away. “ This welly
fine pen. You no savee how many rupees my
countrymen gib for him. Only one more can find
in Bombay. But I likee you, Char-lee and
Bili-ee—you number-one boys. What more you
gib, Char-lee?” Charlie went one better with
three shirts and a pair of shoes ; but Billy—after
another examination of the preoious pen, and a
renewed assurance that it was real 25-callot gold—
outbid his brother by two undershirts.
So, assisted by the Parsee’s eloquent description
of the many Captain Sahibs who longed vainly to
Eossess that pen, the fierce competition raged
etween the twins ; until, in reply to the monoto-
nous “What more‘you gib?” they sat on their
empty chests, peering eagerly over their respec-
tive stacks of clothes, at the pen, which the little
Parsee had placed artfully where the sun made it
look more like gold than a sovereign.
“ Well,” exclaimed both lads together, “which
lot you take ? ”
The trader looked critically at the bargains
before him, making a mental calculation
of the value of each. It was a big deal
—the biggest he had ever dreamt of—and
he exulted not only in the profit of it, bu t in the
knowledge that his good old father, who had
trained him to bargain and lie ever since he could
toddle, would praise him and boast of his son to
all the elders in the Bazaar.
But these thoughts were not reflected in his
grave little face, as he said to Billy, “You got
big bag ? ”
“ No,” replied Billy.
He turned to Charlie. “You got him bag ? ”
Charlie laughed uproariously. “The little
beggar wants a bag to carry off the plunder.
Here, then.” He emptied out a capacious soiled-
linen bag, and placed it on his pile.
Billy was putting his clothes back into his
chest.
The little Parsee handed the penholder to
Charlie with a polite salaam.
“Here, you take, but not tell Captain Sahib, I
sell him so cheap. He welly angry suppose he
know he lose that No. 1 gold-pen.”
But Charlie pushed the pen away with almost
Oriental dignity. “ No, Johnny,” he said,
sitting down firmly upon his clothes. “ When it
comes to taking that beautiful pen for these old
clothes, I feel I can’t do it. It would be taking
advantage of your kindness. Besides, a pen like
that is too beautiful for a boy like me. It would
make me feel too proud.”
The merchant turned eagerly to Billy and
clutched the clothes that still remained out of his
chest. “Here, you take it. You welly good
No. 1 boy.”
“Hands off!” was the indignant rejoinder.
“You too greedy, Johnny ! Suppose you no ask
me for that bag, I would have done a changey,
but now too late.”
“ Well; look, I gib it now,” cried the little
merchant, almost in tears at seeing his grand
bargain melting away.
“No, you’ve lost the deal through being too
greedy,” replied Billy, calmly going on with his
repacking.
“But, wait; you too much hurrjr make,” pro-
tested the now trembling trader in persuasive
tones. “Look! I show you.” He took a pair of
socks off the fast dwindling pile and laid them
aside with an air of extreme sacrifice. “There,
now, I take these, and I makey you present of
this never-can-get-better gold pen.” But the
generous smile that accompanied the offer changed
to an expression of blank despair as Billy closed
the lid of his chest, and replied, with brutal
frankness, “ You’re an awful little liar, Johnny !”
Tears were in the disappointed Parsee’s eyes.
He fully believed that if he hadn’t asked for that
accursed clothes-bag the deal would have come-off
—for the twins were artists at such deceptions.
He turned to Charlie to make a last effort, but
Charlie had put all his trade back into his chest;
and, in his abstraction, a few trifles from the
curio-basket had gone with them.
“ Halves ! ” said Billy, as soon as the disgusted
little merchant had gone ; and Charlie produced
two cakes of scented soap and a packet of Turkish
delight.
But, later on, Billy found that he was short of
a Crimean shirt.
“The little beggar scored, after all,” he re-
marked.
“They generally do,” groaned Charlie, with
his mouth full of Turkish delight^
CRIPPS CLARK.
“ Melbourneite ” to The Bulletin :
People who contemplate supporting the forthcoming
bazaar in aid of the Abbotsford (Vic.) convent should re-
member the charges made against it over two years ago,
and never yet refuted or even contradicted. Abbotsford
Convent runs a big washing-establishment, to which all
local good Catholics are supposed to send their linen. It
is under no Factories Act, being exempt as an alleged
charitable institution, and the proprietors of private
washeries allege that the godly institution works its
“ rescued ” women 12 to 15 or 16 hours a day for nothing
but their tucker, even utilising the reformed sinners to do
the laborious work of stoking the boilers, in order to
avoid the expense of employing men. These charges
were made in Melb. City Police-court, and were repeated
in a pamphlet issued by one of the washing-establish-
ments in question ; yet not a word of contradiction has
been given, while the allegations have been corrobor-
ated by Magdalenes who relapsed to sin rather than find
frace per medium of being sweated for the glory of God.
Iverybody who thinks of subscribing to the bazaar under
the impression that he is assisting a charitable movement
should paste this in his hat.
The Bulletin would like to know what are really
the exact facts of the case.
A man appeared before the Wellington
(M.L.) Magistrate's Court a week or two ago, to
plead his case against a grocer who was suing him
for victuals supplied. Defendant heaved himself
up and reasoned with the Bench: “You see,
your Washup, my case is unique in this country.
I’ve only bin married six years, and me wife has
brought home seven youngsters, four of ’em were
twins, and me an’ the missus is quite worn-out
with rearing them kids. Now I’m very sorry to
be in this position, but prices have gone up lately,
and I can’t pay the grocer and rear all these
children too. It’s quite impossible, yer Washup!”
“You provide the children, and expect others to
provide for them ? ,f said the Court in a severe tone
of voice. “That’s all right,” said the man;
“other people’ll get the benefit of them young-
sters. I won’t. And if yer goin’ to argue
about it on a business bottom, well, those as
benefits, by ’em ought to keep ’em. But I
ain’t doin’ that. What I says is, that I can’t
pay this yer grocer and rear these seven
youngsters, too. I know we ought not to have had
’em, but it was me misfortune and not me fault
that I married a woman whose mother had 21
children. If there was any statesmen in the
country they’d pay people like us something out
of the Treasury for the service we’re doin’ the
State in giving it seven new citizens.” The
Court chewed its pen-handle, and then made an
order for ss. per month, and the parent and pa-
triot left the court declaring he could never pay it.
This is the sort of case where the horrors of
public ingratitude show up strongly. Maoriland
papers are in a state of deep anxiety about the
declining birth-rate, which simply means that
they are shocked and alarmed because people
don’t have larger families. And when one citizen
does have a large family, and can’t pay his grocer’s
bill in consequence, he is held up to ridicule by
these same papers in a way calculated to make
other parents decide to keep down the birth-vate.


STEAM
ENGINES
FROM 5 H.P. TO 100 H P
DYNAMOS
MOTORS
FROM 1 H.P. TO 60 h.p.
CAIM BE SUPPLIED PROMPTLY
FROM STOCK.
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; 17 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
I3A.FTO (Xja.l£e
(LIMITED),
lllawarra), near
SYDKTBY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
• • • •
PRODUCERS
or
FINE SILVER.
'■‘r:
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
. • BItAND OP..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of aU classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS' SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLI
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT GASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Ratos, etc., apply to P. S. Moksic, Manager. The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
An Ode.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Liberty cried her message to the Earth,
And half her voice was heeded: “You shall live
And prosper each according to his worth,
Nor shall you once receive until you give.
Fate’s sad old prophecy will be complete,
And every man shall sweat before he eat.”
But Liberty is silent; on her breast
A star and ribbon charm her voice to sleep;
“ Empire ” is branded on her bursting vest
(Alas for Liberty grown fat !) —and deep
Her thunderous guns for Five-Feet-Nothing roar,
While Princes mince on carpets to her shore.
How often, in a thousand fruitful years,
Will greatness mount upon a guarded throne ?
William Charles Edward where are Crom-
well’s peers
Daring a nation to take back its own ?
Our Cromwells (knighted) urge us to obey
A spectre—at a thousand pounds a day.
I hate all Kings : they are born of shams and lies,
From that cracked Kaiser with the seething
brain,
Or bloody Abdul with his weary eyes,
To Wilhelmina—giggling, vapid, vain ;
Or that old tired spirit, who will not yield
The sceptre which Unreason soon must wield.
If you or I had lived in other days,
When thrones were stakes to win, for who fought
best,
We might have striven for a prince’s praise
And been—good Lord ! —as “loyal” as the rest;
But dismally the tardy trumpets ring
When ’tis the tailor’s craft proclaims the King.
Where sturdy monarchs played a kingly game,
And, losing it, they jested with their death,
Our tinselled puppets venture but to claim
A little surfeit of the people’s breath
To fill their bubbles, till that coming morn
When Time shall laugh his parasites to scorn.
V.
PAGAN.
The Old Man’s Collapse.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“What on airth jer want to get married for,”
growled the old man.
John Davies, his son addressed, was unable to
give any reasons for such a step, or if he could,
preferred not to.
“ Ain’t you got a good ’ome ? ”
John sheepishly murmured “Yes, father.”
“ Ain’t you got all yer want ? Beer ? Bacca ? ”
Really John had not all he wanted, because
there was Susan Earl. But being accustomed to
take his opinions from his father, he agreed.
“Well, what on airth more jer want? You’ll
’ave the farm when I’m gone, and not a farden
before. Plenty of time fer you.” Davies senior
considered that this settled the debate, and John,
from weakness of will and habit, dutifully accepted
the closure.
Mr. Davies, who farmed 300 acres in northern
Tasmania, had at intervals during nine years so
delivered himself. Davies senior was big and
burly; whiskers covered his waistcoat and he was
exceedingly domineering. Although mutton-
reared, his offspring was beefy, stodgy, tomato-
faced and very obedient. John was thirty-one.
Nine years ago the united hopes of John and
Susan Earl soared balloon-like into ether. John
cheerfully argued that, as he had worked for his
father ever since work could be got out of him, for
just his tucker, clothing and pocket-money,
simple justice required that his parent should now
pay up arrears of wages in a lump sum, such, as
would keep their balloon inflated. John also per-
suaded himself and Susan that his father would
be sure to give him a partnership or start him on
another farm.
When these things were mildly suggested to
Mr. Davies by his son, there was a scene.
“What on airth d’yer want to marry for?’*
raved the old man. “ Blamed nonsense—/ never
married ! ”
John was aware of the discrepancy of his birth.
He felt, however, he could hardly use that as an
argument with Susan.
“ Look ’ere,” declared the old man. “ Unner-
stan’ me. Not a farden while I’m alive ! You
kin clear and git fer yerself if yer wants marry-
ing.”
So John pacified Susan, and persuaded her to
agree with a, policy of patience. They had now
been pursuing that policy for nine years, and
Susan was sick of it. On the other hand, John
had'sunk into a stupor of resignation. Now and
again Susan impelled him to attack the old man,
but each appeal was more faint-hearted than the
former. He wu beginning to see with his father
that, after all, a man can do very well without
marriage.
This was not the view of Susan. She was not
by any means a dull girl, and she could see her
balloon so bedraggled and full of holes that it
would probably never again be sufficiently inflated
to soar. She was earning a scanty living at dress-
making, and lived with her mother at East Morn-
ington, two miles from the Davies’s farm.
Susan’s mother possessed a high appreciation of
the deference due to the Earl family. Conse-
quently, she emphatically disapproved of the
dalliance of John, and sought to turn Susan’s eyes
in the direction of young men more eager for the
happiness she could confer.
“It’s no use, mother,” said Susan firmly. “I
admit I don’t think much of John now. But it’s
too late to think of anybody else. Remember I’m
thirty ! ”
“Bless me, so you be now,” admitted Mrs.
Earl. “All the same, you’re throwing away the
beat years of your life waiting for a fool of a man
without enough in him to frighten a crow. I’d
frighten ’im.”
“Better frighten the old man,” said Susan
quietly.
“ Pison ’im ! ” declared her mother warmly.
“No; frighten him,” said Susan. “If he isn’t
dying he ought to be. You can always manage
that sort when they’re ill.”
Mrs. Earl looked admiringly at her daughter.
“ Bless me, if I don’t believe you’re right,” she
said. “I’ll just run around and ask one or two
if they’ve noticed how bad the old man’s been
ooking lately.”
* * » *
A few days later the old man came home from
Mornington at tea-time. The two men sat down
together to tea and mutton. The younger began
to tell of happenings on the farm.
“Them steers got inter the big paddock,” he
remarked.
Instead of wanting to know why the (swear)
fence wasn’t (double-barrelled swear) looked-to,
the old man nervously played with a mutton-bone.
“Sow got inter the cabbages,” went on the
son. Such a thing ordinarily would have turned
the old man’s wrath and profanity full-on. He
seemed not to hear.
“ John ! ” he ejaculated, after a silence.
“Well?”
“ D’yer think I look sick ? ”
“ Dunno,” said John in astonishment.
The old man groaned. Presently he said :
“ Met Tom Merry just now.”
“Oh !” uninterestedly.
“ He thought I was looking queer.”
“ You’re getting old, guv’nor,” remarked John
irreverently, and his father sighed.
A couple of days later the old man startled the
young one by asking if he ever had pains in his
back.
“ No,” said John.
“Ah,” sighed the old man, dolefully. “Just
here,” he said, contorting himself in an endeavor
to point to the middle of his back.
“ Dancin’spots afore yer eyes?” went on Mr.
Davies, with a ghostly look.
“No.”
“Feel yer tucker ain’t doin’ yer no good?”
“No.”
“George Peters and Sam Evans and two or
three others remarked on it,” continued the old
man. “I’m breaking-up.”
* • * *
That evening John saw Susan.
“How ill your father looks !” remarked Susan,
sympathetically.
“Don’t notice it,” said John; “but he’s com-
plaining of pains.”
“Where?” interpolated Mrs. Earl.
“In his back,” replied John.
“Ah,” said Mrs. Earl, dejectedly; “just like
my poor James—and he was gone, as you might
say, in a minute.”
“ Everybody says he’s looking right-down ill,”
declared Susan.
“O, he’s all right,” said John, with an attempt
at dismissing the subject.
“Anyway,” went on Susan tartly, “We’ve no
reason to hope he is. It’s time we got married, if
ever we’re going to. P’raps you’re thinking
better of it.”
John vigorously repudiated such a thought.
“Very well, then,” said Susan. “You leave it
to mother and me. He’ll be easy to manage
when he’s ill. All you’ve got to do is to see he
doesn’t think he’s better.”
John went home thoroughly interested, and
gave his relative a searching examination. The
old man pretended not to notice it. He picked
up a newspaper.
“How d’e feel, father,” asked John, mourn-
fully. - - -
“Queer, John,” growled the old man. “The
pains in me chest is somefin orful.”
John looked supremely unhappy. “I see a
man died suddenly in Launceston yesterday,” he
murmured, sadly.
The. paper rattled in the old man’s shaking
hand.
“You d-d-don’t think,” he stammered.
“ Can’t never tell in them cases,” replied John,
solemnly. “It says in the paper that pains in
the back killed thousands.”
“I se’ed that myself,” the old man agreed,
almost inaudibly. “ They alius put it in when
anybody recovers.”
• * * •
Old man Davies got rapidly worse. He went
once into East Mornington, and came back de-
claring he wouldn’t go into the place again.
“ Everybody can see I’m breaking-up,” he
growled piteously.
“Yes, father,” admitted John. “ Why don’t
you have the doctor ?”
“ Doctors ain’t no good for this,” groaned the
invalid. “It’s internal. Jimmy Higgs told me
ter-day.”
The'following day the old man refused to leave
his bed. John went into East Mornington and
brought back Mrs. and Miss Earl.
“Susan’s come to nurse you, father,” he ex-
plained.
“It’s no use,” groaned the invalid. “I’m
breaking-up, break-ing—up.”
At first he objected with quite old-time vitupera-
tion to Mrs. Earl’s presence ; but he quickly came
to see she understood his malady better than her
daughter. He took a morbid delight in hearing
Mrs. Earl’s lugubrious descriptions of the death-
scenes of the late Mr. Earl, who apparently had
perished in great agony from the exact disease
which was ravaging himself.
The young couple were, consequently, left to
themselves.
“You leave it to mother,” said Susan, confi-
dently. “She’ll get round him. She’s going to
tell him how poor father’s last days were spoilt by
his remembering how he had been hard on others.”
Susan’s confidence seemed justified. With
great difficulty and much groaning the invalid was
brought on to the verandah one morning.
“John,” he said, meekly, “I’m thinking I’ve
bin ’ard on you and Susan. I kin unnerstan’ now
how you wanted ter git wed.”
“Yes, father,” said John, expectantly.
“P’r’apsMrs. Earl and me ’ull make it better
fer yer.”
“ Susan’ll be very glad,” remarked John.
“Yes,” murmured the old man, “me and Mrs.
Earl’s bin’aving a talk, and we’ve fixed it all up.’
The lady mentioned just then emerged from the
house dressed for an excursion.
“John, my dear,” she said, “bring round the
buggy. I’m going to take your father for a drive.”
John expressed astonishment. His father, how-
ever, peremptorily declared he was lots better,
and could climb into the buggy easily. He was
hoisted in somehow, and Mrs. Earl drove away,
John told Susan the good news, and then went
hoeing turnips until dark. His mind was rather
in a whirl, and hoeing acted as a sedative. It
struck him that there were a number of things to
settle first ; but, all the same, it did seem as if he
and Susan would be married at last,
His mother-in-law-expectant was presiding at
the tea-table when he got indoors. His father
was eating cold mutton with an appreciation he
hadn’t shown for weeks. •
“Gome, my son,” called Mrs. Earl, tenderly.
“I told you I’d be able to call you ‘my son
before long.”
“ Where’s Susan ? ” asked John. He realised
that there was danger yet if they allowed his
father to recover,
Mrs. Earl’s face fell.
“She’s gone home,” she explained, forcing a
boiled egg upon John to distract his attention.
“What for?” pursued John,
The old man banged the table with his clenched
fist. “She’s an ongrateful lot,” he declared,
“That’s wot she is. Mrs. Earl’ere, as was, and
now is Mrs. Davies and yer mother,, an’ me
offered ’er a ’ome ’ere so that you and ’er could
live comfertable like ’til we wuz gone and yer
could fix things, but she up an’ runs off.”
“And most insultin’,” added the new Mrs.
Davies dabbing her eyes plaintively,
John gazed in wonderment from one to the
other.
“Your pa married me ter-day, John,” she ex-
plained, “and I’m sure I’ll be a good mother to
you.”
John concentrated his gaze on his half-eaten
egg. For ten minutes he was silent. Then he
comprehended enough of the situation to say he
was “damned!”
Susan returned to dressmaking, and John con-
tinues to plod along for his tucker and a reduced
beer-allowance, while the old man, under altered
treatment from his wife, quickly recovered his
normal health and more than his normal temper,
T. H. BRYANT.


A Living Skeleton
Changed into a Healthy and Robust Child.
The trying weather of summer makes children drowsy, lifeless, and with-
out energy. They lose appetite, their blood becomes impure, and they break
out in sores.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
,
< ■
;
m
mm
s'V
0 *
l>
V
M
Mrs Emily Air, of Murray Park, .Adelaide, So. Australia, very kindly sends
us a photograph of herself and family, which we reproduce above, accompanying
tiie same with the following testimonial:
“The trying hot weather of onr summer has a very debilitating effect upon
children. They run down in health, become drowsy, lose appetite, and break
out in sores on the faee and head. .
“I have invariably found Ayer’s Sarsaparilla a perfect remedy for this condi-
tion. It purifies the blood, restores the appetite,’ and tones up the whole system.
“One of my children only twelve month old was transformed from almost a
skeleton into a healthy and robust child simply by giving it small doses of Ayer s
Sarsaparilla.”
Do you wonder, tben, tbat people call it
“ The World’s Greatest Family Medicine”?
It is tbe greatest family medicine the world ever knew, good for all ages and
all conditions. When you take it you get more benefit from your food, your
blood becomes richer, your nerves are made stronger, and the whole system be-
comes filled with new life and vigor.
AYER’S § arsaparilla
A Great Medicine for Weak Children.
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other.
OHEM
IO
J
a j
ii
«Iw«
MJ
jmi
K 1
YEARS’ SUCCESS
AS THE
UNIVERSAL REMEDY
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Consumption,
HAS MADE
UfuiiqTomc
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY IN THE HOME
Oil KIT OE EVERY COLONIAL.
It saves many Lives.
There is no difficulty in obtaining it, si
when you ash for Owbridge’s Lung
Tonic, insist upon having it,
i other so-called remedies
often substituted .
as
are
Pret'Ured by
W.TsPWSRIDSE, K.P.8., Chemist,Hun.
Sold in bottles. at 1« lid., 2«.9ri.. 4«.6d., & Us.,
s. by all Colonial Medicine Vendors.
COPYRIGHT.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
B&IWS
17 OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain m the Stomach . Si ck Headache
V Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals Dizziness and the Ski/ Do-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath
tnihcd Sleen and all Nervous and Trembling- Sensations, &e. iHL iiksl 00311
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction Every suffer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be WOR -H A
GU BEECHAM taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion. Disordered Liver,
thev act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees wjlu
'Nervous and Debilitated is that Bee,-haras Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieme m
he u-or/d. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECH AM.St Helens, Lancashire, ENEL AND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is INL and 2s 9d each.
A POLICY FOR TH€
COMMONWEALTH-
Beiij? a scries of articles rcprii)t«d
froii) “Tbe Btillctio,” Witb ai>
appcpdix dcalios Witb tb® Fiscal
QCicStioi). \
PRICE 6d.; posted, Bd.
S. FREEMAN «• SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPEC!A f.TIESj
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEADOFF IC Ej WYNTARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
n
m
The Universal Remedy for Acidity oi t, e Stomaon.
headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cur©
for Gout, Kheumatic
Gout and Gravel; t he
safest and most gentle
medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Pe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS'
MAGNESIA,
sd sd
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
w*
o
yy
o
dv d fsd
>±k
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
IRISH MOSS
•=ii3p£2g*=
.rt£i JltjH SSSLisTSTT.
sSH£»E£r v:
GfORO KINC.T ON
Wwii
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


RUBBER GOODS
.
Waterproof Coats, 15s to 70s.
*
Rubber Boots, 17s 6d to 20s.
Goloshes —Ladies’, 2s 6d and 3s.
Gentlemen’s, 4s and
4s 6d.
Leggings, 4s 6d, ss, and 6s 6d.
Driving Rugs,
10s 6d, 16s 6d, 21s, 30s
Hot-Water Bags, Best English
Rubber, 6s and upwards
BRDRIAXT
RUBBER MANUFACTURERS &
Post Free)
GO.,
*
IMPORTERS,
270 George
s s f
TEARS DT
FOB THE HAD
W. O- &6 CO.,
DYERS b CLEANERS,
40 ItOItK STHKiil’, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
GEORGE & MARKET 8TREETS, 8YDNEY.
APARTMENTS : Bedroom (single), 3s. per Day, or 21*.
per Week ; Bedroom (double), 6s. per day, or Two
Guineas per Week.
|5S'" Brec.kfast, Luncheon, or Dinner from
OSE SHILLING upwards.
Letters ami Telegrams addressed to “The Manager”
will receive prompt, attention.
WORTHINGTON PUMPS
All have Wrought Iron Valve Gear,
POMPS, both Horizontal & ||ertical,
. . . KEPT IN STOCK . . .
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives,
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Send for Catalogue.
WORTH irtGTON
TRADE MARK.
r\
plunger and ring pattern
- I ——*
Mammatt’s
&
. _ 1
AT THE
SHEFFIBLB,
MAXFTELD, PROPBfi..
ttT*
BBOT
Celebrated
MARK.
4flL
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE BIjOCK,"
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
NEWMAN’S
ANTISEPTIC
NEWMAN’S
in King St.
1/*"
THE MOST KUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCO A
BREAKFAST—SUPPER
ERASMIC
PEERLESS
___ caap
Unequalled as a Preserver and
Beautifier of the Complexion, it diffuses an exquisite
odor, and imparts a stimulating and refreshing influence.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
0
1*
&$
&
r, P
V*
►
0
V
-
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Maters—M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Syditey.
iff* 0 *
esd sdf
s%<*r
PARKE & LACY CO.
LIMITED,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
AGENTS FOR FELTON and LEFFEL WATER WHEELS.
F
IN STOCK:
Knowles Steam Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors, Nagel Horizontal
and Vertical Engines and Boilers, Pennsylvania Return Tubular Boilers, Buffalo
Blowers and Exhaust Fans, Morris Dredging Pumps, Bullock Diamond Drills, Dodge
Rock Breakers, Roger Rolls, Gates Rock Breakers, Challenge Ore Feeders, Hunting-
ton Quartz Mills, Wood and Iron Working, and Laundry Machinery, and Mine and
Mill Supplies. 60 Clarence street, SYDNEY.
And at San Francisco and London.
BLAKE DIRECT ACTING
SINGLE an
DUPLEX
DUPLEX OUTSIDE PLUNGER PATTERN.
Pumps for Every Possible Pumping Purpose.
Boiler Feeders
Light Service Pumps
Mining Pumps
Vacuum Pumps
Air Pumps
Air Compressors
Sole Agents in Australasia—
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Sydney if Melbourne,
•V
DUPLEX PISTON PATrTCRN.
